Public  comments  on  Report  of  the  Takeover  Regulations  Advisory  Committee  
may be sent to trac@sebi.gov.in by August 31, 2010 in the following format:- 
 
Sr. No. 

Comment  

Rationale 

Provide 
comment here 

your 

Specify 
your 
reasons / rationale 
for the comment 

Draft  Provision  / 
Recommendation 
of the Committee 
Insert  reference  to 
the  draft  provision 
/  paragraph  in  the 
Committee’s 
Report 

1. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

REPORT OF THE 

 

TAKEOVER REGULATIONS ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

 

UNDER THE CHAIRMANSHIP OF 

 

MR. C. ACHUTHAN 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JULY 19, 2010 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Table of Contents 

 

Headings 

 

Page No. 

 
Glossary of terms used in the Report 
Preface 

Background 
Approach of the Committee 
Methodology 
Structure of the Report 

Part I: Salient features of the proposed Takeover Regulations  

Open Offer Obligation 
Voluntary Open Offer 
Offer Size 
Public Shareholding 
Exemption from open offer obligations  
Offer price 
Mode of payment 
Conditional offers 
Competing offers 
Completion of transaction that triggered the open offer 
Governance Issues 
Activities and Timelines in open offer process 

Part II: Key Recommendations; Deliberations and Rationale 
Offer Size and Minimum Public Shareholding Requirement 

Offer Size 
Minimum Public Shareholding Requirements 

Thresholds for the Open Offers  

Initial Threshold 
Creeping Acquisitions  
Voluntary Offers 

Control 
Offer Price 

Market Price based parameters for frequently traded shares 
Look-back parameter 
Non Compete Fees 
Miscellaneous 
Indirect Acquisitions 

Trigger for indirect acquisitions 
Timing and Offer Price 

Withdrawal of an Offer 
Competing Offers 
Obligations of the Target Company 

Material Actions 

Composition of the Board 
Timelines for the Open offer process 
Mode of Payment 
Exemptions from Open offer obligations 

Exemption  from  open  offer  obligations  in  case  of  acquisition  of 

4 
6 
6 
8 
10 
10 
12 
12 
13 
13 
14 
14 
15 
15 
16 
16 
16 
16 
17 
18 
18 
18 
21 
24 
24 
26 
27 
29 
30 
31 
34 
35 
36 
38 
38 
40 
44 
46 
49 
49 
50 
51 
55 
57 
58 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 2 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

shares and/or control 
Exemption  from  open  offer  obligations  in  case  of  acquisition  of 
shares only and not control  
Exemption  from  open  offer  obligations  in  case  of  acquisition  of 
substantial stake 
Exemption  from  open  offer  obligations  in  case  of  acquisition  of 
shares beyond the creeping threshold 
Special Exemptions 
Whitewash Provisions 

Recommendation by the independent directors of the Target Company 
Obligations of the Acquirer 
Obligations of the Merchant Banker 
Disclosure Obligations 
Present Tax regime 
Part III: Draft text of the Proposed Takeover Regulations 
Annexure 1 – Offer Size Analysis 
Annexure 2 – Promoter Holding in Listed Companies 
Annexure 3 – Spot Price Movements vs. 2 Weeks / 26 Weeks Average 
Annexure 4 – Closing Prices vs. 2 Weeks / 26 Weeks Average  
Annexure 5 – Offer Price Analysis 
Annexure 6 –Variance of Spot Price vis-à-vis 4/8/12 week average prices  
Annexure 7  –  Listed  Indian Companies as a proportion of their Foreign 
Parent 
 
 

 

 

 

****** 

59 

60 

60 

61 
61 
62 
64 
65 
66 
68 
69 
130 
131 
132 
133 
134 
135 
137 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 3 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
1. 

GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN THE REPORT 

(in Alphabetical Order) 

Term 

Meaning 

Board 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Companies Act 

The Companies Act, 1956 

Delisting Regulations 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Delisting  of  Shares) 

Regulations, 2009. 

Delisting Threshold  

A shareholding entitling exercise of ninety per cent of the voting 

rights  in  a  target  company,  excluding  voting  rights  on  shares 

held  by  a  custodian  and  against  which  depository  receipts  have 

been  issued  overseas,  with  reference  to  the  share  capital  of  the 

target company as of the last day of the tendering period. 

ICDR Regulations 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and 

Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 

Open offer  

Offer  made  to  shareholders  of  a  listed  company  in  terms  of 

Takeover Regulations/ proposed Takeover Regulations. 

Proposed Takeover 

Proposed  draft  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

Regulations 

(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations, 

M&A 

Maximum 

2010 contained in this Report 

Mergers & Acquisitions 

Such  percentage  shareholding  in  the  target  company  excluding 

permissible non 

the  minimum  public  shareholding  required  under  the  listing 

public shareholding 

agreement. 

SEBI 

SEBI Act 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 

Takeover Regulations 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition 

of 1994 

of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1994 

Takeover Regulations 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition 

of 1997 

of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 4 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

The Committee 

The  Takeover  Regulations  Advisory  Committee  constituted  by 

SEBI under the Chairmanship of Mr. C. Achuthan on September 

4, 2009. 

SCRR 

The Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 5 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
2. 

 

PREFACE 

Background 

 

1.  The  existence  of  an  efficient  and  smooth-functioning  market  for  takeovers  plays  an 

important  role in  the economic development  of a country.  It  is  a widely recognized fact 

that one of the key elements of a robust corporate governance regime in any country is the 

existence of an efficient and well-administered set of Takeover Regulations. Regulations 

on  takeovers  seek  to  ensure  that  the  takeover  markets  operate  in  a  fair,  equitable  and 

transparent manner. 

 

2.  In  keeping  with  the  foregoing,  India  also  has  seen  a  steady  evolution  of  a  set  of  capital 

market regulations in respect of substantial acquisition of shares and takeovers. While the 

initial  threads  of  regulation  were  incorporated  in  the  late  1980s  through  Listing 

Agreement, provisions for a legal framework was provided in 1992 by a statute, viz. the 

SEBI  Act,  1992.  The  SEBI  Act,  1992  expressly  mandated  SEBI  to  regulate  substantial 

acquisition of shares and takeovers by suitable measures. Accordingly, SEBI provided a 

legal framework by making the Takeover Regulations of 1994, which came into force on 

November 4, 1994. 

 

3.  In November 1995, SEBI appointed a committee to review the Takeover Regulations of 

1994  under  the  chairmanship  of  Justice  P.N.  Bhagwati  (the  Bhagwati  Committee).  The 

said  committee  submitted  its  report  in  January  1997.  Taking  into  consideration  its 

recommendations, the Takeover Regulations of 1997 were notified by SEBI on February 

20,  1997,  repealing  the  Takeover  Regulations  of  1994.  These  regulations  were 

periodically  amended  in  response  to  events  and  developments  in  the  marketplace, 

regulatory  and  judicial  rulings  as  well  as  evolving  global  practices  as  considered 

appropriate. In 2001, a review of the Takeover Regulations of 1997 was carried out by a 

reconstituted  committee  chaired  by  Justice  P.N.  Bhagwati.  The  reconstituted  Bhagwati 

committee  submitted  its  report  in  May  2002.  Based  on  the  same,  further  amendments 

were  made  to  the  Takeover  Regulations  of  1997.  So  far,  the  Takeover  Regulations  of 

1997 have been amended 23 times.  

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 6 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
4.  There has been a steady increase in corporate restructuring by Indian companies to adapt 

to the evolving competitive landscape. This can be seen from the number of takeovers of 

listed companies increasing from an average of 69 a year during the period between 1997 

and 2005 to an average of 99 a year during the period between 2006 and 2010.  

 

5.  Taking  into  consideration  the  growing  level  of  M&A  activity  in  India,  the  increasing 

sophistication  of  takeover  market,  the  decade-long  regulatory  experience  and  various 

judicial  pronouncements,  it  was  felt  necessary  to  review  the  Takeover  Regulations  of 

1997. 

 

6.  Accordingly,  SEBI,  vide  its  order  dated  September  4,  2009,  constituted  the  Takeover 

Regulations Advisory Committee with the mandate to examine and review the Takeover 

Regulations of 1997 and to suggest suitable amendments, as deemed fit. 

 

7.  The composition of the Committee is as under: 

 

 

 

(a)  Mr.  C.  Achuthan,  Former  Presiding  Officer,  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal  – 

Chairman. 

(b)  Mr.  Kumar Desai, Advocate, High Court. 

(c)  Mr.  Somasekhar Sundaresan, Advocate; Partner, J. Sagar Associates. 

(d)  Mr.  Y. M. Deosthalee, Group Chief Financial Officer, Larsen and Toubro Ltd.  

(e)  Mr.  Koushik Chatterjee, Group Chief Financial Officer, Tata Steel Ltd. 

(f)  Mr.  Raj Balakrishnan, Managing Director - M&A, DSP Merrill Lynch Ltd. 

(g)  Mr.  Sourav  Mallik,  Executive  Director  -  M&A,  Kotak  Mahindra  Capital 

Company Ltd. 

(h)  Mr.  A. K. Narayan, President, Tamil Nadu Investors‘ Association. 

(i) 

Prof N. Venkiteswaran, Professor, Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad. 

(j)  Ms.  Usha  Narayanan,  Executive  Director,  Corporation  Finance  Department, 

SEBI. 

(k)  Mr.  J. Ranganayakulu, Executive Director, Legal Department, SEBI, and 

(l)  Ms.  Neelam  Bhardwaj,  General  Manager,  Division  of  Corporate  Restructuring, 

SEBI – Member Secretary. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 7 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Approach of the Committee: 

 

8.  Substantial  acquisition  of  shares  in,  or  takeover  of,  a  listed  company  impacts  a  host  of 

stakeholders,  such  as,  the  acquirer,  the  target  company,  the  management  and  the  public 

shareholders. It is critical that the legal framework regulating such substantial acquisition 

of shares and takeovers  is  precise, unambiguous  and predictable,  and balances multiple, 

and  at  times,  conflicting  interests  of  such  stakeholders.  For  instance,  the  public 

shareholder of the target company would be keen to get the highest possible price for his 

shares,  while  the  acquirer  would  want  to  shoulder  the  least  possible  financial  and 

regulatory burden. The target company may wish to support, oppose or remain neutral to, 

a transaction, often depending on who the acquirer is.  It then falls upon the regulator to 

balance  the  interests  of  various  stakeholders  and  to  provide  for  a  fair,  equitable  and 

transparent regime that addresses the concerns of all stakeholders. 

 

9.  In  drafting  the  Proposed  Takeover  Regulations,  the  Committee  adopted  an  approach  of 

balancing and calibrating such conflicting objectives. While the Committee believes that 

the Proposed Takeover Regulations, by and large, strike such a balance, the Regulations 

do  recognize  and  accord  primacy  to  the  goal  of  protection  of  the  interests  of  the  public 

shareholders in takeover situations.  

 

10. The  Committee  also  recognizes  that  no  regulation  would  be  able  to  provide  for  every 

situation  that  may  arise  in  the  domain  of  economic  activity.  However,  if  the  regulatory 

intent,  purpose  and  underlying  philosophy  are  clearly  understood  and  articulated,  these 

can provide guidance even in ambiguous situations. 

 

11. The  Committee  believes  that  the  stated  objectives  of  the  Takeover  Regulations  of  1997 

continue  to  remain  valid  and  relevant.  As  the  Committee  is  recommending  substantive 

changes to the Takeover Regulations of 1997, it decided to draft a new text of Takeover 

Regulations.  

 

12. It  is  important  to  restate  the  fundamental  objectives  of  the  Proposed  Takeover 

Regulations. These are:- 

 

a.  To provide a transparent legal framework for facilitating takeover activities; 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 8 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

b.  To protect the interests of investors in securities and the securities market, taking into 

account that both the acquirer and the other shareholders or investors and need a fair, 

equitable and transparent framework to protect their interests; 

 

c.  To  balance  the  various,  and  at  times,  conflicting  objectives  and  interests  of  various 

stakeholders  in  the  context  of  substantial  acquisition  of  shares  in,  and  takeovers  of, 

listed companies. 

d.  To  provide  each  shareholder  an  opportunity  to  exit  his  investment  in  the  target 

company when a substantial acquisition of shares in, or takeover of a target company 

takes  place,  on  terms  that  are  not  inferior  to  the  terms  on  which  substantial 

shareholders exit their investments; 

 

e.  To  provide  acquirers  with  a  transparent  legal  framework  to  acquire  shares  in  or 

control of the target company and to make an open offer; 

 

f.  To ensure that the affairs of the target company are conducted in the ordinary course 

when a target company is subject matter of an open offer; 

 

g.  To  ensure  that  fair  and  accurate  disclosure  of  all  material  information  is  made  by 

persons  responsible  for  making  them  to  various  stakeholders  to  enable  them  to  take 

informed decisions; 

 

h.  To  regulate  and  provide  for  fair  and  effective  competition  among  acquirers  desirous 

of taking over the same target company; and 

 

i.  To  ensure  that  only  those  acquirers  who  are  capable  of  actually  fulfilling  their 

obligations under the Takeover Regulations make open offers. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 9 of 138 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Methodology: 

 

13. The Committee held its first meeting on September 17, 2009. The Committee felt that the 

views  from  the  public  on  as  many  issues  as  possible  should  be  considered  while 

undertaking a comprehensive review of such an important area of corporate activity.  

 

14. For  the  purpose,  a  press  release  was  issued  on  September  17,  2009  seeking  suggestions 

and inputs in a structured manner from the public on any issue considered relevant.  The 

public  comments  and  suggestions  received  were  thematically  collated  and  classified  for 

consideration by the Committee. The Committee held 21 meetings. In addition to this, the 

sub-committees constituted by the Committee to examine certain specific issues had also 

met several times.  

 

15. The  Committee  noted  that  over  the  years,  SEBI  had  issued  various  interpretative  letters 

and informal guidance letters. The Securities Appellate Tribunal and the Supreme Court 

have  interpreted  several  provisions  of  the  existing  regulations.  The  Committee  has 

considered  these  developments  while  formulating  the  text  of  the  Proposed  Takeover 

Regulations. 

 

16. The  Committee  has  also  taken  into  consideration  the  prevailing  practices  and  key 

regulatory  requirements  relating  to  takeovers  in  several  other  jurisdictions  such  as 

Australia,  Brazil,  Canada,  European  Union,  Germany,  Hong  Kong,  Indonesia,  Japan, 

Malaysia,  Singapore,  South  Africa,  Switzerland,  UK  and  USA.  The  Committee  has 

benefited  from  such  a  comparative  study  in  formulating  its  approach  for  the  Proposed 

Takeover Regulations. 

 

Structure of the Report: 

17. This Report is in three parts:- 

a. 

b. 

c. 

 

  

 

Part I contains the salient features of the Proposed Takeover Regulations; 

Part II contains the Committee deliberations and key recommendations; 

Part III contains the draft text of the Proposed Takeover Regulations. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 10 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
18. Since the text of the draft regulations has been provided in Part III, Part II of the Report is 

focused on major policy framework and the process involved.  

 

19. The Committee has also taken note of the observation of the Supreme Court of India in a 

recent  judgment  where  a  statement  of  objects  and  reasons  for  provisions  of  subordinate 

legislation  has  been  recommended.  The  Committee  has  provided  an  initial  draft  of 

explanatory notes on clauses and has suggested that SEBI finalize the same along with the 

text of the Proposed Takeover Regulations.  

 

20. The  Committee  wishes  to  thank  the  large  number  of  individuals  and  institutions  who 

readily  responded  to  the  Committee‘s  request  for  their  views  and  comments  on  the 

existing Takeover Regulations, which facilitated the deliberations of the Committee. The 

Committee  also  wishes  to  place  on  record  its  profound  appreciation  for  the  committed 

and  sincere  efforts  of  Mr.  Deep  Mani  Shah,  Assistant  General  Manager,  SEBI  and  Ms. 

Rashmi Menon, Manager, SEBI who assisted the Committee in researching and analyzing 

various facets and worked within tight timelines while drafting the report. 

 

21. Members of the sub-group of the Committee, comprising of Mr. Deep Mani Shah and Ms. 

Rashmi Menon from SEBI, and also Ms. Anna Abraham Mr. Vikas Verma, Mr. Shailesh 

Rathi and Mr. Rachit Sabharwal from Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited, and Mr. 

Sohit  Kapoor,  Mr.  Devendra  Dhanesha,  Ms.  Nivedita  Joshi  and  Mr.  Abhinandan 

Raghuthaman  from  DSP  Merrill  Lynch,  under  the  overall  guidance  of  Ms.  Neelam 

Bhardwaj, deserve a special mention for their timely inputs and assistance  in compilation 

and analysis of various market data.  

 

22. The  Committee  would  also  like  to  thank  the  SEBI  team  in  the  Division  of  Corporate 

Restructuring, including Mr Srikant Kumar Mishra, Mr V. Balakrishnan, Ms Suchismita 

Sahoo  and  Ms.  Shameen  Ahammed,  for  their  efforts  in  the  preparation,  collation  and 

analysis  of  diverse  data  and  documents  for  the  perusal  and  consideration  of  the 

Committee. 

 

23. The Committee is  grateful to Mr. C. B. Bhave, Chairman, SEBI, for providing requisite 

support  to  the  Committee  to  enable  it  to  complete  the  assignment  of  reviewing  the 

Takeover Regulations and making appropriate recommendations.  

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 11 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
PART I: SALIENT FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED TAKEOVER REGULATIONS 

 

Open Offer Obligation 

 

Initial Trigger. 

 

  Acquisitions  of  an  aggregate  of  25  %  or  more  voting  rights  in  a  target  company  would 

require the acquirer to make an open offer. [See Regulation 3(1)]. 

 

Creeping Acquisition Trigger. 

 

  An acquirer holding 25 % or more voting rights in a target company is allowed to acquire 

additional voting rights in the target company up to 5 % within a financial year, without 

making an open offer.  [See Regulation 3(2)]. 

 

Control Trigger. 

 

  Regardless  of  the  level  of  shareholding  and  acquisition  of  shares,  acquisition  of  control 

over a target company would require the acquirer to make an open offer. [See Regulation 

4]. 

 

Indirect Acquisitions. 

 

  Acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over any entity that would enable the 

acquirer to exercise or direct the exercise of such  percentage voting rights in, or control 

over the target company, as would attract the obligation to make an open offer, would be 

regarded  as  an  indirect  acquisition,  requiring  the  acquirer  to  make  an  open  offer.  [See 

Regulation 5(1)]. 

 

 

If the indirectly acquired target  company is  a predominant  part of the business  or entity 

being acquired, the Proposed Takeover Regulations would treat such indirect acquisition 

as a direct acquisition for all purposes. [See Regulation 5(2)]. 

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 12 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Voluntary Open Offer 

 

  Shareholders holding shares entitling them to exercise 25 % or more of the voting rights 

in 

the 

target  company  may,  without  breaching  minimum  public  shareholding 

requirements under the listing agreement, voluntarily make  an open offer to  consolidate 

their shareholding. [See Regulation 6]. 

 

Offer Size 

 

General Rule. 

 

  Any open offer under the Proposed Takeover Regulations would be for 100 %, i.e., for all 

the shares held by all the other shareholders of the target company [See Regulation 7(1)]. 

 

Exception for Voluntary Open Offer. 

 

  As  an  exception  to  the  100  %  offer  rule,  a  voluntary  open  offer  can  be  made  for  the 

acquisition  of  shares  representing  at  least  10  %  but  shall  not  exceed  such  number  of 

shares which will take the holding of the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him 

to beyond maximum non-public shareholding permitted under the listing agreement. [See 

Regulation 7(2)]. 

 

  An  acquirer  who  has  acquired  shares  in  the  preceding  fifty  two  weeks  would  not  be 

eligible to make such a voluntary open offer [See Proviso to Regulation 6(1)].   

 

  Such an acquirer would also be barred from making any acquisition for six months after 

the open offer. [See Regulation 6(2)]. 

 

  Upon a competing offer being made, such an acquirer would be permitted to increase his 

offer size to a normal full-sized open offer within fifteen business days.  [See Proviso to 

Regulation 7(2)]. 

 

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 13 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Public Shareholding 

 

  An acquirer, who is making a mandatory offer triggered by either substantial acquisition 

(viz.  above  25  %)  or  acquisition  of  control,  but  not  pursuant  to  creeping  acquisition, 

would be permitted to state upfront while making the open offer that if his holding in the 

target  company  along  with  persons  acting  in  concert  crosses  the  delisting  threshold 

pursuant to the open offer, the target company may be delisted. [See Regulation 7(4)]. 

 

 

If such an intention to delist is not stated upfront, or the response to the open offer is such 

that the public shareholding could fall below the minimum level required under the listing 

agreement  but  remains  above  the  delisting  threshold,  the  acquirer  would  be  required  to 

either bring his holding down to ensure compliance by the target company with the listing 

agreement,  or  proportionately  reduce  both  his  acquisitions  under  the  agreement  that 

triggered the open offer and the acquisitions under the open offer.   [See Regulation 7(5)].  

 

Exemption from open offer obligations 

 

  Exemptions  have  been  streamlined  and  classified  on  the  basis  of  the  specific  charging 

provision  from  which  exemptions  would  be  available,  with  conditions  for  eligibility  for 

such  exemptions.  Some  of  the  areas  where  changes  have  been  recommended  include 

increase in  voting rights  due to  buy-back of shares, schemes of arrangement  that do not 

involve  the  target  company,  certain  inter  se  transfers,  corporate  debt  restructuring  and 

rights issues.  [See Regulation 10]. 

 

  SEBI would continue to have the power to grant exemption from making an open offer. 

SEBI would also continue to have the discretion to give relaxation from strict compliance 

with  procedural  requirements  and  the  same  would  be  linked  to  specific  conditions  that 

would have to  be met.  However, the  requirement  of making a mandatory  reference to a 

Panel  by  SEBI  before  granting  an  exemption  has  been  done  away  with  and  such 

requirement has now been made discretionary. [See Regulation 11].  

 

 

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 14 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Offer Price 

 

  The minimum price payable as the offer price continues to be regulated and shall be the 

highest of: 

o 

the negotiated price under the agreement that attracted the open offer; 

o  volume-weighted average price paid by the acquirer and persons acting in concert in 

the preceding fifty-two weeks; 

o  highest  price  paid  by  the  acquirer  or  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  during  the 

preceding twenty-six weeks;  

o  sixty trading day volume weighted average market price (for frequently traded shares). 

 

  To compute the offer price for indirect acquisitions, in addition to the above parameters, 

any  higher  price  paid  during  the  period  between  contracting  of  the  primary  transaction 

and the public announcement has also to be considered.  

 

 

In  case  of  indirect  acquisitions  of  the  target  company,  the  offer  price  would  stand 

increased at the rate of 10 % per annum calculated on a pro-rata basis for the period from 

the date of the primary transaction being announced in the public domain until the date of 

actual detailed public statement in respect of the target company. Such revised offer price 

shall be payable to all shareholders who tender their shares in the open offer.   

[See Regulation 8].  

 

Mode of payment 

 

  The  offer  price  may  be  paid  in  the  form  of  cash  or  securities  like  shares,  convertibles, 

secured  debt  instruments  of  the  acquirer  or  of  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  or  a 

combination of these modes.  To ensure that the equity shares given in consideration for 

the open offer are liquid, eligibility conditions have been stipulated.  However, if shares 

of the target company carrying more than 10 % voting rights have been acquired for cash 

in  the  preceding  52  weeks,  shareholders  to  whom  the  open  offer  is  made  may  opt  to 

receive the offer price only in cash. [See Regulation 9].  

 

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 15 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Conditional offers 

 

  An acquirer may make an open offer conditional as to the minimum level of acceptance. 

 

  Where an offer is made conditional upon minimum level of acceptances, the acquirer and 

persons acting in concert with him shall not acquire, during the offer period, any shares in 

the target company. 

[See Regulation 19] 

 

Competing offers 

 

  An acquirer having made a voluntary offer is  permitted to  switch to  a normal  full-sized 

offer when a competing offer is made. 

 

  Within twenty-one business days from expiry of the offer period, any competing acquirer 

would be free to negotiate and acquire the shares tendered to the other competing acquirer, 

at  the  same  price  that  was  offered  by  him  to  the  public.  However,  the  holding  of  the 

acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  ought  not  to  increase  beyond  the 

maximum permitted non-public shareholding. 

[See Regulation 20] 

 

Completion of transaction that triggered the open offer 

 

  The  agreement  that  attracts  an  open  offer  obligation  may  be  acted  upon  during  the 

pendency of the open offer provided 100  % of the consideration payable under the open 

offer is placed in escrow. [See Regulation 22(2)]. 

 

  An agreement that triggered an open offer obligation would have to be completed within 

twenty-six weeks after the offer period. [See Regulation 22(3)].  

 

Governance Issues 

 

  The board of directors of the target company would be required to conduct the operations 

of  the  target  company  in  the  ordinary  course  and  consistent  with  past  practice.  Material 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 16 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

transactions outside the ordinary course of business cannot be undertaken during the offer 

period,  either  at  the  level  of  the  target  company  or  at  the  level  of  any  subsidiary  of  the 

target company without approval of shareholders of the target company.  [See Regulation 

26(1)]. 

 

 

  A committee of independent directors of the target company shall be formed to consider 

and give its reasoned recommendations on the open offer, which shall be published by the 

target company. [See Regulation 26(6)]. 

 

  No appointment of  representatives of the acquirer to  the board of directors of the target 

company  would  be  permitted  unless  the  acquirer  places  in  escrow  100  %  of  the 

consideration under the open offer in cash. Such appointment may be made only after the 

deadline for making competing offers expires. During the pendency of competing offers, 

irrespective  of  the  amount  deposited  in  escrow  account  by  acquirers,  there  shall  be  no 

appointment of additional directors to the board of directors of the target company.  [See 

Regulation 24]. 

 

Activities and Timelines in open offer process 

 

  Timelines  of  various  activities  in  the  open  offer  process  have  been  revised.  A  normal 

open offer process would be completed within 57 Business Days from the date of Public 

Announcement. (See Para 10.6 in Part II of this Report)  

 

 

****** 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 17 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
PART II: COMMITTEE DELIBERATIONS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS  

 

1.0  Offer Size and Minimum Public Shareholding Requirement   

 

Offer Size 

 

Current Provisions: 

1.1 

The  Regulations  currently  require  that  on  acquisitions  resulting  in  triggering 

regulations 10, 11 and 12, the acquirer is mandatorily required to make an open offer 

for a minimum  of  20 %  of the voting capital  (reckoned as on the fifteenth  day after 

closure of the offer). 

 

Committee Deliberations: 

1.2 

Although  acquirers  are  currently  allowed  to  make  open  offers  for  more  than  the 

minimum 20 %, such open offers have been rare. Data reveals that during the last four 

years,  in  less  than  15  %  of  the  open  offers,  the  offer  size  has  been  higher  than  the 

mandatory minimum requirement of 20 %. (See Annexure 1) 

1.3 

The Committee observed that such a framework gives rise to inequity – a substantial 

shareholder would get superior treatment by way of a complete exit as opposed to the 

public  shareholder  who  would  get  to  exit  only  partially  if  the  response  to  the  open 

offer is larger than the size of the open offer. For example, a shareholder holding 60 

%  would  be  able  to  sell  his  entire  stake  to  the  acquirer  triggering  an  open  offer. 

However, if the consequential open offer is made for only 20 % of the target company 

(the  current  minimum  offer  size),  the  remaining  shareholders  viz.  the  shareholders 

holding 40 % would not have an opportunity for a full exit, especially if all or most of 

them  desire  to  do  so.  The  shares  tendered  in  response  to  the  open  offer  would  then 

have to be accepted on a proportionate basis in case of over-acceptance, and if all of 

them tender their acceptance, then each such public shareholder would be able to sell 

only half of their shareholding, with the balance being returned to them after the open 

offer is completed. One of the attendant consequences is that the public shareholder is 

currently unable to exit fully and realize the full premium, if any, on his entire share 

holding. 

1.4 

The Committee observed that several international jurisdictions require that pursuant 

to  a  change  in  control,  acquirers  must  make  an  offer  for  100  %  of  the  outstanding 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 18 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

voting  capital  of  a  company.  The  Committee  also  observed  that  a  majority  of  the 

suggestions received from the public in this regard sought increase in the offer size.  

1.5 

The  Committee  observed  that  historically  only  a  minority  of  open  offers  have  been 

over-accepted  (Only  42  cases  out  of  total  392  open  offers  in  the  last  4  years  were 

over-accepted). An analysis of these 42 cases revealed that in majority of these cases 

(approx. 52 %), the market price as on the fifteenth day after the closure of offer was 

substantially (viz. over 20 %) less than the offer price. The analysis revealed that the 

offers which were over-accepted were those offers where the offer price represented a 

large  premium  to  the  post  offer  price,  and  where  the  potential  loss  to  shareholders 

who did not receive full acceptance was the highest. Hence the Committee concluded 

that the fact that most open offers were not over accepted was not a reason to assume 

that shareholders were not interested in receiving full acceptance of shares tendered in 

open offers.  

1.6 

The  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  mandating  an  open  offer  to  acquire  every  share 

tendered by any shareholder in acceptance of the open offer would be equitable, just 

and  fair.  Should  a  shareholder  desire  to  exit  a  target  company  at  the  offer  price 

mandated under the Takeover Regulations, there ought to be no reason for the law to 

pre-empt him from a complete exit.  

1.7 

Besides,  the  obligation  under  the  Takeover  Regulations  is  to  only  make  an  ―open 

offer‖  to  the  shareholders.  There  is  no  obligation  on  the  shareholders  to  sell  their 

shares to the acquirer.  

1.8 

The Committee is mindful of an apprehension voiced about the lack of required bank 

finance  presently  available  to  Indian  acquirers  for  Indian  acquisitions.  Therefore, 

acquirers  instead  have  to  approach  diversified  public  markets  or  private  investors  to 

finance  acquisitions.  It  was  pointed  out  that  public  market  investors  are  not 

approached for funds before a transaction is  announced for  confidentiality  reasons  – 

transactions  are  announced  based  on  a  bridge  loan,  and  permanent  funding,  either 

from equity markets or public market debt investors like mutual funds and insurance 

companies,  is  arranged  subsequently.  Foreign  acquirers  may  not  be  subjected  to 

similar  regulatory  restrictions  on  access  to  bank  finance  under  their  respective 

jurisdictions. 

1.9 

The Committee is of the view that allowing more flexible norms for grant of loans for 

strategic  investments  in  Indian  listed  entities,  particularly  for  funding  open  offers  in 

deserving  cases  under  the  Takeover  Regulations  is  a  matter  of  policy  requiring 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 19 of 138 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

consideration by the concerned authorities. This could help create a level playing field 

for domestic acquirers vis-à-vis foreign acquirers for speedy deal execution. The case 

for  flexible  acquisition  financing  is  reinforced  by  the  fact  that  the  open  offers  are 

made  in  terms  of  the  regulatory  framework  laid  down  by  SEBI,  and  therefore  such 

acquisitions would be under regulatory supervision. 

1.10  The  Committee  has  also  recommended  measures  to  enhance  the  ability  to  pay  for 

open offers in the form of non-cash consideration (discussed elsewhere in the Report). 

The  Committee  reiterates  that  the  philosophy  of  equitable  and  fair  treatment  of  all 

shareholders should have a primacy over other considerations. 

1.11  The  Committee  also  observed  that  consistent  with  the  changes  that  it  has 

recommended in the threshold triggering an open offer, there is very little justification 

to continue with a restricted offer size that would result in all shareholders not having 

a right to full exit.  

1.12  Having  considered  all  relevant  factors,  the  Committee  has  concluded  that  there  is  a 

very  strong  case  for  allowing  all  public  shareholders  to  obtain  a  complete  exit 

whenever  an  open  offer  is  made.    This  recommendation  is  based  on  several  aspects 

including  sound  conceptual  underpinnings,  international  best  practices  and  feedback 

from the public. 

1.13  The  Committee  also  considered  whether  the  offer  should  be  extended  to  holders  of 

any  equity-linked  instruments  which  are  not  currently  eligible  for  conversion  into 

equity shares as on the expected date of close of the tendering period. The Committee 

concluded that given the uncertainty about the response to the open offer, any change 

in terms of equity linked instruments including acceleration of vesting, would not be 

justified. 

 

Committee Recommendation: 

1.14  The  Committee  recommends  that  every  open  offer  pursuant  to  a  substantial 

acquisition  of  shares  in,  or  change  of  control  over  a  target  company  under  the 

Takeover Regulations ought to be for every share held by all the shareholders of the 

target company, as on the expected date of the close of the tendering period. Holders 

of  equity-linked  instruments  eligible  to  be  converted  into  equity  shares  prior  to  the 

aforementioned date may do so and tender their equity shares in the open offer. 

(See Regulation 7 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 20 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Minimum Public Shareholding Requirements 

 

Current Provisions: 

1.15  The Takeover Regulations currently provide that  if the acquisition made  pursuant  to 

an  open  offer  results  in  the  public  shareholding  in  the  target  company  falling  below 

the  minimum  level  required  as  per  the  listing  agreement,  the  acquirer  shall  take 

necessary  steps  to  facilitate  compliance  with  the  relevant  provisions  thereof,  within 

the time period specified therein. 

 

Committee Deliberations: 

1.16  An  attendant  consequence  of  increasing  the  open  offer  size  to  100  %  of  the  voting 

capital of the target company would indeed be that an acquirer may end up acquiring 

shares  in  excess  of  the  maximum  permissible  non-public  shareholding  of  the  target 

company  or  even  the  delisting  threshold  of  the  target  company.  The  Committee 

considered  this  position  and  concluded  that  certain  corresponding  changes  are 

required  in  the  Takeover  Regulations  to  achieve  consistency  with  the  proposed  new 

regime of an open offer for 100 % of the voting capital of the target company. 

1.17  Moreover,  there  was  feedback  from  various  quarters  suggesting  that  the  regime  for 

substantial  acquisition  of  shares,  takeover  of  companies  and  eventual  delisting  of 

companies should work in a composite and seamless manner so that M&A activity is 

transparent  and  predictable  not  only  for  acquirers  (who  are  themselves  investors  in 

securities),  but  also  for  public  shareholders  to  exit  a  listed  company  when  a 

substantial acquisition or a takeover is effected. 

1.18  The  Committee  felt  that,  it  would  be  unfair  to  require  acquirers  to  necessarily  sell-

down  their  shareholding  to  meet  the  minimum  public  shareholding  requirements  if 

they  have  crossed  the  delisting  threshold  through  an  open  offer.  It  would  also  be 

onerous  to  require  such  an  acquirer  to  make  another  offer  under  the  Delisting 

Regulations. The Committee therefore felt that if the acquirer declares his intention to 

delist the target company, and the shares tendered in response to the open offer enable 

him to cross the delisting threshold, such a company should be allowed to delist.  

1.19 

In  the  event  of  an  acquirer  crossing  the  delisting  threshold,  the  Committee  also 

considered  the  feasibility  of  adopting  the  concept  of  ―squeeze  out‖  of  minority 

shareholders  in  the  Takeover  Regulations  on  the  lines  of  international  practice  i.e. 

conferring the acquirer with a statutory right to acquire minority shareholders on same 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 21 of 138 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

terms when the acquirer‘s shareholding crosses a certain high percentage of the voting 

capital  of the target  company. However, the Committee is  conscious of  the fact  that 

squeeze out can not be legally effected through  SEBI regulations in the absence of a 

statutory provision.  

1.20  The Committee believes that its recommendation to permit delisting of a company if 

the holding of the acquirer crosses the delisting threshold via a single open offer is in 

the interest of investors in securities and the securities market.  If the post-open offer 

holding of the acquirer were to fall short of the delisting threshold, then there should 

be no scope for delisting under the Takeover Regulations.  

1.21  Further,  the  Committee  took  note  of  the  varying  levels  of  shareholding  that  the 

acquirer could end up with on completion of an open offer, and the implications that 

such  variations  could  have  for  compliance  with  minimum  public  shareholding 

requirements.  For  example,  if  the  acquirer  were  to  end  up  with  a  holding  above  the 

maximum  permitted  non-public  shareholding  but  below  the  delisting  threshold,  the 

target company would have to eventually become compliant with the minimum public 

shareholding requirements.  

1.22  The SCRR requires public shareholding to be at least 25 % (excluding shares held by 

custodians  against  which  depository  receipts  have  been  issued  overseas)  while  the 

delisting threshold as prescribed by Delisting Regulations is at minimum of  90 % of 

the total issued shares (excluding the shares which are held by a custodian and against 

which  depository  receipts  have  been  issued  overseas).  It  is  beyond  the  scope  of  the 

Takeover Regulations to determine such thresholds, and hence there may be situations 

where the target company would not be compliant with minimum public shareholding 

and yet not cross the delisting threshold. 

1.23 

In view of the variations and the need to be in compliance with the current regulatory 

framework regarding listing thresholds, the Committee is of the view that should  the 

acquirer  not  succeed  in  getting  the  response  that  would  take  his  holding  beyond  the 

delisting  threshold,  the  acquirer  may  either  bring  down  the  non-public  shareholding 

within the time permitted, or, proportionately reduce the acquisitions under the open 

offer and under the agreement which attracted the obligation to make the open offer. 

The Committee believes that not forcing acquirers to sell-down, and allowing them to 

proportionately  reduce  their  acquisition  balances  the  interest  of  the  public  and  the 

acquirer,  in  the  context  of  a  regime  which  has  a  differential  delisting  threshold  and 

maximum  permissible  non-public  shareholding.  Further,  such  an  ability 

to 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 22 of 138 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

proportionately reduce the acquisition under the agreement and the offer is in keeping 

with  the  principle  of  equity,  as  both  the  contracting  party  and  public  shareholders 

would  have  similar  levels  of  acceptance  of  their  respective  shareholdings  in  the 

company. Such proportionate reduction in acquisitions would not apply to allotments 

made by the target company that have triggered the open offer, as the Companies Act 

does not provide for  reversal of allotments already made. 

1.24  The  Committee  recognized  that  SEBI  has  notified  the  Delisting  Regulations  to 

provide a framework for voluntary delisting, and hence has also consciously sought to 

prevent  substantial  shareholders  from  using    open  offer    as  a  means  to  delist.  The 

possibility  of  combining  the  Delisting  Regulations  and  the  Takeover  Regulations  is 

also  outside  the  scope  of  this  Committee.  The  very  decision  to  make  a  creeping 

acquisition  which  does  not  lead  to  a  change  in  control,  and  thereby  trigger  an  open 

offer would be a voluntary one, and therefore, one ought to differentiate between an 

open  offer  triggered  by  voluntary  consolidation  and  an  open  offer  triggered  by  a 

substantial acquisition or a change in control. Therefore, such an avenue for delisting 

under  the  Takeover  Regulations  would  be  available  only  in  the  case  of  open  offers 

made  pursuant  to  substantial  acquisition  of  shares  in,  or  a  change  of  control  over  a 

target company.  

1.25  The Committee believes that within the constraint of different levels of shareholding 

threshold as prescribed under different regulations, the framework as suggested would 

best  reconcile  various  regulatory  provisions  contained  in  the  Takeover  Regulations, 

Delisting Regulations and the Listing Agreement and the SCRR. 

 

Committee Recommendation: 

1.26  The Committee recommends that the target company should stand delisted, should the 

acquirer have stated its intention to delist the target company and the response to the 

open offer is such that the acquirer‘s shareholding crosses the delisting threshold. 

1.27  The Committee recommends that in the event the shares of the target company stand 

delisted  pursuant  to  the  open  offer,  every  shareholder  who  has  not  tendered  an 

acceptance  of  the  open  offer  shall  be  entitled  to  require  the  acquirer  to  acquire  his 

shares  at  the  offer  price  at  any  time  within  a  period  of  twelve  months  from  the 

fifteenth day from the date on which the shares are delisted from the stock exchanges. 

This  exit  window  would  also  be  available  to  the  holders  of  all  equity-linked 

instruments in the company. The company and the acquirer shall take necessary steps 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 23 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

to  facilitate the provision of an option to  such holders to  accelerate the  conversion / 

vesting of such instruments during the period of this exit window.  

1.28  The Committee also recommends that should the acquirer‘s shareholding reach a level 

between  the  maximum  permissible  non-public  shareholding  and  the  delisting 

threshold, such acquirer be given an option to proportionately reduce the acquisitions.  

The acquisitions that are proportionately reduced would be those under the open offer, 

the  agreement  (if  any)  and  immediate  past  purchases  (except  acquisitions  due  to 

allotments by the target  company).  Such reduction would enable the acquirer not to 

breach the maximum permissible non-public shareholding.  

(See Regulation 7 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

2.0 

Thresholds for Open Offers 

 

Initial Threshold  

 

Current Provisions: 

2.1 

The Takeover Regulations currently provide that if an acquirer acquires  or agrees to 

acquire shares or voting rights such that his voting rights exceed 15 % of the voting 

capital of the target company, he is required to make an open offer. 

 

Committee Deliberations: 

2.2 

The  Committee  observed  that  the  existing  threshold  of  15  %  had  been  fixed  in  an 

environment  where  the  shareholding  pattern  in  corporate  India  was  such  that  it  was 

possible to control listed companies with holdings as low as 15  %, and therefore the 

threshold was considered to be a substantial voting power.    

2.3 

The  Committee  also  reviewed  the  recent  trends  in  shareholding  pattern  of  the 

companies  listed  on  the  national  stock  exchanges,  and  took  into  consideration  the 

public  comments  received  in  this  regard.  A  significant  change  in  the  shareholding 

pattern in listed companies has been observed over the last few years. The mean and 

median of promoter shareholdings in the listed companies are currently at 48.9 % and 

50.5  %  of  the  total  equity  capital  of  the  company  respectively,  and  the  number  of 

companies declared to be controlled by promoters holding 15 % or less is less than 8.4 

%. (See Annexure 2) 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 24 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
2.4 

The Committee concluded that the existing trigger threshold of 15 % has outlived its 

contextual  relevance  and  would  require  an  upward  revision.  The  Committee  also 

observed that there are only about 6.1 % companies listed on the BSE where promoter 

shareholding is between 15 % and 25 %. Hence, the Committee concluded in favor of 

increasing the initial trigger threshold.  

2.5 

The  Committee  observed  that  in  the  UK,  the  first  trigger  point  is  at  30  %.  Initial 

trigger  points  in  other  jurisdictions  such  as  Singapore,  Hong  Kong,  EU  and  South 

Africa were also found to be in the range of 30 % to 35 %. These trigger levels were 

set  primarily  based  on  the  level  at  which  a  potential  acquirer  can  exercise  de  facto 

positive control over a company, viz. the level at which the potential acquirer is likely 

to be able to get a majority of votes cast in a general meeting of shareholders.  

2.6 

It was observed that despite the increase in the mean level of promoter shareholding, 

there  are  a  number  of  prominent  companies  in  India,  which  are  controlled  by 

shareholders holding between 25  % and 30  % of the voting  capital  of the company. 

The Committee is of the view that this trend suggests that 25 % is the level at which 

promoters  would  be  capable  of  exercising  de  facto  control.  Further,  in  India,  the 

Companies  Act  recognizes  any  holding  in  excess  of  25  %  as  the  threshold  at  which 

special resolutions can be blocked. Taking into account both the ability of promoters 

to exercise de facto control at 25 %, and the law governing special resolutions, 30 % 

threshold would be too high.  

2.7 

The Committee felt that 25 % shareholding would be an appropriate level at which a 

new incumbent shareholder could reasonably expect to exercise positive control in the 

current environment. Thus the Committee concluded that since a holding level of 25 

% permits the exercise of de facto control over a company, this could be fixed as the 

appropriate open offer trigger threshold in the Indian context. 

 

Committee Recommendation: 

2.8 

The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  the  initial  acquisition  threshold  for  a 

mandatory open offer be raised to 25 % of the voting capital of the target company. 

(See Regulation 3(1) of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

 

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 25 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Creeping Acquisitions 

 

Current Provisions: 

2.9 

The  Takeover  Regulations  currently  provide  that  if  an  acquirer  already  holds  more 

than  15  %  but  less  than  55  %,  he  may  acquire  additional  shares  carrying  not  more 

than five % of voting rights within a financial  year without having to make an open 

offer. 

2.10  Further, where the holding is above 55 % but less than 75 %, a one-time allowance to 

increase  their  shareholding  by  5  %  through  market  purchases  or  pursuant  to  a  Buy 

back  by  the  target  company,  without  having  to  make  an  open  offer,  has  been 

permitted  since  October  28,  2008  provided  that  post  acquisition  holding  of  acquirer 

does not go beyond 75 %. 

 

Committee Deliberations: 

2.11  The  Committee  observed  that  at  present  the  existing  limit  on  additional acquisitions 

for  consolidation  purposes  within  a  financial  year  (generally  termed  as  ―creeping 

acquisitions‖) under the Takeover Regulations has been set at 5 %. 

2.12  The Committee explored the desirability of introducing another open offer trigger at 

50 % after the initial trigger at 25 %. In such a scenario, creeping acquisition would 

be restricted to a nominal/low level between the initial threshold and 50 % and would 

be relatively easier after 50 %. However, the Committee also observed that more than 

50 % of the companies listed on BSE have promoter shareholding less than 50 % and 

approximately  27  %  companies  have  promoter  shareholding  less  than  35  %.  Such  a 

regime,  while  making  it  restrictive  for  new  acquirers  obtaining  control,  may  impose 

an unduly heavy burden on the existing promoters of companies in their consolidation 

efforts.   

2.13  During deliberations, it was felt that, a holding of more than 50  % does not seem to 

confer a significant  and  material  advantage warranting  a full-scale open  offer,  given 

that  even  shareholders  with  slightly  less  than  50  %  would  have  de  facto  control  in 

almost  all  instances.  In  addition,  another  open  offer  trigger  at  50  %  coupled  with  a 

regulatory  requirement  to  have  minimum  25  %  public  shareholding  would  result  in 

avoidable complexities. 

2.14  The Committee also felt that the current threshold beyond which creeping acquisition 

is  no  longer  permitted  is  not  appropriate  in  the  context  of  a  mandatory  100  %  open 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 26 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

offer and hence recommended that creeping acquisition of 5 % per annum be allowed 

up to the maximum permissible non-public shareholding limit.  

2.15  The  Committee  was  also  mindful  of  the  fact  that  as  per  the  current  Regulations,  a 

voluntary open offer has to  be for a minimum  of  20 %. The Committee debated the 

size  of  the  voluntary  open  offer  (discussed  elsewhere  in  this  report)  and  decided  to 

reduce the size of the voluntary open offer to a minimum level of 10 %. 

2.16  The  Committee  underscored  the  fact  that  the  creeping  acquisition  route  is  meant  to 

facilitate consolidation by persons already in control or holding substantial number of 

shares.  Therefore,  the  Committee  does  not  find  it  necessary  to  disturb  the  current 

policy  in  this  regard  in  that  gross  purchases  (ignoring  any  sales  or  dilution  of  stake 

due  to  equity  issuances  in  which  the  existing  shareholder  did  not  participate)  would 

count  towards  ascertaining  if  this  limit  has  been  reached.  However,  in  case  of 

situations where the acquisition is carried out through the issue of new shares by the 

company  (whether  through  a  preferential  allotment  solely  to  the  substantial 

shareholder,  or  through  simultaneous  preferential  allotment  both  to  the  existing 

substantial  shareholder  and  others,  or  through  subscription  by  a  existing  substantial 

shareholder in a public or rights offering), the percentage of shares acquired would be 

reckoned  as  the  difference  between  the  post  issue  and  pre  issue  shareholding  of  the 

substantial  shareholder,  rather  than  based  on  the  number  of  shares  issued  to  such 

substantial shareholder.  

 

Committee Recommendation: 

2.17  The  Committee  recommends  a  creeping  acquisition  limit  of  5  %  per  financial  year 

computed on a gross basis for all shareholders holding more than 25 % so long as the 

maximum non-public shareholding limit is not breached. 

(See Regulation 3(2) of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

Voluntary Offers 

 

Current Provisions: 

2.18  Currently, the Takeover Regulations provide for consolidation of shareholding by an 

acquirer  who  is  desirous  of  maximizing  his  shareholding  without  breaching  the 

minimum  public  shareholding  requirements.  The  offer  size  for  an  open  offer  under 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 27 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

this  provision is the lower of 20  % or the maximum  permissible acquisition without 

breaching the minimum public shareholding requirement. 

 

 

Committee Deliberations: 

2.19  The Committee observed that with the proposed increase in the open offer size to 100 

% of the voting capital of the target company, there is a need to provide for flexibility 

to  acquirers  to  voluntarily  make  open  offers  outside  the  mandatory  public  offer 

requirements.  The  Committee  felt  that  voluntary  offers  are  an  important  means  for 

substantial  shareholders  to  consolidate  their  stake  and  therefore  recognized  the  need 

to introduce a specific framework for such open offers. However, to discourage non-

serious voluntary offers, the Committee decided to set a minimum offer size of 10 %. 

2.20  The Committee also observed that, inasmuch as the voluntary open offer is permitted 

as an exception to the general rule on the offer size, the ability to voluntarily make an 

open offer should not be available if in the proximate past, any of such persons have 

made  acquisitions  within  the  creeping  acquisition  limits  permitted  under  the 

Regulations.  Similarly,  such  an  acquirer  should  be  prohibited  from  making 

acquisitions  outside  the  open  offer  during  the  offer  period,  and  should  also  be 

prohibited  from  any  further  acquisitions  for  six  months  after  the  open  offer.  Also, 

such  an  offer  should  not  lead  to  breach  of  the  maximum  permissible  non-public 

shareholding. 

 

Committee Recommendation: 

2.21  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  acquirers  collectively  holding  shares 

entitling  them  to  exercise  25  %  or  more  voting  rights  in  the  target  company  may 

voluntarily make an open offer to consolidate their shareholding. The Committee has 

proposed  a  minimum  open  offer  size  of  10  %  consistent  with  the  rationale  of 

consolidation option outside the creeping route. Voluntary offers should not, however, 

be  of  a  size  that  could  lead  to  breach  of  the  maximum  permissible  non-public 

shareholding. 

(See Regulation 6 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

 

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 28 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
3.0 

 

Control  

Current Provisions: 

3.1 

The Takeover Regulations currently provide for inclusive definition of ―control‖. It is 

provided  under  the  Takeover  Regulations  that  control  shall  include  the  right  to 

appoint  majority  of  directors  or  to  control  the  management  or  policy  decisions 

exercisable  by  a  person  or  persons  acting  individually  or  in  concert,  directly  or 

indirectly,  including  by  virtue  of  their  shareholding  or  management  rights  or 

shareholder agreements or voting agreements or in any other manner. 

 

Committee Deliberations: 

3.2 

The  concept  of  ―control‖  was  deliberated  in  the  context  of  the  public  comments 

received in this regard. Diverse perspectives on whether affirmative rights relating to 

governance of a listed company (whereby a party to the agreement could object to a 

specific  set  of  decisions)  ipso  facto  constituted  ―control‖  or  otherwise  were  also 

debated. 

3.3 

It  was  observed  that  the  same  set  of  provisions  could  vary  in  its  import  and  reach 

across different target companies depending on the facts, circumstances and nature of 

each  target  company.  In  any  event,  the  Committee  felt  that  the  existence  or  non-

existence of ―control‖ over a listed company would be a question of fact, or at best a 

mixed  question  of  fact  and  law,  to  be  answered  on  a  case  to  case  basis.  The 

Committee also recognized that any blanket provision whereby a right to say ―no‖ is 

in  all  circumstances  deemed  to  either  constitute  ―control‖  or  not  to  constitute 

―control‖ may be liable to misuse.   

3.4 

The Committee was conscious of the interpretation of such provision in the facts and 

circumstances  of  a  specific  case  by  the  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal,  and  observed 

that an appeal against such decision was pending before the Supreme Court of India.  

3.5 

In  the  circumstances,  given  the  case-specific  nature  of  ―control‖  as  a  concept,  the 

Committee decided to refrain  from stipulating whether the power to say  ―no‖ would 

constitute ―control‖ for purposes of the Takeover Regulations. Whether a person has 

acquired control by virtue of affirmative rights would therefore have to be discerned 

from the facts and circumstances surrounding each case. 

3.6 

The  Committee  observed  that  it  was  desirable  to  underline  and  emphasize  that 

acquisition of de facto control, and not just de jure control should expressly trigger an 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 29 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

open offer obligation.  The Committee also felt it desirable to clarify that merely by 

virtue  of  holding  the  position  of  a  director  or  officer  of  a  target  company,  such  a 

person ought not to be regarded as being in control over the target company. 

 

 

Committee Recommendations: 

3.7 

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  definition  of  ―control‖  be  modified  to  include 

―ability‖  in  addition  to  ―right‖  to  appoint  majority  of  the  directors  or  to  control  the 

management  or  policy  decisions  would  constitute  control.  It  is  also  clarified  that  a 

director  or  officer  of  the  target  company  would  not  be  regarded  as  being  in  control 

merely by virtue of holding such position. 

(See Regulation 4 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

4.0  Offer Price  

 

Current Provisions: 

4.1 

The  Takeover  Regulations  currently  provide  the  parameters  to  be  considered  for 

determining  the minimum  offer price depending on whether or not  the shares of the 

target company are ―frequently traded‖ (shares which have annualized trading volume 

of  5  %  or  more  of  the  listed  share  capital  during  a  period  of  6  calendar  months 

preceding the month in which the public announcement is made). Such parameters for 

frequently  traded  shares  include  the  price  under  the  agreement  for  acquisition  that 

attracted  the  open  offer,  any  price  paid  by  the  acquirer  or  persons  acting  in  concert 

during  a  26-week  period  preceding  the  public  announcement  (termed  as  the  ―look 

back  period‖),  and  the  historical  market  average  price  of  the  shares  for  a  proximate 

past period. 

4.2 

For ―infrequently traded‖ shares, the Takeover Regulations require the computation of 

the  offer  price  on  the  basis  of  financial  parameters  such  as  return  on  net  worth, 

industry  price-earnings  multiples  and  the  like,  apart  from  any  price  actually  paid  by 

the  acquirer  or  persons  acting  in  concert  during  the  look  back  period,  or  in  the 

transaction that triggers the open offer obligation.  

4.3 

The Takeover Regulations also require addition to the open offer price, of any amount 

paid towards non-compete fee in excess of 25 % of the open offer price.  

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 30 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Committee Deliberations: 

4.4 

The  Committee  observed  that  the  Takeover  Regulations  have  historically  regulated 

the minimum price at which an open offer is required to be made and was unanimous 

in its view that there is a continued need to stipulate a minimum price that ought to be 

offered to the shareholders. In fact, one of the fundamental principles underlying the 

Takeover  Regulations  is  to  give  public  shareholders  an  exit  on  terms  not  inferior  to 

the  terms  obtained  by  a  substantial  shareholder  from  the  acquirer  for  his  large 

shareholding. Further, the minimum price should also prevent acquirers from building 

a stake over a period of time without offering that price to shareholders in the offer. 

4.5 

However,  there  was  considerable  deliberation  as  to  whether  the  price  that  must  be 

payable  for  an  open  offer  should  be  one  that  is  ―not  inferior‖  to  that  received  by 

substantial shareholders / paid by the acquirer or should the price that must be payable 

be a ―fair price‖. In arriving at a decision on this aspect, the Committee went back to 

the  fundamental  objectives  of  the  Takeover  Regulations,  and  finally  concluded  that 

the Takeover Regulations need to preserve the concept of equity for all shareholders, 

and  in  that  context,  the  offer  price  payable  to  public  shareholders  should  be  ―not 

inferior‖  to  that  paid  for  substantial  shareholders.  As  there  is  no  justification  for  a 

premium  payable  to  substantial  shareholders,  there  is  also  no  justification  for  any 

regulated mechanism or premium payable to public shareholders. 

4.6 

In the context of the foregoing, the Committee examined whether the price parameters 

currently applicable have served well, and whether any revision is warranted in any of 

them in the face of the regulatory experience over the years. 

 

4.7  Market Price based parameters for frequently traded shares 

4.7.1 

The  Committee  considered  whether  a  market-price  based  parameter  was  at 

all  fair  or  appropriate  for  pricing  open  offers,  particularly  when  the 

transaction that triggers an open offer itself prices the share specifically. In 

other  words,  if  parties  to  a  transaction  actually  were  contracting  a  specific 

negotiated  price,  the  issue  that  arises  is  whether  it  would  be  fair  or 

appropriate or equitable to require an open offer to be made a price different 

from such price. 

4.7.2 

The  Committee  observed  that  most  jurisdictions  did  not  use  market  price 

parameters  at  all  in  regulating  the  minimum  offer  price  i.e.  most  of  the 

European Union, most of Asia and other jurisdictions which the Committee 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 31 of 138 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

considered in its deliberations. However, the Committee noted that Germany 

is one major jurisdiction that uses a market-price-based parameter (volume-

weighted  average)  for  determining  the  offer  price.  The  Committee  also 

observed that the price discovered in the market and the price paid in M&A 

transactions were not necessarily consistent. 

4.7.3 

The  Committee  also  observed  that  reliance  on  a  historical  price  average 

distorted  the  value  of  the  shares  and  such  an  average  was  not  reflective  of 

the  prevailing  market  price.  The  Committee  examined  data  on  spot  price 

movements compared with the 26 week average, which showed that at times, 

the market price parameter mandates excessively large premia to spot prices. 

A  chart  illustrating  such  a  feature  on  the  basis  of  the  SENSEX  (which  is 

typically less volatile than individual stocks, and hence would understate the 

impact of this parameter) over a period of 5 years is annexed at Annexure 3.  

4.7.4 

As  may  be  observed  from  the  aforesaid  chart,  the  26  week  average  can 

diverge considerably from the spot price on the date of announcement of an 

offer  and  such  a  distortion  would  impact  the  ability  to  strike  M&A 

transactions  in  bear  markets,  e.g.  there  were  periods  in  the  2008-09  bear 

market when the 26 week average price was over 60 % above the spot price 

for the SENSEX. Further, for several individual stocks, the 26-week average 

often  implies  an  even  larger  premium  to  the  prevailing  market  price.  What 

this meant that even if acquirers were willing to pay a 10-20 % premium to 

spot  prices  to  carry  out  M&A  transactions,  they  would  be  regulated  by  a 

regime that requires minimum offer prices that are as high as 60 % above the 

spot price. Hence, such an M&A transaction would not take place, and such 

a regulation would have the impact of being detrimental to all shareholders, 

including  public  shareholders.  Also,  in  bull  markets,  the  26-week  average 

was significantly below the prevailing market price, rendering the parameter 

irrelevant, as acquirers tend to be guided by the spot prices when making a 

decision. 

4.7.5 

The  Committee  also  examined  if  the  two-week  average  formula  should  be 

retained.  It  was  found  that  the  two  week  average  at  announcement  for  the 

SENSEX  is  much  closer  to  the  spot  price.  However,  it  was  found  that  the 

price  at  the  time  of  completion  of  the  open  offer  diverges  materially  from 

the  two-week  average  at  the  time  of  the  public  announcement  –  the  two-
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 32 of 138 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

week  average  thus  represents  an  almost  unscientific  random  variable.  A 

chart  illustrating  this  phenomenon  is  annexed  at  Annexure  4.  What  this 

really meant was that given the timelines for making an offer (75 days), the 

2-week  price  at  the  time  of  the  public  announcement  also  diverges 

significantly from the market prices at the time of closure of the offer, which 

is when shareholders make a decision whether or not to tender in an offer. 

4.7.6 

The  Committee  also  commissioned  a  study  to  explore  as  to  how  often  the 

market price parameter had ended up as the actual offer price. An analysis of 

the  historical  open  offer  data  showed  that  among  the  offers  which  were 

triggered by share acquisition  agreements, the price discovered through the 

market  price  parameter  ended  up  as  the  offer  price  only  in  a  small 

percentage  of  open  offers  (30  %).  Also,  less  than  half  of  the  where  shares 

were  frequently  traded  were  made  based  on  the  market  price  parameter 

(approx.  35 %).  In all other cases, a higher price was offered as a result of 

the  other  more  relevant  parameters  mentioned  in  Regulation  20(4).  Please 

see Annexure 5 for a detailed analysis.  

4.7.7  Members of the Committee stated that eliminating this parameter would be 

well-advised  since,  rather  than  delivering  substantial  benefits  to  investors, 

this parameter could be a potential dampener for M&A activity. Besides, it 

was felt that it would be inequitable and unfair to require a price to be paid 

under the open offer that is different from the principal triggering transaction. 

Generally  if  the  market  price  formula  were  to  lead  to  a  value  greater  than 

what  a  potential  acquirer  is  willing  to  pay,  in  most  cases,  the  potential 

acquirer  would  either  drop  the  deal  or  implement  any  other  legitimate  deal 

structure  that  would  not  attract  the  Takeover  Regulations.  All  of  the 

foregoing argues for the market-price parameter being dropped, particularly 

for  direct  acquisitions  where  the  price  based  on  other  parameters  is  easily 

discernible.  This  principle  is  also  consistent  with  the  principle  of  equity 

dictated  by  a  100%  offer  regime,  and  the  further  refinements  suggested  in 

the following sub-sections. 

4.7.8 

However,  the  Committee  also  considered  the  comments  from  the  public 

shareholders, which seemed to favour a continued regime of minimum price 

under  an  offer  to  be  linked  to  a  market  price  parameter.  There  also  were 

apprehensions 

framework, 

that  our  corporate  governance 

though 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 33 of 138 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

significantly  improved  especially  for  larger  companies,  is  not  yet  evolved 

for  the  entire  listed  company  universe,  and  hence  the  linked  with  a  market 

price parameter should remain. 

4.7.9 

Thus, the Committee believes that the Takeover Regulations should make an 

eventual transition to a regime, in which the offer price has no linkage with 

the  market  price  parameter.  However,  in  the  interim  the  Committee 

concluded that a linkage with the market price parameter be maintained for 

the current draft of the Takeover Regulations. 

4.7.10  While  considering  the  continued  market  price  linkage,  the  Committee 

concluded  (for  reasons  mentioned  earlier),  that  the  26-week  average  is  too 

long a period to consider and that a 2-week average is a too volatile period 

to consider. The Committee considered 4-week and 12-week averages i.e. 20 

and 60 trading day averages in its consideration set to arrive at the optimum 

period  for  the  market  price  linkage,  and  data  for  46  randomly  selected 

companies (from the top 1000 by market capitalization) for the last 3 years 

is presented in Annexure 6. While the 4-week average was closer to the spot 

price, the Committee felt that it faced issue of higher volatility, similar to the 

2-week average.  

4.7.11  Another change the Committee has proposed is the use of volume-weighted 

average price (VWAP) in lieu of the average of the weekly high and low of 

the  closing  prices  /daily  intra-day  high  and  low  prices  of  shares  under  the 

existing Regulations, since the daily volume weighted average price data are 

currently  readily  available.  Use  of  VWAP  would  ensure  that  the  resultant 

price  is  more  representative  and  eliminates  the  outlier  effects  of  high  and 

low prices and is a more accurate determinant of the prices at which shares 

are actually transacted. 

4.7.12  Based on the data and deliberations, the Committee concluded on using the 

60  trading  day  VWAP  as  a  market  price  parameter,  and  recommends  that 

this be incorporated in the Takeover Regulations, with a clear view to doing 

away with this parameter as soon as practicable. 

 

4.8 

Look-back parameter 

4.8.1 

As  per  the  current  Takeover  Regulations  the  look-back  clause  requires  the 

acquirer  to  take  into  account  the  highest  price  paid  by  him  or  by  persons 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 34 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

acting in concert, over a period of twenty-six weeks prior to the date of the 

public announcement.  

4.8.2 

An examination of the relevant provisions in other jurisdictions suggests that 

such a look-back period ranges from three months (in the case of voluntary 

offers in Singapore and Hong Kong) to twelve months (United Kingdom).  

4.8.3 

It is felt that a look-back period longer than the currently applicable 26-week 

period  would  ensure  that  an  acquirer  does  not  get  to  postpone  the  public 

announcement  at  a  marginal  carrying  cost,  just  to  overcome  paying  the 

public  shareholder  the  price  he  has  actually  paid  in  the  proximate  past.  A 

longer  look-back  period  thus  would  make  it  more  expensive  to  defer  the 

public  announcement  intended  by  the  acquirer.  Therefore,  after  debating 

various  possible  look-back  periods,  the  Committee  concluded  that  investor 

interest would be best served if the acquirer has to pay the highest of: 

i. 

The  52  week  volume-weighted  average  price  for  acquisitions  carried 

out  by  the  acquirer  or  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  (whether 

already paid or agreed to be paid), or 

ii. 

The highest price paid (or agreed to be paid) by the acquirer or persons 

acting  in  concert  with  him,  in  the  26  weeks  preceding  the  public 

announcement. 

4.9 

Non Compete Fees 

4.9.1  Most  takeover  regulations  do  not  contain  any  express  provisions  about 

treatment  of  non-compete  fees  in  negotiated  contracts  that  trigger  a  tender 

offer.  However,  there  are  jurisdictions  that  require  the  addition  to  the  offer 

price of any consideration paid  and couched in any form in concurrent and 

collateral  transactions.  In  India,  a  tolerance  limit  of  twenty-five  %  on  non-

compete  payments  was  brought  in  as  a  measure  of  curbing  the  practice  of 

paying large non-compete payments, outside the share price.  

4.9.2 

The  Committee  considered  the  argument  for  retaining  a  non-compete 

payment from the selling shareholders‘ perspective to the effect that the non-

compete  terms  constitute  a  distinct  benefit  which  the  selling  shareholder  is 

conferring to  the  acquirer – which needs to  be separately  compensated for, 

as  this  is  distinct  from  the  price  for  the  shares  which  must  be  paid  to  all 

shareholders. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 35 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

4.9.3 

The Committee also considered the alternate view that it is very difficult to 

assess whether such non-compete consideration is reasonable, and that such 

payments  may  therefore  be  a  disguise  for  making  payments  to  controlling 

shareholders  without  paying  the  same  to  the  public  shareholders.  The 

Committee  also  felt  that  there  was  a  strong  merit  in  the  view  that  non-

compete fee, if any, should accrue to the company and not to one group of 

shareholders  as  this  is  in  the  nature  of  compensation  for  loss  of  potential 

value  on  account  of  opportunity  sacrificed.  The  Committee  also  debated 

whether  it  would  be  fair  to  allow  payment  of  a  control  premium  solely  to 

large  shareholders.  The  Committee  noted  that  control  was  an  incidental 

benefit  arising  out  of  share  ownership.  Based  on  an  examination  of  the 

equities  and  merits  involved,  as  also  the  law  in  other  jurisdictions,  and 

market  realities,  it  was  decided  that  such  a  payment  would  not  be  fair  to 

minority shareholders. 

4.9.4 

The Committee concluded that in keeping with the spirit of equal treatment 

for all shareholders, and the scope for abuse of non-compete payments, the 

Takeover  Regulations  ought  to  be  explicit  that  consideration  paid  for  the 

shares  in  any  form  to  the  selling  shareholder  and  his  affiliates,  concurrent 

with the purchase of shares, whether termed as ―control premium‖, or ―non-

compete fees‖ or otherwise must be added to the negotiated price per share 

for the purpose of determining open offer pricing.  

4.9.5 

The Committee concluded that once the extant exemption in respect of  non-

compete  fee  is  deleted  from  the  Takeover  Regulations,  and  it  is  clearly 

articulated that apart from the share acquisition agreement, consideration in 

any form inclusive of all ancillary and collateral agreements shall form part 

of  the  negotiated  price,  it  is  in  the  selling  shareholders‘  interests  to  ensure 

that the negotiated price truly reflects the value of the scrip fairly. Since this 

negotiated  price  in  any  case  would  be  one  of  the  parameters  for  fixing  the 

offer  price,  if  such  price  were  higher  than  other  proposed  parameters,  all 

shareholders will get the same negotiated price. 

 

4.10  Miscellaneous 

4.10.1  The Committee also  recommends that the acquirer as  well as PACs  should 

be prohibited from acquiring any shares in the target company during the 26 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 36 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

weeks  following  the  completion  of  the  open  offer.  This  safe-guard  is  also 

aimed at ensuring that the acquirer does not under-price the offer and instead 

acquire shares later at a higher price.   

4.10.2  The Committee took note of circular dated May 4, 2010 issued by the RBI 

stipulating  that  transfers  of  listed  shares  between  persons  resident  outside 

India and persons resident in India ought not to be at a price lower than the 

preferential  allotment  price  arrived  at  in  terms  of  the  SEBI  (ICDR) 

Regulations.  The  Committee  noted  that  such  a  position  may  render 

takeovers  of  Indian  listed  companies  expensive  for  foreign  acquirers  and 

also  restrict  the  ability  of  Indian  acquirers  to  take  over  Indian  companies 

owned  by  foreigners.  Since  the  Takeover  Regulations  seek  to  stipulate  and 

enforce  fair  value  for  the  M&A  transaction,  it  is  but  appropriate  that  the 

same  fair  value  criteria  are  adopted  for  all  other  regulations  including 

exchange  controls  so  as  to  bring  about  regulatory  consistency.  The 

Committee  therefore  recommends  that  SEBI  may  like  to  take  this  up 

suitably with the RBI. 

4.10.3  The Committee reviewed the data on trading volumes of companies listed on 

BSE and NSE, based on data compiled from Capitaline, and noted that about 

70  %  of  the  companies  have  trading  volumes  in  excess  of  10  %  of  their 

share capital.    

 

 

Committee Recommendation: 

4.11  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  the  minimum  offer  price  for  direct 

acquisitions should be the highest of: 

(a) 

the highest negotiated price per share of the target company for any acquisition 

under the agreement attracting the obligation to make a public announcement of 

an open offer;  

(b) 

the volume-weighted average price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether 

by the acquirer or by any person acting in concert with him during the fifty-two 

weeks immediately preceding the date of the public announcement; and  

(c) 

the highest price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by the acquirer or 

by  any  person  acting  in  concert  with  him  during  the  twenty-six  weeks 

immediately preceding the date of the public announcement; and 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 37 of 138 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(d) 

the volume-weighted average market price, for frequently traded shares, during 

60  trading  days  immediately  preceding  the  date  of  the  public  announcement, 

computed based on market prices on the stock exchange where the shares of the 

company are most frequently traded during that period. 

4.12  The Committee recommends that frequently traded shares should now be defined as 

shares  which  have  a  trading  volume  of  10  %  or  more  of  the  total  number  of  shares 

during  a  period  of  12  calendar  months  preceding  the  month  in  which  the  public 

announcement is made. 

4.13 

In addition, the Committee also recommends that the clause relating to non-compete 

fee be deleted from the Takeover Regulations, and any consideration paid in any form 

inclusive  of  all  ancillary  and  collateral  agreements  shall  form  part  of  the  negotiated 

price. 

(See Regulation 8 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

5.0 

Indirect Acquisitions 

 

Trigger for indirect acquisitions 

 

Current Provisions: 

5.1 

The Takeover Regulations currently provide that acquirer has to make an open offer 

for shares of the target company when there is direct or indirect change of control of 

the  target  company  irrespective  of  any  direct  acquisition  of  shares  of  the  target 

company.  The  regulations  also  provide  for  deferment  of  open  offer  obligations  till 

consummation of the original transaction. 

 

Committee Deliberations: 

5.2 

The provisions of the Takeover Regulations are attracted upon acquisition of shares or 

voting  rights  in,  or  control  over  a  target  company  regardless  of  whether  such 

acquisitions are made directly, or are consequential to an acquisition of an entity other 

than  the  target  company.  There  has  been  considerable  debate  as  to  whether  the 

obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  for  the  target  company  should  be  attracted  only 

when  the  target  company  represents  a  material  or  substantial  component  of,  or  the 

raison d’etre of the primary acquisition.  

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 38 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
5.3 

The question whether primary transactions ought not to trigger open offer obligations 

unless the indirectly-acquired target company represented a material component of the 

primary transaction, particularly in the case of global multi-national acquisitions, was 

also  debated  by  the  Committee  in  detail.  One  view  was  that  indirect  acquisitions 

should  trigger  open  offers  only  if  the  indirectly  held  target  company  was  a  material 

part  of  the  assets  of  the  parent.  This  would  be  in  keeping  with  the  practice  in  most 

international jurisdictions. 

5.4 

Another view was to have a flexible approach depending on the type and underlying 

nature of each such transaction. Cases of indirect acquisition could typically fall under 

the  following  3  categories,  viz.    (i)  cases  where  the  target  company  is  a  ―significant 

component‖ of the primary transaction; (ii) cases where the target company should be 

regarded as an intended object or material part of the main acquisition; and (iii) cases 

where the target company is a non-material and unintended, incidental consequence of 

the primary acquisition.  

5.5 

The Committee believes that if there is a change of control over a listed company, or 

if an acquirer indirectly acquires the ability to  direct the exercise of voting power in 

excess of the thresholds specified for attracting open offer obligations, there ought to 

be  no  differentiation  in  the  imposition  of  the  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer.  An 

analysis  of  companies  listed  in  India,  whose  controlling  interest  is  held  by  another 

listed Indian company or an international company is presented in Annexure 7. 

5.6 

The Committee observed that most  Indian companies would fall under category  (iii) 

above (viz. would be non-material or incidental targets), and if such companies were 

to  be  exempted  from  an  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer,  the  shareholders  of  such 

target companies would be deprived of their legitimate right to get an exit opportunity 

despite  the  occurrence  of  a  change  in  control.    Further  the  Committee  also  believed 

that if there is a change of control over a company listed on a stock exchange, or if an 

acquirer indirectly acquires the ability to direct the exercise of voting power in excess 

of the thresholds specified for attracting open offer obligations, there ought to be no 

differentiation  in  the  imposition  of  the  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer.  Such  a 

distinction  would  have  the  effect  of  giving  large  transactions  the  benefit  of  an 

exemption  from  an  open  offer  and  would  impose  such  an  obligation  in  a 

discriminatory manner only on small transactions.  

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 39 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

After taking into account the above factors, the Committee by majority view, felt that 

materiality  thresholds  for  attracting  an  open  offer  obligation  in  the  case  of  indirect 

acquisitions ought not to be recommended.  

 
5.7 

 

Committee Recommendation: 

5.8 

The  Committee  recommends  that  irrespective  of  whether  the  target  company  is 

material to the parent transaction, open offer obligations have to be triggered. Where a 

change in control over the target company occurs, shareholders of the target company 

ought to rightfully get an adequate exit opportunity. 

(See Regulation 5 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

Timing and Offer Price  

 

Current Provisions: 

5.9 

The  Takeover  Regulations  currently  provide  that  in  case  of  indirect  acquisition  of 

shares or change of control, a public announcement  may be made by the acquirer at 

any  time  from  the  date  of  the  initial  announcement  of  the  intention  to  acquire  or 

entering  in  to  the  acquisition  agreement,  until  completion  of  three  months  after  the 

consummation of such acquisition or change in control or restructuring of the parent 

or the company holding shares of or control over the target company. 

5.10  The Takeover Regulations currently do not differentiate between open offers arising 

due to direct acquisitions vis-à-vis indirect acquisitions for computation of offer price 

and the same offer price formula prescribed for direct acquisitions is used for indirect 

acquisitions as well, and the practice is to compute the offer price as of the date of the 

announcement of  primary  acquisition and as of the date of the public announcement 

for the target company, whichever is higher.  

 

Committee Deliberations: 

5.11  The  current  Takeover  Regulations  provide  for  a  leeway  of  up  to  three  months  after 

consummation  of  the  parent  acquisition  for  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer 

for the indirectly-acquired target company to be made. However, shareholders would 

have  already  been  given  advance  notice  that  an  open  offer  is  imminent  in  such  a 

situation,  except  if  the  parent  acquisition  is  withdrawn  for  some  reason.  Since  the 

computation  of  the  offer  price  for  such  an  imminent  open  offer  includes  a  2-week 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 40 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

price formula, the Committee noticed some situations in which the market price saw a 

steady rise from the date of announcement of the primary acquisition until the date of 

the eventual public announcement.  

5.12  The  market  price  for  such  indirectly  acquired  target  company  would  naturally  be 

rising in anticipation of the impending open offer on the knowledge that market price 

would  dictate  the  minimum  offer  price.  The  Committee  concluded  that  in  such 

situations, the balance is unfairly loaded against the acquirer. As the acquirer may not 

be in a position to launch the open offer until the primary acquisition is consummated, 

the  market  price  of  the  target  company  could  end  up  spiraling  upwards  before  the 

open offer is eventually announced.  

5.13  Moreover,  the  acquisitions  between  the  two  dates  (date  of  announcement  of  the 

primary  acquisition  and  the  eventual  date  of  public  announcement)  may  fall  outside 

the  relevant  look-back  period.    Therefore,  even  an  actual  acquisition  may  not  get 

factored into the computation of the minimum offer price. 

5.14  The Committee recognizes that although materiality is not a very important aspect for 

determining whether an open offer is required to be made, the materiality criterion is 

important for ascribing a value to the target company. The Committee is therefore of 

the view that in an indirect acquisition, the target company may have indeed formed a 

sizeable  component  of  the  primary  transaction  and  may  have  played  a  role  in  the 

negotiations  for  such  transaction,  and  yet,  the  negotiated  price  for  the  primary 

transaction may not specifically ear-mark the value of the target company.  

5.15  The  Committee  believes  there  is  a  need  to  ascribe  a  separate  value  to  the  target 

company  in  situations  where  the  target  company  forms  a  significant  part  of  the 

primary transaction. The value so ascribed would help in determining a fair offer price 

in such cases. . 

5.16  Further,  to  avoid  the  risk  of  transactions  being  structured  as  indirect  acquisitions 

merely  to  avoid  the  price  computation  methodology  and  the  open  offer  process 

prescribed for direct acquisitions, the Committee decided that where the proportionate 

net  asset  value,  or  the  sales  turnover,  or  the  market  capitalization  of  the  indirectly-

acquired  listed  company  represents  more  than  80  %  of  the  net  asset  value,  sales 

turnover  or  the  deal  value  for  the  parent  transaction,  the  acquirer  must  specify  the 

value  of  the  stake  in  the  Indian  company  that  has  been  factored  in  and  the  basis  of 

such valuation and the Takeover Regulations would treat such acquisitions as if they 

were direct acquisitions, with no leeway on time for making the public announcement.  
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 41 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
5.17  The Committee is of the view that certain flexibility needs to be provided for indirect 

acquisitions  where  the  target  company  is  not  a  significant  part  of  the  primary 

transaction. In cases where the target company is not a significant part of the primary 

transaction, the public announcement (required to be made on the same terms as if it 

were a case of direct acquisition) may be made within four business days of the date 

on  which  the  primary  acquisition  was  announced  in  the  public  domain  or  any 

agreement was entered into. This shall be followed with detailed public statement to 

be  issued  within  five  business  days  of  the  date  of  completion  of  the  primary 

acquisition.  

5.18  However, as the acquirer would be fixing the price payable for the offer as on the date 

of  the  primary  acquisition,  and  would  have  the  benefit  of  delaying  payment  to  the 

shareholders  (due  to  time  lag  in  completing  the  primary  acquisition),  all  the 

shareholders    tendering  shares  in  the  open  offer  would  need  to  be  compensated  by 

way  of  an  increase  in  the  offer  price  at  the  rate  of  [10  %]  per  annum  for  the  period 

between  the  announcement  of  primary  acquisition  and  date  on  which  the  detailed 

public statement is actually made if such period is more than five business days. 

5.19  Where  the  proportionate  net  asset  value,  or  the  sales  turnover,  or  the  market 

capitalization of the indirectly-acquired listed company represents more than 15 % of 

the net asset value, or the sales turnover, or the deal value for the parent acquisition, 

the acquirer shall be required to compute and disclose the per share value of the target 

company  taken  into  account  for  the  primary  acquisition,  and  the  basis  for  such 

valuation. Where such a proportion is less than 15 % on all the parameters, then such 

a  target  company  would  be  considered  to  be  a  non-material  part  of  the  primary 

transaction,  without  the  requirement  to  determine  an  attribution  of  value  of  the 

indirectly-acquired target company. 

 

Committee Recommendation: 

5.20  With regard to the pricing of open offers triggered on account of indirect acquisitions, 

the Committee recommends the following: 

 

(a)  Where  the  proportionate  net  asset  value,  or  the  sales  turnover,  or  the  market 

capitalization of the indirectly-acquired listed company represents more than 80 % of 

the net asset value, sales turnover or the deal value for the parent business or company, 

the acquirer must specify the value of the stake in the Indian company and the basis of 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 42 of 138 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

such valuation that would have been factored in, and the Takeover Regulations would 

treat such acquisitions as if they were direct acquisitions in all respects. 

(b) For  indirectly  acquired  target  companies,  the  minimum  offer  price  ought  to  be  the 

highest of: 

1)  The  highest  negotiated  price  per  share,  if  any,  of  the  target  company  for  any 

acquisition  under  the  agreement  attracting  the  obligation  to  make  a  public 

announcement of an open offer;  

 

i.  Where  the  proportionate  net  asset  value,  or  the  sales  turnover,  or  the  market 

capitalization of the indirectly acquired listed company represents more than 15 

% of the net  asset value, or the sales turnover, or the deal  value for the parent 

business or company, the acquirer shall be required to compute and disclose the 

per share value of the target  company taken into account  for the acquisition of 

the parent business or company and the basis of such valuation. 

 

ii.  Where  the  proportionate  net  asset  value,  or  the  sales  turnover,  or  the  market 

capitalization  of  the  indirectly  acquired  listed  company  represents  less  than  15 

% of the net  asset value, or the sales turnover, or the deal  value for the parent 

business or company, the acquirer shall not be necessarily required to make the 

computation as above, but to factor in the same if the same has been carried out. 

2)  The volume-weighted average price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by 

the acquirer or by any person acting in concert with him during the fifty-two weeks 

immediately preceding the date on which the intention or the decision to make the 

primary  acquisition  was  announced  in  the  public  domain  or  any  agreement  was 

entered into;  

 

3)  The highest price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by the acquirer or by 

any  person  acting  in  concert  with  him  during  the  twenty-six  weeks  immediately 

preceding  the  date  on  which  the  intention  or  the  decision  to  make  the  primary 

acquisition was announced in the public domain or any agreement was entered into; 

and  

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 43 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

The highest price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by the acquirer or by any 

person acting in concert with him between the date on which the intention or the decision 

to  make  the  primary  acquisition  was  announced  in  the  public  domain  or  any  agreement 

was entered into and the date of the public announcement; 

 

(c)  For frequently traded shares, the volume-weighted average market price on the stock 

exchange for a period of 60 trading days preceding the date on which the intention or 

the decision to make the primary acquisition was announced in the public domain or 

any agreement was entered into, as traded on the stock exchange where the maximum 

volume of trading in the shares of the target company are recorded during such period.  

 

(d) The price offered as of the date of public announcement (to be calculated as detailed 

above)  shall  have  to  be  increased  by  10  %  per  annum  for  the  period  between  the 

announcement of primary acquisition and date on which the detailed public statement 

is actually made.  

 

 

5.21  With  regard  to  the  timing  of  the  issue  of  public  announcement,  the  Committee 

recommends that for transactions where the proportionate net asset value, or the sales 

turnover,  or  the  market  capitalization  of  the  indirectly-acquired  listed  company 

represents more than 80 % of the net asset value, sales turnover or the deal value for 

the  parent  business  or  company,  the  public  announcement  be  made  on  the  earlier  of 

the  date  on  which  the  intention  or  the  decision  to  make  the  primary  acquisition  was 

announced in the public domain or any agreement was entered into. In all other cases, 

the public announcement can be made within four business days of such date, and in 

such cases the detailed public statement should be issued within five business days of 

the consummation of the primary acquisition. 

 (See Regulations 8 and 13 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

6.0  Withdrawal of open offer 

 

Current Provisions: 

6.1 

The Takeover Regulations currently provide that  no open offer, once made, shall be 

withdrawn except under the following circumstances: 

(a) 

the statutory approval(s) required have been refused; 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 44 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

the sole acquirer, being a natural person, has died;  

such circumstances as in the opinion of SEBI merits withdrawal 

 
(b) 

(c) 

 

Committee Deliberations: 

6.2 

Ordinarily,  once  an  open  offer  is  made,  its  inexorable  conclusion  ought  to  be  the 

completion of the open offer.  However, there could be circumstances where the open 

offer cannot be completed. These circumstances can be classified into two types  viz. 

(a) where it is rendered impossible for the open offer to continue – for example, death 

of an acquirer who is an individual, or rejection of any statutory approval required for 

the  offer  (as  provided  for  currently);  and  (b)  non-attainment  of  any  condition 

stipulated in the agreement that attracted the open offer obligation for reasons beyond 

the control of the acquirer, resulting in the agreement itself not being acted upon.  

6.3 

There  was  extensive  debate  within  the  Committee  about  whether  non-attainment  of 

conditions  other  than  regulatory  approvals  should  be  permitted  as  a  reason  for 

withdrawal  of  the  offer.  The  Committee  examined  regulations  in  other  jurisdictions 

and found that in certain jurisdictions such as Australia, Singapore, Germany, US and 

UK,  the  acquirers  are  allowed  to  clearly  specify  conditions  to  the  offer,  and  to 

withdraw the offer if these conditions are not met, and if the triggering agreement was 

not acted upon.  

6.4 

The Committee believes that it is important to permit withdrawal of the open offer in 

such  circumstances.  To  build  safeguards,  the  Committee  recommends  that  the 

conditions  subject  to  which  the  triggering  agreement  was  executed,  the  failure  of 

which  would  result  in  such  agreement  not  being  acted  upon,  ought  to  be  fully  and 

fairly disclosed upfront when the detailed public statement is made. Besides, the non-

attainment  of  such  a  condition  ought  to  be  for  reasons  outside  the  control  of  the 

acquirer. Moreover, the acquisition triggering the open offer ought not to be effected 

in order to be eligible for withdrawal. 

 

Committee Recommendation: 

6.5 

The  Committee  recommends  that,  in  addition  to  the  grounds  currently  existing,  an 

open  offer  may  be  withdrawn  where  any  condition  stipulated  in  the  agreement  for 

acquisition  attracting  the  obligation  to  make  the  open  offer  is  not  met  for  reasons 

outside  the  reasonable  control  of  the  acquirer,  and  such  agreement  is  rescinded, 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 45 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

subject to such conditions having been disclosed in the detailed public statement and 

the letter of offer.   

(See Regulation 23 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

7.0 

Competing Offers 

 

Current Provisions: 

7.1 

The Takeover Regulations currently provide the opportunity to any person other than 

the acquirer to make a competing offer within 21 days of the public announcement of 

the first offer. The Takeover Regulations also provide that any competitive offer by an 

acquirer  shall  be  for  such  number  of  shares  which,  when  taken  together  with  shares 

held  by  him  shall  be  at  least  equal  to  the  holding  of  the  first  bidder  including  the 

number of shares for which the present offer by the first bidder has been made.  

 

Committee Deliberations: 

7.2 

The  concept  of  competing  offers,  (current  Takeover  Regulations  term  these  as 

―competitive  bids‖),  was  deliberated  at  length  by  the  Committee.  The  discussions 

focused on a number of  areas  relevant  to  competing offers like timelines, offer size, 

reasonable  obligations  and  restrictions  on  the  competing  acquirers  and  on  the  target 

company, parameters of  the open offers that may be revised, a  cut-off time for such 

revisions, withdrawal  of  competing  offers,  and  inter  se transfer of shares  among  the 

bidders after completion of the competing offers. 

7.3 

The Committee recognized that the intent behind such provisions is to achieve orderly 

competition  between  acquirers  vying  for  the  same  target  company.  The  Committee 

was  clear  that  competing  offers  if  undertaken  in  a  fair,  transparent  and  equitable 

manner  would  be  in  the  interests  of  the  shareholders  at  large  and  therefore  need  be 

facilitated.  However,  it  was  also  felt  that  certain  reasonable  restrictions  should  be 

placed on the target company as well as on the bidders so as to make the process more 

robust. 

7.4 

The  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  the  present  period  of  21  days  for  making  a 

competitive bid is short. One should also ensure that the permitted time period is not 

so  long  as  to  result  in  prolonged  uncertainty.  Further,  after  the  expiry  of  the  period 

within which a competing offer may be made, no person should be permitted to either 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 46 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

make an open offer or  enter into a transaction that would trigger  an open offer until 

expiry of the offer period. 

7.5 

The Committee recommends that the general rule on offer size should be applicable to 

competing offers as well. The Committee however considered whether any deviation 

is warranted where the first offer were a voluntary offer with restrictions on the offer 

size, i.e. a maximum of such number of shares as would keep the acquirer within the 

maximum permissible non-public shareholding. If there were a competing offer after 

a  voluntary  offer  is  made,  the  acquirer  who  has  made  a  voluntary  offer  ought  to  be 

given a chance to enhance the size of his open offer to a full offer and stand released 

from  the  restrictions  on  market  purchases  so  that  he  could  effectively  compete  with 

the competing acquirer.  

7.6 

The  question  of  whether  intermediate  offer  sizes  need  be  permitted  for  defensive 

counter  offers  was  considered  by  the  Committee.  However,  the  Committee  felt  that 

such  a  position  would  lead  to  differential  treatment  of  competing  offers  with  no 

rationale therefor. It was also considered important to ensure that an open offer made 

in response to an existing open offer ought not to be considered as a voluntary offer.  

Therefore,  once  an  open  offer  is  made  for  a  target  company,  an  acquirer  making  a 

competing offer ought not to be able to make a smaller-sized open offer, and should 

be required to compete on even terms.   

7.7 

The Committee discussed the possibility of allowing an acquirer to withdraw an open 

offer made to shareholders of the target company, upon a competing offer being made. 

The  Committee  felt  that  it  is  in  best  interests  of  the  shareholders  of  the  target 

company that they get to decide the controlling acquirer from amongst the competing 

acquirers  and  therefore  the  Committee  decided  that  existing  open  offers  should 

continue to be valid. At the same time, the Committee also observed that in case of a 

split decision by shareholders of the target company, for efficient and smooth future 

running  of  business  operations,  it  is  in  best  interests  of  the  target  company  that 

competing acquirers be given an opportunity to exit in favour of any one competing 

acquirer  within  certain  time  limitations.  Shares  held  by  one  of  the  competing 

acquirers can be tendered in the offer made by the other competing acquirer. However, 

shares  acquired  by  such  competing  acquirer  in  the  open  offer  can  not  be  tendered 

during  the  offer  period  and  hence  the  Committee  felt  that  a  mechanism  should  be 

provided to enable the competing acquirer to sell such shares to the other competing 

acquirer within certain specified time without triggering further open offer obligations.  

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 47 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

Committee Recommendation: 

7.8 

Therefore, with a view to rationalize the time lines for making a competing offer, the 

Committee recommends that a competing offer may be made within 15 business days 

from  the  date  of  the  original  detailed  public  statement  instead  of  21  calendar  days 

from the date of the original public announcement. No further offer should be allowed 

to be made after the expiry of the said period of 15 business days until the completion 

of all the competing offers.  

7.9 

An  open  offer  made  by  a  competing  acquirer  shall  not  be  regarded  as  a  voluntary 

open offer and therefore all provisions of Takeover Regulations, including relating to 

offer size, shall apply accordingly.  

7.10  The Committee also recommends that an acquirer, who has made a competing offer, 

shall  be  entitled  to  acquire  the  shares  acquired  by  the  other  competing  acquirers  in 

their  respective  competing  open  offers  within  21  business  days  of  the  expiry  of  the 

offer  period  without  attracting  an  obligation  to  make  another  open  offer.    However, 

such  an  acquisition  shall  not  be  made  at  a  price  exceeding  the  offer  price    in  the 

competing offer made by the acquirer who buys shares in such transaction.  Moreover, 

such  an  acquisition  ought  not  to  take  the  shareholding  of  the  acquirer  beyond  the 

maximum permissible non-public shareholding limit.  

7.11  The Committee also considered certain other conditions specific to competing offers 

and recommended the following: 

a.  During the pendency of competing offers, no  appointment of additional directors 

ought to be made on the board of directors of the target company. 

b.  The ability of an acquirer to proportionately reduce his acquisitions such that the 

holding does not exceed the maximum permissible non-public shareholding ought 

not to be available where competing offers are underway. This is critical to ensure 

that competing acquirers compete on an identical  end-objective and shareholders 

are truly able to compare them on the offer price. 

c.   Unless the open offer first made is an open offer conditional as to the minimum 

level  of  acceptances,  no  open  offer  made  by  a  competing  acquirer  may  be 

conditional as to the minimum level of acceptances. 

d.  The schedule of activities and the tendering period for all competing offers shall 

be carried out with identical timelines and the dates for tendering shares shall be 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 48 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

revised to the dates for tendering shares in acceptance of the competing offer last 

made.  

(See Regulation 20 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

8.0  Obligations of the Target Company 

 

Material  Actions 

 

Current Provisions: 

8.1 

The Takeover Regulations currently provide that the target company shall not, during 

the offer period sell, transfer, encumber or otherwise dispose of assets of the company 

or its subsidiaries or enter into any material contracts. 

 

Committee Deliberations: 

8.2 

The Committee desired to achieve a balance between the conflicting requirements of 

curbing a target company from carrying out material transaction without the consent 

of shareholders to make the company unattractive for an acquirer even while ensuring 

that the target company‘s freedom to carry out its day-to-day affairs is not curtailed.  

8.3 

It  was  observed  that  as  per  extant  provisions  of  the  Takeover  Regulations,  it  is 

mandated  that  the  shareholders‘  approval  through  postal  ballot  be  obtained  by  the 

target company before entering into any material contract during the pendency of an 

open offer.  

 

Committee Recommendation: 

8.4 

The  Committee,  therefore,  recommends  retaining  restrictions  on  the  target  company 

during  the  offer  period  from  carrying  out  material  transactions  outside  the  ordinary 

course  of  business  except  with  the  consent  of  the  shareholders  through  a  special 

resolution.  The  Committee  recommends  that  such  restrictions  would  also  cover  the 

subsidiaries of the target company, and such actions in respect of subsidiaries would 

also require approval of the shareholders of the target company.  

(See Regulation 26 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 49 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
9.0 

 

Composition of the Board  

Current Provisions: 

9.1 

The  Takeover  Regulations  currently  provide  that  till  the  offer  formalities  are 

completed,  the  target  company  shall  be  precluded  from  inducting  any  person  or 

person  nominated  by  the  acquirer  or  belonging  to  his  group  into  the  board  of  the 

target  company  other  than  in  cases,  where  acquirer  deposits  full  consideration  in  an 

escrow account. 

 

Committee Deliberation: 

9.2 

The Committee debated the right of an acquirer to appoint his representatives on the 

board  of  the  target  company.  In  this  regard,  the  Committee  observed  that  the  extant 

Takeover  Regulations  specify  that  an  acquirer  may  appoint  his  nominees  on  the 

Target Company‘s Board after 15 business days from the date of the detailed public 

statement  by  making  cash  deposit  of  100  %  of  the  consideration  payable  under  the 

offer in the escrow account. 

9.3 

The Committee recommends that ideally there ought to be no change in the board of 

directors of a target company during the pendency of the open offer, since the target 

company is in ―play‖, and the fiduciary duty of directors towards all shareholders is at 

its greatest in such circumstances. However, there could be commercial circumstances 

that  necessitate  board  representation  for  the  acquirer.  Therefore,  in  order  to  ensure 

that  the  obligations  under  the  Takeover  Regulations  are  in  fact  met,  the  acquirer  or 

persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  may  be  represented  on  the  board  provided  the 

entire  consideration  payable  under  the  open  offer  is  deposited  in  cash  in  the  escrow 

account  required  under  the  Takeover  Regulations,  provided  no  competing  offer  has 

been made.  

9.4 

However, such appointment, even if cash is escrowed, ought not to be allowed for 15 

business days from the date of the detailed public statement since during such period 

any  other  person  may  make  a  competing  offer.  In  any  event,  the  Committee  has 

recommended that if a competing offer is made, there should be no appointments of 

directors  representing  any  acquirer  during  the  offer  period.  Similarly,  where  the 

acquirer  has  imposed  a  condition  as  to  the  minimum  level  of  acceptances  or  other 

conditions  precedent  to  the  agreement  triggering  the  offer  remain  unfulfilled,  he 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 50 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

should be  restricted  from  appointing any new director representing him  to  the board 

of the target company during the offer period.  

9.5 

The  Committee  observed  that  there  ought  to  be  no  change  to  the  board  of  a  target 

company  during  the  pendency  of  competing  offers  other  than  the  vacation  of  office 

owing  to  death,  incapacitation  or  resignation  of  a  director.  Any  appointment  of 

additional directors in such circumstances to fill the vacancy would not be permitted. 

The  directors  can  be  appointed  only  to  fill  vacancies  arising  out  of  death  or 

incapacitation  with  the  prior  approval  of  the  shareholders  of  the  target  company. 

Needless  to  add,  an  appointment  of  a  director  to  the  board  of  directors  of  the  target 

company may take place only in compliance with the requirements specified thereof 

under  the  Companies  Act,  and  the  Takeover  Regulations  do  not  confer  any  special 

right  to  make  such  appointment  –  in  fact,  the  Takeover  Regulations  only  prescribe 

additional  requirements  and  restrictions  to  be  met  for  such  appointment.  Any 

appointment, therefore, would also have to be in compliance with the requirements of 

the Companies Act.  

 

Committee Recommendation: 

9.6 

The Committee recommends that the acquirer or persons  acting in  concert with  him 

may be represented on the board only after the expiry of a period of 15 business days 

from  the  date  of  the  detailed  public  statement  and  provided  the  entire  consideration 

payable under the open offer is deposited in cash in the escrow account required under 

the  Takeover  Regulations  and  the  offer  is  not  subject  to  any  conditions  other  than 

regulatory approvals.  

9.7 

The Committee also recommends that if a competing offer is made, there ought to be 

no  appointments  of  directors  during  the  offer  period,  and  only  casual  vacancies 

arising out of death or incapacitation may be filled with prior approval of shareholders. 

(See Regulation 24 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

10.0  Timelines for the Open Offer process 

 

Current Provisions: 

10.1  The  Committee  discussed  the  current  timelines  for  an  open  offer  under  the  existing 

Takeover Regulations and reviewed the same with a view to shorten the timelines. 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 51 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

 

Committee Deliberations: 

10.2  Currently,  the  Takeover  Regulations  require  a  public  announcement  regarding  the 

open  offer  to  be  made  within  four  working  days  of  acquiring  or  agreeing  to  acquire 

shares in the target company. The Committee is of the view that given the number of 

parties involved in the deal by that point of time, the time period was short, and yet, 

permitting  a  longer  period  of  time  to  make  a  public  announcement  may  lead  to 

selective leakage of such price-sensitive news regarding the impending deal with the 

possibility of price distortions in respect of the scrip.  

10.3  Therefore,  the  Committee  recommends  that  a  short  public  announcement  shall  be 

made on the same day as the date of the transaction which triggered the open offer. A 

detailed  public  statement  should  be  made  within  a  period  of  five  business  days 

thereafter so as to accord the acquirer sufficient time to actually work out the logistics 

of the offer obligations.  

10.4  The  Committee  recommends  that  in  order  to  ensure  maximum  and  speedy 

dissemination of information to  the public, copy of the public  announcement should  

be submitted to the stock exchanges. Also, verification of information presented in the 

public announcement by a merchant banker registered with SEBI should be mandated 

so that only accurate information is given to the public. Thereafter, the detailed public 

statement  should  be  published  in  the  newspapers  and  should  contain  all  essential 

information about the offer.  

10.5  The other activities in the offer process have been retained with an overall contraction 

in the timelines. The Committee is of the view that current timelines are mostly based 

on calendar days and there may be situations where due to holidays and weekends, it 

may  be  difficult  to  operate  within  the  constraints  of  the  regulatory  timelines.  The 

Committee deliberated and in line with global practices agreed to prescribe timelines 

in business days format in the best interest of all parties involved in the offer process.  

 

Committee Recommendation: 

10.6  The Committee recommends the following: 

a.  A short public announcement should be made on the same date as the date of 

transaction  which  triggered  the  open  offer  through  a  notice  to  the  Stock 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 52 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Exchange,  followed  by  a  detailed  public  statement  within  5  business  days  of 

the public announcement. 

b.  Post submission of draft letter of offer, all timelines are dependent on issue of 

comments  by  SEBI,  thus  the  Committee  recommends  to  link  timelines  (post 

submission of draft letter of offer) to the date of receipt of SEBI comments on 

the draft letter of offer. 

c.  The  letter  of  offer  should  be  sent  to  the  most  recent  set  of  shareholders. 

Therefore, 

the  Committee  recommends 

that  date  for  reckoning 

the 

shareholders  to  whom  the  letter  of  offer  shall  be  sent  should  be  ten  business 

days prior to commencement of the tendering period. 

d.  Most shareholders tender their shares on the last few days of the offer period, 

after  the  date  of  final  revision  in  price  has  been  carried  out,  and  hence  the 

initial  part  of  the  offer  period  is  virtually  redundant.  Hence,  the  overall  time 

frame of the tendering period has been reduced to ten business  days, and the 

last  date  for  upward  revision  of  offer  price  has  been  moved  up  to  three 

business days prior to commencement of the tendering period. 

e.  Since the last date of upward revision is prior to the opening of the open offer, 

shareholders are expected to be in receipt of all information to enable them to 

decide  on  the  open  offer.    Therefore,  there  is  no  requirement  to  permit 

withdrawal  of shares tendered in  response to  the open offer. This  would also 

make the process more efficient. 

f.  The acquirer shall issue an advertisement 1 business day prior to the opening 

of  the  tendering  period  announcing  the  schedule  and  procedure  for  tendering 

acceptances. 

g.  The entire open offer process from the public announcement to the payment of 

consideration can now be done within fifty seven business days.  

h.  A  summary  of  the  revised  timelines  and  activity  chart  for  an  open  offer 

pursuant to a direct acquisition is set out below:- 

 

 

Activity 

Current Timeline 

Committee Recommendation 

Public Announcement (PA) to SE 

X (within 4 business 

X (on the date of agreeing to 

days of the trigger event) 

acquire voting rights or control) 

PA to target company  

Detailed public statement (DPS), in 
newspapers, sending  to SEs, SEBI, 

X 

- 

X+1 

Not later than 5 business days 

from PA* 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 53 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Target company  

Draft letter of offer to be submitted 
to SEBI and sent to target company 

Not later than 14 days 

from the PA 

Not later than 5 business days 
from detailed public statement 

SEBI provides its comments on the 
letter of offer (LoF) 

Not later than 21 days 

from filing the draft LoF 

Not later than 15 business days 
from filing the draft LoF with 

Specified/Identified date for 
determination of names of 
shareholders to whom letter of offer 
is to be sent 

Dispatch of letter of offer to 
shareholders 

with SEBI 

SEBI 

No later than 30 days 

10th business days prior to start of 

from the PA 

the tendering period 

- 

Not later than 7 business days 

from the date of receipt of 

comments from SEBI 

- 

Letter of offer to reach shareholders 

No later than 45 days 
from the date of PA 

Upward revision in offer  

Up to 7 business days 
prior to closure of the 

Up to 3 business days prior to 
commencement of tendering 

Comments on the offer by 
independent directors of target 
company  

Issue of advertisement announcing 
the schedule of activities for open 
offer 

Date of opening of Offer 

offer 

- 

- 

No later than 55 days 
from the date of PA 

Last date for withdrawal of tendered 
shares by shareholders 

Up to 3 business days 
prior to closure of the 

offer 

period 

2 business days prior to 

commencement of the tendering 

period 

1 business day prior to 

commencement of the tendering 

period 

Not later than 12 business days 

from the date of receipt of 

comments from SEBI 

Withdrawal not permitted 

Date of closure of offer 

20 days from opening of 

10 business days from the 

the offer period 

opening of the tendering period 

Acquirer to fund special account for 
payment to shareholders 

Within 7 days from 
closure of the offer 

- 

Payment to shareholders 

Overall time for completion of offer 
formalities  

Within 15 days from 
closure of the offer 

Not later than 10 business days 
from the close of the tendering 

period 

95 calendar days  

57 business days  

Report to be sent by merchant 
banker to SEBI 

Within 45 days from 
closure of the offer 

Within 15 business days from the 

close of the tendering period 

* In the case of certain indirect acquisitions, the detailed public statement should be issued within 5 

business days of the consummation of the primary transaction. 

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 54 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

 

 

11.0  Mode of Payment 

 

Current Provisions: 

11.1  The Takeover Regulations currently provide that offer consideration shall be payable 

either (a) by way of cash; (b) by issue, exchange and, or transfer of shares (other than 

preference shares) of acquirer company, if the person seeking to acquire the shares is 

a  listed  body  corporate;  or  (c)  by  issue,  exchange  and,  or  transfer  of  secured 

instruments  of  acquirer  company  with  a  minimum  ‗A‘  grade  rating  from  a  credit 

rating agency  registered with the Board; or (d) a combination of clause (a), (b) or (c). 

 

Committee Deliberations: 

11.2  The  Committee  considered  the  various  alternate  modes  of  making  payment  of  the 

offer  price  to  the  target  company‘s  shareholders.  The  Committee  felt  the  need  to 

permit  and  facilitate  non-cash  takeovers,  where  other  securities  can  be  used  as  a 

currency  for M&A transactions.  The Committee is  also  mindful of the fact  that the 

objective  of  an  open  offer  is  to  provide  an  exit  to  the  shareholders  and  therefore 

adequate  care  should  be  taken  to  ensure  that  the  shareholders  are  not  stuck  holding 

illiquid paper.  

11.3 

In  order  to  ensure  that  interests  of  the  shareholders  of  the  target  company  are  duly 

protected, the Committee is of the view that only frequently traded equity shares that 

conform  to  specified  criteria,  secured  and  listed  debt  instruments  with  investment 

grade  credit  rating  or  above,  and  convertible  instruments,  which  are  converted  into 

frequently  traded  shares,  should  be  allowed  as  the  modes  of  paying  the  offer  price 

under the open offer.  

11.4  Further,  in  order  to  ensure  that  issuance  of  shares  as  consideration  does  not  lead  to 

undue  delay  in  completion  of  offer  formalities  by  the  acquirer,  the  disclosures  and 

other procedural requirements to be followed for such issue of shares are required to 

be appropriately spelt out. The Committee observed that such an issue being an issue 

to  a  select  group  of  persons,  viz.  shareholders  of  the  target  company,  would  in  the 

normal  course  get  classified  as  preferential  allotment,  subject  to  the  related 

requirements such as lock-in period, floor price computation, ineligibility due to sale 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 55 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

in  the  proximate  past  etc.  In  order  to  enable  allotment  of  equity  to  tendering 

shareholders in an open offer, SEBI should amend the ICDR Regulations to facilitate 

a smooth issuance of equity shares in such cases in a clear and transparent manner.   

11.5  As  regards  pricing  of  such  shares  issued  towards  payment  of  offer  price,  the 

Committee felt that a clear and predictable price computation methodology should be 

provided to  ascertain the number of shares to  be  given to  a tendering shareholder in 

lieu  of  the  shares  tendered  in  acceptance  of  the  open  offer.  The  Committee 

recommends that the volume-weighted average price of such shares in the 60 trading 

days preceding the public announcement for the target company shall be the basis at 

which the acquirer can value the shares he is offering by way of the offer price.  

11.6  The  Committee  observed  that  SEBI  has  been  making  efforts  to  encourage  issue  of 

Indian Depository Receipts by foreign companies in India and to this effect, has laid 

down  provisions  in  the  ICDR  Regulations.  The  Committee  felt  that  permitting 

issuance  of  these  instruments  as  a  means  of  payment  of  consideration  would  on  the 

one  hand  popularize  this  product  and  on  the  other  would  increase  the  options 

available  to  the  acquirer  to  fulfill  his  financial  obligations  under  the  offer.  The 

Committee suggests that SEBI may take up restrictions under exchange controls that 

impede the usage of these instruments in this regard. 

 

Committee Recommendation: 

The Committee recommends the following: 

(a)  The  offer  price  may  be  paid  (i)  in  cash;  (ii)  by  issue,  exchange  or  transfer  of 

frequently  traded  shares  of  the  acquirer  or  of  the  persons  acting  in  concert  with  the 

acquirer ; (iii) by issue, exchange or transfer of listed secured debt instruments issued 

by  acquirer  or  the  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  with  minimum  rating  of 

investment  grade;  (iv)  by  issue,  exchange  or  transfer  of  convertible  debt  securities 

entitling the holder to acquire listed shares of the acquirer or of the person acting in 

concert with him; or (v) a combination of (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) 

(b) In cases where the acquirer or persons acting in concert with him, proposes to pay the 

offer consideration by way of issue of its listed shares, the acquirer or PAC as the case 

may be, may take its shareholder approval for the purpose of allotment of shares up to 

a specified percentage of the equity capital of the issuer and any allotment of shares 

pursuant to such resolution may be made within a period of one year from the date of 

passing of the resolution or till the date next AGM, whichever is earlier.  

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 56 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

(c)  ICDR Regulations may be appropriately amended to facilitate such open offers. 

(d) Where  the  acquirer  has  acquired  more  than  10  %  of  the  voting  rights  in  the  target 

company  in  cash  during  the  fifty  two  weeks  prior  to  the  public  announcement,  the 

shareholders  of  the  target  company  should  be  provided  an  option  to  receive  the 

payment of offer consideration in cash. 

(e)  The  Committee  also  recommends  due  certification  from  an  independent  merchant 

banker  or  by  a  chartered  accountant  with  a  minimum  of  10  years  standing  on 

valuation  of  shares  of  the  issuer  and  the  basis  for  arriving  at  the  relevant  exchange 

ratio.  

(See Regulation 9 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

12.0  Exemptions from open offer obligations  

 

Current Provisions: 

12.1  The  Takeover  Regulations  currently  provide  for  fourteen  categories  of  transactions 

which are exempted from the requirement to make an open offer subject to satisfying 

the conditions specified therein, if any, without the need to seek SEBI‘s approval for 

the  same.  Further,  for  the  transactions  that  are  not  covered  in  the  aforesaid  fourteen 

categories,  an  application  can  be  made  for  seeking  exemption  from  SEBI.  Such 

applications are referred to a takeover panel for its recommendations. SEBI considers 

the recommendations received and passes an appropriate order. 

 

Committee Deliberations: 

12.2  The Committee discussed each of the aforesaid fourteen categories as to its relevance 

for  exemptions  without  seeking  SEBI‘s  approval.  It  was  noted  that  open  offer 

obligations can arise either on account of acquisition of shares or voting rights beyond 

the thresholds specified for initial trigger or creeping acquisition trigger or a change in 

control. The Committee was of the view that the regulatory obligations from which an 

acquisition  should  be  exempted  without  seeking  SEBI‘s  approval  (referred  as  ―such 

exemptions‖ hereinafter) should depend on the nature of the acquisition as well as its 

significance. The Committee felt that such exemptions in general should be minimal 

and the exemption  conditions  should be clearly  and unambiguously spelt out  so that 

acquirers  in  particular  do  not  face  any  uncertainties  in  this  respect.  Consequently,  a 

number  of  such  exemptions,  which  have  not  been  used  very  frequently,  have  been 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 57 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

eliminated;  e.g.  allotment  of  shares  pursuant  to  an  application  made  under  a  Public 

Issue,  acquisition  of  shares  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business  by  a  market  maker, 

acquisition  of  shares  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business  by  Public  Financial 

Institutions on their own account, etc. 

 

 

Committee Recommendation: 

12.3  The  Committee  has  classified  the  exemptions  on  the  basis  of  the  specific  charging 

provisions  which  deal  with  the  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer,  and  has  sought  to 

distinguish between acquisitions involving change in control and those involving only 

consolidation of shareholding. The deliberations in brief and the recommendations of 

the Committee on the same are discussed below under separate heads. 

 

Exemption from open offer obligations in case of acquisition of shares and / or control  

12.4  Acquisitions  arising  out  of  inter-se  transfer  of  shares  among  ―qualifying  parties‖  as 

specified  under  the  Regulations  would  be  exempt  from  making  an  open  offer.    The 

nature  and  type  of  such  qualifying  parties  has  been  spelt  out  with  the  underlying 

principle  being  that  such  transfers  do  not  represent  a  typical  acquisition  carrying  an 

economic  value,  which  ought  to  result  in  providing  an  exit  opportunity  to  all 

shareholders. The only circumstance where this principle has been deviated from is to 

permit  transfer  between  co-promoters,  or  persons  acting  in  concert,  who  have  been 

disclosed as such for at least three years, and that too only if the premium being paid 

to the exiting party is less than 25  % of the volume weighted average price over the 

12  weeks  period  and  subject  to  the  parties  having  complied  with  all  their  disclosure 

obligations. 

12.5  The  Committee  felt  that  acquisition  of  shares  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business  by 

stock  brokers,  under-writers,  merchant  bankers,  and  specific  persons  performing 

specific  routine  commercial  roles  should  be  out  of  the  purview  of  an  open  offer 

obligation. 

12.6 

In  respect  of  inter-se  transfers  amongst  certain  ―qualifying  parties‖  as  listed  and 

defined under the Takeover Regulations, the Committee recommends that, in order to 

curb  the  abuse  of  introduction  of  new  entities  as  qualifying  parties,  in  most  cases  a 

requirement of pre-existing relationship of at least three years has been prescribed. In 

particular, the current exemption on Group Companies which does not have this three 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 58 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

year  requirement  has  been  restricted  to  transfers  between  co-subsidiaries  and  their 

parents where there is no change in control.  

12.7 

In  respect  of  schemes  of  re-arrangement  approved  by  a  court  or  other  competent 

authority,  the  Committee  felt  that  where  the  schemes  entail  a  transformation  of  the 

target  company,  it  would  be  desirable  to  continue  to  provide  for  an  exemption  from 

the obligation to make an open offer.  However, if the schemes do not really involve 

or deal with the target company per se, and an acquisition of shares or voting rights in, 

or control over the target company were to take place beyond the thresholds specified 

for  the  open  offer  obligations,  as  a  consequence  of  the  main  scheme,  the  treatment 

should  be  different.  The  Committee  considered  the  possibility  of  removing  the 

exemptions  from  all  Schemes  of  Arrangement  or  Mergers  /  Demergers  where  the 

target  company  was  not  a  party.  However,  the  Committee  concluded  that  such  an 

elimination of the exemption may not be equitable in the case of transactions that are 

genuine  mergers  (which  several  other  laws  including  the  Income  Tax  Act  also 

recognize as deserving special treatment).  After deliberations, the Committee arrived 

at  the  consensus  that  in  cases  of  reorganization  not  involving  the  target  company, 

where  25  %  or  more  of  the  consideration  under  the  scheme  were  offered  by  way  of 

cash or cash equivalents (and hence the transaction was not  just a merger) or  where 

the existing body of shareholders of the parent retain less than 33 % of the combined 

entity, the shareholders of the target company ought to get an exit opportunity too.   

12.8  The  Committee  also  thought  it  fit  to  clarify  that  voting  rights  that  accrue  on 

preference shares in proportion to the paid up preference share capital, when dividend 

remains  unpaid  beyond  the  periods  set  out  in  Section  87(2)  of  the  Companies  Act, 

1956, would not  attract  an obligation to make an open offer.  Such voting rights are 

temporary in nature and upon dividend being paid, cease to exist.  Moreover, even the 

voting rights on equity shares would vary when voting rights accrue on the preference 

shares and abate when dividend is paid. 

 

Exemption  from  open  offer  obligations  in  case  of  acquisition  of  shares  only  and  not 

control  

12.9  Corporate  Debt  Restructuring  under  the  scheme  prescribed  by  the  RBI  provides  a 

means  by  which  funds  can  be  infused  into  a  financially  weak  company.  Presently 

there is no specific provision under the Takeover Regulations that explicitly exempts 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 59 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

such  schemes.  Consequently,  the  Board  receives  a  number  of  applications  seeking 

exemptions.   

12.10  The  Committee  recommends  that  acquisitions  pursuant  to  such  schemes  may  be 

exempted  from  triggering  the  open  offer  obligation  under  the  Takeover  Regulations 

only  if  the  scheme  has  been  authorized  by  the  shareholders  by  way  of  a  special 

resolution passed by postal ballot, and no change in control over the target company 

takes place through such acquisition.  

 

Exemption from open offer obligations in case of acquisition of substantial stake  

12.11  The Committee observed that companies routinely avail of loans from the banks and 

financial institutions for their working capital requirements and other funding needs. 

Often, such acquisitions involve the pledging of shares of a target company, and these 

pledges do get invoked in the event of loan default or otherwise. Normally the shares 

so  pledged  with  an  individual  bank  would  be  well  within  the  enhanced  threshold 

specified  under  Regulation  3(1).    In  view  of  this,  the  Committee  considered  it 

appropriate  to  exempt  acquisition  of  shares  by  a  consortium  of  banks  pursuant  to 

invocation of a pledge. 

12.12  The Committee was cognizant of the fact that share buy-backs may be undertaken by 

a company as a way of returning value to the shareholders. The Committee feels that 

such  passive  increase  in  shareholding  resulting  in  a  stake  exceeding  the  trigger  in 

Regulation  3(1)  is  possible,  but  given  that  that  this  trigger  is  to  be  considered 

sacrosanct,  the  Committee  believes  that  no  one  should  be  entitled  to  retain  a  stake 

above such threshold.  Therefore, the Committee recommends that such shareholders 

be  given  ninety  days  to  reduce  their  stake  to  a  level  below  the  threshold  set  out  in 

Regulation 3(1). 

 

Exemption from open offer obligations in case of acquisition of shares beyond the creeping 

threshold  

12.13  The  Committee  believes  that  certain  acquisitions  may  be  exempted  from  making  an 

open  offer  under  Regulation  3(2)  considering  the  level  of  creeping  acquisition 

permitted.  However,  the  same  type  of  acquisition  ought  not  to  be  exempted  under 

Regulation 3(1), where the threshold of the trigger is enhanced and is sacrosanct. 

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 60 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Special Exemptions 

12.14  The  Committee  was  also  mindful  that  SEBI  currently  has  the  powers  to  grant 

exemption  from  the  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  and  recommends  retention  of 

the same. It would be open to SEBI to seek advice of an expert Panel before granting 

an exemption from an open offer obligation.  

12.15  The  Committee  has  recommended  that  the  Board  may  also  grant  an  exemption  or 

relaxation  from  strict  compliance  from  specific  requirements  only  under  special 

circumstances.  Any exemption or relaxation may be made only in exceptional cases 

and  that  too  in  the  broader  interests  of  the  investors  in  securities  and  the  securities 

markets. In all such cases, an order with justification should be published by SEBI. 

 

Whitewash Provisions  

12.16  The  Takeover  Regulations  currently  provide  for  whitewash  in  case  of  change  in 

control  of  the  target  company  i.e.  an  open  offer  would  not  be  required  if  the 

shareholders of the target company were to pass a special resolution waiving the open 

offer in case of change in control.   

12.17  The Committee observed that providing for whitewash only for change in control and 

not  for  substantial  acquisition  of  shares  or  voting  rights  (without  change  in  control) 

apparently  is  an  unintended  anomaly.  The  Committee  examined  the  possibility  of 

introducing  a  whitewash  provision  in  the  Takeover  Regulations  on  the  lines  of 

international practice i.e. an open offer would not be required if a material majority of 

the  shareholders  of  the  target  company  were  to  pass  a  resolution  waiving  the  open 

offer. The rationale for such a framework is that an open offer is ultimately made for 

the  benefit  of  the  shareholders  and  it  is  well  within  the  shareholders‘  rights  to 

renounce such a benefit if they so desire.  

12.18  Whitewash  provisions  may  be  required  in  situations  where  (i)  the  transaction  is 

triggered by an asset or share acquisition by the target company, where consideration 

was paid by issuing shares of the target company; (ii) the transaction is a preferential 

allotment  or  other  primary  infusion  which  breaches  the  relevant  thresholds;  (iii)  the 

transaction is a bail-out takeover; (iv) acquirer‘s acquisition of voting rights is due to 

receipt  of  shares/  voting  rights  as  gift;  or  (v)  acquisition  is  made  in  an  environment 

where  the  liquidity  is  scarce.  In  such  circumstances,  it  is  possible  that  a  transaction 

that a majority of shareholders desire and support may be rendered infeasible due to 

the need to make an open offer. In such cases, whitewash provisions may provide the 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 61 of 138 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

acquirer an opportunity to take control of the target company or to cross the relevant 

substantial  acquisition  or  creeping  acquisition 

limits,  with 

the  approval  of 

shareholders  of  the  target  company  who  repose  their  faith  and  confidence  in  the 

acquirer. 

12.19  The Committee considered imposing strict conditions such as a high positive waiver 

vote  requirement  (say,  90  %)  and  a  minimum  voter  participation  threshold.  Some 

members  felt  that  the  absence  of  such  a  framework  would  make  the  Takeover 

Regulations  onerous  with  no  room  to  exempt  from  an  open  offer  even  where  the 

shareholders themselves do not desire it. It was however observed that in the absence 

of robust regulations on proxy solicitation, and given the realities of the Indian market, 

any provision for shareholder waiver for an open offer may not be in the best interests 

of investors at large. Moreover, some members of the Committee felt strongly against 

a majority of the shareholders exercising the power to waive an open offer imposing 

their will on an out-voted minority.  

12.20  The  Committee  observed  that  SEBI  is  taking  certain  steps  to  promote  institutional 

voting,  and  that  it  is  also  pursuing  means  to  operationalise  electronic-voting.  It  was 

therefore  felt  that  the  market  is  not  yet  ready  for  a  whitewash  mechanism  for 

automatic  exemptions  from  open  offers.  In  any  case,  as  observed,  the  shareholders 

always have option not to tender their shares if they so desire. While SEBI does have 

discretionary powers to grant exemptions from open offers, it would be open to SEBI 

to  take  into  account  whether  a  significant  majority  has  waived  the  right  to  an  open 

offer, when considering an application for exemption.  

12.21  The  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  although  whitewash  provisions  are,  in  principle, 

not undesirable, the time is not yet ripe to introduce the same in India. Therefore, the 

current  whitewash  provision  in  case  of  change  in  control  of  the  target  company  has 

not been retained. 

(See Regulations 10 & 11 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

13.0  Recommendation by the independent directors of the Target Company  

 

Current Provisions: 

13.1  The  Takeover  Regulations  currently  provide  that  the  board  of  directors  of  the  target 

company may, if they so desire, send their unbiased comments and recommendations 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 62 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

on the offer(s) to the shareholders, keeping in mind the fiduciary responsibility of the 

directors to the shareholders. 

 

 

Committee Deliberations: 

13.2  Most jurisdictions the world over including U.K, Canada, Singapore and Hong Kong 

mandate  that  the  board  of  directors  of  the  target  company  issues  its  considered 

recommendation  on  the  open  offer  to  the  target‘s  shareholders.    The  Takeover 

Regulations  entirely  leave  it  to  the  discretion  of  directors  of  the  target  company  to 

issue  their  recommendations,  if  any,  on  an  open  offer.  It  has  been  noticed  that  this 

provision has seldom been used.  

13.3  The  Committee  feels  that  the  board  of  directors  of  the  target  company  ought  not  to 

play a passive role but take a more conscious position when an open offer is made for 

its shares,. The boards of directors and in particular, the independent directors have a 

fiduciary responsibility towards the shareholders.  

13.4  The  Committee  feels  that  in  order  to  achieve  the  regulatory  objective  and  also  to 

further the objectives of good corporate governance, the independent directors ought 

to give their recommendation on the open offer to the shareholders. 

 

Committee Recommendation: 

13.5  The Committee recommends that the independent directors on the board of directors 

of the target company ought to make a reasoned recommendation on the open offer. 

For the making of such a recommendation, the board of the target company ought to 

appoint  a  committee  of  independent  directors  with  freedom  to  consult  and  engage 

external advisors such as merchant bankers, chartered accountants and lawyers at the 

expense  of  the  target  company.  Such  committee  of  independent  directors  ought  to 

make  a  reasoned  recommendation  and  such  recommendation  ought  to  be  sent  to  all 

the  stock  exchanges  where  the  shares  of  the  target  company  are  listed  and  be 

published in the same newspapers where the relevant detailed public statement of the 

open offer was published.  

(See Regulation 26 (6) of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

 

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 63 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
14.0  Obligations of the Acquirer 

 

Disposal of assets of the Target Company 

 

Current Provisions: 

14.1  The Takeover Regulations currently provide that where the acquirer has not stated his 

intention to dispose of or otherwise encumber any assets of the target company except 

in  the  ordinary  course  of  business  of  the  target  company,  the  acquirer  shall  be 

debarred from disposing of or otherwise encumbering the assets of the target company 

for a period of 2 years from the date of closure of the public offer.  

 

Committee Deliberations: 

14.2  The Committee believes that the acquirer needs to give as clear a picture as possible 

about  his  strategic intent  and future plans with  the target  company  upon  making the 

acquisition.  The very fact that the acquirer has acquired or agreed to acquire a stake 

large  enough  to  trigger  an  open  offer  would  indicate  that  the  acquirer  would  be 

reasonably  expected  to  have  a  view  on  the  future  strategies  of  the  target  company.  

While  the  Committee  believes  that  disclosures  about  such  future  plans  ought  to  be 

improved to make the letter of offer more relevant.  There is also a need to minimize 

reproduction  of  known  information  about  the  target  company,  particularly  since  the 

target  company is  a listed company with  full exposure in  the public domain.  On the 

specific  issue  of  disposal  of  assets  outside  the  ordinary  course  after  taking  over 

control  over  the  target  company,  there  is  a  need  for  the  acquirer  to  clearly  state  his 

intentions upfront.  

14.3  The  Committee  also  observed  that  such  intentions  should  be  stated  upfront  not  only 

for  the  target  company  but  also  for  its  subsidiaries.  However,  the  Committee 

recognized that there could be circumstances which may change occasioning the need 

for restructuring and / or disposal of assets of the target company after the acquisition 

has  been  completed.  Hence  the  committee  has  proposed  suitable  provisions  in  this 

regard as well.  

14.4 

If  no  intention  to  dispose  of  assets  of  the  target  company  once  in  control  over  the 

target  company  (including  its  subsidiaries)  has  been  expressed  upfront,  the  acquirer 

ought to be precluded from causing the target company to dispose of the assets for a 

period of two years after the offer period unless shareholders authorize such disposal 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 64 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

by  way  of  a  special  resolution  passed  by  postal  ballot.  It  is  likely  that  an  acquirer 

indeed had no intention of causing a disposal  of assets by the target  company  at  the 

time  of  making  a  public  announcement  but  subsequently  new  developments 

necessitate such a disposal. Also, once in control, an acquirer may decide to take such 

action following a detailed review of the target company.  For taking such action, the 

target  company  would  have  to  take  shareholders  into  confidence  and  get  a  special 

resolution passed, with the explanatory statement for the resolution setting out reasons 

for why such disposal is necessary. 

 

 

Committee Recommendation: 

14.5  The  Committee  recommends  that  unless  acquirer  has  declared  an  intention  in  the 

detailed  public  statement  and  the  letter  of  offer,  the  acquirer  shall  be  debarred  from 

alienating any material assets of the target company (including its subsidiaries) for a 

period  of  two  years  after  the  offer  period.  However,  where  such  alienation  is 

necessary despite no such intention having been expressed by the acquirer, the target 

company  shall  require  a  special  resolution  passed  by  the  shareholders  by  way  of  a 

postal ballot. 

(See Regulation 25 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

15.0  Obligations of the Merchant Banker 

 

Current Provisions: 

15.1  The  Takeover  Regulations  currently  provide  that  the  merchant  banker  shall  ensure 

compliance  of  the  Takeover  Regulations  and  any  other  laws  or  rules  as  may  be 

applicable in this regard and provide other specific obligations under Regulations 24 

of the current Takeover Regulations.  

 

Committee Deliberations: 

15.2  The  role  of  a  merchant  banker  is  central  to  the  effective  operation  of  the  Takeover 

Regulations. The merchant banker is expected to play an objective professional role in 

advising  the  acquirer  of  all  his  obligations  under  the  Takeover  Regulations  and  in 

ensuring  that  the  compliance  requirements  prescribed  under  the  regulations  are 

effectively met in the process of the open offer. The Committee believes that against 

the backdrop of this principle, it is important  to  ensure that there is  complete clarity 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 65 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

for the merchant banker in respect of his own role as well as the responsibility of the 

clients to enable him to comply with the regulatory requirements.  

 

 

Committee Recommendation: 

15.3  The  Committee  recommends  that  the  merchant  banker  would  be  expected  to 

demonstrate  the  application  of  due  skill,  care  and  diligence  in  the  discharge  of 

professional duties cast on him and the obligations of the merchant banker ought to be 

construed  accordingly.  It  is  perhaps  likely  that  despite  following  best  practices  and 

full application of diligence, skill and care, an acquirer could end up defaulting under 

the Takeover Regulations. In such circumstances, the Committee believes that, in the 

least, the expectation from a merchant banker would be a demonstration of the  bona 

fide  efforts  undertaken  by  him  in  professionally  and  diligently  discharging  the  role 

envisaged for the merchant banker under the regulations.  

(See Regulation 27 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

16.0  Disclosure Obligations 

 

Current Provisions: 

16.1  The  current  Takeover  Regulations  obligate  any  acquirer  who  crosses  the  specified 

thresholds to disclose at every stage his aggregate shareholding or voting right to the 

company  concerned  and  to  the  stock  exchanges  where  shares  of  the  company  are 

listed.  It  also  obligates  a  promoter  /  majority  shareholder  to  annually  disclose  to  the 

company and the concerned stock exchange regarding the number and  percentage of 

shares or voting rights held by him along with PACs. 

 

Committee Deliberations: 

16.2  The  disclosure  obligations  under  the  Takeover  Regulations  are  fairly  critical  and  an 

important  component  of the  legal  regime  governing  substantial  acquisition  of  shares 

and  takeovers.  The  Committee  noted  that  disclosure  requirements  specified  in 

Regulations 6, 7 and 8 of the Takeover Regulations have served well since inception. 

Certain aspects, such as whether disclosures should be by individual shareholders or 

collectively  by  all  persons  acting  in  concert,  have  been  addressed  in  the  proposed 

regulations. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 66 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
16.3  The intent behind the disclosure regime is not only to ensure that the target company 

is not taken by surprise but also to ensure that price discovery in the market for shares 

of the target  company takes place in  an informed manner, where the very fact  of  an 

interested acquirer increasing his holding would contribute to the emergence of price 

at  which sellers would be willing to  sell their shares in  the market.  Also, such price 

discovery  has  implications  for  the  computation  of  the  minimum  offer  price  in  the 

look-back  period.  While  it  is  very  clear  what  percentage  of  the  equity  shares  of  a 

company are held by parties exceeding the thresholds, it is not clear what that party‘s 

effective  economic  interest  in  the  company  actually  is,  since  it  includes  instruments 

which while presently not entitling the holder to voting rights, may, in the future, lead 

to accrual of shares/voting rights.  

16.4  The  Committee  noted  that  although  at  present,  the  derivative  Futures  and  Options 

(F&O)  segment  is  cash  settled,  the  Board  has  taken  a  decision  to  permit  delivery 

based  acquisitions  in  this  segment  in  the  near  future.  Such  acquisitions  shall  have  a 

far-reaching  effect  on  multiple  regulations  and  their  implications  would  have  to  be 

examined  by  the  Board  at  the  appropriate  time.  For  example,  in  such  event,  there 

would be a need to review not only whether one would need to prescribe disclosures 

about  such  economic  interests  in  securities  of  a  target  company,  but  also  how  such 

derivatives would influence the minimum offer price, if executed within the look-back 

period.   

16.5  The  Committee  believes  that  the  Board  ought  to  set  up  an  electronic  platform,  or 

alternatively mandate every nationwide stock exchange to provide a platform on their 

websites, to which merchant bankers and compliance offers of listed companies are to 

be  given  password-protected  access  rights  to  upload  information  required  to  be 

disclosed under the Takeover Regulations – be it disclosure obligations required from 

the target company or those required of acquirers. This would enable dissemination of 

the information on a real-time basis as and when the relevant parties comply with the 

various requirements under the Takeover Regulations. 

 

Committee Recommendation: 

16.6  The Committee recommends that the acquirer promoter / shareholders shall be asked 

to  disclose  their  acquisition  on  periodic  as  well  as  transaction  specific  basis  upon 

crossing the limits specified therein to the Stock Exchange. Further, such disclosures 

shall  be  of  the  aggregated  shareholding  and  voting  rights  of  the  acquirer  and  every 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 67 of 138 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

person  acting  in  concert  with  him.  Moreover,  the  acquisition  and  holding  of  any 

security  or  instrument  that  would  entitle  the  acquirer  to  receive  shares  in  the  target 

company, including warrants and convertible debentures, shall also be required to be 

disclosed. 

(See Regulation 28 of the Proposed Takeover Regulations) 

 

17.0  Present Tax regime  

17.1  The Committee discussed about the tax treatment provided to the shareholders in  an 

open  offer  vis-à-vis  a  transaction  through  the  stock  exchanges.  It  was  noted  that  the 

present tax regime in India is more favorable towards the open market transactions as 

against  open  offer  transactions.  For  taxation  purposes,  an  open  offer  transaction  is 

considered  akin  to  an  off-market  deal,  which  in  the  view  of  the  Committee  is  not 

desirable.  

17.2  Off-market deals, by their very nature, are entered into between private individuals in 

a non-transparent  and largely unregulated manner. On the other hand, open offer, as 

an activity, is highly regulated and all the parties involved in the process are required 

to  follow  the  provisions  laid  down  in  the  Takeover  Regulations,  including  various 

disclosures  requirements.  Also,  the  basic  objective  of  an  open  offer  is  to  benefit 

investors at large by granting them a just and fair exit opportunity. It would perhaps 

not be correct to club a regulated and investor friendly activity like open offers in the 

same bracket as an off-market deal. 

17.3  Therefore, the Committee is of the view that there is a need to bring parity in the tax 

treatment given to the shareholders who tender their shares in an open offer and those 

who are selling the same in the open market. The Committee recommends that SEBI 

may  like  to  suitably  take  up  this  issue  with  the  concerned  authorities  in  the 

Government. 

 

 

 

****** 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 68 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
PART III: DRAFT TEXT OF THE PROPOSED TAKEOVER REGULATIONS  

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

 

(SUBSTANTIAL ACQUISITION OF SHARES AND TAKEOVERS) REGULATIONS, 

 

2010 

In exercise of the powers conferred under section 30 of The Securities and Exchange Board 

of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992)  the  Board  hereby,  makes  the  following  regulations, 

namely: —  

 

Chapter I 

 

PRELIMINARY 

 

Short title and commencement. 

 

1.  

(1)   These  regulations  shall  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2010. 

 

(2)   These regulations shall come into force on 1[▪]. 

 

(3)   These regulations shall apply to direct and indirect acquisition of shares or voting rights 

in, or control over any target company.  

 

Definitions. 

 

2.  

(1)   In  these  regulations,  unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the  terms  defined 

herein  shall  bear  the  meanings  assigned  to  them  below,  and  their  cognate  expressions  and 

variations shall be construed accordingly,— 

 

(a) 

―Act‖ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 

                                                           
1 It  is  recommended  that  these  regulations  be  given  effect  from  a  prospective  date  to  avoid  any  inadvertent 
breaches and to ensure clarity on the date of effect. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 69 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

(b)  ―acquirer‖  means  any  person  who,  directly  or  indirectly,  acquires  or  agrees  to 

acquire whether by himself, or through, or with persons acting in concert with him, shares or 

voting rights in, or control over a target company; 

 

(c) 

―acquisition‖  means,  directly  or  indirectly,  acquiring  or  agreeing  to  acquire  shares  or 

voting rights in, or control over, a target company; 

 

(d)  ―Board‖ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 

of the Act; 

 

(e) 

―business  day‖  means  any  day  excluding  Saturday  and  Sunday  and  any  other  day 

declared by the Board as a holiday. 

 

(f) 

―company‖ includes a body corporate; 

 

(g)  ―control‖  includes  the  right  or  the  ability  to  appoint  majority  of  the  directors  or  to 

control the management or policy decisions of the target company, exercisable by a person or 

persons  acting  individually  or  in  concert,  directly  or  indirectly,  including  by  virtue  of  their 

shareholding  or  management  rights  or  shareholders  agreements  or  voting  agreements  or  in 

any other manner: 

 

 

Provided that a director or officer of a target company shall not be considered to be in 

control over such target company, merely by virtue of holding such position;  

 

(h)  ―delisting  threshold‖  means  a  shareholding  entitling  exercise  of  ninety  per  cent  of  the 

voting rights in a target company, excluding voting rights on shares held by a custodian and 

against  which  depository  receipts  have  been  issued  overseas,  with  reference  to  the  share 

capital of the target company as of the last day of the tendering period; 

 

(i) 

―disinvestment‖  means  the  direct  or  indirect  sale  by  the  central  government,  any  state 

government or by a government company, as the case may be, of shares or voting rights in, or 

control over, a target company, which is a public sector undertaking; 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 70 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
(j) 

―financial  year‖  means  the  period  of  twelve  months  commencing  on  the  first  day  of 

April; 

 

(k)  ―frequently  traded  shares‖  means  shares  of  a  target  company  in  which  the  traded 

turnover  on  any  stock  exchange  during  the  twelve  calendar  months  preceding  the  calendar 

month in which the public announcement is made, is at least ten per cent of the total number 

of shares of such class of such target company: 

 

Provided  that  where  the  total  share  capital  of  the  target  company  is  not  identical 

throughout  such  period,  the weighted average number of total  shares of the target  company 

shall represent the total number of shares. 

 

(l) 

―identified  date‖  means  the  date  falling  on  the  tenth  business  day  prior  to  the 

commencement of the tendering period, for the purposes of determining the shareholders to 

whom the letter of offer shall be sent; 

  

(m)  ―immediate relative‖ means any spouse of a person, and includes parent, sibling or child 

of such person or of the spouse;  

 

(n)  ―listing  agreement‖  means  the  agreement  with  the  stock  exchange  governing  the 

conditions of listing of shares of the target company;  

 

(o)  ―maximum  permissible  non-public  shareholding‖  means  such  percentage  shareholding 

in the target company excluding the minimum public shareholding required under the listing 

agreement; 

 

(p)  ―manager to the open offer‖ means the merchant banker referred to in regulation 12; 

  

(q)  ―offer  period‖  means  the  period  between  the  date  of  entering  into  an  agreement  to 

acquire  shares,  voting  rights  in,  or  control  over  a  target  company  requiring  a  public 

announcement, or the date of the public announcement, whichever is earlier, and the date on 

which  the  payment  of  consideration  to  shareholders  who  have  accepted  the  open  offer  is 

made; 

  

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 71 of 138 

 
(r) 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

―persons acting in concert‖ means,— 

(1)   persons  who,  with  a  common  objective  or  purpose  of  acquisition  of  shares  or 

voting rights in, or exercising control over a target company, pursuant to an agreement 

or understanding, formal or informal, directly or indirectly co-operate for acquisition of 

shares or voting rights in, or exercise of control over the target company. 

(2)   Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the persons falling within the 

following categories shall be deemed to be persons acting in concert with other persons 

within the same category, unless the contrary is established,—  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(i) 

a  company,  its  holding  company,  subsidiary  company  and  any  company 

under the same management; 

(ii)  a company, its directors, and any person entrusted with the management of 

the company; 

(iii)  directors  of  companies  referred  to  in  sub-clause  (i)  of  clause  (2)  and 

associates of such directors; 

(iv)  promoters and members of the promoter group. 

(v) 

immediate relatives; 

(vi)  a mutual fund, its sponsor, trustees, trustee company, and asset management 

company; 

(vii)  a  collective  investment  scheme  and  its  collective  investment  management 

company, trustees and trustee company; 

(viii) a  venture  capital  fund  and  its  sponsor,  trustees,  trustee  company  and  asset 

management company; 

(ix)   a foreign institutional investor and its sub-accounts; 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 72 of 138 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(x)  a merchant banker and its client, who is an acquirer; 

(xi)  a portfolio manager and its client, who is an acquirer; 

(xii)  banks  and  stock  brokers  of  the  acquirer,  or  of  any  company  which  is  a 

holding  company  or  subsidiary  of  the  acquirer,  and  where  the  acquirer  is  an 

individual, of the immediate relative of such individual: 

 

Provided that this sub-clause shall not apply to a bank whose sole role is that 

of  providing  normal  commercial  banking  services  or  activities  in  relation  to  an 

open offer under these regulations;  

(xiii) an investment company or fund and any person who has an interest in such 

investment company or fund as a shareholder or unitholder having not less than 10 

per  cent  of  the  paid-up  capital  of  the  investment  company  or  unit  capital  of  the 

fund,  and  any  other  investment  company  or  fund  in  which  such  person  or  his 

associate holds not less than 10 per cent of the paid-up capital of that investment 

company or unit capital of that fund: 

 

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-clause shall apply to holding of 

units of mutual funds registered with the Board;  

Explanation.— 

 

For the purposes of this clause ―associate‖ of a person means,— 

(a)  any immediate relative of such person;  

(b) trusts of which such person or his immediate relative is a trustee;  

(c)  partnership  firm  in  which  such  person  or  his  immediate  relative  is  a  partner; 

and  

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 73 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(d) members of Hindu undivided families of which such person is a coparcener; 

 
 

 

(s) 

―postal  ballot‖ means a postal  ballot  as provided for under the Companies (Passing of 

the  Resolution  by  Postal  Ballot)  Rules,  2001  made  under  the  Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of 

1956);  

 

(t) 

―promoter‖  has  the  same  meaning  as  in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 and includes a member of 

the promoter group; 

 

(u)  ―promoter  group‖  has  the  same  meaning  as  in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; 

 

(v)  ―public  sector  undertaking‖  means  a  target  company  in  which,  directly  or  indirectly, 

majority of shares or voting rights or control is held by the central  government or any state 

government or governments, or partly by the central government and partly by one or more 

state governments; 

 

(w)  ―shares‖  means  shares  in  the  equity  share  capital  of  a  target  company  carrying  voting 

rights, and includes any security which entitles the holder thereof to exercise voting rights; 

 

 

Provided that all depository receipts entitling the holder thereof to exercise voting rights 

in the target company shall be regarded as shares. 

 

(x)  ―specified‖ means specified by the Board under these regulations; 

 

(y)  ―state-level  financial  institution‖  means  a  Financial  Corporation  established  under 

section  3  or  section  3A  and  institutions  notified  under  section  46  of  the  State  Financial 

Corporations Act, 1951 (63 of 1951), and includes a development corporation established as 

a company by a state government with the object of development of industries or agricultural 

activities in the state; 

 

(z) 

―stock  exchange‖  means  a  stock  exchange  which  has  been  granted  recognition  under 

section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956); 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 74 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

(aa)  ―target company‖ means a company incorporated in India whose shares are listed on a 

stock exchange; 

 

(ab)  ―tendering period‖ means the period within which shareholders may tender their shares 

in acceptance of an open offer to acquire shares made under these regulations. 

 

(2)   All other expressions unless defined herein shall have the same meaning as have been 

assigned  to  them  under  the  Act  or  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  (42  of 

1956) or the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or any statutory modification or re-enactment 

thereto, as the case may be. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 75 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Chapter II 

SUBSTANTIAL ACQUISITION OF SHARES, VOTING RIGHTS OR CONTROL 

 
 

 

 

Acquisition of shares.  

 

3. 

(1)  No acquirer shall acquire shares or voting rights in a target company which taken 

together  with  shares  or  voting  rights,  if  any,  held  by  him  and  by  persons  acting  in  concert 

with him in such target company, entitle them to exercise twenty-five per cent or more of the 

voting rights in such target company unless the acquirer makes a public announcement of an 

open offer for acquiring shares of such target company in accordance with these regulations.  

 

2(2)  No  acquirer,  who  together  with  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him,  has  acquired  and 

holds  in  accordance  with  these  regulations  shares  or  voting  rights  in  a  target  company 

entitling  them  to  exercise  twenty-five  per  cent  or  more  of  the  voting  rights  in  the  target 

company  but  less  than  the  maximum  permissible  non-public  shareholding,  shall  acquire 

within any financial  year additional shares or voting rights in such target  company entitling 

them to exercise more than five per cent of the voting rights, subject to their aggregate post-

acquisition  shareholding  not  exceeding  the  maximum  permissible  non-public  shareholding, 

unless  the  acquirer  makes  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  of 

such target company in accordance with these regulations: 

 

 

Provided that such acquirer shall not be entitled to enter into any agreement to acquire 

shares  or  voting  rights  exceeding  such  number  of  shares  as  would  take  the  aggregate 

shareholding  pursuant  to  the  acquisition  under  the  agreement  to  above  the  maximum 

permissible non-public shareholding. 

 

Explanation.—   For purposes of determining the quantum of acquisition of additional 

voting rights under this sub-regulation,— 

 

                                                           
2 This provision deals with a trigger of creeping acquisition limit for every financial year.   

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 76 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(i) 

gross acquisitions alone shall be taken into account regardless of any intermittent 

fall in shareholding or voting rights whether owing to disposal of shares held or dilution 

of voting rights owing to fresh issue of shares by the target company. 

(ii) 

in  the  case  of  acquisition  of  shares  by  way  of  issue  of  new  shares  by  the  target 

company,  the  difference  between  the  pre-allotment  and  the  post-allotment  percentage 

voting rights shall be regarded as the quantum of additional acquisition . 

 
 

 

 

 

(3)  For purposes of sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2), acquisition of shares by any 

person from other persons acting in concert with him such that the individual shareholding of 

the  person  acquiring  shares  exceeds  the  stipulated  thresholds  shall  also  be  regarded  as 

attracting  the  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  of  the  target  company 

although  the  aggregate  shareholding  along  with  persons  acting  in  concert  may  remain 

unchanged. 

 

Acquisition of control. 

 

4. 

Irrespective of acquisition or holding of shares or voting rights in a target company, no 

acquirer  shall  acquire,  directly  or  indirectly,  control  over  such  target  company  unless  the 

acquirer  makes  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  of  such  target 

company in accordance with these regulations.  

 

Indirect acquisition of shares or control. 

 

5. 

(1)  For the purposes of regulation 3 and regulation 4, acquisition of shares or voting 

rights  in,  or  control  over,  any  company  or  other  entity,  that  would  enable  any  person  and 

persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  to  exercise  or  direct  the  exercise  of  such  percentage  of 

voting rights in, or control over, a target company, the acquisition of which would otherwise 

attract  the  obligation  to  make  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares 

under  these  regulations,  shall  be  considered  as  an  indirect  acquisition  of  shares  or  voting 

rights in, or control over the target company. 

 

(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  these  regulations,  in  the  case  of  an  indirect 

acquisition attracting the provisions of sub-regulation (1) where,— 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 77 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

(a) 

the  proportionate  net  asset  value  of  the  target  company  as  a  percentage  of  the 

consolidated net asset value of the entity or business being acquired; or  

 

(b) 

the  proportionate  sales  turnover  of  the  target  company  as  a  percentage  of  the 

consolidated sales turnover of the entity or business being acquired; or 

 

(c) 

the  proportionate  market  capitalisation  of  the  target  company  as  a  percentage  of  the 

enterprise value for the entity or business being acquired; 

 

is  in  excess  of  eighty  per  cent,  on  the  basis  of  the  most  recent  audited  annual  financial 

statements,  such  indirect  acquisition  shall  be  regarded  as  a  direct  acquisition  of  the  target 

company  for  all  purposes  of  these  regulations  including  without  limitation,  the  obligations 

relating to timing, pricing and other compliance requirements for the open offer.  

 

 

Explanation. —   

For  the  purposes  of  computing  the  percentage  referred  to  in 

clause (c) of this sub-regulation, the market capitalisation of the target company shall be 

taken  into  account  on  the  basis  of  the  volume-weighted  average  market  price  of  such 

shares on the stock exchange for a period of sixty trading days preceding the earlier of, 

the  date  on  which  the  primary  acquisition  is  contracted,  and  the  date  on  which  the 

intention  or  the  decision  to  make  the  primary  acquisition  is  announced  in  the  public 

domain, as traded on the stock exchange where the maximum volume of trading in the 

shares of the target company are recorded during such period: 

Voluntary Offer. 

 

6. 

(1)  An acquirer, who together with persons acting in concert with him, holds shares or 

voting rights in a target company entitling them to exercise twenty-five per cent or more but 

less than the maximum  permissible non-public shareholding, shall be entitled to  voluntarily 

make a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares in accordance with these 

regulations,  subject  to  their  aggregate  shareholding  after  completion  of  the  open  offer  not 

exceeding the maximum permissible non-public shareholding: 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 78 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

Provided that where an acquirer or any person acting in concert with him has acquired 

shares  of  the  target  company  in  the  preceding  fifty-two  weeks  without  attracting  the 

obligation  to  make  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer,  he  shall  not  be  eligible  to 

voluntarily  make  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  under  this 

regulation. 

 

 

Provided  further  that  during  the  offer  period  such  acquirer  shall  not  be  entitled  to 

acquire any shares otherwise than under the open offer.  

 

(2)  An  acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him,  who  have  made  a  public 

announcement  under  this  regulation  to  acquire  shares  of  a  target  company  shall  not  be 

entitled  to  acquire  any  shares  of  the  target  company  for  a  period  of  six  months  after 

completion of the open offer except pursuant to another voluntary open offer: 

 

 

Provided that such restriction shall not prohibit the acquirer from making a competing 

offer upon any other person making an open offer for acquiring shares of the target company. 

  

Offer Size. 

 

7. 

(1)  The open offer for acquiring shares to be made by the acquirer and persons acting 

in  concert  with  him  under  regulation  3  and  regulation  4  shall  be  for  acquisition  of  all  the 

shares  held  by  all  the  other  shareholders  of  the  target  company  as  of  the  last  day  of  the 

tendering period. 

 

 

Provided  that  where  the  target  company  has  issued  depository  receipts  entitling  the 

holder  thereof  to  exercise  voting  rights  in  the  target  company,  the  open  offer  shall  be  for 

acquisition of the underlying shares against which the depository receipts have been issued. 

  

(2)  The open offer made under regulation 6 shall be for acquisition of at least such number 

of shares as would entitle the holder thereof to exercise ten per cent of the voting rights in the 

target  company,  and  shall  not  exceed  such  number  of  shares  as  would  result  in  the  post-

acquisition holding of the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him not exceeding the 

maximum permissible non-public shareholding applicable to such target company: 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 79 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

Provided  that  in  the  event  of  a  competing  offer  being  made,  the  acquirer  who  has 

voluntarily made a public announcement of an open offer under regulation 6 shall be entitled 

to increase the number of shares for which the open offer has been made to such number of 

shares as determined under sub-regulation (1). 

 

 

Provided further that such increase in offer size shall have to be made within a period of 

fifteen business days from the public announcement of a competing offer, failing which the 

acquirer shall not be entitled to increase the offer size. 

 

(3)  Upon an acquirer opting to  increase the offer size under sub-regulation  (2), such open 

offer  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  made  under  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  3  and  the 

provisions of these regulations shall apply accordingly. 

 

(4)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations 2009, in the event the holding  of the acquirer, not 

being an acquirer who has made an open offer under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3  taken 

together  with  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  pursuant  to  completion  of  the  open  offer 

would entitle them to exercise voting rights in the target company in excess of the delisting 

threshold, the target company shall stand delisted: 

 

 

Provided  that  the  acquirer  shall  have  declared  upfront  his  intention  to  so  delist  at  the 

time of making the detailed public statement, and every shareholder who has not tendered an 

acceptance of the open offer shall be entitled to require the acquirer to acquire his shares at 

the offer price at any time within a period of twelve months from the fifteenth business day 

from the date on which the shares are delisted from the stock exchanges. 

 

 

Provided further that upon delisting of the shares of the target company, the holder of 

any instrument  convertible into shares of the target company shall be entitled to require the 

target  company to  convert his  instruments  into shares on an accelerated  basis with  all other 

terms remaining the same and shall have the right to require the acquirer to acquire his shares 

at the offer price at any time within a period of twelve months from the fifteenth business day 

from the date on which the shares are delisted from the stock exchanges. 

  

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 80 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
(5) 

In the event the acquirer has not disclosed his intention to delist the shares of the target 

company at the time of the detailed public statement, or in the event the acceptances tendered 

in response to the open offer were such that the shareholding of the  acquirer taken together 

with  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  pursuant  to  completion  of  the  open  offer  would 

entitle  them  to  exercise  more  than  the  maximum  permissible  non-public  shareholding 

applicable to but less than the delisting threshold, the acquirer shall be required to either,— 

 

(a)  bring down the non-public shareholding to the level specified and within the time 

permitted under the listing agreement; or  

 

(b)  proportionately  reduce  the  number  of  shares  acquired  under  the  open  offer  and 

under  any  agreement  that  attracted  the  obligation  to  make  such  open  offer,  other  than 

shares acquired by way of allotment by the target company, such that the holding of the 

acquirer and persons acting in concert does not exceed the maximum permissible non-

public shareholding: 

 

 

Provided  that  the  option  to  proportionately  reduce  the  number  of  shares  to  be 

acquired  under  this  clause  shall  not  be  available  where  the  open  offer  is  a  competing 

offer.  

  

(6)  Where  the  open  offer  has  been  made  under  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  3  the 

acquirer shall be required to select the option available under clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-

regulation  (5)  and  state  his  selection  upfront  at  the  time  of  making  the  detailed  public 

statement. 

 

 

Provided  that,  should  the  acquirer  have  opted  for  bringing  down  the  non-public 

shareholding  within  the  time  permitted  under  the  listing  agreement,  the  acquirer  shall  be 

ineligible  to  make  a  delisting  offer  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Delisting  of  Equity  Shares)  Regulations,  2009,  unless  the  public  shareholding  in  the  target 

company is compliant with the listing agreement. 

 

(7)  Where the acquirer has opted to limit his acquisition to the maximum permissible non-

public shareholding in terms of sub-regulation (5), he shall proportionately reduce,— 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 81 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

the acquisition of shares tendered in acceptance of the open offer; and 

 
(a) 

 

(b) 

the  acquisitions,  if  any,  after  the  public  announcement  of  the  open  offer  was  made 

including those under the agreement that attracted the obligation to make the open offer.  

 

Offer Price. 

 

8. 

(1)  The open offer for acquiring shares under regulation 3, regulation 4 or regulation 

6  shall  be  made  at  a  price  not  lower  than  the  price  determined  in  accordance  with  sub-

regulation (2) or, as the case may be, sub-regulation (3).  

 

(2) 

In the case of direct acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the target 

company, the offer price shall be the highest of,— 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

(a) 

the  highest  negotiated  price  per  share  of  the  target  company  for  any  acquisition 

under  the  agreement  attracting  the  obligation  to  make  a  public  announcement  of  an 

open offer;  

(b) 

the  volume-weighted  average  price  paid  or  payable  for  acquisitions,  whether  by 

the  acquirer  or  by  any  person  acting  in  concert  with  him  during  the  fifty-two  weeks 

immediately preceding the date of the public announcement;  

(c) 

the highest price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by the acquirer or by 

any  person  acting  in  concert  with  him  during  the  twenty-six  weeks  immediately 

preceding the date of the public announcement; and  

(d) 

the  volume-weighted  average  market  price  of  such  shares  for  a  period  of  sixty 

trading  days  immediately  preceding  the  date  of  the  public  announcement  as  traded  on 

the  stock  exchange  where  the  maximum  volume  of  trading  in  the  shares  of  the  target 

company are recorded during such period, provided such shares are frequently traded;  

(3) 

In the case of an indirect acquisition of shares or voting rights, or control over the target 

company, the offer price shall be the highest of,— 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 82 of 138 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(a) 

the  highest  negotiated  price  per  share,  if  any,  of  the  target  company  for  any 

acquisition  under 

the  agreement  attracting 

the  obligation 

to  make  a  public 

announcement of an open offer;  

(b) 

the  volume-weighted  average  price  paid  or  payable  for  any  acquisition,  whether 

by the acquirer or by any person acting in concert with him during the fifty-two weeks 

immediately  preceding  the  earlier  of,  the  date  on  which  the  primary  acquisition  is 

contracted,  and  the  date  on  which  the  intention  or  the  decision  to  make  the  primary 

acquisition is announced in the public domain;  

(c) 

the highest price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by the acquirer or by 

any  person  acting  in  concert  with  him  during  the  twenty-six  weeks  immediately 

preceding the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the 

date  on  which  the  intention  or  the  decision  to  make  the  primary  acquisition  is 

announced in the public domain; and  

(d) 

the highest price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by the acquirer or by 

any  person  acting  in  concert  with  him  between  the  earlier  of,  the  date  on  which  the 

primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the decision to 

make  the  primary  acquisition  is  announced  in  the  public  domain,  and  the  date  of  the 

public  announcement  of  the  open  offer  for  shares  of  the  target  company  made  under 

these regulations; 

(e) 

the  volume-weighted  average  market  price  of  the  shares  for  a  period  of  sixty 

trading  days  immediately  preceding  the  earlier  of,  the  date  on  which  the  primary 

acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the decision to make the 

primary acquisition is announced in the public domain, as traded on the stock exchange 

where the maximum volume of trading in the shares of the target company are recorded 

during such period, provided such shares are frequently traded:  

 

Provided that in the event the offer price is incapable of being determined under 

any of such parameters, without prejudice to the requirements of sub-regulation (4), the 

offer price shall be the fair price of shares of the target  company to  be determined by 

the acquirer and the manager to the open offer taking into account valuation parameters 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 83 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

including, book value, comparable trading multiples, and such other parameters as are 

customary  for  valuation  of  shares  of  such  companies,  and  the  Board  may  require 

valuation of such shares by an independent merchant banker other than the manager to 

the open offer or an independent chartered accountant of minimum ten years‘ standing. 

 

 

(4) 

In the case of an indirect acquisition, including open offers under sub-regulation (2) of 

regulation 5 where,— 

 

(a) 

the  proportionate  net  asset  value  of  the  target  company  as  a  percentage  of  the 

consolidated net asset value of the entity or business being acquired;  

 

(b) 

the  proportionate  sales  turnover  of  the  target  company  as  a  percentage  of  the 

consolidated sales turnover of the entity or business being acquired; or 

 

(c) 

the  proportionate  market  capitalisation  of  the  target  company  as  a  percentage  of 

the enterprise value for the entity or business being acquired; 

 

is in excess of fifteen per cent, on the basis of the most recent audited annual financial 

statements, the acquirer shall notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (3) 

be  required  to  compute  and  disclose  the  per  share  value  of  the  target  company  taken 

into  account  for  the  acquisition,  along  with  a  detailed  description  of  the  methodology 

adopted for such computation.  

 

Explanation. —   

For  the  purposes  of  computing  the  percentages  referred  to  in 

clause (c) of this sub-regulation, the market capitalisation of the target company shall be 

taken  into  account  on  the  basis  of  the  volume-weighted  average  market  price  of  such 

shares on the stock exchange for a period of sixty trading days preceding the earlier of, 

the  date  on  which  the  primary  acquisition  is  contracted,  and  the  date  on  which  the 

intention  or  the  decision  to  make  the  primary  acquisition  is  announced  in  the  public 

domain, as traded on the stock exchange where the maximum volume of trading in the 

shares of the target company are recorded during such period. 

  

(5)  For the purposes of sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation (3), the price paid for shares 

of  the  target  company  shall  include  any  price  paid  or  agreed  to  be  paid  for  the  shares  or 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 84 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
voting rights in, or control over the target company, in any form whatsoever, whether stated 

in the agreement for acquisition of shares or in any incidental, contemporaneous or collateral 

agreement, whether termed as control premium or as non-compete fees or otherwise.  

  

(6)   Where the acquirer has acquired or agreed to acquire whether by himself or through or 

with  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  any  shares  or  voting  rights  in  the  target  company 

during the offer period, whether by subscription or purchase, at a price higher than the offer 

price,  the  offer  price  shall  stand  revised  to  the  highest  price  paid  or  payable  for  any  such 

acquisition:  

 

 

Provided that no such acquisition shall be made after the third business day prior to the 

commencement of the tendering period and until the expiry of the tendering period. 

 

(7)  The price parameters under sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation  (3) shall be adjusted 

for  corporate  actions  such  as  issuances  pursuant  to  rights  issue,  bonus  issue,  stock 

consolidations, stock splits, payment of dividend, de-mergers and reduction of capital, where 

the record date for effecting such corporate actions falls prior to three business days prior to 

the commencement of the tendering period: 

 

 

Provided  that  no  adjustment  shall  be  made  for  dividend  declared  with  a  record  date 

falling  during  such  period  except  where  the  dividend  per  share  is  more  than  fifty  per  cent 

higher  than  the  average  of  the  dividend  per  share  paid  during  the  three  financial  years 

preceding the date of the public announcement. 

 

(8)  Where the open offer is  subject  to  a minimum level  of acceptances, the acquirer may, 

subject to the other provisions of this regulation, indicate a lower price for acquiring all the 

acceptances  despite  the  acceptance  falling  short  of  the  indicated  threshold,  in  the  event  the 

open offer does not receive the minimum acceptance.  

  

(9) 

In  the  case  of  any  indirect  acquisition,  the  offer  price  shall  stand  enhanced  by  an 

amount  equal  to  a  sum  determined  at  the  rate  of  ten  per  cent  per  annum  for  the  period 

between the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the date 

on  which  the  intention  or  the  decision  to  make  the  primary  acquisition  is  announced  in  the 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 85 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
public  domain,  and  the  date  of  the  detailed  public  statement,  provided  such  period  is  more 

than five business days.  

  

(10)  The acquirer and persons acting in concert with him shall not acquire any shares of the 

target company for a period of twenty-six weeks after the tendering period at a price higher 

than the offer price paid under these regulations:   

 

 

Provided  that  such  restriction  shall  not  affect  acquisitions  under  another  open  offer 

under these regulations, or pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 

of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009, or open market purchases made in the ordinary course 

on  the  stock  exchanges,  not  being  negotiated  acquisition  of  shares  of  the  target  company 

whether by way of bulk deals, block deals or in any other form.  

 

(11)  The  offer  price  for  partly  paid  up  shares  shall  be  computed  as  the  difference  between 

the offer price and the amount due towards calls-in-arrears with interest, if any, thereon. 

 

(12)  The offer price for equity shares carrying differential voting rights shall be determined 

by the acquirer and the manager to the open offer with full disclosure of justification for the 

price so determined, being set out in the detailed public statement and the letter of offer: 

 

 

Provided that such price shall not be lower than the amount determined by applying the 

percentage  rate  of  premium,  if  any,  that  the  offer  price  for  the  equity  shares  carrying  full 

voting rights represents to the price parameter computed under clause (d) of sub-regulation 2, 

or as the case may be, clause (e) of sub-regulation 3, to the volume-weighted average market 

price  of  the  shares  carrying  differential  voting  rights  for  a  period  of  sixty  trading  days 

computed  on  the  same  terms  as  specified  in  the  aforesaid  provisions  subject  to  shares 

carrying  full  voting  rights  and  the  shares  carrying  differential  voting  rights,  both  being 

frequently traded shares. 

 

(13)  In  the  event  of  any  of  the  price  parameters  contained  in  this  regulation  not  being 

available or denominated in Indian rupees, the conversion of such amount into Indian rupees 

shall  be  effected  at  the  exchange  rate  as  prevailing  on  the  date  of  the  public  announcement 

and the acquirer shall set  out  the source of such exchange rate in  the public announcement, 

the detailed public statement and the letter of offer.  

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 86 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

Mode of payment. 

 

9. 

(1)  The offer price may be paid, — 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

in cash; 

(b)  by issue, exchange or transfer of shares in the equity share capital of the acquirer 

or of any person acting in concert; or 

(c)  by  issue,  exchange  or  transfer  of  listed  secured  debt  instruments  issued  by  the 

acquirer or any person acting in concert with a rating not inferior to investment grade as 

rated by a credit rating agency registered with the Board; 

(d)  by  issue,  exchange  or  transfer  of  convertible  debt  securities  entitling  the  holder 

thereof  to  acquire  listed  shares  in  the  equity  share  capital  of  the  acquirer  or  of  any 

person acting in concert; or  

(e) 

a combination of the mode of payment of consideration stated in clause (a), clause 

(b), clause (c) and clause (d): 

Provided  that  where  any  shares  have  been  acquired  or  agreed  to  be  acquired  by  the 

acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  during  the  fifty-two  weeks  immediately 

preceding  the  date  of  public  announcement  constitute  more  than  ten  per  cent  of  the  voting 

rights  in  the  target  company  and  has  been  paid  for  in  cash,  the  open  offer  shall  entail  an 

option  to  the  shareholders  to  require  payment  of  the  offer  price  in  cash,  and  a  shareholder 

who  has  not  exercised  an  option  in  his  acceptance  shall  be  deemed  to  have  opted  for 

receiving the offer price in cash. 

 

 

Provided  further  that  the  mode  of  payment  of  consideration  may  be  altered  in  case  of 

revision in offer price subject to the condition that the component of the offer price to be paid 

in cash prior to such revision is not reduced. 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 87 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 (2)   For the purposes of clause (b) and clause (d) of sub-regulation 1 the shares sought to be 

issued or transferred or the shares to  be issued upon conversion of other securities, towards 

payment of the offer price shall be required to conform to the following requirements, —  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

such shares are listed on a stock exchange and frequently traded at the time of 

the public announcement; 

(b) 

such  shares  have  been  listed  for  a  period  of  at  least  two  years  preceding  the 

date of the public announcement; 

(c)  

the  issuer  of  such  shares  has  redressed  at  least  ninety  five  per  cent.  of  the 

complaints  received  from  investors  by  the  end  of  the  calendar  quarter  immediately 

preceding the calendar month in which the public announcement is made; 

(d) 

the issuer of such shares has been in compliance with the listing agreement for 

a  period  of  at  least  two  years  immediately  preceding  the  date  of  the  public 

announcement: 

Provided  that  in  the  event  such  issuer  has  not  been  in  compliance  with  the 

provisions  of  the  listing  agreement  relating  to  composition  of  board  of  directors  for 

any  quarter  during  such  period  but  has  become  compliant  by  the  date  of  the  public 

announcement, the issuer shall be deemed to have been in compliance; 

 

(e) 

the  impact  of  auditors‘  qualifications,  if  any,  on  the  audited  accounts  of  the 

issuer of such shares for three immediately preceding financial years does not exceed 

five per cent. of the net profit or loss after tax of such issuer for the respective years; 

and 

(f) 

the Board has not issued any direction against the issuer of such shares not to 

access the capital market or to issue fresh shares;  

(3)  Where the shareholders have been provided with options to accept payment in cash or 

by way of securities, or a combination thereof, the pricing for the open offer may be different 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 88 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
for  each  option  subject  to  compliance  with  minimum  offer  price  requirements  under 

regulation 8: 

 

 

Provided  that  the  detailed  public  statement  and  the  letter  of  offer  shall  contain 

justification for such differential pricing.  

 

3(4)   In the event the offer price consists of consideration to be paid by issuance of securities, 

which  requires  compliance  with  any  applicable  law  including  the  Securities  and  Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009,  the 

acquirer shall ensure that such compliance is completed not later than the commencement of 

the tendering period. 

 

 

Provided  that  in  case  the  requisite  approval  is  not  obtained  by  such  date,  the  acquirer 

shall pay the entire consideration in cash. 

  

(5)   Where  listed  securities  are  offered  as  consideration,  the  value  of  such  securities  shall, 

subject to any other applicable law or regulation governing minimum price requirements, be 

assumed to  be the volume-weighted average market  price for a period of sixty trading days 

preceding  the  date  of  the  public  announcement,  as  traded  on  the  stock  exchange  where  the 

maximum  volume  of  trading  in  the  shares  of  the  target  company  are  recorded  during  such 

period and the ratio of exchange of shares shall be duly certified by an independent merchant 

banker (other than the manager to the open offer) or an independent chartered accountant of a 

minimum ten years‘ standing. 

 

General exemptions. 

 

10. 

(1)  The following  acquisitions  shall be exempt from  the obligation to  make  an open 

offer  under  regulation  3  and  regulation  4  subject  to  fulfillment  of  the  conditions  stipulated 

therefor,— 

 

(a) 

acquisition pursuant to inter se transfer of shares amongst qualifying parties, being,— 

                                                           
3 Draft amendments to ICDR Regulations are in the report.  This is primarily to deal with provisions in relation 
to: (a) identity of allottee in the shareholder resolution; (b) extended time period for completion of allotment; (c) 
lock-in provisions; and (d) eligibility in the event of sale by a proposed allottee in the period preceding to the 
allotment. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 89 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

(i) 

immediate relatives; 

 

(ii)  persons  named  as  promoters  in  the  shareholding  pattern  filed  by  the  target 

company  in  terms  of  the  listing  agreement  or  these  regulations  for  not  less  than  three 

years prior to the proposed acquisition;  

 

(iii)  a  company,  its  subsidiaries,  its  holding  company,  other  subsidiaries  of  such 

holding  company,  persons  holding  not  less  than  fifty  per  cent  of  the  equity  shares  of 

such  holding  company,  other  holding  companies  in  which  such  persons  hold  not  less 

than  fifty  per  cent  of  the  equity  shares,  and  their  subsidiaries  subject  to  control  over 

such qualifying parties being exclusively held by the same persons;  

 

(iv)  persons  acting  in  concert  for  not  less  than  three  years  prior  to  the  proposed 

acquisition, and disclosed as such pursuant to filings under the listing agreement. 

 

(v) 

shareholders  of  a  target  company  who  have  been  persons  acting  in  concert  for  a 

period of not less than three years prior to the proposed acquisition and are disclosed as 

such  pursuant  to  filings  under  the  listing  agreement,  and  any  company  in  which  the 

entire equity share capital is owned by such shareholders in the same proportion as their 

holdings  in  the  target  company  without  any  differential  entitlement  to  exercise  voting 

rights in such company: 

 

 

 

Provided that for purposes of availing of the exemption under this clause,— 

 

(i)  The acquisition price per share shall not  be higher by more than twenty-five per 

cent  of  the  volume-weighted  average  market  price  for  a  period  of  sixty  trading  days 

preceding  the  date  of  issuance  of  notice  for  the  proposed  inter  se  transfer  under  sub-

regulation (5), as traded on the stock exchange where the maximum volume of trading 

in the shares of the target company are recorded during such period. 

 

(ii)   the  transferor  and  the  transferee  shall  have  complied  with  applicable  disclosure 

requirements set out in Chapter V; 

 

  

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 90 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
(b)  acquisition in the ordinary course of business by,— 

 

(i)  an  underwriter  registered  with  the  Board  by  way  of  allotment  pursuant  to  an 

underwriting  arrangement  in  terms  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; 

 

(ii)  a stock broker registered with the Board on behalf of his client in exercise of lien 

over  the  shares  purchased  on  behalf  of  the  client  under  the  bye-laws  of  the  stock 

exchange where such stock broker is a member; 

 

(iii)  a  merchant  banker  registered  with  the  Board  or  a  nominated  investor  in  the 

process of market making or subscription to the unsubscribed portion of issue in terms 

of  Chapter  XA  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and 

Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; 

 

(iv)  any  person  acquiring  shares  pursuant  to  a  scheme  of  safety  net  in  terms  of 

regulation  44  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and 

Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; and 

 

(v)  a merchant banker registered with the Board acting as a stabilisation agent or by 

the  promoter  or  pre-issue  shareholder  in  terms  of  regulation  45  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 

2009; 

  

(c) 

acquisitions by an acquirer who has made a public announcement of an open offer for 

acquiring  shares  pursuant  to  an  agreement  of  disinvestment,  at  a  subsequent  stage  as 

contemplated in such agreement: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Provided that,— 

(i) 

both the acquirer and the seller are the same at all the stages of acquisition; and  

(ii) 

full disclosures of all the subsequent stages of acquisition, if any, have been made 

in the public announcement of the open offer and in the letter of offer.  

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 91 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

(d)  acquisition pursuant to a scheme,— 

 

(i)  made  under  section  18  of  the  Sick  Industrial  Companies  (Special  Provisions) 

Act, 1985 (1 of 1986) or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto; 

 

(ii)  of  arrangement  involving  the  target  company  as  a  transferor  company  or  as  a 

transferee company, or reconstruction of the target company, including amalgamation, 

merger  or  demerger,  pursuant  to  an  order  of  a  court  or  a  competent  authority  under 

any law or regulation, Indian or foreign; or  

 

(iii)  of  arrangement  not  directly  involving  the  target  company  as  a  transferor 

company  or  as  a  transferee  company,  or  reconstruction  not  involving  the  target 

company‘s undertaking, including amalgamation, merger or demerger, pursuant to an 

order  of  a  court  or  a  competent  authority  under  any  law  or  regulation,  Indian  or 

foreign, subject to,—  

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

the  component  of  cash  and  cash  equivalents  in  the  consideration  paid 

being less than twenty-five per cent of the consideration paid under the scheme; 

and  

(b)  where after implementation of the scheme of arrangement, persons directly 

or  indirectly  holding  at  least  thirty-three  per  cent  of  the  voting  rights  in  the 

target  company  are  the  same  as  the  persons  who  held  the  entire  voting  rights 

before the implementation of the scheme. 

 (e)  acquisition  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the  Securitisation  and  Reconstruction  of 

Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002);  

 

(f) 

acquisition  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; 

 

(g)  acquisition by way of transmission, succession or inheritance; 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 92 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
(h)  acquisition of voting rights or of preference shares carrying voting rights arising out of 

the operation of sub-section (2) of section 87 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). 

 

(2)  The following acquisitions shall be exempt from  the obligation to  make an open offer 

under regulation 3 subject to fulfillment of the conditions stipulated therefor,— 

 

(a) 

acquisition of shares of  a target  company not  involving a  change of control over such 

target company pursuant to a scheme of corporate debt restructuring in terms of the Corporate 

Debt  Restructuring Scheme notified by the Reserve Bank of  India vide circular no.  B.P.BC 

15/21.04,  114/2001  dated  August  23,  2001,  or  any  modification  or  re-notification  thereto 

provided  such  scheme  has  been  authorised  by  shareholders  by  way  of  a  special  resolution 

passed by postal ballot.  

 

(b)  acquisition  of  shares  in  a  target  company  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business  by  a 

consortium  of  scheduled  commercial  banks  or  public  financial  institutions,  pursuant  to 

invocation  of  pledge  or  other  security  interests,  provided  no  member  of  the  consortium 

acquires shares in excess of the threshold of voting rights contained in sub-regulation (1) of 

regulation 3; 

 

(c)  acquisition  of  shares  in  a  target  company  in  excess  of  the  threshold  of  voting  rights 

contained in regulation 3 pursuant to re-transfer of pledged shares to the pledgor. 

 

(3)  An  increase  in  voting  rights  in  a  target  company  of  any  shareholder  beyond  the  limit 

attracting  an  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  3 

pursuant  to  buy-back  of  shares  shall  be  exempt  from  the  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer 

provided such shareholder reduces his shareholding such that his voting rights fall to below 

the threshold referred to in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 3 within ninety days from the date 

on which the voting rights so increase.  

 

(4)  The following acquisitions shall be exempt from  the obligation to  make an open offer 

under  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  3  subject  to  fulfillment  of  the  conditions  stipulated 

therefor,— 

 

(a)  acquisition of shares by any shareholder of a target company pursuant to a rights issue : 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 93 of 138 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Provided that,— 

(i) 

the acquirer has not renounced any of his entitlements in such rights issue; and 

(ii) 

the price at which the rights issue is made is not higher than the ex-rights price of 

the shares of the target company, being the sum of,— 

  (a) 

the  volume  weighted  average  market  price  of  the  shares  of  the  target  company 

during  a  period  of  sixty  trading  days  ending  on  the  day  prior  to  the  date  of 

determination of the rights issue price, multiplied by the number of shares outstanding 

prior  to  the  rights  issue,  divided  by  the  total  number  of  shares  outstanding  after 

allotment under the rights issue; and  

  (b) 

the  price  at  which  the  shares  are  offered  in  the  rights  issue,  multiplied  by  the 

number  of  shares  so  offered  in  the  rights  issue  divided  by  the  total  number  of  shares 

outstanding after allotment under the rights issue: 

 

Provided  that  such  volume  weighted  average  market  price  shall  be  determined 

on the basis of trading on the stock exchange where the maximum volume of trading 

in the shares of such target company is recorded during such period. 

(b) 

increase in voting rights in a target company of any shareholder pursuant to buy-back of 

shares:  

 

Provided that,— 

 

(i) 

such  shareholder  has  not  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution  authorising  the  buy-

back of securities under section 77A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); 

 

(ii)  in the case of a shareholder resolution, voting shall be by way of postal ballot; and 

 

(iii)  where  a  resolution  of  shareholders  is  not  required  for  the  buy-back,  such 

shareholder, in his capacity as a director, or any other interested director has not voted 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 94 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

in favour of the resolution of the board of directors of the target company authorising 

the buy-back of securities under section 77A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);  

 

(iv)  the  increase  in  voting  rights  does  not  result  in  an  acquisition  of  control  by  such 

shareholder over the target company. 

 

Provided  further  that  where  the  aforesaid  conditions  are  not  met,  in  the  event  such 

shareholder reduces his shareholding such that his voting rights fall below the level at 

which the obligation to make an open offer would be attracted under sub-regulation (2) 

of regulation 3 within ninety days from the date on which the voting rights so increase, 

the shareholder shall be exempt from the obligation to make an open offer. 

 

(c)  acquisition  of  shares  in  a  target  company  by  any  person  in  exchange  for  shares  of 

another target  company  tendered pursuant  to  an  open offer for  acquiring  shares under these 

regulations; 

 

(d)  acquisition of shares in  a target  company from  state-level  financial institutions or their 

subsidiaries or companies promoted by them, by promoters of the target company pursuant to 

an agreement between such transferors and such promoter; 

 

(e)  acquisition  of  shares  in  a  target  company  from  a  venture  capital  fund  or  a  foreign 

venture  capital  investor  registered  with  the  Board  by  promoters  of  the  target  company 

pursuant  to  an  agreement  between  such  venture  capital  fund  or  foreign  venture  capital 

investor with such promoters; 

 

(5)  In  respect  of  acquisitions  under  clause  4(a)  of  sub-regulation  (1),  clause 5(d)  of  sub-

regulation  (4)  and  clause  6(e)  of  sub-regulation  (4),  the  acquirer  shall  intimate  the  stock 

exchanges  where  the  shares  of  the  target  company  are  listed,  the  details  of  the  proposed 

acquisition in such form as may be specified, at least four business days prior to the proposed 

acquisition, and the stock exchange shall forthwith disseminate such information to the public. 

 

                                                           
4 Transfers between ―qualifying parties‖. 
5 Purchases from state-level financial institutions by promoters. 
6 Purchases from venture capital funds and foreign venture capital investors by promoters. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 95 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
(6)  In  respect  of  any  acquisition  made  in  reliance  upon  exemption  provided  for  in  this 

regulation,  the  acquirer  shall  file  a  report  with  the  stock  exchanges  where  the  shares  of  the 

target company are listed, in such form as may be specified not later than four business days 

from the acquisition, and the stock exchange shall forthwith disseminate such information to 

the public. 

 

(7)   In  respect  of  any  acquisition  or  increase  in  voting  rights  in  reliance  upon  exemption 

provided  for  in  clause  7 (a)  of  sub-regulation  (1),  sub-clause  (iii)  of  clause  8 (d)  of  sub-

regulation  (1),  clause  9(h)    of  sub-regulation  (1),  clause  10(a)  of  sub-regulation  (2),  sub-

regulation 11(3) and clause 12(a) of sub-regulation (4), 13(b) of sub-regulation (4) and 14(e) of 

sub-regulation  (4),  the  acquirer  shall,  within  twenty-one  business  days  of  the  date  of 

acquisition,  submit  a  report  in  such  form  as  may  be  specified  along  with  supporting 

documents  to  the  Board  giving  all  details  in  respect  of  acquisitions,  along  with  a  non-

refundable  fee  of  15[▪]  rupees  by  way  of  a  banker‘s  cheque  or  demand  draft  payable  in 

Mumbai in favour of the Board. 

 

 

 

Explanation.—  For  the  purposes  of  sub-regulation  (5),  sub-regulation  (6)  and  sub-

regulation (7) in the case of convertible securities, the date of the acquisition shall be the 

date of conversion of such securities. 

Exemptions by the Board. 

 

11.  (1)  The  Board  may  for  reasons  recorded  in  writing,  grant  exemption  from  the 

obligation to make an open offer for acquiring shares under these regulations subject to such 

conditions as the Board deems fit to impose in the interests of investors in securities and the 

securities market.   

 

                                                           
7 Inter-se transfers. 
8 Scheme of Arrangement involving indirect acquisition. 
9 Voting rights on preference shares under the Companies Act, 1956.  
10 Corporate Debt Restructuring. 
11 Increase of voting rights through buy-back in excess of threshold under Regulation 3(1). 
12 Rights issue 
13 Increase of voting rights through buy-back in excess of threshold under Regulation 3(2). 
14 Purchase by promoters from venture capital funds and foreign venture capital investors. 
15 The TRAC is not making any recommendation on the quantum of fees to be charged under these Regulations 
since it is a matter for SEBI to determine in terms of its policy. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 96 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
(2)  The  Board  may  for  reasons  recorded  in  writing,  grant  a  relaxation  from  strict 

compliance  with  any procedural requirement under Chapter  II  subject  to  such conditions  as 

the  Board  deems  fit  to  impose  in  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  the  securities 

market on being satisfied that,— 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

the  target  company  is  a  company  in  respect  of  which  the  central  government  or 

state government or any other regulatory authority has superseded the board of directors 

of the target company and has appointed new directors under any law for the time being 

in force, and,— 

 

(i) 

such board of directors has formulated a plan which provides for transparent, 

open,  and  competitive  process  for  acquisition  of  shares  or  voting  rights  in,  or 

control over the target company to secure the smooth and continued operation of 

the target company in the interests of all stakeholders of the target company and 

such plan does not further the interests of any particular acquirer; 

 

 

 

 

 

(ii) 

the  conditions  and  requirements  of  the  competitive  process  are  reasonable 

and fair;  

(iii)  the process adopted by the board of directors of the target company provides 

for details  including the  time when the open offer for acquiring shares would  be 

made, completed and the manner in which the change in control would be effected; 

and 

(b) 

the provisions of Chapter II are likely to act as impediment to implementation of 

the plan of the target company and exemption from strict compliance with one or more 

of  such  provisions  is  in  public  interest,  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  the 

securities market.   

(3)  For  seeking  exemption  under  sub-regulation  (1),  the  acquirer  shall,  and  for  seeking 

relaxation  under  sub-regulation  (2)  the  target  company  shall  file  an  application  with  the 

Board, supported by a duly sworn affidavit, giving details of the proposed acquisition and the 

grounds on which the exemption has been sought. 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 97 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
(4)   The acquirer shall, along with the application referred to under sub-regulation (3), pay a 

non-refundable  fee  of 16[▪]rupees,  by  way  of  a  banker‘s  cheque  or  demand  draft  payable  in 

Mumbai in favour of the Board. 

 

(5)   The  Board  may  after  affording  reasonable  opportunity  of  being  heard  to  the  applicant 

and  after  considering  all  the  relevant  facts  and  circumstances,  pass  a  reasoned  order  either 

granting or rejecting the exemption or relaxation sought as expeditiously as possible: 

 

 

Provided that the Board may constitute a panel of experts to which an application for an 

exemption  under  sub-regulation  (1)  may,  if  considered  necessary,  be  referred  to  make 

recommendations on the application to the Board. 

  

(6)   The order passed by the Board under sub-regulation (5) shall be published. 

 

 

                                                           
16 The TRAC is not making any recommendation on the quantum of fees to be charged under these Regulations 
since it is a matter for SEBI to determine in terms of its policy. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 98 of 138 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Chapter III 

OPEN OFFER PROCESS 

Manager to the Open Offer. 

 

12. 

(1)  Prior  to  making  a  public  announcement,  the  acquirer  shall  appoint  a  merchant 

banker registered with the Board, who is not an associate of the acquirer, as the manager to 

the open offer.  

 

 

Explanation.  —  For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation  the  term  ―associate‖  has  the  same 

meaning as in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 

1992. 

 

(2)  The  public  announcement  of  the  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  required  under  these 

regulations shall be made by the acquirer though such manager to the open offer. 

 

Timing. 

 

13. 

(1)  The  public  announcement  referred  to  in  regulation  3  and  regulation  4  shall  be 

made in accordance with regulation 14 and regulation 15, on the date of agreeing to acquire 

shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company. 

 

(2)  Such public announcement,— 

 

 

  

 

(a) 

in the case of market purchases shall be made prior to placement of the purchase 

order  with  the  stock  broker  to  acquire  the  shares  that  would  take  the  entitlement  to 

voting rights beyond the stipulated thresholds; 

(b)   pursuant  to  an  acquirer  acquiring  shares  or  voting  rights  in,  or  control  over  the 

target  company  upon  converting  convertible  securities  without  a  fixed  date  of 

conversion  or  upon  conversion  of  depository  receipts  for  the  underlying  shares  of  the 

target company shall be made on the same day as the date of exercise of the option to 

convert such securities into shares of the target company. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 99 of 138 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(c)  pursuant  to  an  acquirer  acquiring  shares  or  voting  rights  in,  or  control  over  the 

target  company  upon  conversion  of  convertible  securities  with  a  fixed  date  of 

conversion  shall  be  made  on  the  second  business  day  preceding  the  scheduled  date  of 

conversion of such securities into shares of the target company. 

(d)  pursuant  to  a  disinvestment  shall  be  made  on  the  same  day  as  the  date  of 

executing the agreement for acquisition of shares or voting rights in or control over the 

target company.  

(e) 

in the case of indirect acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the 

target  company  where  none  of  the  parameters  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  of 

regulation  5  are  met,  may  be  made  at  any  time  within  four  business  days  from  the 

earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which 

the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public 

domain:  

 

Explanation.— 

It is clarified that in the event the acquirer does not succeed in 

acquiring the ability to exercise or direct the exercise of voting rights in, or control over 

the  target  company,  the  acquirer  shall  not  be  required  to  make  a  detailed  public 

statement of an open offer for acquiring shares under these regulations. 

(f) 

in the case of indirect acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the 

target  company  where  any  of  the  parameters  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  of 

regulation  5  are  met  shall  be  made  on  the  earlier  of,  the  date  on  which  the  primary 

acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the decision to make the 

primary acquisition is announced in the public domain;  

(g)  The public announcement pursuant to an increase in voting rights consequential to 

a  buy-back  not  qualifying  for  exemption  under  regulation  10,  shall  be  made  not  later 

than  the  ninetieth  day  from  the  date  of  such  increase  in  the  voting  rights  beyond  the 

relevant threshold stipulated in regulation 3.  

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 100 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(h)  The public announcement pursuant to any acquisition of shares or voting rights in 

or control over the target company where the specific date on which title to such shares, 

voting rights or control is acquired is beyond the control of the acquirer, shall be made 

not  later  than  two  business  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  intimation  of  having 

acquired such title.  

 
 

 

(3)  The  public  announcement  made  under  regulation  6  shall  be  made  on  the  same  day  as 

the date on which the acquirer takes the decision to voluntarily make a public announcement 

of an open offer for acquiring shares of the target company. 

 

(4)  Pursuant to the public announcement made under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation 

(3), a detailed public statement shall be published by the acquirer through the manager to the 

open  offer  in  accordance  with  regulation  14  and  regulation  15,  not  later  than  five  business 

days of the public announcement: 

 

 

Provided  that  the  detailed  public  statement  pursuant  to  a  public  announcement  made 

under clause (v) of sub-regulation (2) shall be made not later than five business days of the 

completion  of  the  primary  acquisition  of  shares  or  voting  rights  in,  or  control  over  the 

company or entity holding shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company:  

 

Publication. 

 

14. 

(1)  The  public  announcement  shall  be  sent  to  all  the  stock  exchanges  on  which  the 

shares of the target company are listed, and the stock exchanges shall forthwith disseminate 

such information to the public. 

 

(2)  A copy of the public announcement shall be sent to the Board and to the target company 

at its registered office within one business day of the date of the public announcement. 

 

(3)  The detailed public statement pursuant  to  the public announcement  referred to  in  sub-

regulation (4) of regulation 13 shall be published in all editions of any one English national 

daily with wide circulation, any one Hindi national daily with wide circulation, and any one 

regional language daily  with  wide circulation  at the place where the registered office of the 

target company is situated and one regional language daily at the place of the stock exchange 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 101 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
where  the  maximum  volume  of  trading  in  the  shares  of  the  target  company  are  recorded 

during the sixty trading days preceding the date of the public announcement. 

 

(4)  Simultaneously with publication of such detailed public statement in the newspapers, a 

copy of the same shall be sent to,— 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

(i) 

the Board through the manager to the open offer, 

(ii)  all the stock exchanges on which the shares of the target company are listed, and 

the stock exchanges shall forthwith disseminate such information to the public, 

(iii)  the target company at its registered office, and the target company shall forthwith  

place the same before the board of directors of the target company.  

Content. 

 

15. 

(1)  The  public  announcement  shall  contain  such  information  as  may  be  specified, 

including the following,— 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a)  name and identity of the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him; 

(b)  name and identity of the sellers, if any; 

(c)  nature  of  the  proposed  acquisition  such  as  purchase  of  shares  or  allotment  of 

shares, or any other means of acquisition of shares or voting rights  in,  or control  over 

the target company; 

(d) 

the consideration for the proposed acquisition that attracted the obligation to make 

an open offer for acquiring shares, and the price per share, if any;  

(e) 

the offer price, and mode of payment of consideration; and 

(f) 

offer size, and conditions as to minimum level of acceptances, if any. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 102 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
(2)  The  detailed  public  statement  pursuant  to  the  public  announcement  shall  contain  such 

information as may be specified in order to enable shareholders to make an informed decision 

with reference to the open offer. 

 

(3)  The public announcement of the open offer, the detailed public statement, and any other 

statement,  advertisement,  circular,  brochure,  publicity  material  or  letter  of  offer  issued  in 

relation  to  the  acquisition  of  shares  under  these  regulations  shall  not  omit  any  relevant 

information, or contain any misleading information. 

 

Filing of letter of offer with the Board. 

 

16. 

(1)  Within  five  business  days  from  the  date  of  the  detailed  public  statement  made 

under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 13, the acquirer shall, through the manager to the open 

offer, file with the Board, a draft of the letter of offer containing such information as may be 

specified  along  with  a  non-refundable  fee  as  per  the  following  scale  by  way  of  a  banker‘s 

cheque or demand draft payable in Mumbai in favour of the Board,— 

17Consideration payable under the Open 

Fee  

Offer  

[▪] 

[▪] 

 

 

(2)  The  consideration  payable  under  the  open  offer  shall  be  calculated  at  the  offer  price, 

assuming  full  acceptance  of  the  open  offer,  and  in  the  event  the  open  offer  is  subject  to 

differential  pricing,  shall  be  computed  at  the  highest  offer  price,  irrespective  of  manner  of 

payment of the consideration. 

 

 

Provided that in the event of consideration payable under the open offer being enhanced 

owing  to  a  revision  to  the  offer  price  or  offer  size  the  fees  payable  shall  stand  revised 

accordingly, and shall be paid within five business days from the date of such revision. 

 

 

                                                           
17 The TRAC is not making any recommendation on the quantum of fees to be charged under these Regulations 
since it is a matter for SEBI to determine in terms of its policy.   

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 103 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
(3)  The manager to the open offer shall provide soft copies of the public announcement, the 

detailed public statement and the draft letter of offer in accordance with such specifications as 

may be specified by the Board, and the Board shall upload the same on its official website. 

 

 (4)  The  Board  shall  give  its  comments  on  the  draft  letter  of  offer  as  expeditiously  as 

possible but not later than fifteen business days of the receipt of the draft letter of offer and in 

the event of no comments being issued by the Board within such period, it shall be deemed 

that the Board does not have comments to offer. 

 

Provided  that  in  the  event  the  Board  has  sought  clarifications  or  additional 

information from the manager to the open offer, the period for issuance of comments shall be 

extended  to  the  fifth  business  day  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  satisfactory  reply  to  the 

clarification or additional information sought. 

 

 

Provided  that  in  the  event  the  Board  specifies  any  changes,  the  manager  to  the  open 

offer and the acquirer shall carry out such changes in the letter of offer before it is dispatched 

to the shareholders. 

 

(5) 

In the case of competing offers, the Board shall provide its comments on the draft letter 

of offer in respect of each competing offer on the same day. 

  

(6) 

In the event the disclosures in the draft letter of offer are inadequate the Board may call 

for a revised letter of offer and shall deal with the revised letter of offer in accordance with 

sub-regulation (4).  

 

Provision of escrow. 

 

17. 

(1)  Not later than two business days prior to the date of the detailed public statement 

of  the  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares,  the  acquirer  shall  create  an  escrow  account  towards 

security  for  performance  of  his  obligations  under  these  regulations,  and  deposit  in  escrow 

such aggregate amount as per the following scale: 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 104 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Consideration  payable  under  the  Open 

Escrow Amount  

Offer  

On the first five hundred crore rupees 

an amount equal to twenty-five per cent of 

the consideration  

On the balance consideration 

an additional amount equal to ten per cent 

of the balance consideration 

 

 

(2)  The  consideration  payable  under  the  open  offer  shall  be  computed  as  provided  for  in 

sub-regulation (2) of regulation 16 and in the event of an upward revision of the offer price or 

of  the  offer  size,  the  value  of  the  escrow  amount  shall  be  computed  on  the  revised 

consideration  calculated  at  such  revised  offer  price,  and  the  additional  amount  shall  be 

brought into the escrow account prior to effecting such revision. 

 

(3)  The escrow account referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be in the form of,— 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

cash deposited with any scheduled commercial bank;  

(b)  bank guarantee issued in favour of the manager to the open offer by any scheduled 

commercial bank; or 

(c)  deposit  of  frequently  traded  and  freely  transferable  equity  shares  or  other  freely 

transferable securities with appropriate margin;  

Provided  that  where  an  open  offer  is  made  conditional  upon  minimum  level  of 

acceptance, the cash component of the escrow account  shall not  be lower than one hundred 

per  cent  of  the  consideration  payable  in  respect  of  the  minimum  level  of  acceptance  of  the 

open offer. 

 

 

Provided further that securities sought to be provided towards escrow under clause (c) 

shall be required to conform to the requirements set out in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9.  

 

(4) 

In  the  event  of  the  escrow  account  being  created  by  way  of  a  bank  guarantee  or  by 

deposit  of  securities,  the  acquirer  shall  also  ensure  that  at  least  one  per  cent  of  the  total 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 105 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
consideration payable is deposited in cash with a scheduled commercial bank as a part of the 

escrow account. 

 

(5)  For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of a cash deposit with a scheduled 

commercial bank, the acquirer shall while opening the account, empower the manager to the 

open  offer  to  instruct  the  bank  to  issue  a  banker‘s  cheque  or  demand  draft  or  to  make 

payment  of  the  amounts  lying  to  the  credit  of  the  escrow  account,  in  accordance  with 

requirements under these regulations. 

 

(6)  For  such  part  of  the  escrow  account  as  is  in  the  form  of  a  bank  guarantee,  such  bank 

guarantee  shall  be  in  favour  of  the  manager  to  the  open  offer  and  shall  be  kept  valid 

throughout  the  offer  period  and  for  an  additional  period  of  thirty  days  after  completion  of 

payment of consideration to shareholders who have tendered their shares in acceptance of the 

open offer. 

 

(7)  For  such  part  of  the  escrow  account  as  is  in  the  form  of  securities,  the  acquirer  shall 

empower the manager to the open offer to realise the value of such escrow account by sale or 

otherwise, and in the event there is any shortfall in the amount required to be maintained in 

the escrow account, the manager to the open offer shall be liable to make good such shortfall. 

 

 

(8)  The manager to the open offer shall not release the escrow account until the expiry of 

thirty  days  from  the  completion  of  payment  of  consideration  to  shareholders  who  have 

tendered their shares in acceptance of the open offer, save and except for transfer of funds to 

the special account as required under regulation 21. 

  

 (9)  In the event of non-fulfillment of obligations under these regulations by the acquirer the 

Board may direct the manager to the open offer to forfeit the escrow account or any amounts 

lying in the special account, either in full or in part. 

 

(10)  The  escrow  account  deposited  with  the  bank  in  cash  shall  be  released  only  in  the 

following manner,— 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 106 of 138 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(a) 

the entire amount to the acquirer upon withdrawal of offer in terms of regulation 

23 as certified by the manager to the open offer: 

 

Provided  that  in  the  event  the  withdrawal  is  pursuant  to  clause  (c)  of  sub-

regulation  (1) of regulation 23, the manager to  the open offer shall release the escrow 

account upon receipt of confirmation of such release from the Board; 

(b) 

for transfer of an amount not exceeding ninety per cent of the escrow account, to 

the special account in accordance with regulation 21: 

(c) 

to  the  acquirer,  the  balance  of  the  escrow  account  after  transfer  of  cash  to  the 

special  account,  on  the  expiry  of  thirty  days  from  the  completion  of  payment  of 

consideration to shareholders who have tendered their shares in acceptance of the open 

offer, as certified by the manager to the open offer; 

(d) 

the  entire  amount  to  the  acquirer  upon  the  expiry  of  thirty  days  from  the 

completion of payment of consideration to shareholders who have tendered their shares 

in  acceptance  of  the  open  offer,  upon  certification  by  the  manager  to  the  open  offer, 

where the open offer is for exchange of shares or other secured instruments; 

(e) 

the entire amount to  the  manager to  the open offer, in  the event  of forfeiture for 

non-fulfillment of any of the obligations under these regulations, for distribution in the 

following  manner,  after  deduction  of  expenses,  if  any,  of  registered  market 

intermediaries associated with the open offer,— 

 

(i) 

one third of the escrow account to the target company; 

 

(ii) 

one  third  of  the  escrow  account  to  the  Investor  Protection  and  Education 

Fund  established  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Investor 

Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009; 

 

(iii)  one  third  of  the  escrow  account  to  be  distributed  pro-rata  among  the 

shareholders who have accepted the open offer. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 107 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Other Procedures. 

 

18. 

(1)  Simultaneously with the filing of the draft letter of offer with the Board under sub-

regulation (1) of regulation 16, the acquirer shall send a copy of the draft letter of offer to the 

target company at its registered office address and to all stock exchanges where the shares of 

the target company are listed. 

 

(2)  The letter of offer shall  be dispatched to  the shareholders whose names  appear on the 

register  of  members  of  the  target  company  as  of  the  identified  date,  not  later  than  seven 

business days from the receipt of communication of comments from the Board or where no 

comments are offered by the Board, within seven business days from the expiry of the period 

stipulated in sub-regulation (4) of regulation 16: 

 

 

Provided that every person holding  shares regardless of whether he held  shares on the 

identified date shall be entitled to tender such shares in acceptance of the open offer. 

  

(3)  Simultaneously  with  the  dispatch  of  the  letter  of  offer  sub-regulation  (2),  the  acquirer 

shall send the letter of offer to the custodian of shares underlying depository receipts, if any, 

of the target company: 

 

 

Provided  that  where  local  laws  or  regulations  of  any  jurisdiction  outside  India  may 

expose  the  acquirer  or  the  target  company  to  material  risk  of  civil,  regulatory  or  criminal 

liabilities  in  the  event  the  letter  of  offer  in  its  final  form  were  to  be  sent  without  material 

amendments  or  modifications  into  such  jurisdiction,  and  the  shareholders  resident  in  such 

jurisdiction  hold  shares  entitling  them  to  less  than  five  per  cent  of  the  voting  rights  of  the 

target  company,  the  acquirer  may  refrain  from  dispatch  of  the  letter  of  offer  into  such 

jurisdiction. 

 

 

Provided  further  that  nothing  contained  in  this  sub-regulation  shall  disentitle  a 

shareholder  to  whom  the  letter  of  offer  has  not  been  sent  from  tendering  his  shares  in 

acceptance of the open offer.  

 

(4) 

Irrespective  of  whether  a  competing  offer  has  been  made,  an  acquirer  may  make 

upward revisions to the offer price, and subject to the other provisions of these regulations, to 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 108 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
the  number  of  shares  sought  to  be  acquired  under  the  open  offer,  at  any  time  prior  to  the 

commencement  of  the  last  three  business  days  prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  tendering 

period: 

 

(5) 

In the event of any revision of the open offer, whether by way of an upward revision in 

offer price, or of the offer size, the acquirer shall,— 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a)  make  corresponding  increases  to  the  amount  kept  in  escrow  under  regulation  17 

prior to such revision. 

(b)  make an announcement in respect of such revisions in all the newspapers in which 

the detailed public statement pursuant to the public announcement was made; 

(c) 

simultaneously with the issue of such an announcement, inform the Board, all the 

stock  exchanges  on  which  the  shares  of  the  target  company  are  listed,  and  the  target 

company at its registered office; 

 (6)  The acquirer shall disclose during the offer period every acquisition or disposal by the 

acquirer  or  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  of  any  shares  of  the  target  company  in  such 

form  as  may  be  specified,  to  each  of  the  stock  exchanges  on  which  the  shares  of  the  target 

company are listed and to the target company at its registered office within twenty-four hours 

of  such  acquisition  or  disposal,  and  the  stock  exchanges  shall  forthwith  disseminate  such 

information to the public: 

 

 

 

Provided that the acquirer  and persons acting in  concert with  him shall not  acquire or 

sell any shares of the target company during the period between three business days prior to 

the commencement of the tendering period and until the expiry of the tendering period.  

 

(7)   The  acquirer  shall  issue  an  advertisement  in  such  form  as  may  be  specified,  one 

business day before the commencement of the tendering period, announcing the schedule of 

activities for the open offer, the status of statutory and other approvals, if any, whether for the 

acquisition attracting the obligation to make an open offer under these regulations or for the 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 109 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
open  offer,  unfulfilled  conditions,  if  any,  and  their  status,  the  procedure  for  tendering 

acceptances and such other material detail as may be specified: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Provided that such advertisement shall be,— 

(a)  published in all the newspapers in which the detailed public statement pursuant to 

the public announcement was made; and  

(b) 

simultaneously sent to the Board, all the stock exchanges on which the shares of 

the target company are listed, and the target company at its registered office; 

(8)   The tendering period shall start not later than twelve business days from date of receipt 

of comments from the Board under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 16 and shall remain open 

for ten business days. 

 

(9)   Shareholders  who  have  tendered  shares  in  acceptance  of  the  open  offer  shall  not  be 

entitled to withdraw such acceptance during the tendering period. 

 

(10)  The acquirer shall, within ten business days from the last date of the tendering period, 

complete  all  requirements  under  these  regulations  and  other  applicable  law  relating  to  the 

open  offer  including  payment  of  consideration  to  the  shareholders  who  have  accepted  the 

open offer. 

 

(11)  The  acquirer  shall  be  responsible  to  pursue  all  statutory  approvals  required  by  the 

acquirer in order to complete the open offer without any default, neglect or delay: 

 

 

Provided that where the acquirer is unable to make the payment to the shareholders who 

have accepted the open offer within such period owing to non-receipt of statutory approvals 

required  by  the  acquirer,  the  Board  may,  where  it  is  satisfied  that  such  non-receipt  was  not 

attributable to  any willful default, failure or neglect  on the part of the acquirer to  diligently 

pursue such approvals, grant extension of time for making payments, subject to the acquirer 

agreeing to pay interest to the shareholders for the delay at such rate as may be specified by 

the Board. 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 110 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Conditional Offer. 

 

19. 

(1)  An  acquirer  may  make  an  open  offer  conditional  as  to  the  minimum  level  of 

acceptance: 

 

 

Provided  that  where  the  open  offer  is  pursuant  to  an  agreement,  such  agreement  shall 

contain a condition to the effect that in the event the desired level of acceptance of the open 

offer  is  not  received  the  acquirer  shall  not  acquire  any  shares  under  the  open  offer  and  the 

agreement attracting the obligation to make the open offer shall stand rescinded.  

 

 (2)   Where  an  open  offer  is  made  conditional  upon  minimum  level  of  acceptances,  the 

acquirer and persons acting in concert with him shall not acquire, during the offer period, any 

shares in the target company except under the open offer. 

 

Competing offers. 

 

20. 

 (1)  Upon  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  of  a  target 

company  being  made,  any  person,  other  than  the  acquirer  who  has  made  such  public 

announcement,  shall  be  entitled  to  make  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  within 

fifteen business days of the date of the detailed public statement made by such acquirer who 

has made the first public announcement for such target company. 

 

(2)  Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, an open offer made within the 

period referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall not be regarded as a voluntary open offer under 

regulation 6, and the provisions of these regulations shall apply accordingly. 

 

(3)  Every open offer made under sub-regulation (1) and the open offer first made shall be 

regarded as competing offers for purposes of these regulations. 

 

(4)  No  person  shall  be  entitled  to  make  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for 

acquiring  shares,  or  enter  into  any  transaction  that  would  attract  the  obligation  to  make  a 

public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares under these regulations, after the 

period  of  fifteen  business  days  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1)  and  until  the  expiry  of  the 

offer period for such open offer. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 111 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

(5)  Unless the open offer first made is an open offer conditional as to the minimum level of 

acceptances,  no  acquirer  making  a  competing  offer  may  be  made  conditional  as  to  the 

minimum level of acceptances. 

 

(6)  No  person  shall  be  entitled  to  make  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for 

acquiring  shares,  or  enter  into  any  transaction  that  would  attract  the  obligation  to  make  a 

public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  under  these  regulations  until  the  expiry  of  the  offer 

period where,—  

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

the  open  offer  is  for  acquisition  of  shares  pursuant  to  disinvestment,  in  terms  of 

clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 13; or   

(b) 

the  open  offer  is  pursuant  to  a  relaxation  from  strict  compliance  with  the 

provisions of Chapter III or Chapter IV granted by the Board under sub-regulation (2) 

of regulation 11. 

(7)  The  schedule  of  activities  and  the  tendering  period  for  all  competing  offers  shall  be 

carried out with identical timelines and the last date for tendering shares in acceptance of the 

every competing offer shall stand revised to the last date for tendering shares in acceptance of 

the competing offer last made. 

  

(8)  Upon  the  public  announcement  of  a  competing  offer,  an  acquirer  who  had  made  a 

preceding competing offer shall be entitled to revise the terms of his open offer provided the 

revised terms are more favourable to the shareholders of the target company: 

 

 

Provided  that  the  acquirers  making  the  competing  offers  shall  be  entitled  to  make 

upward  revisions  of  the  offer  price  at  any  time  up  to  three  business  days  prior  to  the 

commencement of the tendering period. 

 

(9)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  regulation  3  and  regulation  4,  any  of  the 

acquirers who had made a competing offer shall be entitled, whether by himself, or through, 

or with persons acting in concert with him, to acquire the shares held by any other competing 

acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert  with  such  competing  acquirer  within  twenty-one 
Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 112 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
business days of the expiry of the offer period for such competing offers without attracting an 

obligation to make a public announcement under these regulations: 

 

 

Provided  that  the  shares  that  may  acquired  under  this  sub-regulation  shall  not  exceed 

the number of shares acquired by such seller under his competing offer, and the price for such 

acquisition  shall  not  exceed  the  offer  price  governing  the  competing  offer  made  by  the 

acquirer purchasing shares under this sub-regulation. 

 

 

 

Provided further that such acquisition shall not exceed such number of shares as would 

take the shareholding of the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him to more than the 

maximum permissible non-public shareholding. 

 

(10)  Except for variations made under this regulation, all the provisions of these regulations 

shall apply to every competing offer. 

 

Payment of consideration. 

 

21. 

(1)  For the amount of consideration payable in cash, the acquirer shall open a special 

account with a banker to an issue registered with the Board and deposit therein, such sum as 

would, together with cash transferred under clause (b) of sub-regulation (10) of regulation 17, 

make up the entire sum  due and payable to the shareholders as consideration payable under 

the open offer, and for such purpose, transfer such amount of cash from the escrow account. 

 

(2)  The acquirer shall complete payment of consideration whether in the form of cash, or as 

the  case  may  be,  by  issue,  exchange  or  transfer  of  securities,  to  all  shareholders  who  have 

tendered shares in acceptance of the open offer within ten business days of the expiry of the 

tendering period. 

 

(3)   Unclaimed balances, if any, lying to the credit of the special account referred to in sub-

regulation (1) at the end of seven years from the date of deposit thereof shall be transferred to 

the  Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund  established  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange 

Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009. 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 113 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

 

Completion of acquisition. 

 

22. 

(1)  The  acquirer  shall  not  complete  the  acquisition  of  shares  or  voting  rights  in,  or 

control  over,  the  target  company  under  any  agreement  attracting  the  obligation  to  make  an 

open offer for acquiring shares until the expiry of the offer period. 

 

(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  subject  to  the  acquirer 

depositing  in  the  escrow  account  under  regulation  17,  cash  of  an  amount  equal  to  one 

hundred per cent of the consideration payable under the open offer assuming full acceptance 

of the open offer, the parties to such agreement may after the expiry of twenty-one business 

days  from  the  date  of  the  public  announcement,  act  upon  the  agreement  and  complete  the 

acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company as contemplated 

in such agreement: 

 

 

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-regulation shall apply to a competing offer 

not being an open offer attracted by a preferential allotment of shares of the target company. 

 

(3)  The acquirer shall complete the acquisitions contracted under any agreement attracting 

the obligation to make an open offer not later than twenty-six weeks from the expiry of the 

offer period: 

 

 

Provided  that  in  the  event  of  any  extraordinary  and  supervening  circumstances 

rendering  it  impossible  to  complete  such  acquisition  within  such  period,  the  Board  may  for 

reasons to be published, may grant an extension of time by such period as it may deem fit in 

the interests of investors in securities and the securities market. 

 

Withdrawal of open offer. 

 

23. 

(1)  An  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  once  made  shall  not  be  withdrawn  except 

under any of the following circumstances,— 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 114 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(a) 

statutory  approvals  required  for  the  open  offer  or  for  effecting  the  acquisitions 

attracting  the  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  under  these  regulations  having  been 

finally  refused,  subject  to  such  requirements  for  approval  having  been  specifically 

disclosed in the detailed public statement and the letter of offer;  

(b) 

the acquirer, being a natural person, has died;  

(c) 

any condition stipulated in the agreement for acquisition attracting the obligation 

to  make  the  open  offer  is  not  met  for  reasons  outside  the  reasonable  control  of  the 

acquirer,  and  such  agreement  is  rescinded,  subject  to  such  conditions  having  been 

specifically disclosed in the detailed public statement and the letter of offer;  or 

(d) 

such circumstances as in the opinion of the Board, merit withdrawal. 

Explanation.— For the purposes of clause (d) of sub-regulation (1), the Board shall pass 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a reasoned order permitting withdrawal, and such order shall be published. 

 

(2) 

In the event of withdrawal of the open offer, the acquirer shall through the manager to 

the open offer, within two business days,— 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a)  make  an  announcement 

in 

the  same  newspapers 

in  which 

the  public 

announcement of the open offer was published, providing the grounds and reasons for 

withdrawal of the open offer ; 

(b) 

simultaneously with the announcement, inform in writing,— 

 

 

 

(i) 

the Board;  

(ii)  all the stock exchanges on which the shares of the target company are listed, 

and the stock exchanges shall forthwith disseminate such information to the public; 

and  

(iii)   the target company at its registered office. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 115 of 138 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Chapter IV 

 

OTHER OBLIGATIONS 

Directors of the target company. 

 

24. 

(1)  During the offer period, no person representing the acquirer or any person acting 

in  concert  with  him  shall  be  appointed  as  director  on  the  board  of  directors  of  the  target 

company, whether as an additional director or in a casual vacancy: 

 

 

Provided  that  after  an  initial  period  of  fifteen  business  days  from  the  date  of  detailed 

public  statement,  appointment  of  persons  representing  the  acquirer  or  persons  acting  in 

concert with him on the board of directors may be effected in the event the acquirer deposits 

in  cash  in  the  escrow  account  referred  to  in  regulation  17,  one  hundred  per  cent  of  the 

consideration payable under the open offer. 

 

 

Provided  further  that  where  the  acquirer  has  specified  conditions  to  which  the  open 

offer  is  subject  in  terms  of  clause  (c)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  23,  no  director 

representing  the  acquirer  may  be  appointed  to  the  board  of  directors  of  the  target  company 

during  the  offer  period  unless  the  acquirer  has  waived  or  attained  such  conditions  and 

complies with the requirement of depositing cash in the escrow account. 

   

(2)  Where  an  open  offer  is  made  conditional  upon  minimum  level  of  acceptances,  the 

acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert  shall  notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  these 

regulations, and regardless of the size of the cash deposited in the escrow account referred to 

regulation 17, not be entitled to appoint any director representing the acquirer or any person 

acting  in  concert  with  him  on  the  board  of  directors  of  the  target  company  during  the  offer 

period 

 

(3)  During the pendency of competing offers, notwithstanding anything contained in these 

regulations, and regardless of the size of the cash deposited in the escrow account referred to 

in  regulation  17  by  any  acquirer  or  person  acting  in  concert  with  him,  there  shall  be  no 

induction of any new director to the board of directors of the target company: 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 116 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

Provided that in the event of death or incapacitation of any director, the vacancy arising 

therefrom  may  be  filled  by  any  person  subject  to  approval  of  such  appointment  by 

shareholders of the target company by way of a postal ballot. 

 

(4) 

In  the  event  the  acquirer  or  any  person  acting  in  concert  is  already  represented  by  a 

director  on  the  board  of  the  target  company,  such  director  shall  not  participate  in  any 

deliberations of the board of directors of the target company or vote on any matter in relation 

to the open offer: 

 

Obligations of the acquirer. 

 

25. 

(1)  Prior  to  making  the  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares 

under these regulations, the acquirer shall ensure that firm financial arrangements have been 

made for fulfilling the payment obligations under the open offer and that the acquirer is able 

to implement the open offer, subject to any statutory approvals for the open offer that may be 

necessary. 

 

(2) 

In the event the acquirer has not declared an intention in the detailed public statement 

and  the  letter  of  offer  to  alienate  any  material  assets  of  the  target  company  or  of  any  of  its 

subsidiaries  whether  by  way  of  sale,  lease,  encumbrance  or  otherwise  outside  the  ordinary 

course of business, the acquirer, where he has acquired control over the target company, shall 

be debarred from causing such alienation for a period of two years after the offer period: 

 

 

Provided that in the event the target company or any of its subsidiaries is required to so 

alienate  assets  despite  the  intention  to  alienate  not  having  been  expressed  by  the  acquirer, 

such  alienation  shall  require  a  special  resolution  passed  by  shareholders  of  the  target 

company,  by  way  of  a  postal  ballot  and  the  notice  for  such  postal  ballot  shall  inter  alia 

contain reasons as to why such alienation is necessary. 

 

(3)  The  acquirer  shall  ensure  that  the  contents  of  the  public  announcement,  the  detailed 

public statement and the letter of offer are true, fair and adequate in all material aspects and 

not  misleading  in  any  material  particular,  and  are  based  on  reliable  sources,  and  state  the 

source wherever necessary. 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 117 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
(4) 

In  the  event  the  shares  of  a  target  company  stand  delisted  under  sub-regulation  (4)  of 

regulation  7,  the  acquirer  shall  within  a  period  of  fifteen  business  days  from  the  date  on 

which the shares are delisted from the stock exchange, send out a written offer in such form 

as  may  be  specified  to  all  the  other  shareholders  of  the  target  company,  intimating  the 

shareholders  of  their  entitlement  to  require  the  acquirer  to  acquire  their  shares  at  the  same 

offer price. 

 

(5)  The  acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  shall  be  jointly  and  severally 

responsible for fulfillment of applicable obligations under these regulations.  

Obligations of the target company. 

 

 

26. 

(1)  Upon  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  of  a  target 

company  being  made,  the  board  of  directors  of  such  target  company  shall  ensure  that 

throughout the offer period, the business of the target company is conducted in the ordinary 

course consistent with past practice.  

 

(2)  During  the offer period,  unless the approval  of shareholders of the target company by 

way  of  a  special  resolution  by  postal  ballot  is  obtained,  the  board  of  directors  of  either  the 

target company or any of its subsidiaries shall not,— 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

alienate  any  material  assets  whether  by  way  of  sale,  lease,  encumbrance  or 

otherwise or enter into any agreement therefor outside the ordinary course of business;  

(b)  effect any material borrowings outside the ordinary course of business; 

  

(c) 

issue or allot  any authorised but unissued securities entitling the holder to voting 

rights: 

 

 

 

Provided that the target company or its subsidiaries may,— 

(i) 

issue or allot shares upon conversion of convertible securities issued prior to 

the  public  announcement  of  the  open  offer,  in  accordance  with  pre-determined 

terms of such conversion; and  

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 118 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

 

(ii) 

issue or allot shares pursuant to any public issue in respect of which the red 

herring  prospectus  has  been  filed  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  prior  to  the 

public announcement of the open offer; or  

(iii) 

issue  or  allot  shares  pursuant  to  any  rights  issue  in  respect  of  which  the 

record  date  has  been  announced  prior  to  the  public  announcement  of  the  open 

offer;  

(d) 

implement  any  buy-back  of  shares  or  effect  any  other  change  to  the  capital 

structure of the target company; or 

(e) 

enter into, amend or terminate any material contracts to which the target company 

or  any  of  its  subsidiaries  is  a  party,  outside  the  ordinary  course  of  business,  whether 

such  contract  is  with  a  related  party,  within  the  meaning  of  the  term  under  applicable 

accounting principles, or with any other person; and  

(f) 

accelerate  any  contingent  vesting  of  a  right  of  any  person  to  whom  the  target 

company or any of its subsidiaries may have an obligation, whether such obligation is to 

acquire shares of the target company by way of employee stock options or otherwise. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(3) 

In any general meeting of a subsidiary of the target company in respect of the matters 

referred to in sub-regulation (2), the target company and its subsidiaries, if any, shall vote in a 

manner  consistent  with  the  special  resolution  passed  by  the  shareholders  of  the  target 

company. 

 

(4)  The  target  company  shall  be  prohibited  from  fixing  any  record  date  for  a  corporate 

action  after  the  third  business  day  prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  tendering  period  and 

until the expiry of the tendering period. 

 

 (5)  The  target  company  shall  furnish  to  the  acquirer  within  two  business  days  from  the 

identified  date,  a  list  of  shareholders  as  per  the  register  of  members  of  the  target  company 

containing  names,  addresses,  shareholding  and  folio  number,  in  electronic  form,  wherever 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 119 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
available, and a list of persons whose applications, if any, for registration of transfer of shares 

are pending with the company: 

 

 

Provided  that  the  acquirer  shall  reimburse  reasonable  costs  payable  by  the  target 

company to external agencies in order to furnish such information. 

 

(6)  Upon  receipt  of  the  detailed  public  statement,  the  board  of  directors  of  the  target 

company  shall  constitute  a  committee  of  independent  directors  to  provide  reasoned 

recommendations  on  such  open  offer,  and  the  target  company  shall  publish  such 

recommendations: 

 

 

Provided  that  such  committee  shall  be  entitled  to  seek  external  professional  advice  at 

the expense of the target company. 

 

(7)  The  committee  of 

independent  directors  shall  provide 

its  written  reasoned 

recommendations  on  the  open  offer  to  the  shareholders  of  the  target  company  and  such 

recommendations shall be published at least two business days before the commencement of 

the  tendering  period,  in  the  same  newspapers  where  the  public  announcement  of  the  open 

offer was published, and simultaneously, a copy of the same shall be sent to,— 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(i) 

the Board; 

(ii)  all the stock exchanges on which the shares of the target company are listed, and 

the stock exchanges shall forthwith disseminate such information to the public; 

(iii)  to  the  manager  to  the  open  offer,  and  where  there  are  competing  offers,  to  the 

manager to the open offer for every competing offer.  

(8)  The board of directors of the target company shall facilitate the acquirer in verification 

of shares tendered in acceptance of the open offer. 

 

(9)  The  board  of  directors  of  the  target  company  shall  make  available  to  all  acquirers 

making competing offers, any information and co-operation provided to any acquirer who has 

made a competing offer. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 120 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

(10)  Upon fulfillment by the acquirer, of the conditions required under these regulations, the 

board of directors of the target company shall without any delay register the transfer of shares 

acquired by the acquirer in physical form, whether under the agreement or from open market 

purchases, or pursuant to the open offer. 

Obligations of the manager to the open offer. 

 

 

27. 

(1)  Prior  to  public  announcement  being  made,  the  manager  to  the  open  offer  shall 

ensure that,— 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

the acquirer is able to implement the open offer; and  

(b) 

firm  arrangements  for  funds  through  verifiable  means  have  been  made  by  the 

acquirer to meet the payment obligations under the open offer;  

(2)  The manager to the open offer shall ensure that the contents of the public announcement, 

the detailed public statement and the letter of offer are true, fair and adequate in all material 

aspects,  not  misleading  in  any  material  particular,  are  based  on  reliable  sources,  state  the 

source  wherever  necessary,  and  are  in  compliance  with  the  requirements  under  these 

regulations. 

 

(3)  The  manager  to  the  open  offer  shall  furnish  to  the  Board  a  due  diligence  certificate 

along with the draft letter of offer filed under regulation 16. 

 

(4)  The manager to the open offer shall ensure that market intermediaries engaged for the 

purposes of the open offer are registered with the Board;  

 

(5)  The manager to the open offer shall exercise diligence, care and professional judgement 

to ensure compliance with these regulations. 

  

(6)  The  manager  to  the  open  offer  shall  not  deal  on  his  own  account  in  the  shares  of  the 

target company during the offer period. 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 121 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
(7)  The manager to the open offer shall file a report with the Board within fifteen business 

days from the expiry of  the tendering period, in  such form  as may be specified, confirming 

status of completion of various open offer requirements. 

 

(8) 

In  the  event  of  an  inter  se  transfer  between  competing  acquirers  being  effected  under 

sub-regulation  (9)  of  regulation  20,  the  manager  to  the  open  offer  of  each  such  competing 

acquirer shall file a report with the Board within seven business days of such transfer, in such 

form as may specified giving particulars of such transfer.  

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 122 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Chapter V 

 

DISCLOSURES OF SHAREHOLDING AND CONTROL  

 

 

Disclosure of acquisition and disposal. 

 

28. 

(1)  Any  acquirer  who  acquires  shares  or  voting  rights  in  a  target  company  which 

taken  together  with  shares  or  voting  rights,  if  any,  held  by  him  and  by  persons  acting  in 

concert with him in such target company, entitle them to exercise five per cent or more of the 

voting  rights  in  such  target  company  shall  disclose  their  aggregate  shareholding  and  voting 

rights in such target company in such form as may be specified. 

 

(2)  Any  acquirer,  who  together  with  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him,  holds  shares  or 

voting rights entitling them to exercise five per cent or more of the voting rights in a target 

company,  shall  disclose  every  acquisition  or  disposal  of  shares  of  such  target  company 

representing two per cent or more of the voting rights in such target company along with their 

aggregate shareholding and voting rights in such form as may be specified. 

 

(4)  The disclosures required under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) shall be made 

within two business days of the receipt of intimation of allotment of shares, or the acquisition 

of shares or voting rights in the target company to,— 

 

(a) 

every stock exchange where the shares of the target company are listed; and 

 

(b) 

the target company at its registered office. 

 

(5) 

(6)  For the purposes of this regulation,  shares taken  on pledge shall be treated as an 

acquisition, shares given on pledge shall be treated as a disposal, the pledgee shall be treated 

as an acquirer, and disclosures shall be made accordingly in such form as may be specified: 

 

 

Provided  that  such  requirement  shall  not  apply  to  a  scheduled  commercial  bank  or 

public financial institution in connection with a pledge of shares for securing indebtedness in 

the ordinary course of business.  

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 123 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Continual disclosures. 

 

29. 

(1)  Every person, who together with persons acting in concert with him, holds shares 

or voting rights entitling them to exercise twenty-five per cent or more of the voting rights in 

a  target  company,  shall  disclose  their  aggregate  shareholding  and  voting  rights  as  of  the 

thirty-first day of March, in such target company in such form as may be specified. 

 

(2)  The  promoter  of  every  target  company  shall  together  with  persons  acting  in  concert 

with him, disclose their aggregate shareholding and voting rights as of the thirty-first day of 

March, in such target company in such form as may be specified. 

 

(3)  The disclosures required under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) shall be made 

within fifteen business days from the end of each financial year to,— 

 

(a) 

every stock exchange where the shares of the target company are listed; and 

 

 

(b) 

the target company at its registered office. 

 

Disclosure of encumbered shares. 

 

30. 

(1)  The  promoter  of  every  target  company  shall  disclose  details  of  shares  in  such 

target company encumbered by him or by persons acting in concert with him in such form as 

may be specified. 

 

(2)  The promoter of every target company shall disclose details of any invocation of such 

encumbrance or release of such encumbrance of shares in such form as may be specified. 

 

(3)  The disclosures required under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) shall be made 

within seven business days from the creation or invocation of encumbrance, as the case may 

be to,— 

 

(a) 

every stock exchange where the shares of the target company are listed; and 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 124 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(b) 

the target company at its registered office. 

 

 

Disclosure-related provisions. 

 

31. 

(1)  The  disclosures  under  this  Chapter  shall  be  of  the  aggregated  shareholding  and 

voting rights of the acquirer and every person acting in concert with him. 

 

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  this  Chapter,  the  acquisition  and  holding  of  any  security  or 

instrument that would entitle the acquirer to receive shares in the target company, including 

warrants and convertible debentures, shall also be regarded as shares, and disclosures of such 

acquisitions and holdings shall be made accordingly in such form as may be specified. 

 

(3)  Upon  receipt  of  the  disclosures  required  under  this  Chapter,  the  stock  exchange  shall 

forthwith disseminate the information so received. 

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 125 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Chapter VI 

 

MISCELLANEOUS 

 

 

Power to issue directions. 

 

32. 

(1)  Without prejudice to its powers under Chapter VIA and section 24 of the Act, the 

Board  may,  in  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  the  securities  market,  issue  such 

directions  as  it  deems  fit  under  section  11  or  section  11B  or  section  11D  of  the  Act, 

including,— 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a)  directing  to  divest  of  shares  acquired  in  violation  of  these  regulations,  whether 

through  public  auction  or  in  the  open  market,  or  through  an  offer  for  sale  under  the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 

Regulations,  2009,  and  directing  the  appointment  of  a  merchant  banker  for  such 

divestiture; 

(b)  directing  transfer  of  the  shares,  or  any  proceeds  of  a  directed  sale  of  shares 

acquired in violation of these regulations to the Investor Protection and Education Fund 

established under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and 

Education Fund) Regulations, 2009; 

(c)  directing the target company or any depository not to give effect to any transfer of 

shares acquired in violation of these regulations; 

(d)  directing  the  acquirer  or  any  person  acting  in  concert,  or  any  nominee  or  proxy  

not  to  exercise  any  voting  or  other  rights  attached  to  shares  acquired  in  violation  of 

these regulations; 

(e)  debarring  any  person  who  has  violated  these  regulations  from  accessing  the 

capital market or dealing in securities for such period as may be directed, having regard 

to the nature and gravity of  the violation; 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 126 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(f) 

directing  the  acquirer  to  make  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  of  the  target 

company  at  such  offer  price  as  determined  by  the  Board  in  accordance  with  these 

regulations; 

(g)  directing  the  acquirer  not  to  cause,  and  the  target  company  not  to  effect,  any 

disposal  of  assets  of  the  target  company  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries  contrary  to  the 

contents of the letter of offer; 

(h)  directing  the  acquirer  who  has  failed  to  make  an  open  offer  or  has  delayed  the 

making  of  an  open  offer,  to  make  the  open  offer  and  to  pay  interest  at  such  rate  as 

considered appropriate by the Board, along with the offer price.  

(i) 

directing  the  acquirer  who  has  failed  to  make  payment  of  the  open  offer 

consideration to shareholders, not to make any open offer or enter into any transaction 

that would attract the obligation to make an open offer in respect of shares of any target 

company for such period as the Board may deem fit; 

(j) 

directing any person to cease and desist from exercising control acquired over any 

target company without complying with the requirements under these regulations; 

(k)  directing divestiture of such number of shares as would result in the shareholding 

of  an  acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  being  limited  to  the  maximum 

permissible non-public shareholding or below; 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2) 

In  any  proceedings  initiated  by  the  Board,  the  Board  shall  comply  with  principles  of 

natural justice before issuing directions to any person. 

 

(3)  The  Board  may,  for  failure  to  carry  out  the  requirements  of  these  regulations  by  any 

intermediary  registered  with  the  Board,  initiate  enquiry  proceedings  in  accordance  with 

applicable regulations. 

 

 

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 127 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Power to remove difficulties. 

 

33. 

In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions 

of  these  regulations,  the  Board  shall  have  the  power  to  issue  directions  through  guidance 

notes or circulars: 

 

 

Provided that where  any direction is  issued by the Board in  a specific case  relating to 

interpretation or application of any provision of these regulations, it shall be done only after 

affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the concerned parties and after recording 

reasons for the direction. 

 

Repeal and Savings. 

 

34. 

(1)  The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares 

and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997, hereby stand repealed. 

 

(2)  Notwithstanding such repeal,— 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

anything  done  or  any  action  taken  or  purported  to  have  been  done  or  taken 

including  comments  on  any  letter  of  offer,  exemption  granted  by  the  Board,  fees 

collected, any adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice 

issued under the repealed regulations, prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been 

done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations; 

(b) 

the  previous  operation  of  the  repealed  regulations  or  anything  duly  done  or 

suffered  thereunder,  any  right,  privilege,  obligation  or  liability  acquired,  accrued  or 

incurrent under the repealed regulations, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred 

in  respect  of  any  offence  committed  against  the  repealed  regulations,  or  any 

investigation,  legal  proceeding  or  remedy  in  respect  of  any  such  right,  privilege, 

obligation,  liability,  penalty,  forfeiture  or  punishment  as  aforesaid,  shall  remain 

unaffected as if the repealed regulations has never been repealed. 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 128 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(c) 

any  open  offer  for  which  a  public  announcement  has  been  made  under  the 

repealed regulations shall be required to be continued and completed under the repealed 

regulations. 

****** 

 
 
 
 

Mr. C. Achuthan 

(Chairman) 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Mr. Kumar Desai 

Mr. Somasekhar Sundaresan 

Mr. Y. M. Deosthalee  

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Mr. Koushik Chatterjee 

Mr. Raj Balakrishnan  

Mr. Sourav Mallik  

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Mr. A K Narayan 

Prof  N. Venkiteswaran 

Ms. Usha Narayanan 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Mr. J. Ranganayakulu 

Ms. Neelam Bhardwaj 
(Member Secretary)  

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Mumbai 

July 19, 2010 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 129 of 138 

 

 

 

FY 

2006-07 

2007-08 

2008-09 

2009-10 

Total 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Annexure 1 - Offer Size Analysis 

 

Total 

89 

118 

113 

75 

395 

Offer Size (% of total equity capital of Target 

Company) 

< = 20% 

> 20% 

77 

100 

95 

65 

337 

12 

18 

18 

10 

58 

% of cases 

100% 

85.32% 

14.68% 

 

 

****** 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 130 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Annexure 2 – Promoter Holding in Listed Companies 

 

 

(%) 

Companies With Promoter Holding Between 

Total Promoter Holding 

Market Cap 

No of 

Range (Rs mn) 

Companies 

Mean 

Median 

0-15% 

15-20% 

20-25% 

25-30% 

0-500 

500 -  2,000 

2,000 -5,000 

5,000 -10,000 

2,477 

(61.1%) 

649 

(16.0%) 

312 

(7.7%) 

157 

(3.9%) 

45.50% 

46.40% 

274 

87 

97 

(11.1%) 

(3.5%) 

(3.9%) 

52.60% 

54.90% 

34 

19 

12 

138 

(5.6%) 

19 

(5.2%) 

(2.90%) 

(1.8%) 

(2.9%) 

54.30% 

55.00% 

10 

8 

1 

10 

(3.2%) 

(2.6%) 

(0.3%) 

(3.2%) 

52.20% 

54.50% 

5 

1 

3 

8 

(3.2%) 

(0.6%) 

(1.9%) 

(5.1%) 

10,000 and above 

459 

55.20% 

54.30% 

15 

5 

11 

16 

(11.3%) 

(3.3%) 

(1.1%) 

(2.4%) 

(3.5%) 

Overall 

4,054 

48.90% 

50.50% 

340 

120 

124 

191 

(100.0%) 

(8.4%) 

(3.0%) 

(3.1%) 

(4.7%) 

 

 

Source: Capitaline, 

Data as on February 26, 2010 

 

****** 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 131 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Annexure 3 -  Spot Price Movements vs. 2 Weeks / 26 Weeks Average 

 

 

****** 

 

 

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 132 of 138 

Sensex vs 26 week and 2week Averages0500010000150002000025000DateSensexSensex26 wk Avg2 Wk Avg1-Aug-0515-Dec-054-May-0612-Sep-0625-Jan-0714-Jun-0725-Oct-077-Mar-0824-Jul-0812-Dec-088-May-0916-Sep-09Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Annexure 4 - Closing Prices vs. 2 Weeks / 26 Weeks Average 

 

 

****** 

 

 

 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 133 of 138 

Comparison of Closing Prices to 26 and 2 wk Averages-60.0%-40.0%-20.0%0.0%20.0%40.0%60.0%80.0%100.0%DatePremiumClsng price prem to 26 wk avgClsng price prem to 2 wk avg1-Aug-0515-Dec-054-May-0612-Sep-0625-Jan-0714-Jun-0725-Oct-077-Mar-0824-Jul-0812-Dec-088-May-0916-Sep-09Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

  

Annexure 5 - Offer Price Analysis 

 

 

Sno 

1 

2 

3 

4 

 

5 

 

6 

7 

 

8 

 

9 

 

 

Particulars 

Offers opening date during the Financial Years 

 

2006-07 

2007-08 

2008-09 

2009-10 

Total 

Total Number of offers. 

Out of the above (point 1), number of offers where shares were frequently traded. 

Out of the above (point 2), the number of offers where there was an SPA/SSA/preferential 

allotment. 

Out of the above (point 3), the offer price was determined based upon the market price formula 

89 

51 

29 

11 

118 

74 

51 

12 

113 

72 

59 

19 

75 

35 

21 

6 

395 

232 

160 

48 

{u/r 20(4)(c)}. * 

 

37.93% 

23.53% 

32.20% 

28.57% 

30.00% 

Out of the above (point 3), the offer price was determined based upon parameters other than 

18 

39 

40 

15 

112 

market price formula  

 

Out of the above (point 2), the number of offers where there was no SPA/SSA/preferential 

allotment. 

Out of the above (point 6), the offer price was equal to the price determined as per the market 

price formula {u/r 20(4)(c)}. 

 

62.07% 

76.47% 

67.80% 

71.43% 

70.00% 

22 

13 

23 

9 

13 

7 

14 

5 

72 

34 

59.09% 

39.13% 

53.85% 

35.71% 

47.22% 

Out of the above (point 6), the offer price was higher than the price determined as per the market 

9 

14 

6 

9 

38 

price formula {u/r 20(4)(c)}. 

 

40.91% 

60.87% 

46.15% 

64.29% 

52.78% 

Out of the above (point 2), the number of offers where the offer price was determined by the 

24 

21 

26 

11 

82 

market price formula {u/r 20(4)(c)}. 

 

47.06% 

28.38% 

36.11% 

31.43% 

35.34% 

10 

Out of the above (point 2), the number of offers where the offer price was determined by 

27 

53 

46 

24 

150 

parameters other than the market price formula, e.g. SPA price or the price paid by the 

acquirer / PAC for any acquisition 26 weeks prior to the PA. 

 

 

52.94% 

71.62% 

63.89% 

68.57% 

64.66% 

* If the offer price falls within the range of 98% to 102% of the highest of the 26/2 week average market price or if the difference between the offer price and the highest of the 26/2 week average market price is less 
than one, then the offer is grouped as offer determined as per the market formula u/r 20(4)(c). However, in such cases, where the offer price is equal to the SPA/SSA/Preferential Allotment price, then those open offers 
are grouped under offers whose offer price is based upon parameters other than market price formula. 

******

 

Page 134 of 138 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

  

Annexure 6: Variance of Spot Price vis-à-vis 4/12/26 week average prices 

Based on 46 randomly selected companies from a sample of the 1000 top companies by market capitalization 
(50 companies were selected with ranks 1, 21, 41,… and 4 companies removed, 2 for which there was no data and the 2 extreme variance companies) Based on 3 years stock 
price data (daily volume weighted average prices) sourced from Bloomberg 
 

 

 

 

4 week analysis* 

12 week analysis* 

26 week analysis* 

Mean 

Max 

Mean 

Max 

Market 

Positive 

Negative 

Mean 

Standard 

Cap 

Variance(

Variance(

Variance 

Deviation 

Rank 

Company Name 

(Rs mn) 

A) 

B) 

(C) 

(D) 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

 

 

Mean 

Median 

40.2% 

40.4% 

-34.4% 

-33.3% 

0.5% 

0.5% 

10.2% 

10.4% 

67.9% 

62.7% 

-46.4% 

-47.5% 

1.6% 

1.5% 

19.1% 

19.4% 

88.0% 

84.9% 

-52.9% 

-53.5% 

2.5% 

1.8% 

29.0% 

29.9% 

 

 

 

Max/Min Variances 

71.6% 

-57.1% 

2.8% 

-2.7% 

162.2% 

-77.7% 

10.5% 

Detailed analysis for sample of 50 companies 

Reliance Inds. 

3,258,840 

Hind. Unilever 

Oil India 

Asian Paints 

ACC 

Engineers India 

IRB Infra.Devl. 

S C I 

Pidilite Inds. 

CESC 

Opto Circuits 

J & K Bank 

Guj NRE Coke 

HSBC InvestDir 

Akzo Nobel 

Allcargo Global 

IBN18 Broadcast 

MVL 

Omaxe 

Electrost.Cast. 

556,293 

305,263 

214,180 

157,936 

106,894 

82,226 

68,197 

56,228 

46,465 

41,793 

37,230 

32,113 

28,033 

23,238 

21,187 

19,110 

17,749 

16,099 

14,690 

27.9% 

11.7% 

12.0% 

16.3% 

21.5% 

54.5% 

49.7% 

31.6% 

28.0% 

36.2% 

35.3% 

38.4% 

44.3% 

42.2% 

18.8% 

27.4% 

35.0% 

34.3% 

47.8% 

40.1% 

-34.3% 

-16.7% 

-7.0% 

-17.0% 

-26.4% 

-28.9% 

-26.4% 

-32.7% 

-27.7% 

-32.4% 

-38.2% 

-26.5% 

-48.1% 

-38.7% 

-17.8% 

-57.1% 

-37.3% 

-46.1% 

-53.7% 

-33.0% 

0.4% 

0.5% 

1.0% 

1.4% 

0.1% 

2.1% 

0.9% 

0.4% 

1.0% 

0.2% 

0.9% 

0.4% 

1.0% 

1.2% 

0.5% 

-0.1% 

-0.6% 

2.8% 

-1.2% 

0.5% 

7.2% 

4.0% 

3.6% 

5.1% 

6.8% 

10.8% 

10.3% 

8.6% 

7.0% 

8.4% 

9.4% 

8.1% 

12.4% 

12.1% 

3.9% 

7.6% 

9.6% 

11.5% 

12.5% 

10.5% 

53.0% 

17.8% 

20.6% 

31.4% 

35.1% 

85.6% 

46.7% 

60.8% 

42.3% 

56.7% 

62.6% 

62.8% 

104.9% 

81.0% 

26.0% 

30.0% 

61.3% 

62.5% 

96.1% 

80.5% 

-47.7% 

-16.9% 

-7.1% 

-21.7% 

-32.5% 

-40.6% 

-39.8% 

-40.5% 

-38.2% 

-42.8% 

-53.2% 

-35.9% 

-64.4% 

-47.3% 

-23.6% 

-64.3% 

-44.6% 

-56.8% 

-47.9% 

-48.2% 

1.1% 

1.1% 

1.5% 

4.1% 

-0.4% 

7.4% 

2.5% 

1.5% 

2.6% 

-0.2% 

2.2% 

1.1% 

3.7% 

4.6% 

1.3% 

0.0% 

-2.1% 

10.5% 

-3.9% 

1.7% 

 

1 

21 

41 

61 

81 

101 

121 

141 

161 

181 

201 

221 

241 

261 

301 

321 

341 

361 

381 

401 

-7.9% 

14.1% 

6.2% 

6.9% 

9.5% 

11.4% 

19.6% 

18.2% 

15.1% 

12.5% 

14.1% 

17.5% 

15.0% 

24.5% 

27.0% 

7.1% 

11.9% 

15.3% 

25.2% 

24.6% 

21.6% 

203.5% 

-85.8% 

71.3% 

20.3% 

21.5% 

46.1% 

57.7% 

91.2% 

61.8% 

76.6% 

47.6% 

58.2% 

89.2% 

58.4% 

125.2% 

153.7% 

27.1% 

36.9% 

53.4% 

122.5% 

112.5% 

113.8% 

-53.1% 

-16.3% 

-5.6% 

-27.2% 

-38.1% 

-42.3% 

-51.1% 

-47.5% 

-42.3% 

-52.3% 

-56.8% 

-45.6% 

-73.8% 

-61.0% 

-29.6% 

-64.1% 

-46.6% 

-51.1% 

-61.7% 

-60.1% 

34.5% 

-0.4% 

1.8% 

4.4% 

9.0% 

-1.2% 

14.9% 

8.8% 

1.8% 

4.1% 

-2.2% 

2.3% 

1.5% 

5.7% 

10.0% 

2.4% 

-0.2% 

-5.6% 

34.5% 

-11.4% 

1.7% 

-15.6% 

20.2% 

7.1% 

8.2% 

16.8% 

18.1% 

30.6% 

27.4% 

22.0% 

19.6% 

20.3% 

28.2% 

23.5% 

38.5% 

46.8% 

11.1% 

14.7% 

19.4% 

42.2% 

35.1% 

35.8% 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 135 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

  

 

 

441 

461 

481 

501 

521 

541 

561 

581 

621 

641 

661 

681 

701 

721 

741 

761 

781 

801 

821 

841 

861 

881 

901 

921 

941 

961 

 

(Rs mn) 

Max 

Max 

Mean 

Standard 

Max 

Max 

Mean 

Standard 

Max 

Max 

Mean 

Standard 

Positive 

Negative 

Variance 

Deviation 

Positive 

Negative 

Variance 

Deviation 

Positive 

Negative 

Variance 

Deviation 

Variance 

Variance 

Variance 

Variance 

Variance 

Variance 

Century Ply. 

Asahi India Glas 

Andrew Yule & Co 

Dev.Credit Bank 

Elgi Equipment 

Geojit BNP 

TTK Prestige 

Ushdev Intl. 

Ajmera Realty 

T.V. Today Netw. 

KNR Construct. 

Mukand 

Bombay Burmah 

PVR 

MIC Electronics 

Tanla Solutions 

Ster. Holid. Res 

SEL Mfg. Co 

PVP Ventures 

Lloyd Steel Inds 

Jagatjit Inds. 

Visaka Inds. 

Timex Group 

Surya Pharma. 

Omnitech Info 

Kabra Extrusion 

11,999 

10,441 

9,750 

9,023 

8,285 

7,548 

7,034 

6,619 

5,613 

5,241 

4,966 

4,675 

4,411 

4,002 

3,825 

3,624 

3,433 

3,281 

3,097 

2,956 

2,847 

2,665 

2,495 

2,367 

2,268 

2,159 

34.8% 

28.1% 

71.6% 

40.7% 

29.2% 

49.7% 

42.6% 

47.0% 

52.3% 

39.1% 

42.8% 

57.6% 

42.6% 

47.8% 

53.5% 

68.7% 

35.0% 

53.2% 

41.3% 

52.8% 

40.0% 

42.5% 

67.4% 

27.6% 

49.9% 

39.1% 

-25.0% 

-25.6% 

-27.9% 

-41.8% 

-26.8% 

-37.2% 

-32.7% 

-41.4% 

-38.1% 

-31.7% 

-35.7% 

-42.3% 

-35.0% 

-33.6% 

-46.8% 

-45.7% 

-49.0% 

-48.7% 

-40.7% 

-41.9% 

-29.3% 

-31.6% 

-32.2% 

-36.6% 

-32.7% 

-24.6% 

1.0% 

-0.4% 

0.9% 

-0.3% 

1.2% 

0.2% 

2.7% 

2.2% 

-2.1% 

-0.3% 

1.1% 

-0.1% 

0.4% 

-0.1% 

-0.5% 

-1.7% 

0.8% 

-0.5% 

-2.7% 

2.8% 

0.1% 

1.2% 

0.4% 

1.3% 

0.7% 

1.5% 

8.0% 

7.5% 

51.6% 

46.0% 

15.0% 

115.4% 

9.9% 

7.8% 

12.1% 

9.8% 

12.8% 

13.1% 

9.2% 

13.4% 

10.7% 

13.1% 

10.6% 

12.9% 

13.3% 

12.0% 

15.5% 

14.1% 

17.0% 

9.7% 

10.7% 

11.6% 

8.8% 

12.8% 

7.9% 

71.8% 

49.9% 

91.5% 

57.9% 

84.6% 

83.0% 

49.9% 

74.2% 

73.3% 

76.7% 

58.2% 

74.8% 

92.7% 

61.4% 

91.6% 

89.3% 

162.2% 

43.6% 

85.1% 

110.7% 

57.3% 

84.8% 

67.2% 

-34.8% 

-36.5% 

-52.1% 

-60.6% 

-33.6% 

-46.3% 

-28.9% 

-62.9% 

-59.7% 

-42.3% 

-50.1% 

-60.6% 

-52.2% 

-52.2% 

-65.9% 

-57.9% 

-60.2% 

-77.7% 

-64.0% 

-63.7% 

-42.1% 

-38.7% 

-49.1% 

-43.8% 

-49.9% 

-35.1% 

2.4% 

-1.4% 

3.2% 

-0.8% 

3.7% 

0.5% 

8.2% 

7.5% 

-6.8% 

-1.3% 

4.5% 

0.4% 

0.3% 

-0.3% 

-1.2% 

-5.7% 

2.9% 

1.5% 

-7.9% 

8.7% 

-1.3% 

4.0% 

0.6% 

4.0% 

2.4% 

5.1% 

14.9% 

12.6% 

29.0% 

20.5% 

14.8% 

24.1% 

19.3% 

26.9% 

21.7% 

14.6% 

22.7% 

20.9% 

24.1% 

18.7% 

24.8% 

24.1% 

21.4% 

32.2% 

29.8% 

37.0% 

13.7% 

20.7% 

20.7% 

15.7% 

23.6% 

15.2% 

82.3% 

47.0% 

152.2% 

101.8% 

70.3% 

131.7% 

101.5% 

124.1% 

93.9% 

66.1% 

107.9% 

87.1% 

99.7% 

63.3% 

108.5% 

60.0% 

113.4% 

138.5% 

144.4% 

203.5% 

49.1% 

110.8% 

127.4% 

70.6% 

82.7% 

64.2% 

-43.0% 

-39.9% 

-57.0% 

-61.2% 

-39.0% 

-53.9% 

-31.8% 

-67.7% 

-75.4% 

-47.6% 

-63.0% 

-65.9% 

-56.7% 

-61.0% 

-72.5% 

-76.4% 

-66.0% 

-85.8% 

-83.2% 

-72.2% 

-44.7% 

-40.9% 

-55.3% 

-46.5% 

-58.7% 

-41.8% 

3.1% 

-3.5% 

0.0% 

-6.7% 

6.8% 

-0.1% 

18.8% 

14.3% 

-15.6% 

-3.0% 

15.3% 

0.7% 

-3.3% 

-1.0% 

-4.4% 

-15.5% 

7.1% 

1.9% 

-14.2% 

4.2% 

-3.2% 

9.9% 

0.5% 

7.6% 

4.3% 

11.6% 

23.6% 

19.4% 

37.5% 

32.8% 

25.3% 

34.6% 

33.3% 

43.0% 

34.0% 

20.4% 

36.6% 

33.3% 

33.4% 

26.1% 

37.2% 

29.1% 

34.9% 

53.2% 

47.8% 

47.1% 

16.6% 

33.3% 

32.1% 

24.5% 

34.0% 

24.1% 

 
*For 26 week analysis 130 trading days have been considered 
*For 12 week analysis 60 trading days have been considered 
*For 4 week analysis 20 trading days have been considered 

 

****** 

 

Page 136 of 138 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

  

Annexure 7 - Listed Indian Companies as a proportion of their Foreign Parent 

All figures in Rs. crores other than % 

Indian Company 

Parent Company 

stake owned) 

Indian Co. as % of Parent Co. (Adjusted for 

Company Name 

(BSE) 

Networth 

Net Sales 

Value 

Networth 

Net Sales 

Capitalisation 

Networth 

Net Sales 

Market 

Capitalisation 

Enterprise 

Market 

Mean 

Median 

Hind. Unilever 

Maruti Suzuki 

Sesa Goa 

Nestle 

Siemens 

Ranbaxy Labs. 

Oracle Fin.Serv. 

Ambuja Cem. 

ACC 

ABB 

Glaxosmit Pharma 

MphasiS 

Cummins India 

Colgate-Palm. 

Castrol India 

P&G Hygiene 

GSK Consumer 

Alstom Projects 

Aventis Pharma 

Guj Gas Company 

 

 

57,203 

41,340 

30,270 

28,760 

24,208 

19,510 

18,820 

16,920 

15,698 

18,266 

17,892 

13,063 

11,832 

11,534 

10,663 

6,621 

7,448 

4,391 

4,444 

3,835 

 

 

2,137 

9,565 

4,716 

581 

2,276 

4,278 

3,505 

5,672 

6,016 

2,105 

1,576 

1,436 

1,485 

215 

495 

440 

905 

400 

918 

710 

 

 

20,445 

20,739 

5,265 

5,132 

9,680 

7,332 

2,928 

6,195 

7,943 

6,837 

1,699 

1,907 

3,559 

1,699 

2,396 

774 

1,925 

2,290 

975 

1,301 

 

 

532,475 

50,581 

119,196 

 

 

84,749 

35,534 

81,285 

 

 

269,222 

143,724 

56,351 

900,845 

221,325 

415,070 

445,016 

161,393 

453,364 

59,619 

42,503 

40,280 

529,846 

111,563 

103,390 

180,208 

180,208 

163,097 

483,927 

90,971 

90,971 

59,727 

72,621 

87,208 

87,208 

131,212 

191,781 

514,270 

189,483 

535,717 

64,172 

201,505 

17,875 

14,482 

48,022 

68,152 

911,416 

725,573 

1,700,169 

959,243 

280,570 

351,402 

483,927 

57,242 

72,621 

17,058 

191,781 

110,835 

392,086 

286,541 

173,335 

294,994 

97,249 

69,045 

5.4% 

2.0% 

5.6% 

44.3% 

14.6% 

2.0% 

3.0% 

20.9% 

2.9% 

4.3% 

4.0% 

5.8% 

1.9% 

1.5% 

9.4% 

2.9% 

0.8% 

0.5% 

0.7% 

4.5% 

0.6% 

0.8% 

1.8% 

0.8% 

1.3% 

14.6% 

3.3% 

0.2% 

0.8% 

6.4% 

2.5% 

2.8% 

3.0% 

1.8% 

1.1% 

0.5% 

4.2% 

0.8% 

0.0% 

0.1% 

0.5% 

1.4% 

0.2% 

0.5% 

2.1% 

0.6% 

4.0% 

7.8% 

5.4% 

0.8% 

1.2% 

11.6% 

2.3% 

3.2% 

4.2% 

2.7% 

0.4% 

0.2% 

3.8% 

1.3% 

0.1% 

0.2% 

0.4% 

1.2% 

0.3% 

1.2% 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 137 of 138 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

  

All figures in Rs. crores other than % 

Indian Company 

Parent Company 

stake owned) 

Indian Co. as % of Parent Co. (Adjusted for 

Company Name 

(BSE) 

Networth 

Net Sales 

Value 

Networth 

Net Sales 

Capitalisation 

Networth 

Net Sales 

Market 

Capitalisation 

Enterprise 

Market 

10,289 

6,959 

10,983 

27.7% 

Kansai Nerolac 

ING Vysya Bank 

Hind.Oil Explor. 

Pfizer 

Bayer Crop Sci. 

3M 

Alfa Laval (I) 

Akzo Nobel 

Fres.Kabi Onco. 

UTV Software 

Novartis 

BASF India 

Clariant Chemica 

Thomas Cook (I) 

Abbott India 

Source: BSE, Capitaline and Bloomberg 
 

4,117 

4,250 

3,159 

3,595 

3,141 

3,135 

2,675 

2,795 

2,691 

1,654 

2,138 

1,749 

1,751 

1,341 

1,673 

663 

1,600 

1,064 

901 

451 

348 

307 

970 

282 

1,387 

515 

363 

318 

118 

272 

1,501 

2,240 

99 

711 

1,605,939 

235,788 

711,982 

518,299 

296,034 

492,259 

695,925 

402,168 

222,365 

1,392 

286,871 

112,334 

184,751 

742 

800 

906 

312 

607 

601 

277,658 

59,147 

102,816 

26,589 

75,877 

122,648 

7,468 

48,766 

45,259 

15,902 

82,172 

83,775 

359,882 

157,517 

160,737 

564,078 

237,135 

182,681 

1,318 

329,625 

110,066 

299,831 

924 

334 

795 

16,549 

18,521 

7,824 

11,677 

27,295 

62,661 

420,442 

101,819 

136,795 

****** 

0.1% 

0.3% 

0.4% 

0.8% 

0.9% 

8.9% 

2.1% 

2.0% 

0.3% 

0.3% 

0.4% 

6.7% 

5.6% 

0.3% 

6.6% 

0.3% 

0.2% 

0.2% 

0.3% 

0.4% 

3.7% 

1.1% 

0.6% 

0.6% 

0.2% 

0.2% 

2.6% 

0.8% 

0.2% 

9.5% 

0.1% 

0.0% 

0.2% 

0.5% 

0.5% 

4.5% 

0.6% 

0.3% 

0.3% 

0.3% 

0.3% 

2.1% 

0.4% 

0.4% 

Report of the Takeover Regulations Advisory Committee dated July 19, 2010 

 

Page 138 of 138 

