COMMITTEE ON REVIEW OF ELIGIBILITY NORMS (CORE) 

 

 

The “Committee on Review of Eligibility Norms” (“CORE”) was constituted by SEBI to re-
visit the eligibility norms and other functional aspects prescribed for various intermediaries. 
The  CORE,  sub  divided  itself  into  four  Sub-Groups  comprising  of  domain  experts.  The 
Sub-Groups have since submitted their recommendations on the eligibility requirements for 
various  market  intermediaries.    Written  comments  are  invited  on  the  recommendations, 
including suggestions on appropriate net worth for various intermediaries. The comments 
may  quote  the  relevant  section  /  paragraph  to  which  they  pertain  and  be  mailed  at  the 
following respective e-mail addresses by June 14, 2010: 
 

On recommendations related to 

Comments may be mailed at 

Asset Management Companies 
Broker and Sub brokers 
Portfolio Managers 
Custodians 
Other Intermediaries 
 

yogeshe@sebi.gov.in 
amitk@sebi.gov.in 
sksingh@sebi.gov.in 
mandeeps@sebi.gov.in 
sanjayg@sebi.gov.in 

 

REPORT OF SUB GROUP I 

 
1) BACKGROUND 
 
This report is written as part of a review of eligibility norms for various categories 
of market intermediaries. SEBI has set up the Committee on Review of Eligibility 
Norms (CORE), various sub-groups of which are reviewing eligibility norms with 
respect to specific market intermediaries. This report is the result of deliberations 
of the sub-group – I that is looking at eligibility norms for Credit Rating Agencies, 
Debenture Trustees and Asset management companies (AMCs). 
 
The sub-group is headed by Ms Roopa Kudva, MD & CEO, Crisil. The other 
members of the sub group are:  

1.  Shri Mrs. Chitra Ramakrishan, DMD, NSE 
2.  Shri S. H. Bhojani, Sr. Partner, Amarchand Mangaldas 
3.  Shri Paresh Sukthankar, ED, HDFC Bank 
4.  Shri A. Balasubramanian, CIO, Birla Sun Life AMC Ltd. 
5.  Shri Sanjay Shah, MD, Morgan Stanley India Securities Pvt. Ltd. 
6.  Shri Milind Barve, MD, HDFC AMC Ltd. 
7.  Shri Nilesh Shah, DMD, ICICI Prudential AMC Limited 

 
The sub-group met on June 03, 2008. The basic categories of issues that were 
examined by the sub-group are: 

1.  Is  there  a  need  to  review  the  minimum  net  worth  that  a  CRA  and  DT 

should have? If so where should the minimum net worth be set? 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 1 of 55 

 

 

2.  Are  there  specific  infrastructure  requirements  with  respect  to  manpower 
that should be put in place for a CRA and DT to be eligible for initial and 
ongoing registration? 

3.  Any  other  recommendations  that  can  strengthen  and  smoothen  the 

functioning of these intermediaries.  

 
Subsequently, on June 09, 2008 the mandate for review of eligibility norms for 
AMC’s was also given to the sub group-I. The sub-group met on December 8, 
2008 and March 17, 2009 to examine the issues pertaining to the AMC’s.   

2 Debenture trustees 

2.1 Background 
 
The  recent  increase  in  volumes  of  securitisation  issuances  creates  a  rapidly 
growing  role  for  debenture  trustees  (DTs)  in  these  instruments,  given  the  vital 
role  that  DTs  play  in  securitised  issues.  However  their  role  in  public  issues  of 
debt has diminished considerably, as there is little market for these issues.  
 
Problems that DTs face today include: 

– Very low fee structure, sometimes as low as a few thousand rupees, for 
thousands  of  crores  of  rupees  of  debenture  issues.  This  makes  the 
business unremunerative  
– Lack of information from issuers 
– No recourse to SARFAESI provisions and DRT for recoveries – unlike a 
lending  institution  the  DT  has  to  go  to  court,  a  time-consuming  and 
uncertain process 
– In addition, all proceedings for enforcement of security and recovery have 
to be undertaken initially at DT's own cost (which can be recovered only 
from realisation), a further disincentive to act in a situation where fees are 
minuscule and recovery can take years 

 
In this situation, it is important to note that revised criteria that are too stringent 
might  disincentivise  good  players  by  driving  the  costs  of  compliance  up  to 
onerous levels.  
 
Since  the  meeting  of  the  sub-group,  the  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt 
Securities)  Regulations,  2008,  have  brought  about  some  clarity  as  regards  the 
role  and  rights  of  DTs  in  publicly  issued  and  privately  placed  but  listed  debt 
securities. 
 
Other noteworthy points: 

– A DT's officials have no personal liability in case the DT does not perform 
its functions 
– Under the current structure, the DT is no better placed than an investor to 
enforce recovery 
– DTs often hesitate to act where governments are involved 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 2 of 55 

 

– There  is  a  need  to  define  what  kind  of  securities  DTs  are  required  for 
(public issues of debt, privately placed paper that is subsequently listed, 
structured  transactions  including  securitisation,  etc).  To  an  extent,  such 
definition will involve a broadening of SEBI's role since there will be some 
degree of overlap with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act. 

 

 

2.2 Current Debenture Trustee regulations 
 
Eligibility criteria: 
 
The DT applicant should be: 
 
(a) A scheduled bank carrying on commercial activity  
(b)  A  public  financial  institution  within  the  meaning  of  Section  4A  of  the 
Companies Act 
(c) An insurance company 
(d) A body corporate 
 
Other criteria presently applicable for applicants:  
infrastructure 

like  adequate  office  space, 

-  Should  have  necessary 

equipment, and manpower to effectively discharge their activities 

-  Should have experience as a debenture trustee or have in employment at 
least two persons who have experience in matters that are relevant to a 
debenture trustee 

-  The  applicant  or  any  person  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with  the 
applicant  should  not  have  been  granted  registration  by  the  Board  under 
the Act 

-  Should  have  in  employment  at  least  one  person  who  possesses  a 
the 

professional  qualification 
Government in finance, accountancy, law or business management 

recognised  by 

-  Any director or principal officer should not be and should not have been at 
any  time  been  convicted  for  any  offence  involving  moral  turpitude,  or 
found guilty of any economic offence 

from  an 

institution 

 
Role of debenture trustees: 

 
-  Act  as  investors’  representatives  in  the  debenture  issue  process  after 

entering into specific written agreement for each issue 

-  Ensure that charge is created on assets offered as security by the issuer 
-  Ensure that debenture certificates, interest warrants, redemption amounts 

etc are sent to debenture holders on time 

-  Monitor issuers’ assets to ensure that they are sufficient to cover liabilities 

to debenture holders 
Inspect any books of records etc to ensure that the above requirements 
are met 

- 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 3 of 55 

 

 

-  Act immediately if there is a breach of the trust deed  
-  Call a meeting of the debenture holders when there is a need for such a 
meeting expressed by a minimum number of debenture holders, or when 
there  is  a  default  or  any  other  event  that  affects  the  interest  of  the 
debenture holders 

-  When required, take possession of trust property in accordance with the 
provisions  of  the  trust  deed,  enforce  security  in  the  interest  of  the 
debenture holders, and carry out any actions that are necessary 
In case of guaranteed or structured instruments, ensure that all necessary 
documents are executed and that the structure functions as expected  

-  Any  other  actions  that  may  be  necessary  to  ensure  that  statutory 
obligations  with  respect  to  debentures  (such  as  creation  of  redemption 
reserve)  have  been  carried  out  and  debenture  holders’  interests  are 
protected 

- 

2.3 Recommendations:  
Net Worth 

– The committee believes that a reasonable level of net worth is required; 
net worth stipulation should be for the entity and can allow net worth to be 
used  across  other  fee-based  businesses  as  well.    This  will  allow 
participants to earn reasonable return on equity, and not burden them with 
large  equity  without  corresponding 
returns.  However,  adequate 
safeguards are needed to ensure that the trustees’ role is not diluted 
– With  this  relaxation,  the  minimum  net  worth  can  be  increased  from  the 
current Rs. 1 crore to Rs. 2 crores to account for inflation. But beyond this 
amount, the returns may not justify higher capitalisation  
– The  committee  also  suggests  that  SEBI  consider  a  two-level  cut-off:  a 
small net worth for the DT, and a much larger net worth for the promoter, 
akin  to  current  regulations  for  Credit  Rating  Agencies  (in  turn  this  will 
require a commitment from the promoter to stay invested and involved in 
the  DT).  With  this  in  place,  serious  commitment  to  this  trustee  business 
can be ensured through 'minimum promoter net worth' of Rs. 100 crores 

 
Conflicts of interest 

 
Funding the recovery process 

– There should be no conflicts of interest for a debenture trustee. This issue 
is already taken care of in the existing regulations 

– The committee recommends an investor protection fund (IPF)-like corpus 
for DTs to dip into, for meeting expenses like calling investors for meetings 
and  carrying  out  legal  proceedings.  The  corpus  can  be  funded  out  of  a 
small  cess  of  a  few  basis  points  on  debt  issues.  The  fund  can  be 
replenished once recoveries occur 
– As an alternative to the corpus, the committee recommends performance 
guarantees and bank guarantees for issuers. A bank guarantee for some 
amount (Rs.5 lakh or Rs.10 lakh) can be provided by the issuer to fund the 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 4 of 55 

 

  

 

DT in calling for a meeting of investors and initiating legal proceedings for 
recovery in case the issuer defaults. Although banks will typically not be 
willing  to  offer  guarantees  with  tenures  matching  those  of  all  long-term 
instruments (especially in a situation where the issuer’s creditworthiness is 
under increasing strain), some roll-over arrangement can be worked out 
– Another alternative is  that a lump sum fee can be charged to the issuer 
which  if  unused  can  be  refunded  to  the  issuer  without  any  interest  after 
maturity  of  the  debentures.  The  interest  will  become  income  for  the 
trustee.  This  will  be  an  incentive  for  the  trustee  to  continue  its  activity. 
Also, the issuer can allow investors the choice of trustees out of a shortlist. 
The  majority  of  investors  (say  75%)  can  chose  their  trustee  among  the 
choices offered. This way, the most effective trustees will stand the best 
chance of being chosen and will thus have an incentive to work better   

– Empowering DTs to carry out recoveries 
– The  committee  recommends 
the  possibility  of  extending 
to  SEBI 
SARFAESI/DRT  mechanism  to  DTs.  SEBI  in  turn  can  recommend  the 
same to Ministry of Finance to make necessary amendments to the Act 
–  This  inclusion  is  key  to  orderly  development  of  the  corporate  bond 
market.  Capital  market 
investors’  previous  experience  was  not 
encouraging in terms of recovery by DTs through bankruptcy proceedings; 
this led many investors to shun mid-rated corporate bonds. 
– The right to recover through CLB is currently available only to debenture 
holders,  the  same  may  be  extended  to  DTs  as  well  (under  Section 
117C(4) of the Companies Act 1956) 

– It  was  proposed  that  there  be  a  penalty  on  the  issuer,  not  crippling  but 
significant enough for management to notice, if it fails to regularly provide 
information 

– The  committee  feels  that  it  is  desirable  for  DTs  to  disclose  their 
performance  with  regard  to  timely  creation  of  security,  invocation  of 
guarantee when required, etc. Such disclosure can be carried on the DT’s 
website  (such  website  therefore  has  to  necessarily  exist),  and  in  filings 
with SEBI 

 
Information inadequacy 

 
Disclosure by DTs 

 
Information sharing by DTs 

 

Renewal of License 

– In  case  security  is  not  created  in  a  timely  manner,  or  any  other  event 
occurs  that  might  adversely  affect  debenture  holders,  the  concerned  DT 
should compulsorily inform related entities of this lapse 

– Licenses  can  be  renewed  subject 
track  record 
discharging duties with regard to diligent follow-up and timely reporting 

to  satisfactory 

in 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 5 of 55 

 

 
The market perceives trustees as variable in the quality of their work and 
the interest they take 

– It is desirable to set timelines or standard operating procedures governing 
specific activities of debenture trustees, such as: 

 

one month of default 

Initiation of recovery proceedings within six months of default 

o 
o  Appointment of nominee director in terms of DT regulations within 
o  Exercise  of  powers  conferred  u/s  117B(4)  of  the  Companies  Act 
o 

1956, within three months of  shortfall in security cover 
Initiating  of  actions  related  to  exercise  of  rights  of  debenture 
holders, on a timely basis  

 
It  is  suggested  that  all  these  recommendations  be  re-examined  in  light  of  the 
relevant  provisions  in  the  new  draft  of  the  Companies  Act  that  is  pending 
introduction in Parliament. This will be a separate exercise. 
 
 
3 CREDIT RATING AGENCIES 

3.1 Background 
Few jurisdictions globally regulate CRAs. Among all Indian intermediaries, SEBI 
guidelines for CRAs are the most detailed, possibly because these were among 
the last sets of guidelines to be issued. 
 
Globally  there  are  three  large  CRAs:  Standard  &  Poor’s,  Moody’s,  and  Fitch 
Ratings.  In  addition,  there  are  a  number  of  CRAs  with  a  national  or  regional 
footprint, some of them being affiliated to one of the three large global CRAs. In 
India there are four major CRAs that are registered with SEBI and operational; a 
fifth registration has recently been granted. 
 
The globally prevalent ‘issuer-pays’ rating agency model has a structural conflict 
of interest, since the entity that commissions and pays for the rating exercise is 
also  being  rated.  Rating  agencies  have  to  manage  this  conflict  and  prevent  it 
from influencing rating decisions. Both regulations and internal procedures have 
to be designed towards this end. 
 
It is important to have adequately strong eligibility criteria to keep inappropriate 
players  out,  but  this  has  to  be  supplemented  with  a  strong  disclosure  regime. 
Adequate  disclosure  and  dissemination  is  necessary  for  investors  to  know 
whether a CRA has acted in time in taking its rating actions. In addition, it will 
ensure that investors are alerted in time on possible rating changes.  

3.2 Current CRA regulations 
 
Eligibility criteria: 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 6 of 55 

 

 

 
The applicant  
(a) Should be a company under the Companies Act, 1956 
(b)  Should  specify  rating  as  one  of  the  main  objects  in  Memorandum  of 
Association 
(c) Should have a minimum net worth of rupees five crores  
(d) Should have adequate infrastructure to provide rating services  
(e)  The  applicant  and  its  promoters  should  have  professional  competence, 
financial soundness and general reputation of fairness and integrity in business 
transactions, to the satisfaction of the Board 
(f) Neither the applicant, nor its promoter, nor any director of the applicant or its 
promoter,  should  be  involved  in  any  legal  proceeding  connected  with  the 
securities market, which may have an adverse impact on investors’ interests  
(g)  Neither  the  applicant,  nor  its  promoters,  nor  any  director  of  its  promoter 
should  have  been  convicted  of  any  offence  involving  moral  turpitude,  or  any 
economic offence; 
(h)  The  applicant  should  have,  in  its  employment,  persons  having  adequate 
professional and other relevant experience to the satisfaction of the Board; 
(i) Neither the applicant, nor any person directly or indirectly connected with the 
applicant should in the past have been – 

(i) refused by the Board a certificate under these regulations or 
(ii) subjected to any proceedings for a contravention of the Act or of any 
rules or regulations made under the Act. 

(j) The applicant should be a fit and proper person for the grant of a certificate; 
(k) Grant of certificate to the applicant should be in the interest of investors and 
the securities market. 
(l) The provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Criteria for Fit 
and  Proper  Person)  Regulations,  2004  shall,  as  far  as  may  be,  apply  to  all 
applicants or the credit rating agencies under these regulations. 
 
Promoter  
Promoter should be one of the following: 
(a) A public financial institution 
(b) A scheduled commercial bank  
(c) A foreign bank operating in India with RBI approval  
(d)  A  foreign  credit  rating  agency  recognised  law  in  the  country  of  its 
incorporation, having at least five years experience in rating securities; 
(e) Any company or a body corporate, having continuous net worth of minimum 
rupees 100 crores for the previous five years  
 
Validity of registration: 
The registration remains valid if: 
(a) the CRA complies with the provisions of the Act, and all relevant regulations, 
guidelines, etc issued by the Board on the subject of credit rating. 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 7 of 55 

 

 

(b) information or particulars furnished to the Board by the CRA are not found to 
be false or misleading, and do not change subsequent to their being furnished at 
the time of the application without immediate information to the Board. 
 
A CRA registration is valid for three years. 
 
General obligations: 
The following are some of the General Obligations that have been specified:  

Internal procedures to be framed by the CRA 

-  Compliance with Code of Conduct stipulated by SEBI 
-  Agreement with the client  
-  Monitoring of ratings  
-  Procedure for review of rating  
- 
-  Disclosure of Rating Definitions and Rationale by the CRA 
-  Submission of information to SEBI 
-  Compliance with circulars etc., issued by SEBI 
-  Appointment of Compliance Officer  
-  Maintenance of Books of Accounts records, etc.  
-  Steps on auditor’s report  
-  Confidentiality  
-  Rating process  

Several  other  protective  provisions  exist  like  the  regulator’s  right  to  inspect  a 
CRA, prohibition of a CRA from rating its promoters and associates, etc. 

3.3 Recommendations 
 
Ownership  

– It  is  recommended  that  all  registered  agencies  be  required  to  disclose 
publicly on their websites their shareholding pattern and the names of the 
owners 
– It is also recommended that the question of promoters and their continuing 
involvement  in  CRAs  that  they  promote  be  re-examined.  Under  the 
regulations  as  they  stand  today  it  is  possible  to  ‘borrow’  an  established 
company’s  balance  sheet  simply  to  meet  the  continuous  net  worth 
criterion for gaining registration 

 
Disclosure of rating performance 

– It  is  recommended  that  every  CRA  be  required  to  publish,  every  six 
months, a list of its publicly outstanding ratings that have moved by more 
than one notch over the preceding six months (along with the number of 
notches  moved).  The  entire  period  should  be  considered;  therefore  if  a 
rating been downgraded twice by one notch each, it should feature on the 
list as a movement of two notches  
– It  is  recommended  that  every  CRA  be  required  to  publish  one-year  and 
three-year  default  rates,  category-wise  (eg.  for  ‘AAA’,  ‘AA’,  ‘A’,  etc, 
separately) covering the entire history of its ratings 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 8 of 55 

 

 

immediately  prior 

– It  is  recommended  that  every  CRA  be  required  to  publish,  every  six 
months, a list of defaults over the preceding six months on debt that it has 
rated. Alongside the defaulted rating the CRA should mention the publicly 
outstanding  rating 
the  publicly 
outstanding rating on the date six months before the day of default 
– It  is  recommended  that  detailed  disclosures  should  be  made  by  rating 
agencies while rating PTCs in its rating rationales including names of the 
underlying assets in cases of CDOs 
– Rating  outlooks  should  be  made  disclosed    for  all  long-term  ratings  on 
plain vanilla instruments and facilities 

to  default,  and 

 
Discouraging ‘rating shopping’ 

– Mandatory publication of unaccepted ratings if the rated security is listed 
within—say—1  year  of  the  rating  being  assigned  could  be  considered. 
However,  any 
ratings  can  easily  be 
circumvented;  the  issue  of  'rating  shopping'  should  ideally  be  left  to  the 
market to decide 
– RBI  has  allowed  banks  to  use  only  accepted  ratings,  and  the  SEBI 
regulation could be aligned to the same 

regulations  on  unaccepted 

 
Preventing conflicts of interest 

– It  is  recommended  that  a  deadline  be  set  for  CRAs  to  separate  their 
analytical and business development teams 

 
 
4 ASSET MANAGEMENT COMPANIES 
 
4.1 Background 
 
This report is written as part of a review of eligibility norms for various categories 
of market intermediaries. SEBI has set up the Committee on Review of Eligibility 
Norms (CORE), various sub-groups of which are reviewing eligibility norms with 
respect to specific market intermediaries. This report is the result of deliberations 
of  the  sub-group  that  is  looking  at  eligibility  norms  for  asset  management 
companies (AMCs). 
 
The basic categories of issues that are being examined are: 

4.  Is  there  a  need  to  review  the  minimum  net  worth  that  an  AMC  should 

have? If so, at what level should the minimum net worth be set? 

5.  Is there a need to re-look at the criteria for eligible sponsors to promote an 

AMC? If so what parameters should be used? 

6.  Are there specific infrastructure requirements that should be put in place 

for an AMC to be eligible for initial and ongoing registration? 

7.  Any  other  recommendations  that  can  strengthen  and  smoothen  the 

functioning of the sector 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 9 of 55 

 

 

 

The  liquidity  squeeze  in  the  market  in  the  last  quarter  of  2008,  resulting  in 
redemptions from a number of debt schemes, the difficulties that they faced and 
the subsequent change of ownership of some AMCs, have brought these issues 
into immediate focus.  
 
4.2  Current Regulations 
 
Eligibility criteria: 
 
The promoter (sponsor): 

(a) Should  hold  at  least  40%  in  AMC  (any  entity  holding  40%  or  more  is 

deemed a sponsor) 

(b) Be in financial services for five years or more 
(c) Have had positive net worth for the preceding five years 
(d) The net worth in the immediately preceding year should have been more 

than the capital contribution of the sponsor in the AMC 

(e) Should have had profits after depreciation, interest and tax in three of the 

preceding five years, including the fifth year 

These  are  abbreviated  requirements;  the  full  requirements  are  spelt  out  in  the 
SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 
 
The AMC: 
 

(a) Should  be  a  company  formed  and  registered  under  the  Companies  Act, 

1956  

(b) (If  it  is  an  existing  asset  management  company)  should  have  a  sound 
track  record  (in  terms  of  net  worth  and  profitability),  general  reputation, 
and fairness in transactions 

(c) Should be a fit and proper person 
(d) Directors  should  have  adequate  professional  experience  in  finance/ 

financial services-related fields,  

(e) Directors and key personnel should not have been found guilty of moral 

turpitude or economic offence/ violation of securities laws 

(f)  Key personnel should not have worked for any AMC / other intermediary 
during the period when its registration has been suspended or cancelled 
by SEBI 

(g) Board of directors should have at least 50% independent directors 
(h) Chairman should not be trustee of any mutual fund 
(i)  AMC  should  have  a  net  worth  of  not  less  than  Rs.10  crores  (paid-up 
capital  plus  free  reserves,  less  miscellaneous  expenses  not  written  off, 
deferred revenue expenditure, intangible assets) – certain relaxations for 
AMCs that were already in existence when the regulations came into force 

 

Terms and conditions: 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 10 of 55 

 

 

(a) Any director in an AMC can take up directorship in another AMC only if he 
or she is an independent director, and has taken approval from the board 
of the AMC 

(b) Appointment of any director to be approved by trustees 
(c) No change in controlling interest of AMC without prior approval of trustees 
and  board,  written  communication  to  unitholders  and  advertisement  in 
newspaper, option to unitholders to exit without load 

(a) AMC shall not act as trustee of any mutual fund 
(b) AMC  shall  not  undertake  any  other  business  that  is  not  in  a  limited  and 
clearly-defined set of related activities (and even these can be undertaken 
only after meeting requirements for Chinese walls and capitalisation) 

(c) AMC shall not invest in its own schemes without full advance disclosure 

(and cannot charge fees on its investments in its own schemes) 

Restrictions: 

 
Validity of registration: 
Not specified in regulation 
 
Validity of AMC’s appointment: 

quarters of unit-holders,  

unit-holders 

(a) Appointment  can  be  terminated  by  majority  of  trustees,  or  by  three-

(b) Change  in  appointment  of  AMC  subject  of  prior  approval  of  board  and 

 
4.3  Recommendations 
 
1. Minimum Net Worth requirement for an AMC 
 
The sub-group was of the opinion that the present minimum net worth of Rs.10 
crore was too low. Although the operations of AMCs are in the nature of a pass-
through, a larger net worth is required for the following reasons: 

1.  To  build  up  the  minimum  infrastructure  that  is  sufficient  to  service 

investors 

2.  To signal the company’s seriousness of intent in setting up the business 
and  inspire  confidence,  given  that  AMCs  manage  people’s  money  in  a 
fiduciary capacity 

3.  To  ensure  continuity  for  the  AMC,  and  therefore  provide  reassurance  to 
investors,  in  the  event  of  the  sponsor  facing  problems  (this  is  especially 
relevant for foreign sponsors) 

4.  To bear the AMC’s initial losses without facing serious financial strain 
5.  To  provide  adequate  cushion  to  meet  the  requirements  of  growth  in 

operations of the AMC for a reasonable time frame 

6.  To enable AMCs to be better placed to obtain liquidity lines from banks, if 
necessary,  to  provide  some  protection  to  investors  from  market-driven 
stress 

 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 11 of 55 

 

 

A survey of global norms for AMC capitalisation reveals the following: 

– In the US a new fund that is offering shares to the public has to have seed 
capital of at least USD100,000 (for each fund) 
– In  EU  and  the  UK,  regulations  for  UCITS  (Undertakings  for  Collective 
Investments in Transferable Securities) link the capital to be maintained to 
the assets under management, with a floor (UK regulations also link it to 
the fund’s annual fixed expense levels1). The base capital is EUR125000 
for  AUM  up  to  EUR250  million  (a  coverage  of  0.05  per  cent),  with 
additional  capital  at  .02  per  cent  of  AUM  in  excess  of  EUR250  million. 
Notwithstanding  this,  the  total  of  the  initial  capital  and  the  additional 
amount  required  to  be  held  by  the  company  shall  not  be  required  to 
exceed EUR10,000,000.  
– In  Singapore,  there  are  base  capital  requirements  of  SGD1  million 
(Rs.3.25 crore), SGD500,000, and SGD250,000, for various categories of 
fund  managers  (categorised  by  function,  not  AUM).  However  fund 
managers  additionally  need  to  take  professional  indemnity  insurance 
linked to AUM. 
– Japanese  regulations  do  not  specify  any  minimum  capital  for  fund 
managers. 

 
After examining global practices and benchmarks, the sub-group believes 
that it is desirable to increase the minimum net worth requirement to Rs.50 
crore. At this level, for an AMC with an AUM that is close to the system average 
of  around  Rs.15,000  crore,  the  coverage  will  be  at  a  high  (when  compared  to 
global norms) level of 0.33 per cent, while for smaller funds it will obviously be 
higher;  however,  the  number  is  not  prohibitively  high  to  an  extent  that  it  would 
deter  serious  players  or  be  anti-competitive.  In  addition,  given  that  the  present 
effort is to build up a durable regulatory framework that will stand the test of time, 
it  is  desirable  to  specify  a  net  worth  requirement  that  will  support  much  larger 
AUMs.  In  other  words  the  net  worth  coverage  of  AUM  not  only  needs  to  be 
looked  at  from  the  point  of  view  of  the  current  situation,  but  also  as  one  that 
would  factor  in  growth  over  the  next  few  years,  especially  given  the  low 
penetration  level  of  mutual  funds  in  India  today:  mutual  fund  AUM  as  a 
percentage of total AUM in India is around 10%, whereas the ratio for Brazil is 
around  40%;  levels  in  developed  economies  like  the  US  and  Hong  Kong  are 
higher).  
 
It is also recommended that existing AMCs be given an appropriate period 
by SEBI to build up their net worth to this level. 
 
The following can be considered while deciding on the phasing in of the increase 
in net worth to Rs. 50 crore: 

1.  A  gradual  increase  in  minimum  net  worth  can  be  stipulated,  for 
instance starting at Rs.20 crore at the end of one year, and moving 
to Rs.50 crore by the end of three years 

                                                 
1 http://fsahandbook.info/FSA/html/handbook/UPRU/2/1 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 12 of 55 

 

 

2.  Distinctions  can  be  made  by  product  types  offered  by  AMCs  if 
found  practical;  for  instance  an  AMC  focusing  only  on  exchange-
traded  funds  need  not  have  a  large  distribution  network  and  the 
infrastructure  requirements  that  go  with  it.  Hence,  an  exemption 
from the net worth requirements can be explored  

3.  AMCs  that  have  genuine  reasons  for  not  being  able  to  meet  the 
minimum  requirements  can  apply  to  SEBI  stating  their  case  well 
ahead  of  the  deadlines,  and  SEBI  can  then  take  a  case-by-case 
view for providing exceptions  

 
With  regard  to  the  definition  of  net  worth,  the  sub-group  felt  that  funds 
invested/lent  back  to  group  companies  other  than  AMC  subsidiaries  should  be 
reduced from the networth computations. 
 
2. Sponsor criteria 
 
Despite the pass-through nature of AMC operations, it is important for AMCs to 
have strong and serious sponsors. A strong sponsor would find it easier to attract 
–  or  provide  –  quality  fund  management  personnel  to  an  AMC.  Also,  the 
knowledge that a strong sponsor was backing a fund has been seen to provide 
comfort to investors even in times of turbulence.  
 
One of the proposals examined was whether to restrict eligibility as sponsors to 
entities that are active in  the financial services; it was also explored whether it 
would  be  feasible  to  define  a  list  of  financial  services  which  a  sponsor  would 
have  to  operate  in  to  be  eligible.  As  a  reference  point,  the  Reserve  Bank  of 
India’s 2001 guidelines for entry into  banking were also studied, to understand 
the provisions preventing large industrial groups from promoting banks.  
 
A  key  principle  followed  by  RBI  is  to  attempt  to  prevent  the  concentration  of 
shareholding of a private sector bank in the hands of a few investors. The reason 
for this as articulated by RBI is that banks are “special” as they not only accept 
and  deploy  large  amounts  of  uncollateralised  public  funds,  but  also  leverage 
such funds through credit creation. They are also very important for the smooth 
functioning of the payment system. However, once this criterion of shareholder 
concentration  is  met,  corporate  bodies  can  also  be  shareholders  in  a  private 
bank. 
 
Given this “special” status of banks, and  to avoid concentration of control, RBI 
has  also  looked  at  ultimate  shareholder  concentration  rather  than  immediate 
shareholder  concentration.  This  is  especially  applicable  in  the  event  the 
immediate shareholder of the bank is a financial sector entity where the objective 
is to ensure that it is a widely held entity, publicly listed, and a well established 
regulated  financial  entity  in  good  standing  in  the  financial  community.  At  the 
same  time  where  ownership  is  that  of  a  corporate  entity,  where  typically  the 
shareholding  is  not  as  widespread,  the  objective  is  to  ensure  that  no  single 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 13 of 55 

 

individual/entity has ownership and control in excess of 10 per cent of that entity.  
This approach is instructive in drawing up norms for promoters of AMCs. 
Keeping  in  mind  this  background,  and  after  considering  several  options  on  the 
above lines, it was finally decided that: 
 

 

1.  The  Board  could  consider  stipulating  that  only  an  entity  that  is 
regulated  in  some  jurisdiction  –  as  deemed  appropriate  by  the 
Board  –  will  be  allowed  to  sponsor  an  AMC.  In  addition,  while 
allowing an entity that is regulated in a jurisdiction outside India to 
sponsor an AMC, undertakings to provide any information that the 
Board asks for, to allow any inspection that the Board may wish to 
carry out, and to adhere to applicable Indian securities regulations, 
may  be  taken  from  the  entity,  besides  compliance  with  any  other 
requirements  that  the  Board  believes  are  necessary  to  ensure 
reciprocity. 
  
The sub-group also felt that the issue of reciprocity could be 
explored in greater detail by the group dealing with functional 
issues of market participants (the General Principles Group). 

 
2.  Besides  the  existing  criterion  for  recognition  of  an  entity  as  a 
sponsor,  entities  whose  names  are  part  of  the  AMC’s  name  or 
brand,  or  are  being  used  to  promote  the  AMC’s  fund  offerings, 
should only be allowed to do so if they are sponsors.  

 
3.  The present definition of a sponsor as a 40% shareholder, coupled 
with the present requirement that a change in controlling stake of 
AMC  shareholding  requires  a  notice  to  all  unit-holders  allowing 
them to sell without exit load, creates an anomalous situation. If this 
controlling stake is defined as 10%, a holding of 76% going to 87%, 
which  has  no  material  impact  on  control,  requires  such  a  notice, 
whereas a holding of 49% going to 51%, which implies assumption 
of control, does not require a notice.  This situation may be rectified 
by defining control for the purpose of this requirement as a stake of 
less than 50% going to more than 50%.  

 
4.  Similarly, dilution of AMC equity through IPO or ESOPs should not 

be looked at as a change in controlling stake. 

 
5.  The  sub-group  understands  that  the  ‘fit  and  proper  person’ 
criteria  are  being  re-examined  by  the  Board,  and  therefore 
does  not  comment  on  the  existing  criteria.  However,  it  is 
suggested  that  in  case  exclusion  from  the  capital  markets  is 
being  considered  as  a  deterrent  for  wrongdoing,  a  stepwise 
structure for the period of exclusion can be considered, with 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 14 of 55 

 

the  more  serious  offences  attracting  a  longer  period  of 
exclusion. 

 

 
3. Infrastructure requirements for AMCs   
 
Compulsory items in bold 
Sr.
No  Department 

online 

Rationale and Action point 
research 
The 
databases 
provide 
extensive data and analysis 
on  every  Industry,  Sector 
and 
listed  as  well  as 
unlisted  companies.  Such 
databases  help  in  creating 
historical  profile  of 
the 
companies 
to  understand 
their  business  environment, 
industry 
and 
company 
specific 
fundamental  data  including 
financial 
statements. 
Investment  research  that  is 
to  be 
carried  out  needs 
implemented 
through 
trading  room.    Therefore, 
the  investment  needs  to  be 
equipped 
basic 
infrastructure  that  supports 
the  investment  activities  on 
a day to day to activities.   

dynamics 

with 

through 

Investment  in  Fixed  income 
securities  is  done  through 
trading platform provided by 
RBI  and  CCIL.      It  can  be 
done 
the  NSE 
WDM as well, however, this 
needs to be settled through 
NDS / CCIL screen.  AMCs 
will  have 
the 
necessary 
connectivity 
before launching any fund. 

to  obtain 

Infrastructure sources 

to 

funds 
/ 

three,  one 

(ICRA  Online 

Capitaline  or  Prowess  or 
CMIE software  
 
Dealing System 
Recording System 
Bloomberg  or  Reuters  or 
News  Wire.    There  will  have 
to be at least two terminals of 
the  above 
in 
dealing  room  and  investment 
function 
 
Subscription 
research 
CRISIL FundServices) 
Industry research (CRIS Infac 
Industry Information)  
CRISIL, Fitch Ratings, CARE, 
ICRA rating reports  
Economic 
Services 
 
NDS (OM)  
CCIL CBLO License  
 
Dealing  Room  should  be 
equipped with Dealing system 
with fool-proof voice recording 
machine  
Bloomberg  or  Reuter  or  any 
other dealing system 
Direct  Market  Access  (DMA) 
for  equities  and  derivatives 
for 
segment 
maximum 
limit 
through DMA.  
‘View-only’  stock  exchange 

trades;  need 

Intelligence 

trading 

1 

Investment 
Department 

2 

Investment 
Dealing 
Function 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 15 of 55 

 

 

trade 

for  viewing 

trades, 
screen 
confirmations, 
margins, 
settlement  obligations,  and 
transferring 
data 
seamlessly to back office. 
Application  for  monitoring 
compliance 
of 
Insider 
Trading norms    
 
Full  accessibility  to  trading 
system  to  Compliance  for 
limits monitoring 
 
Risk  Management  software 
such 
as  CRISIL  Risk 
Software,  MSCI  Barra  or 
other  such  service  providers 
in  carrying  our 
investment 
related  risk  exercise.    This  is 
a  must 
to  comply  with 
regulation  as  well  as  to  have 
the best practice. 
 
should 
Risk  Management 
equipped  with 
also 
be 
Intelligence 
Business 
Software in analysing the risk 
arising  out  of  client  profile, 
client 
concentration, 
segmentwise  concentration, 
branchwise concentration etc.  
 
 
Branches  to  have  separate 
server room with no access to 
any other employees. 
Time Stamping Machines at 
each Official Point of Sales. 
 
DRT  &  BCP  infrastructure 
with 
physical 
document storage facility.   
 
Strong middle office structure 
is  suggested  in  carrying  out 
the 
related 

investment 

fireproof 

the 

 

part 

across 

is  an 
Risk  Management 
integral 
of  AMC 
activities  in  terms  of  taking 
interest  of 
care  of 
all 
investors 
Risk 
functions. 
Management  while 
it 
is 
more investment centric, the 
function  looks  at  other  risk 
factors  in  doing analysis on 
client concentration risk etc.  
Therefore,  there  is  a  need 
to  have  minimum  support 
both  in  the  form  of  people 
in 
as  well  as  software 
carrying  out 
function 
smoothly 

this 

all 

out 

sales 

function 

Operation acts as a conduit 
investment  department 
to 
in 
and 
the 
carrying 
transactions 
viz. 
redemptions, 
subscription, 
investment 
trades, 
verification  of  trades  from 
both external / internal limits 
point  of  view,  ensuring 

3 

Risk 
Management 
/ Compliance 

4  Operation 
Department 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 16 of 55 

 

 

intranet 

in  knowing 
movements 

function.    Online  system  with 
all  branches  as  well  as 
the 
Registrar 
online 
of 
subscription/redemptions. 
 
Own 
including 
browser  based  applications 
for  immediate  communication 
in  respect  of  collection  and 
redemptions across branches 
with HO 
 
Basic infrastructure to capture 
operational  loss  data,  as  is 
available in banking. 
 
 
Tie-ups  with  banks,  CAMs, 
to 
custodians  and  brokers 
carry 
settlement 
/ 
redemptions / funding in case 
of  any  disaster  situation. 
Basic  Location  and  basic 
manpower  back-up  to  carry 
out  functionalities  in  case  of 
disaster. 

out 

of 

Talisma or any other software 
that  provides  the  log  of  all 
transactions 
clients, 
transaction  of 
commercial 
clients.  
 
Training room with necessary 
facilities  

proper documentation etc 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  case  of  any  disaster 
situations/disaster recovery 

5  Customer 

Service 

for 

Customer  Service  is  key  to 
success 
the  Fund 
Industry  in  the  form  of  post 
sales  service.    Therefore, 
AMC 
equip 
themselves  with  necessary 
support  function  /  service 
before  the  launch  of  any 
schemes 

should 

6 

Training 
Needs 

 

 
4. Other recommendations 
 
In terms of other recommendations, essentially what was discussed were steps 
that  could  be  taken  to  enhance  the  transparency  and  disclosure  levels  in  the 
industry  which  should  lead  to  greater  investor  confidence  and  more  robust 
operational dynamics. Some steps which could be taken are as follows: 

o  Make it mandatory to disclose all holdings of all schemes on website 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 17 of 55 

 

case of PTCs) 

o  Specify  details  of  all  investments  (including  underlying  exposure    in 
o  Monetary penalties on AMCs whose disclosure is inadequate 
o  Some reporting requirement should be there to indicate adherence to 

 

investment objective by schemes. 

 

 

********* 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 18 of 55 

 

 

 

REPORT OF SUB GROUP II 

 
A.  Preface  
 
1.  It  is  almost  a  truism  that  the  adequacy,  availability  and  quality  of 
intermediaries  will  determine  the  shape  and  growth  of  Capital  Market 
and Economy in India. 

2.  Some of the eligibility norms, registration process were prescribed in the 
early  years  of  setting  up  of  a  new  regulatory  environment.  With 
substantial passing of time, change in the size and nature of the capital 
markets  and  expectations  from  the  Regulator,  there  is  a  need  felt  to 
review the requirements with the objective of achieving safety, security 
and orderly development of the Capital Market in India. 

3.  Accordingly,  considering  the  importance  of  the  role  played  by  the 
intermediaries in extending the regulatory objectives and with a view to 
ensure  that  the  ground  rules  are  transparent,  clear  to  encourage  self 
regulation and the competition , SEBI had set up a committee to review 
eligibility norms of all the intermediaries.(should be the language put up 
by SEBI) 

4.  Each of the intermediaries require distinct requirements relating to skill 
sets depending on its role in the capital market. Accordingly with a view 
to  ensure  that  the  diversity  of  the  requirements  are  adequately 
reflected  in  the  final  recommendations,  the  main  Committee  set  up 
various Sub-Committees to examine the issues in light of the experience 
of the respective intermediaries 

5.  This Sub-Committee’s membership is given in Annexure 1 and the terms 

of the reference are as follows:  
a. Review  of  eligibility  norms  for  registration  of  Merchant  Bankers, 
Registrars and Bankers to the Issue in order to improve the quality of 
intermediation (should be the language put up by SEBI) 

b. Review  of  the  standards  of  conduct  and  international  practices  for 
the above and suggest improvement (should be the language put up 
by SEBI) 

6.  The members of the sub group are as follows:-  

a.  Sh Vallabh Bhansali, Managing Director, Enam Securities P Ltd. & 

Head of the sub group 

b.  Sh Motilal Oswal, Chairman & MD, Motilal Oswal Financial Services 

Ltd.  

c.  Ms Dipti Neelakantan, MD & COO, J M Financial Consultants P Ltd. 
d.  Sh V Shankar, MD, Computer Age Management Services P Ltd.  

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 19 of 55 

 

 

e.  Sh K K Mistry, MD, HDFC Bank 
f.  Sh Somashekhar, MD, J Sagar & Associates 
g.  Ms Preeti Malhotra, Past President, ICSI 

 
B.  Approach of the Sub-group 

The  sub-group  deliberated  on  the  principles  which  must  determine  its 
recommendations. Some of the principles are as under:- 

•  The  recommendations  must  be  aligned  more  closely  to  reflect  the 

nature of each intermediary’s business operations; 

•  The  recommendations  must  be  principle  centered  and  must  address 
the  individual  key  risks  each  of  the  intermediary  faces  and 
collectively the system faces; 

•  The  recommendations  must  be  objective,  easy  to  understand  and 

•  The  recommendations  must  lead  to  a  path  of  self  regulation  over  a 

easy to implement 

period of time 

C.  Eligibility norms for registration 

a.  Net Worth: 

Sub-Committee  noted  the  existing  definition  of  net  worth  provided  in 
various  Regulations  of  SEBI.  Presently  except  for  Brokers  where  net 
worth  is  defined  differently,  most  of  the  Regulations  of  SEBI  for 
intermediaries has defined net worth as “Paid up capital+ free reserves- 
miscellaneous expenses to the extent not written off” 
 
The  Sub-Committee  had  the  benefit  of  experience  from  the  operating 
team  at  SEBI  on  areas  where  the  current  definition  has  been  found 
inadequate to judge the  prudential quality of the application. Some of 
the difficulties which are observed are as under: 
a.  The  above  definition  does  not  address  the  issue  relating  to 

deployment of the net worth  

b.  The net worth definition does not clarify the inclusion of preference 

shares as part of the net worth 

c.  The present definition is not aligned to the risk which intermediaries 
take and does not address the issue relating to quality, adequacy etc 

 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 20 of 55 

 

 

The Sub-Committee noted the issues relating to deployment opportunity, 
need  for  capital  in  the  business,  need  to  provide  for  liquidity  to  meet 
emergency  scenario  and  all  other  relevant  issues  before  arriving  at  a 
consensus 
 
Committee after considerable deliberations, recommends the following:- 
a.  Net worth requirement should be specified in two categories- one as 
part  of  Core  capital  which  is  available  at  all  times  with  the 
intermediaries  and  which  is  used  solely  for  the  purpose  of  creating 
infrastructure to service the Market. 

b.  Risk  Capital:  similar  to  Broking,  each  intermediary  to  have  a  “risk 
capital” which will be available to them for business risks exposure. 
E.g. Merchant Bankers are permitted to underwrite 20 times of their 
net worth. For the purpose of calculation of the 20 times, only risk 
capital will be considered and not the Core Capital 

 
In  respect  of  the  intermediaries  under  the  terms  of  reference  of  the 
Committee, the committee noted the following:- 
a.  Present requirements of Net worth in respect of Merchant Bankers is 

Rs 5 crores 

b.  For Registrars and Transfer Agents – the current requirements are to 

the extent of Rs.6 lakhs and Rs. 3 lakhs respectively 

 
The  Committee  considering  all  the  representations  and  deliberations 
recommends the following: 
a.  For  Merchant  Banking  business,  the  Committee  recommends  a  Core 

capital of Rs.10 crore  

b.  Risk  Capital  will  be  commercially  determined  which  will  give  the 

ability to underwrite 

c.  In  respect  of  Registrar  to  the  Issue  and  Transfer  Agents,  the 
Committee  recommends  a  core  capital  of  Rs.  one  Crore  and  Rs  50 
lakh respectively 

d.  For  Bankers  to  the  Issue,  since  Basel  II  already  provides  for  capital 
adequacy  requirements,  the  Committee  felt  that  segregation  of  the 
net  worth  from  the  overall  net  worth  will  not  achieve  any  greater 
purpose  and  hence  decided  against  recommending  any  specific  net 
worth for the same. 

 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 21 of 55 

 

 

The  Committee  believes  that  SEBI  will  give  time  and  enhance  the 
requirements gradually to help most of the players to cope up with the 
requirements. 

Committee recommends the following additional inputs for the purpose 

of  calculation of core and risk capital:- 

a.  Core  capital  computation  will  consist  of  Paid  up  capital  +  Free 
Reserve-  (  Miscellaneous  Expenses  to  the  extent  not  written  off  + 
Inter  Corporate  Loans  and  Investments).  Other  deductions  as  provided 
for calculation of networth for CDS for brokers may also be considered.  

b.  Preference  shares  if  the  redemption  exceeds  more  than  5  years 

should be included for the purpose of the calculation otherwise not 

c.  The  Risk  capital  will  be  determined  as  =  Paid  up  capital+  free 
reserve- (Core capital+ Mis.exp). The treatment of preference capital 
will continue to be the same 

Most of the global regulators require a monthly prudential self filing on 
compliance. With the desired level of experience, the Committee feels 
that  quarterly  filing  will  be  sufficient  in  this  regard.  The  onus  of 
monitoring  the  capital  adequacy  and  certifying  internally  to  the 
Management must be left to the Chief Financial Officer of the Company. 

b.  The  Concept  of  Authorized  (use  globally  “authorized”  or 

“notified” or “registered”) person: 

The  basic  focus  of  the  existing  registration  requirements  is  on  the 
entities since it is the entity (use “firm” or “entity” globally)  carrying 
regulated  activity  which  is  required  to  obtain  registration.  However, 
regulatory regimes have long recognized that a regulated entity’s ability 
to meet and maintain proper standards depends crucially on the quality 
of its individuals, especially those in key positions. 

Globally  it  will  help  to  cite  actual  instances,  individuals  who  perform 
significant  influence  functions  are  required  to  be  approved  or  regd?  by 
the  Regulator  before  they  can  function  in  that  capacity.  Most  of  the 
Global Regulations define certain standards of conduct expected out of 
approved persons in their individual capacity over and above the conduct 
expected  from  the  firm.  Typically,  such  approved  persons  are  required 
to adhere to certain principles over and above that to be adhered by the 
registered  firms.  Failure  to  comply  with  the  principle  will  in  most 
Regulatory regime be construed as an act of misconduct which may give 
rise  to  disciplinary  or  other  enforcement  consequences  for  the 
individual.  

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 22 of 55 

 

 

 

 

Significant  influence  person  requiring  approval  are  further  broadly 
classified under four different categories- Governing functions- basically 
covering  the  persons  responsible  for  directing  the  business,  Required 
functions-  which  basically  relates  to  apportionment  and  oversight 
functions;  Systems  and  controlled  functions-  covering  finance,  risk, 
internal  audit  etc  and  Significant  Management  function-  persons  who 
have  been  entrusted  with  senior  management  responsibility  to  run  the 
businesses 

Approved  persons  are  required  to  generally  adhere  to  the  following 
principles over and above those imposed on the firms: 

(a) To act with integrity  
(b) To act with due skill, care and attention 
(c) To observe proper standards of market conduct 
(d) To deal with the Regulator in an open and transparent manner 
(e) Take reasonable care to ensure that the regulated business for 
which  they  are  responsible  is  organized  so  that  it  can  be 
controlled effectively 

(f) Take  reasonable  steps  to  ensure  that  the  business  complies 

with any relevant regulatory requirements and standards 

The  disciplinary  action  will,  be  brought  against  an  approved  person 
where there is personal culpability. Culpability will arise if the person’s 
standard  of  behavior  falls  below  that  which  would  be  reasonable  in  all 
circumstances.  In  case  of  breach,  the  decision  to  initiate  appropriate 
disciplinary action either against the firm or against the approved person 
are normally taken by the Regulator depending on the extent of personal 
culpability 

In Indian context, most of the Regulations requires for 2 key employees 
who  are  qualified  and  have  relevant  experience  for  conduct  of  the 
business. 

 

The following difficulties are generally noticed in this regard:- 

a.  There is no employee data/ employee form filed with SEBI resulting 
in non standardized form of information without any ability to track 
the movements 

b.  Fit and proper criteria are not employed on the key employees; the 
fit  and  proper  criteria  definition  is  more  focused  on  the  applicant 
than the persons behind or persons managing the intermediaries. 

c.  The personnel risk and resultant risk to the Regulatory regime is an 
area completely unfocused. For every failure, the firm goes through 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 23 of 55 

 

 

the disciplinary proceedings and there is no effort made to segregate 
the failure of the senior person and that of the firm 

d.  Most  of  the  Regulations  prescribes  Code  for  the  firm;  the  need  for 
the  supervisory  persons  and  separate  additional  Code  for  them  are 
not envisaged 

The  Committee  deliberated  the  concept  of  Authorized  persons  and 
resultant purpose it proposes to achieve. As a North Star ??? position, the 
Committee firmly believes that in alignment with the global regulatory 
regime, Indian Regulation should also move towards recognizing persons 
behind the firm instead of only the firm, as being responsible for all the 
acts, omissions and commissions. 

Some  members  of  the  Committee  felt  that  such  an  approval  process 
should  not  result  in  regulating  employment  or  movement  of  personnel. 
Taking  into  account  all  the  inputs  received  from  various  members 
relating to quantum of people needs to go through the process, approach 
to  be  adopted  etc,  the  broad  recommendations  in  this  regard  are  as 
under:- 

a.  Initial step would be to define the core functions which will require a 
notification to SEBI. There are some position within the Intermediary 
which are crucial to manage the firm in a more appropriate manner 
and some other positions which are critical for the intermediaries self 
regulation.  As  far  as  possible,  these  requirements  must  be 
standardized  and  specified  in  the  Regulations.  Some  functions  like 
person responsible for supervision, business head, compliance, must 
be necessarily included in the above notification process 

b.  Secondly efforts be made to standardize the notification requirement 
and put the same in public domain for the capital market community 
as a whole. In today’s context there are facilities which are available 
for any person to verify the willful defaulters etc. 

c.  The information which is displayed and available to the market may 
be in a specified format which must contain the basic fit and proper 
criteria declarations from each of the designated employees; 

d.  SEBI  should  prescribe  certain  specific  principles  for  such  authorised 

persons   

e.  While  arriving  at  conclusions  regarding  the  disciplinary  proceedings, 
SEBI as far as possible must classify – whether the same is on account 
of the failure of the person to do his/her role correctly or on account 
of the firm. If the conclusion arrived at establishes clearly that the 
same is on account of mis conduct of the person, SEBI must initiate 
action against the person rather than against the firm 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 24 of 55 

 

c.  Manpower 

 

The  committee  recommends  that  requirement  of  Key  Management 
Personnel  for Merchant banker, RTI/STA and Bankers to an Issue may be 
increased to four, who may consists of ; 
•  CEO – For the company as a whole 
•  Compliance  Officer  (can  be  common  among  different  nature  of 

 

intermediaries) 

compliance officer) 

•  Principal  Officer  under  PMLA  (can  be  the  same  person  as  the 

•  Head  –  Merchant  Banking  with  professional  qualification  from  an 
institution recognized by the Government in finance, law or business 
management  OR  an  experience  of  at  least  ten  years  in  related 
activities in the securities market 

•  An  Officer  exclusively  for  Merchant  Banking  or  as  the  case  may  be 
with professional qualification from an institution recognized by the 
Government  in  finance,  law  or  business  management  OR  an 
experience of at least five years in related activities in the securities 
market.  

d.  Infrastructure 

Most of the regulations prescribe that entity should have adequate / 
necessary  infrastructure  for  effective  discharge  of  duties  assigned 
under  the  regulations  and  in  most  cases,  prescribed  infrastructure 
requirements  are  anachronous  and  are  not  commensurate  with  the 
nature of work handled by them. 

IOSCO standard requires the following:- 

•  “Market  intermediaries  should  be  required  to  comply  with 
standards  for  internal  organization  and  operational  conduct  that 
aim to protect the interests of clients, ensure proper management 
of risk and under which management of the intermediary accepts 
primary responsibility for these matters. 

 
Taking  the  standard  as  base  and  with  a  view  to  address  key 
challenges  in  this  regard  faced  by  the  various  intermediaries,  the 
Committee arrived at the following broad conclusions: 
 
a.  Committee  after  considerable  deliberations  on  the  matter  felt 
that the financial services industry is a knowledge driven industry 
which must rely more and more on soft infrastructure to develop 
its  activities  and  contribute  to  the  orderly  development  of  the 
market. Committee recommends as a principle to emphasis more 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 25 of 55 

 

on the soft infrastructure of the intermediaries to address the key 
risks  arising  out  of  its  failure.  In  this  regard,  the  following 
suggestions were made: 

 

 

-  Each 

intermediary  should  evolve 

its  own  supervision 
mechanism and Governance mechanism and submit a copy 
of the same to SEBI for records; 

 
-  Each  intermediary  should  prescribe  its  risk  mitigation 
measures  and  document  the  same  for  reference  and 
clarity; 

-  Each  intermediary  should  look  into  the  area  of  Business 
Continuity  and  specify  suitable  norms  in  accordance  with 
the requirements relating to that business; 

 
-  System  Audit  should  be  made  compulsorily  for  the 
intermediaries  which  rely  heavily  on  technology  like 
Registrar and Transfer Agents 

b.  The Committee felt that most of the intermediaries are restricted 
from doing fund based activities at present. Given the nature of 
the  function  and  services  provided,  most  of  the  risk  relates  to 
operational risks, errors and omissions etc. With the opening up of 
the Insurance Sector and availability of various types of insurance 
to  mitigate  the  risks,  the  Committee  recommends  mandatory 
Insurance  Covers  like  Professional  Indemnity  Insurance  Cover, 
Fiduciary Risk Insurance cover, should be prescribed as part of the 
requirement  according  to  the  nature  of  risks  the  intermediary  is 
open to 

 
c.  With a view to ensure that investors are not put into difficulties in 
case of emergency and the intermediary is up and able to provide 
desired level of service to the market in case of any emergency, 
the Committee specially recommended that the Regulation should 
provide  for  a  mandatory  requirement  to  provide  for  disaster 
recovery plan. The Committee also desired that Regulation should 
prescribe  the  minimum  requirements  in  this  regard  leaving  the 
commercial  considerations  to  develop  and  establish  a  strong 
recovery mechanism 

d.  The Committee also felt that the present requirement relating to 
record keeping, safety of the records , provision for keeping the 
records  in  electronic  form  should be more specifically addressed 
in the Regulation 

 

 

 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 26 of 55 

 

 

 

D.  CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING: 

In an era where the necessity to continuously restructure to adjust itself to 
the market condition is a realty, there is a more and more need felt to have 
a  complete  clarity  on  how  the  same  would  be  viewed  by  the  Regulators. 
While  some  Regulations  provides  for  seeking  prior  approval,  most  of  the 
dynamics  of  Corporate  restructuring  process  are  not  presently  adequately 
covered in the Regulation resulting into operational lack of clarity and also 
varied practices in this regard 
 
SEBI while granting registration focus more on the applicant, persons behind 
the applicant and fit and proper criteria of these persons to ensure that the 
market is safe and is developing in an orderly manner 
 
Continuing  the  theme,  the  Committee  felt  that  as  long  as  the  underlying 
persons on whom the fit and proper criteria has been applied continues, the 
same should be treated as reorganization of the business and no additional 
requirement should be made compulsory 
 
However, if on account of restructuring, there is a change in control which 
necessitates  fit  and  proper  criteria  to  be  applied  on  different  persons 
behind the entity, the corporate restructuring should require prior approval 
and also a fresh registration process  
 
To ensure that what would construe to be a change in control and not, the 
Committee  recommends  aligning  the  definition  of  control  to  that  of  SEBI 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997.  

E.  OTHER SITUATIONS: 

Various  operational  difficulties  faced  in  implementing  the  Regulation 
were  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  Committee  from  time  to  time. 
Some  of  the  issues  and  the  recommendations  of  the  Committee  are 
under: 

a.  Eligible  categories  for  carrying  capital  Market  activities  and 
whether  they  can  hold  simultaneous  Registration  with  other 
financial regulator 
 

 

 

Considering  the  governance  requirements,  the  Committee  strongly 
recommends  a  body  corporate  as  the  only  permissible  legal  entity  for 
making an application.  
 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 27 of 55 

 

 
 

 

 

 

As  regards  the  question  as  to  whether  the  applicant  may  also  perform 
other activities requiring registration with the other financial regulators 
is concerned, the Committee feel that the restrictions has worked well 
and  reasonable.  The  markets  have  got  adjusted  to  this mechanism and 
hence  the  need  for  a  review  in  this  regard  is  not  felt.  As  long  as  the 
Regulatory  purview  is  not  unified,  the  Committee  strongly  feels  that 
independent  regulation  is  the  safest  process  to  achieve  investor’s 
protection and financial stability 
 
b.  Submission of renewal application before 3 months:  
 
The  Committee  noted  the  recently  introduced  SEBI  (Intermediaries 
Regulations)  which  provides  for  one  time  registration.  Considering  the 
fact  that  SEBI  has  already  moved  into  the  direction  of  one  time 
registration concept, no recommendations are made in this regard 
 
c.  Investment by Intermediaries 
 
Committee considered the question relating to permitting Intermediaries 
to invest in other businesses. Committee noted all the pros and cons and 
incremental risks which it poses to the intermediary and the system and 
recommends the following:- 
 
(cid:131) 

Investments  in  other  business  is  possible  as  long  as  the  liability  in 
respect of such instrument/ investments are capped 

(cid:131)  For the purpose of Prudential Norms, all strategic illiquid investments 

should be excluded 

related 

(cid:131)  The investment should not pose any hurdle nor put the intermediary 
in  a  conflicting  situation  visa  vie  the  ability  to  carry  on  certain 
authorized function  
Investors interest are not compromised  

(cid:131) 
 
Subject to the above, all intermediaries should be permitted to invest in 
related  and  non 
investments  as  per  the  commercial 
requirements. 
 
d.  Outsourcing of certain activities 
 
The Committee noted the trend of outsourcing activities and economics 
involved  therein.  The  Committee  after  considerable  deliberations  felt 
that  as  long  as  the  Intermediary  is  responsible  for  the  activity  the 
manner  of  doing  the  work  should  be  left  to  the  intermediary.  In  the 
event  if  the  work  is  proposed  to  be  outsourced,  Intermediary  should 
establish  its  credentials  in  managing  the  key  output  and  satisfy  the 
Regulatory Authorities in this regard.  
 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 28 of 55 

 

 

e.  Online data bases of various intermediaries 
 
SEBI  has  progressively  moved  into  e-filing  of  various  half  yearly  and 
yearly  reports.  On  the  same  lines  and  furthering  the  process,  the 
Committee recommends complete on line data base  
 
f.  Removing  the  restrictions  on  entities  in  the  same  group  to  hold 

registration of same intermediary 

 
SEBI has been following a process of permitting more than one entity in 
a group to carry a similar line of business as long as none of them have 
been  rejected.  The  Committee  recommends  continuation  of  approach 
and  feels  that  such  decision  should  be  left  best  to  the  commercial 
considerations. 
 
g.  Restrictions on carrying on activities post issuance of show cause 
 
The Committee believes that as long as the final outcome is pronounced, 
no  body  should  be  made  to  suffer.  The  SEBI  Act  provides  for  a 
comprehensive mechanism of dealing with various violations and unless 
the  process  is  completed  natural  justice  would  argue  against  any 
temporary  restrictions.  Committee  is  not  in  favor  of  restricting  any 
activities of the intermediary post issuance of the show cause notice. 
 
h.  Surrender of registration 
 
As  this  has  already  been 
Regulations, 2008, Committee does not have any comments to offer.  

in  SEBI  (Intermediaries) 

incorporated 

i.  Some other general issues: 

(cid:131)  Some  other  terms  like  “associates”,  “promoters”  are  varying  in 
different  Regulations-  sub  committee  may  define  the  term 
“associates” and “Promoters” uniform across the Regulations. 

(cid:131)  Regarding  recommendations  for  Registrar  to  Issues  and  Share 
Transfer  Agents,  comments  may  also  be  obtained  from  Registrars 
Association of India (RAIN). 

 
The  Committee  wish  to  place  on  record  sincere  and  very  insightful 
contributions  made  by  SEBI  operating  team  more  specifically  Shri.Manoj 
Kumar, General Manager, Intermediaries Division and Mr. Avarjeet Singh for 
fantastic  support  provided  to  the  Committee 
its 
recommendations. The Committee also wishes to place on record significant 
contributions  made  in  the  deliberations  by  all  the  members  and  invitees 
from time to time. 

in  arriving  at 

 

 

********** 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 29 of 55 

 

 

REPORT OF SUB GROUP III 

 

 
1 BACKGROUND: 
 
This report is written as part of a review of eligibility norms for various categories 
of market intermediaries. SEBI has set up the Committee on Review of Eligibility 
Norms (CORE), various sub-groups of which are reviewing eligibility norms with 
respect to specific market intermediaries. This report is the result of deliberations 
of  the  sub-group  –III  that  is  looking  at  eligibility  norms  for  Brokers  (B),  Sub 
brokers  (SB),  Depository  Participant  (DP)  and  Portfolio  management  Services 
(PMS). 
 
The  sub-group  is  headed  by  Ms  Deena  Asit  Mehta,  MD,  Asit  C  Mehta 
Invetsment  Intermediaries  Limited.  The  other  members  of  the  sub  group 
are:  

1.  Shri Ravi Narain, MD, NSE 
2.  Shri Rajnikant Patel, MD & CEO, BSE (replaced by Shri M. L. Soneji) 
3.  Shri Gagan Rai, MD & CEO, NSDL 
4.  Shri V. V. Raut, MD & CEO, CDSL 
5.  Ms  Manisha  Girotra,  Chairperson,  UBS  Securities  India  Private 

 
The sub-group met on May 27, 2008. The basic categories of issues that were 
examined by the sub-group are: 

1.  Is  there  a  need  to  review  the  minimum  net  worth  that  a  B,  SB,  DP  and 

PMS should have? If so where should the minimum net worth be set? 

2.  Are  there  specific  infrastructure  requirements  with  respect  to  manpower 
that  should  be  put  in  place  for  a  B,  SB,  DP  and  PMS  to  be  eligible  for 
initial and ongoing registration? 

3.  Any  other  recommendations  that  can  strengthen  and  smoothen  the 

Limited 

functioning of these intermediaries.  

 
Subsequently, on June 09, 2008 the mandate for review of eligibility norms for 
Custodians  was  also  give  to  the  sub  group-III.  Accordingly,  the  following  2 
members were additionally nominated to the sub-group.  
 

1.  Shri G. Subramanyam – Senior Vice President, HDFC Bank and  
2.  Shri Ashish Bajaj, MD, Citibank N.A. 

2) Stock Broker  
2.1) Background  
 
 “Stock Broker” means a member of a stock exchange as provided under Regn 2 
(gb) of SEBI (Stock Brokers & Sub Brokers) Regulations, 1992. “Member” means 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 30 of 55 

 

 

a member of a recognized stock exchange (RSE) as defined under section 2 (c) 
of Securities Contract Regulation Act, 1956 [SCRA].  
An  individual or corporate body can become a member of a Recognized Stock 
Exchange  (RSE).  The  eligibility  criteria  for  being  a  member  of  a  RSE  are 
specified in Rule 8 of Securities Contract Regulation Rules, 1957 [SCRR]. The 
application  for  broker  has  to  be  forwarded  through  the  respective  stock 
exchange.  
 
2.2 Current Regulations 
 
Definition of Networth: 

The capital of a member shall be computed as follows:-  

•  Capital + Free Reserves  

•  Less non-allowable assets viz. a. Fixed Assets, b. Pledged Securities, c. 
Member’s card d. Non-allowable Securities, e. Bad Deliveries, f. Doubtful 
Debts and Advances (more than three months or given to Associates), g. 
Prepaid Expenses, h. Intangible Assets, i. 30% of Marketable securities 

Apart from this there are certain margin requirements which are monitored by the 
Stock exchange so as to ensure that the working capital of the members is not 
unduly locked up.  

Current  Capital  Adequacy  Norms:  The  Capital  Adequacy  specifies  that  the 
stock  broker  /  member  shall  maintain  the  Base  Minimum  Capital  (BMC).  The 
BMC  is  Rs  5  lakhs  (Rs  30  lakhs  for  corporate  brokers)  for  Bombay,  NSE  and 
Calcutta Stock Exchanges, Rs 3.5 lakhs (Rs 20 lakhs for corporate brokers) for 
Delhi  and  Ahmedabad  Stock  Exchanges  and  Rs  2  lakhs  (Rs  10  lakhs  for 
corporate  brokers)  excluding  Madras  Stock  Exchange) 
for  other  stock 
exchanges,  in  case  of  Madras  Stock  Exchange  Rs  20  lakhs  for  corporate 
brokers.  This  BMC  is  to  be  maintained  in  the  form  of  cash  with  the  Exchange 
(25%), long term (3 years or more) fixed deposit with the bank and the remaining 
shall be maintained in the form of securities with a 30% margin.  

The stock broker / member shall maintain additional capital related to the volume 
of business. The additional or optional capital required of a member shall at any 
point of time be such that together with the base minimum capital it is not less 
than 8% of the gross outstanding business in the exchange at any point of time 
during the current settlement. The "gross outstanding" business of a member at 
any point of time shall not exceed 12.5 times of his base and additional capital 
requirements.  

 

 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 31 of 55 

 

2.3 Recommendations 
Net Worth 
The sub group mentioned that intermediaries should be classified on the basis of 
risk business and agency business and that risk based business should be linked 
to capital adequacy. The sub group opined that that in respect of stock brokers, 
NSE  presently  had  a  fairly  well  defined  definition  which  was  aligned  to  the 
definition  as  per  the  JR  Verma  Committee  Report.  Since  as  per  the  NSE 
definition the value of assets and exposure to other stock exchanges are to be 
deducted hence the same may be acceptable definition and could be accepted 
and standardized.  
 
The sub-group was of the view that the stock broker’s net worth be increased to 
Rs.  1  crore  for  corporate  and  Rs.75  lakhs  for  other  than  corporate.  The 
committee considered the problems faced by the stock brokers of the Regional 
Stock  Exchanges  and  the  present  state  of  the  regional  stock  exchanges  and 
opined that the Net worth requirement could be relaxed for them initially. It was 
also expressed that the net worth requirement should be raised gradually to Rs.3 
crore by year 2012 for the two big Stock exchanges viz., BSE and NSE and to 
Rs.1 crore by 2012 for RSE and that the same could be relaxed by 50% in case 
the stock broker is engaged in pro-trading only.  
 
In summary, the following proposition was made: 
Amt in Rs. Crores 

By Year 2010 

By year 2012 

Net  Worth 
Requirement 
 

Corporate  Other than 
Corporate 
0.75 

1.00 

Corporate  Other 

than 

Corporate 
3.00 

3.00 

Stock 

BSE  &  NSE 
Stock 
Brokers* 
RSE 
Brokers 
Broker DPs 
 
* Networth requirement to be relaxed by 50% in case the stock broker 
declares  that  it  would  be  engaged  in  pro-trading  only.  The  Stock 
Exchange  would  facilitate  preventing  of  client  trades  being  fed  and 
executed. 

1.50

0.50

1.00

2.50

 
It  was  also  felt  that  as  existing  in  the  F&O  segment,  in  cash  segment  too  the 
concept  of  professional  clearing  members  should  be  introduced  and  the  stock 
brokers be encouraged to have separate clearing members who could indulge in 
clearing trades.   
 
In  India,  Custodians  are  required  to  confirm  the  trade  on  behalf  of  their 
institutional clients and take over the settlement obligation. It was also felt that for 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 32 of 55 

 

 

Investors  which  mandatorily  need  to  appoint  custodians,  the  custodian  should 
continue  to  be  their  clearing  member  and  for  other  investors,  professional 
clearing members should be permitted who will add depth and expertise to the 
market.   
 
A concern was raised with regard to the business activity by the intermediaries 
and requirement of networth. It was contended that if the intermediary/entity was 
merely engaged in an agency business, the moot thing would be risk taken on its 
own  Balance  Sheet  by  intermediary.  In  case  the  same  is  not  in  affirmative  the 
concern should be more about compliance, infrastructure, etc. However, certain 
members stressed that in today’s regime wherein the Power of Attorney is quite 
common  the  business  is  obviously  exposed  to  operational  risk  as  the  terms  of 
PoA itself at times are questioned in the event of any dispute. In this context a 
view  was  expressed  that  wherever  the  intermediary  was  expected  to  deal  with 
public/public money eventually only body corporate be allowed to operate in the 
market.  
 

3. Trading Members and Clearing Members of the Derivatives Segment and 
Currency Derivatives. 
As  per  Regulation  2(gd)  `trading  member’  means  a  member  of  the  derivatives 
exchange or derivatives segment of a stock exchange and who settles the trade 
in the clearing corporation or clearing house through a clearing member.  
 
As  per  Regulation  2(ae)  ‘clearing  member’  means  a  member  of  a  clearing 
corporation or clearing house of the derivatives exchange or derivatives segment 
of an exchange, who may clear and settle transactions in securities. 
 
Currently  the  minimum  networth  required  for  Trading  Member  and  Clearing 
Member is given below: 
 
 

Currency Derivatives 

Derivatives Segment 

Trading  
Member 

Rs. 300 Lacs 

And min deposit of Rs. 50 

lacs* 

Rs 100 lacs 

Clearing 

Rs. 100 Lacs 

Rs 1000 lacs 

And min deposit of Rs. 50 

And min deposit of Rs. 50 

lacs* 

lacs** 

 
*  Deposit  with  the  clearing  corporation  or  clearing  house  of  the  derivatives 
exchange or 
derivatives segment in the form specified from time to time. 
**  Deposit  with  the  clearing  corporation  or  clearing  house  of  the  Currency 
derivatives segment in the form specified from time to time. 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 33 of 55 

 

 

Recommendations: 
 
The  sub  group  noted  that  the  regulations  for  trading  member  and  clearing 
member have been recently introduced and was of the opinion that a review of 
minimum networth is not required at this stage.   
 
4. Sub Broker 
 
As  regards  sub-brokers  the  sub-group  felt  that  having  regard  to  the  existing 
scenario wherein the sub-brokers right to deal directly in funds and securities has 
been  withdrawn  there  should  not  be  much  concern  about  the  net  worth 
requirement  for  a  sub-broker.  A  concern  was  raised  about  the  need  of  having 
sub-brokers in view of extant scenario wherein a sub-broker more or less acted 
as a branch of the broker, having no right to deal directly in funds and securities.  
 
The sub-group was of the view that the sub-broker as an intermediary should be 
discontinued  and  in  view  thereof  there  may  not  be  a  relevance  of  any  further 
deliberation with regard to related aspects with regard to sub-broker as an entity. 
The sub-group recommended disbanding of sub-brokers. 
 
5. Depository Participant 

5.1 Current Eligibility Criteria pertaining to networth is given below: 
 
The  application  for  DP  has  to  be  forwarded  to  SEBI  through  the  respective 
Depository. The applicant should be any one of the following categories: 
 
(i) a public financial institution, (ii) a bank, (iii) a foreign bank operating in India 
with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India; (iv) a state financial corporation, 
(v) an institution engaged in providing financial services, promoted by any of the 
institutions  mentioned  in  sub  clause  (i),  (ii),  (iii),  (iv)  jointly  or  severally;  (vi)  a 
custodian of securities (vii) a clearing corporation or a clearing house of a stock 
exchange;  (viii)  a  stock  broker,  (ix)  a  non-banking  finance  company,  (x)  a 
registrar to an issue or share transfer agent  
 
The minimum net worth required is given below:  
 
Category 
For categories mentioned at sr. no (i) to 
(vii) above   
Stock Broker  

Minimum Networth 
NA 

Rs 50 lakhs and the aggregate value of 
the 
the  portfolio  of  securities  of 
beneficial 
in 
dematerialised  form  in  a  depository 
through  him,  shall  not  exceed 100 
times  of  the  net  worth  of  the  stock 

owners 

held 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 34 of 55 

 

 

to 

broker  (if  NW  is  Rs  10  Cr  aggregate 
value not applicable) 

in  addition 

the 
Rs.  50  crores 
networth  specified  by  any  other 
authority. 
Rs 10 Crore 
Rs 10 Crore 

Non-banking finance company (NBFC)  Rs 50 lakhs  
NBFC acting as a participant on behalf 
of any other person 

Registrar to an issue                   
Share transfer agent 
 

5.2 Recommendation: 
 
The sub-group noted that with regard to broker the minimum requirement as per 
SEBI  Regulation  was  Rs.50Lakhs  which  has  been  raised  by  the  Depositories, 
with NSDL to Rs.300 lakhs and CDSL upto Rs.150 lakhs. The sub-group felt that 
the  net  worth  requirement  should  be  increased  to  align  with  existing  market 
conditions  since  the  condition  of  minimum  net  worth  of  Rs.50  lakhs  was 
stipulated  initially  when  the  Depository  Act  and  DP  Regulations  were  notified 
during 1996. However, it was also expressed that the requirement need not be 
increased  abruptly.  It  was  expressed  that  the  net  worth  should  be  linked  to 
particular activity.  
 
6. Portfolio Management Services 

6.1 Current Eligibility Criteria pertaining to networth and key personnel are 
given below: 

(a) The capital adequacy requirement shall not be less than the networth of Rs 
200  lacs  (Earlier  the  NW  was  Rs  50  lacs  which  was  increased  to  Rs  200  lacs 
vide amendment dated August 11, 2008). This was to be increased in two stages 
– upto Rs 100 lacs within 6 months from commencement of the amendment and 
Rs 200 lacs in the next 6 months.   

(b)  the  principal  officer  of  the  applicant  has  the  professional  qualifications  in 
finance, 
institution 
recognised by the Government; 

law,  accountancy  or  business  management 

from  an 

(c) the applicant has in its employment minimum of two persons who, between 
them, have atleast five years experience as portfolio manager or stock broker or 
investment manager or in the areas related to fund management;  

For the purposes of this regulation, "networth" means the aggregate value of paid 
up  equity  capital  plus  free  reserves  (excluding  reserves  created  out  of 
revaluation) reduced by the aggregate value of accumulated losses and deferred 
expenditure not written off, including miscellaneous expenses not written off. 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 35 of 55 

 

 

6.2 Recommendation: 
 
The  sub-group  noted  that  with  regard  to  PMS  the  net  worth  requirement  had 
recently been raised from Rs. 50 lakhs to 2.0 crores and therefore there may not 
be  much  to  be  deliberated  as  regards  net  worth  requirement  for  a  PMS. 
However, concern was raised about the absence of any concept of discretionary 
and non-discretionary PMS as was prevalent in certain overseas jurisdictions. It 
was felt by the committee that with regard to PMS, the concept of asset under 
management may be relevant to be introduced and the net wroth may be pegged 
to the underlying assets under management. Accordingly, it was felt that the Net 
Worth in case of PMS may be 50 times of assets under management subject to 
minimum of Rs.2.0 crores.  
 
It was felt that the custodians of PMS providers should also be permitted to rely 
on the KYC procedures performed by the PMS to improve investor convenience 
and this will also be in line with RBI regulations as well. 
 
 
7. CUSTODIAN OF SECURITIES 

7.1 Background 

 

 

 

With  the  SEBI  Act  in  1992  and  other  regulations  being  put  in  place.  An 
intermediary  –  custodian  of  securities  continued  to  service  mutual  funds  and 
Foreign  Institutional  Investors  (FIIs).  As  there  was  no  requirement  under  the 
SEBI Act for SEBI to register any custodian, SEBI was approving custodians as a 
part of the registration process of mutual fund and Foreign Institutional Investors 
(FIIs).  SEBI  notified  the  Custodian  of  Securities  regulations  in  1996.  Until  then 
SEBI approved 10 entities to act as Custodians, of which seven were banks and 
three had been set up by non-banking institutions. 

While  framing  the  custodian  regulations  in  1996,  information  was  sought  from 
already  existing  custodians  on  their  operations. SEBI did not come across any 
jurisdiction  which  had  regulations  for  custodian  services.  A  questionnaire  was 
sent  out  to  several  member  countries  of  International  Organization  -  IOSCO  to 
ascertain  their  regulatory  standards  for  custody  services.  Responses  received 
from US, Hong Kong and UK indicated that custodian services are not regulated 
because they are not market intermediaries but service providers to the market. 
In the US for example, custodial services are mostly provided by banks and as 
such are governed by the requirements and regulations of the Federal Reserve. 
However,  regulations  for  market  intermediaries  cast  an  obligation  on  them  to 
ensure  safe  keeping  of  the  assets  of  their  clients.  SEBI  had  also  circulated  a 
consultative paper vide press release dt. 29.9.95 inviting comments on the draft 
regulations  for  custodian  services.  On  the  basis  of  the  comments  received,  a 
memorandum was placed before the Board, in its meeting held on 31.10.1995. 
Subsequently, the Regulations were notified on    May 16, 1996. 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 36 of 55 

 

 

 
A) Present Scenario: 
 

 

 

1.  As  on  date,  there  are  16  custodians.  Thirteen  of  these  are  banks,  and 
other three are in the others category. On December 2005, SEBI received 
the first custodian application in the category of “Others” (non-bank entity) 
after the notification of Custodian Regulations.  

 
2.  It was decided in May 2008 that all applications to be processed as per 
existing regulations and any review if required shall be done separately.  
Pursuant to this, the first registration in the “others” category was granted 
to M/s. Orbis Financial Corporation Ltd. on June 17, 2008 and in-principle 
approval was granted to DSP Merrill Lynch Limited on October 22, 2008. 
Further, as on date four custodian applications in the category of “others” are 
in various stages of approval.  

3.  In view of the above, it is proposed to review all significant aspects like the 
eligibility  norms,  networth,  kinds  of  services  provided  to  the  clients’ 
incidental thereto etc.  

4.  With the benefit of hindsight it can be stated that the custodian regulations 
were not detailed on account of most of the then existing custodians being 
Banks/Financial  institutions/entities  promoted  by  financial  institutions.  In 
addition, SEBI probably derived comfort from the fact that Banks are also 
regulated by RBI and hence would have dual supervision and thus result 
into better regulation. 

 
A  consultative  note  on  Custodian  was  circulated  to  all  the  members  of  the 
subgroup.  
 
B)  ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF A CUSTODIAN: 
 
The  role  of  the  Custodian  can  be  defined  as  a)  those  expected  as  per  the 
Custodian  Regulations  and  b) 
that  are  performed  by  custodians 
additionally, whether by themselves or in association with a bank. 
 

those 

Role as defined under the Custodian Regulations 
Typically, a custodian performs the following activities on behalf of clients: 
•  Trade  clearing  and  settlements:  This  includes  electronic  trade  matching, 
confirmation  on  the  exchanges,  performing  the  settlements  of  cash  and 
securities with the exchange clearing house etc.   

•  Safekeeping  of  Assets:  Custodians  safe-keep  a  variety  of  assets  including 
shares,  cash,  derivatives,  government  debt  securities,  corporate  bonds, 
structured  product  assets,  physical  securities  etc.  They  have  to  ensure 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 37 of 55 

 

 

complete  segregation  and  full  control  over  all  client  assets.  For  funds,  all 
assets that go into the composition of NAV are safe kept with custodians.  

•  Asset Servicing and corporate actions including 

–  Processing both voluntary (e.g., Tender offers, buy backs, rights etc) and 

involuntary Corporate action (Bonus, Stock Split, Dividend etc).  

–  Each  of  these  events  have  a  unique  process  attached  to  them,  and 

custodians have to be able to support these in an automated fashion. 

–  Automated  notification  process,  adhering  to  proprietary  electronic  and 

SWIFT standards.  

–  Follow-up of pre-advised voluntary corporate actions 
–  Provide  proxy  voting  services  for  clients  –  arranging  for  casting  votes 

across locations, sending details to investors 

–  Tracking, collecting and posting any income due to clients 

•  Providing  Cash  settlement  services  as  part  of  settlement  functions  – 
managing  funds  in  their  bank  account,  providing  cash  projection  reports  to 
ensure timely funding, managing funds flow etc 

 

Additional services provided by the Custodians 
 
The below activities are being performed by almost all the registered custodians, 
as a value add to the customers: 
 
•  Providing market information and updates to investors which impact them 
•  Fund Accounting and Administration  
•  Providing automated and STP reports and triggers to clients 
•  Providing support on tax payments and processing  
 
7.2 Current Practice for granting Custodian Registration: 

1.  Regulation  6  of  Custodian  Regulations  states  the  eligibility  criteria  for 
granting  the  registration  to  custodians.  An  applicant  needs  to  fulfill  the 
following :- 

 
   

   

   

(a)  the  capital  requirement  of  Rs  50  cr.  exclusively  for  custodian 
operations 
(b)necessary  infrastructure,  including  adequate  office  space,  vaults  for 
safe  custody  of  securities  and  computer  systems  capability,  required  to 
effectively discharge his activities as custodian of securities; 
(c)the applicant has in his employment adequate and competent persons 
who have the experience, capacity and ability of managing the business of 
the custodian of securities; 

  (d)the  applicant  has  prepared  a  complete  manual  setting  out  the  systems 
and  procedures  to  be  followed  by  him  for  the  effective  and  efficient 
discharge  of  his  functions  and  the  arms  length  relationships  to  be 
maintained with the other businesses, if any, of the applicant; 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 38 of 55 

 

 

   

   

  (e)the applicant is a person who has been refused a certificate by the Board 

or whose certificate has been cancelled by the Board; 
(f) the applicant, his director, his principal officer or any of his employees 
is involved in any litigation connected with the securities market; 
(g) the applicant, his director, his principal officer or any of his employees 
has at any time been convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude or 
of any economic offence;  

(h) the grant of certificate is in the interest of investors. 

    2[(gg) the applicant is a fit and proper person;] and 
   
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1) the Board shall 
not consider an application made under regulation 3 unless the applicant 
is a body corporate. 

      3[Criteria for fit and proper person. 
6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the custodian of 
securities is a fit and proper person the Board may take into account the 
criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. 

2.  Apart  from  the  above,  the  applicant  also  need  to  fulfill  the  following 

requirements and furnish the same in the application form A: 

•  details regarding their infrastructure,  
•  Vault security and access control systems 
•  Systems for tracking securities 
•  Risk control and operations manual 
•  Details of independent internal control mechanisms for monitoring, 
evaluation  and  review  of  accounting  safekeeping  and  reporting 
systems and procedures. 

•  Details  of  hardware,  software  and  communications  systems,  their 

capability, function and location; 

•  Details  of  data  storage  and  back  up  procedures  and  sites,  their 

capability, function and location 

•  Details of disaster recovery systems and procedures. 

3.  Some  of  the  requirements  as  mentioned  above  like  setting  up  of 
infrastructure, hardware, software  etc. which the applicant need to fulfill at 
the  time  of  filing  an  application  require  huge  investments  without  having 
any assurance that they would be getting the registration after scrutiny of 
their  application.  Therefore,  based  on  the  submission  made  by  some  of 
the  applicant,  the  division  had  decided  to  process  the  custodian 
application in following two phases: 

 

  

 in-principle approval  

• 
•  Final approval 
 

4.  In the first phase the applicant has to provide all the relevant information 
and  documents  along  with  the  application  form  A  without  making  any 
investment  on  infrastructure  and  systems.  They  only  require  providing 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 39 of 55 

 

 

their proposed infrastructure and systems set up and should comply with 
other eligibility criteria as prescribed in Regulation 6. 

 
5.  Based  on  their  submission  the  division  scrutinize  their  application  and  if 
complies  with  the  eligibility  criteria  as  prescribed  under  Regulation  6  of  
Custodian Regulations, we grant an in-principle approval to go ahead in 
setting up all other requirements like infrastructure, systems requirements 
and  hiring  competent  persons  for  custodian  business  within  12  months 
from the date of in-principle approval. 

6.  On  completion  of  setting  up  of  systems  requirements,  the  applicant  is 
required to undergo a system audit prior to commencement of operations. 
The scope of the work is confirmed in consultation with SEBI. 

7.  Once  the  applicant  fulfills  the  in-principle  conditions,  it  needs  to  file 
documents  evidencing  presence  of  necessary  infrastructure  set  up  to 
support  custody  operations,  confirm  the  presence  of  adequate  and 
competent  persons  to  effectively  discharge  of  activities  as  custodian  of 
securities. 

8.  Once  the  above  documents  are  filed  by  the  applicant  along  with  the 

system audit report, a field visit is made to verify the followings: 

•  Location / address 
•  Manpower & experience, qualification of the key personnel. 
• 

Infrastructure  (Office  space,  Communication  facilities,  Security 
systems,  Insurance  cover,  Hardware  &  Software,  Back  up  and 
disaster recovery etc) 

•  Compliance, operations and risk management mechanism. 

9.  Pursuant  to  the  submission  of  the  field  visit  report  and  based  on  the 
observations made the final approval for the commencement of custodian 
operations is granted. 

7.3 Issue which were deliberated: 

 

 

For  deciding  the  kind  of  entities  which  should  be  permitted  to  offer  custodial 
services and the eligibility criteria, the following points were considered: 

 
1.  Eligible  Category:  The  Custodian  Regulations  do  not  specify  who  can 
apply  for  a  Custodian  registration,  i.e.  does  not  spell  out  the  eligible 
categories  of  persons.  However,  the  application  form  requires  the 
applicants to indicate their category, as one of the following: 

 

 

 

 

 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 

Bank  
Foreign Bank 
Financial Institution 
Others 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 40 of 55 

 

The  intent  of  the  including  these  categories  in  the  application  form  was 
perhaps  to  capture  the  nature/  category  of  the  applicants.  It  was  by  no 
means a restrictive list of categories of persons eligible to apply. As there 
are no restrictions in the custodian regulations, a restriction cannot find its 
way into the framework through the application form.  
 
Further it may be noted that at the time the regulations came into being, 
some  of  the  custodians  were  already  providing  services  to  the  market 
place, an attempts thus appears to have been made to capture the nature/ 
category of the existing custodians while drafting the application form. The 
“other” field was kept open to accommodate, custodians who did not fit in 
the three categories of Bank, Foreign Bank and Financial Institution. 
  
In the past four years SEBI received applications in the “others” category, 
who  are  mainly  Brokers,  NBFCs  or  Corporates.  While  all  these  entities 
meet the primary requirements of the Regulations and are hence eligible 
for grant of registration.  
We  cannot  stand  in  judgement  of  SEBI  decisions  to  give  or  not  give 
Registration to Any class of entities.   
 

2.  Capital  Requirement:  As  per  the  extant  regulations,  the  custodian 
applicant  has  to  fulfill  the  capital  requirement  of  rupees  fifty  crores.  This 
capital  requirement  has  never  been  reviewed  since  1996.    A  need  was 
thus felt to review networth requirements.  
 
As  per  the  Custodian  Regulation,  networth  is  defined  as  paid-up  capital 
and the free reserves as on the date of the application. One of the Core 
Committee  Sub-Group  viz  Sub-Group  – 
II,  after  considerable 
deliberations,  recommended  that  the  Net  worth  requirement  should  be 
specified in two categories: 

a.  Core Capital: which is available at all times with the intermediaries 
and which is used solely for the purpose of creating infrastructure to 
service the market.  

b.  Risk Capital: Similar to broking, each intermediary to have a “risk 
capital” which will be available to them for business risks exposure.  

 
The following additional inputs for the purpose of calculation of core and 
risk capital: 
a.  Core capital computation will consist of paid up capital + Free Reserve 
–  (Miscellaneous  Expenses  to  the  extent  not  written  off  +  inter 
corporate loans and investments) 

b.  Preference shares if the redemption exceeds more than 5 years should 

be included for the purpose of the calculation otherwise not. 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 41 of 55 

 

 

 

c.  The risk capital will be determined as + Paid up capital + free reserve – 
(core  capital  _  mis.  Exp).  The  treatment  of  preference  capital  will 
continue to be the same. 

 
As risk capital is not applicable in case of custodians, the committee may 
deliberate  whether  we  may  replace  the  “networth”  with  “core  capital”  as 
defined above. 

3.  Providing  services  to  the  clients  incidental  thereto:  Most  of  the 
custodian banks are providing Fund Administration Services thought it is 
not  includes  in  the  regulation.  It  is  observed  that  some  of  the  custodian 
banks have taken a specific approval from RBI for doing this. In the past, 
we had also granted to do fund administration services to SHCIL on their 
request. Therefore, we need to include the fund administration services in 
the  regulation  with  certain  conditions  like  who  can  do  the  Fund 
Administration  Services  especially  when  we  allow  brokers,  NBFC  and 
corporate to enter in custodian business.  

4.  Requirement for a vault: The dematerialization of physical securities in 
theory  eliminates  the  need  for  having  a  vault.  However,  as  per  the 
regulation,  the  applicant  necessarily  needs  to  have  a  vault  for  safe 
custody of securities.  

The  committee  would  like  to  deliberate  whether  the  custodian  applicant 
shall continue setting up a vault as required in the regulation. 

5.  Provision  for  in-principle  approval:  As  per  the  existing  Regulations, 
there is no provision for In-Principle approval to applicants. However, we 
had received many applications before the applicant put their systems and 
personnel  and  other  requirements  in  place.  The  Division  with  the 
concurrence  of  the  CoED,  has  granted  in-Principle  approval  to  two 
applicants  out  of  that  one  applicant  was  granted  final  registration  once 
they complied with all other eligibility criteria.    

 

 

 

 

 

 

The  committee  would  like  to  deliberate  on  granting  of  Custodian 
registration in  two phase (in-principle approval & final approval).  

6.  Arms length relationship with other businesses: 

 
As  per  the  Custodian  regulation  the  custodian  of  securities  shall  ensure 
that an arms length relationship is maintained, both in terms of staff and 
systems, from his other businesses. 

 
7.4 RECOMMENDATIONS 
 
7.4.1 Eligible Category: 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 42 of 55 

 

 

 
The role of a Custodian needs to be performed in a highly automated and secure 
manner by reputed parties. The eligibility criteria should include: 
•  Entity’s  prior  experience  in  safekeeping  and  servicing  clients’  assets 
(including  tracking,  providing  alerts  and  managing  corporate  action)  in  any 
form,  viz.  Cash,  Securities.  The  Custodians  role  involves  taking  on  a  high 
degree of operational risk, and entities should have the capability to manage 
the same, e,g., to manage a  
–  Ability to manage financial assets on behalf of end investors.  
–  Well  versed  with  the  functioning  of  the  exchanges  in  India  including  risk 
trade  process, 

management,  settlement  process,  margining, 
settlement guarantee fund etc.. 

–  Active  on  going  asset  servicing  with  system  solutions  to  track  and 

fail 

reconcile. 

–  Hence  imperative  to  have  a  proven  track  record  of  managing  financial 

assets on behalf of clients and capital markets experience. 

• 

Infrastructure Requirements: 
–  Seamless  transaction  processing  between  exchange  systems,  trading 

platforms, the Custodian’s systems etc 

–  Seamless  integration  between  the  cash  and  securities  systems,.  with 

consolidated statement of assets across cash and securities. 

–  Proprietary electronic and SWIFT messaging capabilities  
–  System  capability  to  ensure  end  to  end  STP,  which  is  critical  given  the 

value and volume of financial transactions managed by custodians. 

–  Automated  systems  to  process  both  voluntary  and  involuntary  corporate 

action events. 

 
7.4.2 Capital Requirement: 
 
The  sub  Group  felt  that  the  "networth"  should  be  replaced  with  “core  capital  ". 
The core capital can be set at Rs. 100 Crores.  
 
7.4.3 Providing services to the clients incidental thereto: 
 
The subgroup observed that the fund accounting services provided by custodians 
is  governed  by  the  contractual  agreement  with  the  client,  e.g.  mutual  fund  or 
insurance  company.  Each  activity,  including  valuation  policy,  is  determined  by 
the client. The sub group recommend a process for approving Fund Accounting 
services, while keeping minimum regulations around the same. 
 
7.4.4 Requirement for a vault:  
 
The  subgroup  observed  that  physical  securities  are  still  prevalent  in  India, 
especially  in  cases  like  investments  in  unlisted  companies,  old  physical 
securities,  debt  investments  etc.  Both  domestic  and  foreign  investors  invest  in 
such securities, and will require their custodians to be able to support the same. 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 43 of 55 

 

 

Hence Custodians need to have the ability to manage such physical securities on 
behalf  of  client  and  ensure  their  safe  custody.  Custodians  should  be  able  to 
ensure full physical safety of such securities, and also track & reconcile these for 
purpose  of  ongoing  asset  servicing.    Custodians  should  implement  strong 
safeguard  measures  for  such  securities  including  vault  safety,  physical  & 
premises security, controls against fire and other hazards etc. Hence it was felt 
that the requirement of setting up of a vault should continue, however in view of 
the current dematerialization scenario the specifications for a vault area can be 
reviewed and changed.  
 
7.4.5 Provision for in-principle approval: 
 
The sub group felt that the in-principle approval should be reviewed considering 
the  back  ground  of  the  entity  making  the  application  and  the  preparatory  work 
done by the said entity for the setting up  of the Custodial shop. Subsequently, 
their  infrastructure,  the  system  capabilities  and  the  trained  /  experienced 
resources should thoroughly be reviewed before the final approval. The system 
should  be  compatible  to  handle  security  settlements,  fund  settlements,  holding 
report  generations,  corporate  benefit  accruals 
the  necessary 
reconciliations  in  all  these  fronts  along     with  the  reconciliation  of  the 
Depository and  Custody  holdings.  The  system  should  also  be  compatible  to 
handle settlement in all segments namely Equity Cash / Equity F & O / Debt. 
 
7.4.6  Arms length relationship with other businesses: 
 
The  subgroup  agreed  to  the  current  regulation  and  felt  that  the  arms  length 
relationship should be covered during internal and external audit. The criteria for 
“arms  length”  should  be  explicitly  defined  for  different  types  of  entities  like 
broking, portfolio managers etc. 
 
7.5. Other Points for consideration: 
 
7.5.1  Following  Issues  pertaining  to  Non-Bank  Custodian  were  placed  for 
consideration: 

/  receipts, 

A) It would not be possible to deny registration on the basis of the fact that 
the  applicant  is  a  broking  entity  and  thus  subject  to  conflict  issues,  as  they 
would  in  all  likelihood,  establish  a  separate  subsidiary  which  would  handle 
only  custody  business  and  apply  for  registration.  In  any  case,  many  of  our 
established custodians also have broking registrations, directly as a bank or 
through group/subsidiaries.  
Eligibility  criteria  are  necessary  to  prevent  any  frivolous  entrant  and 
mushrooming  of  custodians.  Also,  as  the  custodial  services  are  a  capital 
intensive  and  technology  driven  business  and  the  custodian  must  have  to 
must  continuously  adapt  their  technology  because  of  the  dynamic  market 
practice and, we don’t want any fake entity to become custodian and want the 
genuine players in the market.  

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 44 of 55 

 

 

 

B) Issues pertaining to brokers granting Custodian registration: Per se    there 
is no heightened risk by allowing brokers to act as custodians. As the market 
has  largely  moved  to  dematerialized  form,  presence  of  DPs  (who  act  on 
instructions of beneficial owners), risk, if any, posed by custodians have gone 
down. 

•  Though  it  may  not  be  applicable  to  reputed  corporate  brokers  (like 
Morgan,  Goldman  etc)  have  their  proprietary  trading  as  well,  seeing 
the  past  practices  of  brokers  in  India  of  utilizing  clients'  securities  / 
funds  for  proprietary  trading,  there  is  a  risk  that  brokers,  if  acting  as 
custodian,  may  use  clients'  securities  for  settling  their  proprietary 
obligations. This risk may be even more if broker is acting as custodian 
and DP both. 

•  Custodians have sensitive information about clients' portfolio. There is 
risk  of  breach  of  confidentiality  of  client  information  if  broker  act  as 
custodian.  Broker  can  use  clients'  portfolio  information  for  its  own 
purposes.  Above  risks  can  be  mitigated  by  enforcing  brokers  to 
segregate their custody function from trading function. Also, custodian 
function  of  broker  should  be  obliged  to  honour  confidentiality  of 
information regarding clients. That is, custody dept of broker should not 
share  clients'  information,  unless  there  is  explicit  consent  from  the 
client,  with  its  trading  dept  unless  such  information  is  required  to  be 
shared for normal clearing and settlement function. 

•  We  have  already  registered  several  brokers  as  DPs,  who  in  the 
dematerialized  environment  are  not  materially  different 
from 
custodians. In terms of FII and Mutual fund regulations, these entities 
necessarily  need  to  appoint  a  SEBI  registered  custodian  for  their 
activities in India. If the custodian services will be with broker and there 
would  be  no  Chinese  wall  between  the  broker  activities  and  the 
custodian  activities,  the  broker  may  use  the  investment  strategy 
adopted by mutual fund and FIIs for their own proprietary investment 
and influence the market. Hence, there arises a conflict of interest. 

•  However,  if  we  directly  deny  giving  registration  to  brokers,  there  are 
possibility  that  they  will  incorporate  a  wholly  own  entity  and  seek 
custodian registration.  

C)  In  terms  of  FII  and  Mutual  fund  regulations,  these  entities  necessarily 
need to appoint a SEBI registered custodian for their activities in India. It 
appears  that  in  view  of  the  increased  assets  being  managed  by  the 
existing custodians, the custodial services is being looked at as a possible 
revenue  source  by  many  entities,  especially  considering  the  volume  of 
business being transacted by FIIs and Mutual Funds. Accordingly, SEBI is 
likely to receive more applications under the “others” category. 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 45 of 55 

 

 
 
 

 

 

7.5.2 The subgroup felt that the following points may be considered:  
 

•  As  also  explained  in  the  beginning  of  this  document  (functions  of  a 
custodians),  there  are  very  significant  differences  between  DPs  and 
Custodians.  Custodians  perform  a  variety  of  functions  over  and  above 
what  a  pure  DP  does,  and  take  on  significantly  more  operational  risk. 
Hence  regulations  have  to  keep  all  these  factors  in  mind  while  granting 
approvals  to  entities  to  act  as  Custodians.  Some  of  these  functions  are 
outlined below: 
–  Check  for  compliance  with  a  number  of  regulations  for  client  trades, 
using  automated  systems  and  processes.  These  activities  are  not 
performed  by  DPs,  who  cater  to  inherently  retail  requirements  vs. 
institutional  as  managed  by  custodians.  E.g.,  monitoring  against 
various  investment  limits  (like  FII  limits,  PIT,  SAST  etc),  RBI  FEMA, 
SEBI Short sale regulations, FDI reportings (FCGPR and FCTRS) etc.  
–  Custodians  also  do  ongoing  asset  servicing  and  track  corporate 
actions  which  DPs  do  not  perform.  This  requires  sophisticated 
technology and use of global messaging protocols to ensure there are 
no errors in the process. 
o  Automated  processing  of  both  voluntary  (e.g.,  Tender  offers, 
buy backs, rights etc) and involuntary Corporate action (Bonus, 
Stock Split, Dividend, Stock consolidation etc).  
o  Automated  notification  process,  adhering 
o  Follow-up of pre-advised voluntary corporate actions 
o  Provide proxy voting services for clients – arranging for casting 
o  Tracking, collecting and posting any income due to clients 

votes across locations, sending details to investors 

electronic and SWIFT standards.  

to  proprietary 

–  Custodians  take  on  the  exchange  obligations  when  they  confirm  the 

trades on behalf of their institutional clients. 

 
8. Manpower: 
 
As  regards  other  aspects,  the  sub-group  was  of  the  view  that  there  should  be 
certain emphasis towards capacity building and towards this importance need to 
be given to qualified manpower and defining the role of compliance officer.  
 
As  regards  manpower  and  competence  it  was  felt  by  the  committee  that  as 
existing  in  certain  foreign  jurisdictions  the  concept  of  certifications  be  adopted. 
While already there were certain certifications mandated presently e.g. as in the 
F&O  Segment,  it  was  felt  by  the  committee  that  in  view  of  NISM  having  been 
established, by year 2010 it would be desirable to mandate certification for every 
person dealing in capital market ought to be qualified in his/her area of operation. 
It was also felt that a relaxation could be allowed for those intermediaries who 
were  not  expected  to  deal  with  public  say  a  broker  engaging  in  proprietary 
trading.  

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 46 of 55 

 

 

 
Regarding,  the  compliance  officer  the  committee  was  of  the  opinion  that  while 
presently the regulations required a compliance officer be appointed, the role and 
compliance  officer  was  not  expressly  defined.  This  assumed  importance 
especially  for  intermediaries  which  were  concurrently  engaged  in  various 
capacities in the capital market and held various certificate of registration under 
the same entity. The committee was of the view that there was need to define the 
role and duties of compliance officer.  
 
It  was  also  felt  by  the  committee  that  there  were  several  complexities  in  the 
present  environment  wherein  an  intermediary  was  expected  to  seek  separate 
approvals  for  every  registration  for  same  type  of  change.  Similarly  there  was 
simultaneous  compliance  of  minimum  eligibility  criteria.  The  committee  was  of 
the opinion that the registration and commencement of activity could be de-linked 
as akin to the listing and trading permission in case of listing of securities on a 
Stock Exchange.  

************* 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 47 of 55 

 

 

REPORT OF SUB GROUP –IV 

 
1 Background 
 
In the first meeting of the Committee on Review of Eligibility Norms (CORE) on 
January 31, 2008, Committee decided to form a sub-group to be headed by Shri 
Uday  Kotak  (Chairman-  Kotak  Securities  Limited)  to  examine  the  functional 
issues relating to various market participants.  
 
The other members of the sub-group were  

1.  Shri R. S. Loona, Managing Partner, Alliance Corporate Lawyers 
2.  Ms Roopa Kudva, MD & CEO, CRISIL 
3.  Ms  Deena  Asit  Mehta,  MD,  Asit  C  Mehta  Invetsment  Intermediaries 

Limited 

Limited 

4.  Ms  Manisha  Girotra,  Chairperson,  UBS  Securities  India  Private 

5.  Dr. M. T. Raju,  In-charge, Indian Institute of Capital Markets 

 
The Group met twice on May 13, 2008 and September 16, 2008 to discuss the 
issue. The Group deliberated on the need  for identification of functional issues 
related  to  market  intermediaries  keeping  in  mind  not  only  the  existing  market 
structure but also the market structure few year down the line so as to visualize 
the role to be played by each intermediary. This futuristic roadmap for the market 
would  help  in  providing  direction  to  the  intermediaries  in  terms  of  capacity 
building. 
 
The  Group  felt  that  intermediaries  could  be  classified  on  the  basis  of  risk 
business and agency business and that risk based business should be linked to 
capital adequacy. Net worth should be related to risk exposure depending upon 
the  role  performed  by  the  intermediary.  There  is  a  need  to  review  regulatory 
requirements  to  enable  intermediaries  to  set  up  branches/subsidiaries  abroad. 
There  is  a  need  to  address  issues  in  the  areas  of  governance,  infrastructure, 
manpower, data security, outsourcing in line with current development and future 
of the market. 
 
In this regard, IOSCO principles (21 to 24) which deal with market intermediaries 
serve as a guide on prescribing entry and other norms to various intermediaries. 
They are given below: 
 

(cid:214)  Regulation  should  provide  for  minimum  entry  standards  for  market 

intermediaries. 

(cid:214)  There  should  be  initial  and  on-going  capital  and  other  prudential 
requirements  for  market  intermediaries  that  reflect  the  risks  that  the 
intermediaries undertake. 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 48 of 55 

 

 

(cid:214)  Market intermediaries should be required to comply with standards for 
internal  organization  and  operational  conduct  that  aim  to  protect  the 
interests  of  clients,  ensure  proper  management  of  risk  and  under 
which  management  of  intermediary  accepts  primary  responsibility  for 
these matters. 

(cid:214)  There  should  be  a  procedure  for  dealing  with  the  failure  of  a  market 
intermediary in order to minimize damage and loss to investors and to 
contain systemic risk. 

to 

In  addition 

 
The  minimum  capital  requirement  for  registration  of  each  type  of  intermediary 
was discussed in detail. It is desirable that “capital adequacy” in relation to the 
volume  of  business  done  is  stipulated  for  all  types  of  intermediaries.  Capital 
adequacy,  thus,  will  consist  of  minimum  capital  required  and  risk  capital.  The 
capital  adequacy  should  be  defined  in  terms  of  Net  Worth  (Balance  Sheet 
Capital). 
the  minimum  capital  required,  additional  capital 
requirement  (risk  capital)  may  be  prescribed  for  each  type  of  intermediary 
depending upon whether the intermediary performs agency type of business or 
otherwise. 
 
The Group felt that SEBI may consider permitting Tier I capital and Tier II capital 
structure  where  Tier  I  consists  of  equity  (owners’  funds)  and  Tier  II  consist  of 
Long  Term  borrowings,  if  the  market  expresses  difficulty  in  rising  the  required 
capital in equity form. 
 
Vision Statement: The vision statement adopted by the Group is  
“Indian  financial  services  industry  shall  gear  up  itself  to  serve  multiple  markets 
offering the whole range of intermediary services to the total satisfaction of client 
using robust, scalable, fail proof technology employing globally competent human 
resources strengthened by market/product/process research and innovation in a 
manner  that  it  is  able  to  withstand  and  better  the  competition  from  global 
organizations in this space.” 
 
2 Recommendations:  
 
2.1 Net worth 
 
The  Group  recommended  the  following  capital  requirement  structure  for  each 
type  of  intermediary  after  discussing  the  risk  of  carried  by  each  type  of 
intermediary.   
 

Type of 

intermediary 

Additional capital 
(Risk based capital)

Remarks 

Capital 
adequacy 
(minimum 

capital 
required) 
Rupees in 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 49 of 55 

 

Stock Broker 

Crore 

5 

Portfolio 
Manager 
(PMS) 
Depository 
Participant 
Registrar 
and  Transfer 
Agent 
Merchant 
Banking 

Underwriter 

Asset 
Management 
Company 
Trustee 

2 

3 

5 

5 

5 

10 

1 

 

In  order 

1. 
to  ensure 
intermediaries are able to 
withstand 
the  market 
risks,  it  is  necessary  that 
adequately 
they 
are 
capitalized. 
  Therefore, 
the  capital  should  not  be 
less  than  12%  to  15%  of 
the  Risk  Assets  net  of 
margins received. Writing 
options  is  a  Risk  Asset. 
Similarly,  all  other  assets 
that 
to 
variations  in  their  value 
due 
like 
deterioration  of  value  of 
underlying assets, market 
price 
fluctuations, 
doubtful 
recovery,  etc. 
are Risk Assets. 
2.  SEBI  may  consider 
prescribing a time line for 
existing  brokerage  firms 
to  capitalize  themselves 
as per the new norm. 
 

prone 

are 

to 

factors 

 

 

 

 

 

(net 

12%  to  15%  of  net 
position 
of 
margin  received).  If 
stocks are received 
in  margin,  30%  to 
50%  haircut  shall 
be  applied  on  the 
mark 
to  market 
value  of  the  stocks 
for 
in  margin 
arriving 
at 
net 
position. 

 

 

 

The 
underwriting 
limit  shall  be  20 
times  the  net  worth 
of the firm 
The 
underwriting 
limit  shall  be  20 
times  the  net  worth 
of the firm 
 

 

At  present  no  minimum 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 50 of 55 

 

to 

if 

 

fund 

net worth is prescribed for 
trustee  company  of  a 
mutual  fund.  The  trustee 
company  shall  have  a 
corpus  of  its  own  to  be 
able 
some 
services it may like to hire 
independent  of  AMC  like 
seeking 
legal  opinion, 
causing  special  audits, 
etc.  However, 
the 
trustee  is  in  the  form  of 
Board  of  Trustees  (not 
being  a  corporate  body), 
the  corpus  of  such  board 
shall not be less than Rs 
one  crore  deposited  in  a 
separate, 
clearly 
identifiable bank account. 
The  sponsors  of 
the 
credit 
agency 
collectively  shall  have  a 
capital  adequacy  of  not 
less than Rs 100 Crore.  
The 
capital  adequacy 
shall  be  in  accordance 
with the capital adequacy 
for  a  bank  as  stipulated 
by  RBI.    No  additional 
capital 
is 
necessary. 
the 
The  sponsors  of 
trusee 
debenture 
collectively  shall  have  a 
capital  adequacy  of  not 
less than Rs 100 Crore. 
 
 

adequacy 

rating 

Company  to 
a 
Mutual 
Fund 

Credit Rating  
Agency 

Bankers 
the Issue 

to 

Debenture 
Trustees 

5 

 

5 

 

 

 

 
 

100 
50 

Depository 
Custodian 
 
2.2 Multiple Activities:  
 
If  any  entity  is  desirous  of  entering  into  multiple  intermediary  businesses,  the 
capital adequacy shall be cumulative. For example, if a broker wants to set up a 
depository participant business, the capital adequacy shall be Rs 5 Crore plus Rs 
3 Crore. If a broker wants to enter into PMS business, the capital adequacy shall 
be Rs 5 Crore plus Rs 2 Crore.  

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 51 of 55 

 

 

 
 
2.3 Registrar and Transfer Agents:  
 
The  group  felt  that  it  is  necessary  to  stipulate  a  higher  capital  requirement 
adequacy for registrar and transfer agents. There is a shortage of good quality 
registrars in the country and existing registrars are not adequately capitalized to 
be  able  to  provide  quality  service.  The  low  capitalization  leads  to  low  recovery 
from  services  and  low  recovery  results  in  lower  standard  of  service  and  this 
vicious cycle can be broken only when the registrars are adequately capitalized. 
The positions on the proprietary book also shall be considered for arriving at the 
capital adequacy.   
 
2.4 Requirement of registration of sub-broker:  
 
The  group  felt  that  sub-broker  need  not  be  registered  unless  such  sub-broker 
issues contract note on its name. As the broker is wholly responsible for the acts 
of the sub-broker (authorized person in case of futures trading), SEBI may leave 
the responsibility of regulating/monitoring the sub-broker to the broker and may 
not be involved in registration. If sub-brokers are allowed to write contract notes 
on  their  name,  or  SEBI  is  of  the  view  that  Sub-broker  registrations  cannot  be 
dispensed  with  immediately  for  any  reason  like  need  to  change  the  legislation, 
etc,  a  new  category  of  agents/franchisee  may  be  introduced  with  an  explicit 
provision that such agents/franchisees need not be registered with SEBI. 
 
2.5 Setting up of branch/subsidiary abroad:  
 
The  group  briefly  discussed  about  the  need  to  set  up  a  policy  for  permitting 
intermediaries to set up branch/subsidiary abroad and recommended that SEBI 
may  set  up  a  suitable  policy.    An  outline  of  the  policy  can  be  on  the  following 
lines: 
 
2.5.1  Expansion for serving eligible investors residing in foreign country 

who want to operate in the Indian market: 

a.  Such  business  can  be  done  by  a  branch  or  subsidiary  of  the  Indian 
intermediary  depending  up  on  the  requirements  of  regulations  in  the 
foreign land. 

b.  All local permissions will have to be taken. 
c.  Such business should extend services only to such clients who are eligible 

to invest/operate in India. 

d.  The 

Indian 

intermediary  shall  submit  an  undertaking 

the 
branch/subsidiary shall be subjected to annual internal audit focusing on 
both operational and compliance audit and that regulator has a right to call 
for a copy of the internal audit report. This audit report shall be separately 
reported to the Audit committee.  

that 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 52 of 55 

 

 

e.  The  clients  shall  be  given 

the  same  protection  as  per 

Indian 

f. 

laws/regulations as if the transactions were conducted in India.  
If  the  regulator  elects  to  inspect  the  branch  functioning  in  the  foreign 
country, all the necessary expenses of such inspection shall be borne by 
the  intermediary.  (The  expenses  shall  include  travel  and  hospitality 
applicable to any employee of the intermediary). 

 

2.5.2  Expansion of business in a foreign country to conduct business in 

the foreign country:  
a.  Such business can be done by a subsidiary of the Indian entity and not 

b.  The  subsidiary  may  acquire  necessary  licenses  and  permissions 

by the Indian entity directly. 

required for the same. 

c.  Investments in such subsidiary by the Indian entity will be reckoned as 

a valid deployment of net worth of Indian entity. 

d.  None  of  the  key  personnel  (other  than  directors)  of  the  Indian  entity 
may  assume  any  position  in  the  subsidiary  that  may  attract  any 
personal liability/disqualification/regulatory focus. 

e.  There shall not be any sharing of any asset/resource that will have an 
effect of impairing local business capability if there is an action on the 
subsidiary by a foreign regulator.  

 
2.6 Code of Conduct for Key Employees:  
 
The  group  felt  that  there  is  a  need  for  prescribing  code  of  conduct  for  key 
employees  employed  by  the  intermediaries  to  regulate  employee  conduct.  The 
intermediaries  are  increasingly  facing  menaces  like  data  tampering,  data 
stealing,  fraud  on  the  clients,  absconding  from  job  without  notice  and  getting 
employed  elsewhere,  etc.  However,  it  is  imperative  that  the  criteria  for 
defining/categorizing a defaulter need to be identified clearly. Every intermediary 
shall have a code of conduct for employees. SEBI may consider issuing broad 
guidelines  on  the  contents  of  the  code  of  conduct.  SEBI,  in  its  inspection  may 
check whether the code of conduct is put in place and the status of implementing 
the same.  
 
2.7 Reference database of defaulter clients:  
 
The group discussed the need for setting up a reference database (like CIBIL) to 
identify the defaulter clients.  At present, there is no database or industry wide 
mechanism that can help intermediaries in identifying the defaulting clients. SEBI 
may  consider  mandating  that  every  intermediary  shall  subscribe  to  such 
database and update the database with the details of defaulting clients such that 
other  intermediaries  may  refer  to  the  database  before  entering  into  any 
relationship with a new client.  Use of PAN as client identity proof is very helpful 
in setting up such a facility. SEBI may consider discussing with CIBIL for creation 
of such facility in the interest of intermediaries. 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 53 of 55 

 

 

 
2.8   In addition to the minimum capital requirements, intermediaries shall build in 
strengths in the area of governance of their businesses, technology, internal 
control, risk management and human resource management. The following 
road map for the development of these competencies may be considered: 

2.8.1  The form of organization shall be a corporate form (company form) 
clearly segregating ownership rights and functional responsibilities. 
Functional  responsibility  shall  be  left  to  competent  individual 
specialists in the areas like like compliance, technology, operations, 
funds management, risk and finance. Person so appointed shall be 
registered  with 
the 
shareholders, board of directors and the regulator. If the entity is in 
to  multiple  businesses,  each  business  should  have  a  principal 
officer  who  shall  be  accountable  to  the  shareholders,  board, 
regulator  and  clients.  The  board  of  directors  should  have 
appropriate representation of independent and executive directors.  

regulator  and  be  accountable 

the 

to 

 
2.8.2  Capital  Market  Intermediaries  are  increasingly  depending  up  on 
Technology  for  delivery  of  quality  service.    Technology  should  be 
given  a  legal  status  and  receive  appropriate  level  of  regulatory 
focus. Use of technology in discharge of regulatory obligations like 
disclosures  to  the  investors,  regulators,  etc  by      communication 
through website; emails; delivery of services using electronic forms 
transaction  processing,    use  of  non-human  forms  of    point  of 
service  like  kiosk,  internet  facility,  etc  should  be  recognized  and 
well 
the  business  entities  can  avoid 
investments in paper based processes. 

regulated  such 

that 

 

 

 
 

 

2.8.3  Every  intermediary  shall  set  up  operational  and  compliance 
manuals  for  each  line  of  activity;  set  up  operations  and  internal 
audit  processes  with  a  focus  on  risk  management  and  risk 
mitigation.  The  persons  in  charge  of  these  functions  shall  be 
adequately senior in the hierarchy and shall be answerable for their 
functions to the board of directors and regulator. 

2.8.4  All  those  employees  who  are  named  as  key  or  accountable  to 
regulator and shareholders shall be qualified in some form and be 
under  the  regulatory  jurisdiction.  It  may  be  in  the  form  of 
certification  or  registration  with  regulator.  This  will  help  regulator 
and intermediary to expect a minimum standard of competence for 
the 
  SEBI  may  evolve  appropriate 
qualification/registration norms for the same. 

line  of  activity. 

 

******************** 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 54 of 55 

 

 

 

CORE COMMITTEE SUBGROUPS REPORTS                                                                     Page 55 of 55 

