REVIEW OF OWNERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE OF MARKET INFRASTRUCTURE 

INSTITUTIONS (MIIs) 

Dr. Bimal Jalan Committee 

 
Stock exchanges in India have a long history of more than 175 years.  These institutions have 
witnessed drastic change in their ownership and governance structure over time, from a purely 
closed  club  of  trading  members  to  full  demutualization,  and  from  an  organization  resembling 
more a self regulatory organization to a SEBI regulated entity. Changes have been made from 
time to time in the management and functioning of the stock exchanges to serve the overarching 
objective  of  market  development,  financial  inclusion,  transparency,  developing  and  operating 
efficient and risk free trading system. Along with stock exchanges other institutions (depositories 
and  clearing  corporations)  which  are  as  much  a  vital  part  of  the  market  infrastructure,  for 
achieving  the  above  objectives  also  developed.  These  institutions  (i.e.,  stock  exchanges, 
depositories  and  clearing  corporations)  are  systemically  important  for  the  country’s  financial 
development  and  serve  as  the  infrastructure  necessary  for  the  securities  market.    These 
institutions are collectively referred to as Market Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs). 
 
Government has issued various Acts and SEBI has prescribed various Regulations from time to 
time for the smooth functioning of these MIIs. These Acts and Regulations have been modified 
from time to time as to respond to the needs of the market and in keeping with financial and 
technological advancement world over. Development is a continuous process and each change 
brings a new challenge.  The case of MII’s has been no different. 
 
Corporatisation has brought to the fore a new conflict between the ‘profit maximization goal’ of 
an Exchange vis-à-vis its ‘regulatory role’.  Exchanges have traditionally been the first line of 
regulators  in  the  securities  market.  With  growing  commercialisation  of  the  exchanges  and  the 
resultant  competition  between  exchanges,  it  would  be  necessary  for  the  market  regulator  to 
recognize  the  possibility  that  exchanges  may  compromise  on  its  regulatory  role  in  its  urge  to 
canvass larger volumes of business from intermediaries and investors.   
 
In many jurisdictions across the world, exchanges as part of the trading infrastructure are viewed 
as  public  utilities.    As  a public  utility, an  Exchange  becomes  the  organization  that  maintains 
the infrastructure, (the trading avenues and platforms and offers services incidental to this) for 
a public service (running a market for securities trading). Internationally, the practice prevalent 
among  regulators  has  been  to  allow  Exchanges  to  pursue  their  commercial  operations,  while 
exercising  regulatory  oversight.    It  has  also  been  argued  that  any  micromanagement  of  the 
commercial operation of exchanges by a regulator might stifle their initiative in contributing to a 
buoyant securities market in India.   

The  SEBI  Board,  in  its  meeting  held  on  December  22,  2009,  (the  detailed  agenda  note  is 
available  at  http://www.sebi.gov.in/boardmeetings/129/corpgovern.html)  decided  to  set  up  a 
Committee  to  look  into  the  above  issues  and  give  suitable  recommendations.  Accordingly,  a 
Committee under the Chairmanship of Dr. Bimal Jalan has been constituted. The Committee has 
decided to adopt a consultative process. Accordingly, a questionnaire has been devised to seek 
the  views  of  market  infrastructure  institutions,  market  participants,  users  and  public  on  the 
concerns  related  to  Ownership  and  Governance  of  Market  Infrastructure  Institutions,  as 
elaborated above. You are requested to forward your responses for the questionnaire to any of 
the following email ids latest by May 10, 2010: 

 

1.  bhartendrakg@sebi.gov.in 
2.  divyav@sebi.gov.in 
3.  vishakham@sebi.gov.in 

Page 1 of 5 

Part –A 

 

(Applicable to all three categories of MIIs) 

 
Functions 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.  Do  you  view  MIIs  largely  as  commercial,  public  utility  or  regulatory  institutions?  What 
kind of ownership and governance norms would enable MIIs in discharging the functions 
for which they were created? 

 
2.  What should be the regulatory function of MIIs in terms of regulating its members/ market/ 

participants/users, etc? 

3.  Which are the functional areas that could be solely demarcated as falling under regulator’s 

supervision vis-à-vis those that falling under the MIIs’ purview?  

4.  Do MIIs typically perform the functions of a SRO as recognized internationally? Do you 
see any potential conflict of interest between the regulatory function and the commercial 
interest of MIIs? Can the conflict of interest be eliminated through specific stipulations on 
structure  and  governance  of  MIIs?  (For  e.g.  erection  of  Chinese  wall  between  the  two 
functions or hiving it off to a subsidiary or transferring to a regulatory body)? 

5.  What other businesses should a MII be allowed to do? Can they set up another MII with 
100% shareholding? What kind of non-MII businesses can they perform? Can they set up 
related businesses such as independent software vendors?  

 
Ownership and governance 
 

6.  How  do  you  place  MIIs  in  India  vis-à-vis  their  international  counterparts?  What  are  the 
major  differences  in  ownership/governance  between  Indian  MIIs  and  their  international 
counterparts? What is your recommendation? 

7.  Does the present ownership restrictions on MIIs need review?  

8.  Which is a better model for ownership? – (a) Diversified ownership (as in the case of stock 

exchanges) or (b) anchor/strategic investor approach (as in the case of depositories).  

a.  In case (b) is suitable for MIIs, what classes of entities can be permitted to be anchor 

investors?  

b.  Should there be lock-in restrictions for anchor investor?  
c.  What  are  conflicts  arising  out  of  private  entities  becoming  anchor  investors?  Please 

recommend measures to address them. 

  

from economic interest?   

9.  Should the shares of MIIs be with differential voting rights so that the control is separated 

 
10. In  the  light  of  the  recent  global  financial  crisis,  and  the  debate  on  management 
compensation, is there a case for enunciating principles for management compensation of 
MIIs?  Should  the  fixation  of  management  compensation  be  entrusted  to  an  independent 
Appointments Committee which reports to the Board of the MII and/or to the Regulator?  
What should the management be accountable for – profitability, regulatory efficiency, etc? 
Please specify. 

Page 2 of 5 

 
11. What  should  be  process  of  appointment  of  Senior  Management  in  MIIs?  Should  the 
regulator  be  involved  in  it?  Can  this  task  be  entrusted  to  an  independent  Selection 
Committee  which  reports  to  the  Board  of  the  MII  and/or  to  the  Regulator?  What  other 
safeguards are to be put in the management framework? Can there be an independent risk 
management Committee (please identify other such sensitive areas) reporting directly to the 
Board of the MII and/or to the Regulator?  

 
 Market structure for MIIs 

 

12. Do  you  perceive  an  optimal  number  of  MIIs  (Number  of  stock  exchanges;  number  of 
depositories; number of clearing corporations), for the Indian Securities Market, taking into 
account the present status as well as growth possibilities in the future? 

13. What should be entry and exit norms applicable to MIIs? 

14.  Are there any regulatory issues arising out of competition such as discrimination by a MII 
against  a  competing  MII  or  any  intermediary  or  technology  provider,  that  needs  to  be 
regulated?  What  should  be  the  norms  to  regulate  relationship  of  MII  with  technology 
providers and intermediaries? 

15. To what extent should commercial functions of a MII be regulated? Specifically, should 

charges and fees levied by MIIs be regulated in a competitive environment?  

16. Is there a case for capping the charges on a ‘cost plus’ basis and/or for capping distribution 

17. There  are  twin  dangers  for  all  MIIs  –  ‘regulatory  race  to  the  bottom  in  the  face  of 
competition’  or  ‘becoming  too  big  to  fail’.  What  safeguards  can  be  built  to  prevent  the 
same. In the case of clearing corporations, are rigorous ‘stress tests’ adequate to address the 
same? 

of profits?  

 

 
Listing 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18. What is the primary objective of listing a MII? What are the alternatives to achieve these 

objectives (transparency being one of the obejctives)?  

Part - B  

(Only for Stock Exchanges) 

1.  Should separate requirements be put in place for QIBs participating in the primary issue of 

stock exchanges and should they be granted positions on the Boards of Exchanges?  

2.  Should foreign stock exchanges be permitted to hold upto 15% or more of the equity shares 

in the Indian stock exchanges?  

3.  Whether the current limit for FII in stock exchanges need a review? What should be the 

manner of participation of FIIs in the equity of stock exchange? 

4.  Should FIIs also be permitted to participate in IPO or FPO of stock exchanges?   
 

Page 3 of 5 

5.  What are the issues arising out of the listing of shares of a stock exchange on itself?  

6.  What are the issues arising out of an MII which has a substantial stake in a stock exchange 

listing on the same stock exchange? 

7.  Should dual listing (including listing of shares of the stock exchange on itself) of shares 

may be considered?  

8.  Whether cross listing is desirable? 

In  respect  of  the  above  queries  on  lisitng,  suggestions/comments  may  be  provided  after 
considering  the  various  models  viz:  committee  model,  company  model1  etc  used 
internationally to address the issue of ‘conflict of interest’.     
 

9.  SEBI broadly prescribes the Board composition in the case of stock exchanges.  Currently 
there  is  a  restriction  on  the  extent  of  representation  by  trading  members  on  the  Board 
(maximum  25%).  The  PIDs  (minimum  25%)  are  empanelled  by  SEBI.  The  balance  are 
shareholder directors. 

a.  Does  the  present  Board  composition  (including  manner  of  appointment  of  the  Board) 
prescribed by SEBI for stock exchanges need a review? If yes, how should separation of 
members, owners and management of MIIs be ensured to avoid conflicts of interest and 
also ensure independence of Board? 

b.  Further, should the same be extended to other MIIs?  

10. Trading Members on the Board of the Exchange can potentially have access to confidential 
information  in  respect  of  trading  information  pertaining  to  other  members  as  well  as 
sensitive information. In light of the above, 

a.  Please elucidate your view on the role of trading members on the Board of the Exchange.   
b.  Should  there  be  any  trading  member  representation  on  the  Board  of  the  Exchange  or 

alternatively, can they be put on a separate Advisory Board to the main Board? 

c.  Should safeguards similar to Insider trading rules be prescribed for trading members on 

d.  What should be the extent of participation of trading members on the various committees 

the Board of the Exchange?  

of the Exchanges? 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Part – C 

(Only for Clearing Corporations) 
 

1.  Should clearing corporations be subsidiaries of exchanges or a completely separate entity? 
What  should  be  the  ownership  restrictions  for  clearing  corporations?  Which  model  is 
preferred and why?  

2.  Is there a case for stipulating the same networth requirement for clearing corporation and 
exchanges  and  depositories  (i.e.,  Rs.  100  crores)  or  is  there  a  case  for  it  to  be  higher? 
Alternatively, a minimum amount of Rs. 100 crores may be prescribed plus an additional 
multiplier based on the number of exchanges or volumes or products that are cleared and 

                                                 
1  For  detials  regarding  various  models,  please  refer  to  Annexure  V  of  the  agenda  note    available  at 
http://www.sebi.gov.in/boardmeetings/129/corpgovern.html 

Page 4 of 5 

settled  through  the  clearing  corporation.  If  the  second  alternative  is  preferred,  kindly 
suggest a suitable formula for determining the same.  

Part – D 

(Only for Depositories) 

1.  Is it desirable to allow Exchanges, (who are in a related business) to own more than 50% of 
the  ownership  of  Depositories,  by  virtue  of  being  a  sponsor  of  the  depository  in  effect 
leading to the depository becoming a subsidiary/ group company of the Exchange?  

 
 

 

 

Page 5 of 5 

