SIMPLIFICATION AND UNIFORMITY IN THE PROCESS OF WEEDING 

OUT/ REJECTION OF APPLICATIONS IN PRIMARY MARKET 

TRANSACTIONS – THROUGH USE OF  

PERMANENT ACCOUNT NUMBER (PAN) 

 
1.0 
 

Introduction 

The Hon’ble Finance Minister, in his announcement in the Union Budget for 

the  year  2007-08,  has  proposed,  inter-alia,  to  make  Permanent  Account 

Number (PAN) as the sole identification number for all participants in the 

securities  market,  with  an  alpha-numeric  prefix  or  suffix  to  distinguish  a 

particular kind of account. 

 

In  the  light  of  the  aforementioned  announcement  and  in  order  to 

strengthen  the  Know  Your  Client  (KYC)  norms  and  identify  every 

participant in the securities market through their respective PAN, thereby 

ensuring  sound  audit  trail  of  all  transactions,  SEBI  has  decided  that  PAN 

would be the sole identification number for  all participants transacting in 

the securities market, irrespective of the amount of transaction.  

 

2.0  Objective 
 

The  objective  of  this  paper  is  to  place  the  proposals  to  simplify  and  to 

bring  about  uniformity  in  the  process  of  weeding  out/  rejection  of 

applications  in  primary  market  transactions  using  PAN,  for  public 

comments.   

 

3.0  PAN in Primary market transactions  
 

SEBI  has,  vide  circular  dated  November  29,  2007,  stipulated  that 

applicants in public issue should disclose their PAN in the application form, 

irrespective of the amount for which application/bid is made, failing which 

the  application  would  be  rejected.  We  are  however  given  to  understand 

that  different  practices  are  being  followed  in  this  regard.    If  PAN  is  not 

mentioned  in  the  application  form  but  is  available  in  depositories’ 

 

1

 

database,  some  issuers  accept  such  an  application.    Conversely  even  if 

PAN  is  mentioned  in  the  application  form  but  it  is  not  available  in 

depositories’ database, the applications are rejected by some issuers.  

An  applicant  in  a  public  issue  is  mandated  to  mention  PAN  in  the 

application  form.  The  application  form  for  applying  through  non  –  ASBA 
mode1  also  calls  for  certain  other  details  such  as  address,  bank 
particulars, age (date of birth), status (IND, NRI, HUF), IFSC (bank) code 

and  father  /  husband’s  name.    The  registrar  separately  captures  certain 

fields such as the application number, syndicate member, broker and sub-

broker code, bank reference number, name(s) of  applicant(s) in full, DP 

ID,  Client  ID,  bid  quantity  (for  all  bid  options),  bid  price  (for  all  bid 

options),  payment  details  (bank,  branch,  cheque  number),  status, 

category of investor, PAN (Only Yes or No), IFSC code and age. 

 

The Registrar carries on the process of identifying rejections, based on the 

grounds  of  rejection  disclosed  in  the  offer  document.    The  basis  of 

weeding out of multiple applications involves cross checking a number of 

fields by the Registrar, such as name of the applicant, age, PAN, address 

of the applicant, DP ID, Client ID, fathers/husband’s name and finally the 

signatures.  

 
4.0  Simplification  and  uniformity  in  the  process  of  weeding  out  / 

rejection of applications  

 

In  order  to  simplify  weeding  out  and  bring  about  uniformity  across 

procedures  adopted  in  rejection  of  applications  in  primary  market 

transactions,  the  following  proposals  are  being  considered  by  SEBI  for 

implementation: 

 
(i) 

The  Registrar  shall  validate  PAN,  DP  ID  and  Client  ID  available  in 

the application form with the said data available in the depositaries’ 

                                                 
1 Non –ASBA mode means applications other than through Applications supported by blocked amount (ASBA) 
mode. ASBA mode is a new mode of making an application through self certified syndicate banks, wherein the 
amount is debited from the account of applicant only upon allotment.     

 

2

database.  If  these  data  do  not  match,  such  application  shall  be 

rejected and not be considered for allotment. 

 

(ii) 

Applications  made  in  public,  preferential  issue  and  in  Qualified 

Institutional  Placements  (QIP)  without  mentioning  PAN  or  with 

invalid or incorrect PAN shall be rejected. 

 

5.0  Public Comments 
 

The proposals contained in this paper are placed for public comments for a 

period of 15 days. Comments/ suggestions may be sent through email at 

the  email  address  DIL@sebi.gov.in  or  to  the  address  mentioned  below 

before May 20, 2009. 

 

 

Corporation Finance Department  

Division of Issues and listing -1 

SEBI Bhavan, Plot No: C – 4A, G Block, 

Bandra Kurla Complex, 

Bandra (East), 

Mumbai - 400 051. 

 

3

