 
 

 
 
 
 

1. 

 
2. 

Securities  and Exchange Board of India 

 

Consultative Paper 
on introduction of  

 

‘Short Swing Profit’ regulations in India 

1st January 2008 
 
 With a view towards incorporating an additional corporate governance measure 
which aligns the interests of a company’s shareholders to that of the  company’s 
insiders,  additional  regulations  are  proposed  to  be  introduced  in  the  SEBI 
(Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations  1992  (the  regulations).  The 
proposed regulation seeks to compel an ‘insider’ to surrender such profits to the 
company in any of his/her transaction concerning equity based securities of the 
company (including it’s parents or subsidiary’s shares) in the event both the buy 
and sell side of the transaction are entered into within six months of the other. A 
similar  concept  is  captured  in  Section  16(b)  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of 
1934  (of  the  United  States),  which  requires  ten  percent  owners,  directors  and 
officers of a company to give up "any profit realized ... from any purchase and 
sale, or any sale and purchase, of any equity security" of the company within a 
six-month period. 

Such a Regulation will check insiders, who have greater access to price sensitive 
company  information,  from  taking  advantage  of  information  for  the  purpose  of 
making short-term profits (short swing profits). It is assumed that insiders have a 
long  term  investment  in  the  company  and  are  not  expected  to  make  rapid 
buy/sell  transactions,  which  are  assumedly  based  on  at  least  some  level  of 
superior  access  to  information,  whether  material  or  not.  Additionally,  as 

 

 

-1- 

           

Securities and Exchange Board of India

 

 
 

 

 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

mentioned above, it will align the long term objectives of company insiders with 
the company shareholders. 

Further, it is proposed that the “Last In First Out” (LIFO) method be adopted for 
determining the six month period between trades.  

Liability  will  be  imposed  without  any  necessity  for  guilt  or  wrongfulness  and 
conversely a direction to surrender profits made in a short swing transaction shall 
not  necessarily  imply  any  form  of  guilt.  The  surrender  of  profits  made  in  such 
short  swing  transactions  shall  be  automatically  imposed  as  a  part  of  good 
corporate  governance  requirement.  The  short  swing  rule  will  get  automatically 
attracted  as  soon  as  two  things  are  established.  First  is  the  fact  of  being  an 
insider  or  a  “designated  insider”  (which  is  elaborated  below).  And  second,  the 
fact  that  the  same  securities  were  bought  and  sold  within  six  months  of  each 
other. In such a regulation, the intent of the person shall be immaterial. Merely 
the  fact  of  the  trade  will  be  sufficient  to  take  action  i.e.  direction  to  make  over 
such profits to the company. Where there is a delay, interest may be payable by 
such insider to the company.  

Additionally,  there  are  two  possible  approaches  with  regard  to  the  constituent 
insiders captured within the ambit of short swing regulations. The concept of a 
“designated  insider”  may  be  considered  for  the  purpose  of  surrender  of  short 
swing profits and it is intended to be narrower than the existing concept of what 
constitutes a deemed insider and broader than what is known as an insider under 
the  present  regulations.  It  is  proposed  that  “designated  insider”  should  capture 
within  its  ambit  all  key  management  personnel  by  whatever  name  called,  all 
directors  of  the  company,  all  officers  of  the  company  who  are  the  beneficial 
owners,  directly  or  indirectly,  of  ten  percent  or  more  of  any  class  of  equity 
securities (“ten percent owner”). Alternatively, all officers of the company as well 

 

 

-2- 

           

Securities and Exchange Board of India

 

 
 

 

 

as all beneficial owners  of the company in excess of  10%  holding,  singly  or  in 
concert, would also be implicated in the definition of designated insider.  

It  is  proposed  that  there  shall  be  an  exemption  of  certain  transactions  from 
amounting to transactions resulting in short swing profits (subject to conditions) 
such as: transactions approved by a regulatory authority, employee benefit plans, 
bona fide gifts and inheritances, mergers and acquisitions etc. Certain securities 
may also be considered as exempt altogether.  

Comments are invited from the public on the consultative paper particularly with 
regard  to  a)  coverage  of  persons  in  the  definition  of  ‘designated  insider’  b) 
method of calculating the dates of purchase and sale c) classes of exemptions. 
The comments may be sent by e-mail  up  to  January  21,  2008  to  the  following 
addresses – 

 
vidishak@sebi.gov.in (Ms. Vidisha Krishan) 

 
Comments may also be sent physically to the following address, so as to reach 
latest by January 21, 2008 –  Ms. Vidisha Krishan, Legal Officer, Legal Affairs 
Department, Securities and Exchange Board of India, SEBI Bhavan, C-4A, 
G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai – 400051.  

 

 

 

-3- 

           

Securities and Exchange Board of India

 
 
6. 

 
7. 

  

 

 

 
 

