Proposal for Fast Tracking the launch of Mutual Fund Products 

 
 

1.  SEBI has specified a standard offer document, giving elaborate instruction on 
the  intended  disclosures  in  the  offer  document,  which  according  to  SEBI 
should be brought to the notice of prospective investors to help them make an 
informed decision.  

 
2.  To  examine  whether  the  existing  process  can  be  compressed  without 
compromising on the quality of disclosures to investors, experiences of other 
regulators were examined. As per the feedback received, the jurisdiction wise 
procedural framework is detailed at Annexure A.  

3.  Customizing  the  framework  available  in  these  countries  to  our  requirement, 
SEBI has prepared a proposal to fast track the launch of products of Mutual 
Funds.  

 
4.  Main features of this process are: 

 

To begin with, it is proposed that we may adopt the fast track model for the 
FMPs (Fixed Maturity Plans), close ended income schemes. These products 
envisage  to  invest  funds  collected  in  debt  and  money  market  instruments 
(MMIs). The asset allocations are standard and most the fund houses have 
existing  schemes.  They  also  constitute  the  bulk  of  the  new  offer  document 
filing with SEBI.  

Present Process 
a.  A  draft  offer  document  (OD) 
[hard  as  well  as  soft  copy], 
standard 
checklist 
observations, 
diligence 
certificate 
AMC, 
undertaking from Trustees under 
regulation  18(4)  alongwith  the 
copy  of  the  receipt  of  the  filing 
fee  is  required  to  be  filed  by 
AMC with SEBI. 

of 
due 
from 

 

 

b.  The  soft  copy  of  draft  offer 
document  is  uploaded  on  the 
SEBI website;  

 
c.  The  observations,  if  any,  are 
issued  to  AMC  to  modify  or 
include  disclosure 
the  OD 
within 21 working days, the AMC 
may  go  ahead  if  it  does  not 

in 

from 

Proposed process 
A final offer document (OD) [hard as 
well  as  soft  copy],  due  diligence 
certificate 
Trustees  with 
additional  due  diligence  certificate 
the  compliance  committee, 
from 
comprising  of  CEO  of 
the  AMC, 
compliance head and fund manager, 
alongwith  the  copy  of  the  receipt  of 
the filing fee is required to be filed by 
AMC with SEBI. 
 

No  change,  except  that  instead  of 
draft  Offer  Documents, 
final  offer 
is  uploaded  on  SEBI 
document 
website. 
Not applicable 

1

 

 

 

receive Observations.  

 
d.  AMC files the revised OD; 
 
e.  Once  SEBI  is  satisfied  with  the 
disclosures  made  in  the  draft 
a 
offer 
communication 
to 
AMC.  

document 
is 

then 
issued 

 
f.  Subsequent 

receiving 

to 
communication 
proceeds  and 
launches 
scheme within six months.  

the 

this 
AMC 
the 

Not applicable 

Not applicable 

that 

in  writing 

Following  the  procedure  as  detailed 
at point a and b, SEBI will confirm to 
AMC 
the  offer 
document  has  been  received  by  it. 
After  this,  the  AMC  would  be  free  to 
launch the scheme.   SEBI, however, 
to  advise 
will 
amendments, 
the 
interest  of  investors,  to  the  Offer 
Document. 

the  power 

required 

retain 

in 

if 

 

Comments/suggestions on the aforesaid proposal may be sent to Mr. Amit Tandon, 
Assistant General Manager, Division of Funds, 3rd Floor, SEBI Bhavan, Bandra Kurla 
Complex,  Bandra  East,  Mumbai  400051  or  emailed  to  amitt@sebi.gov.in  on  or 
before January 15, 2008. 
 

******************** 

 

2

 

Country 
Australia 
 

Malaysia 

US 

UK 

 

Annexure -A 

Framework 

and 

(Australian  Securities 

Under  the  1980’s  style  regime  product  providers  found  difficult  to  meet 
ASIC’s 
Investments  Commissions) 
requirements which were not effectively publicly available. At that point of 
time prospectus were required to be authorized and vetted by ASIC  and 
could not be released to the market until such time as ASIC ‘approved’ the 
prospectus.  The 1990’s saw the abolition of this vetting/approving regime 
and  from  the  time,  prospectus  is  only  needed  to  be  lodged  with  ASIC 
passing  the  full  responsibility  on  ensuring  compliance  with  applicable 
legislation to the product provider. ASIC, however, does retain the power 
to  require  amendments  to  product  disclosure  statements  (PDS)  and  has 
the power to place a ‘stop order’ on any PDS-meaning it is incapable of 
accepting new investments.   
In  Malaysia,  w.e.f.  March  01,  2007,  the  post  vetting  requirement  has 
been  introduced  and  the  requirements  regarding  filing  of  draft  Offer 
Documents  and  conduct  of  pre  vettings  by  Securities  Commission  have 
been removed.  However, Securities Commission has retained the right to 
refuse registration and return the registrable prospectus, if in the opinion of 
the  Commission,  the  standards  of  disclosure  are  found  to  be  wanting  or 
the prospectus is not final / complete.  Accordingly, Securities Commission 
does not look into merits of the fund but gives strong emphasis to ensuring 
full  and  adequate  disclosures  to  assist  investors  in  making  informed 
decisions.  The management company is to take full accountability for the 
accuracy  of  all  information  and  responsibility  to  ensure  that  there  is  no 
omission  of  facts  which  would  make  any  of  the  statements  misleading.  
The  Securities  Commission  adopts  a  declaratory  approach  in  approving 
the  funds  i.e.  the  parties  concerned  would  have  to  declare  that  the 
proposals  submitted  to  Securities  Commission  is  in  full  compliance  with 
the guidelines of the law.  Along with the registrable prospectus, there is a 
requirement  to  send  a  Director  Responsibility  statement  signed  by  all 
directors  and  dated,  among  other  undertakings  and  documents.    The 
management  companies  are  also  required  to  ensure  that  due  diligence 
review with respect to the contents of the prospectus has been carried out 
by an individual professional or Legal Advisor. 
AMC  files  the  draft  offering  document  with  the  U.S.  Securities  and 
Exchange  Commission  (SEC),  they  vet  the  document,  and  they  also  do 
not "clear" it.  The language that is used : 
"The  SEC  has  not  approved  or  disapproved  these  securities  or  passed 
upon the adequacy of this prospectus. Any representation to the contrary 
is a criminal offense." 
In UK with regard to approving the Prospectus document, Financial 
Services Authority (FSA) approves the Fund in concept and whilst they 
require the fund house to file the Prospectus document, and they will 
review it, they will not formally approve it.  Instead the UK has a two stage 
oversight process before the Offer document is filed with the regulator. 
First the fund house need to get external counsel to certify in writing that 

3

they believe the document complies with the rules and secondly the fund 
house need to run the document by the Depositary / Trustee of the Fund – 
always independent of the Manager and has fiduciary responsibility to look 
after the interests of the underlying investors. 
In  Korea  where  there  is  a  self  regulatory  organization  (SRO)  for  mutual 
fund  industry,  the  SRO  goes  through  the  proposed  offer  documents  and 
after its approval the offer document is filed with the regulatory authority.  
Thereafter, the schemes are launched.   

***************** 

4

Korea 

 

 

