Securities  and Exchange Board of India 

 

Consultative Paper 

amendments to SEBI  

on 

 

(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations 1992 

 
 
1.   On  1st  January  2008,  SEBI  came  out  with  a  consultative  paper  to  introduce 
“short swing profit” regulations by amendment to the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations 1992 and sought public comments on the same. In addition 
to the proposal of 1st January, public comment is being sought on several other 
proposed amendments to the regulations.  

 
2.  Amendments were carried out in 2002 to the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations 1992 (the regulations) to introduce a wide range of prophylactics 
and corporate governance norms.  

3.  Over the course of the past few years since the amendment, there have been 
some new learnings in terms of the way the regulations have played out in the 
market.  The  key  amendments  brought  in  processes  which  would  reduce  the 
possibilities of insider trading by means of an institutionalized methodology e.g. 
pre-clearance of trades, black-out  windows  of  trading,  disclosure  of  buy/sell  by 
certain  insiders,  appointment  of  compliance  officer  and  a  catena  of  other 
provisions.  

4.  There  have  been  several  instances  of  persons  of  high  integrity  committing 
unintended violations of these provisions. Thus, we need to be sensitive to the 

 

 

 

-1- 

           

Securities and Exchange Board of India

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

fact that perhaps the norms have been set so high that even experts are unable 
to  keep  track  and  be  in  compliance  with  these  standards.  This  is  an  important 
issue as criminal jeopardy is attached to such corporate governance violations. In 
addition, there is a need to move towards a more principle based approach to 
regulations rather than a rule based approach, particularly in matters of corporate 
governance. 

 

5.  In addition, some regulations are also proposed to be introduced.  

 
Background  

6.  The  2002  amendments  to  the  Regulations  provide  extensive  suggestions  and 
regulations.  Most  of  the  good  governance  provisions  are  provided  for  as 
mandatory provisions. Briefly, the good governance regulations provide for: 

a) Officer, director and substantial shareholder to disclose their holding on 
certain events or at certain intervals. 
b) Appointment of a compliance officer. 
c) Setting forth policies and procedure to restrict the possibility of abuse of 
insider trading. 
d) Monitoring and pre-clearance of trades by the designated persons. 
e) Restrict trading by such insiders within a certain period of time i.e. 
before corporate announcements, buybacks etc. are made. 
f) The company has to convey all the significant insider activity and 
corporate disclosure in a uniform publicly accessible means to the public – 
and to the stock exchange. 
g) Chinese walls within a firm to prevent one part of the firm which deals in 
sensitive information from going to other parts of the firm which have an 
inherent conflict of interest with such other parts. 
h) Minimum holding period of securities by insiders. 
i) No selective disclosure to analysts. Wide dissemination of information. 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

-2- 

           

Securities and Exchange Board of India

7.  Provided  below  is  an  analysis  of  some  of  the  provisions  of  good  governance 

regulations and proposals for amendments. 

Officer, director and substantial shareholder to disclose their holding on 
certain events or at certain intervals. 

8.  There should be some coordination between the requirements of acquisition/sale 
of  shares  reported  in  these  regulations  with  the  requirements  of  the  takeover 
regulations. In fact the takeover reporting is broader since it mandates reporting 
by any person over certain thresholds and also requires reporting by a group – a 
concept  not  introduced  in  these  Regulations.  However,  the  insider  trading 
Regulations  provide  for  disclosure  of  smaller  amounts  and  provides  for 
disclosure  on  selling  shares  (something  which  the  takeover  code  does  not 
mandate).  
Proposal:  It  is  suggested  that  a  purchase  disclosure  made  under  either 
regulations (with the same or higher level of disclosure) should be deemed to be 
is  also  proposed 
good  disclosure  under 
the 
harmonization between the two in terms of threshold limits set.  
Regulatory Impact Assessment: As there is a proposal to harmonise the two 
regulations, there is expected to be neither a substantial change in the burden on 
insiders nor will there be a dilution of the rights of investors. To the extent of 
deemed disclosure, there will be a reduction in cost without any reduction in 
benefit to investors. 

the  other. 

It 

to 

increase 

Restriction on trading by insiders within a certain period of time i.e. before 
corporate announcements, buybacks etc. are made. 

9.  The  wordings  of  the  regulations  may  freeze  trading  in  sometimes  rather  large 
windows. The Regulations should not asphyxiate legitimate trading by insiders. 
As  trading  by  insiders  and  employees  aligns  their  interests  with  those  of  the 
company and should be encouraged if there is no improper behaviour. Provided 
below are the relevant clauses pertaining to the trading window: 

 

 

 

-3- 

           

Securities and Exchange Board of India

 

 

 

 

 
 

3.2 Trading window 

3.2.1 The company shall specify a trading period, to be called 
"Trading Window", for trading in the company’s securities. The 
trading window shall be closed during the time the information 
referred to in para 3.2.3 is unpublished. 
3.2.2 When the trading window is closed, the employees / directors 
shall not trade in the company's securities in such period. 
3.2.3 The trading window shall be, inter alia, closed at the time of:- 
(a) Declaration of Financial results (quarterly, half-yearly and 
annual) 
(b) Declaration of dividends (interim and final) 
(c) Issue of securities by way of public/ rights/bonus etc. 
(d) Any major expansion plans or execution of new projects 
(e) Amalgamation, mergers, takeovers and buy-back 
(f) Disposal of whole or substantially whole of the 
undertaking 
(g) Any changes in policies, plans or operations of the 
company 

10. Issuance of (non cash) bonus/rights shares may have no real effect on the price 
of the security and therefore there is no need to have an automatically restricted 
window for that purpose. Since the list given in clause 3.2.3 is inclusive, where 
the  management  believes  that  such  issue  will  be  in  fact  price  sensitive,  they 
would be free to create an appropriate window freeze.  In addition sub-clauses 
(d) to (g) above appear broad and could cause unnecessary problems. To give 
an example, a company which makes a large gas find, in one grid, does not want 
to disclose that fact so that it can buy the neighbouring grids at a bargain price. It 
therefore,  for  a  valid  business  purpose  keeps  the  find  a  secret  for  six  months. 
Even though the directors who know about the find would be expressly prohibited 
from trading in the securities under the substantive provisions of the regulations, 

 

 

 

-4- 

           

Securities and Exchange Board of India

 

 

 

 
 

all employees (who do not know) too would be barred from trading for six months 
in the shares of the company.  An auto company comes out with secretive plans 
for  introducing  ‘new  age’  models  almost  every  month.  Such  companies  would 
never allow employees to trade in their shares because there is a closed window 
for  any  ‘execution  of  new  projects’.  This  does  not  in  any  way  effect  the 
substantive  provisions  which  restrict  insider  trading  –  which  will  of  course 
continue to be strictly  prohibited. 
Proposal: It is proposed that the phraseology of the above clauses be tightened 
so  that  harmless  transactions  are  no  implicated  in  the  prohibitions  imposed.  In 
addition, issue of bonus shares being a book entry, may have no impact on the 
price  (there  is  correlation  rather  than  causal  connection  if  any),  reference  to 
bonus issue and rights issues may be removed from the list. Management of a 
company  would  in  any  case  create  such  window  freeze,  where  it  believes  that 
such freeze would be necessary. This would be in line with a principles based 
approach rather than a rule based approach.  
Regulatory  Impact  Assessment:  Presently,  the  regulations  appear  rigid  and 
broad  and  thus  restrict  harmless  acts  of  a  class  broader  than  classic  insiders. 
Also certain non-price sensitive information invokes trading window bans. In both 
cases  the  costs  outweigh  any  regulatory  benefits  and  are  proposed  to  be 
rationalized and made more principle based.  

Pre clearance of trades 

11. Certain  provisions  are  made  for  clearing  of  trades  if  certain  officers/employees 
engage in trading of shares of their own company. To cite from Schedule I, Part 
A. 

“3.3.1  All  directors/officers/designated  employees  of  the  company  who 
intend  to  deal  in  the  securities  of  the  company  (above  a  minimum 
threshold  limit  to  be  decided  by  the  company)  should  pre-clear  the 
transactions as per the pre-dealing procedure as described hereunder. 

 

 

 

-5- 

           

Securities and Exchange Board of India

 

 

 

 
 

3.3.2  An  application  may  be  made  in  such  form  as  the  company  may 
notify  in  this  regard,  to  the  Compliance  officer  indicating  the  estimated 
number  of  securities  that  the  designated  employee/  officer/  director 
intends  to  deal  in,  the  details  as  to  the  depository  with  which  he  has  a 
security account, the details as to the securities in such depository mode 
and  such  other  details  as  may  be  required  by  any  rule  made  by  the 
company in this behalf. 
4.1 All directors/officers /designated employees shall execute their order in 
respect of securities of the company within one week after the approval of 
pre-clearance is given. If the order is not executed within one week after 
the approval is given the employee/ director must pre clear the transaction 
again. 
4.2  All  directors/officers 
their 
investments in securities for a minimum period of 30 days in order to be 
considered  as  being  held  for  investment  purposes.  The  holding  period 
shall also apply to subscription in the primary market (IPOs). In the case of 
IPOs,  the  holding  period  would  commence  when  the  securities  are 
actually allotted. 

/designated  employees  shall  hold 

12. Once  securities  are  pre-cleared,  there  is  no  necessity  of  prescribing  just  one 
week  for  the  trades  to  occur.  This  would  expose  the  employees  /  officers  to 
unnecessary market timing risk. Experience from the market seems to suggest 
that it is not uncommon in large institutions for officers to get their approval for 
trading after several weeks or even months from the date of application. Given a 
one week window to execute their orders would penalize employees with market 
timing risk while trading in their own company’s stock.  
Proposal:  The  company  should  be  free  to  determine  their  own  methodology 
within  an  outer  time  frame.  The  window  permitting  execution  of  trades  may  be 
changed  to  4  weeks  or  such  shorter  period  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the 
company through internal policy. 

 

 

 

-6- 

           

Securities and Exchange Board of India

 

 

 

 
 

Regulatory Impact Assessment: Presently, the regulations appear restrictive 
and thus impose a risk on employees to transact within a short window after 
approval is received from the company. This exposes the employee to sell at 
possibly inopportune times or restart the long process of obtaining another 
permission. It is proposed to rationalize the trading window to reduce this market 
risk which may be decided by a company with an outer limit. Thus where 
companies are smaller and more responsive they may choose to retain a shorter 
window, while slower/larger companies may choose to retain a longer duration 
window for employees.  
 
Designated or qualified brokers. 

13. To  facilitate  compliance  with  the  new  reporting  of  transactions,  issuers  should 
either designate a single broker through whom all transactions in issuer stock by 
insiders must be completed or require insiders to use only brokers who will agree 
to the procedures set out by the company. A designated broker can help ensure 
compliance  with 
the  company’s  pre-clearance  procedures  and  reporting 
obligations  by  monitoring  all  transactions  and  reporting  them  promptly  to  the 
issuer.  If  designating  a  single  broker  is  not  feasible,  issuers  should  require 
insiders to obtain a certification from their broker that the broker will: 

• 

• 

Verify with the issuer that each transaction entered on behalf of the insider 
was precleared; and 
Report immediately to the issuer the details of each of the insider’s 
transactions in the issuer’s securities. 

Proposal: It is proposed that the regulations be amended to introduce either 
designated brokers’ empanelment or building a reporting system between a 
company and specified brokers. Public comments may address the desirability of 
such introduction as also which method may be specified. 
Regulatory Impact Assessment: While imposing either standard proposed is 
likely to impose some additional costs in terms of flexibility to execute trades by 

 

 

-7- 

           

Securities and Exchange Board of India

 

 
 

 

 

insiders, the benefits of a closer connection between the executing broker and 
the company would likely exceed such costs. 

Derivatives amendments 

14. Parts of the regulations refer to ‘shares’ instead of ‘securities’ for the purpose of 
disclosures. For instance, one could, using derivatives, economically buy/sell the 
shares without physically trading in those shares. Similarly, one can easily create 
synthetic  securities  with  the  same  (or  higher)  economic  impact  as  an  equity 
share  of  a  company  often  with  a  high  leverage.  By  reclassifying  shares  into 
securities for the purpose of disclosure, one can eliminate the problem because 
securities  are  defined  to  include  equity,  quasi-equity,  derivatives  and  any 
combination  of  the  three.  Pure  debt  instruments  can  be  excluded  specifically 
from the disclosure regulations, while they would continue to be included in the 
substantive violation provisions of Regulations 3 and 4. Thus an insider holding 
debt, and while aware of a problem in the solvency/rating of the company, sells 
such debt securities would continue to be liable under the prohibition.  

Proposal: It is proposed that the regulations be amended to broaden the class of 
securities beyond shares as the present regulations leave out disclosure of a key 
means of taking an exposure to the economic interest in shares and that too on a 
leveraged basis (i.e. higher exposure).  
Regulatory Impact Assessment: The drafting appears to miss the disclosure of 
derivatives positions by insiders as exchange based derivatives trading began 
only in June of 2000. The proposal corrects this important shortcoming in the 
securities market regulation where the regulation.  

Tippee liability 

15. The regulations prohibit persons from tipping people about inside information by 
insiders i.e. the tipper. However, there seems to be no liability for a person who 
improperly receives a tip i.e. a tippee from trading. There is a vague prohibition 

 

 

 

-8- 

           

Securities and Exchange Board of India

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

against  ‘procurement’  of  information.  However,  it  does  not  clearly  prohibit  a 
tippee from trading. 
Proposal: It is proposed that the language of the regulation may be improved by 
way of clarification to specifically penalize a tippee of information from trading.  

The penal clause 

16.  Regulation 14 creates a substantive violation under S. 24 of the Act so that one 
can  in  theory  go  to  jail  for  10  years  for  violating  simple  or  process  oriented 
provisions. 

Proposal: Presently, the corporate governance standards contained in 
Regulations 12 and 13 is made a violation of not only S. 11 but also of S. 24 viz. 
criminal prosecution. It is recommended that such a harsh consequence for 
process based violations is inappropriate. It is proposed that criminal penalties 
attached to corporate governance measures may be deleted while the other 
powers of monetary penalties and directions are continued. In addition it is 
proposed to let companies make a standardized disclosure in their annual report 
as to how much of the Schedule they are not in compliance with. This will allow 
the markets to decide whether to economically  penalise companies which do not 
have these process oriented safeguards in place and will take us a step forward 
towards the Efficient Capital Markets Hypothesis. It goes without saying that 
criminality will continue to attach to substantive violation of insider trading 
prohibitions. 
Regulatory Impact Assessment: The costs of criminal sanction on lack of 
proper processes and corporate governance employed appears excessive and 
disproportionate to the violation and the proposal will rationalize the 
proportionality attached to violations by restricting them to monetary penalties 
and directions instead of criminal sanction.  

Disclosure - key means of enforcement of process 

 

 

 

-9- 

           

Securities and Exchange Board of India

 

 

  

 

 

 
 

17. Standards of corporate governance should be left at the helm of the managers of 
the  company.  What  should  be  mandated  should  be  a  statement  in  the  annual 
report of the degree of compliance with the standards set forth in the Schedule. 
Thus  companies  which  do  not  follow  corporate  governance  guidelines  in 
substance would be penalized by its shareholders. 
Proposal: There should be a disclosure standard on which areas of the norms 
set in the schedule have not been implemented by the company in its annual 
report. This may be provided by amending Clause 49 (VI) of the listing 
agreement to provide for such disclosure. 
Regulatory Impact Assessment: As regulations move towards an increasingly 
disclosure based and principle based regime where investors assess and value 
companies based on good corporate governance and in view of the proposal to 
negate criminality from good governance measures, the proposal to introduce fair 
disclosure  of  non-compliance  will  likely  positively  impact  investor  information 
while imposing a burden by means of market price on non-compliant companies 
and their management.   

 
Comments are invited from the public on the above proposals. The comments may be 
sent by e-mail upto 27th March 2008 to the following addresses – 
 
santoshs@sebi.gov.in (Mr. Santosh Shukla) Dy. Legal Adviser 
vidishak@sebi.gov.in (Ms. Vidisha Krishan) Legal Officer 
 
Comments may also be sent physically to the following address, so as to reach latest by 
27th March 2008 –  
 

Mr. Santosh Shukla, Deputy Legal Advisor, 
Legal Affairs Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan,  
C-4A, G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex 
Mumbai – 400051 

 

 

-10- 

           

Securities and Exchange Board of India

 

 
 

 

 

