Report of the Committee to Study  

The Future of Regional Stock Exchanges (RSEs) – Post 

 
 

Demutualisation 

 

 

 

                   

 

 

Executive Summary  

 
 
 

Introduction 

1.  A  stock  exchange  in  India  is  recognized  by  the  Central  Government  under  section  4  of 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (SCRA) for the purpose of assisting, regulating 
or controlling the business of buying, selling or dealing in securities, after it is satisfied that it 
would be in the interest of the trade and also in the public interest to grant such recognition. 
This power to grant recognition to a stock exchange can also be exercised by SEBI. Over a 
period  of  time,  stock  exchanges  came  to  be  set  up  almost  in  every  State.  These  stock 
exchanges  set  up  regionally  were  known  as  the  Regional  Stock  Exchanges  (RSEs). The 
objective  of  establishing  the  RSEs  was  to  enable  regional  companies  in  the  respective 
geographical locations to raise capital and to help spread the equity cult amongst investors 
across the length and breadth of the country. However, with the various changes in the capital 
market micro structure, the scope of operations of the RSEs became limited. The trading in 
these RSEs had also dwindled over the past several years. (Para 1.1) 

 
  Reasons for the formation of the Committee 
2.  The stock exchanges are now completing the process of corporatisation and demutualisation.  
It  was  found  necessary  to  examine  the  role  and  relevance  of  RSEs  in  the  changed 
circumstances and the productive utilization of the available infrastructure in these RSEs.  In 
order to deliberate on these issues and make suitable recommendations in this regard, SEBI 
constituted  a  Committee  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri  G.Anantharaman,  Whole  Time 
Member, SEBI.  The other members of the Committee are: 

i.  Shri M.R.  Mayya, Former  Executive  Director-  Bombay  Stock  Exchange  and  Former 

Chairman - The Inter Connected Stock Exchange Ltd. 

ii.  Shri  Sandeep P. Parekh, Advocate, Supreme Court of India, and visiting faculty, Indian 

iii.  Shri Ramu Sharma, Director - Bangalore Stock Exchange Ltd. and Chairman, Federation 

Institute of Management, Ahmedabad. 

of Indian Stock Exchanges (FISE) 

iv.  Shri J. Jayaraman, Chartered Accountant, Ahmedabad 
v.  Shri Rajnikant Patel, MD and CEO, BSE Ltd. - co-opted as a member. 
vi.  Shri Manas S Ray, Executive Director, (OSD) SEBI, Mumbai - co-opted as a member. 
vii.  Prof.  Mousumi  Ghosh,  Professor,  Finance  &  Control,  IIM-  Calcutta  (ceased  to  be  a 

member from March 14, 2006) 

viii.  Shri Pratip Kar, Executive Director, SEBI, Mumbai – Member Secretary. (Para 2.1) 

Terms of reference of the Committee 

 
3.  The terms of reference of the Committee were as under: - 

to review and examine - 

• the future role of the RSEs and their subsidiaries  – post demutualisation, keeping in view 

the legal requirements of the SCRA; 

• the manner of dealing with the assets of the RSEs in the event of withdrawal of recognition;  
• the  qualitative  and  quantitative  restrictions  to  be  specified,  if  any,  for  limiting  the 
investment  or  voting  rights  of  prospective  investors  in  the  process  of  divestment  of  the 
shareholding of the RSEs.  

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation      

 

 

 

i 
                   
 

 

• The  terms  of  reference  as  above  would  include  certain  related  issues  incidental  to  the 
course of demutualisation as well and resolution of such issues considered essential to the 
issues arising post-demutualisation. (Para 3.1)  

 

Present status of the RSEs  

4.  Out of the 22 recognised stock exchanges in India (SEBI has refused renewal of recognition 
to Mangalore Stock Exchange), NSE and BSE account for almost 100% of the total turnover. 
As far as RSEs are concerned, except for the Calcutta Stock Exchange (CSE) and the Uttar 
Pradesh Stock Exchange (UPSE), there is no trading on any other stock exchange and even 
on the CSE and UPSE, the business is down to a trickle. The financial condition of the RSEs 
is by and large also weak. This state of affairs has been preva iling for the past several years. 
Three factors have been primarily responsible for this: a) the advent of automated trading and 
extension of nationwide reach of BSE and NSE which offered a large and liquid market to 
investors across the country; b) the introduction of uniform rolling settlement from June 2001 
in place of account period settlement with varying settlement cycles and c) the abolition of 
the concept of regional listing. (Paras 6.1 and 6.2)  

Initiatives taken for the revival of the RSEs  

5.  Considering  that  the  RSEs  had  invested  substantially  in  the  infrastructure,  which  included 
building,  hardware  and  software  for  automated  trading,  several  initiatives  were  taken  to 
revive  these  exchanges  so  that  the  infrastructure  could  be  put  to  productive  use. The first 
among them was the setting up of the ICSE platform to regroup the RSEs to provide a third 
national  market.  The  ICSE  was  promoted  in  1998  by  14  RSEs  for  providing  an  additional 
trading platform where the shares listed on any of these 14 exchanges would be traded. The 
ICSE was thus conceptualised as a stock exchange to provide a common trading platform to 
members of all participating stock exchanges, mainly with the objective of boosting trade in 
the securities listed on the participating stock exchanges. It was felt that such trading across 
different  stock  exchanges  would  generate  renewed  trading  interest  among  investors  by 
providing  them  an  opportunity  to  trade  in  large  number  of  shares  that  were  listed  on  the 
participating  exchanges.  But  this  did  not  happen.  The  existing  regional  order  books  of  the 
participating  exchanges  continued.  This  fragmented  the  order  book  and  thus  depleted  the 
liquidity  in  the  shares  exclusively  listed  and  traded  on  the  RSEs.  On  account  of  lack  of 
liquidity, ICSE did not succeed. (Para 7.1)  

 
6.  The second effort was to permit the RSEs to set up broking subsidiaries which could pool the 
financial resources of regional brokers and of the exchanges and obtain membership of the 
BSE and NSE. The regional brokers could then act as sub brokers to the subsidiaries (which 
had registered as brokers) and have access to the markets of BSE and NSE. Even the ICSE 
set up such a broking subsidiary. Though the scheme maintained the purity of the functions of 
the  exchanges,  though  dysfunctional,  most  subsidiaries  became  successful  brokers  in  the 
market  of  other  exchange(s).  Although  the  subsidiaries  were  basically  brokers,  there  were 
several differences between them and corporate broking firms, primarily because these were 
subsidiaries of the stock exchanges. (Para 7.2) 

 
7.  SEBI took the initiative to encourage the BSE and the smaller stock exchanges to set up the 
BSE  Indo  Next  trading  platform  as  a  separate  trading  platform  under  the  present  BOLT 
trading system of the BSE. It was a joint initiative of the BSE and the Federation of Indian 
Stock  Exchanges  (FISE)  of  which  18  RSEs  are  members.  The  BSE  IndoNext  market  was 
intended to be an SME specific market. The BSE IndoNext trading platform was supposed to 
be implemented in phases. But it has not yet gone beyond the first phase in which the major 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        ii 

shares transferred are from the B1 and B2 group of the BSE and only a few shares of some of 
the RSEs have been transferred. (Para 7.3) 

 
8.  The  Committee  appraised  itself  of  the  present  status  of  the  RSEs  in  the  light  of  the 
discussions  with  all  the  RSEs  as  well  as  with  the  BSE,  NSE  and  OTCEI  and  the  written 
submissions  made  by  them.  Analysis  of  the  financial  conditions  of  the  RSEs  and  their 
subsidiaries, and of the listing, trading and compliance status of the companies listed in these 
RSEs  was  equally  important  for  a  complete  appreciation  of  the  present  conditions  of  the 
RSEs and the choices available with the subsidiaries. (Para13.1.1) 

 
9.  The  Committee  notes  that  the  RSEs  were  established  with  the  objective  of  providing a 
regional  market  for  raising  capital  by  companies  in  the  respective  regions  by  garnering 
regional savings to help achieve a balanced regional development and to spread the equity 
cult among investors in the country. This objective has been fairly served by the RSEs for a 
length of time. But with the advent of modern telecommunication and information technology 
and the symbiotic interaction of technology and the markets, which facilitated a fundamental 
transformation of the market micro structure, the scope of the RSEs became limited till they 
virtually lost their relevance. (Para13.1.2) 

 
10.  The  Committee  recognises  that  even  internationally,  and  precisely  for  similar  reasons,  the 
RSEs  have  had  a  chequered  past  and  over  a  very  short  period  of  time  became  moribund 
before the burgeoning growth of the national stock exchanges with national and international 
reach. This prompted a move towards consolidation of RSEs. (Para13.1.3) 

 
11.  The above situation naturally raises the basic question on the  raison d’être of the RSEs and 
their subsidiaries in the present market structure. When this question was posed before the 
RSEs, it did not evince any convincing response. They did not come with any specific viable 
business plan for the revival of the RSEs excepting pinning hopes on a future which might be 
bright. The Committee also notes that there are certain deeply embedded behavioral issues 
which continue to dominate the mind set of the members of the RSEs and they seem to be 
coming in the way of some of the RSEs accepting the reality which demands sub-ordination 
of their individual and independent identity before the larger interest of the very survival of 
the RSEs.. Indeed, it was this attitude coupled with the equally uncompromising attitude of 
the  business  partners  which  were  responsible  for  the  failure  of  the  various  rehabilitatory 
measures taken in the past for the revival of the RSEs. Equally the members of the RSEs, by 
virtue of their access to national trading platforms through the subsidiary route did not find 
any incentive to trade and promote trading in the RSEs. (Paras13.1.4, 13.1.5) 

 
12.  There  have  also  been  serious  regulatory  concerns  from  time  to  time  on  the  functioning  of 
some of the RSEs. These regulatory concerns had led SEBI to take recourse to the extreme 
measure of superseding the governing boards of some exchanges and even to withdraw the 
recognition in the case of one RSE. These regulatory concerns still remain in the case of some 
of  the  RSEs  where  the  members  continue  to  remain  recalcitrant  and  resort  to  undesirable 
market and governance practices. (Para13.1.6) 

 
13.  Although the RSEs have ceased to perform the basic economic function for which they were 
set up, their continued existence by itself, necessitates regular on site and off site regulatory 
monitoring and surveillance. Regulatory resources are thus thinly spread and the attention of 
the  regulator  is  diverted  from  more  emergent  issues  to  grappling  with  such  routine  issues 
which relate to dysfunctional entities. (Para13.1.7) 

 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        iii 

14.  It was clear to the Committee that any solution to the conundrum posed by the RSEs, must 
encompass all the issues delineated above including the deeply embedded behavioral issues. 
Equally,  such  solutions  must  not  only  be  practicable  and  implementable  but  also  eschew 
adhocism and discretion which had informed and also thwarted some of the past initiatives 
for revival of the RSEs. (Para13.1.7)  

 

Recommendations  

 
15.  The Committee feels that (a) such of the RSEs which do not want to continue as exchanges 
should be given an exit option, (b)  the recognition of such of the RSEs which are notorious 
for  their  rank  indiscipline  besides  giving  rise  to  serious  regulatory  concerns  should  be 
compulsorily withdrawn and (c) a continuing option may be given to such of the RSEs which 
have  the  potential  and  the  willingness  to  participate  in  any  alternate  trading  platform. 
(Para13.1.8) 

 
16.  The Committee is strongly of the view that it does not serve either the interest of trade or 
public interest, to forcibly keep alive the recognition of an exchange which does not have any 
potential for survival and is keen for an exit option or is posing to be regulatory burden. The 
Committee therefore recommends that (a)  such of the RSEs which do not want to continue as 
an exchange, should be given an exit option by withdrawing their recognition upon a specific 
request or application made by them; (b) recognition should be withdrawn compulsorily for  
such of the RSEs which are notorious for their rank indiscipline besides giving rise to serious 
regulatory concerns and (c)  the recognition of those RSEs which have the potential and the 
willingness to participate in any alternate trading platform may be continued. The Committee 
is  of  the  view  that  sections  4  and  5  of  the  SCRA  sufficiently  empower  SEBI  to  withdraw 
recognition  for  both  the  category  of  exchanges  whether  an  exchange  is  recognized 
permanently or from year to year. (Para13.1.9) 

 
17.  The Committee feels that the withdrawal of recognition to the above two categories of RSEs 
would  help  clean  up  the  system,  besides  reducing  the  regulatory  hazard  to  the  investors, 
various regulators including tax authorities and the government. The issue of distribution of 
assets would become relevant in the eventuality of withdrawal of recognition for any reason. 
There  is  at  present  no  provision  for  such  distribution  either  under  the  SCRA  or  within  the 
regulatory framework of SEBI. As distribution of assets would be an impending consequence 
of any withdrawal of recognition of a stock exchange, there is an urgent need to formulate a 
permanent and appropriate scheme. The Committee therefore recommends that suitable rules 
be  formed  under  section  30  of  the  SCRA,  for  distribution  of  assets  of  any  stock  exchange 
which ceases to be a recognised stock exchange. (Para13.1.10) 

 
 
18.  The corpus of any stock exchange is made up of (1) the contribution of the members, (2) the 
income of the exchange, and (3) the fiscal incentives which had helped the accumulation of 
reserves. In addition, it may include an adventitious factor by way of appreciation in the value 
of the assets over a period of time. The net worth of the exchange after revaluation of the 
assets  and  liabilities  based  on  market  value  could  be  apportioned  on  the  basis  of  the  three 
components of the corpus mentioned above. The share relating to the members’ contribution 
should  be  made  available  to  the  members.  The  balance  will  be  transferred  to  an  escrow 
account  and  then  to  a  fund  earmarked  for  the  purpose  of  investor  protection  managed  by 
SEBI. This scheme will need a proper methodology for valuation of the assets and liabilities 
as well as for determining the proportion mentioned above and should be carried out by an 
independent  entity.  In  this  regard,  the  Committee  recommends  that  a  Task  Force  be 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        iv 

constituted  by  SEBI  comprising  a  chartered  accountant,  an  approved  valuer  and  a 
representative of SEBI for the purpose. (Para13.2.1) 

 
19.  The Committee strongly feels that in the absence of such a provision, no RSE would seek a 
voluntary  exit  option  and  one  would  have  to  live  with  a  situation  in  which  RSEs  would 
continue to exist nearly in perpetuity and continue to remain a burden on the investor and the 
regulatory system. (Para13.2.2) 

 
20.  The closure of the RSEs will have concomitant consequences on the companies which are 
listed exclusively on these stock exchanges and their shareholders who would be denied an 
opportunity to trade. These have been dealt with later in this report. (Para13.2.3) 

 
21.  The entity which remains after withdrawal of recognition must immediately change its name 
and style and cannot continue in any business as a stock exchange. In case a stock exchange 
whose recognition is withdrawn has a subsidiary, such an entity would also have to change its 
name  and  style  to  avoid  any  representation  of  any  present  or  past  affiliation  with  an 
exchange. It would be upto the subsidiary to carry on broking operations as any other broking 
entity registered with SEBI subject to the same rights and duties. (Para13.3.1) 

 
22.  The Committee felt that the impact on account of withdrawal of recognition either on request 
or  on  compulsory  direction  on  the  companies  exclusively  listed  on  the  RSEs  and  their 
shareholders would also need to be suitably addressed. An analysis of the compliance status 
of  these  companies  indicates  that  only  about  500  companies  are  compliant  with  the 
continuous  listing  requirements.  It  is  felt  that  such  compliant  companies  in  an  exchange 
which will no longer remain recognized, should be allowed to migrate to any other exchange 
with minimum procedure and hassle to the company. SEBI can prescribe that files  of such 
compliant  companies  be  moved  inter-exchange  with  minimum  burden  on  such  companies. 
(Para13.4.1) 

 
23.  The  Committee  also  recommends  that  before  seeking  voluntary  withdrawal  of  recognition, 

the RSEs would have to compulsorily delist all non-compliant companies. (Para13.4.1) 

 
24.  The  Committee  expects  that  the  mechanism  as  provided  for  asset  distribution  would 
encourage a large number of RSEs to seek voluntary exit option. The compulsory withdrawal 
of  recognition  would  also  help  close  down  a  number  of  RSEs  aga inst which there exists 
serious  regulatory  concerns.  These  two  processes  will  help  clean  up  and  streamline  the 
system. (Para13.4.5) 

 
25.  In the event of some of the remaining RSEs which have already been corporatised and are 
unable to demutualise within the stipulated time such RSEs will also attract the consequences 
of  withdrawal  of  recognition  under  sec.  5(2)  of  the  SCRA  and  their  recognition  will  be 
compulsorily withdrawn and accordingly, they would have recourse to the same mechanism 
of asset distribution as recommended supra.. (Para13.4.5) 

 
26.  While considering the various options available for the sustainable existence of the remaining 
stock  exchanges,  the  Committee  examined  the  reasons  for  the  failure  of  the  various 
regulatory initiatives that were taken from time to time for their revival. The seeds of failure 
of these two well-intended initiatives lay in the deep rooted behavioral issues, mind sets with 
the attendant resistances and conflicts. The Committee is of the view that the success of any 
other initiative to be taken in future would be solely dependent on the willing co-operation of 
the  RSEs  and  its  members  and  the  BSE  or  NSE.  It  would  not  be  wise  to  recommend  a 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        v 

measure for the development of a third platform at the national level building purely only  on 
a sanguine estimate of expected success. At the same time, the Committee also recognizes 
that in the absence of a third platform, the SMEs in India would have virtually no avenue for 
raising capital from the public and this would not be in the interest of the Indian economy in 
the long run. (Paras13.5.1 and 13.5.3) 

 
27.  The  Committee  recommends  that  all  the  RSEs  whose  recognition  has  not  been  withdrawn 
either voluntarily or compulsorily must collectively choose (in order for it to succeed) either 
the BSE model or in the alternative, the ICSE model. The FISE will have to take the initiative 
of  evolving  a  consensus  amongst  the  RSEs.  In  order  that  the  Public  representative  (PR) 
Directors are able to discharge their responsibilities, it is important that they are conversant 
with the governance of the RSEs, have a reasonable knowledge of the securities market and 
are  aware  of  their  own  functions  as  PR  Directors.  The  Committee,  therefore,  recommends 
that  SEBI  should  work  out  an  appropriate  training  programme  for  the  PR  Directors.  
(Para13.9) 

 
28.  The Committee, however, is of the view that in case both of these models fail for whatever 
reasons, there would be no merit in the continuation of the RSEs and the recognition of all the 
RSEs  will,  therefore,  have  to  be  compulsorily  withdrawn.  Once  the  RSEs  have  chosen  a 
particular model, such of the RSEs which are unwilling to accept that model will have to face 
compulsory withdrawal of recognition in the future as they provide neither a trading platform 
nor serve any public interest. (Para13.10) 

 
29.  The  actions  consequent  to  withdrawal  of  recognition  discussed  in  the  earlier  paragraphs 
would be applicable in these cases also. The other more serious consequence would be that 
SMEs  would  be  bereft  of  any  avenue  for  raising  capital  from  the  public.  This  would  be 
detrimental  to  the  economy  in  the  long  run  and  this  will  always  remain  a  concern. 
(Para13.11) 

 
30.  The  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  the  future  of  the  subsidiaries  is  inter-linked  with  the 
survival of their parent RSEs. In case a stock exchange whose recognition is withdrawn has a 
subsidiary,  such  an  entity  would  also  have  to  change  its  name  and  style  to  avoid  any 
representation  of  any  present  or  past  affiliation  with  an  exchange.  It  would  be  upto  the 
subsidiary to carry on  broking operations as any other broking entity registered with SEBI. 
The subsidiaries’ demand of level playing field could then easily be recommended as they 
become  brokers  (or  other  registered  financial  intermediaries)  simplicitor.  This  would 
necessitate the NSE to modify suitably its norms relating to dominant holdings in the case of 
these entities. SEBI should consider extending turnover fee continuity benefit to such entities. 
(Paras14.1 and 14.2)  

 
31.  In case of the subsidiaries of the RSEs whose recognit ion is not withdrawn, the RSEs should 
preferably cease to have any shareholding in the subsidiary within a period of three years. 
However, the RSEs may be allowed to retain less than 15% of the shareholding in the spun-
off entity. (Para14.3) 

 
32.  One of the terms of reference of the Committee was to recommend modalities for increasing 
the public shareholding in demutualised stock exchanges in accordance with the provisions of 
SCRA. The Committee notes that the procedure for Corporatisation and Demutualisation of 
stock exchanges laid down in sec. 4B of SCRA envisages that majority of the shareholding of 
a demutualised stock exchange in India should be held by the public or in any manner as may 
be specified by SEBI regulations, within a period of one year from the date of publication be 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        vi 

SEBI of the order approving the scheme. Any non-compliance with the provisions of C&D 
scheme, including failure to increase the public shareholding within the stipulated time would 
result in withdrawal of recognition of a stock exchange under sec. 5(2) of the SCRA. (Paras 
15.1 and 15.2) 

 
33.  The Committee notes that in case a stock exchange adopts the route of public issue, it would 
necessarily  have  to  be  in  accordance  with  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  &  Investor  Protection) 
Guidelines, 2000. The Committee recognizes that all stock exchanges might not necessarily 
adopt the IPO route for increasing the public shareholding. The Committee recognizes that it 
may perhaps be necessary in the interest of the development of the stock exchanges to induct 
some strategic partners. (Paras 15.4 and 15.5) 

 
34.  The Committee also recognizes that in the present Indian context, it may not be desirable to 
adopt fully the approaches followed internationally. At the same time, the Committee felt that 
excessive  qualitative  and  quantitative  restrictions  would  not  only  thwart  the  process  of 
divestment but would also become difficult to monitor in the practical sense. Besides, such 
restrictions may dampen valuations and limit the choice of investors thereby raising the cost 
of  capital.  The  Committee,  therefore,  recommends  that  any  entity  other  than  exchange, 
multilateral  agency,  insurance  company,  bank,  depository  and  clearing  corporation  can  be 
allowed to hold less than 15% of the share capital and voting rights of the stock  exchange 
either singly or collectively along with persons acting in concert. However, in case a strategic 
partner is an exchange, multilateral agency, insurance company, bank, depository or clearing 
corporation, it would be allowed to hold upto a maximum of 26% of the share capital and 
voting rights of the stock exchange either singly or collectively along with persons acting in 
concert. Any strategic partner must comply with SEBI (Criteria for Fit and Proper Person) 
Regulations, 2004. The holding by any foreign entity including FIIs would be subject to the 
overall  policy  of  the  Government  on  FDI.  These  recommendations  would  have  to  be 
incorporated suitably in the divestment regulations to be framed and notified by SEBI. (Para 
15.10) 

 
35.  The  Committee  recommends  that  self-listing  should  be  permitted,  either  through  the  IPO 
route or by way of listing with appropriate exemptions from Rule 19(2)(b) of SCRR in case a 
stock  exchange  does  not  make  a  public  offer.  The  regulatory  conflicts  which  are  likely  to 
arise will have to be dealt with by suitable provisions in the listing agreement of the stock 
exchanges and the stock exchanges will have to fully comply with the provisions of corporate 
governance incorporated in clause 49 of the listing agreement. Overseas  listing will also be 
permitted after the exchange has been listed on the domestic exchange. (Para 15.11) 

 
 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        vii 

 
 

Introduction 

1. 
1.1  A  stock  exchange in India  is  recognized  by  the Central Government  under  section  4  of 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (SCRA) for the purpose of assisting, regulating 
or controlling the business of buying, selling or dealing in securities, after it is satisfied that 
it  would  be  in  the  interest  of  the  trade  and  also  in  the  public  interest  to  grant  such 
recognition. This power to grant recognition to a stock exchange  can also be exercised by 
SEBI.  This  implies  that  no  entity  can  act  as  a  stock  exchange  in  India ,  unless  it  is 
recognized as such under this section of the SCRA. Over a period of time, stock exchanges 
came  to  be  set  up  almost  in  every  State.  These stock exchanges set up regionally  were 
known as the Regional Stock Exchanges (RSEs). The objective of establishing  the RSEs 
was to enable regional companies in the respective geographical locations to raise capital 
and to  help spread the equity cult amongst investors  across the length and breadth of the 
country. However, with the various changes in the capital market micro structure, the scope 
of operations of  the RSEs became limited. The trading in these RSEs had also dwindled 
over the past several years.  
 

2.  Reasons for the formation of the Committee 
2.1  The  stock  exchanges  are  now  completing 

the  process  of  corporatisation  and 
demutualisation.  It was found necessary to examine the role and relevance of RSEs in the 
changed circumstances and the productive utilization of the available infrastructure in these 
RSEs.  In order to deliberate on these issues and make suitable recommendations in this 
regard, SEBI  constituted  a  Committee  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri  G.Anantharaman, 
Whole Time Member, SEBI.  The other members of the Committee are: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 
v. 
vi. 

vii. 

viii. 

Shri M.R.  Mayya,  Former  Executive  Director-  Bombay  Stock  Exchange  and 
Former Chairman - The Inter Connected Stock Exchange Ltd. 
Shri Sandeep P. Parekh, Advocate, Supreme Court of India, and visiting faculty, 
Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad. 
Shri  Ramu Sharma, Director  -  Bangalore  Stock  Exchange  Ltd.  and  Chairman, 
Federation of Indian Stock Exchanges (FISE) 
Shri J. Jayaraman, Chartered Accountant, Ahmedabad 
Shri Rajnikant Patel, MD and CEO, BSE Ltd. - co-opted as a member. 
Shri  Manas  S  Ray,  Executive  Director,  (OSD)  SEBI,  Mumbai  -  co-opted as a 
member. 
Prof. Mousumi Ghosh, Professor, Finance & Control, IIM- Calcutta (ceased to be 
a member from March 14, 2006) 
Shri Pratip Kar, Executive Director, SEBI, Mumbai – Member Secretary. 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation      

 

 

 

1 
                   
 

Terms of reference of the Committee 

3. 
3.1  The terms of reference of the Committee were as under: - 

To review and examine - 

(cid:216)  the future role of the RSEs and their subsidiaries – post demutualisation, keeping in 

view the legal requirements of the SCRA; 

(cid:216)  the manner of dealing with the assets of the RSEs in the event of withdrawal of 

recognition;  

(cid:216)  the qualitative and quantitative restrictions to be specified, if any,  for  limiting the 
investment or voting rights of prospective investors in the process of divestment of 
the shareholding of the RSEs.  

(cid:216)  The terms of reference as above would include certain related issues incidental to 
the  course  of  demutualisation  as  well  and  resolution  of  such  issues  considered 
essential to the issues arising post-demutualisation. 

4.  Methodology and the structure  of the report 
4.1  Section 5 of the report traces the historical background of the RSEs. Section 6 discusses the 
present  status  of  the  RSEs  and  the  evolution  of  the  Indian  securit ies market.  Section  7 
delineates the various regulatory initiatives taken from time to time for the revival of the 
RSEs along with the causes for their failure. Section 8 details the  meetings held with the 
representatives of the RSEs, BSE and NSE. Sections 9, 10, 11 and 12  outline the various 
suggestions made by the representatives of the RSEs for their and their subsidiaries as well 
as the specific proposals submitted by BSE, NSE and ICSE to the Committee. A summary 
of  the  deliberations  of  the  Committee  in  the  light  of  the  above  suggestions  and    the 
recommendations of the Committee are given in sections 13 and 14.  The issues involved in 
the divestment of  shareholding  of  the  stock  exchanges  and  the  recommendations of the 
Committee in this regard are discussed in section 15 of the report. 
 

5.  Historical Background of RSEs  
5.1  The  Bombay  Stock  Exchange  (BSE),  the  Calcutta  Stock  Exchange  (CSE)  and  the 
Ahmedabad  Stock  Exchange  (ASE)  were  set  up  before  independence  and  recognised in 
1956 under the SCRA. Thereafter, 20 other stock exchanges were set up under the SCRA in 
various States including the Over the Counter Exchange of India (OTCEI) in 1990 and the 
National Stock Exchange (NSE) in 1994.  

 
5.2  The  concept  of  RSEs  has  its  genesis  in  a  circular  issued  by  Ministry  of  Finance, 
Government of India vide F. No. 14 (2)/SE/85 dated September 23, 1985 which stipulated 
that  all  then  existing  listed  companies  were  required  to  be  listed  on  the  stock  exchange 
located  in  an  area  where  the  registered  office  or  the  main  works  /  fixed  assets  of  the 
company  were situated.    When  there  was  little  automation and  the modern  advanced 
telecommunication systems were not available, these stock exchanges catered to the needs 
of the industry for mobilization and regional allocation of capital and resources and  also 
met the needs of regional investors in the remotest parts of the country. 

Present status of the RSEs  

 
6. 
6.1  Out  of  the  22  recognised  stock  exchanges  in  India  (SEBI  has  refused  renewal  of 
recognition to Mangalore Stock Exchange), NSE and BSE account for almost 100% of the 
total  turnover.  As  far  as  RSEs  are  concerned,  except  for  the  Calcutta  Stock  Exchange 
(CSE)  and  the  Uttar  Pradesh  Stock  Exchange  (UPSE),  there  is  no  trading  on  any  other 
stock exchange and even on the CSE and UPSE, the business is down to a trickle as may be 
seen from the following table:- 

 

 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        2 

2000-01  2001-02  2002-03  2003-04  2004-05 

2005-06 

27074 

0 

0 
1 

0 

6539 

0.02 
355035 

1150 
10 

14644 
13337 

0 
0 
2 
260 
15482 
14763 

0 
26 
6171 
0.85 
54035 
24741 

Table 1: Turnover of the RSEs (Rs. Crores) 
SEs\Year 
Bhubaneshwar  
Calcutta  
Coimbatore  
Cochin  
Pune  
Vadodara  
Ahmedabad  
Uttar Pradesh 
Jaipur  
OTCEI 
Ludhiana  
Madras  
Hyderabad  
Magadh  
Saurashtra 
Kutch 
Bangalore  
Delhi  
Gauhati  
Madhya 
Pradesh 
Inter-connected 
 

0 
0.54 
0 
38 
5 
1 
0 
0.11 
11 
0 
0 
24 

0 
126 
9154 
109 
978 
1 
0 

0 
4 
857 
24 
41 

0 
934 
5526 

0 
4 
237 

10187 
82996 

0 
10 
69 

0.0041 

1927 

0 

0 
0 
0 
0 

5044 
13130 

0 
16 
0 
99 
3 
0.09 
0 
0.1 
3 
0 
0 

0.034 

0 

2714 

0 
0 
0.37 
0 
8 

5343 

0 
0.01 
0 
27 
14 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

2800 

0 

0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

1487 

0 
0.01 
0 
5 
97 
91 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

6.2  The financial condition of the RSEs is weak. This state of affairs has been prevailing for the 

past several years. Three factors have been primarily responsible for this –  

a)  the  advent  of  automated  trading  and  extension  of  nationwide  reach  of  BSE  and  NSE 

which offered a large and liquid market to investors across the country;  

b) the introduction of uniform rolling settlement from June 2001 in place of account period    

settlement with varying settlement cycles and  
c) the abolition of the concept of regional listing.  

 

 

 

Advent of automated trading system 

 
6.3  The  NSE  was  established  in  1994  with  nation-wide  electronic  trading  terminals. 
Subsequently,  in  1995,  the  Stock  Exchange,  Mumbai  (BSE)  also  converted its  manual 
trading system into a nation wide electronic trading system. Between 1995 and 1998, all the 
remaining  stock  exchanges  also  converted  themselves  into  electronic  exchanges. They 
however did not expand their reach. 

 
6.4  This advent of automated trading and advancements in technology facilitated the BSE and 
NSE to expand  their reach  across the country. At present,  both NSE and BSE have  their 
terminals in more than  400 cities. This had an impact on the trading of securities in RSEs. 
In  the  absence  of  modern  telecommunication  and  automation,  listing  of  securities  of 
companies  was  always  permitted  in  more  than  one  exchange.  To  encourage  regional 
industrial development, the regional companies were compulsorily required to list on the 
RSE which was closest to the  registered  office  of  the  company,  in  addition  to  any  other 
stock exchange. In addition, shares listed in  exchanges were also allowed to be traded on 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        3 

other exchanges as  a class of  “permitted” securities.  It  was,  therefore, common for one 
company to be listed on BSE (and later on the NSE) as well as on one or more RSEs and 
also trade on multiple stock exchanges. But the expansion of the terminals of NSE and BSE 
across the country provided  access to all investors to two large,  liquid and deep national 
markets  in  all  these  securities.  Other  stock  exchanges,  thus,  found  little  incentive  to 
simultaneously expand their terminals.  

 
6.5  A decline in liquidity and dwindling of business in the RSEs was inevitable. As the RSEs 
ceased to provide a liquid market in active stocks which were also listed on BSE/ NSE, the 
liquidity  in  the  securities  of  companies  which  were  exclusively  listed  on  the  RSEs  also 
declined. The cost of membership in BSE and NSE was comparatively higher than in the 
RSEs and all large brokers in the RSEs obtained membership of BSE or NSE. They had 
little commercial interest to continue trading on the RSEs or promoting them. The smaller 
brokers  were  not  able  to  garner  sufficient  resources  to  obtain  membership  of  the  two 
national exchanges. This, in turn, also led to increase in the number of inactive members in 
the  RSEs.  The  business  done  on  the  RSEs  was  adversely  affected  as  a  result  of  the 
cumulative impact of these factors. Whatever business was left, was  mainly on account of 
varied  account  period  settlement  cycles  across  the  RSEs  which  allowed  for  a  product 
differentiation of sorts among the RSEs. 

  
 

 
Introduction of rolling settlement 

6.6  All stock exchanges in India settled traded on weekly basis till June 2001. The settlement 
cycles  varied  from  exchange  to  exchange.  Additionally  carry  forward  transactions  or 
deferral products were permitted on the major stock exchanges viz. BSE, NSE, CSE, ASE, 
DSE and UPSE. Varying account period settlement cycles across exchanges and deferral 
products  gave  sufficient  incentives  to  brokers  to  move  positions  from  one  exchange  to 
another offering arbitrage opportunity. This contributed to the turnover of the exchanges. 
With  the  introduction  of  rolling  settlement  since  June  2001  and  abolition  of  deferral 
products  followed  by  the  introduction  of  derivatives  trading  on  the  NSE  and  BSE,  the 
incentive of the brokers to shift positions from one exchange to another was lost. The result 
was a sudden decline in the business in CSE, ASE, DSE and UPSE. The business in other 
RSEs which only had a cash market had already declined by then; little that remained also 
withered away. 

Abolition of the concept of regional listing 

 
 
6.7  With  the  availability  of  nation  wide  access  to  a  liquid  market, the  need  for  compulsory 
listing on the RSEs lost its relevance. Regional listing proved to be an unnecessary burden 
in terms of cost to  companies which were listed on NSE and BSE. SEBI therefore issued 
the SEBI (Delisting of Securities) Guidelines, 2003 vide circular SMD/Policy/Cir-7/2003 
dated  February  17,  2003  which,  inter-alia,  did  away  with  the  requirement for  existing 
companies to remain listed on any stock exchange merely because  they were incorporated 
or did business from a region, provided such companies were also listed on  either of the 
two national exchanges. Freedom was given to companies to list on a stock exchange of 
their choice. Companies, therefore, chose to remain listed on BSE and NSE and opted for 
delisting from the RSEs. This resulted in further loss of revenue by way of listing fees for 
the RSEs. 

 
6.8  Consequent to issuance of the SEBI’s circular referred to in the foregoing paragraph, the 
Government  of  India  vide  circular  No.F.No.1/9/SE/2003  dated  April  23,  2003  inter-alia, 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        4 

withdrew  the  requirement  relating  to  compulsory  listing  by  companies  on  RSE.  The 
concept of RSEs was, thus, finally abolished. 

Initiatives taken for the RSEs revival 
Setting up of the Inter-Connected Stock Exchange of India Limited (ICSE) 

 
7. 
 
7.1  Considering  that the RSEs had invested substantially in the infrastructure, which included 
building,  hardware  and  software  for  automated  trading,  several  initiatives  were  taken  to 
revive these exchanges so that the infrastructure could be put to productive use. The first 
among them was the setting up of the ICSE platform to regroup the RSEs to provide a third 
national market. The ICSE was promoted in 1998 by 14  RSEs for providing an additional 
trading platform where the shares listed on any of these 14 exchanges would be traded.  
 

7.2   The ICSE was conceptualised as a stock exchange to provide a common trading platform to 
members of all participating stock exchanges, mainly with the objective of boosting trade 
in the securities listed on the participating stock exchanges. The inter-connectivity of stock 
exchanges  was  meant  to  facilitate  the  member  of  one  stock  exchange  to  deal  with  the 
member  of  another  stock  exchange  through  an  electronically  inter-connected  market 
system, which was provided by ICSE.  This system is referred to as a Central Limit Order 
Book (CLOB) in exchange parlance.  

 
7.3 

 

It  was  felt  that  such  trading  across  different  stock  exchanges  would  generate  renewed 
trading interest among investors by providing them an opportunity to trade in large number 
of  shares  that  were  listed  on  the  participating  exchanges.  A CLOB  should ideally  have 
eliminated fragmentation of the market and consequently, created liquidity. But this did not 
happen.  The  existing  regional  order  books  of  the  participating  exchanges  continued 
alongside  CLOB.  This  fragmented  the  order  book  and  thus  depleted  the  liquidity  in  the 
shares exclusively listed and traded on the RSEs. On account of lack of liquidity,  ICSE did 
not succeed.  

Permitting RSEs to set up broking subsidiaries  

 
7.4  The second effort was to permit the RSEs to set up broking subsidiaries which could pool 
the financial resources of regional brokers and of the exchanges and obtain membership of 
the BSE and NSE. The regional brokers could then act as sub brokers to the subsidiaries 
(which had registered as brokers) and have access to the markets of BSE and NSE. Even 
the ICSE set up such a broking subsidiary. The setting up of the subsidiaries followed from 
the  recommendation  of  an  Expert  Committee  on  revival  of  smaller  stock  exchanges 
constituted  by  SEBI.  Based  on  the  recommendations  of  the  Committee,  SEBI  had  vide 
Circular dated November 26, 1999, permitted the RSEs to form wholly owned subsidiaries 
which could then obtain membership of larger stock exchanges (primarily NSE & BSE). 
This  route  was  envisaged  as  a  temporary  lifeline  to  the  members  of  RSE  and  it  was  not 
contemplated  that  the  arrangement  would  continue  permanently.  Though  the  scheme 
maintained  the  purity  of  the  functions  of  the  exchanges,  though  dysfunctional,  most 
subsidiaries  became  successful  brokers  in  the  market  of  other  exchange(s).  Although the 
subsidiaries  were  basically  brokers,  there  were  several  differences  between  them  and 
corporate broking firms, primarily because these were subsidiaries of the stock exchanges. 
Hence, different norms and criteria were applied to the subsidiaries as well as to the sub 
brokers of the subsidiaries who were actually also brokers of the parent exchanges. Some 
of the areas of difference are as follows: 
a)   The  parent  stock  exchange  and  its  members  were  together  required  to  hold  100%  in 
nominal  value  of  the  equity  share  capital  of  the  subsidiary  /  company  with  parent 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        5 

exchange holding not less than 51% in nominal value of the equity share capital of the 
subsidiary. 

b)  The subsidiary  was  not  allowed  to  undertake  any  dealing  in  securities  on  its  own 

account, unlike any other registered broker. 

c)    The subsidiary could trade only on behalf of the members of the parent stock exchange, 

and for no other client or sub-broker unlike any other registered broker. 

d)  The board of the subsidiary was approved by SEBI unlike other registered brokers. 

 

Setting up of the BSE’s Indo Next Trading Platform 

 
7.5  The  Hon’ble  Finance  Minister  had,  in  his  Budget  Speech  delivered  on  July  8,  2004, 
announced  the  intention  of  the  Government  to  set  up  a  trading  platform  which  would 
enable the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to raise capital – both debt and equity, as 
well as provide liquidity to such securities.  

 
7.6  To operationalise the announcement, SEBI took the initiative to encourage the BSE and the 
smaller  stock  exchanges  to  set  up  this  trading  platform.  Accordingly,  the  BSE  IndoNext 
was  set  up  as  a  separate  trading  platform  under  the  present  BOLT  trading  system  of  the 
BSE. (see Box 1)  It was a joint initiative of the BSE and the Federation of Indian Stock 
Exchanges  (FISE)  of  which  18  RSEs  are  members.  The  BSE  IndoNext  market  was 
intended to be an SME specific market. The Government also amended Section 13 of the 
SCRA to facilitate trading by the trading members of RSEs on this market. To begin with, 
the securities listed in the B1  and B2  group of the BSE and some of the securities of mid 
cap and small cap companies which were exclusively listed on the RSEs and which had no 
trading were transferred to this segment of the BSE. The risk management and monitoring 
responsibility  was  that  of  BSE.  Brokers  of  the  participating  RSEs  could  trade  in  any 
security that is permitted to be traded on this platform. As a single national order book was 
expected for any security traded on BSE IndoNext, unlike in the case of ICSE, it was hoped 
that some of the securities listed in the RSEs will  have greater liquidity. It was envisaged 
that over a period of time, the participating RSEs would enter into agreements with BSE to 
delineate the responsibilities of risk management and monitoring of listing agreement of the 
companies  listed  on  the  RSEs  which  would  be  traded  on  the  BSE  IndoNext.  The  BSE’s 
responsibility would then only be to provide a trading platform. It was also envisaged that 
once  trading  of  the  existing  mid  cap  and  small  cap  companies  picked  up  on  the  BSE 
IndoNext, new SME companies which may not qualify for listing on the BSE and NSE on 
account  of  the  minimum  capital  requirement  prescribed  by  these  exchanges  may  be 
encouraged to raise capital on this platform. This would enable capital formation by SME  
companies from the capital market and help develop the entrepreneurial back bone of the 
country. 
 

 
 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        6 

Box 1: BSE IndoNext 

 

The  BSE  IndoNext  has been  set  up  as  a  separate  trading  platform  under  the  present 
Bombay On Line Trading System (BOLT) of the BSE. It is a joint initiative of the BSE 
and  the  Federation  of  Indian  Stock  Exchanges  (FISE)  of  which  18  Regional  Stock 
Exchanges (RSEs) are members. The members of the RSEs have been allowed to trade 
in this market. The BSE IndoNext trading platform has introduced the concept of single 
order book for a security as against multiple listings permitted in other securities. Once 
a security is eligible for trading in the BSE IndoNext market, it will not be available for 
trading on any other exchange and orders from brokers of all exchanges in that security 
will flow only to this market. The objectives of the BSE IndoNext trading platform are: 
a)  to  provide  a  nation-wide  trading  platform  for  the  SMEs  already  listed  with  the 
participating  RSEs  and  BSE;  b)  to  create  liquidity  in  eligible  securities  listed  on  the 
participating  RSEs;  c)  to  create  an  avenue  for  the  existing  and  new  SME  companies 
from various regions of the country to raise fresh capital, both equity and debt, which 
would help achieve balanced regional growth; and d) to use the available infrastructure 
of the participating RSEs for productive purposes. The BSE IndoNext trading platform 
was  to  be  implemented  in  phases.  Honourable  Finance  Minister  had  inaugurated  the 
BSE IndoNext trading platform on January 7, 2005 and operationalised the first phase of 
the BSE IndoNext platform. The BSE would transfer eligible securities within the range 
of paid-up capital between Rs.3 crore and Rs.20 crore, currently traded in the B1 and B2 
groups in BSE against which there is no regulatory action. Similarly, the participating 
RSEs  will  also  transfer  eligible  securities  to  BSE  IndoNext  to be traded as permitted 
securities.  At  this  stage,  the  entire  responsibility  for  monitoring  and  surveillance  is 
vested  with  BSE  as  the  brokers  who  would  be  trading  on  the  BSE  IndoNext  will be 
members of BSE. For this purpose, SEBI has already granted necessary approvals. The 
second phase when implemented will allow participation of all brokers of RSEs in the 
BSE IndoNext taking benefit of the recent amendment to the SC(R)A. For this, the BSE 
and the RSEs will have to amend the respective Bye-laws as well as enter into MoUs. 
These legal requirements are in progress. Once the Bye-laws are approved by SEBI, the 
second  phase  will  be  implemented  and  the  responsibility  for  surveillance,  monitoring 
and compliance will be jointly shared between BSE and RSEs. In the third phase, the 
BSE  as  well  as  the  RSEs  will  have  to  work  out  an  effective  marketing  and  business 
development strategy. 

 
 
7.7  The BSE IndoNext trading platform was thus supposed to be implemented in phases. But it 
has not yet gone beyond the first phase in which the major shares transferred are from the 
B1  and B2  group  of  the  BSE  and  only  a  few  shares  of  some  of  the  RSEs  have  been 
transferred.  Members  of  RSEs  do  not  have  trading  access  to  the  limited  platform  of 
securities  on  IndoNext  as  envisaged.  Currently,  shares  of  520  companies  are eligible to 
trade in the BSE IndoNext segment and its average daily trading turnover is  over Rs.100 
crores.  

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        7 

8.  Meetings held with RSEs 
8.1  The  Committee  held  seven  meetings  in  all.  The  Committee  had  also  invited  the 
representatives of the stock exchanges in order to ascertain their views on the subject. The 
dates of the meetings and the representatives of the various RSEs who met the Committee 
are as under:- 

S.No.  Date of the meeting 

1.  February 13, 2006 
2.  March 01, 2006 

3.  March 13, 2006 

4.  March 21, 2006 
5.  April 10, 2006 

6.  April 19, 2006 

7.  April 29, 2006 
8.  April 29 – May 01, 2006 

Stock Exchanges which met the Committee 
Introductory meeting of the Committee 
Representatives  of  Bangalore  SE,  Coimbatore 
SE, Hyderabad SE, Madras SE and Cochin SE 
Representatives of Inter-connected SE, Pune SE, 
Vadodara  SE,  Saurashtra  Kutch  SE  and 
Ahmedabad SE 
Representatives of BSE and NSE 
Representatives  of  Delhi  SE,  Jaipur  SE, 
Ludhiana SE and UPSE 
Representatives  of  Calcutta  SE,  Bhubaneshwar 
SE and Magadh SE 
OTCEI  
Concluding meeting 

Summary of submissions made by RSEs 

 
9. 
 
9.1  The representatives of the RSEs made various suggestions on the subject which have been 

summarized under the following categories:- 
• For the revival of the RSEs 
• For the restructuring of the subsidiaries of RSEs 
• For the BSE IndoNext segment 
• For the divestment of the stake of the demutualised / corporatised RSEs 
• Exit route for the RSEs which desire withdrawal of recognition 

 

9.2  Suggestions for the revival of the RSEs 

a)    All the RSEs may be given a regulatory mandate to consolidate and form a third stock 

exchange, in addition to BSE and NSE.  

b)   The un-utilized funds lying with the RSEs may all be pooled in and transferred to a 
common  “stock  exchange  fund”  that  could  be  used  for  funding  securities  market 
transactions.  

c)    As some of the RSEs may not be  viable and/or interested in their revival, region-wise 
consolidation  of  RSEs  should  be  facilitated.  An  active  market  for  trading  in 
commodities  could  be  developed  by  the  stock  exchanges  in  the  southern  region. 
Similarly,  stock  exchanges  in  the  northern,  eastern  and  western  regions  could  be 
consolidated.  

d)  The IndoNext, which is presently under the aegis of BSE, may be shifted and given to 

the “consolidated RSEs” under a unified trading platform and clearing corporation.  

e)    RSEs  may  be  encouraged  to  consider  any  revival  initiatives  including  corporate 
restructuring  by  merger  with  any  of  the  premier  stock  exchanges  subject  to  mutual 
agreement. 

f)    There is a felt need expressed for an active and liquid market for SMEs. The RSEs may 
not be able to survive independently in view of the changed circumstances in the Indian 
securities market. Therefore, some of the RSEs which are interested, financially sound 
and  compliant  with  the  regulatory  requirements  may  come  together  and  set  up  a 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        8 

common  trading  platform  for  such  SMEs  which  have  sound  financials  and  viable 
business strategies. 

g)   In  addition  to  providing  specific  trading  platform  for  SMEs,  the  RSEs  may  be 
permitted  to  evolve  an  active  market  for  structured  products,  securitized  instruments 
and derivative products. 

h)   That RSEs be permitted to diversify into other areas like conducting training programs 
for  participants  in  capital  market,  providing  services  to  investors  like  MAPIN 
registration,  redressing  investor  complaints  by  acting  as  local  forums  of  arbitration, 
distributing mutual fund products, acting as Registrar and Transfer Agents, providing 
securities lending & borrowing scheme and playing an advisory role to the SMEs in 
their need for capital creation.  RSEs should be allowed to diversify into other areas of 
business like commodity exchange or other such suitable business through creation of a 
special purpose vehicle. 

i)    RSEs may be permitted to establish a platform for book building, both for initial public 
offerings  (IPOs)  and  follow-on  public  offerings  (FPOs)  and  also  for  delisting  of 
companies.  

j)    Those  RSEs  that  are  willing  to  exit  the  business  of  functioning  as  a  stock  exchange 

should be permitted to reverse merge with their subsidiaries. 

k)  The present corpus of IPF and ISF should be retained with the RSEs so as to facilitate 
them  in  taking  more  initiatives  for  protecting  the  interests  of  the  investors  in  the 
securities market. 

l)    The disclosure norms for the companies that are presently listed at the RSEs may be 

diluted to incentivise the companies to remain listed in the RSEs. 

m)  The  members  of  the  RSEs  who  were  also  members  of  the  national  level  stock 
exchanges, viz., BSE/NSE should not be allowed to be on the Board of the respective 
RSEs,  as  it  results  in  a  conflict  of  interest  due  to  dual  membership  and  hamper any 
developmental initiatives for the RSEs. 

n)  The issues on taxation regarding the investment of RSEs in their subsidiaries and the 
taxability  of  the  accumulated  reserves  of  the  RSEs  upon  conversion  into  “for-profit” 
corporate entities needs to be sorted out, as it would otherwise be a drain on the already 
weak financials of the RSEs. 

o)   BSE/NSE may be advised to share a part of their revenues with the RSEs based on the 

volume of transactions generated by the members of the RSEs.  

p)  RSEs may be permitted to explore alternatives like liasioning with the  other national 
level  exchanges  in  their  respective  geographical  locations,  playing  the  role  as  local 
/nodal centres for the national level exchanges and acting as an extended arm of such 
national  level  exchanges  for  functions  like  handling  investor  grievances/complaints, 
conducting training programmes in securities market, etc.  

q)  OTCEI  may  be  recognised  as  a  national  level  stock  exchange.  It  may  be  provided 
exclusivity for trading in securities of companies with a paid up capital below Rs. 20 
crores, mutual fund units, privately placed corporate bonds etc. Post-demutualisation, 
the securities of the BSE Ltd. should be listed in OTCEI.  

r)     A  National  Market  Dealer  System  may  be  provided  for  trading  in  securities  of 
companies which are neither in their infancy nor at a stage from which they can access 
the  national  markets.  A  study  may  be  conducted  to  assess  the  number  of  such 
companies so as to determine the viability of the proposal.  

 
9.3  Suggestions for the restructuring of the subsidiaries of RSEs 

a)    Subsidiaries  should  be  considered  to  be  on  par  with  any  other  stock  broker,  thereby 
ensuring  a  level-playing  field  for  all  broking  entities  in  all  aspects like freedom  of 
appointing franchisees, flexibility in appointment of directors on the board, enrollment 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        9 

of direct clients, executing proprietary trades.  For this purpose, most of the exchanges 
were willing to fully or partly spin-off the broking subsidiary from the RSE parent as 
described below.  

b)  The  RSEs  may  be  mandated  to  disassociate  totally  from  the  subsidiaries  and  the 
umbilical cord between the stock exchanges and their subsidiaries may be snapped. The 
subsidiaries  shall  be  mandated 
independent  broking  entities. 
Alternatively, RSEs may be allowed to dilute a part of their stake, say, to hold less than 
26% in the subsidiaries, in which case, the RSEs will cease to be holding companies of 
their  subsidiaries.  It  was  pointed  out  that  this  would  require  amendment  to  the 
regulations  of  NSE  regarding  “dominant  promoter  group”  and  provisions  relating  to 
payment of fees to SEBI, i.e., turnover fee continuity benefit to be extended by SEBI. 

to  function  as 

c)   The subsidiaries should be permitted to operate in all areas of business like institutional 
business, margin trading, F&O segment, taking membership of commodities exchanges 
etc. 

9.4  Suggestions for the BSE IndoNext segment 

a)   Eligibility criteria for securities admitted into this segment need to be reviewed, so that 
many of the securities listed in the RSEs are able to get entry into the BSE IndoNext 
segment. 

b)  The second  and  third  phases  of  the  segment  should  be  operationalised  without  any 

 

 

further loss of time.  

c)   The IndoNext, which is presently under the aegis of BSE, may be shifted and given to 

the “consolidated RSEs” under a unified trading platform and clearing corporation.  

9.5  Suggestions  for  the  divestment  of  the  stake  of  the  demutualised  and  corporatised 

RSEs 
a)    The scheme of  Corporatisation and Demutualisation  mandates a divestment of atleast 
51%  shareholding  from  trading  members  to  the  public  or  to  the  strategic  investors. 
Presently, some of the RSEs are granted recognition on an annual basis. Such periodic 
recognition would create uncertainty in the minds of any prospective investor who is 
willing to take a stake in the RSE. Therefore, the RSEs should be granted permanent 
recognition  so  as  to  enable  them  to  attract  strategic  investors  during  the  process  of 
divestment. 

b)  The  Regulations  to  be  notified  by  SEBI  on  divestment  should  provide  for  Foreign 
Direct Investment (FDI) in RSEs, issuance of shares carrying differential voting rights, 
limited exercise of voting rights irrespective of the shareholding by an investor etc.  

 
9.6  Suggestions for providing exit route for RSEs which desire withdrawal of recognition 
a)    SEBI should come out with clear guidelines providing permission to such RSEs which 
desire  to  exit  the  business  of  functioning  as  a  stock  exchange  on  a  voluntary  basis, 
spelling out the modalities for distribution of both financial and physical assets.  

b)  Post withdrawal of recognition, the surviving entity which becomes a regular company 
should  be  allowed  to  utilize  the  infrastructure  for  any  other  business  purposes  as 
deemed fit by that entity. 

c)    There could be companies which are exclusively listed only on a particular RSE which 
seeks voluntary  withdrawal of recognition. Such companies should be allowed to get 
listing in the to be formed “consolidated RSE”. 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        10 

 
10.  Proposal of BSE  
 
10.1  The salient features of the proposal of BSE are as under:- 

a)   BSE shall offer the arrangement set out below to such of the RSEs which do not  opt 
either  for voluntary  withdrawal of  recognition  or  in  respect  of  whom  SEBI  does  not 
withdraw recognition in terms of the provisions of the SCRA.  

b)  In terms of the arrangement, all eligible trading members of the RSEs who accept the 
arrangement and who enter into the necessary agreements with BSE shall be allowed 
access  to  trade  on  the  national  trading  platform  of  BSE  both  in  the  cash  and  F&O 
segments.  

c)  Such  access  shall  be  with  respect  to  the  entire  universe  of  securities  listed  on  the 

segments. 

d)  Settlement  obligations  arising  out  of  trades  executed  by  the  trading  members  of  the 

RSEs shall be settled by the respective RSE.  

e)  In respect of trades so executed, the trading members of RSEs shall be required and 

entitled to issue contract notes in their names as members of the respective RSE.  

f)  For  the  purpose  of  clearing  of  obligations,  each  of  the  participating  RSE  shall  be 

allotted a Clearing ID by BSE.  

g)  For discharging its settlement obligations, the RSEs shall have recourse to their trade 
guarantee  fund.  This  is  as  a  first  line  of  defence  and  in  all  cases  the  settlement 
guarantee fund of BSE shall operate.  

h)  In  terms  of  the  arrangement,  BSE  shall  be  entitled  to  place  restrictions  on  the  RSEs 

with respect to:  
• Admission of new trading members  
• The territories from which the trading members of the RSE may access the trading 

platforms of BSE 

j) 

i) 

In terms of the arrangement, on access being provided, trading members of RSEs shall 
execute both proprietary and client orders in the cash segment only on the BSE trading 
platform and activities of the subsidiaries in the cash segment shall cease. 
In  terms  of  the  arrangement,  on  access  being  provided,  members  of  RSEs  shall 
endeavour  to  build-up  activity  (both  on  proprietary  and  client  account)  in  the  F&O 
segment of BSE. Once BSE F&O segment gains viability and size, trading members of 
RSEs shall execute both proprietary and client orders in the F&O segment only on the 
BSE trading platform and activities of the subsidiaries in the F&O segment shall cease. 
  k)  The terms and conditions of the arrangement (both commercial and otherwise) shall be 

such as are to be agreed to between BSE and RSEs. 

l)  BSE shall permit securities of companies which have been compliant with the listing 
requirements  of  RSEs  which  participate  in  this  arrangement  with  BSE to be traded 
under a separate segment on its trading network on an  national order book platform. 
Members of BSE shall also be permitted to trade on this segment.  

 
11.  Proposal of NSE 
 
11.1  The salient features of the proposal of NSE are as under:-  

 
a)  A third national level exchange could be successfully created by the merger of all the 
RSEs  into  a  single  unified  entity.  This  should  be  very  much  possible  although  the 
perceived regional differences and political compulsions that exist amongst the RSEs at 
present will need to be overcome. The RSEs, in such a scenario, would need to come 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        11 

together  to  create  a  unified,  strong,  single  entity  which  could  cater  effectively  to  the 
capital creation needs of the SMEs sector. 

b)  If some of the RSEs were to show interest in coming together to create a national level 
stock  exchange,  NSE  would  also  consider  participating  in  the  equity  of  such  an 
exchange and help play a developmental role in making such an exchange a success. 
All  the  trading,  clearing  and  settlement  functions  of  such  a  national  level  exchange 
could be handled by the RSEs (through a single platform) and activities such as listing 
compliances, member compliances and investor grievances, etc could be contracted out 
at the local level. This exchange would need to innovate to meet the needs of the SME 
sector, for example, by exploring the introduction of a call auction market. 

c)  Typically, liquidity in an exchange for a given security is a function of the number of 
analysts  who  track  a  security  in  the  market.  Therefore,  it  is  necessary  that  analysts’ 
interest be generated, at least initially, in tracking these securities till sufficient liquidity 
is generated. To this end, analysts may need to be incentivised for tracking the listed 
SMEs.  

d)  It is vital that the national level platform so created be restricted only to those SMEs 
with sound fundamentals and viable business strategies. Once the market takes off, a 
more inclusive view can be taken.  

e)  Subsidiaries  of  RSEs  need  to  be  spun  off  their  parent  exchanges  and  should  be 
provided a level playing field similar to other broking entities in all aspects including 
the participation of subsidiaries in the derivatives segment. 

 
12.  Proposal of ICSE 
 
12.1   The salient features of ICSE are as under:- 

a)  ICSE  would  create  a  common  trading  platform  in  association  with  some  of  the 
promoting stock exchanges which are interested in the initiative. The recently amended 
sec  13  of  SCRA  enables  trading  members  belonging  to  a  set  of  stock  exchanges  to 
trade  on  the  proposed  common  trading  platform  without  having  to  go  through  a 
separate process of registration with SEBI.  

b)  Either the ICSE or the proposed common tradin g platform may be granted recognition 
as a national platform so that the said platform can be used for book building, both for 
initial  public  offerings  (IPOs)  and  follow-on  public  offerings  (FPOs)  and  also  for 
delisting of companies.  

c)  The Exchange would also like to promote a common clearing corporation for providing 
cost-effective  clearing  services  to  the  trading  members  of  the  participating  stock 
exchanges. 

 
13.  Discussions and Recommendations for RSEs 
 
13.1  Preliminary Discussions  
13.1.1The  Committee  appraised  itself of  the  present  status  of  the  RSEs  in  the  light  of  the 
discussions with all the RSEs as well as with the BSE, NSE and OTCEI and the written 
submissions made by them which have been summarized in the early part of this report. 
Analysis of the financial conditions of the RSEs and their subsidiaries, and of the listing, 
trading and compliance status of the companies listed in these RSEs was equally important 
for a complete appreciation of the present conditions of the RSEs and the choices available 
with the subsidiaries.  

13.1.2The  Committee  notes  that  the  RSEs  were  established  with  the  objective  of  providing  a 
regional  market  for  raising  capital  by  companies  in  the  respective  regions  by  garnering 
regional savings to help achieve a balanced regional development and to spread the equity 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        12 

cult among investors in the country. This objective has been fairly served by the RSEs for a 
length  of  time.  But  with  the  advent  of  modern  telecommunication  and  information 
technology and the symbiotic interaction of technology and the markets, which facilitated a 
fundamental transformation of the market micro structure, the scope of the RSEs became 
limited  till  they  virtually  lost  their  relevance.  Although  there  are  over  4000  companies 
exclusively listed on these RSEs, there has been  no de facto trading in the listed securities 
of these companies. The sizeable capital investment made by the RSEs towards fixed assets 
and  technology  has  thus  become  redundant.  The  large  assets  of  the  RSEs,  especially  the 
land and buildings have good realisable value, but have been of little economic utility for 
the RSEs, listed companies or investors. Under these unenviable conditions, the RSEs were 
forced  to  take  up  ancillary  activities  such  as  training,  investor  education  and depository 
services. The income generated from listing fees and the ancillary activities, return on the 
investments made by the RSEs and surplus generated by the subsidiaries became the main 
sources of revenue for the RSEs. In sum, most of the RSEs ceased to be markets where 
securities of companies listed on them are bought and sold.  

13.1.3  The Committee recognises that even internationally, and precisely for similar reasons, the 
RSEs have had a chequered past and over  a very short period of time became moribund 
before  the  burgeoning  growth  of  the  national  stock  exchanges  with  national  and 
international reach. This prompted a move towards consolidation of RSEs.  

13.1.4  The above situation naturally raises the basic question on the  raison d’être of the RSEs 
and their subsidiaries in the present market structure. When this question was posed before 
the RSEs, it did not evince any convincing response. They did not come with any  specific 
viable business plan for the revival of the RSEs excepting pinning hopes on a future which 
might  be bright.  Most  seemed  keen  to  be  part  of  a  solution  if  an  appropriate nucleus of 
leadership could be found.  Moreover, all of them were looking to SEBI to assist in creating 
a viable business model for the future. There were some who were willing to participate in 
a common trading platform and also engage themselves in various capital market related 
activities. Some of them even suggested that such a trading platform could be set up on a 
regional basis in each of the four regions. A few of the RSEs were confident of being able 
to  survive  as  independent  exchanges,  again  with  some  support  from  SEBI.  There were 
others who were not confident of the success of any of these models in  the light of their 
past experiences and were willing to accept a financially attractive exit option.  

13.1.5  The Committee notes that  there  are  certain  deeply  embedded  behavioral  issues  which 
continue to dominate the mind set of the members of the RSEs and they seem to be coming 
in the way of some of the RSEs accepting the reality which demands sub-ordination of their 
individual  and  independent  identity  before  the  larger  interest  of  the  very  survival  of  the 
RSEs.. Indeed, it was this attitude coupled with the equally uncompromising attitude of the 
business  partners  which  were  responsible  for  the  failure  of  the  various  rehabilitatory 
measures taken in the past for the revival of the RSEs.  Equally the members of the RSEs, 
by virtue of their access to national trading platforms through the subsidiary route did not 
find any incentive to trade and promote trading in the RSEs.  

13.1.6  There have also been serious regulatory concerns from time to time on the functioning of 
some of the RSEs. These regulatory concerns had led SEBI to take recourse to the extreme 
measure of superseding the governing boards of some exchanges and even to withdraw the 
recognition in the case of one  RSE. These regulatory concerns still remain in the case of 
some  of  the  RSEs  where  the  members  continue  to  remain  recalcitrant  and  resort  to 
undesirable market and governance practices.  

13.1.7  Although the RSEs have ceased to perform the basic economic function for which they 
were  set  up,  their  continued  existence  by  itself , necessitates regular on  site and off site 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        13 

regulatory monitoring and surveillance. Regulatory resources are thus thinly spread and the 
attention  of  the  regulator  is  diverted  from  more  emergent  issues  to  grappling  with  such 
routine issues which  relate  to  dysfunctional  entities. Deployment of regulatory resources 
for  monitoring  such  a  large  number  of  exchanges  thus  entails  an  avoidable  and  huge 
regulatory cost and imposes both a risk and a burden on the regulatory system.  

13.1.8  It  was  clear  to  the  Committee  that  any  solution  to  the  conundrum  posed  by  the  RSEs, 
must encompass all the issues delineated above including  the deeply embedded behavioral 
issues.  Equally,  such  solutions  must  not  only  be  practicable  and  implementable  but  also 
eschew adhocism and discretion which had informed and also thwarted some of the past 
initiatives for revival of the RSEs. Keeping that in view,  the Committee feels that (a)  such 
of the RSEs which do not want to continue as exchanges should be given an exit option, (b) 
the recognition of such of the RSEs which are notorious for their rank indiscipline besides 
giving  rise  to  serious  regulatory  concerns should be compulsorily withdrawn   and (c) a 
continuing option    may  be  given  to  such of the RSEs which have the potential and the 
willingness to participate in any alternate trading platform.  

13.1.9  The Committee is strongly of the view that it does not serve either the interest of trade or 
public interest, to forcibly keep alive the recognition of an exchange which does not have 
any potential for survival and is keen for an exit option or is posing to be regulatory burden. 
The Committee therefore recommends that (a)   such of the RSEs which do not want to 
continue as an exchange, should be given an exit option by withdrawing their recognition 
upon a specific request or application made by them; (b) recognition should be withdrawn 
compulsorily for such of the RSEs which are notorious for their rank indiscipline besides 
giving rise to serious regulatory concerns and (c) the recognition of those RSEs which have 
the potential and the willingness to participate in any alternate trading pla tform may be 
continued. The Committee is of the view that sections 4 and 5 of the SCRA sufficiently 
empower  SEBI  to  withdraw  recognition  for  both  the  category  of  exchanges  whether an 
exchange is recognized permanently or from year to year.  

13.1.10 The Committee feels that the withdrawal of recognition to the above two categories of 
RSEs  would  help  clean  up  the  system,  besides  reducing  the  regulatory  hazard  to  the 
investors, various regulators including tax authorities and the government. The issue of 
distribution of assets would become relevant in the eventuality of withdrawal of recognition 
for any reason. There is at present no provision for such distribution either under the SCRA 
or  within  the  regulatory  framework  of  SEBI.  As  distribution  of  assets  would  be  an 
impending consequence of any withdrawal of recognition of a stock exchange, there is an 
urgent need to formulate a permanent and appropriate scheme. The Committee therefore 
recommends that suitable rules be formed under section 30 of the SCRA, for distribution of 
assets of any stock exchange which ceases to be a recognised stock exchange. 

 
13.2  Distribution of assets 
13.2.1  The corpus of any stock exchange is made up of (1) the contribution of the members, (2) 
the  income  of  the  exchange,  and  (3)  the  fiscal  incentives  which  had  helped  the 
accumulation  of  reserves.  In  addition,  it  may  include  an  adventitious  factor  by  way  of 
appreciation in the value of the assets over a period of time. The net worth of the exchange 
after revaluation of the assets and liabilities based on market value, could be apportioned 
on the basis of the three components of the corpus mentioned above. The share relating to 
the members’ contribution should be made available to the members. The balance will be 
transferred to an escrow account and then to a fund earmarked for the purpose of investor 
protection managed by SEBI. This scheme will need a proper methodology for valuation of 
the assets and liabilities as well as for determining the proportion mentioned above and 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        14 

should be carried out by an independent entity. In this regard, the Committee recommends 
that a Task Force be constituted by SEBI comprising a chartered accountant, an approved 
valuer and a representative of SEBI for the purpose.  

13.2.2  The Committee strongly feels that in the absence of such a provision, no RSE would seek 
a voluntary exit option and one would have to live with a situation in which RSEs would 
continue to exist nearly in perpetuity and continue to remain a burden on the investor and 
the regulatory system.  

13.2.3  The closure of the RSEs will have concomitant consequences on the companies which are 
listed exclusively on these stock exchanges and their shareholders who would be denied an 
opportunity to trade. These have been dealt with later in this report. 

13.3  Terms of withdrawal of recognition 
13.3.1  The  entity  which  remains  after  withdrawal  of  recognition must immediately change its 
name and style and cannot continue in any business as a stock exchange. In case a stock 
exchange whose recognition is withdrawn has a subsidiary, such an entity would also have 
to change its name and style to avoid any representation of any present or past affiliation 
with an exchange. It would be upto the subsidiary to carry on broking operations as any 
other broking entity registered with SEBI subject to the same rights and duties.  

13.4  Effect on listed companies on withdrawal of recognition 
13.4.1  The Committee felt that the impact on account of withdrawal of recognition either on 
request or on compulsory direction on the companies exclusively listed on the RSEs and 
their shareholders would also need to be suitably addressed. The Committee noted that 
there are about 4000 companies which are exclusively listed on the RSEs,  a  majority of 
which  are  listed  in  DSE  and  CSE.  It  is  important  to  note  that  save  a  handful  of  these 
companies, there is no trading in any of the companies on the RSEs for the past several 
years. An analysis of the compliance status of these companies indicates that only about 
500 companies are compliant with the continuous listing requirements. It is felt that such 
compliant companies in an exchange which will no longer remain  recognized, should be 
allowed  to  migrate  to  any  other  exchange  with  minimum  procedure  and  hassle  to  the 
company.  SEBI  can  prescribe  that  files  of  such  compliant  companies  be  moved  inter-
exchange with minimum burden on such companies.  The Committee also recommends that 
before seeking voluntary  withdrawal of recognition, the RSEs would have to compulsorily 
delist all non-compliant companies.  

13.4.2  It can be argued against the proposal that delisting shares of non-compliant companies 
would hurt the shareholders of the company as they will be left with no exit option. But this 
exit option  is in reality a theoretical one,  because the shares of these companies have not 
been trading on the RSEs for several years and in any case  the investors were not able to 
deal in those shares. This theoretical exit option has a huge cost to the system.  

13.4.3  It might be argued that the above process of withdrawal of recognition could  result in  a 
particular State not having any stock exchange. This  should not be cause of concern as in 
any case the RSEs whose recognition may be withdrawn were virtually defunct for several 
years and did not serve any economic purpose as none of the companies of the region that 
were  exclusively  listed  on  the  RSEs  were  being  traded  in  those  RSEs.  Further,  the  two 
national level stock exchanges in any case provide access to investors across the length and 
breadth of the country.  

13.4.4  The  aforesaid  recommendation  if  implemented  will  have  several  advantages.  First,  the 
regulatory  hazard  described  above  and  cost  of  supervision  would  significantly  reduce. 
Secondly, it would facilitate the gainful use of the assets of such RSEs that have hitherto 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        15 

remained  idle.  An  incidental  consequence  would  be  that  the  subsidiaries  which  were 
hitherto functioning as a broker under certain restrictive conditions could function as any 
other registered corporate broker. 

13.4.5  The  Committee  expects  that  the  mechanism  as  provided  for  asset  distribution  would 
encourage  a  large  number  of  RSEs  to  seek  voluntary  exit  option.  The  compulsory 
withdrawal of recognition would also help close down a number of RSEs against which 
there  exists  serious  regulatory  concerns.  These  two  processes  will  help  clean  up  and 
streamline  the  system.  In  this  context,  the  Committee  examined  the  possible  prospect  of 
some  of  the  remaining  RSEs  which  have  already  been  corporatised  and  are  unable  to 
demutualise within the stipulated time.  In the event of non-compliance by such RSEs with 
the scheme of  Corporatisation and Demutualisation within  the  stipulated time, they will 
attract the consequences of withdrawal of recognition under sec. 5(2) of the SCRA. Such 
RSEs would fall in the same category of RSEs whose recognition has been voluntarily or 
compulsorily  withdrawn  and  accordingly,  they  would  have  recourse  to  the  same 
mechanism of asset distribution as recommended supra.  

 
13.5  Review of existing ICSE and BSE IndoNext 
13.5.1  While  considering  the  various  options  available  for  the  sustainable  existence  of  the 
remaining  stock  exchanges,  the  Committee  examined  the  reasons  for  the  failure  of  the 
various regulatory initiatives that were taken from time to time for their revival. The ICSE 
was  set  up  with  the  hope  that  it  would  become  a  viable  third  national  platform  with  the 
participation of the RSEs to provide for a market in the securities listed exclusively in the 
participating RSEs. The success of the ICSE hinged on the willingness and co-operation of 
the  participating  RSEs  and  their  members  to  actively  support  trading  of  the  exclusively 
listed  securities  on  the  participating  RSEs.  This  initiative,  however,  failed  at  the  nascent 
stage  itself  because  the  RSEs  were  not  willing  to  provide  the  extent  of  support  and  co-
operation  that  was  necessary  and  required  for  the  success  of  this  venture.  But  more 
importantly, there was no common order book and the order book was fragmented between 
the ICSE and the participating RSEs. Besides, it was not contemplated in the scheme of the 
ICSE to permit members of BSE and NSE to trade on ICSE. This subtracted a large body 
of well capitalized brokers from this market.  

13.5.2  In  view  of  the  failure  of  the  ICSE  to  grow  into  a  viable  third  trading  platform  and 
considering the need to provide an avenue to the SMEs to raise capital, BSE IndoNext was 
set up. As already discussed earlier in the report, BSE IndoNext was to be implemented in 
three phases. In the first phase, the BSE would move the eligible securities in its B1 and B2 
groups to be traded on this platform which would essentially be a separate screen of BSE’s 
BOLT system. Some of the exclusively listed securities of the RSEs would be permitted to 
trade  on  this  platform.  While  the  members  of  the  BSE  would  be  free  to  trade  on  this 
platform, the members of the RSEs would trade on this platform through the ir subsidiaries 
in  the  first  phase.  The  risk  management  and  the  responsibility  for  regulatory  compliance 
would  remain  with  the  BSE  in  this  phase.  The  second  phase  envisaged  all  the  eligible 
securities  which  are  exclusively  listed  on  the  RSEs  to  be  traded  in this segment and the 
responsibility for risk management, compliance and clearing & settlement would vest with 
the  RSEs  through  an  MoU  to  be  entered  between  the  RSEs  and  the  BSE.  In  order  to 
facilitate  this  process  of  trading  of  exclusively  listed  securities  at  a  national  level  and  to 
enable all members of RSEs to trade on the BSE in this segment and issue contract notes, 
sec. 13 of the SCRA was amended. Since the eligible securities that were exclusively listed 
on the RSEs fall in the SME category, it was hoped that BSE IndoNext would provide a 
viable market for the securities of SMEs besides addressing the issue of RSEs at the same 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        16 

time. Thereafter, in the third phase, SMEs could raise capital and list on this platform with 
appropriate  listing  requirements  and  corporate  governance  procedures  which  the  SMEs 
could easily comply with. However, this experiment too did not meet with any measure of 
success and the BSE IndoNext did not take off beyond the first phase. The failure in this 
case could be attributed  to the reluctance on the part of BSE to dilute its entry norms and 
the eligibility criteria of securities for trading on this platform.  

13.5.3  The  seeds  of  failure  of  these  two  well-intended  initiatives  lay  in  the  deep  rooted 
behavioral issues, mind sets with the attendant resistances and conflicts.  The Committee is 
of the view that the success of any other initiative to be taken in future would be solely 
dependent on the willing co-operation of the RSEs and its members and the BSE or NSE. It 
would not be wise to recommend a measure for  the development of a third platform at the 
national level building purely only on a sanguine estimate of expected success. At the same 
time, the Committee also recognizes that in the absence of a third platform, the SMEs in 
India would have virtually no avenue for raising capital from the public and this would not 
be  in  the  interest  of  the  Indian  economy  in  the  long  run. Internationally, markets have 
developed and successfully grown such exclusive platforms for the SMEs. These platforms 
have acted as nurseries for nurturing the growth of SMEs into larger enterprises and their 
ascendancy to the big boards.  

13.5.4  The  Committee  assessed  the  various  suggestions  received  for  establishment  of  an 
alternate platform at the national level for trading in the securities that are exclusively listed 
on the RSEs. The proposal of RSEs providing four platforms at regional levels was clearly 
unviable because the number of RSEs left in each region after withdrawal of recognition as 
described  above  would  be  very  few  which  would  not  be  able  to  provide  a  market  with 
depth and liquidity.  In any case, a merger of RSEs without any viable business plan can 
possibly serve no purpose as the cause of failure is not the lack of size or even of  money. 
The alternative prospect of some of the RSEs setting up a separate third platform is fraught 
with  the  same  kind  of  risks  which  plagued  the  earlier  initiatives.  The  success  of  this 
measure would be a function of the leadership which could be provided by one or more of 
the  participating  RSEs.  Given  the  insularity  of  some  of  the  RSEs,  it  is  unlikely  that  any 
RSE would be able to provide the desired leadership. The Committee, therefore, does not 
consider  it  practicable  to  recommend  the  setting  up  of  a  third  platform  by  means  of 
participating RSEs.  

13.5.5  The NSE in its presentation to the Committee had expressed its willingness to provide 
technological support and equity participation in case some of the RSEs were willing to set 
up a third platform. However, the initiative for this purpose would have to come first from 
the RSEs which is unlikely as discussed at length in the previous paragraphs. Therefore, the 
Committee is of the view that this proposal may not succeed.  

13.5.6  The Committee was, therefore, left only with two choices. One, the proposal given by the 

BSE and the other, by the ICSE.  

 
 
13.6.1 The Committee discussed the features of the BSE’s proposal (see Box 2) and analysed the 

BSE’s proposal – benefits 

possible implications. 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        17 

Box 2: BSE proposal – salient features 

(cid:216)  The offer of BSE would be to those RSEs which do not opt either for voluntary withdrawal of 
recognition  or  in  respect  of  whom  SEBI  does  not  withdraw  recognition  in  terms  of  the 
provisions of the SCRA subject to certain conditions. 

(cid:216)  All eligible trading members of the RSEs who accept the arrangement and who enter into the 
necessary  agreements  with  BSE  shall  be  allowed  access  to  trade  on  the  entire  universe  of 
securities listed on the all India trading platforms of BSE both  in the cash and F&O segments.  
(cid:216)  the trading members of RSEs shall be required and entitled to issue contract notes in their 

names as members of the respective RSE. 

(cid:216)  Settlement  obligations  arising  out  of  trades  executed  by  the  trading  members  of  the  RSEs 

shall be settled by the respective RSE.  

(cid:216)  For the purpose of clearing of obligations, each of the participating RSE shall be allotted a 

Clearing ID by BSE.  

(cid:216)  For  discharging  its  settlement  obligations,  the  RSEs  shall  have  recourse  to  their  trade 
guarantee fund. This is as a first line of defence and in all cases the settlement guarantee fund 
of BSE shall operate.  

(cid:216)  BSE shall be entitled to place restrictions on the RSEs with regard to admission of trading 
members in RSEs and the territories from which the trading members of RSEs may access the 
trading platforms of BSE. 

(cid:216)  Trading  members  of  RSEs  shall  execute  both  proprietary  and  client  orders  in  the  cash 
segment  only  on  the  BSE  trading  platform  and  activities  of  the  subsidiaries  in  the  cash 
segment shall cease. 

(cid:216)  Trading members of RSEs shall endeavor to build-up activity (both on proprietary and client 
account)  in  the  F&O  segment  of  BSE.  Once  BSE  F&O  segment  gains  viability  and  size, 
trading  members  of  RSEs  shall  execute  both  proprietary  and  client  orders  in  the  F&O 
segment  only  on  the  BSE  trading  platform  and  activities  of  the  subsidiaries  in  the  F&O 
segment shall cease. 

(cid:216)  BSE  shall  permit  securities  of  companies,  which  have  been  compliant  with  the  listing 
requirements of RSEs, which participate in this arrangement with  BSE, to be traded under a 
separate  segment  on  its  trading  network  on  an  all-India  order  book  platform.  Members  of 
BSE shall also be permitted to trade on this segment.  

(cid:216)  RSEs would have to compulsorily delist all non-compliant companies before getting into any 

arrangement with BSE.  

 
13.6.2  The BSE’s proposal envisages that the members of all the RSEs whose recognition has 
not been withdrawn would be allowed to trade on both the cash and F & O segments of 
BSE,  subject  to  the  fulfillment  of  the  prescribed  requirements  for  trading  members.  In 
terms  of  the  BSE’s  proposal,  the  RSE  members  shall  issue  contract  notes  in  their  own 
names as a member of the respective RSEs for the trades executed on these segments. BSE 
shall  permit  securities  of  companies  which  have  been  compliant  with  the  listing 
requirements  of  participating  RSEs  to  be  traded  under  a  separate  segment  on  its  BOLT 
network. The members of BSE shall also be permitted to trade on this segment. One of the 
conditions of this proposal is that the participating RSEs must first compulsorily delist all 
the non-compliant companies listed in that RSE. In the interregnum before this initiative 
takes off fully, such of the subsidiaries of the RSEs which are members of the NSE in the 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        18 

cash and derivatives segment would be allowed to continue to trade only in the derivatives 
segment of NSE. 

13.6.3  The  above  proposal  of  BSE  offers  several  benefits.  One,  it  would  enable  compliant 
companies listed on the RSEs to have national reach. The investors in such companies will 
get the benefit of enhanced liquidity as a result of these securities being traded on national 
platform. Besides, the RSE members would be able to conduct business in their own names 
and issue their own contract notes (a topic of immense importance to RSE members, as was 
learnt  during  the  meetings  with  RSEs,  as  the  members  of  RSEs  felt  humiliated  being 
reduced to sub-brokers and not being able to issue their own contract notes). The redressal 
of investor grievances in respect of trades of the members of the RSEs would be handled at 
the regional level in the respective RSEs and thus would be beneficial to the investors in 
the region. The RSE members would also gain access to the F & O segment of the BSE. It 
is  likely  that  the  enhanced  participation  of  large  number  of  brokers  across  the  country 
would provide the much needed impetus and help kick start the F & O segment of the BSE. 
This,  in  turn,  would  fulfill  the  long  standing  demand  of  the  members  of  the  RSEs  to 
participate in the F & O segment. The activation of the F & O segment on the BSE would 
also provide desirable competition in the derivatives market. This initiative of the BSE will 
also  obviate  the  need  for  the  continuation  of  the  subsidiaries  in  the  long  run.  With the 
success of this initiative, it is possible that the SMEs will have a liquid market where they 
would be able to raise capital in the future. A pertinent question in this context is the future 
of  the  IndoNext.  The  Committee  weighed  the  proposal  of  BSE  in  the  context  of  the 
operation  of  BSE  Indonext  which  has  not  taken  off  in  the  real  sense  and  the  Committee 
feels  that  the  present  proposal  of  BSE  goes  beyond  the  scope  of  Indonext  by  providing 
access to the entire universe of securities listed on BSE including F & O to the members of 
RSE.  

 
13.7  ICSE’s proposal 
13.7.1The proposal of ICSE  (see Box 3)  was also discussed by the Committee and a compared 

with the BSE’s proposal. 

Box 3:  ICSE proposal – salient features 

(cid:216)  ICSE would create a common trading platform in association with some of the promoting 
stock  exchanges  which  are  interested  in  the  initiative.  The  recently  amended  sec  13  of 
SCRA  enables  trading  members  belonging  to  a  set  of  stock  exchanges  to  trade  on  the 
proposed common trading platform without having to go through a separate process of 
registration with SEBI.  

(cid:216)  Either the ICSE or the proposed common trading platform must be granted recognition as 
a national platform so that the said platform can be used for book building, both for initial 
public offerings (IPOs) and follow-on public offerings (FPOs) and also for delisting of 
companies.  

(cid:216)  ICSE  would  also  promote  a  common  clearing  corporation  for  providing  cost-effective 

clearing services to the trading members of the participating stock exchanges. 

(cid:216)  ICSE will allow the listing and trading of all the securities exclusively listed on the RSEs. 
(cid:216)  ICSE will allow the members of BSE and NSE to trade in these securities even though 

they are not participating exchanges in the ICSE. 

(cid:216)  ICSE would have to be granted exclusive trading rights for a period of atleast five years 
in  these  securities  i.e.  these  will  not  be  allowed  to  be  traded  as  permitted  securities  in 
other exchanges.  

 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        19 

13.7.2  The  Committee  also  took  note  of  the  proposal  of  ICSE.  The  ICSE  had  suffered from 
several  deficiencies  which  have  been  discussed  earlier.  In  order  to  remove  these 
deficiencies, ICSE is willing to allow the listing and trading of all the securities exclusively 
listed on the RSEs. The ICSE is also agreeable to allow the members of BSE and NSE to 
trade in these securities even though they are not participating exchanges in the ICSE. With 
the  participation  of  a  large  number  of  brokers  across  the  country,  there  could  be  a  fair 
possibility of the exclusively listed securities gaining liquidity which would in turn deepen 
the market in these securities. However, both as an incentive and as a promotional measure, 
ICSE would have to be granted exclusive trading rights for a period of atleast five years in 
these securities,  i.e., these will not be allowed to be traded as permitted securities in other 
exchanges. If the trading volumes of some of these companies listed and traded increases 
significantly even during this five year period and in case these companies decide to raise 
capital and become eligible to trade either in BSE or NSE, ICSE would not hinder such a 
migration. It is also important that ICSE  be given  recognition as a national level platform 
so that it has the same benefits as that of the other exchanges.  
ADB’s proposal 

13.8  The Committee noted that the ADB had sometime back prepared a report on the survival of 
the RSEs and had suggested certain measures. The acceptance by the RSEs of either of the 
aforesaid  two  models  would  obviate  the  need  to  adopt  the  course  of  action  and  the 
suggestions recommended in the ADB report.  

13.9  In the light of the aforesaid deliberations,  the Committee recommends that all the RSEs 
whose  recognition  has  not  been  withdrawn  either  voluntarily  or  compulsorily  must 
collectively choose (in order for it to succeed) either the BSE model or in the alternative, 
the ICSE model. The FISE will have to take the initiative of evolving a consensus amongst 
the  RSEs.  The  Committee  notes  that  governance  would  play  an  important  role  in  the 
efficient  and  effective  functioning  of  the  RSEs  in  the  emergent  scenario.  The  Public 
Representative (PR) Directors would have a key role to play  in the efficient and effective 
functioning of the Boards of the remaining RSEs. In order that the PR Directors are able to 
discharge  their  responsibilities,  it  is  important  that  they  are  conversant  with  the 
governance of the RSEs, have a reasonable knowledge of the securities market and are 
aware of their own functions as PR Directors. The Committee, therefore, recommends that 
SEBI should work out an appropriate training programme for the PR Directors.  

 
13.10 The Committee, however, is of the view that in case both of these models fail for whatever 
reasons, there would be no merit in the continuation of the RSEs and the recognition of all 
the RSEs will, therefore, have to be compulsorily withdrawn. Once the RSEs have chosen a 
particular model, such of the RSEs which are unwilling to accept that model will have to 
face compulsory withdrawal of recognition in the future as they provide neither a trading 
platform nor serve any public interest.  

 
13.11 The actions consequent to withdrawal of recognition discussed in the earlier paragraphs 
would be applicable in these cases also. The other more serious consequence would be that 
SMEs would be bereft of any avenue for raising capital from the public. This would be 
detrimental to the economy in the long run and this will always remain a concern.  

 
14.  Regulatory framework for the Subsidiaries of RSEs 
14.1  The subsidiaries of the RSEs have opened up an avenue to the members of the RSEs to gain 
access to trading on the BSE and NSE. The success of these subsidiaries as brokers can be 
estimated  by  the  fact  that  over  10%  of  trades  on  NSE and  BSE are carried out by these 
subsidiaries.  Though  the  subsidiaries  trade  on  the  NSE  and  BSE  as  brokers,  there  are 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        20 

certain restrictions imposed on these subsidiaries to address certain regulatory concerns. On 
account of these restrictions, there is a lack of level playing field between any member of 
the  BSE  and  NSE  and  the  subsidiaries.  Barring  three  subsidiaries,  others have not been 
given access to the derivatives market by SEBI on account of various regulatory concerns. 
As  already  mentioned  in  the  foregoing  paragraphs,  many  of  the  subsidiaries  have  been 
demanding  such  access  and  several  of  them  have  also  paid  deposits  with the NSE.  The 
Committee is of the view that the future of the subsidiaries is inter-linked with the survival 
of their parent RSEs.  

 
14.2  In case a stock exchange whose recognition is withdrawn has a subsidiary, such an entity 
would also have to change its name and style to avoid any representation of any present or 
past  affiliation  with  an  exchange.  It  would  be  upto  the  subsidiary  to  carry  on  broking 
operations as any other broking entity registered with SEBI. The subsidiaries’ demand of 
level playing field could then easily be recommended as they become brokers (or other 
registered financial intermediaries) simplicitor. This would necessitate the NSE to modify 
suitably its norms relating to dominant holdings in the case of these entities. SEBI should 
consider extending turnover fee continuity benefit to such entities. 

 
14.3  The Committee is of the view that in case of the subsidiaries of the RSEs whose recognition 
is  not  withdrawn,  the  RSEs  should  preferably  cease  to  have  any  shareholding  in  the 
subsidiary within a period of three years. However, the RSEs may be allowed to retain less 
than 15% of the shareholding in the spun-off entity.  

 
15.  Divestment of shareholding of the stock exchanges 
15.1  One  of  the  terms  of  reference  of  the  Committee  was  to  recommend  modalities  for 
increasing the public shareholding in demutualised stock exchanges in accordance with the 
provisions of SCRA.  

15.2  The Committee notes that the procedure for Corporatisation and Demutualisation of stock 
exchanges laid down in sec. 4B of SCRA envisages that majority of the shareholding of a 
demutualised stock exchange in India should be held by the public. The specific provision 
for dispersal of shareholding to the public in sub clause (8) of sec. 4B of the SCRA is as 
follows: 

“Every recognised stock exchange, in respect of which the scheme for corporatisation or 
demutualisation has been approved under sub-section (2), shall, either by fresh issue of 
equity shares to the public or in any other manner as may be specified by the regulations 
made by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, ensure that at least fifty -one per 
cent. of its equity share capital is held, within twelve months from the date of publication 
of the order under sub-section (7), by the public other than shareholders having trading 
rights: 
Provided that the Securities and Exchange Board of India may, on sufficient cause being 
shown to it and in the public interest, extend the said period by another twelve months.” 

 
15.3  Any non-compliance with the provisions of Corporatisation and Demutualisation  scheme, 
including failure to increase the public shareholding within the stipulated time would result 
in withdrawal of recognition of a stock exchange under sec. 5(2) of the SCRA. 

 
15.4  The SCRA provides that SEBI will have the power to prescribe regulations to provide for 
means  other  than  an  IPO  for  divestment.  The  Committee  note s  that  in  case  a  stock 
exchange adopts the route of public issue, it would necessarily have to be in accordance 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        21 

with the SEBI (Disclosure & Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000. However, the route of 
IPO is likely to be adopted by the stock exchanges only if there is a requirement of infusion 
of  funds.  The  Committee,  therefore,  recognizes  that  all  stock  exchanges  might  not 
necessarily adopt the IPO route for increasing the public shareholding. Besides, there may 
not be any guarantee that the IPO of all stock exchanges would meet with the same degree 
of  success,  especially  in  the  absence  of  a  viable  business  model  for  most  of  the  stock 
exchanges. This implies that the stock exchanges would have to necessarily opt for either 
an offer for sale to the public or offer for sale to strategic investors or a mix of the two. The 
stock exchanges may also follow the route of preferential allotment to strategic investors.  

 
15.5  The  Committee  recognizes  that  it  may  perhaps  be  necessary  in  the  interest  of  the 
development  of  the  stock  exchanges  to  induct  some  strategic  partners.  In  that  case,  the 
question  arises  whether  there  should  be  any  qualitative/quantitative  restrictions  on  the 
strategic investors or other investors.  

 
15.6  There  could  be  several  possibilities  in  the  choice  of  a  strategic  partner.  The  strategic 
partners  could  be  one  or  more  of  individuals,  corporate  entities,  exchanges,  multilateral 
agencies,  insurance  companies,  banks,  financial  intermediaries,  financial  institutions  and 
depositories.  These  entities  could  either  be  domestic  or  foreign.  Each  of  these entities 
becoming  strategic  partners  could  give  rise  to  different  levels  of  conflict  of  interest  and 
regulatory concerns. In case the strategic partners are foreign entities, the FDI policy of the 
Government will become relevant.  

 
15.7  The  Committee  in  this  context  examined  the  various  approaches  taken  by  the  stock 
exchanges in other countries that have been demutualised. The Committee also studied the 
reports of IOSCO and the World Bank on demutualisation of stock exchanges.  

 
15.8  The Committee notes that countries such as Australia, Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia 
which have successfully demutualised their stock exchanges have by and large proceeded 
on the following lines :- 
a)    No  particular  entity  was  prohibited  from  acquiring  shares  of  exchange  in  case  of 

Australian Stock Exchange (ASX) and Hong Kong Exchange (HKEx). 

b)  While  ASX  and  HKEx  had  no  requirement  of  reduction  in  shareholding  of  trading 
members/brokers, Singapore Stock Exchange (SGX) reduced member shareholding by 
listing of shares through a public offer and a private placement route. Bursa Malaysia 
also reduced the same through IPO route. 

c)    A  cap  or  a  limit  was  placed  on  the  shareholding  of  any  one  shareholder  including 

persons acting in concert to avoid an “unacceptable control situation” in exchanges. 

d)   While ASX initially restricted ownership limit to 5% of voting rights and shareholding 
limitation was subsequently changed to 15% for any one shareholder. HKEx does not 
allow any investor to hold more than 5% of shares. In Bursa Malaysia, shareholding is 
subject to restriction of less than 5% and Singapore allows 12% control or 20% control 
of exchange only after approval of Monetary Authority of Singapore. 

 
15.9  It is clear from the international experience that regulators and stock exchanges have not 
prohibited any class of investors from acquiring any shares of the exchange but have placed 
ceiling  on  the  shareholding  of  an  investor  along  with  persons  acting  in  concert.  This  is 
almost similar to the case of restrictions on holding shares in Indian banks imposed by the 
Reserve  Bank  of  India.  In  the  case  of  Indian  banks  also,  there  is  no  restriction  or 
prohibition of any class of investors to acquire shares in a commercial bank in India, but 
there is a ceiling on shareholding of any investor along with person acting in concert. It was 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        22 

also noticed that internationally there is no restriction on ownership of stock exchanges or 
trading  systems  which  carry  out  trade  and  order  matching  on  screens.  It  is,  therefore, 
possible internationally for individuals, corporates and exchanges to takeover other stock 
exchanges.  

 
15.10 The Committee also recognizes that in the present Indian context, it may not be desirable to 
adopt such an approach. At the same time, the Committee felt that excessive qualitative and 
quantitative restrictions would not only thwart the process of divestment but would also 
become difficult to monitor in the practical sense. Besides, such restrictions may dampen 
valuations  and  limit  the  choice  of  investors  thereby  raising  the  cost  of  capital.  The 
Committee,  therefore,  feels  that  any  restriction  in  regard  to  the  nature  of  the  strategic 
partners  and  the  percentage  of  shareholding  should  be  reasonable  and  pragmatic.  The 
Committee,  therefore,  recommends  that  any  entity  other  than  exchange,  multilateral 
agency, insurance company, bank, depository and clearing corporation can be allowed to 
hold less than 15% of the share capital and voting rights of the stock exchange either singly 
or collectively along with persons acting in concert. However, in case a strategic partner is 
an  exchange,  multilateral  agency,  insurance  company,  bank,  depository  or  clearing 
corporation, it would be allowed to hold upto a maximum of 26% of the share capital and 
voting rights of the stock exchange either singly or collectively along with persons acting in 
concert. Any strategic partner must comply with SEBI (Criteria for Fit and Proper Person) 
Regulations, 2004. The holding by any foreign entity including FIIs would be subject to the 
overall  policy  of  the  Government  on  FDI.  These  recommendations  would  have  to  be 
incorporated suitably in the divestment regulations to be framed and notified by SEBI.  
 

 
15.11 The other relevant  question in this context is of listing of a demutualised stock exchange. 
Internationally,  demutualised  stock  exchanges  have  usually  listed  on  the  stock  exchange 
itself  and  regulatory  conflicts  have  been  addressed  through  specific  provisions  in  the 
Listing Agreement. The Committee recommends that self-listing should be permitted, either 
through the IPO route or by way of listing with appropriate exemptions from Rule 19(2)(b) 
of SCRR in case a stock exchange does not make a public offer. The regulatory conflicts 
which are likely to arise will have to be dealt with by suitable provisions in the listing 
agreement of the stock exchanges and the stock exchanges will have to fully comply with 
the provisions of corporate governance incorporated in clause 49 of the listing agreement. 
Overseas listing will also be permitted after the exchange has been listed on the domestic 
exchange.  

 
16.  Acknowledgements 

The  Committee acknowledges the contributions made by  the  RSEs,  BSE  and  NSE  who 
submitted their views on the subject. The Committee places on record its appreciation for 
the  assistance  rendered  to  the  Committee  by  Shri  T  V  Rangaswami,    Senior General 
Manager, BSE Ltd., Shri  V.S.  Sundaresan,  General  Manager,  SEBI, Shri Manoj Kumar, 
Deputy General Manager, SEBI and Ms. Aparna Thyagarajan, Manager, SEBI. 

**********

 

 

Report of the Committee to Study the Future of RSEs –Post- demutualisation                       

 

        23 

