Concept Paper on the proposed  

SEBI ( Delisting of Securities) Regulations, 2006. 

 
Brief History:  The Evolution of Delisting Guidelines: 
 
SEBI in the year 2002 constituted a committee on delisting of shares to inter-alia examine 
and review the conditions  for delisting of securities of companies listed on recognized 
stock exchanges and suggest norms and procedures in connection therewith. The report 
of the committee was considered and accepted by SEBI Board. Pursuant to the same, 
SEBI vide Circular SMD/Policy/CIR – 7/ 2003 dated February 17, 2003 issued the SEBI ( 
Delisting of Securities) Guidelines, 2003 (Guidelines).  
 
The Current Guidelines: The current Guidelines came into force on February 17, 2003. 
The salient features of these guidelines are brought out below: 

1.  An exit option to the public shareholders is mandated if the company or its 
promoters wish to delist its securities from all the stock exchanges in which 
they are listed. 

2.  No  exit  opportunity  to  be  given  in  case  of  securities  to  be  delisted  from 
exchanges  other  than  exchanges  having  nationwide  trading  terminal 
(BSE/NSE) if these securities continue to be listed on stock exchanges having 
Nationwide trading terminals . 

3.  Price  discovery  by  a  method  of  book  building  in  which  the  price  is 

determined at the rate at which maximum number of shares are tendered. 

4.  Eligibility to participate in the book building process extended only to demat 

5.  Option available to the promoters to accept or reject the price determined by 

shareholders. 

the book building process. 

mechanism. 

acceptance of the offer. 

6.  Settlement  of  shares  after  the  offer  through  the  stock  exchange  clearing 

7.  The  exit  option  to  be  open  for  a  period  of  6  months  after  the  closure  and 

 
Operational issues  
 
Exit offers were brought out under the provisions of these guidelines, with the first offer 
being made in January 2004. Many representations and views have been received on the 
guidelines.  Based on such representations from market participants, stock exchanges, 
industry representatives and common shareholders, it was proposed to look into and 
suggest changes in the guidelines.  
 
Initial  changes  proposing  more  systemic  clarity  were  put  up  for  public  comments  in 
April 2004.  Comments were received from various quarters and opinions were raised 
on crucial provisions. In the meantime, some more offers for delisting were made under 
the Guidelines also bringing along further comments from market participants. 
 
 
 

Proposed changes 
 
In an endeavor to provide a level playing field to the participants in the securities 
market while not compromising on the protection of investor interests, it has been 
decided to bring about certain changes in the Guidelines that are felt necessary. The 
following  paragraphs  elucidate  the  nature  of  changes  proposed  and  the  rationale 
behind the proposed changes: 
 

1.  Conversion  of  guidelines  into  Regulations:    The  provisions  governing 
Delisting of Securities were initially envisaged only as a guiding framework 
to provide for an exit option at a determined price with the Stock Exchange 
overseeing  the  compliance.  Consistent  with  the  need  to  have  appropriate 
instrumentalities,  it  has  been  decided  to  convert  the  Guidelines  into 
Regulations. 

 
2.  Book Building Process:  The following was noticed in the scrutiny of the 

current process of price discovery through book building: 

a.  Disproportionate  Powers  with  public  share  holders  holding  major 

chunk 

b.  Possibility of frivolous Bids to destabilize the delisting offer 
c.  Freedom to promoters to reject the price discovered. 
d.  Revision of bids leading to cartelization in the discovery of price. 
 
It was increasingly felt that the book building process, which was to aid 
in the determination of a fair exit value for the shareholders, was not fully 
achieving the said objective and the perceived investor friendliness of the 
price discovery mechanism was not necessarily translating into genuine 
discovery of price. 
 
Thus emanated a need to look for an alternate pricing mechanism and 
hence the current proposal which is as under: 
 
It is proposed that the price would be the higher of –  
a)  The fixed price which would be the floor price plus a  premium of 
25%. The floor price would be determined in terms of Regulation 20 
of  SEBI 
(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeover) 
Regulations.  

b)  Fair  value  determined  by  an  accredited  rating  agency  plus  a 

premium of 25%.  
The  relevant  provision  is  annexed  at  Regulation  14(4)  of  the 
proposed draft Regulations. 

 
Further, the reference date for calculating the floor price is the date of 
Public  Announcement  currently.  This  was  felt  to  be  resulting  in 
fluctuation in price from the time the decision to delist is taken by the 
Board and the Public Announcement. In order to correct this anomaly, it 
is proposed that the reference date for calculation of floor price would be 

the date on which the stock exchanges are notified of the Board meeting 
in which the delisting proposal was considered. This is in line with the 
provisions of the Takeover Regulations. 

 

3.  Absence of Minimum Subscription:  The success of the exit offer under the 
current  provisions  of  the  Guidelines  is  linked  to  the  crossing  of  the 
continuous  listing  requirement.  This  gave  rise  to  a  situation  that  securities 
were bound to get delisted if the public shareholding reduced from the levels 
required to be maintained for the purpose of continuous listing.  

While  the  rationale  of  mandating  levels  for  continuous  listing  is  based  on 
good  corporate  governance,  providing  the  same  levels  as  eligibility  for 
delisting was resulting in delisting of securities even while a huge residue of 
public shareholding remains, which is primarily against investor interest. 
 
World  over,  in  matters  of  delisting,  it  is  a  known  fact  that  a  10%  level  of 
public shareholding was considered as a prudent level for squeeze out option 
to the promoters whenever companies wanted to delist.  
 
Thus as a measure to arrive at  plausible levels of public shareholding, below 
which companies wishing to delist  their securities could do so, it is proposed 
to  introduce  a  level  of    10%  of  public  shareholding  (in  consonance  with 
international  practices)  as  the  breach  percentage  level  for  eligibility  for 
delisting. The relevant proposal is as under : 

 
Minimum subscription to be introduced: Success of the offer depends 
on  a  minimum  subscription  resulting  in  the  public  shareholding 
reducing below 10% or 4%. Thus, the promoter holding should breach 
the  90%  level  or  96%  level  as  the  case  may  be  depending  on  the 
categorization of the company under Clause 40A. 

 

4.  The  exit  offer  to  be  available  for  all  shares  :   With  the  dispensing  of  the 
book  building  mechanism  which  was  available  only  for  shares  in  demat 
mode,  the  anomaly  arising  therein  has  been  addressed.  Now  shareholders 
holding shares in both physical and demat mode can participate in the offer. 

5.  Settlement procedure:  In order to simplify the settlement system, it is now 
proposed  that  the  settlement  would  be  made  separately  through  the 
Merchant Bankers and Registrars as is being currently done in open offers 
under SEBI (SAST) Regulations. 

6.  Time Lines for various activities: Current guidelines give only the skeletal 
framework  for  delisting  the  securities.  It  was  felt  that  many  procedural 
aspects  needed  clarification.  Hence,  in  order  to  bring  about  clarity  and 
provide for a structured framework, certain time lines have been proposed in 
the Regulations.  

 

 

 

 

7.  Reporting Requirements:  The extant Guidelines do not prescribe any kind 
of  reporting  by  the  Stock  Exchanges.  Though  it  is  intended  to  keep  the 
monitoring aspect purely with the Stock Exchange, certain overall reporting 
requirements are being prescribed which were felt necessary for the smooth 
working of these Regulations. 

 
The above points highlight the major changes that are being proposed in the proposed 
Delisting Regulations. The above is an attempt to provide the basic reasoning behind the 
proposed changes. Though a consultative process has been adopted and the views of 
market  participants  have  been  considered  in  preparing  the  Draft  Regulations,  the 
revised draft regulations and the rationale for revising them are once again placed in 
public domain for comments and suggestions.  
 
The  full  text  of  the  proposed  Regulations  is  annexed  herewith  for  Public  Comments. 
Comments may be sent on or before 14th December 2006 to the address mentioned below 
AND through email to harinib@sebi.gov.in and amitk@sebi.gov.in . 
 
Division of Corporate Restructuring 
SEBI Bhavan, 3rd Floor, B- wing, 
Plot NO C – 4A, G Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Mumbai 400 051. 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

******** 

 

 
 
ANNEXURE 
 
 
 

 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART –II – SECTION 3 – SUB SECTION (ii) 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the   

December, 2006 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(DELISTING OF SECURITIES) REGULATIONS, 2006 

 

S.O. No. 
   (E). In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30, read 
with  sub-section  (1)  of  section  11  and  sub-section  (2)  of  section  11A,  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) and section 
31  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  the  Board  hereby 
makes the following Regulations, namely: -  

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

 

Short title and 
commencement. 
 

1 
 

(1) These  Regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and 
Exchange  Board      of  India      (Delisting  of  Securities) 
Regulations, 2006. 

(2) They  shall  come  into  force  on  the  date  of  their 

publication in the Official Gazette. 

 

Definitions. 

2  (1)  In  these  Regulations,  unless  the  context  otherwise 

requires, - 
(a) ‘Act’  means the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 

(b) ‘Board’  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India established under section 3 of the Act; 

(c) ‘company’  means  a  company  registered  under  the 

Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and includes a body 
corporate  or  corporation  established  under  a  Central 
Act,  State  Act  or  Provincial  Act  for  the  time  being  in 
force, whose securities are listed on a recognized stock 
exchange; 

(d) ‘compulsory delisting’  means delisting of securities of a 

company by a stock exchange under Chapter V of these 
regulations;  

(e) ‘public  holders  of  securities’  means  the  holders  of  the 

relevant securities, who are not promoters; 

(f)  ‘stock exchange’  means any stock exchange which has 

been  granted  recognition  under  section  4  of 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956; 

the 

(g) ‘Schedule’  means  a  Schedule  appended  to  these 

Regulations; 

(h) ‘voluntary  delisting’  means  delisting  of  securities  of  a 

company  voluntarily  under  Chapter 
regulations; 

III  of 

these 

(i)  ‘working  days’  shall  mean  the  working  days  of  the 

Board. 

respectively  assigned 

to 

them  under 

the 

in  concert’, 
shall  have 

(2)  The  words  ‘control’,  ‘person  acting 
‘promoter’  and  ‘public  shareholding’ 
the 
meanings 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 as 
amended from time to time. 
(3)  Words  and  expressions  not  defined 
these 
Regulations,  but  defined  in  or  under  the  Act  or  the 
Securities  Contracts 
the 
Companies  Act,  1956,  or  any  statutory  modification  or  re-
enactment  thereof,  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  have 
been assigned to them by or under those enactments.  
 

(Regulation)  Act,  1956  or 

in 

 

Applicability. 

3 

CHAPTER II 

DELISTING OF SECURITIES 

 

(1) These  Regulations  shall  apply  to  delisting  of  securities 
of  a  company  from  the  stock  exchange  or  stock 
exchanges where such securities are listed. 

(2) Nothing in these regulations shall apply to any delisting 
made pursuant to a scheme sanctioned by the Board for 
Industrial  and  Financial  Reconstruction  under  the  Sick 
Industrial  Companies  (Special  Provisions)  Act,  1985  or 

4 

Delisting not 
permissible  in 
certain 
circumstances 
and conditions 
for delisting.  

by  the  National  Company  Law  Tribunal  under  section 
424D of the Companies Act, 1956, if such scheme – 
(a) gives specific exemption from compliance with these 

regulations; or 

(b) lays  down    any  specific  procedure  to  complete  the 

delisting; or 

(c) provides an exit option to the existing public holders 

of securities at a specified rate. 

 
(1) No company shall apply for and no stock exchange shall 
grant delisting of securities of a company, pursuant to a 
buyback of securities by the company or pursuant to a 
preferential allotment made by the company. 

(2) No company shall apply for and no stock exchange shall 
grant  delisting  of  any  class  of  securities  of  a  company 
unless  a  period  of  three  years  has  elapsed  since  the 
listing of that class of securities on any stock exchange. 
(3) No company shall apply for and no stock exchange shall 
grant  delisting  of  securities  where  any  instruments 
issued  by  the  company,  which  are  convertible  into  the 
same class of securities that are sought to be delisted, 
are outstanding.  

(4) Nothing  contained  in  sub-regulations  (2)  and  (3)  shall 
apply to delisting of securities falling under clause (a) of 
regulation 6.   

(5) No company shall apply for and no stock exchange shall 

grant delisting of convertible securities. 

(6) Notwithstanding delisting of any class of securities of a 
company, any other class of its securities may continue 
to be listed on the stock exchange. 

(7) Delisting  of  securities  shall  also  be  subject  to  the 

 

 

Delisting from 
all stock 
exchanges. 

Delisting from 
only some of 
the stock 
exchanges. 

Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. 

 

CHAPTER III 

VOLUNTARY DELISTING 

5  Subject to the provisions of these regulations the securities 
of a company may be delisted from all the stock exchanges 
where  they  are  listed  or  from  the    stock  exchange  where 
they are listed: 
Provided  that  all  public  holders  of  the  securities  which  are 
sought  to  be  delisted  are  given  an  exit  opportunity  in 
accordance with Chapter IV. 
 

6  The  securities  of  a  company  may  be  delisted  from  one  or 
more stock exchanges where those are listed and continue 
to  remain  listed  on  one  or  more  other  stock  exchanges 
subject to the provisions of these Regulations and subject to 
the following - 

(a)  if after the proposed delisting from any one or more 
stock exchanges, the securities of a company would 
remain  listed  on  any  stock  exchange  which  has 
nationwide  trading  terminals,  no  exit  opportunity 
needs to be given to the shareholders; and,  

(b)  if  after  the  proposed  delisting,  the  securities  of  a 
company  would  not  remain  listed  on  any  stock 
exchange having nation wide trading terminals, exit 
opportunity shall be given to all the public holders of 
the  securities  sought  to  be  delisted  in  accordance 
with Chapter IV.  

Explanation:  For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation,  ‘stock 

Procedure for 
delisting where 
no exit 
opportunity is 
required. 

exchange  having  nation  wide  trading  terminals’  means  the 
Stock  Exchange,  Mumbai,  the  National  Stock  Exchange  or 
any  other  stock  exchange  which  may  be  specified  by  the 
Board in this regard. 
 
(1) In a case falling under clause (a) of regulation 6 –  

7 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

the  proposed  delisting  shall  be  approved  by  a 
resolution of the Board of Directors of the company 
in its meeting;  
the  company  shall  give  a  public  notice  of  the 
proposed  delisting  in  at  least  one  English  national 
daily  with  wide  circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily 
with  wide  circulation  and  one  regional  language 
newspaper of the region where the concerned stock 
exchanges are located;  
the  company  shall  make  an  application  to  the 
concerned  stock  exchange 
its 
securities; and, 
the  fact  of  delisting  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  first 
annual report prepared after the delisting. 

for  delisting 

(2) The  public  notice  made  under  clause  (b)  of  sub-
regulation  (1)  shall  mention  the  names  of  the  stock 
exchange from which the securities of the company are 
intended  to  be  delisted,  the  reasons  for  such  delisting 
and  the  fact  of  continuation  of  listing  of  securities  on 
stock exchange having nation wide trading terminals. 

(3) Every application for delisting made under clause (c) of 
sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  accompanied  by  an  audit 
report as required under regulation 55A of the Securities 
and  Exchange  Board  of 
(Depositories  and 
Participants) Regulations, 1996 covering a period of six 

India 

Conditions and 
procedure for 
delisting where 
exit 
opportunity is 
required. 

months prior to the date of the application. 

(4)  An  application  for  delisting  made  under  clause  (c)  of 
sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  disposed  of  by  the  stock 
exchange within a period not exceeding thirty days from 
the  receipt  by  it  of  such  application  complete  in  all 
respects. 

(5) If any application for delisting is not disposed of within the 
period stipulated under sub-regulation (4) the concerned 
stock exchange shall report it to the Board with reasons 
for such delay. 

8  (1)    Any  company  desirous  of  delisting  its  securities  under 
the  provisions  of  Chapter  III  shall,  except  in  a  case 
falling under clause (a) of regulation 6 - 

(a) obtain the prior approval of the Board of Directors 

of the company in its meeting; 

(b) obtain  the  prior  approval  of  shareholders  or 
the  company  by  special 

security  holders  of 
resolution passed through postal ballot;  

(c) make  an  application  to  the  concerned  stock 
exchange for in-principle approval of the proposed 
delisting  in  the  form  specified  by  the  stock 
exchange; and 

(d) within  one  year  of  passing  the  special  resolution, 
make the final application to the concerned stock 
exchange  in  the  form  specified  by  the  stock 
exchange: 

that  any  special 

resolution  authorizing 
Provided 
voluntary delisting passed before the commencement of 
these  Regulations  shall  be  deemed  to  be  valid  for  a 
period of one year from the date of its passing or for a 
period of six months from the commencement of these 

regulations, whichever is later. 

(2)  No delisting shall, except in a case falling under clause 

(a) of regulation 6, be made – 
(a) unless the company whose securities are sought to 
be  delisted  complies  with 
the  minimum  public 
shareholding  requirements  of  twenty  five  percent  or 
ten  percent,  as  the  case  may  be,  applicable  to  it 
under the listing agreement; or 

(b) if  successful  completion  of  the  exit  opportunity  may 
result in change in control over the company whose 
securities are sought to be delisted: 

(3)  Nothing  contained  in  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (2) 
shall  apply  to  a  case  where  the  company  was  not  in 
compliance 
shareholding 
requirements as specified in the listing agreement as on 
the first day of May, 2006 and either – 
(a) its paid up capital was less than one crore rupees as 

the  minimum 

with 

on that date; or 

(b) its paid up capital was more than one crore rupees 
but less than three crore rupees as on that date and 
the number of its shareholders was three hundred or 
less as on that date. 

(c)  of  sub-regulation 

(4)  An application seeking in-principle approval for delisting 
under  clause 
(1)  shall  be 
accompanied  by  an  audit  report  as  required  under 
regulation 55A of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996 
in  respect  of  the  securities  sought  to  be  delisted 
covering a period of six months prior to the date of the 
application. 

(5)  An application seeking in-principle approval for delisting 

shall  be  disposed  of  by  the  stock  exchange  within  a 
period not exceeding thirty days from the receipt by it of 
such application complete in all respects. 

(6)  While  considering  an  application  seeking  in-principle 
approval  for  delisting,  the  stock  exchange  shall  not 
unfairly  withhold  such  application,  but  may  require  the 
company to satisfy it as to - 

(a) the  resolution  of 

investor  grievances  by 

the 

company; 

(b) payment of listing fees to that stock exchange; 
(c) the  compliance  with  any  condition  of    the  listing 
agreement  with  that  stock  exchange  having  a 
material  bearing  on  the  interests  of  its  securities 
holders; 

(d) any 

litigation  or  action  pending  against 

the 
company pertaining to its activities in the securities 
market  or  any  other  matter  having  a  material 
bearing on the interests of its securities holders. 

(7)  If  any  application  seeking  in-principle  approval  for 
delisting  is  not  disposed  of  within  the  period  stipulated 
under sub-regulation (5), the concerned stock exchange 
shall report it to the Board with reasons for such delay. 

(8)  A final application for delisting made under clause (d) of 
sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  accompanied  with  a  true 
copy of the special resolution passed under clause (a) of 
sub-regulation  (1)  and  with  such  proof  of  having  given 
the exit opportunity in accordance with the provisions of 
Chapter IV, as the stock exchange may require. 

 

 
 

Applicability of 
Chapter IV. 

9 

Public 
announcement . 

10 

 

CHAPTER IV 

EXIT OPPORTUNITY 

 

The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to any delisting 
sought to be made under regulation 5 or under clause (b) 
of regulation 6. 
 
(1)  The promoters of the company shall upon receipt of 
in-principle  approval  for  delisting,  make  a  public 
announcement  in  at  least  one  English  national  daily 
with  wide  circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  with 
wide  circulation  and  one 
language 
newspaper of the region where the concerned stock 
exchanges  are located.  

regional 

(2)  The  public  announcement  shall  contain  all  material 
information including  the  information  specified  in  the 
Schedule  and  shall  not  contain  any 
false  or 
misleading statement. 

(3)  The  public  announcement  shall  also  specify  a  date, 
being a day not later than thirty days from the date of 
the  public  announcement,  which  shall  be 
the 
‘specified  date’ 
shareholders to whom the letter of offer shall be sent. 
the 
promoter shall appoint a merchant banker registered 
with the Board and such other intermediaries as are 
considered necessary. 

the  public  announcement, 

(4)  Before  making 

for  determining 

the  names  of 

(5)  It shall be the responsibility of the promoter and the 
merchant  banker  to  ensure  compliance  with  the 
provisions of this Chapter. 

(6)  No promoter shall appoint any person as a merchant 
banker under sub-regulation (4) if such a person is an 
associate of the promoter. 

 
(1) The  promoter  shall  open  an  escrow  account  before 
making the public announcement under regulation 10 
and  deposit  therein  the  total  offer  price  payable, 
assuming  full  acceptance  of  the  offer  by  public 
holders.  

(2) The  escrow  account  shall  consist  of  either  cash 
deposited  with  a  scheduled  commercial  bank,  or  a 
bank guarantee in favour of the merchant banker, or 
a combination of both. 

(3) Where the escrow account consists of deposit with a 
scheduled commercial bank, the promoter shall, while 
opening the account, empower the merchant banker 
to  instruct  the  bank  to  issue  a  banker’s  cheque  or 
demand draft for the amount lying to the credit of the 
escrow account, for the purposes mentioned in these 
regulations  and  the  amount  in  such  deposit,  if  any, 
remaining  after  full  payment  of  consideration  for 
securities  tendered  in  the  offer  and  those  tendered 
under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  19  shall  be 
released  to  the  company  after  expiry  of  the  period 
referred to in that sub-regulation. 

(4) Where  the  escrow  account  consists  of  a  bank 
guarantee,  such  bank  guarantee  shall  be  valid  till 
expiry of the period referred to in sub-regulation (1) of 
regulation 19.  

 
(1) The promoter shall despatch the letter of offer to the 

Escrow account.  11 

Letter of offer. 

12 

public  holders  of  securities,  not  later  than  forty  five 
days from the date of the public announcement, so as 
to reach them at least five days before the opening of 
the offer period. 

(2) The letter of offer shall be sent under sub-regulation 
(1) to all public holders of securities of the company 
whose names appear on the register of the company 
or  depository  as  on  the  specified  date  fixed  under 
sub-regulation (3) of regulation 10. 

(3)  The  letter  of  offer  shall  contain  all  the  disclosures 
made  in  the  public  announcement  and  such  other 
disclosures  as  may  be  necessary  for  the  security 
holders to take an informed decision. 

 
(1) The date of opening of the offer shall not be later than 
the  fifty  five  days  from  the  date  of  the  public 
announcement.  

(2) The  offer  shall  remain  open  for  a  period  of  twenty 
days,  during  which  the  public  holders  of  securities 
may tender their securities. 

Offer period. 

13 

Offer price. 

14 

 
(1) The floor price shall not be less than, - 

(a) where  the  securities  are  frequently  traded  in  all 
the  stock  exchanges  where  they  are  listed,  the 
average of the weekly high and low of the closing 
prices of the securities of the company as quoted 
on the stock exchange, where the securities of the 
company  are  most  frequently  traded,  during  the 
twenty six weeks or two weeks preceding the date 
on which the stock exchanges were notified of the 
Board meeting in which the delisting proposal was 

considered, whichever is higher;  

(b) where 

the  securities  of 

the  company  are 
infrequently  traded  in  all  the  stock  exchanges 
where they are listed, the floor price determined in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  sub-regulation 
(2); or, 

(c) where the securities are frequently traded in some 
stock exchanges and infrequently traded in some 
other stock exchanges where they are listed, the 
highest of the prices arrived at in accordance with 
clauses (a) and (b) above. 

Explanation: For the purposes of this sub-regulation, 
securities shall be deemed to be infrequently traded, 
if  on  the  stock  exchange,  the  annualized  trading 
turnover  in  that  security  during  the  preceding  six 
calendar  months  prior  to  month  in  which  the  stock 
exchanges  were  notified  of  the  Board  meeting  in 
which  the  delisting  proposal  was  considered,  is  less 
than five percent (by number of securities) of the total 
listed securities of that class and the  term ‘frequently 
traded’  shall be construed accordingly. 

(2) For the purposes of clause (b) of sub-regulation (1), 
the  floor  price  shall  be  determined  by  the  promoter 
and  the  merchant  banker  taking  into  account  the 
following factors: 
(a) the  highest  price  paid  by 

the  promoter  for 
acquisitions  including  by  way  of  allotment  in  a 
public  or  rights  issue  or  preferential  allotment,  if 
any,  during  the  twenty  six  weeks  period  prior  to 
the  date  on  which  the  stock  exchanges  were 
notified of the Board meeting in which the delisting 

proposal was considered and upto the date of the 
public announcement; and, 

(b) other  parameters  including  return  on  net  worth, 
book value of the shares of the company, earning 
per  share,  price  earning  multiple  vis-à-vis  the 
industry average. 

(3) Notwithstanding 

anything 

in 

contained 

sub-
regulations (1) and (2), where the securities proposed 
to  be  delisted  are  debt  instruments,  the  floor  price 
shall not be less than the aggregate of the face value 
and interest accrued thereon. 

(4) The offer price shall be not less than the higher of the 

following – 
(a) the  floor  price  determined  under  sub-regulation 
(1), as increased by a premium of twenty five per 
cent thereof;  

(b) the  fair  value  of  the  securities  determined  by  a 
registered credit rating agency, as increased by a 
premium of twenty five per cent thereof. 

 
(1) Before opening of the offer, the merchant banker shall 
open  a  special  depositories  account  with  a 
depository. 

(2) Where  securities  tendered  by  a  public  holder  are  in 

dematerialized form – 
(a) they shall be deposited by the merchant banker in 

the special depositories account; and 

(b) they  shall  not  be  transferred  to  the  promoter 
unless the offer is found to be successful in terms 
of  regulation  16  and  the  full  consideration  in 
respect  thereof  is  paid  to  the  public  holders  in 

15 

Special 
depositories 
account and 
handling of 
securities 
tendered. 

compliance with regulation 18. 

(3) Where  securities  tendered  by  a  public  holder  are  in 

physical form – 
(a) they  shall  be  forwarded  to  the  share  transfer 
agents of the company to verify the genuineness 
of  the  security  certificate  and  transfer  deed  and 
where  they  are  found  to  be  not  genuine,  a 
communication  of  rejection  shall  be  sent  to  the 
public holder within ten working days of closure of 
the offer; and 

(b) the  securities  which  are  verified  to  be  genuine 
shall  be  in  the  custody  of  the  merchant  banker 
and  shall  not  be  registered  in  the  name  of  the 
promoter,  unless 
to  be 
successful  in  terms  of  regulation  16  and  the  full 
consideration  in  respect  thereof  is  paid  to  the 
public holders in compliance with regulation 18. 

the  offer 

is 

found 

16 

Minimum 
number of 
securities to be 
acquired. 

 
(1) Where  the  offer  results  in  acceptance  of  a  fewer 
number of securities than the total securities for which 
the  offer  was  made  and  the  promoters  shareholding 
(together  with  holdings  of  persons  acting  in  concert 
with him) is not likely to exceed ninety per cent of the 
total  outstanding  shares  of  that  class,  the  offer  shall 
fail  and  no  securities  shall  be  acquired  pursuant  to 
such offer: 
Provided  that  in  a  case  where  the  company  whose 
shares are proposed to be delisted has an applicable 
minimum  public  shareholding  level  of  ten  per  cent 
under  the  listing  agreement,  sub-regulation  (1)  shall 
apply as if for the words “ninety per cent”  the words 

“ninety six per cent”  were substituted. 

(2) Where the offer fails – 

(a) the  securities  tendered  by  a  holder  shall  be 
returned to the holder within seven days of closure 
of the offer period; 

(b) no final application shall be made to the exchange 

for delisting of the securities; and 

(c) the  escrow  account  opened  under  regulation  11 

shall be closed. 

 
(1) Within  seven  days  of  closure  of  the  offer,  the 
promoter  and  the  merchant  banker  shall  make  a 
public  announcement  in  the  same  newspapers  in 
which the public announcement under sub-regulation 
(1)  of  regulation  10  was  made,  as  to  whether  the 
minimum number of securities required for success of 
the offer under regulation 16 were tendered. 

(2) Where  the  offer  succeeds  in  terms  of  regulation  16, 
the  securities  tendered  shall  be  deemed  to  be 
acquired by the promoter unless a communication of 
rejection, upon verification of the securities tendered 
(in respect of securities in the physical form), is made 
within ten working days of closure of the offer and the 
promoter  shall  be  liable  to  pay  the  consideration  for 
such securities. 

 
(1) The  promoter  shall 

immediately  on  ascertaining 
success  of  the  offer,  open  a  special  account  with  a 
banker  to  an  issue  registered  with  the  Board  and 
transfer  thereto,  the  entire  amount  due  and  payable 
as  consideration  in  respect  of  securities  tendered  in 

Procedure after 
closure of offer. 

17 

Payment of 
consideration. 

18 

19 

Right of 
remaining 
security-holders 
to tender 
securities. 

the offer, from the escrow account.  

(2) All  the  security  holders  whose  securities  are  verified 
to be genuine shall be paid the final price stated in the 
public  announcement  within  ten  working  days  from 
the closure of the offer. 

 
(1) Where, pursuant to acceptance of securities tendered 
in  terms  of  these  regulations,  the  securities  are 
delisted,  any 
remaining  public  holder  of  such 
securities  may  tender  his  securities  to  the  promoter 
upto a period of six months from the date of delisting 
and,  in  such  a  case,  the  promoter  shall  accept  the 
securities  tendered  at  the  same  final  price  at  which 
the earlier acceptance of securities was made. 

(2) The payment of consideration for securities accepted 
under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  made  out  of  the 
balance amount lying in the escrow account. 

(3) The  amount  in  the  escrow  account  or  the  bank 
guarantee  shall  not  be  released  to  the  promoter 
unless all payments are made in respect of securities 
tendered under sub-regulation (1). 

 

 

CHAPTER V 

COMPULSORY DELISTING 

 

20 

Compulsory 
delisting by a 
stock  exchange. 

(1)  A  stock  exchange  may,  by  order,  delist  any 
securities of a company on any ground prescribed in 
the  rules  made  under  section  21A  of  the  Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956): 
Provided that no order shall be made under this sub-

regulation unless the company concerned has been 
given a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 

(2)  The decision regarding compulsory delisting shall be 
taken  by  a  panel  to  be  constituted  by  the  stock 
exchange consisting of –  
(a) two  directors  of  the  stock  exchange  (one  of 

whom shall be a public representative); 

(b) one director nominated by the Board; and 
(c) the Executive Director or Secretary of the stock 

exchange. 

the  region  where 
located,  of 

(3)  Before making an order under sub-regulation (1), the 
stock  exchange  shall  give  a  notice  in  one  English 
national  daily  with  wide  circulation  and  one  regional 
the 
language  newspaper  of 
concerned  stock  exchange 
the 
proposed  delisting,  giving  a  time  period  of  not  less 
than  fifteen  days  from  the  notice,  within  which 
representations may be made to the stock exchange 
by  any  person  who  may  be  aggrieved  by  the 
proposed delisting and shall also display such notice 
on its trading systems and website. 

is 

sub-regulation 

(4)  The  stock  exchange  shall  while  passing  any  order 
under 
the 
representations,  if  any,  made  by  the  company  as 
also any representations received in response to the 
notice given under sub-regulation (3).  

(1), 

consider 

(5)  The provisions of Chapter IV shall not be applicable 
to a compulsory delisting made by a stock exchange 
under this Chapter. 

(6)  Where  the  stock  exchange  passes  an  order  under 
sub-regulation  (1),  it  shall  forthwith  publish  a  notice 

in one English national daily with wide circulation and 
one  regional  language  newspaper  of  the  region 
where  the  concerned  stock  exchange  is  located,  of 
the fact of such delisting, disclosing therein the name 
and  address  of  the  company,  the  fair  value  of  the 
delisted  securities  determined  under  sub-regulation 
(1) of regulation 21 and names and addresses of the 
promoters of the company who would be liable under 
sub-regulation (3) of regulation 21. 

(7)  A  listed  company  or  any  investor  aggrieved  by  an 
order  passed  under  sub-regulation  (1),  may  file  an 
appeal  against  the  order  before  the  Securities 
Appellate  Tribunal  under  sub-section  (2)  of  section 
21A  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act, 
1956  (42  of  1956),  in  accordance  with  that  Act  and 
the rules made thereunder. 

 
(1)Where securities of a company are delisted by a stock 
exchange  under  this  Chapter,  the  stock  exchange 
shall  appoint  an  independent  valuer  or  valuers  who 
shall  determine 
the  delisted 
securities.  

fair  value  of 

the 

(2)The  stock  exchange  shall  form  a  panel  of  expert 
valuers  from  whom  the  valuer  or  valuers  shall  be 
appointed for purposes of sub-regulation (1). 

(3)The  promoter  of  the  company  shall  acquire  delisted 
securities  of  the  public  holders  by  paying  them  the 
value determined by the valuer, subject to the option 
of  the  public  holders  of  the  securities  to  retain  the 
securities. 
Explanation: For the purposes of sub-regulation (1), - 

21 

Rights of public 
holders of 
securities in 
case of a 
compulsory 
delisting 

(a) ‘valuer’  means  a  Chartered  Accountant  or 

merchant banker appointed to determine the value 
of the delisted securities; 

(b) value of the delisted securities shall be determined 
factors 

the  valuer  having  regard 

the 

to 

by 
mentioned in regulation 14; 

 
Power of the 
Board to issue 
clarifications. 

Directions by the 
Board. 

 

 

CHAPTER VI 

POWERS OF THE BOARD 

22 

In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or 
interpretation of these regulations, the Board may issue 
clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars. 
 

23  Without  prejudice  to  provisions  of  the  Act  and  those  of 
the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  (42  of 
1956),  the  Board  may  in  case  of  any  violation  of  these 
regulations and in the interests of the investors and the 
securities  market  give  such  directions  as  it  deems  fit 
including -  
(a) suspending 
exchange; 

trading  of  any  security 

in  an 

the 

(b) restraining  persons  from  accessing  the  securities 
market  and  prohibiting  any  person  associated  with 
securities  market  from  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in 
securities;  

(c)  directing  the  Board  of  Directors  or  promoters  of  a 
company  whose  securities  are  delisted  consequent 
upon  withdrawal  of  recognition  or  non-renewal  of 
recognition granted to a stock exchange, for getting 

  

Listing of 
delisted 
securities 

its  securities  listed  on  any  such  stock  exchange  as 
may be specified by the Board; or 

(d) directing a stock exchange to delist any securities of 

any company: 

Provided  that  the  Board  shall,  either  before  or  after 
passing  such  orders,  give  an  opportunity  of  hearing  to 
the company or other concerned person. 
 

CHAPTER VIII 

MISCELLANEOUS 

 

24  (1) No  application  for  listing  shall  be  made  in  respect  of 
any securities which have been delisted under these 
regulations or under any other law for the time being 
in force for a period of seven years from the delisting. 
(2) While  considering  an  application  for  listing  of  any 
the  stock 
facts  and 

securities  which  had  been  delisted, 
exchange  shall  have  due  regard 
to 
circumstances under which delisting was made. 

(3) Except to the extent provided in sub-regulation (2), an 
application  for  listing  made  under  sub-regulation  (1) 
shall be deemed to be an application for fresh listing 
of such securities.  

(4) Nothing  in  this  regulation  shall  apply  to  a  listing  of 
delisted  securities  pursuant  to  orders  of  a  court  or 
tribunal. 

 

Stock exchanges 
to monitor 
compliance with 

25  The  respective  stock  exchanges  shall  comply  with  and 
monitor  compliance  with 
these 
Regulations and shall report to the Board any instance 

the  provisions  of 

Regulations. 

Repeal and 
savings 

of non-compliance which comes to their notice. 
 

26  (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Securities) Guidelines, 2003 shall stand rescinded 
upon the commencement of these regulations: 
Provided  that  such  rescission  shall  not  affect  the 
previous operation of the said guidelines or anything 
done or omitted to be done or suffered therein or any 
right,  privilege,  obligation  or  liability  acquired  or 
accrued or incurred thereunder. 

(2) Notwithstanding such rescission -  

(a) any application for delisting made by any company 
and pending with any stock exchange prior to such 
rescission  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  made 
under 
these 
regulations; 

the  corresponding  provisions  of 

(b) any exit opportunity already completed, or initiated 
and  pending  completion,  under  the  Guidelines, 
prior to such rescission shall be completed and the 
application  for  delisting  made  pursuant  thereto 
shall be dealt with as if those Guidelines were not 
rescinded.  
 

 

SCHEDULE 

[See regulation 9(2)] 

CONTENTS OF THE PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT 

 

1.  The floor price and the offer price and how they were reached. 
2.  The dates of opening and closing of the offer. 
3.  The  name  of  the  exchange  or  exchanges  from  which  the  securities  are 

sought to be delisted. 

4.  The manner in which the offer can be accepted by the security holder. 
5.  Disclosure regarding the minimum acceptance condition for success of the 

offer. 

6.  The name of the merchant banker and other intermediaries together with 

the helpline number for the security holders. 

7.  The specified date fixed as per sub-regulation (3) of regulation 9.  
8.  The object of the proposed delisting. 
9.  The  proposed  time  table  from  opening  of  the  offer  till  the  payment  of 

consideration / return of securities. 

10. Details of the escrow account and the amount deposited therein. 
11. Listing details and stock market data: 

(a) high,  low  and  average  market  prices  of  the  securities  of  the 

company during the preceding three years; 

(b) monthly high and low prices for the six months preceding the date 

of the public announcement; and, 

(c) the volume of securities traded in each month during the six months 

preceding the date of public announcement. 
12. Present capital structure and shareholding pattern. 
13. The likely post-delisting shareholding pattern. 
14. The aggregate shareholding of the promoter together with persons acting 
in  concert  and  of  the  directors  of  the  promoter  where  the  promoter  is  a 
company and of persons who are in control of the company. 

15. Name of compliance officer of the company. 

16. It should be signed and dated by the promoter. Where the promoter is a 
company, the public announcement shall be dated and signed on behalf of 
the Board of Directors of the company by its manager or secretary, if any, 
and by not less than two directors of the company, one of whom shall be a 
managing director where there is one. 

 

 

F.No. SEBI/LAD/DOP/30/  

 /2006 
 
 
 
M. DAMODARAN 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

