Discussion paper on relaxation of shareholding restrictions in recognised 

stock exchanges 

 

Background 

 
1.  At  present,  18  recognised  stock  exchanges  in  India  are  corporatised  and 
demutualised; i.e. they are companies limited by shares and at least 51 % of 
their  equity  share  capital  is  held  by  public  other  than  shareholders  having 
trading rights therein.  

 
2.  Apart 

from  NSE  and  OTCEI,  which  were  already  corporatised  and 
demutualised, 16 more stock exchanges have completed their corporatisation 
and demutualisation process in the year 2007, in conformity with – 

 

 

(cid:190)  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Manner  of  Increasing  and  Maintaining 
Public Shareholding in Recognised Stock Exchanges) Regulations, 2006 
(MIMPS Regulations); and 

(cid:190)  Government of India policy regarding foreign investments in infrastructure 
companies  in  securities  markets,  viz.  stock  exchanges,  depositories  and 
clearing  corporations,  issued  vide  SEBI  circular  dated  December  22, 
2006.    

 
3.  As  a  part  of  the  aforesaid  corporatisation  and  demutualisation  process, 
various investors like public sector banks, public sector insurance companies, 
PSUs,  industrial  development  corporations,  corporates  and  individuals  have 
subscribed  to  the  equity  share  capital  of  the  stock  exchanges.  These 
investments are however subject to certain shareholding restrictions provided 
in  the  MIMPS  Regulations  and  the  foreign  investment  policy  of  the 
Government. 

 
 

 

1

 

Present Shareholding Restrictions 

 
4.  Chapter III of the MIMPS Regulations provide for the following “Shareholding 
Restrictions” regarding the paid-up equity share capital of a recognised stock 
exchange - 

 

 

(cid:190)  Regulation 8 - No person shall, directly or indirectly, acquire or hold more 
than  five  per  cent  in  the  paid  up  equity  capital  of  a  recognised  stock 
exchange at any time after commencement of these regulations. 

(cid:190)  Regulation  9  -  No  person  shall,  either  individually  or  together  with 
persons acting in concert with him, acquire and/or hold more than one per 
cent  of  the  paid  up  equity  capital  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  after 
commencement of these regulations, unless he is a fit and proper person 
and has taken prior approval of the Board for doing so. 

 
5.  Further,  the  Government  of  India  had  specified  the  policy  regarding  foreign 
investments  in  infrastructure  companies  in  the  securities  markets,  namely 
stock  exchanges,  depositories  and  clearing  corporations,  which  was 
communicated  simultaneously  by  SEBI  and  RBI,  vide  respective  circulars 
dated December 22, 2006. The said policy provides the following: 

 

 

 

(cid:190)  Foreign investment upto 49% will be allowed in these companies with a 
separate  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)  cap  of  26%  and  Foreign 
Institutional Investment (FII) cap of 23%; 

(cid:190)  FDI will be allowed with specific prior approval of FIPB; 
(cid:190)  FII will be allowed only through purchases in the secondary market; 
(cid:190)  FII shall not seek and will not get representation on the Board of Directors; 
(cid:190)  No  foreign  investor,  including  persons  acting  in  concert,  will  hold  more 

than 5% of the equity in these companies. 

2

6.  Thus, the current restrictions on shareholding in recognised stock exchanges 

may be summarized as under – 

 

 

 

 

 

(cid:190)  Restriction  on  any  person  from  directly  or  indirectly  acquiring  or  holding 
more  than  5%  in  the  paid  up  equity  capital  of  a  recognised  stock 
exchange. 

(cid:190)  A person may acquire and / or hold, either individually or alongwith PACs, 
more than 1% in the paid up equity capital of a recognised stock exchange 
only with prior approval as “fit and proper person” from SEBI. 

(cid:190)  Restriction  of  maximum  49%  foreign  investment  in  stock  exchanges, 
depositories and clearing corporations, with FDI limit capped at 26% and 
FII limit capped at 23%. 

(cid:190)  Restrictions on foreign investors, including PACs, from holding more than 

5 % equity in stock exchanges, depositories and clearing corporations. 

Issues under Consideration 

 
7.  The MIMPS Regulations have also been made applicable to NSE and OTCEI. 
In this regard, letters dated October 17, 2007 have been issued to NSE and 
OTCEI, thereby directing them to mutatis mutandis comply with the relevant 
provisions of the MIMPS Regulations. A time period of one year from the date 
of  receipt  of  the  above  letter  has  been  provided  to  them  for  ensuring 
compliance.  In  this  regard,  SEBI  has  received  submissions  from  certain 
existing  shareholders  of  NSE  and  OTCEI,  whereby  they  have  expressed 
various difficulties like possibility of not getting good price discovery, problems 
in fetching appropriate value of their investments, difficulty in getting eligible 
buyers, etc. in bringing down their present shareholding to the prescribed 5 % 
levels.  

 

 

3

8.  SEBI has also been receiving requests from certain quarters that the present 
limit of 5 % is acting as a deterrent for attracting long term anchor / strategic 
investors in stock exchanges. It is also indicated that due to the existing 5 % 
limit, the shareholding of any single investor / investor group is too small to 
encourage him / them to take sufficient interest in the growth of the exchange 
or to effectively drive the progress of the exchange as anchor investors.  

 
9.  The  stock  exchanges  are  public  institutions  and  therefore  as  a  matter  of 
public policy, no individual investor should be allowed to hold a predominant 
position in them. At the same time, considering the market demands, it would 
be desirable to provide a high enough shareholding limit so as to encourage 
long term anchor / strategic investors who can contribute to the development 
of the stock exchanges. Such long term anchor / strategic investors need to 
be sufficiently motivated to take a keen interest in the functioning of the stock 
exchange  and  to  contribute  to  its  growth  by  providing  the  necessary  value 
addition in terms of technology, market / product design, managerial inputs, 
etc.  In  view  of  the  above,  it  would  be  desirable  to  explore  a  via  media  to 
enable  a  higher,  but  not  too  high  a  shareholding  in  stock  exchanges  by 
certain categories of investors in the financial market. 

 
10. In this context, it is also seen that in the case of depositories, the sponsors 
are required to hold a much higher stake of minimum 51 % of any depository 
under the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996.    

 
11. Considering the above, the aforesaid limit of 5 % is proposed to be revised 
upward  to  15  %  for  certain  category  of  investors,  namely  stock  exchanges, 
depositories,  clearing  corporations,  banks  and  insurance  companies,  while 
retaining  the  existing  5  %  limit  for  the  other  investors.  Accordingly,  the 
following is being proposed –  

 

 

4

(cid:190)  Any entity belonging to the following categories may be permitted to hold, 
directly  or  indirectly,  a  maximum  of  15  %  of  the  paid  up  equity  share 
capital of the concerned stock exchange – 

o  stock exchanges,  
o  depositories,  
o  clearing corporations,  
o  banks, and  
o 

insurance companies 

 
(cid:190)  Any shareholder, other than the aforesaid five categories of investors, may 
hold not more than 5 % of the paid up equity share capital of a recognised 
stock  exchange,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  as  per  the  existing  MIMPS 
Regulations. 

 

 

(cid:190)  All other provisions of the MIMPS Regulations shall apply equally to the 

aforesaid five categories of investors as well.    

 
Comments  /  suggestions  are  invited  on  the  above  and  the  same  may  be  sent 
before September 19, 2008 to Mr. Deep Mani Shah, Assistant General Manager, 
Market Regulation Department, SEBI at the following address -  
 

Market Regulation Department - Division of SRO Administration  
SEBI Bhavan, 2nd Floor, A-Wing 
Plot No. C4-A, “G” Block 
Bandra Kurla complex 
Mumbai-400 051 

 
The comments / suggestions may also be e-mailed to deepmanis@sebi.gov.in. 

 

 

 

****** 

5

