“Review of SEBI (DIP) Guidelines 2000- Proposals - Series VIII ” 

“Recommendations and Suggestions made by the Primary Market Advisory 

 

Committee (PMAC)” 

 
[Comments on the recommendations and suggestions  may be sent to the Corporation 
Finance  Department,  Division  of  Issues  &  Listing,  SEBI  or  emailed  to  Ms.Usha 
Rangarajan,  Manager  at    ushar@sebi.gov.in,    or  Ms.  Neelam  Bhardwaj,  DGM,  at 
neelamb@sebi.gov.in or faxed to 91-22-22045633 on or before October 14, 2004] 
 
The PMAC  had  constituted  a  subgroup  (SG)  to  review  the  book  building  guidelines.   
Among  other  issues,  the  subgroup  made  various  recommendations  pertaining  to  the 
existing framework of book building.   
 
The subgroup  report  was  also  deliberated  upon  by  PMAC. Pursuant to the same, the 
following recommendations have been approved by the PMAC. 
 
1.  Redefining allocation buckets:  
 

At  present,  in  a  book  built  issue  Qualified  Institutional  Buyers  (QIBs),  Non 
Institutional  Buyers  (NIBs) and Retail investors are allotted in the ratio of 50:25:25 
respectively. It was observed from the analysis of book built  issues done by SEBI 
that in most of the cases, the  NIBs leverage IPO financing and are the maximum 
sellers  in  the  market  as  soon  as  the  issue  opens  for  trading..  There  was  also  a 
possibility of bank/ NBFC financing leading to ramping up of prices on listing. 
In order to curb excessive speculation  and also in a deliberate effort to increase 
retail participation, the subgroup  recommends reduction in allocation to NIBs and 
increase in allocation to retail.  The sub group recommends the following allocation 
criteria, which has also been approved by PMAC : 

 
(I)  Mandatory Book Building: 
 
(a)  where Book Building is being used to satisfy the eligibility norms in terms of 

DIP Guidelines 
 

•  Not less than 35% to retail investors 
•  Not more than 15% to NIBs 
•  Not less than 50% to QIBs 

•  Not less than 30% to retail investors 
•  Not more than 10 % to NIBs 
•  Not less than 60% to QIBs 

 
(b)  Where Book Building is being used to satisfy Rule 19(2)(b) of SCRR 1957 
 

 

- 1 - 

 
(II)  Voluntary Book building (Where issuer is otherwise eligible in terms of DIP 

Guidelines and is using Book Building to discover the price) 

•  Not less than 35% to retail investors 
•  Not more than 15% to NIBs 
•  Not more than 50% to QIBs 

The  above  criteria  would  normally  apply  to  the  issues,  the  exception  being 
undersubscription.    In  the  event  of  under  subscription,  the  above  allocation 
categories would not apply and there would be full fungibility among categories.  
The  disclosures  in  the  offer  document  should  clearly  specify  the  manner  of 
allocation among categories in the event of undersubscription. 
For issues falling under category (I)(b), the allocation to NIBs and retail would be 
30% and 10% respectively 

 
2.  Redefining retail investor (RII) 
 

The guidelines presently define the RII, in value terms as one who can apply for 
shares upto a maximum amount of Rs.50,000. It is observed that the said limit is too 
small, particularly in the context of large size book built issues. It also appears that 
the small limit is the prime reason for several investors to make multiple applications 
in order to satisfy their investment appetite. Also the transaction costs are relatively 
higher for the retail investment capped at  Rs.50,000/-. 

There is also a need to widen the retail investor base in general and particularly in 
view  of  the  proposed  increase  in  allocation  to  retail.  In  this  regard,  the  SG 
recommends that a retail investor be defined as one who can apply upto Rs.1 lac in 
a primary issue.  This recommendation  has also been approved by PMAC. 

 
3.  Reduction in bidding period. 
 

 

 

 

The sub group also deliberated on the issue of the hype surrounding book building.  
In an open book system the price/bid details received are in public.   As a result, 
there are frequent updates in the media regarding the oversubscription lead to hype.  
This practice could also mislead potential investors to overbid, quote higher prices 
as well as induce an otherwise unwilling investor to bid.  The sub group opines that 
while regulating the media reporting was not possible, certain measures could be 
taken to address the hype and related consequences. One of the recommendation 
of the SG, which has also been approved by PMAC, is to reduce the bidding period 
from current 7  –  10  days  to  3-7 working days. Further to address the same issue, 
the  SG  also  recommends  that  NSE/  BSE  should  bring  more  transparency  and 
congruency in reporting of the bid data along with relevant details.  This aspect is 
detailed in next point  

 

- 2 - 

 
4.  Data reporting at website of stock exchanges. 
 

The  PMAC  approves  the  recommendation  of  the  SG that there should be uniform 
data display on the websites of both the stock exchanges.  The Stock Exchanges 
should  display  the  consolidated  figures  for  both the exchanges and should ensure 
that  they  communicate  among  themselves  to  ensure  congruency  in  the  data 
displayed.  The  first  set  of  data  that  is  displayed  about  the  book  should  be  the 
consolidated figures of both these exchanges. Anyone further interested in knowing 
the breakup maybe given the details on clicking further. 

The data pertaining to an issue should be displayed on the site for a further period 
of 3 days after the closure of the bids/issue. 

There  should  be  a  common  book  between  NSE  &  BSE.  The  graph  should  be 
separately  showing  the  bids  received  category  wise,  preferably  in  the  format  as 
under :  

 

 

 

QIBs 
NIBs 
RIs 

Sr.No  Category  
1 
2 
3 
3 (a) 
3 (b) 
 

Cut off 
Price bids 
All categories  

                      

No of shares bid for                  
 
 
 
 
 
 

% of total meant for the 
category 
 
 
 
 
 
 

•  The graph should have the title “Graphical display of bids received”   
•  A  statement  to  the  effect  that  the  position  indicated  above  is  only  bids 
position  and  does  not  convey  in  any  way  the  subscription  to  the issue. The 
bids can be revised and/or withdrawn………”  

•  Clarificatory Notes  like   
-   QIB category is not required to pay any margins 
-   NIBs and RIs have paid 100% margins while giving the bids 
-   All the categories can revise the bids till closure of bids 
-   QIBs  are  not  allowed  to  withdraw  their  bids  once  made  except  for  the 
•  Statement as to how the multiple bids/ revision in bids etc are accounted for 

purpose of revising the same. 

in the data and graph. 

 

5.  Role of discretion  
 

The  SG  deliberated  extensively  on  the role of discretion granted to the BRLMs as 
regards  the  allocation  to  QIBs.    In  this  regard,  the  group  observed  that,  as  per 
existing practice, the shares are allocated to QIBs based on various parameters, like 
prior commitment, investor quality, price aggression, earliness of bids etc.  The SG 
explored various options viz., 

 

- 3 - 

•  Doing  away  with  discretion,  in  which  case  allocation  to  QIBs  would  be 

proportionate or based on some objective criteria. 

•  Prior  disclosures  of  parameters  in  the  document  and  reporting  of  the 

allocation done to QIBs, on the request of SEBI 

The  subgroup  observed  that  the  guidelines  envisage  price  discovery  by  QIBs, 
because  of  which,  mandatory  book  building  provides  for  upto  50%  reservation  in 
allocation  to  QIBs.    It  was  also  informed  that in case of allocation to QIBs, various 
factors were to be considered including quality of investor, commitment to specific 
sector, investment objectives, prior track record etc.  These factors could vary from 
one issue to another.  As such, exhaustive disclosures of all the parameters would 
be difficult.   In the absence of discretion, any QIB investor, irrespective of quality, 
investment objectives etc. could get the shares allocated, which arguably may not be 
in the best interests of the issuer, the market and the investor. The SG also observed 
that an analysis of the recent book built issues carried out by SEBI had revealed that 
QIBs are the most stable holders as against NIBs, who exit immediately on listing.  
The SG opines that while on the one hand objective parameters for QIBs may not be 
practicable, on the other hand, it is essential to ensure that the discretion granted to 
merchant bankers, is not misused. 

In  view  of  the  above,  the  SG  recommends  that  the  broad  parameters  on  which 
allocation is made to QIBs, should be disclosed in the  offer document.  The PMAC 
has also approved the said recommendation. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
6.  Announcement of Price Band/ Floor Price   
 

As regards announcement of price band, PMAC opined that disclosure of price band 
/ floor price in the Red Herring Prospectus (RHP) / application form be retained, as a 
matter of price guidance to the investors.  This was particularly important in case of 
an unlisted company in respect of whose shares, there is no secondary market price 
guidance.  

However  in  case  of  listed  companies,  since  price  guidance  is  available  in  form  of 
secondary market prices, the requirement of disclosing the price band in the RHP / 
application form may be done away with, subject to upfront disclosures in the offer 
document regarding the following : 

i.  Advising investors to be guided by the secondary market prices.  
ii.  Due  disclosures  stating  that  the  price  band  /  floor  price  would  be 
announce by the issuer / merchant banker, one day before the bid opens  

iii.  Mode of announcement whether through advertisement etc. 
iv. 

The name of the specific news papers and websites, television channels 
etc. wherein the said advertisement would be made. 

- 4 - 

 
7.  Deletion of redundant provisions in the book building guidelines. 
 

The  book  building  guidelines  provide  for  75%  book  building  and  100%  book 
building.  While 100% book building has been widely used, the 75% book building 
has been rarely used. 

 

 

 

 

The guidelines pertaining to 75% book building,  provides for issue of 75% of the net 
offer  to  the  public    through  book  building  and  the  balance  25%  at  the  price 
determined through book building.  This results in extension of time, as  in the first 
instance, there is bidding period for price discovery followed by a period of time for 
which  the  issue  is  open  to  25%  of  the  public  to  invest.    There  are  also  cost 
implications on account of different types of forms etc. 

The  subgroup  recommends  deletion  of  provisions  pertaining  to  75%  book  building 
as well as consequential amendments. The PMAC has approved the same. 

- 5 - 

  
 

 

- 6 - 

