Placed  below  is a Report of the  sub  group  formed  by  the  Secondary  Market  Advisory
Committee (SMAC) on the issue of ‘Capital Adequacy Norms and Net Worth Criteria’
for stock brokers. The report is placed for eliciting public comments. It may be noted that
report  does  not  necessarily  reflect  the  views  of  SEBI  on  the  issue.  SEBI  would  be
considering the comments received from different sources before taking a final view on
the issue.

Public  comments  on  the  report  may  be  sent  to  SEBI,  Division  of  Policy  and
Supervision-1,  Market  Intermediaries  Regulation  and  Supervision  Department,
World  Trade  Centre,  29th  Floor,  Cuffe  Parade  Mumbai  400  005  or  emailed  to
ashishk@sebi.gov.in  or  faxed  to  91-22-22164482/22164494  latest    by    October  29,
2004.

Table of contents

Sr. No Title
1
2

Report on Net worth & Capital adequacy norms for brokers
Terms of reference

Page No’s
2-10
11

1

Report of the Sub-Committee of SMAC

on

Net worth & Capital adequacy norms for brokers

The  Secondary  Market  Advisory  Committee  (SMAC),  at  its  meeting  held  on  February
17, 2004 discussed the issue of net worth and capital adequacy for brokers. The key issue
as  outlined  in  the  agenda  item  for  discussion  was  whether  the  overall  exposure  of  a
member  broker  should  also  have  some  correlation  with  its  net  worth,  apart  from  the
capital deposit made with the exchanges. The argument proposed was that given the need
for brokers to have sufficient liquidity at all times to meet their obligations, the business
they do should be in proportion to the net worth of the brokers.

SMAC had noted that that there are basically two kinds of risks as far as brokers and their
dealings  are  concerned.  The  first  category  of  risk  was  the  systemic  risk  posed  by  the
broker  to  the  exchange  which  was  well  covered  under  the  existing  risk  management
system and capital adequacy norms. The second category of risk was the one posed by a
broker default to its own clients. The arrangements available to cover this risk needed a
review.  In  this  context,  SMAC  set  up  a  sub-committee  to  examine  this  issue  and
recommend to the main committee a sensible course of action.

The  members  of  the  sub  committee  included  representatives  of  BSE,  NSE  and  a  few
other  members  of  SMAC.  The  terms  of  reference  of  the  sub-committee  are  given  at
Annexure - 1. The sub-committee held two meetings on March 23, 2004 and on April 6,
2004 respectively.

At the outset, the committee felt that it was important to clearly identify the problem that
was sought to be addressed by the use of net worth.

Systemic Settlement Risk

The first area where net worth could be available as a potential criterion is in addressing
the  settlement  risk.  However,  the  sub-committee  noted  that  the  experience  with  net

2

worth in any kind of risk management situation has been poor. Net worth has proven to
be largely notional and illusory in a stress situation as it is the first item to be transferred
out  of  the  firm  by  managers,  leaving  nothing  with  which  to  face  the  risk.  The  legal
environment exacerbates the situation where it is virtually impossible for a third party to
get  hold  of  the  assets  of  the  entity  before  they  are  removed.  While  this  is  true  of  all
business situations that a broker may deal in, it is particularly true of a real time business
such as exchange settlement. Thus, net worth is unlikely to offer any real cover against
risk management in these situations.

The  sub-committee  was  of  the  view  that  the  current  settlement  risk  management
framework, which consists of VaR coupled with Expected Tail Loss (ETL), has served
the market well and withstood the test of time in the face of unprecedented volatility. To
cite just one example, in a recent case, two securities witnessed intra-day volatility of
approx.  40%  with  very  high  open  positions.  The  risk  management  system  held  up
adequately in the face of such extreme price movements. It is not clear that there is an
important problem here that net worth requirements can be called upon to solve.

Broker Default Risk for Clients

Even though systemic settlement risk is being handled efficiently by the exchanges, the
sub-committee expressed concerns about the risk faced by the clients from  a default by
their  own  brokers.  The  Committee  was  not  persuaded  that  net  worth  would  offer  a
potential  solution  to  this  problem  either,  for  much  of  the  same  reasons  as  were
applicable  in  the  case  of  systemic  settlement  risks.  In  fact,  if  net  worth  offers  poor
protection  to  the  exchange  /  clearing  corporation  to  secure  their  dues  from  defaulting
brokers, it is extremely unlikely that individual investors will do any better in securing
their dues from broker net worth.

The  sub-committee  noted  that  at  present,  exchanges  maintain  significant  Investor
Protection Funds (IPFs) to cover the risk faced by clients from defaults by their broker.
Currently, at the two main exchanges, BSE & NSE, this cover extends up to an amount
of  Rs.  10  lakhs  in  the  case  of  default  of  a  member.  This  system  is  akin  to  the

3

arrangement for protecting small depositors from defaults in the banking system. In fact,
if  anything,  the  eligibility  amount  of  Rs.  10  lakhs  is  generous  in  defining  small
investors, when compared with the limit of Rs.1 lakh that is presently used by DICGC in
the context of bank failure.

In  terms  of  the  performance  of  the  IPF,  the  sub-committee  noted  that  rejections  of
claims have been mainly due to improper documentation, where the investors have been
unable  to  provide  sufficient  proof  of  the  deals  in  question.  Investors  who  deal  with
unregistered intermediaries have been the largest victims. The sub-committee was of the
view  that  the  IPF  should  motivate  investors  to  deal  only  with  the  registered
intermediaries.

Under the IPF framework, credit risk against the broker is not valid for investors who
have positions of more than Rs.10 lakh with a single broker. The sub-committee felt that
this  risk  should  be  addressed  by  means  of  a  disclosure  framework  for  brokers  so  that
such investors are in a position to take informed decisions based on the disclosures. This
was  analogous  to  the  framework  of  the  banking  sector  where  the  tools  of  market
discipline  (i.e.  stock  market  listing,  subordinated  debt  issuance  etc.)  convey  greater
information about banks to the large depositors.

On  another  front,  the  sub-committee  noted  that  the  deposits  given  by  clients  to  the
brokers  as  margin  money  are  also  covered  under  IPF  in  the  event  of  a  default  by  the
broker. However, there was a distinct possibility of funds / securities so placed with the
brokers  being  identified  as  deposits  /  loans  by  them  in  their  books  and  not  shown
specifically  as  margin  money  for  securities  trading.  In  such  a  situation,  the  investors
would lose the cover of IPF. The sub-committee, therefore, recommended that brokers
be required to clearly state on the client receipts whether the funds are by way of margin
money  or  are  for  any  other  purpose.  The  exchanges  should  also  disseminate  this
requirement widely to the investing public so that investors may adequately protect their
margin deposits.

4

Risk owing to Proprietary Dealings of Brokers

The committee was of the view that substantial credit risk to clients emanates from the
proprietary  dealings  of  brokers,  of  which  clients  have  no  knowledge.  When  judging
between the credit risk of broker A versus broker B, the investor needs to know the size
and risk of proprietary positions, in order to make judgments about credit risk.

The  sub-committee  also  expressed  concerns  that  some  brokers  may  collect  margin
monies  from  their  clients  and  use  the  same  to  claim  exposure  benefit  for  their
proprietary transactions.

Several approaches were suggested by the sub-committee to address the above issues.
One  was  to  require  a  complete  segregation  of  proprietary  business  from  the  brokers’
agency business. This did not find unanimity on the grounds that it would entail huge
costs  for  the  brokers  as  they  would  have  to  duplicate  the  entire  setup  for  proprietary
dealings.

The second proposal was to ensure through regulation that brokers do not receive the
benefit of clients’  monies and securities for exposure on their proprietary dealings.  This
suggestion found favour with the sub-committee which recommended that “proprietary
trading”  should  be  clearly  defined  and  include  categories  like  self,  group  companies,
directors, partners, subsidiary companies etc.

A third possibility was to alert investors to the creditworthiness of brokers with the use
of credit rating of brokers. The discussion was mixed on this suggestion. It was felt that
rating may not be a useful tool on account of the following reasons:

? 
? 
? 
? 

Inability of rating agencies to capture information in advance.
Rating per se is a post mortem activity.
Time period involved in rating the brokerage houses.
Annual rating of brokers is too infrequent to be useful.

5

? 
? 

Non accountability of the rating agencies.
High costs of rating.

The  sub-committee  felt  that  while  credit  rating  may  not  prove  to  be  an  effective
instrument to help investors to protect themselves against possible broker default, it may
still be worthwhile to allow brokers to have the option of obtaining a credit rating. This
proposal has merit for the following reasons:

? 

? 
? 

Credit rating would allow a professional analysis of information about a
broker and present it to investors in a simple and meaningful way.
Credit rating would be optional; it would not be a tax on the system.
Over the years, credit rating companies are likely to improve their knowledge
and skills  leading to better ratings.

The sub-committee also felt that in case credit rating for brokers has to be introduced, it
should be more in terms of rating of compliances/infrastructure.

The sub-committee was also of the view that a system for disclosure of some relevant
information about brokers to the investors would be a more useful tool for the investors.
The disclosures may include:
? 

Disciplinary  action  (s)  taken  by  SEBI  /  exchanges.  It  is  expected  that  this
disclosure  would  give  the  investors  information  about  the  quality  of  processes,
and the compliance culture present in the brokerage firm.
Aggregate open proprietary position. This would convey the scale of proprietary
trading of the brokerage firm.
VaR  of  the  open  position.  This  would  convey  the  riskiness  of  the  proprietary
position of the broker. For example, some brokers which exclusively do arbitrage
in  their  proprietary  book  would  show  up  as  having  a  large  gross  proprietary
position, but have an extremely low VaR. This would signal to the investor that
the credit risk owing to proprietary trading is small.

? 

? 

6

On  the  question  of  disclosure  of  disciplinary  actions,  it  was  felt  that  many  of  the
violations  observed  during  inspection  of  brokers  are  procedural  in  nature  and  to  that
extent may not give an entirely meaningful picture of the trustworthiness of the brokers.
Moreover,  fines  imposed  by  the  Exchanges  /  SEBI  are  in  the  form  of  an  aggregate
number  and  may  not  give  an  adequate  idea  of  the  nature  and  gravity  of  offences.
Nevertheless, the committee felt that if the information is presented properly, it would
allow clients to build  a useful assessment of the broker, particularly since the mapping
table  used  by  exchanges  in  converting  a  violation  into  a  monetary  penalty  seeks  to
reflect the materiality of the violation.

While  disclosure  of  VaR  was  considered  an  attractive  proposition,  there  was  concern
that a typical retail investor may have trouble interpreting the VAR number and relating
it  to  the  credit  assessment  of  their  broker.  With  regard  to  benchmarking  of  VaR
numbers, while this could certainly be an issue initially, over time, the committee felt,
investors would get a sense of how to interpret the numbers and would be able to relate
it to the credit assessment of their broker.  This process will be eased by the fact that
Indian investors already have many years of experience of relating to VaR numbers in
the context of the margin system.

Net worth and Multiple Broker Businesses

The  sub-committee  also  discussed  the  concerns  arising  out  of  brokers  undertaking
various  activities  in  addition  to  the  brokerage  activity  such  as  depository  participant,
lending  to  customers,  commodities  trading,  underwriting,  merchant  banking,  securities
lending and borrowing, portfolio management, RTA, margin trading etc.

Though  the  sub-committee  had  not  found  merit  in  using  net  worth  as  a  tool  of  risk
management for brokerage activity, it felt that net worth may serve as a useful eligibility /
license criteria for brokers to undertake other businesses as this would reflect the ability
of  the  person  /  organization  to  meet  the  requisite  infrastructural  /  business  capacity
requirements. The sub-committee agreed that each business undertaken by a broker has
specific  requirements  of  technology,  compliance,  client  servicing  etc.,  all  of  which

7

require certain minimum resources. A minimum net worth would give the confidence in
the  organisation’s  ability  to  adequately  invest  in  and  run  the  business.  The  sub-
committee, therefore, recommended that net worth be prescribed as an eligibility / license
criteria for each specific business a broker may engage in.   

In  this  context,  the  sub-committee  felt  that  instead  of  using  one  standard  net  worth
criterion,  the  various  activities  handled  by  brokers  should  be  classified  into  clusters  of
businesses  /  activities  for  the  purpose  of  arriving  at  a  suitable  net  worth  criterion.
Accordingly, the sub-committee classified the activities into three broad categories viz:

1. 
2. 
3. 

Basic broking activity (agency broking business and/ or proprietary business)
Advisory business (merchant banking)
Asset handling business (margin trading, securities lending and borrowing,
underwriting, depository participant, portfolio management etc.)

The sub-committee recommended net worth slabs for the above activities as follows:

Type of Activity licensed to brokers

Net Worth Eligibility for

Base license (either proprietary or agency)
Proprietary and Agency
Pure advisory business (IPOs / / RTA.)
Asset  handling  (underwriting  /  securities  lending  or
borrowing  of  own  funds,  margin  trading,  depository
participant / portfolio management)

the Activity

Rs. 50 lacs
Rs. 100 lacs
Rs. 25 lacs
Rs. 50 lacs for each of the
activity

It  also  recommended  that  the  above  net  worth  requirement  for  the  brokers  should  be
worked out on a cumulative basis.

In terms of implementation, the sub-committee felt that the existing brokers may be given
a time of 3 years to enhance their net worth to meet the above requirements.  However,
any  new  company  /  existing  company  wishing  to  undertake  fresh  business  should  be

8

required to meet the above net worth criteria.  The sub-committee also recommended that
brokers should be required to submit a net worth certificate on an annual basis within 60
days from the tax date.

The sub-committee recommended this approach as it focuses on the minimal investments
that  are  required  to  create  a  credible  organization,  including  investments  in  technology
and  processes.  The  intent  is  not  to  introduce  stringent  entry  barriers  and  reduce
competition in the brokerage industry, but is to reduce operational risks and improve the
minimal standards for processes and organizational capacity.

Computation of Net Worth

It  is  observed  that  the  circular(s)  issued  by  Exchanges  on  net  worth  computation  and
treatment of various components for the purpose of computing net worth are adequately
broad based and may be adopted with some minor changes such as

Items

Fixed Assets other than immovable
property
Investments

Treatment for net worth computation
To  be  considered  at  book  value 
depreciated value
To  be  considered  at  market  value  as  on
the date of submission

/

SUMMARY OF SUB-COMMITTEE’S RECOMMENDATIONS:

1.  Daily  (and  aggregated)  disclosure  of  key  information  about  brokers  such  as
information  on  disciplinary  actions  taken  against  brokers  by  SEBI  /  exchanges,
aggregate open proprietary positions and VaR number of open positions should be
introduced.

2.  Optional credit rating of brokers, at the discretion of the brokers, may be introduced.

Moreover, rating of compliances/ infrastructure may be considered.

3.  Net  worth  should  be  prescribed  as  an  eligibility  /  license  criteria  for  each  specific
business a broker engages in and net worth slabs for each activity of business should

9

be introduced. This is to minimise operational risks, and ensure minimal investments
necessary run a credible organization and sound processes.

4.  The  current  net  worth  definition  adopted  by  the  exchanges  is  appropriate,  with

certain modifications.

5.  Brokers  should  not  receive  the  benefit  of  exposure  on  their  proprietary  dealings
based on their clients’  monies and securities. Moreover, “Proprietary trading”  should
be clearly defined.

6.  A requirement should be imposed on the brokers to clearly state the purpose for each
deposit  taken  by  it  on  the  receipts  for  such  deposits  and  these  receipts  must  be
handed over to the clients. Deposits for margin money should be distinctly identified
so that the clients get protection up to Rs. 10 lakhs under Investor Protection Fund in
case there is a default of a broker.

10

ANNEXURE-I

TERMS OF REFERENCE

It  is  expected  that  the  review  of  net  worth  and  capital  adequacy  norms  of  the  brokers
would cover the following:

1.  To study and compare the net capital rule/capital adequacy norms as prevalent in

7-8 jurisdictions.

2.  To consider and formulate an operationally useful definition of net worth.

3.  To consider whether net worth should be an entry level criteria or it should be a

continuous risk management criteria and linked to exposure/leveraging.

4.  To compare and formulate, if necessary, net worth criteria for different types of
activities of a broker such as underwriting, DP etc. as well as different types of
trading profile- proprietary trading, trading for clients etc.

5.  To  consider  whether  risks  other  than  settlement  risks  may  be  covered  by

prescribing the net worth criteria.

******

11

