 

 

 

Proposed Electronic Rights Issue Process and e-trading of Rights 

Entitlements  

SEBI has recently reduced the timelines for a Rights Issue. SEBI is also 
looking at further  rationalizing the  disclosure  requirements in  the  Letter 
of Offer for a Rights Issue. 
  
While  SEBI  has  taken  various  steps  to  simplify/  streamline  the  rights 
issue  process,  it  is  felt  appropriate  to  also  examine  various  procedures 
involved in the rights issue, from the perspective of making it electronic, 
thereby  minimizing  manual  intervention  and  improving  the  efficiency  of 
the process.  
  
Right Issues also have the key feature of “rights renunciation”. As on the 
date,  there  is  no  platform  for  electronic  trading  of  rights  entitlements. 
However, it is understood that rights entitlements are presently traded in 
a  physical  form.  In  view  of  same,  a  uniform  and  exchange  driven 
electronic mode for trading of rights entitlement, is envisaged . 
 
A  paper  outlining  the  procedure  for  a  Rights  Issue  as  envisaged,  for 
electronic trading of rights entitlement, is placed below. 

Comments  /  suggestions  are  invited  on  the  proposed  process  electronic 
trading  of  rights  entitlements.  Comments/  suggestions  may  be  sent  to 
the  address  mentioned  below  to  Mr  Sudeep  Mishra,  Assistant  General 
Manager, Division of Issues and Listing, Corporation Finance department, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, before September 25,2008: 
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No: C – 4A, G Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Mumbai 400 051. 

Comments/suggestions  may  also  be  emailed  to  sudeepm@sebi.gov.in 
or to niteshb@sebi.gov.in before September 25, 2008. 

Page 1 of 5 

 

5 

5 

 Proposed Electronic Rights Issue Process and e-trading of Rights 

Paper for public comments on 

Entitlements  

1.  SEBI  has  recently  issued  revised  timelines  for  right  issues.  While  SEBI 
has taken the step of introducing reduced timelines, it is felt appropriate 
to  also  examine  various  steps  involved  in  the  rights  issue,  from  the 
perspective  of  making 
it  electronic,  thereby  minimizing  manual 
intervention and improving the efficiency of the process.  

 
2.  This paper attempts to examine the trading of rights which can be made 

electronic.  

 
3.  Important features of Rights Issue different from a public issue are: 

•  Shares  are  offered  to  existing  shareholders  in  the  first  instance  as 

against to public at large (unknown investors) in a public issue  

•  Shareholders can renounce their “rights entitlement” (REs) as against 

no right created in public issue, which can be renounced.  

•  Allotment is made based on shareholding as on record date as against 

“Proportionate allotment” based on application size in public issues. 

•  Rights issue application form is different from public issue application 
form  as  the former has three parts. Part  A  deals with  application  by 
the  shareholders  (including  request  for  additional  shares),  Part  B 
deals with form of renunciation to be filled in by the shareholders who 
desire  to  renounce  their  RE  and  Part  C  deals  with  application  by 
renouncee(s).  Also,  shareholders  can  request  for  split  application 
forms wherein they want to renounce only a part of their entitlement 
and want to apply for the rest of their entitlement or the shareholders 
want  to  renounce  their  entitlement  in  favour  of  more  than  one 
person. 

•  All  details  of  shareholders  on  a  record  date  is  available  with  the 
company, other than those who have purchased RE from the market 
and become eligible for rights issue subsequently. 

4.  Among  other  features,  the  feature  of  “  right  of  renunciation”  requires 
special  mention.  Therefore,  any  attempt  to  make  the  Rights  Issue 
process  electronic  has  to  necessarily  take  into  consideration  the 
procedures pertaining to this right. 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 

5.  It  is  understood  that  the  rights  entitlement  are  presently  traded  in  a 
physical  form  where  a  shareholder  who  does  not  want  to  subscribe  to 
his/her RE can sell his/her RE and thereafter the RE keeps on changing 
hands upto the time specified for the trading.  

6.  After  taking  in  to  account  various  distinct  features  of  rights  issue,  the 

following process of rights issue is envisaged: 

(A) Electronic  Rights  Issue  Process  -  This  process  shall  apply  to 
shareholders  who  have  an  active  demat  account  and  hold  shares  in 
demat  form  as  on  the  record  date  for  the  rights  issue.  This  process 
envisages  renunciation/trading  of  RE  in  electronic  form  on  the  stock 
exchange platform and 

 
(B) Physical  Rights  Issue  Process  -  This  process  shall  apply  to 
shareholders who hold shares in physical form as on the record date for 
the rights issue. This process envisages physical renunciation/trading of 
RE as per the present practice. 

 
(A) Electronic Rights Issue Process 

a.  The issuer fixes a Record date to identify eligible shareholders. These 
shareholders  would  be  entitled  to  subscribe  to  the  proposed  Rights 
Issue. 

b.  The issuer dispatches a letter to each shareholder informing that the 
rights  entitlements  have  been  credited  into  their  respective  demat 
accounts  and  duration  of  trading  in  RE  and  attaching  the  Letter  of 
Offer  and  a  Blank  Application  Form  (unlike  the  present  form  which 
has  shareholders’  name  and  entitlement  printed  on  it)  to  all  the 
shareholders on the record date.   

c.  The  blank  application  forms  shall  also  be  available  with  the  stock 
exchanges, merchant bankers and  brokers. Further,  soft  copy  of  the 
same  shall  be  available  on 
the  aforesaid 
intermediaries.  

the  websites  of 

d.  The  Registrar,  on  the  instruction  of  the  issuer,  shall  through  credit 
corporate  action,  credit  the  RE  in  the  given  ratio  into  the  demat 
accounts of the eligible shareholders (as on record date). 

Page 3 of 5 

5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 

e.  The  Rights  issue  shall  thereafter  open  for  (a)  subscription  and  (b) 
renunciation/trading  of  RE  electronically  through  the  stock  exchange 
platform.  

f.  Trading  will  happen  in  REs  on  the  secondary  market  platform  of  the 
stock exchanges as it happens in case of ordinary shares. To separate 
the  trading  of  REs  from  the  trading  of  ordinary  shares,  a  separate 
ISIN shall be given for the REs.  

g.  Shareholders,  who  do  not  want  to  exercise  their  RE,  can  renounce 
their  RE  by  selling  their  REs  on  the  electronic  trading  platform  of 
stock exchanges. 

h.  The  shareholders  who  have  not  renounced  their  RE  and  the 
renouncees  who  don’t  want  to  renounce  their  RE  further  shall  apply 
for shares against their RE during the issue period (which includes the 
trading period of RE) by submitting the application form received with 
the  Letter  of  Offer/downloaded  blank  application  form  or  by 
submitting the required information on a blank paper and submit the 
requisite payment instrument to Bankers to the issue (i.e as per the 
current practice ) 

i.  Trading of RE may close at least 3 working days before closure of the 
rights issue so as to avoid last minute rush in submitting applications 
and  to  ensure  that  beneficial  owner  of  REs  have  sufficient  time  to 
submit an application form. Once trading of REs closes, ISIN assigned 
to REs shall be suspended.  

j.  After  the  closure  of  trading  and  settlement  of  the  trades  done,  the 
depositories  shall  make  available  the  list  of  RE  holders  on  the  date 
the  ISIN  was  suspended  and  the  list  of  shareholders  on  the  record 
date to the Registrar with their respective number of REs.  

k.  Thereafter,  the  Registrar  shall  reconcile  the  application  by  matching 
the number of shares applied for with number of RE available in the 
respective demat accounts based on the aforesaid list. 

 
l.  The  registrar  shall  finalise  the  allotment  and  thereafter  on  the 
instruction  of  the  issuer,  credit  the  rights  shares  through  a  credit 
corporate action, to the respective demat accounts. 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 

5 

 

 

 

 

5 

 

m. Thereafter,  the  Registrar  shall  through  a  corporate  action,  debit  the 
REs  from  the  respective  demat  accounts  for  (a)  shares  allotted  and 
(b) lapsed REs. 

(B) Physical Rights Issue Process 

a.  The issuer fixes a Record date to identify eligible shareholders. These 
shareholders  would  be  entitled  to  subscribe  to  the  proposed  Rights 
Issue. 

 
b.  The  issuer  dispatches  the  Letter  of  Offer  and  Composite  Application 
Form  (CAF)  with  a  pre-printed  unique  no.,  name  of  the  shareholder 
and his/her entitlement, to all the eligible shareholders on the record 
date.   

 
c.  The  Rights  issue  shall  thereafter  open  for  (a)  subscription  and  (b) 

renunciation/trading of RE physically. 

d.  The  shareholders  who  have  not  renounced  their  RE  and  the 
renouncees    shall  apply  for  shares  against  their  RE  during  the  issue 
period  (which  includes  the  trading  period  of  RE)  by  submitting  the 
CAF or by submitting the required information on a blank paper and 
submit the requisite payment instrument to Bankers to the issue (i.e 
as per the current practice ) 

 
e.  Trading of RE may close at least 3 working days before closure of the 
rights issue so as to avoid last minute rush in submitting applications 
and  to  ensure  that  beneficial  owner  of  REs  have  sufficient  time  to 
submit an application form. 

f.  The Bankers to the Issue shall send the CAF/blank paper application 

to the Registrar.  

g.  Thereafter,  the  Registrar  shall  reconcile  the  application  form  as  per 

the current practice. 

h.  The  registrar  shall  finalise  the  basis  of  allotment  and  send  the 

physical share certificates to the shareholders. 

Page 5 of 5 

