Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Discussion Paper  

 
 

 
 
 

Continuing Professional Education 

 
 

in 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

1.  With  a  view  to  improving  the  quality  of  intermediation  services  in  the 
India 
securities  market, 
(Certification  of  Associated  Persons 
the  Securities  Markets) 
Regulations,  2007  (the  regulations)  specifies  various  requirements  in 
terms  of  certification  and  revalidation  of  certification  for  associated 
persons  in  securities  markets.  The  regulations  empower  National 
Institute of Securities Markets (NISM) to lay down standards and put in 
place mechanism for delivery of certification and continuing professional 
education (CPE) for revalidation of certification of associated persons.  
 

2.  In keeping with the objective of the regulations and in consultation with 

SEBI, NISM has made available the following certifications: 

 

Currency 

Derivatives 

15.05.2009

Name of the Certification 

Sl. 
No. 
1.    NISM-Series-I: 

Certification  

2.    NISM-Series-II-A:  Registrars  to  an  Issue  and 
Share Transfer Agents (Corporate) Certification  
3.    NISM-Series-II-B:  Registrars  to  an  Issue  and 
(Mutual  Funds) 

Share  Transfer  Agents 
Certification  

4.    NISM-Series-IV: Interest 

Rate Derivatives 

17.05.2010

5.    NISM-Series-V-A:  Mutual  Fund  Distributors 

6.    NISM-Series-VII:  Securities  Operations  and 

Risk Management Certification  

7.    NISM-Series-VI: 

Depositories  Operations 

Certification  

Certification  

Certification  

Available 

from 

03.08.2009

03.08.2009

01.06.2010

22.11.2010

21.02.2011

Page 1 of 3 

 
3.  The above certificates are valid for a period of three years. Under the 
regulations, an associated person, who has obtained a certificate, can 
get  it  revalidated  for  a  further  period  of  three  years  at  a  time  by 
successfully completing successive CPE programmes before the expiry 
of the validity of the certificate. He has, however, the option to seek a 
fresh  certification  before  the  expiry  of  the  validity  of  the  existing 
certificate instead of seeking revalidation through CPE. The regulations 
authorize NISM to specify the requirements of CPE.   

 
4.  In consultation with NISM, the CPE is proposed as under: 
 

a.  The CPE shall  be delivered in a class room environment by NISM 
directly or through NISM accredited CPE providers. Endeavor will be 
made to make CPE available from many locations. In course of time, 
delivery through electronic media will be explored.  

 
b.  The broad syllabus for the CPE would be the same as in the related 
certification, which is being updated continuously. There would be a 
separate CPE for each kind of certification. 

 
c.  The CPE shall be delivered over two days. At the end of the second 
day,  there  would  be  a  test  (manual  or  electronic)  to  evaluate  the 
knowledge  gained  during  the  CPE  programme.    An  associated 
person shall have the option to undergo the two day programme in 
two spells or at one go.  

 
d.  A  suitable  fee,  as  may  be  determined  by  NISM,  shall  be  charged 
from the associated persons for participating in the CPE programme.  

 
e.  An associated person shall undergo the CPE programme at anytime 
during  the  12  months  preceding  the  expiry  of  the  validity  of  the 
certificate.  On successful completion of the CPE, the certificate will 
be revalidated for a period of three years from its expiry.  

 
5.  In order to undertake CPE, an associated person would be required to 
register with NISM. The facility of such registration would be available 
online.  There  would  be  off-line  registration  also.  Once  registered  with 
NISM,  the associated  person  can  avail  CPE  from  NISM  or  any  of  the 
accredited CPE providers. On successful completion of the CPE, NISM 
will  revalidate  certificate  for  a  further  period  of  three  years.  NISM  will 
maintain a database of associated persons and monitor validity of their 
certificates. 
 

6.  NISM will have objective criteria to accredit CPE providers. A securities 
market  participant  eligible  under  NISM  criteria  may  be  accredited  as 
CPE  provider.  A  CPE  provider  shall  not  make  CPE  available  for  the 
associated persons working with it.  

 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

 
 
7.  The Principal, as defined in regulation 2(1) (k) of the regulations,  would 
have  two  options  of  complying  with  the  requirement  of  CPE  for 
revalidation of his / her certificate: 
 
a)  Successfully completing a related two day CPE programme; or 

b)  Delivering four class room sessions in a related CPE programme.  

 
8.  The  successful  completion  of  CPE  would  amount  to  compliance  with 

regulation 4 (b) of the regulations for the purpose of initial certification.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  comments 
cpenism@sebi.gov.in or to the following address, latest by June 30, 2011: 
 

/  suggestions  on 

this  paper  may  be  mailed  at 

Chief General Manager 

Market Intermediaries Regulation and Supervision Department 

Securities and Exchange Board of India, SEBI Bhavan 

C-4A, G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex,  

Mumbai- 400 051. 

Page 3 of 3 

