 
 

 

Discussion Paper on 'Mandatory Safety Net Mechanism' 

 

Background 
Regulation  44  of  SEBI  (ICDR)  Regulations,  2009  addresses  the  concept  of  Safety 
Net in public Issues. Excerpts from the same are reproduced below: 
“An  issuer  may  provide  for  a  safety-net  arrangement  for  the  specified  securities 
offered  in  any  public  issue  in  consultation  with  the  BRLM  after  ascertaining  the 
financial  capacity  of  the  person  offering  the  safety-net  arrangement,  subject  to 
disclosures  specified  in  this  regard  in  Part  A  of  Schedule  VIII  of  SEBI  (ICDR) 
Regulations, 2009. 
 
Provided  that  any  such  arrangement  shall  provide  for  an  offer  to  purchase  up  to  a 
maximum  of  one  thousand  specified  securities  per  original  resident  retail  individual 
allottee at the issue price within a period of six months from the last date of dispatch 
of security certificates or credit of demat account.” 
 
Reasons for review 
In the analysis of price performance of the scrips listed during  2008 to 2011, it was 
observed  that  out  of  117  scrips,  72    (around  62%  issues)  were  trading  below  the 
Issue price after 6-months of their listing. Out of those 72 scrips which witnessed fall 
in price, in 55 scrips the fall was more than 20% of the Issue price. In this scenario if 
the trend continues, the sentiments of the investors would get affected and they may 
lose  confidence  in  the  capital  market.    Thus,  there  is  a  need  to  provide  Safety  Net 
arrangement for RIIs to build their confidence in capital market. 
 

  Discussion in Primary Market Advisory Committee meeting held on 31/07/2012  
The  Primary  Market  Advisory  Committee  (PMAC)  was  of  the  view  that  considering 
 
the recent post-listing price performance of IPOs, it is necessary to make the safety 
net mechanism mandatory for IPOs so as to reinforce investor confidence in capital 
markets and discipline issuers and market intermediaries. Thus, the Committee was, 
broadly, in concurrence with SEBI on the need for such a mechanism.  However, the 
Committee  was  of  the  view  that  the  proposed  mandatory  Safety  Net  mechanism 
would  impact  various  segments  of  market  participants  such  as  investors,  issuers, 
promoters, BRLMs, etc., and that public comments be sought. 

 
  Discussions in the SEBI Board held on 16/08/2012 
,   Considering 

Indian  market  dynamics  and 

the 

the  recent  post-listing  price 
performance of IPOs, the Board opined that besides disclosures, other measures are 
needed to bring in self-discipline in IPO pricing. One such measure which could help 
protect  the  interests  of  small  investors  is  a  safety  net  mechanism.  While  agreeing 
with the approach in this regard, it was of the view that more public consultation on 
the details of the proposal was needed, before it could be implemented.   

 

 

Page 1 of 4 

  Accordingly,  the  following  proposed  broad  framework  for  a  'Mandatory  Safety  Net 

Mechanism' is hereby placed for public comments. 

 

Proposed Broad Framework for Safety Net Mechanism 
 

 

A.  Safety Net provision shall be mandatory for all IPOs. 
 
B.  Safety Net Trigger: 

Safety  Net  provision  shall  trigger  only  in  cases  where  the  price  of the  shares 
depreciate by more than 20% from the issue price. The price for this provision 
shall  be  calculated  as  the  volume-weighted  average  market  price  of  such 
shares for a period of 3 months from the date of listing.  
 
Further,  the  20%  depreciation  in  share  price  shall  be  considered  over  and 
above  the  general  fall,  if  any,  in  market  index.  The  market  index  for  this 
purpose  may  be  BSE-500  or  S&P  CNX  500.  The  market  index  to  be 
considered  for  this  purpose  shall  be  disclosed,  in  advance,  in  the  offer 
document. 

Following illustrations will explain the point further: 

Illustration-1 
Assume  listing  price  for  share  is  Rs.  100  and  market  index  on  listing  date  is 
1000. After 3 months, volume-weighted average market price of the shares is 
Rs.  79  (drop  of  21%) and  the market  index  is  1000  (drop of 0%). The  Safety 
Net provision will trigger since relative fall of 21% (21%-0%) is more than 20% 
trigger level. 

Illustration-2 
Assume  listing  price  for  share  is  Rs.  100  and  market  index  on  listing  date  is 
1000. After 3 months, volume-weighted average market price of the shares is 
Rs.  79  (drop  of  21%) and  the market  index  is  900  (drop  of  10%). The  Safety 
Net provision will not trigger since relative fall of 11% (21%-10%) is less than 
20% trigger level. 

Illustration-3 
Assume  listing  price  for  share  is  Rs.  100  and  market  index  on  listing  date  is 
1000. After 3 months, volume-weighted average market price of the shares is 
Rs.  69  (drop  of  31%) and  the market  index  is  900  (drop  of  10%). The  Safety 
Net  provision  will  trigger  since  relative  fall  of  21%  (31%-10%)  is  more  than 
20% trigger level. 

Illustration-4 
Assume  listing  price  for  share  is  Rs.  100  and  market  index  on  listing  date  is 
1000. After 3 months, volume-weighted average market price of the shares is 
Rs.  89  (drop  of  11%)  and  the  market  index  is  1100  (increase  of  10%).  The 
Safety Net provision will not trigger even if relative fall of 21% (11%-(-10%)) is 
more  than  20%  trigger  level  since  the  absolute  drop  in  share  price  is  11% 
which is less than 20% trigger level. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 4 

C.  Eligibility: 

The  facility  will  be  available  for  all  the  allotted  securities  to  original  resident 
retail  individual  allottees  who  had  made  an  application  for  up  to  Rs  50,000 
subject to following: 
 

  The total obligation on Safety Net provider will be capped at 5% of the 

 

issue size. 
 
In case the total number of shares offered under the safety net scheme 
works out to be more than 5% of issue size, the purchase of securities 
from  original  resident  retail  individual  allottees  shall  be  done  on 
proportionate basis such that total obligation does not exceed 5% of the 
issue size. For eg., in an issue of size Rs. 1000 Cr., post-issue promoter 
holding  is  50% of the capital of the  company  and market  capitalisation 
of the company is Rs. 2000 Cr., the safety net obligation would work out 
as under:- 

(i)  The  maximum  obligation  of  the  promoter  would  be  5%  of  Rs.  1000 
Cr., i.e., he will be obliged to buy the shares worth Rs. 50 Cr. at the 
issue price. 
 

(ii)  Even if more than 5% of the issue size has been originally allotted to 
RIIs  who  had  applied  for  Rs.  50,000  or  less  and  all  of  them  tender 
their shares, the promoter will be obliged to buy shares worth Rs. 50 
Cr.  only  at  the  issue  price,  i.e.  5%  of  Rs.  1000  Cr.,  the  issue  size. 
The acceptance will be done on a proportionate basis.  
 

(iii)  However,  if  the  number  of  eligible  shareholders  or  the  number  of 
shares tendered is less than the above, the cost for the promoter in 
providing  the  safety  net  would  be  limited  to  fall  in  the  value  of  the 
actual number of shares tendered. For eg., if 5% shares (i.e. approx 
15% of the RII quota of 35%) are tendered in safety net and if the fall 
in price is 20% from the issue price, the cost of providing safety net 
will  be  Rs.  10  Cr.  only,  i.e.  1%  of  the  issue size  of  Rs.  1000  Cr.  In 
this case, if the shares tendered are less than 5% of the issue size, 
the cost will be even lesser.  

D.  Period for Safety Net: 

  The Issuer/ BRLM to announce, within 3 working days from the date of 
completion  of  three  months  from  listing  date,  triggering  of  Safety  Net 
provision and invite eligible shareholders to tender their shares.  
 

  Safety Net arrangement shall be open for 10 working days from the date 
of  announcement.  Eligible  investors  may  tender  their  shares  to  Safety 
Net  Provider  under  the  scheme  during  this  period.  The  shares  so 
tendered  shall  be  kept  in  escrow  account  till  successful  settlement  of 
shares and funds. 
 

  The  settlement  of  shares  and  funds  shall  be  completed  within  10 
working days of the completion of the last date for surrender of shares 
by eligible shareholders. 

 

Page 3 of 4 

 

  Eligible investors may tender their shares through a separate exchange 

window (similar to buyback of shares). 

 
E.  The  primary safety net obligation would rest with the  promoters of the issuer. 
However,  they  may  choose  to fulfill  the  same,  directly  or  through  BRLMs/any 
other Safety Net Provider. 

 
F.  The arrangements made for the purpose of meeting  the Safety Net obligation 

shall be disclosed in the offer document.  

 
G.  Any  acquisition  of  shares  under  the  scheme  of  Safety  Net  shall  be  exempt 

from the provisions of SEBI (SAST) Regulations, 2011. 

 

Public Comments 
Comments on the above framework may be emailed on or before October 31, 2012, 
to pranav@sebi.gov.in/ cfddil@sebi.gov.in or sent, by post, to:- 
 
Mr. Sunil Kadam 
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department - Division of Issues & Listing 
Securities & Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East) 
Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph: +912226449630/+912226449463 
 

****** 

 
 
 

 

Page 4 of 4 

