CONSULTATIVE PAPER ON REVIEW OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 

NORMS IN INDIA 

1.  Concept of Corporate Governance 
1.1.   "Corporations  pool  capital  from  a  large  investor  base  both  in  the  domestic  and  in  the 
international capital markets. In this context, investment is ultimately an act of faith in the 
ability of a corporation’s management. When an investor invests money in a corporation, 
he expects the board and the management to act as trustees and ensure the safety of the 
capital and also earn a rate of return that is higher than the cost of capital. In this regard, 
investors  expect  management  to  act  in  their  best  interests  at  all  times  and  adopt  good 
corporate governance practices. 

1.2.  Corporate  governance  is  the  acceptance  by  management  of  the  inalienable  rights  of 
shareholders as the true owners of the corporation and of their own role as trustees on 
behalf  of  the  shareholders.  It  is  about  commitment  to  values,  about  ethical  business 
conduct  and  about  making  a  distinction  between  personal  and  corporate  funds  in  the 
management of a company.”1 

2.  Evolution of Corporate Governance framework in India: 
2.1.  Companies  Act,  1956  provides  for  basic  framework  for  regulation  of  all  the  companies. 
Certain provisions were incorporated in the Act itself to provide for checks and balances 
over the powers of Board viz.: 
  Loan to directors or relatives or associated entities  (need CG permission) (Sec 295) 
 
 
  Appointment  of  director  or  relatives  for  office  or  place  of  profit  needs  approval  by 
shareholders.  If  the  remuneration  exceeds  prescribed  limit  ,  CG  approval  required 
(Sec 314) 

Interested contract needs Board resolution and to be entered in register (Sec 297) 
Interested directors  not to participate or vote (Sec 300) 

  Audit  Committee  for  Public  companies  having  paid-up  capital  of  Rs.  5  Crores  (Sec 

  Shareholders  holding  10%  can  appeal 

to  Court 

in  case  of  oppression  or 

292A) 

mismanagement (397/398). 

2.2.  In  Companies  Act,  1956,  SEBI  has  been  given  power  only  to  administer  provisions 

pertaining to issue and transfer of securities and non-payment of dividend. 

2.3.  Apart  from  the  basic  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  every  listed  company  needs  to 
comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  listing  agreement  as  per  Section  21  of  Securities 

                                                            
1 Report of Narayana Murthy Committee on Corporate Governance, 2003 

1 

 

Contract  Regulations  Act,  1956.  Non-compliance  with  the  same,  would  lead  to  delisting 
under Section 22A or monetary penalties under Section 23 E of the said Act.  

2.4.  Further, SEBI is empowered under Section 11 and Section 11A of SEBI Act to prescribe 
conditions for listing. However, Section 32 of the SEBI Act, 1992 states that the provisions 
of the SEBI Act, 1992 shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the provisions of any 
other law for the time being in force.  

2.5.  Considering the emergence of code of best Corporate Governance practices all over the 
world (like Cadbury Greenbury and Hampel Committee reports), in 1999, SEBI constituted 
a Committee on Corporate Governance under the Chairmanship of Shri Kumar Mangalam 
Birla,  to  promote  and  raise  the  standard  of  Corporate  Governance  in  respect  of  listed 
companies.  SEBI’s  Board,  in  its  meeting  held  on  January  25,  2000,  considered  the 
recommendations of the Committee and decided to make the amendments to the listing 
agreement on February 21, 2000 for incorporating the recommendations of the committee 
by inserting a new clause in the Equity Listing Agreement – i.e. Clause 49.  

2.6.  Subsequently,  after  Enron,  WorldCom,  and  other  corporate  governance  catastrophes, 
SEBI  felt  that  there  was  a  need  to  improve  further  the  level  of  corporate  governance 
standards in India and constituted a second corporate governance committee chaired by 
Mr. Narayana Murthy, of Infosys Technologies Limited. Based on the recommendations of 
the aforesaid Committee, SEBI issued a circular on August 26, 2003 revising Clause 49 of 
the Listing Agreement. Based on the public comments received thereon and the revised 
recommendations  of  the  Committee,  certain  provisions  of  the  regulatory  framework  for 
corporate governance were modified and relevant amendments were made to Clause 49 
of the Listing Agreement.  The revised clause 49 superseded all the earlier circulars on the 
subject and became effective for listed companies from January 01, 2006. It is applicable 
to the entities seeking listing for the first time and for existing listed entities having a paid 
up share capital of Rs. 3 crores and above or net worth of Rs. 25 crores or more at any 
time in the history of the company. 

3.  Clause 49:  
3.1.  Clause  49  of  the  Equity  Listing  Agreement  consists  of  mandatory  as  well  as  non-
mandatory provisions. Those which are absolutely essential for corporate governance can 
be defined with precision and which can be enforced without any legislative amendments 
are  classified  as  mandatory.  Others,  which  are  either  desirable  or  which  may  require 
change of laws are classified as non-mandatory. The non-mandatory requirements may be 
implemented  at  the  discretion  of  the  company.    However,  the  disclosures  of  the 
compliance with mandatory requirements and adoption (and compliance) / non-adoption of 
the non-mandatory requirements shall be made in the section on corporate governance of 
the Annual Report.  

3.2.  Gist of Cause 49 is as follows: 

  Mandatory provisions comprises of the following: 

2 

 

o  Composition  of  Board  and  its  procedure  -  frequency  of  meeting,  number  of 
independent directors, code of conduct for Board of directors and senior management; 

o  Audit Committee, its composition, and role  
o  Provision relating to Subsidiary Companies 
o  Disclosure to Audit committee, Board and the Shareholders 
o  CEO/CFO certification 
o  Quarterly report on corporate governance 
o  Annual compliance certificate 

  Non-mandatory provisions consist of the following: 

o  Constitution of Remuneration Committee 
o  Despatch of Half-yearly results 
o  Training of Board members 
o  Peer evaluation of Board members 
o  Whistle Blower policy 

4. 

3.3.  As  per  Clause  49  of  the  Listing  Agreement,  there  should  be  a  separate  section  on 
Corporate  Governance  in  the  Annual  Reports  of  listed  companies,  with  detailed 
compliance  report  on  Corporate  Governance.  The  companies  should  also  submit  a 
quarterly  compliance  report  to  the  stock  exchanges  within  15  days  from  the  close  of 
quarter as per the prescribed format. The report shall be signed either by the Compliance 
Officer or the Chief Executive Officer of the company.  
 Apart from Clause 49 of the Equity Listing Agreement, there are certain other clauses in 
the    listing  agreement,  which  are  protecting  the    minority  share  holders  and  ensuring 
proper disclosures 
o  Disclosure of Shareholding Pattern 
o  Maintenance of minimum public shareholding (25%) 
o  Disclosure and publication of periodical results 
o  Disclosure of Price Sensitive Information 
o  Disclosure and open offer requirements under SAST 

5.  OECD Principles on Corporate Governance: 
5.1.  OECD,  in  its  endeavour  to  improve  the  governance  practices,  had  published its  revised 
principles  on  Corporate  Governance  in  2002.  The  OECD  Principles  of  Corporate 
Governance have since become an international benchmark for policy makers, investors, 
corporations  and  other  stakeholders  worldwide.  They  have  advanced  the  corporate 
governance agenda and provided specific guidance for legislative and regulatory initiatives 
in both member and non-member countries. The Financial Stability Forum has designated 
the Principles as one of the 12 key standards for sound financial systems.  

5.2.  OECD Principles on Corporate Governance are as follows: 

i. 

Principle  I:  Ensuring  the  Basis  for  an  Effective  Corporate  Governance 
Framework 

3 

 

The corporate governance framework  

  should promote transparent and efficient markets,  
  be consistent with the rule of law and  
  clearly articulate the division of responsibilities among different supervisory, 

regulatory and enforcement authorities 

ii. 

Principle  II:  The  Rights  of  Shareholders  and  Key  Ownership  Functions- 
protected and facilitated 

  protect and facilitate the exercise of shareholders’ rights 

iii. 

Principle III: The Equitable Treatment of Shareholders 

  Should ensure the equitable treatment of all shareholders 
  opportunity to obtain effective redress for violation of their rights 

iv. 

Principle IV: The Role of Stakeholders in Corporate Governance- recognized 

  should recognise the rights of stakeholders 
  encourage  co-operation  between  corporations  and  stakeholders  in  creating 

wealth, jobs, and the sustainability of enterprises 

v. 

Principle V: Disclosure and Transparency 

  Timely and accurate disclosure is made on all material matters including the 
financial situation, performance, ownership, and governance of the company. 
Principle  VI:    The  Responsibilities  of  the  Board-Monitoring  Management  and 
Accountability to Shareholders 

vi. 

  should ensure the strategic guidance of the company,  
 
 

the effective monitoring of management by the board, and  
the board’s accountability to the company and the shareholders 

5.3.  Indian Corporate Governance Framework is in compliance with the Corporate Governance 

principles of OECD.  

5.4.  OECD  steering  committee  on  corporate  governance  reviews  the  principles  and  its 
compliance by  member  and  non-member  countries  by  conducting  regular  thematic peer 
review  of  member  and  non-member  countries.  Various  topics  in  which  thematic  peer 
review conducted by OECD are as follows: 
S.No  Thematic 

Topic 

Peer 

Review 
First 
Second 

Third 

1 
2 

3 

 

Board Practices- Incentives and Governing Risks 
The  Role  of  Institutional  Investors  in  promoting  good 
corporate governance 
Minority Protection- Related Party Transactions 

4 

Fourth 
Fifth 

4 
5 

 

Board Member Nomination and Election 
Supervision and Enforcement 

5.5.  SEBI has been actively participating in the OECD Asian Roundtable Conferences and in 
Corporate Governance Committee and sub-committee meetings as observers. SEBI and 
OECD  have  entered  into  bi-lateral  co-operation  agreement  in  the  area  of  Corporate 
Governance.  In  the  Third  Thematic  Peer  Review  Exercise  of  OECD  on  "Minority 
Protection- Related Party Transactions", India was one of the five jurisdictions (Belgium, 
France, India, Israel and Italy) that were subject to the in-depth review.  

5.6.  As a part of ongoing bi-lateral policy dialogue between SEBI and OECD, a Policy Dialogue 
on “Minority Protection- Related Party Transactions" was held on December 14-15, 2011 
at  SEBI  Bhavan.  Apart  from  Representatives  of  SEBI,  MCA,  Stock  Exchanges, 
Professional  Bodies  and  Industry  Experts,  OECD  representatives,  participants  from 
regulatory  authorities  in  Israel  and  Italy  participated  in  the  said  meeting.  Based  on  the 
discussions and suggestions came up in the meeting, certain actions points were identified 
and processed upon. 

6.  Recent  policy  steps  taken  by  SEBI  for  ensuring  better  governance  in  listed 

companies: 
The introspection that followed the Satyam episode has resulted in some major changes in 
Indian corporate governance regime. Some of the recent steps taken in this regard are as 
follows: 

6.1.  Disclosure of pledged shares: It is made mandatory on the part of promoters (including 
promoter group) to disclose the details of pledge of shares held by them in listed entities 
promoted  by  them.  Further,  it  was  decided  to  make  such  disclosures  both  event-based 
and periodic.  

6.2.  Peer review: In the light of developments with respect to Satyam SEBI carried out a peer 
review exercise of the working papers (relating to financial statements of listed entities) of 
auditors in respect of the companies constituting the NSE – Nifty 50, the BSE Sensex and 
some listed companies outside the Sensex and Nifty chosen on a random basis.  

6.3.  Disclosures  regarding  agreements  with  the  media  companies:  In  order  to  ensure 
public  dissemination  of  details  of  agreements  entered  into  by  corporates  with  media 
companies, the listed entities are required to disclose details of such agreements on their 
websites and also notify the stock exchange of the same for public dissemination. 

6.4.  Maintenance  of  website:  In  order  to  ensure/enhance  public  dissemination  of  all  basic 
information  about  the  listed  entity,  listed  entities  are  mandated  to  maintain  a  functional 
website that contains certain basic information about them, duly updated for all statutory 
filings, including agreements entered into with media companies, if any. 

6.5.  Compulsory dematerialization of Promoter holdings: In order to improve transparency 
in the dealings of shares by promoters including pledge / usage as collateral, it is decided 
5 

 

that the securities of companies shall be traded in the normal segment of the exchange if 
and  only  if,  the  company  has  achieved  100%  of  promoter’s  and  promoter  group’s 
shareholding  in  dematerialized  form. In all cases, wherein the companies do not satisfy 
the above criteria, the trading in securities of such companies shall take place in trade for 
trade segment; 

6.6.  Peer reviewed Auditor: It has been decided that in respect of all listed entities, limited 
review/statutory audit reports submitted to the concerned stock exchanges shall be given 
only by those auditors who have subjected themselves to the peer review process of ICAI  
and who hold a valid certificate issued by the ‘Peer Review Board’ of the said Institute; 

6.7.  Approval of appointment of ‘CFO’ by the Audit Committee:  In order to ensure that the 
CFO has adequate accounting and financial management expertise to review and certify 
the financial statements, it is mandated that the appointment of the CFO shall be approved 
by  the  Audit  Committee  before  finalization  of  the  same  by  the  management.  The  Audit 
Committee, while approving the appointment, shall assess the qualifications, experience & 
background etc. of the candidate 

6.8.  Disclosure  of  voting  results:  In  order  to  ensure  wider  dissemination  of  information 
regarding voting patterns which gives a better picture of how the meetings are conducted 
and how the different categories of investors have voted on a resolution, listed entities are 
required  to  disclose  the  voting  results/  patterns  on  their  websites  and  to  the  exchanges 
within 48 hours from the conclusion of the concerned shareholders’ meeting.   

6.9.  Enabling  shareholders  to  electronically  cast  their  vote:  In  order  to  enable  wider 
participation  of  shareholders  in  important  proposals,  listed  companies  are  mandated  to 
enable e-voting facility also to their shareholders, in respect of those businesses which are 
transacted through postal ballot by the listed companies. 

6.10. Manner of  dealing audit reports  filed by listed entities:  SEBI  board  has  approved  a 
mechanism to process qualified annual audit reports filed by the listed entities with stock 
exchanges and Annual Audit Reports where accounting irregularities have been pointed 
out by Financial Reporting Review Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(ICAI-FRRB). In order to enhance the quality of financial reporting done by listed entities, it 
has been, inter-alia, decided that: 

  Deficiencies in the present process would be examined and rectified. 
  SEBI would create Qualified Audit Report review Committee (QARC) represented by 
ICAI, Stock Exchanges, etc. to guide SEBI in processing audit reports where auditors 
have given qualified audit reports. 

  Listed entities would be required to file annual audit reports to the stock exchanges 
alongwith the applicable Forms (Form A: 'Unqualified' / 'Matter of Emphasis Report'; 
Form B: 'Qualified' / 'Subject To' / 'Except For Audit Report'). 

  After  preliminary  scrutiny  and  based  on  materiality,  exchanges  would  refer  these 

reports to SEBI/QARC 

  Cases wherein the qualifications are significant and explanation given by Company 
is unsatisfactory would be referred to the ICAI-FRRB.  If ICAI-FRRB opines that the 
6 

 

qualification  is  justified,  SEBI  may  mandate  a  restatement  of  the  accounts  of  the 
entity and require the entity to inform the same to the shareholders by making the 
announcement to stock exchanges. 

6.11. Recently,  NSE  held  a  conference  jointly  with  SEBI  and  CFA  Institute  on  “Independent 

Directors - issues and Challenges” – to create awareness among independent Directors; 

7.  Companies Bill, 2012: 
7.1.  It  may  be  noted  that  the  Companies  Bill,  2012  is  passed  by  Lok  Sabha.  Though  SEBI 
suggested that SEBI may be given jurisdiction to prescribe matters relating to corporate 
governance for listed companies, it was decided by Ministry of Corporate Affairs that core 
governing principles of corporate governance may be provided in the bill itself. Thus, in the 
Companies Bill 2012, various new provisions have been included (which are not provided 
for in Companies Act, 1956) for better governance of the companies. Some of those new 
provisions are: 
  Requirement to constitute Remuneration and nomination committee and Stakeholders 

Grievances Committee 

  Granting of More powers to Audit Committee 
  Specific clause pertaining to duties of directors 
  Mode of appointment of Independent Directors and their tenure 
  Code of Conduct for Independent Directors 
  Rotation of Auditors and restriction on Auditor's for providing non-audit services 
  Enhancement of liability of Auditors 
  Disclosure and approval of RPTs 
  Mandatory Auditing Standards 
  Enabling  Shareholders  Associations/Group  of  Shareholders  for  taking  class  action 
suits  and  reimbursement  of  the  expenses  out  of  Investor  Education  and  Protection 
Fund 

  Constitution  of  National  Financial  Reporting  Authority,  an  independent  body  to  take 

action against the Auditors in case of professional mis-conduct 

  Requirement to spend on CSR activities 

 

7.2.  The  Companies  Bill  contains  detailed  provisions  pertaining  to  corporate  governance.  
Once the bill is enacted, the entire clause 49 may be revisited to make it consistent with 
the  Companies  Act.  However,  SEBI  can  impose  more  stringent  conditions  to  the  listed 
companies  through  listing  agreement,  than  those  proposed  in  the  Companies  Bill, 
considering  the  need  to  have  better  governance  practices  in  the  listed  companies, 
provided those provisions are not derogatory to the provisions of the enactment.  

8.  Policy document on Corporate Governance: 
8.1.  In  December  2009,  Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs  specified  Voluntary  Guidelines  on 
Corporate  Governance.  These  guidelines  provide  for  a  set  of  good  practices,  which  will 

7 

 

help  the  companies  to  strengthen  their  internal  governance  processes  and  may  be 
voluntarily adopted by the Indian Public companies 

8.2.  In  March  2012,  Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs  constituted  a  committee  under  the 
Chairmanship of Mr. Adi Godrej, Chairman, Godrej Industries Limited, to formulate policy 
document  on  Corporate  Governance.  In  September,  2012  the  Committee  submitted  its 
document, specifying seventeen guiding principles on corporate governance.  
 

9.  The purpose and scope of the concept paper: 
9.1.  SEBI is of the view that any code of Corporate Governance must be dynamic, evolving 
and should change with changing context and times. SEBI, time to time, is in receipt of the 
suggestions  and  clarifications  from  the  industries  to  review  the  corporate  governance 
code.  To  keep  pace  with  the  changing  expectations  of  the  investors,  shareholders,  and 
other stakeholders, all such suggestions received are placed before the Primary  Market 
Advisory Committee (PMAC) or SEBI Committee on Disclosure and Accounting Standards 
(SCODA).  Subsequently,  these  suggestions  are  taken  to  SEBI  Board  and  necessary 
amendments are carried out to extant regulations/Listing Agreement. 

9.2.  Though  the  good  practices  prevailing  in  other  jurisdictions  and  recent  reports  of  OECD 
and other international bodies have been referred to in framing this concept paper, only 
those  proposals,  which  would  be  relevant  to  India,  considering  the  uniqueness  of 
shareholding pattern of Indian listed companies and which are consistent with the existing 
framework have been dealt upon. 

9.3.   Presently, it is felt that the existing clause 49 may be revisited in the view of change in 
scenarios subsequent to the framing of the code in 2004. The intention of reviewing the 
Clause  49  is  not  to  add  on  to  another  code  of  compliance,  but  to  compare  the  various 
existing  best  practices  and  to  make  our  framework  more  effective.  All  the  proposals 
mentioned  in  Companies  Bill,  2012,  MCA  Voluntary  Guidelines,  2009  and  the  MCA  - 
Guiding principles of corporate governance have been perused and necessary reference 
has been made in the concept paper at relevant places, so that there is no variation with 
the  guiding  principles  prescribed  by  MCA  .  Pending  enactment  of  the  Companies  Bill, 
SEBI  may  prescribe  these  conditions  detailing  the  governance  conditions  of  the  listed 
companies,  which  are  mostly  in  line  with  the  principles  and  text  of  the  provisions  of 
Companies Bill, 2012. In case of variations, the clause 49 will be revisited on enactment of 
Companies Bill, 2012. 

9.4.  The  objective  of  the  concept  paper  is  to  entice  a  wider  debate  on  the  governance 
requirement for the listed companies so as to adopt better global practices. While it needs 
to be ensured that the proposals suggested would not result in increasing the additional 
cost of compliances by huge margin and that the cost should not outweigh the benefit of 
listing, at the same time, it is necessary to bring back the confidence of the investors back 
to the capital market, for channelizing savings into investment, which is the need of the 
hour.  

8 

 

9.5.  Though  some  of  these  proposals  are  already  provided  for  in  the  Companies  Bill, 
2012 and the Companies Bill is waiting parliamentary nod, it is proposed to advance 
the  implementation  of  these  proposals  to  listed  companies  to  make  them 
acclimatize to these provisions. 

9.6.  Considering  the  need  to  revise  existing  clause  49  on  enactment  of  the  Companies  Bill, 

2012, the changes needed in Clause 49 are placed at Annexure. 

9.7.  Following  additional  proposals  may  be  examined  to  improve  the  governance  level  of 

companies in India.  

10.    Overarching principles of Corporate Governance  
10.1. While  some  countries,  including  the  UK  and  many  Commonwealth  countries,  adopted 
what  became  known  as  a  ‘principles-based’  or  ‘comply  or  explain’  approach  to  the 
enforcement  of  the  provisions  of  corporate  governance  codes,  in  US,  provisions  of 
Sarbanes Oxley and other statutes follow a rule based approach. In India, clause 49 is a 
hybrid  approach,  as      those  requirements  which  can  be  enforced  are  classified  as 
mandatory  and  others,  which  are  desirable,  are  classified  as  non-mandatory.  The 
disclosures  of 
the  compliance  with  mandatory  requirements  and  adoption  (and 
compliance)  /  non-adoption  of  the  non-mandatory  requirements  shall  be  made  in  the 
section on corporate governance in the Annual Report. 

10.2. It  is  felt  that  rule  based  approach  alone  may  not  serve  the  purpose  of  improving  the 
Corporate  Governance  of  listed  companies.  A  hybrid  approach,  wherein  the  broad 
principles  are  laid  down  to  give  broad  direction  to  the  companies  on  Corporate 
Governance and what is expected of them followed by rules to mandate compliance with 
specific  aspects  of  Corporate  Governance  would  be  considered  as  the  most  effective 
mechanism for improving Corporate Governance in the Indian scenario. 

10.3. In  this  context,  it  may  be  noted  that  OECD  has  prescribed  Six  major  principles  of 
Corporate Governance which have already been discussed in Para 5. Further, as referred 
to in Para 8, a Committee constituted by MCA under the Chairmanship of Shri. Adi Godrej 
has  also  specified  seventeen  guiding  principles  of  Corporate  Governance.  Broadly,  the 
regulatory framework in India is almost in compliance with the said OECD Principles and 
the seventeen guiding principles, barring a few, which are also sought to be addressed in 
this concept paper.  

10.4. Accordingly, it is proposed to explicitly specify the principles of Corporate Governance in 
the  listing  agreement,  which  are  broadly  based  on  the  OECD  Principles  of  Corporate 
Governance and the guiding principles of Corporate Governance specified by Adi Godrej 
Committee: 

i. 

ii. 

The  company  should  seek  to  protect  and  facilitate  the  exercise  of  shareholders’ 
rights 
The company should ensure the equitable treatment of all shareholders 

9 

 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

viii. 

ix. 

x. 

xi. 

xii. 

xiii. 

xiv. 

xv. 

xvi. 

in  Corporate 

the  rights  of  stakeholders 

The  Company  should  frame  its  policies/procedures  to  facilitate  shareholders  to 
obtain effective redress for violation of their rights. 
The  company  should  recognise 
Governance and encourage co-operation between company and stakeholders. 
The company should ensure timely and accurate disclosure on all material matters 
including  the  financial  situation,  performance,  ownership,  and  governance  of  the 
company. 
The company should strive to bring in diversity of thought, experience, knowledge, 
understanding, perspective, gender and age in the Board. 
The  company  should  have  an  induction/on-boarding  program  which  should  also 
address  the  unique  legal  and  regulatory  compliance  issues  facing  the  company 
and its industry. 
The company should appoint an Independent Director as a Lead Director who shall 
chair  the  meetings  of  Independent  Directors  and  act  as  a  liaison  between 
Independent Directors and Management/Board/Shareholder. 
The  company  should  facilitate  and  encourage  direct  conversations  between  the 
independent  directors,  and  one-on-one  meetings  between  a  committee  of 
independent directors with the auditors. 
The company shall maintain minutes of the meetings which should explicitly record 
dissenting opinions, if any. 
The company should encourage continuing Board training and education to ensure 
that the Board members are kept up to date. 
The  Company  should  frame,  monitor  and  review  a  Board  Evaluation  framework 
and disclose the same to shareholders periodically. 
The  Company  should  formulate  and  implement  an  effective  whistleblower 
mechanism and disclose the same. 
The Board should provide the strategic guidance to the company, ensure effective 
monitoring of the management and should be accountable to the company and the 
shareholders. 
The  Board  should  set  a  corporate  culture  and  the  values  by  which  executives 
throughout a group will behave. 
The Board should have ability to ‘step back’ to assist executive management by 
challenging  the  assumptions  underlying:  strategy,  strategic  initiatives  (such  as 
acquisitions), risk appetite, exposures and the key areas of the company's focus; 

 

10 

xvii. 

xviii. 

xix. 

xx. 

xxi. 

xxii. 

xxiii. 

xxiv. 

xxv. 

xxvi. 

The Board should ensure that, while rightly encouraging positive thinking, these do 
not  result  in  over-optimism  that  either  leads  to  significant  risks  not  being 
recognised or exposes the company to excessive risk; 
The Board should satisfy and balance the interests of a wider set of stakeholders 
and should try to balance performance with compliance. 
The Board Chair, CEO and the rest of the board should work cohesively to identify 
as  to  what  is  the  right  mix  of  skills  that  is  required  for  selecting  the  senior 
management. 
Senior  Management  must  place  the  relevant  information  immediately/periodically 
before  the  board  and  shall  also  send  the  Board  Agendas  in  advance  so  as  to 
enable the Board to make well informed decision. 
The  Board  and  top  management  should  conduct  themselves  so  as  to  meet  the 
expectations  of  operational  transparency  to  stakeholders  while  at  the  same  time 
maintaining  confidentiality  of  information  in  order  to  foster  a  culture  for  good 
decision-making. 
Board  of  a  listed  company  should  ensure  that  plans  are  in  place  for  the  orderly 
succession for appointments to the board and senior management. 
The board should eliminate policies that promote excessive risk-taking for the sake 
of  short-term  increases  in  stock  price  performance  and  ensure  that  a  risk/crisis 
management plan is in place. 
All the directors of the  company (including independent directors) shall exercise 
their duties with due and reasonable care, skill and diligence; 
Incentives  to  the  top  management  should  be  based  on  remuneration  that  aligns 
with the long term interest of the company  
Executive directors and senior management should provide all the facilities for the 
independent directors  to perform the role in a better manner as a Board member 
and also a member of a committee; 

These principles will have overriding effect over the specific rules laid down in the listing 
agreement.  All listed companies would be required to follow the above principles in the 
governance of the company. 
 

11.    Proposals: 
11.1. Appointment of independent directors by minority shareholders 

There is a need to adopt a more professional, independent and transparent approach for 
appointing  independent  directors.  Presently,  the  appointment/removal  of  independent 
directors is done through election by majority. As such, they occupy their position at the 

11 

 

pleasure of the controlling shareholders and may therefore be prone to act in accordance 
with  the  will  of  the  major  shareholders.  This,  in  effect,  may  hinder  their  “independence” 
and  may  limit  their  efficacy,  which  would  defeat  the  purpose  of  appointment  of 
independent directors. 
Companies Bill, 2012 provides for the manner of selection of Independent Directors from a 
data  bank  maintained  by  anybody,  institute  or  association  notified  by  the  Central 
Government. As per the Companies Bill, an independent director may be selected from a 
databank containing names, addresses and qualifications of persons who are eligible and 
willing  to  act  as  independent  directors.  Responsibility  of  exercising  due  diligence  before 
selecting  a  person  from  the  data  bank  shall  lie  with  the  company      making  such 
appointment.  
Some jurisdictions, like Italy, have provisions for appointment of independent directors by 
minority shareholders. Similarly, in UK, FSA has proposed a dual voting structure whereby 
independent directors of premium listed companies with controlling shareholders must be 
approved  both  by  the  shareholders  as  a  whole  and  the  independent  shareholders. 
However,  viability  of  this  proposal  in  Indian  context  needs  to  be  examined.  The 
requirement  in  India  is  to  have  one-third  or  half  of  the  member  of  the  Board  as 
Independent Directors. In such cases, if all the independent directors are to be appointed 
by “majority of minority”, it may result in “abuse by minority” (a large corporate firm can 
easily  acquire  majority  holding  among  the  non-promoter  holders,  who  are  normally 
dispersed and may appoint “its person” to destabilize its rival board).   
Section 252 of the Companies Act, 1956 enables a public company having paid-up capital 
of five crore rupees or more or having one thousand or more small shareholders,  to elect 
a director elected by such small shareholders. “Small shareholders” has been defined as a 
shareholder holding shares of nominal value of not more than Rs. 20,000 or such other 
sum  as  may  be  prescribed.  Clause  151  of  the  Companies  Bill  has  similar  provision 
enabling a listed company to elect such small shareholders in such manner and with such 
terms  and  conditions  as  may  be  prescribed.  This  provision  may  be  workable  in  Indian 
context and it may be explored as to whether listed companies beyond a market cap need 
to be mandated to have at least one small shareholder director.  
 

11.2. Cumulative voting for appointment of Independent Director: 

There are suggestions that introduction of cumulative voting or proportionate voting, which 
is permitted in the Philippines and China, may provide alternatives to the director selection 
process and may foster stronger minority shareholder protection in India’s legal framework 
for corporate governance. Cumulative voting allows shareholders to cast all of their votes 
for a single nominee for the board of directors when the company has multiple openings 
on its board. In contrast, in regular voting, shareholders cannot give more than one vote 
per  share  to  any  single  nominee.  With  cumulative  voting,  one  could  choose  to  vote  all 
available  votes  for  one  candidate,  split  his  vote  between  two  candidates,  or  otherwise 
divide  his  votes  whichever  way  he  wanted.  However,  there  is  no  empirical  evidence  to 
12 

 

state that cumulative voting has resulted in improving the governance practices. Presently, 
Companies Act, 1956 enables election of directors through cumulative voting. As per the 
provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  the  articles  of  a  company  may  provide  for  the 
appointment  of  not  less  than  two-thirds  of  the  total  number  of  the  directors  of  a  public 
company, according to the principle of proportional representation, whether by the single 
transferable vote or by a system of cumulative voting or otherwise, the appointments being 
made once in every three years and interim casual vacancies being filled in accordance 
with the provisions. Hence, the said option is already provided in the Companies Act/bill 
and best left to the choice of the company. 
 

11.3. Formal letter of appointment:  

As  per  voluntary  Guidelines  issued  by  MCA,  Companies  should  issue  formal  letters  of 
appointment to Non- Executive Directors (NEDs) and Independent Directors - as is done 
by them while appointing employees and Executive Directors. The letter should specify: 
  The term of the appointment; 
  The expectation of the Board from the appointed director; the Board-level committee(s) 

in which the director is expected to serve and its tasks; 

  The  fiduciary  duties  that  come  with  such  an  appointment  along  with  accompanying 

liabilities; 

  Provision for Directors and Officers (D&O) insurance, if any,; 
  The Code of Business Ethics that the company expects its directors and employees to 

follow; 

  The  list  of  actions  that  a  director  should  not  do  while  functioning  as  such  in  the 

company; and 

  The remuneration, including sitting fees and stock options etc, if any. 
Such  formal  letter  should  form  part  of  the  disclosure  to  shareholders  at  the  time  of  the 
ratification of his/her appointment or re-appointment to the Board. This letter should also 
be  placed  by  the  company  on  its  website,  if  any,  and  in  case  the  company  is  a  listed 
company, also on the website of the stock exchange where the securities of the company 
are listed. 
The aforesaid provision is also inserted in the Companies Bill, 2012. It is proposed to align 
the requirements of clause 49 with aforesaid provision. 
 

11.4. Certification course and training for independent directors 

SEBI has established National Institute of Securities Markets (NISM), a public trust, to add to 
market quality through educational initiatives. School for Corporate Governance, NISM, jointly 
works with the Global Corporate Governance Forum of International Finance Corporation in 
conducting workshops on various aspects of corporate governance. Apart from that NISM is 
conducting  certified  course  for  various  market  participants.  A  separate  course  for 

13 

 

independent directors may be devised by NISM for independent directors covering their role, 
liabilities,  expectations  from  various  stake  holders,  internal  controls,  risk  management 
systems,  business  models  and  independent  directors  may  be  mandated  to  clear  such 
courses, before their appointment. Apart from conducting induction courses, NISM may also 
conduct training/ review courses for independent directors. 
As per the Guiding principles of Corporate Governance, the companies should ensure that 
directors are inducted through a suitable familiarization process covering, inter-alia, their 
roles, responsibilities and liabilities. Efforts should be made to ensure that every director 
has  the  ability  to  understand  basic  financial  statements  and  related  documents/papers. 
There should be a statement to this effect by the Board in the Annual Report. Besides this, 
the Board should also adopt suitable methods to enrich the skills of directors from time to 
time. 
As part of good governance it is important that the people heading the organisation are up 
to date with the latest trends in their field. In order to ensure that they are kept up to date, 
regular  training  session  can  be  conducted.  The  training  requirements  of  the  independent 
directors  inducted  by  the  listed  companies  would  vary  depending  upon  their  qualifications, 
background,  familiarity  with  business  models  followed  by  the  company,  its  size,  industry, 
organizational perspective etc.  
OECD recommends that efforts by private-sector institutes, organisations and associations 
to train directors should be encouraged. Such training should focus on both discharge of 
fiduciary  duties  and  value-enhancing  board  activities.  International  technical-assistance 
organizations should facilitate these efforts as appropriate. 
There is a non-mandatory provision in Clause 49 of the listing agreement, regarding training 
of  Board  members  stating  that  the  listed  company  may  train  its  Board  members  in  the 
business model as well as the risk profile of the business parameters of the company, their 
responsibilities as directors, and the best ways to discharge them.  
While  the  requirement  may  be  retained  as  non-mandatory,  it  is  proposed  to  require 
disclosure  of  the  methodology/details  of  training  imparted  to  Independent  Directors  in  the 
Boards’ Report. 
 

11.5. Treatment of nominee director as Non-Independent Director: 

Presently,  explanation  to  Clause  49  (I)  (A)  (iii)  provides  that  the  nominee  directors 
appointed by an institution which has invested in or lent to the company shall be deemed 
to be independent directors. However, it is clarified in the explanatory note that “institution” 
for the above purpose means only a public financial institution as defined in Section 4A of 
the Companies Act, 1956 or a “corresponding new bank” as defined in section 2(d) of the 
Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 or the Banking 
Companies  (Acquisition  and  Transfer  of  Undertakings)  Act,  1980.  Accordingly,  the 
exemption given to ‘nominee directors’ shall be applicable only to the nominee directors 

14 

 

appointed  by  the  above  institutions  and  other  nominee  directors  will  not  be  considered 
‘independent’ for the purpose of Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement. 
It  may  be  stated  that  the  requirement  of  Independent  director  has  been  incorporated  in 
Clause  49  of  the  Listing  Agreement  so  as  to  bring  in  an  independent  judgment  on  the 
deliberations of the board of the company, especially on issues of strategy, performance, 
management of conflicts and standards of conduct. Independent Directors are supposed 
to serve the interest of the other minority shareholders as well and to act in the paramount 
interest of the company as a whole. But this principle, may  be compromised if the director 
is appointed, under an agreement by a institution or body or by a lender, as precedence 
may  be  given  to  the  interest  of  the  nominating  body  over  the  paramount  interest  of  the 
company  and  the  expected  independence  of  judgment  of  the  nominee  director  may  be 
lost..  
With regard to nominee directors, even Narayana Murthy Committee Report, on the basis 
of  which  revised  clause  49  has  been  amended,  felt  that  institution  of  nominee  directors 
may  create  conflict  of 
the 
institutions/organisations they represent and generally, may take no responsibility for the 
company’s management or fiduciary responsibility to other shareholders. It is necessary 
that  all  directors,  whether  representing  institutions  or  otherwise,  should  have  the  same 
responsibilities and liabilities. 
The Companies Bill, 2012 defines Independent director as a non-executive director of the 
company, other than a nominee director. Further, the Bill defines “nominee director” as a 
director nominated by any financial institution in pursuance of the provisions of any law for 
the  time  being  in  force,  or  of  any  agreement,  or  appointed  by  any  Government,  or  any 
other person to represent its interests.  
Thus, it is proposed to exclude the nominee directors from the category of independent 
directors to align the provisions of Clause 49 with the bill.  
 

they  may  be  answerable  only 

interest  as 

to 

11.6. Mandate minimum and maximum age for Independent Directors 

There are no existing norms for independent directors in terms of age. While clause 49 of 
listing  agreement  fixes  the  minimum  age  for  the  ID  to  be  21  years,  the  Bill  does  not 
prescribes so.  
As per Schedule XIII of Companies Act, 1956, a managing director or whole time director 
should have completed the age of 25 years and should not have attained the age of 70 
years.  Where  he  has  not  completed  the  age  of  25  years,  but  has  attained  the  age  of 
majority or he has attained the age of 70 years, his appointment need to be approved by a 
special resolution passed by the company in general meeting. Otherwise, approval of the 
Central  Government 
resolution/Central 
Government  approval  is  expected  to  address  any  concern  in  this  regard.  A  similar 
provision is also incorporated in the Companies Bill. 

requirement  of  special 

required.  The 

is 

 

15 

It would be difficult to stipulate maximum age for an independent director since it would 
differ from company to company based on the line of activities it is engaged in. The Bill 
prescribes maximum age limit for key managerial personnel to retire at age of 70, however 
for IDs, no retiring age is stipulated. 
The  proposal  to  have  minimum  and  maximum  age  for  the  independent  director  may  be 
examined in light of the above.  
 

11.7. Mandating maximum tenure for independent director: 

Presently, as per clause 49, Independent Directors may have a tenure not exceeding, in 
the aggregate, a period of nine years, on the Board of a company. However, this is only a 
non-mandatory requirement. Over a period of time, an independent director may develop a 
friendly relationship with the company and the board and may develop a casual approach, 
which may affect his envisaged role.  
As  per  voluntary  guidelines  issued  by  MCA,  an  Individual  may  not  remain  as  an 
Independent Director in a company for more than six years. A period of three years should 
elapse  before  such  an  individual  is  inducted  in  the  same  company  in  any  capacity.  No 
individual may be allowed to have more than three terms as Independent Director. 
As  per  the  Companies  Bill,  Independent  Directors  shall  hold  office  for  a  term  up  to  5 
consecutive years on the Board of a company, but shall be eligible for re- appointment on 
passing of a special resolution by the company and disclosure of such appointment in the 
Board's  report.  He  shall  hold  office  for  not  more  than  two  consecutive  terms,  but  such 
independent director shall be eligible for appointment after the expiration of three years of 
ceasing to become an independent director; During the said period of three years, he shall 
not  be  appointed  in  or  be  associated  with  the  company  in  any  other  capacity,  either 
directly or indirectly. 
It is proposed to align the requirements with the provisions of Companies Bill. 
 

11.8. Requiring Independent directors to disclose reasons of their resignation:  

As per clause 49, an independent director who resigns or is removed from the Board of 
the Company shall be replaced by a new independent director within a period of not more 
than 180 days from the day of such resignation or removal, as the case may be. However, 
there is no provision to disclose the reason of their resignation.  
Often directors resign from the board, without quoting any reasons. Resignation of non-
executive  directors  might  be  due  to  their  disagreement  with  the  management  in  certain 
matters.  It  has  been  suggested  that  the  reason  for  the  resignation  of  the  independent 
director should be submitted to the Board of the company which in turn should circulate 
the same to the shareholders and inform the stock exchange in this regard.  

 

16 

It  may  be  noted  that  the  Combined  Code  on  Corporate  Governance,  UK  (June  2008) 
states that “On resignation, a non-executive director should provide a written statement to 
the chairman, for circulation to the board, if they have any concerns.” But the Combined 
Code is not mandated, as the “Comply or Explain” principle prevails in UK. However, on 
the flip side, the proposal to disclose reasons of resignation to the shareholders & stock 
exchanges  would  attract  speculative  media  coverage  and  affect  sentiments  of  the 
stakeholders.  Hence, non-executive directors may be required to submit the reasons for 
resignation  thereof  in  writing.  Letter  of  resignation  may  be  tabled  at  the  ensuing  Board 
meeting  and  reasons  thereof  read  out.  Details  of  deliberations  at  the  meeting  may  be 
recorded  in  the  minutes  and  appropriate  disclosures  may  be  made  in  the  Directors’ 
Report. 
As per Companies Bill, a director may resign from his office by giving a notice in writing to 
the company and the Board shall, on receipt of such notice take note of the same and the 
company shall intimate the Registrar and shall also place the fact of such resignation in 
the report of directors laid in the immediately following general meeting by the company. 
Director  shall  also  forward  a  copy  of  his  resignation  along  with  detailed  reasons  for  the 
resignation to the Registrar within thirty days of resignation. 
It is proposed to align the requirements with the provisions of Companies Bill. 
It may not avoid some directors quoting "personal reasons", however, atleast there would 
be requirement to ensure recording of such statement before the board. But anyone who 
uses the ‘personal reasons’ excuse may, if have other listed directorships, be required to 
explain in the same announcement why these ‘personal reasons’ do not make it necessary 
to resign from those positions, too. 
 

11.9. Clarity on liabilities and on remuneration of  independent directors: 

There is need to bring in risk-return parity to the post of “independent directors” to attract 
quality people into the Board. Presently, there is no clarity on the liability of independent 
directors. The remuneration paid to independent directors (only sitting fees in most cases) 
is found to be inadequate considering the risk and responsibility associated with the post. 
Though the Companies Bill states that an independent director shall not be entitled to any 
stock  option,  it  allows  payment  of  sitting  fees,  reimbursement  of  expenses  and  profit 
related commissions.  
Since most of the responsibilities for governance are placed on the independent directors, 
to attract competent persons to the board (to improve their participation in the Board and 
committee  meetings), 
for  some  minimum  monetary 
compensation.  On  one  hand  the  quantum  of  compensation  should  not  be  affect  their 
independence  and  at  the  same  time,  it  should  attract  competent  persons  to  occupy  the 
position in the board. Presently, as per clause 49 independent directors are entitled to get 
directors  remuneration  (may  be  a  commission  on  the  percentage  of  net  profit,  but  not 
monthly remuneration as it may affect their independence and role) apart from the sitting 

is  reasonable 

it 

to  provide 

 

17 

fees.  But,  it  is  important  to  have  a  balance  of  fixed  and  variable  pay  and  introduce  an 
objective process of board evaluation facilitated by external experts. 
As  per  clause  49  of  corporate  governance,  “All  fees/compensation,  if  any  paid  to  non-
executive  directors,  including  independent  directors,  shall  be  fixed  by  the  Board  of 
Directors  and  shall  require  previous  approval  of  shareholders  in  general  meeting.  The 
shareholders’ resolution shall specify the limits for the maximum number of stock options 
that  can  be  granted  to  non-executive  directors,  including  independent  directors,  in  any 
financial year and in aggregate”. 
As  per  the  proposed  Companies  Bill,  independent  directors  shall  not  be  entitled  to  any 
remuneration, other than sitting fees, reimbursement of expenses for participation in the 
Board  and  other  meetings  and  profit  related  commission  as  may  be  approved  by  the 
members.  It  is  proposed  to  align  the  requirements  of  Clause  49  with  the  provisions  of 
Companies Bill. 
The Companies Bill 2012 also makes independent director liable, only in respect of such 
acts  of  omission  or  commission  which  had  occurred  with  his  knowledge,  attributable 
through Board processes and with his consent or connivance or where he had not acted 
diligently. 
 

11.10.  Performance evaluation of independent director: 

Presently, Clause 49 requires that the performance evaluation of non-executive directors 
be done by a peer group comprising the entire Board of Directors, excluding the director 
being  evaluated;  and  Peer  Group  evaluation  could  be  the  mechanism  to  determine 
whether to extend / continue the terms of appointment of non-executive directors. But this 
is a non-mandatory requirement.  
The Companies Bill mentions that performance evaluation of independent directors shall 
be done by the entire Board of Directors, excluding the director being evaluated. On the 
basis of the report of performance evaluation, it shall be determined whether to extend or 
continue the term of appointment of the independent director. 
It is proposed to mandate the requirement of performance evaluation for Directors and to 
require  such  evaluation  report  of  the  independent  director  should  also  based  on  his 
attendance and contribution to the board/committee meetings and such appraisal shall be 
placed before the nomination committee for taking a decisions for reappointment.  
 

11.11.  Lead Independent Director 

The  OECD  Principles  of  Corporate  Governance  (Principle  VI  (E))  envisages  the  post  of 
lead-independent  director  to  chair  the  meetings  of  outside  directors.  The  UK  Corporate 
Governance Code provides for the post of Senior Independent Director whose name shall 
be  disclosed  in  the  Annual  Report.  The  code  also  provides  that  the  senior  independent 
director should be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through 
18 

 

the normal channels of chairman, chief executive or other executive directors has failed to 
resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate. The 17 guiding principles of Corporate 
governance also provides for a Lead Independent Director. These principles envisage the 
lead  director  as  an  independent  chief  among  all  board  members  who  assists  in  co-
ordinating  the  activities  and  decisions  of  the  other  non-executive  and/or  independent 
directors and chairs the meetings of Independent Directors. In case the company has an 
Independent Chairman, he shall act as the Lead Independent Director. On a flip side, such 
proposal  may  lead  to  creation  of  power  centre  among  independent  directors,  whereas 
independent directors are collectively expected to function in tandem in the interest of all 
the stakeholders.  To avoid the same, the post  may be rotated among the independent 
directors every three years. This proposal may be examined in light of the above. 
 

11.12.  Separate meetings of Independent Directors  

Meetings  of  independent  directors  in  the  absence  of  management/executive  directors 
provide  an  opportunity  for  the  Independent  Directors  to  express  their  views  freely  and 
without  hesitation  and  are  expected  to  improve  the  level  of  corporate  governance  to  a 
higher level. Pursuant to passing of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, the stock exchanges in US 
amended  their  listing  rules  to  provide  for  a  compulsory  meeting  of  Independent/Non-
management/outside directors separately in the absence of the executive directors. In 
the United States, NASDAQ Listing Rules (Rule 5605 (2)) requires independent directors 
to have regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present, at 
least  twice  a  year.  Rule  303.A.03  of  the  NYSE  Listing  Rules  also  contains  similar 
requirement.    UK  Corporate  Governance  Code  also  provides  for  meetings  of  the  non-
executive  directors  led  by  the  senior  independent  director  at  least  annually  to  appraise 
chairman’s  performance  and  on  such  other  occasions  as  are  deemed  appropriate.  The 
Companies Bill 2012 also provides for separate meetings of Independent Directors at least 
once  a  year.  In  these  meetings,  Independent  Directors  would  be  expected  to  examine 
internal  controls  and  general  governance  practices  prevailing  in  the  company  and  bring 
out  any  inefficiency  to  the  attention  of  shareholders  and  their  report  in  this  regard  may 
form part of the annual report. Further, such meetings may also review the performance of 
the  Chairman,  non-independent  directors  and  the  Board  as  a  whole.  It  is  proposed  to 
amend clause 49 to align it with the requirements of Bill. 
 

11.13.  Restriction on the number of independent directorships 

It  has  been  suggested  that  there  should  be  a  cap  on  the  number  of  independent 
directorships  a  person  can  serve,  so  that  he  can  have  necessary  time  to  analyse  the 
agendas of the committee meetings and the board meetings of the company in which he is 
acting as Independent director and to make effective contributions in this regard. 
Presently, though there is no restriction on the number of independent directorship. But it 
is  pertinent  to  note  that  Section  275  of  the  Companies  Act  restricts  the  number  of 

19 

 

directorship of a person to fifteen public companies whereas the Companies Bill proposes 
to restrict the number of directorships of a person to ten  public companies.  
Though the Companies Act puts a ceiling of 15 directorships of public companies, among 
public  companies,  listed  ones  demand  a  much  greater  degree  of  commitment  from  an 
Independent  Director,  including  attending  at  least  four  board  meetings  and  several 
meetings of one or more of the many committees during a year.  
As  per  the  Voluntary  Guidelines  issued  by  MCA,  the  maximum  number  of  public 
companies  in  which  an  individual  may  serve  as  an  Independent  Director  should  be 
restricted  to  seven.  It  needs  to  be  examined  as  to  whether  to  restrict  number  of 
independent directorships. 
 

11.14.  Separating the position of Chairman and that of the Managing Director / CEO 

There are suggestions that the position of Chairman and that of the Managing Director / 
CEO  should  be  segregated 
to  avoid  one  person  having  unfettered  powers  of 
management. It might be noted that requirement to segregate the role of Chairman and 
CEO is common among the most of the developed jurisdiction like US, UK France etc. 
As per Voluntary Guidelines issued by MCA, to prevent unfettered decision making power 
with  a  single  individual,  there  should  be  a  clear  demarcation  of  the  roles  and 
responsibilities  of  the  Chairman  of  the  Board  and  that  of  the  Managing  Director/Chief 
Executive  Officer  (CEO).  The  roles  and  offices  of  Chairman  and  CEO  should  be 
separated, as far as possible, to promote balance of power. 
As  per,  OECD  report  on  "Corporate  Governance  and  the  Financial  Crisis  -  Conclusions 
and emerging good practices to enhance implementation of the Principles", when the roles 
of CEO and the Chairman are not separated, it is important in larger, complex companies 
to explain the measures that have been taken to avoid conflicts of interest and to ensure 
the integrity of the chairman function. 
As per Companies Bill, 2012, an individual shall not be appointed or reappointed as the 
chairperson of the company, in pursuance of the articles of the company, as well as the 
managing director or Chief Executive Officer of the company at the same time unless,— 
(a) the articles of such a company provide otherwise; or 
(b) the company does not carry multiple businesses 
As per Clause 49, where the Chairman of the Board is a non-executive director, at least 
one-third  of  the  Board  should  comprise  of  independent  directors  and  in  case  he  is  an 
executive director, at least half of the Board should comprise of independent directors. 
It is proposed to align the requirements of clause 49 with the Bill. 
 

11.15.  Board diversity  

 

20 

Report  of  the  Committee  constituted  by  MCA  to  formulate  a  Policy  Document  on 
Corporate  Governance  mentions  the  necessity  of  having  more  diversified  board,  which 
contributes  to  better  performance,  since  in  such  cases  decisions  would  be  based  on 
evaluating more alternatives compared to homogenous boards. Diversity, in all its aspects, 
serves  an  important  purpose  for  board  effectiveness.  It  can  widen  perspectives  while 
making decisions, avoid similarity of attitude and help companies better understand and 
connect with their stakeholders. The handful number of woman directors in the board of 
Indian listed companies may explain the need for bringing gender diversity in the board.  
The Companies Bill, 2012 has taken some positive steps in this regard by providing the 
Central  Government  with  the  power  to  prescribe  rules  for  providing  minimal  women’s 
representation on corporate boards in certain classes of companies.  
Presently, Clause 49 states that the company may ensure that the person who is being 
appointed  as  an  independent  director  has  the  requisite  qualifications  and  experience 
which would be of use to the company and which, in the opinion of the company, would 
enable him/her to contribute effectively to the company in his capacity as an independent 
director.  Further,  it  may  be  examined  whether  to  make  the  nomination  committee 
responsible  for  ensuring  that  persons  from  divergent  background  and  gender  are 
nominated for maintaining board diversity.  
 

11.16.  Succession Planning 

Principle VI (D) (3) of the OECD Principles of Corporate Governance – ‘Responsibilities of 
the Board’, requires the Board to oversee succession planning. Globally, the standards on 
succession planning differ in various jurisdictions. In the United States, though succession 
planning is not mandated, shareholders can require companies to disclose and even put to 
vote the succession plan of the listed companies. The UK Corporate Governance Code 
recommends  that  ‘the  board  should  satisfy  itself  that  plans  are  in  place  for  the  orderly 
succession  for  appointments  to  the  board  and  to  senior  management.  The  Guiding 
Principles of Corporate Governance also lists Succession Planning as one of the guiding 
principles of corporate governance. The best way to ensure that a company does not 
suffer due to a sudden unplanned for gap in leadership is to develop an action plan for a 
successful  succession  transition.  Hence,  Board  of  a  listed  company  may  be  required  to 
ensure that plans are in place for the orderly succession for appointments to the board and 
senior management. Further, the viability of mandatory disclosure of Succession Planning 
to Board/Shareholders at periodic intervals may also be examined.  
 

11.17.  Risk Management 

Clause 49(IV)(C) of the Listing Agreement requires the company to lay down procedures 
to inform Board members about the risk assessment and minimization procedures and to 
review them periodically to ensure risk control. OECD Report on   "Corporate Governance 
and the Financial crisis - Conclusions and emerging good practices" mentions the need to 

21 

 

have an effective risk management as one of the four major findings of the crisis. The 17 
guiding  principles  of  Corporate  governance  enlists  Risk  Management  and  Crisis 
management as two of the corporate governance principles. The Companies Bill requires 
companies to disclose the development and implementation of risk management policy in 
the Board’s Report. Further, Clause 177 of the Bill enlists evaluation of risk management 
system  as  one  of  the  functions  of  the  Audit  Committee.  In  this  regard,  it  may  be 
deliberated  on  whether  the  risk  management  be  made  the  ultimate  responsibility  of  the 
Board or the responsibility can be delegated to the Risk Management Committee or to the 
Audit  Committee.  The  feasibility  of  appointment  of  Chief  Risk  Officer/Risk  Manager  for 
large listed companies may also require consideration. Further, it has to be examined as 
to  whether  more  specific  parameters/requirements  such  as  framing  a  risk  management 
plan,  its  compulsory  monitoring  and  reviewing  by  a  Board/Board  Committee  and  the 
disclosure thereof to the shareholders at periodic intervals (preferably on annual basis) be 
laid down in the Listing Agreement. 
 

11.18.  Reporting of the internal auditor 

Audit Committee has been assigned a significant role in the Companies Act, 1956 and in 
the  listing  agreement.  Audit  Committee  is  expected  to  oversee  the  company’s  financial 
reporting  process,  review  periodical  and  annual  financial  statements  (including  Related 
Party transactions) and adequacy of the internal control systems and to review the findings 
by the internal auditors and also the oversight of the company’s risk management policies 
and programs. 
Appropriate reporting relationships are absolutely critical if internal auditing is to achieve 
the independence, objectivity, and organizational stature necessary to fulfil its obligations 
and mandate to effectively assess internal controls, risk management, and governance. To 
achieve necessary independence, best practices suggest that the internal auditor should 
report  directly  to  the  audit  committee  or  its  equivalent.  For  day  to  day  administrative 
purposes,  the  internal  auditor  should  co-ordinate  with  the  senior  most  executives  (i.e. 
CEO/CFO) of the organization. This suggestion needs to be deliberated upon. 
 

11.19.  Mandatory rotation of audit partners 

The quality of financials reported by companies and the true and fair view of the financial 
statements  submitted  by  listed  entities  to  the  stock  exchanges  have,  of  late,  come  into 
sharp  focus,  after  the  Satyam  episode.  SEBI  has  recently  taken  various  steps  in  this 
regard to repose the faith in the audit done by listed companies  

  by mandating compliance with accounting standards,  
  by doing peer review audit of Sensex and Nifty Companies,  
  by mandating the appointment of peer reviewed auditor for listed companies and 

companies proposing to list,  

22 

 

  by constituting a Forensic Accounting Cell,  
  by mandating re-statement of accounts, by taking action against auditors etc.   

In this context, it was felt relevant to discuss the need for independence of the statutory 
auditors with respect to the listed entity.    A longer association between a particular audit 
firm and a listed entity may lead to developing friendly relationship between the two and 
defeat  the  true  sense  of  independence  of  the  auditors.  Mandatory  rotation  of  statutory 
auditors  could  break  such  a  continued  long-term  association  of  an  audit  firm  with  the 
management of the listed entity.   
Auditors  may  become  stale  and  view  the  audit  as  a  simple  repetition  of  earlier 
engagements.  Mandatory rotation may increase the possibility that the new auditors may 
detect any oversight, thereby adding to the pressure for the auditor to take a tough stand 
on any contentious issues. Companies Bill 2012 requires rotation of auditors and states 
that no listed company shall appoint or re-appoint— (a) an individual as auditor for more 
than one term of five consecutive years; and (b) an audit firm as auditor for more than two 
terms  of  five  consecutive  years.  It  further  states  that  an  individual  auditor  who  has 
completed  his  term  shall  not  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  as  auditor  in  the  same 
company  for  five  years  from  the  completion  of  his  term.  It  is  proposed  to  align  the 
requirement of listing agreement with the Bill. 
 

11.20.  Making Whistle Blower Mechanism a compulsory requirement: 

Presently,  as  per  clause  49,  the  listed  company  may  establish  a  mechanism  for 
employees to report to the management, their concerns about unethical behaviour, actual 
or  suspected  fraud  or  violation  of  the  company’s  code  of  conduct  or  ethics  policy.  This 
mechanism could also provide for adequate safeguards against victimization of employees 
who  avail  of  the  mechanism  and  also  provide  for  direct  access  to  the  Chairman  of  the 
Audit committee in exceptional cases. Once established, the existence of the mechanism 
may be appropriately communicated within the organization.  
However, this requirement is a non-mandatory requirement.  
It may be noted that MCA Voluntary Guidelines also has a similar requirement.  
“The  companies  should  ensure  the  institution  of  a  mechanism  for  employees  to  report 
concerns  about  unethical  behaviour,  actual  or  suspected  fraud,  or  violation  of  the 
company's  code  of  conduct  or  ethics  policy.  The  companies  should  also  provide  for 
adequate safeguards against victimization of employees who avail of the mechanism, and 
also allow direct access to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee in exceptional cases.” 
Further, the guiding principles of corporate governance enlisted by MCA stresses the need 
to  have  well  laid  out  Whistle-Blower  Policy  mechanism.  The  need  for  an  effective 
legislation  is  essential  in  India  with  the  growing  number  of  scams  related  to  corrupt 
practices  in  corporate  India.  There  are  global  legislations  in  place,  which  protect 
whistleblowers such as The Public Interest Disclosure Act, 1998, in the UK (which protects 
23 

 

whistle  blowers  from  victimization  and  dismissal)  and  the  Sarbanes  Oxley  Act,  2002 
(which provides for the protection of whistle blowers and is applicable even to employees 
in public listed companies).  
The Companies Bill 2012 has mentioned the concept in respect of higher accountability 
standards to be maintained by companies. Further, Clause 177 (9) of the Bill requires that 
every listed company or such class or classes of companies, as may be prescribed, shall 
establish  a  vigil  mechanism  for  directors  and  employees  to  report  genuine  concerns  in 
such  manner  as  may  be  prescribed.  The  vigil  mechanism  shall  provide  for  adequate 
safeguards against victimization of persons who use such mechanism and make provision 
for direct access to the chairperson of the Audit Committee in appropriate or exceptional 
cases.  
Within  the  legal  framework  specified  above,  companies  should  look  to  formulate  and 
implement  their  own  whistleblower  policies.  Several  large  organisations  have  already 
implemented the same. A committee set up to look into the alerts raised by whistleblowers 
should investigate such disclosures. A non-executive director could act as an ombudsman 
and take charge of such an investigation. The whistle blower policy of the company should 
be under the ambit of the Audit Committee. The identity of the whistleblower and any other 
employee investigating the matter should be protected. If the disclosures are found to be 
true,  suitable  action  should  be  taken  and  efforts  should  be  made  to  protect  the 
whistleblower. The action that it takes should be adequate and should act as a deterrent 
against  such  offences  in  the  future.  The  policy  should  be  such  that  it  encourages  such 
disclosures to be made but ensures that frivolous accusations do not become a means to 
harass senior management.  
It is propose to align the requirements of clause 49 with the provisions of the Companies 
Bill. 
 

11.21.  Making the Remuneration committee a mandatory one and expanding its scope: 

Constitution of a Remuneration Committee is a non-mandatory requirement under Clause 
49.  Further,  the  clause  states  that  to  avoid  conflicts  of  interest,  the  remuneration 
committee, which would determine the remuneration packages of the executive directors 
may comprise of at least three directors, all of whom should be non-executive directors, the 
Chairman of committee being an independent director.  
It may be noted that certain well-developed jurisdictions, including US and UK, have the 
concept  of  “Nomination  committee”  which  consist  of  Independent  directors,  the  role  of 
which,  inter-alia  includes,  suggesting  to  the  Board  the  name  of  the  qualified  persons  for 
appointment as independent directors. The suggestion of the nomination committee can be 
carried forward to the General meeting and this will ensure that there is an objective criteria 
for  appointing  the  Independent  directors  and  help  in  reducing  the  influence  of  the 
Promoters/major  stakeholders  in  appointing  the  independent  directors.  Further,  this 
committee may also review the remuneration packages to the executive directors and Key 

24 

 

Managerial  Persons  regularly.  The  committee  shall  disclose  the  remuneration  policies  in 
the Board’s report. 
As per Companies Bill, 2012, Board of Directors of every listed company shall constitute 
the  Nomination  and  Remuneration  Committee  consisting  of  three  or  more  non-executive 
directors  out  of  which  not  less  than  one  half  shall  be  independent  directors.  Such 
committee shall identify persons who are qualified to become directors and who may be 
appointed in senior management in accordance with the criteria laid down and recommend 
to  the  Board  their  appointment  and  removal  and  shall  carry  out  evaluation  of  every 
director’s  performance.  Such  committee  shall  also  formulate  the  criteria  for  determining 
qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a director and recommend to the Board 
a policy,  relating to the remuneration for the directors, key managerial personnel and  other 
employees. It shall ensure  that  the  level  and  composition  of  remuneration  is  reasonable 
and  sufficient  to attract,  retain  and  motivate  directors  of  the  quality  required  to  run  the 
company  successful,  relationship  of  remuneration  to  performance  is  clear  and  meets 
appropriate  performance  benchmarks;  and  remuneration  to  directors,  key  managerial 
personnel and senior management  involves  a  balance  between  fixed  and  incentive  pay 
reflecting  short  and  long  term  performance  objectives  appropriate  to  the  working  of  the 
company and its goals:  
It is proposed to align the requirement of clause 49 with the provisions of Companies Bill. 
 

11.22.  Enhanced disclosure of remuneration policies: 

It  may  be  noted  that,  on  average,  the  remuneration  paid  to  CEOs  in  certain  Indian 
Companies are far higher than the remuneration received by their foreign counterparts and 
there is no justification available to that effect.  Presently, Companies Act, 1956 specifies 
the  limit  on  managerial  remuneration  and  provides  for  central  government  approval 
(approval  for  the  remuneration  beyond  the  specified  limit).  Similar  requirements  are  also 
incorporated in the Companies Bill.  
In this regard, it may also be noted that the Companies Bill requires the listed companies to 
constitute  “Nomination  and  Remuneration  Committee”,  which  shall  recommend  to  the 
Board  a  remuneration  policy  for  the  directors,  key  managerial  personnel  and  other 
employees.  While  formulating  the  policy,  it  should  inter-alia  ensure  that  it  involves  a 
balance  between  fixed  and  incentive  pay  reflecting  short  and  long  term  performance 
objectives  appropriate  to  the  working  of  the  company  and  its  goals. Further,    as  per  the 
Companies Bill,  listed companies need to disclose in the Board’s report, the ratio of the 
remuneration  of  each  director  to  the  median  employee’s  remuneration  and  such  other 
details  as  may  be  prescribed.  The  above  provisions  may  be  incorporated  in  the  Listing 
Agreement. 
 

11.23.  Stakeholders Relationship Committee: 

25 

 

requires  constitution  of 

‘Shareholders/Investors  Grievance 
Presently,  Clause  49 
Committee’, under the chairmanship of a non-executive director for specifically looking into 
the redressal of investors' complaints like transfer of shares, non-receipt of balance sheet, 
non-receipt of declared dividends etc.  
Clause  178  of  the  Companies  Bill,  2012  mandates  constitution  of  a  Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee which shall be chaired by a non-executive director for companies 
which consists of more than 1000 shareholders, debenture-holders,   deposit-holders and 
any  other  security  holders  at  any  time  during  a  financial  year.  This  committee  shall 
consider and resolve the grievances of security holders of the company. 
It is proposed to amend the listing agreement, so as to make it in line with the provisions of 
Companies Bill by expanding the scope of Shareholders/Investors Grievance Committee. 
 

11.24.  Mandating e-voting for all resolutions of a listed company:  

To  ensure  good  governance,  Section  192A  was  inserted  in  the  Companies  Act,  1956 
through  Companies  (Amendment)  Act,  2000.  The  said  section,  read  with  Companies 
(Passing  of  the  resolution  by  postal  ballot)  Rules,  2011,  requires  listed  companies  to 
conduct certain businesses only by way of postal ballot, instead of transacting it in general 
meeting  of  the  company.  Further,  it  encourages  the  companies  to  transact  any  other 
business  through  postal  ballot.  Companies  (Passing  of  the  Resolution  by  Postal  Ballot) 
Rules,  2011  specifies  nine  businesses  which  should  be  transacted  only  through  postal 
ballot.  In  addition,  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 
2009,  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011  and 
SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity  Shares)  Regulations,  2009  requires  listed  companies  to  pass 
certain additional businesses through postal ballot. However, experience shows that the 
postal  ballot  forms  returned  are  negligible.  It  may  be  because  of  the  fact  that  in  some 
cases,  the  ballot  forms  do  not  reach  the  shareholders  on  time.  Further,  Section  192A 
mentions that “postal ballot” also includes voting by electronic mode.  
Considering  the  same  and  pursuant  to  the  budget  proposal  for  2012  for  providing 
opportunities for wider shareholder participation in important decisions of the companies 
through electronic voting facilities, SEBI has issued circular dated July 13, 2012 mandating 
the  listed  companies  to  provide  e-voting  facility  also  to  their  shareholders,  in  respect  of 
those businesses which are transacted through postal ballot by the listed companies.  To 
begin  with,  this  requirement  was  made  applicable  to  top  500  listed  entities.  Though 
Companies Act, 1956 requires businesses relating to consideration of the annual report, 
declaration  of  a  dividend,  appointment  of  directors  in  the  place  of  those  retiring,  and 
appointment and the fixing of remuneration of the auditors to be passed at Annual General 
Meeting, nothing prevents the companies from offering postal ballot /e-voting facilities to 
their  shareholders.  Further,  the  Companies  Bill  also  specifically  recognises  voting  by 
electronic means.  Hence, the proposal to require listed companies to provide postal ballot 
/e-voting  facilities  for  all  the  resolutions  to  be  passed  at  general  meetings  may  be 
explored, so as to enable wider participation of shareholders in the corporate democracy.  
26 

 

11.25.  Abusive RPTs: 

Abusive  RPTs  are  real  concerns  as  they  can  be  used  for  personal  aggrandisement  of 
controlling  shareholders,  especially  in  Asian  jurisdictions,  which  are  characterised  by 
concentrated  shareholdings.  This  would  dent  the  confidence  of  the  investors  and 
jeopardise the process of channelizing savings into capital market/investment. There are 
two modes for regulating RPTs - approval based controls which require approval by Board 
of  Directors/  Shareholders  and  disclosure  based  controls  required  under  AS-18.  Focus 
should  not  be  on  making  approval  norms  stringent  but  on  making  disclosure  norms 
effective 

Some of the proposals to curb such abusive RPTs are as follows: 
a)  Requiring approval by shareholders for divestment of major subsidiaries: 

taking 

to  controlling  shareholders,  without 

Divestment  of  major  subsidiaries  does  not  require  shareholder’s  approval  as  per  the 
existing  law.  There  have  been  instances  where  ownership  of  major  subsidiaries  was 
transferred 
the  approval  of  other 
shareholders.  
Section 292 of the Companies Act, 1956 mentions that the powers for investing funds of 
the  company  have  to  be  exercised  by  the  board  only  in  its  meeting  by  means  of 
resolutions passed at meeting (i.e. it cannot be passed through circulation). Section 293 
(1) (a) of the Companies Act, 1956 requires shareholder’s approval for selling off whole 
or  substantial  part  of  an  undertaking.  However,  there  is  no  specific  requirement 
regarding  selling  up  of  the  shares  in  subsidiary  (i.e.  divesting)  in  the  Companies  Act. 
This  has  led  to  abuse  by  controlling  shareholders  by  divesting  the  major  subsidiaries 
without proper valuation to the companies indirectly owned by them. 
This lacuna is left uncorrected in the Companies Bill. As SEBI have powers under SEBI 
Act,  1992  to  prescribe  listing  conditions,  which  may  be  in  addition  to  but  not  in 
derogation of the provisions of the Companies Act, we may require the listed companies 
to obtain shareholder’s approval, in case of divestment of shares in subsidiaries through 
inserting a provision in listing agreement. 

b)  Immediate and continuous disclosures of material RPTs: 

Presently,  RPTs  are  disclosed  to  Stock  Exchanges  only  annually.  This  limits  the 
effectiveness of the disclosure as the information reaches the investors much after the 
transactions were carried out.  
Many of the jurisdictions such as Singapore, Italy and Israel have provisions mandating 
immediate  disclosure  of  the  material  RPTs.  This  would  help  in  better  scrutiny  of  the 
transactions  by  investors,  public,  regulators  and  the  media  thereby  limiting  scope  for 
abusive  RPTs.  This  requirement  can  be  mandated  by  amending  the  reporting 
requirements  specified  under  the  Listing  Agreement.  Suitable  threshold  limits  for  the 
reporting requirements need to be analyzed. 

c) Prohibiting/regulating grant of affirmative rights to certain investors: 

27 

 

Whenever a company seeks funds from a private equity investor or a financial institution, 
it  will  enter  into  shareholders/share  subscription  or  investment  agreement.  In  these 
agreements, it is normal to find clauses pertaining to "drag along rights" and "tag-along 
rights". Apart from these rights, sometimes these agreements do grant certain superior 
rights  to  these  investors    like  access  rights  information  (right  to  receive  selective 
information), right to appoint their nominee directors in the board, requirements that the 
presence  of  their  nominee  is  necessary  to  constitute  a  quorum  etc.  These  rights  are 
subsequently  incorporated  into  the  articles  of  the  company  by  amending  the  articles. 
Further, in the case of Messer Holdings Limited, Bombay High Court on September 1, 
2010,  has  held  that  such  consensual  agreements  between  shareholders  are  legally 
valid. 
Though these rights are intended to protect the institutions investing their funds in these 
companies, since these rights are not available to all the other shareholders, especially 
minority  shareholders,  it  is  debatable  as  to  whether  these  superior  rights  may  lead  to 
oppression  of  minority.  Apart  from  that,  there  are  also  concerns  regarding  selective 
sharing  of  price  sensitive  information  to  these  investors.    Though,  these  may  be 
oppressive to  minority shareholders, it appears that presently there are no restrictions 
for a listed company to  enter into such an agreement, as such an amendment to articles 
may not, presently, be in violation of clauses of listing agreement or SEBI Regulations. 
The remedy can be obtained by minority holders through a petition made under Section 
397/398 to the Company Law Board (against oppression and mis-management).  
In  this  regard,  it  has  to  be  examined  whether  listed  company  should  be  permitted  to 
enter into such an agreement granting superior affirmative rights to selective investors 

d)  Approval of major RPTs by ‘Majority of the minority’ 

Many of the abusive RPTs are undertaken between company groups controlled by the 
controlling shareholders. As such, providing for shareholders approval of RPTs may not 
serve the intended purpose as the controlling shareholders intended to do an abusive 
RPT  would  have  sufficient  majority  to  obtain  the  shareholder  approval  easily.  Hence, 
there  is  a  requirement  for  mandating  approval  of  such  major  RPTs  by  majority  of  the 
minority or disinterested shareholders. Such a requirement is in practice in some of the 
developed jurisdictions.  
As  suggested  by  SEBI,  Clause-188  of  the  Companies  Bill,  2012  contains  a  similar 
provision  prohibiting  interested  shareholders  from  voting  in  Related  Party  Transaction 
approvals. Provisions of listing agreement need to be aligned with the Bill 

e)  Pre-approval  of  RPTs  by  Audit  Committee  and  encouraging  them  to  refer  major 

RPTs for third party valuation. 
Presently, the audit committee reviews RPTs on a periodic basis after such transactions 
have  taken  place.  Such  reviews  are  of  limited  use  as  the  transaction  could  not  be 
undone even if the Audit Committee expresses negative opinion on the transactions. 

28 

 

This handicap can be removed if the requirement of pre-approval by audit committee of 
major RPTs and major restructuring proposals could be mandated. 
The  Companies  Bill,  inter-alia,  requires  the  Audit  Committee  to  approve  or  modify 
transactions  with  related  parties,  scrutinize  inter-corporate  loans  and  investments  and 
value  undertakings  or  assets  of  the  company,  wherever  it  is  necessary.  Further, 
Companies Bill gives Audit Committee the authority to investigate into any matter falling 
under its domain and the power to obtain professional advice from external sources and 
have full access to information contained in the records of the company. It is proposed to 
align the requirements of listing agreement with the Bill.  

f)  Approval of Managerial Remuneration by disinterested shareholders 

The  remuneration  paid  to  CEOs  in  certain  Indian  Companies  is  far  higher  than  the 
remuneration received by their foreign counterparts and there is no justification given to 
that  effect.  Presently,  Companies  Act,  1956  specifies  the  limit  on  managerial 
remuneration and provides for central government approval for the remuneration beyond 
the specified limit. Similar requirements are also incorporated in the Companies Bill..  
It  is  observed  that  most  of  the  Indian  companies  are  managed  by  promoters  and  this 
brings in the concern of excessive managerial remuneration to executives forming part 
of  promoter/promoter  group,  which  partakes  the  nature  of  an  abusive  related  party 
transaction. 
Clause  188  of  the  Companies  Bill,  2012  contains  a  provision  prohibiting  interested 
shareholders from voting in Related Party Transaction approvals. In line with the above, 
it is proposed to consider mandating approval of disinterested/minority shareholders for 
managerial remuneration beyond a particular limit. 

g)  Expanding the scope of Related Party Transactions 

Presently, related party transactions, as defined in AS-18 is considered for the purpose 
of  Listing  Agreement.  The  converged  Accounting  Standard 
Ind  AS-24  which 
corresponds to IAS-24 and deals with RPTs contains a wider definition of related parties 
as well as Key Managerial Persons. Existing AS 18 covered key Managerial Personnel 
(KMPs) of the entity only, whereas, Ind AS 24 covers KMPs of the parent as well. There 
is extended coverage in case of joint ventures in Ind AS 24 whereas as per existing AS 
18,  co-ventures  or  co-associates  are  not  related  to  each  other.  Ind  AS  24  requires 
extended disclosures for compensation of KMPs under different categories, whereas the 
existing AS 18 does not contain a specific provision in this regard. Further, Ind AS 24 
requires disclosure of “the amount of the transactions” whereas existing AS 18 gives an 
option  to  disclose  the  “Volume  of  the  transactions  either  as  an  amount  or  as  an 
appropriate proportion.  
Considering the wider coverage and more specificity of disclosure provided in Ind-AS 24, 
it is proposed to consider adoption of the definition and requirements in Ind-AS 24 for the 
purpose of requirements of the listing agreement.  

29 

 

 

11.26.  Fiduciary responsibility of controlling shareholders 

Controlling  shareholders,  better  known  as  promoters  in  India,  who  controls  the 
management of the company, owe a fiduciary responsibility to the minority shareholders 
and  the  company  as  a  whole.  There  have  been  instances  where  the  controlling 
shareholders  have  used  the  company  to  steer  their  personal  interests  sacrificing  the 
overall interest of the company, mostly through abusive RPTs.  
Current  laws/regulations  do  not  explicitly  lays  down  fiduciary  responsibilities  of  the 
controlling shareholders. 
In UK, FSA has proposed to reinstate the express provision that a listed company must be 
capable  of  acting  independently  of  a  controlling  shareholder  and  its  associates. 
Accordingly,  it  has  proposed  definitions  for  controlling  shareholders,  independent 
shareholders, etc. Further, proposal has also been made to mandate the listed company 
to enter into a relationship agreement, where it has a controlling shareholder, and that this 
agreement must comply with content requirements set out by FSA which may, inter-alia, 
include the following: 

 transactions  and  relationships  with  a  controlling  shareholder  are  conducted  at  arm’s 

length and on normal commercial terms; 

 a controlling shareholder must abstain from doing anything that would have the effect 
of  preventing  a  listed  company  from  complying  with  its  obligations  under  the  Listing 
Rules; 

 a controlling shareholder must not influence the day to day running of the company at 
an  operational  level  or  hold  or  acquire  a  material  shareholding  in  one  or  more 
significant subsidiaries; 

 the relationship agreement must remain in effect for so long as the shares are listed 

and the listed company has a controlling shareholder, etc. 

The  requirement  for  a  relationship  agreement  will  apply  to  a  listed  company  on  a 
continuous basis. It is also proposed to subject all material amendments to the relationship 
agreement to a shareholder vote that excludes a controlling shareholder in order to allow 
independent  shareholders  to  have  a  say  in  how  the  relationship  between  the  listed 
company and a controlling shareholder is managed and how it develops going forward. In 
determining what constitutes a material change, the listed company should have regard to 
the cumulative effect of all changes since the shareholders last had the opportunity to vote 
on the relationship agreement or, if they have never voted, since listing. 
In  line  with  the  above,  it  is  proposed  to  lay  down  specific  fiduciary  responsibilities  of 
controlling  shareholders  and  also  consider  the  feasibility  of  mandating  relationship 
agreement  between  the  company  and  the  controlling  shareholder  specifying  the  duties 
and responsibilities of controlling shareholders. 

30 

 

 

11.27.  Strengthening Private Sector Enforcement 

Enforcement  of  Corporate  Governance  can  be  through  intervention  of  public  sector 
agencies such as government, regulators and government controlled stock exchanges or 
through private sector intervention through class action suits etc. The key actors of private 
enforcement  may  include  individual  shareholders  and  stakeholders,  self-regulatory 
organisations  and  institutions  to  which  supervision  and  regulation  is  delegated,  private-
sector  stock  exchanges,  associations  of  industries,  shareholder  associations,  etc.  The 
OECD  Thematic  Review  on  Supervision  and  Enforcement  has  observed  that  private 
supervision and enforcement can complement public supervision and enforcement, but in 
most countries are seldom used. 
In  this  regard,  the  following  steps,  which  are  expected  to  strengthen  the  private  sector 
enforcement, may be considered: 

  Recognising and encouraging proxy advisory firms 
 

Improving  financial  and  other  support  to  investor  associations/groups  for  group 
action 

  Delegating more enforcement powers to stock exchanges 
 

Improving Investor education and awareness and the grievance redressal machinery 

11.28.  Improving 

investor  education  and  awareness  for  better  participation  and    

deliberations at General Meetings 

Investor education has been hailed as the key for improving governance standards and 
preventing abusive RPTs. This would not only improve the level of participation in general 
meetings  but  also  in  improving  the  quality  of  deliberations  happening  at  the  General 
Meetings.  
SEBI  has  been  the  front  runner  in  conducting  investor  education  and  awareness 
programmes.  

11.29.  Provision for regulatory support to class action suits 

Presently, Regulation 5 (2) of SEBI (Investor Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 
2009 mentions that Investor Protection and Education Fund created by SEBI may, inter-
alia,  be  used  for  aiding  investors’  associations  recognized  by  SEBI  to  undertake  legal 
proceedings  (not  exceeding  seventy  five  per  cent.  of  the  total  expenditure  on  legal 
proceedings) in the interest of investors in securities.  
Though  there  are  provisions  for  oppression  and  mismanagement,  there  is  no  express 
recognition  of  class  action  suits  in  Companies  Act,  1956.  However,  Clause  245  of  the 
Companies Bill, 2012 expressly provides for class action suits and Clause 125 provides for 
re-imbursement of expenses incurred in class action suits from the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund of MCA.  
This provision in the proposed Companies Bill, if enacted, would address the issue. 

31 

 

 

11.30.  Role of Institutional Investors 

Corporate governance codes and guidelines have long recognised the important role that 
institutional  investors  have  to  play  in  corporate  governance.    The  effectiveness  and 
credibility of the entire corporate governance system and the company oversight to a large 
extent depends on the institutional investors who are expected to make informed use of 
their shareholders’ rights and effectively exercise their ownership functions in companies 
in  which  they  invest.  Increased  monitoring  of  Indian  listed  corporations  by  institutional 
investors  will  drive  the  former  to  enhance  their  corporate  governance  practices,  and 
ultimately their ability to generate better financial results and growth for their investors. At 
present,  there  are  four  main  issues  with  role  of  institutional  investor  and  corporate 
governance: 

 

 

Issues relating to disclosure by institutional investors of their corporate governance 
and voting policies and voting records 
Issues relating to the disclosure of material conflicts of interests which may affect the 
exercise of key ownership rights 

  Focus on increasing the size of assets under management rather than on improving 

the performance of portfolio companies. 
Institutional investors are becoming increasingly short-term investors. 

 
Several  countries  mandate  their  institutional  investors  acting  in  a  fiduciary  capacity  to 
disclose their corporate governance policies to the market in considerable details. Such 
disclosure  requirements  include  an  explanation  of  the  circumstances  in  which  the 
institution will intervene in a portfolio company; how they will intervene; and how they will 
assess the effectiveness of the strategy. In most OECD countries, Collective Investment 
Schemes (CIS) are either required to disclose their actual voting record, or it is regarded 
as good practice and implemented on an “comply or explain” basis. 
In addition, Principle 1G of the OECD Principles calls for institutional investors acting in 
a  fiduciary  capacity  to  disclose  their  overall  corporate  governance  and  voting  policies 
with  respect  to  their  investments,  including  the  procedures  that  they  have  in  place  for 
deciding on the use of their voting rights. 
SEBI has recently required listed companies to disclose the voting patterns to the stock 
exchanges and Asset Management Companies of Mutual Funds to disclose their voting 
policies  and  their  exercise  of  voting  rights  on  their  web-sites  and  in  Annual  Reports. 
Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs'  (MCA)  initiative  on  E-voting  will  also  enable  scattered 
minority shareholders to exercise voting rights in General Meetings.  
a)  Institutional investors should have a clear policy on voting and disclosure of 

voting activity 

 

32 

Institutional  investors  should  seek  to  vote  on  all  shares  held.  They  should  not 
automatically  support  the  board.    If  they  have  been  unable  to  reach  a  satisfactory 
outcome  through  active  dialogue  then  they  should  register  an  abstention  or  vote 
against the resolution. In both instances, it is good practice to inform the company in 
advance  of  their  intention  and  the  reasons  thereof.  Institutional  investors  should 
disclose publicly voting records and if they do not, the reasons thereof.  

b)  Institutional investors to have a robust policy on managing conflicts of interest 
An  institutional  investor's  duty  is  to  act  in  the  interests  of  all  clients  and/or 
beneficiaries when considering matters such as engagement and voting.  Conflicts of 
interest  will  inevitably  arise  from  time  to  time,  which  may  include  when  voting  on 
matters affecting a parent company or client. Institutional investors should formulate 
and regularly review a policy for managing conflicts of interest.  
c)  Institutional investors to monitor their investee companies 

Investee companies should be monitored to determine when it is necessary to enter 
into an active dialogue with their boards. This monitoring should be regular and the 
process  should  be  clearly  communicable  and  checked  periodically 
its 
effectiveness.  
As part of these monitoring, institutional investors should:  
  Seek to satisfy themselves, to the extent possible, that the investee company's 
board  and  committee  structures  are  effective,  and  that  independent  directors 
provide  adequate  oversight,  including  by  meeting  the  chairman  and,  where 
appropriate, other board members;  

for 

  Maintain  a  clear  audit  trail,  for  example,  records  of  private  meetings  held  with 
companies,  of  votes  cast,  and  of  reasons  for  voting  against  the  investee 
company's  management,  for  abstaining,  or  for  voting  with  management  in  a 
contentious situation; and  

  Attend the General Meetings of companies in which they have a major holding, 

where appropriate and practicable.  

Institutional investors should consider carefully the explanations given for departure 
from  the  Corporate  Governance  Code  and  make  reasoned  judgements  in  each 
case.  They  should  give  a  timely  explanation  to  the  company,  in  writing  where 
appropriate,  and  be  prepared  to  enter  a  dialogue  if  they  do  not  accept  the 
company's position.  
Institutional  investors  should  endeavor  to  identify  problems  at  an  early  stage  to 
minimise any loss of shareholder value. If they have concerns they should seek to 
ensure  that  the  appropriate  members  of  the  investee  company's  board  are  made 
aware of them.  
Institutional investors may not wish to be made insiders. They will expect investee 
companies and their advisers to ensure that information that could affect their ability 

33 

 

to deal in the shares of the company concerned is not conveyed to them  without 
their agreement.  

d)  Institutional  investors  to  be  willing  to  act  collectively  with  other  investors 

where appropriate 
At  times  collaboration  with  other  investors  may  be  the  most  effective  manner  to 
engage.    Collaborative  engagement  may  be  most  appropriate  during  significant 
corporate or wider economic stress, or when the risks posed threaten the ability of 
the  company  to  continue.  Institutional  investors  should  disclose  their  policy  on 
collective  engagement.  When  participating  in  collective  engagement,  institutional 
investors should have due regard to their policies on conflicts of interest and insider 
information.  

e)  Institutional investors to establish clear guidelines on when and how they will 
escalate their activities as a method of protecting and enhancing shareholder 
value 
Institutional  investors  should  set  out  the  circumstances  when  they  will  actively 
intervene  and  regularly  assess  the  outcomes  of  doing  so.  Intervention  should  be 
considered regardless of whether an active or passive investment policy is followed. 
Initial discussions should take place on a confidential basis. However, if boards do 
not  respond  constructively  when  institutional  investors  intervene,  then  institutional 
investors will consider whether to escalate their action, for example, by  
  holding additional meetings with management specifically to discuss concerns;  
  expressing concerns through the company's advisers;  
  meeting with the chairman, senior independent director, or with all independent 

directors;  

f) 

  intervening jointly with other institutions on particular issues;  
  making a public statement in advance of the AGM;  
  submitting resolutions at shareholders' meetings; etc.  
Institutional investors to report periodically on their responsibilities and voting 
activities 
Those who act as agents should regularly report to their client’s details of how they 
have discharged their responsibilities. Such reports may comprise of qualitative as 
well  as  quantitative  information.  The  particular  information  reported,  including  the 
format  in  which  details  of  how  votes  have  been  cast  are  presented,  should  be  a 
matter for agreement between agents and their principals.  
Those  that  act  as  principals,  or  represent  the  interests  of  the  end-investor,  should 
report at least annually to those to whom they are accountable on their policy and its 
execution.  
Like  US  funds,  Indian  asset  management  funds  are  now  required  to  disclose  their 
general  policies  and  procedures  for  exercising  the  voting  rights  in  respect  of  the 

34 

 

shares held by them on their websites as well as in the annual report distributed to 
the unit holders from the financial year 2010-11. However, there is only a marginal 
increase in for/against votes and many funds fail to even attend meetings and have 
abstention  as  a  policy.  Even  among  funds  that  voted,  there  is  little  alignment 
between the votes and the voting policy.  
In view of above, existing policy need to be examined. It may be deliberated on how 
to create incentives for institutional investors that invest in equities to become more 
active  in  the  exercise  of  their  ownership  rights,  without  coercion,  without  imposing 
illegitimate costs on them, and given India’s specific situation. 
Fund  houses  should  be  mandated  to  adopt  the  global  practice  of  quarterly  vote 
reporting and fund-wise vote reporting and to adopt detailed voting policies. Further, 
vote reporting by fund houses should also be subject to audit. 
 

11.31.  Enforcement for non-compliance of Corporate Governance Norms 

While much has been talked on the policy aspect of the Corporate Governance, at present 
monitoring of the compliance of the same is done only through disclosures in the annual 
report of the company and periodic disclosures of the various clauses of Clause 49 of the 
Listing Agreement on the stock exchange website.  

  As per Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement, there should be a separate section on 
Corporate  Governance  in  the  Annual  Reports  of  listed  companies,  with  detailed 
compliance report on Corporate Governance. The companies should also submit a 
quarterly compliance report to the stock exchanges within 15 days from the close of 
quarter  as  per  the  prescribed  format.  The  report  shall  be  signed  either  by  the 
Compliance Officer or the Chief Executive Officer of the company.  

  The listed companies should obtain a certificate from either the auditors or practicing 
company  secretaries  regarding  compliance  with  all  the  clauses  of  Clause  49  and 
annex  the  certificate  with  the  directors’  report,  which  is  sent  annually  to  all  the 
shareholders of the company. The same certificate shall also be sent to the Stock 
Exchanges along with the annual report filed by the company. Stock exchanges are 
required to send a consolidated compliance report to SEBI on the compliance level 
of Clause 49 by the companies listed in the exchanges within 60 days from the end 
of each quarter. 

  Listing  Agreement  is  essentially  an  agreement  between  exchanges  and  the  listed 
company. BSE and NSE have listing departments, which oversee the compliances 
with  the  provisions  of  listing  agreement.  Non-submission  of  corporate  governance 
report may result in suspension in trading of the scrip. As per the norms laid by BSE, 
the  securities  of  the  company  would  trigger  suspension  for  non-submission  of 
Corporate Governance report for 2 consecutive previous quarters or late submission 
of Corporate Governance report for any 2 out of 4 consecutive previous quarters.  

35 

 

For violations of the provisions of listing Agreement, following course of actions by SEBI 
is possible: 

o  Delisting or suspension of securities  
o  Adjudication for levy of monetary penalty  on companies/directors/promoters by 

SEBI 

o  Prosecution  
o  Debarring directors/promoters from accessing capital market or being associated 

with listed companies. 

Delisting  or  suspension  is  generally  not  considered  an  investor  friendly  action  and 
therefore, cannot be resorted to as a matter of routine and can be used only in cases of 
extreme  /  repetitive  non-compliance.  Prosecution,  on  the  other  hand,  is  a  costly  and 
time-consuming process.  
In  order  to  strengthen  the  monitoring  of  the  compliance,  following  measures  may  be 
considered:  

  Carrying out of Corporate Governance rating by the Credit Rating Agencies. 
 

Inspection  by  Stock  Exchanges/  SEBI/  or  any  other  agency  for  verifying  the 
compliance made by the companies. 
Imposing  penalties  on 
Officer/Key Managerial Persons for non-compliance either in sprit or letter  

the  Company/its  Board  of  Directors/Compliance 

 

Presently, provisions of listing agreement are being converted into Regulations for better 
enforcement.  
Public Comments 

Comments  on  the  above  framework  may  be  emailed  on  or  before  January  31,  2013  to 
anandr@sebi.gov.in / cfddil@sebi.gov.in  or sent by post to:- 

Sunil Kadam 
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department - Division of Issues and Listing 
Securities & Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East) 
Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph: +912226449630

 

36 

Annexure- Proposed amendments to Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement pursuant to enactment of the Companies Bill 2012 

Sl  Particulars 

1  Composition 

of 
Board- 

the 
Independent 
Directors 

 Provisions  in  the  Companies  Bill 
2012 
Clause  149  (4)  “Every  listed  public 
company shall have at least one-third 
of  the  total  number  of  directors  as 
independent directors and the Central 
Government  may 
the 
minimum  number  of 
independent 
directors  in  case  of  any  class  or 
classes of public companies.” 

prescribe 

2  Definition 

Independent 

of 

Clause  149(6) 
independent 
director  in  relation  to  a  company, 

“An 

 

Provisions in the Listing Agreement 

Clause 49 (I) (A) – “The Board of directors 
of  the  company  shall  have  an  optimum 
combination  of  executive  and  non-
executive directors with not  less than  fifty 
percent  of 
the  board  of  directors 
comprising of non-executive directors.  
 
Where  the  Chairman  of  the  Board  is  a 
non-executive director, at least one-third of 
the Board should comprise of independent 
directors  and  in  case  he  is  an  executive 
director,  at  least  half  of  the  Board  should 
comprise of independent directors.  
 
Provided  that  where  the  non-executive 
Chairman is a promoter of the company or 
is  related  to  any  promoter  or  person 
occupying  management  positions  at  the 
Board  level  or  at  one  level  below  the 
Board, at least one-half of the Board of the 
company  shall  consist  of 
independent 
directors.” 
Clause  49(I)(A)  (iii)  “For  the  purpose  of 
the  expression 
the  sub-clause 

(ii), 

 

in 

is  proposed 

amendments 

Proposed 
Clause 49 
It 
the 
existing  provisions  in  the  listing 
agreement  which  have  stricter 
requirement. 

to 

retain 

It  is  proposed  to  amend  Clause 
49  to  state  that  an  independent 

37 

means a director other than a 
managing  director  or  a  whole-time 
director or a nominee director,— 
(a) who, in the opinion of the Board, is 
a person of integrity and possesses 
relevant expertise and experience; 
(b) (i) who is or was not a promoter of 
the company or its holding, subsidiary 
or associate company; 
(ii) who is not related to promoters or 
directors in the company, its holding, 
subsidiary or associate company; 
(c)  who  has  or  had  no  pecuniary 
relationship  with 
its 
holding, 
subsidiary  or  associate 
company,  or 
their  promoters,  or 
directors,  during  the  two  immediately 
preceding financial years or during the 
current financial year; 
(d) none of whose relatives has or had 
pecuniary relationship or transaction 
with 
its  holding, 
subsidiary  or  associate  company,  or 
their 
directors, 
amounting to two per cent. or more of 
its gross turnover or total income or 
fifty 
rupees  or  such  higher 
amount  as  may  be  prescribed, 

the  company, 

promoters, 

company, 

lakh 

the 

or 

Director 

 

the 

(Bill), 

director of a listed company shall 
apart  from  complying  the  criteria 
of  independence  specified  in  the 
Companies  Act 
also 
following 
complies  with 
conditions: 
(i)  He  is  not  related  to  or  having 
material  pecuniary 
relationship 
with key managerial personnel; 
(ii)  is  not  a  material  supplier, 
service provider or customer or a 
lessor or lessee of the company, 
which  may  affect  independence 
of the director;  
(iii)  is  not  less  than  21  years  of 
age. 
 
 

‘independent  director’  shall  mean  a  non-
executive director of the company who:  
a.  apart 

receiving 

from 

director’s 
remuneration,  does  not  have  any 
material  pecuniary  relationships  or 
transactions  with  the  company,  its 
promoters,  its  directors,  its  senior 
management or its holding company, 
its  subsidiaries  and  associates  which 
may  affect 
the 
director;  

independence  of 

b.  is not related to promoters or persons 
occupying  management  positions  at 
the board level or at one level below 
the board;  

c.  has  not  been  an  executive  of  the 
immediately 

company 
preceding three financial years;  

the 

in 

d.  is not a partner or an executive or was 
not partner or an executive during the 
preceding  three  years,  of  any  of  the 
following:  
the  statutory  audit  firm  or  the  internal 
audit  firm  that  is  associated  with  the 
company, and  
the legal firm(s) and consulting firm(s) 
that  have  a  material  association  with 
the company.  

i. 

ii. 

 

38 

e.  is  not  a  material  supplier,  service 
provider  or  customer  or  a  lessor  or 
lessee  of  the  company,  which  may 
affect independence of the director;  

f.  is not a substantial shareholder of the 
company  i.e.  owning  two  percent  or 
more of the block of voting shares. 

g.  is not less than 21 years of age 

 
Non-Mandatory Requirements 
Company may ensure that the person who 
is  being  appointed  as  an  independent 
director  has  the  requisite  qualifications, 
experience  and  can  contribute  effectively 
to 
independent 
director. 
 

the  company  as  an 

immediately  preceding 

whichever  is  lower,  during  the  two 
immediately  preceding  financial  years 
or during the current financial 
year; 
(e) who, neither himself nor any of his 
relatives— 
(i) holds or  has held the position of a 
key managerial personnel or is or 
has been employee of the company or 
its holding, subsidiary or associate 
company  in  any  of  the  three  financial 
years 
the 
financial year in which he is proposed 
to be appointed; 
(ii)  is  or  has  been  an  employee  or 
proprietor or a partner, in any of the 
three 
immediately 
preceding  the  financial  year  in  which 
he is proposed to be appointed, of— 
(A)  a  firm  of  auditors  or  company 
secretaries in practice or cost auditors 
of 
its  holding, 
subsidiary or associate company; or 
(B) any legal or a consulting firm that 
has  or  had  any  transaction  with  the 
company,  its  holding,  subsidiary  or 
associate  company  amounting  to  ten 
per cent. or more of the gross turnover 

the  company  or 

financial  years 

 

 

39 

of such firm; 
(iii)  holds  together  with  his  relatives 
two per cent. or more of the total 
voting power of the company; or 
(iv) is a Chief Executive or director, by 
whatever  name 
called,  of  any 
nonprofit  organisation  that  receives 
twenty-five  per  cent.  or  more  of  its 
receipts  from the  company, any  of  its 
promoters,  directors  or  its  holding, 
subsidiary  or  associate  company  or 
that holds two per cent. or more of the 
total voting power of the company; or 
(f)  who  possesses 
qualifications as may be prescribed.” 
Clause  149(7)  “Every 
independent 
director shall at the first meeting of the 
Board  in  which  he  participates  as  a 
director  and  thereafter  at  the  first 
meeting of the Board in every financial 
year or whenever there is any change 
in the circumstances which may affect 
his status as an independent director, 
give  a  declaration  that  he  meets  the 
criteria of independence as provided 
in sub-section (6)” 
Clause  149  (8)  “The  company  and 
independent  directors  shall  abide  by 

such  other 

3  Declaration 

Independence 

of 

4  Code 

Independent 

for 

 

No similar provisions in Listing Agreement 

It  is  proposed  to  state  that  such 
declaration  shall  also  mention 
that  he  meets 
the  criteria  of 
independence  provided  in  listing 
agreement. 

No similar provisions in Listing Agreement. 
However, Clause 49(I)(D) provides that  

 The companies and independent 
directors  need  to  abide  by  the 
40 

 

Directors 

the  provisions  specified  in  Schedule 
IV.” 

149(9) 

197, 

“Notwithstanding 
in  any  other 

Clause 
anything  contained 
provision of this Act, but subject 
to  the  provisions  of  sections  197  and 
198, an independent director shall not 
be entitled to any 
stock  option  and  may 
receive 
remuneration  by  way  of  fee  provided 
under sub-section (5) of 
section 
of 
expenses for participation in the Board 
and other meetings 
and profit related commission as may 
be approved by the members.” 

reimbursement 

5  Remuneration 

Independent 
Directors 

to 

 

and 
shall 

Board  members 
personnel 

 
“The  Board  shall  lay  down  a  code  of 
conduct for all Board members and senior 
management of the company. The code of 
conduct shall be posted on the website of 
the company.  
 
senior 
All 
management 
affirm 
compliance  with  the  code  on  an  annual 
basis. The Annual Report of the company 
shall  contain  a  declaration  to  this  effect 
signed by the CEO.” 
Clause  49(I)(B)  “All  fees/compensation,  if 
any  paid 
to  non-executive  directors, 
including  independent  directors,  shall  be 
fixed  by  the  Board  of  Directors  and  shall 
require previous  approval  of shareholders 
in  general  meeting.  The  shareholders’ 
resolution  shall  specify  the  limits  for  the 
maximum  number  of  stock  options  that 
can be granted to non-executive directors, 
including  independent  directors,  in  any 
financial year and in aggregate. 
 
Provided that the requirement of obtaining 
prior  approval  of  shareholders  in  general 
meeting  shall  not  apply  to  payment  of 

Code  for  independent  directors 
prescribed  in  Schedule  IV  to  the 
Bill/Act. It is proposed to align the 
requirements of listing agreement 
with the provisions of Companies 
Bill. 

in 

difference 

Major 
the 
Companies  Bill  is  the  prohibition 
of  granting  stock  option 
to 
independent  directors.  Hence, 
the  Listing  agreement  provisions 
needs  to  be  aligned  with  the 
requirement  in  the  Companies 
Bill by removing the reference to 
payment  of  stock  options 
to 
independent directors. 

 

41 

sitting  fees  to  non-executive  directors,  if 
made  within  the  limits  prescribed  under 
the  Companies  Act,  1956  for  payment  of 
sitting fees without approval of the Central 
Government.” 
under 
Non-mandatory 
“Independent 
Clause  49  provide 
that 
tenure  not 
Directors  may  have  a 
exceeding,  in  the  aggregate,  a  period  of 
nine years, on the Board of a company.” 

requirements 

6 

Term 
Independent 
Directors 

of 

Clauses  149(10)  and  149 
(11) 
“Subject  to  the  provisions  of  section 
152,  an  independent  director  shall 
hold  office  for  a  term  up  to  five 
consecutive  years  on  the  Board  of  a 
company,  but  shall  be  eligible  for 
reappointment on passing of a special 
resolution  by 
the  company  and 
disclosure of such appointment in the 
Board's report. 
Notwithstanding anything contained in 
sub-section 
independent 
director shall hold office for more than 
two  consecutive 
terms,  but  such 
independent director shall be 
eligible 
the 
expiration of three years of ceasing to 
become an independent director: 
Provided that an independent director 
shall  not,  during  the  said  period  of 
three  years,  be  appointed  in  or  be 
associated  with  the  company  in  any 
other  capacity,  either  directly  or 

for  appointment  after 

(10),  no 

in 

the  provisions 

Since 
the 
Companies Bill is stricter and the 
companies/ 
independent 
directors need to comply with the 
same, no  need  to amend  clause 
49, 
the 
reference of nine years. 

except 

removing 

 

 

42 

in 

the 
7  Clarity 
liability 
of 
Independent/Non-
Executive 
Directors 

8 

of 
Separation 
of 
Offices 
Chairman 
& 
Chief  Executive 
Officer 

 

(12) 

“Notwithstanding 

or 

indirectly.”   
Clause  149 
anything contained in this Act,— 
(i) an independent director; 
(ii)  a  non-executive  director  not  being 
promoter 
key  managerial 
personnel, 
shall be held liable, only in respect of 
such  acts  of  omission  or  commission 
by  a  company  which  had  occurred 
with  his 
knowledge,  attributable 
through Board processes, and with his 
consent  or  connivance  or  where  he 
had not acted diligently.” 
Proviso to clause 203 (1) 
“Provided  that  an  individual  shall  not 
be  appointed  or  reappointed  as  the 
in 
chairperson  of 
pursuance  of 
the 
company,  as  well  as  the  managing 
director  or  Chief  Executive  Officer  of 
the  company  at  the  same  time  after 
the date of commencement 
of this Act unless,— 
(a)  the  articles  of  such  a  company 
provide otherwise; or 
(b) 
multiple businesses” 

the  company, 
the  articles  of 

the  company  does  not  carry 

No provisions in the Listing Agreement 

The provisions in the Companies 
Bill, if enacted would address the 
issue.  It  is  proposed  to  align  the 
requirements of listing agreement 
with the provisions of Companies 
Bill 

No  explicit  provision.  However,  relaxed 
requirement of only one-third Independent 
Directors 
in  case  of  Non-Executive 
Chairman. 

to  align 

is  proposed 

the 
It 
requirements of listing agreement 
with the provisions of Companies 
Bill 

 

43 

9  Number 

Directorships 

of 

10  Training 
Directors 

of 

Clause  165  “No  person,  after  the 
commencement of this Act, shall hold 
office  as  a  director,  including  any 
alternate  directorship,  in  more  than 
twenty companies at the same time: 
Provided that the maximum number of 
public  companies  in  which  a  person 
can  be  appointed  as  a  director  shall 
not exceed ten.” 
Schedule IV 
Code for Independent Directors  
Independent  directors 
III.  Duties 
should 
appropriate 
induction  and  regularly  update  and 
refresh  their  skills,  knowledge  and 
familiarity with the company; 

: 
undertake 

Non- mandatory Requirements 
“A company may train its Board members 
in the business model of the company as 
well  as  the  risk  profile  of  the  business 
parameters  of 
their 
responsibilities  as  directors,  and  the  best 
ways to discharge them.” 
 

company, 

the 

11  Provisions 
regarding 
meetings 

Clause  173(1)  “Every  company  shall 
hold  the  first  meeting  of  the  Board  of 
Directors within thirty days of the date 
of its incorporation and thereafter hold 
a minimum number of four meetings of 
its  Board  of  Directors  every  year  in 
such a manner that not more than one 
hundred  and 
twenty  days  shall 

Clause  49(I)(C)  (i)  “The  board  shall  meet 
at least four times a year, with a maximum 
time gap of four months between any two 
meetings” 

 

 

No provisions 

to  align 

is  proposed 

It 
the 
requirements of listing agreement 
with the provisions of Companies 
Bill 

to 

align 

While  the  requirement  may  be 
retained  as  non-mandatory,  it  is 
proposed 
the 
requirements of listing agreement 
with the provisions of Companies 
Bill.  Further,  clause  49  may  be 
amended  to  state  that  in  the 
Boards’ 
the 
Report, 
methodology/details  of 
training 
imparted to Independent Directors 
shall be stated. 
Similar 
in 
Companies  Bill  and  in  Listing 
Agreement. 
the 
provisions  in  Listing  Agreement 
may be aligned with the language 
of 
the  Companies  Bill  by 
substituting  “maximum  time  gap 
of  four  months”  with  “maximum 
44 

provisions 

However, 

exist 

intervene  between  two  consecutive 
meetings of the Board” 
Clause 177 “The Board of Directors of 
every  listed  company  and  such  other 
class or classes of companies, as may 
be  prescribed,  shall  constitute  an 
Audit Committee. 
(2) The Audit Committee shall consist 
of  a  minimum  of  three  directors  with 
independent  directors 
forming  a 
majority: 
Provided  that  majority  of  members  of 
Audit  Committee 
its 
Chairperson  shall  be  persons  with 
ability  to  read  and  understand,  the 
financial statement.” 
No similar requirement 

including 

12  Constitution 

of 
Audit Committee 

13  Meetings  of 

the 
Audit Committee 

14  Performance 

Evaluation 

Schedule IV 
“VIII. Evaluation mechanism: 

of 

 

Clause  49(2)(A)  “The  audit  committee 
shall  have  minimum  three  directors  as 
members.  Two-thirds  of  the  members  of 
audit  committee  shall  be 
independent 
directors.  
All  members  of  audit  committee  shall  be 
financially 
least  one 
member  shall  have  accounting  or  related 
financial management expertise. 
The  Chairman  of  the  Audit  Committee 
shall be an independent director” 
 

literate  and  at 

Clause  49  (II)  (B)  “The  audit  committee 
should  meet  at  least  four  times  in  a  year 
and  not  more  than  four  months  shall 
elapse  between 
two  meetings.  The 
quorum  shall  be  either  two  members  or 
one  third  of  the  members  of  the  audit 
committee whichever is greater, but there 
should be a minimum of two independent 
members present.” 
 
Non-mandatory requirement 
“The  performance  evaluation  of  non-

 

is  proposed 

time  gap  of  one  hundred  and 
twenty days” 
It 
the 
existing  provisions  in  the  listing 
agreement  which  have  stricter 
requirement. 

retain 

to 

The  existing  provisions  in  listing 
agreement may be retained. 

Provision  may 
mandatory 

in 

line  with 

be  made 
the 
45 

Independent 
Directors 

(1)  The  performance  evaluation  of 
independent  directors  shall  be  done 
by 
the  entire  Board  of  Directors, 
excluding the director being evaluated.
(2)  On  the  basis  of  the  report  of 
performance  evaluation,  it  shall  be 
determined  whether 
to  extend  or 
continue  the  term  of  appointment  of 
the independent director.” 

executive  directors  could  be  done  by  a 
peer group comprising the entire Board of 
Directors,  excluding  the  director  being 
evaluated;  and  Peer  Group  evaluation 
could  be  the  mechanism  to  determine 
whether to extend / continue the terms of 
appointment of non-executive directors.” 

of 

to 

report 

provisions  of  Companies  Bill. 
Further,  it  is  proposed  to  amend 
Clause  49  to    require  that  such 
evaluation 
the 
independent  director  should  also 
based  on  his  attendance  and 
contribution 
the 
board/committee  meetings  and 
such  appraisal  shall  be  placed 
before the nomination committee 
for 
for 
reappointment. 
/Audit  Committee 
Companies 
comply  with 
the 
need 
to 
responsibilities 
additional 
is 
prescribed 
proposed 
the 
requirements of listing agreement 
with the provisions of Companies 
Bill 
 

taking  a  decisions 

the  Bill. 
align 

in 
to 

It 

 

46 

(4) 

the 

177 

recommendation 

Clause 
“Every  Audit 
Committee  shall  act  in  accordance 
with the terms of reference specified 
in  writing  by  the  Board  which  shall 
inter alia, include,— 
(i) 
for 
appointment,  remuneration  and  terms 
of  appointment  of  auditors  of 
the 
company; 
(ii)  review  and  monitor  the  auditor’s 
independence and performance, and 
effectiveness of audit process; 
(iii)  examination  of 
financial 
statement  and  the  auditors’  report 
thereon; 
(iv)  approval  or  any  subsequent 

the 

15  Role/functions  of 
Audit 

the 
Committee 

 

Clause  49(II)(D)  “The  role  of  the  audit 
committee shall include the following: 
 

1.  Oversight of the company’s financial 
reporting process and the disclosure 
of  its  financial  information  to  ensure 
that 
is 
correct, sufficient and credible.  

financial  statement 

the 

2.  Recommending  to  the  Board,  the 
appointment,  re-appointment  and,  if 
required, the replacement or removal 
of 
the 
fixation of audit fees.  

the  statutory  auditor  and 

3.  Approval  of  payment  to  statutory 
for  any  other  services 

auditors 

the 

transactions  of 

the  company,  wherever 

modification  of 
company with related parties; 
(v)  scrutiny  of  inter-corporate  loans 
and investments; 
(vi) valuation of undertakings or assets 
of 
is 
necessary; 
(vii)  evaluation  of  internal  financial 
controls 
risk  management 
systems; 
(viii)  monitoring  the  end  use  of  funds 
raised 
through  public  offers  and 
related matters.” 

and 

it 

rendered by the statutory auditors.  

4.  Reviewing,  with  the  management, 
the  annual 
financial  statements 
before  submission  to  the  board  for 
approval, with particular reference to: 
a.  Matters  required  to  be  included 
in  the  Director’s  Responsibility 
Statement to  be included  in  the 
Board’s report in terms of clause 
(2AA)  of  section  217  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956  

b.  Changes,  if  any,  in  accounting 
policies  and  practices  and 
reasons for the same  
accounting 

entries 
involving  estimates  based  on 
the  exercise  of  judgment  by 
management  

c.  Major 

d.  Significant adjustments made in 
the  financial  statements  arising 
out of audit findings  

e.  Compliance  with 

listing  and 
other legal requirements relating 
to financial statements  

f.  Disclosure  of  any  related  party 

g.  Qualifications  in  the  draft  audit 

transactions  

report.  

 

 

47 

5.  Reviewing,  with  the  management, 
the  quarterly 
financial  statements 
before  submission  to  the  board  for 
approval  

5A.  Reviewing,  with  the  management, 
the  statement  of  uses  /  application  of 
funds  raised  through  an  issue  (public 
issue,  rights  issue,  preferential  issue, 
etc.),  the  statement  of  funds  utilized  for 
purposes  other  than  those  stated  in  the 
offer  document/prospectus/notice  and 
the  report  submitted  by  the  monitoring 
agency  monitoring 
the  utilisation  of 
proceeds of a public or rights issue, and 
making appropriate recommendations to 
the Board to take up steps in this matter. 
6.  Reviewing,  with  the  management, 
performance of statutory and internal 
auditors,  adequacy  of  the  internal 
control systems.  

7.  Reviewing  the  adequacy  of  internal 
audit  function,  if  any,  including  the 
structure  of 
internal  audit 
department,  staffing  and  seniority  of 
the  official  heading  the  department, 
reporting  structure  coverage  and 
frequency of internal audit.  

the 

 

 

48 

the 

8.  Discussion with internal auditors any 
significant  findings  and  follow  up 
there on. 
9.  Reviewing 

findings  of  any 
internal investigations by the internal 
auditors  into  matters  where  there  is 
suspected  fraud  or  irregularity  or  a 
failure  of  internal  control  systems  of 
a  material  nature  and  reporting  the 
matter to the board. 

10. Discussion  with  statutory  auditors 
before  the  audit  commences,  about 
the nature and scope of audit as well 
as post-audit discussion to ascertain 
any area of concern.  
the 

for 
substantial defaults in the payment to 
the  depositors,  debenture  holders, 
shareholders 
(in  case  of  non 
payment  of  declared  dividends)  and 
creditors.  

reasons 

11. To 

look 

into 

12. To  review  the  functioning  of  the 
Whistle  Blower  mechanism,  in  case 
the same is existing.  

12A.  Approval  of  appointment  of  CFO 
(i.e., the whole-time Finance Director 
or  any  other  person  heading  the 

 

 

49 

finance  function  or  discharging  that 
the 
function) 
qualifications, 
& 
background, etc. of the candidate. 

assessing 
experience 

after 

13. Carrying out any other function as is 
mentioned  in  the  terms  of  reference 
of the Audit Committee. 

 
Non-mandatory requirement 
i.  “The board may set up a remuneration 
committee to determine on their behalf 
and on behalf of the shareholders with 
the 
agreed 
company’s 
specific 
remuneration  packages  for  executive 
directors  including  pension  rights  and 
any compensation payment.  

terms  of 
policy 

reference, 

on 

ii.  To  avoid  conflicts  of 

interest, 

the 
remuneration  committee,  which  would 
determine  the  remuneration  packages 
of 
the  executive  directors  may 
comprise of at least three directors, all 
of  whom  should  be  non-executive 
directors,  the  Chairman  of  committee 
being an independent director.  

iii.  All  the  members  of  the  remuneration 
committee  could  be  present  at  the 
meeting.  

Clause  49  need  to  be  amended 
to  align  with  the  requirements  of 
Companies  Bill.  However, 
the 
requirement 
independent 
chairman  for  the  committee,  as 
provided in the existing clause 49 
requirement,  be  retained  in  the 
new clause.  

of 

 

50 

16  Nomination  and 

Remuneration 
Committee 

less 

Clause 178 “The Board of Directors of 
every  listed  company  and  such  other 
class or classes of companies, as may 
be  prescribed  shall  constitute 
the 
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee consisting of three or more 
non-executive  directors  out  of  which 
not 
than  one-half  shall  be 
independent directors: 
Provided  that  the  chairperson  of  the 
company  (whether  executive  or  non-
executive)  may  be  appointed  as  a 
member  of 
the  Nomination  and 
Remuneration Committee but shall not
chair such Committee. 
(2) The Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee  shall  identify  persons  who 
are  qualified  to  become  directors  and 
who  may  be  appointed 
in  senior 
management  in  accordance  with  the 

 

iv.  The  Chairman  of 

the  remuneration 
committee  could  be  present  at  the 
Annual General Meeting, to answer the 
shareholder queries. However, it would 
be  up  to  the  Chairman  to  decide  who 
should answer the queries.” 

criteria  laid  down,  recommend  to  the 
Board  their  appointment  and  removal 
and shall carry out evaluation of every 
director’s performance. 
(3) The Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee  shall  formulate  the  criteria 
for  determining  qualifications,  positive 
attributes  and 
independence  of  a 
director and recommend to the Board 
a  policy,  relating  to  the  remuneration 
for 
the  directors,  key  managerial 
personnel and other employees. 
(4) The Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee shall, while formulating the 
policy 
under sub-section (3) ensure that— 
(a) 
remuneration 
sufficient to 
attract, retain and motivate directors of 
the  quality 
the 
company 
successfully; 
(b)  relationship  of  remuneration  to 
performance 
is  clear  and  meets 
appropriate 
performance benchmarks; and 
(c)  remuneration 

level  and  composition  of 
reasonable  and 

to  directors,  key 

the 

is 

required 

to 

run 

 

 

51 

and 

(5) 

short 

fixed  and 

managerial  personnel  and  senior 
involves  a  balance 
management 
incentive  pay 
between 
reflecting 
long-term 
performance objectives appropriate to 
the  working  of  the  company  and  its 
goals: 
Provided  that  such  policy  shall  be 
disclosed in the Board's report.” 
Clause  178 
“The  Board  of 
Directors of a company which consists 
of more than one thousand 
shareholders, 
debenture-holders, 
deposit-holders and any other security 
holders  at  any  time  during  a  financial 
year  shall  constitute  a  Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee consisting 
of  a  chairperson  who  shall  be  a  non-
executive  director  and  such  other 
members  as  may  be  decided  by  the 
Board. 
(6)  The  Stakeholders  Relationship 
Committee shall consider and resolve 
the  grievances  of  security  holders  of 
the company.” 
Clause 134 (3) 
“There shall be attached to statements 
laid  before  a  company  in  general 

17  Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee 

24  Risk 

Management 

 

in 

Provisions 
49 
agreement  need  to  be  aligned 
with Companies Bill. 

Clause 

Clause  49(IV)(G)  “A  board  committee 
under the chairmanship of a non-executive 
director shall be formed to specifically look 
into  the  redressal  of  shareholder  and 
investors  complaints 
transfer  of 
shares, non-receipt of balance sheet, non-
receipt  of  declared  dividends  etc.  This 
Committee  shall  be  designated  as 
‘Shareholders/Investors 
Grievance 
Committee’. 
 

like 

Clause 49 (IV) (C)  
“The  company  shall  lay  down  procedures 
to  inform  Board  members  about  the  risk 

Provisions  of  Clause  49  need  to 
be aligned with Companies Bill.  

52 

 

a 

for 

the 

the 

existence 

of 

statement 

the  company 

meeting, a 
report by its Board of Directors, which 
shall include— 
(n) 
indicating 
development and implementation of a 
risk management 
policy 
including 
identification  therein  of  elements  of 
risk, if any, 
which in the opinion of the Board may 
threaten 
the 
company;” 
Clause 177 (4)(vii) 
“Every  Audit  Committee  shall  act  in 
accordance  with 
terms  of 
reference  specified  in  writing  by  the 
Board which shall inter alia, include,— 
(vii)  evaluation  of  internal  financial 
controls 
risk  management 
systems;” 
Clause 177 
“(9)  Every  listed  company  or  such 
class or classes of companies, as may 
be prescribed, 
shall  establish  a  vigil  mechanism  for 
directors  and  employees 
to  report 
genuine concerns in 
such manner as may be prescribed. 

and 

assessment and minimization procedures. 
These  procedures  shall  be  periodically 
reviewed 
that  executive 
management  controls  risk  through  means 
of a properly defined framework.” 

to  ensure 

 

establish 

company  may 

Non-Mandatory Requirement 
“The 
a 
mechanism for employees to report to the 
management  concerns  about  unethical 
behaviour,  actual  or  suspected  fraud  or 
violation of the company’s code of conduct 
or  ethics  policy.  This  mechanism  could 
also  provide 
for  adequate  safeguards 

in 

The  existing  provision 
the 
Listing Agreement may  be made 
mandatory  and  aligned  with 
Companies Bill. 

53 

25  Whistle Blower 

 

 

in 

appropriate 

(10)  The  vigil  mechanism  under  sub-
section  (9)  shall  provide  for  adequate 
safeguards 
against  victimisation  of  persons  who 
use  such  mechanism  and  make 
provision for direct 
access to the chairperson of the Audit 
Committee 
or 
exceptional cases: 
Provided 
of 
establishment  of  such  mechanism 
shall be disclosed by the company on 
its website,  if any, and in the Board’s 
report.” 
Definitions  of  "associate  company", 
"financial  year", 
"key  managerial 
personnel",  "related  party",  "relative" 
etc.  need  to  be  aligned  with  the 
Companies Bill. 

details 

that 

the 

against  victimization  of  employees  who 
avail  of  the  mechanism  and  also  provide 
for  direct  access  to  the  Chairman  of  the 
Audit  committee 
in  exceptional  cases. 
Once  established,  the  existence  of  the 
mechanism  may 
appropriately 
communicated within the organization.” 

be 

 

 

 

**************** 

 

 

 

 

in 

the 

definitions 

Apart  from  the  above,  following 
definitions 
listing 
agreement: 
of  
"associate  company",  "financial 
year", 
managerial 
personnel", 
party", 
"relative" etc. need to be aligned 
with the Companies Bill. 

"related 

"key 

54 

