Draft Regulations -SEBI (Procedure for Search and Seizure) Regulations, 2013, 

for public comments. 

 

1.  Securities  Laws  (Amendment)  Second  Ordinance,  2013  was  promulgated    on 
September 16, 2013 conferring explicit  powers on the Chairman, SEBI to authorise 
Investigating  Authority  or  any  other  officer  of  SEBI  to  conduct  search  and  seizure 
under sub-section (8) of section 11C of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992(SEBI Act)   
 
2. The said Ordinance vide sub-section (9) of section 11C of the SEBI Act, provides 
that SEBI may make regulations in relation to search and seizure under section 11C of 
the SEBI Act.     A corresponding provision as  clause  (cc)  has  also been inserted in 
sub-section  (2)  of  section  30  of  SEBI  Act  enabling  the  Board  to  frame  regulations 
providing  for  the  procedure  to  be  followed  by  the  authorised  officer  for  search  or 
seizure under sub-section (8) of section 11C of SEBI Act. 
 
3. In order to exercise the powers of search and seizure  at the time of Investigation, 
harmonious with the rights of the persons who are subjected to search of their person 
and property, while pursuing  the  SEBI's statutory mandate  of investor protection, 
detailed procedures relating to  the procedural safeguards during  different stages of 
search  and  seizure  and    the  rights  of  those  persons  subjected  to  search  and  the  
obligations of the authorized persons  are required to be laid down.  
 
3.  Keeping the above in perspective, the draft regulations titled SEBI (Procedure for 
Search   and   Seizure) Regulations, 2013 is proposed and the same is placed on the 
SEBI  website  to  invite  comments  from  the  public.  (Please  see  the  link.) 
provided.Suggestions are also invited on simplifying the language of the regulation.  
Comments  may 
id 
search&seizurereg@sebi.gov.in   latest by 30.11.2013 
 
Comments should be given in the following format: 
 

forwarded 

e-mail 

by 

email 

to 

the 

be 

Name of entity/ person/ intermediary: 
Sr.No. 

Pertains to which 

 

regulation/sub-regulation 

Proposed/ 

suggested changes 

 

 

 
 
Issued on: 14.11.2013 

 

Rationale 

 

 

 

