 

CONSULTATION PAPER ON PROPOSED REGULATION OF RESEARCH 

ANALYSTS  

FOR PUBLIC COMMENTS 

1.  BACK GROUND 

 

1.1  Principle  no.  23  of  the  New  IOSCO  Objectives  and  Principles  of  Securities 
Regulation  states  that  the  entities  that  offer  investors  analytical  or  evaluative 
services  should  be  subject  to  oversight  and  regulation  appropriate  to  the 
impact their activities have on the market or the degree to which the regulatory 
system relies on them.  

 

1.2  SEBI Board in its 138th Board Meeting held on July 28, 2011 had approved a 
proposal that SEBI may consider the IOSCO principles on analytical services 
and  may  consider  regulating  research  analysts  in  Indian  securities  market 
through an exclusive and comprehensive regulation." 

1.3 

1.4 

 

 

 

In response to the increasing worldwide awareness of the analyst conflicts  of 
interest  issue,  SEBI  has  been  actively  monitoring  local  and  international 
developments, and studying proposals most suitable for India. 

In designing the appropriate regulatory model to address the issue in India, the 
International Advisory Board (IAB) of SEBI, in its meeting held on November 3-
4,  2012  discussed  the  issue  of  regulation  of  research  analysts.  A  view 
emerged that the analysts  providing services for a fee may be considered for 
regulation under Investment Advisor Regulations. As far as other analysts are 
concerned,  it  was  suggested  that,  to  begin  with,  a  separate  code  or  set  of 
guidelines may be considered.   

1.5  Having 

taken 

IAB  and 

into  account 

the  regulatory 
developments  globally,  we  are  prima  facie  of  the  view  that  clearer  and  more 
specific  regulations  for  research  analysts  are  necessary  to  address  the 
potential and actual conflicts that may exist in the Indian Securities market. 

the  opinions  of 

 

2.  INTRODUCTION 

 

2.1 

Timely  and  accurate  information  about  investment  products  is  an  important 
ingredient for making investment decisions. However, considering the volume 
and complexity of information it would be difficult for an investor for analyzing 
and  grasping  the  information.  In  this  context  the  Research  Analysts  play  an 
important  role.  They  study  Companies  and  industries,  analyze  raw  data,  and 
make  forecasts  or  recommendations  about  whether  to  buy,  hold  or  sell 
securities.  They  analyze  information  to  provide  recommendations  about 
investments  in  securities  to  their  clients.  Investors  often  view  analysts  as 

Page 1 of 33 

 

 

 

experts and important sources of information about the securities they review 
and often rely on their advice. 
 
 However  such  advice  from  investment  analysts  is  many  times  prone  to 
conflicts  of  interest  that  may  prevent  them  from  offering  independent  and 
unbiased  opinions.  Since  the  prime  objective  is  to  protect  investors  and 
enhance  confidence  in  the  market,  it  is  a  major  concern  of  regulatory 
authorities  to  identify  and  deal  with  conflicts  of  interest  arising  from  the 
production and dissemination of research reports. 
 
These conflicts may hamper the neutrality of a research report, which affects 
the investment decision of investors. If some entity produces biased research 
report  to  inflate  the  price  artificially,  the  market  at  large  gets  affected. 
Secondly,  the  quality  of  the  analysis  also  depends  on  market  or  industry 
experience  of  the  research  analyst.  Hence,  it  may  be  preferable  to  have 
appropriate  regulations  for  research  analysts  that  will  not  only  ensure  the 
neutrality of the research reports, but also improve the quality of the report.  

IOSCO  in  its  report  published  in  September  2003  on  'Analyst  Conflicts  of 
Interest', has pointed out three broad types of analysts, viz. sell-side analysts, 
buy-side analysts and independent analysts. 

2.2 

2.3 

2.4 

 

 

2.4.1  Sell-side  Analysts-  They  typically  publish  research  reports  on  the  securities 
of  companies  or  industries  that  they  cover.  These  Research  reports  carry 
specific  recommendations,  such  as  recommendation  to  buy,  hold,  or  sell  the 
subject  security.  It  also  includes  the  analyst’s  expectation  of  the  future  price 
performance  of  the  security  (“price  target”).  These  analysts  face  maximum 
conflicts  of  interest  since  they  often  perform  functions  other  than  producing 
research  like  working  for  firms  that  provide  investment  banking  services  for 
corporate clients, including clients whose securities the analysts cover. 
 

2.4.2  Buy-side  Analysts-They  generally  work  for  money  managers  like  mutual 
funds,  hedge  funds,  pension  funds,  or  portfolio  managers  that  purchase  and 
sell  securities  for  their  own  investment  accounts  or  on  behalf  of  others. 
Research  reports  of  these  analysts  are  generally  circulated  among  the  top 
management  of  the  employer  firms  as  these  reports  contain  advice  about 
which securities to buy, hold or sell. Thus, analyses by these RAs are prone to 
be aligned with those of the money managers they work for and those of their 
clients, which may affect the neutrality of their reports. 

 

2.4.3  Independent  Analysts-  They  work  for  research  originators  or  boutique  firms 
that are legal entities separate from full-service investment firms and sell their 
research  to  others  on  a  subscription  or  other  basis.  These  types  of  analysts 
may  also  at  times  have  an  incentive  to  produce  biased  analysis  for  the 

Page 2 of 33 

 

 

 

covered  company  which  may  be  paying  a  hefty  fee  for  subscription  of 
Research Report.  
 

2.5  Apart  from  these  three  main  categories,  entities  such  as  newspapers  and 

consolidators of information also provide research reports.  
 

3.  REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR RESEARCH ANALYSTS GLOBALLY. 

 

3.1 

3.2 

The effort to address potential conflicts of interest affecting the production and 
dissemination  of  research  by  securities  firms  is  truly  a  global  one,  with 
regulators  in  almost  all  developed  market  economies  having  proposed  or 
implemented  new  rules  for  research  related  conflicts  of  interest.  Research 
analysts  are  regulated  in  a  large  number  of  countries  to  minimise  conflict 
issues  through  a  combination  of  government  securities  agencies  and/or  self-
regulatory  organizations.  Generally,  government  agencies  have  broad 
regulatory authority over market participants, which are often supplemented by 
oversight by SROs. Government regulators usually oversee SRO rule making 
and  enforcement.  SROs  impose  rules  on  their  members  and  penalties 
(including expulsion) for non-compliance. 
 
IOSCO  report  on  addressing  conflicts  of  interest  in  September  2003  has 
prescribed principles as under: 

 
3.2.1  Mechanisms  should  exist  so  that  analysts’  trading  activities  or  financial 

interests do not prejudice their research and recommendations. 

3.2.2  Mechanisms should exist so that analysts’ research and recommendations 
are not prejudiced by the trading activities or financial interests or business 
relationships of the firms that employ them.  

3.2.3  Reporting lines for analysts and their compensation arrangements should 
be structured to eliminate or severely limit actual and potential conflicts of 
interest. 

3.2.4  Firms that employ analysts should establish written internal procedures or 
controls to identify and eliminate, manage or disclose actual and potential 
conflicts of interest on the part of analysts. 

3.2.5  The  undue  influence  of  issuers,  institutional  investors  and  other  outside 

parties upon analysts should be eliminated or managed. 

3.2.6  Disclosures of actual and potential conflicts of interest should be complete, 

timely, clear, concise, specific and prominent. 

3.2.7  Analysts should be held to high integrity standards. 
3.2.8  Investor  education  should  play  an  important  role  in  managing  analyst 

conflicts of interest. 
 

3.3  We  have  also  seen  regulatory  developments  in  other  major  markets.  In  the 
United  States  of  America  (USA),  the  National  Association  of  Securities 
Dealers,  Inc.  (“NASD”)  and  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange  (“NYSE”)  issued 

Page 3 of 33 

 

 

 

rules  for  Research  Analysts  and  Research  Reports.  The    Financial  Industry 
Regulatory  Authority,  Inc.  (‘‘FINRA’’),  the  independent  regulator  for  all 
securities  firms  doing  business  in  the  United  States  register  and  regulate 
research analysts as prescribed under NASD Rule 2711 and NYSE Rule 472.  
 

3.4  Regulations for research analysts and research related conflicts of interest in 

USA have addressed the following objectives: 

 
3.4.1  Ensure that retail investors understand the various conflicts that may affect 
the  objectivity  of  research  analysts’  views  through  enhanced  disclosure 
requirements.  

3.4.2  Substantially  reduce  the  opportunities  for  conflicts  through  prescriptive 
measures  by  (i)  strengthening  existing  “Chinese  walls”  between  research 
and  business  units  in  integrated  financial  services  firms;  (ii)  regulating 
analysts’ ability to own and trade equities of the firms that they cover; and 
(iii)  modifying  the  incentive  structure  in  integrated  financial  services  firms 
that may encourage the issuance of biased research. 

 

3.5  Apart from USA, various  other international jurisdictions, i.e.  UK, Hong Kong, 
etc,  have  detailed  policies  and  procedures  to  deal  with  conflicts  of  interest 
management,  disclosure  requirements,  etc,  for  dealing  with  issues  related  to 
regulation of research analysts.  

  
4.  TYPES  OF  ENTITIES  ENGAGED  IN  PUBLISHING  RESEARCH  REPORTS  IN 

INDIA 
 

Large brokerage firms and the merchant/investment-banks provide research in 
India.  Brokerage  houses  carry  out  research  on  a  particular  company  or  a 
sector and make "buy" or "sell" recommendations to their clients.  Most of the 
brokerage  firms  are  active  traders  and  have  proprietary  positions  as  well. 
Merchant/Investment  banks  provide  research  reports  and  also  manage  IPOs 
or takeover or buyback  or delisting offers. 
 
Independent 
ideas  or 
recommendations  backed  by  fundamental  and  primary  research  to  corporate 
houses,  professional  money  managers  and  high  net  worth  individuals.  The 
nature of the reports may vary from firm to firm. 

firms  generally  provide 

research 

investment 

4.1 

4.2 

 

4.3  Credit  Rating  Agencies(CRAs)  undertake  customized  credit  research  of  a 
number of borrowers in a credit portfolio, for the use of the lender. CRAs use 
their understanding of companies' business and operations and their expertise 
in building frameworks for relative evaluation, which are then applied to arrive 
at performance grading. 

 

Page 4 of 33 

 

 

 

 

4.4  Proxy  Advisory  Service  Providers:  Proxy  voting  advisory  firms  also  prepare 
research reports. Mostly institutional investors take help from third-party proxy 
advisory firms to vote their proxies in shareholder meetings. These firms offer 
vote  recommendations  to  institutional  investors  or  to  public  on  a  proposed 
agenda  item  at  an  annual  general  meeting/extraordinary  general  meeting,  as 
well  as  management  and  shareholder  proposals  and  also  on  takeover, 
buyback or delisting offers, etc.   
 
The fund mangers of Alternative Investment Fund(AIF) and Mutual Funds also 
provide research reports to their unit holders. 

4.5 

 

4.6  Apart from the above, some research analysts make recommendation through 
public media during public appearance, such as television, and other print and 
electronic media, etc. 

 

5.  EXISTING  PROVISIONS  IN  RELATION  TO  CONFLICT  OF  INTEREST  IN 

INDIA: 

 

5.1  While there is no specific regulation governing Research Analysts,  there is a 
provision  in  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  1992,  which 
says,  "Analysts,  if  any,  employed  with  the  organization  /firm  while  preparing 
research 
their 
shareholdings/interest  in  such  company(s)  to  the  Compliance  Officer  and  the 
Analysts  who  prepare  research  report  of  listed  company  shall  not  trade  in 
securities of that company for thirty days from preparation of such report."  

company(s) 

disclose 

client 

reports 

of 

shall 

 

5.2  Additionally, as per the  Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices for Prevention 
of Insider Trading,  the following Disclosure / dissemination of Price Sensitive 
Information  with  special  reference  to  Analysts,  Institutional  Investors  is 
required  to  be  made  by  listed  companies  while  dealing  with  analysts  and 
institutional investors with respect to the following issues:- 

 
5.2.1  Only  Public  information  to  be  provided:  Listed  companies  shall  provide 
only  public  information  to  the  analyst/  research  persons/  large  investors 
like  institutions.  Alternatively,  the  information  given  to  the  analyst  should 
be simultaneously made public at the earliest. 

5.2.2  Recording  of  discussion: 

to  avoid  misquoting  or 
misrepresentation, it is desirable that at least two company representatives 
are  present  at  meetings  with  Analysts,  brokers  or  Institutional  Investors 
and discussion should preferably be recorded. 

In  order 

5.2.3  Handling  of  unanticipated  questions:  A  listed  company  should  be  careful 
when  dealing  with  analysts’  questions  that  raise  issues  outside  the 
intended  scope  of  discussion.  Unanticipated  questions  may  be  taken  on 
notice and a considered response given later. If the answer includes price 

Page 5 of 33 

 

 

 

sensitive  information,  a  public  announcement  should  be  made  before 
responding. 

5.2.4  Simultaneous  release  of 

Information:  When  a  company  organises 
meetings  with  analysts,  the  company  shall  make  a  press  release  or  post 
relevant  information  on  its  website  after  every  such  meet.  The  company 
may also consider live webcasting of analysts meets. 

 

5.3  SEBI  has  mandated  listed  companies  to  disclose  details  of  agreements  with 
media.  SEBI  amended  equity  listing  agreement  adding  clause  53  and  54  to 
ensure  that  the  listed  entities  disclose    details    of    agreements    like  private 
treaties on  their  websites  and  also  notify  the  stock exchange of the same 
for  public  dissemination.  It  has  also  been  mandated  that  they  maintain  a 
functional  website  that  contains  certain  basic  information  about  them,  duly 
updated for all statutory filings, including agreements entered into with media 
companies, if any.  
 

5.5 

5.4  SEBI  has  also  vide  circular  dated  November  18,  2013  issued  guidelines  on 
compliance  with  the  provisions  of  Equity  Listing  Agreement  by  listed 
companies and Monitoring of the same by Stock Exchanges.   
  
In addition to the above, there are codes of conduct for market participants to 
prevent  misuse  of  inside  information.  The  Model  Code  of  Conduct  for 
Prevention  of  Insider  Trading  has  several  clauses  to  ensure  that  inside 
information  is  not  used  in  trading  activities.  To  prevent  the  misuse  of 
confidential information,  the organisation/firm is required to adopt a "Chinese 
Wall"  policy  which  separates  those  areas  of  the  organisation/firm  which 
routinely  have  access  to  confidential  information,  considered  "inside  areas" 
from those areas which deal with sale/ marketing/ investment advice or other 
departments providing support services, considered "public areas". 
 
Though  issues  relating  to  conflict  of  interest  in  securities  industry  are  being 
addressed  through  the  SEBI  prescribed  code  of  conduct  for  intermediaries, 
regulations  on  insider  trading  and  regulations  on  fraudulent  and  unfair  trade 
practices, there is no guideline to identify and deal with conflict of interests by 
research  analysts,  who  are  not  registered  and  regulated  by  SEBI  at  present. 
The  absence  of  an  exclusive  and  comprehensive  regulation  to  deal  with 
conflict  of  interests  by  research  analysts  pose  regulatory  gaps  in  the 
management  and  mitigation  of  possible  conflicts  of  interest  that  may  arise  in 
their activities in securities market.  
 

5.6 

5.7  Disclosures or disclaimers by the research firms vary widely as presently there 
is no specific rule for the same. There is scope of conflict of interest between 
the  covered  company  and  the  research  firms.  There  is  need  to  have 
mechanisms  to  ensure  that  business  relationship  of  an  intermediary  or 
financial  or 
intermediary  or 

research  analyst  or 

interest  of 

trading 

Page 6 of 33 

 

 

 

compensation arrangement of research analyst, etc do not prejudice research 
report  or 
their  recommendations.  Hence,  a  comprehensive  regulatory 
framework  may  be  required  to  address  conflicts  of  interest  and  to  minimize 
market  malpractices  so  that  at  the  end  of  the  day,  impartiality  in  research 
reports is largely ensured. 

 

6.  STRUCTURE OF THE PROPOSED REGULATIONS:  

 

6.1  A  regulatory  framework  is  required  to  ensure  impartial  report,  to  address 
conflict  of  interest,  to  improve  governance  standards,  to  minimize  market 
malpractices  etc.  Accordingly  a  draft  SEBI  (Research  Analyst)  Regulation 
2013 is being proposed which is attached with this concept paper. These draft 
regulations  set  forth  requirements  to  foster  objectivity  and  transparency  in 
security  research  and  provide  investors  with  more  reliable  and  useful 
information to make investment decisions.  
 
The draft regulations intends to register and regulate: 

6.2 

6.3 

6.4 

6.5 

 

 

 

 

 

i. 
ii. 

iii. 

independent research analysts,  
intermediaries  that  employ  research  analysts  and  issues  research 
reports 
research analysts giving recommendations in the public media such as 
television channels, newspapers, etc.  

In  case  of  any  entity  incorporated  outside  India  willing  to  provide  research 
services  in  respect  of  Indian  Companies,  they  have  to  set  up  a  subsidiary  in 
India and make an application for registration through that subsidiary.  

Investment Advisers, Asset Management Companies, Proxy Advisory Service 
providers  and  fund  managers  of  Alternative  Investment  Funds  providing 
research  services  to  their  unit  holders  shall  not  be  required  to  be  registered 
under these regulations. However, if they or their employees or directors make 
commentaries  or  recommendations  through  the  public  media  are  required  to 
comply with chapter III of the draft Regulations. 

The draft Regulations are intended to regulate research analysts. This requires 
clear,  comprehensive  and  prominent  disclosure  of  conflicts  of  interest  in 
research  reports  and  public  appearances  by  research  analysts  including 
limitations  of  dealings, 
etc.  The 
recommendations of IOSCO as contained in its report as referred in Para 3.2 
and  Principle  no.  23  of  IOSCO  principles  as  referred  in  Para  1.1  has  been 
suitably incorporated in the draft regulations. 

compensation, 

restrictions 

on 

 

Page 7 of 33 

 

 

 

 

7.  WAY FORWARD 

 
In  the  light  of  the  above  background,  SEBI  proposes  to  register  and  regulate 
research  analysts  on  the  lines  of  the  proposed  draft  SEBI  (Research  Analyst) 
Regulations, 2013, enclosed with this consultation paper.  
 

8.  PUBLIC COMMENTS 

intermediaries  and 

 
Public  comments  are  invited  on  the  draft  regulations.  All  comments  from  the 
Public will be considered before the proposals are finalized. The Purpose of this 
consultation  paper  is  to  seek  views  of  market  participants  and  other  interested 
parties on the proposed regulatory framework that intends to regulate Research 
Analysts, 
in 
preparation  of  Research  Report  and  giving  opinion  and  recommendations 
concerning a security.  
 
to  Mr. 
The  comments 
T.Venkateshwarlu, Assistant General Manager (venkateshwarlut@sebi.gov.in) or 
may  be  sent  to  the  following  address,  latest  by  December  21,  2013  in  the 
following format:  
 

independent  entities  who  are  engaged 

/  suggestions  on 

this  paper  may  be  emailed 

Sr. No.  Name   Pertains to which regulation/sub-

regulation 

 

 

 

 

          Your letter(s) can be addressed to: 

    

Proposed/  
suggested 
changes 
 

Rationale  

 

Ms. Barnali Mukherjee  
General Manager, 
Investment Management Department - Division of Funds- 1, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), 
Mumbai 400 051 (India). 
 
 
Issued on: November 29, 2013  
 

 
 
 
 
 

Page 8 of 33 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

DRAFT 

SEBI (RESEARCH ANALYST) REGULATIONS, 2013 

In exercise of powers conferred by section 30 of SEBI Act read with clause (b) of sub-section (2) 
of section 12, the Board hereby makes the following regulations, namely; 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title and commencement. 

1.  These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of        India 

(Research Analyst) Regulations, 2013. 
(1) These  regulations  shall  come  into  force  on  the  date  of  their  publication  in  the 

Official Gazette. 

Definitions. 

2. 

In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined 
(1) 
herein  shall  bear  the  meanings  assigned  to  them  below,  and  their  cognate 
expressions shall be construed accordingly,–   

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

 “Act”  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of 
1992); 

"asset management company" means a company as defined under clause(d) 
of Regulation 2 of SEBI( Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996. 

"Board"  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  established 
under section 3 of the Act; 

“body  corporate”  shall  have    the  meaning  assigned  to  it  in  or  under  sub-
section (11) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; 

“certificate”  means  a  certificate  of  registration  granted  under 
regulations; 

these 

(f) 

“change in control” in relation to a company or  a body corporate, means:  

(i)  if  its  shares  are  listed  on  any  recognized  stock  exchange,  change  in 
control within the meaning of clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of 
Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;  

 

Page 9 of 33 

 

(ii) in  any  other  case,  change  in  the  controlling  interest  or  change  in  legal 

form.  

Explanation.─  For  the  purpose  of  sub-clause  (ii),  the  expression  “controlling 
interest”  means  an  interest,  whether  direct  or  indirect,  to  the  extent  of  more  than 
fifty percent of voting rights or interest;  

(g) 

“company” means a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013; 

(h) 

(i) 

(j) 

(k) 

"fund  manager"  includes  fund  mangers  of  a  mutual  fund  or  alternative 
investment fund. 

"independent third-party research report” means a third-party research report, 
in respect of which the person  producing the report: 

(i) 

has  no  affiliation  or  business  or  contractual  relationship  with  the 
distributing 
is 
reasonably likely to inform the content of its research reports; and 

intermediary’s  affiliates 

that 

intermediary  or 

that 

(ii)  makes  content  determinations  without  any  input  from  the  distributing 

intermediary  or that intermediary’s affiliates. 

“inspecting  authority”  means  any  one  or  more  persons  appointed  by  the 
Board  to exercise powers conferred under regulation 26; 

'intermediary’  means  a  person  as  mentioned  in  clause  (b)  and  (ba)  of  sub-
section  (2)  of  section  11  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992  who  are  also  engaged  in 
activity  of  research  analyst  or  issues  any  research  report  or  employs  any 
research analyst. 

(l) 

"investment  adviser"  means  any  person  registered  under  SEBI(Investment 
Advisers) Regulations, 2013. 

(m)   “limited  liability  partnership”  means  a  partnership  formed  and  registered 

under The Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008(6 of  2009); 

(n) 

(o) 

(p) 

(q) 

“merchant/investment  banking  or  brokerage  services”  includes  a  person, 
acting  as  an  underwriter  or  participating  in  a  selling  or  an  offering  for  the 
issuer or otherwise acting in furtherance of a public offer of the issuer; acting 
as  a  financial  adviser  in  a  merger    or  acquisition;  providing  or  arranging 
venture capital or equity or debt lines of credit or serving as placement agent 
for  the  issuer  or  otherwise  acting  in  furtherance  of  a  private  offering  of  the 
issuer or offering brokerage or market making services. 

“NBFC”  means  a  Non-Banking  Financial  Company  regulated  by  Reserve 
Bank of India; 

“NISM”  means  the  National Institute of Securities  Market  established by  the  
Board; 

"proxy  advisory  service  provider"  means  any  person  who  provides  research 
for  proxy  rating  or  provides  research  on  offers,  opinion  concerning  a  public 
offer or provides research or opinion to make informed decisions. 

Page 10 of 33 

 

 

 

(r) 

(s) 

(t) 

(u) 

“public  appearance”  means  any  participation  in  a  conference  call,  seminar, 
forum  (including  an  interactive  electronic  forum)  or  other  public  speaking  
activity or before one or more representatives of the media, a radio, television 
or  print  media  interview,  or  the  writing  of  a  print  media  article,  in  which  a 
research analyst makes a recommendation or offers an opinion concerning a 
security.   
Provided that it does not include a password protected Webcast, conference call or 
similar event with existing clients, if all of the event participants previously received 
the most current research report or other documentation that contains the required 
applicable disclosures, and that the research analyst appearing at the event corrects 
and  updates  during  the  public  appearance  any  disclosures  in  the  research  report 
that are inaccurate, misleading or no longer applicable. 

“public  media”  means  any  media  source  available  to  the  general  public  and 
includes a radio, television or print media.  

"public  offer"  includes  initial  public  offer,  offer  for  sale,  disinvestment, 
takeover, buyback or delisting of securities. 

“research  analyst”    means  a  person  or  his  associate  who  prepares  and/or 
publishes research report or the substance of research report or who makes 
a  recommendation  or  offers  an  opinion  concerning  public  offer  or  provides 
research report or opinion or recommendation concerning securities  that are 
listed or to be listed and are  traded or to be traded in a stock exchange and 
includes:- 

(i) 

(ii) 

an independent research analyst; 

an intermediary that employs any research analyst; and 

(iii) 

an intermediary that issues any research report. 

(v) 

“research report” means any written (including electronic) communication that 
includes  result  of  investment  analysis  of  securities  or  research  or  opinion 
concerning    participation  in  a  public  offer  and  provides  information  having 
reasonably  sufficient  base for  investment decision  and  does not  include  the 
following communications:-  

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

general trends in the securities market; 

discussions on the broad-based indices; 

commentaries on economic, political or market conditions; 

periodic reports or other communications prepared for unit holders  of 
Mutual  Fund  or  Alternative  Investment  Fund  or  clients  of  Portfolio 
Managers and Investment Advisers. 

(v) 

internal  communications  that  are  not  given  to  current  or  prospective 
clients; and 

Page 11 of 33 

 

 

 

 

(vi) 

communications that constitute offer documents or prospectus that are 
circulated under a specific regulation. 

(w)  “research  department”  means  any  department  or  division,  whether  or  not 
identified as such, that is principally responsible for preparing the substance 
of a research report.  

(x) 

(y) 

(z) 

"securities"  means  securities  as  defined  in  clause  (h)  of  section  2  of  the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956. 

 “subject company” means the company whose securities are the subject of a 
research report or a public appearance. 

"stock  exchange"  “  means  a  stock  exchange  which  is  recognised  under 
section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956); 

(aa)   “third-party research report” means a research report that is produced by a 

person  or entity other than the intermediary. 

 

(2)The  words  and  expressions  used  and  not  defined  in  these  regulations  but 
defined in the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the 
Companies Act, 2013, or any rules or regulations made thereunder shall have the 
same meanings  respectively  assigned  to  them  in  those  Acts,  rules  or  regulations 
made  thereunder  or  any  statutory  modification  or  re-enactment  thereto,  as  the 
case may be. 

 

CHAPTER II 

REGISTRATION OF RESEARCH ANALYSTS 

3.  Application for grant of certificate. 

(1)  On and from the commencement of these regulations, no person shall act as an      

Research  Analyst  or  hold  itself  out  as  a  Research  Analyst  unless  he  has 
obtained a   certificate of registration from the Board under these regulations: 

Provided  that  the  Investment  Advisers,  Asset  Management  Companies,  Proxy 
Advisory Service providers and fund managers of Alternative Investment Funds  
shall not be required to be registered under these regulations.  

Provided further that the Investment Advisers, Asset Management Companies, 
Proxy Advisory Service Providers and fund managers of Alternative Investment 
Funds or their employees or directors  who make public  appearance or appear 
in public media for giving opinion or recommendations on security or  on public 
offers or whose research report is circulated or distributed  to public or general 
investors shall comply with Chapter III of these Regulations. 

(2)  An application for grant of certificate of registration shall be made in Form A as 
specified  in  the  First  Schedule  to  these  regulations  and  shall  be  accompanied 

 

Page 12 of 33 

 

 

by  a  non-refundable  application  fee  to  be  paid  in  the  manner  specified  in 
Second Schedule.  

4.  Furnishing of further information, clarification and personal representation. 

(1)  The Board may require the applicant to furnish further information or clarification 
for the purpose of consideration of the application filed under sub-regulation (2) 
of regulation 3. 

(2)  The  applicant  or  his  authorised  representative,  if  so  required,  shall  appear 

before the Board for personal representation. 

5.  Consideration of application and eligibility criteria.  

For  the  purpose  of  the  grant  of  certificate  the  Board  shall  take  into  account  all 
matters which are relevant to the grant of certificate of registration and in particular 
the following, namely:- 

(i)  whether the applicant is an individual or a body corporate or a firm; 

(ii)  whether in case the applicant is an individual, he is appropriately qualified and 

certified as specified in regulation 6;  

(iii) whether in case the applicant is a body corporate, all the representatives of the 
applicant who provide research analysis are appropriately qualified and certified 
as specified in regulation 6; 

(iv) whether  in  case  the  applicant  is  a  firm  or  a  limited  liability  partnership,  all 
partners who fall under definition of research analyst are qualified and certified 
as specified in regulation 6.  

(v) whether the applicant fulfills the capital adequacy requirements as specified in 

regulation 7;  

(vi) whether  the  applicant,  its  representatives  and  partners,  if  any,    are  fit  and 
proper  persons  based  on  the  criteria  as  specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; 

(vii) whether the applicant has the necessary infrastructure to effectively discharge 

the activities of Research Analyst; 

(viii) whether  the  applicant  or  any  person  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with  the 
applicant  has  in  the  past  been  refused  certificate  by  the  Board  and  if  so,  the 
grounds for such refusal;  

(ix) whether  any  disciplinary  action  has  been  taken  by  the  Board  or  any  other 
regulatory  authority  against  any  person  directly  or  indirectly  connected  to  the 
applicant under the respective Act, rules or regulations made thereunder;  

(x) In  case  an  entity  incorporated  outside  India  providing  research  report  or 
engaged  in  research activity  under these  regulations,  whether,  it has  set up a 
subsidiary  in  India  and  whether  such  subsidiary  has  made  the  application  for 
registration; 

 

Page 13 of 33 

 

 

(xi) In  case  a  foreign  citizen  proposes  to  provide  research  report  or  engaged  in 
research activity in respect of securities listed or proposed to be listed in India, 
whether  the  applicant  has  set  up  an  office  in  India  and  proposes  to  provide 
research services through such office. 

6.  Qualification and certification requirement. 

(1)  An  individual  registered  as  a  research  analyst  under  these  regulations  and 
partners  and  representatives  of  a 
these 
regulations  offering  research  analysis  services  in  securities  shall  have  the 
following minimum qualifications, at all times: 

intermediary  registered  under 

(i)  A professional qualification or post-graduate degree or post graduate diploma 
in  finance,  accountancy,  business  management,  commerce,  economics, 
capital market, banking, insurance or actuarial science provided by: 
(a) a  University  which  is  recognized  by  University  Grants  Commission  or  by 
any  other  Commission/Council/Board/Body  established  under  an  Act  of 
Parliament in India for the purpose or 

(b) an institute/association affiliated with such University; or 
(c) an institute/ Association/University established by the Central government 

or State government in India; or 

(d) autonomous  institutes  falling  under  administrative  control  of  Government 

of India; or 

(ii)  professional  qualification  or  post-graduate  degree  or  post  graduate  diploma 
which  is  accredited  by  All  Indian  Council  for  Technical  Education,  National 
Assessment and Accreditation Council or National Board of Accreditation or 
any other Council/Board/Body set up under an Act of Parliament in India for 
the purpose; or 

(iii)  professional  qualification/post-graduate  degree/post  graduate  diploma 
provided  by  a  university/  institution  /association  which  is  recognized/ 
accredited    by  a  foreign  government  or  recognized/  accredited  by  any 
corporate/  institute  which  has  been  created/recognized  by    such  foreign 
government for the purpose; or 

(iv)  A  graduate  in  any  discipline  with  an  experience  of  at  least  eight  years  in 
activities  relating  to  financial  products  or  securities  or  fund  or  asset  or 
portfolio management.  

(2)  An individual registered as a research analyst and partners and representatives 
of  intermediary  registered  under  these  regulations    shall  have,  at  all  times,  a 
NISM Certification Examination for Research Analysts as specified by the Board 
or other certification recognized by the Board from time to time.   

Provided  that  the  existing  Research  Analysts  seeking  registration  under  these 
regulations  shall  ensure  that  their  partners  and  representatives  obtain  such 
certification  within  two  years  from  the  date  of  commencement  of  these 
regulations:  

 

Page 14 of 33 

 

 

Provided  further  that  fresh  certification  must  be  obtained  before  expiry  of  the 
validity  of  the  existing  certification  to  ensure  continuity  in  compliance  with 
certification requirements.  

7.  Capital adequacy. 

(1)  Research Analysts which are body corporates shall have a net worth of not less 

than fifty lakh rupees. 

Explanation.─  For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation,  "networth"  means  the 
aggregate value of paid up share capital plus free reserves (excluding reserves 
created  out  of  revaluation)  reduced  by  the  aggregate  value  of  accumulated 
losses. 

(2)  Research  Analysts  who  are  individuals  or  partnership  firms  shall  have  net 

tangible assets of value not less than rupees five lakh:  

Provided that existing Research Analyst shall comply with the capital adequacy 
requirement  within  one  year  from  the  date  of  commencement  of  these 
regulations.  

8.  Grant of certificate of registration. 

The Board on being satisfied that the applicant complies with the requirements specified in 
regulation 6 and 7 shall send intimation to the applicant and on receipt of the payment of 
registration/renewal fees as specified in Second Schedule, grant certificate of registration 
in Form B under First Schedule, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may 
deem fit and appropriate. 

9.  Period of validity of certificate. 

The certificate of registration granted under regulation 8 shall be valid for a period 
of five years from the date of its issue. 

10.  Renewal of certificate. 

(1)  Three  months  before  the  expiry  of  the  period  of  validity  of  the  certificate,  the 
research analyst may, if he so desires, make an application in Form A for grant 
of renewal of certificate of registration. 

(2)  The  application  for  renewal  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  dealt  with  in  the 
same  manner  as  if  it  were  an  application  made  under  sub-regulation  (2)  of 
regulation 3 for grant of certificate.  

11.  Procedure where registration is refused. 

(1)  After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the 
opinion that a certificate should not be granted to the applicant, it may reject the 
application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 

(2)  The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the 

applicant within thirty days of such decision. 

 

Page 15 of 33 

 

 

(3)  Where  an  application  for  a  certificate  is  rejected  by  the  Board,  the  applicant 

shall forthwith cease to act as a research analyst. 

Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall affect the liability of the 
applicant towards its existing clients under law. 

12.  Conditions of certificate. 

The  certificate  granted  under  regulation  8  shall,  inter  alia,  be  subject  to  the 
following conditions:-   

(i)  the research analyst or intermediary shall abide by the provisions of the Act and 

these regulations;  

(ii)  the research analyst or intermediary  shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, 
if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to 
be  false  or  misleading  in  any  material  particular  or  if  there  is  any  material 
change in the information already submitted; 

(iii) individuals registered as research analysts shall use the term ‘research analyst’ 

in all their correspondences with their clients. 

13.  Recognition of body or body corporate for regulation of Research Analysts.   

(1)  The  Board  may  recognize  any  body  or  body  corporate  for  the  purpose  of 

regulating Research Analysts. 

(2)  The  Board  may,  at  the  time  of  recognition  of  such  body  or  body  corporate, 
delegate  administration  and  supervision  of  research  analysts  to  such  body  or 
body corporate on such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board.  
(3)  The Board may specify that no person shall act as research analyst unless he is 
a member of a recognized body or body corporate and in such event, provisions 
of  these  regulations  and  byelaws  or  articles  of  such  body  or  body  corporate 
shall apply mutatis mutandis to such research analyst. 

 

CHAPTER III 

CONFLICT AVOIDANCE AND DISCLOSURES 

14.  Establishing Policies and Procedures  

(1) Research Analyst or the intermediary  shall establish, maintain written policies 
and  control  procedures  governing  the  dealing  and  trading  by  any  research 
analyst  with  a  view  to  eliminating  ,  avoiding,  managing  or  disclosing  actual  or 
potential conflicts of interest arising from such dealings or trading.   

(2) The  policies  and  procedures  under  sub  regulation  (1)  shall  be  reasonably 
designed to promote objective and reliable research that reflects the truly held 
opinions  of  research  analysts  and  to  prevent  the  use  of  research  reports  or 
research analysts to manipulate or condition the market or favour the interests 
of  the  Research  Analyst  or  intermediary  or  certain  current  or  prospective 
clients. 

 

Page 16 of 33 

 

 

(3) Policies  and  procedures  referred  to  in  sub  regulation  (1)  shall  prohibit  pre-
publication  of  research  reports  by  other  than  the  persons  engaged  in 
preparation of research report. 

15.  Limitations on dealings by Research  Analysts 

(1) Research  Analyst  or  the  intermediary  shall  not  deal  in  or  trade  any  securities 
that  the  research  analyst  recommends  or follows  within  30  days  before  and 5 
days after the publication of a research report on the subject company or in a 
manner contrary to the recommendation. 

(2) Research Analyst  or the intermediary shall not publish or recommend security 
of  a  subject  company  wherein  the  Research  Analyst  or  the  intermediary  had 
dealt in or traded the concerned securities within previous 30 days.  

(3) Research  Analyst  or  the  intermediary  shall  not  purchase  or  receive  any 
securities before the issuer's initial public offering or further offering if the issuer 
is  principally  engaged  in  the  same  types  of  business  as  companies  that  the 
research analyst follows. 

Provided  that  Research  Analyst  or  the  intermediary  shall  deal  in  or  trade  in 
such securities only in exceptional circumstances as specified in its policies and 
procedures. 

16.  Restrictions on Research  Analyst Compensation 

(1) Research Analyst or the intermediary shall ensure that the compensation of the 
is  neither  determined  nor  based  on  any  specific 

research  analysts 
merchant/investment banking or brokerage transactions; 

(2) The  compensation  of  a  research  analyst  shall  be  reviewed,  documented  and 
approved  annually  by    the  board  of  directors,  or  if  no  board  of  directors,  by  a 
chief executive officer.   

(3) Research  Analyst  or  the  intermediary  shall  not  subject  to  the  supervision  or 
control  of  any  employee  of  the  merchant/  investment  banking  department  or 
brokerage  house,  and  no  personnel  engaged  in  merchant/investment  banking 
or  brokerage  activities  may  have  any 
the 
compensatory evaluation of a research analyst. 

influence  or  control  over 

(4) Research  Analyst  or  the  intermediary  shall  not  receive  pay  bonus,  salary  or 
other form  of  compensation  that  is  linked  to  any  specific  merchant/investment 
banking transaction. 

(5) Research  Analyst  or  the  intermediary  shall  not  directly  or  indirectly  offer 
favourable research to a company or in respect of a security or public offer as 
consideration or inducement for the receipt of business or compensation. 

17.  Limitations  on  Publication  of  Research  Reports  and  Restrictions  on  Public 

Appearances by Research Analyst:- 

 

Page 17 of 33 

 

 

(1) Research Analyst or the intermediary shall not submit a research report to the 

subject company before its publication. 

Provided that some sections of such a research report may be submitted to the 
subject  company  before  its  publication  for  review  as  necessary  only  to  verify 
the factual accuracy of information in those sections. 

(2) Research  Analyst  or  the  intermediary  shall  notify  one  day  prior  whenever  he 

intends to change the recommendation on the subject company's securities. 

(3) Research Analyst or the intermediary shall not issue research reports and shall 
not  make  public  appearance  regarding  a  subject  company  for  which  he  acted 
as  a  merchant  banker,  underwriter,  lead  manager,  dealer  in  a  initial  public 
offering for a period of 50 days from the date of completion of such offering or 
for 10 days for a secondary offering.  

(4) Research  Analyst  or  the  intermediary  shall  not  directly  or  indirectly  solicit 
merchant/investment  banking  business  with  prospective  clients,  or  share  any 
communications with the companies.  

(5) Research  Analyst  or  the  intermediary  shall  be  prohibited  from  directly  or 
indirectly  participating  in  a  road  show  related  to  merchant/investment  banking 
services transaction.  

(6) Research  Analyst  or  the  intermediary  shall  not  engage  in  any  communication 
with  a  current  or  prospective  client  in  the  presence  of    merchant/investment 
banking  personnel  or  company  management  about  the  merchant/investment 
banking services transaction.  

(7) Research Analyst or the intermediary shall not engage in sales or marketing  of  
merchant/investment  banking  services  transaction  including  engaging  in  any 
communication with a current or prospective clients about the same. 

18.  Content in Research Reports 

(1) Research  Analyst  or  an  intermediary  shall  ensure facts  in  its  research  reports 
are  based  on  reliable  information  and    shall  define  the  terms  used  in  making 
recommendations, and these terms should be consistently used. 

(2) Research Analyst or an intermediary that employs a rating system must clearly 
define  in  each  research  report  the  meaning  of  each  rating  in  the  system, 
including the time horizon and any benchmarks on which a rating is based. 

(3) If  a  research  report  contains  either  a  rating  or  price  target  for  a  subject 
company’s security, and the Research Analyst or intermediary has assigned a 
rating  or  price  target  to  the  security  for  at  least  one  year,  the  research  report 
must include the graph of security’s daily closing prices for the period assigned 
or for a three-year period, whichever  is shorter. 

 

 

 

Page 18 of 33 

 

 

19.  Disclosures in Research Reports 

(1) Research  Analyst  or  an  intermediary  shall  disclose  in  the  research  report  the 
valuation  methods  used  to  determine  the  price  target,  if  any,    that  has  a 
reasonable basis and shall be accompanied by a disclosure concerning the risk 
that may impede achievement of the price target. 

(2) Research  Analyst  or  an  intermediary  that  makes  market  in  a  securities  in 

respect of a subject company, the fact shall be disclosed. 

(3) Research Analyst or an intermediary shall disclose: 

(i)  if  the  research  analyst  or  a  intermediary  of  the  research  analyst’s  close 
relative  has  a  financial  interest  in  the  debt  or  equity  securities  of  the 
subject company, and the nature of such interest; 

(ii)  if  the  research  analyst  or  a  intermediary  or  its  employees  serves  as  an 

officer of the subject company 

(iii) if the research analyst or any affiliate received compensation based  upon 

the intermediary’s other activities  revenues in the previous 12 months; 

(iv) if,  the  subject  company  currently  is,  or  during  the  12-month  period 
preceding  the  date  of  publication  or  distribution  of  the  research  report, 
was, a client of the intermediary; 

(v) if  a  research  analyst  or  an  intermediary  has  managed  or  co-managed  a 
public offering  or any takeover, buyback or delisting offer  of securities for 
the subject company in the past 12 months and/or received compensation 
for investment banking or brokerage services  from the subject company in 
the past 12 months;  

(vi) if  a  research  analyst  or  an  intermediary  expects  to  receive  or  intends  to 
seek compensation for investment banking or brokerage services from the 
subject company in the next three months; 

(vii)  If a research analyst or an intermediary has  any financial interest in the 
debt  or  equity  securities  of  the  subject  Company  and  such  interests 
aggregate to an amount equal to or more than 1% of the equity securities 
of the subject Company; 

(viii) any  other  material  conflict  of  interest  of  the  research  analyst  or 
intermediary  that  the  research  analyst  or  an  associated  person    of  the 
intermediary  with  the  ability  to  influence  the  content  of  a  research  report 
knows or has reason to know at the time of the publication or distribution 
of a research report. 

(4) All the disclosures under these regulation shall be made by a research analyst 

or an intermediary in public appearance. 

(5) Research Analyst or an intermediary shall not be required to make a disclosure 
to  the  extent  such  disclosure  would  reveal  material  non-public  information 
regarding specific potential investment banking or brokerage transactions of the 
subject company. 

 

Page 19 of 33 

 

 

(6) Research  Analyst  or  an  intermediary  shall  not  be  held  responsible,  if  relevant 
disclosures  have  been  made  and  their  report  is  published  or  reproduced  in 
whole or in part in the public media without the relevant disclosures. 

20.  Recommendations in public media  

(1) All the provisions of regulation 14 to 19 mutatis mutandis shall apply to 
Research  Analyst  or  an  intermediary  or  an  asset  management 
company  or  fund  manger  of  Alternative  Investment  Fund,  Proxy 
Advisory Service Providers or their employees or directors who  makes 
commentaries  or  recommendations  concerning  securities  or  public 
offers through public media:- 
(i)  When they provide analyses or comments in public media in their personal 
capacity, they shall disclose their name, their registration status if any, and 
the details of financial interest if any, at the time of provision of analyses or 
comments. 

(ii)  When  they  respond  in  personal  capacity  to  queries  from  audiences  and 

journalists 

(i)  When they communicate the research report or substance of the research 

report through the public media. 

21. 

 Distribution of  Research Reports 

(1) A  research  report  shall  not  be  distributed  selectively  to  internal  trading 
personnel or a particular client or class of clients in advance of other clients that 
are entitled to receive the research report. 

(2) Research Analyst or an intermediary distributing any third-party research report 
shall  establish  written  policies  and  procedures  reasonably  designed  to  ensure 
the completeness and accuracy of all applicable disclosures. 

(3) An  intermediary’s  obligation  to  review  a  third-party  research  report  extends  to 
any  untrue  statement  of  material  fact  or  any  false  or  misleading  information 
that: 

(i)  should be known from reading  the report; or 
(ii)  is  known  based  on 

information  otherwise  possessed  by 

the    

intermediary. 

(4) An  intermediary  which  distributes  any  third  party  research  report,  shall 
accompany  the  third-party  research  report  it  distributes,  or  provide  a  web 
address that directs a recipient to, disclosure of any material conflict of interest 
that can reasonably be expected to have influenced the choice of a third party 
research provider or the subject company of a third-party research report. 

(5) An intermediary shall not be required to follow provisions of sub regulation (1) 
to (3) of regulation 21 and not required to review a third-party research report if 
such research report is an independent third-party research report. 

 

 

 

Page 20 of 33 

 

 

22.  Termination of Coverage 

(1) Research Analyst or an intermediary shall promptly notify its clients if it intends 

to terminate coverage of a subject company.  

(2) The  notice  under  sub regulation  (1)  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  final  research 
report, comparable in scope and detail to prior research reports, and include a 
final recommendation or rating.   

(3) If  impracticable  to  provide  a  final  research  report,  recommendation  or  rating, 
Research Analyst  or an intermediary shall disclose to its clients, its reason for 
terminating coverage. 

 

23.  General responsibility. 

CHAPTER IV 

GENERAL OBLIGATION 

(1) Research  Analyst  or  an  intermediary  shall  act  in  a  fiduciary  capacity 
towards  its  clients  and  shall  disclose  all  conflicts  of  interests  as  and 
when they arise on and suitably address the same. 

(2) Research  Analyst  or  an  intermediary  shall  maintain  an  arms-length 
relationship between its research activity and other activities which may 
impair its neutrality in respect of activity as Research Analyst. 

(3) Research Analyst or an intermediary shall abide by Code of Conduct as 

specified in Third Schedule. 

(4)  In  case  of  change  in  control  of  the  Research  Analyst  or  an 

intermediary, prior approval from the Board shall be taken.  

(5) Research  Analyst  or  an  intermediary  shall  furnish  to  the  Board 
information and reports as may be specified by the Board from time to 
time. 

(6) It shall be the responsibility of the Research Analyst or an intermediary 
to ensure that its employees or  partners, preparing research report as 
applicable,  comply  with  the  certification  and  qualification  requirements 
under Regulation 6 at all times. 

24.  Maintenance of records. 

(1)  Research  Analyst  or  an  intermediary  shall  maintain  the  following 

records,- 

(i)  Research Report prepared; 

(ii)  Research recommendation provided, whether written or oral; 

(iii) Rationale for arriving at research recommendation; 

(iv) Record of Public appearances. 

(2)  All  records  shall  be  maintained  either  in  physical  or  electronic  form   

and preserved for a minimum period of five years: 
Provided  that  where  records  are  required  to  be  duly  signed  and  are      
maintained in electronic form, such records shall be digitally signed. 

 

Page 21 of 33 

 

 

(3) Research  Analyst  shall  conduct  yearly  audit  in  respect  of  compliance 
with these regulations from practicing member of Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India or Institute of Company Secretaries of India. 

25.  Appointment of compliance officer. 

Research  Analyst  or  an  intermediary  which  is  a  body  corporate  or  a  partnership 
firm shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the 
compliance  by  the  Research  Analyst  in  respect  of  the  requirements  of  the  Act, 
regulations, notifications, guidelines, instructions issued by the Board.  

 

CHAPTER V 

INSPECTION 

26.  Board’s right to inspect.  

The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one 
or  more  persons  as  inspecting  authority  to  undertake  inspection  of  the  books  of 
accounts, records and documents relating to Research Analyst or an intermediary 
for any of the following reasons, namely: -   

(i)  to  ensure  that  the  books  of  account,  records  and  documents  are  being 
maintained  by  the  Research  Analyst  in  the  manner  specified  in  these 
regulations;   

(ii)  to inspect into complaints received from clients or any other person, on any 

matter having a bearing on the activities of the Research Analyst;   

(iii) to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act  and  these  regulations  are 

being complied with by the Research Analyst;   

(iv) to  inspect  into  the  affairs  of  Research  Analyst,  in  the  interest  of  the 

securities market or in the interest of investors. 

27.  Notice before inspection.  

(1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 26, the Board shall give 
not  less  than  seven  days  notice  to  the    Research  Analyst  or  an 
intermediary.   

(2) Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  where  the 
Board  is  satisfied  that  in  the  interest  of  the  investors  no  such  notice 
should be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection 
of the affairs of the  Research Analyst or an intermediary   be taken up 
without such notice.   

(3) During  the  course  of  an  inspection,  the  Research  Analyst  or  an 
intermediary against whom the inspection is being carried out shall be 
bound to discharge its obligations as provided in regulation 28.   
 

 

Page 22 of 33 

 

 

28.  Obligation of Research Analyst on inspection.  

(1) It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  Research  Analyst  or  an  intermediary  in 
respect of whom an inspection has been ordered under the regulation 
26  and  any  other  associate  person  who  is  in  possession  of  relevant 
information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such Research Analyst 
including representative of Research Analyst, if any, to produce to the 
inspecting  authority  such  books, accounts and  other documents  in  his 
custody  or  control  and 
furnish  him  with  such  statements  and 
information as the inspecting authority may require for the purposes of 
inspection.   

(2) It shall be the duty of every  Research Analyst or an intermediary  and 
any other associate person who is in possession of relevant information 
pertaining to conduct and affairs of the research analyst to give to the 
inspecting  authority  all  such  assistance  and  shall  extend  all  such  co-
operation  as  may  be  required  in  connection  with  the  inspection  and 
shall  furnish  such  information  as  sought  by  the  inspecting  authority  in 
connection with the inspection.   

(3) The  inspecting  authority  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  inspection,  have 
power to examine on oath and record the statement of any employees, 
directors,  partners  or  person  responsible  for  or  connected  with  the 
activities of Research Analyst or an intermediary or any other associate 
person having relevant information pertaining to such research analyst. 
(4) The  inspecting  authority  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  inspection,  have 
power to obtain authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of 
Research Analyst or an intermediary, from any person having control or 
custody of such documents, books or accounts. 

29.  Submission of report to the Board. 

The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection 
submit an inspection report to the Board: 
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, the inspecting authority may submit 
an interim report.   

30.  Action on the inspection report. 

The  Board  may  after  consideration  of  the  inspection  report  and  after  giving 
reasonable  opportunity  of  hearing  to  the  Research  Analyst  or  its  authorized 
representatives,  without  prejudice  to  any  other  action  under  the  Act,  issue  such 
directions  as  it  deems  fit  in  the  interest  of  securities  market  or  the  investors 
including,-  

(i)  requiring  Research  Analyst  or  an  intermediary  not  to  provide  research 

recommendation for a particular period;  

(ii)  requiring  the  Research  Analyst  or  an  intermediary  to  refund  any  money  
collected as fees, charges or commissions or otherwise  to the concerned 
clients along with the requisite interest. 

 

Page 23 of 33 

 

 

(iii) prohibiting the Research Analyst or an intermediary  from operating in the 

capital market or accessing the capital market for a specified period.  

CHAPTER VI 

PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 

31.  Liability for action in case of default. 

Research Analyst who - 

(i)  contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or any regulations or circulars 

issued thereunder; 

(ii)  fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as a research analyst 

as required by the Board; 

(iii) furnishes  to  the  Board  information  which  is  false  or  misleading  in  any 

material particular; 

(iv) does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board; 

(v) does not co-operate in any enquiry, inspection or investigation conducted 

by the Board; 

(vi) fails to resolve the complaints of clients or fails to give a satisfactory reply 
to  the  Board  in  this  behalf,  shall  be  dealt  with  in  the  manner  provided 
under  the  Act  or    the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.  

CHAPTER VII 

MISCELLANEOUS 

32.  Power of the Board to issue clarifications etc. 

In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of  these 
regulations,  the  Board  may  issue  clarifications  and  guidelines  in  the  form  of 
circulars. 

33.  Power of the Board over body or body corporate recognized under Regulation 

13. 

The  Board  reserves  the  right  to  alter,  modify  and  overrule  any  decision,  action 
taken  or  penalties  imposed  by  the  body  or  body  corporate  recognized  under 
regulation 13. 

 

 

 

 

Page 24 of 33 

 

 

FIRST SCHEDULE 

FORM A 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Research Analyst) Regulations, 2013 

[See Regulations 3(2) and 10] 

Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration/Renewal  as Research Analyst 

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

SEBI Bhavan, C4-A, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),  Mumbai 400051 - India 

 

INSTRUCTIONS 

1.  This form is meant for use by the applicant for grant of certificate of registration as 

an Research Analyst. 

2.  The  applicant  should  complete  this  form,  and  submit  it,  along  with  all  supporting 

documents to the Board at its head office at Mumbai. 

3.  This application form should be filled in accordance with these regulations. 

4.  The  application  shall  be  considered  by  the  Board  provided  it  is  complete  in  all 

respects. 

5.  All  answers  must  be  legible  and  all  the  pages  must  be  numbered  with  signature/ 

stamp on each page of the form. 

6.  Information  which  needs  to  be  supplied  in  more  detail  may  be  given  on  separate 
sheets  which  should  be  attached  to  the  application  form  and  appropriately 
numbered. 

7.  The application must be signed. 

8.  The  application  must  be  accompanied  by  an  application  fee  as  specified  in  the 

Second Schedule to these regulations. 

1.  GENERAL INFORMATION 

(a) Name,  address  of  the  registered  office,  address  for  correspondence  and 
principal  place  of  business,  telephone  number(s),  fax  number(s),  e-mail 
address of the applicant.  

 

Page 25 of 33 

 

 

(b) Whether application is for registration/ renewal. Provide registration number if 

the application is for renewal of certificate. 

(c) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s). 

(d) Legal  structure  of  applicant  -  Whether  the  applicant  is  an  individual,  body 
corporate (including company), partnership firm or limited liability partnership.  

(e) Whether the applicant is a bank /NBFC. 

(f)  Date  and  place  of  incorporation/  establishment,  if  any.  If  the  applicant  is 

incorporated outside India, details of such incorporation. 

(g) Whether  the  applicant  is  engaged  in  research  activity  prior  to  making 

application under these regulations.  

(h) Whether  the  applicant  is  registered  with  SEBI,  RBI,  IRDA  or  PFRDA  in  any 

capacity. If so, details of such registration. 

(i)  Write-up on the activities of the applicant.  

 

2.  DETAILS  OF  APPLICANT  (Provide  details  of  only  the  section  applicable  to 

you) 
I. In case applicant is an individual: 

1.  Whether the applicant has: 

diploma 

in 

a.  A  professional  qualification  or  post-graduate  degree  or  post 
business 
graduate 
management,  commerce,  economics,  capital  market,  banking, 
insurance  or  actuarial  science  from  a  university  or  an  institution 
recognized by the Central Government or any State Government 
or a recognised foreign university or institution or association; or  

accountancy, 

finance, 

b.  A  graduate  in  any  discipline  with  an  experience  of  at  least  five 
years  in  activities  relating  to  research  analysis,  fund or  asset  or 
portfolio  management,  rating,  investment  banking  or  brokerage 
services ; 

(Provide self certified copies of supporting documents). 

2.  Copy of certification obtained in accordance with regulation 6(2).  

(If  the  applicant  is  a  existing  research  analyst  applying  for  fresh 
registration,  then  provide  a  declaration  stating  that  it  shall  obtain  such 
certification within two years from the date  of commencement of these 
regulations and submit a copy of the certification to the Board within 15 
days of receipt of such certification.) 

3.  Number  of  employees  of  the  applicant,  if  any,  who  shall  engage  in 
research  analysis  under  these  regulations  on  behalf  of  the  applicant. 
Provide  documents  as  mentioned  in  points  (1)  to  (2)  above  for  such 
employees/ agents. 

4.  Enclose identity proof and address proof of the applicant. 

 

Page 26 of 33 

 

5.  Details  of  ownership/directorship  of  the  applicant  in  any  companies  or 

partnership interest in any firm or limited liability partnership. 

6.  Copy of Income Tax Return/ Copy of Form 16 for the last 3 years. 
7.  Copy of assets and liabilities statement and certification of net tangible 
assets  certified  by  a  chartered  accountant  (not  more  than  six  months 
old  at  the  time  of  filing  of  application).  Please  note  that  membership 
number of the Chartered accountant must be included in the certificate,  
 

II. In case applicant is a company: 

1.  Shareholding pattern and profile of the directors (Enclose identity proof 

and address proof of the directors). 

2.  Number of employees and agents of the applicant (hereinafter referred 
to  as  ‘representatives’)  who  shall  engage  in  research  analysis  under 
these regulations on behalf of the applicant.  

3.  Declaration  by  the  applicant  that  its  representatives  currently  comply 
with  the  certification  and  qualification  requirements  under  regulation  6. 
(If  the  applicant  is  an  existing  research  analyst  applying  for  fresh 
registration,  then  provide  a  declaration  stating  that  the  applicant  shall 
ensure  that  all  its  representatives  obtain  such  certification  within  two 
years from the date of commencement of these regulations and after all 
its  representatives  obtain  the  certification,  a  declaration  to  that  effect 
shall be submitted to SEBI.) 

4.  Declaration by the applicant that it shall ensure that its representatives 
comply  with  the  certification  and  qualification  requirements  under 
Regulation 6 at all times.  

5.  List  of  associated  companies  registered  with  SEBI,  RBI,  IRDA  or 

PFRDA along with the registration number. 

6.  If  applicant  is  a  bank  or  NBFC,  then  copy  of  approval  from  RBI  for 

undertaking research activity. 

7.  Net  worth  certificate  by  a  chartered  accountant,  not  more  than  six 
months  old.  Please  note  that  membership  number  of  the  chartered 
accountant must be included in the certificate, 

  

III. In case applicant is a partnership firm or a limited liability partnership: 

1.  Names  and  Beneficial  ownership  pattern  of 

the  partners 
engaged/proposed  to  engage  in  research  analysis  (Enclose  identity 
proof and address proof of the partners). 
 

2.  Whether the aforesaid partners have: 

a.  A  professional  qualification  or  post-graduate  degree  or  post 
graduate 
business 
management,  commerce,  economics,  capital  market,  banking, 
insurance  or  actuarial  science  from  a  university  or  an  institution 

accountancy, 

finance, 

diploma 

in 

Page 27 of 33 

 

 

 

recognized by the Central Government or any State Government 
or a recognised foreign university or institution or association; or  

b.  A  graduate  in  any  discipline  with  an  experience  of  at  least  five 
years in activities relating to research analysis or fund or asset or 
portfolio management, rating or investment banking or brokerage 
services ; 

(Provide self certified copies of supporting documents). 
 

3.  Copy  of  certification  obtained  by  the  aforesaid  partners  in  accordance 

with regulation 6(2).  
(If  the  applicant  is  an  existing  research  analyst  applying  for  fresh 
registration,  then  provide  a  declaration  stating  that  all  the  partners 
engaged  in  research  analysis  shall  obtain  such  certification  within  two 
years from the date of commencement of these regulations and after all 
such partners obtain the certification, a declaration to that effect shall be 
submitted to SEBI.) 
 

4.  Declaration  that  the  aforesaid  partners  shall  obtain  fresh  certification 
before  expiry  of  the  validity  of  the  existing  certification  to  ensure 
continuity in compliance with certification requirements.  
 

5.  Copy of assets and liabilities statement and certification of net tangible 
assets  of  the  partnership  firm  certified  by  a  chartered  accountant  (not 
more  than  six  months  old  at  the  time  of  filing  of  application).  Please 
note  that  membership  number  of  the  chartered  accountant  must  be 
included in the certificate. 

 
IV.  In  case  applicant  is  a  body  corporate  (other  than  company  or  limited 
liability partnership): 

1.  Shareholding pattern and profile of the directors (Enclose identity proof 

and address proof of the directors). 

2.  Whether  the  applicant  is  set  up  or  established  under  the  laws  of  the 
Central  or  State  Legislature  and  whether  the  applicant  is  permitted  to 
carry on of the activity of a research analyst (Enclose relevant extract of 
the relevant Statute/Act). 

3.  Number  of  employees  of  the  applicant  (hereinafter  referred  to  as 
‘representatives’)  who  are  engaged/  propose  to  engage  in  research 
analysis under these regulations on behalf of the applicant.  

4.  Declaration  by  the  applicant  that  its  representatives  currently  comply 
with  the  certification  and  qualification  requirements  under  regulation  6. 
(If  the  applicant  is  an  existing  research  analyst  applying  for  fresh 
registration,  then  provide  a  declaration  stating  that  the  applicant  shall 
ensure  that  all  its  representatives  obtain  such  certification  within  two 
years from the date of commencement of these regulations and after all 

Page 28 of 33 

 

 

 

 

its  representatives  obtain  the  certification,  a  declaration  to  that  effect 
shall be submitted to SEBI.) 

5.  Declaration by the applicant that it shall ensure that its representatives 
comply  with  the  certification  and  qualification  requirements  under 
regulation 6 at all times.  

6.  Net  worth  certificate  by  a  chartered  accountant,  not  more  than  six 
months  old.  Please  note  that  membership  number  of  the  chartered 
accountant must be included in the certificate. 

3.  DETAILS OF INFRASTRUCTURE  

1.  Details  of  office  space,  office  equipment,  furniture  and  fixtures, 
communication  facilities,  research  capacity,  research  software  for 
undertaking research analysis. 

2.  Declaration  that  the  applicant  has  the  necessary  infrastructure  to 

effectively discharge the activities of research analyst. 
 

4.  OTHER INFORMATION/DECLARATIONS/ REGULATORY ACTIONS 

 

(a)  Details of all settled and pending disputes in the last 5 years. 
(b)  Whether any previous application for grant of certificate made by any person directly or 
indirectly connected with the applicant has been rejected by the Board; If yes,  provide 
details of the same. 

(c)  Whether  any  disciplinary  action  has  been  taken  by  the  Board  or  any  other  regulatory 
authority against any person directly or indirectly connected with the applicant under the 
Act or the regulations made there under in the last 5 years. If yes, provide details of the 
action. 

(d)  Whether the applicant/directors/promoters/ partners have been indicted/involved in any 

economic offence in the last 5 years. If yes, provide details of the same. 

(e)  A  credit  report/  score  from  CIBIL  for  the  applicant.(For  applicants  other  than  financial 

institutions & banking companies) 

(f)  Declaration that the applicant, its representatives and partners, if any, are fit and proper 
persons based on the criteria as specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; 

(g)  Declaration  that  the  applicant  shall  comply  with  Regulation  14  with  respect  to  the 

provisions pertaining to identifying and managing conflict of interest; 

(h)  Declaration  that  the  applicant  shall  comply  with  Regulation  15  and  16  with  respect  to 

the disclosures to be made in the research reports and public appearances; 

(i)  Declaration  that  the  applicant  shall  adhere  to  the  responsibilities  prescribed  in 

Regulation 20; and 

(j)  Any  other  information  considered  relevant  to  the  nature  of services  to  be  rendered  by 

the applicant. 

 

5.  DECLARATION STATEMENT  

I/We  hereby  agree  and  declare  that  the  information  supplied  in  the  application, 
including the attachment sheets, is complete and true. 

 

Page 29 of 33 

 

 

AND I/ we further agree that, I/we shall notify the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India immediately any change in the information provided in the application. 
I/ We further agree that I/ we shall comply with, and be bound by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, and the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(research analyst) Regulations, 2013, guidelines/instructions as may be announced 
by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time. 
I/  We  further  agree  that  as  a  condition  of  registration,  I/  we  shall  abide  by  such 
operational instructions/directives as may be issued by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India from time to time. 
 

For and on behalf of____________________________________________________ 

(Name of the applicant) 

Authorized signatory/ Applicant 

(Signature) 

(Date and Place) 

 

Form B 

 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Research Analyst) Regulations, 2013 

[See Regulation 8] 

 

Certificate of registration as Research Analyst 

I.  In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  sub-section  (1)  of  section  12  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992), read  with  the regulations  made there  under, 
the 
to 
___________________________________________________  as  a  research  analyst  subject 
to the conditions specified in the Act and in the regulations made thereunder. 

registration 

certificate 

of 

Board 

hereby 

grants 

a 

 

Page 30 of 33 

 

 

 

II. The Registration Number of the investment adviser is IN/RA/_____________. 

 

III. Unless renewed, the certificate of registration is valid from ________ to _________. 

 

 

Date : 

 

Place : MUMBAI 

 

 

 

 

 

By Order 

 

Sd/- 

For and on behalf of  

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 31 of 33 

 

SECOND SCHEDULE  

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Research Analyst) Regulations, 2013 

[Regulation 3(2) and Regulation 8] 

 

FEES 

 

1.  Every  applicant  shall  pay  non-refundable  application  fees  of  fifty  thousand 
rupees  along  with  the  application  for  grant  or  renewal  of  certificate  of 
registration. 
 

2.  Applicants which are individuals and firms shall pay a sum of one lakh rupees 
as registration/ renewal fee at the time of grant or renewal of certificate by the 
Board. 
 

3.  A body corporate shall pay a sum of five lakh rupees as registration/ renewal 

fee at the time of grant or renewal of certificate by the Board. 
 

4.  The  fee  referred  to  in  paragraph  1,  2  and  3  shall  be  paid  by  the  applicant 
within fifteen days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board by a 
demand draft in favor of 'Securities and Exchange Board of India' payable at 
Mumbai. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 32 of 33 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIRD SCHEDULE 

[See sub-regulation (3) of regulation 23] 

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR RESEARCH ANALYST 

1.  Honesty and fairness 

Research Analyst shall act honestly, fairly and in the best interests of its clients 
and in the integrity of the market. 

2.  Diligence 

Research Analyst shall act with due skill, care and diligence in the best interests 
of its clients and shall ensure that the research report is prepared after thorough 
analysis. 

3.  Conflicts of Interest 

Research  Analyst  or  intermediary  shall  avoid,  manage  conflict  and  make 
disclosure of conflicts or suitably address the same. 

4.  Insider Trading or front running 

The  Research  Analyst  or  intermediary  or  employees  of  intermediary    shall  not 
engage  in  insider  trading  or  front  running  or  front  running  of  its  own  research 
report. 

5.  Confidentiality 

 Research Analyst or intermediary or its employees shall maintain confidentiality 
of report till the report is made public. 

6.  Professional Standard 

 The  Research  Analyst  or  the  staff  of  the  intermediary  engaged  in  research 
analysis  shall  observe  high  professional  standard  while  preparing  research 
report. 

7.    Compliance 

Research  Analyst  including  its  employees  shall  comply  with  all  regulatory 
requirements applicable to the conduct of its business activities so as to promote 
the best interests of clients and the integrity of the market. 

8.  Responsibility of senior management 

The  senior  management  of  a  body  corporate  which  is  registered  as  Research 
Analyst  shall  bear  primary  responsibility  for  ensuring  the  maintenance  of 
appropriate  standards  of  conduct  and  adherence  to  proper  procedures  by  the 
body corporate.  

 

 

Page 33 of 33 

 

 

