¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

Proposals for allowing certain class of companies to file shelf prospectus for public 

issuance of non-convertible debt securities - Paper seeking public comments 

1.  Every  issuer  is  required  to  file  a  Prospectus  with  Registrar  of  Companies  before 

making  a  public  issue.  To  enable  frequent  issuers  to  raise  money,  without 

undergoing  the  procedure  for  filing  Prospectus  for  every  issuance,  the  concept  of 

Shelf  Prospectus  was  introduced  in  Companies  Act.  In  FY  2011-12,  7  companies 

have  filed  Shelf  Prospectus  for  their  debt  issuances,  while  in  FY  2012-13,  5 

companies have filed Shelf Prospectus. 

 

2.  Under Section 60A of the Companies Act, 1956, any public financial institution, public 

sector bank or scheduled bank, whose main object is financing, was allowed to file a 

shelf prospectus. As per the said section, company filing a shelf prospectus with the 

Registrar is not required to file prospectus afresh at every stage of offer of securities, 

within a period of validity of such shelf prospectus. 

 

3.  In this regard, it may be noted that recently Companies Act, 2013 has been enacted 

and Section 31 of the said Act has been notified. As per the said section, any class or 

classes of companies, as SEBI may provide by regulations in this behalf, may file a 

shelf prospectus with the Registrar of Companies. The Shelf Prospectus shall be filed 

at stage of the first offer of securities. It shall indicate a period of validity, which shall 

not  exceed  one  year  commencing  from  the  date  of  opening  of  the  first  offer  of 

securities under that prospectus. In respect of a second or subsequent offer of such 

securities  issued  during  the  period  of  validity  of  that  prospectus,  no  further 

prospectus is required to be filed.  

 

4.  However,  a  company  filing  a  shelf  prospectus  is  required  to  file  an  information 

memorandum, containing all material facts relating to new charges created, changes 

in  the  financial  position  of  the  company,  and  such  other  changes  as  may  be 

prescribed  by  Central  Government  in  this  regard,  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies, 

prior  to  subsequent  offer  of  securities  under  the  shelf  prospectus.  Where  an 

information  memorandum  is  filed,  every  time  an  offer  of  securities  is  made  under 

such  memorandum  together  with  the  shelf  prospectus  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a 

prospectus.  Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs  has  already  placed  draft  disclosure 

requirements for information memorandum for public comments. 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

5.  Thus, as per the Section 31 of Companies Act, 2013, SEBI may allow such classes 

of  companies  eligible  to  file  a  shelf  prospectus,  by  providing  the  same  in  its 

regulations.  The  matter  relating  to  allowing  the  frequent  issuers  to  file  Shelf 

Prospectus  was  taken  before  the  Corporate  Bonds  &  Securitization  Advisory 

Committee (CoBoSAC) of SEBI.  

6.  Taking  into  account  the  recommendations  of  CoBoSAC,  it  is  proposed  to  allow 

following  companies/entities  to  file  Shelf  Prospectus  for  public  issuance  of  non-

convertible debt securities: 

i. 

Public financial institutions and Scheduled Banks (which were allowed under 

Section 60A of the Companies Act, 1956);  

ii. 

Issuers  authorized  by  the  notification  of  CBDT  to  make  public  issue tax free 

secured bonds, with respect to such tax free bond issuances; 

iii. 

Infrastructure  Debt  Funds  –  Non-Banking  Financial  Companies  (IDF-NBFC) 

regulated  by RBI; 

iv.  Other NBFCs, registered with RBI, complying with the following criteria: 

a.  whose  equities  and/or  debt  securities  are  listed  on  recognized  stock 

exchange,  by  making  public  issuance,  for  a  period  of  at  least  three 

years immediately preceding the issue and have been complying with 

the continuous listing requirements; 

b.  having  a  net  worth  of  at-least  Rs.  500  crores,  as  per  the  audited 

balance sheet of the preceding financial year; 

a.  having  consistent  track  record  of  distributable  profit  for  the  last  three 

years; 

b.  Securities issued under the Shelf Prospectus shall have a credit rating 

of not less than "AA" from a recognized credit rating agency;  

c.  having  no  regulatory  action  pending  against  the  company  or  its 

promoters or directors by RBI, SEBI or any other regulatory body;  

d.  the  issuer  has  not  defaulted  in  the  repayment  of  deposits,  interest 

payment  thereon,  redemption  of  debentures  or  preference  shares  or 

payment  of  dividend  to  any  shareholder,  or  repayment  of  any  term 

loan or interest payable thereon to any financial institution or banking 

company in the last three financial years.  

v. 

Listed Issuers complying with following criteria: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

a.  whose  equities  and/or  debt  securities  are  listed  on  recognized  stock 

exchange,  by  making  public  issuance,  for  a  period  of  at  least  three 

years immediately preceding the issue and have been complying with 

the continuous listing requirements  

b.  having  a  net  worth  of  at-least  Rs.  500  crores,  as  per  the  audited 

balance sheet of the preceding financial year 

c.  having consistent track record of distributable profit for last five years;  

d.  Securities  issued  under  the  Shelf  Prospectus  have  a  credit  rating  of 

not less than "AA" from a recognized credit rating agency;  

e.  having  no  regulatory  action  is  pending  against  the  company  or  its 

promoters or directors by RBI, SEBI or any other regulatory body. 

f. 

the  issuer  has  not  defaulted  in  the  repayment  of  deposits,  interest 

payment  thereon,  redemption  of  debentures  or  preference  shares  or 

payment  of  dividend  to  any  shareholder,  or  repayment  of  any  term 

loan or interest payable thereon to any financial institution or banking 

company in the last three financial years. 

 

7.  The  information  memorandum/tranche  prospectus  filed  in  all  the  aforesaid  cases 

should contain the disclosures prescribed by Companies Act, 2013 and rules made 

thereunder and shall also contain all material updations including revision in ratings. 

Further,  the  information  memorandum/  tranche  prospectus  shall  also  contain  a 

"summary  term  sheet",  as  specified  in  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities) 

Regulations, 2008. 

 

Public Comments: 

Public  comments  on  aforesaid  proposals  are  solicited.    Such  comments  may  please  be  e-

mailed on or before December 02, 2013, to anandr@sebi.gov.in or sent, by post, to:-  

Ms. Barnali Mukherjee 
General Manager  
Division of Funds-I, 
Investment Management Department  
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan  
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block  
Bandra Kurla Complex  
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051  
Ph: +912226449660/ +912226449343  

 

********** 

