¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Discussion Paper on "Annual Information Memorandum" 

 

Background 
 

a) 

titled 

“Principles 

International  Organization  of  Securities  Commissions  (“IOSCO”) 
technical committee has prescribed certain high level principles in the 
paper 
for  Ongoing  Disclosure  and  Material 
Development  Reporting  by  Listed  Entities”  in  2002.  The  technical 
committee  noted 
readily  accessible 
information  is  fundamental  for  investors.  Information  should  be 
disclosed on a timely basis, whether in connection with an initial public 
offering or continuous listing, currently or periodically, and in a form or 
manner either prescribed by accounting standards, regulations, listing 
rules  or  law,  together  with  the  information  that  is  provided  by  the 
management under the principles of fair presentation. 

timely  and 

reliable, 

that 

b)  Presently, in India, companies make comprehensive disclosure at the 
time of filing offer document for a public issue. Thereafter, upon listing, 
issuers  are  bound  by  the  continuous  disclosure  obligations  cast  on 
them  in  terms  of  various  provisions  of  the  listing  agreement.  These 
provisions  include  periodical  disclosures  such  as  financial  position/ 
performance  of 
the  company,  shareholding  pattern,  corporate 
governance,  as  well  as  event-based  disclosures  including  material 
developments in the business, changes in shareholding pattern, etc.  

c)  Such  disclosures  are  made  by  way  of  announcements  on  the  stock 
exchange(s)  on  an  as  and  when  basis.  Such  disclosures  depend  on 
the company's judgment with respect to materiality.   

d)  Additional  disclosures  to  be  included  in  Annual  Report  by  listed 
the  Listing 

companies 
through 
Agreement. Some of the key requirements are as under: 

India  have  been  specified 

in 

(cid:1)  Clause  49  specifies  a  detailed  compliance  report  on  Corporate 

Governance should be provided as part of the Annual Report  

(cid:1)  Clause  55  requires  specified  listed  companies  to  include  in  the 
specified  format,  a  Business  Responsibility  Report  as  part  of  the 
Annual  Report  describing 
from  an 
environmental, social and governance perspective.  

initiatives 

taken 

the 

e)  All  such  information  is  available  in  fragments  and  there  is  no  single 
document  which  contains  all  subsequent  updates  of  the  company  at 
one place. 

 

Page 1 of 14 

f)  Further,  Listed  companies  in  India  are  required  to  make  submissions 
with various authorities, viz. Stock Exchange, Registrar of Companies, 
Regulators,  etc.  The  frequency  of  such  submissions  is  stipulated  by 
the relevant legislation and can be annual, half yearly, quarterly, event 
based,  etc.  While  listed  companies  in  India  make  such  submissions, 
there  is  no  availability  of  a  comprehensive  information  memorandum 
about the company which would enable investors to obtain all relevant 
information  at  one  place.  Further,  the  material  events  after  listing 
disclosed  to  the  public  are  available  across  a  large  time  span  and 
investors  may find  it  difficult  to  access  all  relevant  information for the 
purpose of making an informed investment decision. 

g)  An  investor  in  primary  market  has  all  the  information  relevant  to 
investment  decision  making  at  one  place  in  the  form  of  offer 
document. On the other hand, the investors in secondary market have 
to  sift  through  various  individual  disclosures  made  over  time  to 
aggregate the information for investment decision making. It is thus felt 
that the investors in secondary markets should also be able to access 
the desired information with similar ease. 

h)  Accordingly, it is felt that listed companies may be required to prepare 
an annual  document  where  all the  relevant  information is available at 
one  place.  Such  document  shall  be  known  as  "Annual  Information 
Memorandum" ("AIM"). 

i)  The benefits of filing an Annual Information Memorandum 

(cid:2)  The  objective  of  AIM  is  to  provide  shareholders  and  prospective 
shareholders  with  accurate  and  relevant  information  about  the 
financial  and  operating  performance  of  the  company.  AIM  would 
be  comprehensive  in  nature  and  will  provide  investors  with 
detailed  information  at  one  place  about  the  company,  thereby 
assisting in making of informed investment decisions.  

(cid:2) 

Inclusion  of  reports  such  as  Corporate  Governance  Report 
(Clause  49),  Business  Responsibility  Report  (Clause  55)  and 
Related Party disclosures  (Clause  32)  etc. in the AIM could  pave 
way for removing such disclosures from Annual Report limiting its 
scope  only  to  details  required  under  the  Companies  Act,  1956/ 
Companies  Act,  2013,  thereby  significantly  reducing  disclosures 
required in Annual Report and consequently reducing costs for the 
listed  companies  as  AIM  will  be  required  to  be  filed  in  electronic 
format. 

(cid:2)  Listed companies filing an AIM would be able to utilize it for future 
capital raisings. The issuer may use AIM as a reference document 
for  preparing  offer  document  containing  updated  information/ 
events  after  the  date  of  AIM.  This  will  enable  corporates  to  raise 
capital expeditiously. 

 

Page 2 of 14 

SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 
Amendment 
 
SEBI, vide an amendment dated October 12, 2012, to SEBI (Issue of Capital 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 inserted Regulation 51A, as 
follows: 

"Annual Updation of Offer Document 

51A.  The  disclosures  made  in  the  red  herring  prospectus  while  making  an 
initial public offer, shall be updated on an annual basis by the issuer and shall 
be made publicly accessible in the manner specified by the Board."  

International Practices 
 
In  United  States,  companies  file  similar  report  to  Securities  and  Exchange 
Commission as mentioned below: 

a)  10 K is a comprehensive summary report of a company's performance 
that  must  be  submitted  annually  to  the  SEC.  Typically,  the  10-K 
contains  much  more  detail  than  the  annual  report.  It  includes 
information  such  as  company  history,  organizational  structure,  equity, 
holdings, earnings per share, subsidiaries, etc. 

b)  Similar to a 10-K, the 10-Q is a report on the state of a publicly traded 
business. The difference is that a 10-Q has to be filed every quarter (3 
months) whereas a 10-K is a yearly report. 

c)  The 20-F is a form filed by a company with the SEC which is completed 
and  submitted  by  foreign  companies  which  have  shares  traded  on  a 
US exchange and 8-K is an SEC filing which companies are required to 
complete  and  submit  in  the  event  of  any  situation  that  may  be 
important to either shareholders or the US Government and SEC. 

Comparison of disclosure requirements in various jurisdictions 

Typical  Disclosures 
An 
Document 

Indian 

In 
Offer 

United 
States 

Australi

a 

United 
Kingdo

m 

Hong 
Kong 

Singapo

German

re 

y 

10-K 

Annual 
Report 

Annual 
Report 

Annual 
Report 

Annual 
Report 

Annual 
Report 

Business  Overview  and 
details 
General Information 

Shareholding Pattern 

Industry Overview 

Risk Factors 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

 

 

Page 3 of 14 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

 

 

 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

 

 

 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

 

 

 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

 

 

 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

 

 

 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

(cid:2) 

Management details 

Selected  Financial  Data: 
Presented for 5 years* 

Management  Discussion 
& Analysis (MD&A) 
Financial 
and notes to accounts 
Properties  

statements 

Legal Proceedings 

Unresolved 
Staff 
Comments: disclosure of 
any  outstanding  matters 
of 
non-compliance, 
observation, 
correspondence 
SEC 
 

with 

Proposed AIM Framework 
1.  Format  

The  proposed  framework  for  disclosure  in  AIM  is  enclosed  as  Annexure. 
Format  of  AIM  is  in  line  with  the  format  of  offer  documents  prepared  for 
primary market offerings to maintain consistency in disclosures. 

2.  Frequency of Preparation 

Frequency for preparation of AIM shall be yearly.  

3.  Timeline for Dissemination 

AIM shall be disseminated within 135 days from the end of financial year. 

4.  Mode of Dissemination 

AIM  may  be  disseminated  electronically  by  uploading  the  same  on  the 
company’s website and simultaneous filing with stock exchanges. 

5.  Approval of AIM 

AIM  shall  be  approved  by  Board  of  Directors  at  their  meeting  prior  to 
dissemination. 

6.  Annual updation 

AIM  will  be  required  to  be  updated  every  year. While,  updating  the  AIM, the 
companies  may  update  the  quantitative  as  well  as  qualitative  information  by 
replacing the  details pertaining to most distant  year  with details  pertaining to 
most  recent  year  where  such  information  is  required  to  be  furnished  for 

 

Page 4 of 14 

multiple years. Further, all the information (qualitative as well as quantitative) 
shall be reviewed for accuracy, sufficiency and relevance. 

7.  Implementation timelines 

Category 
Top  two  hundred  listed  companies  based  on 
market  capitalization  at  BSE  or  NSE  as  on 
March 31, 2014 
All other listed companies 

Proposed Time Frame 
Financial  year  beginning 
on or after April 1, 2014 

Financial  year  beginning 
on or after April 1, 2015 

For companies which are planning IPOs (Initial Public Offers), the requirement 
of AIM would commence with the IPO. This would require that the disclosures 
made by the companies at the IPO stage be updated on an annual basis so 
as  to  ensure  that  at  any  point  of  time,  updated  information  about  them  is 
available in public domain. 
 
8.  Auditor's Examination Report 

The  companies  desirous  of  using  AIM  as  draft  offer  document  for  future 
capital  raisings  shall  be  required  to  submit  an  Auditor's  Examination  Report 
along with AIM. 

Public Comments 
It  is  proposed  to  notify  the  framework  placed  at  Annexure  for  disclosures 
required under Reg. 51A of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2009 (Annual Updation 
of  Offer  Document).  Considering  the  importance  of  specified  disclosures  for 
all  the  stakeholders  including  the  listed  companies,  public  comments  on  the 
draft framework are solicited. Specific comments/ suggestions would be highly 
appreciated.  Such  comments  may  please  be  emailed  on  or  before  March  9, 
2014, to aim@sebi.gov.in or sent, by post, to:- 
 

Mr. Anindya Das 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph: +912226449616/ +912226449463 

****** 

 

Page 5 of 14 

Annexure 

Proposed Disclosure Framework of Annual Information Memorandum 

(AIM) 

 
1. 

Cover Page 

1.1.  Name  of  issuer,  corporate  logo,  registered  address,  corporate 

office  if  different  from  registered  office,  website  and  contact 

details  of  company  secretary  including  address,  telephone, 

email address etc. 

1.2.  Name of the promoters 

1.3.  Registrar  details  including  address,  telephone,  email  address 

etc. 

1.4.  Corporate 

Identity  Number  (CIN)  of 

the  Company,  ROC 

jurisdiction 

1.5.  Date of filing of Annual Information Memorandum (AIM) 

 

2. 

Table of Contents 

 

3. 

Glossary of terms/abbreviations 

3.1.  Conventional or general terms 

3.2.  Company and industry related terms 

3.3.  Abbreviations 

 

4. 

Capital Structure 

4.1.  Shareholding pattern as per clause 35 format 

4.2.  Significant changes in capital structure during the year 

4.3.  Promoter  shareholding  details  including,  aggregate  purchase 

and aggregate sale of shares by promoters during the year and 

number of pledged shares held. 

4.4.  Change of 2% or more of share capital during the year including 

the name of such shareholder and share transaction details 

4.5.  Maximum  number  of  shares  pledged  during  the  year  shall  also 

be disclosed for each of the promoter. 

 

Page 6 of 14 

4.5.1.  Borrowing  involving  pledge  of  shares  (personal  or  corporate 

borrowings) 

4.6.  Details of preference and equity shares issued (including shares 

converted) during the year with following details 

4.6.1. 

Date of allotment 

4.6.2. 

Method  of  allotment  (QIP,  FPO,  GDRs,  Rights, 

preferential, ESOP, conversion of securities etc.) 

4.6.3. 

Issue Price/Conversion Price 

4.6.4. 

Number of shares allotted 

4.6.5. 

Number  of  shares  allotted 

to  promoter  group 

(including shares represented by DRs) 

4.7.  Scheduled  conversions  of  convertible  securities  (including 

convertible debt) and warrants in equity shares(including earliest 

conversion dates) for the next financial year   

4.8.  Scheduled completion dates of lock-in period for securities 

4.9.  Fully  Diluted  Capital  Structure  (assuming  full  conversion  of  all 

outstanding convertibles/ options) 

 

5. 

Market price information  

5.1.  Current disclosures in Corporate Governance Report  

5.2.  High,  low,  average  market  price  of  equity  shares  in  the  past 

financial  year  and  on  a  monthly  basis  on  each  stock  exchange 

where the equity shares of the company are listed 

5.3.  Number of shares and delivery based and gross volume traded 

for  above  on  each  stock  exchange  where  the  equity  shares  of 

the company are listed. 

 

6. 

General Information 

6.1.  Brief  details  of  Company,  Company  Secretary,  Bankers  to  the 

Company,  Statutory  Auditors,  Monitoring  Agency  and  other 

intermediaries 

6.2.  Brief  description  of 

the  whistleblower  mechanism  of 

the 

company 

 

Page 7 of 14 

6.3.  Mechanism evolved for redressal of investor grievances 

6.4.  Number  of  complaints  received,  disposed  off  and  outstanding 

during  the  year  with  complaints  under  SCORES  indicated 

separately. 

 

7. 

History and Certain corporate matters 

7.1.  Brief  history,  major  events,  details  of  acquisitions,  mergers, 

revaluations, induction of strategic and financial partners in past 

5  years.  (Five  year  disclosure  shall  apply  only  to  the  first  AIM 

document.  For  all  subsequent  years,  disclosure  shall  relate  to 

the reporting period only.) 

7.2.  Key terms of shareholder agreements where company is a party 

to  the  agreement  (including  modifications  during  the  year), 

induction of new strategic and financial partners in last financial 

year.  Disclosure  of  key  terms  shall  be  restricted  to  terms  that 

affect the rights and obligations of other shareholders. 

7.3.  Ownership of IPR/ Logo of the Company 

 

8. 

Risk factors 

8.1.  Risk  applicable  to  company  and  industry  relevant  to  the 

company  shall  be  disclosed.  Risk  Factors  shall  be  in  line  with 

disclosure 

in 

'Risks  and  Concerns’ 

forming  a  part  of 

Management Discussion and Analysis Report (MDA). 

 

9. 

Industry description 

9.1.  Overview  of  the  industry  in  which  issuer  operates.  Specific 

mention of important changes in the industry in the last financial 

year and industry trends. 

 

10.  Business description 

10.1.  Business description including key strengths and strategies 

10.2.  Brief description of business segments, geographic segments. 

 

Page 8 of 14 

10.3.  Specific  mention  of  important  changes  in  the  business  of  the 

company 

in 

the 

last 

financial  year.  Details  of  business 

reorganization, divestments, acquisitions to be provided 

10.4.  Details  of  intangible  assets  including  details  of  ownership  and 

usage rights 

 

11.  Our Management 

11.1.  Brief  details  of  Chairman,  Board  of  directors  (BoD)  including 

experience, qualification and other directorships, shareholdings,  

inter-se relationships with Promoters (preferably in  tabular form)  

11.2.  Organization structure (at least up to one level below the Board) 

11.3.  Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) details (similar to BoD) 

11.4.  Changes in BoD 

11.5.  Changes in KMP 

11.6.  ESOP  details  similar  to  the  Directors  Report  under  Annual 

Report.  

Disclosures  for  involvement  in  material  legal  proceedings  of  any 

director,  person  nominated  to  be  director  or  executive  officer  of  the 

company in the past 5 years should be included 

 

12. 

Promoters or Principal Shareholders 

12.1.  Brief  Profile  of  Promoters  or  Principal  Shareholders(where 

individuals) 

12.2.  For  Promoters  or  Principal  Shareholders 

(where  body 

corporate):  Brief  Details  of  business  of  the  company,  history, 

changes  in  control  during  the  last  financial  year,  changes  in 

business etc. 

12.3.  Brief  details  of  audited  financials  of  Promoters  or  Principal 

Shareholders (where body corporate) as available. 

12.4.  Group company details as per SEBI (ICDR) Regulations for top 

5  companies  by  market  cap  (for  listed  group  companies)  or  by 

turnover (for unlisted companies). 

 

Page 9 of 14 

12.5.  Annual  disclosures  by  promoters,  promoter  group  during  the 

year  under  SEBI  Takeover  Regulations  and  SEBI  (PIT) 

Regulations 

12.6.  Brief details of ultimate natural person promoters 

Note:  In  certain  cases,  there  are  no  identifiable  promoters  for  the 

company.  In  such  cases  details  as  outlined  above  for  Principal 

Shareholders need to be disclosed. 

 

13. 

Financial Statements 

13.1.  Audited  standalone  and  consolidated 

financial  statements 

prepared  in  accordance  with  Indian  GAAP    for  past  3  years 

containing: 

13.1.1.  Auditors report 

13.1.2.  Balance Sheets 

13.1.3.  Statements of Income 

13.1.4.  Schedules to accounts 

13.1.5.  Statements of changes in stockholders' equity 

13.1.6.  Statements of cash flows 

13.1.7.  Statement of accounting policies 

13.1.8.  Notes to financial statements 

13.1.9.  Statement relating to subsidiary companies (in case of 

unconsolidated financial statements) 

13.1.10.  Capitalization statement 

13.2.  Companies  have  the  option  to  restate  their  standalone  and 

consolidated financial statements as well as presentation of pro-

forma financials if they so choose.  

13.3.  The  restatements  directed  by  regulatory/statutory  bodies  such 

as SEBI, MCA etc. must be carried out. 

Details  of  fresh  and  outstanding  foreign  currency  loans,  any  default  on  loan 

repayment, referral to CDR etc. may be disclosed. 

 

14.  Dividend Track Record: Rate of dividend  paid may be mentioned as 

part of financial statements for past three years. 

 

Page 10 of 14 

15.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of financial condition and 

results of operations 

15.1.  Overview of business 

15.2.  Significant developments in the last financial year 

15.3.  Factors affecting results of operations 

15.4.  Discussion  on  results  of  operations  for  the  past  3  years.  Key 

heads of the Profit and Loss Statement and Balance Sheet shall 

be  compared  and  percentage 

increase/decrease  shall  be 

explained.  Movement  in  key  heads  in  balance  sheet  and  cash-

flow shall also be explained. 

15.5.  Key  performance 

indicators 

for 

the  company, 

ratios  as 

appropriate 

for  meaningful  description  of 

the  company 

performance,  based  on  the  industry  it  operates  in  shall  be 

disclosed and explained 

 

16.  Utilization of Issue Proceeds 

16.1.  In  case  of  any  offer  to  the  public  of  equity  capital  including 

convertibles  and  FCCBs  issued  by  the  company,  for  which 

entire  issue  proceeds  have  not  been  utilized  as  on  the  date  of 

filing 

the  Annual 

Information  Memorandum,  provide 

the 

following: 

16.1.1.  Details of utilization of issue proceeds during the year 

as  compared  to 

the  objects  mentioned  in  offer 

document 

16.1.2. 

In  case  of  change  of  utilization  of  objects  duly 

approved, reasons for change and details of utilization 

of proceeds as per revised objects 

16.1.3.  Details  of  any  adverse  comments  by  Monitoring 

Agency regarding utilization of issue proceeds 

16.1.4.  Details  of  all  unutilized  monies  out  of  the  issue 

proceeds along with the reasons for the same shall be 

disclosed  

 

 

Page 11 of 14 

17.  Regulations and policies 

17.1.  Voluntary disclosure of industry specific regulations 

 

18. 

Legal and other information 

18.1.  All outstanding material litigations filed against Company and/or 

material  subsidiaries 

including:  criminal,  civil  and  other 

outstanding litigations  including  for economic offenses  

18.2.  Details  of  material  litigations  involving  Company  and  material 

subsidiaries  closed, 

including  settled  or  where  decisions 

awarded  (unless  appealed  to  higher  court).  Details  of  financial 

implication, if material, for issuer or subsidiary should be clearly 

mentioned.  These  details  should  be  provided  for  closed  cases 

during last financial year. 

18.3.  Material  enforcement  actions  by  regulatory  authorities  such  as 

adjudication  penalty,  warning,  consent  order,  debarment  / 

prohibition, prosecution, inclusion in RBI willful defaulter list etc.   

 

19.  Material events during the year 

Brief  tabular  presentation  of  notices  given  by  the  company  in 

compliance  with  Clause  36  of  the  Listing  Agreement  for  reporting 

material developments such as: 

19.1.  Change in general character or nature of business 

19.2.  Commencement of commercial production/operations 

19.3.  Developments  with  respect  to  pricing/realization  arising  out  of 

change in regulatory framework 

19.4.  Litigation/dispute with a material impact 

19.5.  Revision in credit ratings 

19.6.  Any 

other 

information 

having 

a 

bearing 

on 

the 

operations/performance of the company including price sensitive 

information 

19.7.  The  table  shall  contain  a  link  to  the  relevant  stock  exchange 

website where full notice is available. 

 

Page 12 of 14 

Note:  For  the  purpose  of  this  section,  only  such  events/intimations 

which  in  the  company’s  judgment  were  material  or  had  significant 

financial impact or which are of relevance even at the time of reporting 

under ‘Annual Information Document’ should be disclosed. 

 

20.  Annexure to the Annual Information Memorandum : 

20.1.  Corporate  Governance  Report  as  per  clause  49  of  the  Listing 

Agreement, with relevant cross references to the AIM wherever 

information overlaps exist 

20.2.  Business  Responsibility  Report  (as  applicable  to  specified 

companies as per clause 55 of Listing Agreement) 

20.3.  Related  Party  disclosure  as  per  Clause  32  of  the  Listing 

Agreement (other than the information required to be provided in 

accordance  with  accounting  standards),  with  relevant  cross 

reference to the AIM where information overlaps exist  

 

21.  Certifications 

21.1.  Declaration  as  provided  by  clause  49  I(D)  of  the  Listing 

Agreement 

21.2.  Certifications as provided by clause 49 of the Listing Agreement 

 

22.  Declaration  

22.1.  Signature by Chief Executive Officer or Managing Director, Chief 

Financial Officer and Compliance Officer 

22.2.  Signatories  to  certify  that  all  disclosures  made  in  the  offer 

document are true and correct 

22.3.  Shall be submitted to the stock exchange(s) and shall be placed 

before  the  Board  in  next  meeting.  In  case  of  any  change 

suggested by Board of Directors, the same shall be informed to 

the  stock  exchange(s)  promptly.  Even  if  there  is  no  change, 

such fact shall be informed to the stock exchange(s). 

 

 

 

Page 13 of 14 

Notes:  

•  Appropriate  cross  references  may  be  provided  in  sections  where 

disclosure requirements are being repeated in the AIM document. 

•  The  periodicity  of  the  disclosure  throughout  the  document  shall  be  as 

required under SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, unless specifically mentioned 

otherwise. 

•  Monitoring Agency for the purpose of disclosures under AIM shall have 

the same meaning as in SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2009. 

• 

In case of any material development between the end of financial year 

and the date of publication/ dissemination of AIM, the same should be 

appropriately disclosed along with its impact.  

•  Following shall be the hierarchy of disclosure requirements throughout 

the AIM, unless specifically mentioned otherwise: 

o  As required in AIM Framework 

o  As required in SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2009 

o  As required in Annual Report 

 

 

Page 14 of 14 

