¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Discussion Paper on "Monitoring Agency Report and Related 

Disclosures" 

 

1.  Background 
 

a.  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 
2009 (ICDR Regulations) requires that the offer document shall contain 
the  disclosures  about  the  ‘Objects  of  the  Issue’.  This  requirement 
ensures that the amount to be utilized towards each object of the issue 
is  specifically  earmarked  and  disclosed  in  the  offer  document. 
Mandating such detailed disclosures helps in monitoring of utilization of 
the funds raised through public issues as well as enables the investors 
to take informed decision.  Keeping similar objective in mind, SEBI has 
recently amended the ICDR Regulations and put a limit on the amount 
that can be earmarked for ‘General Corporate Purpose’ to  25% of the 
total  issue  size.  Further,  ICDR  Regulations  also  requires  appointment 
of  ‘Monitoring  Agency’  if  the  issue  size  exceeds  Rs.  500  Cr.  for 
monitoring of utilization of issue proceeds. 

2.  Current Regulatory Framework 
 

a.  Regulation 16 of the SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2009 as amended till 

date provides as under: 

"16. (1) If the issue size exceeds five hundred crore rupees, the issuer 
shall  make  arrangements  for  the  use  of  proceeds  of  the  issue  to  be 
monitored  by  a  public  financial  institution  or  by  one  of  the  scheduled 
commercial  banks  named  in  the  offer  document  as  bankers  of  the 
issuer:  

Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to an offer for 
sale  or  an  issue  of  specified  securities  made  by  a  bank  or  public 
financial institution or an insurance company. 

16.    (2)  The  monitoring  agency  shall  submit  its  report  to  the  issuer  in 
the  format  specified  in  Schedule  IX  on  a  half  yearly  basis,  till  the 
proceeds of the issue have been fully utilised." 

b.  Provisions in the Listing Agreement: 

i.  Clause 41(4)(e) of the Listing Agreement provides as under: 

“If  the  company  had  not  commenced  commercial  production  or 
commercial  operations  during  the  reportable  period,  the  company 
shall,  instead  of  submitting  financial  results,  disclose  the  details  of 
amount  raised,  the  portions  thereof  which  is  utilized  and  that 

 

Page 1 of 10 

remaining  unutilized,  the  details  of  investment  made  pending 
utilisation,  brief  description  of 
is  pending 
the  project  and  expected  date  of 
completion,  status  of 
commencement  of 
commercial  production  or  commercial 
operations.” 

the  project  which 

ii.  Clause 43A of the Listing Agreement provides as under: 

“(1)  The  company  agrees  to  furnish  to  the  stock  exchange  on  a 
quarterly basis, a statement indicating material deviations, if any, in 
the  use  of  proceeds  of  a  public  or  rights  issue  from  the  objects 
stated in the offer document. 

(2)  Where  the  company  has  appointed  a  monitoring  agency  to 
monitor utilization  of  proceeds  of a  public  or  rights  issue  and  such 
monitoring  agency  has  pointed  out  any  deviation  in  the  use  of  the 
proceeds  of  the  issue  from  the  objects  stated      in      the      offer   
document   or   has   given   any   other reservations   about   the   
end   use   of   funds,   the   company agrees to intimate the same 
to the stock exchange, without any delay.” 

iii.  While  laying  down  the  role  of  Audit  Committee,  Clause  49  of  the 
Listing Agreement, requires Audit Committee to mandatorily review 
the following: 

(cid:1)  the  statement  of  uses  /  application  of  funds  raised  through  an 

issue 

(cid:1)  the  statement  of  funds  utilized  for  purposes  other  than  those 

stated in the offer document/prospectus/notice 

(cid:1)  Report submitted by the Monitoring Agency 

is  also  required 

The  Audit  Committee 
to  make  appropriate 
recommendations  to  the  Board  for  taking  necessary  steps  on  the 
above-mentioned  matters.  Further,  on  an  annual  basis, 
the 
company  shall  prepare  a  statement  of  funds  utilized  for  purposes 
other than those stated in the offer document/prospectus/notice and 
place  it  before  the  Audit  Committee.  This  statement  shall  be 
certified by the statutory auditors of the company. 

c.  The  Companies  (Auditor’s  Report)  Order,  2003  (CARO)  in  Para 
4(XX)  of  “Matters  to  be  included  in  the  auditor’s  report.”  requires  as 
under: 

“Whether  the  management  has  disclosed  on  the  end  use  of  money 
raised by public issues and the same has been verified” 

 

 

Page 2 of 10 

d.  Revised Schedule VI to the Companies Act, 1956 as amended till date 
and  Schedule  III  to  the  Companies  Act,  2013  requires  that  in  case  of 
an issue of securities made for a specific purpose and the whole or part 
of the amount raised has not been used for that purpose till the balance 
sheet date, the financial statements shall contain a disclosure  on  how 
such unutilized amounts have been used or invested by way of note to 
the financial statements. 

e.  Section  13(8)(ii)  of  Companies  Act,  2013  requires  that  the  company 
shall  not  change  its  objects  for  which  it  raised  the  money  through 
prospectus  unless a special resolution is passed  by the company  and 
dissenting  shareholders  have  been  given  opportunity  for  exit  by  the 
promoters  and  shareholders  having  control 
in  accordance  with 
regulations to be specified by the Securities and Exchange Board. 

3.  Major Changes Proposed 
 

The  key  changes  proposed  in  Monitoring  Agency  Report  and  Related 
Disclosures are as under: 

3.1. Appointment of Monitoring Agency 

Present requirement 

Appointment  of  Monitoring  Agency  is  compulsory  for  all  issues  where 
issue size exceeds Rupees five hundred crores 

Proposed requirement 

Mandatory appointment of monitoring agency for all issues, irrespective of 
issue size. 

Rationale 

for  deviation 

As detailed in  para (2)(e) above, the Companies Act, 2013  has included 
certain  provisions 
issue  proceeds. 
Accordingly,  it  is  pertinent  to  extend  the  requirement  of  monitoring  of 
utilization  of  issue  proceeds  to  all  the  companies  to  ensure  that  such 
instances  are  identified  and  addressed  in  accordance  with  extant  legal 
framework.  It  will  also  strengthen  the  monitoring  of  utilization  of  all  the 
equity capital raised through issuance of equity shares to public. 

in  utilization  of 

3.2. Frequency of Submission of Monitoring Agency Report 

Present requirement 

Monitoring Agency is required to submit its report to the issuer half-yearly. 

Proposed requirement 

Mandatory  submission  of  report  by  the  monitoring  agency  on  quarterly 
basis till the funds are fully utilized. 

 

Page 3 of 10 

Rationale 

As per Clause 41 & 43 of the Listing Agreement, the company is required 
to  quarterly  disclose  details  of  fund  utilization  and  variations  in  such 
utilization.  For  meeting  such  disclosure  requirement,  the  company  either 
obtains the information from monitoring agency or collates the information 
itself.  Thus,  there  appears  to  be  a  need  for  quarterly  submission  of 
monitoring  agency  report.  The  said  suggestion  was  also  discussed  in 
Primary Market Advisory Committee (PMAC) meeting held on November 
17,  2011  and  the  committee  agreed  with  the  suggestion  of  aligning 
reporting requirements to quarterly basis. 

3.3. Dissemination of Monitoring Agency Report 

Present requirement 

No Requirement (only material deviations are required to be disclosed by 
the issuer company under clause 43A(i) of Listing Agreement) 

Proposed requirement 

Mandatory submission of Monitoring Agency Report to Stock Exchanges 
for public dissemination.  

Rationale 

At present, the report submitted by the monitoring agency to the issuer is 
not  required  to  be  made  public.  Considering  that  Companies  Act,  2013 
requires prior approval from shareholders for any change of object and a 
provision  for  exit  to  dissenting  shareholders,  it  is  very  important  that  the 
shareholders  get  regular  update  on  utilization  of  issue  proceeds. 
Disclosure of report of monitoring agency in public domain will serve the 
above objects. 

Thus,  in  order  to  bring  more  transparency  in  the  disclosures,  it  is 
proposed  to  mandate  submission  of  Monitoring  Agency  Report  to  Stock 
Exchanges for public dissemination. 

3.4. Categorization of Reports 

Present requirement 

No specific requirement for categorizing the report in case of deviation of 
funds from the stated objects of the issue in the offer document. 

Proposed requirement 

The  monitoring  agency  to  grade  the  deviation  on  the  2-digit  scale  as 
under: 

First digit indicates deviation from the objects stated in offer document as 
under: 
 

 

Page 4 of 10 

0 – No deviation from the objects stated in offer document 
1  –  Utilization  different  from  Objects  stated  in  OD  but  in  line  with 
change of objects approved by shareholders' resolution 
2 – Utilization neither in line with Objects stated in OD nor approved by 
shareholders' resolution  

Second  digit  indicates  range  of  deviation  from  the  specified  objects  as 
under: 

0 – upto 10% deviation 
1 – 10 - 25% 
2 – 25-50% 
3 – 50-75% 
4 – 75-100% 
5 – Not ascertainable 

Thus,  code  of  12  would  indicate  that  the  utilization  of  issue  proceeds  is 
different  from  Objects  stated  in  OD  but  is  in  line  with  change  of  objects 
approved  by shareholders' resolution  and the deviation in utilization is in 
the range of 25%-50%. 

The deviation in utilization of issue proceeds for the stated objects could 
occur  due  to  delay  in  the  stated  time  schedule,  changing  the  fund 
allocations within the stated objects in the offer document or diversion of 
funds  to  the  object  other  than  stated  in  the  offer  document.  All  these 
deviations  reported  by  the  monitoring  agency  shall  clearly  indicate  the 
same along with the reasons for such deviation and also indicate whether 
necessary approvals from Board/ Shareholders have been obtained. The 
Stock exchanges shall prominently disseminate list of monitoring agency 
reports in separate lists based on first digit of said categorization.  

Rationale 

Monitoring Agency Reports where there is a deviation from objects of the 
issue  should  be  segregated  from  reports  where  the  utilization  is  in  line 
with objects of the issue.  

Section 13(8)(ii) of Companies Act, 2013 requires that the company shall 
not  change  its  objects  for  which  it  raised  the  money  through  prospectus 
unless  a  special  resolution  is  passed  by  the  company  and  dissenting 
shareholders  have  been  given  opportunity  for  exit  by  the  promoters  and 
shareholders having control. The companies whose reports have first digit 
of  code  as  2  can  be  indicative  of  the  possible  deviation  in  utilization/ 
change of objects.  

3.5. Comments of  Audit  Committee  and Management on the  findings 

of Monitoring Agency 

Present requirement 

No such requirement exists. 

 

Page 5 of 10 

Proposed requirement 

Audit  Committee  and  the  Board/  Management  shall  provide  their 
comments for the deviation, if any, pointed out in the report of monitoring 
agency.  

Rationale 

It is desirable to have comments of management/ audit committee which 
will help understand the reasons for such deviation, if any. 

3.6. Timelines for submission of report to the stock exchanges. 

Present requirement 

No specific timeframe has been provided in the existing framework. 

Proposed requirement 

For  effective  monitoring  and  timely  disclosure,  it  is  desirable  to  have  a 
fixed time limit for submission of the report. It is proposed that the issuer 
company  shall  ensure  that  the  Monitoring  Agency  Report  is  submitted 
within 45 days from the end of the quarter to the stock exchanges 

Rationale 

It is desirable to have timely information of the status of utilization of issue 
proceeds  &  the  deviation,  if  any.  Such  disclosure  will  help  shareholder/ 
stakeholder/ investor in taking informed decision. 

3.7. Sub-committee  of  Board  members  to  oversee  the  monitoring  of 

utilization of issue proceeds  

Present requirement 

No  such  specific  requirement  for  overseeing  the  monitoring  of  utilization 
of issue proceeds.   

Proposed requirement 

A  committee  of  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Company  to  be  constituted  to 
oversee  the  monitoring  of  utilization  of  issue  proceeds  is  constituted 
before opening of the issue. The said committee shall facilitate monitoring 
of  issue  proceeds  by  monitoring  agency.  The  majority  of  the  member  of 
the said committee shall be independent directors and the same shall be 
headed by an independent director.  

Rationale 

Constitution of such committee  will be  helpful in facilitating monitoring  of 
utilization  of  issue  proceeds.  Further,  the  said  requirement  will  ensure 

 

Page 6 of 10 

active involvement of Board of Directors monitoring of utilization of issue 
proceeds. 

4.  Revision in format of Monitoring Agency Report 
 
Proposed  new  format  for  report  of  monitoring  agency  to  be  submitted  to  the 
issuer company is placed at Annexure. 

Public Comments 
 
It is proposed to carry out necessary amendments to regulatory framework in 
line with revised requirements proposed in this discussion paper. Considering 
the  importance  of  proposed  changes  for  all  the  stakeholders  including  the 
listed  companies,  public  comments  on  the  draft  framework  are  solicited. 
Specific  comments/  suggestions  would  be  highly  appreciated.  Such 
comments  may  please  be  emailed  on  or  before  March  25,  2014,  to 
mar@sebi.gov.in or sent, by post, to:- 
 

Mr. Anindya Das 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph: +912226449616/ +912226449463 

****** 

 

Page 7 of 10 

Annexure 

Proposed format for Monitoring Agency Report 

 

Front Page: 
 

Monitoring Agency Certificate 

Name of the Issuer: 
For quarter ended: 
Name of the Monitoring Agency: 
 
Report Category: Deviation Code* 
If type of Report is “Adverse”, seriousness of deviations is: Acceptable/Requires 
Action 
 
Declaration: 
I/We  hereby  declare  that  this  report  is  based  on  the  format  as  prescribed  by  SEBI 
(ICDR) Regulations, 2009, as amended. I/We further declare that this report provides 
true and fair view of the utilization of issue proceeds.  
 
Signature  
Name of Authorized Person/Signing Authority: 
Designation of Authorized person/Signing Authority:  
Seal of the Monitoring Agency: 
Date: 
* The monitoring agency to grade the deviation on the 2-digit scale as under: 
 

i. 

ii. 

First digit indicates deviation from the objects stated in offer document as under: 
 
0 – No deviation from the objects stated in offer document 
1  –  Utilization  different  from  Objects  stated  in  OD  but  in  line  with  change  of 
objects approved by shareholders' resolution 
2  –  Utilization  neither  in  line  with  Objects  stated  in  OD  nor  approved  by 
shareholders' resolution  
 
Second  digit  indicates  range  of  percentage  deviation  from  the  specified  objects 
as under: 
 
0 – upto 10%  
1 – 10 - 25% 
2 – 25-50% 
3 – 50-75% 
4 – 75-100% 
5 – Not ascertainable 
 
Thus, code of 12 would indicate that the utilization of issue proceeds is different 
from  Objects  stated  in  OD  but  is  in  line  with  change  of  objects  approved  by 
shareholders'  resolution  and  the  deviation  in  utilization  is  in  the  range  of  25%-
50%.  

 

Page 8 of 10 

 

 

Subsequent Pages: 
 

1)  Issuer Details 

Name of the issuer 
The names of the promoters of the issuer 
Industry/sector to which it belongs 

 

 

 

 

2)  Issue Details 

 

 

Issue date 
Type of issue (public/rights) 
Type of specified securities 
Grading 
Issue size (Rs. in Crores) 
Amount collected (Rs. in Crores) 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

: 
: 
: 

: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 

 

 

 

3)  Details of the arrangement made to ensure the monitoring of issue proceeds 

(Give  item  by  item  description  for  all  the  objects  stated  in  offer  document 
separately in following format) 

Monitoring 
Agency  
Comments 

Audit 

Committee 
Comments 

Mgmt.  

Comments 

Particulars  

Whether  all  the  utilzation  is  as  per 
disclosure in Offer Document? 

Whether Shareholder approval obtained 
in  case  of  material  deviations#  from 
expenditures 
in  Offer 
Document? 

disclosed 

Rep
ly 

Yes
/ 
No 
Yes
/ 
No 

  

  

 

 

 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

to 

related 

Whether means of finance for disclosed 
objects of the Issue has changed? 

Any  major  deviation  observed  over  the 
earlier monitoring agency reports? 

Whether  all  Government  /  Statutory 
approvals 
the  project 
obtained? 
Whether  all  arrangements  pertaining  to 
technical  assistance/collaboration 
in 
operation? 

Yes
/ 
No 
Yes
/ 
No 
Yes
/ 
No 
Yes
/ 
No 
Yes
/ 
No 
Yes
/ 
No 
Any other relevant information that may 
Yes
materially  affect the decision making of 
/ 
the investors 
No 
# Where material deviation may be defined to mean: 
a) Deviation in the objects or purposes for which the funds have been raised 
b) Deviation in the amount of fund actually utilized by more than 10% of the amount 
projected in the offer documents. 

Any  favorable  events  improving  project 
viability 

Any unfavorable events affecting project 
viability 

  

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

  

  

 

Page 9 of 10 

 

 

 

4)  Details of projects to be monitored 

(i)  Cost of project 
(Give  Item  by  Item  Description  for  all  the  Objects  Stated  in  Offer  Document 
separately in following format) 

Sl. 
No 

Item 
Head 

Original 
Cost (as 
per Offer 
Document) 

Revised 

Cost 

Comments 

of 

Monitoring 

Agency 

Management Reply 

Reason 
of cost  
revision 

Proposed 
financing 

option 

Particulars of 

firm 

arrangements 

made  

  

 

  

  

  

  

  

  

(ii)  Progress in the project 
(Give  Item  by  Item  Description  for  all  the  Object  Stated  in  Offer  Document 
separately in following format) 

Sl. 
No 

Item 
Head$ 

Amount 

as 

Amount utilized 

                                                  

propose

d  

in Offer 
Docume

nt 

As at 
Beginni
ng of  
the 

quarter 

During 

the 

quarter 

At the 
end  
of the 
quarter 

Total 
unutiliz

ed 

Amount 

Comme
nts of 
Monitor

ing 

Agency 

  

 

  

  

  

  

  

  

$ Provide following details under Item Head: 
(a)Name of the project: 
(b)Brief description of the project: 
(c)Location of the project (if applicable): 

(iii)  Deployment of unutilized IPO proceeds 

Management 

Reply 

Reaso
n of 
idle 
funds 

Propos

ed 

Course 

of  

Action 

  

Sl. 
no. 

 

Type of 
instrume
nt where 
amount 
invested* 

Amount 
invested 

Maturity 

date 

Earnings 

Return on 
Investment 

(ROI %) 

Market 

Value as at  
the end of 
quarter** 

  

  

  

  

  

  

* Also indicate name of the party/company in which amounts have been invested 
**  Where  market  value  is  not  practical  to  find,  provide  NAV/NRV/Book  Value  of  the 
same 
 
(iv)  Delay in implementation of the project 

Completion Date 

Project 
Name 

As per 
Offer 

Actual * 

Document 
  

  

Delay (No. 

of days/ 
months) 

Management Reply 

Reason of 

delay 

Proposed 
Course of  

Action 

  
*  In  case  of  continuing  projects  please  specify  latest/revised  estimate  of  completion 
date 

  

  

  

 

Page 10 of 10 

