Discussion Paper on 'Review of Delisting Regulations' 

 

Background: 

1.  SEBI  vide  notification  dated  June  10,  2009  notified  the  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity 

Shares) Regulations, 2009 ("Delisting Regulations"), thereby superseding the earlier 

SEBI  (Delisting  of  Securities)  Guidelines,  2003.  Delisting  Regulations  were  framed 

after  extensive  consultations  with  various  market  participants  and 

investor 

associations in order  to safeguard the interest of investors.  

 

2.  Subsequently,  SEBI    received    several  representations  from    market  participants 

including  stock  exchanges,  industry  representatives  and  investor  associations, 

highlighting  the  challenges  faced    in  delisting  process  and  suggestions  to  address 

the concerns.  

 

3.  Market  participants  have  pointed  out  issues  in  the  delisting  process  both  in  the 

cases  where  the  delisting  offer  has  succeeded  or  failed.  In  case  of  successful 

delisting offers, a few market participants have apprehended that the success of the 

offer  was  due  to  tacit  understanding  between  promoter(s)  and  a  set  of  investors. 

Similarly,  when  the  delisting    offer  fails,  a  few  market  participants  have  raised 

concerns that the discovered price through reverse book building process has been 

unduly influenced by a set of investors who are mainly speculators.   

 

4.  From the perspective of acquirers, the issues highlighted are summarised as under: 

 

4.1. Reverse  Book  Building  (RBB)  Process:  It  has  been  argued  that  the  RBB 

process,  which  is  supposed  to  engender  an  investor  friendly  mechanism  for 

price discovery and to aid in determination of a fair exit value for minority / public 

shareholders,  is  not  fully  achieving  the  objective.  The  mechanism  is  not 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 1 of 26 

necessarily  leading  to  genuine  discovery  of  price.  A  few    concerns  raised  in 

relation  to  the  RBB  process  as  pointed  out  the  by  market  participants  are  as 

under: 

i. 

The  minority  /  public  shareholders  holding  significant  stake  exercise 

disproportionate  powers  in  determining  the  exit  price  and  thereby,  affect 

the interest of the larger set of minority / public shareholders.  

ii.  Some of the bids are placed at a price which is much higher than the floor 

price  determined  as  per  the  said  Regulations.  These  bids  are  generally 

placed by some investors who have invested in the company close to the 

delisting  process  with  a  view  to  make  unreasonably  large  gains  in  the 

process.  Such  bids destabilize  the  delisting  process  and  adversely  affect 

the interest of  other minority / public shareholders who have undertaken 

the risk of investing with a longer time horizon and are denied a fair exit. 

iii.  A  tacit  understanding  between  a  few  market  participants  in  the  price 

discovery process may work against the interest of other minority / interest 

shareholders intending to participate in delisting process. 

 

 

 

 

4.2. Lack  of  sufficient  demand:  Retail  investors  find  it  difficult  to  comprehend  the 

RBB  process  resulting  in  lack  of  participation  by  the  retail  investors.  They  are 

generally not aware of the bidding price sensitivities and end up bidding at high 

premiums,  thus,  making  the  price  uneconomical  for  the  acquirer.  Further, 

tendering  of  shares  in  the  delisting  process  is  treated  akin  to  off-market 

transactions and consequently, the tendering shareholders do not get the benefit 

of  lower  capital  gains  tax.  These  factors  result  in  lack  of  participation  in  the 

delisting process. 

 

4.3. Time  consuming  process:  The  sequential  process  including  the  requirement 

for  obtaining  shareholders'  approval  increases  the  timeline  of  the  delisting 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 2 of 26 

process.  This  enables  some  investors  to  build  significant  positions  in  the 

company’s stock and influence the delisting process.  

 

5.  Certain  concerns  relating  to  the  delisting  process  have  also  been  raised  from  the 

perspective  of  investors.  Market  participants  have  raised  the  concern  that  the 

acquirers  are 

finding  ways 

to  side-step 

the  said  Regulations.  There  are 

apprehensions that either through parking their own shares by way of offer for sale 

(OFS) / Institutional Placement Programme (IPP) or through informal arrangements 

with  a  set  of  investors,  they  acquire  such  shares  at  a  predetermined  price  and 

successfully delist the company at a price favorable to them. This adversely impacts 

true price discovery. 

 

Need for review: 

6.  Taking note of the above issues and concerns which underpin the need to revisit the 

present  delisting  process,  SEBI  decided  to  examine  and  review  the  present 

conditions for the delisting of securities of companies. 

 

7.  Accordingly,  suggestions  /  comments  were  examined  and    placed  before  the 

Primary Market Advisory Committee (PMAC). Subsequently, a discussion paper has 

been  prepared  incorporating  the  various  concerns  raised  and  suggestions  to 

address the same and is  Annexed herewith.  

 

Public comments: 

8.  Considering  the  importance  of  delisting  of  companies,  public  comments  on  the 

discussion  paper  are  solicited.  Specific  comments/suggestions  as  per  the  format 

given below would be highly appreciated.  

 

Name of entity / person / intermediary:  

Name of organization (if applicable) / investor: 

Sr.No.  Pertains to serial number 

Proposed / 

Rationale 

-- of discussion paper 

suggested changes 

 

 

 

 

 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 3 of 26 

9.  Such  comments  may  please  be  e-mailed  on  or  before  May  30,  2014,  to 

delisting@sebi.gov.in or sent, by post, to:- 

 

Amit Tandon 

Deputy General Manager 

Corporation Finance Department 

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

SEBI Bhavan 

Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 

Bandra Kurla Complex 

Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 

Ph: +912226449373/ +912226449334 

*********** 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 4 of 26 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure 

ANNEXURE TO - 

DISCUSSION PAPER - 
REVIEW OF DELISTING 
      
REGULATIONS 

 

May 09, 2014 

 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 5 of 26 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

A. BRIEF HISTORY: THE EVOLUTION OF DELISTING REGULATIONS ............................... 7 

B. REASONS FOR GOING PRIVATE ................................................................................................. 8 

C. ANALYSIS OF PAST DELISTING OFFERS: ................................................................................. 8 

D. CHALLENGES/ISSUES ARISING THROUGH DELISTING PROCESS .............................. 12 

E.  ISSUES FOR DISCUSSION ............................................................................................................ 15 

I.  PRICE DISCOVERY MECHANISM ....................................................................................... 15 

II. LACK OF SUFFICIENT DEMAND/ENHANCING PARTICIPATION IN RBB ............ 18 

III.SHORTENING OF PROCESS ................................................................................................. 20 

IV.THRESHOLD LIMIT: ............................................................................................................... 23 

V. OTHER ISSUES - SMALL COMPANIES AND DELISTING ............................................ 24 

F.  INDICATIVE TIMELINES TO COMPLETE THE DELISTING PROCESS ........................... 25 

 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 6 of 26 

A. BRIEF HISTORY: THE EVOLUTION OF DELISTING REGULATIONS  

1.  In 1979, vide circular  No. F6/9/SE/78 dated June 28, 1979  issued by the Ministry of 
Finance,  delisting  of  companies  was  permitted  subject  to  certain  criteria  being 
satisfied by the concerned company. Evolution and modification of these guidelines 
since then has been the outcome of  a constant endeavor to  enhance transparency of 
the process and provide fair opportunity to public shareholders.  
 

2.  SEBI  vide  circular  dated  April  29,  1998  laid  down  a  framework  for  voluntary  or 
compulsory delisting of securities from the Stock Exchanges. The circular laid down 
conditions  like  requirement  of  shareholder  approval  through  a  special  resolution 
and  providing  exit  opportunity  to  all  the  minority  shareholders  at  a  price  higher 
than or equal to a floor price determined as the weighted average of the traded price 
of  the  security  in  the  preceding  six  months  at  the  stock  exchange  on  which  the 
securities are listed and where the highest volume of the securities was traded. The 
price  to  be  offered  was  fixed  by  the  acquirer  and  depending  on  shareholders 
accepting  the  offered  price  and  acquirer  crossing  a  particular  threshold  of 
shareholding, the company could be delisted. 
 

3.  Subsequently, SEBI came out with a more elaborate framework vide SEBI (Delisting 
of Securities) Guidelines, 2003 where the concept of price fixation was changed from 
fixed  price  announced  by  the  acquirer  to  a reverse  book  built  price  determined  by 
the existing public shareholders.  
 

4.  Thereafter,  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity  Shares)  Regulations,  2009  ("the  said 
Regulations") was notified on June 10, 2009, thereby superseding the  SEBI (Delisting 
of Securities) Guidelines, 2003.  
 

B. Key  changes  brought  about  in  the  said  Regulations  were  the  new  thresholds  for 
delisting  offer,  approval  of  delisting  proposal  by  the  minority  shareholders  and 
determining  success  or  failure  of  the  delisting  proposal  based  on  the  exit  price 
determined 
process. 

building 

reverse 

book 

under 

the 

revised 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 7 of 26 

REASONS FOR GOING PRIVATE  

5.  The reasons for delisting are varied: 

i. 

ii. 

For  smaller,  undervalued  companies,  maintaining  a  listing  status  entails 
various costs which may no longer be justifiable. . 
For  other  companies,  maintaining  a  listing  status  involves  various  ongoing 
costs relating to financial reporting requirements, ad-hoc disclosures, investor 
relations  and  the  increased  demands  on  management  to  develop  a  good 
relationship with analysts and investors.   

iii.  Transparency  and  disclosure  obligations  of  an  unlisted  company  are 

iv. 

comparatively less compared to a  listed company.  
Lenient  FDI  norms  and  removal  of  sectoral  caps:  In  the  past,  foreign 
companies  eager  to  set  up  their  shops  in  India  had  restrictions  to  operate 
alone. They had to adhere to the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) policy that 
had an upper cap on the maximum ownership by a foreign entity. They could 
not  have  owned  100%  of  the  business  entity  in  India.  This  requirement  led 
many  foreign  companies  to  list  their  subsidiary  in  India.  As  a  result  of 
economic    liberalisation  in  the  country,  FDI  policy  has  undergone  a  sea 
change  and  MNCs  are  now  permitted  to  wholly  own    their  subsidiaries 
except in few critical sectors. Therefore, the compulsion of FDI policy that had 
made the MNCs to list is no longer applicable.  
 

6.  A delisting, on the other hand, provides strategic and financial freedom: 

i. 

ii. 
iii. 

long-term  strategic  planning  is  facilitated  as  short-term  considerations  of 
yields become less important; 
restructurings may be carried out with less public attention; and 
In the event of takeover by a strategic investor, a planned consolidation or re-
organisation can be effected more easily. 

C. ANALYSIS OF PAST DELISTING OFFERS:   

7.  The overall delisting activity has  gone down considerably  after the introduction of 
the said Regulations . A total of 38 offers have been made during the period between  
the introduction of the said Regulations and  March' 2014.  Key statistics pertaining 
to all these 38 offers are as under:  

 
 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 8 of 26 

Company 

Sr 
No. 

Promot
er 
holding 

Offer 
Size in 
INR 
Cr. 

Floor 
Price 

Discovered/
Exit Price 

Premium  Successful 

1  Rhodia Specialty Chemicals India 
2  Reliance Broadcast Network Ltd 

Ltd 

Jolly Board Limited 

India Securities Limited  

Limited 
Indo Tech Transformers Limited  

3  ARI Consolidated Investments Ltd 
4  Cable Corporation Of India Ltd 
5  Fresenius Kabi Oncology Ltd 
6  DENSO (INDIA) LTD 
7  Mangalam Ventures Limited 
8 
9  Fairfield Atlas Company Limited 
10  Chettinad Cement Corporation 
11  Elcid Investments Limited  
12 
13  Amrit Banaspati Company Ltd  
14  APW President Systems Ltd  
15  Ratnabali Capital Markets Ltd  
16  Ricoh India Limited 
17  Saint-Gobain Sekurit India Ltd 
18  Chemplast Sanmar Limited  
19  Patni Computer Systems Ltd  
20 
21  Alfa Laval (India) Limited  
22  Exedy India Limited 
23  Carol Info Services Limited  
24  UTV Software Communications  
25 
Jhaveri Flexo India Ltd 
26  SCIL Ventures Limited  
27  Atlas Copco (India) Limited  
28  Sparsh BPO Services Limited  
29  BOC India Limited  
30  Nirma Limited  
31  Shakti Met-Dor Ltd  
32  Sulzer India Ltd  
33  Goodyear India Ltd  
34  Suashish Diamonds Ltd  
35  HSBC InvestDirect India Limited  
36  Micro Inks Limited 
37  Elantas Beck India Ltd  
38  Vinay Cements Ltd  

91.33 
74.95 

74.68 
74.99 

81 

73.46 
92.38 
89.89 
93.74 
88.44 
74.88 
74.35 
74.23 

75 

74.98 
73.6 
85.77 
74.85 
79.99 
74.98 
88.77 
93.94 
63.73 
70.04 
74.99 
74.82 
83.77 
74.94 
89.48 
77.17 
56.07 
80.03 

74 

89.43 
92.89 

75 

88.55 

75 

35.13 
139.31 

442.64 
46.47 

2750 
19 

135.82 

540 

116.1 
59.7 
60 
350 

4.31 
36.73 
405.85 
107.27 
1.42 
45.98 
41.92 
317.98 
57.56 
11,455 
68.11 
106.4 
28.46 
142.5 
37.8 
164.3 
15.62 
110.84 
136.47 
53.79 
116.7 
29.49 
299.89 
4.51 
1,169.85  356.74 
1,325.86 
816.08 
12.74 
209.74 
1,343.74  835.03 
25.5 
123 
1426 
68.6 
225.29 

2,045 
141.36 

16.05 
9.91 

56 

106 

1,007.11 

44.51 
538.56 
944.49 
23.59 
81.29 
203.91 
70.22 
200.73 
397.95 
54.44 
21.29 

218 
195 
855 
194 
220 
124 

477.94 
219.1 
40.41 

1200 
70 

2750 
19 
135 
145 
60 
1000 
245 
720 

11,455 

250 
150 
250 
120 
130 
90 
15 
520 
60.5 
4,000 
350 
165 
1,100 
25.5 
123 
2,750 
110 
600 
260 
195 
1180 
340 
320 
400 
640 
600 
45 

171% 
51% 

0% 
0% 
16% 
143% 
0% 
186% 
80% 
33% 
0% 
135% 
5% 
52% 
8% 
142% 
205% 
233% 
46% 
8% 
96% 
148% 
56% 
32% 
0% 
0% 
93% 
60% 
166% 
19% 
0% 
38% 
75% 
45% 
223% 
34% 
174% 
11% 

Y 
Y 

Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
N 
Y 

 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Source: www.bseindia.com 

Page 9 of 26 

Out of the above 38 offers, 29 offers were successful. Amongst 9 unsuccessful offers, 
in  case  of  7  offers,  the  number  of  shares  tendered  were  less  than  the  number 
required under the said Regulations. In the remaining 2 offers, acquirer rejected the 
discovered price. 

OFFER SIZE 

8.  Given  below  is  the  year-wise  segregation  of  number  of  delisting  offers  based  on 

offer size. In most of the cases the offer size is less than INR 50 crores.  
 
Year 

200-500 Cr. 

>500 Cr. 

0-50 Cr 

50-200 Cr. 

2009 
2010 
2011 
2012 
2013 
2014 
Total 

 

  

  

1 
1 
3 
2 
6 
2 
15 

  

  

  

3 

2 
3 
1 
9 

  
  

  
  

3 

2 
2 

7 

3 
4 

7 

Total 

1 
7 
6 
10 
11 
3 
38 

9.  Further, given below is the size-wise segregation of successful delisting offers.  As it 
can  be  seen  from  the  same,  a  greater  proportion  of  delisting  offers  with  offer  size 
either being less than INR 50 crores on one extreme or more than INR 200 crores on 
the other extreme have been successful. 
 

 

 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 10 of 26 

PREMIUM PAID: 

10. Out of 38 companies, discovered / exit price in case of 7 companies was equal to the 
floor price. However, in case of 11 companies, premium in the discovered price was 
more than 100%. Premium is the price differential of discovered/exit price over and 
above the floor price. 
 

 

11. Below  is  the  comparison  of  premium  to  the  floor  price  in  successful  and 
unsuccessful  delisting  offers.  The  average  premium  taking  into  account  all  the  38 
delisting  offers    was  more  than  70%.    In  the  delisting  offer  of    HSBC  Investdirect 
(India),  the discovered price was INR 400 compared to floor price of INR 124, which 
is  a  premium  of  223%.    In  case  of  successful  offers,  average  premium  paid  is  62% 
which  is  less  than  the  average  premium  for  all  the  offers.    For  unsuccessful  offers, 
average premium demanded was more than 100%. 
 

Premium paid 

All 38 offers 

28 successful 
offers 

10 unsuccessful 
offers 

Average 
Highest 

Lowest 

73% 

223% 

0% 

62% 

223% 

0% 

111% 

205% 

0% 

 

 

 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 11 of 26 

PROMOTER HOLDING AND SUCCESS RATIO 

12. The  graph given below classifies  the number of delisting offers based on promoter 
holding before the offer. Out of 38 offers, in 31 cases, promoter holding was in the 
range  of  70%  -  90%.  In  all  9  unsuccessful  offers,  promoter  holding  was  also  in  the 
same  range.  Further,  in  20  offers  out  of  the  38  offers,  promoter  holding  was  more 
than 75% and thus were not meeting the minimum public shareholding  criteria.    
 

 

D. CHALLENGES/ISSUES ARISING THROUGH DELISTING PROCESS   

13. SEBI  has  received  various  representations  from  the  market  participants  including 
stock exchanges, industry representatives and investor associations highlighting the 
challenges faced in the delisting process.  
 

14. Market participants have pointed out issues in the delisting process both in the cases 
where  the  delisting  offer  has  succeeded  or  failed.  In  case  of  successful  delisting 
offers, a few market participants have apprehended that the success of the offer was 
due  to  tacit  understanding  between  promoter(s)  and  a  set  of  investors.  Similarly, 
when the delisting  offer fails, a few  market participants have raised concerns that 
the  discovered  price  through  reverse  book  building  process  has  been  unduly 
influenced by a set of investors who are mainly speculators.  In view of the above, 
the  delisting  process  need  to  be  reviewed  in  totality  to  address  the  aforesaid 
concerns.  The  details  of  the  issues  raised  by  the  different  market  participants  are 
detailed in the subsequent paragraphs. 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 12 of 26 

15. From the perspective of acquirers, the issues highlighted are summarised as under: 

 

15.1.  Reverse Book Building (RBB) Process: It has been argued that the RBB process, 
which  is  supposed  to  engender  an  investor  friendly  mechanism  for  price 
discovery  and  to  aid  in  determination  of  a  fair  exit  value  for  minority  /  public 
shareholders,  is  not  fully  achieving  the  objective.  The  mechanism  is  not 
necessarily  leading  to  genuine  discovery  of  price.  A  few    concerns  raised  in 
relation  to  the  RBB  process  as  pointed  out  the  by  market  participants  are  as 
under: 
 

a.  The  minority  /  public  shareholders  holding  significant  stake  exercise 
disproportionate powers in determining the exit price and thereby,  affect 
the interest of the larger set of minority / public shareholders. The bidding 
details of delisting offers of some companies point out that some investors 
have influenced the outcome of the offer by bidding at a higher premium 
(around  106%  more  than  floor  price).  Promoters  in  such  offers  have 
rejected the price even after achieving 90% threshold limit.  Thus,  affects 
interest of larger set of minority / public shareholders. 
 

b.  Some of the bids are placed at a price which is much higher than the floor 
price  determined  as  per  the  said  Regulations.  These  bids  are  generally 
placed by some investors who have invested in the company close to the 
delisting  process  with  a  view  to  make  unreasonably  large  gains  in  the 
process.  Such  bids  destabilize  the  delisting  process  and  adversely  affect 
the interest of  other minority / public shareholders who have undertaken 
the risk of investing with a longer time horizon and are denied a fair exit. 

c.  A  tacit  understanding  between  a  few  market  participants  in  the  price 
discovery  process  may  work  against  the  interest  of  other  minority  / 
interest shareholders intending to participate in delisting process. 

 

 

15.2.  Lack  of  sufficient  demand:  Retail  investors  find  it  difficult  to  comprehend  the 
RBB  process  resulting  in  lack  of  participation  by  the  retail  investors.  They  are 
generally not aware of the bidding price sensitivities and end up bidding at high 
premiums,  thus,  making  the  price  uneconomical  for  the  acquirer.  Further, 
tendering  of  shares  in  the  delisting  process  is  treated  akin  to  off-market 
transactions and consequently, the tendering shareholders do not get the benefit 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 13 of 26 

of  lower  capital  gains  tax.  These  factors  result  in  lack  of  participation  in  the 
delisting process. 
 

15.3.  Time consuming process: The sequential process including the requirement for 
obtaining shareholders' approval increases the timeline of the delisting process. 
This enables some investors to build significant positions in the company’s stock 
and influence the delisting process.  
 

High Discovery Price 

Main Issue With Current Delisting Regulations 

 

16. Certain  concerns  relating  to  the  delisting  process  have  also  been  raised  from  the 

perspective of investors. Summary of such concerns are as under: 
 

16.1.  Acquirers  are  finding  ways  to  side-step  the  said  Regulations.  There  are 
apprehensions that either through parking their own shares by way of offer for 
sale  (OFS)  /  Institutional  Placement  Programme  (IPP)  or  through  informal 
arrangements  with  a  set  of 
investors,  they  acquire  such  shares  at  a 
predetermined price and successfully delist the company at a price favorable to 
them. This adversely impacts true price discovery. 
 
16.1.1. Concerns have been raised by some investors that the acquirers first park 
their  shares  with  (friendly)  investors.  These  shares  are  later  purchased  by 
promoters/acquirers in the delisting offer. This defeats the purpose of RBB. 
A  study  of  some  of  the  successful  delisting  offers  strengthens  this 
apprehension. It appears that some companies may have used the OFS route 
to facilitate their future delisting plans. As an example, in one of the cases, 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 14 of 26 

9% of the total share capital was sold by the promoters through OFS. Upon 
completion of successful OFS, a delisting offer was launched.  Less than 13% 
shares  were  tendered  in  the  delisting  offer  which  made  the  delisting 
successful.  However,  above  example  raises  the  concern  of  informal 
arrangement between promoters and a set of investors. 

 
16.1.2. The  bidding  details  of  some  of  the  successfully  delisted  companies  also 
point out that in certain cases exceptionally high percentage of shares were 
tendered at a price, very close to the floor price. Further, the data also point 
out that even though the number of public shareholders was very high, the 
bids  in  the  delisting  offer  were  tendered  at  few  price  points  (2  or  3),  with 
very  little  price  difference.  For  example,  in  one  of  the  cases,  public 
shareholding  of  the  company  constituting  over  40%  of  the  paid  up  capital 
was  distributed  around  800  shareholders.  However,  in  the  delisting  offer, 
the bids were received at only four price points. Two of the four price points 
were not only very close to the floor price but also at a  difference of INR 5. 
The delisting offer was success, as over 25% of the shares were received at 
floor  price  and  around  10%  were  received  at  INR  5  more  than  the  floor 
price. 

E. ISSUES FOR DISCUSSION  

I.  PRICE DISCOVERY MECHANISM  

17. 

Price  discovery  mechanism  under  the  delisting  regulations  should  ensure 
that 
the  minority  shareholders  are  adequately  compensated.  Minority 
shareholders'  interest  in  the  delisting  process  may  be  better  served  if  there  are 
sufficient safeguards built in the process so that the exit price is fair, transparent 
and not detrimental to the investors’ interest.  
 

18.  Under the existing RBB process, the highest price at which maximum number of 
shareholders place their bids would be the offer price. The acquirer is not forced to 
accept  the  said  offer    price  unless  the  price  matches  his  business  consideration. 
Similarly,  investors  also  have  no  reason  to  complain  as  they  themselves 
determined  the  price  through  a  participative  process.  RBB  process  gives 
minority  /  public  shareholders  a  say  in  determining  the  exit  price  at  which  a 
company could delist its shares and thus, ensures a transparent process of 'price 
discovery'.  

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 15 of 26 

19. Despite  many  advantages  perceived  in  the  RBB  process,  certain  concerns  have 

been pointed out as detailed above.  
 

20. However,  considering  that  the  RBB  process  provides  the  public  shareholders  an 
opportunity to determine the price, it may be continued but with some checks and 
balances to address the aforesaid concerns.   

ALTERNATIVE I – RBB WITH MODIFICATIONS: 

21. 

The RBB process may be modified to remove the influence of a single/small set of 
shareholder(s) and due weightage be given to the collective expectations of minority 
shareholders  who  individually  may  be  holding  a  smaller  number  of  shares. 
Therefore, the exit  price  determination  may not  be  based on the  price  at  which  the 
maximum  number  of  shares  are  tendered,  but  on  the  price  at  which  shareholders 
representing    a  requisite  number  of  shares  tendered  are  willing  to  exit  i.e.  highest 
price at which the promoter touches the threshold limit. In this approach, the bid of 
each  shareholder  counts  unlike  in  the  present  system  where  only  the  bid  of  the 
largest shareholder counts. This may encourage more shareholders to participate in 
the RBB process, once they know that their bid counts thus leading to better exit price 
discovery. This may also address the concern related to influence of single/small set 
of shareholder(s) in price discovery.  

 

 

the 

                                  
 
Considering 
above 
methodology,  in  this  graph, 
PE  would be the exit price as 
this  is  the  highest  price  at 
which  the  threshold  limit 
(i.e. 90% of the total issued 
shares) is touched. 
 
 
 
22.  At 

the 

same 
time, to address the apprehension that delisting others are successful only because 
of  some  understanding  between  the  promoters  and  a  set  of  non-promoter 
shareholders, the following are suggested in addition to the  proposal above  : 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 16 of 26 

  
Option 1:  Mandatory tender by minimum number of shareholders 
 
The  delisting  offer  may  be  considered  as  successful  only  if  the  acquirer  acquires 
shares from at least a specified number of shareholders which could be, say 50% of 
the total number of public shareholders. This may ensure that a few investors may 
not be in a position to influence the success of the delisting process and the process 
involves wider participation of the investors.  
 

and / or 

 

Option 2: Mandatory tender of minimum number of shares 
 
The delisting offer may be considered to be successful only if the acquirer acquires at 
least a specified number of shares, say 50% of shares 'held and not traded' for more 
than  a  year  as  on  the  date  of  the  announcement  of  delisting  offer.  In  other  words, 
record date for the purpose of determining such shares would be the date one year 
prior to announcement of delisting offer. This may ensure that no single investor/ set 
of investors are in a position to influence the outcome of the delisting process.  

ALTERNATIVE II – FIXED PRICE MECHANISM: 

23. RBB mechanism is not observed in most of the developed markets and a consistent 
practice  is  to  enable  the  majority  shareholders  to  indicate  a  price  for  delisting  and 
the same being approved by minority shareholders.  
 

24. Companies  may  be  allowed  to  have  an  option  to  make  a  delisting  offer  at  a  fixed 
price which would be either at a fixed premium to the floor price or a fair price as 
determined by merchant bankers to the delisting offers.  

 

25. The Companies Act, 2013 and current corporate governance framework provides for 
a robust mechanism, particularly in the selection of independent directors to protect 
interest  of  all  shareholders.  A  committee  of  independent  directors,  in  consultation 
with  merchant  bankers,  may  provide  recommendations  on  any  delisting  offers 
proposed  by  a  majority  shareholder.  The  independent  directors  and  the  merchant 
bankers  shall  consider  market  scenario,  company  performance,  future  prospects, 
willingness  of  controlling  /  promoter  shareholders  to  delist,  quantum  of  funds 
required etc. while providing such recommendations. 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 17 of 26 

26. However, in a scenario where market sustains a declining trend over a long period, 
such  a  method  is  bound  to  give  a  low  exit  price.  This  would  be  unfair  to  the 
investors. Under depressed market conditions, the exit price arrived on the basis of 
this  principle  does  not  adequately  compensate  the  shareholder  for  the  permanent 
loss of investment opportunity, especially in a company whose shares are regarded 
as value investment.  

  ALTERNATIVE III - TWO STEP PROCESS – COUNTER OFFER:  

27. It  is  observed  that  a  few  delisting  offers  failed  as  acquirer  rejected  the  discovered 
price.  In order to increase the possibility of some of the offers going through a two 
step process may be introduced. 
 

28.  In a two step process, the first step remains the same as in the case of current RBB 
process i.e. shares can be tendered in the RBB process and the price is discovered. In 
case  this  discovered  price  is  at  significant  premium  to  the  floor  price/price  is  not 
acceptable to the promoter, the acquirer may be given an option to make a counter 
offer  to  public  shareholders  instead  of  rejecting  the  discovered  price  and  the  offer 
failing.  In  this  respect,  the  significant  premium  could  be  defined  in  relation  to  the 
floor price, say a premium of 100%. 
 

29. Subsequently,  the  shareholders  can  be  given  a  choice  either  to  accept  or  reject  the 
counter  offer  made  by  the  acquirer.  The  offer  will  be  considered  successful  if 
investors  accept  the  counter  offer  and  enable  the  acquirer  to  reach  the  required 
threshold limit under the delisting regulations (i.e. 90% of the total issued shares) . 

II.  LACK OF SUFFICIENT DEMAND/ENHANCING PARTICIPATION IN RBB  

30. Widespread shareholding, lack of availability of current shareholders data and low 
institutional  shareholding  results  in  lack  of  sufficient  bids  being  tendered  in  the 
delisting process. 

SUGGESTION I - RESTRICTION ON TRADING: 

31. There is no restriction on trading activities of shares during the delisting offer. There 
is a possibility that due to high delivery volume in the last two days before closure 
of the RBB process, a portion of the traded shares may not be available for tendering 
as  a  part  of  RBB  process.  This  may  result  in  lack  of  sufficient  bids  in  the  delisting 
process and may lead to failure of the delisting offer. 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 18 of 26 

 

32. Considering the above, trading activities in the shares may be restricted during the 
last few days before closure of the RBB process. This would ensure that all the shares 
are available for tendering in the RBB process.  

SUGGESTION II - PARTICIPATION OF THE DEPOSITORY RECEIPT HOLDERS: 

33. As  per  the  said    Regulations,  'public  shareholders'  means  the  holders  of  equity 
shares,  other  than  the  (a)  promoters  and  (b)  holders  of  depository  receipts  issued 
overseas  against  equity  shares  held  with  a  custodian  and  such  custodian.  DR 
holders  /  custodian  cannot  participate,  unless  DRs  are  converted  into  underlying 
shares. The DR holders are required to convert the DRs into shares to participate in 
the delisting offering  without any indication of whether the offer will  succeed and 
may need to convert back if the offer fails. As a result, participation in the delisting 
process is not representative of these DR holders.  
 

34. If DR holders are allowed to participate in the bidding process (with the condition 
that if the delisting offer succeeds, the shares must be submitted to the acquirer prior 
to  making  payment),  a  larger  pool  of  public  investor  would  be  available  for 
participation in the delisting process. 
 

35. However, there is a concern relating to the ultimate beneficiary of DR holders issued 
by  companies  to  overseas  investors,  as  through  such  instruments  promoters  may 
conceal indirect holdings in their own firms. The local custodian bank holds DRs on 
behalf  of  the  overseas  depository  who  issues  DRs  and  the  record  of  DR  holders  is 
maintained by the overseas depository. 

 

36. In  view  of  the  aforesaid,  it  may  be  considered  to  allow  DR  holders  to  tender  their 

shares if the beneficiaries of all the DR holders are known. 

SUGGESTION III - TAX STRUCTURE: 

37. Investors  want  to  maximize  their  returns  and  are  often  faced  with  the  question  of 

tendering their shares in the delisting offer or selling them in the market.  
 

38. In  RBB,  the  transfer  of  shares  happens  through  an  off  market  deal  and  securities 
transaction tax (STT) is not applicable on the transaction as it is not routed through 
the  stock  exchange.  Hence,  the  transaction  through  the  tender  route  has  tax 
implications  and  would  attract  long  term  capital  gains  tax.  Tendering  of  shares 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 19 of 26 

through RBB attracts higher capital gains tax as compared to transaction through the 
stock  exchange  which  attracts  STT  and  therefore,  lower  capital  gain  taxes  are 
applicable.  In  view  of  the  same,  shareholders  refrain  from  tendering  shares  in  the 
RBB process to avoid paying higher taxes.  
 

39. In  order to  provide  the  level  playing  field  for  RBB  and  the  sale  in  stock  exchange, 
tendering of shares through exchange platform may be considered for delisting. This 
may ensure higher investor participation in the RBB.  

SUGGESTION IV – CUT-OFF PRICE:  

40. Retail investors may be allowed to bid at the cut-off price similar to an IPO process. 
Thus,  ensuring  a  significant  portion  of  the  retail  holding  gets  tendered  and  retail 
investors  have  an  exit.  The  cut-off  price  may  be  determined  via  RBB  or  any  other 
suitable formula. This may provide an option to those retail shareholders who find it 
difficult to comprehend the RBB process.  

III. 

SHORTENING OF PROCESS 

41. As per the extant provisions, in terms of Regulation 8(1) of the said Regulations, any 
company  desirous  of  delisting  its  shares  shall  obtain  prior  approval  of  the 
shareholders by special resolution passed through postal ballot.  Further, the special 
resolution shall be acted upon if and only if the votes cast by public shareholders in 
favour of the proposal is at least twice the number of votes cast against it.  
 

42. Further,  after  getting 

in-principle  approval  from  the  stock  exchange(s) 
(Regulations  prescribe  30  days  from  the  application  date  for  stock  exchanges  to 
grant  their  in-principle  approval),  a  delisting  offer  shall  be  deemed  to  be 
successful  if  post  offer,  the  shareholding  of  the  promoter  is  the  higher  of  either 
ninety percent (90%) of the total issued shares or aggregate percentage of pre-offer 
promoter shareholding and fifty percent (50%) of the offer size. 
 

43. Current  delisting  process  takes  anywhere  between  4-6  months  to  complete.  This 
provides ample opportunities to investors to take up significant positions and, thus, 
influence the price discovery process.  

 
 

 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 20 of 26 

SUGGESTION I - ONE LEVEL APPROVAL – WITHOUT SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL: 
44. Currently, the delisting is a two-step  process. The first being the first step being the 
shareholders’ approval by postal ballot followed by the RBB process. The two level 
approval  process  confuses  the  shareholders  and 
is  also  time  consuming. 
Discontinuing  the  requirement  of  shareholders'  approval  for  delisting  would 
significantly shorten the time for delisting. The approval of the shareholders would 
in any case be evident through their participation or otherwise in the RBB process. A 
successful  RBB  process  can  be  perceived  as  shareholder  approval  in  conjunction 
with the price discovery process and, subsequently, the shares may be permitted to 
be  delisted  in  case  the  RBB  is  successful.  It  is  also  argued  that  not  offering  the 
shares  in  the  RBB  cannot  be  taken  as  a  substitute  for  deciding  whether  at  all 
company should go for delisting. 
 

45. From the delisting data available for FY 2009-2013, it is seen that even where the 
delisting  proposal  was  approved  through  special  resolution,  still  requisite 
number  of  shareholders  did  not  tender  their  shares  which  led  to  failure  of  the 
delisting offers.  Thus, the special resolution may not  be  indicative of successful 
completion of delisting offer. 
 

46. Shareholders’ approval typically takes approximately 30 days. Doing away with this 
requirement  of  shareholder  approval  for  delisting  would  significantly  shorten  the 
delisting  time  line.  This  will  also  make  sure  that  investors  would  get  less  time  to 
build  significant  positions  in  the  company’s  share.  Thus,  chances  of  them 
influencing the price discovery will decrease drastically.  

 
47. However,  it  is  pertinent  to  note  that  for  the  delisting  offer  to  be  successful,  all 
the  shareholders  must  be  aware  of  the  proposal.  Although  the  company  is 
required  to  provide  updates  to  the  stock  exchanges  for  dissemination  on  their 
websites, 
is  recommended  that  for  wider  public  participation,  such 
information  may  be  widely  disseminated  through  additional  means  by  the 
company.  
 

it 

SUGGESTION  II - ONE LEVEL APPROVAL – OFFER PRICE PRE-POSTAL BALLOT STAGE: 

48. The  acquirer  may  be  permitted  to  announce  an  offer  price  before  the  postal  ballot 
process  as  per  a  predetermined    formula  prescribed  by  SEBI  or  determined  by 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 21 of 26 

independent  valuers.  If  the  postal  ballot  succeeds,  then  the  stock  may  be  delisted 
directly at the offered price. This would significantly shorten the delisting time. 
 

49. However,  in  this  process,  public  shareholders  have  little  say  on  the  final  delisting 
price  as  compared  to  RBB  process  where  minority  shareholders  have  a  voice  in 
determining  the  exit  price  at  which  a  company  could  delist  its  shares  and  thus, 
ensures a transparent process of 'price discovery'.  

SUGGESTION III – NO IN-PRINCIPLE APPROVAL  

50. In terms of the said Regulations, companies are required to make an application 
to  the  concerned  recognized  stock  exchange  for  in-principle  approval  of  the 
proposed  delisting.  The  application  shall  be  accompanied  by  an  audit  report  as 
required  under  regulation  55A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996 in respect of the equity shares 
sought  to  be  delisted,  covering  a  period  of  six  months  prior  to  the  date  of  the 
application.  The  recognized  Stock  Exchange  shall  dispose  of  the  application  of 
the  in-principal  approval  within  a  period  not  exceeding  thirty  working  days 
from the date of receipt of such application. 
 

51. While considering an application seeking in-principle approval for delisting, the 

recognised stock exchange shall satisfy itself on the following grounds:   

Payment of listing fees to that recognised stock exchange; 

i.  The resolution of investor grievances by the company; 
ii. 
iii.  The  compliance  with  any  condition  of  the  listing  agreement  with  that 
recognised stock exchange having a material bearing on the interests of its 
equity shareholders; 

iv.  Any  litigation  or  action  pending  against  the  company  pertaining  to  its 
activities  in  the  securities  market  or  any  other  matter  having  a  material 
bearing on the interests of its equity shareholders; 

v.  Any other relevant matter as the recognised stock exchange may deem fit 

to verify. 
 

52. If the stock exchanges are mandated to maintain a list of companies compliant with 
the  provisions  of  the  listing  agreement  /  regulations  on  periodic  basis  then  the 
requirement of in-principle approval from stock exchanges may be dispensed with. 
No  requirement  of  in-principle  approval  for  delisting  would  significantly  shorten 
the  delisting  time.  This  will  ensure  that  investors  would  get  less  time  to  build 
significant  positions  in  the  company’s  stock  and  chances  of  them  influencing  the 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 22 of 26 

price  discovery  will  decrease  significantly.  Further,  this  will  also  ensure  that  only 
compliant companies may proceed with the delisting process. 
 

53. In case of non-compliant companies, a mechanism may be prescribed in the delisting 
regulations  so  that  SEBI,  may  grant  relaxation  from  strict  compliance  with  any 
requirement  under  the  regulations    subject  to  such  conditions  as    it  deems  fit  to 
impose, in the interest of  investors in securities market.  

 

54. Any  promoter  or  acquirer  desirous  of  delisting  securities  of  the  company  is 
required  to  make  a  public  announcement  upon  receipt  of  the  in-principle 
approval  from  stock  exchange.  In  case,  there  is  no  requirement  of  in-principle 
approval from stock exchange, the public announcement may be prescribed t o be 
made  on  the  date  on  which  the  promoter  /  acquirer  takes  the  decision  to 
voluntarily  delist  the  company.  This  will  be  in  line  with  SEBI  (Substantial 
Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011  where  the  acquirer  is 
required  to  make  public  announcement  on  the  same  day  as  the  date  on  which 
the  acquirer  takes  the  decision  to  voluntarily  make  open  offer  for  acquiring 
shares of the target company. 

IV. THRESHOLD LIMIT: 

55. 

In  terms  of  regulation  17  of  the  said    Regulations,  for  a  delisting  offer  to  be 
successful, the shareholding of the promoter / acquirer post offer should either reach 
the higher of ninety per cent of the total issued share capital or promoter / acquirer 
should acquire at least 50% of the offer size.  
 
56. 

Considering that the deadline for complying with minimum public shareholding 
requirement is over and a large number of companies have already  complied with 
the norms and only companies compliant with minimum public shareholding norms 
are allowed to make delisting offers , it is felt that there may not be a need for two 
different thresholds for a delisting offer to be successful. In view of the same, for a 
delisting  offer  to  be  considered  successful,  the  shareholding  of  the  promoter  / 
acquirer post-offer should reach ninety per cent of the total issued share capital, in 
line with internationally accepted practice.  

57. 

Further, for all the remaining shareholders an exit option is mandated under the 
said  Regulations at the discovered price during at least the twelve months following 
the delisting. 
 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 23 of 26 

58. 

For  Government  Companies  /  Public  Sector  Undertakings  where  promoter  can 
hold up to 90%, it is proposed that the threshold level of buying out at least 50% of 
the remaining public shareholders shall also remain. 

V.  OTHER ISSUES - SMALL COMPANIES AND DELISTING  

THRESHOLD LIMIT FOR SMALL COMPANIES 

59. In  terms  of  regulation  27  of  the  said  Regulations,  following  two  types  of 

companies fall within the category of Small Companies: 

i.  A  company  with  a  paid  up  capital  up  to  one  crore  rupees  and  its  equity 
shares  have  not  traded  in  any  recognised  stock  exchange  in  the  one  year 
immediately preceding the date of decision; or 

ii.  A  company  with  three  hundred  or  fewer  public  shareholders  and  paid  up 
value of the shares held by such public shareholders in such company is  not 
more than one crore rupees 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

60. As  per  the  said  Regulations,  these  small  companies  can  apply  for  voluntary 
delisting  of  their  equity  shares  without  following  the  RBB  process.  There  may 
not  be  lot  of  companies  listed  in  stock  exchanges  that  satisfy  the  definition  of 
'small companies' as per the Regulations. 
 

61. Delisting Regulations defines threshold limit for 'small companies' based on paid up 
capital,  trading  history  and  number  of  public  shareholders.  Therefore,  a  question 
arises whether there is a need to raise the threshold limit so that a larger number of 
companies may get covered under this special provision, and if so, to what extent. 
 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 24 of 26 

F.  INDICATIVE TIMELINES TO COMPLETE THE DELISTING PROCESS  

62. At  present  the  delisting  process  requires  approximately  137  days  to  be  completed. 
Indicative timelines for different activities constituting the process  are given in the 
table below. As can be seen from the same, shareholders' approval and in-principle 
approval from the stock exchange(s) take up a significant proportion of time. 
 

63. Obtaining shareholders' approval requires following a definite process and timelines 
as  prescribed  statutorily  which  cannot  be  compromised.  As  already  mentioned 
above,  approval  of  the  shareholders  would  in  any  case  be  evident  through  their 
participation or otherwise in the RBB process. Thus, this step may be discontinued. 
 

64. As  regards  the  existing  requirement  of  obtaining  in-principle  approval  from  stock 
exchange(s), the same may no longer be necessary as only compliant companies are 
proposed to be eligible for delisting.  
 

65.  Accordingly,  if  there  is  no  requirement  of  prior  approval  of  the  shareholders  by 
special  resolution  and  in-principle  approval  from  stock  exchange,  it  would 
considerably  reduce  the  timeline  to  complete  delisting  process.  Comparison  of 
current indicative timelines and timelines based on above suggestions are as under: 
 

Activity 

Company informs Exchanges, convenes a Board Meeting 

Board  of  Directors  of  Company  approve  proposed  delisting 
resolution,  proposed  acquisition  by  Promoter  and  seek 
shareholder 
intimates  Exchanges/ 
Promoter 

approval.  Company 

Posting of notices to shareholders 
Receipt  of  votes  from  shareholders  -  passing  of  special 
resolution 
Application to concerned Recognized Stock Exchange(s) for in-
principle approval 
Receipt  of  in-principle  approval  from  Recognized  Stock 

Current 

Indicative 
end date 
(calendar 

Proposed 
timelines 
(working 

days) 

days) 

X 

X+2 

X+3 
X+33 

X+34 

X+54 

X 

X+2 

NA 
NA 

NA 

NA 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 25 of 26 

in 

accordance  with  Delisting 

Exchange(s)  (regulations  prescribe  30  days  from  application 
date for stock exchanges to grant their in-principle approval) 
Public  Announcement 
Regulations, intimation to Stock Exchanges 
Dispatch of Letter of Offer 
Offer starting date (same as current) 
Offer closing date 
Public announcement regarding outcome of Process 
Payment  of  consideration  /  return  of  shares  to  shareholders 
who  have  validly  tendered  shares  (depending  on  success/ 
failure)  (regulations  prescribe  maximum  10  business  days  for 
payment to shareholders) 
Final application to Exchanges  
Actual  Delisting,  after  documentation  with  Exchanges 
(exchanges  give  final  approval  only  after  their  internal 
committee approves which meets once a month)  
 

X+58 

X-1 (Step 

X+75 
X+88 
X+92 
X+103 
X+105 

1) 
X+7 
X+17 
X+22 
X+30 
X+32 

X+107 
X+137 

X+34 
X+64 

 

Review Of Delisting Regulations 
 

Page 26 of 26 

