CONSULTATIVE PAPER ON AMENDMENTS TO FVCI REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC 

COMMENTS 

 

1.  BACKGROUND  

a.  SEBI  registers  Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investors  (FVCIs)  and  regulates 
investments  by  FVCIs  in  India  under  SEBI  (Foreign  Venture  Capital 
Investors)  Regulations,  2000  ("FVCI  Regulations").  FVCIs  are  investors 
incorporated  and  established  outside  India  investing  primarily  in  venture 
capital  undertakings  in  India  either  directly  or  through  venture  capital 
fund(s)/alternative investment funds.  

b.  RBI through Schedule 6 of the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer 
or  Issue  of  Security  by  a  Person  Resident  outside  India)  Regulations, 
2000, also regulates the flow of money through FVCI route. Infrastructure 
is  one  of  the  sectors  in  which  RBI  has  permitted  investment  under  the 
FVCI route.  

c.  As on September 30, 2014, there are 197 FVCIs registered with SEBI with 

a cumulative net investment of Rs. 42,776 crore1.  

d.  Further,  FVCI  investment  in  infrastructure  sector  as  on  September  30, 
2014 amounted to more than Rs. 20,000 crore i.e. more than half of the 
total  cumulative  net  investment  by  FVCIs  in  India.  Major  investment  by 
FVCIs  in  the  infrastructure  sector  is  in  power,  telecom,  roads,  bridges, 
urban infrastructure, etc.   

 

2.  BACKGROUND ON CORE INVESTMENT COMPANIES (CICs) 

a.  The Reserve Bank of India is entrusted with the responsibility of regulating 
and  supervising  the  Non-Banking  Financial  Companies  by  virtue  of 
powers vested in Chapter III B of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.  

b.  As on date, RBI classifies various NBFCs as under: 

i.  Asset Finance Company (AFC)  
ii.  Investment Company (IC) 
iii.  Loan Company (LC) 
iv.  Infrastructure Finance Company (IFC) (Introduced in Feb 2010) 

                                                 
1 As per latest quarterly data received by SEBI from FVCIs  

v.  Systemically  Important  Core  Investment  Company  (CIC-ND-SI) 

(Introduced in August 2010) 

vi.  Infrastructure  Debt  Fund  (IDF-NBFC)  (Introduced  in  November 

vii.  Micro  Finance  Institution  (NBFC-MFI)  (Introduced  in  December 

2011) 

2011) 

viii.  Factors (NBFC-Factors) (introduced in July 2012) 

c.  As seen above, over last few years, RBI has carved out some specialized 
NBFCs  like  Core  Investment  Companies  (CICs),  NBFC-  Infrastructure 
Finance  Companies  (IFCs),  Infrastructure  Debt  Fund-  NBFCs,  NBFC-
MFIs and NBFC-Factors being the most recent one. 

d.  Of  the  various  types  of  NBFCs,  the  matter  under  discussion  pertains  to 

Core Investment Companies (CICs).  

e.  As per RBI2: 

i.  Core Investment Companies or CICs are companies which have their 
assets  predominantly  as  investments  in  shares  for  holding  stake  in 
group  companies  but  not  for  trading,  and  also  do  not  carry  on  any 
other financial activity. 

ii.  A  CIC-ND-SI  is  a  Non-Banking  Financial  Company  carrying  on  the 
business  of  acquisition  of  shares  and  securities  which  satisfies  the 
following conditions:- 

(a)  it  holds  not  less  than  90%  of  its  Total  Assets  in  the  form  of 
investment in equity shares, preference shares, debt or loans in 
group companies; 

(b)  its  investments  in  the  equity  shares  (including  instruments 
compulsorily  convertible  into  equity  shares  within  a  period  not 
exceeding 10 years from the date of issue) in group companies 
constitutes not less than 60% of its Total Assets; 

                                                 
2 DNBS (PD) CC.No. 197/03.10.001/2010-11 dated August 12, 2010 
DNBS.(PD) 220/CGM(US)-2011 dated January 5, 2011    
http://www.rbi.org.in/commonman/english/scripts/FAQs.aspx?Id=836 

 
 

(c)  it  does  not  trade  in  its  investments  in  shares,  debt  or  loans  in 
group  companies  except  through  block  sale  for  the  purpose  of 
dilution or disinvestment; 

(d)  it  does  not  carry  on  any  other  financial  activity  referred  to  in 
Section 45I(c) and 45I(f) of the RBI act, 1934 except investment in 
bank deposits, money market instruments, government securities, 
loans to and investments in debt issuances of group companies 
or guarantees issued on behalf of group companies. 

(e)  Its asset size is Rs 100 crore or above and 

(f)  It accepts public funds 

iii.  Existing CICs which were exempted from registration in the past and 
have  an  asset  size  of  less  than  Rs  100  crore  are  exempted  from 
registration from RBI in terms of section 45NC of the RBI Act 1934, as 
stated in RBI's Notification No. DNBS.(PD) 220/CGM(US)-2011 dated 
January 5, 2011.  

iv.  From  the  above,  it  is  understood  that  while  CICs  are  classified  as 
NBFCs, they are essentially holding companies and do not engage in 
financing activity similar to other NBFCs. CICs, as per their definition, 
hold majority of their assets as investments in group companies and 
do  not  engage 
that  of 
investments/guarantees/loans mainly relating to its group companies.  

financing  activity  other 

in 

than 

v. 

the 

infrastructure  sector,  due 

to  various  covenants  under 
In 
concession  agreements  and  current 
format  of  public-private 
partnerships  (PPPs),  separate  legal  entities  in  the  nature  of  Special 
Purpose Vehicles are usually formed to undertake projects. Therefore, 
it  is  observed  that  holding  company  model  is  suitable  for  the 
infrastructure sector and several major companies in the infrastructure 
sector are classified as CICs.  

vi.  RBI  also,  in  order  to  strengthen  the  flow  of  resources  into  the 
infrastructure sector, vide its A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 78 dated 
December  3,  2013  allowed  CICs  to  raise  external  commercial 
borrowing (ECB) for project use in special purpose vehicles.  

 

 

3.  PROPOSAL 

a.  Currently, SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) Regulations, 2000 do 
not permit FVCIs to invest in Non-Banking Financial Services (with certain 
exceptions).  Therefore,  FVCIs  are  not  permitted  to  invest  in  CICs  under 
the FVCI Regulations since CICs are classified as NBFCs by RBI.  

b.  It  is  observed  that  the  companies  investing  in  infrastructure  sector 
classified  as  CICs  are  not  able  to  attract  funds  from  FVCIs  due  to  the 
aforesaid restriction under the FVCI Regulations.  

c.  Infrastructure  is  the  backbone  for  the  development  of  the  country. 
According  to  the  12th  Five  Year  Plan,  India  requires  an  investment  in 
Infrastructure  sector  of  around  Rs.  65  lakh  crores  over  the  duration  of 
2012-2017.  A  significant  boost  is  required  to  the  infrastructure  sector  in 
the country to help India achieve its target for the 12th Five Year Plan.  

d.  As the capital market regulator, SEBI actively encourages setting of varied 
frameworks  for  investment  in  infrastructure  sector  so  that  lack  of 
structures  for  financing  of  infrastructure  is  not  an  impediment  for  the 
development  of  the  sector.  Specifically  towards  this  end,  SEBI  recently 
notified  SEBI  (Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2014  to 
attract more funds in a transparent manner into the infrastructure sector.  

e.  Other  steps  taken  by  SEBI  in  the  recent  past  towards  this  end  include 
providing  framework  for  various  structures  such  as,  Infrastructure  Debt 
Fund (IDF-MF) under SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, Category I 
AIF  –  Infrastructure  Fund  under  SEBI  (Alternative  Investment  Funds) 
Regulations, 2012, etc.  

f. 

In  addition,  SEBI  has  provided  special  concessions  for  companies  in 
infrastructure sector for the purpose of issue and listing of securities under 
SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.  
SEBI has also simplified the procedure for public issue of bonds which has 
facilitated bond offerings of several infrastructure companies. Additionally, 
SEBI also has a framework for public offer and listing of securitised debt 
instruments  under  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt 
Instruments) Regulations, 2008.  

g.  For  removing  any  hindrance  for  investment  in  the  infrastructure  sector 
through  the  FVCI  route  and  to  boost  the  infrastructure  sector  in  the 

country,  it  is  proposed  that  FVCIs  may  be  allowed  to  invest  in  CICs 
investing in the infrastructure companies.  

h.  The proposal also is based on the fact that CICs are essentially holding 
companies and do not engage in financing activity similar to other NBFCs 
and therefore do not go against the intent of the FVCI Regulations of not 
allowing FVCI investment in non-banking financial services.  

i.  The  proposal  is  expected  to  infuse  funds  into  the  infrastructure  sector 
which  is  crucial  for  development  of  the  country  and  has  vast  positive 
spillover effects over various other sectors and the entire economy. 

j.  This  proposal  to  allow  investment  by  FVCIs  in  CICs  investing  in 
infrastructure  companies  has  also  been  endorsed  by  the Government of 
India  and  Reserve  Bank  of 
the 
recommendations of High Level Committee on Financing of Infrastructure.  

India.  The  proposal 

is  one  of 

k.  In addition to the above, in line with reclassification of NBFCs by RBI over 
the last decade, it is proposed that the negative list under Schedule III of 
the  FVCI  Regulations  is  suitably  modified  to  replace  'equipment  leasing 
and  hire  purchase  companies'  with  'Asset  Finance  Companies  and 
Infrastructure Finance Companies'.  

 

4.  PUBLIC COMMENTS 

 
In the light of the above, SEBI proposes to make suitable amendments as may 
be  required  for  FVCI  Regulations.  Comments  are    invited  on  the  above  
proposals  along  with  rationale  for  the  same.  Comments  may  be  forwarded  by 
email to Ms. Nila Salil Khanolkar, Assistant General Manager at nila@sebi.gov.in 
or  to  Mr.  Aditya  Sarda,  Assistant  Manager  at  adityas@sebi.gov.in  latest  by 
November 15, 2014 in the following format: 
 
Name and organization:  
Sr. No  Pertains to  
 
 
 
 

Recommendation 
 
 
 

Rationale 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Issued on: November 05, 2014 

