 

 

Discussion Paper on 'Issuance of 
partly paid shares and warrants by 

Indian companies'  

Background  
 
1.  The Ministry of Finance has decided to permit issuance of partly paid shares and 

 

warrants ("the said instruments") by the Indian companies to foreign investors.  

 

2.  In this regard, RBI has notified the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or 

Issue  of  Security  by  a  Person  Resident  Outside  India)  (Ninth  Amendment) 

Regulations,  2014  on  June  30,  2014.  The  said  amendment  essentially  permits 

foreign  investment  in  partly  paid-up  shares  and  warrants  issued  by  Indian 

companies.  RBI  has  also  issued  A.P.  (DIR  Series)  circular  No.  3  dated  July  14, 

2014 ("RBI circular") declaring the said instruments as eligible for the purpose of 

FDI  and  FPI  subject  to compliance  with  FDI  and  FPI  schemes.  The  circular  also 

lays  down  certain  conditions 

in  respect  of  pricing,  receipt  of  balance 

consideration, reporting, etc. 

 

3.  The provisions in the said RBI circular are summarized as under: 

 

A.  Eligible instruments and investors - 

Partly  paid  equity  shares  and  warrants  issued  by  an  Indian  company  in 

accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  and  the  SEBI 

guidelines, as applicable, have been made eligible instruments for the purpose 

of  FDI  and  foreign  portfolio  investment  (FPI)  by  Foreign  Institutional 

Investors  (FIIs)  /  Registered  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  (RFPIs)  subject  to 

compliance with FDI and FPI schemes.  

 

Issuance of partly paid shares and warrants 
 
 

Page 1 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

B.  Pricing and receipt of balance consideration -  

I. 

Partly paid equity shares: The pricing of partly paid equity shares shall be 

determined upfront and 25% of the total consideration amount (including 

share  premium,  if  any),  shall  also  be  received  upfront.  The  balance 

consideration towards fully paid equity shares shall be received within a 

period of 12 months. The time period for receipt of balance consideration 

within 12 months shall not be insisted upon where the issue size exceeds 

INR 500 crores and the issuer complies with regulation 17 of SEBI (Issue 

of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  ("ICDR") 

regarding monitoring agency. This exemption of not mandating receipt of 

balance consideration within 12 months period has also been extended to 

the unlisted Indian investee companies.  

  

II.  Warrants:  The  pricing  of  the  warrants  and  price  /  conversion  formula 

shall  be  determined  upfront  and  25%  of  the  consideration  amount  shall 

also be received upfront. The balance consideration towards fully paid up 

equity shares shall be received within a period of 18 months. The price at 

the time of conversion should not in any case be lower than the fair value 

worked out, at the time of issuance of such warrants, in accordance with 

the  extant  FEMA  regulations  and  pricing  guidelines  stipulated  by  RBI 

from time to time.  

 

C.  Reporting  and  other  conditions  -  Certain  requirements  as  regards  reporting 

under FEMA regulations have been prescribed. The onus of compliance of all 

the conditions under FEMA as regards entry route, sectoral caps and all other 

conditions under FDI guidelines has been put on the investee company in case 

of issue of partly paid shares / warrants as well as upon resident transferor or 

transferee  in  accordance  with  extant  guidelines  in  case  of  transfer  of  partly-

paid shares / warrants. Certain other requirements including giving notice for 

transfer of partly-paid shares, FIIs / FPIs complying with the individual limit 

of  investment,  compliance  with  sectoral  caps,  prior-approval  of  FIPB  for 

investing under the government route, forfeiture of upfront payment on non-

payment of call money, etc. have also been laid down under the said circular.  

 

Issuance of partly paid shares and warrants 
 

Page 2 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Need for review 
 
4.  In light of the aforesaid review of the regulatory framework under FEMA and in 

   

 

view of the perceived need to harmonize the framework for issuance of the said 

instruments  under  FEMA  and  ICDR,  it  is  proposed  to  review  the  relevant 

provisions  under  ICDR.  Accordingly,  the  various  proposals  for  amendment  to 

ICDR are outlined in the subsequent paragraphs. 

Proposals for amendment 
 

5. A. Issuance of partly paid shares 

I. Requirement of upfront payment 

a. Rights issue 

In  case  of  rights  issues,  the  following  is  presently  stipulated  under  regulation 

54(7) of ICDR: 

"54(7) The issuer shall give only one payment option out of the following to all 

the investors - 

(a) part payment on application with balance money to be paid in calls; or 

(b) full payment on application: 

Provided  that  where  the  issuer  has  given  the  part  payment  option  to  investors, 

such  issuer  shall  obtain  the  necessary  regulatory  approvals  to  facilitate  the 

same." 

As can be seen from the above, part payment option is available in rights issues. 

However, there is no specification as to the minimum amount to be paid with the 

application.  To  enable  application  by  foreign  investors  and  ensure  uniformity 

with  the  RBI  guidelines,  the  said  regulation  54(7)  of  ICDR  may  have  to  be 

amended  to  specify  that  in  case  of  part  payment  option  being  provided  by  the 

issuer in rights issue, the part payment on application shall not be less than 25 % 

of the issue price. 

Issuance of partly paid shares and warrants 
 

Page 3 

 

 
 
B. Issuance of warrants 

 

 

I. Requirement of upfront payment 

a. Public and Rights issue 

 

 

   

In  terms  of  regulation  4(3)  of  ICDR,  warrants  can  be  issued  along  with  public 

issue / rights issue of other specified securities. The said regulation 4(3) reads as 

under: 

"4(3)  Warrants  may  be  issued  along  with  public  issue  or  rights  issue  of  specified 

securities subject to the following: 

(a) the tenure of such warrants shall not exceed twelve months from their date 

of allotment in the public/rights issue; 

(b) not more than one warrant shall be attached to one specified security." 

Currently, there is no specific provision regarding minimum upfront payment to 

be  received  by  issuer  in  respect  of  such  issuance  of  warrants.  However,  as  per 

schedule VIII - part A - paragraph 2(VII)(A)(6) read with regulation 57(2) of ICDR, 

full disclosures shall be made regarding the objects towards which the funds from 

conversions of warrants are proposed to be used. To ensure certainty regarding 

receipt of funds by the issuer company, a minimum upfront payment in respect of 

allotment of warrants may be stipulated. 

Hence, in line with the norms prescribed by RBI, it may be stipulated under ICDR 

that pricing of the warrants and price / conversion formula shall be determined 

upfront and 25% of the consideration amount shall be received upfront. In case of 

non-exercise of warrants, entire upfront payment may be forfeited by the issuer. 

II. Period of conversion 

a. Public and Rights issue 

Regulation 4(3) of ICDR permits warrants to be issued along with public issue 

or  rights  issue  of  specified  securities  subject  to  certain  conditions  including 

maximum  tenure  of  warrants  not  exceeding  12  months  from  the  date  of 

allotment.  

 

Issuance of partly paid shares and warrants 
 

Page 4 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

To ensure uniformity, regulation 4(3) of ICDR may be amended for increasing 

the  tenure  of  warrants  issued  along  with  public  issue  or  rights  issue  of 

specified securities to 18 months.  

 

6. The following matrix summarizes the aforesaid proposals:  

Partly Paid Shares 

Warrants 

Mode of 
issuance 

Public 

Rights 

Minimum upfront 

payment 

Period within which 
to be made fully paid 

up 

Minimum upfront 

payment 

  Period of conversion 

Existing - 25% 
Proposed - No change 

Existing - 12 months 
Proposed - No change 

Existing - Not specified 
Proposed - 25% 

Existing - 12 months 
Proposed - 18 months 

Existing - Not specified 
Proposed - 25% 

Existing - 12 months 
Proposed - No change 

Existing - Not specified 
Proposed - 25% 

Existing - 12 months 
Proposed - 18 months 

Preferential 

Not applicable  

Existing - 25% 
Proposed - No change 

Existing - 18 months 
Proposed - No change 

 

Public comments 
 

7.  Considering  the  implications  of  the  said  matter  on  the  market  participants, 
public comments on the proposals outlined above at paragraph 5 are solicited. 
Specific comments/suggestions as per the format given below would be highly 
appreciated.  

 

Name of entity / person / intermediary:  

 

Name of organization (if applicable): 

 

Sr. No. 

Pertains to proposal at 

Proposed / 

sub-para number  

suggested changes 

Rationale 

 

 
 

 

 

 

8.  Such  comments  may  please  be  e-mailed  on  or  before  December  14,  2014,  to 

partlypaid@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to: 

 

Shri. Amit Tandon 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph: +912226449373 / +912226449334 
 

***** 

Issuance of partly paid shares and warrants 
 

Page 5 

