Consolidation and re-issuance in the Corporate Bond Market 

 
1.  Consolidation in Corporate Bond Market 
 
The report of High Level Expert Committee on Corporate Bonds and Securitization (Dr. 
R.H. Patil Committee) had recommended for consolidation of privately placed bonds so 
as to avoid fragmentation of debt market with multiple issues and for re-issuances which 
help  in  creation  of  large  floating  stocks  which  is  needed  to  enhance  market  liquidity.  
SEBI is proposing to put in place, an enabling framework for the same.   
 
2.  Consolidation in G-Sec Market 
 
In  the  G-Sec  (Government  Securities)  market,  the  gradual  extinguishing  of  illiquid, 
infrequently traded and reissue of liquid bonds has helped in improving liquidity.  
 
Gandhi Committee Report ("Report of the Working Group on Enhancing Liquidity in the 
Government  Securities  and  Interest  Rate  Derivatives  Markets")  has  recommended 
active and passive consolidation modes for consolidating the G-sec market and bringing 
liquidity in the market. In the G-Sec market, a policy of passive consolidation through 
reissuance was started in 1999 in order to improve fungibility among the securities and 
to  facilitate  consolidation  of  debt.  The  larger  stock  size  of  securities  has  greatly 
improved  market  liquidity  and  helped  the  emergence  of  benchmark  securities  in  the 
market. 
 
Given the encouraging results in liquidity in the G-Sec market, this experiment is now 
recommended to be attempted in the corporate debt market. It is proposed that there 
should be enabling provisions re-issuance of the existing bonds by an issuer in a given 
time period (say over a quarter) and any new issue should preferably be a reissue so 
that  there  are  large  stocks  in  any  given  issue,  thereby  helping  to  create  secondary 
market liquidity. 

 

Page 1 of 3 

3.  Proposal 
 

Section 24 of the Companies Act, 2013 empowers SEBI to administer certain provisions 
of Companies Act including issue and transfer of securities by making regulations.  
 
The  public  issue  of  debt  securities  is  covered  under  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt 
Securities) Regulations, 2008 [SEBI (ILDS) Regulations].  
 
Therefore, amendments are proposed in SEBI (ILDS) Regulations, 2008, to include a 
specific enabling provision to this effect.  
 
In  view  of  the  same,  it  is  proposed  to  amend  the  Chapter  II  of  the  (SEBI  (ILDS) 
Regulations) to incorporate a sub-regulation (A) to Regulation 18 as under: 
 
"Consolidation and Re-issuance" 
18  (A):  An  issuer  may  carry  out  consolidation  and  re-issuance  of  its  debt  securities, 
subject to the fulfillment of the following conditions: 

a)  there  is  such  an  enabling  provision  in  its  articles  under  which  it  has  been 

incorporated; 

b)  the issue is through private placement; 
c)  the  Issuer  has  obtained  credit  rating  from  at  least  one  credit  rating  agency 

registered with the Board and is disclosed;  

d)   such  ratings  should  be  revalidated  on  a  periodic  basis  and  the  change  if  any,  

shall be disclosed; 

a)  appropriate disclosures are made with regards to consolidation and re-issuance, 

in the Term Sheet. 

 
4.  Public Comments 

 

1.  In the light of above, SEBI proposes to make suitable amendments to SEBI (Issue 
and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008.  Public comments are invited on 

 

Page 2 of 3 

the  aforesaid  proposal  along  with  rationale  for  the  same.      Comments  may  be 
forwarded  by  email 
to  Mr.  Sandeep  Kriplani,  Assistant  General  Manager 
(sandeepk@sebi.gov.in)  or  Ms.  Vandana  Agarwal,  Assistant  Manager 
(vandanaa@sebi.gov.in) latest by December 25, 2014. 

 

2.  Comments should be given in the following format: 

 

Name of person/ organization: 
S. No.  Pertains to 

 

 

 

Issued on: December 4, 2014 
 

Suggestion/ 
Recommendation 
 

Rationale 

 

 

Page 3 of 3 

