 
 

 

 

Discussion Paper on “Re-classification of 

Promoters as Public” 

Background:  
 
1.  Regulations 2(1)(za) and (zb) of SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 

 

Regulations, 2009 (hereinafter referred to as ‘ICDR Regulations’) define promoter and 

promoter group as under: 

 

(za)  “promoter” includes:  

 

the person or persons who are in control of the issuer; 

(i) 
(ii)  the  person  or  persons  who  are  instrumental  in  the  formulation  of  a  plan  or 

programme pursuant to which specified securities are offered to public; 

(iii)  the person or persons named in the offer document as promoters: 

 

Provided that a director or officer of the issuer or a person, if acting as such merely 
in his professional capacity, shall not be deemed as a promoter: 
 
Provided  further  that  a  financial  institution,  scheduled  bank,  foreign  institutional 
investor and mutual fund shall not be deemed to be a promoter merely by virtue of 
the fact that ten per cent. or more of the equity share capital of the issuer is held by 
such person; 
 
Provided  further  that  such  financial  institution,  scheduled  bank  and  foreign 
institutional investor shall be treated as promoter for the subsidiaries or companies 
promoted by them or for the mutual fund sponsored by them; 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

(zb) “promoter group” includes: 

 

 

 

 

 

   

the promoter; 

(i) 
(ii)  an  immediate  relative  of  the  promoter  (i.e.,  any  spouse  of  that  person,  or  any 

parent, brother, sister or child of the person or of the spouse); and 

(iii)  in case promoter is a body corporate: 

(A)  a subsidiary or holding company of such body corporate; 
(B)  any body corporate in which the promoter holds ten per cent. or more of 
the equity share capital or which holds ten per cent. or more of the equity 
share capital of the promoter; 

(C)  any  body  corporate  in  which  a  group  of  individuals  or  companies  or 
combinations  thereof  which  hold  twenty  per  cent.  or  more  of  the  equity 
share capital in that body corporate also holds twenty per cent. or more of 
the equity share capital of the issuer; and 

(iv)  in case the promoter is an individual: 

(A)  any  body  corporate  in  which  ten  per  cent.  or  more  of  the  equity  share 
capital is held by the promoter or an immediate relative of the promoter 
or a firm or Hindu Undivided Family in which the promoter or any one or 
more of his immediate relative is a member; 

(B)  any  body  corporate  in which  a  body  corporate  as  provided  in  (A)  above 

holds ten per cent. or more, of the equity share capital; 

(C)  any Hindu Undivided Family or firm in which the aggregate shareholding 
of the promoter and his immediate relatives is equal to or more than ten 
per cent. of the total; and 

(v)  all  persons  whose  shareholding  is  aggregated  for  the  purpose  of  disclosing  in 

the prospectus under the heading "shareholding of the promoter group": 
 

 Provided  that  a  financial  institution,  scheduled  bank,  foreign  institutional  investor 
and mutual fund shall not be deemed to be promoter group merely by virtue of the 
fact that ten per cent. or more of the equity share capital of the issuer is held by such 
person: 
 
Provided  further  that  such  financial  institution,  scheduled  bank  and  foreign 
institutional  investor  shall  be  treated  as  promoter  group  for  the  subsidiaries  or 
companies promoted by them or for the mutual fund sponsored by them” 

 

2.  Regulation  2(1)(s)  of  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 

Regulations, 2011 (hereinafter referred to as ‘SAST Regulations’) defines promoter as 

under: 

““Promoter” has the same meaning as in the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 and 
includes a member of the promoter group.” 
 

3.  Thus,  under  the  SAST  Regulations,  promoters  are  defined  in  reference  to  ICDR 

Regulations. As per ICDR Regulations, promoter also includes person/s named in the 

Re-classification of Promoters as Public 
 

Page 2 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

offer document as promoters. This may lead to a scenario of “once a promoter, always 

a promoter”. 

 

4.  Further, there are various disclosure requirements on the promoter/s under the said 

SAST Regulations viz. on acquisition, disposal of shares, pledge, etc. Thus, timely and 

accurate disclosure of promoter / promoter group is essential. 

 

5.  While implementing the mandatory requirement  of minimum 25% public holding in 

private  listed  companies  in  terms  of  Rule  19A  of  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  

Rules,  1957 (hereinafter referred to as ‘SCRR’), it was observed that some companies 

attempted to comply with the minimum public shareholding norm by reclassifying a 

part of the promoter group entities as public. 

 
Need for review: 
 
6.  A few examples  wherein  promoters may desire  to  re-classify their holding as  public 

have been explained below: 

 

 

a.  ‘Group A’ was classified as the promoters of the company ‘X’.  ‘Group B’ entered 

into  an  agreement  with  ‘Group  A’  and  the  company,  to  acquire  substantial 

shares  of  the  company.  Later  ‘Group  A’  requested  the  company  to  terminate 

the  Shareholders  Agreement  and  wanted  to  classify  themselves  as  public 

shareholders.  Shareholding  Agreement  was  terminated  and  stock  exchanges 

were  intimated  about  the  same.  After  obtaining  the  consent  of  shareholder 

through postal ballot, the company amended the Articles of Association of the 

company by removing all the special rights and privileges available to ‘Group 

A’.  

Whether in such a case can ‘Group A’ re-classify its holding to public category? 

b.   'X'  Ltd is  a  listed company. 'A' is  the  daughter of one of the  promoters. After 

marriage of 'A' with a family member of a business competitor, ‘A ‘desired to 

re-classify her holding in the public category in ‘X’.  

Whether ‘A’ may be permitted to re-classify herself as public shareholder? 

Re-classification of Promoters as Public 
 

Page 3 

 

 

 

 

   

c. 

‘A’ is promoter of a company and holds 70% of the shares of the said company 

along  with  his  family  members.  ‘B’  a  strategic  investor,  wants  to  have  a 

controlling stake in the company and therefore enters into an agreement with 

‘A’ and the  company. After the  said agreement ‘A’ would  hold 25% stake and 

the  strategic  investor  would  have  50%  stake.  ‘A’  would  continue  to  be  the 

Chairman of the said company. 

In such a scenario, whether ‘A’ may be re-classified as public shareholder? 

d.  ‘A’ and ‘B’ are family members and jointly promoted various companies. Due to 

a family dispute, ‘A’ and ‘B’ decided to enter into a family separation agreement 

which was registered. As part of the agreement, ‘A’ will transfer majority of its 

holding in some of the companies to ‘B’ and similarly ‘B’ will transfer majority 

of its holding in some other companies to ‘A’. 

In  such  a  case,  ‘A’  would  desire  to  be  re-classified  as  public  shareholder  in 

companies where ‘B’ would hold substantial shares and vice-versa. 

Should such re-classifications be permitted? 

 

 
 

 

 

e.  There is a company run by family members initially. However, the said family 

members  want  to  exit  from  the  day  to  day  operations  of  the  company  and 

would  hold  a  minor  stake  in  the  company.  The  said  members  would  like  to 

handover  the  management  of  the  company  to  professionals  and  would  not 

have any special rights in the company. 

Should the holding of such family members be re-classified as public holding? 

 

7.  As the present regulatory framework does not prescribe criteria for re-classification, 

it  is  proposed  to  prescribe  specific  criteria  to  lend  objectivity  to  the  process  of 

reclassification  of  promoters  of  listed  companies  as  public  shareholders  under 

various circumstances. 

 
Review process: 
 
8.  Accordingly, the matter was discussed by the Primary Market Advisory Committee  

Re-classification of Promoters as Public 
 

Page 4 

 

 

 

 

   

(“PMAC”) of SEBI in its meetings held on October 30, 2013, December 19, 2013 and 

August 11, 2014.  

 

 
 

 

9.  Based  on  the  deliberations/recommendations  of  PMAC,  a  policy  framework  which 

details the various scenarios and conditions under which a promoter/promoter group 

entity  can  be  re-classified  as  a  public  shareholder  is  proposed  in  the  subsequent 

paragraphs. 

 
Proposed Policy Framework: 
 
10. An entity belonging to promoter / promoter group of listed companies may re-classify 

its  shareholding  to  public  category  under  the  following  three  scenarios,  subject  to 

certain conditions as stated thereafter: 

 

 

 

I. 

Pursuant  to  an  open  offer  under  the  SAST  Regulations  or  on  account  of  an 

exemption granted by SEBI under the said Regulations. 

II. 

In  case  of  a  separation  agreement  -  The  said  agreement  shall  be  duly  registered 

under  the  Registration  Act,  1908  or  the  material  terms  of  the  separation 

agreement should be disclosed to the stock exchanges, prior to the reclassification. 

III. 

The  promoter  along  with  the  entire  promoter  group  to  which  the  promoter 

belongs, taken together, holds less than 5% shares in the company (including any 

convertibles/outstanding warrants/ADR/GDR Holding).  

 

 

Open Offer 

Re-

classification 
of Promoters  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Separation 
 
Agreement 
 

Share holding 
less than 5% 

Re-classification of Promoters as Public 
 

Page 5 

 

 

 

 
 
Common Conditions with respect to Scenario I, II and III: 
 
a.  Post  reclassification,  no  shareholding  agreement  shall  exist  and  all  past  agreements 

   

 

 

between  (i)  outgoing  promoter  /  promoter  group  entities  and  the  continuing 

promoter / promoter group entities and (ii) outgoing entities and the company, shall 

be  made  null  and  void.  In  other  words,  such  outgoing  entities  shall  have  only  such 

rights  as  any  other  public  shareholder.  No  special  rights  shall  be  with  the  outgoing 

entity through any formal or informal arrangements 

b.  Outgoing entities shall not hold any Key Management Personnel (“KMP”) position in 

the  company  and  the  other  group  or  associate  companies.  Further,  in  case  the 

promoter is a corporate entity, KMP’s of such corporate promoter shall not hold any 

KMP position in the company and the other group / associate companies 

c.  The outgoing entities and/or company should not have been debarred from accessing 

the capital market 

d.  Such  outgoing  entities  shall  not  exercise,  directly  or  indirectly,  any  control  over  the 

affairs of the company or any of the group / associate companies 

e.  If  such  outgoing  entities  want  to  classify  themselves  as  promoters  again  in  future, 

they shall be required to make an open offer to the public and  would not be eligible 

for exemption from the said obligation 

 

Additional conditions with respect to Scenario II and III: 
 
f.  The promoter group entity / company shall give intimation to Stock Exchanges for the 

re-classification  along  with  all  the  relevant  details  including  reason  for  re-

classification, shareholding of the said promoter group, copy of agreements and other 

relevant  documents.  The  re-classification  shall  be  permitted  after  expiry  of  1  year 

from such intimation 

g.  Post  the  initial  1  year,  such  promoter  group  entity  may  be  classified  as  public. 

However, they shall not be considered to be part of public shareholders for another 3 

years for the purpose of compliance with minimum public shareholding requirements 

under Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 

 

 

Re-classification of Promoters as Public 
 

Page 6 

 

 

 

 
 
Further additional conditions with respect to Scenario III: 
 
h.  Such  promoters  should  have  been  disclosed  as  promoters  since  at  least  3  financial 

   

 

 

years prior to the year in which the said promoter/promoter group entities desires to 

re-classify its holding as public 

i.  Such outgoing entities shall not fall within the definition of ‘promoter group‘ category 

in respect of the continuing promoter 

 

Conditions with respect to disclosure and procedures: 
 
j.  As  per  the  disclosure  in  the  Offer  Document,  all  entities  falling  under  promoter  and 

promoter group shall be disclosed separately on the Stock Exchange’s website along 

with the specific relevant head (e.g. family member of the promoter, corporate entity 

where  promoter  holds  more  than  10%,  person  in  control  of  the  issuer,  etc)  under 

which  the  said  entity  has  been  disclosed.  For  existing  listed  companies,  the  said 

information  should  be  submitted  to  all  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  where  the 

company is listed. 

k.  The  said  list  shall  be  allowed  to  be  updated  by  the  Stock  Exchange  where  the 

securities  are  listed,  only  after  receipt  of  a  request  from  the  company  /  promoter 

along with all relevant documentary evidences  

l.  Stock  Exchanges  shall  satisfy  themselves  with  the  above  mentioned  conditions  and 

only thereafter, shall allow any update to the list 

m.  SEBI or Stock Exchanges shall have the right to specify any other condition on a case 

to case basis 

n.  SEBI may, for reasons recorded in writing, relax any of the conditions specified above, 

on a case to case basis 

 

Public comments: 
 
11. Considering the implications of the said matter on  the market participants including 

listed  companies,  promoters/promoter  group  of  the  said  companies  and  investors, 

public  comments  on  the  policy  framework  proposed  above  at  paragraph  10  are 

solicited.  Specific  comments/suggestions  as  per  the  format  given  below  would  be 

highly appreciated: 

Re-classification of Promoters as Public 
 

Page 7 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Name of entity / person / intermediary:  
 

 

Name of organization (if applicable): 
 

Sr. 
No. 

 

 

 

Pertains to serial number 

Proposed / 

(alphabet) under 

paragraph 10 

suggested changes 

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

 

12. Such  comments  may  please  be  e-mailed  on  or  before  January  16,  2015,  to 

reclassification@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to:- 

Shri. Amit Tandon 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph: +912226449373/ +912226449483 

 
 

************ 

 

 
 

Re-classification of Promoters as Public 
 

Page 8 

