Concept Paper 
 

framework 

for 

issuance  of  debt  securities  by 

Proposed  regulatory 
Municipalities 
 
1.  Background 

 

A  Municipal  Corporation  is  a  local  government  body  that  administers  a  city  of 
population 200,000 or more, it is administratively a part of a  district in which it is 
located  but  interacts  directly  with  the  state  government.  Some  of  the  large 
Municipal Corporations are Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Bangalore etc. 
 
The  Constitution  (74th  Amendment)  Act,  1992  endows  the  Urban  Local  Bodies 
(ULBs) such powers, authority and responsibilities to function as institutions of self-
government.  The  amendment  empowers  the  ULBs  to  mobilize  resources 
independent of the State Governments for the provision, operation and maintenance 
of urban services as listed in twelfth schedule. 
 
The  major  sources  of  revenue  to  the  ULBs  are  property  tax,  profession  tax, 
advertisement,  user  charges,  fees  /  charges  for  usage  of  municipal  assets  and 
facilities,  assigned  revenues  like  share  of  entertainment  tax,  stamp  duty  etc.,  and 
devolution and grants-in-aid. 
 
Traditionally, ULBs have relied on the grants and subsidized funds provided by the 
Central  and  State  Government  for  providing  the  basic  urban  services.    In  addition, 
ULBs  borrow  funds  from  development  financial  institutions,  multilateral  and 
bilateral  funding  agencies,  through  Central  and  State  Government.  ULBs  are  also 
entitled to borrow through issuance of Municipal Bonds. 
 
2.  Need for Developing a Municipal Bond Framework in India 

 

The UN World Population Prospects – 2012 revision puts the projected population 
in India to 1620 million by the year 2050.  As per the report of committee on India 
Vision  2020  set  up  by  Planning  Commission,  the  urban  population  is  expected  to 
rise  to  around  40  percent  by  2020.    This  projected  growth  will  take  urban 
population to approximately 650 million by the year 2050.  

 

Page 1 of 51 

 

 
Source: The Economist, Special Edition, Transforming Cities 2013-14 

 

The  gradual  increase  in  urban  population  is  likely  to  put  strain  on  urban 
infrastructure.    This  will  lead  to  increase  in  demand  for  urban  services  including 
roads,  transportation,  water  supply,  sanitation,  health  care  etc.    In  order  to  tackle 
the  situation,  urban  planners  are  required  to  formulate  appropriate  plans  and 
execution  thereof.    One  of  the  issues  before  urban  planners  is  financing  of  such 
infrastructure.  The Steering Committee on Urban Development for XI th Five Year 
Plan  of  India  (2007-2012),  has  estimated  that  total  fund  requirement  for 
implementation  of  the  Plan  target  in respect  to  urban  water  supply,  sewerage  and 
sanitation, drainage and solid waste management is Rs. 12,702 billion. 
 
While delivering the Union Budget 2014-15, the Hon’ble Finance Minister, inter-alia, 
took initiatives for establishment of one hundred smart cities in India.  The budget 
provided that: 

 

“As the fruits of development reach an increasingly large number of people, the pace 
of  migration  from  the  rural  areas  to  the  cities  is  increasing.  A  neo  middle  class  is 
emerging which has the aspiration of better living standards. Unless, new cities are 
developed  to  accommodate  the  burgeoning  number  of  people,  the  existing  cities 

 

Page 2 of 51 

would  soon  become  unlivable.  The  Prime  Minister  has  a  vision  of  developing  ‘one 
hundred  Smart  Cities’,  as  satellite  towns  of  larger  cities  and  by  modernizing  the 
existing  mid-sized  cities.  To  provide  the  necessary  focus  to  this  critical  activity,  I 
have provided a sum of Rs. 7,060 crore in the current fiscal.” 
 
Development  of  smart  cities  would  entail  substantial  expenditure  for  creation  of 
urban  infrastructure  such  as  water  supply,  sanitation,  public  health,  roads 
transportation etc.  One of the principal concerns for such development  of smaller 
towns  into  smart  cities  would  be  the  source  of  financing.    During  the  past,  the 
concerned authorities have used various modes of financing such as Public Private 
Partnership (PPP), Infrastructure Bonds, budgetary support etc. 
 
As per the World Bank report, expectations related to municipal borrowing in India 
are high, whereas the actual level of borrowing activity is currently very low.  There 
is  a  massive  need  for  capital  investment  in  municipal  infrastructure,  only  part  of 
which can be met with flows of grant funds from Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban 
Renewal Mission (JNNURM) and other programs.  Therefore, to meet their financing 
needs, the municipalities have to seek recourse to other means including issuance of 
Municipal Bonds. 
 
The constraints in the municipal bond market in India exist both, on the supply and 
demand  side.  The  constraints  on  the  supply  side  inhibit  ULBs  from  issuing  bonds 
and  those  on  the  demand  side  limit  investors  (individual  and  institutional)  from 
investing  in the  municipal  bond  market.  ULBs  had  been  given  credit  ratings  under 
the  JNNURM  program.  As  per  information  available  on  JNNURM  website,  around 
50% of ULBs had investment grade ratings during November 2012.  
 
Conservative Indian investor mainly invests in fixed deposits, small saving schemes 
or gold.  Bonds issued by Municipalities having good financial track record would be 
an  good  alternative    investment  opportunity  for  such  conservative  investors,  as  it 
provides reasonable return with less risk, which  in turn may accelerate the capital 
markets.  Many  philanthropic,  religious  and  socially  active  investors  can  choose  to 
invest  in  Municipal  Bonds,  depending  on  their  altruistic  objective  of  helping 
institutions like schools, hospitals, parks etc. being developed by the Municipalities 
and  also  earn  return  on  their  investments.    Further,  Municipal  Bonds  will  also  be 
good add-on to the universe of instruments, in which the Provident Funds, Pension 
Funds and Insurance Companies park their investments. 
 

 

Page 3 of 51 

Many  wealthy  investors  such  as  HNIs  and  institutional  investors  are  attracted 
towards the Municipal bonds due to the tax free status of such bonds. 
 
In  India,  the  guidelines  issued  by  Ministry  of  Urban  Development  (MOUD)  for 
issuance of Tax free Bonds by Municipal Bodies provides that only  bonds carrying 
interest rate upto maximum 8% per annum shall be eligible for notification by the 
CBDT  as  tax  free  Bonds.  The  Corporate  Bonds  and  Securitization  Advisory 
Committee  (CoBoSAC)  of  SEBI  was  of  the  view  that  such  fixed  rate  of  8%,  in  the 
prevailing scenario is too less for investors to get attracted to Municipal bonds and 
therefore it suggested that the rate on such tax free bonds may not be restricted to 
8%  and  there  may  be  a  flexibility  in  setting  interest  rate  cap  by  linking  it  to  a 
benchmark market rate. 
 
3.  Municipal bond issuances in India 

 

A.  An overview of the Municipal bond issues: 

 

Several ULBs and utility organizations have issued bonds that so far have mobilized 
over Rs. 13,531 million through taxable bonds, tax-free bonds and pooled financing: 

 

S. No  Type of Bond Issuances 

1. 
2. 
3. 
 

Amount Raised  
(Rs. Million) 
4,450 
6,495 
2,586 
13,531 
Source:  National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA); Vaidya, C. and Vaidya, H. (2010), “Market-
Based  Financing  of  Urban  Infrastructure  in  India”  in  Kochar,  S.  and  Ramchandran,  M.  (Ed.), 
Building from the Bottom, Academic Foundation, New Delhi, India.   

Taxable bonds 
Tax-free bonds 
Pooled finance 
TOTAL 

 
  The Bangalore Municipal Corporation was the first municipal corporation to 

issue a municipal bond of Rs.1250 million with a state guarantee in 1997. 
 

  However, the access to capital market commenced in January 1998, when the 
Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) issued the first municipal bonds in 
the country without state government guarantee for financing infrastructure 
projects in the city. AMC has raised Rs.1,000 million by the said public issue. It 
was followed by more issues through private placement.   

 

Page 4 of 51 

 

 

  The  debt  market  in  India  for  municipal  securities  has  grown  considerably 
since  the  issuance  of  Ahmedabad  bonds.  Since  1998,  other  cities  that  have 
accessed  the  capital  markets  through  municipal  bonds  without  state 
government  guarantee  include  Nashik,  Nagpur,  Ludhiana,  and  Madurai.  In 
most  cases,  bond  proceeds  have  been  used  to  fund  water  and  sewerage 
schemes or road projects. India’s city governments have thus mobilized about 
Rs.4,450 million from the domestic capital market through taxable municipal 
bonds.  
 

  The 

last 

issuance  was  done  by  Greater  Vishakhapatnam  Municipal 

Corporation for Rs 30 Crores in 2010.   

Municipal Bond issuances in India

3500

3000

2500

2000

1500

1000

500

0

1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010

Amount 
(Rs 
Million)

 

Data  Source:  National  Institute  of  Urban  Affairs  (NIUA);  Vaidya,  C.  and  Vaidya,  H.  (2010),  “Market-
Based Financing of Urban Infrastructure in India” in Kochar, S. and Ramchandran, M. (Ed.), Building 
from the Bottom, Academic Foundation, New Delhi, India 

 

B.  Tax Free Municipal Bonds Issuances  

 
The Government of India, in order to boost the municipal bond market, allowed the 
municipalities to issuer tax-free municipal bonds. The central government amended 

 

Page 5 of 51 

the  Income  Tax  Act  (1961  vide  the  Finance  Act  2000),  whereby  interest  income 
from  bonds  issued  by  local  authorities  was  exempted  from  income  tax.  The  GOI 
issued  guidelines  for  issue  of  tax-free  municipal  bonds  in  February  2001.  These 
guidelines stipulate eligible issuers, use of funds, essential pre-conditions, maturing 
period,  buy-back,  nature  of  issue  and  tax  benefits,  ceiling  amount  for  a  project, 
compulsory credit rating, and external monitoring of the tax-free municipal bond. 
 
The salient features of these guidelines are as follows:  
 

i.  The  funds  raised  from  such  bonds  shall  be  used  only  for  capital 
investments in urban infrastructure for providing one or more of specified 
activities; 

 

 

 

 

ii.  The  proceeds  of  the  proposed  issue  shall  be  clearly  earmarked  for  a 

defined project or a set of projects; 

iii.  The  project(s)  shall  be  financially  viable  (project(s)  should  be  able  to 
generate  a  stream  of  revenue  which  should  be  sufficient  to  finance  O&M 
cost); 

 

iv.  The  issuer  shall  create  an  escrow  account  for  debt  servicing  of  bond 
proceeds  and  for  meeting  O&M  costs  of  the  proposed  project  with 
earmarked  revenue.  Earmarking  of  revenue  through  Escrow  mechanism 
will  be  monitored  by  an  independent  Trustee  like  the  DFIs  or  the 
nationalised banks. 

v.  Can raise fund either through public issue or by private placement.  

vi. 

Shall  provide  an  additional  debt  covenant  under  which  the  Debt  Service 
Coverage Ratio (DSCR) of at least 1.25 is maintained throughout the tenor 
of the Tax Free Municipal Bond. 

 
vii.  The maximum amount of  such bonds as a percentage of the total project 
costs (excluding interest during construction) will be 50% per cent or Rs. 
300.00 crore whichever is lower 

 

viii.  The debt equity ratio for the project shall not exceed 3:1.  
 

 

Page 6 of 51 

In case of municipal authorities, the issuers shall at least contribute 20 per 
cent of the project costs either from internal resources or other grants or a 
mix of the two. 

It will be mandatory for the issuer to obtain an investment grade rating. 

ix. 

x. 
 

xi.  Only bonds carrying interest rate upto maximum 8% per annum shall be 

eligible for notification by the CBDT  

 
xii. 

It should have a minimum maturity of 5 years. The issuers will have option 
to  offer  deep  discount  bonds  or  other  financial  innovations  especially  to 
enhance the tenor of the bond. 

following  Municipal  Corporations  have 

The 
Municipal Bonds in India  

issued  Tax  Free 

Name of Municipality/ 
ULB  

Projects  

Ahmedabad Municipal 
Corporation (2002) 
Hyderabad Municipal 
Corporation (2003) 
Nashik Municipal 
Corporation (2002) 

Visakhapatnam Municipal 
Corporation (2004) 
Hyderabad Metropolitan 
Water Supply and 
Sewerage Board (2003) 
Ahmedabad Municipal 
Corporation (2004) 

Chennai Metropolitan 
Water Supply & Sewerage 
Board (2003) 
Chennai Metropolitan 
Water Supply & Sewerage 

Water supply and 
sewerage project 
Road construction and 
widening 
Underground 
sewerage scheme and 
stormwater drainage 
system 
Water supply system 

Drinking water project 
 

Water supply project, 
stormwater drainage 
project, road project, 
bridges and flyovers 

Chennai water supply 
augmentation project 

Chennai water supply 
project  

Page 7 of 51 

Amount of Tax-
free Municipal 
Bond (Rs. Million)  
1,000 

825 

500 

500 

500 

580 
 

420 

500 

 

 

 

 

Board (2005) 
Chennai Municipal 
Corporation (2005) 
Ahmedabad Municipal 
Corporation (2005) 
Nagpur (2007) 

Roads 

Roads and water 
supply 
Nagpur water supply 
and sewerage project 
 

458 

1,000 

212 

TOTAL 
Source: National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA); Vaidya, C. and Vaidya, H. (2010), “Market-
Based  Financing  of  Urban  Infrastructure  in  India”  in  Kochar,  S.  and  Ramchandran,  M.  (Ed.), 
Building from the Bottom, Academic Foundation, New Delhi, India.  

6,495 

 
4.  World Bank Report on Municipal Borrowing  

 

The  World  Bank  had  conducted  a  non-lending  technical  assistance  project  on  the 
regulation of Municipal Borrowing in India at the request of MOUD and Ministry of 
Finance  (MOF)  and  submitted  its  study  report  in  October  2011.  The  chief  focus  of 
the  report  is  on  the  regulatory  and  legal  conditions  that  currently  hinder,  but  if 
altered could encourage, the appropriate expansion of municipal borrowing.  
 
The  World  Bank  report  has  made  various  recommendations.  One  of  the 
recommendations  stated  that  SEBI  should  publish  disclosure  guidelines  for  public 
issue  of  municipal  bonds  in  line  with  the  GOI  MOF  tax-free  standards  and 
incorporate current international practice. The report also recommended following 
EMMA  (Electronic  Municipal  Market  Access)  in  the  USA,  where  Securities  and 
Exchange  Commission  (SEC)  has  no  specific  disclosure  requirements  and  relies 
instead on the voluntary industry standard, though after suitably adapting to Indian 
context.  
 
A committee was set-up by MOUD to review the progress of implementation of the 
recommendations  of  World  Bank  Report  on  regulatory  framework  for  municipal 
borrowings.    In  the  meeting  of  the  committee  held  in  July  2013,  it  was,  inter-alia, 
recommended that SEBI will draft new disclosure and regulatory requirements for 
issuance and listing of Municipal bonds.  A copy of the minutes of the said meeting 
was forwarded to SEBI by MOF in August 2013. 
 
5.  Deliberations at CoBoSAC regarding the framework for Municipal Bonds  

 

SEBI  placed  an  agenda  item  on  formulation  of  framework  for  issuance  municipal 
bonds  and  disclosure  norms  for  the  same  before  the  "Corporate  Bonds  and 

 

Page 8 of 51 

Securitization  Advisory  Committee"  (CoBoSAC)  Meeting  held  in  October  2013.    It 
was, inter-alia, decided in the said meeting that a sub-committee may be formed to 
specify disclosure and other requirements of Municipal Bonds.  
 
The  sub-committee  consisted  of  stakeholders  including  representatives  of  MOUD, 
MOF  and  Municipality.  The  sub-committee  deliberated  on  the  issue  and  inter-alia, 
proposed four different structures for municipalities which are as follows: 
 

a)  Issuance of securities or Municipal Bonds directly by the ULBs  Municipal 

Body. 

b)  Issuance  of  securities  or  Bonds  through  Corporate  Municipal  Entity 

(Subsidiary) created by the Municipality. 

c)  Creating of a statutory body which can borrow from market through issue 

of bonds for onward lending to Municipal Bodies. 

d)  Under  Pool  Finance  Development  Fund  Structure,  through  Issuance  of 
securitized  debt  instruments  by  a  special  purpose  distinct  entity  (Trust) 
created by one or more municipalities by securitizing the receivables. 

 
          The four structures proposed are given below: 

 

a)  Issuance  of  securities  or  Municipal  Bonds  directly  by  the  ULBs  Municipal 
Body  -  The  Municipal  Corporations  may  issue  general  bonds  or  revenue 
bonds subject to the condition that general bonds shall not be made available 
for  public  offering  and  shall  be  issued  only  on  private  placement  basis  to 
institutional  investors.  It  stemmed  from  the  fact  that  in  case  of  revenue 
bonds, projects could be identified and the revenue stream can be escrowed, 
thus  providing  certain  safeguards  to  the  investors.  However,  in  the  case  of 
general bonds, the cash flows from the project for which the bonds are issued 
become  part  of  general  revenues  of  the  municipality  and  thus  there  are  no 
identifiable resources, which are specifically earmarked to repay such bonds. 
 

b)  Issuance  of  securities  or  bonds  through  Corporate  Municipal  Entity  (CME) 
(Subsidiary)  created  by  the  Municipality-  Municipalities  may  consider 
establishing  a  “Corporate  Municipal  Entity”  (CME)  which  would  borrow 
through  issue  of  Bonds  and  lend  it  to  the  concerned  Municipality.  The 
objective is to create a conduit entity, which can access the market and which 
can  lend  it  to  the  concerned  Municipality  based  on  its  requirements.  The 
Corporate Municipal entity may not hold or carry out any projects of its own, 

 

Page 9 of 51 

in which cases it would create implementation, enforcement and hierarchical 
issues.  Further,  the  transfer  of  projects  of  Municipalities  to  Corporate 
Municipal  Entity  in  lieu  of  equity  may  require  legislative  amendment.  The 
CME  would  be  a  going  concern  and  disclosure  would  be  the  same  as  that 
prescribed  under  existing  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities) 
Regulations,  2008. 
it  would  carry  additional 
information on the Municipal Corporation structure and hierarchies 
 

In  addition,  however, 

c)  Creation of a statutory body  or a 100% Govt owned undertaking, which can 
borrow  from  market  through  issue  of  bonds  for  onward  lending  to  ULBs  or 
Municipal bodies 
 
Government  may  consider  establishing  a  statutory  body  or  a  100%  Govt. 
owned  undertaking  (in  the  lines  of  India  Infrastructure  Finance  Company 
Limited).  The  objective  of  such  undertaking  may  be  to  borrow  from  the 
market or from financial institutions for onward lending to Municipal Bodies 
Such an undertaking  may be capable  of assessing/appraising the viability  of 
each projects of the Municipality and their Governance level, before meeting 
their financing requirements. Rather than each investor subscribing to Bonds 
assessing/appraising  the  risks  and  viability  of  various  projects  proposed  to 
be undertaken by various Municipal Bodies, if such task could be taken care 
or  assigned  to  an  expert  body  set-up  in  this  regard,  it  would  yield  better 
assessment  and  funds  may  flow  to  the  suitable  projects.    Further,  such  an 
undertaking could be central or state government owned and since the  body 
will  be  engaged  in  financial  intermediation,  may  have  to  be  registered  with 
RBI as an NBFC. Such a statutory body can make such borrowings under the 
SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008. 
 

d)  Issuance of securitized debt instruments by a special purpose distinct entity 
(Trust) created by one or more municipalities by securitizing the receivables-  
The  guidelines  prescribed  by  the  MOUD,  under  the  Pooled  Finance 
Development  Scheme  (PFDF)  Scheme,  provides  that  each  State  /  Union 
Territory  has  to  designate  either  an  existing  state  entity  or  create  a  new 
entity as State Pool Finance Entity (SPFE) for execution of the PFDF Scheme. 
Such a SPFE could be either a Trust or a Special Purpose Entity.  
 
As  per  section  2(h)  of  the  SCRA  1956,  the  term  securities  include  "shares, 
scrips,  stocks,  bonds,  debentures,  debenture  stock  or  other  marketable 

 

Page 10 of 51 

securities of  a  like  nature  in  or  of  any  incorporated  company  or  other  body 
corporate".  Also as per the SEBI Debt Regulations, "debt securities"  means a 
non-convertible debt securities which create or acknowledge indebtedness, and 
include debenture, bonds and such other securities of a body corporate or any 
statutory  body  constituted  by  virtue  of  a  legislation.  The  committee  observed 
that  trusts  are  pass  through  entities  and  they  cannot  acknowledge  any 
indebtedness in itself and thus, can issue pass through certificates.  
 
The  committee  observed  that  as  PTCs are  Securitized  Debt  Instruments  and 
are specifically included under "Securities" under the SCRA and can be issued 
by Trust and can also be listed.  Such a trust or SPFE can make a public issue 
or private placement  of securitized debt instruments  which are proposed to 
be listed, under the extant PFDF scheme by complying with SEBI (Public Offer 
and Listing of Securitized Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008. However, the 
suitability  of  the  existing  SDI  framework  to  the  SPFE  created  by  the 
Government need further examination.  

 
6.  Main recommendations  of  CoBoSAC 
 
The  sub-committee  submitted  its  report  to  CoBoSAC  in  October  2014  wherein  the 
committee accepted its recommendation and concluded the following. 
 

I.  There  should  be  a  separate  framework  for  issuance  and  listing  of  debt 
securities  by  ULBs  or  Municipal  bodies  and  SEBI  may  frame  separate 
regulations in this regard. 

 

II.  The framework should provide for issuance of debt securities by ULBs or 
Municipal bodies to the public as well as privately placed Municipal bonds 
that are proposed to be listed on the stock exchanges.  

 

The  committee,  inter-alia  recommended  the  following  requirements,  subject  to 
which municipalities may issue debt securities: 
 

a.  The funds raised from issue of Municipal Bonds shall be used only for the 

projects that are specified under objects in the offer document. 

 

 

b.  The  proceeds  of  the  proposed  issue  shall  be  clearly  earmarked  for  a 

defined project or a set of projects; 

Page 11 of 51 

 

 

 

c.  It  will  be  mandatory  for  the  issuer  to  obtain  rating  from  a  credit  rating 

agency registered with SEBI before the issuance of Municipal Bonds. 

 
d.  The  Municipal  Bonds  should  have  a  minimum  maturity  of  3  years.  The 
issuers  will  have  option  to  offer  deep  discount  bonds  or  other  financial 
innovations especially to enhance the tenor of the bond. 

 
e.  The  issuers  may  have  the  option  for  buy-back  arrangements  of  the  face 

value of the bonds from an investor. 
 

f.  The  issuers  shall  maintain a  separate  account  of  the  amount  raised  from 
the issuance of Municipal Bond, to be utilised only for the project related 
expenditure; 
 

g.  The  issuers  shall  establish  a  separate  Project  Implementation  Cell  and 
designate  a  Project  Officer  who  shall  monitor  the  progress  of  the 
project(s)  and  be  responsible  for  ensuring  that  the  funds  raised  through 
Municipal  Bonds  are  utilised  only  for  the  project(s)  for  which  the  Bonds 
were issued. 
 

h.  The  funds  raised  by  the  issuer  are  utilised  in  accordance  with  the  time-
table for utilization of bond proceeds and only for the project(s) for which 
permission has been granted by the Central Government. 
 

i.  With respect to audit of accounts of the Municipal bodies, it was suggested 
that  within  six  months  of  the  close  of  every  financial  year,  the  escrow 
account and the project account shall be audited by the auditors appointed 
by  the  Municipal  Corporations,  as  permissible  under  their  respective 
constitutions.  However,  if  it  is  a  statutory  corporation,  then  the  accounts 
shall  have  to  be  audited  by  the  statutory  auditor.  Further,  the  accounts 
shall  have  to  be  audited  in a  manner,  which  is  friendly  with  the  investor 
community  and  also  there  should  be  a  single  point  of  contact  in  each 
ULB/Municipality, with respect to such accounts, with whom the investors 
can interact and clarify their doubts, if any. 

Page 12 of 51 

Considering the aforesaid recommendations of CoBoSAC, SEBI proposes to lay down 
a  framework  governing  the  issuance  and  listing  of  debt  securities  by  ULBs/ 
Municipal bodies in India directly or through a Corporate Municipal Entity.  

 

7.  Information to the Board 
 
In the SEBI Board Meeting held in November 2014, an information memorandum on 
developments  in  the  Corporate  Bonds  Market  was  presented,  wherein  the  Board 
was  informed  about  the  CoBoSAC  recommendation  of  laying  down  a  separate 
framework for municipal bonds.  

 

8.  Consequential Changes 
 
For  effective  implementation  of  the  proposed  framework,  some  consequential 
amendments may be required to be made to the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules 
made there under to enable raising of funds by Corporate Municipal Entity through 
issue of debt securities under the proposed framework. 

 

9.  Public Comments 

 

i. 

In the light of the above, SEBI proposes to frame SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt 
Securities by Municipality) Regulations, 2015, draft of which is enclosed.  Public 
comments are invited on the draft regulations. Comments may be forwarded by 
email 
General  Manager 
(sandeepk@sebi.gov.in)  or  Ms.  Vandana  Agarwal,  Assistant  Manager 
(vandanaa@sebi.gov.in) latest by January 30, 2015. 

to  Mr. 

Sandeep 

Kriplani, 

Assistant 

 

ii.  Comments should be given in the following format: 

 

Name of entity/ person/ intermediary: 
S. No. 

Pertains to which Regulation /sub 
regulation  

 

 

 

Issued on: December 30, 2014 
 

 

 

Page 13 of 51 

Proposed/ 
suggested 
changes 
 

Rationale 

 

 

 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA  

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART – III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

NEW DELHI, JANUARY, 2015 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the         

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipality) Regulations, 2015 

 

N.-In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 30 read with clause (b) 
of sub-section (2) of Section 11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 
of  1992),  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  hereby,  makes  the  following 
regulations, namely, — 

 

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

1.  Short title and commencement. 

(1)  These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipality) Regulations, 2015 

(2) These regulations shall come into force on the _____________from the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette. 

2.  Definitions. 

(1)  In  these  regulations,  unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the  terms  defined 
herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions 
shall be construed accordingly,–   

(a)  “Act”  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of 

1992); 

Page 14 of 51 

(b)  "advertisement”  includes  notices,  brochures,  pamphlets,  circulars,  show 
cards,  catalogues,  hoardings,  placards,  posters,  insertions  in  newspaper, 
pictures,  films,  cover  pages  of  offer  documents  or  any  other  print  medium 
radio, television programmes through any electronic medium; 

(a)  "Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under 

section 3 of the Act; 

(b)  “Corporate  Municipal  Entity”  is  a  company,  which  is  a  subsidiary  of  a 
Municipality  and  which  is  set  up  for  the  purpose  of  raising  funds  for  a 
specific/multiple municipality; 

(c) 

“Debt  securities”  means  a  non-convertible  debt  securities  which  create  or 
acknowledge  indebtedness,  and  include  debenture,  bonds  and  such  other 
securities of a Municipality, or a Corporate Municipal Entity incorporated as 
a company, whether constituting a charge on the assets of such body or not; 

(d)  “Designated  stock  exchange”  means  a  stock  exchange  in  which  securities  of 
the  issuer  are  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed  and  which  is  chosen  by  the 
issuer for the for the purposes of a particular issue under these regulations; 

(e)  "General  Obligation  Bonds"  means  debt  securities  where  principal  and 

interest are serviced through taxation power of the Municipality. 

(f) 

"Issuer”  means  any  Municipality  or  a  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,  which 
makes  or  proposes  to  make  an  issue  of  debt  securities  in  accordance  with 
these  regulations  or  which  has  its  securities  listed  on  a  recognized  stock 
exchange  or  which  seeks  to  list  its  debt  securities  on  a  recognized  stock 
exchange; 

(g)  "Municipality"  means  an  institution  of  self-government  constituted  under 
Article 243Q of the Constitution (Seventy-fourth Amendment) Act, 1992 and 
includes  a  Municipal  Corporation,  a  Municipal  Council,  and  a  Nagar 
Panchayat; 

(h)  "National  Municipal  Accounts  Manual"  means  the  Municipal  Accounting 

Manual formulated by the Ministry of Urban Development; 

(i) 

(j) 

"Offer  document”  means  prospectus  and  includes  any  such  document  or 
advertisement whereby the subscription to debt securities are invited by the 
issuer from public 

"Private  placement"  means  any  offer  of  debt  securities  or  invitation  to 
subscribe  to  debt  securities  to  a  select  group  of  persons  by  a  Municipality 
through  issue  of  a  private  placement  offer  letter,  which  shall  not  intend  to 
result in, directly or indirectly, in the  debt securities becoming available for 
subscription or purchase by persons other than those receiving the offer or 
invitation. 

Page 15 of 51 

 

Provided,  for  a  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,  it  shall  mean  an  offer  or 
invitation  made  in  terms  of  section  42  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  and  the 
rules made thereunder, through issue of a private placement offer letter: 

(k)  “public issue” means an offer or invitation by an issuer to public to subscribe 

to the debt securities, which is not in the nature of a private placement; 

(l) 

“recognized stock exchange” means any stock exchange which is recognized 
under section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956; 

(m)  "Revenue  bonds"  means  debt  securities  serviced  by  revenues  from  one  or 

more projects. 

(n)  “schedule" means a schedule annexed to these regulations; 

(o)  “specified”  means  specified  by  a  general  or  special  order  or  circular  issued 

under the Act or these regulations. 

(2)  All  other  words  and  expressions  used  but  not  defined  in these  regulations,  shall 
have  the  same  meanings  respectively  assigned  to  them  in  the  Act  or  the  Companies 
Act, 2013 or Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996 
or  the  Rules  and  the  Regulation  made  there  under  or  any  statutory  modification  or 
reenactment. 

3.  Applicability  

These regulations shall apply to- 
(a) public issue of debt securities; and 

(b) listing  of  debt  securities  issued  through  public  issue  or  on  private  placement 

basis on a recognized stock exchange. 

 

CHAPTER II 
ELIGIBILITY 

4.  Eligible Municipalities  

1)  An  issuer,  whether  Municipality  or  Corporate  Municipal  Entity  shall  issue  debt 

securities in accordance with these regulations. 

Provided,  such  Municipality,  whether  proposing  to  issue  debt  securities  itself  or 
through  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,  should  be  eligible  to  raise  funds  under  its 
constitution.   
Provided further, no issuer shall be eligible to issue debt securities to public under 
these Regulations, unless the following criteria are complied with: 
(a) Accounts  of  Municipality  shall  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  National 
Municipal  Accounts  Manual  or  in  accordance  with  similar  Municipal  Accounts 

 

Page 16 of 51 

Manual  adopted  by  the  respective  State  Government  for  at  least  last  three 
preceding financial years.  

(b) Municipality shall not have negative net worth in any of the last three preceding 

financial years; 

(c) Municipality  shall  not  have  defaulted  in  repayment  of  debt  securities  or  loans 

obtained from Banks/Financial Institutions. 

Provided, where the issuer is a Corporate Municipal Entity, the requirements at 
(a), (b) and (c) shall be complied by the Municipality which is being financed. 

Explanation: 

For  this  purpose,  the  term  default  means  where  interest  and/  or  principal 
amount has remained overdue for a period of more than 90 days. 

(d) The  Corporate  Municipal  Entity  or  its  directors  have  not  been  restrained  or 
prohibited  or  debarred  by  the  Board  from  accessing  the  securities  market  or 
dealing in securities and such direction or order is in force.   

 

CHAPTER III 

REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC ISSUE 

 

5.  An issuer making public issue of Debt Securities shall comply with the provisions of 

this chapter 

6.  General  Conditions 

1)  An issuer making public issue of debt securities shall only issue revenue bonds.  

2)  No issuer shall make a public issue of debt securities unless following conditions are 
satisfied, as on the date of filing of draft offer document and final offer document as 
provided in these regulations: 

a)  it has made an application to one or more recognized stock exchanges for listing 

of such securities therein; 

Provided that where the application is made to more than one recognized stock 
exchanges, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange; 
Provided  further  that  where  any  of  such  stock  exchanges  have  nationwide 
trading  terminals,  the  issuer  shall  choose  one  of  them  as  the  designated  stock 
exchange; 
Explanation: For any subsequent public issue, the issuer may choose a different 
stock  exchange  as  a  designated  stock  exchange  subject  to  the  requirements  of 
this regulation; 

 

Page 17 of 51 

b)  it  has  obtained  in-principle  approval  for  listing  of  its  debt  securities  on  the 

recognized stock exchanges where the application for listing has been made; 

c)  credit rating has been obtained from at least one recognized credit rating agency 

registered with the Board and is disclosed in the offer document: 

Provided  that,  in  case  of  public  issue  of  securities  by  the  Issuer,  the  debt 
securities  intended  to  be  issued  shall  have  a  minimum  rating  of  "A+  or 
equivalent.  

Provided  further  that  where  credit  ratings  are  obtained  from  more  than  one 
credit rating agencies, all the ratings, including the unaccepted ratings, shall be 
disclosed in the offer document; 

d)  it has entered into an arrangement with a depository registered with the Board 
for dematerialization of the debt securities that are proposed to be issued to the 
public,  in  accordance  with  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  and  regulations  made 
there under. 

3)  The debt securities shall have a minimum tenure of 3 years. 

4)  The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers registered with the Board 

at least one of whom shall be a lead merchant banker. 

5)  The  issuer  shall  create  a  separate  escrow  account  for  servicing  of  debt  securities 

with earmarked revenue. 

6)  The issuer shall appoint a monitoring agency such as public financial institution or 
nationalised banks to monitor the earmarked revenue in the escrow account under 
sub-regulation (5). 

Provided,  where  the  issuer  is  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,  it  shall  appoint  one  or 
more  debenture  trustees  registered  with  the  Board  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Debenture  Trustees) 
Regulations, 1993, for compliance with this requirement. 

7.  Disclosures in the offer document 

1)  The  offer  document  shall  contain  true,  fair  and  material  disclosures,  which  are 
necessary for the subscribers of the debts securities to take an informed investment 
decision. 
 

2)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  sub-regulation  (1),  the  issuer,  which  is  a 
Municipality,  and  the  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  offer  document 
contains the following: 

a)  disclosures specified in Schedule I of these regulations; 

 

Page 18 of 51 

b)  disclosures with respect to compliance with regulation 13; 
c)  additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board. 

 

Provided,  in  case  of  issuer  being  a  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,  the  issuer  and  the 
lead merchant banker shall ensure that the offer document contains the following: 

a)  disclosures  as  specified 

in  Companies  Act,  2013  and  Companies 

(Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014; 
b)  disclosures specified in Schedule I of these regulations; 
c)  disclosures with respect to compliance with regulation 13;  
d)  additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board. 

 

8.  Filing of draft offer document 

1)  No issuer shall make a public issue of debt securities unless a draft offer document 
has  been  filed  with  the  designated  stock  exchange  through  the  lead  merchant 
banker. 

2)  The  draft  offer  document  filed  with  the  designated  stock  exchange  shall  be  made 
public  by  posting  the  same  on  the  website  of  the  designated  stock  exchange  for 
seeking public comments for a period of seven working days from the date of filing 
the draft offer document with such exchange. 

3)  The  draft  offer  document  may  also  be  displayed  on  the  website  of  the  issuer, 
merchant bankers and the stock exchanges where the debt securities are proposed 
to be listed. 

4)  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  draft  offer  document  clearly 
specifies  the  names  and  contact  details  of  the  compliance  officer  of  the  lead 
merchant banker and the officer concerned in the issuer including their postal and 
email address, telephone and fax numbers. 

5)  The lead merchant banker shall ensure that all comments received on the draft offer 

document are suitably addressed. 
 
Provided,  where  the  issuer  is  a  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,  the  lead  merchant 
banker  shall  ensure  that  all  comments  received  on  the  draft  offer  document  are 
suitably addressed prior to the filing of the final offer document with the Registrar of 
Companies. 

6)  A copy of draft and final offer document shall also be forwarded to the Board for its 
records,  simultaneously  with  filing  of  these  documents  with  designated  stock 
exchange. 

Page 19 of 51 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7)  The lead merchant banker shall, prior to opening of the public issue, furnish to the 

Board a due diligence certificate as per Schedule II of these regulations. 

 

Provided,  where  the  issuer  is  a  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,  the  lead  merchant 
banker  shall,  prior  to  filing  of  the  final  offer  document  with  the  Registrar  of 
Companies,  furnish  to  the  Board  a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  Schedule  II  of 
these regulations. 

 

8)  The debenture trustee, wherever appointed under Regulation 6(6) shall, prior to the 
opening  of  the  public  issue,  furnish  to  the  Board  a  due  diligence  certificates  per 
Schedule III of these regulations. 
 

9.  Mode of Disclosure of Offer Document 

1)  The  draft  and  final  offer  document  shall  be  displayed  on  the  websites  of  stock 

exchanges and shall be available for download in PDF / HTML formats. 
 

2)  The  draft  offer  document  shall  be  filed  with  the  designated  stock  exchange,  for 

dissemination on its website prior to the opening of the issue. 

Provided, where the issuer is a Corporate Municipal Entity, the final offer document 
shall be filed with the designated stock exchange, simultaneously with filing thereof 
with  the  Registrar  of  Companies,  for  dissemination  on  its  website  prior  to  the 
opening of the issue. 

3)  Where  any  person  makes  a  request  for  a  physical  copy  of  the  offer  document,  the 

same shall be provided to him by the issuer or lead merchant banker. 
 

10.  Advertisements for Public issues 

1)  The issuer may make an advertisement in a national daily with wide circulation, 
on or before the issue opening date and such advertisement shall, amongst other 
things, contain the disclosures as per Schedule IV. 

2)  No issuer shall issue an advertisement which is misleading material particular or 
which  contain  any  information  in  a  distorted manner  or  which  is  manipulative 
or deceptive. 

3)  The  advertisement  shall  be  truthful,  fair  and  clear  and  shall  not  contain  a 

statement, promise or forecast which is untrue or misleading. 

4)  Any advertisement issued by the issuer shall not contain any matters which are 

extraneous to the contents of the offer document. 

Page 20 of 51 

 

 

 

5)  The  advertisement  shall  urge  the  investors  to  invest  only  on  the  basis  of 

information contained in the offer document. 

6)  Any  promotional  or  educative  advertisement  issued  by  the  issuer  during  the 
subscription period shall not make any reference to the issue of debt securities 
or be used for solicitation. 

 

11.  Abridged Prospectus and application forms 

1)  The issuer and lead merchant banker shall ensure that: 

a)  every application form issued by the issuer is accompanied by a copy of the 

abridged prospectus; 

b)  the abridged prospectus shall not contain matters which are extraneous to 

the contents of the prospectus; 

c)  adequate space shall be provided in the application form to enable the 

investors to fill in various details like name, address, etc. 

2)  The issuer may provide  the  facility for subscription of application  in electronic 

mode. 
 

12. Minimum Subscription. 

1)  The  issuer  may  decide  the  amount  of  minimum  subscription  which  it  seeks  to  raise  by 

issue of debt securities and disclose the same in the offer document. 
Provided such  minimum subscription limit shall not be  less than 75% of the  issue 
size; 
 

2)  In  the  event  of  non-receipt  of  minimum  subscription  as  specified  above,  all 
application  moneys received in the  public issue  shall be  refunded forthwith to the 
applicants, within 12 days from the date of the closure of the issue. 
 

3)  In the event, there is a delay by the issuer in making the aforesaid refund, then the 
issuer shall refund the  subscription amount along with interest at  the  rate  of 10% 
per annum for the delayed period. 

 

13.  Utilization of Issue Proceeds 

 

1)  The funds raised from public issue of debt securities shall be used only for projects 

that are specified under objects in the offer document.  

 

2)  The proceeds of the issue shall be clearly earmarked for a defined project or a set of 
projects  for  which  requisite  approvals  have  been  obtained  from  concerned 
authorities; 

 

Page 21 of 51 

 

3)  The  issuer  shall,  before  filing  of  draft  offer  documents  with  Board,    obtain  a 
“Viability  Certificate“  from  a  Chartered  Accountant  or a  Cost  Accountant  certifying 
that the project is financially viable, based on the estimates/assumptions available 
at that time. 
 

4)  The issuers shall maintain a bank account in which the amount raised from the issue 
shall be transferred immediately after the completion of the issue and such amount 
shall only be utilized for specified project(s); 
 
Provided, where the issuer is a Corporate Municipal Entity, the issue proceeds, net 
of  issue  expenses,  shall  be  used  only  for  onward  lending  to  Municipalities,  as 
disclosed in the offer document; 
 
Provided further, where the issuer is a Corporate Municipal Entity, it shall maintain 
sufficient  interest  margin  while  onward  lending  to  the  Municipalities,  to  meet  its 
operating expenses and obligations.  

 

5)  The issuer  Municipality  shall establish a  Separate  Project Implementation Cell and 
designate a Project Officer who shall not be below the rank of Deputy Commissioner, 
who  shall  monitor  the  progress  of  the  project(s)  and  shall  ensure  that  the  funds 
raised are utilised only for the project(s) for which the debt securities were issued. 
 
Provided, where the issuer is a Corporate Municipal Entity, such requirement  shall 
be complied by the Municipality which is being financed. 

 

6)  Issuer’s contribution for each project shall not be less than 20 per cent of the project 

costs, which shall be contributed from their internal resources or grants; 
 
Provided  where  the  issuer  is  a  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,  contribution  of  the 
concerned Municipality, which is being financed by the Corporate Municipal Entity, 
shall  not  be  less  than  20  per  cent  of  the  project  costs,  which  shall  be  contributed 
from its internal resources or grants; 
 

7)  The issuer shall disclose the schedule of implementation of the project in the offer 
documents in a tabular form and the funds raised by the issuer shall be utilized in 
accordance with the said schedule; 

 
 

14. Underwriting 

 
A public issue of debt securities may be underwritten by an underwriter registered 
with  the  Board  and  in  such  a  case  adequate  disclosures  regarding  underwriting 
arrangements shall be disclosed in the offer document. 

 

 

Page 22 of 51 

 

CHAPTER IV 

LISTING OF DEBT SECURITIES 

 

15. Mandatory listing. 

1.  An issuer desirous of making an offer of debt securities to the public shall make an 

application for listing to one or more recognized stock exchanges.  
 
Provided that in case of issuer being Corporate Municipal Entity, such an application 
shall be made in terms of sub-section (1) of section 40 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
 

16. Conditions for listing of debt securities issued on private placement basis 
1)  An  issuer  may  list  its  debt  securities  issued  on  private  placement  basis  on  a 

recognized stock exchange subject to the following conditions:  

 
a)  An issuer may issue General Obligation Bonds or Revenue bonds   

 

b)  Accounts  of  Municipality  being  the 

in 
accordance  with  National  Municipal  Accounts  Manual  or  in  accordance 
with similar Municipal Accounts Manual adopted by the respective State 
Government for at least last three preceding financial years. 
 

issuer,  shall  be  prepared 

c)  Where the issuer is Corporate Municipal Entity, the issuer or its directors 
should not have been restrained or prohibited or debarred by the Board 
from  accessing  the  securities  market  or  dealing  in  securities  and  such 
direction or order is in force. 
 

d)  the  issuer,  being  a  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,    has  issued  such  debt 
securities in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
and rules prescribed there under and other applicable laws; 
 

e)  the  issuer  shall  not  solicit  or  collect  funds  except  by  way  of  private 

placement  

 

f)  the  minimum  subscription  amount  per  investor  shall  not  be  less  than 
Rupees  twenty  five  lakhs  or  such  amount  as  may  be  specified  by  Board 
from time to time;  
 

g)  credit rating has been obtained in respect of such debt securities from at 

least one credit rating agency registered with the Board;  
 

Page 23 of 51 

 

h)  the debt securities proposed to be listed are in dematerialized form;  

 

i)  the  disclosures  as  provided  in  Schedule  I  of  these  regulations  have been 

made. 

 
CHAPTER IV 

REQUIREMENTS FOR BOTH PUBLIC ISSUES AND PRIVATE PLACEMENT 

17.  Asset Cover 
An issuer, proposing to issue debt securities shall maintain 100% asset cover sufficient 
to discharge the principal amount at all times for the debt securities issued. 

18. Buy Back 

The issuers may provide  an option to  buy-back the  debt-securities at their face value, 
from the investors; 
 
Provided in such cases, appropriate disclosure shall be made in the offer document 
 
 

19. Prohibitions of mis-statements in the offer document. 

1)  The offer document shall not omit disclosure of a material fact which may make 
the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are 
made, misleading. 
 

2)  The offer document or  abridged prospectus or any advertisement issued by an 
issuer in connection with a public issue of debt securities shall not contain any 
false or misleading statement. 

 

20. Creation of security for secured debentures 

 

1)  The  debentures  shall  be  secured  by  the  creation  of  a  charge,  on  the  properties  or 
assets or the receivables of the issuer, having a value which is sufficient for the due 
repayment of the amount of debentures and interest thereon. 
 
Provided  further,  in  case  unsecured  debentures  are  intended  to  be  listed  on  stock 
exchange(s),  then  such  debt  securities  shall  either  be  backed  by  guarantee  from 
State  Government  or  Central  Government  or  shall  have  a  structured  payment 
mechanism  whereby  the  issuer  shall  deposit  debt  servicing  amounts  in  the 
designated bank account at least 5 working days before due date of payment.  

Page 24 of 51 

 

 

 

 

2)  The total value of debentures issued shall not exceed the market value of immovable 
property/other  assets  or  receivables  of  the  Issuer,  for  which  a  charge  shall  be 
created. 
 

3)  The issuer shall give an undertaking in the offer document that the assets on which 
charge  is  created  are  free  from  any  encumbrances  and  if  the  assets  are  already 
charged to secure a debt, the permissions or consent to create second or  pari pasu 
charge on the assets of the issuer have been obtained from the earlier creditor. 
 

4)  The issue proceeds shall not be utilized until the documents for creation of security 

are executed. 

 

21. Trust Deed 

1)  A trust deed for securing the issue of debentures shall be executed by the issuer in 
favour of the independent trustee or debenture trustee, as applicable, within three 
months of the closure of the issue. 

 

2)  The trust deed shall contain such clauses as may be prescribed in Schedule IV of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993. 

 

Provided that in case of private placement by a Corporate Municipal Entity, the trust 
deed  shall,  in-addition,  contain  such  clauses  as  prescribed  under  Section  71  of  the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules 2014; 
 

3)  The trust deed shall not contain a clause which has the effect of: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

limiting  or  extinguishing  the  obligations  and  liabilities  of  the  debenture 
trustees  or  the  issuer  in  relation  to  any  rights  or  interests  of  the 
investors; 
limiting  or  restricting  or  waiving  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  these 
regulations and circulars or guidelines issued by the Board; 
indemnifying  the  debenture  trustees  or  the  issuer  for  loss  or  damage 
caused by their act of negligence or commission or omission. 

 

22. Redemption and Roll-over 

1)  The issuer shall redeem the debt securities in terms of the offer document. 

 

2)  Where  the  issuer  being  a  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,  desires  to  roll-over  the 
debt securities issued, it shall do so only upon passing of a special resolution to 

 

Page 25 of 51 

that  effect  and  give  twenty  one  days  notice  of  the  proposed  roll  over  to  the 
holders of debt securities; 

 
Provided where the issuer is a Municipality, the notice shall be given to the 
holders of debt securities and stock exchanges where the debt securities are 
listed, upon the said decision. 
 
Provided  further,  in  case  the  issuer  is  a  Municipality,  if  the  holders  of  debt 
securities do not provide consent for the proposed roll over within the notice 
period, the issuer shall redeem the debt securities of such holders. 
 

3)  The  notice  referred  to  in  sub-  regulation  (2)  shall  contain  disclosures  with 

regard to credit rating and rationale for roll-over. 

 

4)  The issuer  being a Corporate Municipal Entity shall, prior to sending the notice 
to  holders  of  debt  securities,  file  a  copy  of  the  notice  and  proposed  resolution 
with  the  stock  exchanges  where  such  securities  are  listed,  for  dissemination  of 
the same to public on its website. 

 

5)  The debt securities issued can be rolled over subject to the following conditions 

:- 
 

a)  The roll-over is approved by a special resolution passed by the holders of 
debt  securities through postal ballot having the  consent  of not less than 
75% of the holders by value of such debt securities; 
 
Provided  said  provision  shall  not  be  applicable  to  the  issuer,  which  is  a 
Municipality; 
Provided further, in case of issuer being a Municipality, a period of 7 days 
shall be granted to the holders of debt securities 
 

b)  atleast one rating is obtained from a credit rating agency within a period 
of six months prior to the due date of redemption and is disclosed in the 
notice referred to in sub-regulation (2); 
 

c)  fresh  trust  deed  shall  be  executed  at  the  time  of  such  roll  over  or  the 
existing trust deed may be continued if the trust deed provides for such 
continuation ; 
 

d)  adequate security shall be created or maintained in respect of such debt 

securities to be rolled–over 

Page 26 of 51 

 

 

6)  The issuer shall redeem the debt securities of all the holders, who have not given 

their positive consent to the roll-over. 

 

23. Debenture Redemption Reserve 

For the redemption of the debentures issued by a Corporate Municipal Entity, the issuer 
shall  create  debenture  redemption  reserve  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder. 

 

 

 
CHAPTER V 

CONDITIONS FOR CONTINUOUS LISTING AND TRADING OF DEBT SECURITIES 
 

24. Continuous Listing Conditions 

1)  All the issuers making public issues of debt securities or seeking listing of debt securities 
issued  on  private  placement  basis,  shall  comply  with  conditions  of  listing  including 
continuous disclosure and other requirements specified by the Board in general and 
those specified in Schedule V to these Regulations in specific, till the debt securities 
are listed on the stock exchange.  
 

2)  Where  the  issuer  is  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,  one-third  of  its  Board  shall 
comprise of independent Directors, as defined in Section 149 of the Companies Act, 
2013. 
 

3)  Every rating obtained by an issuer shall be periodically reviewed by the registered 
credit  rating  agency  and  any  revision  in  the  rating  shall  be  promptly  disclosed  by 
the issuer to the stock exchange(s) where the debt securities are listed. 

4)  Any  change  in  rating  shall  be  promptly  disseminated  to  investors  and  prospective 
investors in such manner as the stock exchange where such securities are listed may 
determine from time to time. 

5)  The  issuer,  the  respective  debenture  trustees,  wherever  appointed,  and  stock 
exchanges  shall  disseminate  all  information  and  reports  regarding  debt  securities 
including  compliance  reports  filed  by  the  issuers  and  the  debenture  trustees,  if 
appointed, to the investors and the general public by placing them on their websites. 

6)  Debenture  trustee,  wherever  appointed,  shall  disclose  the  information  to  the 
investors  and  the  general  public  by  issuing  a  press  release  in  any  of  the  following 
events 

Page 27 of 51 

 

 

 

 

a)  default  by  issuer  to  pay  interest  on  debt  securities  or  redemption 

amount; 

b)  failure to create a charge on the assets; 
c)  revision of rating assigned to the debt securities. 

 

7)  The  information  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (5)  shall  also  be  placed  on  the 

websites, if any, of the debenture trustee, the issuer and the stock exchanges. 
 

25. Accounting and Audit 

1)  An  Issuer,  being  a  Municipality,  shall  prepare  its  accounts  in  accordance  with  the 
National  Municipal  Accounts  Manual  or  in  accordance  with  similar  Municipal 
Accounts Manual adopted by the respective State Government. 
 
Provided that in case of the Issuer being a Corporate Municipal Entity, the accounts 
shall  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  section  129  and  134  of  the  Companies  Act, 
2013 and the rules made thereunder. 
 

2)  In case of the Issuer being a Municipality, the accounts of the issuer shall be audited 
by  the  persons  appointed  by  the  Municipal  Corporations,  as  permissible  under  its 
constitution/state legislation governing the Municipality. 
 
Provided  further  that  in  case  of  an  issuer  being  a  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,  the 
accounts of the issuer shall be audited by an auditor, in terms of section 139 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder. 
 

Provided further that within six months of the close of every financial year, the bank 
account for issue proceeds and separate escrow account with earmarked revenues, 
shall be audited by the person mentioned above 

 

26. Trading and Reporting of Debt securities 

 

1)  The debt securities issued to the public or on a private placement basis, which are 
listed  in  recognized  stock  exchanges,  shall  be  traded  and  such  trades  shall  be 
cleared and settled in recognized stock exchanges subject to conditions specified by 
the Board.  
 

2)  The  trading  lot  for  privately  placed  debt  securities  shall  be  Rs  1  lakhs  or  such 

amount as may be specified by the Board. 
 

Page 28 of 51 

 

3)  In  case  of  trades  of  debt  securities  which  have  been  made  over  the  counter,  such 
trades  shall  be  reported  on  a  recognized  stock  exchange  having  a  nationwide 
trading terminal or such other platform as may be specified by the Board. 
 

4)  The  information  in  respect  of  issues  such  as  issuer  details,  instrument  details, 
ratings,  rating  migration  shall  be  required  to  be  reported  to  a  common  database 
with depositories or any other platform as may be specified by the Board. 

 
                                                                      CHAPTER VI 

                  OBLIGATIONS OF INTERMEDIARIES AND ISSUERS 
 

27. Obligations of Monitoring Agency and Trustee 

1)  The  monitoring  agency  appointed  under  Regulation  6(6)  shall  be  vested  with  the 

requisite powers for protecting the interest of holders of debt securities. 
 

2)  The  monitoring  agency  shall  inspect  on  half  yearly  basis,  the  utilization  of  issue 
proceeds in accordance with objects of the issue as specified in offer document and 
report,  material  deviation,  if  any,  to  the  concerned  stock  exchange  for  public 
dissemination. 
 

3)  The  monitoring  agency  shall  monitor  earmarked  revenue  in  the  separate  escrow 

account.  
 

4)  The  debenture  trustee,  wherever  appointed,  shall  be  vested  with  the  requisite 

powers for protecting the interest of holders of debt securities  
 
Provided that such powers shall include a right to appoint a nominee director on the 
Board of the issuer in consultation with institutional holders of such securities. 
 

5)  The debenture trustee, wherever, shall carry out its duties and perform its functions 
under  these  regulations,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Debenture 
Trustees)  Regulations,  1993,  the  trust  deed  and  offer  document,  with  due  care, 
diligence and loyalty. 
 

6)  The debenture  trustee, wherever appointed, shall ensure  disclosure  of all material 

events on an ongoing basis. 

7)  The debenture trustees, wherever appointed, shall supervise the implementation of 
the conditions regarding creation of security for the debt securities and debenture 
redemption reserve. 
 

Page 29 of 51 

 

 

 

 

28. Obligations of the Issuer and Merchant Bankers 

1)  The  issuer  shall  disclose  all  the  material  facts  in  the  offer  documents  issued  or 
distributed to the public and shall ensure that all the disclosures made in the offer 
document  are  true,  fair  and  adequate  and  there  is  no  mis-leading  or  untrue 
statements or mis-statement in the offer document. 

2)  The  Merchant  Bankers  shall  verify  and  confirm  that  the  disclosures  made  in  the 
offer  documents  are  true,  fair  and  adequate  and  ensure  that  the  issuer  is  in 
compliance with these regulations.   
 

3)  The Merchant Bankers shall ensure that all transaction specific disclosures required 
in Schedule I of these regulations, Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder 
are complied with. 
 
Provided where the issuer is a Corporate Municipal Entity, Merchant Bankers shall 
also  ensure  that  the  disclosures  under  Companies  Act,  2013  and  Rules  made 
thereunder are complied with 

4)  The issuer shall treat the applicants in a public issue of debt securities in a fair and 

equitable manner as per the procedures as may be specified by the Board. 
 

 

5)  The  issuer  and  Merchant  Bankers  shall  be  responsible  for  the  due  diligence  in 
respect  of  assignments  undertaken  by  them  in  respect  of  issue,  offer  and 
distribution of securities to the public. 
 

6)  No person shall employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud in connection with 
issue or subscription or distribution of debt securities which are listed or proposed 
to be listed on a recognized stock exchange. 
 

7)  The issuer and the merchant bankers shall ensure that the security created to secure 

the debt securities is adequate to ensure 100% asset cover for the debt securities. 

 
                                                              CHAPTER VII 

PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS 
 

29. Inspection by the Board 

1)  Without  prejudice to the provisions of sections  11 and 11C of the  Act, in case of a 
Corporate Municipal Entity, the Board may suo-motu or upon information received 
by  it,  appoint  one  or  more  persons  to  undertake  the  inspection  of  the  books  of 
account,  records  and  documents  of  the  issuer  or  merchant  banker  or  any  other 

 

Page 30 of 51 

intermediary associated with the public issue, disclosure or listing of debt securities, 
as  governed  under  these  regulations,  for  any  of  the  purposes  specified  in  sub-
regulation (2). 

2)  The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be as follows, namely:- 

 
a)  to  verify  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation) 
Act,1956,  Depositories  Act,1996,  the  rules  and  regulations  made  thereunder  in 
respect of issue of securities have been complied with; 

 
b)  to verify whether the requirement in respect of issue of securities as specified in 

these regulations has been complied with; 
 

c)  to  verify  whether  the  requirements  of  listing  conditions  and  continuous 

disclosure requirement have been complied with 
 

d)  to inquire into the complaints received from investors, other market participants 
or any other persons on any matter of issue and transfer of securities governed 
under these regulations; 
 

e)  to  inquire  into  affairs of  the  issuer  in  the  interest  of  investor  protection  or  the 

integrity of the market governed under these regulations;  
 

f)  to inquire whether any direction issued by the Board has been complied with  

3)  While  undertaking  an  inspection  under  these  regulations,  the  inspecting  authority 
or the Board, as the case may be, shall follow the procedure specified by the Board 
for inspection of the intermediaries. 
 

30. Directions by the Board 

1)  Without prejudice to the action under section 11, 11A, 11 B, 11D, sub- section (3) of 
section 12, Chapter VIA and section 24 of the Act or section 439 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, where the issuer is Corporate Municipal Entity, the Board may suo-motu 
or  on  receipt  of  information  or  on  completion  or  pendency  of  inspection  or 
investigation, in the interests of the securities market, issue or pass such directions 
as it deems fit including any or all of the following: 

a)  direct the issuer to refund of the application monies to the applicants in a public 

issue; 

b)  direct  the  persons  concerned  not  to  further  deal  insecurities  in  any  particular 

manner; 

Page 31 of 51 

 

 

 

 

c)  direct the persons concerned not to access the securities market for a particular 

period; 

d)  restraining the issuer or its promoters or directors from making further issues of 

securities; 

e)  direct the person concerned to sell or divest the securities; 
f)  direct the issuer or the depository not to give effect transfer or directing further 

freeze of transfer of securities; 

g)  any other direction which Board may deem fit and proper in the circumstances 

of the case: 

 
Provided  that  the  Board  shall,  either  before  or  after  issuing  such  directions,  give  an 
opportunity  of  being  heard  to  the  persons  against  whom  the  directions  are  issued  or 
proposed to be issued: 
 
Provided further that if any ex-parte direction is required to be issued, the Board may give 
post decisional hearing to affected person 
 
Provided  further,  that  where  the  issuer  is  a  Municipality,  the  Board  may  communicate 
instances  of  violation,  non-compliance  etc.  if  any,  to  Ministry  of  Urban  Development  and 
the concerned State Government. 
 

31. Appeal 

 

Any  person  aggrieved  by  an  order  of  the  Board  or  Adjudicating  Officer  under  the  Act  or 
these regulations, may prefer an appeal to the Securities Appellate Tribunal in accordance 
with section 15T of the Act read with the Securities Appellate Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 
2000 

 
 

CHAPTER VIII 

MISCELLANEOUS 

 

32. Power to remove difficulty 

1)  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of  these 
regulations, the Board may issue clarifications or grant relaxations from application 
requirement or conditions of these regulations, after recording reasons therefore. 

2)  The Board may, on an application  made  by any issuer, relax any of the procedural 
requirements or conditions or strict enforcement of these regulations, if the Board is 
satisfied that : 
 

Page 32 of 51 

 

 

a)  requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or 

 

b)  requirement causes undue hardship to a particular class of industry or 

issuers from accessing the securities market; or 
 

c)  relaxation is in the interest of substantial number of investors; or such 

relaxation will be in the interest of securities market. 

 

Page 33 of 51 

SCHEDULE I 

(Regulation 7) 

                 

Disclosures 
 

1.  Where  the  issuer  is  a  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,  it  shall  make  disclosures  in 
accordance  with  Schedule  I  to  SEBI  (issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities) 
Regulations,  2008  and  shall  also  make  below  mentioned  disclosures,  whichever  is 
relevant, pertaining the Municipalities proposed to be financed by the issue;  
 

2.  Where the issuer is a Municipality, it shall make below mentioned  disclosures: 

 

A.  General Information 

1.  The  relevant  Act  under  which  the  issuer  of  such  securities  is  incorporated  and 

governed  

2.  Copy  of  the  Committee  Resolution/Municipal  Corporation  authorizing  the 

borrowing and list of authorized signatories.  

3.  Copy of  the necessary Resolution(s) for the allotment of debt securities 
4.  Copy of budget documents for last 5 years containing actual financial performance 

and revised estimates  along with the details of related party transactions 

5.  An  undertaking  from  the  issuer  stating  that  the  necessary  documents  for  the 
creation  of  the  charge,  where  applicable,  including  the  Trust  Deed  would  be 
executed within the time frame prescribed in the relevant regulations/act/rules etc 
and the same would be uploaded on the website of the recognised Stock exchange 
where the debt securities have been listed, within five working days of execution of 
the same.  

6.  Any other particulars or documents that the recognized stock exchange, where the 

debt security have been listed, may call for as it deems fit.  

7.  An  undertaking  that  permission  /  consent  from  the  prior  creditor  or  a  second  or 
pari  passu  charge  being  created,  where  applicable,  in  favor  of  the  trustees  to  the 
proposed issue has been obtained. 

8.  Name and contact details of the monitoring agency.  
9.  Details of the separate escrow account opened for servicing of debt securities with 

earmarked revenue, wherever applicable. 

 
Issuer  shall  submit  the  following  disclosures  to  the  Debenture  Trustee  in  electronic 
form (soft copy) at the time of allotment of the debt securities: 

1.  The  relevant  Act  under  which  the  issuer  of  such  securities  is  incorporated  and 

governed. 

2.  Copy  of  the  Resolution  authorizing  the  borrowing  and  list  of  authorized 

signatories.  

 

Page 34 of 51 

3.  Copy of the necessary Resolution(s) for the allotment of debt securities 
4.  Copy  of  budget  documents  for  last  5  years  containing  actual  financial 

performance and revised estimates. 
 

B.  An  undertaking  to  the  effect  that  the  Issuer  would,  till  the  redemption  of  the  debt 
securities, submit the details relating to the financials of the issuer to the Trustee within 
the  timelines  prescribed  by  SEBI  for  furnishing  /publishing  its  half  yearly/  annual 
result.  Further,  the  Issuer  shall  within  180  days  from  the  end  of  the  financial  year, 
submit a copy of the latest annual report to the Trustee and the Trustee shall be obliged 
to  share  the  details  submitted  under  this  clause  to  debenture-holders  within  two 
working  days  of  their  specific  request.  The  following  disclosures  shall  be  made  in  the 
offer document where relevant: 
 

I.  Name and address of the following:-  

a.  Head office/quarters of the Issuer  
b.  Compliance officer of the Issuer  
c.  Complete  Details  of  the  Official  In-charge  of  dealing  with  investor 
Grievances  related  to  the  Municipal  Bonds,  his/her  address,  phone 
number, email ID, etc.  

d.  Chief Accounts and Finance Office or equivalent of the Issuer  
e.  Arrangers, if any, of the instrument  
f.  Trustee of the issue  
g.  Registrar of the issue  
h.  Credit Rating Agency (-ies) of the issue and  
i.  Auditors of the Issuer 
j.  The relevant Act under which the issuer is incorporated and governed 

 

II. 

Comprehensive  Disclosure  regarding  the  Risk  Factors,  including  project 
risks, operational risks, credit risks, liquidity risks, etc.  
 

C.   Organization details: 

1.  Details of Mayor / Deputy Mayor including date of appointment, etc:  
2.  Details  of  Commissioner/  Deputy  Commissioner 

including  date  of 

appointment, etc 

3.  Details of any Reorganization or Reconstruction in the last 1 year:-  

Type of Event 

Date of 

Date of 

Details 

 

Page 35 of 51 

 

 

 

 

Announcement 

Completion 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.  Details  of  the  members  of  the  Committee  approving  the  project/  various 
Standing  Committees  relating  to  Taxation  /  Finance  /Accounts/  Audit/ 
Infrastructure  

Name 
Designation 

and 

Date 
Appointment/ 
Resignation 

of 

Member of the Committee since  
(in case of resignation) 

Remarks 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

5.  Details of the Auditors  
Address 
 

Name 
 

6.   Details of trustee  

 

 

Auditor since 
 

Name  

Address  

Contact person 

 

 

 

 

D.  A brief summary of the business/ activities of the Issuer and its project for which funds 

are to be raised containing atleast following information 
1.  Overview of the issuer 
2.  Management Structure of the issuer and the relevant department issuing the bond  
3.  Details  of  all  the  project  undertaken  or  proposed  in  terms  of  cost  and  means  of 

financing for the relevant department 

4.  Complete details of the project/s for which finance is raised 

i.  An investment plan for the project components indicating phasing as 
well as financing plan approved by the local authority or the Board of 
the Agency as the case may be 
Schedule of implementation of the project  
Capital structure relating to projects for which funds are proposed to 
be mobilized 
Capital grant for the proposed project and the amount received in this 
regard 

ii. 
iii. 

iv. 

 

Page 36 of 51 

v.  Details of State Finance Commission Grant on annual basis 
vi. 

Benchmarks  for  commencement  and  completion  of  the  project 
including milestone dates for all components of the project 

vii.  Details and status of the regulatory approval (if required) 
viii. 

Financial  viability  of  the  project  showing  the  stage  wise  cost  and 
revenue flows for the project. 

ix.  Revenue  generation/resources  and  sufficiency  for  timely  servicing 

and redemption 

x.  Details of the independent trustee of the escrow account 
xi. 

Latest  Audit  report  of  the  escrow  and  project  account  by  a  firm  of 
chartered  accountants  appointed  by  the  concerned  State  Urban 
Development Departments from a panel CA’s approved by the CA&G. 
 

5.  Performance with respect to key financial and operational parameters for the last 5 

years  

I.  Abridged  Balance  Sheet,  Income  and  Expenditure  and  Receipts  and  Payments 

II. 

III. 

Accounts for the last five years with major heads; 
Link  to  the  web page where  the  entire  financials  of  the  Municipal Body  can  be 
accessed should be given.   
Financial Parameters: 
 

Key Financial Figures 

 
Revenue Income 

Revenue expenditure (Excl. Interest) 

Operating revenue Surplus 

Interest expense 
Principal  repayment  (outside  sink. 
Fund) 

Contribution to Sinking fund 

Revenue Surplus 

Capital Income 

Capital Expense 

Capital Surplus 

 

Actual 
FY 

Actual 
FY 

Actual 
FY 

RE 
FY 

BE 
FY 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 37 of 51 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Overall Surplus 

Deposits and Advances (net) 

Initial Cash / Bank balance 

Change in Cash / Bank balance 

Final Cash / Bank balance 

Loan repayment from sinking fund 

Initial Sinking fund balance 

Change in sinking fund 

Final sinking fund balance 

Total Debt 
Ratio  of  Total  Expenditure  /Total 
Revenue 

Cash Surplus / Total Revenue 

Ratio of Debt Service / Total Revenue 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IV.  Operational Parameters: 

Details of top 5 revenue sources for last 5 years 

Revenue Receipt type 

Actual 
FY 

Actual 
FY 

Actual 
FY 

RE 
FY 

BE 
FY 

 
XYZ 1 

XYZ 2 

XYZ 3 

XYZ 4 

XYZ 5 

 

Particular
s 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

V.  Details of property tax collection efficiency 

Demand Raised 

  

Collections 

  

Overall 
Collection 
Efficiency 

Current 
Collection 
Efficiency 

Page 38 of 51 

Arrear
s 

Current  Total 

Current   Arrear  Total 

FY  

FY  

FY  

 

 

 

 

VI. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Status of reforms with respect to e-governance, cost recovery on water supply & 
Solid  Waste  Management  (SWM),  property  tax,  double  entry  accounting  and 
others, as specified by MoUD and authorities concerned 

E.  Details of  Issuer’s outstanding borrowing 

I.  Details of borrowings of the Issuer, as on the latest quarter end:-  
II.  Details of Secured Loan Facilities:-  

 
Lender’s 

Type of 

Amt 

Principal 

Repayment 

Security 

Name 

Facility 

Sanctioned 

Amt 

Date / 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

outstanding  Schedule 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

III.  Details of Unsecured Loan Facilities:-  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lender’s 

Type 

of  Amt 

Principal 

Repayment  

Name 

Facility 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sanctioned  Amt 

Date 

/ 

 

 

 

outstanding  Schedule 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IV.  Details of NCDs/Bonds: - 

Page 39 of 51 

Debenture/
Bond Series 

Tenor 
/ 
Period  of 
Maturity 

Coupon  Amount 

of 

Date 
Allotment 

Redemption 
Date/ 
Schedule 

Credit 
Rating 

Secured  / 
Unsecured 

Security 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

V. 

List of Top 10 Debenture Holders (as on ……)  

Sr. No. 

Name of Debenture Holders  Amount 

 

 
 
Note: Top 10 holders’ (in value terms, on cumulative basis for all outstanding debentures 
issues) details should be provided. 

 

VI. 

The amount of charge created Cash Flows of the Issuer along with name of the 
counterparty (like name of the project etc.) 

VII.  Details  of  Commercial  Paper:-  The  total  Face  Value  of  Commercial  Papers 
Outstanding  as  on  the  latest  quarter  end  to  be  provided  and  its  breakup  in 
following table:- 
Maturity Date 

Amount Outstanding 

 

VIII.  Details of Rest of Borrowings 

 

IX. 

Estimated Scenarios of Asset Liability Mis-matches, efforts intended to resolve 
the same 

X.  Details of all default/s and/or delay in payments of interest and principal of any 
kind of term loans, debt securities and other financial instrument issued by the 
Issuer, in the past 5 years .  

XI.  Details  of  change  in  terms    and  conditions  of  debt  securities  issued  in  past  5 

years ( i.e. change in coupon, maturity, call/put option etc.) 

XII.  An  undertaking  should  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  that  the  issue  has 
obtained  Lenders  consent  for  creating  charge  on  assets  (if  the  issue  is  of 
secured Bonds) 

XIII.  Details  of  any  outstanding  borrowings  taken/  debt  securities  issued  for 
consideration  other  than  cash,  whether  in  whole  or  part,  at  a  premium  or 
discount, or in pursuance of an option;  

XIV.  Any  material  event/  development  or  change  having  implications  on  the 
financials/credit  quality  (e.g.  any  material  regulatory  proceedings  against  the 

 

Page 40 of 51 

XV. 

XVI. 
XVII. 

XVIII. 

XIX. 

Issuer,  resulting  in  material  liabilities,    restructuring  event  etc)  at  the  time  of 
the  issue  which  may  affect  the  issue  or  the  investor’s  decision  to  invest/ 
continue to invest in the debt securities. 
The detailed rating rationale (s) adopted (not older than one year on the date of 
opening of the issue)/ credit rating letter issued (not older than one month on 
the date of opening of the issue) by the rating agencies shall be disclosed.  
Credit Enhancement Mechanisms if any, with complete details, if any. 
 The security is backed by a guarantee or letter of comfort or any other 
document / letter with similar intent, a copy of the same shall be disclosed. In 
case such document does not contain detailed payment structure (procedure of 
invocation of guarantee and receipt of payment by the investor along with 
timelines), the same shall be disclosed in the offer document. 
In case there is an escrow mechanism for the repayment of the 
interest/principal, details of the same should be given.  
The names of the debenture trustee(s) shall be mentioned with statement to the 
effect that debenture trustee(s) has given his consent to the Issuer for his 
appointment. This also needs to be mentioned in all subsequent 
communications sent to the holders of debt securities. 

XX.  Names of all the recognized stock exchanges where the debt securities are 

XXI. 

proposed to be listed clearly indicating the designated stock exchange.  
Penal interest payable by the Municipal Corporation in case of delay in 
execution of Trust Deed and Charge documents  

XXII.  Additional interest to be paid, above the Coupon Rate, in case of default in 

XXIII. 

payment of Interest and/or principal redemption on the due dates 
Penal interest payable by the Municipal Corporation in case of delay in listing if 
debt securities from the deemed date of allotment 

XXIV.  Other details  
XXV.  DRR/such other reserve creation - relevant regulations and applicability.  
Issue/instrument specific regulations - relevant details (Relevant Act, RBI 
XXVI. 
guidelines, etc).  

XXVII.  Application process 
XXVIII. 

Procedure for deciding and adjusting payment dates (in response to days when 
payment can’t be made due to any reason like sudden bank holiday.  
List of documents which have been executed/ will be executed in relation to the 
issue 
Investor grievances mechanisms 
Such other details necessary for the investors to make a well informed decision 
making regarding their investment in the proposed issue  

XXIX. 

XXX. 
XXXI. 

XXXII.  Declaration signed by the Mayor and Commissioner  of the concerned Municipal 

Body stating that offer document contains true, fair and adequate information 

 

Page 41 of 51 

to enable investors to make a well informed decision making regarding their 
investment in the proposed issue. 
 

F. Issue details  
Summary  term  sheet  shall  be  provided  which  shall  include  at  least  following 
information  (where  relevant)  pertaining  to  the  Secured  /  Unsecured  Non 
Convertible debt securities (or a series thereof):-  

Security Name 

Name  of  the  bond  which  includes  (Issuer  Name, 
Coupon and maturity year) e.g. 8.70% XXX 2015. 

Issuer 
Type of Instrument 
Seniority 
Mode of Issue 
Eligible Investors 
Listing  ( 
including  name  of 
stock  Exchange(s)  where  it  will 
be 
for 
listing) 

listed  and 

timeline 

  
Secured or Unsecured 
Senior or Subordinated. 
Private placement/Public issue 
  

  

Rating of the Instrument 

_______ by _____ Ltd. 

Issue Size 

Option 
oversubscription (Amount) 

to 

retain 

Objects of the Issue 

  

  

 (The  proceeds  of  the  proposed  issue  shall  be  clearly 
earmarked for a defined project or a set of projects; 

 
The  project(s)  shall  be  financially  viable  (project(s) 
should be able to generate a stream of revenue which 
should  be  sufficient 
finance  Operational  & 
Maintenance cost 

to 

Details  of  the  utilization  of  the 
Proceeds 
Coupon Rate 

Taxable/Tax free 

Step  Up/Step  Down  Coupon 
Rate1  

  

  

 
  

 

Page 42 of 51 

Coupon Payment Frequency 

  

Coupon payment dates 
Coupon Type 

Dates on which coupon will be paid 
Fixed, floating or other coupon structure 

Reset 

Process 
Coupon 
(including 
spread, 
effective  date,  interest  rate  cap 
and floor etc). 

rates, 

  

Day Count Basis 

Actual/ Actual 

Interest on Application Money 

  

Default Interest Rate 

Tenor 

Redemption Date 
Redemption Amount 
Redemption 
/Discount 
Issue Price 

  
__      Months  from  the  Deemed  from  the  date  of 
Allotment 
Dates on which Principal will be paid 
  

Premium 

  

The price at which bond is issued 

Discount  at  which  security  is 
issued and the effective yield as 
a result of such discount. 

Put option Date 
Put option Price 
Call Option Date 

Call Option Price 

Put Notification Time 

Call Notification Time 

  

  
  
  

  

Timelines  by  which  the  investor  need  to  intimate 
Issuer before exercising the put option. 

Timelines  by  which  the  Issuer  need  to  intimate 
investor before exercising the call option. 

Face Value 
 Minimum  Application  and  in 
multiples  of  _Debt  Securities 
thereafter 

 

 

 

Page 43 of 51 

Issue 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. Deemed Date of Allotment 

Opening 
Closing 

Timing 
Date 
date 
Date 

Issue 
Issue 

Pay-in 

  

Issuance  mode 
Instrument 

of 

the 

Rs  10  lakhs  per  instrument  for  Demat  only  (for 
private placement) 

Trading mode of the Instrument  Demat only (for private placement) 

Settlement  mode 
Instrument 
Depository 

of 

the 

Insert Procedure 
  

Business Day Convention2 

  

Record Date 

(where 

applicable) 
Security 
(Including  description,  type  of 
security,  type  of  charge,  likely 
date  of  creation  of  security, 
security 
minimum 
cover, 
revaluation, 
replacement  of 
security). 

Transaction Documents 3 

Conditions 
Disbursement 

Precedent 

to 

15  days  prior  to  each  Coupon  Payment  /  Put  Option 
Date 
Call 
Option Date / Redemption date. 

/ 

  

  

  

 

Page 44 of 51 

Condition 
Disbursement 

Subsequent 

to 

Events of Default 

  

  

Provisions  related 
Default 
Clause 

to  Cross 

( 

N/A 
clause 
description 
provided 

Not 

Applicable) 

is 

not 

there 

in 
else 

of 

the 

clause 

to 

case 
full 
be 

Role  and  Responsibilities  of 
Debenture Trustee 

Governing Law and Jurisdiction 

  

  

 
Notes: 
 
Any  change  in  Coupon  Rate,  along  with  events  which  lead  to  the  change  if  there  is  any 
change  in  Coupon  Rate  pursuant  to  any  event  including  elapse  of  certain  time  period  or 
downgrade  in  rating,  then  such  new  Coupon  Rate  and  events  which  lead  to  such  change 
should be disclosed.  
 
 
                                                       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 45 of 51 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                       Schedule II 
                                          
                                                    (Regulation 8) 
 
FORMAT  FOR  DUE  DILIGENCE  CERTIFICATE  AT  THE  TIME  OF  FILING  THE  OFFER 
DOCUMENT BY AN ISSUER OR A CORPORATE MUNICIPAL ENTITY WITH REGISTRAR 
OF COMPANIES AND PRIOR TO THE OPENING OF THE ISSUE 

 

To, 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________ 
 
1.We confirm that neither the issuer - in case of Municipality,  the issuer nor its promoters 
or directors  -  in case of Corporate  Municipal Entity,  have  been  prohibited from accessing 
the capital market under any order or direction passed by the Board. We also confirm that 
none  of  the  intermediaries  named  in  the  offer  document  have  been  debarred  from 
functioning by any regulatory authority. 
 
2. We confirm that all the material disclosures in respect of the issuer have been made in 
the offer document and certify that any material development in the issue or relating to the 
issue  up  to  the  commencement  of  listing  and  trading  of  the  shares  offered  through  this 

 

Page 46 of 51 

issue shall be informed through public notices/ advertisements in all those newspapers in 
which pre-issue advertisement and advertisement for opening or closure of the issue have 
been given. 
 
3. We confirm that the offer document contains all disclosures as specified in the Securities 
and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities  by  Municipalities) 
Regulations, 20XX. 

4.  We  also  confirm  that  all  relevant  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013,  if  applicable, 
Securities  Contracts,  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act, 
1992  and  the  Rules,  Regulations,  Guidelines,  Circulars  issued  thereunder  are  complied 
with.  
 
We  confirm  that  all  comments/  complaints  received  on  the  draft  offer  document  filed  on 
the website of ________ (designated stock exchange) have been suitably addressed. 
 
PLACE 
DATE:                                                          LEAD MERCHANT BANKER (S) 

 

Page 47 of 51 

                                                          SCHEDULE III 

                                                   (Regulation 8) 
 
FORMAT  OF  DUE  DILIGENCE  CERTIFICATE  TO  BE  GIVEN  BY  THE  DEBENTURE 
TRUSTEE BEFORE OPENING OF THE ISSUE 
 
To, 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________________Ltd (Corporate Municipal 
Entity) 
 
We, the Debenture Trustee (s) to the above mentioned forthcoming issue state as follows: 
(1) We have examined documents pertaining to the said issue and other such relevant 
documents. 
(2)  On  the  basis  of  such  examination  and  of  the  discussions  with  the  issuer,  its 
Mayor/Deputy  Mayor  /Directors  and  other  officers,  other  agencies  and  of  independent 
verification of the various relevant documents, 
WE CONFIRM that: 
(a) The issuer has made adequate provisions for and/or has taken steps to provide for 
adequate security for the debt securities to be issued. 
(b) The issuer has obtained the permissions / consents necessary for creating security on 
the said property (ies) / receivables. 
(c) The issuer has made all the relevant disclosures about the security and also its 
continued obligations towards the holders of debt securities. 
(d) All disclosures made in the offer document with respect to the debt securities are true, 
fair  and  adequate  to  enable  the  investors  to  make  a  well  informed  decision  as  to  the 
investment in the proposed issue. 
 
We have satisfied ourselves about the ability of the issuer to service the debt securities. 
PLACE 
DATE:                         DEBENTURE TRUSTEE TO THE ISSUE WITH HIS SEAL 
 
 

 

 

Page 48 of 51 

 
                                                     SCHEDULE  IV 
                                                    (Regulation 10) 

 

FORMAT OF ISSUE ADVERTISEMENTS FOR PUBLIC ISSUES 

This is an advertisement for information purposes 

_________ _________ Municipal Corporation or ______________ Ltd (or Corporate Municipal 

Entity) 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Relevant State Act or the Companies Act  as 

__________________ 

and subsequently renamed ______________ on __________) 

Registered Office: _____________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 
Corporate Office: _____________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 

e-mail: _____________ Website: _____________________________ 

Public issue of ___________ debt securities of Rs. ____ each at a price of Rs._____ 

(Summary Details of Coupon, Redemption, etc shall be disclosed) 

THE ISSUE 

MAYOR/ DEPUTY MAYOR /COMMISSIONER/PROMOTERS 

XXXX 

 

PROPOSED LISTING 

Names of Stock Exchanges 

 

MERCHANT BANKERS 

(Names) 

 

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF THE ISSUER 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address 

 

CREDIT RATING 

(The Rating Obtained shall be disclosed prominently along with the meaning of the same) 

 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES 

( Names) 

 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS 

Names of Issuer, Lead Managers, etc. (Addresses optional) 

AVAILABILITY OF OFFER DOCUMENT 

 

Page 49 of 51 

 

 

 

Investors are advised to refer to the offer document, and the risk factors contained therein, 
before applying in the issue. Full copy of the offer document is available on websites of 
issuer / lead manager(s) / Stock Exchange(s) on www.__________ 
 
                                                       ISSUE OPENS ON: 
                                                       ISSUE CLOSES ON: 

Issued by 
Directors of Issuer 

 
                                                      
 

 

 

Page 50 of 51 

SCHEDULE  V 

(Regulation 25) 

Periodic Disclosures to be made by Municipalities: 

1.  The  issuer  shall  file  its  Annual  Audited  financial  results  with  the  stock 

exchange 

2.  Further,  following  periodic  disclosures  shall  be  made  by  the  Issuer  on  half 

yearly basis: 

ii. 

i.  Utilization  of  funds  for  the  projects  –  Half  yearly  certification  of  Chartered 
Accountant on Utilizations of the issue proceeds for execution of the projects 
stated in the offer document. 
Project development - Details with respect to the development of the Project 
along with certifications from the Project Engineer should be furnished to the 
bond trustee, Rating Agencies and stock exchanges on Half Yearly Basis and 
should be publicly disseminated.  

iii.  Material adverse changes affecting ability to service and / or repay bonds 
iv. 

Proposal for pre-pay, value of bond in case of sale/purchase before maturity 
etc. 
Important ratios like Debt Equity Ratio, Debt Service Coverage Ratio, Interest 
Service Coverage Ratio etc. 

v. 

vi.  Half Yearly return on payment of Bond service, maintenance of Asset Cover, 

Credit enhancement facilities and Investors Grievances & Redressal 

vii.  A CA/Bank certificate for timely payment of Bond Service.    

 
************ 

 

 

Page 51 of 51 

