¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã  ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã ‚ããõÀ ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã ºããñ¡Ã  

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

DISCUSSION PAPER ON ISSUES PERTAINING TO OFFER FOR SALE OF 

SHARES (OFS) THROUGH STOCK EXCHANGE MECHANISM 

 

 

Objectives: 

 

1.  To  solicit  the  comments/views  from  market  participants  on  suggestions 

pertaining to sale of shares using OFS through stock exchange mechanism.   

 

Background: 

 

2.  Prior  to  January  03,  2012  the  mechanisms  available  for  promoters  to  sell 

shares  included  sale  of  shares  in  the  secondary  market,  offer  for  sale  of 

shares  to  public  through  prospectus,  sale  through  block  deal  window  and 

spot delivery under Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956. In order to 

provide additional method of achieving minimum level of public shareholding 

and  to  ensure  transparency,  wider  participation  and  quicker  settlement, 

SEBI Board in its meeting held on January 03, 2012 approved sale of shares 

through  secondary  market  i.e.  Offer  for  Sale  through  Stock  Exchange 

mechanism  as  an  additional  method  of  achieving  minimum  level  of  public 

shareholding  in  listed  companies.  Further,  the  OFS  mechanism  was  also 

made  available  to  top  100  companies  based  on  average  market 

capitalization to facilitate sale of large quantity of shares by promoters.   

 

3.  OFS  mechanism  has  been  found  to  be  useful  by  market  participants  and 

popular for offloading shares of promoters in listed companies. Till date 117 

companies have utilized OFS  mechanism to offload promoters shares in the 

market. OFS  mechanism has greatly facilitated the speedy disinvestment of 

 

1 | P a g e  

 
Government  of  India  (GoI)  shareholding  in  PSUs  with  full  transparency  and 

market  wide  participation.  13  PSUs  have  utilized  OFS  mechanism  for 

divestment of GoI shareholding in multiple times.  

 

4.  Some  of the key features of Sale of shares through OFS mechanism are as 

follows, 

 

4.1.  Promoter and non-promoter shareholder ( holding at least 10% of share 

capital) are eligible to offer shares through the OFS mechanism.  

 

4.2.  The  OFS  mechanism  is  available  to  top  200  companies  by  market 

capitalization. 

 

4.3.  Minimum  10%  of  the  offer  size  is  reserved  for  retail  investors.  Seller 

may offer discount to retail investors. Seller may give an option to retail 

investors  to  place  their  bid  at  cut-off  price  in  addition  to  placing  price 

bids.  

 

4.4.  Minimum  of  25%  of  the  shares  offered  are  reserved  for  mutual  funds 

and  insurance  companies  subject  to  allocation  methodology.  No  single 

bidder  other  than  mutual  funds  and  insurance  companies  is  allocated 

more than 25% of the size of offer for sale. 

 
Suggestions received from market participants: 

 

5.  Suggestions have been received by SEBI on following issues, 

 

5.1.  Reduce OFS notice from T-2 days to T-1 day: 

 

  As per the present guidelines, sellers are required to give OFS notice to 

stock exchange  latest by 5 pm on T-2 day (T day being the day of the 

OFS). Disclosure of floor price is not mandatory. In case seller prefers to 

 

2 | P a g e  

 
disclose the floor price, seller is required to disclose it latest by 5 pm on 

T-1 day.    

 

  SEBI  vide  circular  dated  08/08/2014  changed  the  timing  of  OFS  notice 

from  T-1  day  to  T-2  days  when  reservation  of  minimum  10%  for  retail 

investors  was  mandated.  The  change  in  the  notice  was  done  to  ensure 

that reasonable time of at least one trading day/banking day is available 

for retail investors to arrange funds to participate in OFS. 

 

  As  notice  is  required  to  be  given  on  T-2  days,  one  trading  day  is 

available for trading in the stock prior to OFS day. It is pointed out that 

market starts anticipating OFS floor price as soon as OFS is announced. 

In  anticipation  of  discount,  market  participants  can  short  the  stocks  a 

day prior to OFS leading to price volatility. Such volatility may affect the 

price offered by the sellers. Therefore, suggestion has been received to 

reduce OFS notice from T-2 days to T-1 day.  

 

  On  the  other  hand,  suggestions  have  also  been  received  that  notice  of 

one trading day/banking day is insufficient for retail investors to arrange 

for  funds  as  most  such  investors  may  need  to  liquidate  existing 

investments  to  raise  funds  to  participate  in  OFS.  It  is  represented  to 

increase  the  notice  period  to  arrange  for  funds  which  may  result  in 

better retail participation.   

 

5.2.  Impose  price  bands  on  T-1  day  along  with  OFS  notice  on  stocks  going 

for OFS:  

 

  Presently, price bands are not applicable for  stocks on which derivative 

products  are  available.  Therefore  there  are  no  price  bands  in  the 

derivative  segment.  The  price  band  applicable  for  stocks  which  do  not 

 

3 | P a g e  

 
have  any  derivatives  products  is  20%  or  below  as  decided  by  stock 

exchange  from  time  to  time.  Stock  exchanges  have  prescribed  smaller 

price bands of 5%, 10% and 20% based on certain parameters.  

 

  It  has been represented that as result of price volatility on T-1 day, i.e. 

a day prior to OFS, seller may find it difficult to arrive at an appropriate 

floor price for OFS and price fall on T-1 day may adversely affect sellers 

interest. Therefore, based on these concerns, it has been suggested that 

price band may be placed on such stocks the day prior to OFS.  

 

  Generally,  imposition  of  price  bands  is  done  to  prevent  excessive 

volatility,  particularly  in  illiquid  or  thinly  traded  stocks.  Price  bands  are 

not imposed on some of the most liquid stocks on which derivatives are 

also available. One of the consequences of price band imposition is halt 

in  trading  upon  hitting  the  price  band.  Trading  halt  may  lead  to  

uncertainty regarding price of the stock.   

 

5.3.  Trading  halt  or  suspension  of  trading  of  OFS  stocks  in  the  secondary 

market on the date of OFS: 

 

  A concern has been raised that due to volatility in the prices on the OFS 

day, investor participation in the OFS may be affected. As result of price 

volatility  on  OFS  day,  there  may  a  possibility  that  secondary  market 

price  may  trade  below  OFS  floor  price  and  this  may  impact  the  sale  of 

shares through OFS.  

 

  In  OFS  involving  disinvestment,  quantity  offered  in  the  OFS  may  be 

substantial  and  in  certain  cases  it  may  be  higher  than  outstanding 

shares available for trading in the stock. This may creates confusion for 

investors on whether they should participate in the OFS or buy the stock 

 

4 | P a g e  

 
from  secondary  market,  what  price  to  bid  and  whether  they  will  get 

confirm allotment etc. Based on the above concerns, the suggestion has 

been  received  to  have  trading  halt  or  suspension  of  trading  for  stock 

going for OFS on the date of OFS.    

  In  this  regard,  a  IOSCO  report  dated  2010  on  "Effectiveness  of  Market 

Interventions  in  Emerging  Markets"  states  that  trading  halts  can 

generally  be  classified  in  two  categories.  The  most  common  halt  is 

usually  imposed  at  the  request  of  the  issuer  for  the  dissemination  of 

material  information.  The  other  is  usually  imposed  by  the  regulator 

and/or exchange when there is unusual trading behavior in the market, 

failure  of  companies  to  comply  with  listing  rules  or  disclosure 

obligations,  or  if  there  is  suspicion  of  fraud  or  manipulative  trading 

activity in the particular security. 

 

  It  is  stated  in  the  report  that  there  remains  an  ongoing  debate  on  the 

effectiveness  and  the costs and benefits of  halts.  It  has been observed 

that  trading  halts  give  market  participants  the  opportunity  to  absorb 

news  and  become  more  informed  before  trading,  while  circuit  breakers 

provide  investors  with  a  cooling  off  period  to  calm  fear  and  panic. 

Market interventions are also said to provide time for information flow in 

order to restore equilibrium between supply and demand in the market.  

  Conversely,  opponents  argue  that  halts  are  unnecessary  barriers  to 

price discovery and do not actually reduce volatility in trading following 

the lifting of the halt. For example, if fundamental information arrives at 

the  time  of  the  trading  halt,  the  price  adjustment  process  is  delayed. 

This  may  in  turn  increase  price  uncertainty  because  no  information  is 

transmitted  through  trading  when  there  is  a  halt.  In  addition,  by 

preventing  investors  from  trading  during  a  halt,  investors  may  not  be 

able to liquidate their position, if so required by them.  

5 | P a g e  

 

  

 

 

5.4.  Keeping OFS on Saturday 

 

  A  suggestion  has  been  made  in  media  to  have  OFS  on  Saturday.  It  is 

suggested  that  this  would  obviate  need  for  having  trading  halt  or 

suspension of trading in the OFS stocks as trading does not taking place 

 

on Saturday. 

 

5.5.  Option to bid at cut-off price by retail investors 

 

  The  OFS  mechanism    presently  provides  that  seller  may  give  option  to 

retail  investors  to  place  price  bid  or  place  bid  at  cut-off  price.  Recent 

experience  with  OFS  has  shown  that  some  retail  investors  bid  at  high 

prices, on the assumption that they would get allotment at cut-off price. 

Therefore  it  is  suggested  to  make  it  mandatory  for  sellers    to  provide 

option  to  retail  investors  to  place  price  bid  or  place  bid  at  cut  off  price 

for better retail participation.      

 

Public Comments 

 

6.  In order to take into consideration views of various stakeholders in the  OFS  

process, public comments are solicited on the following issues 

  
6.1.  Appropriate  notice  period  for  OFS  keeping  in  mind  interest  of 

investors as well as sellers. 

 

6.2.  Need for imposing price band on stock on the day prior to OFS day.  

 

 

6.3.  Need  for  halt  /  suspension  of  trading  in  concerned  stocks  on  the 

date of OFS.  

6.4.  Whether OFS should be held on Saturday. 

 

6.5.  Need for providing option to retail investors to bid at cut-off price in 

all OFS.   

6 | P a g e  

7.  Comments/ suggestions may be provided in the format given below:-  

 

 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization 

Sr. No. 

Issues 

Suggestions  

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

 

Comments  may  please  be  emailed  on  or  before  April  18,  2015  to 

vishalp@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to:-  

 

Vishal M Padole  
Assistant General Manager  
Division of Policy, Market Regulation Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block , 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),  
Mumbai - 400 051  
 

 

**************** 

 

7 | P a g e  

