 

CONSULTATIVE PAPER ON GUIDELINES ON OVERSEAS INVESTMENTS AND OTHER 

ISSUES/CLARIFICATIONS FOR AIFs/VCFs 

1.  SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 (“AIF Regulations”) were notified 

on  May  21,  2012  repealing  and  replacing  the  erstwhile  SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds) 

Regulations, 1996 (VCF Regulations). As on March 31, 2015, there are 136 Alternative 

Investments Funds (AIFs) registered with SEBI. 

 

2.  Several representations were received from the industry with respect to certain aspects 

of  AIF  Regulations/VCF  Regulations.  Based  on  the  representations  from  industry,  it  is 

proposed to issue a circular as attached as Annexure A. 

 

3.  In  order  to  take  into  consideration  views  of  various  stakeholders,  public  comments  are 

solicited on the said proposed circular. 

 

4.  Comments  may  please  be  emailed  on  or  before  May  07,  2015  to  nila@sebi.gov.in  or 

dharmendra@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to:-  

 

Nila Khanolkar, Assistant General Manager  

or Mr. Dharmendra Jain, Manager  

Division of Funds I, 

Investment Management Department,  

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block , 

Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), 

Mumbai - 400 051. 

**************** 

 

 

 

 

1 | P a g e  

Annexure A 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/IMD/DF1/   /2015 
April __, 2015 

To 
All Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs), 
All Venture Capital Funds (VCFs) registered under SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 
1996), 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Guidelines on overseas investments and other issues/clarifications for AIFs/VCFs 

1.  SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 (“AIF Regulations”) were notified 
on  May  21,  2012  repealing  and  replacing  the  erstwhile  SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds) 
Regulations,  1996. As on  March 31, 2015, there are 136 Alternative Investment Funds 
(AIFs) registered with SEBI.  

2.  In this regard, it is specified as under: 

A.  Overseas  Investment  by  Venture  Capital  Funds  (VCFs)  registered  under 

SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996) 

VCFs  registered  under  erstwhile  SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulations, 
1996  are  permitted  to  invest  in  Offshore  Venture  Capital  Undertakings,  which 
have an Indian connection, upto 10% of the investible funds of a VCF in terms of 
the SEBI circular no. SEBI/VCF/Cir no.1/98645/2007 dated August 09, 2007. 
 

a.  SEBI has received representations from the industry that there has been a 
major shift of Indian entrepreneurs outside India. Many Indian entrepreneurs 
have  been  setting  up  their  headquarters  outside  India  with  back  end 
operations  and/  or  research  and  developments  being  undertaken  in  India. 
Therefore,  there  is  a  need  to  allow  higher  overseas  investment  by  VCFs 
more than existing 10% limit. 

b.  The  representations  also  state  that  such  investments  would  provide 
opportunities  to  the  funds  to  generate  better  returns  globally,  getting 
exposure to the international markets practices, etc.  

c.  Further,  It  is  anticipated  that,  since  such  investments  are  required  to  have 
an  Indian  connection,  such  investments  will  generate  indirect  benefits  to 
India  through  bringing  in  of  non-debt  creating  foreign  capital  resources, 
technology upgradation, skill enhancement, new employment, etc. 

 

2 | P a g e  

d.  In  the  view  of  the  above  representations,  in  partial  modification  of  the  
circular  no.  SEBI/VCF/Cir  no.1/98645/2007  dated  August  09,  2007,  VCFs 
are,  from  the  date  of  this  circular,  permitted  to  invest  in  Offshore  Venture 
Capital  Undertakings  which  have  an  Indian  connection  upto  25%  of  the 
investible funds of the VCF. 

B.  Overseas Investment by Alternative Investment Funds 

Under  Regulation  15(1)(a)  of  AIF  Regulations,  "Alternative  Investment  Fund  may 
invest  in  securities  of  companies  incorporated  outside  India  subject  to  such 
conditions  or  guidelines  that  may  be  stipulated  or  issued  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of 
India and the Board from time to time." 

In this regard, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide its A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.48 
dated  December  09,  2014  has  permitted  an  Indian  Alternative  Investment  Fund 
(AIF),  registered  with  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI),  to  invest 
overseas in terms of the provisions issued under the A.P. (DIR Series) Circulars No. 
49 and 50 dated April 30, 2007 and May 04, 2007 respectively.  

In accordance with the aforesaid RBI circular, it is stated as under: 

a.  AIFs may invest in equity and equity linked instruments only of off-shore 
venture  capital  undertakings,  subject  to  overall  limit  of  USD  500  million 
(combined limit for AIFs and Venture Capital Funds registered under the 
SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996).  

b.  AIFs  desirous  of  making 

in  offshore  venture  capital 
undertakings  may  submit  their  proposal  for  investment  (in  the  attached 
format)  to  SEBI  for  its  prior  approval.  It  is  clarified  that  no  separate 
permission from RBI is necessary in this regard. 

investments 

c.  For  the  purpose  of  such  investment,  it  is  clarified  that  “Offshore  Venture 
Capital  Undertakings”  means  a  foreign  company  whose  shares  are  not 
listed on any of the recognized stock exchange in India or abroad. 

d.  Investments  would  be  made  only  in  those  companies  which  have  an 
Indian connection (e.g. company which has a front office overseas, while 
back office operations are in India). 

e.  Such  investments  cannot  exceed  25%  of  the  investible  funds  of  the 

scheme of the AIF in line with clause 2(A) above. 

f.  The  allocation  of  investment  limits  would  be  done  on  ‘first  come-  first 
serve’ basis, depending on the availability in the overall limit of USD 500 
million. 

 

3 | P a g e  

g.  It is clarified that in case an AIF who is allocated certain investment limit, 
wishes  to  apply  for  allocation  of  further  investment  limit,  the  fresh 
application shall be dealt with on the basis of the date of its receipt and no 
preference shall be granted to it in fresh allocation of investment limit. 

h.  The AIF shall have a time limit of 6 months from the date of approval from 
SEBI  for  making  allocated  investments  in  offshore  venture  capital 
undertakings.  In  case  the  applicant  does  not  utilize  the  limits  allocated 
within  the  stipulated  period,  SEBI  may  allocate  such  unutilized  limit  to 
other applicants.   

i.  These  investments  would  be  subject  to  necessary  amendments  to 
Notification  No.  FEMA120/RB-2004  dated  July  7,  2004 
[Foreign 
Exchange  Management  (Transfer  or  Issue  of  Any  Foreign  Security) 
Regulations,  2004],  and  will  also  be  governed  by  the  related  directions 
issued by the RBI from time to time.  

C.  Other issues/clarifications: 

i. 

It is clarified that from the date of this circular, the tenure of any scheme of the 
AIF shall be calculated from the date of final closing of the scheme.  

ii.  With  respect  to  disclosure  of  disciplinary  history  of  associates  under  clause 
2(a)(ii) of circular No. CIR/IMD/DF/14/2014 dated June 19, 2014, where number 
of  associates  of  the  AIF  exceeds  20,  the  AIF  shall  include  disciplinary  actions 
against the top 20 associates on turnover basis in their placement memorandum.  

iii.  All managers shall: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

organise,  operate  and  manage  the  AIFs  and  its  schemes  in  the 
interest of unitholders of the AIF/scheme. 

carry  out  all  the  activities  of  the  AIF  in  accordance  with  the 
placement  memorandum  circulated  to  all  unit  holders  and  as 
amended  from  time  to  time  in  accordance  with  AIF  Regulations 
and circulars issued by SEBI.  

ensure  that  the  placement  memorandum  is  provided  to  the 
investors prior to providing commitment or making the investment 
in  the  AIF  and  ensure  that  an  appropriate  acknowledgement  is 
received from the investor for such receipt.  

(iv) 

ensure scheme-wise segregation of bank accounts and securities 
accounts. 

 

4 | P a g e  

(v) 

not  make  any  exaggerated  statement,  whether  oral  or  written, 
either  about  their  qualifications  or  capability  to  render  investment 
management services or their achievements. 

iv. 

The AIF, manager, trustee and sponsor shall: 

(i) 

act  in  the  interest  of  unitholders  of  the  AIF/scheme  and  not  take 
any action which is prejudicial to the interest of the unitholders and 
not place the interest of the sponsor/manager/trustee of the AIF or 
any of their associates above the interest of the unitholders of the 
scheme/AIF. 

(ii)  maintain  high  standards  of  integrity  and  fairness  in  all  their 
dealings and in the conduct of the business and render at all times 
high  standards  of  service,  exercise  due  diligence  and  exercise 
independent professional judgment. 

(iii) 

offer 

not 
investors/unitholders. 

any 

assured 

returns 

to 

any 

prospective 

3.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in 
securities  market  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities 
market. 

4.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Alternative Investment Funds”. 
 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

5 | P a g e  

 

 

Annexure 

Proposal for Overseas Investment by Alternative Investment Funds 

 

 

To  

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

Mumbai  

 

Name of Alternative Investment Fund 
Category  
Registration number and date  
Name of the scheme 
Amount proposed to be invested in Offshore 
Venture Capital Undertaking - in USD 
Total Investible corpus of the scheme -in USD 
Name and Address of the branch of the bank 
through which Foreign Currency Transaction 
are proposed to made 
Indian connection of the offshore VCU  
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

Declaration:  

1. Board of Trustees/Trustees have exercised due diligence with respect to the investment 
decision.  

2. Boards of Trustees/Trustees are satisfied that the proposed investments in foreign 
companies are consistent with the investment objective of the scheme.  

 

A resolution to the above effect has been passed by the Boards of Trustees/Trustees on ---------
-----------------------.  

 

Name:  

Place:   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Signature:  

Date: 

 

 

 

6 | P a g e  

