 

 

Report of the Committee on Clearing 

Corporations 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

July 2015 

 

 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

Letter of Transmittal 

 17 July, 2015 

Shri U K Sinha 
Chairman  
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Mumbai 
 
 
Dear Sir 
 
Report of the Committee on Clearing Corporations 
 
We  have  great  pleasure  in  submitting  the  Report  of  the  Committee  on  Clearing 

Corporations set up by SEBI. 

 

We sincerely thank you for entrusting us with this task of contemporary relevance. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 

 

 

 

ii 
 

 

Acknowledgements 

 

This report of the Committee on Clearing Corporations has been made possible with the 

support  and  contributions  of  many  individuals.  The  Committee  would  like  to  gratefully 

acknowledge their significant efforts and contributions. 

 

The  Committee  sincerely  thank  for  the  valuable  support  provided  by  Chief  General 

Manager Shri Pramod Kumar Bindlish. The Committee places on record its deep sense of 

appreciation for the exemplary dedication and enormous efforts put in by the core team 

from the Market Regulation Department comprising Shri Shashi Kumar Valsakumar, GM, 

Ms. Maninder Cheema, DGM, Ms. Yogita Jadhav, Shri Peter Mardi, Shri Meetesh Patel, Shri 

Atul Mittal and Shri Ramaneesh Goyal in providing comprehensive research and secretarial 

assistance, for conduct of meetings of the Committee, preparing materials for discussion 

and compiling draft materials.  

 

 

 

i 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

Abbreviations 

 

CC - Clearing Corporation  

CCP-Central Counter Party 

CSD- Central Securities Depository  

CCIL- Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. 

CPMI - Committee on Payment and Market Infrastructure 

CM - Clearing Member 

DSRC-Depository Systems Review Committee 

EMIR - European Market Infrastructure Regulation 

ESMA - European Securities and Markets Authority 

EU- European Union  

FMI - Financial Market Infrastructures 

ICCL - Indian Clearing Corporation Ltd 

IOSCO - International Organization of Securities Commissions 

MSEI (formerly MCX-SX)-Metropolitan Stock Exchange of India 

MCX-SXCCL - MCX-SX Clearing Corporation Ltd. 

MII- Market Infrastructure Institution 

NSCCL - National Securities Clearing Corporation Ltd 

PFMI - Principle for Financial Market Infrastructure 

RBI - Reserve Bank of India 

 

ii 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

SE - Stock Exchange 

SEBI - Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SECC - Stock Exchange and Clearing Corporation Regulations 2012 

SCRA - Securities Contract (Regulation) Act 1956 

SGF-Settlement Guarantee Fund 

USA - United States of America 

 

 

iii 
 

 

 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

Executive Summary 

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (hereinafter referred as 'SEBI') constituted a 

Committee,  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri.  K  V  Kamath,  to  examine  the  viability  of 

introducing a single clearing corporation (CC) or interoperability between different CCs, as 

well  as  issues  pertaining  to  investments,  calculation  of  liquid  assets  in  Net  worth  of 

recognised CC and Transfer of  Profits by recognised SEs to the fund of recognized CC’s. 

 

The  Committee  deliberated  extensively  on  the  various  terms  of  reference  and  while 

framing its recommendations has taken into account the present Indian securities market 

eco-system, the views expressed by different stakeholders and the global experience with 

regard to Clearing Corporations. 

 

On  the  issue  of  viability  of  introducing  a  single  clearing  corporation  or  interoperability 

between different CCs, the Committee has recommended that at this juncture, moving to 

a single CC may not be appropriate for the securities market. Preserving the current market 

structure  and  maintaining  separate  clearing  corporations  for  each  exchange  would  be 

prudent  at  this  stage.  However,  SEBI  may  keep  the  interoperability  option  open  and 

consider the proposal for implementation when ground conditions are met, which, inter 

alia,  include  clear  intent  of  the  participants  coming  together  and  having  a  suitable  

framework in place to the satisfaction of SEBI. 

 

On the issue of investment by a recognized CC and the manner of utilization of profits of 

CCs, the Committee has recommended that the investment policy of a CC should be built 

on  the  premise  of  highest  degree  of  safety  and  least  market  risk.  The  Committee 

recommends  that  CC  may  be  permitted  to  invest  in  Fixed  Deposits  (FDs)  /  Central 

Government  Securities  (G  Secs).  Other  instruments  like  Non-Convertible  Debentures 

(NCDs), Commercial Papers (CPs), money market mutual funds etc. may not be permitted 

 

iv 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

as  investment  vehicle  as  they  carry  credit/liquidity  risks.  The  investment  policy  may  be 

reviewed at least on an annual basis by the CC.  

 

On the issue of reviewing the existing regulation of transfer of profits every year by the 

recognized  Stock  Exchanges  to  the  fund  of  recognized  CC,  the  Committee  has 

recommended that since the requirement of core Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) has 

already been met, the 25% profit transfer requirement might not be required. Also, the 

Risk Management Review Committee (RMRC) of SEBI may review the stress test model, 

used  to  determine  the  Minimum  Required  Corpus  (MRC)  of  core  SGF,  for  making  such 

departure.  

 

With regard to the contribution already set aside by the Stock Exchanges towards the 25% 

profit  transfer  requirement,  the  Committee  has  recommended  that  the  same  may  be 

utilized by exchange to cover the member contribution to the core SGF since this would 

result in lower transaction costs and would be in the overall interest of the market.  SEBI 

may specify the details in this regard including in respect of contributions already made by 

CCs  on  behalf  of  members.  Further,  the  requirement  of  member  contribution  may  be 

reviewed after 5 years, or earlier, if warranted. The Committee recommended that SEBI 

may specify the details in this regard and may appropriately make necessary amendments 

to the SECC Regulations 2012.  

 

On the issue of transfer of Depositories’ profits to their Investor Protection Fund (IPF), the 

Committee recommended that depositories may transfer 5%, or such percentage as may 

be prescribed by SEBI from time to time, of their profits from depository operations every 

year  to  the  IPF  since  the  date  of  amendment  of  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2012 requiring transfer of profits.  SEBI may consider necessary 

amendment to SEBI (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996 to enable the same. 

 

v 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

The percentage of profits to be transferred every year by depositories to the IPF may be 

reviewed by SEBI on a periodic basis. 

On the issue of defining ‘the liquid assets’ of CCs for the purpose of calculation of Net worth 

of  a  clearing  corporation,  the  Committee  recommended  that  the  liquid  assets  should 

comprise  Fixed  Deposits  (FDs)/Central  Government  Securities  (G  Secs).  Further,  other 

instruments like NCDs, CPs, money market mutual funds etc. carry credit/liquidity risks and 

hence, may not be considered towards calculation of liquid assets in net worth of CC. 

 

 

vi 
 

 

Table of Contents 

 

Content 

 

Background 

Methodology 

Introduction 

Viability of introducing a single Clearing Corporation (CC) 
or interoperability between different CCs 
Investment Policy of Clearing Corporations 

Transfer of 25% profits of stock exchanges to the 
Settlement Guarantee Fund of Clearing Corporation 
 
Transfer of 25% profits of Depositories to their Investor 
Protection Fund(IPF) 
Liquid assets for  calculation of Net worth of Clearing 
Corporation 

Chapter 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

Page 

1 - 2 

3 - 4 

5 - 7 

8 - 22 

23 - 35 

 

36 - 47 

48 – 52 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

vii 

 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

CHAPTER 1 

Background 

The Securities and Exchange Board of  India (hereinafter referred as 'SEBI')  constituted a 

Committee  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri.  K.  V.  Kamath,  to  examine  the  viability  of 

introducing a single clearing corporation or interoperability between different CCs, as well 

as pertaining to Investments, calculation of liquid assets in Net worth and Transfer of Profits 

of recognised CCs. The other members of the Committee were: 

a.  *Shri. G Padmanabhan- Executive Director -RBI 

b.  **Ms. Nanda Dave-Chief General Manager-RBI 

c.  Prof. V. Ravi Anshuman, Professor, Finance and Control, IIM Bangalore 

d.  Prof. Deepak B. Phatak- Professor, IIT Mumbai 

e.  Prof.  B.  Sambamurthy-Ex  Director,  Institute  for  Development  and  Research  in 

Banking Technology(IBRDT) 

f.  Shri S. V. Murali Dhar Rao, Executive Director, SEBI (Member Secretary). 

*  Shri  G  Padmanabhan  Executive  Director-RBI  stepped  down  as  Member  of 

Committee upon attaining Superannuation. 

**Ms. Nanda Dave CGM-RBI was nominated as Member of Committee in place of 

Shri G Padmanabhan-Executive Director-RBI. 

Under  the  terms  of  reference,  the  Committee  needed  to  review  and  make 

recommendations on the following issues: 

a.  The  viability  of  introducing  a  single  Clearing  Corporation  (CC)  or  interoperability 

between different CCs.  

b.  Investment by a recognized CC and the manner of utilization of profits of CCs. 

 

1 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

c.  To examine and review the existing regulation of transfer of profits every year by 

the recognized Stock Exchanges to the fund of recognized CC.  

d.  To define ‘the liquid assets’ of CCs for the purpose of calculation of Net worth of a 

clearing corporation.  

Any other matter that Committee considers relevant or incidental thereto. Accordingly, the 

issue of Transfer of Depositories’ profits to their Investor Protection Fund (IPF) was referred 

to the Committee. 

 

 

 

2 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

CHAPTER 2 

Methodology 

The  Committee  was  apprised  of  the  evolution  of  the  Clearing  Corporations  in  Indian 

securities  market  and  the  steps  taken  by  SEBI  in  order  to  develop  the  Indian  securities 

market  eco-system,  especially  by  delineating  the  Clearing  Corporations  from  the  Stock 

Exchanges and defining the role and responsibilities of the Clearing Corporation.  

 

The  Committee  examined  the  international  practices  with  regard  Interoperability  of 

Clearing  Corporations.  Further,  to  facilitate  the  deliberations  of  the  Committee  an 

approach paper was prepared by SEBI on - the 'European Experience on Interoperability', 

the  present  structure  of  Indian  Markets  and  risk  management  framework  and  the  risks 

arising out of interoperability/ Single Clearing Corporation. 

 

The  Committee  also  took  note  of  the  international  standards  -  Principles  of  Financial 

Market  Infrastructures  (PFMI),  published  by  the  Committee  on  Payment  and  Market 

Infrastructure (CPMI) and International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) on 

the regulation, supervision and monitoring of the payment and settlement systems, record 

keeping agencies etc. which play an important role in supporting and strengthening the 

global financial system so that it can withstand shocks. 

 

Subsequently,  this  committee  also  held  discussions  with  representative  of  the  three 

Clearing Corporations - Indian Clearing Corporation Ltd, MCX-SX Clearing Corporation Ltd. 

and  National  Securities  Clearing  Corporation  Ltd.  Further,  the  committee  also  met 

representatives from ICICI Securities, National Securities Depository Ltd, DSP Merill Lynch, 

Forum Trading Solution and Clearing Corporation of India Ltd.  

 

3 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

This  report  brings  out  the  recommendations  of  the  Committee.  The  committee,  while 

framing its recommendations has taken into account the present Indian securities market 

eco-system, the views expressed by different stakeholders and the global experience with 

regard to Clearing Corporations. 

 

 

 

4 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

CHAPTER 3 

Introduction 

Evolution of the Securities Market 

Advancement in technology has had a significant impact on the global securities market. 

Rapid  adoption  of  such  technology  has  enabled  investors,  spread  across  different 

geographies to trade in several classes of assets in a matter of milliseconds. The journey 

from an open-outcry trading system to an online screen based trading mechanism available 

today  has  been  challenging  but  such  systems  have  benefited  all  the  stakeholders  in the 

securities market by reducing costs and increasing efficiency.  

This momentous increase in trading and the resultant importance of market infrastructure 

has caused the regulators around the world to relook at the Risk Management and Clearing 

and  Settlement  Mechanism  in  place.  The  Indian  Securities  Market  also  witnessed  a 

transformation, wherein, the importance of institutions engaged in providing clearing and 

settlement services was recognised.  

Towards this end SEBI  constituted a Committee on "Review of Ownership and Governance 

of Market Infrastructure Institutions" under the Chairmanship of Dr. Bimal Jalan, (Former 

Governor, Reserve Bank of India), to examine the issues arising from the ownership and 

governance of Market Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs).  

Based  on  the  recommendations  of  this  committee  SEBI  framed  the  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012 published on 

June  20,  2012  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  'SECC  Regulations').  The  SECC  Regulations 

provided  the  broad  framework  for  regulation,  supervision  and  monitoring  of  the  Stock 

Exchanges and Clearing Corporations.  

 

5 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

In  light  of  the  SECC  Regulations,  SEBI  recognized  three  Clearing  Corporations  -  Indian 

Clearing  Corporation  Ltd.  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  'ICCL'),  National  Securities  Clearing 

Corporation Ltd (hereinafter referred to as 'NSCCL') and MCX-SX Clearing Corporation ltd. 

(hereinafter referred to as 'MCX-SXCCL') to clear and settle for their respective Exchanges. 

Further,  the  CPMI  and  IOSCO  also  prescribed  international  standards  (PFMIs)  for 

systemically important financial market Infrastructures including Clearing Corporations, so 

as  to  strengthen  such  institutions  which  can  support  the  global  financial  markets.  28 

Jurisdictions  have  committed  to  adopt  the  PFMIs  in  their  regulatory  and  supervisory 

functions over the systemically important financial market infrastructures.  

The  process  flow  of  the  current  clearing  and  settlement  in  the  Indian  Securities  Market  is 

highlighted below –  

Funds 
(Cheque) 

Securities 
(DIS) 

C1 

Buy 
order 

Broker - 1 

EOD 
File 

T1 

Sell 
order 

 
Broker -2 

O1 

O2 

Stock  

Exchange 

EOD 
File 

T1 

Securities 
(DIS) 

Funds 
(Cheque) 

Clearing Bank 

Br-1 
Br-1 
A/c 
A/c 

Br -2 
Br -2 
A/c 
A/c 

EOD 
File 

T1 

Clearing Corporation 

A/c 
A/c  
with 
with 
CB 
CB 

A/c with 
A/c with 
Dep 
Dep 

Margins 
Margins  
Collate
Blocked 
ral for 
Br 
Br 
Br 
Br 
Margin
1 
2 
1 
2 

Depository 

Br 1 
Br 1 
A/c 
A/c 

Br 2 A/c 
Br 2 A/c 

 

 

6 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

Note -  

C1 – Client 

O1 – Order  

T1 - Trade 

EOD – End of Day  

Br – Broker 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a)  As soon as an order (O1) is placed by the broker, and the same converts into a trade 

(T1) a measure of risk is introduced into the system. The trades are then transferred 

to the Clearing Corporation (CC) for clearing and settlement requirements. The CC 

acting as a central counter party assumes the risk of settlement of the trade. 

b)  The  risk  that  the  CC  faces  is  from  the  clearing  member  defaulting  on  the  pay-in 

obligations at the time of settlement. 

c)  In order to capture this risk, a mechanism of collateral based margining has been 

put in place. This mechanism seeks to block a certain percentage of the collateral, 

calculated as a measure of volatility, based on the value of the trade. 

d)  Further, the members are required to bring additional margins in order to cover the 

change in price of the scrip from the day of trade till the day of final settlement. 

e)  In  case  of  default  by  the  clearing  member,  the  CC  steps  in  and  makes  good  the 

settlement and conducts the necessary processes to recover the monies from the 

defaulting member. 

 

7 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

CHAPTER 4  

 

Viability of introducing a single Clearing Corporation (CC) or 

interoperability between different CCs 

 

4.1.  Background 

 

Clearing Corporations have been a fundamental constituent of the securities market 

for  decades.  Evolution  of  regulations  has  allowed  for  the  entry  and  exit  of  market 

infrastructure intermediaries, thus changing the capital market landscape. There is an 

increased 

level  of  competition  at  the 

level  of  various  market 

infrastructure 

intermediaries, such as exchanges, clearing corporations and depositories. 

 

The  genesis  of  a  single  clearing  corporation  or  interoperability  between  existing 

clearing corporations stems from the current suboptimal utilization of capital, wherein, 

margins,  need  to  be  deployed  at  the  individual  clearing  corporations  by  market 

participants even if transactions are offsetting in nature till the time pay-ins are made. 

Further, the lack of flexibility for the market participants in choosing the venue for the 

clearing and settlement services results in higher cost to the market participant. 

 

Propagators of Interoperability of CCs highlight that interoperability gives the trading 

members the option to clear trades with the clearing corporation of their choice. In the 

Indian context for e.g.: An investor could trade on, say BSE Ltd, and get the trade cleared 

through the Clearing Corporation of the National Stock Exchange, or vice versa which 

would  result  in  efficient  use  of  capital  for  trading  members  who  take  positions  on 

multiple  stock  exchanges.  Some  of  these  positions  may  be  offsetting  in  nature  and 

would hence result in a much lower outgo on margins and collateral. Additionally, when 

8 
 

 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

clearing corporations aren’t linked to just one exchange but offer clearing services to 

other venues as well, competition among trading venues is enhanced. 

 

Propagators  of  single  Clearing  Corporation  highlight  that  while  participants  could 

always compete on the front end of the securities business, there are considerable cost 

efficiencies and risk reduction advantages to commoditising back office functions of a 

centralized infrastructure model that could achieve economies of scale by centralized 

trade netting, reducing cost and risk. 

 

Interoperability is mainly a European initiative due to the fragmented market structure 

in  Europe  with  more  than  11  CCs  operating  in  the  European  markets.  To  date, 

interoperability has predominantly been a European phenomenon, reflecting an effort 

in  the  European  Union  (EU)  to  foster  a  more  integrated  financial  market.  Market 

participants and regulators have encouraged interoperability as a way of lowering the 

costs to participants in accessing the markets served by CCs across EU countries, which 

otherwise often required the use of multiple nationally oriented intermediaries.  

 

Presently, interoperability is applicable only for cash markets. Both in Europe as well as 

in  the  USA,  trading  happens  through  multiple  trading  facilities  (called  Multilateral 

Trading  Facilities  in  Europe  and  Alternate  Trading  Systems  in  the  USA)  which  are 

essentially  brokerage  firms  which  provide  trade  execution  facility  and  operate  as 

deemed exchanges  with  independent  clearing  arrangements.  Globally,  the  facility of 

interoperability  is  not  available  for  derivatives  as  derivatives  are  created  by  an 

Exchange with specific trading, risk management and clearing features and hence such 

products are traded and cleared only on the respective Exchange.  

 

The European experience helps to illustrate the forces that led to the implementation 

of  the  existing  links,  and  some  of  the  impediments  to  their  establishment.    As  per 

 

9 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

reports, pursuant to interoperability arrangements the increased rivalry triggered has 

proven to be beneficial with up front clearing fees falling by up to 80% during the past 

two years (2010-12), according to industry reports. In addition, Euro CC, LCH Clearnet, 

Six Securities Services; and EMCF have reported a 30-40% reduction in settlement and 

operational costs since the debut of interoperability by Bats Chi.1 

 

4.2. 

Interoperability in Other International Jurisdictions 

 

4.2.1  USA 

The equities market structure in the US today consists of competing stock exchanges 

and trading platforms that are required to make market information publicly available 

on terms that are fair and reasonable, but a single CC and a single CSD serving under 

common ownership serve the national equities market. While the Cash equity market 

has  a  single  CC  and  CSD,  the  CC  of  the  futures  markets  continues  to  be  with  the 

exchanges. 

 

4.2.2  Asia  

Most of the countries in the Asian region have a single equities exchange, CC and CSD. 

Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong all have a single equity exchange, CC and CSD. Australia 

and Japan have alternate trading venues; however they clear and settle through the 

existing CC and CSD. Pakistan has exchange clearing but a single CSD. China Securities  

Depository  and  Clearing  Corporation  is  the  central  counterparty  and  guarantees 

securities  and  cash  settlement  for  the  transactions  on  both  Shanghai  and  Shenzhen 

stock exchanges. 

 

                                                           
1 www.iss-mag.com--Interoperability, Predictions For 2013 

 

10 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

Thus,  it  is  observed  that  interoperability  pre  dominantly  remains  a  European 

phenomenon owing to their fragmented structure, while single CC/exchange CC is the 

preferred mode in other jurisdictions. 

 

 

4.3. 

Interoperability: How it works? /Interoperability models2 

 

Interoperability facilitates novated trades between market participants that maintain 

clearing  arrangements  with  different  CCPs.  To  achieve  this,  a  link  is  established 

between  the  two  CCPs: the  original trade  contract  is  novated  at  three  levels,  rather 

than two as compared to when a trade takes place between participants of the same 

CCP.  

 

The three contracts are between: 

 

• 

• 

• 

 

the buyer and its CCP; 

the two CCPs; and 

the seller and its CCP. 

Accordingly, each CCP provides a guarantee to the other that its side of the trade will 

be  fulfilled;  and  each  CCP  provides  a  guarantee  to  its  participant  in  relation  to  the 

performance of the other CCP. 

 
 
 

 

 

 

                                                           
2 http://www.rba.gov.au/publications/bulletin/2012/jun/pdf/bu-0612-7.pdf 

 

11 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

 

 

 

  

  Trading venue sends trades to the CCP selected by the Trading Firm 

  Each  CCP  manages  its  exposure  to  the  other’s  inability  to  fulfill  obligations  by 

collateralization 

 

If  CCP1  is  bankrupt,  CCP2  will  use  collateral  from  CCP1  to  cover  any  losses  and 

expenses involved in closing out CCP1’s obligations to CCP2 and vice versa. 

 

Interoperability arrangements are commonly classified according to the symmetry of 

the  risk-management  requirements  and  of  the  CCPs’  access  to  trade  feeds.  For 

instance, a CCP link may be set up either as a ‘participant’ link, or as a ‘peer-to-peer’ 

link. 

•  A participant link involves one CCP becoming a participant of the other, without 

a reciprocal arrangement. The participant CCP therefore provides collateral to 

the other CCP, but not vice versa. To protect itself from a default by the linked 

CCP, a participant CCP would have to make arrangements for additional default 

resources  from  elsewhere.  A  participant  link  is  more  likely  to  be  established 

 

12 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

where the participant CCP has stronger incentives to establish a link than the 

CCP to which it is linking. 

•  A peer-to-peer link involves each CCP becoming a participant of the other, with 

collateral flowing in both directions (i.e. each linked CCP providing collateral to 

the other). The CCPs would likely have different participant obligations placed 

on them than regular participants; this would typically exempt the linked CCP 

from loss-sharing arrangements with other participants (e.g. contributions to a 

mutualized default fund), to reduce the direct exposures between each CCP and 

the other CCP’s participants. 

In  view  of  the  foregoing  the  Committee  examined  various  models  for  Interoperability/ 

Single CC and gave its observations: 

 

Model I  

This  model  envisages  that  clearing  corporations  will  provide  clearing  and  settlement 

services to more than one exchange for all their segments. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SE1 – All segments 

SE2 – All segments 

CC1 

CM1 

CM2 

SE1 & SE2 - Stock Exchanges 

CC1 - Clearing Corporation 

CM1 & CM2 - Clearing members 

 

13 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

The Committee observed that the proposed model is basically a single clearing corporation 

serving all the exchanges. This model is best suited for optimal utilization of margin and 

collaterals  and  will  bring  about  economies  of  scale.  However,  the  downside  of  such  a 

configuration  is  that  it  will  result  in  a  monopolistic  structure.  Further,  the  clearing 

corporation  will  become  a  too-big-to-fail  market  infrastructure  institution.  Moreover,  in 

equity markets, given the large number of market participants, the challenges to maintain 

fairness of pricing, reasonable cost of transaction and a non-monopolistic disposition will 

be difficult to achieve. The potential downside of this model could be addressed by giving 

the  single  clearing  corporation  a  public  good  orientation  with  sufficient  checks  and 

balances. 

 

Model II (Part A)  

This model envisages that the stock exchanges will seek clearing and settlement services of 

a particular clearing corporation for specific segments, 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SE1 - Cash 
Segment 

SE2 - Cash 
Segment 

SE1 – F & O 

Segment 

SE2 – F & O 

Segment 

CC1 

CM1 

CM2 

CC2 

CM1 

CM2 

SE1 & SE2 - Stock Exchanges 

CC1 & CC2 - Clearing Corporations 

CM1 & CM2 - Clearing members 

 

 

14 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

The  Committee  observed  that  the  proposed  model  envisages  that  stock  exchanges  will 

utilize the clearing and settlement services of a particular clearing corporation for specific 

segments. In other words one clearing corporation will clear only cash segment and all the 

exchanges  will  clear their  cash  segments through  that  specific  clearing  corporation.  The 

most  noteworthy  outcome  of  this  model  will  be  vertical  specialization  of  clearing 

corporations based on product classes. 

 

Model II (Part B)   

A  derivation  of  the  above  model  may  be  envisaged  wherein  the  stock  exchanges  will 

perform  the  clearing  and  settlement  of  any  of  their  segments  through  any  clearing 

corporation. However, the option of clearing the same segment through multiple clearing 

corporations will not be available. Thus effectively, the exchanges have the choice to clear 

a specific asset class through a particular clearing corporation. 

 
SE1 - Cash 
 
Segment 

SE1 – Currency 
Segment 

SE1–F &O 
Segment 

SE2 –F &O 
Segment 

SE2 - Cash 
Segment 

SE2 – Currency 
Segment 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CC1 

CM1 

CM2 

CM1 

CC2 

CM2 

SE1 & SE2 - Stock Exchanges 

CC1& CC2 - Clearing Corporations 

CM1 & CM2 - Clearing members 

 

The Committee observed that as per the proposed model, the exchanges have the choice 

to  clear  a  specific  asset  class  through  a  particular  clearing  corporation.  However,  the 

 

15 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

exchanges will not be able to clear and settle through multiple clearing corporations for a 

particular asset class. Thus, though this model provides an option to an exchange to choose 

a clearing corporation, it does not give any flexibility to clearing members to choose the 

clearing corporation. Thus, the clearing member will have no option but to clear through 

the  clearing  corporation  decided  by  the  exchange.  Hence  it  will  not  meet  the  desired 

objective. 

Moreover, in the present scenario, the clearing corporations are owned by the respective 

exchanges and there appears to be no incentive that would induce the exchanges to opt 

for other clearing corporations. 

 

Model III  

This model envisages that a stock exchange may tie up with multiple clearing corporations 

for clearing and settlement of the trades of a particular segment. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SE1 - Cash 
Segment 

SE2 - Cash 
Segment 

SE1 – F & O 

Segment 

SE2 – F & O 

Segment 

CC1 

CC2 

CM1 

CM2 

CM1 

CM2 

16 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

SE1 & SE2 - Stock Exchanges 

CC1 &CC2 - Clearing Corporation 

CM1 & CM2 - Clearing members 

 

The  Committee  observed  that  the  proposed  model  is  a  pure  interoperable  model.  But 

implementation of the model would require a substantial amount of work, especially to 

address the risks arising out of interoperability. 

 

4.4.  Deliberations  by  the  Committee  on  single  CC  and  the  possible  risks 

arising out of interoperability and inter CC default management 

The  Committee,  while  weighing  the  options,  namely,  the  present  structure  of  clearing 

corporation,  interoperability  or  centralized  Clearing  Corporation  observed  that  while  a 

single  clearing  corporation  could  help  bring  down  margin  requirements  of  market 

participants considerably, it needs to be considered whether this will come at the cost of 

putting the entire market at risk, amongst other things. 

The Committee, upon examining the existing market structure in India, the prevalent risk 

management systems and interaction with the various market participants deliberated on 

the possible risks arising in the event of such complete interoperability. It observed that 

while interoperability is supposed to increase competition, capital efficiency and reduce 

cost, it also raises concerns about the risk management systems that should be in place to 

ensure compatibility between the different clearing houses and to contain the additional 

risks.  

The Committee noted the risks arising out of links established between CCs (both individual 

and network of links)3 as per CPSS-IOSCO recommendations for CCPs. 

                                                           
3 CPSS-IOSCO recommendations for CCPs -November 2004 

 

17 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

Risks arising out of links established between CCs 

Risk 

 

Risk Event Scenario 

Effect on  

 

Probability  

Impact 

Individual Link  Counter party Credit Risk- Failure of 

a Counter Party 

Liquidity  risk  -  need  for  additional 

resources 

Operational 

risk-all 

aspects: 

additional operational risk for a Sub 

CCP  due  to  its  dependency  on  the 

other CCP 

Legal Risks: Between CCPs  

Settlement Risks 

Network 

of 

Network  effect  – 

inter-linkages 

Links 

between CCs allow risk to spread. 

Single point of failure 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

---- 

How  the  CCs  manage  their  exposure  to  each  other’s  default  is  at  the  heart  of  an 

interoperability agreement. 

 

4.5.  Different options to manage the replacement costs risks between the 

CCs4 

The Committee also studied the different options to manage the replacement costs risks 

between the CCs: 

                                                           
4 Paper on "Investigation of risks arising from the emergence of multi -cleared trading platforms"-Joint Regulatory 
Authorities of LCH. Clearnet 

18 
 

 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

a. CCs require a margin from each other and contribute to each other’s default fund 

In this option, each CC will cover the risk of default of the other CC both in normal and in 

extreme  market  circumstances  i.e.  where  initial  margin  is  insufficient  to  cover  losses. 

However  in  this  option,  a  CC  would  be  directly  impacted  by  the  default  of  the  other  in 

situations where the default fund, including the linked CCs contribution to the default fund, 

is used. 

The  Contributing  CCs  may  then  have to  replenish  its  contributions by calling  for further 

contributions  from  its  own  members  on  the  assumption  that  it  would  be  permitted  to 

assign member default contributions to another CC.  

This  arrangement  would  require each  CC  to  hold  potentially large  amounts  of  collateral 

with its linked CC which may be inefficient. It is a conservative option and not used today. 

 

b.  CCs  require  margin  from  each  other  and  instead  of  a  contribution  to  each  other’s 

default  funds,  require  from  each  other  the  provision  of  additional  resources  to  cover 

losses in case of extreme market circumstances. 

In this case also each CC will hold margin to cover the risk of default of the other CC both 

in normal and extreme market circumstances. However, the additional resources posted 

by each CC will not be treated as a default fund contribution by the CC holding the collateral 

and so cannot be used to meet losses incurred as a result of a default of a clearing member.  

The difficulty may however be in calibrating adequately these additional resources. If they 

are too small, these resources could prove insufficient to cover the default risk of the linked 

CC in stress conditions. If they are too large, the cost of each CC holding potentially large 

amounts of collateral with the others in the network will be much higher. 

 

 

19 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

c. CCs require margin from each other, but no contribution to each other’s default fund 

and no additional resources to cover losses in case of extreme market circumstances. 

In this case the replacement cost risk is covered in the normal market conditions but not in 

extreme market conditions. The issue of cost of each CC holding potentially large amounts 

of collateral with the others remains although to a lesser extent than in options ‘a’ and ‘b’. 

 

d. Not charge any margin to each other 

The CCs do not margin each other, assuming that the CCs have a low probability of default 

in order to carry out their role. The safe management of a default will rely upon the CCs 

involved having robust legal arrangements to enable transfer of resources between each 

other in case of default of one of the CCs to facilitate the surviving CC to fulfil its obligations. 

 

e. Expected loss calculation 

CCs calculate a possible loss based on stress testing results, taking into account the post 

default backing of the linked CC (e.g. Default fund, insurance) and then calculate a recovery 

rate, which is the percentage of overall mark to market losses that will be left once the CCs 

resources have been used up and which therefore has to be covered by collateral. Eurex 

and  Clearing  Corporations  use  this  model.  This  approach  requires  a  great  deal  of 

transparency about members’ positions for the host CC to carry out the stress test. 

The Committee also noted the various inter CC default management practices in case of 

link arrangements practised by few Global CCs and also the proposal submitted by ICCL. 

 

 

 

20 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

4.6. 

Recommendations of the Committee 

Currently, there are three Clearing Corporations in India, viz. NSCCL, ICCL and MCX-SX CCL. 

Having a single Clearing Corporation would result in huge concentration of risk in the capital 

markets and also there is a risk that the single CC may misuse the monopoly it would enjoy.  

Multiple CCs promote healthy competition. 

A CC’s primary objective is to mitigate counterparty risk and provide a risk management 

framework  for  its  members  across  its  suite  of  products.  Multiple  CCs  with  healthy 

competition across them would prevent the concentration of risk. A single CCP across all 

stock exchanges covering cash equities, futures and options, currency derivatives, and debt 

instruments would introduce significant concentrated risk into the capital markets system 

implying  a  “too  big  to  fail”  scenario.  Having  a  single  CC  may  also  lead  to  an  increased 

systemic risk due to high dependency on one CC. 

Interoperable  CCs  provide  the  necessary  risk  mitigation  rather  than  one  single  clearing 

corporation with concentrated risk, while giving the members the option to clear trades 

with the clearing corporation of their choice resulting in efficient use of capital. 

However, given the Indian scenario, where each of the MIIs is at different stages of maturity 

in  terms  of  their  volumes,  risk  management  methodology  and  size  of  the  default  fund, 

maintaining  separate  clearing  corporations  may  continue  to  foster  innovation  and 

competition across the clearing landscape. Further, the advent of the commodity markets 

and supervision thereof by SEBI would also pose a question on the structure of Clearing 

Corporations/Clearing  Houses  in  the  commodities  markets  which  was  also  deliberated 

upon by the Working Group set up by the Government of India. 

Therefore, the Committee recommends that at this juncture, moving to a single CC may not 

be  appropriate  for  the  securities  market.  Preserving  the  current  market  structure  and 

maintaining  separate  clearing  corporations  for  each  exchange  would  be  prudent  at  this 

stage. However, SEBI may keep the interoperability option open and consider the proposal 

 

21 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

for implementation when ground conditions are met, which inter alia include clear intent of 

the  participants  coming  together  and  having    a  suitable    framework  in  place  to  the 

satisfaction of SEBI. If necessary, SEBI may also undertake some more research, conduct 

simulation exercise under various scenarios and explore new models before taking a final 

decision on introducing interoperability between different CCs. 

 

22 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

CHAPTER 5 

Investment Policy of Clearing Corporations 

 

5.1  Background 

 

A Clearing Corporation will generally invest its own financial resources as well as the margin 

and default contributions of its members. The investment of such resources usually entails 

some risk of loss or illiquidity or both. The investment policy of CCs should therefore be 

regulated with a view to the inherent liquidity exposures to which they are subject. 

It is observed that CCs are not generally subject to external limitations on their investment 

strategies;  however,  in  some  cases  the  CC  may  publish  an  investment  policy  or  include 

provisions  governing  its  investment  strategy  in  relation  to  member  margin  and  default 

contributions  in  its  rules.  However,  the  CC  retains  a  great  deal  of  discretion  as  to  its 

investment policy. The investment policy of a CC should assign the highest priority to the 

principles of capital preservation and liquidity maximization. The investment policy should 

also ensure that no conflicts of interest arise with the commercial interests of the CC. 

In  the  Indian  context,  it  may  be  pertinent  to  mention  that  pursuant  to  the  Bimal  Jalan 

Committee  Report  on  Review  of  Ownership  and  Governance  of  Market  Infrastructure 

Institutions,  the  Clearing  Corporations  are  critically  important  entities  having  separate 

ownership, net worth, governance norms etc. which have been notified through the SECC 

Regulations 2012. As such, the Clearing Corporations are a public utility with an endeavour 

to earn only reasonable profits. The CPMI-IOSCO FMI Principles (which are to be followed 

by the CCs) have also made similar observations especially with respect to investment risks 

"When  making  its  investment  choices,  the  FMI  should  not  allow  pursuit  of  profit  to 

compromise its financial soundness and liquidity risk management" 

 

23 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

The Committee noted that presently, the SECC Regulations do not prescribe any norms for 

the investments to be made by the CCs, except in case of investments of SGF which have 

been broadly defined. The CCs in Indian securities markets have their investment policy 

which is approved by their Board. In the absence of specific regulatory requirements, the 

CCs  retain  a  great  deal  of  discretion  as  to  the  investment  policy.  It  therefore  becomes 

imperative to review the investment policies of the CCs in the Indian securities market. 

The CPMI IOSCO Principle on investment risk under the PFMIs state the following: 

 

CPMI-IOSCO Principle 16: Custody and investment risks  

An FMI should safeguard its own and its participants’ assets and minimize the risk of loss 

on and delay in access to these assets. An FMI’s investments should be in instruments with 

minimal credit, market, and liquidity risks. 

An FMI’s strategy for investing its own and its participants’ assets should be consistent with 

its overall risk-management strategy and fully disclosed to its participants. 

 

 When  making  its  investment  choices,  the  FMI  should  not  allow  pursuit  of  profit  to 

compromise its financial soundness and liquidity risk management. Investments should be 

secured by, or be claims on, high-quality obligors to mitigate the credit risk to which the FMI 

is exposed. Also, because the value of an FMI’s investments may need to be realised quickly, 

investments should allow for quick liquidation with little, if any, adverse price effect.  

 

Investment risk is the risk of loss faced by an FMI when it invests its own or its participants’ 

resources, such as collateral. These risks can be relevant not only to the costs of holding and 

investing  resources  but  also  to  the  safety  and  reliability  of  an  FMI’s  risk-management 

systems. The failure of an FMI to properly safeguard its assets could result in credit, liquidity, 

and reputational problems for the FMI itself. 

 

 

24 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

5.2 The Committee also studied the Investment Policies of some of the global 

CCPs in other jurisdictions as given below: 

 

5.2.1  ESMA (European Securities Market Authority)5 

 

ESMA has prescribed standards for investment policy in view of the Regulation (EU) No 

648/2012  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  4  July  2012  on  OTC 

Derivatives, CCPs and Trade Repositories (EMIR) which required ESMA to develop draft 

regulatory  standards  (RTS)  and  implementing  technical  standards  (ITS)  in  relation  to 

several  provisions  of  EMIR.  These  technical  standards  were  published  in  the  Official 

Journal on 23 February 2013 and entered into force on 15 March 2013.  

 

As  per  the  Technical  Standards  on  investment  policy  under  the  EMIR  framework 

CHAPTER XI, (Article 47 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 on Investment Policy)  

ESMA  remains  of  the  expectation  that  CCPs  should  not  seek  to  use  their  treasury 

function as a profit centre but instead invest only to protect their financial resources. 

 

ESMA has defined highly liquid financial instruments with minimal market and credit 

risk,  highly  secure  arrangement  for  the  deposit  of  cash  and  other  assets  and 

concentration limits on individual obligors. 

 

A CCP’s investments must be capable of being liquidated rapidly with minimal adverse 

price effect. Where a CCP deposits assets with a third party, it must ensure that the 

assets belonging to the Clearing Members are identifiable separately from the assets 

belonging  to  the  CCP  and  from  assets  belonging  to  that  third  party  by  means  of 

                                                           
5 Official Journal of the European Union- Vol 56, 23rd February 2013; 
http://www.esma.europa.eu/system/files/2012-600_0.pdf 

 

25 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

differently  titled  accounts  on  the  books  of  the  third  party  or  any  other  equivalent 

measures that achieve the same level of protection. A CCP must have prompt access to 

the financial instruments when required. 

 

A CCP may not invest its capital or the sums arising from the requirements laid down 

on margin, default fund, dedicated own resources, liquidity risk management in its own 

securities or those of its parent undertaking or its subsidiaries. 

 

Concentration limits  

 A  CCP  shall  establish  and  implement  policies  and  procedures  to  ensure  that  the 

financial instruments in which its financial resources are invested remain sufficiently 

diversified.  

A  CCP  shall  determine  concentration  limits  and  monitor  the  concentration  of  its 

financial resources at the level of:  

 (a) individual financial instruments;  

(b) types of financial instruments;  

(c) individual issuers;  

(d) types of issuers;  

(e) counterparties with which arrangements are established.  

 

 When considering types of issuers a CCP shall take into account the following:  

(a) geographic distribution;  

(b) interdependencies and multiple relationships that an entity may have with a CCP;  

(c) the level of credit risk;  

(d) exposures the CCP have to the issuer through products cleared by the CCP.  

 

26 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

The policies and the procedures shall determine the risk mitigation measures to be applied 

when the concentration limits are exceeded.  

 

When determining the concentration limit for a CCP’s exposure to an individual issuer or 

custodian,  a  CCP  shall  aggregate  and  treat  as  a  single  risk,  the  exposure  to  all  financial 

instruments  issued  by,  or  explicitly  guaranteed by,  the  issuer  and  all financial  resources 

deposited with the custodian.  

A CCP shall monitor on a regular basis the adequacy of its concentration limit policies and 

procedures. In addition, a CCP shall review its concentration limit policy and procedure at 

least annually and whenever a material change occurs that affects the risk exposure of the 

CCP. 

If  the  CCP  breaches  a  concentration  limit  set  out  in  its  policies  and  procedures,  it  shall 

inform the competent authority immediately. The CCP shall rectify the breach as soon as 

possible.  

 

5.2.2  Euro CCP 

Regulation Euro CCP Investment Policy ("REIP") records the policies and procedures which 

Euro CCP has put in place to safeguard (1) the cash provided by the Clearing Participants to 

Euro CCP held in the Non-segregated Cash Collateral Account(s) and/or Segregated Client 

Cash Collateral Account(s) (2) the cash held in the Clearing Fund and (3) the cash held as 

part of Euro CCP’s own capital. 

 

i. 

 

 

Euro CCP may invest into the following transaction types:  

a)  hold cash intraday and overnight in current cash accounts with Central Banks in the 

countries belonging to the European Economic Area and Switzerland; 

27 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

b)  acquire  through  an  outright  buy  government  securities  issued  by  the  prescribed 

countries  and  in  prescribed  currencies.  These  securities  may  have  a  (remaining) 

tenor of up to 12 months;  

c)  hold cash intraday and overnight in current cash accounts with prescribed Credit 

Institutions,  provided  that  collateral,  in  the  form  of  securities  issued  by  the 

prescribed countries is received by EuroCCP.  

d)  place deposits with prescribed Credit Institutions with a tenor of no more than 12 

months, provided that collateral, in the form of securities issued by the prescribed 

countries, is received by EuroCCP.  

e)  enter into reverse repurchase agreements with a tenor of no more than 12 months 

with Credit Institutions for the purchase and sale of government securities issued 

by the prescribed countries. 

 

ii. 

Euro CCP may hold the securities resulting from approved transactions with prescribed 

custodians only. 

 

iii. 

EuroCCP shall not enter into approved transactions or maintain cash or custody account 

without legal agreements governing these transactions and accounts.  

 

iv. 

The REIP is reviewed on a quarterly basis by the Board of EuroCCP and on an annual 

basis by the Risk Committee.  

 

v. 

EuroCCP must instruct an external auditor to provide a report on the compliance with 

the REIP at least once every calendar Year 

 

vi. 

Collateral holdings are required to be diversified at all times across permitted securities 

and  diversified  across  approved  issuing  countries,  in  order  to  prevent  inappropriate 

 

28 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

concentrations  of  investments.  As  such  EuroCCP  is  required  to  comply  with  the 

following concentration limits:  

 

a)  Concentration  limits  Maximum  value  of  total  collateral  value  per  respective 

security  

The maximum value of collateral held in one unique security may not be worth more 

than 20% of the total collateral value. 

 

b)  Maximum value of total collateral value per issuing country  

The  maximum  value  of  all  securities  held  as  collateral  issued  by  one  country 

excluding  France  and  Germany  may  not  be  worth  more  than  25  %  of  the  total 

collateral value. 

 

c)  Maximum  value  of  total  collateral  value  per  issuing  country  being  France  or 

Germany  

The maximum value of all securities held as collateral issued by France or Germany 

may not be worth more than 50 % of the total collateral value. 

 

vii. 

The REIP as amended from time to time will be published on the Euro CCP website. 

 

 

5.2.3  EUREX CLEARING6 

 

Eurex Clearing maintains a strict treasury policy that determines the re-investment of cash 

collateral provided by the Members. 

 

A restrictive treasury policy applies for cash deposits, namely: 

                                                           
6 http://www.eurexclearing.com 

 

29 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

 Secured placement to the extent possible (reverse repo is the preferred instrument) 

 Minimum counterparty rating of A- 

 Minimum security rating of AA- 

 Issuer must be a government, agency or supranational 

 Placement tenor restricted; majority to be invested with a tenor of one business day 

 

Eurex Clearing passes on interest earned from cash investments to its Clearing Members 

on a monthly basis. 

 

5.2.4 

 NASDAQ OMX Stockholm AB7 

 

i.  NASDAQ OMX Clearing AB´s Investment Policy sets guidelines for the investments of cash 

received from members of the clearinghouse as collateral and/or contributions to Default 

fund or Loss Sharing Pool. In addition, the Investment Policy governs investments made by 

NASDAQ OMX Clearing AB (NOMX) including investments of regulatory capital used by the 

clearinghouse to support its operating funds or capital funds or any own funds contributed 

by NOMX to the Default fund. 

 

ii.  The Investment Policy stipulates how NOMX is allowed to invest above mentioned cash 

contributions  and  regulatory  funds.  The  Investment  Policy  establishes  a  framework  for 

investments and is compliant with the new regulations set forth by CPMI-IOSCO and EMIR. 

 

iii.  The overall objective of the investment policy is to preserve and protect the value of the 

members´ cash margin and contributions to Default Fund or Loss Sharing Pool as well as 

secure the value of NOMX´s own contributions to the regulatory capital. For that reason 

the investment policy is conservative and when investing the cash NOMX shall minimize 

                                                           
7 http://www.nasdaqomx.com 

 

30 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

the credit, market, concentration and liquidity risk in order to ensure that any funds can be 

realized with minimum impact on invested value and within a very short time frame. 

 

iv.  Debt instruments bought as investments must be issued or explicitly guaranteed by: 

 

  Government 

  Central bank 

  Multilateral Development bank 

  EFSF (European Financial Stability Facility) or ESM (European Stability Mechanism) 

 

v.  NASDAQ  OMX  Clearing AB´s  own  assets  shall  be  invested  in eligible  investments  in  SEK. 

(Swedish krona.) 

 

vi.  In order to reduce the credit risk, the cash received shall be invested within the constraints 

of the Investment Policy. The requirements are as follows: 

 

  Minimum rating requirements by investment type 

  Maximum CDS spread for issuer and counterparty 

  Maximum term by investment type 

  Maximum total exposure to a single issuer 

  Maximum total counterparty risk 

 

vii. 

The duration of the portfolio has a stipulated maximum in order to limit the interest 

rate exposure. 

 

 

 

 

31 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

5.2.5  ASX Clearing Corporation Investment Policy8 

 

ASX  Clearing  Corporation  (ASXCC),  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  within  the  ASX  Group, 

manages the investment of clearing participant cash margins and default funds for both 

ASX central counterparties (CCPs), ASX Clear and ASX Clear (Futures). The ASX CCPs assume 

the credit, market and liquidity risk of investing these funds. The investment activities of 

ASXCC are governed by the ASXCC Investment Policy and associated investment mandate, 

which is approved at least annually by the ASXCC and CCP Boards. The investment activities 

of ASXCC form part of the Reserve Bank of Australia’s (RBA’s) annual assessment of ASX’s 

clearing facilities. 

 

The  principal  objective  of  the  investment  mandate  is  to  ensure  that  the  investment 

portfolio is made up of highly liquid financial instruments with a high credit quality and low 

levels of market risk. The primary driver of ASXCC’s investment policy is the need to ensure 

timely  and  certain  access  to  funds  at  all  times,  including  in  the  event  of  a  clearing 

participant default. 

 

Investments are restricted to highly liquid, short term investments with counterparties of 

high  credit  standing.  The  credit  quality  of  investment  counterparties  takes  into  account 

both  short  and  long  term  publically  available  credit  ratings  -  eligible  counterparties  are 

required to have a minimum external short-term credit rating equal to or above ‘A-1’ with 

Standard & Poor’s. Counterparty limits are then assigned to each counterparty. 

 

Approved investment products currently comprise - 

  Australian Commonwealth Government Securities 

  Australian State Government Securities 

                                                           
8 http://www.asx.com.au 

 

32 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

  Bank Bills, Negotiable Certificates of Deposits (NCDs) and Senior Debt Securities 

  Bank fixed term deposits and overnight cash accounts 

  Reverse Repurchases 

 

All  securities  are  required  to  be  on  the  RBA’s  eligible  securities  list  for  re-purchase 

purposes. Exposures within the investment portfolio are managed using several different 

limits.  These  include  limits  on  portfolio  average  maturity,  maximum  investment  tenor, 

concentration limits, maximum exposure to a single investment counterparty and market 

risk limits. The policy also specifies a minimum level of cash and cash equivalent holdings. 

 

Adherence  to  investment  limits  is  monitored  on  a  daily  basis  by  the  ASX  CCPs’  risk 

management division. 

 

5.2.6 

Indian CCs 

The Committee also studied the Investment Policies of three Clearing Corporations (CCs) 

Indian Clearing Corporation Ltd, MCX-SX Clearing Corporation Ltd. and National Securities 

Clearing Corporation Ltd. The Committee noted that the investments made by the three 

CCs are broadly in Commercial Paper, Certificates of Deposit, Long term debt securities of 

Institutions  and  Corporates,  Public  Sector  Bonds,  Treasury  Bills,  Government  Securities, 

Securities guaranteed by the Government, Intercorporate Deposits, Units of Mutual Funds 

(Cash Management Schemes, Liquid Schemes, Money Market Schemes, Debt Schemes, Gilt 

Schemes  or  any  other  similar  debt  schemes)  and  Fixed  Deposit  with  Banks  with  limits 

thereon. 

 

The  Committee  also  noted  that  SEBI  has  recently  issued  circular  on  core  Settlement 

Guarantee fund to be created by the CCs which inter alia requires  maintaining a Minimum 

Required Corpus at all times based on the stress tests. Since cash and Bank FDs would be 

 

33 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

accepted as the contribution to the core SGF, the same necessitates prudent management 

of the SGF.  

 

As regards the investment policy of the Core SGF corpus the Circular stipulates that: 

The CCs shall follow prudential norms of Investment policy for Core SGF corpus and establish 

and implement policies and procedures to ensure that Core SGF corpus is invested in highly 

liquid  financial  instruments  with  minimal  market  and  credit  risk  and  is  capable  of  being 

liquidated rapidly with minimal adverse price effect.  

 

The instruments in which investments may broadly be made are Fixed Deposit with Banks 

(only those banks which have a net worth of more than INR 500 Crores and are rated A1 (or 

A1+) or equivalent, , Treasury Bills, Government Securities and money market/liquid mutual 

funds subject to suitable transaction/investment limits and monitoring of the same. The CCs 

shall further ensure that the financial instruments in which the Core SGF corpus is invested 

remain sufficiently diversified at all times. 

 

SEBI may prescribe the investment norms in this regard from time to time. 

 

5.3  Recommendations of the Committee 

In the default waterfall, as the CCP resources  forming part of the core SGF precede the 

non-Defaulting  Members’  contribution,  a  question  arises  whether  CCPs  can  invest  the 

resources  not  forming  part  of  core  SGF  in  less  conservative  instruments/unrelated 

activities. However, keeping in mind the critical role performed by the CC, the Committee 

felt that CCs should focus on their main activity with regard to implementation of prudent 

Risk  Management  Measures  and  Clearing  and  Settlement  Systems,  instead  of  profit 

generating activities.  

 

 

34 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

The Committee therefore recommends that the investment policy of a CC should be built on 

the premise of highest degree of safety and least market risk. The Committee recommends 

that CC may be permitted to invest in Fixed Deposits (FDs) / Central Government Securities 

(G Secs). Other instruments like NCDs, CPs, money market mutual funds etc. may not be 

permitted as investment vehicle as they carry credit/liquidity risks. 

The investment policy should be reviewed at least on an annual basis by the CC. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

35 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

CHAPTER 6 

 

Transfer of 25% profits of Stock Exchanges to the Settlement 

Guarantee Fund of Clearing Corporation 

 

6.1  Background 

 

SEBI vide gazette notification dated June 20, 2012 notified the SEBI (Stock Exchanges and 

Clearing  Corporations)  Regulations  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  'SECC  Regulations')  2012. 

Regulation 33 of the said regulations prescribed the requirement to transfer, every year, 

25% of the profit of the stock exchange to the SGF maintained by the clearing corporation.  

 

Transfer of profits 

33. Every recognized stock exchange shall credit twenty five per cent of its profits every 

year  to  the  Fund  as  specified  in  regulation  39,  of  the  recognized  clearing  corporation(s) 

which clears and settles trades executed on that stock exchange. 

Additionally, SEBI vide press release no. 66/2012 dated June 21, 2012 on "Ownership and 

Governance norms for Market Infrastructure Institutions", inter-alia, stated that it (SEBI) is 

in the process of setting up an Expert Committee, which shall also look into the norms for 

adequacy of the core corpus of the SGF/TGF and its sourcing, including transfer of profits 

by stock exchanges to the SGF/TGF in the long run. 

In this context, the Committee was given to understand that the Committee on "Review of 

Ownership  and  Governance  of  Market  Infrastructure  Institutions"9 chaired  by  Dr.  Bimal 

Jalan,  deliberated  on  the  issue  of  Market  Infrastructure  Institutions  (MII)  being  a  public 

                                                           
9 http://www.sebi.gov.in/commreport/ownershipreport.pdf  

 

36 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

utility which should endeavour to earn only reasonable profits at par with average earnings 

of the corporate sector in India.  

Therefore the Jalan committee recommended that a cap may be fixed on the maximum 

return that can be earned by MII on its net worth and can be distributed / allocated to the 

shareholders of MII out of the total returns earned by MII.  

Any  return/profits  above  such  maximum  attributable  amount  was  to  be  transferred  to 

Investor Protection Fund(IPF) or Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) as the case may be and 

the  same  was    not  to  form  part  of  shareholders’  funds/  net  worth  for  the  purposes  of 

determining returns and book value of the shares.  

It was opined that this would strengthen the MII to withstand shocks, make them robust 

and may lead to reduction of the charges levied by MIIs on the users. The cap may be fixed 

by SEBI after taking into consideration ‘risk free return’ based on the yield on a 10 year GOI 

bond  and  a  ‘risk  premium’  to  account  for  the  risks  faced  by  MIIs  including  equity  risk 

premium  and  liquidity  risk  due  to  non-listing  of  MIIs.  It  should  also  take  into  account 

differential tax rate applicable to unlisted entities as the Committee has recommended that 

the MIIs should not be permitted to list. 

The recommendations of Dr. Bimal Jalan committee on 'capping of profits of MIIs' were 

placed before the SEBI board with the view that, “though it is necessary to ensure that the 

profit motive of the MIIs does not come in conflict with their regulatory role, putting a cap 

on distributable profits of MIIs may adversely affect efficiency, motivation and innovation. 

Therefore, from a regulatory and a risk management point of view, the stock exchanges 

may be mandated to transfer 25% of their profits to the Settlement Guarantee Fund of the 

clearing  corporation  where  the  trades  of  the  exchange  are  cleared  and  settled.  Such  a 

transfer will also bolster the risk management capacity of the clearing corporations. The 

clearing corporation may be permitted such investment and utilization of profit as may be 

governed by the corresponding policy prescribed by SEBI.“ 

 

37 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

It  was  also  given  to  understand  that  while  implementing  the  Regulation  33,  there  were 

several  issues  raised  by  the  Stock  Exchanges/  Clearing  Corporations  broadly  highlighted 

below 

A.  Whether the transfer of profit (Regulation 33) to the SGF of clearing corporation should 

be refundable or non-refundable in nature 

B.  Whether the transfer of profits should be continual transfer or need based transfer 

C.  Whether the requirement of transfer of 25% of profit is very high. 

Regarding  the  Issue  of  Refundable  vs.  Non  Refundable,  the  committee  noted  that 

Regulation  33  of  SECC  Regulations  2012  does  not  specify  the  nature  of  the  'exchange 

contribution (Profits)' that is required to be transferred to SGF of the CC.  

To draw an analogy, presently member deposits (exposure based and non-exposure based) 

available  with  the  clearing  corporation,  are  counted  towards  the  SGF  and  available  for 

utilization  in  case  of  the  member  defaults.  However,  these  deposits  are  refundable  in 

nature, and the member can claim the deposits upon surrender of membership. 

 

Presently, there are three recognized clearing corporations i.e. ICCL, NSCCL and MCX-SXCCL 

which provide clearing and settlement services to their respective exchanges BSE, NSE and 

MSEI (formerly MCX-SX). The point under consideration would be whether the transfer of 

profits by the exchange towards the SGF of clearing corporation should be irrevocable, in 

case  exchange  decides  to  avail  clearing  and  settlement  services  of  a  different  clearing 

corporation.  

 

The Committee is of the view that it would be rational to make the exchange contribution 

to  be  "refundable"  based  on  certain  conditions  and  subject  to  regulator’s  approval, 

considering that if an exchange decides to close down business, the unutilized portion of 

the exchange contribution may be refunded or if the exchange considers availing of clearing 

and settlement services of another CC, the unutilized portion of the exchange contribution 

 

38 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

may be permitted to be transferred back to the exchange or to the new CCP which will 

provide clearing and settlement. 

Regarding the issue of continual transfer vs. need based transfer of profits, the Committee 

felt that a view in this matter could be reached, if it was possible to establish that the SGF 

for which the transfer of profits is mandated, is adequate. A strong balance sheet net worth 

combined  with  an  adequately  funded  SGF  of  a  clearing  corporation  gives  the  regulator 

comfort with regard to the sustainability of the clearing corporation. Though it might be 

difficult to assess the adequacy of the SGF, a strong balance sheet net worth of a clearing 

corporation alleviates some concerns with regard to its adequacy. 

The Principles of Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMI) require that for credit risk, CCPs 

should  maintain  financial  resources  sufficient  to  cover  a  wide  range  of  potential  stress 

scenarios that should include, but not be limited to, the default of the one/two participants 

and their affiliates that would potentially cause the largest aggregate credit exposure to 

the CCP in extreme but plausible market conditions.  

The Committee noted that, SEBI, vide circular no. CIR/MRD/DRMNP/25/2014 dated August 

27,  2014  issued  the  Core  SGF,  Default  Waterfall  and  Stress  Test  guidelines10 in  order  to 

bring  greater  clarity  and  uniformity  as  well  as  align  the  same  with  international  best 

practices while enhancing the robustness of the present risk management system in the 

clearing corporations.  

The circular requires Clearing Corporations (CCs) to carry out stress tests (in accordance 

with the stress testing norms prescribed in PFMI) and maintain Core SGF for each segment 

sufficient enough to meet the loss estimated by the various stress tests carried out for the 

segment, thus ensuring that CCs maintain financial resources for credit risk in compliance 

with PFMI. Further, the circular prescribes manner in which the contributions to the Core 

SGF will be made by various contributors - CC, Stock Exchange and members. Para 8 of the 

                                                           
10 http://www.sebi.gov.in/cms/sebi_data/attachdocs/1409136206919.pdf  

39 
 

 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

said  guidelines  on  Contributions  to  Core  SGF  specify  that  at  least  25%  of  the  minimum 

required corpus of Core SGF (as determined by stress tests) shall be contributed by Stock 

Exchange. The same is reproduced below - 

8.b) Stock Exchange contribution: Stock Exchange contribution to Core SGF shall be at least 

25%  of  the  MRC  (can  be  adjusted  against  transfer  of  profit  by  Stock  Exchange  as  per 

Regulation 33 of SECC Regulations, which may be reviewed in view of these guidelines). 

 

The circular also provides for adjustment of the contribution required from stock exchange 

in terms of the circular against any transfer of profit carried out by Stock Exchange under 

Regulation 33 of SECC Regulations. 

Additionally,  Para  14  of  the  said  guidelines  also  prescribe  a  requirement  for  further 

contribution to / Recoupment of core SGF.  

14) Requisite contributions to Core SGF by various contributors (as per clauses 7 and 8) for 

any month shall be made by the contributors before start of the month.  

 

In the event of usage of Core SGF during a calendar month, contributors shall, as per usage 

of their individual contribution, immediately replenish the Core SGF to MRC.  

 

In case there is failure on part of some contributor(s) to replenish its (their) contribution, 

same shall be immediately met, on a temporary basis during the month, in the following 

order:  

(i) By CC  

(ii) By SE 

 

The Committee noted that as per the results of stress tests, the corpus of Core SGFs for 

various segments of the three Clearing Corporations for July 2015 is as under: 

 

40 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

Table 1 

Clearing Corporation 

Segment 

Core SGF Corpus 
(INR Crore) for July, 
2015 

National Securities 
Clearing Corporation 
Limited (NSCCL) 

 

Equity Cash 

Equity Derivatives 

Currency Derivatives 

Debt 

Total 

Equity Cash 

Equity Derivatives 

Currency Derivatives 

Debt 

Total 

Equity Cash 

Equity Derivatives 

Indian Clearing 
Corporation Limited 
(ICCL) 

 

MCX-SX Clearing 
Corporation Limited 
(MCX-SX CCL) 

149 

547 

78 

4 

778 

105.47 

14.59 

37.13 

1.13 

158.32 

0.25 

0.25 

Currency Derivatives 

34.42 

Debt 

Total 

0.25 

35.17 

 

 

 

Regarding the Issue of the  25% of profit being very high it was given to understand that 

suggestions  were  received  from  market  participants  to  modify  Regulation  33  so  as  to 

reduce the requirement of 25% to either 2% or 5% of the net profits. 

 

41 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

In  this  context,  it  is  worth  mentioning  that  Forward  Markets  Commission  (FMC)  vide 

circular  FMC/2/2013/C/105  No.  2/2/2008-MKT-II  dated  August  23,  2013 11 and  Circular 

FMC/2/2014/C/28  F.  No.  2/2/2008-MKT-II  Dated  14thMarch,  2014 12  prescribed 

guidelines for creation of SGF. The circulars inter-alia prescribed the following– 

 

1.(a)"The initial contribution to SGF by the Exchange will be equivalent to 5% of the sum 

total of the Gross Revenues of the Exchange for the preceding financial years starting from 

Financial Year 2007-08 or from the date when the Exchange was set-up, till Financial Year 

2012-13, subject to a minimum of Rs. 10 crores." 

 

The maximum contribution by an exchange in the  Settlement Guarantee Fund in a year 

shall be up to 5% of the gross revenue (net of Income Tax to be paid by the exchange). In 

cases where exchanges have sufficient funds available in the Settlement Guarantee Fund 

to  meet  the  contingent  risk,  then  there  is  no  need  for  exchanges  to  make  any  further 

contribution. 

 

The FMC directive on "transfer of revenues" removes any ambiguity of whether the funds 

to be transferred should be calculated on profits before tax or after tax. Additionally, it also 

removes any ambiguity on adjustments of previous period losses, for calculation of profits.  

 

The  issue  of  reducing  the  25  percentage  falls  back  on  the  idea  of  whether  the  clearing 

corporation  has  accumulated  adequate  financial  resources  to  withstand  shocks.  With 

regard to the issue of reducing the 25 percentage, the committee considers assessing the 

adequacy of the clearing corporation's two main financial defenses - Net worth and SGF. 

                                                           
11 http://www.fmc.gov.in/show_file.aspx?linkid=SGF-580045388.pdf  

 
12 http://www.fmc.gov.in/show_file.aspx?linkid=61_23_08_2013-885109021.pdf  

 

42 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

The Net worth of the three clearing corporations, as at the end of March, 2014  is given 

below -  

 

Table 2 

Sr. 

Clearing Corporations  

Net worth (in INR crore) 

No. 

1 

2 

3 

 

NSCCL 

ICCL 

MCX-SXCCL 

994 

427 

29 

The Committee is of the view that the Net worth of clearing corporations, which is above 

the  minimum  prescribed  in  the  SECC  Regulations,  may  be  a  starting  point  to  draw 

regulatory comfort when ascertaining the adequacy of the financial strength of a clearing 

corporation.  Further,  the  new  SGF  guidelines,  which  are  modeled  on  the  CPMI  IOSCO's 

Principle of Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMIs), may also provide a second measure 

of regulatory comfort.  

 

The Committee noted that given that both the requirements viz 25% transfer of profits by 

Exchanges  to  SGF  of  CC  and  the  requirements  under  new  SGF  guidelines  which  also 

required the exchange to mandatorily contribute 25% of the required funds were towards 

strengthening  the  SGF.  Therefore  in  order  to  reduce  the  cost  burden  and  to  remove 

duplicate actions in law, the above two contributions by the exchange were allowed to be 

set off against each other.  

Considering the above, it is observed that, since two instances in law require an action from 

the exchanges towards the same end, it would bring clarity and remove ambiguity for the 

contribution by exchange towards SGF, if one of them is removed.  

 

 

 

43 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

6.2  Recommendations of the Committee 

 
The Committee notes that since the requirement of core SGF has already been met, the 25% 

profit transfer requirement might not be required. While the departure from the Regulatory 

requirement  is  desirable,  the  Risk  Management  Review  Committee  (RMRC)  of  SEBI  may 

review the stress test model, used to determine the Minimum Required Corpus (MRC) of 

core SGF, for making such departure.  

 

Regarding the refundability of the transfer of profits, the Committee recommends that the 

said transfer shall be refundable in nature. In the event of the exchange deciding to close 

down its business or deciding to avail clearing and settlement services of another CC, the 

unutilized portion of the exchange contribution to core SGF may be transferred back to the 

exchange. 

 

With regard to the contribution already set aside by the Stock Exchanges towards the 25% 

profit transfer requirement, the Committee recommends that the same may be utilized by 

exchange to cover the member contribution to the core SGF since this would result in lower 

transaction costs and would be in the overall interest of the market.  SEBI may specify the 

details in this regard including in respect of contributions already made by CCs on behalf of 

members. 

 

 The Committee also noted that as per SEBI’s mandate, it is obligatory on part of the Stock 

Exchange/Clearing Corporation to make good the shortfall in the core SGF at any point of 

time. SEBI may thereafter take a view on the remaining unutilized amount already set aside 

by  the  Stock  Exchange  after fulfilling  its contribution  and  member’s  contribution  to  core 

SGF. 

  

 

44 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

The  Committee  recommends  that,  the  requirement  of  member  contribution  may  be 

reviewed after 5 years, or earlier if warranted. 

 

SEBI may appropriately make necessary amendments to the SECC Regulations 2012. 

 

 

 

 

6.3  Transfer of Depositories’ profits to their Investor Protection 

Fund (IPF)  

6.3.1  Background 

As the Committee was reviewing the requirement of 25% profit transfer by Stock Exchange 

to CC, the Committee was requested to also review the requirement of Transfer of 25% 

Depositories’ profits to their Investor Protection Fund (IPF)  

 

The Committee note that in terms of 53 of the SEBI (DEPOSITORIES AND PARTICIPANTS) 

(AMENDMENT) REGULATIONS, 2012 on Investor Protection Fund: 

 

(1)  Every  depository  shall  establish  and  maintain  an  Investor  Protection  Fund  for  the 

protection of interest of beneficial owners: 

 

Provided that this Fund shall not be used by the depository for the purpose of indemnifying 

the beneficial owner under section 16 of the Depositories Act, 1996. 

 

(2)  Every  depository  shall  credit  twenty  five  per  cent  of  its  profits  every  year  to  the 

Investor Protection Fund. 

 

 

45 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

(3) The contribution to and utilization of the Investor Protection Fund shall be in accordance 

with the norms specified by the Board." 

 

The  Depository  Systems  Review Committee  (DSRC-  constituted by SEBI) while  reviewing 

the  depository  operations,  observed  that  the  contribution  of  25%  of  annual  profits  by 

depositories to IPF appears to have been stipulated on the lines of the provisions of the 

Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 

2012 wherein exchanges are required to contribute 25% of their annual profit to the fund 

created by clearing corporations for the purpose of guaranteeing settlement of trades. The 

object  of  settlement  guarantee  fund,  however,  is  materially  different  from  that  of  the 

Investor Protection Fund under the depositories’ regulations.  

 

The DSRC noted that an IPF created under the Depositories and Participants (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2012 is primarily for investors’ awareness, education and training. The risks to 

the depositories on account of fraud, etc., are covered by insurance which is taken by the 

depositories.  In  case  of  failure/  closure  of  DPs,  the  investors  are  protected  as  the 

Beneficiary Owners’ data is available with the depositories and the investors are allowed 

to shift their accounts to other DPs. In view of this, the committee noted that the fund does 

not envisage providing compensation for any loss to the investors. 

 

The DSRC felt the need to synergise the funds created with the stock exchanges and the 

depositories for the purpose of investors’ awareness, education and training. It observed 

that since the IPF with the depositories does not provide for any sort of protection like the 

guarantee settlement fund, there is no need for an IPF with substantial contribution from 

the depositories alone. It was also of the view that the profit from depository operations 

need  only  be  considered  for  the  purpose  of  contribution  to  the  IPF.  Other  income  i.e. 

income received from investments & other non-operative activities may be excluded from 

computation  of  profits  because  mostly  income  under  this  head  is  received  out  of 

 

46 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

investments  made  from  accumulated  reserves  &  surplus  of  past  years,  which  was  not 

distributed to stake holders. 

 

Based on the above deliberations, the DSRC recommended inter alia the following:  

 

review  the  quantum  of  funds  required  to  be  transferred  to  IPF  by  depositories  and 

arrive upon a sizable limit for corpus of IPF 

 

The recommendations of the DSRC were broadly approved by the SEBI Board. With regard 

to the quantum of funds to be transferred by the Depositories to their IPF, it was desired 

that this Committee may provide its recommendation. 

The  Committee  deliberated  on  this  issue  and  noted  that  for  investor  protection,  the 

depositories take insurance to manage the risk of indemnifying Beneficial Owners for any 

loss suffered due to negligence of depository or its participant. As such, the corpus of IPF 

can  be  used  mainly  for  activities  such  as  investor  education  like  workshops,  awareness 

programs etc. which does not warrant a large corpus.   

 

6.3.2  Recommendations of the Committee 

The committee recommends that depositories may transfer 5%, or such percentage as may 

be prescribed by SEBI from time to time, of their profits from depository operations every 

year  to  the  IPF  since  the  date  of  amendment  of  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants) 

(Amendment)  Regulations,  2012  requiring  transfer  of  profits.  Further,  SEBI  may  consider 

necessary amendment to SEBI (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996 to enable 

the same. The percentage of profits to be transferred every year by depositories to the IPF 

may be reviewed by SEBI on a periodic basis. 

 

 

 

47 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

CHAPTER 7 

 

Liquid Assets for calculation of Net worth of Clearing 

Corporation 

 

7.1  Background 

Considering  the  sensitive  and  risk-bearing  role  of  the  clearing  corporations,  a  clearing 

corporation, must hold a sufficient amount of liquid net assets preferably funded by equity 

so that it can continue operations and services as a going concern even if it incurs general 

business losses, or for the purposes of an orderly wind-down of its critical operations and 

services, where necessary, or for the purpose of absorbing credit risk etc. Thus, liquid assets 

held  must  be  funded  by  equity  (such  as  equity  capital,  disclosed  reserves,  or  retained 

earnings) rather than debt.  

 

Accordingly,  Regulation  14(3)  of  SCR  (SECC)  Regulations,  2012  (hereinafter  SECC 

Regulations), specifies the minimum net worth requirement for Clearing Corporations as: 

 

Every recognized clearing corporation shall achieve a minimum net worth of three hundred 

crore rupees within a period of three years from the date of recognition granted under these 

regulations.’ 

 

A CC acts as the central counterparty, novating both legs of a trade, acting as a seller for 

the  buy-side  of  a  transaction  and  acting  as  a  buyer  for  the  sell-side  of  a  transaction. 

Extending this idea of novation, a CC is expected to continue to guarantee fulfillment of a 

trade  even  if  a  party  on  either  side  of  transaction  defaults  or  in  a  graver  scenario,  if  a 

 

48 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

clearing member (hereinafter CM) defaults and its obligations on a whole host of trades 

are not honored by it.  

A robust minimum net worth criterion serves the twin purposes of i) ensuring that only 

serious  financially  sound  entities  come  forward  for  setting  up  this  kind  of  an  important 

financial market infrastructure and ii) serving as an assurance to the participating CMs that 

the CC is capable of covering defaults by CMs, if any.   

 

Currently, SECC Regulations have set the minimum net worth requirement of CCs at Rs. 300 

crore. A CC which handles huge volumes of trade poses greater systemic risk and may thus 

be required to shore up a bigger amount as net worth.  

 

The Committee noted that Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and 

of the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties ("CCPs‟) and trade 

repositories  ("the  Regulation")  required  the  European  Banking  Authority(EBA)  to  draft 

regulatory  technical  standards  (RTS)  on  the  capital  requirements  for  CCPs  under  EMIR 

Framework. EBA, in close cooperation with the European System of Central Banks (ESCB) 

and  the  European  Securities  and  Markets  Authority  (ESMA)  adopted  the  draft  technical 

standards  on  capital  requirements  for  Central  Counterparties  (CCPs)  under  the  EMIR 

Regulation on December 19, 2012. 

 

Article  2  of  the  EBA  Final  RTS  on  Capital  Requirements  for  Central  Counterparties 13 is 

noteworthy in this  context  -  ‘A  CCP should  hold  capital,  including  retained  earnings  and 

reserves, which shall be at all times more than or equal to the sum of: (a) the CCP's capital 

requirements  for  orderly  winding  down  or  restructuring  its  activities  (arrived  at  by 

multiplying the monthly gross operational expenses by the time span for winding down or 

restructuring its activities), (b) the CCP's capital requirements for overall operational and 

                                                           
13 EBA Consultation Paper on Draft Regulatory Technical Standards on Capital Requirements for CCPs 
(EBA/CP/2012/08)  

49 
 

 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

legal risks, (c) the CCP's capital requirements necessary for covering credit, counterparty 

and  market  risks  'not  covered'  by  specific  financial  resources,  (d)  the  CCP's  capital 

requirements  for  business  risk  (subject  to  a  floor  equal  to  25%  of  its  annual  gross 

operational expenses). 

 

As the central counterparty who guarantees every trade, it is the CC’s primary responsibility 

to cover default. In fact putting CC capital at risk at the first stage of the waterfall (after the 

defaulter‘s resources) provides the CC with a strong incentive to control risk, monitor its 

members, and choose margin levels prudently. A case may thus be made that the CC’s net  

worth  (or  a  set fraction of  it) should  be  utilized before  seeking  contributions  from  non-

defaulting CMs. 

 

This has been accounted for in the recent SEBI Circular CIR/MRD/DRMNP/25/2014 dated 

August 27, 2014 which has prescribed norms for Core Settlement Guarantee Fund (Core 

SGF), Default Waterfall and Stress Testing. As per the Circular, CC resources (equal to 5% 

of  the  segment  Minimum  Required  Corpus)  form  the  third  stage  of  waterfall  (after  the 

defaulter‘s resources and Insurance, if any). 

 

Views  expressed  in  an  EBA  (European  Banking  Authority)  discussion  paper  on  the  Draft 

Regulatory  Technical  Standards  on  the  capital  requirements  for  CCP  may  be  noted-‘"A 

CCP’s equity capital should also reflect a strong cash, cash equivalent or securities position 

to allow it to meet its current and projected operating expenses under a range of scenarios."  

 

The Committee also noted that Principle 15 of the PFMIs defines general business risk as 

the potential impairment of a CCP’s financial position as a business concern resulting in 

losses charged against capital.  

This view has also been echoed earlier in the Report of the Committee, constituted by SEBI, 

on 'Review of Ownership and Governance of Market Infrastructure Institutions' chaired by 

 

50 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

Dr Bimal Jalan. The committee had, inter alia, the following to recommend about the net 

worth requirements of Clearing Corporations: 

 

"Keeping in view the clearing and settlement function, a need is felt to prescribe a higher 

net  worth  requirement  for  clearing  corporations,  as  compared  to  stock  exchanges  and 

depositories..... Further, in order that such a net worth is available, in a worst case scenario, 

it is suggested that it may be maintained in the form of liquid assets at all times. Liquid 

assets would be those assets that are permitted to be deposited by a stockbroker in a stock 

exchange (clearing corporation) towards margin obligations. Until such time the clearing 

corporation achieves the prescribed net worth, it shall not be permitted to pay any dividend 

to its shareholders. 

 

As mentioned above, the liquidity of the net worth so prescribed and maintained is equally 

important as the amount of the net worth. In case of default, when the net worth of the 

CC might be required to be accessed to fulfill the remaining obligations of the defaulting 

member, an illiquid net worth may prove to be disruptive.  

 

The committee observed that the function of a Clearing Corporation is to provide a safety 

shield  and the  purpose of  the Net worth  is  to  provide  a  solid bedrock  for  eventualities. 

Learnings  from  the 2008-09  crisis  indicate that  instruments  which  were considered  safe 

turned out to be unsafe. Therefore the instruments to be considered towards calculation 

of liquid assets should be able to withstand the highest measures of liquidity and safety. 

 

For the purpose of liquid assets, only  Central Government Securities and Fixed Deposits 

may be considered as other instruments like NCDs, CPs etc. carry credit/liquidity risks. 

Further,  while  considering  Central  Government  Securities  for  calculating  liquid  assets  is 

prudent, state government securities/bonds should not be considered towards the liquid 

assets calculations. 

 

51 
 

  Securities and Exchange Board of India                

7.2  Recommendations of the Committee   

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  liquid  assets  should  comprise  Fixed  Deposits 

(FDs)/Central Government Securities (G Secs).  

Further,  other  instruments  like  NCDs,  CPs,  money  market  mutual  funds,  etc.  carry 

credit/liquidity risks and hence, may not be considered towards calculation of liquid assets 

in net worth of CC. 

 

 

********* 

 

52 
 

