 

Report submitted by Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee 

1.  To  solicit  the  comments/views  from  public  on  suggestions  pertaining  to  the  report 

submitted by Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee. 

 
Background: 
2.  SEBI  had  constituted a  standing  committee  ‘Alternative  Investment  Policy  Advisory 
Committee'  (AIPAC)  under  chairmanship  of  Shri.  N.  R.  Narayan  Murthy  in  March 
2015.AIPAC  has  submitted  its  first  report  to  SEBI  with  various  recommendations 
stated therein. 

Public Comments: 

3.  In  order  to  take  into  consideration  the  views  of  various  stakeholders,  public 
comments are solicited on the said report as placed at Annexure. Comments may be 
emailed on or before February 10, 2016, to aif@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to:- 
Deputy General Manager 
Division of Funds – I 
Investment Management Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan  
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 
 Bandra Kurla Complex, 
 Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 

4.  Comments/ suggestions may be provided in the format given below: 

 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization 
Suggestions  
Sr. No.  
 
 
 
 

Clause No. 
 
 

 
Issued on: January 20, 2016 
 

 

Rationale 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

The Alternative Investment Policy 

Advisory Committee Report 

31 December,  2015 

 

Table of Contents 

 
 
 

 
 

Preface 

Members  of  AIPAC 

Acknowledgements 

1: Introduction to the Alternative Investment Funds Industry 

2: Introduction to the Report and Executive Summary 

3:  Creating a Favourable Tax Environment 

Page 

1 

3 

4 

5 

10 

21 

Annexure 1:  Suggested Amendments to Implement Tax Recommendations  55 

Annexure  2:  Angel  Investors 

Annexure  3:  USA: Accredited  Investors 

4:  Unlocking  Domestic Capital  Pools 

5:  Promoting  Onshore Fund  Management 

6:  Reforming the  AIF Regulatory  Regime 

Annexure 4:    Regulating the Fund Manager:  Global Practices 

Annexure 5:    Alternative Investment Fund Managers  Directive (AIFMD) 

Appendix:   Suggested  Non-Tax  Amendments 

Abbreviations 

75 

77 

78 

100 

132 

142 

143 

145 

157 

 

Preface 

 

 

 

 

 

Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) play a vital role in India’s economy. As engines of 
economic growth, they contribute significantly to nation building. They provide long- 
term and high-risk capital to a wide variety of ventures at all stages of their evolution, 
creating stability and entrepreneurial capability. This includes risk capital in the form 
of  equity  capital  for  pre-revenue  stage  companies,  early  and  late  stage  ventures, 
growth  companies  that  wish  to  scale  their  operations,  and  even  companies  facing 
distress.  AIFs  help  incubate  innovative  ideas  and  invest  in  a  broad  array  of  sectors 
ranging  from  e-commerce,  hospitals,  tech  ventures,  education  ventures,  and 
industrial and infrastructure projects. The capability capital also ensures well-run and 
well-governed businesses. There is unanimity in the recognition that AIFs are a critical 
part of a robust and lively capital market. 

In the light of this vital role, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has taken 
several progressive measures since 1996 to promote Alternative Investment Funds. 
SEBI’s  most  recent  initiative  was  the  enactment of  the  SEBI  Alternative  Investment 
Fund  Regulations,  2012  and  subsequent  amendments.  Considering  the  developing 
nature  of  India’s  AIF  market,  considerable  advances  in  regulation  are  needed  to 
promote the supply of risk capital in a prudent fashion. Accordingly, SEBI established 
the  Alternative  Investment  Policy  Advisory  Committee  (AIPAC).  The  Terms  of 
Reference of the Committee are to advise SEBI in the following areas: 

(i) 

(ii) 

the further development of the alternative investment and startup eco- 
system in India; 
the removal of hurdles that might hinder the development of the altern- 

ative investment industry; 

(iii) 

issues   which   need   to   be   taken   up   with   other   regulators   for  the 
development of the alternative investment industry; and 

(iv)  any other issue relevant to the alternative investment industry and 

development of the start-up eco-system in India. 

The Committee comprises 21 members. The Committee has met four times since its 
inception in March, 2015. In its initial phase the Committee decided to focus on four 
central areas.  These include   reforms in   the   fields   of   taxation, development   of 
domestic capital pools in India, attracting overseas managers onshore in India, and 
the categorization of Alternative Investment Funds in SEBI’s regulatory regime. This 
first report addresses these four areas, and recommendations are founded on core 
underlying principles. 

1 

As the field of Alternative Investment Funds has a wide canvas, the Committee will 
meet  again  to  discuss  and  make  recommendations  in  other  areas  like  the  novel 
instrument of crowd-funding, business development companies and related topics 

It is evident that the Government of India and regulators have embarked on a reform- 
oriented approach and there is significant momentum. The recommendations in this 
report are, therefore, timely. I welcome  further reviews and comments from other 
industry players and stakeholders of the AIF industry. 

I  do  hope  that  policymakers  will  embrace  the  proposed  reforms.  To  assist 
policymakers, the precise wordings of suggested amendments and draft notifications 
have been included in the report. 

I sincerely thank all those who worked tirelessly and have spared their valuable time 
from their regular duties to help craft the recommendations and prepare this report. 
In particular, I wish to thank SEBI and its staff for providing its invaluable guidance and 
support at various stages of this report. 

N.R. Narayana Murthy 

Chairman, AIPAC 

Founder, Infosys 

2 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee    (AIPAC) 

List of  Members 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Sr. No. 

Name 

Organization  & Designation 

Shri. N.R. Narayana 
Murthy 

 

Founder, Infosys  Ltd. 

Shri. N. S.  Vishwanathan 

ED, Reserve Bank of  India 

Shri. Ashish  Kumar 

Director, CBDT, Ministry of  Finance 

Shri. Nikhil  Varma 

Deputy Secretary, DEA, Ministry of 
Finance 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 

 
 

5. 

Shri. Sanjay  Nayar 

Chairman, Indian Private Equity & 
Venture Capital Association  (IVCA), 

Member & CEO, KKR India Advisors Pvt. 
Ltd. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

Shri. Saurabh  Srivastava 

Founder, Indian Angel  Network 

Shri. Ajay  Piramal 

Chairman, Piramal  Group 

Shri. Devinjit  Singh 

MD, The Carlyle Group,  India 

Shri. Manish  Chokhani 

Chairman, TPG Growth  India 

10. 

Shri. Gautam  Mehra 

Partner, PwC  India 

11. 

Shri. Akshay  Mansukhani 

Partner, Malabar  Investments 

12. 

Shri. Mani  Iyer 

Director, Incube Ventures Pvt.  Ltd. 

13. 

Shri. Abid  Hassan 

COO, Mobile ID, Startup Village  Fund 

14. 

Shri. K.E.C  Rajakumar 

MD & CEO, Ascent Capital  Advisors 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

 

 

 

 

 

Shri. Sudhir  Sethi 

Founder Chairman & MD, IDG Ventures 
India, iSPIRT  Foundation 

Shri. Sunil  Godhwani 

Chairman and MD, Religare Enterprises 
Limited 

Shri. Gopal  Srinivasan 

Chairman and MD, TVS Capital Funds 
Limited 

Shri. Manish  Kejriwal 

19. 

Shri. Arvind  Mathur 

Managing Partner, Kedaara Capital 
Advisors  LLP 

President, Indian Private Equity & 
Venture Capital Association  (IVCA) 

20. 

Shri. Ananta  Barua 

ED, SEBI 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Capacity 

Chairperson 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

21. 

Smt. Barnali  Mukherjee 

CGM, SEBI 

Member  Secretary 

3 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Acknowledgements 

This report of the Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee (AIPAC) has been 
made possible with the support and contributions of many individuals. 

The Committee would like to gratefully acknowledge the valuable support of SEBI and 
the contribution of its professionals –   S.   Raman,   Naveen   Kumar   Gupta, Nila 
Khanolkar,  Dharmendra  Jain  and  several  other  SEBI  staff  who  helped  convene  the 
meetings  of  AIPAC.  The  Committee  also  acknowledges  the  efforts  and  the 
contribution of, Abhishek Laximinarayan, Sheetal Bhat, Vikram Bohra, Subramaniam 
Krishnan,    Siddharth      Shah,      Bharat      Anand,      Joyjyoti      Misra,      Nishith      Desai,   
Richie  Sancheti,  Vivek    Pandit,    Padmaja    Ruparel,    Ritesh    Pandey,    Rohan    Rai,  
Tejash Gangar and Varzavand Batliwala. 

The  McKinsey  &  Company  Report  –  Indian  Private    Equity:    Route    to    Resurgence, 
June 2015, has been an invaluable background source. 

Four sub-committees were formed to address the topics of : the Rationalisation of AIF 
Categories, Tax Policy, Unlocking Domestic Capital Pools and Promoting Onshore Fund 
Management,  chaired  by  Sanjay  Nayar,  Gopal  Srinivasan,  Saurabh  Srivastava  and 
K.E.C.  Rajakumar,  respectively.  Special  thanks  are  extended  to  the  sub-committees 
and their Chairmen. 

4 

I 

Introduction to the Alternative Investment Fund 

Industry 

1.1  Enterprises  are  risky  ventures.  They  cannot  only  be  financed  by  traditional 
sources  of  debt,  such  as  banks.  They  need  access  to  sufficient  amounts  of 
stable,  long-term,  risk  capital,  which  are  angel  capital,  venture  capital  and 
private  equity,  collectively  referred  to  as  Alternative  Investment  Funds. 
Venture capital and angels provide equity capital to new ventures and nurture 
and mentor the management of portfolio enterprises. As the capital needs of 
a growing venture rise, it seeks private equity which adds value in several ways, 
such  as  improving  governance  processes,  providing  access  to  networks  and 
helping scale the enterprise. 

1.2  A distinguishing characteristic of both venture capital and private equity is that 
they add strategic value and enhance the internal proficiencies of enterprises, 
thus being regarded as invaluable ‘capability capital’. The distinction between 
venture capital and private equity has become blurred as they have become 
‘stage agnostic’ with both forms of capital providing capital to a wide range of 
enterprises at different stages of their development. 

1.3  The venture capital and private equity industry has contributed considerably 
to  India’s  economic  growth.  Between  2001  and  2015,  venture  capital  and 
private  equity  of  more  than  $103  billion  was  invested  in  Indian  companies. 
These investments were made in more than 3,100 companies across 12 major 
sectors, including those critical for the country’s development. The enterprises 
have  ranged  from  start-ups  to  mature,  mid-size  companies.  A  significant 
portion  of  these  investments  have  been  made  by  global  fund  managers 
operating  India-focussed  offshore  funds,  global  fund  managers  operating  in 
India and Indian fund managers operating offshore funds, in the form of foreign 
direct investment (FDI). 

5 

 

 

 

 

Source: VC Circle 

 

 

6 

1.4  The  Government  recognizes  that  start-ups  have  always  been  the  engine  of 
progress.The star businesses of today, were once start-ups. The digital age has 
created a fertile new environment for start-ups. The Government also wishes 
to create the eco-system in which start-ups can mushroom and thrive. Venture 
capital, private equity and angel capital are vital elements in this eco-system. 
Accordingly,  reforming  the  AIF  regulatory  framework  for  venture  capital, 
private equity and angel capital will play a key role in making a success of the 
start-up policy. 

1.5  The risk appetite of this asset class has helped shape several new industries, 
such  as  mobile  telecommunications,  information  technology  services,  social 
media  and  ecommerce.  Portfolio  companies  of  venture  capital  and  private 
equity funds have contributed significantly to India’s economic development 
through  outcomes such as : 

a) 

b) 

Stronger Job Creation Record:  Venture capital and private equity have 
helped  accelerate  job  growth.  In  the  five  years  following 
initial 
investment,  companies  backed  by  private  equity  grew  direct 
employment faster than companies not backed by private equity. 

Superior  Financial  Performance:  In  the  two  years  following  initial 
investment,  revenues  of  portfolio  companies  grew  28%  more  than 
revenues of companies not backed by venture capital and private equity 
in a comparable period. In addition, their profits were stronger. 

c)  Greater  Export  Earnings:  Venture  capital  and  private  equity  investors 
focused on building capabilities in their portfolio companies, resulting in 
increased  export  earnings.  This  strategy  also  helped  reduce  risks 
associated with volatility of domestic growth and currency rate changes. 

d)  More  Acquisitive  and  Global  Mind-set:  In  the  sample  set,  80%  of  the 
companies  participated  in  their  first  cross-border  M&A  only  after 
receiving venture capital or private equity funding. Venture capital and 
private  equity  fund  managers  shared  their  experience,  knowledge  and 
networks to help companies acquire strategic partners. 

e) 

Superior Corporate Governance and Higher Tax Contribution: Portfolio 
companies  of  venture  capital  and  private  equity  funds  generally 
improved their corporate governance. Private companies with revenues 
less than INR 7.5 billion linked to VC/PE contributed 18.8% of the corporate 
tax  receipts  for  companies  of  a  similar  size,  more  than  13.1%  of  total 
revenue within this group. 

7 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.6  To  foster  venture  capital  and  private  equity  as  a  source  of  risk  capital  for 
entrepreneurs and innovation, the Government of India enacted the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996 (VCF 
Regulations). Later, SEBI introduced a comprehensive legal framework in the 
form  of  SEBI  (Alternative 
Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012  (AIF 
regulations), repealing and replacing the erstwhile SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) 
Regulations, 1996. 

1.7  Alternative investment funds (AIFs) are defined in Regulation 2(1)(b) of SEBI 
(Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012.  AIFs  refer  to  privately 
pooled  investment  funds,  which  are  not  covered  by  any  regulation  of  SEBI 
governing fund management, nor come under the direct regulation of other 
sectoral regulators in India. AIFs have been divided into three categories in the 
SEBI  (Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012.  AIFs  include  venture 
capital  funds,  private  equity  funds,  debt  funds,  infrastructure  funds,  social 
venture  funds  amongst  others.  AIFs  include  funds  which  employ  diverse  or 
complex trading strategies in the secondary markets in the securities of listed 
companies. These latter funds account for less that 10% of the AIF investments 
made. 

1.8  Venture capital and private equity funds with fund managers domiciled in India 
and which were registered with SEBI post 2012, are now classified as AIFs and 
come within the ambit of the AIF regulations. These funds also include those in 
which offshore capital has been invested. 

India: Alternative Investment Funds by Category (As of September 2015) 

 

Category 

Category I 

 

Commitments 

Funds raised 

Investments made 

raised 

(Rs. crores) 

 

 

(Rs. crores) 

 

 

(Rs crores) 

No. of 
AIFs 

 

 

Infrastructure Fund 

6875.69 

1970.25 

Social Venture Fund 

600.52 

Venture Capital Fund 

1382.39 

SME Fund 

Category I  Total 

Category II 

Category III 

Grand Total 

135.00 

8993.60 

14375.71 

2162.79 

25532.10 

259.52 

798.48 

123.79 

3152.04 

8079.29 

1568.88 

12800.21 

8 

1350.08 

216.65 

487.85 

20.03 

2074.61 

6792.38 

896.43 

9763.42 

8 

3 

36 

8 

55 

87 

26 

167 

 

 

 

 
 

 

1.9  AIFs  with  domestic  capital  have  only  invested  $850  million  in  the  first  3 
quarters of 2015. The recent amendments for Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) 
in  AIFs  (most  importantly  the  exemptions  from  all  sectoral  FDI  caps  and 
conditions  for  downstream  investments  by  India-sponsored  and  managed 
AIFs), is expected to see a dramatic shift in the quantum of investments made 
by AIFs, potentially translating into a total commitment of $8-10 billion that will 
make it to Indian shores, considering the amount of foreign capital deployed 
to date by India-based fund managers. Accordingly, the recommendations in 
this  report become  even  more  relevant  and  critical. 

 

9 

 

 

Introduction to the Report and Executive Summary 

II 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Purpose of the Report 

2.1.1.  India’s  economic  environment  is  positive  and  is  going  through  a  period  of 
accelerated growth and innovation. Long-term and stable risk capital is much 
needed  for  development  to  meet  the  demands  of  a  large  population  in  a 
competitive  and  modernizing  world.  Reforms  to  promote  AIFs  in  these 
propitious conditions are well justified as they can significantly increase this 
steady  source  of  long-term  risk  capital.  With  the  rising  demand  for  sizable 
amounts of capital to be invested in India, the AIF industry has a critical need 
to increase the pool of talented India-based Fund Managers with access to a 
better and larger deal flow i.e. a strong pipeline of investment opportunities 
in India. 

2.1.2.  Considering the developing nature of India’s AIF market, many advances in 
the regulatory framework are needed to promote the supply of risk capital in 
a  prudent  fashion.  Accordingly,  the  Securities  &  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(SEBI)  established  the  Alternative  Investment  Policy  Advisory  Committee 
(AIPAC). 

2.1.3.  The purpose of the first AIPAC Report is to recommend wide-ranging reforms 
which  India  needs  to  institute  in  order  to  create  a  favourable  climate  for 
building a sound alternative investment eco-system in India. The Committee 
has  worked  with  a  solution  -  finding  approach  and  has  evolved 
recommendations that would help create: a favourable tax environment for 
investors; unlock domestic sources of venture capital and private equity and 
other  funds  for  AIFs;  enable  and  encourage  onshore  fund  management  in 
India;  and  reform  the  AIF  Regulatory  regime  to  facilitate  and  optimise 
investments by AIFs. 

2.1.4.  The Committee has taken cognizance of a range of stakeholders and has tried 
to evolve a 'win-win’ solution. For the Government, this would result in robust 
direct and indirect tax collections, creation of more jobs, and acceleration of 
GDP growth. For SEBI, all alternative assets would come under its supervision; 
equity markets would be able to attract a greater supply of stable risk capital; 
and  sound  portfolio  companies  in  a  wide  range  of  economic  sectors  and 
established and budding entrepreneurs will be able to attract equity capital to 
meet their start-up costs, capital expenditure and operating needs. 

10 

Fundamental Principles Underlying the Recommendations 

2.1.5.  The recommendations of the Committee are founded on core best practice 

principles as  discussed below: 

a.  Ease of doing business is important 

India  needs  to  maintain  the  recent  momentum  to  improve  ease  of  doing 
business. Cumbersome regulations are hurdles on the start-up and growth of 
businesses  in  India  as  well  as  in  the  effective  functioning  of  Alternative 
Investment  Funds  which  provides  much-needed 
long-term  capital  to 
enterprises. Ease of doing business creates a conducive business environment, 
reduces  risk  aversion  and  lowers  the  cost  of  doing  business  resulting  in  an 
increased  inflow  of  capital  to  support  new  and  existing  businesses.  Ease  of 
doing business increases investor confidence enabling AIFs to provide stable 
risk capital to a larger universe of portfolio companies more effectively and in 
greater  amounts.  This  leads  to  a  robust  platform,  innovation  in  indigenous 
technologies, provides jobs, and generates revenue which could be ploughed 
back  for  growth  and  expansion.  Nation-building  through  wealth  and  job 
creation  in  the  economy,  benefits  society, being  the  end  goal  of  simplifying 
business regulations. 

b.  Fund managers have the role of “Prudent Men” 

Best practice for fund managers is to follow the Prudent Man rule (outlined 
below), and it is in the interest of the AIF industry to adhere to it. The Prudent 
Man  Rule  requires  that  each  investment  be  judged  on  its  own  merit  and 
provides  the  standard  in  accordance  to  which  a  fiduciary  is  expected  to 
operate. 

11 

 

 

 

The Prudent Man Rule 

The Prudent Man Rule first came into being in the seminal 1830 Massachusetts court 
formulation, Harvard College vs. Amory. The original rule stated that: 

“A fiduciary must discharge his or her duties with the care, skill, prudence and diligence 
that a prudent person acting in a like capacity would use in the conduct of an enterprise 
of like character and aims.” 

The rule was formally set forth in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 (ERISA) in the US. Section 404 of the Act. The fiduciary standard is comprised of 
5 separate standards, including 

a) 

b) 

c) 

d) 

e) 

Duty of Loyalty: A fiduciary must discharge his duties solely in the interest of 
plan  participants.  Thus,  the  fiduciary  must  avoid  conflicts  of  interest  when 
managing plan assets 
Exclusive Purpose Rule: A fiduciary must discharge his duties for the exclusive 
purpose of providing benefits or defraying reasonable expenses only. The plan 
must not pay excessive compensation to its investment and service providers. 
Duty  of  Care:  A  fiduciary  must  discharge  his  duties  with  the  “care,  skill, 
prudence  and  diligence  under  the  circumstances  then  prevailing  that  a 
prudent man acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would use 
in the conduct of an enterprise of a like chapter with like aims.” This standard 
of care is also known as the “prudent expert” standard 
Duty to Diversify:  A fiduciary must diversify the plan’s investments so as to 
minimize the risk of large losses, unless under the circumstances it is clearly 
prudent not to do so 
Duty of Obedience: A fiduciary must discharge his duties in accordance with 
the  documents  and  instruments  governing  the  plan  insofar  as  they  are 
consistent with governing laws. 

Fund managers for AIFs in India are required to follow the guidelines set in the 
Prudent  Man  Rule,  giving  them  an  empowering  framework;  with  the 
assumption that there will be serious consequences for non-compliance. 

c.  Adopt global best practices, and where necessary, innovate the “next” 

(best) practice 

Alternative investment funds are still an evolving sector in the Indian financial 
services landscape. The recommendations in this report are based on the core 
principle of adopting global best practices and where required, innovating the 
‘next’ best practice. These recommendations are framed with the view that 
every  next  practice  created  is  not  just  a  global  gold standard, but is also

12 

 

 

 

 

 

innovative  and  based  on  careful  thought  and consideration. A few
examples of ‘Next Practices’ from this report are: 

  Securities Transaction Tax (STT)- based taxation for listed equities, 

 

 

tax pass-through for retail investors in mutual funds 

the concept of accredited investors, 

  simplified investment manager framework, 

 

 

tax efficient Employee Stock Option Plans (ESOPs), yet tax neutral, 

recognition of new market participants such as Family Offices, amongst 
others. 

India must attempt to develop the next best practice for the AIF industry. 

d.  Clarity, consistency, and certainty in tax policies 

In countries where alternative investments have been immensely successful, a 
clear and consistent policy framework has been a significant enabler, and this 
includes a stable tax regime. These criteria     clarity, certainty and consistency 
in policy       impact the growth of the venture capital and private equity eco- 
system,  and  the  funds'  ability  to  attract  capital  and  provide  efficient,  tax- 
adjusted returns. For example, funds are pooling vehicles for their investors, 
and the  universally  applicable  principle  is  of  a  single-level  of  taxation  in the 
hands  of  investors,  also  known  as  limited  partners  (LPs).  In  a  globalized 
world,  where  countries  compete  for  capital,  the  success  of  alternative 
investments  in  the  medium  to  long-term  depends  on  India’s  tax  policy  for 
alternative investments being globally competitive. 

e.  Harmonisation and consistency across different  regulators 

It  is  vital  that  the  recommendations  of  the  Committee  are  coherently  co- 
ordinated  and  harmonized  across  different  regulators  such  as  the  Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI), the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), the Ministry of 
Finance,  the  Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs  and  others.  For  AIFs  to  work 
seamlessly, they need to be treated equally and on par by all stakeholders and 
regulators. 

f.  AIFs should at least have parity with public market funds in tax policies 

Investments in venture capital and private equity funds are risky,  commonly 
illiquid, and relatively longer term in nature. Accordingly, venture capital and 
private equity funds should, at the very least, have a tax regime that is on par 
with that applicable to investors in public markets. 

13 

 

 

 

 

 

Summary of Recommendations 

2.1.6.  The  four  chapters  that  follow  focus  on  the  four  forces  that  will  drive  the 

progress and contribution of the AIF industry. 

I. Creating a Favourable Tax Environment 

2.2.1.  The  tax  recommendations  are  aimed  at  bringing  about  ease  of  doing 
business  ensuring  neutrality,  clarity,  consistency  and  certainty  in  the  tax 
policy;  helping  increase  the  confidence  of  investors,  fund  managers  and 
entrepreneurs;  and  establishing  parity  in  tax  policies  between  alternative 
investments and public market investments. 

2.2.2.  Once  implemented,  the  recommendations  will  help  attract  significantly 
more capital from offshore and Indian investors into Indian private equity 
and venture capital, including SEBI-regulated Alternative Investment Funds. 

i.  Make Tax Pass-Through Work Effectively: The tax pass through system 
of taxation of AIFs ensures that investors do not pay more tax than they 
would,  had they  made the  investments directly themselves.  AIFs  are 
simply vehicles that pool the savings of investors for professional fund 
management  over  a  long-term  period.  Accordingly  the  pass-through 
method  should  be  made  to  work  flawlessly  with  simplicity.  This 
requires the immediate implementation of the following: 

a)  The exempt income of AIFs should not suffer tax withholding of 

10%. 

b)  Exempt investors should not suffer withholding tax of 10%. 
c) 

Investment gains of AIFs should be deemed to be ‘capital gains’ in 
nature. 

d)  The tax rules applicable to ‘investment funds’ in Chapter XII-B of 

e) 

the Act should be extended to all categories of AIFs. 
Losses incurred by AIFs should be available for set-off to their 
investors. 

f)  Non-resident investors should be subject to rates in force in the 

respective Double Tax Avoidance Agreements. 

ii. 

Eliminate  Deemed  Income:  It  is  important  to  recognize  the  basic 
principle  that  investments  made  in  portfolio  companies  are  capital 
contributions and not the income of the portfolio company. Similarly, 
the income of an AIF arises only when it receives dividend or interest 
income during the holding period, or realises capital gains at the time 
of  exit.  In  order  to  be  consistent  with  these  principles,  AIFs  and 
portfolio companies should be exempted from section 56(2)(viia) and 
56(2)(viib), respectively, of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (the Act). 

14 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iii.  Clarify  Indirect  Transfers:  Overseas  investors  in  India-centric  fund 
vehicles should not be subject to the indirect transfer provisions of the 
IT Act when they transfer their investments in an India-centric vehicle 
to  another  investor.  This  provision  creates  a  perverse  incentive  for 
investors to prefer investments in multi-country regional funds whose 
exposure to India is less than 50%  rather than funds which invest the 
majority of their capital in India. 

iv. 

Since the objective is to attract more offshore investors in dedicated 
India-centric  private  equity  and  venture  capital  fund  vehicles  which 
invest all their investible capital in India, it is recommended that CBDT 
should clarify that investors in the holding companies or entities above 
Eligible  Investment  Funds  (EIFs)  investing  in  India,  are  not  subject to 
the indirect transfer provisions. 

Make  Safe-harbour  Effective  for  Managing  Funds  from  India: 
Currently  most  fund  managers  of  offshore  funds  manage  their 
investments from offshore locations rather than from India. This is a 
disadvantage  to  both  them  and  India.  The  fund  managers  lose  the 
benefit of being close to the Indian private equity and venture capital 
deal  flow  i.e.  the  pipeline  of  investible  ventures.  India  loses  the 
employment  and  tax  revenue  benefits  of  a  large  India-based  fund 
management  industry  and  larger  related  volumes  of  long-term  and 
stable private equity and venture capital inflows. 

In order to attract significant amounts of foreign capital by having fund 
managers based in India, it is important that their operations in India 
are not treated as permanent establishments under DTAAs. In order to 
provide them a safe-harbour, the Government has enacted section 9A 
of the Income Tax Act. 

The feedback is that the provisions of s.9A are not sufficiently effective 
in  providing  a  fool-proof  safe  harbour  to  onshore  India-based 
managers  of  offshore  private  equity  and  venture  capital  funds.  This 
report recommends changes in conditions in s.9A relating to: investor 
diversification,  control  or  management  of  portfolio  companies,  tax 
residence,  arm’s  length  remuneration  of  fund  managers  and  annual 
reporting requirements. 

 

 

v. 

Make Foreign Direct Investment in AIFs Work Efficiently: The 
Government’s policy to permit foreign direct investment in SEBI- 
registered AIFs is a welcome measure.  To make this policy work 

15 

effectively it is recommended that the Government clarify the  rules 
for investment by non-resident Indian investors in AIFs on a non- 
repatriation basis; eliminate ambiguity to enable non-resident Indians 
(NRIs) to invest in AIFs using funds in their rupee NRO accounts; 
provide for Tax Deduction at Source on distribution of income to non- 
resident investors in AIFs in accordance with DTAA tax rates in force; 
grant permission to LLPs to act as sponsors and/or managers of AIFs; 
and the relaxation of Indian tax compliance obligations for non- 
resident investors in AIFs. 

vi. 

Securities Transaction Tax (STT): This report recommends the 
introduction of STT for private equity and venture capital 
investments, including SEBI-registered AIFs and has  parity with the 
taxation of investments in listed securities. Given the high risk and 
relatively illiquid and stable nature of private equity and venture 
capital, it needs to at least be treated at par with volatile, short-term 
public market investments for taxation. 

We  recommend  the  government  adopt  a  roadmap  for  AIF  taxation 
based  on  the  STT  framework.  In  the  interim,  the  CBDT  should 
immediately clarify that exempt income flowing through AIFs does not 
suffer  any  withholding  tax  and  make  the  necessary  amendments  to 
make pass-through work effectively. 

It  is  recommended  that  the  Government  Introduce  STT  at  an 
appropriate rate on all distributions (gross) of AIFs, investment, short- 
term  gains  and  other  income  and  eliminate  any  withholding  of  tax. 
After STT, income from AIFs should be tax free to investors. 

2.2.3.  While  all  recommendations  need  to  be  implemented,  the  two  critical 
reforms that would greatly advance and simplify the tax framework are: a) 
tweaking  ‘Safe  Harbour’  norms;  and  b)  implementing  the  Securities 
Transaction Tax (STT) approach to taxation of investments and distributions 
by Indian AIFs.Next Practices: India should at least be the global best practice 
and advance further by introducing “NEXT PRACTICES”. Recommendations in 
this category are: 

i.  Deduction for investments in angel funds/ social venture funds; 

ii.  Allow management expenses for venture capital and private equity 

investments to be capitalized as ‘cost of improvement’; 

16 

 

 

 

 
 

 

iii.  Taxation  upon  ‘sale’  and  reduced  taxation  rates  for  unlisted  shares 

acquired via ESOPs/employee incentive schemes; 

iv.  Clarify  tax  rate  of  10%  on  long  term  capital  gains  to  be  applicable  on 

transfer of shares of private limited companies ; 

v.  Taxation  of  convertible  preference  shares/  debentures  based  on  the 
holding  period  reckoned  from  the  date  of  investment  rather  than  the 
date of conversion; 

vi.  AIFs to be permissible investments of charitable and religious trusts ; 

vii. Taxation  on  conversion/  transfer  of  Global  Depository  Receipts  issued 

against permitted securities (other than listed shares) ; and 

viii. Service tax in respect of capital raised by an AIF from overseas investors. 
A clarification should be provided that investors in funds are the service 
recipients of the services provided by a fund manager/ service provider. 

The proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act have been included 
in this report wherever possible. 

 

 

 

 

 

II. 

Unlocking Domestic Capital Pools 

2.3.1.  India has an urgent need to unlock domestic capital pools for investment as 

private equity and venture capital.  This is due to factors such as: 

i.  Large Capital Needs: Given that India is large economy, it needs to invest 
sizeable volumes of long-term capital every year to help create jobs across 
the nation, build new infrastructure, and become innovative in addressing 
challenges while being globally competitive. 

ii.  Risk  Aversion  of  Traditional  Forms  of  Finance:  In  a  rapidly  growing 
economy that is encouraging entrepreneurship, and where start-ups, and 
medium  and  large  enterprises  have  a  rising  need  for  risk  capital  across 
various stages – start up, growth, listing and recovery - traditional funding 
sources have a limited ability and are constrained by risk aversion. 

iii.  Public  Capital  Markets  have  limited  funds  and  are  volatile:  A  dynamic 
entrepreneurial  eco-system  requires  strong  and  stable  capital  flows  and 
substantial equity infusion. The public capital markets can only cater to a 
small part of this need and are subject to market volatility. 

2.3.2.  Fund Managers need access to capital both from domestic and foreign pools. 
Several  important  capital  pools         pensions,  insurance,  DFIs  and banks,  as 
well  as  pools  of  charitable  institutions           need  appropriate  risk-adjusted 
returns. AIFs provide their corpuses with significant returns when prudently 
managed in a favourable economic environment. 

17 

2.3.3. 

2.3.4. 

There is, therefore, a critical need to unlock other domestic pools of capital 
as  identified  in  this  report  because  such  pools  currently  constitute  only 
approximately 10 %  of the total private equity and venture capital invested 
in India annually. 

This  chapter  recommends  wide-ranging  reforms  to  help  unlock  diverse 
domestic  sources,  such  as  domestic  pension  funds,  insurance  companies, 
charitable endowments, banks, the concept of accredited investors and others 
which  have  the  capacity  to  provide  signiﬁcant  amounts  of  long-term  risk 
capital. 

III. 

Promoting Onshore Fund Management 

2.4.1. 

2.4.2. 

2.4.3. 

2.4.4. 

An ideal tax and regulatory framework for AIFs should aim for India-focused 
funds pooled or domiciled in India and fund managers, who manage these 
funds  to  operate  locally.  This  model  of  localizing  funds  and  their 
management is followed by developed economies resulting in a thriving AIF 
industry. 

Proactive measures need to be taken to attract  fund managers to India due 
to the beneficial impact on the Indian economy and the creation of a robust 
eco-system to boost entrepreneurship, job creation and GDP growth. 

This scenario is only possible if there is a level playing field between fund 
managers domiciled in India and those located offshore, which is clearly not 
the case in India currently. The policy framework needs to change, and the 
operational freedom of domestic AIFs needs to be enhanced. 

The Committee has evolved a set of recommendations that would enable 
and encourage onshore fund management, and has taken cognizance of all 
stakeholders. The two vital reforms that would greatly help the cause   are 
a)  tweaking  ‘Safe  Harbour’  norms  and  b)  implementing  a  Securities 
Transactions  Tax  (STT)  approach  to  taxation  on 
investments  and 
distributions by Indian AIFs which has worked effectively for several years 
in the case of Foreign Portfolio Investors. In the interim it is recommended 
that  the  authorities  should  clarify,  on  an  immediate  basis,  that  exempt 
income flowing through AIFs should not suffer any withholding tax. 

2.4.5. 

The modification of safe-harbour rules proposed in this report is a result of 
feedback that India has not reaped the benefits of the current safe-harbour 
rules. Accordingly, the industry has not gone down this route primarily on 
account of the existing tax law not being conducive. 

2.4.6. 

These suggestions are transformative and would be hugely beneficial and 
should be implemented on a priority basis. 

18 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.4.7. 

The  chapter  titled  ‘Promoting  Onshore  Fund  Management’  provides 
numerical examples of the tax impact of the withholding tax approach and 
the STT approach to illustrate the benefits of the latter. It shows that the 
withholding  tax  regime  creates  undue  hardships  and  is  inconsistent  with 
the  need  for  ease  of  business.  On  the  other  hand,  the  suggested  STT 
regime will simplify taxation of AIFs. 

2.4.8.  Greater  operational  freedom  for  India-domiciled  AIFs  will  attract  more 
offshore  capital  into  them.  Such  freedom  requires  a  disclosure-based 
approach to regulation. In addition, there needs to be greater flexibility in 
the regulations such as for investing in offshore companies. 

2.4.9. 

The  chapter  also  shows  that  venture  capital  and  private  equity  portfolio 
companies  are  major  sustainable  tax  generators,  not  the  venture  capital 
and private equity funds in themselves. 

IV. 

Reforming the AIF Regulatory Regime 

2.5.1. 

In order to sustain the continued growth of the AIF industry, the path ahead 
requires reforms in the enabling regulatory framework for AIFs. While most 
regulatory  efforts  have  rightly  focused  on  protecting  minority  shareholder 
interests and improving compliance, there has been limited direct regulatory 
effort focused on the private equity and venture capital industry itself. 

There have been considerable developments recently, for example the pass- 
through approach introduced in the Union Budget 2015 and the Reserve Bank 
of India’s AIF investment policy liberalising investments in AIFs. Sustained 
reforms in a few areas could further grow the industry. These include a 
current and rationalised approach, an awareness of merging boundaries of 
different pools, a consistent and simple framework harmonized across 
regulators, and a sharply defined clarity on investment boundaries. 

The Committee’s recommendations cover: 

i.  Regulation of fund manager and not the fund 
ii.  Minor amendments to existing AIF regulations to include ‘growth’ in the 

definition of venture capital funds under Category I AIFs 

iii.  Classification of Category III AIFs 

2.5.2. 

indicates 

report  clearly 

The 
specific 
recommendations  supported  by  underlying  principles,  best  practices,  and 
the much larger vision of economic growth which shapes and sustains the 
quality of human lives. 

the 

road  ahead 

through 

19 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Way Forward 

 

Alternative  Investment  Funds  bring  significant  benefits  to  the  economy.  If  the 
regulatory issues are streamlined, AIFs can attract large capital flows to potentially 
reach  a  size  of  as  much  2%  of  the  GDP.  The  Committee  believes  that,  as  the  way 
forward, it is vital for this report to be widely disseminated to key regulatory agencies 
for  consideration  and  implementation,  garnering  support  for  the  framework  laid 
down by the Standing Committee. 

 

20 

 

 

 

3.1.1. 

III 

Creating a Favourable Tax Environment 

In the context of the contribution of Alternative Investment Funds in India's 
economic growth story, and given the current positive economic sentiment, 
the country’s AIF industry has a real opportunity to make a greater impact 
on  the  Indian  economy.  For  this  to  happen,  the  route  ahead  requires  an 
enabling tax regulatory framework to ensure the continued growth of the 
industry. 

3.1.2. 

Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) as an asset class will need recognition as 
a distinct investment class, much the same way as investments from Foreign 
Portfolio Investors and Foreign Direct Investment are recognized as carrying 
unique  attributes.  While  the last few months  (including the  Union  Budget 
2015) have seen developments on many policy fronts, there are a few areas 
where tax regulations could further help forge a resurgent path ahead for 
the industry. 

3.2 Tax Recommendations 

The  Committee's  tax  recommendations  are  based  on  fundamental  best  practice 
principles described in the introduction to this report. The recommendations focus on 
four key areas: 

A.  Make the tax pass-through system work flawlessly in a simple manner for 
complete “clarity”, “certainty” and “consistency”; provide exemption to AIFs 
from section 56(2)(viia) and 56(2)(viib) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (the Act); 
and clarify indirect transfer provisions for funds/ investors; 

B.  Attract significant  amounts of stable, long-term foreign capital : 

 

into India-focused foreign funds by providing a safe harbour to onshore 
managers of offshore funds 

  by making Foreign Direct Investment  in AIFs work efficiently. 

C.  Given the high risk and relatively illiquid nature of capital from the venture 
capital and private equity sector, it needs to at least be treated at par with 
volatile, short-term public market investments for taxation. We recommend 
the  Government  adopt  a  roadmap  for  AIF  taxation  based  on  the  STT 
framework. 

D.  India should at least be the global best practice and be followed by the world 

for “NEXT PRACTICES”. 

21 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The  recommendations  in  each  list  are  broadly  in  order  of  their  priority.  These 
recommendations, if implemented in their entirety, would go a long way in making 
India  more  attractive  for  alternative  investments  and  for  the  growth  of  a  robust 
Alternative 
industry.  Wherever  possible,  our  suggested 
amendments  of the  Income  Tax  Act,  corresponding  to  our  recommendations, have 
been provided in the last section of this Chapter 

Investment  Fund 

A. Make the tax pass-through system work flawlessly in a simple manner for complete 
“clarity”,  “certainty”  and  “consistency”,  provide  exemption  to  AIFs  from  section 
56(2)(viia) and 56(2)(viib) of the Act and clarify indirect transfer provisions for funds/ 
investors. 

Summary of recommendations: 

I 

II 

III 

Make the concept of tax pass-through for AIFs effective 
a)  The exempt income of AIFs should not suffer tax withholding of 10%. 
b) 

Investment gains of AIFs should be deemed to be ‘capital gains’ in 
nature. 

c)  The tax rules applicable to ‘investment funds’ in Chapter XII-B of the Act 

should be extended to all categories of AIFs. 

d)  Losses incurred by AIFs should be available for set-off to its investors. 

Investments by AIFs should be exempt from provisions of Section 56(2)(viia) 
and 56(2)(viib) of the Act. 

Indirect transfer provisions should be clarified to be not applicable to  gains 
from transfer of shares or interest of the holding companies/entities above 
eligible investment funds (EIFs) investing in India. 

A.I    a)  Elimination of the Requirement for Tax Deduction     on  Exempt 

Income 
1.1  The  Act  has  a  provision  (Section  194LBB  of  the  Act)  relating  to 
deduction of tax at source on the income arising for the investor from 
an investment fund, which requires the investment fund to deduct tax 
at  source  (TDS),  at the  time  when  it pays  income  to  the  investor,  or 
credits the same to the account of the investor. 

1.2  The technical interpretation of the Act leads to, inter alia, the following, 
which misaligns the investor’s tax liability and the tax withholding by 
the investment fund: 

22 

 

 

 
 

 

  Tax  withholding  on  exempt  income  streams  –  such  as  dividend 
income  [Section  10(34)]  and  specified  long-term  capital  gains 
[Section 10(38)] payable by the AIF to its investors. 

  Tax withholding on entities which are exempt from tax – income 
of  certain  prescribed  entities  are  exempt  under  Section  10  the 
Act, e.g., corporations established for the welfare and economic 
upliftment of ex-servicemen. In future, provident funds, gratuity 
funds,  superannuation  funds,  etc.,  could  become  investors  in 
AIFs.  All  these  funds  are  exempt  from  tax  on  their  investment 
income / gains. 

  Applicability of withholding tax on credit / distribution of income 
paid  /  payable  to  non-resident  investors  eligible  for  beneficial 
provisions of a double tax avoidance agreement (DTAA). 

1.3  Tax  withholding  in  the  above  scenarios  would  lead  to  deferment  of 
realization of income / gains for the investors, as they will need to claim 
the tax withheld in their respective income-tax returns as refunds (where 
they do not have sufficient tax liability to otherwise absorb the excess 
tax withheld by the AIF). As such, collection of withholding tax in such 
cases would not increase the revenues of the Government and result in 
the  Government  incurring  interest  costs  for  the  period  the  tax  is  not 
refunded to the taxpayers. 

1.4  The provisions of Section 197 of the Act provide an opportunity to the 
assessee to apply for a certificate allowing deduction of income-tax at 
lower rates, or no deduction of income-tax. However, such a certificate 
can  be  applied  only  in  case  of  withholding  requirements  prescribed 
under certain sections of Chapter XVII of the Act. The list of such sections 
mentioned  as  part  of  Section  197(1)  does  not  include  section  194LBB. 
The  absence  of  Section  194LBB  as  part  of  Section  197(1)  will  lead  to 
unintentional hardships to investors who could otherwise have obtained 
nil or lower withholding tax certification under Section 197 of the Act. 

23 

 

 

 

Recommendations 

A] Resident investors in AIF 

1.  The requirement to deduct tax at source should not apply vis-à-vis accrual/ 
distribution of income to investors exempt from tax under the Act irrespective 
of its nature and source. 

2.  The requirement to deduct tax at source should not apply to income exempt 
from  tax  under  the  Act.  For  example,  if  the  income  earned  by  the  AIF  is 
dividend  on  which  the  company  paying  the  dividend  has  paid  dividend 
distribution  tax,  which  is  exempt  from  tax  under  the  Act,  the  accrual/ 
distribution of such dividend should not be subject to tax deduction at source. 

3.  The  requirement  to  deduct  tax  at  source  should  be  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Chapter XVII-B (Deduction at source) of the Act for the type of 
income credited/ distributed to the investors. 

B] Non-resident investors in AIF 

1.  Tax  deduction  at  source  on  accrual/  distribution  of  income  to  non-resident 
investors eligible for beneficial taxation provisions under an applicable DTAA 
will be on the basis of the DTAA or domestic tax law provision, whichever is 
more beneficial to the investor. 

2.  Resident and non-resident investors in AIFs should have the ability to obtain a 
NIL/  reduced  tax  withholding  certificate  under  section  197,  subject  to 
conditions in the said section. 

3.  From a reporting perspective, the withholding tax return to be filed by the AIF 
could capture the details of the income distributed to ensure that the relevant 
data is captured. 

A.I b)  Characterization of Gains of an AIF 

1.1  Traditionally, the issue of characterization of exit gains (whether taxable 
as  business  income  or  capital  gains)  has  been  a  subject  matter  of 
litigation  with 
judicial 
pronouncements on whether gains from transactions in securities should 
be  taxed  as  “business  profits”  or  as  “capital  gains”.  However,  these 
pronouncements,  while  laying  down  certain  guiding  principles,  have 
largely been driven by the facts and circumstances of each case. 

tax  authorities.  There  have  been 

the 

24 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.2  The  intention  of  the  SEBI  (AIF)  Regulations,  2012  is  to  promote 
investments. As per the extant regulatory framework, a SEBI registered 
AIF  is  a  privately  pooled  investment  vehicle  which  collects  funds  from 
investors for investing in accordance with the defined investment policy 
for the benefit of its investors. 

1.3  Category I and II AIFs predominantly invest in unlisted investee entities 
with a medium to long-term investment horizon (typical holding periods 
would range from 2-5 years). The investments by AIFs are made out of 
funds  collected from  their  investors; their  ability  to  borrow  is  severely 
restricted under the SEBI (AIF) Regulations. 

1.4  The  current  tax  code  for  AIFs  could  lead  to  unintended  litigation  on 
characterization  of  income  at  AIF  level.  Given  the  intent  of  SEBI  (AIF) 
Regulations is not to allow carrying on of business, there is no need to 
provide for taxation of business income at the AIF level. 

1.5 

It is pertinent to note that, given the activity of an AIF, it can earn only 
capital gains income, interest income and dividend income. Historically, 
funds  have  been  making  investments  in  investee  companies  as  an 
investment activity and not business activity. The primary objective of an 
AIF  is  to  make  investments  and  provide  much  needed  capital  to 
entrepreneurs. Therefore, income earned by an AIF from its investment 
activity cannot be characterized as business income. 

1.6  The regulatory framework of FDIs / FPIs and AIFs is similar, which allows 
such  entities  to  make  investment  in  securities.  Therefore,  any  income 
earned by an AIF should be characterized as capital gains. 

1.7  Further, since the issue on characterization of gains from an investment 
activity  as  “capital  gains”  or  “business  profits”  is  also  relevant  for 
offshore  private  equity  funds,  it  should  be  provided  that  investments 
made  by  an  eligible  investment  fund  (as  defined  in  the  Section  9A(3)) 
shall be deemed to be a “capital asset” under the Act. 

25 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendations 
The provisions relating to taxability of business income earned by AIF at the AIF 
level should be deleted. 
It should be deemed that income earned by the AIF should be taxable under the 
head “capital gains” or “income from other sources” and not “business income”. 

 

1.8 

It is our understanding that one of the concerns expressed by the tax 
administration, in connection with providing a deemed characterization 
of gains derived by Category II AIFs, is that the SEBI (AIF) Regulations are 
far less prescriptive on investment conditions applicable to Category II 
AIFs, i.e. the regulations only stipulate that a Category II AIF shall invest 
primarily in unlisted investee companies or in units of other AIFs, as may 
be specified in the placement memorandum. 

1.9  As  an  adjunct  to  the  above  recommendation,  we  would  recommend 

consideration of the following: 

 

 

 

Recommendations 

  Amend the definition of “venture capital fund” in Securities and Exchange 
Board  of  India  (Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012  in  the 
Definitions section, Clause 2(z) - 

“venture capital fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests 
primarily  in  unlisted  securities  of  start-ups,  emerging  or  early-stage  or 
growth venture capital undertakings mainly involved in new products, new 
services, technology or intellectual property right based activities or a new 
business model 

  Amend  the  definition  of  “Category  I  Alternative  Investment  Fund”  in 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative  Investment  Funds) 
Regulations, 2012, Clause 3(4)(a) - 

A.I    c)  Extension of Tax Pass-through to all categories of AIFs 

1.1  The Finance Act 2015 (FA 2015) introduced a special tax regime for 

Category I and II AIFs by the insertion of a new chapter, i.e. Chapter XII- 

26 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

B  in  the  Act.  The  amendments  to  the  Act  conceptually  attempt  to 
provide  a  “pass-through”  tax  status  to  Category  I  and  II  AIFs  for  the 
income earned (except for business income). 

1.2  However,  the  “pass-through”  tax  status  has  not  been  accorded  to 

Category III AIFs. 

1.3 

AIFs are vehicles set-up to pool investments from various investors and 
to  invest  across  different  asset  classes  using  different  investment 
strategies. The income that is sought to be taxed is the income of the 
investors. The taxation of an income, or the taxpayer itself, should not 
change, merely because an investor decides to use a professional asset 
manager to make investment decisions for him vis-à-vis directly making 
those  investment  decisions  himself.  Further,  the  manner  of  taxation 
should also not change, where an investor invests in an AIF, instead of 
investing in his own name, using a SEBI registered portfolio manager. 

1.4 

In any case, it is clear that irrespective of the investment strategy, the 
policy  of  the  Government  is  to  have  one-level  tax  in  terms  of  the 
income arising from / to the AIF – i.e., either the AIF will be taxed or 
the investor, but not both (on the basis that usually the AIF is a trust). 

1.5  The  class  of investors  that  make  investments  in  AIFs  are  generally  high 
net  worth  and  taxpaying  investors,  so  a  question  of  tracking  those 
investors should not generally arise. 

1.6    Category III AIFs introduced a product that was hitherto not available   
in the Indian financial sector. A clear tax code for taxation of such AIFs 
based on the pass-through tax principle will be critical for the success 
of this product in the medium to long-term. 

27 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendations 
The tax rules applicable to “investment funds” in Chapter XII-B of the Act should be 
extended  to  all  categories  of  AIFs  with  suitable  modifications  to  eliminate  the 
distinction between the tax treatment of business income and income under other 
heads  in  the  hands  of  the  AIF  /  its  investors.  As  such,  given  that,  under  the  pass- 
through tax principle, the taxation of income derived by the AIF would, in the hands 
of  the  investor,  assume the  same  character  had  the  investor  made the underlying 
investments directly, there should be no revenue loss to the Government on account 
of this recommendation. 

 

A.I d)  Pass-through Tax Status Extended to Net Losses at AIF   level to 

the Investor 

1.1  Conceptually, pooling vehicles are formed for the following two 

benefits: 
a.  To engage experienced professionals to invest savings; 
b.  To achieve economies of scale. 

Thus, investors who invest could have chosen to invest in target 
companies of their own accord. 

1.2 

1.3 

Tax implication thus plays an important role for the investor to choose 
one form over the other. The above-mentioned benefits will be of no 
relevance if the tax impact on investing through AIF is higher. 

Under  the  AIF  Regulations,  Category  I  and  II  AIFs  are  closed-ended 
funds and the tenure of a specific fund / scheme is determined at the 
time of its launch. Typically, an AIF’s tenure would not exceed 10 years 
from its launch. Based on the provisions, where Category I and II AIFs 
incurs  net  losses  on  investments  towards  the  end  of  its  lifecycle,  or 
has  unabsorbed  losses,  which  cannot  be  utilised  by  the  AIF,  such 
losses would lapse. The investors would in this scenario be taxed on 
an  amount  that  would  be  greater  than  the  “real”  taxable  income 
derived  by  them  from  their  investment  in  the  AIF,  causing  the  AIF 
alternative  becoming  unattractive  to  an  investor  vis-a-vis  direct 
investments. 

1.4 

Further,  it  could  be  provided  that  in  case  of  transfer  (excluding 
transactions which are not regarded as transfer under section 47 of the 
Act) of units by the investors in the AIF, the net loss proportionate to 
the units transferred shall not be passed on to the investors. 

28 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendations 
As such, a pass through tax regime should not distinguish between gains and losses. 
Therefore, similar to the pass through for net income, net losses incurred by all the 
categories of AIFs, under any head of income, should also be allowed to be passed on 
to the investors. 

 

A.II  Exemption for AIFs from (a) Section 56(1)(viib) on issue of shares 
at a value higher than fair market value and (b) Section 56(2)(viia) 
on  purchase  of  shares  at  a  value  lower  than  fair  market  value 
(FMV) 

2.1  Section 56(2)(viia) of the Act provides that where shares are purchased 
at a value lower than FMV of a company, not being a company in which 
public  are  substantially  interested,  then  the  difference  is  taxed  in  the 
hands of the purchaser. 

2.2  Section 56(2)(viib) of the Act provides that where a company, not being 
a company in which public are substantially interested, issues shares at 
a  consideration  which  exceeds  the  FMV  of  such  company,  then  the 
difference is taxed as income in the hands of the issuing company. 

2.3  Currently, these provisions apply to AIFs when they purchase shares of 
a closely held company, or to the investee company when they subscribe 
to shares of such a company. 

2.4  Presently, Section 56(2)(viib) of the Act provides specific exemption for 
companies where the consideration for issue of shares is received from 
inter alia Venture Capital Funds (VCFs) and AIF. Further, while such an 
exclusion  has  been  provided  to  VCFs  in  respect  of  Section  56(2)(viib), 
these benefits have not been extended to Section 56(2)(viia). 

2.5  Further, AIFs, being institutional investors, hold a fiduciary responsibility 
to invest in transactions on an arm’s length basis, and given that they are 
subject  to  SEBI  oversight  and  have  investor  reporting  obligations,  it 
would  be  reasonable  to  assume  that  the  price  for  acquisition  / 
subscription  is  determined  on  a  sound  basis,  considering  all  factors 
associated with the investee companies’ and sector’s past performance 
and future potential. 

29 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Recommendation 
All AIFs and their investee companies should be exempted from the rigor of 
Sections 56(2)(viia) and 56(2)(viib) of the Act. 

 

A.III  Clarify indirect transfer provisions for funds/ investors 

3.1  Gains  from  an  offshore  vehicle  wherein  the  Indian  assets  represent  at 
least 50% of the value of all the assets is subject to tax in India. India- 
centric offshore funds by design have more than 50% Indian assets and 
therefore are subject to ambiguity on taxation. 

3.2 

In a multi-layered structure, the gains can be subject to indirect transfer 
tax at multiple levels. 

3.3  Globally, there is a practice of providing liquidity to limited partnerships 
(LPs) by facilitating secondary transfers (for example – an LP buying the 
stake of another LP in a fund which has more than 50% Indian assets). In 
such case, the gains on sale of stake by an LP can be subject to indirect 
transfer tax. 

Recommendation 
Indirect transfer provisions should be clarified to be not applicable to gains from 
transfer of share or interest of the holding companies/entities above EIFs investing 
in India 

B.  Attract significant inflows of foreign capital: 

I.  Into India-focused foreign funds by providing a safe harbour to 

onshore managers of those funds; and 

II.  by making FDI in AIF work efficiently. 

30 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Summary of  Recommendations 
I.  Attract large amount of foreign capital into India-focused foreign funds by 

providing a safe harbour to onshore managers of offshore funds:- 

a)  The  requirement  of  the  fund  to  be  a  “tax  resident”  of  a  foreign  country 
should be changed to a requirement of the fund being “established” or “set- 
up” or “incorporated” or “registered” in such country. 

b)  Due  to  various  commercial  reasons  (discussed  in  detail  in  subsequent 
paragraphs), investor diversification related conditions should be deleted. 
Alternatively,  exclusions  could  be  provided  for  applying  the  investor 
diversification related conditions. 

c)  The  determination  of  fund  management  fees  to  be  at  arm’s  length  will 
involve a lot of subjectivity. Therefore, the condition of fund management 
fees to be at arm’s length should be deleted. 

d)  Investment  diversification  conditions  restrict  the  ability  of  the  funds  to 
make  significant  minority  investments  (say  more  than  20%)  or  make 
controlled acquisitions. Furthermore, it restricts the ability of the funds to 
set- up offshore subsidiaries to invest in India – these subsidiaries may be 
required to ring fence the investment risk of a specific investment or to get 
a co-investor for a specific investment 

e)  It should be clarified that offshore funds shall not be regarded as carrying 
on business in India merely because of the activities they perform to protect 
their shareholding in investee entities. 

f)  Safe  harbour  under  Section  9A  of  the  Act  should  not  be  denied  only  on 
account of non-furnishing of the prescribed statement within 90 days, even 
when  the  fund  qualifies  as  an  eligible  investment  fund  and  the  fund 
manager qualifies as an eligible fund manager. 

II.  Attract large amount of foreign capital by making Foreign Direct Investment 

(FDI) in AIF work efficiently 

a)  Promoting FDI  in AIFs: 

i. 

Investment by non-resident investors in AIFs on a non-repatriation 
basis; and 

ii.  TDS on distribution of income to non-resident investors in AIFs to be 

in accordance with DTAA tax rates 

31 

iii.  Permit LLPs, including Indian owned and managed LLPs, to act 

as sponsors/ managers to AIFs 

iv.  Relax Indian tax compliance obligations for non-resident investors in 

AIFs 

b)  Resolve ambiguity around investment by non-resident investors into AIFs 

 

B.I  Attract  large  amounts  of  foreign  capital  into  India-focused 
foreign  funds by  providing a safe  harbour to onshore  managers 
of offshore funds 

1.1 

The  FA  2015  seeks  to  encourage  fund  managers  managing  “eligible 
investment  funds”  to  be  based  in  India  without  such  activity  being 
regarded as a business connection / place of effective management of 
the eligible investment fund in India. 

1.2 

The  definition  of  an  “eligible  investment  fund”  is  onerous  which 
requires compliance of several conditions, such as: 

a)  Tax residency of the fund 
b)  Investor diversification 
c)  Remuneration to investment managers 
d)  Investment diversification 
e)  Carrying on any business in India, or from India 
f)  Reporting requirements 

a) 

Tax Residency of the fund 

We  understand  that  the  backdrop  of  this  condition  is  to  enable  the  tax 
authorities  to  gain  access  to  information,  through  the  tax  treaty  and 
information exchange agreements, about investors investing in India through 
these  funds,  should  a  need  arise.  This  is  therefore  critical  from  a  legislative 
perspective. 

While the requirement is appreciated, the condition of the investment fund 
being a tax resident need not be a pre-requisite for the following reasons: 

i. 

There are many instances where a fund may not qualify as a tax resident 
of  a  country  on  account  of  domestic  tax  laws  or  legal  framework;  the 
global  structure  of  funds  has  been  based  on  applicable  legal      and 

32 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regulatory  frameworks.  Such  funds  do  not  avail  tax  treaty  benefits  in 
terms of capital gains, and pay full tax on capital gains earned by them in 
India. 

To give some examples - large pension funds or mutual funds from USA 
or SICAVs (open ended collective investment schemes) from Luxembourg 
are  generally  not  regarded  as  residents  of  the  respective  countries 
because of the respective domestic tax law. 

ii. 

The removal of the trigger of “residence” should not impact India’s ability 
to  collect  required  information  under  the  applicable  tax  treaty  / 
information exchange agreements. In this context, it is important to note 
that  typically  the  Article  relating  to  jurisdiction  in  any  information 
exchange  agreement  entered  into  by  India  provides  that  “information 
shall be exchanged in accordance with this Agreement without regard to 
whether the person to whom the information relates is, or whether the 
information is held by, a resident of a Contracting Party”. 

Similarly, the relevant Article on Exchange of information in India’s tax 
treaties  typically  provides  that  “the  exchange  of  information  is  not 
restricted by Article 1”; Article 1 provides that the tax treaty shall apply 
to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States. 

Recommendation 
The  requirement  of  the  fund  to  be  a  “tax  resident”  of  a  foreign  country  shall  be 
changed to a requirement of fund being “established” or “set-up” or “incorporated” 
or “registered” in such country. 

 

For  reasons  discussed  above,  we  believe  that  our  recommendation  addresses  the 
concern  of  the  fund  management 
industry  without  compromising  on  the 
administration’s requirement to access the information by India tax and government 
authorities 

b) 

Investor diversification 

Firstly,  we  believe  the  management  of  funds  in  India  should  not  lead  to  a 
differential tax treatment for investors merely because some of those funds 
managed are diversified, and some are not. 

33 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Further, there are many instances where the fund managers wish to manage 
a small set of investors who could provide them with relatively large pools of 
capital to manage. The following are illustrative situations of providing good 
cases for management of offshore funds in India, but where the diversification 
of investor base may not be relevant: 

  Management of a large global family office. 

  Management  of  a  part  of  the  funds  allocated  by  a  large  investor  (e.g. 
sovereign  wealth  fund  or  a  pension fund) to be managed by a  domestic 
fund manager. 

  Global propriety funds of development and other financial institutions (like 
banks  and  insurance  companies)  being  managed  by  domestic  asset 
managers in India. 

  New  fund  managers  looking  at  raising  commitments  may  be  able  to 
achieve diversification only after they have established a reasonable track 
record. 

  All new funds could have anchor investors who would clearly hold more 
than  5%  of  the  total  holding.  These  anchor  investors  are  critical  for  the 
success of the fund managers. 

  The diversification may be achieved over multiple fund closings but the 
asset management has to start immediately from first closing of the fund. 

There are many domestic asset managers who wish to manage global pools of 
capital  but  who  may  not  be  able  to  meet  diversification  related  conditions 
given the regulatory restrictions in marketing and distribution of the financial 
products in various jurisdictions. 

34 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Recommendations 
Given the constraints discussed above, it is appropriate to delete the diversification 
related conditions. 

Alternatively, exclusions/ changes could be provided for applying the diversification 
related conditions. An illustrative list of exclusions/ changes is provided below: 

  The diversification conditions should be applied only after the fund makes a 
final closing, or alternatively these should not be applied for the initial three 
years of setting-up. 

  One  should  consider  direct  and  indirect  investors  –  there  could  be  more 
investments from investors like fund of funds or institutional investors having 
several beneficiaries/ members. 

  Diversification  rules  should  not  be  applicable  where  a  majority  of  the 
investors comprise of institutional investors like sovereign wealth funds, large 
pension funds, banks, etc. 

  There should be exclusion for anchor investors – these could mean initial two 

or three investors in the fund. 

  The SEBI, after a lot of industry  deliberation, has prescribed categories and 
types of funds that can invest in India and conditions attached to the same. 
The existing regulatory framework to allow foreign investments either under 
the  FPI  Regulations  or  FVCI  Regulations  is  comprehensive,  and  there  are 
detailed  monitoring  mechanisms  to  track  the  quality  of  investors  and  the 
sectors in which the investment flows. Hence the funds that are eligible to be 
registered as foreign portfolio investors or foreign venture capital investors 
should be excluded from the applicability of diversification rules. 

  Lastly,  the  diversification  rules  used  by  SEBI  for  FPIs  are  robust  and  well 
understood by the industry in terms of implementation. Our recommendation 
is to merely align the requirements of diversification under the Act and the 
FPI Regulations. 

c) 

Remuneration to investment managers 

Ordinarily where the eligible investment fund and the eligible fund manager 
are  unrelated  or  unconnected,  there  is  no  reason  to  believe  that  the  fund 
management fees will not be at arm’s length. 

In cases where they are related or connected persons (or to put it differently, 
associated enterprises), the payment of fund management fees to the eligible 

35 

fund  manager  has  to  be  computed  in  accordance  with  the  arm’s  length 
principle under the provisions relating to transfer pricing in the Act. 

A  determination  of  fees  being  in  accordance  with  an  arm’s  length  principle 
could  involve  lots  of  factors  including  demand  and  supply,  experience  and 
track record of the eligible fund manager, investment strategy, and size of the 
funds that are being allocated to respective eligible fund managers. 

In other words such a determination of fees to be at arm’s length will involve 
a lot of subjectivity, and it is possible that the tax payers and tax authorities 
have a different point of view on what constitutes an arm’s length price. Any 
challenge by the tax authority could result in an uncertainty on the tax liability 
of eligible investment funds, on account of the risk of them being regarded as 
resident in India or carrying on operations in India. 

Recommendation 
Therefore the condition of fund management fees to be at arm’s length may serve no 
purpose, and should be deleted. 

d) 

Investment diversification 

This  provision  restricts  the  ability  of  the  funds  to  make  significant  minority 
investments (say more than 20%) or make controlled acquisitions. 

it  restricts  the  ability  of  the  funds  to  set-up  offshore 
Furthermore, 
subsidiaries  to  invest  in  India  –  these  subsidiaries  may  be  required  to  ring 
fence the investment risk of a specific investment or to get a co-investor for a 
specific investment. 

Recommendation 
In backdrop of the aforesaid commercial requirements, this condition should be 
deleted. 

e) 

Carrying on any business in India or from India 

At  times,  offshore  Private  Equity  funds  (especially  buyout  funds)  acquire  a 
controlling stake in the investee companies. Further, in other cases also, where 
the fund has acquired a minority stake, the fund may have minority    interest 

36 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

protection rights, which could be viewed as resulting in “control” over the 
business of the investee company in India. 

Recommendation 
It  should  be  clarified  that  offshore  funds  shall  not  be  regarded  as  carrying  on 
business  in  India  merely  because  of  the  activities  they  perform  to  protect  their 
shareholding in investee entities. 

f) 

Reporting requirements 

Sub-section (5) of Section 9A of the Act, provides that every eligible investment 
fund is required to furnish a statement containing information relating to the 
fulfilment of the prescribed conditions and other relevant information, within 
90 days from the end of the financial year. 

Further,  Section  271FAB  of  the  Act  provides  that  failure  to  furnish  the 
aforesaid statement within the time prescribed under Section 9A of the Act 
could result in a penalty of Rs. 500,000. 

Recommendation 
It is important to clarify that non-compliance with the provisions of this sub-section 
(i.e. if the statement is not furnished within 90 days) should not result in denial of Safe 
Harbour  under  Section  9A  of  the  Act,  even  when  the  fund  qualifies  as  an  eligible 
investment fund, and the fund manager qualifies as an eligible fund manager. 

B.II  Attract large amount of foreign capital by making Foreign Direct 

Investments (FDI) in AIF work efficiently 

The RBI notification permitting foreign investment in AIFs reflects the ‘Make 
in India’ initiative for the fund management industry. Substantial benefits 
have been offered for an AIF that is sponsored / managed by Indian resident 
citizen or entities under their control. Few minor tweaks could attract 
substantial capital through this route 

a)  Promoting FDIs in AIFs 

i. 

Investment by non-resident investors in AIFs on a non-repatriation 
basis 

37 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

TDS on distribution of income to non-resident investors in AIFs to be 
in accordance with DTAA tax rates 

Permit Indian owned and managed LLPs to act as sponsors/ 
managers to AIFs 

Relax Indian tax compliance obligations for non-resident investors in 
AIFs 

b)  Resolve ambiguity around investment by non-resident investors into AIFs 

under NRO route 

 

a) 

Promoting FDIs in AIFs 

 

 

 

The RBI notification permitting foreign investment in AIFs reflects 
the ‘Make in India’ initiative for the fund management industry 

Substantial benefits have been offered for an AIF that is sponsored / 
managed by Indian resident citizens or entities under their control 

Few minor tweaks could attract substantial capital through this 
route 

Recommendation 

  Permit investment by non-resident Indians in AIFs on a non-repatriation basis 
through appropriate amendments in the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 
1999 

  TDS on accrual/ distribution of income to non-resident investors in AIFs to be 

in accordance with DTAA tax rates (refer point AI a) above for proposed 
amendment) 

  Permit Limited Liability Partnerships (LLPs), including those which are Indian- 

owned and controlled,  to act as sponsors/ managers to AIFs 
o  Manner of determining ownership / control of LLPs has now been defined 

 

 

 

  Relax Indian tax compliance obligations for non-resident investors in AIFs 

where tax has been fully discharged through TDS 

b) 

Resolve ambiguity around investment by non-resident investors into AIFs 

Remove ambiguity around investment by NRIs into AIFs under NRO route by 
changes to the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security 
by a Person Resident outside India) Regulations 2000 (“TISPRO”) 

38 

 

 

 

Recommendations 

  Amend the language of Regulation 2 of the Schedule 11 to clarify to include  

payments made through NRO account in addition to NRE and FCNR to be eligible for 
investments under this Schedule. 

  An amendment may also be carried out in Regulation 2(2) of Schedule 5 of the 

TISPRO to include ‘units of Investment Vehicles’ in addition to other securities such 
as government securities, units of domestic mutual funds, etc. 

 

Include a separate proviso in both Schedule 5 and Schedule 11 to state that any 
investment by NRI in the units of Investment Vehicle under the non-repatriation 
route shall be treated as domestic investment for the purpose of foreign ownership 

 

C.  Given the high risk and relatively illiquid nature of capital from the 
venture  capital  and  private  equity  sector,  it  needs  to  at  least  be 
treated  at  par  with  public  market  investments  for  taxation.  We 
recommend the government adopt roadmap for AIF taxation based 
on a Securities Transaction Tax (STT) framework. 

Summary of committee’s recommendations 

I.  Introduce  STT  at  an  appropriate  rate  on  all  distributions  (gross)  of  AIFs, 
investment,  short-term  gains  and  other  income  and  eliminate  any 
withholding  of  tax.  After  STT,  income  from  AIFs  should  be  tax  free  to 
investors 

C.I  Long term roadmap for STT based approach for AIFs 

1.1 

1.2 

Currently  no  taxes  are  being  paid  by foreign  investors  on  account  of 
their investment through DTAA jurisdiction. Even when taxes are being 
paid, there is a limited amount being collected due to indexation, loss- 
setoffs and other exemptions being claimed. 

The  current  tax  regime  is  also  not  very  well  understood  by  foreign 
investors and has led to numerous litigations with tax authorities. To 
facilitate the pooling of foreign funds in India, foreign investors should 
be provided simple straight-forward tax laws that they are comfortable 
with. 

39 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

1.3 

STT was introduced in 2004 to: 

 

replace the long term capital gains tax on securities traded on the 
floor of the stock exchange 

  shore up revenue from stock transactions and to create a level 

playing field for all participants in the stock market 

  simplify the tax treatment on transaction in securities leading to a 

significant reduction in litigation 

1.4 

As a long-term approach to align taxation of AIFs and other forms of 
collective  investment  vehicles,  an  STT  approach  may  be  considered. 
This approach would 

  Eliminate tax arbitrage and hence, attract more capital in AIFs 

  Simplify tax administration of AIFs and reduce revenue compliance 

gaps 

  Ease of operations – pave the way for VCPE funds to domicile in 

India 

  Discourage ‘treaty shopping’ – development of local financial hubs 

1.5 

If STT is implemented and Withholding Taxes are removed, tax 
authorities can directly collect a significant amount of taxes on the 
investments/distributions made by AIFs. 

1.6 

STT approach will reduce tax disputes and enable smooth collection of 
taxes. 

1.7 

Post STT, distributions are tax free to investors in funds i.e. LPs. 

1.8 

India can significantly move up in World Bank Group rating on “Ease 
of Paying Taxes” (current ranking is 156 out of 189 economies). 

Recommendations 

 

Introduce  STT  at  an  appropriate  rate  on  all  distributions  (gross)  of  AIFs, 
investment, short-term gains and other income and eliminate any withholding of 
tax. After STT, income from AIFs should be tax free to investors 

  Venture capital and private equity funds have a complete audit trail. The audit 

trail and full information on investments/distributions to be provided to tax 
authorities 

40 

 

 

 

D.  India should at least be the global best practice and be followed by 

the world for “NEXT PRACTICES” 

Summary of Recommendations 

I. 

Investors in SEBI regulated angel/ venture capital funds should be provided 

an incentive in the form of a tax deduction of up to 50% of the investment 

amount. 

II. 

III. 

IV. 

Allow  management  expenses  for  venture  capital  and  private  equity 
investments to be capitalized as ‘cost of improvement’ 

Taxation upon ‘sale’ and reduced taxation rates for unlisted shares acquired 
via ESOPs/employee incentive schemes 

Clarify tax rate of 10% on long term capital gains (LTCG) to be applicable on 
transfers of shares of private limited companies. There is a need to align the 
treatment of capital gains for listed and unlisted companies, both on holding 
period and tax breaks. AIF and Angel Investments are typically long term and 
typically  create  new  enterprises  and  jobs.  Yet  they  operate  under  less 
favourable terms than Mutual Funds. AIFs should not pay higher taxes than 
paid by FPIs or Domestic Institutional Investors (DIIs) who pay STT and DDT 
as preferred route to STCG and LTCG. 

a) 

b) 

c) 

d) 
e) 

AIF  investments  held  for  a  year  must  qualify  as  LTCG  to  encourage 
investment  in  risk  capital  that  creates  new  ventures,  jobs,  and 
encourages entrepreneurship. 
Current rate of 20% tax with 3 year holding is punishing for AIFs backing 
an entrepreneur. 
AIFs  have  huge  reputational  risks  amongst  others,  and  can  be  relied 
upon for full compliance. 
0%  LTCG regime must apply to all SEBI registered AIFs. 
Foreign PE Funds structure their investments to achieve this anyway, 
so this will level the playing field and bring domestic funds on par. 

To streamline tax collections, custodians of AIFs can be mandated to collect 
STT rates that are paid by FPIs and DIIs. 

V. 

a)  The tax law should expressly provide  an exemption for    conversion  of 

preference shares into equity shares. 

b)  In  determining  the  holding  period  of  equity  shares  in  the  context  of 
investment in convertible preference shares / debentures, the tax law 
should  provide  for  inclusion  of  the  period  of  holding  of  convertible 
preference shares/ debentures (pre-conversion). 

41 

 

 

 

 

 

 

VI. 

Permit charitable and religious trusts to invest in AIFs 

VII. 

Taxation of Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) issued against permitted 
securities (other than listed shares): 

 

Introduction of a specific regime for taxation of GDRs issued under the 
new scheme; 

  Transfer of GDRs from one non-resident to another should not be 

regarded as a taxable transfer; 

  Transfer by way of conversion of GDR into the underlying security should 

not be regarded as a taxable transfer. 

VIII. 

Service tax abatement on service fees in respect of funds raised by an AIF 
from overseas investors 

 

D.I 

Tax deduction for investors in SEBI regulated angel/ social venture 
funds1
 

1.1  Many start-ups do not make profits in the initial years, but have potential 
to grow rapidly in a short time frame. Due to the lack of adequate track 
record/ assets and other factors access to funds from banks and financial 
institutions becomes a challenge. 

1.2 

1.3 

Such budding businesses require financial backing to help them achieve 
their goals. Angel funds bridge the gap and not only provide finance but 
also mentor and nurture these businesses and empower them to achieve 
new heights. The concept of angel funding is still at a nascent stage in 
India. There are pockets of angel investors who invest in small business 
directly without any formal platform. 

Recognition  and  promotion  of  early  stage  investors  in  angel  funds  is 
critical,  and  providing  them  a  conducive  environment  will  encourage 
them  to  channel  more  funds  to  the  Indian  entrepreneurs,  and  behind 
them FDI/ overseas monies will flow. 

1.4  Most government around the world (UK, USA, Singapore, etc.) provide 
incentives such as recognition, tax credits up to 50%, tax pass-through 
LLP  structures  to  enable  a  large  group  of  individual  angels  to  invest 
together, and the Indian government should provide the same. This will 
help create a large base of investors in angel funds. The importance of 
angel  funds  is  evidenced  by  the  fact  that  in  a  typical  year  in  the  US, 

 

 

1 

The recommendations stated here are in sync with the recommendations given in the Report of The Committee on 

Angel Investment & Early Stage Venture Capital – June 2012 

42 

angels invest around US$25bn in around 50,000 companies and venture 
capital funds invest about the same in about 5,000 companies. In India, 
we have under 1,000 angel investors, investing barely $20mn 

  US provides accredited investor/ angel investors to write off their 

losses against their gains 

  UK  provides  the  Enterprise  Incentive  Scheme  and  the  Small 
Enterprise Incentive Scheme providing angel investors to write off 
losses up to 50% 

 

Singapore’s  Angel  Investors  Tax  Deduction  Scheme  is  a  tax 
incentive which aims to stimulate business angel investments into 
Singapore-based start-ups and encourage more angel investors to 
add value to these. 

We  have provided  a  summary of the  tax  deduction  schemes for  angel 
funds/ investors available in some foreign countries as an Annexure. 

1.5 

Social  venture  capital  is  a  form  of  investment  funding  that  is  usually 
funded  by  a  group  of  social  venture  capitalists,  who  achieve  a 
reasonable gain in financial return while delivering social impact to the 
world.  There  are  various  organizations,  such  as  venture  philanthropy 
companies and non-profit organizations that deploy a simple venture 
capital  strategy  model  to  fund  non-profit events,  social  enterprises,  or 
activities that deliver a high social impact or a strong social cause for their 
existence. 

1.6 

As  part  of  effort  of  the  Indian  Government  to  support  social  ventures 
from  a  grassroots  level  to  deliver  positive  social  and  environment 
impact, a special tax deduction/ relief should be designed to encourage 
more social investments from investors to support social enterprise. 

Recommendation 
Investors in SEBI regulated angel funds should be provided a tax deduction of up to 
50%  of  the  investment  amount.  Suitable  safeguards  to  mitigate  misuse  of  the 
provision by non-financial investors / relatives of the promoter / promoter group can 
be considered. 

43 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

D.II 

Inclusion of the concept of ‘accredited Investors’ 

2.1 

2.2 

AIF  regulations  currently  require  an  investor  to  invest  at  least  Rs.  1 
crore in an AIF. This is to ensure that only sophisticated investors invest 
in such AIFs considering the risk involved in such investments. 

Globally,  however,  the  concept  of  “accredited  investors”  is  used 
wherein an investor who has a certain minimum income or asset or net 
worth is considered to be an accredited investor, and can make such 
investments.  Such  investors  are  usually  self-certified,  for  instance  in 
countries  like  USA.  (Refer  Annexure  2  for  U.S.  law  on  “accredited 
investors”). 

Recommendation 

 

In line with the global practice, it is proposed that the individuals who satisfy 
the following conditions should be recognized as accredited investors: 

a.  Capable of identifying potential investments and their underlying risks; 

b.  Possess  sufficient  financial  sophistication  to  take  on  the  risks  associated 

with the offerings; and 

c.  Have  a  sound  financial  track  record  i.e.  reported  total  income  (including 
exempt income) exceeding Rs. 50 lakhs annually in three assessment years 
immediately  preceding  the  assessment  year  in  which  the  investment  is 
proposed to be made. 

  Further, it is also proposed to link the Permanent Account Number (PAN) of the 
investor in the electronic database of revenue authorities with the total income 
(including exempt income) of the investor in a manner such that it is easier to 
determine whether the investor qualifies as an accredited investor. 

  Further,  in  the  chapter  titled  “Unlocking  Domestic  Pools  of  Capital  for  the 
Alternative Investment Industry” in this report, it is proposed that the concept 
of “Accredited Investors” currently prevalent in the AIF Regulations for “angel 
funds” should also extend (with such modifications as may be appropriate) to 
all AIFs. 

44 

 

 
 

 

D.III  Allow  management  expenses  for  AIF 

investments  to  be 

capitalized as ‘cost of improvement’ 

3.1  A formal reading of the Act only allows costs related to the acquisition of 
securities  to  be  treated  as  capitalized  expenses  as  they  relate  to  the 
actual  acquisition  of  the  title  to  the  share.  Costs  in  relation  to  the 
disposal  of  the  capital  asset  are  allowed  to  be  deducted  as  ‘cost  of 
transfer’ from the sale consideration. 

3.2  Venture capital and private equity investors spend a significant amount 
of  time  working  closely  with  unlisted  businesses  to  manage  and 
improve the investment. Currently, there is no provision for capitalizing 
expenses  related  to  the  management  and  improvement  of  the  capital 
asset during the holding period of the security. 

3.3  This  means  in  effect  that  investors  have  to  write  off  the  management 
fees as expenses, which means that they are not available to be offset 
against capital gains that may eventually result from the investment. In 
case of foreign LPs, these costs are allowed to be capitalized overseas 
(US model) and thus, this issue is particularly relevant to domestic LPs 
and domestic GPs. 

3.4  The issue is further exacerbated by the fact that management expenses 
(typically in the range of 2% of managed funds) are also subject to service 
tax.  Assuming  a  10  year  hold  period  for  a  VCPE  investment,  2% 
management fees annually, and mark-ups on management fees of 20% 
and  14%  for  transfer  pricing  and  service  tax  –  the  amount  to  be 
capitalized is considerable (10 yrs x 2 % x 1.20 x 1.14) = 27% of initial cost 
of investment. This cost currently has to be written off and  cannot be 
offset against the capital gains that it produces. 

Recommendation 

 

Option 1: Allow expenditure capital in nature towards improvement of the capital 
asset be capitalised as “cost of improvement”. 

Option 2: Allow a standard deduction of 3% of cost of acquisition of capital asset 
irrespective of the actual expenditure incurred 

45 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D.IV  Taxation upon sale, and reduced taxation rates for unlisted shares 

acquired via ESOPs/employee incentive schemes 

4.1  There  are  two  severe  tax  events  that  occur  upon  exercise  of  options 

granted to founders and early employees of VCPE companies. 

4.2  First, the employee is subject to tax at the time of exercise of option – 
i.e.  this  tax  is  payable  immediately  even  if  the  employee  has  not  sold 
the share in that tax period. The magnitude of the tax is calculated on 
the  notional  gain  between  the  acquisition  price  of  the  share  (option 
strike price) and the “FMV” at the time of exercise. In other words, the 
employee becomes liable for a significant cash tax for exercise of options 
amounting to a notional non-cash gain. 

4.3  Secondly, the nature of such gains is considered as salary or perquisite. 
This means that the employee may be payable for ordinary income tax 
(30+%, calculated as per the marginal income tax rate) for the notional 
gains  calculated  above  –  which  will  be  a  substantial  amount  in  a 
successful company. 

4.4 Rather perversely, this means that 1) the tax rate suffered by employees 
(with option vesting periods of 4+ years) is generally higher than 2) the 
tax rate suffered by their investors who hold the investment for 3+ years 
which  in  turn  is  greater  than  3)  the  tax  rate  suffered  by  investors  who 
subscribe to shares in the IPO or “Offer for sale” and hold for 1+ years. 
The  relevant  rates  are  1)  ordinary  income  i.e.  30+%  vs.  2)  long  term 
capital  gains  tax  on  unlisted  sales  i.e.  20%  after  indexation  vs.  3)  long 
term capital gains tax on listed sales i.e. 0%. 

46 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendations 
1.  Tax  incidence  should  arise  in  the  year  of  the  sale  of  shares  (not  the  year  of 

exercise of the option); and 

2.  Profit  made  on  sale  of  shares  should  be  treated  as  capital  gains  (vs.  the 
treatment as a portion of the gains as salary, or perquisite, thereby attracting 
ordinary income tax) 

Best Practice: 

Developed economies have come up with defined rules under which early 
employees can: 

1.  Be eligible for “Entrepreneur’s Relief”, and other reduced tax rates for founders 

and early employees 

2.  Defer the payment of tax until sale (and not exercise) for approved ESOP plans. 

In the US, for statutory stock options2, the individual does not have to pay ordinary 
income tax (nor employment taxes) on the difference between the exercise price 
and the FMV of the shares issued at exercise. Instead, if the shares are held for 1 
year from the date of exercise and 2 years from the date of grant, then the profit (if 
any) made on sale of the shares is taxed as long-term capital gain. Long-term capital 
gain is taxed in the U.S. at lower rates than ordinary income. 

In the UK, a tax-advantaged share option scheme called the Enterprise Management 
Incentive  (EMI)  has  been  designed  for  smaller  companies.  A  company  may  grant 
options under a defined plan to selected employees provided that certain qualifying 
conditions are met: 
  There is no tax charge on the exercise of an EMI option providing it was granted 

 

at market value. 
If the company’s share price has increased in value between the time of grant 
and exercise, the uplift is not charged to Income Tax. 

  There  is  a  Capital  Gains Tax  (CGT)  charge  when  the  employee disposes  of  his 
shares  and  proceeds  exceed the  market  value  at  the date  of the  grant of  the 
option. 

  The minimum holding period is only 12 months (including the period that the 

option was held). 

In addition, entrepreneurs may be eligible for “Entrepreneurs’ Relief”, meaning a 
reduced rate of capital gains tax, if: 
  The entrepreneur is selling all or part of his or her business as a sole trader or 
business partner - including the business’s assets after it closed (assuming they 
have owned the business for more than a year. 

  The  individual  is  selling  shares  in  a  company  where  they  have  at  least  5%  of 
shares and voting rights and they are an employee or director of the company. 

2 

Usually granted to employees under a defined employee stock option plan and subject to certain restrictions (must 

be granted to current employees, at an exercise price greater or equal to the FMV of the underlying stock at the time of the 
grant and subject to holding period restrictions). 

47 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

D.V  Clarify tax rate of 10% on long term capital gains to be applicable 

on transfer of shares of private limited companies 

5.1  Section 112(1)(c) of the Act provides a concessional tax rate of 10% on 
long term capital gains earned from transfer of unlisted securities in the 
hands of the non-residents 

5.2  However,  the manner  in  which  the  term  ‘unlisted  securities’  has  been 
defined  in  the  Act  leads  to  the  unintentional  consequence  of  the  10% 
concessional tax rate not being applicable to long-term gains on transfer 
of shares of private limited companies 

5.3  Given that a significant portion of investments by VCPE funds in India are 
in private limited companies, the recommendation will ensure that the 
intended beneficiaries actually benefit from the tax provisions 

Recommendation 

  Amend the definition of the term ‘securities’ in Explanation (a) to section 

112(1) of the Act to include shares of private limited companies 

D.VI a  Period of holding for shares received on conversion of preference 

shares / debentures 

6.1  The  FA  2015  amended  the  definition  of  a  short-term  capital  asset  to 
include unlisted shares held for a period of less than 36 months. Also, in 
cases  where  the 
in  convertible  preference  shares  / 
debentures is held for more than 36 months, the gains on sale of equity 
shares  received  on  conversion  of  the  preference  shares  /  debentures 
may be considered as short term capital gains, unless the equity shares 
are sold 36 months after the date of conversion. 

investment 

6.2  The above results in additional tax on long terms investors, since before 
the  amendment  the  gains  were  considered  as  long  term  capital  gains 
provided the period of holding was more than 12 months. 

6.3 

In case of equity shares received on conversion of convertible preference 
shares/ debentures, the cost of acquisition of equity shares is calculated 
with  reference  to  the  cost  of  acquisition  of  preference  shares  / 
debentures. Hence, for determining the holding period of equity shares, 
the period of holding convertible preference shares / debentures should 
also be considered. 

48 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendation 
In  the  context  of preference  shares /  debentures,  where  conversion  is not  a  taxable 
event, the period of holding of the equity shares should be considered from the date of 
acquisition  of  such  convertible  securities,  and  not  from  the  date  of  allotment  of  the 
equity shares. This could be achieved by amending the definition of short term capital 
asset under Section 2(42A) of the Act to provide for inclusion of the period of holding 
of convertible preference shares / debentures (pre-conversion) in computing the period 
of holding of converted equity shares. 

 

D.  VI b Conversion of preference shares into equity should be 

exempt from the definition of “transfer” 

6.1  Venture  capital  and  private  equity  funds  prefer  to  use  convertible 
preference  shares  /  debentures  over  equity  shares,  since  these 
instruments  provide  the  investor  the  flexibility  to  link  the  formulae  for 
conversion into equity shares with the performance of the company on a 
pre-defined  date  in  the  future.  In  such  cases,  the  conversion  typically 
happens 12 to 18 months prior to the “offer for sale” or an “Initial Public 
Offer” event. Other commercial factors also drive such investors to initially 
structure their investment in the form of a convertible instrument. 

6.2  Typically, the total holding period of the investment is in the range of 3 to 

5 years, i.e. the investments are long term in nature. 

6.3  A question that arises in these situations is whether the act of conversion 
of preference shares into equity shares would be regarded as a “transfer” 
under section 2(47) of the Act, and thus be liable for capital gains taxation 
in the hands of the shareholders, or whether the capital gains would arise 
only when the shares, after conversion, are sold or otherwise transferred. 

6.4  Based on a Circular [dated 12 May 1964 (F. No. 12/1/64-IT (AI)] issued to 
all  Commissioners  of  Income-Tax,  which  is  binding  on  the  Department, 
judicial  precedents  and  the  provision  in  tax  law  for  considering  cost  of 
equity shares (post conversion of preference shares into equity shares) as 
the  cost  of  convertible  preference  shares  pre-conversion  at  the  time  of 
transfer of equity shares, conversion of preference shares to equity shares 
should not amount to “transfer” under the Act, and therefore, it should not 
trigger capital gains tax. 

49 

 
 

 

 

6.5 

Further, the Act exempts any transfer by way of conversion of bonds or 
debenture,  debenture-stock,  or  deposit  certificates  in  any  form,  of  a 
company into shares or debentures of that company from tax. 

Recommendation 
Based  on  the  above,  to  provide  certainty  and  mitigate  litigation  risk,  it  is 
recommended  to  expressly  provide  an  exemption  for  conversion  of  preference 
shares into equity shares. 

D.VII  Permit charitable and religious trusts to invest in AIFs 

7.1  Charitable and religious trusts have been in existence in India for many 
decades.  These  are  established  for  several purposes  including  building 
hospitals,  educational  institutions  and  the  promotion  of  various  social 
causes. These institutions are regulated under a variety of laws. Prudent 
cash flow and expenditure management of these organizations requires 
investing in a diversified set of assets. 

7.2  Educational endowments are a good example of the importance of these 
trusts.  The  returns  from  a  professionally  -managed  and  diversified 
investment portfolio can be used to finance the cost of Professor Chairs, 
purchase of modern laboratory equipment, provide scholarships to high- 
calibre,  needy  students  and  many  other  desirable  purposes.  In  this 
manner,  trusts  make  a  significant  contribution  to  society.  Hence,  they 
should  be  brought  into  the  mainstream  investment  eco-system  and 
should form part of India’s financial system’s regulatory mind-set 

7.3  Similar organizations in other countries invest a portion of their assets in 
VCPE industry. For example, the respected Yale Endowment has over a 
30 per cent asset allocation to VCPE investments 

7.4  Charitable Trusts have long term funds for which AIFs are well matched 

50 

 

 
 

 

Recommendations 

  AIFs should be an eligible asset for investment by charitable and religious trusts. 

  Amend section 11(5) of the Act and Rule 17C of the Income-tax Rules, 1962 (the 

Rules) to permit charitable trusts to invest in AIFs. 

  Charitable  trusts  with  INR  25  crores  or  more  of  assets  under  management 
(AUM) should have an investment committee, a chief investment officer and an 
appropriate compliance function. 

  Section 80G - charitable and religious trusts should be permitted to invest up to 

10% of their AUM in AIFs 

 

D.VIII Taxation on conversion/ transfer of Global Depository Receipts 

(GDR) issued against permitted securities (other than listed 
shares) 

8.1 

8.2 

8.3 

GDRs allow the foreign investors to invest in Indian companies without 
worrying about the trading practices, accounting rules, or cross-border 
transactions. GDRs offer most of the same corporate rights, especially 
voting rights, to the holders of GDRs that investors of the underlying 
securities enjoy. GDRs are liquid because supply and demand can be 
regulated  by  creating  or  cancelling  GDR  shares.  The  Depository 
Receipts  Scheme,  2014  (New  Scheme)  permits  an  Indian  company, 
listed  or  unlisted,  private  or  public,  or  any  other  issuer  or  person 
holding permissible securities to issue or transfer permissible securities 
to  a  foreign  depository  for  the  purpose  of  issuance  of  depository 
receipt. The underlying securities can be debt instruments, shares or 
units etc. 

The main benefit to GDR issuance to the company is increased visibility 
in  the  target  markets,  which  usually  garners  increased  research 
coverage in the new markets; a larger and more diverse shareholder 
base; and the ability to raise more capital in international markets. 

As  derivatives,  depositary  receipts  can  be  created  or  cancelled 
depending  on  supply  and  demand.  The  ability  to  create  or  cancel 
depositary  shares  keeps  the  depositary  share  price  in  line  with  the 
corporate stock price, since any differences will be eliminated through 
arbitrage. 

8.4 

Further,  GDRs  are  permitted  to  be  held  and  transferred  by  both 
residents and non-residents. However, recently, the tax benefits under 

51 

 

 

 

the Act have been restricted to GDRs issued against ordinary shares of 
listed companies including exempting transfer of GDRs outside India by 
a  non-resident  (NR)  to  another  NR  and  conversion  of  “deposit 
certificates” in any form of a company into shares or debentures of that 
company from tax. 

8.5  Thus,  there  is  a  clarification  required  to  address  the  taxability  on 
transfer of GDRs outside India by a NR to another NR and conversion of 
GDR  issued  against  permitted  securities  (other  than  listed  shares) 
under the Act. 

8.6 

In this context, it would be relevant to note that the Sahoo Committee 
report, pursuant to which the New Scheme was issued, recommended 
that the issue and transfer of (all) permitted GDRs prior to conversion 
into local securities should not be taxable in India. 

 

 

 

Recommendation 
It is recommended that a specific regime be introduced as regards taxation of GDRs 
issued  under  the  New  Scheme.  This  would  provide  the  much  needed  clarity  on 
taxation of foreign investors. 

It would be important to clarify that the transfer of GDRs from one non-resident to 
another should not be regarded as a “transfer” for the purpose of chargeability of 
capital gains tax. 

In addition, it should be clarified that transfer by way of conversion of GDR into the 
underlying security will not be regarded as a taxable “transfer”. 

D.IX  Service tax abatement on service fees in respect of funds raised 

by an AIF from overseas investors 

9.1 

In  India,  the  taxation  of  services  is  presently  governed  under  the 
provisions  of  Chapter  V  of  the  Finance  Act,  1994  (service  tax 
legislation).  Further,  the  Goods  &  Services  Tax  (GST)  legislation  is 
proposed to be implemented in India in 2016. GST shall be a tax levied 
in India on the supply of goods and services. The taxing principle under 
the  present  service  tax  legislation  is  expected  to  continue  under  the 
proposed GST legislation, i.e. taxation based on destination of supply. 

52 

 

 
 

 

 

9.2  Under  the  present  service  tax  legislation,  services  whose  place  of 
supply (determined in terms of the relevant rules) is in India are subject 
to service tax at 14%. 

9.3  Further,  services  provided  by  service  providers  located  in  India  to 
service recipients located outside India can qualify as exports and be 
treated as zero-rated services, subject to the fulfilment of the following 
prescribed conditions cumulatively: 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Service provider is located in India 
Service recipient is located outside India 
Service should not be an exempted service, as per the service tax 
legislation 
Place of supply of service should be outside India in terms of the 
relevant rules 
Payment of services is received by service provider in convertible 
foreign exchange 
Service provider and recipient should be separate legal entities. 
and not merely different establishments of the same legal entity 

9.4  A fund is, in essence, the pooling in of the contributions of its investors 
for  the  purpose  of  investment  and  therefore  does  have  any  distinct 
entity  apart  from  its  investors.  However,  for  the  purpose  of  levy  of 
service tax in India, a fund is viewed as a distinct person. Accordingly, 
under the present service tax legislation, services provided by a fund 
manager  (and  other  service  providers)  to  a  fund  located  in  India  are 
taxable, irrespective of the location of its investors. 

9.5 

9.6 

It  is  relevant  to  note  that  in  such  a  scenario,  the  taxing  principle  of 
service tax, i.e. consumption-based taxation, is not being met in respect 
of  overseas  investors.  This  is  on  account  of  the  fact  that  the  Fund  is 
considered  for  determination  of  the  consumption  of  the  services 
provided  by  the  fund  manager,  whereas  the  actual  effective 
consumption of the said services is by the investors and not the fund. 

If  the  principle  of  effective  consumption  were  to  be  followed,  the 
services  to  the  extent  of  the  investments  made  by  the  overseas 
investors would be outside the purview of service tax in India, as the 
place of supply of the said services is outside India, i.e. the location of 
the  effective  service  recipient  (overseas  investors).  Further,  the  said 
services  shall  also  qualify  as  exports  and  be  treated  as  zero  rated 
services as all of the conditions prescribed for the export qualification 
are  being  met  in  essence,  for  e.g.,  the  fee  for  asset  management 

 

53 

services  is  provided  from  the  very  pool  of  investments  made  by  the 
investors which includes contribution made by the overseas investors 
in convertible foreign exchange. Therefore, the condition of receipt of 
consideration in convertible foreign exchange is, in principle, being met 
in the present case. 

Recommendation 

A clarification should be provided that investors in funds are the service 
recipients of the services provided by a fund manager/ service provider. 

Relaxation  to  be  provided  in  terms  of  the  conditions  for  export 
qualification  to  be  fulfilled  by  fund  managers/  service  providers  in 
respect of service provided to overseas investors wherein all conditions 
for  export  qualification  are  in  essence  being  met.  With  the  recent 
announcement  that  foreign  investment  would  be  permitted  in  SEBI 
regulated  AIFs,  this  relaxation  would  be  a  critical  factor  in  foreign 
investors'  choice  of  a  domestic  fund  manager  vs.  a  foreign  fund 
manager. 

54 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Annexure 1 

Suggested Amendments to Implement the Tax Recommendations 

A.Make  the  tax  pass-through  system  work  flawlessly  in  a  simple  manner  for  complete  “clarity”, 
“certainty” and “consistency”, provide exemption to AIFs from section 56(2)(viia) and 56(2)(viib) of 
the Act and clarify indirect transfer provisions for funds/ investors. 

A.I a) Elimination of the Requirement for Tax Deduction on Exempt Income. 

Proposed Amendment 

‘194LBB. (1) Where any income, other than that proportion of income which is of the same nature as 
income referred to in clause (23FBB) of Section 10, is payable to a unit holder, being a resident, in respect 
of units of an investment fund specified in clause (a) of the Explanation 1 to Section 115UB, the person 
responsible for making the payment shall, at the time of credit of such income to the account of payee 
or  at  the  time  of  payment  thereof  in  cash  or  by  issue  of  a  cheque  or  draft  or  by  any  other  mode, 
whichever is earlier, deduct income-tax thereon at the rates in force. 
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply in respect of 
  credit or payment of any income exempt under section 10 of the Act; or 

  any income credited or paid by an investment fund to any person in whose case income, irrespective 

of its nature and source is not chargeable to tax under the Act; or 

  any income credited or paid by an investment fund in which case deduction at source is not provided 

under the provisions of Chapter XVII-B (Deduction at source) of the Act 

(2)  Where  any  income  is  payable  to  a  unit  holder,  being  a  non-resident  (not  being  a  company)  or  a 
foreign company, in respect of units of an investment fund specified in clause (a) of the Explanation 1 to 
section 115UB, the person responsible for making the payment shall, at the time of credit of such income 
to the account of payee or at the time of payment thereof in cash or by issue of a cheque or draft or by 
any other mode, whichever is earlier, deduct income-tax thereon at the rates in force. 

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply in respect of 

  credit/ distribution of any income exempt under section 10 of the Act or 

  any other income credited/ distributed by an investment fund to any person in whose case income, 

irrespective of its nature and source is not chargeable to tax under the Act. 

197. (1) Subject to rules made under sub-section (2A), [where, in the case of any income of any person 
[or sum payable to any person], income-tax is required to be deducted at the time of credit or, as the 
case may be, at the time of payment at the rates in force under the provisions of  Sections 192, 193, 
194,194A, 194C, 194D, 194G, 194H, 194-I, 194J,194K, 194LA, 194LBB and 195, the Assessing Officer   is 

55 

satisfied that the total income of the recipient justifies the deduction of income-tax at any lower rates 
or no deduction of income-tax, as the case may be, the Assessing Officer shall, on an application made 
by the assessee in this behalf, give to him such certificate as may be appropriate. 

 

56 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

( Draft ) 

[TO BE PUBLISHED IN THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, EXTRAORDINARY, PART II, SECTION 3, SUB- SECTION 
(ii) 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE 
(CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES) 

NOTIFICATION NO.    /2016 
New  Delhi,  Dated-  

, 2016 

S.O. (E).- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1 F) of section 197A of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government hereby notifies that no deduction of tax under 
Chapter XVII of the said Act shall be made on the payments or credits of the nature specified in 
section 194LBB of the said Act received by any of the following: 
a) (Refer Appendix enclosed below) 
b) 
c) 

2.   This notification shall come into force from the date of its publication in the Official Gazette. 

[F.    No.  

] 

(  
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India 

) 

57 

 
 

 

 

(Draft Appendix) 

(21)  any income of a research association for the time being approved for the purpose of clause 

(ii) or clause (iii) of sub-section (1) of section 35: 

(23A) any income (other than income chargeable under the head "Income from houseproperty"or 

any income received for rendering any specific services or income by way of interest or 
dividends derived from its investments) of an association or institution established in India 
having as its object the control, supervision, regulation or encouragement of the profession 
of law, medicine, accountancy, engineering or architecture or such other profession as the 
Central Government may specify in this behalf, from time to time, by notification in the 
Official Gazette: 

(23AA) any income received by any person on behalf of any Regimental Fund or Non-Public Fund 

established by the armed forces of the Union for the welfare of the past and present members 
of such forces or their dependants; 

(23AAA) any income received by any person on behalf of a fund established, for such purposes as may 

be notified by the Board in the Official Gazette, for the welfare of employees or their 
dependants and of which fund such employees are members 

(23AAB) any income of a fund, by whatever name called, set up by the Life Insurance Corporation of 
India on or after the 1st day of August, 1996 or any other insurer under a pension scheme,— 

(i) to which contribution is made by any person for the purpose of receiving pension from 

such fund; 

(ii)which is approved by the Controller of Insurance or the Insurance Regulatory and 

Development Authority established under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999), as the case may be. 

(23B) any income of an institution constituted as a public charitable trust or registered under the 
Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860), or under any law corresponding to that Act in 
force in any part of India, and existing solely for the development of khadi or village 
industries or both, and not for purposes of profit, to the extent such income is attributable to 
the business of production, sale, or marketing, of khadi or products of village industries: 

(23BB) any income of an authority (whether known as the Khadi and Village Industries Board or by 

any other name) established in a State by or under a State or Provincial Act for the 
development of khadi or village industries in the State. 

(23BBE) any income of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority established under sub- 

section (1) of section 3 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 
(41 of 1999); 

(23BBF) any income of the North-Eastern Development Finance Corporation Limited, being a 

company formed and registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of  1956): 

(23BBG) any income of the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission constituted under sub-section 

(1) of section 76 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003); 

(23BBH) any income of the Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) established under 

(23C) 

sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) Act, 
1990 (25 of 1990); 
any income received by any person on behalf of— 
(i) the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund; or 
(ii) the Prime Minister's Fund (Promotion of Folk Art); or 
(iii) the Prime Minister's Aid to Students Fund; or 

58 

 
 

 

(iiia) the National Foundation for Communal Harmony; or 

[(iiiaa) the Swachh Bharat Kosh, set up by the Central Government; or 
(iiiaaa) the Clean Ganga Fund, set up by the Central Government; or] 
(iiiab) any university or other educational institution existing solely for educational purposes 

and not for purposes of profit, and which is wholly or substantially financed by the 
Government; or 

(iiiac) any hospital or other institution for the reception and treatment of persons suffering 

from illness or mental defectiveness or for the reception and treatment of persons 
during convalescence or of persons requiring medical attention or rehabilitation, 
existing solely for philanthropic purposes and not for purposes of profit, and which is 
wholly or substantially financed by the Government. 
[Explanation.—For the purposes of sub-clauses (iiiab) and (iiiac), any university or 
other educational institution, hospital or other institution referred therein, shall be 
considered as being substantially financed by the Government for any previous year, if 
the Government grant to such university or other educational institution, hospital or 
other institution exceeds such percentage of the total receipts including any voluntary 
contributions, as may be prescribed, of such university or other educational institution, 
hospital or other institution, as the case may be, during the relevant previous year]; or 
(iiiad) any university or other educational institution existing solely for educational purposes 

and not for purposes of profit if the aggregate annual receipts of such university or 
educational institution do not exceed the amount of annual receipts as may be 
prescribed; or 

(iiiae) any hospital or other institution for the reception and treatment of persons suffering 

from illness or mental defectiveness or for the reception and treatment of persons 
during convalescence or of persons requiring medical attention or rehabilitation, 
existing solely for philanthropic purposes and not for purposes of profit, if the 
aggregate annual receipts of such hospital or institution do not exceed the amount of 
annual receipts as may be prescribed; or 

(iv) any other fund or institution established for charitable purposes which may be approved 

by the prescribed authority, having regard to the objects of the fund or institution and 
its importance throughout India or throughout any State or States; or 

(v) any trust (including any other legal obligation) or institution wholly for public religious 

purposes or wholly for public religious and charitable purposes, which may be 
approved by the prescribed authority, having regard to the manner in which the affairs 
of the trust or institution are administered and supervised for ensuring that the income 
accruing thereto is properly applied for the objects thereof; 

(vi) any university or other educational institution existing solely for educational purposes 
and not for purposes of profit, other than those mentioned in sub-clause (iiiab) or sub- 
clause (iiiad) and which may be approved by the prescribed authority; or 

(via) any hospital or other institution for the reception and treatment of persons suffering 

from illness or mental defectiveness or for the reception and treatment of persons. 
during convalescence or of persons requiring medical attention or rehabilitation, 
existing solely for philanthropic purposes and not for purposes of profit, other than 
those mentioned in sub-clause (iiiac) or sub-clause (iiiae) and which may beapproved 
by the prescribed authority: 

59 

 

 

(23D)   subject to the provisions of Chapter XII-E, any income of— 

(i) a Mutual Fund registered under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 

(15 of 1992) or regulations made thereunder; 

(ii) such other Mutual Fund set up by a public sector bank or a public financial institution 

or authorized by the Reserve Bank of India and subject to such conditions as the 
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf. 

(23EE) any specified income of such Core Settlement Guarantee Fund, set up by a recognized 

clearing corporation in accordance with the regulations, as the Central Government 
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf: 

(25) (i) interest on securities which are held by, or are the property of, any provident fund to 

which the Provident Funds Act, 1925 (19 of 1925), applies, and any capital gains of the fund 
arising from the sale, exchange or transfer of such securities; 
(ii) any income received by the trustees on behalf of a recognized provident fund; 
(iii) any income received by the trustees on behalf of an approved superannuation fund; 
(iv) any income received by the trustees on behalf of an approved gratuity fund; 
(v) any income received— 

(a) by the Board of Trustees constituted under the Coal Mines Provident Funds and 
Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1948 (46 of 1948), on behalf of the Deposit-linked 
Insurance Fund established under section 3G of that Act; or 

(b) by the Board of Trustees constituted under the Employees' Provident Funds and 
Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), on behalf of the Deposit-linked 
Insurance Fund established under section 6C of that Act; 

(25A) 

 any income of the Employees' State Insurance Fund set up under the provisions of the 
Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948); 

(26BB) any income of a corporation established by the Central Government or any State 

Government for promoting the interests of the members of a minority community. 

(26BBB) any income of a corporation established by a Central, State or Provincial Act for the welfare 

and economic upliftment of ex-servicemen being the citizens of India. 

(44) any income received by any person for, or on behalf of, the New Pension System Trust 

established on the 27th day of February, 2008 under the provisions of the Indian Trusts Act, 
1882 (2 of 1882);” 

60 

A.1 d) Pass-through Tax Status Extended to Net Losses at AIF Level to the Investor 

Proposed Amendment 

Section 115UB 
(2)  Where  in  any  previous  year,  a  person,  being  a  unit  holder  of  an  investment  fund, 
transfers the units to another person (excluding transfers referred to in section 47) and the 
net result of computation of total income of the investment fund [without giving effect to 
the provisions of clause (23FBA) of Section 10] is a loss under any head of income and such 
loss cannot be or is not wholly set-off against income under any other head of income of 
the said previous year, — 
(i)  such loss shall be allowed to be carried forward and it shall be set-off by the investment 

fund in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI; and 

(ii) such loss shall be ignored for the purposes of sub-section (1). 

 

A.II Exemptions of AIFs from a) Section 56(1)(viib) on issue of shares at a value higher 
than fair market value and (b) Section56(2)(viia) on purchase of shares at a value lower 
than fair market value (FMV) 

Proposed Amendment 

Section 56(2)(viia) 
Provided that this clause shall not apply to any such property received by an investment 
fund 

Explanation:            For            the            purpose            of            this            section            – 
the expression “Investment Fund” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (a) of the 
Explanation 1  to Section 115UB 

Section 56(2)(viib) 
Provided that this clause shall not apply where the consideration for issue of shares is 
received— 
(i) by venture capital undertaking from a venture capital company or a venture capital 
fund; 
(ii) from an investment fund; or 
(ii) (iii) by a company from a class or classes of persons as may be notified by the Central 
Government in this behalf 

Explanation: For the purpose of this clause – 
the expression “Investment Fund” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (a) of the 
Explanation 1  to Section 115UB 

61 

 

 
 

B.I Attract large amount of foreign capital into India-focussed foreign funds by providing 
A.III Clarify indirect transfer provisions for funds/investors 
a safe harbour to onshore managers of offshore funds. 
Proposed Amendment 
 
B.I a) Tax Residency of the Fund 
Insert point (iii) in Explanation 7(a) of section 9(1) of the Act as follows: 
Proposed Amendment 
If such company or entity is a holding company/entity above EIFs 

Section 9A 
(3)(b)  the  fund  is  a  resident  of  established  or  set-up  or  incorporated  or  registered  in  a 
country or a specified territory with which an agreement referred to in sub-section (1) of 
Section 90 or sub-section (1) of Section 90A has been entered into. 

 

 

62 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B.I b) Investor Diversification 

Proposed Amendment 
Amend section 9A(3)(e) as follows 

The fund has a minimum of twenty fiveten members who are, directly or indirectly, not 
connected persons 

Following proviso to Section 9A(3)(e) should be inserted- 
Provided that the conditions specified in clauses (a) to (m) shall not apply to: 
i)  entities  registered  as  FPIs  or  FVCI  under  the  applicable  SEBI  regulations;  ii)  where  a 
majority of the investors comprise of institutional investors like sovereign wealth funds, 
large pension funds, banks, etc. 
iii) A fund in the initial three years of setting-up or date of final closing for receiving investor 
monies whichever is earlier 

Section 9A(3) 
(f) any member of the fund along with connected persons shall not have any participation 
interest, directly or indirectly, in the fund exceeding tenforty-nine percent 

Provided  that  if  the  fund  has  an  institutional  investor  who  holds  more  than  forty  nine 
percent participation interest, then this condition shall be deemed to be satisfied if such 
institutional investor itself satisfies the condition in clause (e) of sub-section (3) of Section 
9A. 

Section 9A(3) 
(g) the aggregate participation interest, directly or indirectly, of ten or less members along 
with their connected persons in the fund, shall be less than 50 per cent; 

(n) the fund is a broad based Fund 

Provided that if the broad based fund has an institutional investor who holds more than 
forty nine per cent of the shares or units in the fund, then such institutional investor must 
itself be a broad based fund. 

(9) For the purposes of this section,— 
(f) “Board Based Fund” shall mean a fund, established or incorporated outside India, which 
has at least twenty investors, with no investor holding more than forty-nine per cent of the 
shares or units of the fund. 

63 

B.I c)Remuneration to Investment Managers 

Proposed Amendment 

Section 9A(3) 
(m)  the  remuneration  paid  by  the  fund  to  an  eligible  fund  manager  in  respect  of  fund 
management activity undertaken by him on its behalf is not less than the arm's length price 
of the said activity 

 

B.I d) Investment Diversification 

Proposed Amendment 

Section 9A(3) 
 (h)  the fund shall not invest more than 20 per cent of its corpus in any entity 

B.I e) Carrying on any business in India or from India 

Proposed Amendment 

Section 9A(3) 
Insertion  of  Proviso  to  clauses  (k)  and  (l):  Provided  that  the  offshore  funds  shall  not  be 
regarded  as  carrying  on  business,  or  said  to  have  business  connection  in  India,  merely 
because of the activities they perform to protect their shareholding in investee entities. 

B.I f) Reporting Requirements 

Proposed Amendment 

Proviso to Section 9A(5) 
Provided that the non-furnishing of the statement or any information within 90 days does 
not result in denial of the safe harbour 

64 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B.II Attract large amounts of foreign capital by making Foreign Direct Investments 
(FDI) in AIF work efficiently 

B.II b) Resolve ambiguity around investment by non-resident investors into AIFs 

Proposed Amendment 

Amend Regulation 2 of the Schedule 11 as follows: 
The  payment  for  the  units  of  an  Investment  vehicle  acquired  by  a  person  resident  or 
registered / incorporated outside India shall be made by an inward remittance through the 
normal banking channel including by debit to an NRO or NRE or an FCNR account. 

Insert proviso below Regulation 2 of the Schedule 11 as follows: 
Provided  that  any  investment  by  non-resident  Indian  in  the  units  of  Investment  Vehicle 
under the non-repatriation route shall be treated as domestic investment for the purpose 
of foreign ownership. 

Amend Regulation 2(2) of the Schedule 5 as follows: 

A Non-resident Indian may, without any limit, purchase on non-repatriation basis dated 
Government  securities  (other  than  bearer  securities),  treasury  bills,  units  of  domestic 
mutual funds, units of Money Market Mutual Funds in India, units of Investment Vehicle 
or National Plan/ Savings Certificates. 

Insert proviso below Regulation 2(2) of the Schedule 5  as follows: 
Provided  that  any  investment  by  non-resident  Indian  in  the  units  of  Investment  Vehicle 
under the non-repatriation route shall be treated as domestic investment for the purpose 
of foreign ownership. 

65 

C. Given the high risk and relatively illiquid nature of the capital from VCPE sector, it 
needs to at least be treated at par with public market investments for taxation. We 
recommend  the  government  adopt  roadmap  for  AIF  taxation  based  in  STT 
framework. 

C.I Long term roadmap STT based approach for AIFs 

Proposed Amendments 

Amendment 1 
I.  Distributions by AIFs to be treated as a taxable transaction liable to STT 

Amendments required in the Finance Act 2004 (Chapter VII): 

Amending the Chapter VII of Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004 to include distribution from 
Investment Funds as a taxable transaction in securities: 

Definitions 

A)  In section 97 of the Finance (No.2) Act, 2004, insert the following definition as sub- 

section (1): 
“Investment Fund” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (a) of the 
explanation to section 115UB of the Income-tax Act, 1961” 

B)  In section 97 re-insert the current sub-section (1) defining Appellate Tribunal as sub- 

section (1A) 

C)  In section 97 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004,– 

in sub-section 13, after sub-clause (b), the following sub-clauses shall be inserted: 
“(c) purchase of a unit in an Investment Fund 
(d) any distribution made on sale or redemption of a unit in an Investment Fund” 
(d) any distribution made otherwise by an Investment fund” 

Charge of STT 

 

D) In section 98 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004, in the Table, after serial number 7 and 

the corresponding entries thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:–– 

Taxable Securities Transaction 

Rate 

Payable 
by 

(4) 
Purchaser 
Unit 
holder 

 

 
 
 

 

(3) 
_ percent 
_ percent 

_ percent 

Unit 
holder 

  Sl. 
No. 

 
(1) 
  “8 
   

   

 

(2) 
(a) Purchase of an unit of an Investment Fund 
(b) Distribution of income representing long term 
capital gains, made to an unit holder by an 
Investment Fund on redemption or otherwise 
(c) Distribution of income other than long term 
capital gains, made by an Investment Fund on 
redemption or otherwise 

66 

   

   

(d) Sale of an unit of an Investment Fund being a 
long term capital asset, to any person other than 
the Investment Fund in which such units are held 
(e) Sale of an unit of an Investment Fund being a 
short term capital asset, to any person other than 
the Investment Fund in which such units are held 

_ percent 

Seller 

_ percent 

Seller 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

Value of taxable securities transaction 

E)  In section 99 of the Finance (No.2) Act, 2004, after sub-clause (b) insert the following 

clauses - 

“(ba) in the case of purchase of units of an Investment Fund, the price at which such units 

are purchased; 

(bb) in the case of distribution on account of redemption of units of an Investment Fund, 

such amounts as are distributed to the unit holder including the principal amount 
redeemed; 

(bc) in the case of distribution by an Investment fund other than the distribution referred in 

clause (bb) above, the amounts so distributed to the unit holder; 

(bd) in the case of sale of units of an Investment Fund by the unit holder to any person other 
than the Investment Fund in which such units are held, the price at which such units are 
sold” 

Collection and Recovery of STT 

F)  In section 100 insert the following sub-section (2B) after sub-section (2A) 

“The prescribed person in the case of every Investment Fund shall collect the securities 
transaction tax from every person who purchases or sells or redeems the unit of an 
Investment Fund” 

Recognized stock exchange or Investment Fund or Mutual Fund to furnish prescribed 
return 

G)  In sub-section (1) of section 101 - insert the following words after the words “every 

recognized stock exchange” – 
“Prescribed person in the case of every Investment Fund” 

 

67 

Amendment 2 

On treating the transactions of investment in and distribution from an Investment Funds 
liable to STT, any distribution made by the AIF should be totally exempt from tax 

Exempting the income from Investment Fund under section 10 of the Act: 
In Section 10 of the IT Act, after clause (38), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

“(38A) any distribution received by an assessee, being a unit holder of an Investment fund 
referred to in Explanation to section 10(23FBA), either on redemption or otherwise and 
where such distribution is chargeable to securities transaction tax under Chapter VII of the 
Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004. 

(38B) any income received by an assessee, being a unit holder of an Investment fund 
referred to in Explanation to section 10(23FBA), on sale of units in an Investment Fund 
to any person other than the Investment Fund in which such units are held and where 
such sale is chargeable to securities transaction tax under Chapter VII of the Finance 
(No. 2) Act, 2004.” 

Other consequential amendments: 

Amending the period of holding in the securities held in and by an Investment Fund 

In sub-section 42(A) of the IT Act, insert the following proviso after the second proviso- 

“Provided further that in the case of share or other securities of a company (not being a 
share listed in a recognised stock exchange) held by an Investment Fund or a unit of an 
Investment Fund specified under clause (23FBA) of section 10 the provisions of this clause 
shall have effect as if for the words "thirty-six months", the words "Twelve months" had 
been substituted” 

In Section 10 of the IT Act, 1961 (IT Act)- 

Amend  clause (23FBA)as follows: 

any income of an investment fund other than income chargeable under the head “Profits 
and gains of business or profession.” 

Delete clause (23FBB). 

68 

 
 

 

 

 

Amending Section 115UB 

In Section 115UB of the IT Act, after sub-section (7), the following sub-section shall be 
inserted, namely:- 
“(8)  Nothing  contained  in  sub-sections  (1)  to  (7)  shall  apply  to  any  distributions  by  an 
Investment fund, where the distribution from such an Investment Fund is chargeable to 
securities transaction tax under Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004” 

 
 
 

Avoiding the needless Tax Deduction at Source by Investment Funds (Section 194LBB) 

 
 

 
 

In Section 194LBB of the Act, the first paragraph shall be numbered as sub-section (1) and 
after sub-section (1) so numbered, the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- 
“(2) Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall apply to distributions by an Investment 
fund, where such distribution is chargeable to securities transaction tax under Chapter VII 
of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004” 
   
   
 
D. India should at least be the global best practice and be followed by the world for 
“NEXT PRACTICES” 
   
  D.I Tax deduction for investors in SEBI regulated angel/ social venture funds 
 
Proposed Amendment 
For the purpose of Chapter VI, the following section should be inserted- 
 
Section 80CCH - In computing the total income of an assessee, there shall be deducted 
50%  of  the  investment  amount  in  SEBI  regulated  angel  /  social  venture  funds  in  the 
previous year. 
   
Explanation – 
 
SEBI regulated angel / social venture fund means any fund established or incorporated 
in India, in the form of a trust, or a company, or a limited liability partnership, or a body 
corporate  which  has  been  granted  a  certificate  of  registration  as  a  Category  I 
Alternative Investment Fund – angel / social venture capital and is regulated under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 2012, 
made under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 

 

69 

D.II Inclusion of the concept of “accredited investors” 

Proposed Amendment 
Section 56(2)(viib) 
Provided that this clause shall not apply where the consideration for issue of shares is 
received— 
by venture capital undertaking from a venture capital company or a venture capital fund; 
or 
by an investment fund; or 
by an accredited investor; or 
(iii) (iv) by a company from a class or classes of persons as may be notified by the Central 
Government in this behalf 

 

 

Explanation: 
“Accredited Investors” includes individuals or HUFs, company, a firm, an association of 
persons or a body of individuals whether incorporated or not, a local authority and every 
artificial  juridical  person  who  reports  a  total  income  (including  exempt  income) 
exceeding  Rs  50  lakhs  annually  in  immediately  three  assessment  years  preceding  the 
assessment year in which the investment is made. 

 

 

70 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D.III Allow management expenses for AIF investments to be capitalized as “cost of 
improvement” 

Proposed Amendment 

Option 1: Where expenditure capital in nature towards improvement of the capital 
asset is to be capitalized as “cost of improvement 

Modify section 55 (1)(b)(1)(ii) of the Act to read as under: 

“in any other case, means all expenditure of a capital nature incurred in making any 
additions or alterations ‘or improvement’ to the capital asset by the assessee after it 
became his property, and, where the capital asset became the property of the 
assessee by any of the modes specified in sub- section (1) of] section 49, by the 
previous owner, but does not include any expenditure which is deductible in 
computing the income chargeable under the head….” 

Notification required 

“Improvement expenditure” for a capital asset would include expenditure of a capital 
nature in relation to: 

  Management Advisory 

  Legal and Professional 

  Administrative expense directly identifiable to capital asset 

Option 2: Allow a Standard deduction of 3% of cost of acquisition of capital asset 
irrespective of the actual expenditure incurred 

Suggested modification: 

Section 48: Mode of computation. 

8. The income chargeable under the head “Capital gains” shall be computed, by 

deducting from the full value of the consideration received or accruing as a result 
of the transfer of the capital asset the following amounts, namely :— 

(i) expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively in connection with such transfer; 

(ii) the cost of acquisition of the asset and the cost of any improvement thereto: 

(iii) a sum equal to three per cent of the cost of acquisition of the asset where asset is in 
the nature of securities of an unlisted company or units in a mutual fund/AIF 

71 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D.IV Taxation upon sake, and reduced taxation rates for unlisted shares acquired via 
ESOPs/ employee incentive schemes 

Proposed Amendment 

Option 1: Delete (vi) of section 17(2) which reads as 

17.  For the purposes of Sections 15 and 16 and of this section,— 

(2) “perquisite” includes— 

(vi)  the  value  of  any  specified  security  or  sweat  equity  shares  allotted  or  transferred, 
directly  or  indirectly,  by  the  employer,  or  former  employer,  free  of  cost  or  at 
concessional rate to the assessee. 

Option 2: Specify criteria to identify start-up entities and approve stock option plans 
for eligible companies 

Modify Section 17(2)(vi)  as 
(vi) the value of any specified security or sweat equity shares excluding security under an 
approved  stock  option  plan  allotted  or  transferred,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  the 
employer, or former employer, free of cost or at concessional rate to the assessee. 

D.V. Clarify tax rate of 10% on long term capital gains to be applicable on transfer of 
shares of private limited companies 

Proposed Amendment 
The term ‘securities’ in Explanation (a) to section 112(1) of the Act, should be defined as 
under: 

 

“shares, scripts, stocks, bonds, debentures, debenture stock, warrants, units or other 
securities of like nature issued by a private company, public company, any other body 
corporate and includes other securities as specified in Section 2(h) of Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956” 

72 

D.VIa  Period  of  holding 
shares/debentures 

Proposed Amendment 

for 

shares 

received  on  conversion  preference 

This will require insertion of following clause in Section 2(42A): 

Explanation 1.—(i) In determining the period for which any capital asset is held by the 
assessee— 

(hf)  in  the  case  of  a  capital  asset,  being  equity  share  obtained  on  conversion  of 
preference shares/ debentures in an Indian company, there shall be included the period 
for which such convertible preference shares/ debentures (pre-conversion) were held by 
the assessee; 

 

D.VIb Conversion of preference shares into equity should be exempt from the definition 
of “transfer” 

Proposed Amendment 

This will require amendment to the  following section: 

47(x)  -  any  transfer  by  way  of  conversion  of  preference  shares,  bonds  or  debentures, 
debenture-stock  or  deposit  certificates  in  any  form,  of  a  company  into  shares  or 
debentures of that company 

D.VII Permit charitable and religious trusts to invest in AIFs 

Proposed Amendment 

After point (viii) of Rule 17C of the Rules, the following shall be inserted: 

(ix) - Investment by way of acquiring units in an Investment Fund as defined in clause (a) 
of the explanation to section 115UB of the Income-tax Act, 1961 

73 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D.VIII Taxation on conversion/ transfer of Global Depository Receipts (GDR) issued 
against permitted securities (other than listed shares) 

Proposed Amendment 

This will require amendment to Section 115ACA(3) as follows: 

 

 

Explanation: For the purposes of this section, 
"Global Depository Receipts" means any instrument in the form of a depository receipt or 
certificate….issued to non-resident investors against the issue of – 
(i) ordinary shares of issuing company, being a company listed on a recognized stock 

exchange in India 

(II)  or foreign currency convertible bonds of issuing company; 

 

 

74 

Angel Investors 

Annexure 2 

A. USA 

Small Business Investment Corporation (SBIC) under the U.S. Government's Small 
Business Administration Programme3 

► Operates as a fund-of-funds to supplement the flow of private venture capital 
and  long  term  funds  for  financing  growth,  expansion  and  modernization  of 
small businesses. 

► It invests up to 75% of a downstream VC fund's capital, subject to a maximum 

of US$108 million. 

►   SBIC has invested up to US$ 18 billion so far. 

B. Israel 

The Government of Israel has played both a direct and indirect role in the growth of 
entrepreneurship and innovation. It has funded incubators as well as venture funds, 
while  creating  an  environment  conducive  for  entrepreneurship.  One  of  the  factors 
from a tax perspective is: 

►  Non-Israeli  investors  in  a  VCF  are  exempt  from  capital  gains  tax,  subject  to 

certain conditions 

►   Tax treaties with 40 nations to avoid double taxation 

C. Singapore 

Singapore – Angel Investors tax deduction scheme 

Overview 

►  Tax  incentive  to  stimulate  angel  investment  into  Singapore  based  new 

ventures 

►  Applies to  approved angel  investors  who  commit  a  minimum  of  Rs.  37  lakhs 

(US$80K) 

•  Tax deduction of up to 50% of investment amount 
•  Holding period of 2 years 

• 

Subject to max of Rs. 93 lakhs (US$200K) 

3 Indian Angel Network research 

75 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

Criteria 

► Not applicable to investments made via corporations, trusts, institutionalised 

funds and other investment vehicles 
►   Criteria for angels: must have either 

•  Early stage investment experience or 
•  Experience as a serial entrepreneur or senior management professional 

►   Criteria for investee company:  must be 

•  Private limited or 

• 

Incorporated in Singapore for no more than 3 years 

D. New Zealand 
New Zealand Seed Co-investment Fund (SCIF) 

Overview 

►   Managed by New Zealand Venture Investment Fund Ltd (NZVIF) 
►  “Aims  to  enhance  the  development  of  angel  investor  networks,  stimulate 
investment into innovative start-up companies and to increase capacity in the 
market for matching experienced angel investors with new, innovative start- 
up companies.” 

Features 

►  The  Government  has  made  available  Rs.  147  crore  (US$31M)  to  make 
investments alongside  “approved co-investors”/ angel groups over a period of 
12 years; 

► Investments are made in a 50/50 ratio with an expected investment period of 

5-6 years; 

►  Total  investment  per  co-investment  partner  limited  to  Rs.  14.8  crore 
(US$3.2M) and each investment per investee company limited to max of Rs. 
93 lakhs (US$200K). 

76 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure 3 

USA: Accredited Investors 

Under the  Securities  Act  of  1933,  a  company that  offers or  sells  its  securities must 
register  the  securities  with  the  SEC,  or  find  an  exemption  from  the  registration 
requirements. The Act provides companies with a number of exemptions. For some 
of  the  exemptions  from  registration  requirements  of  federal  securities  laws,  a 
company may sell its securities to what are known as "accredited investors. 

The  federal  securities  laws  define  the  term  “accredited  investor”  in  Rule  501  of 
Regulation D as: 

1.  A  bank,  insurance  company,  registered  investment  company,  business 

development company, or small business investment company; 

2.  An employee benefit plan, within the meaning of the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act, if a bank, insurance company, or registered investment 
adviser  makes  the  investment  decisions,  or  if  the  plan  has  total  assets  in 
excess of US$5 million; 

3.  A charitable organization, corporation, or partnership with assets exceeding 

US $5 million; 

4.  A director, executive officer, or general partner of the company selling the 

securities; 

5.  A business in which all the equity owners are accredited investors; 

6.  A natural person who has individual net worth, or joint net worth with the 
person’s  spouse,  that  exceeds  US$1  million  at  the  time  of  the  purchase, 
excluding the value of the primary residence of such person; 

7.  A natural person with income exceeding US$200,000 in each of the two most 
recent years, or joint income with a spouse exceeding US$300,000 for those 
years and a reasonable expectation of the same income level in the current 
year; or a trust with assets in excess of US$5 million, not formed to acquire 
the securities offered, whose purchases a sophisticated person makes. 

77 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IV 

Unlocking Domestic Capital Pools 

 

4.1.1 

In  India,  a  mere  10-15%  of  equity  capital  required  by  start-ups,  medium 
enterprises  and  large  companies  is  funded  from  domestic  sources.  The 
remaining 85 to 90% is sourced from overseas. This is in contrast to the U.S. 
and  China  where  domestic  sources  fund  90%  and  50%  respectively,  of  the 
venture capital and private equity needs of enterprises. 

4.1.2  Traditional funding sources, such as banks and non-bank financial companies, 
are constrained by risk-aversion, which limits their ability to supply risk capital. 
Hence, there is a vital need to unlock other domestic pools of capital identified 
in  this  paper.  The  nature  of these pools  is  such  that  they  are  well-suited  to 
assuming  the  risks  and  rewards  of  venture  capital  and  private  equity  at  all 
stages of the entrepreneurial life-cycle. 

4.1.3  Availability of domestic capital for venture capital funds is almost negligible, 
except for SIDBI which is constrained by RBI from contributing more than 15% 
of a fund’s corpus. This is detrimental, as more domestic capital will enable 
India  to  attract  more  global  capital.  Domestic  capital  typically  takes  higher 
early-stage risk and can therefore energize the start-up eco-system. 

4.1.4  The purpose of this chapter is to recommend a set of wide-ranging reforms 
that India needs to institute, which will help unlock domestic sources of Angel 
Capital, Venture Capital and Private Equity, collectively referred to as capital, 
or Alternative Investment Funds. More specifically, this chapter recommends 
a set of measures that will help increase the flow of capital through Alternative 
Investment  Funds  regulated  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(SEBI).  Alternative  Investment  Funds  (AIFs)  include  funds  raised  to  invest  in 
infrastructure assets, start-ups, social ventures, growing companies and, to a 
limited extent, funds investing with complex strategies. 

4.2  General Recommendations for all Domestic Capital Pools 

This chapter makes recommendations across different categories of investors/ 
investment vehicles in order to meet the risk capital needs at different stages 
of an enterprise. 

The  objective  of  greater  domestic  funding  of  AIFs  entails  the  measures 
outlined in this chapter including the following: 

78 

 

 

 

I. 

II. 

III. 

IV. 

V. 

Regulators  such  as  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  and  the  Insurance 
Regulatory  &  Development  Authority  may  be  requested  to  consider 
measures that would encourage institutions regulated by them to invest 
in the AIF asset class. 

Institutions that have chosen to invest in equities should be encouraged 
to dedicate a part of their corpus to AIFs. They can emulate the path that 
allowed banks to set up mutual funds and attract foreign partners into 
related asset management companies, thereby bringing in more capital 
and talent. These entities can create step down subsidiaries, which could 
register with SEBI as AIF and explore JVs with local/global partners with 
professional expertise. 

All banks, pensions, provident funds, insurance companies and charitable 
endowments  which 
internal 
management  system  to  prudently  manage  increased  exposure  to 
public/private equities which entails: 

in  equities  must  create  an 

invest 

o 

o 
o 

appointing an Investment Officer, 
creating a fully constituted Investment Committee, and 
utilizing a minimum of 2-5% of the corpus or annual contribution of 
that amount in SEBI approved Category 1 AIF 

Increasing investment limits for banks and insurance companies in AIFs 
from the current 10% limit to 20% of the total corpus of an AIF (up to 25% 
permitted for Social Venture Funds - SVFs). 

For  banks,  such  investments  should  be  treated  as  priority  sector 
investments and need not impact the banks’ capital market exposure. 

VI. 

Permitting charitable or religious funds to invest in SEBI-registered SVFs. 

Recommendations in this chapter cover the following domestic sources of capital: 

A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
E. 
F. 
G. 
H. 
I. 
J. 
K. 

Pension Funds 
Charitable and Religious Trusts 
Insurance Companies 
Banks 
Accredited Investors 
Limited Liability Partnerships ( LLPs ) 
Single Family Offices 
NRIs 
Foreign Venture Capital Investors (FVCIs) 
Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) 
Angel Investments 

79 

 

 

A. Pension Funds 

4.3.1  Pension funds have long-term liabilities which need to be matched by long- 
term assets. They need to invest in a broadly diversified set of asset classes. In 
the U.S., pension funds began to invest in private equity and venture capital in 
the  late  1970s.  Subsequently,  pension  funds  in  Europe,  Japan,  Malaysia, 
Singapore, South Africa and many other countries began to allocate a portion 
of their investible funds in private equity and venture capital. 

4.3.2  The paradoxical situation in India is that while leading overseas pension funds 
invest  in  Indian  private equity and  venture  capital,  domestic  Indian  pension 
funds have not yet begun to invest in Indian private equity and venture capital 
opportunities. In several countries, pension funds are the dominant source of 
capital for such private equity and venture capital funds. The Government of 
India has taken the progressive step to establish a regulatory authority called 
the  Pension  Fund  Regulatory  Development  Authority  (PFRDA).  The  PFRDA’s 
publication titled ‘Report of the Committee to Review Investment Guidelines 
in  the  Private  Sector’  4  has 
for  National  Pension  System  Schemes 
recommended investment in private equity and venture capital. 

Recommendations 

I.  Domestic pension funds in India, including those managed/ regulated by 
PFRDA (National Pension System-NPS) and the Employee Provident Fund 
Organization  (EPFO),  should  allocate up to  3% of  their  assets  to  AIF  by 
2017, rising to 5% by 2020, as they gain more experience. 

II. 

Implement  a  ‘prudent  investor  regime’,  i.e.  establish  an  institutional 
architecture  comprising  of  trained  investment  teams,  including  Chief 
Investment  Officers,  and  Investment  Committees  for  AIF  investing  by 
mid-2016.  The  investment  function  should  include  an  investment 
investment  monitoring  staff  and  an  appropriate 
committee  and 
investment  process.  This  should 
investment  advisory 
committee  consisting  of  persons  with  expertise  and  experience  in 
investments. 

include  an 

Justification 

I.  Diversification of investments requires exposure to a broad array of asset 

classes, including AIFs. 

4         http://pfrda.org.in/myauth/admin/showimg.cshtml?ID=682 

80 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

II.  Global Best Practice:  The Coller Institute of Private Equity (London School 
of Economics) study ‘The Extent and Evolution of Pension Funds’ Private 
Equity Allocations’5 shows that on average pension funds allocate 5% of 
assets under management (AUM) to private equity and venture capital. 

B. 

Charitable and Religious Trusts 

4.4.1  Charitable & religious Trusts have been in existence in India for many decades. 
These  are  established  for  several  purposes  including  building  hospitals, 
educational  institutions  and  the  promotion  of  various  social  causes.  These 
institutions  are  regulated  under  a  variety  of  laws.  Prudent  cash  flow  and 
expenditure  management  of  these  organizations  requires  investing  in  a 
diversified set of assets. 

4.4.2  Educational  endowments  are  a  good  example  of  the  importance  of  these 
trusts. The returns from a professionally-managed and diversified investment 
portfolio  can  be  used  to  finance  the  cost  of  Professor  Chairs,  purchase  of 
modern  laboratory  equipment,  provide  scholarships  to  high-calibre,  needy 
students  and  many  other  desirable  purposes.  Trusts  make  a  significant 
contribution  to  society  and  hence  should  be  brought  into  the  mainstream 
investment  eco-system  and  be  part  of  India’s  financial  system’s  regulatory 
mind-set. 

4.4.3  Similar  organizations  in  other  countries  invest  a  portion  of  their  assets  in 
private  equity  and  venture  capital.  For  example,  the  respected  Yale 
Endowment has an over 30% asset allocation to private equity. 

4.4.4  While  returns  on  any  asset  class  can  fluctuate  up  and  down,  the  following 
quote  from  the  Stanford  Endowment  has  relevance  for  private  equity  and 
venture capital: 

4.4.5  "During fiscal 2014, U.S. public and private equity markets, particularly venture 
capital,  delivered  strong  returns  as  the  low-interest-rate  environment  and 
ongoing economic recovery provided support,” said John Powers, CEO of the 
Stanford Management Company, Annual Report, 2014. 

5 

http://www.lpeq.com/Portals/0/Assets/PDFDocuments/MarketResearch/THE%20EXTENT%20AND%2 
0EVOLUTION%20OF%20PENSION%20FUNDS'%20PRIVATE%20EQUITY%20ALLOCATIONS%20- 
%20FIRST%20RESEARCH%20REPORT%20UNDER%20THE%20ADVEQ%20APPLIED%20RESEARCH%20SE 
RIES.pdf 

81 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

4.4.6  Similarly, Yale, in a statement said that its highest returning asset class over 
the past decade was venture capital at an average annual gain of 18%. Source: 
Bloomberg. 

Recommendations 

I. 

II. 

III. 

AIFs should be an eligible asset for investment by Charitable and 
Religious Trusts. 

To  be  tax  exempt,  currently  Charitable  and  Religious  Trusts  can 
only invest in instruments specified in Section 11 (5) of the Income 
Tax  Act.  Hence,  amend  Section  11(5)  of  the  Income  Tax  Act  and 
Rule 17C  to permit Charitable Trusts to invest in AIFs. 

Charitable Trusts with Rs. 50 crores or more of AUM should have 
an  Investment  Committee,  a  Chief  Investment  Officer  and  an 
appropriate compliance function. 

IV. 

S.80G  Charitable  and  Religious  Trusts  should  be  permitted  to 
invest up to 10% of their AUM in AIFs. 

Justification 

I. 

II. 
III. 

IV. 

The eligible investment list was previously amended during 1983-89, 
when AIFs were not in existence. 
Charitable Trusts have long term funds for which AIFs are well matched. 
Asset Diversification: Currently allowed to invest in only a select list of 
asset classes is permitted but not AIFs. 
Prudence: To manage the investment function prudently, larger 
Charitable Trusts must be required to have Investment Committees. 

C. Insurance Companies 

4.5. 

Insurance  companies  have  long-term  liabilities.  There  is  also  a  time  gap 
between receipt of premiums and the payment of claims. This gives rise to a 
substantial  pool  of  long-term  capital.  Some  progress  has  been  achieved  in 
diversifying the eligible assets  for  investments  by  insurance  companies.  The 
current status shows that further reforms are needed. 

The current investment situation vis-à-vis private equity and venture capital 
can be characterized as follows: 

82 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IRDA, in August, 2013, permitted Insurance Companies to invest in Category 1 
&  2  AIFs  but  placed  low  limits on  AIF  Investments:  Life  Insurance  - 3  % and 
General Insurance-5%. 

  An operational hurdle is that AIF investments are categorised as ‘Unapproved 
Investments’ requiring Board Approval in addition to Investment Committee 
Approval. 

  Another  important  hurdle  is  that  Insurance  companies  are  not  allowed  to 
invest in Fund-of-Funds (FOFs). FOFs are a common investment medium for all 
types of institutions. They are also subject to SEBI regulation. 

Recommendations 

I. 

II. 

Enable investments in all types of Category 1 & 2 AIFs as well as unlevered 
Category 3 AIFs. 

AIF investments should fall in the ‘Approved Category’ to enable investment 
approval by Investment Committees, rather than Boards, subject to internal 
prudential guidelines. 

III. 

Increase the maximum exposure for Life Insurance Companies to AIFs from 
3% to 5% and to 10% by 2020 for both Life and General Insurers. 

IV.  Permit investment in Fund-of-Funds (FOFs). 

Justification 

I. 

These recommendations are justified on the following grounds: 
Insurance Companies have long-term liabilities, which make AIF a suitable 
long-term asset class. 
Internal processes should be streamlined to enhance investments. 

II. 
III.  General  Insurers  are  already  permitted  a  higher  allocation  of  5%,  and  the 
allocation  for  life  insurers  should  have  parity.  FoFs  are  a  legitimate 
investment  category  for  making  AIF  investments  since  there  is  an  added 
layer of due diligence by the FOF Fund Manager. 

D. Banks 

4.6.1 

There is a sound rationale for banks to allocate a prudent amount of their 
funds to private equity. Firstly, while banks have access mainly to short-term 
resources, they also have access to longer-term funds. Secondly, banks have 
a strategic rationale for investing in private equity and venture capital. This 
is primarily to find potential banking clients from the portfolio companies of 
funds in which they have invested. 

83 

 

 

 

 

 

4.6.2 

4.6.3 

4.6.4 

“Between  1983  and  2009,  30%  of  all  U.S.  private  equity  investments 
(representing over US$700 billion of transaction value) were sponsored by 
the Private Equity arm of a large bank. In the aftermath of the 2008 financial 
crisis, the passing of the 'Volcker Rule' as part of the Dodd-Frank Act required 
banks to limit their exposure to Private Equity and Hedge Funds to no more 
than 3% of their Tier 1 capital”. 6 

Banks as guardians of depositors’ savings, need to institute risk management 
safeguards to ensure prudent investing in private equity and venture capital 
funds. 

SVF invest primarily in securities or units of social ventures / enterprises thus 
satisfying  social  performance  norms  laid  down  by  the  fund.  The  overall 
returns of SVF are at two levels, the absolute financial returns which could 
be  marginally  muted  (i.e.  lower  than  the  returns  expectations  for  similar 
investments), and returns in the form of formation of social capital which is 
of very high importance to the inclusive growth of the economy. 

Recommendations 

I. 

Lower  the  risk  weight  attached  to  investments  in  AIFs  and  increase 
investment limits for banks from 10% to 20% of the total corpus of an AIF 
(and to 25% for SVFs). 

II.  AIF investments, where the investment objectives are consistent with the 
needs  of  the  priority  sector,  should  be  treated  as  priority  sector 
investment and not impact the bank's capital market exposure. 

Justification 

I. 

II. 

Strategic  Benefits:  Successful  portfolio  companies  of  AIFs  can  become 
bank clients. 
Risk  Management:  Investing  in  AIFs  is  a  risk  management  tool  because 
they are professionally managed and have a diversified portfolio which is 
regularly monitored by an external fund manager for value-addition. 

6 COMBINING BANKING WITH PRIVATE EQUITY INVESTING 
 
Lily Fang, Victoria Ivashina & Josh Lerner, at 
https://www.insead.edu/facultyresearch/faculty/personal/lfang/research/documents/5.CombiningBa 
nkingandPEInvesting.pdf 

84 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

E. Accredited Investors 

4.7.1 

4.7.2 

4.7.3 

Not all investors have the capacity, or the risk tolerance for investing in AIFs 
because  they  are  illiquid,  unlisted  and  closed-ended  investment  vehicles. 
Given that SEBI has already introduced the concept of ‘Accredited Investors’ 
(AI)  in  the  AIF  Regulations  for  Angel  Funds,  the  concept  could  be  made 
applicable to all other categories of AIFs with such modifications as may be 
appropriate. The criteria for AIs may also be based on past tax assessments 
indicating net worth and annual cash flows being over a defined threshold as 
is the case in the U.S. 

Accredited  investors  should  not  be  required  to  register  with  SEBI.  AIF 
Regulations currently require an investor to invest at least Rs. 1 crore in an 
AIF.  This  is  to  ensure  that  only  sophisticated  investors  invest  in  such  AIFs 
considering the risk involved in such investments. 

Globally, instead, the concept of ‘Accredited Investors’ is applied where an 
investor  who  satisfies  a  certain  minimum  income,  or  asset,  or  net  worth 
thresholds  is  considered  to  be  an  accredited  investor  and  can  make  such 
investments.  Such  investors  are  usually  self-certified,  for  instance,  in 
countries like USA (Refer Annexure 2 for U.S. law on ‘accredited investors’). 

Recommendations 

In line with global practice, it is proposed that the individuals who satisfy the following 
conditions should be recognised as Accredited Investors: 

I. 
II. 

Capable of identifying the potential investments and its underlying risks. 
Possess  sufficient financial  sophistication  to  take  on  the  risks  associated 
with the investment offerings. 

IV. 

III.  Have a sound financial track record, i.e. reported total income (including 
exempt income) exceeding Rs 50 lakhs annually in three assessment years 
immediately  preceding  the  assessment  year  in  which  the  investment  is 
proposed to be made. 
It  is  also  proposed  to  link  the  Permanent  Account  Number  (PAN)  of  the 
investor in the electronic database of the revenue authorities with the total 
income (including exempt income) of the investor in a manner such that it 
is  easier  to  determine  whether  the  investor  qualifies  as  an  Accredited 
Investor. 

85 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

V. 

Since the VCF Regulations have been superseded by the SEBI (AIF) 
Regulations, a similar exemption should be extended to Category I AIF 
and Category II AIF. 

Justification 

I. 

II. 

The  concept  of  Accredited  Investors  will  simplify  the  process  of 
determining who are eligible investors in AIFs and will be a factor in ease 
of doing business; and 

It  will  ensure  that  investors  who  regard  themselves  as  capably  of 
identifying  the  risks  consistent  with  their  risk  tolerance  and  capacity, 
consider investing in AIFs. 

F. Limited Liability Partnerships (LLPs) 

4.8.1   The AIF industry will be more in touch with, and more in tune with the issues 
of India if a significant fraction of pooled funds are domiciled, structured and 
raised in India. The current level of domestic investment in AIFs is very low, 
leading several AIFs not to raise money in India at all. This is very different in 
a country such as the US, where LLPs are the typical structure for establishing 
AIFs. 

4.8.2 

Currently, the Registrar of Companies (RoC) does not allow LLPs to be set up 
with “investment” in the objects section of the charter documents. The RBI 
also does not oversee LLPs as they are not companies, even though there are 
well-defined rules of when a Company is required to register with RBI. The 
requirement, then, is to cultivate more sophisticated limited partners (LPs) 
in India, and bring them on the same level playing field as foreign LPs. and 
formally allow (under Registrar of Companies) proprietary domestic capital 
to set up an LLP as an investment vehicle. 

Recommendation 

I. 

The  Registrar  of  Companies  should  allow  LLPs  to  be  registered  for  the 
object of investment, provided that they self-certify that all the capital is 
contributed by the partners, and that they do not accept public deposits 
or use borrowed funds. 

86 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Justification 

I.  This  is  essential  as  it  allows  a  large  LP  to  manage  all  their  costs,  gains, 
losses and risk exposures tax efficiently in one place (across several India 
investments,  for  example),  while  still  ensuring  that  tax  disputes  do  not 
flow upwards and outwards to their other global activities. 

II.  An LLP is the ideal investment vehicle as (i) it is a body corporate from a 
legal  and  tax  perspective  and  (ii)  it  offers  one  layer  of  taxation  for  all 
partners.  Being  a  body  corporate,  it  also  allows  the  LLP  to  invest  some 
multiple  of  its  net  worth  overseas  (albeit  only  in  actively  managed 
investments) in a regulated manner as prescribed by RBI. 

G. Single Family Offices 

a. 

4.9.2 

Following the liberalization of the Indian economy in 1991, new, professional 
and  established  entrepreneurs  have  created  new  ventures  by  harnessing 
their technical  and  managerial  prowess  as  well  as  India’s  human  resource 
talent.  This  has  created  lakhs  of  jobs  and  helped  grow  India’s  export 
earnings.  At  the  same  time,  the  value  of  the  assets  of  successful 
entrepreneurs  has  grown  manifold.  Given  their  success  in  India,  these 
entrepreneurs have been willing to deploy and invest their resulting wealth 
in India. 

The primary sources of the entrepreneurial wealth are earnings gained from 
operating entrepreneurial ventures and from the sale of businesses to other 
parties  i.e.  liquidity  events.  The  combined  wealth  of  such  successful 
entrepreneurs is a significant source of domestic capital that can potentially 
be  invested  in  AIFs.  This  wealth  needs  to  be  prudently  invested  for  inter- 
generational  transfers,  and  at  the  same  time  invested  in  ventures  that 
benefit  the  Indian  economy,  create  jobs  and  promote  innovation  and 
creativity. 

4.9.3 

Some of the ventures of these entrepreneurs have been funded by private 
equity  and  venture  capital  funds.  Accordingly,  they  have  a  good 
understanding of the Alternative Investment Fund asset class comprising of 
venture capital, private equity and social venture funds. 

4.9.4 

Two important characteristics of entrepreneurial wealth are: 

Firstly, being inter-generational in nature, such wealth can be invested in 
illiquid, long-term asset classes such as venture capital and private    equity. 

87 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Given the risk-loving nature of the entrepreneurs who created this wealth, 
they are willing to invest a part of this pool of capital in venture capital and 
private equity. 

Secondly, being entrepreneurs themselves, they have the capability to add 
value to venture capital and private equity portfolio companies by providing 
mentorship, business management ideas as well as introductions to their 
business networks which can contribute in a major way to the success of 
the portfolio companies of AIFs. 

The investment activity of entrepreneurially-created wealth is increasingly managed 
by Single or Multi-Family Offices. This represents a substantial domestic pool of capital 
for  which  the  regulatory  framework  should  provide  various  investment  avenues, 
including AIFs. 

Recommendations 

I. 

II. 

Single  Family  Offices to be  allowed to  register  specified  investment 
vehicles as Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs) 
Specifically  state  that  Family  Offices  and  dedicated  state  funded 
vehicles can be registered AIFs 

Justification 

I.  Over the past 20 years, several entrepreneurs have established family 
offices to manage their funds in a diversified and sophisticated way. 
Their capital needs to be mobilized for investment and development 
in  as  many  ways  as  possible.  This  is  similar  to  the  evolution  of  the 
venture capital and private equity industry in the United States. 
These Family Offices are not recognized as having institutional status, 
and consequently cannot participate in particular kinds of domestic 
transactions  (e.g.  QIP  except  via  retail  book)  though  they  can  add 
substantial value alongside AIFs and FVCIs. 

II. 

H. Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) 

4.10.1  Non-Resident  Indians  have  a  natural  affinity  to  India.  Unlike  most  other 
foreign  investors,  they  have  additional  reasons  to  invest  in  India.  These 
include the natural desire to engage with the motherland, utilise personal 
and business networks in the homeland, take advantage of local language 
skills and make a contribution to India’s businesses and institutions  by  way 

88 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of transfer of knowhow and technical knowledge gained abroad, added 
innovation, employment and provide mentorship. 

4.10.2 

In recognition of these attributes, the Government of India has from time to 
time  enunciated  policies  and  priorities  to  attract  the  savings  of  NRIs.  This 
section of the report highlights the policy measures needed to attract long- 
term savings of NRIs into SEBI-regulated Alternative Investment Funds. 

4.10.3  NRIs have two types of savings for investment in India. These are repatriable 
funds, i.e. savings which are permitted by RBI to be taken out of India. The 
other type of savings are non-repatriable funds which cannot be taken out 
of India. 

4.10.4  Two  issues  need  to  be  addressed  to  provide  clarity  for  NRI  investment  in 
AIFs. One relates to the use of NRO funds and the other to the Consolidated 
FDI Policy, dated 12th May, 2015 

Recommendations 

I. 

II. 

III. 

Non-Resident  Ordinary  Accounts:  The  RBI  Notification  dated  16th 
November, 2015 permits NRIs to invest in AIFs using their FCNR and NRE 
accounts. As there is no mention of NRO accounts in the notification, it 
is recommended that clarification needs to be provided by RBI that NRIs 
can make investments in AIFs using funds lying in their NRO accounts. 

Section 2.1 of the Consolidated FDI Policy should include a definition of 
an  Alternative  Investment  Fund  in  the  same  manner  as  it  has  defined 
venture capital fund in clause 2.1.42. 

Para 3.2.4 of the Consolidated FDI Policy permits investment in venture 
capital funds structured as trusts. Similarly, in order to enable investment 
in  AIFs  through  the  trust  structure,  para  3.2.4  should  be  suitably 
amended. 

Justification 

I. 

Balances lying in NRO accounts of NRIs are permitted for investment in 
the stock market under the Portfolio Investment Scheme (PIS) as well as 
in  Mutual  Funds.  The  suggested  amendment  will  help  to  remove  any 
ambiguity around investment by NRIs into AIFs under the NRO route. 

89 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Investment by NRIs (as well as entities majority-owned by NRIs as per Press 
note  12)  investing  through  the  NRO  route  is  to  be  treated  as  domestic 
investment and thus when such entities make an investment in AIF through 
the NRO route such AIF should not be treated as having foreign investment 
and be subjected to downstream investment conditions, even if the manager 
or the sponsor are foreign owned and controlled. 

II. 

In the Consolidated FDI Policy, the definition of AIFs should be provided 
as currently there is no mention of Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) 
in the Consolidated FDI Policy dated 12th May, 2015. 

The trust structure of AIF’s should also be permitted for investment through 
the automatic route. Paras 3.2.3 and 3.2.4 of the FDI policy have different and 
inconsistent policies depending on the structure of a fund, namely whether a 
fund is set up as a company or as a trust. These policies should be harmonised. 
Specifically, the policy is more burdensome if a fund is established as a trust 
because  the  policy  then  mandates  that  FIPB  approval  is  required,  when  for 
ease of business, it ought to be under the automatic route. 

III.  NRIs  are  a  natural  and  mostly  professional,  pool  of  investors  to  attract. 
Ease  of  doing  business  will  be  considerably  enhanced  if  the  automatic 
route is made applicable. 

IV.  Offer NRIs a wider array of investible instruments, including AIFs. 

V. 

VI. 

Additional long-term savings of NRIs could be attracted into AIFs which will 
help grow long-term investments into a wide variety of sectors in which 
AIFs invest. 

Currently, under the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of 
Security  by  a  Person  Resident  outside  India)  Regulations,  2000  (TISPRO 
Regulations),  investment  by  NRIs  on  non-repatriation  basis  is  dealt  with 
separately  under  Schedule  4  Press  Note  7  of  2015,  dated  3  June,  2015 
issued  by  DIPP,  Ministry  of  Commerce  states  that,  for  purposes  of  FDI 
Policy,  investment  by  NRIs  under  Schedule  4  of  FEMA  (TISPRO  ) 
Regulations  will  be  deemed  to  be  domestic  investment  at  par  with 
investments made by residents. 

90 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I.  Foreign Venture Capital Investors (FVCIs) 

FVCI  are  mainly  overseas  pension  funds,  endowment  fund,  sovereign  wealth  funds 
and insurance companies. They are permitted to invest in India under the FVCI regime, 
which has been in existence for the past 15 years. 

FVCI is principally governed by three sets of regulations: 

I. 

II. 

SEBI  registers  Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investors  (FVCIs)  and  regulates 
investments by FVCIs in India under SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
Regulations, 2000 (FVCI Regulations). FVCIs are investors incorporated and 
established outside India investing primarily in venture capital undertakings 
in  India  either  directly  or  through  venture  capital  fund(s)/alternative 
investment funds. 

RBI  through  Schedule  6  of  the  Foreign  Exchange  Management  (TISPRO) 
Regulations, 2000, also regulates the flow of capital through the FVCI route. 
Infrastructure  is  one  among  10  sectors  in  which  RBI  has  permitted 
investment under the FVCI route. 

III. 

The  Consolidated  FDI  Policy  requires  FVCI  investors  to  obtain  specific 
approval of the Government for each investment in an AIF. 

Benefits of FVCI 

I. 

II. 

FVCI are covered in this report because they are potentially a large source of 
long term capital. As on 30 September 2014, there were 197 FVCI registered 
with  SEBI  with  a  cumulative  capital  of  Rs.  42,2776  crore.  Further  FVCI 
investment  in  the  infrastructure  sector  as  on  30th  September  2014 
amounted  to  more  than  Rs.  20,000  crore  i.e.  nearly  half  of  the  total 
cumulative net investment by FVCIs in India. Major investment by FVCI in the 
infrastructure  sector  is  in  power,  telecom,  roads,  bridges,  and  urban 
infrastructure. 

FVCI and AIFs are interlinked in that FVCI investors should be able to invest 
in AIFs which are regulated by SEBI. As many FVCIs are highly experienced 
venture  capital  and  private  equity  investors,  their  direct  presence  in  an 
Indian AIF has a positive demonstration effect. Such FVCI investment in AIFs, 
will be a source of confidence amongst domestic investors who have limited 
experience  in  these  asset  classes.  This,  in  turn,  will  help  attract  domestic 
investors, including pension funds, into AIFs as well as assist in the growth of 
domestic  fund  managers.  Ultimately,  the  pool  of  domestic  capital  for 
domestic investment through  AIFs will rise thereby making available more 
stable capital for domestic enterprises. 

91 

 

 

 

 

 

III. 

IV. 

V. 

Private  equity  and  venture  capital  are  long-term  stable  capital.  In  recent 
years, they have been the only form of long term capital available to start- 
ups  or  growth  companies,  or  infrastructure  projects.  This  is  potentially  a 
significant  source  of  capital  for  ventures  and  projects  in  India  and  India 
should have a regulatory framework that makes it easy for FVCIs to invest in 
India. Unlisted companies do not have access to the stock market, but can 
raise capital from FVCIs. 

This  form  of  capital  is  vital  to  make  a  success  of  India’s  'Make  in  India' 
program.  Ultimately,  the  development  and  growth  resulting  from  FVCI 
leads to greater employment in portfolio companies. 

FVCI  investors  require  the  highest  standards  of  corporate  governance  in 
portfolio  companies  which  is  consistent  with  the  objectives  of  various 
regulators like SEBI, RBI and the various Ministries. 

The  FVCI  regime  has  been  in  existence  for  15  years.  Market  participants  are  now 
familiar  with  the  procedures  involved.  Hence,  it  should  continue  with  further 
improvements in the regulatory landscape covering FVCI. FVCI investment should be 
welcomed in all categories of AIFs. All AIF categories are regulated by SEBI and have 
the necessary checks and balances. 

Reforms Needed in the FVCI Regime 

a)  Choice of Investment Structures to be liberalized 

Several  FVCIs  are  a  part  of  large  substantial  pools  of  capital  running  into 
billions  of  dollars.  It  is  quite  normal  for  various  arms  to  employ  different 
investment strategies and deal and fund formation structures. FVCIs should 
be permitted to invest in AIFs via any structure, namely trusts, LLPs, company 
or body corporate which they consider suitable. 

Across the world a variety of fund formation structures have been employed 
to channel private equity and venture capital for decades. All these methods 
of fund formation should also be available in India, thereby making India a 
jurisdiction, which is investor, including FVCI, friendly. 

b)  Sector Restrictions to be liberalized 

It is recommended that restrictions placed by RBI limiting FVCI investments 
to only 10 sectors should be removed. The rationale for this is that almost 
every significant sector of the Indian economy is in need of private equity 

92 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and venture capital and hence a wide array of sectors should be accessible 
to  FVCI  investors.  This  is  consistent  with  the  'Make  in  India'  policy.  If  the 
Government so wishes, there can be a small negative list but this should be 
very  narrow  so  that  significant  long  term  stable  capital  flows  are  not 
restricted, but instead should be welcomed. 

c)  Continuation of benefits under the current framework 

The  existing  benefits  offered  to  FVCIs  should  continue.  This  was  also 
suggested by the June, 2013 K M Chandrashekhar Committee report titled 
'Rationalisation  of  Investment  Routes  and  Monitoring  of  Foreign  Portfolio 
Investments'. 

The rationale is principally twofold: 

Firstly,  any  perception  that  the  country  is  backing  down  on  previous 
arrangements  may  not  be  viewed  favourably  amongst  the  domestic  and 
global  investment  community.  This  may  ultimately  hurt  the  investee 
companies, which need long term capital. 

Secondly, the benefits are not of a tax nature, and hence have no adverse 
effect on the tax revenues of the country. On the other hand, a more liberal 
FVCI regime would help attract more capital, leading to more growth at the 
investee  company  level  ultimately  leading  to  higher  tax  revenues  to  the 
nation. 

The  Pricing  Benefit:  FVCIs  may  acquire  by  purchase  or  otherwise  or  sell 
shares/convertible  debentures/units  or  any other  investment held  by it  in 
the  VCUs  or  VCFs  or  schemes/funds  set  up  by  the  VCFs  at  a  price  that  is 
mutually acceptable to the buyer and the seller/issuer. 

A price which is mutually acceptable to a buyer and a seller is ultimately the 
basis of a sound valuation. Such valuations are usually backed by a formal 
valuation  analysis  of  the  two  parties.  Accordingly  this  system  of  valuation 
applied to FVCI should continue. 

d)  Automatic Route 

Given the benefits of FVCIs highlighted above, the FDI policy should allow 
investment vide an automatic route, subject to compliance with SEBI’s AIF 
regulations. 

e)  FDI policy to permit FVCI investment under the ‘automatic route' 

93 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendations 

I. 

II. 

III. 

IV. 

A  general  permission  should  be  provided  under  the  FDI  Policy  enabling 
investments by FVCI in all AIFs (including AIFs set up as trusts) under the 
‘automatic route’. 

Remove RBI’s 10 sector restrictions. 

Institute  a  single-stage  approval  of  FVCI  at  the  level  of  SEBI-approved 
Designated Depository Participant (DDP) on behalf of SEBI as is the case 
with FPIs. 

The  existing  benefits  offered  to  FVCIs  should  continue.  This  was  also 
suggested by the June 2013 K M Chandrashekhar Committee report titled 
'Rationalisation of Investment Routes and Monitoring of Foreign Portfolio 
Investments'. 

Justification 

I. 

II. 

FVCIs are a large pool of offshore capital, which can boost the Indian fund 
management industry. Alignment: Many FVCIs would prefer to invest in a 
domestic AIF since local investors have ‘skin in the game’. The presence of 
FVCIs  will  also  be  a  confidence  booster  for  domestic  investors  of  AIF. 
Potential increase in employment in several sectors. Single-stage approval 
by DDPs will substantially ease the doing of business by FVCIs in India. 
Risk capital is needed not just by 10 sectors but by almost every sector of 
the Indian economy. 

J. 

Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) 

IPO treatment for AIFs 

Most IPOs have a restricted allocation for equity mutual funds. Furthermore, mutual 
funds  are  currently  allowed  to  anchor  an  IPO,  even  if  the  lead  manager  is  a  group 
company.  As  per  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 
2009,  SCHEDULE  XI  (point  10(k)),  neither  the  merchant  bankers  nor  any  person 
related to the promoter/promoter group/merchant bankers can apply under anchor 
Investor category in a public issue. The only exception given by SEBI is for mutual fund 
entities related to merchant banker. 

Recommendations 

I. 
II. 

Allow all AIFs to get an allocation in an IPO. 
AIFs to be allowed to anchor an IPO, even if the lead manager is a group 
company. 

94 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Justification 

I. 

II. 

III. 

Providing equal treatment for AIFs with mutual funds will allow for greater 
capital flows in to AIFs. 

Investing a proportion of committed capital in listed companies is common 
in the global private equity and venture capital industry. 

Since AIFs are professional investors, their anchor investors in IPOs will 
provide confidence to other investors. 

IV. 

AIFs are long-term investors, which may limit price volatility post-IPO. 

K. 

Angel Investments 

1. 

Recognition and promotion of early stage investors such as angel investors / 
venture funds is critical, and providing them a conducive environment will 
encourage them to channel more funds to Indian entrepreneurs and behind 
them, FDI / overseas monies will flow. 

At the very early / start up stage of a venture, equity investment is the riskiest 
and most critical source of funding. Angel Investors are successful 
entrepreneurs who are willing to invest their own savings in such risky 
ventures and also help start-up ventures with mentoring, strategic and 
operational inputs, and providing access to their business networks are the 
first and most critical investors in a start-up enterprise. 

2.  Most  governments  around  the  world  (UK,  USA,  Singapore,  etc.)  provide 
incentives  such  as  recognition,  tax  credits  up  to  50%,  tax  pass-through  LLP 
structures to enable a large group of individual angels to invest together. The 
Government of India should provide the same. 

This will help create a large base of angel investors. The importance of angel 

investors is evidenced by the fact that in a typical year in the USA, angels invest 

around  US$25  billion  in  around  50,000  companies  and  VCs  invest  about  the 

same in about 5000 companies. In India, we have under 1000 angel investors, 

investing barely $20 million. 

  U.S. allows accredited investor angel investors to write off their losses 

against their gains. 

  UK provides the Enterprise Incentive Scheme and the Small Enterprise 

Incentive Scheme allowing angel investors to write off losses up to 50%. 

  Singapore’s Angel Investors Tax Deduction Scheme is a tax incentive 

which aims to stimulate business angel investments in Singapore-based 
start-ups and encourage more angel investors to add value to these. 

95 

 

 

 

 

3.  Angel Funds 

SEBI  has  done  an  admirable  job  of  trying  to  solve  the  problems  created  by 
Section  56  (2)  (vii  b)  of  the  Income  Tax  Act  which  taxes  investment  in  a 
company made above the Fair Market Value by creating a new category of AIF 
Category I for Angel Groups. While not optimal (angel groups are not regulated 
anywhere  in the  world),  this  route  can  be  utilized  by angel  groups  with  the 
below recommended changes. 

i. 

The stipulation that angel investors must remain invested in a company 
for a minimum of 3 years should ideally be removed (AIF Category 1 
Funds do not have it ) or at least be brought down to one year, if at all 
a minimum holding period is required. 

This  is  onerous  and,  in  fact,  counterproductive  for  the  investee  company’s 
interests as many companies that receive angel investments (especially those 
that are doing well) need more money within 12 to 24 months. Most VCs who 
are  willing  to  make  larger  investments  insist  that  they  clean  out  the  earlier 
shareholding and buy out the angel investors as they do not want the clutter 
of 30 or 40 angel investors to deal with. The other source of capital is from 
corporates (investment or acquisition) who also want to buy out the angels for 
the same reason. This 3 year lock in may, therefore, deny a company the funds 
it desperately needs and that would be detrimental to its interests. 

Angel Investors, on their part, would like to exit when they can, and then invest 
in the next start up. Most of them have a certain amount of money earmarked 
for angel investments and if they cannot exit their current holdings, they will 
not invest in new companies. This lock in will therefore be counterproductive 
to the objective of breeding more start-ups. 

Also, exiting angel investments is a difficult and delicate affair and lockins will 
make the process sub-optimal for investors. Such liquidity and circulation of 
capital can also be facilitated if the investments of some angels are acquired 
by other angels in the same group, depending on their interests and financial 
capabilities. 

If there are compelling reasons why this lock in provision cannot be removed 
entirely or reduced to one year, then an alternative route would be to insert 
a proviso to regulation 19F(3) of the AIF Regulations as follows: 

Provided  that  an  angel  fund  could  transfer  its  investment  before  the 
completion of the three year lock-in period to: 

96 

 

 

 

  any SEBI registered fund; 

  any overseas fund/investor which is either an appropriately regulated 

entity; 

  an  overseas  fund  whose  investment  manager  or  parent  company  is 

appropriately  regulated; 

  a  strategic  buyer  being  a  body  corporate,  incorporated  in  India  or 

overseas: and 

  any other investor in the angel fund. 

 

 

 

 

Explanation:  For  the  purposes  of this  clause,  an overseas  fund /  investor  shall  be 
considered  to  be  "appropriately  regulated"  if  it  is  regulated  or  supervised  by  a 
market regulator or the banking regulator of the concerned overseas jurisdiction. 

ii. 

The provision that each angel investor needs to invest Rs. 25 lakh over 
3 years should be allowed for the life of the fund, or at least raised to 5 
years for the following reasons: 

  This will be impractical because though an investor may wish to do so, 
he may be unable to do so as the network /angel group may simply not 
be able to offer sufficient number of investment opportunities in the 
angel investor’s area of interest. 

  Also, most angel groups rules allow investors to share the investment 
on  a  pari  passu  basis.  Therefore,  an  individual  member  may  make  a 
number  of  investments  but,  because  they  tend  to  be  over  30  or  40 
investors in each investment, he may not reach Rs. 25 lakh in 3 years. 

  There  would  be  periods  when  there  would  not  be  enough 
opportunities due to reasons of macro-economic outlook. Slow growth 
economic  trends  do  not  provide  a  conducive  environment  for  high 
growth companies. 

iii. 

iv. 

The provision that the angel fund needs to invest a minimum of Rs. 50 
lakhs in a company should be brought down to Rs. 25 lakh, as this will 
encourage start-ups. 

AIF Regulations be amended to allow a scheme to have a maximum of 
200 investors. 

Currently, no scheme of the angel fund shall have more than 49 angel investors. 
This provision was inserted to be in-line with the Companies Act, 1956 wherein, 
over 50 investors in a company would make it deemed public. Since this provision 
has been changed  in the  Companies Act,  2013 to  200  shareholders,  we  would 

97 

request  that  the  AIF  Regulations  be  amended  to  allow  a  scheme  to  have  a 
maximum of 200 investors. 

v. 

The  provision  that  angel  funds  shall  invest  only  in  venture  capital 
undertakings  which  have  been  incorporated  during  the  preceding 
three years from the date of such investment. This should be modified 
to allow at least 10% of the  angel fund’s portfolio investments to be 
companies that may be more than 3 years old. 

Often an investee company comes up with a new idea or product after 3 years of 
its incorporation but the entrepreneurs don’t set up a new company for the new 
idea/product  to  avoid  incurring  additional  costs  and  do  it  within  the  existing 
company (this is also because closing a company is a very tiresome and complex 
process).  In  such  a  situation,  an  angel  fund  shall  not  be  able  to  invest  in  such 
idea/product, which is a detrimental regulation. 

It is, of course, assumed that this clause shall not restrict a further investment in 
the same company, if the first investment has taken place as per norms. 

vi. 

Angel funds should also be allowed to invest in overseas venture fund 
undertakings,  the  same  percentage  of  their  corpus  as  other  AIF  I 
categories. 

Angel Investors who invest at the highest risk level of a venture fund risk mitigate 
their  investments  through  various  means.  One  way  of  spreading  the  risks  is  by 
investing across geographies. We would recommend that similar to other venture 
funds  under  Category  I,  angel  funds  should  also  be  allowed  to  invest  the  same 
percentage  of  their  corpus  in  overseas  venture  fund  undertakings  as  in  venture 
funds. The venture should ideally have an India connection. 

Private Placements of Small Ventures 

Rule  14(2)(c)  of  Chapter  III  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  states  that  a  private 
placement shall not be for an investment size of less than INR 20,000 of the face 
value of the securities (“Minimum Investment Size”). Issuance of shares with a high 
face value is unduly onerous for start-up companies, is entrepreneur unfriendly and 
forces a start-up to issue Rs.20, 000 worth shares at par to any investor, when the 
investor is willing to pay a premium. 

98 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendations 

a.  The  process  should  be  simplified.  For  example,  the  requirement  of 
issuing an “offer letter” for a preferential issue should be done away 
with at least for private companies, as in any case persons who invest 
in a private company would conduct their due diligence since there is 
no free market for the securities of a private company unlike a listed 
company. 

b.  To comply with the above, companies need to increase their authorised 

capital which entails unnecessary expense to companies. 

c.  The  minimum  investment  size  requirement  serves  no  purpose  and 
instead just adds an unnecessary restriction/compliance requirement 
for companies desirous of raising capital. It should be deleted. 

99 

 

 

Promoting Onshore Fund Management in India 

V 

A. 

Introduction 

5.1  Currently,  approximately  95%  of  venture  capital and private  equity capital  is 
contributed  by  overseas  investors,  and  given  the  paucity  of  a  domestic 
investor  pool,  overseas  investors  will  continue  to  be  major  contributors  to 
venture  capital  and private  equity  in the  foreseeable future.  The  majority of 
overseas investors (98% of total foreign VCPE capital) and their venture capital 
and private equity fund managers prefer to domicile their  funds in countries 
with stable and favourable tax and regulatory regimes on fund management. 

5.2  Offshore  funds  typically  invest  in  Indian  companies  through  India’s  Foreign 
Direct  Investment  (FDI)  or  the  Foreign  Portfolio  Investor  (FPI)  routes  rather 
than establishing domestic funds domiciled in India. This is because their FDI 
and  FPI  regimes  are  considered  to  be  far  more  consistent  in  contrast  to  the 
changing tax and regulatory regimes specific to VCPE Funds in India. Since such 
fund  vehicles  are  domiciled  offshore,  they  do  not  fall  in  the  ambit  of  SEBI’s 
regulatory regime for Alternative Investment Funds. 

5.3  The majority of offshore venture capital and private equity funds are managed 
by fund managers located outside India. The key question is why is the current 
regulatory and tax regime driving more than 95% of venture capital and private 
equity  fund  managers  overseas  and  causing  more  than  95%  of  the  India 
focused  VCPE  funds  to  be  domiciled  overseas.  This  is  because,  albeit 
inadvertently, 
severely 
disadvantageous to fund managers domiciled in India, resulting in the exodus 
of the fund management industry to foreign shores. 

regulatory  and 

the  current 

tax 

regime 

is 

5.4  The  two major factors which have led to this  situation are (i) the lack of tax 
clarity and (ii) severe restrictions on the operational freedom of fund managers 
domiciled  in  India.  These  reasons  are  critical  to  the  extent  that  it  puts  the 
economics of an entire fund under peril, if domiciled in India. Therefore, fund 
managers who would have otherwise preferred to domicile in India, have been 
forced to setup their operations overseas. 

5.5 

India needs to create a level playing field between fund managers domiciled in 
India  and  those  located  offshore,  which  is  not  the  case  in  India  currently.  A 
level playing field will help India realize the multiple benefits of attracting VCPE 
fund managers to India. 

100 

 

 

 

 

B. 

Tax Clarity 

 

5.6 

 
 

5.7 

An  ideal  tax  and  regulatory  framework  should  have  features  which  enable 
India  focused  fund  vehicles  to  be  pooled  or  located  in  India  and  fund 
managers, who manage these funds, to operate locally. This model of funds 
and  their  management  established  in  local  jurisdictions  is  common  among 
developed economies. This, in turn, contributes to a thriving venture capital 
and private equity industry. More to the point, many progressive economies 
have proactively taken measures to attract venture capital and private equity 
managers to their host jurisdictions for the obvious reasons of the beneficial 
impact  on  their  economies  –  creation  of  a  robust  eco-system  to  boost 
entrepreneurship, creation of jobs and increased GDP growth. 

The  suggestions  and  recommendations  made  in  this  chapter  are  easily 
implementable, transformative in nature and should trigger the growth of a 
vibrant venture capital and private equity industry in India. These can lead to 
benefits  to  India  in  the  shape  of  growth  in  annual  tax  revenues  for  the 
exchequer. Accordingly, the recommendations should be implemented on a 
priority basis. Transformative steps which would encourage venture capital 
and private equity  funds to be domiciled in India would be to: 

a.  Create  parity  between  Indian  regulations  and  those  offshore  and  with 

their respective double taxation avoidance agreements (DTAA). 

b.  Allow foreign investment from international limited partners directly into 
domestic alternative investment funds (AIFs) by bringing changes to the 
foreign  exchange  regulations  (FDI  policy/FEMA)  and  the  policy  on  tax 
deducted at source. 

c.  Create a level playing field between the fund managers domiciled in India 

and those located offshore, which is not the case in India currently. 

d.  Enable more foreign funds to be domiciled in India and brought under the 
purview of SEBI by ensuring clear policies and their consistent application 
over the entire life of fund vehicles. The STT  based regime has been in 
vogue  for  a  decade  in  India  and  is  a  time-tested  method  of  taxation, 
which ensures easy and efficient collection of taxes at source. STT reduces 
the  compliance  burden  on  the  funds  to  a  great  extent  and  ensures 
upfront collection of taxes to the revenue. STT could be levied on both 
entry  as  well  as  exit  from  Funds.  STT  would  also  reduce  the  scrutiny 
burden  of  the  revenue  authorized  and  consequent  reduction  in  the 
litigation. 

 

101 

e.  Prior to the introduction of an STT regime, as an interim measure, it is 
recommended  that  CBDT  immediately  clarifies  that  exempt  income 
flowing through AIFs should not suffer any withholding tax. 

f.  Amend the safe-harbour norms for ease of doing business 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

5.8 

5.9 

The committee has worked with a solution-finding approach and has evolved 
a set of recommendations that would enable and encourage onshore fund 
management. The two must-do items that would greatly help the cause   are 
a) tweaking ‘Safe harbour’ norms and b) implementing the STT approach to 
taxation on investments / distributions by Indian AIFs. 

In making its recommendations, the committee has taken cognizance of all 
the  stakeholders  and  has  tried  to  evolve  a  'win-win’  solution.  For  the 
Government,  this  would  result  in  robust  direct/indirect  tax  collections, 
creation  of  more  jobs,  and  acceleration  of  GDP  growth.  For  SEBI,  all 
alternative assets would come under its supervision; equity markets would 
be able to attract stable and deeper investment base. SEBI would be the key 
enabler  of  increasing  domestic  participation  in  venture  capital  and  private 
equity,  and  there  would  be  complete  oversight  on  any  systemic  risk 
possibilities. For the tax authorities, the STT approach to taxation is superior 
to the ‘tax pass-through’ approach and would result in less litigation while 
still maximizing tax revenues and availability of full audit trail. 

5.10  The government should attract as much venture capital and private equity 
capital into India as possible, by creating enabling regulations. One of the key 
benefits of such capital inflows for India would be higher tax revenues for the 
government. To put the revenue generation potential of venture capital and 
private equity capital in perspective and help policy makers in the Revenue 
Department  take  a  macro-view  while  formulating/evolving  tax  policies 
governing  this  asset  class,  the  committee  analysed  the  various  sources  of 
revenue. 

5.11  The  study  clearly  indicates  that  the  potential  for  generating  the  largest 
amount  of  revenue  lies  at  the  portfolio  level  i.e.  with  venture  capital  and 
private equity backed companies and not at the venture capital and private 
equity fund vehicle or fund managers themselves. Thus, it is estimated that 
VCPE backed portfolio companies could potentially generate 85% of taxes on 
a recurring basis annually. Fund managers could generate 10% of    recurring 

102 

taxes annually, and the remaining 5% from venture capital and private equity 
funds in the form of non-recurring capital gains tax over a fund life of 10 -12 
years. 

Simple, litigation-free tax regime through levying Securities Transaction Tax 
(STT)  on  investments  and  distributions  of  AIFs  can  be  a  game  changer  in 
enabling  localization  of  funds  and  their  management  in  India.  The  STT 
approach  envisages  that  AIFs  will  discharge  the  tax  liabilities  of  overseas 
Limited Partners (LPs) and distributions made to foreign LPs if tax free. A tax 
regime  where  tax  filing  and  payment  obligations  of  foreign  investors  are 
discharged  by  domestic  AIFs  will  provide  comfort  to  large  foreign  LPs  and 
enable them to boost their allocation of capital to Indian AIFs. More than 95% 
of investors in Indian VCPE asset class are overseas investors who do not have 
any  business  activity  in  India  apart  from  investing  in  India-focused  VCPE 
funds.  A  simple  unambiguous  tax  regime,  akin  to  the  STT  approach,  will 
persuade them to directly participate in Indian AIFs, and is clearly the ideal 
tax framework to facilitate the participation of foreign LPs in AIFs domiciled 
in India. 

Following the major policy initiative of the Government to “Make in India”, a 
suitable  policy  framework  would  enable  venture  capital and  private  equity 
funds  to  “Manage  in  India”.  Also,  it  makes  tremendous  economic  sense to 
attract  the  fund  management  industry  onshore  by  crafting  an  appropriate 
regulatory  framework.  Taking  cognizance  of  this,  the  current  government 
has,  with  best  intentions,  attempted  to  correct  certain  anomalies  by 
introducing  “Safe  Harbour  Provisions”.  However,  the  benefits  under  these 
new provisions are available upon satisfying several stringent and impractical 
conditions by the venture capital and private equity industry. 

Since  these  issues  strike  at  the  very  survival  of  fund  managers  and  the 
viability of venture capital and private equity funds, unless the current Safe 
Harbour  Provisions  in  section  9A  of  the  Income  Tax  Act  are  amended  to 
address  these  issues  clearly  and  with  certainty,  fund  managers  are  not 
expected  to  shift  their  operations  to  India.  By  tailoring  “Safe  Harbour 
Provisions” to the special characteristics of venture capital and private equity 
funds,  the  conditions  can  be  created  for  fund  managers  to  shift  their 
operations to India. This can lead to benefits to India in the shape of growth 
in annual tax revenues for the exchequer. The proposed amendments in the 
safe-harbour  regime  are  contained  in  the  chapter  titled  ‘Creating  a 
Favourable Tax Environment’. 

103 

5.12 

5.13 

5.14 

 

 

 

C.  Operational Freedom for Domestic AIFs 

5.15  Approach to Investor Protection: 

The  other  major  challenge  that  any  fund  manager  looking  at  domiciling  in 
India faces  is  the  extent  of  operational  freedom  they  have  always  enjoyed 
operating offshore. Such investors protect their interests by embedding the 
principle  of  ‘alignment  of  interests’  in  stringent  contractual  arrangements 
with  fund  managers.  The  regulatory  framework  in  India  should  aim  to 
achieve  parity  with  the  level  of  operational  freedom  available  to  fund 
managers in international markets in order to increase the inflow of private 
equity in India. 

5.16  Piggyback on Conditions Negotiated by Sophisticated Offshore Investors: 

An  emerging  domestic-investor-base  in  India  is  keen  on  co-investing  with 
large  and  global  institutional  investors  in  domestic  Alternative  Investment 
Funds. Encouraging domestic participation in the venture capital and private 
equity asset class is also a stated objective of the Government. If the current 
AIF regulations provide provisions for large sophisticated domestic investors 
to piggyback on the same protections negotiated by sophisticated offshore 
investors, SEBI could be the key enabler of promoting domestic participation 
in this key long term asset class. 

5.17  Disclosure-based Approach: 

In the case of venture capital and private equity funds that only raise capital 
from  sophisticated  offshore/large  domestic  investors,  a  disclosure-based 
approach  should  take  precedence  over  investor  protection.  To  manage 
systemic  risk,  regulators  should  be  able  to  clearly  monitor  and  seek 
appropriate disclosures. Such an approach to regulating AIFs where investor 
protection  is  the  responsibility  of  sophisticated  investors  themselves, 
whereas  disclosures  and  monitoring  is  the  central  focus  of the regulator  is 
prevalent in developed economies. 

5.18  Parity in Operational Freedom for Domestic Fund Managers with Offshore 

Managers: 
 
To  encourage  fund  managers  to  relocate  to  India,  SEBI  needs  to  evolve  a 
regulatory framework that imparts the same operational freedom to onshore 
fund  managers  that  is  available  to  offshore  fund  managers,  while  not 
compromising  on  its  mandate.  If  such  a  framework  is  evolved,  the 
majority of 

104 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

venture  capital  and  private  equity  capital  that  is  currently  not  under  the 
ambit  of  SEBI  will  come  under  it,  thereby  allowing  SEBI  to  exercise  better 
oversight of this asset class. 

5.19  Offshore Portfolio Companies: 

It has been observed that of late some Indian promoters prefer to domicile 
their  companies  in  offshore  jurisdictions  (externalizing  ownership).  This 
trend  is  being  observed  in  the  technology  and  e-commerce  space.  The 
benefits  of  such  offshore  domiciliation  are  IP  protection,  ability  to  attract 
global venture capital, and the ability to list in international markets such as 
NASDAQ, NYSE,  and  AIM.  These  markets  have  greater  depth  and  pools  of 
capital, which enable large IPOs, including billion dollar IPOs to be absorbed 
by  international  investors.  Currently,  venture  capital  funds  which  are 
structured  offshore  have  the  flexibility  to  invest  in  offshore  structured 
portfolio companies. AIFs need parity in this regard. 

5.20  As per the current procedure followed by SEBI, an AIF can invest up to 25% of 
the corpus in overseas entities provided an ‘India connection’ is established 
between  the  offshore  entity  and  an  India  entity.  India  focused  funds 
domiciled  offshore  can  invest  in  offshore  entities  without  any  such 
regulatory  permission  from  SEBI.  Also,  high  quality  deals  have  high 
competition among the funds and AIFs regulated by SEBI should be able to 
compete with offshore funds in capturing these high quality deals. In view of 
this,  the  ‘India  connection’  requirement  has  to  be  liberalized  and  also  the 
fact  that  AIFs  are  domiciled  in  India  and  regulated  by SEBI  prove the  India 
connection. Eventually, this will pave the way for Pan-Asia focused funds to 
be pooled as AIFs in India similar to the manner in which funds are pooled 
offshore. 

5.21 

It  is  recommended  that  AIFs  be  provided  the  freedom-  like  India-focused 
offshore  funds  to  invest  in  offshore  portfolio  companies  /  entities  to  the 
extent of 25% of the corpus of an AIF (currently provided by SEBI) or 50% of 
the offshore component of the corpus of the AIF, whichever is higher. SEBI’s 
requirement of ‘Indian connection’ should be liberalized. Investment from an 
AIF in itself should be regarded as satisfying this criteria. 

D.  Withholding  Taxes  on  Income  Distributed  By  AIFs  –  Undue 

Hardship 

The Finance Act, 2015 brought in significant amendments in relation to Category I 
and II Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs). The amendments took into consideration 

105 

 

 

 

 

the  long-standing  demands  of  the  industry  to  extend  the  pass-through  status  to 
AIFs. However, the amendments also introduced a tax deduction at source (TDS) of 
10 % on income distributed by the Funds to its investors. While the intent of the 
said TDS provisions seem to be to ensure collection of taxes at source, it is important 
to understand the issues arising and its effect on investors. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. 

Gross versus Net Income 

As  per  section 194LBB  of  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961  (IT  Act),  wherein  any  income, 
other  than  income  in  the  nature  of  profits  and  gains  of  business  or  profession  is 
payable to a unit holder of Category I and II AIFs, then such income shall be subject 
to TDS at the rate of 10% at the time of credit of such income to the account of the 
payee, or at the time of payment, whichever is earlier. 

The term “Income” has been defined under Section 2(24) to include profits and 
gains from business or profession, dividends, capital gains etc. 

The language of the section is ambiguous and does not explicitly state whether the 
taxes need to be deducted at source on gross amounts distributed by the Funds, or 
on net income chargeable to tax. A plain reading would suggest that the withholding 
taxes  should  apply  on  net  income  chargeable  to  tax  as  the  definition  of  income 
refers to income computed under the respective heads of income such as a capital 
gains, profits and gains from business or profession etc. However, in the absence of 
an explicit clarification, AIFs are in a quandary to decide on whether to deduct on 
gross or net distributions. 

2. 

Exempt Income 

The TDS provisions also pose a unique problem on exempt income such as long term 
capital gains under section 10(38) of the IT Act and Dividends under section 10(34) 
of  the  IT  Act  distributed  by  AIFs.  The  cardinal  principal  of  taxation  is  that  there 
should be no tax on income which is exempt. Any application of TDS provisions on 
such  exempt  income  would  make  the  exempt  income  suffer  taxes,  albeit 
temporarily. The taxpayer would be free to claim a refund of such taxes ultimately. 
However, until the refund is claimed and processed, the exempt income would have 
suffered a tax of 10%. 

Similarly, the taxpayer himself may be eligible to claim exemption under specific 
provisions  of  the  IT  Act  or  the  Double  Taxation  Avoidance  Agreements  (DTAA) 
namely, pension funds, offshore tax residents etc. However, the withholding tax 
provisions do not provide any exception to taxpayers who are exempt from taxes, 

106 

thus  leading  to  a  scenario  wherein,  the  taxpayer  will  have  to  resort  to  claiming 
refund of the taxes deducted at source by filing a return of income. 

AIFs are permitted to invest in the units of other AIFs. If a Category I or II AIF 
invests in another Category I or II AIF, then, the same income may be subject 
to withholding taxes twice. 

3. 

The adverse tax impact of charging withholding taxes on exempt income 
has been detailed in the table below 

Considering the hypothetical case of an AIF with assets under management of Rs. 
1000 crore which results in a gain of Rs. 700 crore over a period of 6 years. (1.7x 
is  average  multiple),  the  table  below  captures  the  adverse  tax  impact  of 
withholding tax: 

Exhibit 5.1: Withholding Taxes Higher than Actual Tax 

S. No. 

Particulars 

Net Income Basis  Gross Income Basis 

1 

2 

3 

Initial investment 

Total realisation after 6 years 
Investment break up 

a) Investment in listed companies 
b) Investment in un-listed companies 
c) Investment in un-listed companies 

4 

Realisation on exits 

a) from listed exits of 3(a) 
b) from exits of 3(b) 
c) from exits of 3(c) 
d) Total 

5 

Book Gains from exits 

a) from 3(a) 
b) from 3(b) 
c) from 3(c) 
d) Total 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

6 

7 

8 

TDS made under Section 194LBB @ 10 percent on 5(d) 

TDS made under Section 194LBB @ 10 percent on 4 (d) 

Capital Gains as per IT Act 

a) from 3(a) 

b) from 3(b) considering indexed cost 50% 

9 

Actual tax as per Income Tax @20% 

10 

Tax refund (7) – (9) being excess deduction 

1,000 

1,700 

400 
300 
300 

750 
650 
300 
1,700 

350 
350 
0 
700 

70 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1,000 

1,700 

400 
300 
300 

750 
650 
300 
1,700 

350 
350 

0 

700 

170 

Exempt 

Exempt 

200 

10 

60 

200 

10 

160 

Indian Rupees in Crores 

107 

 

 

 

 

 

It may be noticed from the above, that the fund manager would deduct TDS under 
section  194LBB  at  10  %  on  whole  of  the  income  distributed  of  Rs.1,  700  crores, 
rather  than  the  taxable  income  of  Rs.  50  crores,  taking  a  conservative  view, 
considering the rigorous penal consequences and prosecution for non-compliance of 
TDS provisions under section 276B and 201 of the IT Act. 

Even if the fund manager were to deduct TDS under section 194LBB at 10 % on the 
whole of the book income of Rs. 700 crores, the TDS would be significantly higher by 
Rs. 60 crores as against the actual tax liability. 

Hence, the fund manager will end up deducting taxes (about 6 times more than what 
is actually required) leading to tax refunds for the investors. Further, this affects the 
fund’s distribution to its investors and diluting the IRR. 

4. 

Limited life of AIF 

Typically,  AIFs  are  setup  with  limited  life  of  8  – 10  years.  Where the  AIF  withholds 
taxes as detailed above, a significant amount of the taxes paid would be blocked as 
refund claims which may extend beyond the life time of the AIF, thus causing undue 
hardship to the AIF and its investors. 

5. 

Lower withholding of tax 

The IT Act provides for a mechanism under section 197 whereby, the Assessing Officer 
upon  application  by  the  assessee,  issues  a  nil  withholding  /  lower  withholding 
certificate.  However,  the  certificate  under  this  section  can  be  issued  only  towards 
withholding under specified section which does not include section 194LBB of the Act. 
Even if the section were to be amended, the process of obtaining a nil withholding / 
lower  withholding  certificate  would  itself  be  cumbersome  to  the  investors  as  each 
investor will have to apply and obtain a certificate and the Fund will have to administer 
the distributions differently for each and every investor. 

Implications of withholding tax by foreign entity when it buys assets of AIF 
6. 
It may be noted that, in the case of the unlisted exits made by AIFs, the acquirer in 
most  cases  will  be  a  foreign  entity and  as  a  precautionary  measure,  such  foreign 
entity  withholds  tax  from  the  sale  proceeds.  This,  in  turn,  affects  the  fund’s 
distribution to its investors and causes substantial stress on the IRR as the investor 
which is computed on the basis of cash flows. 

108 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendations 

  Based on the above analyses, it is recommended that the withholding tax 
on  distributions  made  by  the  Fund  be  abolished,  since  the  investors  are 
subject to tax directly on the income so distributed. 

  The  AIF  regulations  prescribe  minimum  investment  by  each  investor  and  a 
vast majority of the investors are sophisticated / accredited investors such as 
banks, insurance companies, high net worth individuals etc. Where the TDS 
provisions  cannot  be  abolished,  the  following  proposition  could  be 
considered: 

o  The  sophisticated  /  accredited  investors  could  be  excluded  from  the 
applicability  of  TDS  based  on  a  self-declaration  of  their  status  and 
taxability of the income distributed by the Fund in their hands; 

o  Non-resident investors who are already subject to the rigour of section 
195 could be excluded from the applicability of section 194LBB of the 
Act; and 

o  Provide clarification that the TDS will apply only on net income that is 
chargeable to tax in the hands of the investors after considering the 
benefits under applicable DTAA. 

  As depicted in Exhibit 5.1 above, it may be noted that the taxes deducted at 
source  is  higher  than  the  actual  tax  in  any  scenario.  Consequently,  as  an 
alternative, the TDS rate can be reduced to 2% of the net book income instead 
of the current rate of 10 per cent. 

  Alternatively,  the  current  Venture  Capital  Fund  /  AIF  tax  regime  could  be 
replaced with a Securities Transaction Tax (STT) based regime. The STT based 
regime has been in vogue for a decade in India and is a time tested method 
of taxation which ensures easy and efficient collection of taxes at source. STT 
reduces the compliance burden on the Funds to a great extent and  ensures 
upfront collection of taxes to the Revenue. STT could be levied on both entry 
as well as exit from Funds. STT would also reduce the scrutiny burden of the 
revenue authorized and consequent reduction in the litigation. 

 

 

 

E. Securities Transactions Tax (STT) Method of Taxation 
– A New Approach 

The tax treatment of Venture Capital Funds (VCFs) and Alternative Investment Funds 
(AIFs)  (collectively  referred  to  as  'Funds')  has  had  a  chequered  history.  The  tax 
treatment of investments made by VCF and Private Equity Funds [now categorized 
as  Alternative  Investment  Funds  (AIF)]  has  drifted  away  from  a  stable        non- 

109 

controversial regime to a complex, litigation prone regime. The complexity and the 
issues involved in the tax regime has discouraged the fund managers from setting up 
Indian pooled funds i.e. funds domiciled in India. To address the issues, we suggest 
an alternative approach which entails the levy of a Securities Transaction Tax (STT). 

The STT method of taxation has various advantages. It ensures the timely collection 
of  taxes  at  source;  reduces  the  compliance  burden  on  the  tax  payers;  reduces  the 
need  for  scrutiny  of  tax  returns  filed  by  taxpayers  and  should  raise  tax  revenues. 
Consequently,  the  STT  method  of  taxation  is  a  compelling  proposition  which 
addresses  the  concerns  of  the  VCF  /  AIF  industry.  Summarized  below  are  the 
implications under the current tax regime as well as the proposed STT regime. 

Implications – Revenue 

Authorities 

Increased scrutiny of 
returns filed by the Fund 
and the Investors of 
income and TDS adds to 
the administrative burden 
of the revenue authorities 
in scrutinizing returns 
containing exempt income. 

  Administering  tax  credits 
and ensuring that the Form 
26AS  credits  match  with 
the  credits  claimed  by  the 
investors,  adds 
the
existing 
reconciliation
of  mismatches  between 
TDS claims and Form 26AS. 

to 

Implications – Fund 

Implications – Investors 

Current Tax Regime 

  Onerous and ambiguous on 

 

provisions relating to Tax 
Deduction at Source (TDS) 

 

  Ambiguity on whether TDS 

 

Investors have to file a 
return of income and 
claim refund irrespective 
of whether such income 
is taxable or not. 

 

 

needs to be made on gross or 
net income; whether TDS has to 
be made on income chargeable 
to tax i.e., exclude exemption 
income from the ambit of TDS. 

 

 

Funds required to issue / 
file 
- 

Return of income 

- 

Form 64A and 64B 
detailing the income 
distributed by the Fund. 

 
 
 

  Blocked TDS claim on 

exempt income creates 
unnecessary stress on 
the working capital. 

 

Increased scrutiny may 
lead to increased scope 
for litigation as to 
taxability of capital gain 
even though such gains 
may be protected under 
the Double Taxation 
Avoidance Agreements 
(DTAA). 

110 

 

 

 

Implications – Fund 

Implications 
Investors 

– 

– 

Implications 
Revenue 
Authorities 

 

  Revenue leakage on 
account of interest 
on refunds which 
was never to be 
charged. 

  Increase in litigation 

leading to poor tax 
collection and 
inefficient utilization 
of tax authorities in 
fighting tax battles. 

-  Quarterly TDS returns 

 

 

Investors would suffer TDS 
on all income distributed by 
the Fund, thereby resulting 
in tax on exempt income as 
well. Refund claims of the 
investors would be blocked 
until the refund is paid 
thereby resulting in a sub- 
optimal return on capital on 
investments from the Fund. 

  Scope for litigation on 

account of ambiguity in the 
law. 

  Administrative 

inconvenience for the Funds 
as they would need to 
continue to exist for the 
purpose of realizing refund 
claims and completing 
assessment proceedings 
notwithstanding the fact that 
most funds are setup with a 
limited life. 

 

 

 

 

111 

Proposed STT Regime 
 

  STT could be levied on 

entry as well as exit from 
the Funds resulting in 
increased tax collection. 

 
 
 
 

 

Improves ease of doing 
business since filing 
returns and claiming 
refunds would not be 
needed. 

 
 

  The STT method 

ensures timely 
collection of tax at 
source. 

 
 
 
 
 

Interests of Revenue 
is protected and 
considering the 
average return on 
investment, levy of 
STT would be 
beneficial resulting in 
higher levy of taxes 
(refer Exhibit 5.4). 

 
 

 

 

Investors receive 
tax free income 
as the income 
would have 
suffered STT at 
the source itself. 

  Scrutiny of 

return of income 
filed by the 
investors would 
reduce to a 
great extent on 
account of 
exemption 
thereby 
reducing the 
compliance 
burden of the 
investors. 
 

 

112 

Implications – Fund 

Implications – Investors 

  No working capital stress as 
funds would not be blocked 
as refunds. 

  The STT regime would ensure 

that there is no scope of 
litigation. 

  Reduces compliance burden to 

a significant extent as 
compliance will be reduced to 
STT alone, and filing an exempt 
income return (if prescribed). 

 
  Reduced compliance 

increases the ease of doing 
business. 

 
 
 

 
 

Funds are not blocked in the 
form of refunds thereby 
ensuring returns are not sub- 
optimal to the investors. 

Implication 
s – Revenue 
Authorities 

  Upfront 

collection of 
taxes on entry 
and collection of 
taxes as well as 
on exit, 
irrespective of 
whether the 
investment has 
generated 
income 
chargeable to 
tax. 

 

  Enables Revenue 

to collect taxes 
on a wider tax 
base which 
would include 
exempt as well 
as taxable 
income. 

 
  No assessment 

of investors’ 
income and 
consequently 
significant 
reduction in 
litigation. 

 

113 

Background 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.22  While  the  AIFs  have  been  providing  the  much  needed  risk  capital,  the  tax 
and regulatory environment in which they operate is increasingly becoming 
more  and  more  complex  and  litigation  prone.  In  comparison,  the  tax 
treatment of Foreign Portfolio Investor (FPI) investments has been moving 
towards  certainty.  For  instance,  the  clarification  brought  about  in  the 
treatment of income earned by FPIs, that it will be treated as capital gains, 
and  the  recent  clarifications  on  applicability  of  Minimum  Alternate  Tax 
(MAT)  to  FPI  have  gone  a  long  way  in  providing  certainty  to  FII  investors. 
Contrast  this  with  the  tax  treatment  of  income earned  by  SEBI-registered 
VCFs and AIFs. The regime moved from a simplistic treatment of exempting 
all income earned by VCFs to restricting the exemption to only income from 
investment  in  limited  sectors,  and,  from  there,  again  reintroducing  the 
exemption to  income from  portfolio investments. Recently, the tax regime 
for Category I and II AIF were introduced whereby income of the AIF in the 
nature of profits and gains from business were to be taxed in the hands of 
the Fund only, and income in the nature of capital gains and other sources 
was  to  be  taxed  in  the  hands  of  the  investors.  Further,  the  income 
distributed by the Funds were subject to a tax withholding of 10 %. 

5.23 

In  addition  to  the  complexities  surrounding  the  withholding  and  tax 
treatment of domestic investors, foreign investors have also been facing 
the heat in the form of stringent scrutiny of relief / benefits under Double 
Taxation Avoidance Agreements. 

5.24  All of the above have been slowly discouraging fund managers from setting 
up  Indian-pooled  i.e.  India-domiciled  Alternative  Investment  Funds,  and  to 
instead pool capital outside India for investing in India through the Foreign 
Direct Investment (FDI) route. The investments under the FDI route are not 
subject to any of the above restrictions. 

5.25 

In  light  of  the  above,  we  have  detailed  below  some  of  the  key  issues 
relating to the current tax treatment of AIFs and their investors, along with 
recommendations to alleviate the concerns. 

1. 

Current tax treatment of Alternative Investment Funds Domiciled in India 

Under the current tax regime, tax pass-through status has been provided to all 
Category  I  and  II  AIFs  for  income  other  than  Profits  and  Gains  from  Business  & 

114 

Profession  (PGBP).  Income  of  the  nature  of  capital  gains  and  Income  from  other 
sources  are  exempt  in  the  hands  of  AIF  and  are  taxable  in the  hands  of  the  unit 
holder / investors directly. 

Foreign investors are generally taxable at normal tax rates subject to treaty benefits, 
asunder: 

 

 

20%  Long term capital gains; and 

40 % (foreign company)/ 30 % for short term capital gains 

However, a significant amount of foreign investments are made from countries with 
benefits under the DTAA. 

Resident investors are liable to tax like any other assessee: 

 

 

20% – Long term capital gains 

30%  –Short term capital gains 

Income distributed by AIF to the unit holders / investors is subject to withholding at 
the rate of 10 %. 

2. 

Issues under the current treatment 

Under Section 194LBB of the Act, any income distributed by the Fund is subject to Tax 
Deduction at Source (TDS) at the rate of 10 %. 

Implications for the Fund 

  Determination of TDS: The TDS provisions are ambiguous on whether the 
TDS  needs  to  be  made  on  gross  or  net  income;  whether  TDS  has  to  be 
made on income chargeable to tax i.e., exclude exempt income from the 
ambit  of  TDS.  This  ambiguity  in  the  law,  fear  of  prosecution  and  penal 
consequences  would  make  the  fund  managers  turn  conservative  and 
deduct  taxes  on  gross  income,  irrespective  of  whether  such  income  is 
chargeable to tax or not. The conservative treatment by the fund managers 
could  lead  to  absurd  situations,  wherein  income  earned  by  the  Fund, 
which is in the nature of Dividend and Long term Capital Gains, would be 
exempt from tax whereas the same income would suffer TDS at the rate 
of 10% upon distribution to the investors. 

  Tax Compliance: The tax related compliance requirement of Funds has not 
been reduced over the years. The Fund is still required to file the return of 
income, and, in addition, is required to submit Form 64A and 64B detailing 
the income distributed by the Fund. This is  in addition to the additional 

115 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

requirement of submitting TDS returns on income distributed by the Fund, 
which is otherwise not required to be done by other assessees. 

  Blockage of Refund Claim: On account of TDS on all income distributed by 
the Fund, irrespective of whether such income is chargeable to tax or not, 
investors are left with no option but to claim the TDS as a refund by filing 
a return of income. This means the refund claim would be blocked until 
the refund is paid, thereby resulting in a sub-optimal return on capital. 

  Litigation  Risk:  The  above  ambiguities  could  lead  to  situations  where 
the revenue may differ from the interpretations adopted by the Funds, 
leading to litigation. 

 

Inconsistency  with  Fund  Life:  In  addition,  the  Fund  would  need  to 
continue  its  existence,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  most  funds  are 
setup with a limited life, on account of completing of assessment and 
litigation proceedings and realization of refunds. 

Implications for Investors 

  Compliance  Burden  Hurts  Ease  of  Business:  Investors  have  to  file  a 
return of income and claim refund irrespective of whether such income 
is taxable or not. 

  Working Capital Stress: Blocked TDS claim on exempt income creates 

unnecessary stress on the working capital. 

  Litigation  Risk:  Increased  scrutiny  may  lead  to  increased  scope  for 
litigation as to taxability of capital gain even though such gains may 
be protected under the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements. 

Implications for the Revenue Authorities 

 

 

Administrative Burden: Increased scrutiny of returns filed by the Fund 
and the investors towards income and TDS adds to the administrative 
burden  of  the  Revenue  authorities  for  scrutinizing  returns  containing 
exempt income; 

Reconciliation Mismatch: Administering tax credits and ensuring that the 
Form 26AS credits match with the credits claimed by the investors adds 
to  the  existing  reconciliation  of  mismatches  between  TDS  claims  and 
Form 26AS; 

116 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Revenue Leakage due to Interest Cost: Revenue leakage on account of 

interest on refunds, which was never to be charged; and 

 

Litigation Risk: Increase in litigation leading to poor tax collection and 
inefficient utilization of tax authorities in fighting tax battles. 

3. 

Need of the Hour 

It is imperative that the existing uncertainties on the tax treatment are removed and 
a stable and non-controversial tax regime is prescribed. While revenue authorities 
could try and remove the uncertainties by issuing clarifications and continue with 
the  existing  tax  regime,  it  may  not  be  possible  to  completely  eliminate  the 
uncertainties  and  administrative  difficulties  unless  until  the  tax  treatment  is 
completely  revamped.  The  revenue  authorities  could  therefore  consider  the 
following alternative manner of taxing the income earned by the Funds. 

4. 

Securities Transaction Tax (STT) – A Time Tested Approach 

This section shows that there is a compelling case for a Securities Transaction Tax 
regime in the case of venture capital and private equity funds. 

STT was introduced in 2004 to replace the long-term capital gains tax on securities 

traded on stock exchanges. The objective of introducing STT was to increase revenue 

from stock transactions and to create a level playing field for all participants in the 

stock  market.  The  revenue  potential  of  STT  was  one  of  the  key  drivers  of  the 

introduction of STT as the tax was payable irrespective of whether any income arose 
from it or not. In addition, the STT regime simplified the tax treatment on transaction 
relating  to  stocks  to  a  significant  extent.  Thus  leading to  a  significant  reduction  in 
litigation relating to securities transactions on the stock market. 

The revenue authorities could therefore consider implementing a STT tax structure in 
the case of VC/PE because of the several benefits associated with it. It ensures: 

a)  the timely collection of taxes at source, thereby ensuring minimal leakage; 
b)  lowers the burden faced by revenue authorities associated with the scrutiny 

of income tax returns as such income is exempt; 

c)  reduces litigation to a great extent consequent to its structure; and 
d)  enhances the ease of implementation and monitoring. 

117 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A non-adversarial STT regime has the following benefits: 

a) 

For the Fund 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Funds would be required to collect and remit the STT to the Revenue 
authorities. STT could be levied on entry as well as exit from the Funds. 
STT reduces the hassle of filing returns and claiming refunds. 

It reduces the compliance requirement to a significant extent as 
compliance will be reduced to STT alone and filing an exempt income 
return (if prescribed). 

No further compliance required. 

Reduced compliance increases the ease of doing business. 

Funds are not blocked in the form of refunds thereby ensuring 
returns to investors are not impacted due to the gap between 
paying tax and receiving returns. 

b)  For  investors 

 

 

 

 

 

Investors receive tax-free income as the income would have suffered 
STT at the source itself. 

The  burden  of  compliance  on  investors  is  significantly  reduced  as 
investors will not be required to file returns. Even where investors are 
required  to  file  returns  with  respect  to  the  income  from  the  Funds, 
such return would be limited to the disclosure of  exempt income only. 

The scrutiny of return of income filed by investors would reduce to a 
great  extent  due  to  exemption  thereby  reducing  the  compliance 
burden of the investors. 

No working capital stress as funds would not be locked in the form of 
refunds. 

The STT regime would ensure there is no scope of litigation. 

c) 

For the revenue authorities 

Collection from investors and remittance of STT to the Government by the Fund 
on every redemption of units ensures timely collection of tax at source. Since 
the  mechanism  is  similar  to  tax  deduction  at  source,  the  interests  of  the 
Revenue are protected. 

 

Assured tax collection to the Revenue authorities, as tax would be 
collected upfront on entry as well as on exit, irrespective of    whether 

118 

 

the investment has generated income chargeable to tax. 

No revenue leakage as the tax will be levied upon entry as well as exit. 
Since the STT would be levied on the gross amount, Revenue will be 
assured  of  taxes.  Further,  since  STT  is  a  tax  collected  at  source,  the 
Revenue would be able to collect taxes on a wider tax base of income 
which would include exempt as well as taxable income. The potential 
growth in the economy is only going to increase the amount of capital 
being  invested  through  venture  capital  &  private  equity  funds, 
consequently,  a  STT  based  tax  regime  should  help  the  Revenue 
authorities 
in  higher  and  more  efficient  collection  of  taxes. 
Accordingly, there could be a significant jump in revenue. 

 

No  assessment  of  investors’  income  and  consequently  significant 
reduction in litigation. 

5. 

Securities Transaction Tax (STT) approach is already in vogue 

The STT approach of taxation compliance has been in vogue in India for a decade. The 
Finance  Act  2015  has  extended  the  applicability  of  STT  to  Business  Trusts 
(Infrastructure Investment Trust and Real Estate Investment Trust registered under 
SEBI)  as  well  thereby  exempting  the  investors  on  gains  from  these  trusts.  The 
following table (see Exhibit 5.2) summarizes the tax compliance required by various 
entities paying STT. 

Exhibit 5.2: Current Rates of Securities Transaction Tax 

Entity 

Compliance 

1. Business Trusts (REIT and IIT) 

2.  Equity Linked Mutual Funds 

  Pay  0.2%  STT  on  redemption  of  units  (as 
per  Section  98  of  the  Finance  Act,  2004, 
Chapter VII) 

  Any long term gains exempt in the hands of 
investors u/s 10(38) of the Income Tax Act, 
1961 

  Pay  0.001%  STT  on  redemption  of  units 
(as  per  Section  98  of  the  Finance  Act, 
2004, Chapter VII) 

  Any  long  term  gains  exempt  in  the  hands  of 
investors  u/s  10(38)  of  the  Income  Tax  Act, 
1961 

  Millions of investors are paying STT and no 
further compliance is expected from them 

119 

 

 

 

 
 

 

3. Stock Exchanges (in case of 

listed equity shares) 

  Pay 0.1% STT on purchase and sale of shares 
by investors (as per Section 98 of the Finance 
Act, 2004, Chapter VII) 

 

  Any long term gains exempt in the hands of 
investors u/s 10(38) of the Income Tax Act, 
1961 

  Millions of  investors  are  paying  STT  and 
no  further  compliance  is  expected  from 
them 

 

In case of non-resident investors, the onus of 
ensuring remittance of proper  tax (if any)  is 
on the banker. 

6. 

Securities Transaction Tax (STT) on Alternative Investment Funds - 
Suggested Approach 

Given that the current STT model of taxation is a time tested one, we have suggested 
below (see Exhibit 5.3) an indicative STT structure for taxation of AIFs. 

Exhibit 5.3: Indicative Rates on STT on Alternative Investment Funds 

Upon investment / purchase of units 

  0.25%  of 
purchased 

the  amount 

invested  / 

Upon Redemption 

  Where  the  income  distributed  represents 
income from long term capital assets being 
securities held for 24 months or more  (12 
months or more in the case of FPI), 0.25% 
of the income so distributed 

  Where  the  income  distributed  represents 
income  in  the  nature  of  profits  and  gains 
from  business  or  profession,  short  term 
capital    gains    or    income    from other 
sources 1% of the income so distributed.  

120 

 

 

 
 

 

Upon secondary transfer of units of the 
AIFs 

  Where the units are held for 24 months or 
more  (12 months  or more  in  the  case  of 
FPI), 0.25% of the transfer consideration 

  Where the units are held for less than 24 
months  (12  months  in  the  case  of  FPI), 
0.5% of the transfer consideration 

The  onus  to  discharge  STT  would  be  on  the 
Fund.  Fund  would  be  required  to  collect  STT 
from the buyer as well as the seller and deposit 
the same to the Government. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rationale for the levy of 0.25% STT 

 

 

Incremental  Revenue  Collection:  Levy  of  STT  should  result  in  incremental 
collection  of  taxes  to  the  Revenue  considering  that  it  is  levied  on  gross 
amounts and is collected irrespective of whether there is a gain or not, i.e., 
even in the case of losses, the STT would still be levied. 

The  majority  of  the  investments  are  made  by  non-resident  investors  who 
derive  benefits  under  Double  Taxation  Avoidance  Agreement,  and  which 
constitutes close to 90% of the capital invested into AIFs. Consequently only 
10% of the gains made are taxable in India. 

  Upfront Collection of Revenues: A significant portion of the STT is collected 

upfront upon investment itself. 

  Overseas investors who constitute a significant portion of the investor base 
in  AIFs  typically  lose  about  3  –  4  %  of  gains  on  account  of  exchange  rate 
fluctuation,  thus  resulting  in  gains  which  are  lesser  by  20%  –  25%,  as 
compared to resident investors. 

 

STT is Time-Tested: The levy of STT is a tested concept and has been recently 
levied  on  business  trusts  (Investment  Trusts  and  Real  Estate  Investment 
Trusts registered with SEBI) as well. Transactions of sale of unlisted units of 
a business trust under an offer for sale are subject to STT at the rate of 0.2%. 

  Higher Suggested Rate: Accordingly, the proposed rate of 0.25% upon entry 
and exit appears to be reasonable. It may also be noted that the STT rate on 
mutual funds is currently restricted to sale of units with a significantly lower 
rate of 0.001% as compared to the rate being proposed on the AIFs. 

• 

  Higher Tax Collection as Proposed STT Applicable at 3 points: Considering that 
the levy of STT would be both on entry, exit as well as secondary transfers,  
the levy of STT should result in higher tax collections. 

121 

We have, in the table below (see Exhibit 5.4), illustrated the net incremental 
tax collection due to the levy of STT assuming an average historical return 
of 1.7x on the capital invested – as compared to that under a capital gains 
tax mechanism. 

The above advantages, when clubbed with the fact that the revenue will not 
be  required to  pay  interest  on  the  refunds due to  the  investors,  makes a 
compelling case for the levy of STT. 

Exhibit 5.4: Net Incremental Collection of Tax due to STT 

Investmen

t 

Initial Investment (A) 
Return on investment over 5 years 0.7x  of 
Total 

Book Income 

Long term capital gains - 90%  = (C) 

Short Term Capital Gains - 10% = (D) 

Indexation benefit - 50% of cost - [(C (ii)]=(E) 

Capital Gains under the Income-tax Act 
Long term Capital Gains - [C (iii) - (E) ] = (F) 

Short Term capital gains - [D(iii)] = (G) 

Split of Taxable and Non-
taxable Investors 
Exempt 
-  Non-resident 
investors  availing  treaty  benefits  and 
exempt entities = (H) 

Investors 

Taxable Investors = (I) 

Tax Rates 

122 

Amount in 

INR Crores 

1000 
700 
1700 

(i) Gross 

1530 

170 

450 

180 

70 

(i) % 

90% 

10% 

(i) Normal 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

(ii) Cost of 
Acquisition 

(% of A) 

900 

100 

(ii) Long 

Term 

162 

18 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

(iii) 
Net 

630 

70 

(iii) 
Short 
63 

7 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Current 
Withholding tax rate = (J) 

Long term capital gains tax rate = (K) 

Short term capital gains and other income 
tax rate = (L) 

Proposed STT 
Upon Investment (M) 

Upon exit - Long term (N) 

Upon exit - Short term and Other  Income 

 

 
 

 

Tax Computation 
Withholding tax on income distributed = (B) x [(J) 
=  (P) 

 

@ current rate 

 
 

 

 

 

Capital Gains Tax 
Long term Capital Gains Tax (10% being 
taxable investors) - [I(ii) x (K)] = (Q) 

Short term Capital Gains Tax (10% being 
taxable investors) - [I(iii) x (L)] = (R) 

Total (Q) + (R) = (S) 

STT 
Upon Investment - (A) x (M) = (T) 
Upon Redemption 
Long term capital gains - Gross - [(C) (i) x 
(N)] = (U) 

Short term capital gains - Gross - [(D) (i) x 
(O)] = (V) 
Total STT (T+U+V) = (W) 
Net 
Revenue (S - W) = (X) 

Incremental  Tax  Collected  by 

11.54% 

23.07% 

34.61% 

0.25% 

0.25% 

1.00% 

80.75 

4.15 

2.42 

6.58 

2.50 

3.83 

1.70 

8.03 
1.45 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

Conclusion 

5.26 

Flagship  Initiatives  of  the  Government  of  India  such  as  'Make  in  India'  and 
'Digital  India'  have  the  potential  to  create  significant  industrial  growth, 
increase  employment,  trade  and  innovation.  However,  these  initiatives  are 
also capital intensive and require huge participation from the private sector. A 
robust VC / PE eco-system would assist in providing the capital needed by the 
private sector and help fund the seed and growth sectors of the economy. 

123 

5.27  The  increase  in  VC  /PE  Funds  would  surely  have  a  domino  effect  on  the 
economy. This would result in a positive cascading effect on the tax revenues 
of the country, in the form of indirect taxes on transactions such as VAT and 
GST and taxes on the profits earned by corporations. A simpler and certain tax 
regime  for  venture  capital  &  private  equity  funds  would  go  a  long  way  in 
extending the reach and scale of such funds in India. 

F. Venture capital and private equity backed portfolio companies - not 
the Funds - are major sustainable tax generators: Illustration 

5.28  A  Venture  Capital  /  Private  Equity  (VCPE)  fund  per  se  is  not  a  major  tax 
generating  entity  and  it  is  through  portfolio  companies  that  venture  capital 
and private equity funds generate robust tax realisation for the government. 

5.29  To illustrate this point, take the example of a typical VCPE fund with a corpus 
of INR 10 Billion. Most often  90% of the fund corpus would be raised from 
overseas investors who enjoy DTAA (Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement) 
benefits  offshore  and  other  such  jurisdictions.  The  remaining  10%  of  the 
corpus  would  be  raised  from  Indian  investors.  The  majority  of  the  income 
earned by VCPE funds is long-term capital gains (LTCG). LTCG is exempt in the 
case of listed securities and is taxed at the rate of 20% in the case of unlisted 
securities after netting off long term capital losses. Such LTCG is taxed in the 
hands of Indian investors who form an insignificant proportion of the overall 
VCPE investment in India, while 90% of the investors who are foreign investors 
do not pay taxes on capital gains in view of DTAA benefits. 

5.30  Assuming the Fund achieves a multiple of 2.2 overall and 50% of the exits are 
through the listed route, the total tax revenue from a Fund with a corpus of 
INR  10  Billion  is  merely  INR  12  crore  over  the  life  of  the  Fund  which  is 
typically 8 - 10 years as illustrated below: (see Exhibit 5.5) 

Exhibit 5.5: Capital Gains Tax Revenue from an AIF 

 

Particulars 

Amounts in INR 

crores 

Fund Corpus 

Overall exit multiple 

Total amount realised from exits 

Total long term capital gains (LTCG) for the Fund 

% of LTCG from exits of listed securities 

124 

1000 

2.2 

2200 

1200 

50% 

 

 

Notes 

(A) 

(B) 

(C)=(A)*(B) 

(D)=(C)- (A) 

 

 

 

 

 

% of LTGG from exits of  unlisted securities 

% of overseas investors covered under DTAA 

% of domestic investors 

Total LTCG subject to tax in India 

Tax on long term capital gains at 20% 

50% 

90% 

 

60 

12 

(E) 

 

 

(G)=(D)*(E)*(F) 

(G)*20% 

Though a VCPE fund per se is not a major tax generating entity, VCPE funds help 
create and grow their portfolio investee companies which are taxable entities that 
can  sustain  growth  in  tax  revenues  -  both  direct  and  indirect  taxes  -  for  several 
years. 

5.31  To  illustrate  the  actual  impact  that  a  VCPE  fund  has  on  increasing  tax 
realisation  on  a  sustainable  basis,  we  present  the  following  example  of  a 
portfolio investee company that the Fund invests in. It is assumed that a fund 
with a corpus of INR 10 Billion will make twenty investments of INR 50 crore 
each. Each portfolio company has the potential to grow revenues and  profits 
2.5 - 3X over a four to five year horizon. We illustrate below (see Exhibit 5.6) 
the  growth  trajectory  of  a  typical  VCPE  funded  company  and  the  revenue 
potential for the government, both from direct and indirect taxes. 

Exhibit 5.6: Revenue Potential of a Venture Capital / Private Equity Portfolio Company 

 

 

 

INR Crore 
Revenue 
Indirect Tax 

(Excise Duty) 

Salary costs 
Profit  Before 
Taxes 
Direct Taxes 
PAT 

TDS 

on 

Salaries 

Total revenue 
for 
government 

 

 

Year 1 
150 
12 

Year 2 
250 
20 

Year 3 
350 
28 

Year 4 
400 
32 

Year 5 
450 
36 

7.5 
12 

3.96 
8.04 

1.5 

12.5 
20 

6.6 
13.4 

2.5 

 

 

17.5 
28 

20 
32 

22.5 
36 

9.24 
18.76 

10.56 
21.44 

11.88 
24.12 

3.5 

 

 

4.0 

 

 

 

 

4.5 

Ref 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

 

 
 

 
 

 

17.5 

29.1 

40.7 

46.6 

52.4 

(A)+(B)+(C)= 

186.3 

Assumption 

8% of revenue 

5% of revenue 
8% of revenue 

33% of PBT 

5% of revenue 

20% of salaries 

 

 

 
 

5.32 

In the above example, the total tax revenue (both direct and indirect taxes) 
for the government is Rs. 186 crore from one portfolio company over a five 
year  period.  Apart  the  illustration  above,  there  are  several  other  revenue 
streams for the government such as service tax, TDS on other payments, VAT, 

125 

 

 

 

 

 

5.33 

state-level taxes, taxes imposed by local authorities and dividend distribution 
tax which are also paid by these companies. VCPE investors act as a catalyst 
in placing their portfolio companies on a high growth trajectory which will in 
turn enables them to raise debt, expand operations, and thus generate profits 
and employment. Increased tax realisations are a natural outcome of this 
transformation. 

Assuming  that  50%  of  the  Fund's  portfolio  companies,  (i.e.  10  portfolio 
companies  out  of  the  20  portfolio  companies)  are  successful  and  achieve 
similar growth as illustrated in the example above, the total revenue potential 
for the government from a Rs. 10 Billion Fund's portfolio companies could 
be  to  the  tune  of  Rs.  1,863  crore  over  a  five  year  period,  extrapolating the 
same  assumptions.  If  a  fund  with  INR  10  Billion  corpus  can  create  such  a 
multiplier  effect  on  tax  revenues,  the  positive  role  of  VCPE  funds  in 
sustainable tax realisations for the government is perfectly well established. 
It  should  be  noted  that  about  US$  100  Billion  of  VCPE  investment  has 
happened  in  India  between  2001  and  2014.  With  this  magnitude  of 
investment, the contribution from this industry for boosting tax revenues on 

a sustainable basis needs to be appreciated. 

 

 

 

 

5.34  Given the fact that tax realisations from the VCPE industry comes not from the 
funds themselves, but from their portfolio companies, the request made by 
the  VCPE  industry  for  restoring  the  'pass-through'  status  for  all  the 
categories of AIF is justified. It needs to be understood that this request has 
been  made  for  better  clarity  and  for  avoidance  of  double  taxation.  Unlike 
other  funds  such  as  mutual  funds,  hedge  funds  etc.,  VCPE  funds  have  a 
limited  number  of  institutional  investors  (typically  less  than  35)  and  given 
that there is a robust audit trail for all transactions, there is no scope for losing 
track of these income streams and thereby taxes from the Fund. 

5.35  The above study proves the point that VCPE funds per se are not major tax 
generating entities whereas the portfolio investee companies backed by funds 
are  robust  tax  generating  entities  on  a  sustainable  basis.  Based  on  the 
establishment of a clearer tax regime for VCPE industry, vast pools of capital 
can be attracted to India, which has the potential to generate sustainable tax 
realisation through portfolio companies as illustrated in this chapter. 

G. 

Suggested Amendments to Income Tax Act to Simplify Taxation of 
AIFs 

126 

Summary of Proposal for Implementing STT 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

5.36 

Investment Funds, like mutual funds, pool savings from investors and invest 
such  capital  in  accordance  with  a  stated  investment  criteria.  A  simplified 
regime for taxation of investors in mutual funds has significantly helped in the 
growth of that industry, with minimal issues and litigation. A similar regime 
could provide great impetus to the growth of Alternative Investment Funds. 

5.37  Presently,  there  is  significant  difference  in  the  way  income  is  taxed  in  the 
hands of the investors of Mutual Funds and Investment Funds. In the case of 
Mutual  Funds  (long-term  equity  oriented),  the  redemptions  are  liable  to 
Securities Transaction Tax (STT) and the net income is exempt in the hands of 
the  investors.  However,  in  the  case  of  Alternative  Investment  Funds,  even 
though the units are held for a very long duration, the income is taxable in the 
hands of investors. 

5.38  Experience suggests that STT has been useful in not only easing the applicable 
tax regime but also reduced tax litigation. To harmonise the taxation of Mutual 
Funds  and  Alternative  Investment  Funds,  and  to  simplify  the  taxation 
compliance of the investor as well as the Alternative Investment Funds, it is 
proposed to bring Alternative Investment Funds under the ambit of STT. 

5.39 

In short, the investors of the Investment Fund will be made liable to pay STT 
on  the  distribution  made  by  the  Investment  Fund  to  the  investors,  and 
consequently, such distributions should be exempted from tax in the hands of 
the investors. 

Recommendation 1 

Distributions by AIF to be treated as a taxable transaction liable to STT 

Amendments required in the Finance Act 2004 (Chapter VII): 

Amending the Chapter VII of Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004 to include distribution from 
Investment Funds as a taxable transaction in securities: 

Definitions 

A) 

In Section 97, of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004, insert the following definitions 
as sub section (1) : 

“Investment Fund” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (a) of the 
explanation to Section 115UB of the Income Tax Act, 1961” 

127 

B) 

C) 

In Section 97, re-insert the current sub-section (1) defining Appellate Tribunal 
as sub-section (1A) 
In Section 97 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004: 

In sub-section 13, after sub-clause (b), the following sub-clauses shall be inserted: 
“(c) purchase of a unit in an Investment Fund 

(d)   any distribution made on sale or redemption of a unit in an Investment Fund 

(d)   any distribution made otherwise by an Investment Fund” 

Charge of STT 
D) 

In Section 98 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004, in the Table, after serial number 
7  and  the  corresponding  entries  thereto,  the  following  shall  be  inserted, 
namely: 

 

 

 

 

 

Taxable Securities Transaction 

(2) 

Sl. No. 
(1) 

 

Rate 
(3) 

 

Payable by 

(4) 

 

“8 

(a) Purchase of an unit of an Investment Fund 

0.25% 

Purchaser 

(b)  Distribution  of  income  representing  long 
term capital gains, made to an unit holder by an 
Investment Fund on redemption or otherwise 

0.25% 

Unit holder 

(c) Distribution of income other than long term 
capital gains, made by an Investment Fund on 
redemption or otherwise 

1% 

Unit holder 

(d) Sale of an unit of an Investment Fund being 
a long term capital asset, to any person other 
than the Investment Fund in which such units 
are held 

(e) Sale of an unit of an Investment Fund being 
a short term capital asset, to any person other 
than  the  Investment  Fund  in  which  such  units 
are held 

0.25% 

Seller 

1 % 

Seller 

Value of taxable securities transaction 

E) 

In Section 99 of the Finance (No.2) Act, 2004, after sub-clause (b) insert the 
following clauses : 

128 

 
 

 

 
 

 

(bb) 

“(ba) in the case of purchase of units of an Investment Fund, the price at 
which such units are purchased; 
 in the case of distribution on account of redemption of units of an 
Investment Fund, such amounts as are distributed to the unit holder 
including the principal amountredeemed; 

(bc) 

in the case of distribution by an Investment Fund other than the distribution 
referred in clause (bb) above, the amounts so distributed to the unit holder; 

(bd) 

in the case of sale of units of an Investment Fund by the unit holder to any 
person other than the Investment Fund in which such units are held, the 
price at which such units are sold” 

Collection and Recovery of STT 

F) 

In Section 100 insert the following sub-section (2B) after sub-section (2A) 

“The  prescribed  person  in  the  case  of  every  Investment  Fund  shall  collect  the 
securities transaction tax from every person who purchases or sells or redeems the 
unit of an Investment Fund”. 

Recognised Stock Exchange or Investment Fund or Mutual Fund to furnish 
prescribedreturn 

In sub-section (1) of Section 101 - insert the following words after the words 

G) 
“every recognised stock exchange” – 

“Prescribed person in the case of every Investment Fund” 

Recommendation – 2 

On  treating  the  transactions  of  investment  in  and  distribution  from  an 
Investment  Funds  liable  to  STT,  any  distribution  made  by  the  AIF  should  be 
totally exempt from tax 

Amendments required in the Income Tax Act, 1961 (IT Act) 

Exempting the income from Investment Fund (AIF) under section 10 of the IT Act: 

A)  In Section 10 of the IT Act, after clause (38), the following clause shall be 

inserted, namely:- 

“(38A) any distribution received by an assessee, being a unit holder of an 

129 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Investment Fund referred to in Explanation to Section 10(23FBA), either on 
redemption or otherwise and where such distribution is chargeable to 
Securities Transaction Tax under Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004. 

(38B)  any  income  received  by  an  assessee,  being  a  unit  holder  of  an  Investment 
Fund  referred  to  in  Explanation  to  Section  10(23FBA),  on  sale  of  units  in  an 
Investment Fund to any person other than the Investment Fund, in which such units 
are  held  and  where  such  sale  is  chargeable  to  Securities  Transaction  Tax  under 
Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004.” 

Other Consequential Amendments 

Amending the period of holding in the securities held in and by an Investment 
Fund 

In sub-section 42(A) of the IT Act, insert the following proviso after the second 
proviso- 

“Provided further that in the case of share or other securities of a company (not 
being a share listed in a recognised stock exchange) held by an Investment Fund or 
a  unit  of  an  Investment  Fund  specified  under  clause  (23FBA)  of  Section  10,  the 
provisions of this clause shall have effect as if for the words "thirty-six months", the 
words "twelve months" had been substituted.” 
Avoiding redundant exemptions in section 10 of the IT Act 

In Section 10 of the IT Act, 1961 (IT Act)- 

(a)  for clause (23FBA), the following clause shall be 
substituted, namely:- “(23FBA) any income of an 
Investment Fund; 

Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, the expression “Investment Fund” shall 
have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (a) of the Explanation 1 to Section 
11UB.” 

(b)  clause (23FBB) shall be omitted:- 

Avoiding the MAT effect on foreign companies (Section 115JB) 

In Section 115JB of the IT Act, in sub-section (2), in Explanation 1- 

“(C)  any  distributions  from  an  Investment  Fund,  where  such  distribution    is 

130 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

chargeable to Securities Transaction Tax under Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) 
Act, 2004” 

(a)  after sub-clause (B) of clause (ii d), the following sub-clause shall be inserted, 

namely:- 

“(C)  any  distributions  from  an  Investment  Fund,  where  such  distribution  is 
chargeable to Securities Transaction Tax under Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) 
Act, 2004” 

Amending Section 115UB 

In Section 115UB of the IT Act, after sub-section (7), the following sub-section 
shall be inserted, namely:- 

“(8) Nothing contained in sub-sections (1) to (7) shall apply to any distributions 
by an Investment Fund, where the distribution from such an Investment Fund is 
chargeable to Securities Transaction Tax under Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) 
Act, 2004.” 

Avoiding the needless Tax Deduction at Source by Investment Funds (Section 
194LBB) 

In Section 194LBB of the IT Act, the first paragraph shall be  numbered as sub- 
section (1) and after sub-section (1) so numbered, the following sub-section shall 
be inserted, namely:- 

“(2)  Nothing  contained  in  sub-section  (1)  shall  apply  to  distributions  by  an 
Investment Fund, where such distribution is chargeable  to Securities Transaction 
Tax under Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004.” 

131 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

VI 

Reforming the AIF Regulatory Regime 

6.1 

India‘s  capital  market  regulator,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(SEBI), notified the Alternative Investment Funds (AIF) Regulations, 2012 (AIF 
Regulations) in May 2012. The regulatory philosophy was7: 

 

Create a structure where a regulatory framework is available for all shades 
of private pools of capital or investment vehicles, so that such funds are 
channelized  in  the  desired  space  in  a  regulated  manner  without  posing 
systemic risk. 

  Make  clear  the  distinction  among  the  various  types  of  private  pooled 
investment vehicles of institutional or sophisticated investors, to allow the 
Government/ regulators to tailor- make concessions / relaxations that may 
be desirable for various types of individual kinds of funds. 

 

 

Provide a framework as a deterrence for fraud and unfair trade practices, 
and to minimise conflicts of interest. 

Provide for the private placement of units of alternate investment vehicle, 
rather than through public offerings. 

  Define  the  duties  of  a  fund  manager  to  the  fund  investors  as  be  largely 
shaped  by  fund  documents  that  are  subject to  negotiation  between  the 
fund and its investor. 

 

Settlement  of  disputes,  if  any,  were  to  be  settled  through  mediation, 
conciliation or arbitration. 

6.2 

The AIF Regulations paved the way for various forms of AIF with many new asset 
classes  and  investment  strategies  made  possible  in  a  collective  investment 
vehicle.  For  instance,  for  the  first  time  in  India,  a  hedge  fund  strategy  in  a 
collective investment vehicle was permitted. The success of the AIF Regulations 
is reflected in the number of registrations granted; as on 31 March 2015, 135 
registrations had been granted by SEBI8. Recent changes enacted in the Indian 
tax  framework  for  AIFs specifically  and the  funds  industry  generally, coupled 
with the announcement in the Union Budget 2015 that the Government would 
permit foreign investment in AIFs9, should give further fillip to this sector. 

 
 

 

 

7   http://www.sebi.gov.in/cms/sebi_data/attachdocs/1337601524196.pdf 

8 The numbers of registrations reflect the number of AIFs that have been granted approval. The AIF Regulations permit a 

registered AIF to launch schemes from time to time without seeking separate registration. 

9 The corresponding policy framework is yet to be notified 

132 

Principles Underlying Our Recommendations 

In making recommendations, the following principles have been considered: 

1. 

Current and Rationalised Approach 

The approach to regulate pooling vehicles, including AIFs, should be consistent, 
current  and  rationalised  to  reflect  the  current  global  and  Indian  scenario.  It 
should encourage emerging development trends that can shape the future of 
the Indian economy. 

2.  Merging of Boundaries in AIFs 

The distinction between venture capital and private equity funds has blurred, 
especially  in  the  new  economy  start-ups  in  India.  Investments  in  the  e-
commerce sector reflect this trend. 

3. 

Consistent and Simple Framework 

The framework should be simple and consistent for the industry to follow and 
most importantly, be harmonised across the regulators, viz. SEBI, Central Board 
of Direct Taxes (CBDT), Department of Economic Affairs/ Financial Services and 
the Reserve Bank of India. 

4. 

Clarity 

Sharper  definitions  on  investment  boundaries  for  private  equity  funds  would 
help CBDT rules, especially in relation to non-business vs. business income, as a 
key administrative issue in fund taxation. 

133 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendations 

recommendations in light of the above principles are detailed below. 

1.  Regulate the Fund Manager and not the Fund 

1.1  The  origin  of  the  Indian  fund  industry  can  be  traced  back  to  1964  when  the 
Indian government, with a view to augment small savings within the country and 
to channelise these savings to the capital markets, set up the Unit Trust of India. 

1.2  Owing  to  new  and  innovative  methods  of  raising  funds  from  retail  investors, 
there was a need to bridge the regulatory gap on fund raising, which led to the 
introduction  of  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Fund)  Regulations,  1993  (MF  Regulations). 
Further, to provide tailor-made boutique/customised investment management 
services  to  the  investors,  SEBI  (Portfolio  Manager)  Regulations,  1993  (PMS 
Regulations) were notified. 

1.3  To  foster  venture  capital  as  a  source  of  funding  new  entrepreneurs  and 
technology, the Government of India took a policy initiative and announced the 
SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996 (VCF Regulations). 

1.4  Later,  SEBI  introduced  a  comprehensive  legal  framework  in  the  form  of  SEBI 
(Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012  (AIF  regulations),  repealing 
the  VCF  Regulations  and  acknowledging  the  sector’s  demand  to  allow  fund 
managers  the  flexibility  to  design  fund  products  to  cater  to  wider  investor 
demand and risk appetites. This would provide targeted concessions to certain 
funds, as well as to bring within the ambit of regulation, a range of domestic 
pooling vehicles. 

1.5 

In  2013,  the  SEBI  (Investment  Adviser)  Regulations  (IA  Regulations)  were 
introduced to regulate investment advisors who provide investment advice to 
retail and institutional investors in India. This regulation was brought into effect 
primarily to safeguard the interests of Indian investors. 

1.6  The concurrent prevalence of multiple sets of guidelines and the requirements 
of different regulations have led to a complex regulatory regime for a fund or a 
fund manager in India. Therefore, there is a need to harmonise and consolidate 

134 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

all the above regulations, within the framework of SEBI, to create one regulation 
which shall: 

 

reduce the multiplicity of regulations from a fund manager perspective; 

  achieve simplicity, uniformity and consistency in the regulatory regime; 

  provide flexibility to managers to customise product offerings for 

sophisticated institutional and accredited investors; and 

  protect retail investors. 

Recommendations: 

1. 

2. 

The various regulatory bodies in offshore jurisdictions have formulated 
regulations  to  govern  the  fund  manager  instead  of  the  fund  as  it  is. 
The  fund  manager  who  makes  investment  decisions  that  could  pose 
risks to  the  investors,  markets  and  the economy  (Refer  Annexure).  A 
study needs to be undertaken to formulate fund manager regulations 
based on the regulations prevalent in other countries. 

Repeal the following regulations and introduce a regulatory framework 
/  policy  to  govern  the  fund  manager  such  that  the  fund  manager  is 
responsible for all the investment activities of the client (individual or 
fund): 
- SEBI (Portfolio Manager) Regulations, 1993 
- SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 and 
- SEBI (Investment Adviser) Regulations, 2013 

A new “Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative  
Investment Fund Managers) Regulations” 
(AIFM Regulations) could replace all the above Regulations. 

3. 

A  registered  Investment  manager  under  the  AIFM  Regulations  can 
provide  discretionary  or  non-discretionary 
investment  advisory/ 
management services to investors who could be an individual/ a 
group of individuals or to funds whether open-ended/ close-ended or 
clients seeking customized products. 

135 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

The Investment Manager will have specific capitalization 
requirements, which could provide for sub-categories based on the 
nature of the AIFM’s business (i.e. discretionary, non-discretionary, 
customized or collective investments). 

The funds raised by registered investment manager will follow the SEBI 
guidelines and notify SEBI under an appropriate reporting framework. 

Angel Funds/ networks and social venture funds should be separately 
categorised since they have social venture angle which would benefit 
the  society  as  a  whole.  The  AIFM  Regulations  will  empower  SEBI  to 
recognize Angel Funds/ networks other categories of funds which may 
require special incentives in future. Reference should be made to the 
recommendations  on  Angel  investing/Funds  in  the  Chapter  titled 
‘Unlocking Domestic Capital Pools‘ in this report. 

It  is  recommended  to  introduce  the  concept  of  accredited  investors. 
Globally,  the  concept  of  ‘accredited  investors’  is  applied  wherein  an 
investor who has a certain minimum income, or assets, or net worth, is 
considered  to  be  an  accredited 
investor  and  can  make  such 
investments without triggering regulations that apply to fund offerings 
to retail investors. 

8. 

The  Chapter  on  tax  in  this  report  recommends  the  concept  of 
accredited investors in relevant tax provision. An Accredited Investor is 
defined to include: 

“Individuals or HUFs, company, a firm, an association of persons or a 
body of individuals whether incorporated or not, a local authority and 
every artificial juridical person who report a total income (including 
exempt income) exceeding Rs 50 lacs annually in immediately three 
assessment years preceding the assessment year in which the 
investment is made.” 

The diagram of the resultant regulatory framework, should the aforesaid 
recommendations be adopted, is as follows: 

136 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

EXHIBIT: AIFM Regulations Structure 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

The above recommendation will require comprehensive regulations to address all the 
current  issues  of  the  industry  without  taking  away  the  current  tax  framework  as 
analysed and proposed in the chapter on tax in this report. 

Thus,  we  recommend  that  the  above  changes  to  the  regulatory  framework  should 
follow  extensive  consultations  between  SEBI,  CBDT  and  market  participants,  and 
should necessarily be preceded by a comprehensive tax code to deal with tax issues 
and concerns that may arise to funds, fund managers and investors in such product 
offerings. 

2.  Minor Amendments in the AIF Regulations, 2012 

It is recommended that the definition of “venture capital fund” in Category I AIF is 
amended  to  include  funds  that  invest  in  growth  stage  ventures.  The  rationale  and 
justification  for  including  growth  stage  venture  funds  in  the  definition  of  “venture 
capital fund” in Category I  is as follows: 

2.1 

The trend has now become for a private equity fund to invest in companies 
at various stages ranging from early stage to further developmental stages 
of  growth.  Funds  are  mandated  to  operate  flexibly  from  early  stage  to 
growth and back. Hence some fund managers may find it appropriate to 
categorise  the  fund  as  a  “venture  capital  fund”  while  still  investing  in 
growth, if they accept all the restrictions as specified for Category I AIFs. 

137 

2.2 

2.3 

By including growth in the definition of a “venture capital fund”, a larger 
quantum  of  capital  shall  flow 
into  both  early  stage  and  further 
developmental stages because of the diversification across various stages 
of a company’s development, which is in line with the Government’s start- 
up promotion policy. 

The McKinsey report released by the Minister of State for Finance on 1st 
July, 2015, titled India Private Equity: Route to Resurgence; has identified 
an array of benefits to the Indian economy from growth–oriented private 
equity investments. 

According to the report, the benefits include: 

  A stronger job creation record of PE portfolio companies 

  Superior financial performance 

  Greater export earnings 

  More acquisitive and global business 

  Better corporate governance and higher tax contribution 

It  is  amply  clear  from  evidence  supporting  the  report,  that  growth 
investments are socially and economically desirable. 

2.4 

Finally,  growth  investing  plays  a  critical  role  in  the  case  of  early  stage 
companies.  For  example,  as  early-stage  companies  with  good  potential 
may run out of cash, a stage-agnostic  fund can step in directly, or indirectly 
through their other portfolio companies to provide much needed capital 
for a start-up to continue pursuing its strategy for eventual take-off. 

From  a  categorization  perspective,  and  in  view  of  the  above  study  and 
current global private equity and venture capital trends, there is merit in 
including  growth  investing  in  the  definition  of  “venture  capital  fund”  in 
Category 1 AIF. 

138 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendation 
Amend the definition of “venture capital fund” in Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 in the Definitions 
section, Clause 2(z) - 
“venture capital fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests 
primarily in unlisted securities of start-ups, emerging or early-stage or growth 
venture capital undertakings mainly involved in new products, new services, 
technology or intellectual property right based activities or a new business model 
 
Amend the definition of “Category I Alternative Investment Fund” in Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012, 
Clause 3(4)(a) - 
“Category I Alternative Investment Fund” which invests in start-up or early stage 
or growth ventures or social ventures or SMEs or infrastructure or other sectors or 
areas which the government or regulators consider as socially or economically 
desirable and shall include venture capital funds, SME Funds, social venture funds, 
infrastructure funds and such other Alternative Investment Funds as may be 
specified; 

 

 

3. 

Classification of Category III AIF 

3.1  Currently,  Category  3  AIF  encompasses  all  public  market  investments  that 
employ a diverse range of investment philosophies and strategies. Broadly this 
category of AIF includes two types of funds, one with a long term orientation 
that makes investments based on detailed fundamental research and the other 
that  aims  to  make  short  term  returns  through  use  of  quantitative  research, 
leverage and complex trading strategies. All such funds are regulated through 
issuance  of  directions  related  to  operational  standards,  conduct  of  business 
rules,  prudential  requirements,  restriction  on  redemption  and  conflict  of 
interest etc. 

3.2  There  is  a  large  appetite  amongst  investors  for  investment  opportunities  in, 
and  fund  managers  to  organize  collective  pools  for  investing  in,  listed 
companies. This market is currently being tapped under portfolio management 
services  which  effectively  get  all  the  Institutional/  High  net-worth  individual 
investors to invest in various opportunities in public markets without a formal 
fund platform. Today, such an arrangement gives the desired tax outcome (i.e. 
single level taxation etc.) to the investors. 

139 

 

 

 

 

Recommendations 

We recommend sub-categorization in Category III AIFs as follows: 

a.  Category III Subcategory A for an AIF which primarily invests in public markets 
and  does  not  employ  leverage  including  through  investment  in  listed  or 
unlisted derivatives (except for the purpose of hedging the investments) and 
is long-term oriented with a minimum life of 3 years. Further, the AIF should 
invest 66% of its investible funds in equity or equity-linked instruments of the 
investee  company  and  not  more  than  33%  in  the  debt  instruments  of  such 
investee company. 

b.  Category  III  Subcategory  B  for  ‘Complex  Trading  Fund’: funds  which  employ 
diverse  or  complex  trading  strategies  and  may  employ  leverage  including 
through investment in listed or unlisted derivatives. 

Justification 

To encourage a fund platform which can target investors other than retail investors, 
like  the  one  discussed  above,  to  be  folded  into  the  AIF  regime,  there  is  a  need  to 
identify  such  funds  which  invest  solely  in  listed  securities  with  no  leverage  or 
derivative exposure, as a separate sub-category with AIF Category III. 

This  classification  will  segregate  a  diverse  range of  strategies  under  the Category  3 
umbrella into two distinct buckets based on investment horizon, underlying securities 
and investment objectives. This will further aid in matching investors with appropriate 
strategies. 

This  option  would  not  require  significant  tax  administration  consultation  for 
implementation. 

3.3  Ten Percent Restriction of Investible Funds 

III  of  the  SEBI  (Alternative 

Chapter 
Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012 
(‘Regulations’)  Clause  15(d)  of  Chapter  III  states  that  Category  III  Alternative 
Investment Fund shall invest not more than ten percent of the investible funds in one 
Investee  Company.  Such  definition  prescribes  various  Investment  Conditions  and 
Restrictions which needs to be adhered to while making investments by an Alternate 
Investment Fund (‘AIF’). The term “investible funds” is defined under Chapter I, clause 
2(p) as corpus of the Alternative Investment Fund net of estimated expenditure for 
administration  and  management  of the fund.  Further  the term  corpus is    defined 

140 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

under Chapter I, clause 2(h) as the total amount of funds committed by investors to 
the AIF by way of a written contract or any such document as on a particular date. 

Recommendation 

Amend the ten percent restriction of ‘investible funds’ in one Investee Company to 
reference the ‘market value’ of such securities at the time of investment. 

Justification 

It is prudent if the limit is calculated on the market value of the portfolio as on the 
date  of  investment.  Going  by  the  literal  interpretation,  the  aforesaid  limit  is  to  be 
monitored  on  the  corpus  which  is  defined  as  the  initial  amount  committed  by  the 
investors and not on the market value of the portfolio. 

For example, if the Fund has raised a corpus of Rs.100 crore during the allotment, the 
value of which has increased to Rs.150 crore due to market movement, under current 
regulations the  limit  of 10%  will  be  applied on the  initial  amount  raised  i.e.  Rs.100 
crore whereas, since the market value of investments of the portfolio of the scheme 
is Rs.150 crore as on the date of investment. 

The Way Forward 

The above recommendations, if implemented, would encourage more investments in 
the  economy  through  the  AIF  route  providing  the  capital  needed  for  the  sustained 
growth of the economy. We believe the Indian market is ready for an overhaul in the 
AIF  Regulations  as  discussed  in  our  section  1  above.  If,  for  any  reason  this  is  not 
immediately  implemented,  then  SEBI,  in  harmony  with  CBDT,  could  carry  out  the 
above recommendations in a phased manner as follows: 

 

 

The last recommendation i.e. adding ‘growth’ in the definition of ‘venture 
capital fund’ in Category I AIFs and the classification of unlevered public- 
markets-focused funds into a separate sub-category under Category III AIF, 
could  be  implemented  immediately  as  it  is  a  minor  amendment  to  the 
existing AIF Regulations. 

The second recommendation i.e. categorisation of AIFs based on whether 
the securities are listed/ unlisted and leveraged funds could be visited only 
if the first recommendation i.e. regulating the fund manager is regarded as 
a measure to be adopted in the medium-term. 

141 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulating the Fund Manager: Global Practices 

Annexure 4 

Various  regulatory  bodies  in  offshore  jurisdictions  have  formulated  regulations  to 
govern the fund manager instead of the fund as it is the fund manager who makes 
investment  decisions  that  could  pose  risks  to  the  investors,  markets  and  the 
economy. To illustrate: 

  The G‐30 Report recommends that ―"Managers of private pools of capital that 

employ  substantial  borrowed  funds  should  be  required  to  register  with  an 

appropriate national regulator (….). The regulator of such managers should have 

authority  to  require  periodic  regulatory  reports  and  public  disclosures      of 
appropriate information regarding the size, investment style, borrowing, and 
performance of the funds under management”. 

  The  European  Parliament  and  Council  has  come  out  with  a  Directive  on 
Alternative  Investment  Fund  Manager  (AIFM)  such  as  Hedge  Funds,  Private 
Equity Managers, etc. The salient features of the directives are: 

o 

A  legally  binding  authorisation  and  supervisory  regime  for  all  AIFM 
managing AIF in the European Union, irrespective of the legal domicile of 
the AIF managed with few exceptions. 

o  To  operate  in  the  European  Union,  all  AIFM  will  be  required  to  obtain 

authorisation from the competent authority of their home Member State. 

An overview of the AIFM Directive has been provided in Annexure 5. 

  Under the Private Fund Investment Advisers Registration Act of 2010 (The Act), 
enacted as part of the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection 
Act, 2010 (C P Act 2010), Investment Advisers to private funds including hedge 
funds and private equity funds are required to register with the SEC unless they 
qualify for one of the exemptions provided such as advisers to Venture Capital 
Funds, smaller advisers (advising to private funds with AUM less than USD 150 
million), foreign private fund advisers, family offices etc. 

  In  the  IOSCO  Consultation  Report on  Hedge  Funds  Oversight  (June  2009),  the 
IOSCO  Task  Force  suggests  that progress towards  a  consistent  and  equivalent 
approach of regulators to hedge fund managers should be a high priority. The 
Task Force recommends that regulatory oversight for hedge funds should be risk 
based,  focused  particularly  on  the  systemically  important  and/or  higher-risk 
hedge fund managers. 

142 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Annexure 5 

Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive 

(AIFMD): Overview 

Scope 

 

 

 

The AIFMD regulates AIFMs; it does not regulate AIFs directly. 

The  main  provisions  of  the  directive  only  apply  where  the  AIFM  manages 
assets of €100 million or more. A higher threshold of €500 million applies to 
AIFMs that do not use leverage and have a five year lock-in period for their 
investors. 

The AIFMD creates a number of exemptions for managers and funds which 
would  otherwise  fall  within  the  broad  definitions  contained  in  the  AIFMD, 
including  holding  companies; 
institutions  for  occupational  retirement 
provision or pension fund managers; employee participation and employee 
savings schemes; and securitisation special purpose entities. 

Minimum Capital Requirements 

Internally managed or self-managed funds are required to have €300,000 in initial 
capital and external managers of one or more funds must have at least €125,000, 
increasing on a sliding scale to a maximum of €10 million according to the total 
value of assets under management. 

Leverage 

 

 

The AIFM must set a maximum level of leverage for each AIF it manages. The 
AIFM  must  comply  with  this  maximum  at  all  times  and  must  be  able  to 
demonstrate to its Regulator that the levels set are reasonable. 

The Regulator will assess the risks which the use of leverage employed by the 
AIFM could entail and may impose limits on the level of leverage that an AIFM 
may employ, or other restrictions on the management of the AIF. 

Delegation 

  An AIFM must notify its Regulator if it chooses to delegate any of its functions. 

 

The AIFM must be able to objectively justify the entire delegation structure 
and will have to review the services provided by each delegate on an ongoing 
basis. 

143 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It  may  only  delegate  its  portfolio  and/or  risk  management  functions  to 
regulated  entities;  where  this  condition  cannot  be  satisfied,  delegation  is 
subject to the prior authorisation of the Regulator. 

Valuation 

 

The  valuation  function  may  be  carried  out  by  the  AIFM  itself,  or  it  may 
appoint an external valuation agent. 

  Where  the  AIFM  decides  to  carry  out  the  valuation  function  itself,  it  must 
ensure  that  the  process  is  functionally  independent  from  the  portfolio 
management  and  remuneration  functions  of  the  AIF,  and  that  adequate 
measures are put in place to mitigate conflicts of interest. 

  Where  an  external  valuer  is  appointed,  the  AIFM  must  be  able  to 
demonstrate that the delegation is to an external valuer that is professionally 
recognised,  can  furnish  professional  guarantees  and  has  been  appointed 
pursuant to the AIFMD delegation provisions. 

Depositary Provisions 

  An AIFM must appoint a single depositary in respect of each AIF it manages. 

  An AIFM cannot act as a depositary. A prime broker acting as a counter party 
to  an  AIF  may  not  act  as  a  depositary  unless  it  has  functionally  and 
hierarchically separated the performance of its depositary functions from its 
tasks  as  prime  broker  and  any  potential  conflicts  of  interest  are  properly 
identified, managed, monitored and disclosed to the AIF investors. 

Reporting Requirements 

 

 

 

The AIFMD makes provision for disclosure to investors, both prior to and after 
their initial investment. 

The directive provides a detailed list of matters to be disclosed to investors, 
including  but  not  limited  to  a  description  of  the  investment  strategy  and 
objectives of the AIF. 

The disclosure and reporting requirements under the AIFMD can be split into 
three groups, these being initial disclosures to investors, ongoing disclosures 
to investors and information required to be reported to regulators. 

144 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appendix 

Suggested Non–Tax Amendments 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

List of Suggested Non-Tax Amendments 

I. 

Insurance Companies: Investment in AIFs 

II. 

Banks: Investment in AIFs 

III. 

Angel Funds 

IV.  Non Resident Indians : Investment in Units of Investment Vehicle 

V. 

LLPs : Investment objective 

VI.  Overseas Investment by AIFs 

VII. 

Investment Manager : AIFs as Anchor Investors in IPOs 

VIII.  Single Family Offices : Qualified Institutional Buyer 

IX. 

LLPs as Fund Managers and Sponsors 

X. 

AIFs with no Foreign Investment 

XI. 

Investment by NRI in AIF from NRO Account 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Non-Tax Amendments 

 

 

 

 

S.No 

Current Law 

 

I. 

Investment by insurance companies in AIFs 

1. 

As  per  circular  no.  IRDA/F&I/CIR/INV/172/08/2013  issued 
by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of 
India (IRDA) on August 23, 2013, (2013 IRDA Circular) life 
insurance companies and general insurance companies are 
permitted to invest in Category I AIFs and Category II AIFs. 
Such investment is currently subject to the following limits: 

Type    of 
Insurer 

(a) 
Life 
Insurance 
Company 

Overall 
Exposure 
to Venture 
Funds and 
AIFs put 
together 
(b) 
3%    of 
respective 
Fund 

General 
Insurance 
Company 

5%    of 
Investment 
Assets 

 

 

 

Exposure to Single 
AIF/Venture Fund 

(c) 
10% of AIF/Venture Fund 
size or 20% of Overall 
Exposure as per (b), 
whichever is lower. 

The above 10% limit shall 
be read as 20% in case of 
Infrastructure Fund 
10% of AIF/Venture Fund 
size 20% of overall 
Exposure as per (b), 
whichever is lower. 

The above 10% limit shall 
be read as 20% in case of 
Infrastructure Fund. 

2. 

The IRDA Circular also mentions the following: 

 

“Insurers are also not permitted to invest in AIFs, which has 
the nature of Funds of Funds and Leverage Funds.” 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Rationale 

 

 

In order to provide greater 
access to domestic capital 
for AIFs and to increase 
the investment 
opportunities available to 
Indian institutional 
investors, the limits on 
investment in AIFs by 
insurance companies 
should be increased from 
10% to 20% of the total 
corpus of an AIF. 

Suggested Changes 

IRDA  should  issue  a  circular  modifying  the  2013  IRDA 
Circular to effectuate the following: 

life 

Investment  by 
insurance  companies  and  general 
insurance  companies  should  be  subject  to  the  following 
limits 

Type        of  Overall 
Insurer 

Single 

Exposure 
AIF/Venture Fund 

to 

Exposure 
to  Venture 
Funds  and 
AIFs 
put 
together 
(b) 
3%     5%    of  10% 20% of AIF/Venture 
respective 
Fund 

Fund size or 20% of 
Overall Exposure as per 
(b), whichever is lower. 

(c) 

(a) 
Life 
Insurance 
Company 

The above 10% 20% limit 
shall be read as 20% in 
case of Infrastructure 
Fund 

General            5% 
of      10% 20% of AIF/Venture 
Insurance  Investment  Fund  size  20%  of  overall 
Company         Assets   

Exposure as per (b), 
whichever is lower. 

The above 10% 20% limit 
shall be read as 20% in 
case of Infrastructure 
Fund. 

IRDA  should  issue  a  circular  to  delete  the  prohibition  on 
insurance  companies  from  investing  in  Funds  of  Funds. 
Further,  the  circular  should  also  clarify  the  definition  of 
‘Leveraged  Funds’.  The  circular  should  bring  about  the 
following changes: 

“Insurers are also not permitted to invest in AIFs, which has 
the nature of Funds of Funds and Leverage Funds. The term 
‘Leveraged  Funds’  shall  mean  AIFs  that  have  engaged  in 
leverage  for  the  purpose  of  carrying  out  investments  and 
not AIFs that undertake short term borrowing as permitted 
under 
SEBI 
Funds), 
Regulations, 2012” 

(Alternative 

Investment 

the 

mitigation 

The removal of prohibition 
on  investment  in  Funds  of 
Funds  will  ensure  greater 
risk 
and 
diversification. Further, the 
scope 
term 
‘Leveraged  Funds’  should 
be  clarified 
to  exclude 
from  its  ambit  funds  that 
undertake 
term 
borrowing  as  per  the  AIF 
Regulations. 

short 

the 

of 

3. 

Section 27A of the Insurance Act, 1938, (“Insurance Act”) 
read along with Regulation 3 of the IRDA (Investment) 
Regulations, 2000, (“Insurance Investment Regulations”) 
provides that in case of any investments by life insurance 
companies and general insurance companies, for 
investments that are not categorized as an ‘Approved 
Investment’ under the Insurance Act and Insurance 
Investment Regulations, require the consent of all the 
directors of the board of directors of the life insurance 
company or the general insurance company, as the case 
may be. 

Clause  (b)  of  Schedule  I  of  the  Insurance  Investment 
Regulations should be amended to include the following in 
the list of Approved Investments: 
“Investments  in  Alternative  Investment  Funds  registered 
under the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 
2012 and as specified by IRDA’. 

This  will  ensure  that  for 
making  any  investments in 
AIFs,  as  permitted  by  the 
IRDA, 
insurance 
companies  will  not  be 
required to obtain the prior 
approval  of  its  board  of 
directors. 

the 

 

 

II. 

Investment by banks in AIFs 

The RBI should issue a circular to specify the following and 
amend the Prudential Guidelines Circular: 

“….investments in VCFs and AIFs in the form of equity/units 
etc. will also be subjected to the limits stipulated vide para 
3 of RBI Master circular on Para Banking Activities in terms 
of  which  the  investment  by  a  bank 
in  a  subsidiary 
company,  financial  services  company,  financial  institution, 
stock  and  other  exchanges  should  not  exceed  10  20  per 
cent  of  the  bank’s  paid-up  capital  and  reserves  and  the 
investments  in  all  such  companies,  financial  institutions, 
stock and other exchanges put together should not exceed 
20 per cent of the bank’s paid-up capital and reserves.” 

Paragraph 1.3 of circular RBI/2006-2007/113 
DBOD.No.BP.BC.27/21.01.002/2006-2007 issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) on August 23, 2006, 
(“Prudential Guidelines Circular”) read with paragraph 3 of 
the master circular on ‘Para-banking activities’ issued by 
the RBI on July 1, 2015, (“RBI Master Circular on Para 
Banking Activities”) specifies that the investment by banks 
in venture capital funds (“VCFs”) is subject to the following 
limits: 

 

“….investments in VCFs in the form of equity/units etc. will 
also be subjected to the limits stipulated vide para 3 of RBI 
Master circular on Para Banking Activities in terms of 
which the investment by a bank in a subsidiary company, 
financial services company, financial institution, stock and 
other exchanges should not exceed 10 per cent of the 
bank’s paid-up capital and reserves and the investments in 
all such companies, financial institutions, stock and other 
exchanges put together should not exceed 20 per cent of 
the bank’s paid-up capital and reserves.” 

Paragraph 5 of the Prudential Guidelines Circular specifies 
the following: 

The RBI should issue a circular to specify the following and 
amend the Prudential Guidelines Circular: 

to 

In order to provide greater 
access  to  domestic  capital 
for AIFs and to increase the 
investment  opportunities 
available 
Indian 
institutional  investors,  the 
limits  on 
in 
AIFs  by  banks  should  be 
increased from 10% to 20% 
of 
the  bank’s  paid-up 
capital.  This  will  enable 
banks 
larger 
invest 
amounts into AIFs. 

investment 

to 

to 

In order to provide greater 
access  to  domestic  capital 
for AIFs and to increase the 
investment  opportunities 
available 
Indian 
institutional  investors,  the 
limits  on 
in 
AIFs  by  banks  should  be 
increased from 10% to 20% 
of  the  corpus  of  the  AIF. 
This  will  enable  AIFs  to 
accept  larger  contributions 
from banks that are willing 
to commit larger portions. 

investment 

ensure 

investment 

Excluding 
in 
AIFs  from  the  category  of 
capital  market    exposure 
will 
the 
investments  in  AIFs  is  not 
while 
consolidated 
calculating 
banks’ 
capital  market  exposure. 
This 
in  turn  will  enable 
banks 
to  make  more 
investments into AIFs. 

that 

the 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

 

 

 

 

 

“Banks should obtain prior approval of RBI for making 
strategic investment in VCFs i.e. investments equivalent to 
more than 10% of the equity/unit capital of a VCF”. 

Paragraph 1.1 of the Prudential Guidelines Circular 
specifies the following: 

“All exposures to VCFs (both registered and unregistered) 
will be deemed to be on par with equity and hence will be 
reckoned for compliance with the capital market exposure 
ceilings (ceiling for direct investment in equity and equity 
linked instruments as well as ceiling for overall capital 
market exposure).” 

 

 

 

Paragraph 1.2.9 of the Master Circular on Prudential 
Norms for classification, valuation and operation of 
investment portfolio by Banks states as follows: 

“Bank’s investment in unlisted non-SLR securities should 
not exceed 10 per cent of its total investment in non-SLR 
securities as on March 31, of the previous year, and such 
investment should comply with the disclosure requirements 
as prescribed by SEBI for listed companies. As there is a 
time lag between issuance and listing of securities, 
investment in non-SLR debt securities (both primary and 
secondary market) by banks where the security is proposed 
to be listed on the Exchange(s) may be considered as 

“Banks  should  obtain  prior  approval  of  RBI  for  making 
strategic investment in VCFs i.e. investments equivalent to 
more than 10% 20% of the equity/unit capital of a VCF”. 

The RBI should issue a circular to specify the following and 
amend the Prudential Guidelines Circular: 

“All  exposures  to  VCFs  (both  registered  and  unregistered) 
and AIFs engaged in investments in priority sectors will be 
treated as at par with priority sector lending deemed to be 
on  par  with  equity  and  hence  will  not  be  reckoned  for 
compliance  with  the  capital  market  exposure  ceilings 
(ceiling  for  direct  investment  in  equity  and  equity  linked 
instruments  as  well  as  ceiling  for  overall  capital  market 
exposure).” 

Regulations providing for investments by banks in priority 
sectors (through instruments other than securitised assets) 
should also be implemented. Investments by banks in AIFs 
or  SVFs  or  in  funds  engaged  in  sectors  which  have  been 
classified as ‘priority sectors’ by the Reserve Bank of India 
under the Master Circular on Priority Sector Lending should 
be considered as ‘priority sector investments’. 

- 

lag  between 

“Bank’s investment in unlisted non-SLR securities should not 
exceed  10  20  per  cent  of  its  total  investment  in  non-SLR 
securities  as  on  March  31,  of  the  previous  year,  and  such 
investment should comply with the disclosure requirements 
as prescribed by the SEBI for listed companies. As there is a 
time 
listing  of  securities, 
investment  in  non-SLR  debt  securities  (both  primary  and 
secondary market) by banks where the security is proposed 
to  be  listed  on  the  Exchange(s)  may  be  considered  as 
investment 
listed  security  at  the  time  of  making 
investment. However, if such security is not listed within the 
period specified, the same will be reckoned for the 10 20 per 
cent limit specified for unlisted non-SLR securities. In    case 

issuance  and 

in 

investment in listed security at the time of making 
investment. However, if such security is not listed within 
the period specified, the same will be reckoned for the 10 
per cent limit specified for unlisted non-SLR securities. In 
case such investments included under unlisted non-SLR 
securities lead to a breach of the 10 per cent limit, the 
bank would not be allowed to make further investment in 
non-SLR securities (both primary and secondary market) as 
also in unrated bonds issued by companies engaged in 
infrastructure activities till such time bank’s investment in 
unlisted non-SLR securities comes within the limit of 10 per 
cent.” 

issued  by  companies  engaged 

such investments included under unlisted non-SLR securities 
lead to a breach of the 10 20 per cent limit, the bank would 
not  be  allowed  to  make  further  investment  in  non-SLR 
securities  (both  primary  and  secondary  market)  as  also  in 
unrated  bonds 
in 
infrastructure  activities till  such  time  bank’s investment  in 
unlisted non-SLR securities comes within the limit of 10 20 
per  cent.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary 
contained  herein,  investments  by  banks  in  social  venture 
funds (SVFs) will be permitted up to a maximum limit of 25 
per cent of the bank’s total investment in SVFs, as on March 
31, of the previous year. 

 

 

 

III. 

Angel Funds 

8. 

Regulations 19F(3) of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Alternative Investment Fund), 2012 (“AIF 
Regulations”) states: 

 

“Investment by an angel fund in the venture capital 
undertaking shall be locked-in for a period of three years.” 

9. 

Regulation 19D(3) of the AIF Regulations states: 

 

“Angel funds shall accept, up to a maximum period of three 
years, an investment of not less than twenty five lakh 
rupees from an angel investor.” 

10. 

Regulation 19F(2) of the AIF Regulations states: 

 

“Investment by an angel fund in any venture capital 
undertaking shall not be less than fifty lakh rupees and 
shall not exceed five crore rupees.” 

11. 

Regulation 19E(4) of the AIF Regulations states: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SEBI should amend the said regulation to reduce the lock-in 
period. The revised regulation may read as follows: 

- 

“Investment  by  an  angel  fund  in  the  venture  capital 
undertaking  shall  be  locked-in  for  a  period  of  three  years 
one year.” 

Alternatively, if the current lock-in were to continue, SEBI 
may consider easing transfer restriction during the lock in 
period. 

“Investment  by  an  angel  fund  in  the  venture  capital 
undertaking shall be locked-in for a period of three years. 

Provided, during the lock-in  period as specified above, the 
angel fund may transfer a whole or part of its investment in 
an investee company to another SEBI registered fund; or an 
overseas  investor  (including  a  body  corporate,  whether 
incorporate in India or abroad); or an investor in the angel 
fund. 

Provided however, in case of such transfer, the shareholding 
of the angel fund transferred shall be subject to a lock-in for 
a period of three years from the date of such issue of such 
security. ” 

Regulation 19D(3) may be amended as follows: 

“Angel  funds  shall  accept,  up  to  a  maximum  period  of 
three five years, an investment of not less than twenty five 
lakh rupees from an angel investor.” 

SEBI should amend the said regulation to read as follows: 

“Investment  by  an  angel  fund  in  any  venture  capital 
undertaking  shall  not  be  less  than  fifty  twenty  five  lakh 
rupees and shall not exceed five crore rupees.” 

The Regulation may be amended as follows: 

from 

The  proposal  seeks 
to 
extend  the  time  duration 
during which an angel fund 
capital 
may  drawdown 
commitments 
its 
investors.  The  removal  of 
this restriction will provide 
flexibility  to  angel  fund  in 
line with flexibility available 
with all other categories of 
AIFs. 
Decreasing  the  minimum 
amount 
can  be 
invested  by  an  angel  fund 
will  assist 
in  providing 
flexibility to the angel fund 
in  terms  of  its  investment 
strategy, 
also 
creating an opportunity for 
diversification 
its 
portfolio 
the 
The 
amendments  is  to  expand 
the avenues of fund-raising 
available  to  the  funds  and 
bring the same in line with 
provisions  as  applicable  to 
other 
sub-
classes of AIFs. 

category/ 

while 

that 

of 

purpose 

of 

“No scheme of the angel fund shall have more than forty- 
nine angel investors.” 

“No scheme of the angel fund shall have more than forty- 
nine one thousand angel investors.” 

12. 

Regulation 19F (1) (a) of the AIF Regulation states: 

SEBI may consider diluting such requirement by introducing 
either of the following amendment to the said regulation: 

 

 

“Angel funds shall invest only in venture capital 
undertakings which: 

(a) have been incorporated during the preceding 

three years from the date of such investment;” 

13. 

- 

 

 

 

IV. 

Investments by NRIs 

14. 

Regulation 2 of Schedule 4 of TISPRO Regulation currently 
states: 

“Subject to paragraph 1, a Non-resident Indian or an 
Overseas Corporate Body may, without any limit, purchase 
on non-repatriation basis, shares or convertible debentures 
of an Indian company issued whether by public issue or 
private placement or right issue.” 

Regulation 2(2) of Schedule 5 of TISPRO Regulation 
currently states: 

seeks 

change 

This 
to 
provide  flexibility  to  angel 
funds  in terms of  available 
investment    opportunities 
in early stage ventures. 

to 

invest 

protect 

This  change  is  sought  to 
provide  angel  funds  the 
flexibility 
in 
existing portfolio entities to 
preserve, 
or 
enhance  the  value  of  such 
existing 
in 
investments 
such portfolio entities 
Internationally,  ‘accredited 
investors’ 
been 
recognised  as  a  separate 
category 
non- 
institutional investors. 

 

have 

of 

Recognising  a 
separate 
category  of 
accredited 
investors  will  give  angel 
funds  access  to  a  number 
of sophisticated investors. 

The  concept  of  accredited 
investors suggested here is 
based  on  the  standards 
followed 
other 
jurisdictions, such a United 
States, Singapore, etc. 

in 

“Angel funds shall invest only in venture capital 
undertakings which: 

(a)  have been incorporated during the preceding 

three years from the date of such investment; 
Provided however, not more than ten per cent 
of the investible funds of the angel fund may be 
invested in venture capital undertakings which 
have been incorporated for a period of more 
than 3 years from the date of such investment. 
Provided further, the restriction laid down in the 
preceding above shall not apply in case of 
follow on investment by the angel fund in a 
venture capital undertaking in which it has 
made or has existing investments.” 

SEBI  may  consider  introducing  the  concept  of  ‘accredited 
investor’  within  the  AIF  Regulations.  SEBI  may  consider 
including  the  following  clause  (aa)  in  Regulation 2(1):  The 
following scope may be considered: 

“accredited investors” include (i) a natural person whose net 
worth,  either  individually  or  jointly  with  the  investor’s 
spouse exceeds INR [2,00,00,000] (excluding the value of the 
investor’s  primary  residence  and  indebtedness  thereon  up 
to  the  gross  value  of  such  residence,  except  that  if  the 
amount  of  such  indebtedness  outstanding  at  the  time  of 
investor's admission to the angel fund exceeds the amount 
of such indebtedness outstanding 60 days before such time, 
other  than  as  a  result  of  the  acquisition  of  the  primary 
residence, the amount of such excess shall be included as a 
liability  in  the  determination  of  investor's  net  worth),  or 
whose  income  in  the  in  the  [two]  most  recent  years  is  in 
excess of INR *•+, or joint income with the investor’s spouse 
is in excess of INR *•+ and has a reasonable expectation of 
reaching the same income level in the current year, and (ii) 
a corporation / entity whose net worth exceeds INR *•+. For 
the purpose of determine the net worth of a corporation / 
entity,  net worth shall mean the aggregate value of the paid 
up  equity  capital  (in  case  of  company)  or  capital 
contributions  by  partner  (in  case  of  a  limited  liability 
partnership  or  partnership)  or  [aggregate  value  of  the 
corpus] (in case of a trust/benefit plan) [plus free reserves] 
excluding reserves created out of revaluation reduced by the 
losses  and  deferred 
aggregate  value  of  accumulated 
expenditures  not  written  off 
including  miscellaneous 
expenses not written off ” 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

The regulation may be amended to read as follows: 

- 

“Subject  to  paragraph  1,  a  Non-resident  Indian  or  an 
Overseas Corporate Body may, without any limit, purchase 
on non-repatriation basis, shares or convertible debentures 
of  an  Indian  company  issued  whether  by  public  issue  or 
private  placement  or  right  issue  or  unit  of  Investment 
Vehicle.” 
It is recommended that that the Schedule be amended to 
read as follows: 

- 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

15. 

 

“A Non-resident Indian or an Overseas Corporate Body 
may, without limit, purchase on non-repatriation basis, 
dated Government securities (other than bearer securities), 
treasury bills, units of domestic mutual funds, units of 

“A Non-resident Indian or an Overseas Corporate Body may, 
without  limit,  purchase  on  non-repatriation  basis,  dated 
Government  securities  (other  than  bearer  securities), 
treasury bills,  units of domestic mutual funds,  ,   units    of 

150 

to 

The RBI is unwilling to give 
NOC 
Investment 
Companies  as  they  would 
be  out  of  the  purview  of 
supervision 
RBI. 
However, the advantage of 
having  an  LLP  structure  as 
an  LLP  may  be 
  noted 
below: 

of 

would 

Being 

LLP  being 

a 
1. 
separate 
assessable 
entity,  the    assessment 
by  the  tax    authorities 
will be limited to the LLP 
and 
not 
individually  affect  the 
partners interest; 
2. 
body 
corporates,  they  have 
more 
in 
overseas 
undertaking 
investments 
as 
compared  to  a  trust  or 
individual. 

flexibility 

Money Market Mutual Funds in India, or National 
Plan/Savings Certificates, or units of investment vehicles.” 
It  is recommended that  a new  paragraph 2A  be  added to 
Schedule 4 to read as follows: 
“Subject to Paragraph 1, a non-resident Indian may, without 
limit, purchase or subscribe to equity shares or convertible 
securities  or  warrants  of  an  alternative  investment  fund 
registered with SEBI, subject to such conditions as may be 
prescribed.” 

 

 

 

The  Registrar  of  Companies  should  allow  LLPs  to  be 
registered for the object of investment, provided that they 
self-certify that all the capital is contributed by the partners 
and  that  they  do  not  accept  public  deposits  or  use 
borrowed funds 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

16. 

 

 

Money Market Mutual Funds in India, or National 
Plan/Savings Certificates” 
Schedule 4 of the FEMA (Transfer or Issue of Security by a 
Person Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2000 provides 
for the purchase and sale of shares/ convertible 
debentures by a Non-resident Indian on non-repatriation 
basis. 

 

V. 

LLPs: Investment 

17. 

Section 56, Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“A private company may convert into a limited liability 
partnership in accordance with the provisions of this 
Chapter and the Third Schedule.” 

Third Schedule, Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008: 

“On receiving the documents referred to in paragraph 3, 
the Registrar shall, subject to the provisions of this Act and 
the rules made thereunder, register the documents and 
issue a certificate of registration in such form as the 
Registrar may determine stating that the limited liability 
partnership is, on and from the date specified in the 
certificate, registered under this Act: 
Provided that the limited liability partnership shall, within 
fifteen days of the date of registration, inform the 
concerned Registrar of Companies with which it was 
registered under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 
(1 of 1956) about the conversion and of the particulars of 
the limited liability partnership in such form and manner as 
the Central Government may prescribe” 

Rule 39, Limited Liability Partnership Rules, 2009 (“LLP 
Rules”): 

“(1) For the purposes of the Third Schedule, an application 
shall be made in the form provided in Part A of Form 
18  together  with  the  statement  of  shareholders  in 
format provided in Part B of Form 18 along with the 
fee as mentioned in Annexure “A”. 

(2)  The  Registrar  shall,  on  conversion  of  any  private 
company  into  a  limited  liability  partnership  shall 
issue  a  certificate  of  registration  under  his  seal  in 
Form 19. 
For the purposes of para 4 of the Third Schedule, the 
limited liability partnership shall inform the Registrar 
about  conversion  of  private  company  into  limited 
liability partnership in Form 14A.” 

(3) 

Declaration, Part B, Form 18, LLP Rules: 

“I state as under: 

(iii)  that  all  the  applicable  clearances,  approvals  or 
permissions  for  conversion  of  the  company  into  a  limited 
liability  partnership  from  any  other  authority/authorities 
have been obtained” 

RBI directive: 

At the time of conversion of Investment Company into LLP, 
RBI  has  directed  the  Registrar  of  Companies  to  take  on 
record  a  “No  Objection  Certificate”  from  RBI,  since  the 
proposed LLP would be dealing with investment activities. 

 

151 

 

 

VI. 

Overseas Investments by AIFs 

18. 

Under Regulation 15(1)(a), AIF Regulations: 
“Alternative Investment Fund may invest in securities of 
companies incorporated outside India subject to such 
conditions or guidelines that may be stipulated or issued by 
the Reserve Bank of India and the Board from time to time” 

 

 

Clause B(c)(v), SEBI Circular CIR/IMD/DF/7/2015 dated 1 
October 2015: 

“Such investments shall not exceed 25% of the investible 
funds of the scheme of the AIF” 

 

VII. 

Investment Manager as Anchor Investor (AIF- IPO) 

19. 

Item 10(k), Part A, SCHEDULE XI, SEBI (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009: 

 

 

 

“Neither the merchant bankers nor any person related to 
the promoter/ promoter group/ merchant bankers in the 
concerned public issue can apply under Anchor Investor 
category. The parameters for selection of Anchor Investor 
shall be clearly identified by the merchant banker and shall 
be available as part of records of the merchant banker and 
shall be available as part of records of the merchant 
banker for inspection by the Board.” 

Regulation 2(1)(c), SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009 

anchor investor “means a qualified institutional buyer who 
makes an application for a value of ten crore rupees or 
more in a public issue made through the book building 
process in accordance with these regulations” 

 

 

VIII. 

Single Family Offices 

20. 

Regulation 2(zd)(i) ICDR Regulations – 
‘qualified institutional buyer’ means: “a mutual fund, 
venture capital fund, Alternative Investment Fund and 
foreign venture capital investor registered with the Board” 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

We propose the following amendments: 

Clause  B(c)(v),  SEBI  Circular  CIR/IMD/DF/7/2015  dated  1 
October 2015: 

“Such  investments  shall  not  exceed  25%  of  the  investible 
funds  of  the  scheme  of  the  AIF  or  50%  of  the  offshore 
component of the investible funds of the AIF, whichever is 
higher” 

Corresponding  amendments  should  be  made  under 
Regulation 15(1) of the AIF Regulations. 

Item 10(k), Part A, SCHEDULE XI, SEBI (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009: 

issue 

in  their  capacity  of  an 

“Neither  the  merchant  bankers  nor  any  person  related  to 
the  promoter/  promoter  group/  merchant  bankers  in  the 
concerned  public  issue  can  apply  under  Anchor  Investor 
category.  Provided,  however,  any  person  related  to  the 
promoter/  promoter  group/  merchant  bankers  in  the 
concerned 
investment 
manager  to  an  Alternative  Investment  Fund  or  a  fund 
manager  of  a  mutual  fund  and  whose  activities  are 
segregated  from  the  activities  of  the  concerned  merchant 
banker,  promoter  or  promoter  group  can  apply  under 
Anchor  Investor  category.  The  parameters  for  selection  of 
Anchor Investor shall be clearly identified by the merchant 
banker  and  shall  be  available  as  part  of  records  of  the 
merchant banker and shall be available as part of records 
of the merchant banker for inspection by the Board.” 

 

 

 

 

invest 

AIFs need the freedom like 
their 
India-focused 
offshore  funds  (Mauritius 
etc.)  to 
in  these 
offshore  entities  to  the 
extent of 25% of the corpus 
of 
(currently 
provided by SEBI) or 50% of 
the offshore component of 
the  investible  funds  of  the 
AIF, whichever is higher 

the  AIF 

long  as 

In case of a public issue, an 
AIF  qualifies  as  an  anchor 
investor,  so 
its 
manager  is  not  a  person 
related  to  the  promoter 
group  or  the  merchant 
bankers. 

are 

respective 

Investment  managers  of 
AIFs and fund managers of 
mutual 
regulated 
entities  and  pursuant  to 
SEBI 
their 
regulations, 
their 
management  activities  are 
from  other 
segregated 
management 
  and 
marketing departments  of 
a related entity. 

to 

provide 

The  permission 
the 
mutual fund managers and 
AIF  investment  managers 
will 
greater 
flexibility  to  the  AIFs  and 
to  apply 
mutual 
funds 
under  Anchor 
Investor 
category, considering there 
are stringent regulations in 
to monitor activities of the 
AIFs and mutual funds. 

We propose the following amendments: 

‘qualified  institutional  buyer’  means  “a  mutual  fund, 
venture  capital  fund,  Alternative  Investment  Fund  and 
foreign venture capital investor registered with the Board or 
a  single  family  office  with  assets  under  management 
exceeding Rupees fifty crore and whose assets are managed 
by a dedicated officer who is registered with the Board as 
an investment adviser” 

To  provide  flexibility  to 
family  offices 
single 
to 
a  qualified 
invest 
as 
institutional 
buyer 
for 
investing  in  initial  public 
offerings 

 

152 

Sl No 

Provision of the RBI Notification 
No. FEMA.355/2015-RB dated 16 
November 2015 (“Notification”) 

Current 

Proposed Amendment 

Rationale 

Interpretation 

 

21. 

Proviso  to  Item  4,  Schedule  11, 
Notification 

 

 

 

that 

for  sponsors  or 
Provided 
managers  or  investment  managers 
organized  in  a  form  other  than 
companies,  SEBI  shall  determine 
whether the sponsor or manager or 
investment  manager 
foreign 
owned and controlled. 

is 

Explanation  1  to  Item  4,  Schedule 
11, Notification 

Ownership  and  control  is  clearly 
determined  as  per  the  extant  FDI 
policy.  AIF  is  a  pooled  investment 
vehicle.  ‘Control’  of  the  AIF  should 
be  in  the  hands  of  ‘sponsors’  and 
‘mangers/investment  managers’, 
with 
the  general  exclusion  of 
others.  In  case  the  ‘sponsors’  and 
‘managers/investment    managers’ 
of  the  AIF  are  individuals,  for  the 
treatment 
downstream 
investment by such AIF as domestic, 
‘sponsors’ 
and 
‘managers/investment  managers’ 
should be resident Indian citizens. As 
ownership  and  control  cannot  be 
determined in LLP under the extant 
FDI  policy,  a  LLP  shall  not  act  as 
sponsor  or  manager/  investment 
manager. 

of 

IX: LLPs as Fund  Managers or Sponsors 

 

 

 

The 
Explanation   1 
to     Item      2, 
Schedule  11 
states  that  on 
account        of 
difficulty 
in 
determination 
of  control  and 
ownership 
in 
case  of  a  LLP, 
the  LLPs  shall 
be 
not 
permitted 
to 
act       as        a 
sponsor 
or 
manager of an 
AIF. 
This 
implies 
a 
complete ban 
on an AIF from 
having 
an 
investment 
manager  or 
the sponsor as 
a LLP. 

Amendment  to  Proviso  to 
Item  4,  Schedule  11, 
Notification – 

other 

Provided  that  for  sponsors 
or managers or investment 
managers  organized  in  a 
form 
than 
companies  and  LLPs,  SEBI 
shall  determine  whether 
the sponsor or manager or 
is 
investment  manager 
foreign 
and 
controlled. 

owned 

Explanation  1  to  Item  4, 
Schedule 11, Notification 

The  Press  Note  No.  12  (of 
2015),  amending  the  FDI 
Policy  was  issued  on  24 
November 2015. The Press 
Note provides clarity on the 
aspect  of  “ownership”  10 
and  “control”  11  under  the 
FDI Policy. 

On account of clarity to the 
ownership  and  control  of 
LLPs  provided  subsequent 
to  the  Notification,  this 
proposal  for  amendment 
will  align  the  provisions  of 
TISPRO, with the FDI Policy. 

 

 

 

and 

pooled 

investment 

Ownership and control is 
clearly determined as per 
the extant FDI policy. AIF is 
a 
vehicle. ‘Control’ of the AIF 
should be in the hands of 
‘sponsors’   
‘mangers/investment 
managers’,   with 
the 
general exclusion of others. 
In case the ‘sponsors’ and 
‘managers/investment 
managers’ of the AIF are 
individuals,  
the 
treatment of downstream 
investment by such AIF as 
domestic, ‘sponsors’ and 
‘managers/investment 
managers’  
should  be 
resident Indian citizens. As 
ownership and control 
cannot be determined in 
LLP under the extant FDI 
policy, a LLP shall not act as 
sponsor 
or    manager/ 
investment manager. 

for 

 

 

153 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

10 For the purpose of “ownership” Para 2.1.28 of the amended FDI Policy now provides – “A Limited Liability Partnership will be 
considered as owned by resident Indian citizens if more than 50% of the investment in such an LLP is contributed by resident Indian 
citizens and/or entities which are ultimately ‘owned and controlled by resident Indian citizens’ and such resident Indian citizens 
and entities have majority of the profit share” 
11 For the purpose of “control” Para 2.1.7 of the amended FDI Policy now provides – “For the purposes of Limited Liability 
Partnership, ‘control’ will mean right to appoint majority of the designated partners, with specific exclusion to others, have 
control over all the policies of the LLP” 

154 

 

22. 

X: AIFS with “No Foreign Investment” 

Clause (10) of Regulation 5,  TISPRO 
– 

 

A  person  resident  outside 
India 
(other  than  an  individual  who  is 
citizen of or any other entity which is 
registered/ incorporated in Pakistan 
or  Bangladesh), 
including  an 
Registered 
  Portfolio 
Investor  (RFPI)  or  a  non-resident 
Indian (NRI) may acquire, purchase, 
hold,  sell  or  transfer  units  of  an 
Investment  Vehicle,  in  the  manner 
and  subject  to  the  terms  and 
conditions specified in Schedule 11. 

Foreign 

This provision 
seems to 
include the 
restrictions of 
“downstream 
investment” 
etc. as 
detailed in 
Schedule XI to 
AIFs that do 
have any 
foreign 
investment. 

 

 

 

In order to provide 
uniform rights and 
liabilities to all AIFs which 
have investments from 
only Indian resident 
contributors, the 
amendment to the 
Regulation, by way of 
Explanation 1, is provided. 

The rationale for removal 
of the Sponsor (as in 
Explanation 2) is on 
account of the role of the 
Sponsor as a passive 
investor, who is not 
involved in the 
management of the AIF. 

 
 
 

Clause (10) of Regulation 5, 
TISPRO – 

(other 

A  person  resident  outside 
India 
than  an 
individual  who  is  citizen  of 
or any other entity which is 
registered/ incorporated in 
Pakistan  or  Bangladesh), 
including  an  Registered 
Foreign  Portfolio  Investor 
(RFPI)  or  a  non-resident 
Indian  (NRI)  may  acquire, 
purchase,  hold,  sell  or 
transfer 
an 
Investment  Vehicle,  in  the 
manner and subject to  the 
terms 
conditions 
specified in Schedule 11. 

and 

units 

of 

1: 

Explanation 
The 
provisions of Clause (10) of 
Regulation  5  shall  not  be 
applicable to AIFs which do 
not  have  any 
foreign 
investment  and  where  the 
sponsor,  manager 
or 
investment  manager  is  an 
is 
entity  which 
foreign 
owned or control. 

2: 
Explanation 
Contribution 
in  an  AIF 
made  by  a  Sponsor  which 
is  a  foreign  owned  and  
controlled  entity  to  meet 
the regulatory requirement 
prescribed  under  relevant 
regulations,  shall  not  be 
treated 
foreign 
investment  in  an  AIF,  for 
the  purpose  of  Clause  (10) 
of Regulation 5. 

as 

 

 

155 

 
 
 
 
 

 

23 

XI: AIF Investment by NRIs from NRO Accounts” 

The following two amendments to 
the Foreign Exchange Management 
(Transfer or Issue of Security By A 
Person Resident Outside India) 
Regulations 2000 
(“TISPRO”ISPROllowing two 
amendments to the Foreign 
Exchange Management (Transfer or 
Issue of Security B 

NRIs are a very relevant 
class of investors in the 
alternative space. 

Investment by NRIs (as 
well as entities majority 
owned by NRIs as per 
Press note 12) investing 
through the NRO route is 
to be treated as domestic 
investment and thus when 
such entities make an 
investment in AIF through 
the NRO route such AIF 
should not be treated as 
having foreign investment 
and be subjected to 
downstream investment 
conditions, even if the 
manager or the sponsor 
are foreign owned and 
controlled. 

 

It is unclear 
whether 
investment by 
NRIs through 
the NRO route 
will be 
governed by 
the new 
Schedule  11 
as there may 
not be inward 
remittance 
involved in 
that case. So 
clarity is 
needed if this 
will be 
governed by 
this new 
Schedule 11 
or Schedule 5 
of the TISPRO 
regulations. 

 

1.  Amend the language 
of Regulation 2 of the 
Schedule 11 to clarify to 
include to payments made 
through NRO account in 
addition to NRE and FCNR 
to be eligible for 
investments under this 
Schedule. 

2.  An amendment may 
also be carried out in 
Regulation 2(2) of 
Schedule 5 of the TISPRO 
to include rough NRO 
account in additives’ in 
addition to other 
securities such as 
government securities, 
units of domestic mutual 
funds, etc. 
3. Separate proviso be 
added under Schedule 5 
and Schedule 11 to state 
as follows: 
Provided any investment 
made by an NRI or an 
foreign entity in which 
majority of the interest is 
owned by NRIs in the Units 
of an Investment Vehicle 
through its NRO account 
shall not be treated as 
foreign investment in such 
Investment Vehicle. 

 

156 

AIF 
AI 
AIFM 
 
AIFMD 
 

AIPAC 
 
 
AUM 
CBDT 
CCD 
 

CCPS 
 
Crore 
 
DDT 
DTAA 
 

DII 
 
ESOP 
FA 
FDI 
FEMA 
 

FMV 
FOF 
FPI 
FVCI 
 
GDR 
GP 
GST 
HUF 
IRDA 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

Abbreviations 

 

 

IT Act 
LACS 
LTCG 
LP 
LLP 
OCI 
PIO 
PFRDA 

NR 
NRI 
NRE 

Alternative Investment Fund 
Accredited Investor 
Alternative Investment Fund 
Manager 
Alternative Investment Fund 
Manager Directive 
Alternative Investment 
Funds Policy Advisory 
Committee 
Assets under Management 
Central Board of Direct Taxes  PE 
VC 
Compulsorily Convertible 
Debentures 
VCF 
EIF 
Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference Shares 
FCNR 
1 Crore = 10 million = 100 
Lakhs 
Dividend Distribution Tax 
Double Tax Avoidance 
Agreement 
Domestic Institutional 
Investor 
Employee Stock Option Plan  RBI 
REIT 
Finance Act 
Foreign Direct Investments 
IIT 
Foreign Exchange 
SEBI 
Management Act 
Fair Market Value 
Fund-of-Funds 
Foreign Portfolio Investor 
Foreign Venture Capital 
Investors 
Global Depository Receipt 
General Partner 
Goods & Services Tax 
Hindu Undivided Family 
Insurance Regulatory & 
Development Authority 

STCG 
STT 
SVF 
TISPRO 

NRO 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

SEC 

TDS 
QIP 
QIB 

157 

Income Tax Act, 1961 

One Lac = 100 Thousand 
Long-term Capital Gains Tax 
Limited Partner 
Limited Liability Partnership 
Overseas Citizen of India 
Person of Indian Origin 
Pension Fund Regulatory 
Development Authority 
Private Equity 
Venture Capital 
Venture Capital Fund 
Eligible Investment Fund 
Foreign Currency Non-Resident 
bank account 
Non-resident 
Non-resident Indian 
Non-Resident External bank 
account 
Non-Resident (Ordinary) bank 
account 
Reserve Bank of India 
Real Estate Investment Trust 
Infrastructure Investment Trust 
The Securities Exchange Board of 
India 
Securities & Exchange 
Commission 
Short-term Capital Gains Tax 
Securities Transaction Tax 
Social Venture Funds 
Foreign Exchange Management 
(Transfer or Issue of Security by a 
Person Resident Outside India) 
Regulations 2000 
Tax Deducted at Source 
Qualified Institutional Placement 
Qualified Institutional Buyer 

