 

Discussion Paper on “Brightline Tests for Acquisition of ‘Control’ 

 

 

under SEBI Takeover Regulations” 

 

Objective 

1.  This discussion paper seeks comments of the public for certain proposals related to 

Brightline Tests for Acquisition of ‘Control’ under the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of 

Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 (hereinafter referred to as the "Takeover 

Regulations”). 

 

Background 

2.  The Takeover Regulations prescribe that an acquirer acquiring substantial shares or 

voting rights i.e., 25% or more, has to make an open offer to the public shareholders 

of  the  target  company.  Irrespective  of  the  shares  or  voting  rights  acquired,  the 

acquirer  also  has  to  make  an  open  offer  upon  acquiring  control  of  the  target 

company. 

 

3.  Definition of 'Control' 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulation 2(1)(e) of Takeover Regulations, 2011 has defined 'control' as  
Regulation 2(1)(e): “control” includes the right to appoint majority of the directors 
or  to  control  the  management  or  policy  decisions  exercisable  by  a  person  or 
persons acting individually or in concert, directly or indirectly, including by virtue 
of their shareholding or management rights or shareholders agreements or voting 
agreements or in any other manner:  
 
Provided that a director or officer of a target company shall not be considered to 
be in control over such target company, merely by virtue of holding such position. 

4.  From the definition of control as defined under the Takeover Regulations, 2011, it is 

observed that regulation 2(1)(e) defines "control" as inclusive of  

  The right to appoint a majority of directors 

  The right to control the management 

  The right to control the policy decision 

 

5.  Such rights can be exercisable by one person or by more than one person who are 

persons  acting  in  concert.  Further,  such  rights  can  be  exercisable  directly  or 

indirectly. The right can accrue to a person in any of the following manner: 

  Shareholding 

  Management rights 

  Shareholders agreements 

Page 1 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 
 

  Voting agreements 

 

In any other manner 

 

Historical Perspective  

6.  It may be mentioned that the Bhagwati Committee which was constituted to review 

the  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  1994, 

recommended a broad definition of control and opined that it should be left to SEBI 

to  decide  whether  there  has  been  an  acquisition  of  control  on  the basis  of facts  of 

each  case.  The  Takeover  Regulations  Advisory  Committee  (TRAC),  in  its  report 

dated July 19, 2010 also reiterated the above views of the Bhagwati Committee.  

 

Need for Bright Lines on Control 

7.  The  term  "control"  which  is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)(e)  of  Takeover  Regulations, 

2011 provides for the broad contours which would constitute control and at the same 

time it has left the scope open to include factors to be covered within the ambit of the 

definition.   

 

8.  Assessing  whether  an  entity  controls  a  company  is  straightforward  in  cases  where 

the rights accrue to the entity through its shareholding/voting rights in the company. 

In  cases  of  rights  accruing  through  contractual  agreements,  such  assessment 

becomes  complex  and  requires  consideration  of  facts  and  circumstances  of  the 

case.  Therefore,  the  nature  of  definition  of  control  is  based  on  certain  defined 

principles rather than rule-based. It is only while applying these principles on a set of 

facts, that there is a rise of multitude of opinions and has led to litigations. 

 

9.  It has been represented by market participants to SEBI to provide a list of protective 

rights  which  would  not  amount  to  acquisition  of  control.  However,  other  such 

participants were of the view that it may not be possible to prepare an exhaustive list 

of such rights which would address all situations. 

 

10. Further,  control  is  also  defined  under  other  laws  in  India.  Certain  Acts  such  as 

Companies Act, 2013, Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 and FDI Policy and 

have a similar definition of control as under Takeover Regulations. The Companies 

Act, 2013 defines “control” as: 

“control”  shall  include  the  right  to  appoint  majority  of  the  directors  or  to  control  the 

management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting individually 

or  in  concert,  directly  or  indirectly,  including  by  virtue  of  their  shareholding  or 

management rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements or in any other 

manner.” 

 
 

Page 2 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

   

11. The Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 defines “control” as: 

"control"  shall  include  the  right  to  appoint  a  majority  of  the  directors  or  to  control  the 

management  or  policy  decisions  including  by  virtue  of  their  shareholding  or 

management rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements.” 

 

12. Similarly, Consolidated FDI Policy Circular of 2015 defines “control” as: 

“control”  shall  include  the  right  to  appoint  a  majority  of  the  directors  or  to  control  the 

management  or  policy  decisions  including  by  virtue  of  their  shareholding  or 

management rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements.” 

 

13. Also,  with  the  advent  of  Competition  Act  in  2002,  it  is  seen  that  control  has  been 

tested  by  the  Competition  Commission  of  India  from  its  own  perspective.  The 

definition  of  'control'  under  the  Competition  Act,  2002  is  provided  by  way  of  an 

Explanation to section 5 of the said Act as under- 

“Explanation — For the purposes of this section,—  

(a) "control" includes controlling the affairs or management by—  

(i) one or more enterprises, either jointly or singly, over another enterprise or group;  

(ii) one or more groups, either jointly or singly, over another group or enterprise;” 

14. It  is  seen  that  the  above  definition  of  'control'  in  the  Competition  Act,  2002  is  a 

purposive  definition  and  applies  for  the  specific  purpose  of  combination  of 

enterprises  by  way  of  inter  alia,  acquisition  of  one  or  more  enterprises  or  'control' 

over  an  enterprise  by  one  or  more  persons.  From  the  language  of  Explanation  to 

section  5  of  the  Competition  Act,  2002,  and  regulation  2(1)(e)  of  the  Takeover 

Regulations,  it  is  noted  that  both  contain  inclusive  definition.  It  is,  however,  noted 

that while the definition under 2(1)(e) is specific with regard to control by way of (a) 

right "to appoint majority of the directors" or (b) controlling 'the management or policy 

decisions',  the  definition  under  section  5  is  only  specific  with  regard  to  “controlling 

the  affairs  and  management‟.  It  is  further  noted  that  while  under  the  Takeover 

Regulations  controlling  the  “management  or  policy  decisions”  is  relevant  factor, 

under the Explanation to section 5 of the Competition Act controlling “the affairs and 

management"  is  relevant factor. The  expression  “affairs  and  management”  may  be 

of  much  wider  connotation  than  the  expression  "management  or  policy  decisions". 

There could be a situation wherein by controlling "the affairs and management" in a 

company, a person may be in a position to control "management or policy decisions" 

but it may not always be the case. 

 

 
 

Page 3 

 

 

 

 
 
15. Similarly, sectoral regulators such as Civil Aviation may also apply the test of control 

   

 

 

to  determine  whether  the  control  over  the  target  company  remains  with  an  Indian 

national. International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) also defines the principle 

of  control  and  establishes  control  as  the  basis  of  determining  which  entities  are 

consolidated  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  Under  IFRS,  the  principle  of 

control sets out the following three elements of control: 

(a) power over the investee; 

(b) exposure, or rights, to variable returns from involvement with the investee; and 

(c)  the  ability  to  use  power  over  the  investee  to  affect  the  amount  of  the  investor’s 

returns. 

 

16. One regulatory agency may be guided by the findings of other regulatory agency on 

a  particular  issue  only  if  the  two  laws  are  pari  materia  in  their  substance  and  are 

being applied on the same set of facts and circumstances. 

 

17. In view of the above, it is possible that in a given scenario multiple regulators may all 

be  applying  the  test  of  control  from  different  perspectives  and  arriving  at  differing 

results which may lead to ambiguity and confusion in the market. 

 
International Scenario 
18. Regarding  the  aspect  of  control,  it  is  observed  that  in  countries  such  as  Australia, 

Germany,  New  Zealand,  Russia,  Hong  Kong,  Singapore,  South  Africa  and  UK, the 

change of control is considered to be the same as acquisition of voting rights above 

the  specified  thresholds  irrespective  of  whether  such  holdings  confer  de  facto 

control. 

 

19. Further, in countries such as Japan, Malaysia, Switzerland and USA, control has not 

been defined for the purpose of takeovers. 

 

20. Further, in countries such as Canada, France,  Ghana, Norway and Spain, an entity 

is  deemed  to  be  in  control  of  a  company,  if  it  has  the  right  or  exercises  control, 

directly or indirectly, over the majority of voting rights at the general meetings of the 

company  or  has  the  ability  to  control  the  composition  of  a  majority  of  the  board 

members of the company. 

 

21. Countries  such  as  Brazil,  China,  Denmark,  Indonesia,  Italy  and  Nigeria  have  a 

similar  definition  to  India’s,  wherein,  control  is  deemed  to  be  exercised  not  only 

through voting rights and appointment of board members, but also through the ability 

 
 

Page 4 

 

 

 

 

   

to exercise influence over the company’s policies or its shareholder meetings, even 

if the entity holds voting rights below the specified thresholds. 

 

 
 

 

22. From the above, it is seen that in most of the countries, control has been defined in 

terms  of  the  specified  voting  rights  irrespective  of  de  facto  control.  Some  of  the 

countries have also included the ability to control the composition of board members 

and  further,  ability  to  exercise  influence  over  the  company’s  policies/shareholder 

meetings.  

 

23. In view of the above, it is seen that there is a need to identify bright lines for control. 

The following options may be considered:- 

 

Option 1:- Framework for Protective Rights  

24. In the matter of Subhkam Ventures (I) Pvt. Ltd. wherein SEBI had taken a view that 

the  rights  conferred  upon  the  acquirer,  through  the  agreements,  amounted  to 

'control'  over  the  target  company.  Hon'ble  SAT,  in  its  judgment  dated  January  15, 

2010,  rejected  SEBI's  view  stating  that  none  of  the  clauses  of  the  agreements, 

individually or collectively, demonstrated control in the hands of the acquirer. Hon’ble 

SAT had observed that: 

“…Control,  according  to  the  definition,  is  a  proactive  and  not  a  reactive  power.  It  is  a 

power by which an acquirer can command the target company to do what he wants it to 

do. Control really means creating or controlling a situation by taking the initiative. Power 

by which an acquirer can only prevent a company from doing what the latter wants to 

do is by itself not control. In that event, the acquirer is only reacting rather than taking 

the initiative. It is a positive power and not a negative power….The test really is whether 

the acquirer is in the driving seat….By no stretch of logic, can such an affirmative vote 

confer  control  over  the  day  to  day  working  of  the  company…Affirmative  vote  of  the 

investor in these matters is necessary for protecting its investment….Such fetters fall far 

short of the existence of “control” over the target company. It must be remembered that 

every  fetter  of  any  nature  in  the  hands  of  any  person  over  a  listed  company  cannot 

result in “control” of that person over that company…” 

 

25. However, Hon'ble Supreme Court, in its judgment dated November 16, 2011, stated 

that ‘keeping in view the above changed circumstances, it is in the interest of justice 

to dispose of the present appeal by keeping the question of law open  and it is also 

clarified  that  the  impugned  order  passed  by  the  SAT  will  not  be  treated  as  a 

precedent.’  

 

 

 
 

Page 5 

 

 
 
Principle 

 

 

 

 

   

26. The  basic  principle  that  can  be  followed  is  that  veto  rights  not  amounting  to 

acquisition of control may be protective in nature rather than participative in nature 

i.e. such rights may be aimed with the purpose of allowing the investor to protect his 

investment  or  prevent  dilution  of  his  shareholding.  At  the  same  time,  the  Investor 

should neither have the power to exercise control over the day-to-day running of the 

business  nor  the  policy  making  process.  Having  rights  in  decisions  involving  a 

significant  change  in  the  current  business  activity  or  that  apply  on  exceptional 

circumstances would also be treated as a protective right.  

 

27. In terms of the aforesaid principles, an illustrative list of rights have been categorized 

below as protective in nature. These rights would be provided as a guidance to the 

market within the existing definition of control:- 

Protective  Rights  -  Rights which  do  not  amount  to  exercise  of  "control",  neither 
individually nor collectively, with any other right listed below:-  
a)  Appointment of Chairman/ Vice Chairman - The Chairman/ Vice Chairman may be a 
nominee of the Investor provided he does not hold any executive position and does 
not have any casting vote and is counted as a representative of the Investor. 
 

b)  Appointment of Observer - The investor may appoint his nominee as the observer of 

the Board who does not have any voting or participation rights. 
 

c)  Covenants specified by Lenders provided these rights are customary to the lending 
business and the lender has granted the loan strictly on commercial basis. Further, 
such lender should be in the business of lending such as banks, NBFCs, etc. 
 

 

d)  Commercial  Agreements  -  The  rights  conferred  on  parties  to  a  Commercial 

Agreement would not amount to control provided that  

i)  The  mutual  commercial  benefit  should  flow  from  both  the  sides  i.e.  the 

commercial agreement should not be one-sided. 

ii)  The  Board  of  the  Target  Company  has  approved  the  decision  to  enter  into 

such an agreement. 

iii)  The Board of the Target Company / Target Company, should have the right to 

terminate the agreement. 

iv)  The Board of the Target Company / Target Company should have the right to 

enter into similar arrangement with any other party. 
 

e)  Veto/Affirmative  Rights  -  Veto  rights  in  matters  that  are  not  part  of  the  ordinary 
course of business or involve governance issues would be considered as protective 
in nature and would not amount to exercise of control over the target company:-  

 
 

Page 6 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

i)  amendments  to  memorandum  and  articles  of  association  of  the  target 

company which adversely impact the investor’s rights; 

ii)  any  alteration  to  the  capital  structure  of  the  company.  These  may  include 
issue  of  capital  or  convertible  securities,  buyback,  reduction  of  capital, 
merger,  demerger,  arrangement  or  compromise  with 
its  creditors  or 
shareholders or effecting any scheme of amalgamation or reconstruction, etc.  

iii)  effecting any change in the statutory auditors of the company;  
iv)  material  divestment,  transfer  or  disposal  of  an  undertaking  or  material 

subsidiary of the target company. 

v)  related party transactions other than those entered into in the ordinary course 

of business and which are on arms’ length basis. 

vi)  material  acquisition  of  any  companies,  bodies  corporate,  business, 

undertaking or joint ventures. 

vii) assuming or incurring any indebtedness or providing any loans or issuing any 
guarantees  or  creating  any  security  in  excess  of  the  thresholds  permissible 
without special shareholder approval under the Companies Act, 2013. 

viii)winding up of the company or making a general assignment for the benefit of 
the creditors of the company and/or the subsidiaries or admitting in writing the 
inability of the company to repay its debts when they become due. 

ix)  write-off  of  any  of  the  receivables,  loans  and  advances,  investment  or 

investments or inventories outside the ordinary course of business; 
 
 

f)  Quorum  rights  for  meetings  involving  the  matters  listed  above.  If  two  meetings  are 
not  quorate,  the  next  meeting  would  be  deemed  to  have  quorum  despite  the 
absence of the investor nominees. 
 

28. The grant of the above rights may be subject to the following conditions:- 

a)  The investor bestowed with the rights mentioned above, must invest at least 10% or 

more in the target company. 
 

 

b)  Every  company  should  formulate  a  policy  defining  the  parameters  that  will  be 
"material" or "outside the ordinary course of business" for clauses 24(e)(i), 24(e)(iv), 
24(e)(v), 24(e)(vi) and 24(e)(ix) which shall be disclosed to the shareholders. Grant 
of  the  protective  rights  mentioned  under  para  24  above,  to  an  investor  shall  be 
subject  to  obtaining  the  public  shareholder's  approval  (majority  of  minority)  in  this 
regard.  Such  rights  shall  also  be  incorporated  in  Articles  of  Association  of  the 
company after obtaining shareholders’ approval. 
 

c)  In  case  of  IPOs,  the  existing  agreements  would  need  to  be  cancelled/modified  or 
suspended  till  the  approval  of  public  shareholders  (majority  of  minority)  is  taken 
post-listing of shares. 
 
 

 
 

Page 7 

 

 

 
 
Option 2:- Adopting a numerical threshold  

 

 

 

   

29. Considering  the  international  practices  and  the  current  regulatory  environment  in 

India,  the  definition  of control  may  be  amended  such  that  control  is  defined  on  the 

basis  of  the  right  or  entitlement  to  exercise  certain  specified  voting  rights  of  a 

company, or the right to appoint certain number of directors of a company. 

 

30. In  India,  the  Companies  Act  recognizes  any  holding  in  excess  of  25%  as  the 

threshold  at  which  special  resolutions  can  be  blocked.  Further,  the  threshold  for 

substantial  acquisition  under  the  Takeover  Regulations  is  25%.    It  would,  thus,  be 

appropriate  that  25%  may  also  be  specified  as  the  threshold  level  for  trigger  of 

control in Indian listed companies. 

 

 

31. Further,  with  respect  to  the  control  being  exercised  through  the  right  to  appoint 

majority  of  directors,  it  may  be  mentioned  that  Regulation  17  of  SEBI  (Listing 

Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 mandates that at least 

one-third of the board of directors shall comprise of independent directors where the 

chairperson of the board of directors is a non-executive director, and at least half of 

the board of directors shall comprise of independent directors where the listed entity 

does not have a regular non-executive chairperson. 

 

32. Thus,  there  would  a  large  number  of  listed  companies  in  which  at  least  half  of  the 

board  members  are  independent  and  thereby,  right  to  appoint  majority  of  directors 

would  not  be  applicable  to  such  cases.  Therefore,  an  entity  having  the  right  to 

appoint majority of non-independent directors may be considered to be in control of 

the company. 

 

33. In view of the above, the definition of ‘control’ under the Takeover Regulations may 

be amended such that control is defined as: 

“(a)  the  right  or  entitlement  to  exercise  at  least  25%  of  voting  rights  of  a  company 

irrespective of whether such holdings gives de facto control 

and/or 

(b) the right to appoint majority of the non-independent directors of a company.” 

 
Pros and Cons of the above two options:- 
34. Investor having the protective rights as mentioned under Option 1 would continue to 

be  a  public  shareholder  and  acquisition  of  the  said  rights  would  not  amount  to 

acquisition  of  ‘control’  under  the  Takeover  Regulations,  2011.  However,  this  only 

being an indicative list, acquisition of other rights would be examined on the basis of 

the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  case.  In  case  such  rights  are  deemed  to  be 

 
 

Page 8 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

participative in nature, it would amount to acquisition of ‘control’ and necessitate an 

open  offer  under  regulation  4  of  the  Takeover  Regulations,  2011.  However,  this 

approach  may  lead  to  further  complexities  in  assessment  of  control  and  lead  to 

ambiguity in interpretation.  

 

35. In case Option 2 is adopted, the acquisition of control through other means such as 

special  rights,  etc.  would  not  necessitate  an  open  offer  requirement  under  the 

Takeover Regulations. However, it would reduce the uncertainty in the assessment 

of  acquisition  of  ‘control’  and  bring  clarity.  Further,  the  extent  of  influence  by  the 

investor over the board of directors would also be ascertainable in all cases. 

 

Public Comments 

 

36. Considering  the  implications  of  the  said  matter  on  the  market  participants,  public 

comments are solicited on the following:- 

(a)  "Whether  option  1  or  option  2  or  any  other  option  is  preferable  in  the  Indian 
context." 
(b) Any other suggestions/comments. 
 
Specific  comments/suggestions  as  per  the  format  given  below  would  be  highly 

appreciated: 

Name of entity/person/intermediary: 

Name of organization (if applicable): 
 
Sr. No. 
 

 

Proposed/suggested changes 

Rationale 

 

 

37. Such  comments  may  please  be  e-mailed  on  or  before  April  14,  2016,  to 

control@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to:- 

 

Ms. V. Divya Veda 

Deputy General Manager 

Corporation Finance Department 

Securities and Exchange Board of India, 

SEBI Bhavan, Plot No.C4-A, ‘G’ Block,  

Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400051 

Ph :+91-22-26449302  

 

 

 
 

Page 9 

