 
Consultation Paper 

 

Continuous  disclosures  to  be  made  by  Infrastructure  Investment 
Trusts  registered  under  the  SEBI  (Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts) 
Regulations, 2014 
 
1.  Real estate and infrastructure sectors are considered to be the two most fundamental sectors 
for  the  growth  of  any  economy.  They  contribute  to  the  economy  directly  by  creating 
employment opportunities and stimulating demand, and indirectly by facilitating the growth 
of  industries  along  such  developments.  Therefore,  it  can  be  seen  that  growth  in  the  real 
estate or infrastructure has a multiplier effect on the general economy of any nation.  
 

2.  The  Government  of  India’s  announcement  of  REITs  and  InvITs  in  the  Union  Budget 

2014-2015 has been hailed as a potential game changing event for these sectors.  
 

3.  The SEBI (Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2014  (InvIT regulations)  were 
notified  on  September  26,  2014.  SEBI  had  also  issued  a  circular  dated  May  11,  2016 
prescribing guidelines for public issue of units of InvITs. 
 

4.  InvIT  regulations,  inter-alia,  provide for  initial  listing  requirements  and  certain  continuous 
listing  requirements  to  be  complied  with  by  the  InvITs.  The  following  continuous 
disclosures are outlined in the InvIT regulations itself: 
 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 
vi. 

 

Investment conditions and dividend policy 
Related party transactions 
Borrowings and deferred payments 
Valuation of assets 
Rights and meetings of unit holders 
Certain disclosures with respect of price sensitive information 

5.  Regulation 23(2) of the InvIT regulations provide that a publicly offered InvIT shall ensure 
that the disclosures in the offer document are in accordance with the Schedule III of these 
regulations and any circulars or guidelines issued by the SEBI in this regard. In view of the 
same,  it  is  proposed  to  provide  certain  additional  disclosures  (continuous  financial 
disclosures and other continuous disclosures) to be made by the InvITs.   
 

6.  SEBI  had  constituted  a  committee  comprising  of  members  from  the  real  estate  and 
infrastructure industry,  stock exchanges, investment banks, audit firm and law firm, which 
evaluated  the  continuous  obligations  under  the  InvIT  regulations  and  under  the  SEBI 
(Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2014 
(LODR 
Regulations).  Further,  another  committee  was  also  constituted  by  SEBI  to  evaluate  the 

 

Page 1 of 17 

accounting  norms  for  InvITs.  The  combined  proposals,  of  both  the  above committees,  is 
contained in this consultation paper. 
 
These disclosures are contained herein in this paper under the following heads:  

 

  Part A- Continuous financial disclosures to be made by the InvITs 
  Part B- Other continuous disclosures to be made by the InvITs  
  Part C - Framework for calculation of Net Distributable Cash Flows (NDCFs): 

 

7.  The  InvIT  regulations  envisages  the  InvIT  to  hold  the  infrastructure  assets  through  a 
special purpose vehicle (SPV) (which may be a company or a LLP) as well as directly. The 
consultation paper has been prepared keeping the above said fact in mind. Thus, depending 
upon  the  structure  of  holding  of  the  infrastructure  assets,  the  respective  Acts  i.e.  the 
Companies  Act,  2013/  LLP  Act,  2008  shall  be  applicable  on  such  structures,  mutatis 
mutandis.  Further,  the  consolidation  of  the  accounts  as  envisaged  in  the  paper  shall  be 
applicable only when the InvIT holds stake in the SPVs. 

 

  PART A - Continuous financial disclosures to be made by the InvITs 

 

8.  Frequency of disclosures: 

 
8.1. Regulation 10(22) of the InvIT regulations provides that the investment manager shall 
ensure  that  the  accounts  of  the  InvIT  are  audited  by  the  auditor  not  less  than  twice 
annually and such report is submitted to the designated stock exchange within forty five 
days of end of financial year ending March 31st and half-year ending September 30th. 
 

8.2. Proposal: As per the aforesaid regulations, the frequency of the disclosures to be made 
to the  stock exchanges by an InvIT  are minimum i.e only on a half yearly basis. Thus 
comments  are  being  sought  as  to  whether  the  disclosures  may  be  made  to  the  stock 
exchange(s) on a half yearly basis or be reduced to quarterly basis.  

 

9.  Time period within which disclosures shall be made : 

 
9.1. The  InvIT  regulations  do  not,  inter-alia,  specify  the  time  period  within  which 
disclosures have to be made to the stock exchanges by an InvIT. Here it is noted that a 
balance needs to be drawn between the time taken to prepare these statements and also 
the time within which disclosures need to be made to the stock exchange(s). Thus, it is 
proposed  to  provide  the  timelines  within  which  the  disclosures  shall  be  made  to  the 
stock exchange(s).  
 

9.2. Proposal:  The  time  period  within  which  disclosures  of  financial  statements  may  be 

made to the stock exchanges by the InvIT may be either of the following options:  
 
 

 

Page 2 of 17 

 

 

 

i.  For  disclosures,  other  than  the  annual  disclosures,  to  be  made  to  the  stock 
exchange, such results would be submitted to the stock exchanges within 45 days 
of end of each quarter/half year as applicable.  

ii.  The  audited  standalone  financial  results  for  the  financial  year,  would  be 
submitted  within  sixty  days  from  the  end  of  the  financial  year  along  with  the 
audit report. 
 

10. Financial statements which needs to be disclosed: 
 

10.1.   In case of a company, the financial statements comprise of Balance Sheet, Profit and 
loss account, cash flow statement, notes to accounts, etc. These are required to be given 
on an annual basis.  
 

10.2. Proposal:  To  ensure  better  dissemination  of  information  to  investors,  it is proposed 

that the following may form part of financial statements to be submitted by InvIT  : 

 

 

10.2.1. Annual financial statements  

i.  Balance Sheet; 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v.  Explanatory notes annexed to, or forming part of, any statements referred 

Statement of Profit and Loss; 
Statement of Changes in Equity; 
Statement of Cash Flows; 

above  
 

10.2.2. Other Financial Statements (Quarterly/Half yearly, as applicable) 

Statement of Profit and Loss; 

i. 
ii.  Explanatory notes annexed to, or forming part of, any statements referred 

above  
 

10.2.3. The InvIT would submit the above financial statements on both standalone and 

consolidated basis.  

 

10.2.4.  Financial statements of the investment manager and project manager would not 
be required  to be given unless  their  net  worth is reduced  by 50% as compared to 
their net worth as on date of the last annual financial year end. In such cases, all the 
above  financial  statements  as  per  paragraph  10.2.1  and  10.2.2  is  required  to  be 
given.  
 
 
 
 
 

Page 3 of 17 

 

11.  Audited or limited review financial statements 

 

 

11.1. It has been represented that it might be too onerous for the InvIT to carry out audit 
every half year, as getting the financial statements audited is a long drawn process which 
requires a considerable period of time. In view of the same, it is proposed to review the  
requirement with respect to the audit of the financial statements of InvIT, to provide an 
option to the InvIT as under: 

 
11.2. Proposal: The InvIT may submit either half yearly audited results or unaudited results 
subject  to  limited  review  by  the  statutory  auditor  and  shall  be  accompanied  by  the 
limited review report. 

 

12. Accounting Standard to be followed 

 
12.1. InvITs  would  attract  international  investors,  hence  the  financial  statements  prepared 
by InvITs should be comparable internationally. Also, InvITs would have SPVs which 
would  carry  on  the  infrastructure  activities.  These  SPVs  can  be  in  the  form  of  a 
company or a LLP. In case these SPVs are in the form of a company, then the relevant 
accounting  standards/Indian  Accounting  Standards  would  be  applicable  depending 
upon the relevant rules notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. Similarly, for  an 
LLP,  the accounting  standards as  issued  by  the  Institute of  Chartered  Accountants  of 
India (ICAI ) would be relevant.  
 

12.2. Proposal:  The  accounting  standards  to  be  followed  for  preparation  of  financial 

statements of InvITs would be as under: 
 
a.  The financial statements for InvITs shall be prepared in accordance with the Indian 
Accounting  Standards  converged  with  the  International  Financial  Reporting 
Standards notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. 
Additionally,  InvITs  shall  also  follow  the  relevant  accounting  standards,  as 
prescribed by their sectoral regulators from time to time, with respect to the projects 
being executed by them. 

b.  For  the  SPV’s,  the  requirements  for  preparation  of  financial  statements  of  SPVs 
would be as applicable to them. However, for consolidation purposes, such entities 
would  have  to  provide  the  financial  information/data  to  the  parent  InvITs  in 
accordance with the Ind AS.  
 

13. Line items for financial statements: 

 
13.1. In  order  to  ensure  consistency  and  uniformity  in  the  presentation  of  the  financial 

statements and provide a better understanding of the financials to the investors, it  
 

 

Page 4 of 17 

 

 
might  be  prudent  to  prescribe  generic/basic  minimum  line  items  for  the  financial 
statements.  
 

 

13.2. Proposal:  Various  lines  items  for  each  of  the  statements  mentioned  at  paragraph 

10.2.1 above would be as follows: 
 

13.3. Line items for Balance Sheet: 

 

I. Assets 

a)  Property, plant and equipment; 
b)  Capital work-in-progress 
c)  Investment property; 
d)  Intangible assets; 
e)  Financial assets  
f)  Inventories; 
g)  Other receivables; 
h)  Cash and cash equivalents; 
i)  Deferred tax assets; 
j)   Assets for current tax. 

 
II. Equity and Liabilities 
a)   Unit capital; 
b)   Other payables; 
c)  Provisions; 
d)  Financial  liabilities  (excluding  amounts  shown  under  (b),  (c),  separately  disclosing 

liabilities owed to sponsors; 

e)  Liabilities for current tax; 
f)  Deferred tax liabilities ; 
g)  Other liabilities 

 

13.4. Line items for statement of Profit and Loss account 
 

I.Incomes and gains: 

a)  Revenue from operations; 
b)  Dividend;  
c)  Interest;  
d)  Other income (indicating nature).  

 

II.Expenses and losses: 
a)  Valuation expenses; 
b)  Audit fees;  
c)  Insurance & security expenses;  
d)  Project management fees  

 

Page 5 of 17 

e)  Depreciation on property, plant and equipment; 
f)  Amortization of intangible assets;  
g)  Finance Cost (Interest); 
h)  Custodian fees;  
i)  Registration fees;  
j)  Repairs and maintenance in case of infrastructure asset; 
k)  Other expenses 

 

III.Profit or loss for the period before income tax 

 

IV.Tax expense (current tax and deferred tax) 

 

V.Profit or loss for the period after income tax 

 

VI.Items of other comprehensive income 

 

VII.Additional line items (if applicable) 

a)  Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  
b)  Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 
c)  Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 
d)  Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 

 

VIII.Total  comprehensive income for  the  period  (III+IV)  (Comprising  profit  (loss)  and 

Other comprehensive income for the period) 

 

13.5. Line items for the "Statement of changes in equity" 
 

a)   Total comprehensive income for the period; 
b)    For each component of equity, a reconciliation between the carrying amount at the 
beginning and the end of the period, separately (as a minimum) disclosing changes 
resulting from:  

c)    Profit or loss; 
d)   Other comprehensive income; 
e)   Transactions  with  owners 

in  their  capacity  as  owners,  showing  separately 

contributions by and distributions to owners.  

13.6. Line  items  for  the  "Cash  Flow  Statement”  :    Cash  Flow  Statement,  shall  be 
prepared in accordance with the requirements of Ind AS 7-"Statement of Cash Flows" 
and hence no line items would be prescribed. 

 

13.7. Auditor’s report 

 
13.7.1. Proposal: The auditor shall state whether: 

 

Page 6 of 17 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a) 

b) 

c) 

d) 

e) 

f) 

 

i.  he has obtained all information and explanations which, to the best of his 

knowledge and belief, were necessary for the purpose of his audit; 
 

ii.  the Balance Sheet and the Statement of Profit and Loss are in agreement 

with the books of account of the InvIT.  

Further,  the  auditor  shall  give  his  opinion  on  standalone  as  well  as 
consolidated financial statements, as to whether: 

the Balance Sheet gives a true and fair view of the  state of affairs of the 
InvIT as at the balance sheet date;  
the  statement  of  profit  and  loss  gives  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the  
surplus/deficit of the fund for the year/period ended at the balance sheet 
date  
the cash flow statement gives a true and fair view of the cash movements 
of the InvIT for the year/period ended at the balance sheet date 
the  Statement  of  changes  in  equity  gives  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the 
movement  of  the  unitholders  funds  for  the  year/period  ended  at  the 
balance sheet date 
the statement of net assets at fair value gives a true and fair view of the 
net assets attributable to the unitholders per unit at the balance sheet date 
the statement of total return at fair value gives a true and fair view of the 
total  return  to  the  unitholders  for  the  year/period  ended  at  the  balance 
sheet date. 
 

13.8. Other  instructions  which  need  to  be  followed  while  preparing  the  financial 

statements: 

 

 
 

 

 

a)  Explanations  and  justification  for  project  manager  and  investment  manager  fees 

charged; 
 

b)  The investments in each major infrastructure sub-sector, as defined by Ministry of 
Finance vide  its  notification  no.  13/6/2009  dated October 07,  2013  as amended 
from time to time (which constitutes not less than 5% of the total investment in 
the  major  classification)  together  with  the  percentage  thereof  in  relation  to  the 
total investment; 

c)   Financial statements shall contain the corresponding amounts (comparatives) for 
the  immediately  preceding  reporting  period  for  all  items  shown  in  the  financial 
statements  including  notes  except  in  the  case  of  first  financial  statements  of  the 
InvIT after incorporation; 

Page 7 of 17 

 

 

d)   Financial statements shall disclose all ‘material’ items, i.e., the items if they could, 
individually  or  collectively,  influence  the  economic  decisions  that  users  make  on 
the basis of the financial statements. Materiality depends on the size or nature of 
the item or a combination of both, to be judged in the particular circumstances; 
 

e)   Headings,  line  items,  sub-line  items  and  sub-totals  shall  be  presented  as  an 
addition  or  substitution  on  the  face  of  the  financial  statements  when  such 
presentation  is  relevant  to  an  understanding  of  an  InvIT’s  financial  position  or 
performance  or  to  cater  to  industry/sector-specific  disclosure  requirements  or 
when required  for compliance  with  the amendments  to the  InvIT  regulations  or 
under the Indian Accounting Standards;  

f)  “Components of half- yearly financial statements" covered under the scope of Ind 
AS 34, Interim Financial Reporting, shall be prepared in accordance with that Ind 
AS in so far as these relate to preparation of condensed financial statements; 

 

g)  Contingent liabilities classified as: 

 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 

 

Claims against the trust not acknowledged as debt; 
Guarantees excluding financial guarantees;  
Other money for which the trust is contingently liable; 
Any claims against InvIT pending litigation 

h)  Commitments classified as: 

 

 

(i)  Estimated  amount  of  contracts  remaining  to  be  executed  on  capital 

account and not provided for; 

(ii) Uncalled  liability  on  shares  and  other  investments  partly  paid  including 

that of SPV; 

(iii) Other commitments (specify nature). 

i)  In  addition  to  the  related  party  disclosures  required  under  Ind  AS  24,  "Related 
Party  Disclosures",  the  disclosures  required  under  Regulation  19  of  the    InvIT 
regulations, shall also be made;  

j)  The earnings per unit shall be in accordance with Ind AS 33,"Earnings Per Share"; 

k)  The market value of the units traded on all the designated stock exchanges where 

InvIT is listed: 

(i) 
(ii) 

on the last date of reporting period; 
highest value during reporting period based on intra-day and on closing 
price with specified date; and 

Page 8 of 17 

 

 

 

 

 

(iii) 

 
lowest value during reporting period intra-day and on closing price with 
specified date 
 

 

l)  Profit/(loss)  on  sale/redemption  of  investments  and  profit/(loss)  on  sale/  of 

infrastructure assets should be shown on a gross basis; and 

 
m) Any  item  of  income  or  expenditure  which  exceeds  one  per  cent  of  the  revenue 
from  operations  or  Rs.10,00,000,  whichever  is  higher,  in  addition  to  the 
consideration  of  ‘materiality’  as  specified  in  clause  13.8(d)  shall  be  disclosed 
separately either on the face of financial statements or in the notes. 

 

14. Manner of approval and authentication of financial statements:  

 
In order to ensure that the financial statements of the InvIT are approved and authenticated 
by its competent authority, it is proposed to lay down the provisions governing the same. 
 
14.1. Proposal: The approval and the authentication of financial results shall be done by the 

InvIT in the following manner:  

 

 

i.  The  financial  results  to  be  submitted  to  the  stock  exchange  shall  be  signed  by  two 
designated personnel of the investment manager certifying that the financial results do 
not contain any false or misleading statement or figures and do not omit any material 
fact which makes the statements or the figures contained therein misleading.  

ii.  Subsequent  to  the  previous  step,  the  chairman  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the 

investment manager shall sign on the financial statements.  

 

15. Obligation to maintain proper books of account and records, documents etc. 

 

15.1. Section  128  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  provides  for  the  maintenance  of  books  of 
accounts  and  also  requires  that  the  books  of  accounts  of  the  company  shall  be 
maintained  for  a  period  of  not  less  than  eight  financial  years  immediately  preceding  a 
financial year, or where the company had been in existence for a period less than eight 
years,  in  respect  of  all  the  preceding  years  together  with  the  vouchers  relevant  to  any 
entry in such books of account. 

 

15.2. Proposal:  Every  InvIT  shall  maintain  proper  books  of  account,  records  and 
documents  etc.  relating  to  a  period  of  not  less  than  eight  financial  years  immediately 
preceding a financial year, or where the InvIT had been in existence for a period of less 
than eight years, in respect of all the preceding years. 
 
 
 

 

Page 9 of 17 

 

  PART B- Other continuous disclosures to be made by the InvITs 
 

 

16. Listing Agreement 

 

16.1. Regulation  23(7)  of  the  InvIT  regulations  specifies  that  the  InvIT  shall  also  submit 
such  information  to  the  designated  stock  exchanges  and  unit  holders  on  a  periodical 
basis as may be required under the listing agreement.  
 

16.2. SEBI vide its circular dated October 13, 2015 has specified the format of an  uniform 
listing agreement.  However  the uniform  format  specified therein  draws  a  reference  to 
LODR regulations and circulars issued there under. It is stated that for listing purposes 
of InvIT, the reference to the LODR regulations in the said circular would be replaced 
by a reference to InvIT regulations and circulars issued thereunder.  
 

16.3. Proposal:  InvITs  shall  enter  into  a  simplified  listing  agreement  with  the  designated 
stock exchange, as specified under the aforesaid SEBI circular.  However, with respect 
to compliance  with  the  listing conditions,  instead  of  following the LODR  regulations, 
InvITs shall follow the InvIT regulations. 

 

17. Disclosure of Related Party Transactions (RPTs):  

 
17.1. Regulation  19  of  the  InvIT  regulations  contains  comprehensive  provisions  with 
regards  to  the  RPTs.  Further,  regulation  19(2)  of  the  said  regulations  requires  that  all 
the RPTs of an InvIT shall be disclosed to the designated stock exchange(s)and the unit 
holders periodically in accordance with the listing agreement and these regulations.   
 

17.2. Proposal: It is clear that regulation 19 of the InvIT regulations are quite exhaustive in 
nature and further provisions governing the RPTs may not be required. However, it is 
proposed that the following disclosures with respect to the RPTs, may be made by the 
InvIT. 
 

a)  RPTs being acquisition/disposal of assets with details specified as under or any 
other  matter  requiring  unit  holder  approval  shall  be  promptly  intimated  to  the 
stock  exchange  after  the  approval  thereof  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the 
Investment manager:  
 
i.      Details of related party and its relationship with InvIT; 
ii.  Nature of the transaction;   
iii.  Value of the transaction;  
iv. 
v.  Current yield and the impact of the acquisition/disposal on the yield of the 

Summary of valuation report;  

units of InvIT;  

vi.  Material conditions or obligations in relation to the transaction;  

 

Page 10 of 17 

 

 

vii.  Rate  of 

interest, 

if  external  financing  has  been  obtained  for  the 

transaction/acquisition; and  

viii.  Any fees or commissions received or to be received by any associate of the 

related party in relation to the transaction.  

 

18. Disclosure of Unit holding pattern  

 
18.1.  In  order  for  the  unitholders  to  understand  the  holding  pattern  in  InvITs,  it  is 
necessary  that  the unitholder  pattern is available  in  the public domain.  The disclosure 
of the unit holding pattern would provide a broad picture of the number of  units and 
the corresponding amounts held by the different class of unitholders  for the units held 
by them. 
 

18.2.  Proposal:    It  is proposed that  the unit  holding  pattern  shall  be disclosed  separately 
for  each  class  of  unitholders,  within  the  following  periods  in  the  format  mentioned 
below: 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 

 

 

One day prior to listing of units on the stock exchanges;  
On quarterly basis, within 21 days from the end of each quarter; and  
Within  10  days  of  any  capital  restructuring  of  InvIT  resulting  in  a  change 
exceeding 2% of the total outstanding units of InvIT.  

Statement showing Unit Holding Pattern of InvIT 

Category   Category of Unitholder 
( A)  
( 1)  
( a)  
( b)  
( c)  
(d)  
 
( 2)  
( a)  

Sponsor & Sponsor Group  
Indian  
Individuals / HUF  
Central/State Govt.  
Financial Institutions/Banks  
Any Other (specify)  
Sub- Total (A) (1)  
Foreign  
Individuals (Non Resident Indians / 
Foreign Individuals)  
Foreign government 
Institutions  
Foreign Portfolio Investors 
Any Other (specify)  
Sub- Total (A) (2)  

( b)  
( c)  
(d) 
( e)  
 

 

No. of Units Held  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

As a % of C  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Page 11 of 17 

Total unitholding of Sponsor and 
Sponsor Group (A) = 
(A)(1)+(A)(2)  
Public Holding  
Institutions  
Mutual Funds  
Financial Institutions/Banks  
Central/State Govt.  
Venture Capital Funds  
Insurance Companies  
Provident/pension funds 
Foreign Portfolio Investors  
Foreign  Venture Capital investors  
Any Other (specify)  
Sub- Total (B) (1)  
Non-Institutions  
 Central Government/State 
Governments(s)/President of India 
Individuals  
NBRCs registered with RBI 
Any Other (specify)  
Sub- Total (B) (2)  
Total Public Unitholding  (B) = 
(B)(1)+(B)(2)  
Total Units Outstanding (C) = 
(A) + (B)  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
( B)  
( 1)  
( a)  
( b)  
( c)  
( d)  
( e)  
(f) 
( g)  
( h)  
( i)  
 
( 2)  
( a)  

( b)  
(c) 
( d)  
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

19. Prior Intimations and disclosure of material and price sensitive information: 

 

19.1. Regulation  23(6)  of  the  InvIT  regulations requires that  the investment  manager  shall 
disclose to the stock exchange certain price sensitive information such as acquisition or 
disposal of projects, additional borrowing at level of SPV/InvIT, legal proceedings, etc.  
 

19.2.  Proposal:  

 

A.  Prior  Intimation:  Two  working  day  prior  intimation  may  be  given  to  the 
stock  exchanges  about  the  meeting  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the 
investment manager at which the following is due to be considered: 

a) 

financial results viz. quarterly or half yearly or annual, as the case may be;  

Page 12 of 17 

 

 

 

 

 
declaration/ recommendation of half yearly and annual distribution;  
issue of any additional units i.e any further issuance of units, rights issue, 
bonus issue, etc; 
proposal for buy back of units; and 
proposal for voluntary delisting from the stock exchange(s) 

 

b) 
c) 

d) 
e) 

B.  Material and price sensitive information: Further, InvIT shall also disclose 

the following material and price sensitive information:  

initiation  or  material  update  of  any  litigation  in  relation  to  any 
infrastructure asset of the InvIT;  
appointment  or  removal  of  the  investment  manager,  project  manager, 
auditors or  valuer;   
any  material  amendment  to  the  trust  deed  or  investment  management 
agreement;   
any  change  in  investment  strategy  from  the  last  disclosed  investment 
strategy  along  with  the  reasons  for  the  same  and  any  change  to  the 
existing right of first refusal/offer granted to InvIT. 

a) 

b) 

c) 

d) 

 

19. Credit Rating: 
 

19.1.  Regulation 20(2)(a)of the InvIT regulations provide that if the aggregate consolidated 
borrowings  and  deferred  payments  of  the  InvIT  net  of  cash  and  cash  equivalents 
exceed twenty five per cent. of the value of the InvIT assets, for any further borrowing, 
then  credit  rating  shall  be  obtained  from  a  credit  rating  agency  registered  with  the 
Board; 

 

19.2.  Proposal: Every rating wherever required to be obtained under the InvIT regulations 
by  InvITs  with  respect  to  the  units  shall  be  reviewed  once  a  year,  by  the  registered 
credit rating agency. 

 

20. Composition of the Board of Directors of SPVs: 

 
20.1.  InvIT  regulations  provide  that  the  SPV  means  any  company  or  LLP  in  which  the  
InvIT holds or proposes to hold controlling interest and not less than fifty per cent of 
the  equity  share  capital.  The  role  of  SPV  is  very  important  for  the  InvIT,  thus  it  is 
proposed  to  have  certain  governance  requirements  for  SPVs  in  addition  to  what  has 
been prescribed in the InvIT regulations. 
 

20.2.  Proposal:  The  Investment  manager,  in  consultation  with  the  trustee,  shall  appoint 
one or more  authorized representative on the Board of Directors/Governing Board of 
the  SPV.  and  the  number  of    such  authorized  representatives  would  be  on  pro-rata 
basis depending on the stake held in the SPV excluding director(s) nominated by  

 

Page 13 of 17 

 
government/ government undertaking for pro-rata calculation.  

 

 

21. Website of InvIT:   

 
21.1. In the age of technology and internet, it is considered imperative for every functional 
entity to have an operational website of its own for dissemination of information to the 
public at large and its own stakeholders. This, in a way reduces the need for the entity 
to send hard copies of information/data relevant to its business to its stakeholders, as 
the same can be accessed on its website. In view of the same, it is indicated that InvIT 
may have its own website where it can display information/details/data with respect to 
the functioning of its business.  

 

21.2.  Proposal: It is proposed that the InvIT shall  maintain a functional website wherein 
the contents of the said website would be updated upto 2 days and the website would 
contain the relevant information about InvITs including the following: 
 

a)  Details of its business;  
b)  Financial  information  including  complete  copy  of  the  Annual  Report  including 

Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss Account, etc.;  

c)  Contact  information  of  the  designated  officials  of  the  company  who  are  

responsible for assisting and handling investor grievances;  
d)  Email ID for grievance redressal and other relevant details;  
e)  Information,  report,  notices,  call  letters,  circulars,  proceedings,  etc.  concerning 

units;   

f)  All  information  and  reports  including  compliance  reports  filed  by  InvITs  with 

respect to units;  and 

g)  All intimations and announcements made by InvITs to the stock exchanges . 

  Part C - Framework for calculation of Net Distributable Cash Flows (NDCFs): 

 

22. Net Distributable Cash Flows 

 

 
22.1. Regulation 18(6) of the InvIT regulations, inter alia, states that; 

 

a)  not less than ninety per cent. of net distributable cash flows of the SPV shall be 
distributed  to  the  InvIT  in  proportion  of  its  holding  in  the  SPV  subject  to  the 
applicable  provisions  in  Companies  Act,  2013  or  Limited  Liability  Partnership 
Act, 2008; 
 

b)  not less than ninety per cent. of net distributable cash flows of the InvIT shall be 

distributed to the unit holders; 

 
Thus, the regulation requires both the SPV and the InvITs to distribute atleast 90% of  

 

Page 14 of 17 

 
NDCFs. However, in absence of any definition of the NDCF, clarifications were been 
sought and therefore in order to provide clarity and consistency, a broad framework for 
computation of NDCFs is proposed. 
 

 

22.2. Proposal 

 
The  proposed  framework 
to  be  a  broad  guidance  and  every 
InvIT/Investment  Manager  shall  define  net  distributable  cash  flows  for  itself.  The 
definition as decided by InvIT/Investment manager should be : 
 

intended 

is 

a)  subject to compliance with Companies Act, 2013 or Limited Liability Partnership 

Act, 2008, or any Central Government Act, as applicable; and  

b)  shall be disclosed in offer document and should be followed consistently pursuant 

to listing.  

 
The framework shall be followed in so far as whatever is applicable to the SPV/InvIT, 
for  e.g.  the  sale  of  infrastructure  assets  under  SPV  may  not  be  possible  under  certain 
kind of concession agreements and therefore such head under distribution may be kept 
blank, etc. 

 

22.3. The  broad  framework  for  calculation  NDCF  at  the  standalone  SPV  level  and  the 

InvIT level shall be as under: 
 
Calculation of Net Distributable Cash Flows at the standalone SPV level: 

Description 

Profit after tax as per profit and loss account (standalone) (A) 
Add: Depreciation and amortisation as per profit and loss account 
Add/less: Loss/gain on sale of Infrastructure Assets 
Add: Proceeds from sale of Infrastructure Assets adjusted for the following: 
 
  directly attributable transaction costs  
  proceeds reinvested or planned to be reinvested as per para 18 (7) (a) of the 

related debts settled or due to be settled from sale proceeds 

InvIT Regulations 

Amount  

Xx 
Xx 
xx 
xx 

Add: Proceeds from sale of Infrastructure Assets not distributed pursuant to an 
earlier plan to re-invest, if such proceeds are not intended to be invested 
subsequently 
Add/less: Any other item of non-cash expense / non cash income (net of actual 
cash flows for these items), if deemed necessary by the Investment Manager.  
For example, any decrease/increase in carrying amount of an asset or of a 

xx 

Xx 
 
 

 

Page 15 of 17 

Description 

 

Amount  

liability recognised in profit and loss account on measurement of the asset or the 
liability at fair value, interest cost as per effective interest rate method, deferred 
tax, lease rents recognised on a straight line basis, etc. 
Less: Repayment of external debt (principal) / redeemable preference shares / 
debentures, etc., if deemed necessary by the Investment Manager 
Total Adjustments (B) 
Net Distributable Cash Flows (C)=(A+B) 

xx 

xx 
xx 

Calculation of Net Distributable Cash Flows at the Consolidated InvIT level: 

Description 
Profit after tax as per profit and loss account (consolidated) (A) 
Add: Depreciation and amortisation as per consolidated profit and loss account 
Add/less: Loss/gain recognised on sale of Infrastructure Assets or equity shares 
or interest in SPV 
Add: Proceeds from sale of Infrastructure Assets or equity shares or interest in 
SPV adjusted for the following: 
 
  directly attributable transaction costs  
  proceeds reinvested or planned to be reinvested as per para 18 (7) (a) of the 

related debts settled or due to be settled from sale proceeds 

InvIT Regulations 

Add: Proceeds from sale of Infrastructure Assets or equity shares or interest in 
SPV not distributed pursuant to an earlier plan to re-invest, if such proceeds are 
not intended to be invested subsequently 
Add/less: Any other item of non-cash expense / non cash income (net of actual 
cash flows for these items), if deemed necessary by the Investment Manager.  
For example, any decrease/increase in carrying amount of an asset or of a 
liability recognised in profit and loss account on measurement of the asset or the 
liability at fair value, interest cost as per effective interest rate method, deferred 
tax, lease rents recognised on a straight line basis, etc. 
Less: Repayment of external debt (principal) / redeemable preference shares / 
debentures, etc., if deemed necessary by the Investment Manager 
Total Adjustments (B) 
Net Distributable Cash Flows (C) = (A+B) 

Amount  
xx 
xx 
xx 

xx 

xx 

xx 

xx 

xx 
xx 

 

 
 

Page 16 of 17 

 

 

Public Comments 

 

 

i. 

 
In  light  of  the  above,  public  comments  are  invited  on  the  proposals  contained  in  the 
consultation  paper.  The  comments/  suggestions  may  be  provided  in  the  format  given 
below:  
 
 
 
 
 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization 

Pertains 
No. 

to  Point 

Suggestions 

Sr. 
No.  

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

ii.  Further, comments may also be forwarded by email to invitd@sebi.gov.in or may be sent 

by post to the following address latest by June 28, 2016. 

 

Investment Management Department,  
Division of Funds I  
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan   
C4-A, G Block  
Bandra Kurla Complex  
Mumbai - 400 021 

 
 Issued on: June 15, 2016 
 

 

Page 17 of 17 

