 

 

Consultation paper for amendments to the SEBI (Real Estate Investment 

Trusts) Regulations, 2014 

I.  Objective:  

1.  To  solicit  the  comments/views  from  public  on  suggestions  pertaining  to  making 
amendments  /  providing  clarifications  to  the  SEBI  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts) 
Regulations, 2014 (hereinafter referred as "REIT Regulations"). 

II.  Background:  

2.  SEBI REIT Regulations were notified on 26th September, 2014, thereby providing a 
regulatory framework for registration and regulation of REITs in India. The regulations, 
inter  alia,  prescribe  conditions  for  making  a  public  offer,  initial  and  continuous 
disclosures,  investment  conditions, unit-holder  approval  requirements,  related  party 
disclosures, etc.  

3.  Pursuant  to  the  notification  of  REIT  regulations,  various  representations  and 
suggestions  have been received from industry bodies and market participants. The 
representations received have requested changes/clarification to certain provisions of 
the REIT regulations. Accordingly, certain amendments/clarifications are proposed for 
the REIT Regulations which are as under. 

III.  Proposals for consultation: 

4.  Removing the restriction on the SPV (only in case of such SPV being a Holding 

Company) to invest in other SPVs holding the assets. 

4.1. Current regulatory requirement: 

Regulation 2(1)(zs) of the REIT Regulations, inter alia, defines a SPV as a company 
or LLP which holds not less than eighty per cent of its assets directly in properties and 
does not invest in other special purpose vehicles. 

4.2. Request for change:  

Allowing  the  REITs  to  invest  in  the  Holding  Companies  (Holdcos)  which  have 
investments in other SPVs, which subsequently hold the real estate assets. 

 

 

Page 1 of 14 

4.3. Rationale for the change 

 

a)  Real Estate assets are usually held through multiple layers of investments as each 
asset/project  may  come  with  its  own  set  of  investors,  land  owners,  joint 
development  partners  and 
real  estate 
assets/projects are also held through multilevel holding structures for reasons of 
consolidation, ease of unbundling and itemized scalability and future potential to 
list the holding companies for fund-raising. 

requirements.  Further, 

related 

b)  Therefore the requirement of having all assets under one vehicle or under multiple 
vehicles  at  the  same  horizontal  level  for  listing  through  a  REIT  would  involve 
significant restructuring  of existing holdings. Further, such restructuring of assets 
to single level SPV may involve significant costs in terms of stamp duty on asset 
transfer. 

c)  Asset 

transfers  may  also  result 

in 

issues  relating 

to 

tax  on  dividend 

distribution/buyback. 

d)  Further,  section  186  (1)  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  also  allows  a  company  to 

invest through two layers of investment companies. 

4.4. Proposal: 

To amend the Regulation 2 (zs) of the REIT Regulations so as to permit investment 
by REIT in a SPV which have investments in other  SPVs, which subsequently hold 
real estate assets, subject to following conditions: 

a)  The REIT shall hold controlling interest and not less than fifty per cent of the equity 
share capital or interest in the HoldCo or any other higher level of holding based 
upon the feedback received. The Holdco shall in turn hold controlling interest and 
not  less  than  fifty  per  cent  of  the  equity  share  capital  or  interest  in  underlying 
SPV(s) or any other higher level of holding based upon the feedback received. 

b)  Once Holdco’s share and control are transferred to REITs, any agreement(s) with 
the shareholder(s), other than those whose shareholding is folding into the REIT, 
both at the Holdco and the SPV level shall be amended so that any special rights 
to such non-participating shareholders at the SPV and/or Holdco level such as veto 
rights, restriction on transfer of shares, inspection rights etc. are terminated so that 
it doesn’t prevents REIT, Holdco and SPV(s) from complying with the provisions 
of REIT regulations. 

 

Page 2 of 14 

c)  The investment manager, in consultation with the Trustee, shall ensure that the 
REIT  or  HoldCo  appoints  the  majority  of  the  board/  governing  body  of  the 
underlying SPV(s);  

 

d)  The  investment  manager  shall  ensure  that  in  every  meeting  including  annual 
general  meeting  of  the  underlying  SPV(s),  the  HoldCo  participates  in  the  voting 
process. 

e)  All  requirements  related  to  the  related  party  transactions,  etc.  shall  also  be 
applicable  at  the  underlying  SPV  level  in  addition  to  the  HoldCo,  as  may  be 
specified by SEBI. 

f)  All responsibilities of the investment manager with respect to the SPVs shall apply 

at both the levels.  

g)  All 

investment  conditions  and 

leverage  requirements  shall  apply  at 

the 

consolidated level i.e. including REIT, Holdco and the SPV(s). 

h)  The requirement of mandatory distribution of at least 90% of the net distributable 
cash flows shall apply to the underlying SPVs. The Holdco would be required to 
distribute the entire cash flows it receives from underlying SPVs to the REIT. 

i)  All financial statements of the REIT shall be consolidated with both the SPVs.  

j)  The  HoldCo  shall  not  be  engaged  in  any  activity  other  than  holding  of  the 

underlying SPV(s) and any other activity incidental to such holding. 

k)  Any other conditions as SEBI may deem necessary. 

5.  Clarifying the definition of  “associates” in the regulations 

5.1. Current Regulatory Requirement 

Regulation 2(1)(b) of the REIT Regulations defines the associates as  

“associate” of any person includes,-  

(i) any person controlled, directly or indirectly, by the said person;  
(ii) any person who controls, directly or indirectly, the said person;  
(iii) where the said person is a company or a body corporate, any person(s) who is 
designated  as  promoter(s)  of  the  company  or  body  corporate  and  any  other 
company or body corporate with the same promoter(s);  

(iv) where the said person is an individual, any relative of the individual;  

 

Page 3 of 14 

(v)  where  the  said  person  is  a  company  or  a  body  corporate  or  an  LLP,  its  group 

 

companies;  

(vi) companies or LLPs under the same management;  
(vii) where the said person is a REIT, related parties to the REIT;  
(viii) any company or LLP or body corporate in which the person or its director(s) or 
partner(s) hold(s), either individually or collectively, more than fifteen percent of its 
paid-up equity share capital or partnership interest, as the case may be; 

5.2. Request for clarification:  

To  rationalize  the  ambit  of  the  definition of  associates  so  that  entities  that  have  no 
connection to the investment manager/sponsor doesn't get included in the definition 
of associates. 

5.3. Rationale for change: 

a)  The REIT Regulations prescribe disclosure requirements on “associates” of the 
sponsor,  manager  and  trustee.  The  term  “associates”  has  been  very  broadly 
defined  which  ends  up  including  entities  that  have  no  connection  to  the 
investment manager/sponsor, as applicable. This puts an onerous obligation on 
all parties to the REIT.  

b)  The parties to the REIT may neither have any subsisting business relationships 
with entities, as covered under the definition of associates, nor have any relation 
with the REIT or its operations, which may adversely affect the business and 
operations  of  the  REIT.  Therefore  they  may  have  no  relevance  especially  in 
respect of the disclosures to be included in the offer document. 

c)  Also,  obtaining  relevant  certifications  and  confirmations from entities  where a 
‘control’ relationship does not exist, is challenging since such entities may refuse 
to provide the requisite information.  

5.4. Proposal:  

a)  To  introduce  the  concept  of  associates  which  are  material,  where  the  test  of 

materiality shall be as determined by the REIT in the offer document. 

b)  To  replace  the  term  "associate(s)"  with  the  ”material  associate(s)"  in  the 
Regulation 2(zo), 4(2)(d)(iii), 4(2)(e)(ii), 9(5), Schedule I- clause 1(c), 4(f), 5(e), 
Schedule III Clause 13(b) and Schedule IV Clause 15. 

 

 

Page 4 of 14 

6.  Clarifying the definition of  “real estate property” in the regulations 

 

6.1. Current Regulatory Requirement 

Regulation  2(zi)  of  the  REIT  Regulations  defines  the  “real  estate”  or  “property”  as 
under: 

“real estate” or “property” means land and any permanently attached improvements 
to it, whether leasehold or freehold and includes buildings, sheds, garages, fences, 
fittings, fixtures, warehouses,  car  parks,  etc. and any other  assets  incidental  to  the 
ownership of real estate but does not include mortgage:  

Provided  that  any  asset  falling  under  the  purview  of  'infrastructure'  as  defined  vide 
Notification of Ministry of Finance dated October 07, 2013 including any amendments 
or additions made thereof shall not be considered as 'real estate' or 'property' for the 
purpose of these regulations; 

6.2. Request for clarification:  

Assets such as hotels, hospitals or other sub-sectors which are included  under the 
definition of Infrastructure as per Ministry of Finance Notification should be included 
within the scope of real estate or property, so long as they qualify as completed rent 
generating properties. 

6.3. Rationale for change: 

a)  The current definition of “real estate” or “property” under the REIT Regulations 
excludes all assets falling under the purview of “infrastructure” as defined under 
the notification of Ministry of Finance dated October 7, 2013 (the “Infrastructure 
Notification”).  Sub-sectors  such  as  hotels,  hospitals,  convention  centers,  etc. 
are  excluded  from  the  definition  of  ‘real  estate  property’  by  virtue  of  the 
Infrastructure Notification.  

b)  Large townships and commercial projects often offer business parks, hospitals, 
hotels etc. as part of the project, each of which are rent generating completed 
assets. Therefore such assets should fall within the definition of “real estate” or 
“property” under REITs. 

c)  Further,  the  intent  of  the  REIT  Regulations  is  to  include  rent  generating 
properties  within  the  REIT  asset  profile  and  therefore  so  long  as  an  asset  is 
completed and rent generating, the same should be allowed to form part of the 
REIT, regardless of the asset class it belongs to. 

 

Page 5 of 14 

6.4. Proposal:  

 

To amend the proviso to the definition of ‘real estate’ or ‘property’ in Regulation 2(zi) 
of the REIT Regulations so as to allow rent generating properties captured within the 
definition of Infrastructure by Ministry of Finance, under REITs as well.  

7.  Increasing the number of sponsors  

7.1. Current regulatory requirement: 

Regulation 4(2)(d)(i) of REIT Regulations mandate that the REIT can have maximum 
of 3 sponsors. 

7.2. Request for change:  

To introduce the concept of ‘sponsor’ groups and to allow the maximum number of 
sponsors from 3 (three) to 5 (five) . 

7.3. Rationale for the change 

a)  In real estate sector the assets are usually held by the developer either by itself or 
through its group companies/individuals. Similarly, a private equity fund holds the 
asset(s) through investments by multiple schemes of the same private equity fund 
or different funds under common control.  Also, a sizeable number of assets are 
owned on a joint venture/ joint development basis by developers and private equity 
fund(s). 

b)  Thus, the real estate assets which are to be transferred to the REIT may be held 
with various companies/funds which may be under common control of a particular 
developer or a private equity fund, respectively.  

c)  Therefore,  to  ensure  that  various  parties  in  a  holding  structure  (joint  venture 
partners,  developers  and  multiple  schemes/funds  of  private  equity  fund)  may 
participate  in  the  REIT  and  are  collectively  identified  as  sponsors,  it  has  been 
represented  that  the number of  sponsors be  increased from the  current  level  of 
maximum 3. Further, it has been represented that the concept of sponsor group 
be  introduced,  where such  “sponsor  group" may  comprise  of multiple  schemes/ 
funds/affiliates which are under common ‘control’.  

 

 

 

Page 6 of 14 

7.4. Proposal 

 

It is proposed to amend the REIT Regulations to provide the following options, where 
the REIT may choose between either of the two options: 

a)  If  the  holding  in  REIT  is  only  by  the  sponsor(s)  then  the  maximum  number  of 

sponsors shall be 5 (increase from the current limit of 3 sponsors). 

b)  The holdings in the REIT may be held by sponsor and other group companies or 
associates of the sponsor. In such cases the sponsor and its group companies or 
associates may be collectively identified as sponsor group.   In such a case, the 
maximum number of sponsor group would be 1 (one) and would require to comply 
with all conditions specified in the REIT Regulation as for the sponsors.  

8.  Rationalization of compliance with respect to Related Party Transactions (RPTs) 

requirements 

8.1. Current regulatory Requirement: 

a)  Regulations 22(4) and 22(5) of the REIT Regulations require the approval of 60% 
of  the  unit  holders,  apart  from  related  parties,  for  passing  a  related  party 
transaction which is procedural in nature. 

b)  Further Regulation 22(6) requires approval of 75% of the unit holders, apart from 
related  parties, for  passing  of  special  resolutions  such  as  change in  investment 
manager, investment strategy, delisting of units etc. 

8.2. Request for change:  

The requirement of unit holder approval for the related party transactions should be 
brought in line with the Companies Act, 2013. 

8.3. Rationale for the change 

Representations have been received that the requirement of 60% and 75% majority 
may  not  be  feasible,  especially  when  related  parties  have  to  abstain  from  voting. 
Further, it has been represented that the requirement of unit holder approval, in case 
of related party transactions (RPTs), should be in line with the approval requirement 
under the Companies Act, 2013 

 

 

 

Page 7 of 14 

8.4. Proposal 

 

Given the nature of the REIT, a complete alignment with the Companies Act cannot 
be made. It is also felt that it is not possible to achieve the current level of thresholds 
as prescribed in the REIT Regulations. In the light of the above it is proposed that the 
requirement of unit holder approval for RPT may be amended as under: 

a)  For RPTs which requires approval as referred in 7.1(a) above, it is proposed that 
the number of votes cast by the unit holders in favor of the proposal shall be more 
than the number of votes cast by the unit holders against it.  

b)  For RPTs which requires approval as referred in 7.1(b) above, it is proposed that 
the number of votes cast by  the unit holders in favor of the proposal shall be at 
least one and half times more than the number of votes cast by the unit holders 
against it.  

c)  Further in both the above cases, the voting by any person, who is a related party 
in such transactions, as well as associates of such person(s) shall not be taken in 
to account. 

9.  Aligning  minimum  public  holding  requirement  with  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulation) Rules, 1957 (SCRR) 

9.1. Current regulatory requirement 

a)  Regulations14(2)(c) and 16(7) of REIT Regulations, inter-alia, require that the units 
proposed to be offered to the public shall not be less than twenty five per cent of 
the total of the outstanding units and the number of unit holders forming part of 
public is required to be 200 at all times. 

b)  Further, the minimum public holding for the units of the publicly offered REIT after 
listing shall be 25% of the total number of outstanding units and the number of unit 
holders of the REIT forming part of the public shall be two hundred at all times, 
failing which action may be taken as may be specified by the Board and by the 
designated stock exchanges including delisting of units. 

9.2. Request for change:  

Alignment of minimum public holding requirements in line with the SCRR and requiring 
the test of minimum no. of public unit holders only at the time of initial offer. 

 

 

Page 8 of 14 

9.3. Rationale for Change 

 

a)  Representations  have  been  received  that  the  in  case  of  REITs,  where  large 
commercial  rent  generating  real  estate  assets  would  be  parked,  the  underlying 
value in the REIT would be very high. Further, given the nature of such REITs and 
the asset base involved, marketing and selling an issue size of 25% (twenty five 
per  cent)  at  one  instance,  may  not  be  plausible,  given  the  product  being  at  a 
conception stage, novelty of the product, the appetite of the market for large issues 
of this kind and the specific pool of investors the product caters to. 

b)  Therefore  the  proposal  has  been  received  to  align  the  requirement  of  minimum 
offer to public in case of a REIT with the requirements of minimum public offer as 
under Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 (SCRR). 

c)  Further, it has been requested that the requirement of maintaining the minimum 
public holding of 200 at all times may not be feasible, since the REIT would be 
unable to control the inter-se transfer of units among the public and therefore may 
not be able ensure the minimum number of public unit holders to 200 at all times.  

9.4. Proposal 

a)  The  requirement of minimum  offer  to  public and minimum  public  holding,  of  the 
outstanding units, shall be linked with the requirement of public offer of 25%/10%, 
as specified under Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. 

b)  Further  the  requirement  of  the  minimum  number  of  public  unit  holders  may  be 
amended to allow minimum of 200 public investors at the time of initial offer only. 

c)  It is proposed that Regulations 14(4)(c), 16(7) and 22(8)(c) of REIT Regulations 

be amended for the same. 

10. Allowing REITs to invest up to 20%, in under construction assets 

10.1. Current regulatory requirement 

a)  Regulation 18(4) of REIT Regulations, inter-alia, requires that not less than eighty 
per cent of value of the REIT assets shall be invested, proportionate to the holding 
of the REITs, in completed and rent generating properties. 

b)  Further, as per Regulation 18(5)(a) of the REIT Regulations, of the remaining 20% 
of value of the REIT assets, not more than ten per cent of value of the REIT assets, 

 

Page 9 of 14 

shall  be  invested  in  under  construction  properties  and  completed  and  non-  rent 
generating properties. 

 

10.2. Request for change:  

Remove  the  sub-limit  of  maximum  of  10%  investment  in  under-construction  or 
completed  but  not  rent  generating  assets,  and  make  it  fungible  with  the  limit  for 
investment in other securities/liquid instruments under the limit of 20%  

10.3. Rationale for proposal 

a)  The  proposed  move  will  provide  greater  flexibility  to  the  REIT  manager  in 
determining the composition of REIT and also help widen the portfolio and thereby 
the size of the REIT by adding projects which are at various stages of construction. 

b)  REITs are also intended to be a means of revitalizing the cash-strapped market 
for real estate assets, especially under-construction properties. However, such a 
move  would  have  to  be  offset  against  the  intent  of  the  REIT  Regulations  of 
exposing retail investors to minimal  risk. Therefore, it may be worth considering 
modifying  the  existing  thresholds  by  making  the  20%  (twenty  per  cent)  bracket 
more fungible, while keeping the 80% (eighty per cent) criteria sacrosanct. 

c)  Most of the international REIT Regulations either do not cap the level of investment 
in  under-construction  assets  or  permit  a  higher  level  of  investment  in  under-
construction real estate assets. 

10.4. Proposal 

a)  REIT may be permitted to invest up to 20%, of value of the REIT assets in under 
construction  assets,  securities  of  companies  or  body  corporate  in  real  estate 
sector, government securities, money market instruments etc. Further, the current 
requirement  of  at-least  80%  investment  in  completed  and  rent  generating 
properties shall continue as it is. 

b)  It is proposed that Regulation 18(5)(a) of REIT Regulations be amended for the 

same. 

 

 

 

 

Page 10 of 14 

11. Responsibilities of trustee and its associates 

11.1. Current regulatory requirement 

 

Regulation 2(zo) of the REIT regulations provides that “related parties" of REIT shall 
include: 

(i) parties to the REIT; 
(ii) any unit holder holding directly or indirectly, more than 20% of the units of the REIT; 
(iii) associates, sponsors, directors, and partners of the persons mentioned in (i) and 
(ii).  

Regulation 9(15) of the REIT regulations provides that “The Trustee or its associates 
shall not invest in units of the REIT in which it is designated as Trustee.  Also, point 
13 (b) of Schedule III and point 15 of Schedule IV of the REIT Regulations requires 
brief description of the material litigations and regulatory actions, whether completed 
or  pending,  against  the  REIT,  sponsor(s),  Investment  Manager,  Trustee,  or  any  of 
their associates, if any in the last 5 years. 

11.2. Rationale for proposal 

It has been represented that the trustee is an independent entity, which is a Debenture 
Trustee registered with SEBI.  Further, the trustee does not have any financial interest 
in the REIT, except the fee for its services as a Trustee. Also the assets of the REIT 
are  independent  of  the  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  trustee  company  and  are  even 
protected against insolvency of trustee. Hence, disclosure of associates of Trustee is 
not  material  for  any  investors  in  the  REIT.  Therefore,  certain  disclosures  need  not 
extend to Trustee. 

11.3. Proposal 

In view of the above it is proposed that the following amendment may be made to the 
REIT Regulations: 

a)  Associates of the trustees would not form a part of the parties to the REIT. 

b)  Associates of Trustees would be allowed to invest in units of the REIT in which it 
is designated as Trustee, subject to such transactions being conducted at an arm’s 
length basis. 

c)  The disclosure of litigations related to associates of trustee would not be required 

to be given as per Schedule III and Schedule IV of the REIT Regulations. 

 

Page 11 of 14 

12. Operational aspects:  

12.1. Liability of the unit holders 

 

A.  Current regulatory requirement 

 

As per the REIT Regulations, the liability of the unit holders is limited to the extent of 
the units held by them. However, representations have been received that the REIT 
Regulations explicitly doesn't provide for the clause on the liability of unit holders. 

B.  Proposal  

It is proposed to clarify that the unit-holder is an investor and its rights and obligations 
are limited to the amount of its investment in the units of REITs. 

 

12.2. Rationalizing the experience of the associate of the sponsor 

 

A.  Current regulatory requirement 

Regulation  4(2)(d)(iii)  of  the  REIT  Regulations  provide  that  the  sponsor  or  its 
associate(s)shall have not less than five year experience in development of real estate 
or fund management in the real estate industry, provided that where the sponsor is a 
developer, at least two projects of the sponsor should have been completed.  

B.  Proposal 

In order to provide operational freedom to the sponsor, it is proposed that where the 
sponsor is a developer, at least two projects of the sponsor or its associates should 
have been completed. 

12.3. Obtaining confirmation or a fairness opinion from a chartered Accountant / 

Valuer 

 

A.  Current regulatory requirement 

Regulation  9(5)  of  the  REIT  Regulations provides  that  the Trustee  shall  review  the 
transactions  carried  out  between  the  manager  and  its  associates  and  where  the 
manager  has  advised  that  there  may  be  a  conflict  of  interest,  trustee  shall  obtain 
confirmation from a practicing chartered accountant that such transaction is on arm's 
length basis;  

 

Page 12 of 14 

B.  Proposal 

 

It  is  proposed  that  in  case  of  the  RPTs,  as  referred  in  regulation  9(5)  of  the  REIT 
Regulations,  the  trustee  shall  obtain  confirmation  or  a  fairness  opinion  from  a 
practicing chartered accountant or a valuer, as the case may be. 

12.4. Pricing of Related Party Transactions for purchase/sale of real estate 

assets 

 

A.  Current regulatory requirement 

Regulation19(3)(c)of the REIT Regulations, provides that in respect of related party 
transactions, the transactions for purchase/sale of such assets shall be at a price not 
greater / less than average of the two independent valuations respectively. 

B.  Proposal 

Representations  have  been  received  that  the  regulatory  requirement  of  for 
purchase/sale of assets from a related party at a price not greater / less than average 
of the two independent valuations respectively, is restrictive and doesn't  provides the 
REIT any flexibility while entering in such a transaction. Therefore, to provide REITs 
flexibility and a window to price the transactions, following is proposed: 

a)  In case of a purchase transaction, the property shall not be purchased at a value 

greater than 110% of the average of the two independent valuations.  

b)  In case of a sale transaction, the property shall not be sold at a value less than 

90% of the average of the two independent valuations. 

12.5. Change in sponsor or re-designated sponsor or change in control of 

sponsor or re-designated sponsor within a year. 

 

A.  Current regulatory requirement 

Regulation  22(8)(c)  of  the  REIT  regulations  provides  that  in  case  of  any  change  in 
sponsor or re-designated sponsor or change in control of sponsor or re-designated 
sponsor, if on account of such sale, the holding of unit holders which are not related 
parties to the REIT falls below 200 or the minimum public float falls below 25%, the 
trustee shall apply for delisting of the units of the REIT in accordance with regulation 
17 of these Regulations. 

 

 

Page 13 of 14 

B.  Proposal 

 

It is proposed that in case of public float decreasing below 25% and number of unit 
holders forming part of  the public falls below two hundred, the new sponsor should 
have a one year window to comply with  the above said requirements by secondary 
sale or dilution through a fresh issuance. Further, the current requirement of minimum 
float of 25% and the minimum number of unit holders forming part of the public at two 
hundred, shall be finalized in terms of the decision taken in regards to the proposal as 
mentioned at point 9 above. 

IV.  Public Comments: 

In light of the above, public comments are invited on the proposals contained in the 
consultation  paper.  Comments/  suggestions  may  be  provided  in  the  format  given 
below:  

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization 

 

 

 

Sr. 
No.  

 

Pertains  to  Point 
No. 

Suggestions 

Rationale 

 

 

 

The comments may either be forwarded by email to reit@sebi.gov.in or may be sent 
by post to the following address latest by August 07, 2016. 

Ms. Richa Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department, 
Division of Funds I  
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, G Block  
Bandra Kurla Complex  
Mumbai - 400 021 

Issued on: July 18, 2016 

Page 14 of 14 

 

 

