 

 

Consultation Paper on Amendments/Clarifications to the 

SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 

 

1.  Objective:  

To  solicit  the  comments/views  from  public  on  the  consultation  paper  proposing 

amendments/clarifications  to  the  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers)  Regulations,  2013 

(hereinafter referred as “IA Regulations”).  The objective of the consultation paper 

is  to  specify  uniform  standards  across  all  the  intermediaries/persons  engaged  in 

providing  investment  advisory  services  irrespective  of  whether  such  activity  is 

incidental to their primary activity or not and to address the gaps or overlaps in legal 

or regulatory standards. 

2.  Background 

IA Regulations were notified on January 21, 2013. The object of the IA Regulations, 

inter alia, was to lay the framework for independent financial advisers and to address 

the conflict of interest arising due to the dual role played by distributors of financial 

products.  To  address  such  conflicts,  IA  Regulations  specified  that  the  investment 

adviser shall: 

i. 

act in a fiduciary capacity towards its clients and shall disclose all conflicts of 

interests as and when they arise. 

ii.  not receive any consideration by way of remuneration or compensation or in 

any other form from any person other than the client being advised, in respect 

of the underlying products or securities for which advice is provided. 

 

Page 1 of 30 

 

 

 

iii.  maintain  an  arms-length  relationship  between  its  activities  as  an  investment 

adviser and other activities. 

iv. 

disclose  to  its  client,  any  consideration  by  way  of  remuneration  or 

compensation or in any other form whatsoever, received or receivable by it or 

any of its associates or subsidiaries for any distribution or execution services in 

respect  of  the  products  or  securities  for  which  the  investment  advice  is 

provided to the client.  

v. 

disclose to the client any actual or potential conflicts of interest arising from 

any  connection  to  or  association  with  any  issuer  of  products/  securities, 

including  any  material  information  or  facts  that  might  compromise  its 

objectivity or independence in the carrying on of investment advisory services.  

As on September 28, 2016, 515 investment advisers are registered with SEBI. 

3.  Recent Developments: 

i.  RBI, vide circular dated April 21, 2016, issued guidelines on investment advisory 

services  offered  by  Banks.    It  is  inter  alia  stated  in  the  guidelines  that  the  banks 

cannot  offer  investment  advisory  services  departmentally.  Accordingly,  banks 

desirous  of  offering  investment  advisory  services  may  do  so  either  through  a 

separate subsidiary set up for the purpose or one of the existing subsidiaries after 

ensuring  that  there  is  an  arms-length  relationship  between  the  bank  and  the 

subsidiary. 

ii.  AMFI in consultation with SEBI has clarified that the data feed of the investors 

who subscribe to direct plan on the advice of the investment advisers may be shared 

 

Page 2 of 30 

 

 

 

with  such  investment  advisers  after  taking  the  explicit  written  consent  of  the 

investors. 

iii.  PFRDA had come out with draft regulations for regulating the retirement advisors 

(“Retirement  Adviser  Regulations’)  to  provide  a  framework  for  eligibility, 

registration  process,  fees  etc.  of  Retirement  Adviser  and  to  define  the  scope  of 

work and responsibility of the Retirement Adviser. 

iv.  Globally, many regulators of the countries such as United Kingdom, United States 

of America, Australia, Canada, etc., are in the process of moving towards fee based 

investment advisory model.  

4.  Proposals: 

The amendments/clarifications  proposed  to  the  IA  Regulations  are  enumerated as 

under: 

4.1  Re-look  on  the  exemption  from  registration  provided  to  Mutual  Fund 

Distributors: 

 

4.1.1  Regulation  4(d)  of  the  IA  Regulations,  inter  alia,  provides  exemption  from 

registration as an investment adviser to any distributor of mutual funds, who is 

a member of a self-regulatory organisation recognised by SEBI or is registered 

with an association of asset management companies of mutual funds, providing 

any investment advice to its clients incidental to its primary activity. 

 

4.1.2  Under the existing framework, a mutual fund distributor can sell mutual fund 

products and also provide incidental or basic advice on mutual fund products 

 

Page 3 of 30 

 

 

and can also help in executing the transactions. Such distributors are required 

to conduct risk profiling and comply with the requirement of appropriateness 

of the product. Distributors are getting the commission from the fund houses 

i.e. AMCs and additionally can also charge execution/advisory fee to the client.   

 

4.1.3  In  terms  of  IA  Regulations,  investment  advisers  are  not  allowed  to  sell  any 

product  and/or  to  provide  execution  services.  Only  corporate  entities 

registered  as  investment  adviser  can  offer  execution  or distribution services, 

subject  to  the  condition  that  the  investment  advisory  services  are  offered 

through separate identifiable division or department. Such entities are required 

to  keep  their  investment  advisory  services  clearly  segregated  from  other 

activities and shall  be required to maintain arms-length relationship between 

their activity as an investment adviser and other activities. Further, investment 

adviser can obtain consideration/fee from the client being advised only and is 

required to comply with the higher requirements than that of distributors such 

as fiduciary obligation, maintenance of records, etc. 

 

4.1.4  In order to have a level playing field in respect of investment advisory services 

offered on mutual fund products, it is proposed that: 

a)  Mutual Fund distributors shall not be allowed to provide incidental or 

basic investment advice in respect of mutual fund products.  If they want 

to  engage  themselves  in  providing  incidental  or  basic  investment 

advisory  services  on  mutual  fund  products,  they  need  to  register 

themselves as an investment adviser under IA Regulations. A period of 

three years shall be provided for those distributors who seek to migrate 

Page 4 of 30 

 

 

 

 

as an investment adviser to enable them to obtain necessary certification 

and to comply with other requirements specified in IA Regulations to 

act as an investment adviser. 

 

b)   Many  persons  engaged  as  distributors  or  agents  call  themselves  by 

varied names such as 'independent financial adviser’ or ‘wealth adviser’.  

This creates confusion in the minds of the investors. In order to avoid 

such confusion as to their role and responsibility, it is proposed that no 

person shall be allowed to use the name 'independent financial adviser’ 

or  ‘wealth  adviser’  unless  he  obtains  registration  from  SEBI  as  an 

investment  adviser.  Accordingly,  all  the  persons  including  existing 

mutual  fund  distributors  who  are  using  the  nomenclature  as 

independent  financial  advisers,  wealth  adviser,  etc.  shall  comply  with 

aforesaid requirement of changing the nomenclature within a period of 

three years. 

 

 

c)  The  person  who  seeks  to  continue  to  engage  in  the  distribution  of 

mutual  fund  products  shall  use  the  nomenclature  as  ‘Mutual  Fund 

Distributor’.  Such  person  shall  not  be  allowed  to  provide  basic  or 

incidental advice in respect of mutual fund products except describing 

the product specification without recommending any particular product. 

d)  The mutual fund distributors who want to shift from commission based 

model  to  fee based advisory  model shall  be  required  to  register  as  an 

investment  adviser  under  IA  Regulations.  They  shall  be  allowed  to 

receive trail commission for the products already distributed subject to 

Page 5 of 30 

 

 

 

 

 

disclosures to the clients. They shall undertake fresh business only under 

fee  based  advisory  model  from  the  date  of  their  registration  as  an 

investment adviser and shall receive consideration or fee from the client 

being advised only in respect of mutual fund products. 

 

4.2  Re-look  on  the  exemptions  from  registration  provided  to  certain  persons 

engaged in providing investment advice: 

 

4.2.1  Under the existing framework, exemptions from registration as an investment 

adviser  have  been  granted  to  various  persons  under  Regulation  4  of  IA 

Regulations, such as any person giving incidental advice to their clients, stock 

brokers, portfolio managers, chartered accountants, company secretaries, etc. 

 

4.2.2  In  order  to  have  uniform  standards  across  all  the  intermediaries/persons 

engaged in providing investment advisory services, it is proposed that: 

a)  The  registration  under  IA  Regulations  shall  be  mandatory  for  all  the 

persons who, for consideration, are engaged in the business of providing 

investment  advice  in  respect  of  securities  or  investment  products, 

irrespective of whether such activity is ancillary to their primary activity 

or not.  

 

b)  All the persons engaged in financial planning services shall mandatorily 

be required to register themselves as investment adviser.  

 

c)  Exemption  shall  be  applicable  only  to  the  persons  carrying  out 

investment  advisory  activities  which  are  permitted  under  any  other 

regulations specified by SEBI such as merchant bankers registered with 

 

Page 6 of 30 

 

 

SEBI can  render  corporate  advisory  services, etc.,  and  to  the  persons 

providing  advice  only  on  insurance  products  regulated  by  IRDA, 

 

pension products regulated by PFRDA, etc. 

 

4.3  Investment advisory services through a separate subsidiary: 

 

4.3.1  In  terms  of  Regulation  22  of  IA  Regulations,  banks,  NBFCs  and  body 

corporates  providing  investment  advisory  services  to  their  clients  shall  keep 

their investment advisory services segregated from such activities.  Such entities 

are  allowed  to  offer  investment  advisory  services  only  through  separately 

identifiable departments or divisions (SIDDs). The distribution or execution 

services can only be offered subject to the following: 

(a)  The  client  shall  not  be  under  any  obligation  to  avail  the  distribution  or 

execution services offered by the investment adviser. 

(b) The investment adviser shall maintain arms-length relationship between its 

activities as investment adviser and distribution or execution services. 

(c) All fees and charges paid to distribution or execution service providers by 

the client shall be paid directly to the service providers and not through the 

investment adviser. 

 

4.3.2  Under the existing framework, individuals registered as investment adviser are 

not allowed to provide distribution, referral or execution services as  it is not 

practically  possible  for  them  to  maintain  segregation  between  advisory 

activities and other activities. 

 

 

Page 7 of 30 

 

 

4.3.3  RBI has issued circular dated April 28, 2016 on investment advisory services 

offered by Banks. It is, inter alia, stated in the guidelines that banks desirous of 

offering  investment  advisory  services  may  do  so  either  through  a  separate 

subsidiary set up for the purpose or through one of the existing subsidiaries 

after ensuring that there is an arms-length relationship between the bank and 

 

the subsidiary. 

 

4.3.4  In  order  to  address  the  concerns  arising  from  the  conflict  of  interest  in  an 

effective manner, it is proposed that, the investment advisory services shall not 

be allowed to be offered through separate division or department. Investment 

advisory services are required to be offered only through separate subsidiary.  

Further, a time period of three years is proposed to be provided for existing 

entities offering investment advisory services through separate department or 

division to set up a separate subsidiary. 

 

4.4  Clarification  in  respect  of  investment  product  and  advice  in  electronic/ 

broadcasting media: 

 

4.4.1  In  terms  of  Regulation  2(i)  of  IA  Regulations,  “investment  advice”  means 

advice  relating  to  investing  in,  purchasing,  selling  or  otherwise  dealing  in 

securities  or  investment  products,  and    advice  on  investment  portfolio 

containing securities or investment products, whether written, oral or through 

any  other  means  of  communication  for  the  benefit  of  the  client  and  shall 

include financial planning:  

Provided  that  investment  advice  given  through  newspaper,  magazines,  any 

electronic  or    broadcasting  or  telecommunications  medium,  which  is  widely 

 

Page 8 of 30 

 

 

available  to  the  public  shall  not  be  considered  as  investment  advice  for  the 

 

purpose of IA Regulations. 

 

4.4.2  However,  the  term  'investment  products'  has  not  been  defined  in  the  IA 

regulations. 

 

4.4.3  It  is,  therefore,  proposed  to  define  the  term  investment  product  as, 

“Investment products shall include all financial instruments that are regulated 

by  any  financial  sector  regulator  in  India.  However,  advice  exclusively  on 

products  in  non-securities  market  which  are  regulated  by  sectoral  regulators 

shall be outside the scope of the IA regulations". 

 

4.4.4  It is also proposed to clarify that the persons providing investment advice in 

any  electronic  or  broadcasting  or  telecommunications  medium  such  as 

newspaper, magazines, etc. which is available to the public in general shall have 

to comply with provisions pertaining to recommendations in public media as 

specified in Regulation 21 of SEBI (Research Analysts) Regulations, 2014.  

 

4.4.5  Advising the clients after enrolling/getting the clients registered/subscribed on 

any  public  media  platform,  shall  be  considered  as  engaging  in  providing 

investment advisory services and accordingly shall be required to comply with 

the  IA Regulations. 

 

4.5  Restriction on providing trading tips 

 

4.5.1  It is observed that, many persons are engaged in providing/sending the trading 

tips/securities specific recommendations, etc., using various electronic modes 

such as bulk short message services (SMSs), e-mails, blogs, internet or through 

 

Page 9 of 30 

 

 

any  other  social  networking  media  such  as  WhatsApp,  ChatOn,  WeChat, 

Twitter, Facebook, etc.   The general public is getting attracted or lured by such 

trading  tips,  securities  specific  recommendations  and  their  investment 

decisions are being influenced by such messages which solicit investments and/ 

or promise unrealistic returns in the securities market. 

 

4.5.2  In order to curb such practice of providing trading tips/messages containing 

buy/sell/hold recommendations on securities, it is proposed that: 

a)  No  person  shall  be  allowed  to  provide  trading  tips,  stock  specific 

recommendations to the general public through short message services 

(SMSs),  email,  telephonic  calls,  etc.  unless  such  persons  obtain 

registration as an Investment Adviser or are specifically exempted from 

obtaining registration. 

 

b)  No  person  shall  be  allowed  to  provide  trading  tips,  stock  specific 

recommendations  to  the  general  public  through    any  other  social 

networking  media  such  as  WhatsApp,  ChatOn,  WeChat,  Twitter, 

Facebook, etc. unless such persons obtain registration as an Investment 

Adviser or are specifically exempted from obtaining registration.  

 

c)  A  provision  or  clause  shall  be  added  in  the  SEBI  (Prohibition  of 

Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  Relating  to  Securities  Market) 

Regulations,  2003  {PFUTP  Regulations}  to  restrict  such  activities  by 

making necessary amendments to PFTUP Regulations. 

 

Page 10 of 30 

 

 

 

 

 

4.6  Restriction on offering or organising schemes/competitions/games related 

 

to securities market: 

 

4.6.1  It  is  observed  that  various  entities  are  offering  schemes/competitions/ 

games/leagues, etc. related to securities market through various modes and/or 

soliciting  public  participation 

thereon.  Such 

schemes/competitions/ 

games/leagues, etc. are generally based on predicting the price movement of 

securities and are neither approved nor endorsed by SEBI. There is no recourse 

available to investors from SEBI with regard to loss in competition, etc. 

 

4.6.2  The entities offering such schemes may have vested interest and there is no 

regulatory obligation on them. In absence of transparency and authenticity in 

the process being followed, there is a scope for general public getting attracted 

or  lured  by  such  schemes/competitions/games/leagues,  etc.  The  general 

public  may  also  follow  such  offerings  presuming  that  entities/  participants 

possess expertise in predicting securities market or in securities.  Further, there 

is no obligation on the organizer : 

i. 

to  disclose  the  actual  or  potential  conflicts  of  interest  to  the  general 

public, 

including  any  material 

information  or  facts  that  might 

compromise its objectivity or independence.  

ii. 

iii. 

to ensure that the general public has necessary experience and knowledge 

to understand the nature and risks involved in the offering.  

to ensure that the offering is based on the risk tolerance of the general 

public. 

iv. 

to ensure the suitability of the offerings to the general public. 

 

Page 11 of 30 

 

 

v. 

to take responsibility of any loss to the general public and for the results 

 

obtained. 

 

4.6.3  In order to protect the interest of the investors in the securities market and to 

curb such practice of offering schemes/competitions/games/leagues, etc, it is 

proposed that: 

a)  No  person  shall  organize  or  offer  any  scheme/competition/game/ 

league on securities or related to securities market.  

 

b)  A  provision  or  clause  shall  be  added  in  the  SEBI  (Prohibition  of 

Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  Relating  to  Securities  Market) 

Regulations, 2003 {PFUTP Regulations}, to restrict such activities by 

making necessary amendments to PFTUP Regulations. 

 

4.7  Clarification in respect of receipt of consideration: 

 

4.7.1  In terms of IA Regulations, “investment adviser” means any person, who for 

consideration,  is  engaged  in  the  business  of  providing  investment  advice  to 

clients or other persons or group of persons and includes any person who holds 

out himself as an investment adviser, by whatever name called. 

 

4.7.2  The  term  consideration  is  being  misinterpreted.  The  persons  engaged  in 

providing investment advisory services without obtaining consideration from 

the  clients  directly  are  of  the  view  that  their  activity  does  not  fall  under  the 

purview of IA Regulations, as they are not taking any consideration from the 

client being advised. 

 

Page 12 of 30 

 

 

 

4.7.3  It is proposed to clarify that consideration covers all forms of remuneration or 

compensation including the receipt of any economic benefit, whether in the 

form of an advisory fee, some other fee relating to the total services rendered, 

commission  received  or  receivable  by  an  investment  adviser  or  any  of  its 

associates or subsidiaries either directly or indirectly in respect of the underlying 

products or securities for which advice is being provided.  

 

4.8  Clarity between the activities of investment adviser and research  analyst: 

 

4.8.1  SEBI (Research Analysts) Regulations, 2014 (“RA Regulations”) were notified 

on September 01, 2014 and came into effect from December 01, 2014.  

 

4.8.2  In terms of RA Regulations, “research analyst” means a person who is primarily 

responsible for, and any associated person who reports directly or indirectly to 

such a research analyst in connection with,  preparation and/or publication of 

substance of research report or who provides research report or who makes  

'buy/sell/hold’ recommendation of a security or give price target of a security 

or offers an opinion concerning public offer or securities that are listed or to 

be listed and are traded or to be traded in a Indian stock exchange whether or 

not any  such person  has  the  job  title  of  "research  analyst"  and  includes  any 

other entities engaged in issuance of research reports or research analysis. 

 

4.8.3  The RA Regulations aimed at specifying the requirements to foster objectivity 

and  transparency  in  research  so  that  investors  get  more  reliable  and  useful 

information for taking informed decisions and promoting reliable research that 

reflects the independent and unbiased view of research analysts.  

 

Page 13 of 30 

 

4.8.4  It is observed that many persons are getting themselves registered as research 

 

analyst  instead  of  investment  adviser  in  order  to  avoid  various  compliance 

requirements  specified 

in  IA  Regulations  such  as  suitability  of  the 

recommendation,  risk  profiling,  etc.  They  are  providing  stock  specific 

recommendations  and/or  research  services  to  investors  through  different 

subscription packages such as mid cap, small cap, sector specific research. In 

such cases, they are sending recommendations only through SMSs or e-mails 

and  are  not  sending  the  research  report  with  disclosures  as  specified  in  RA 

Regulations to the clients. The responsibility to choose the appropriate package 

lies with the subscriber/client. It is difficult for retail investors to understand 

whether the said subscription package is suitable for them and whether it is in 

their best interest.  

 

4.8.5  In  order  to  provide  clarity  with  regard  to  the  research  services  provided  by 

research analyst or research entity, it is proposed that: 

a)  Research Analysts or research entity shall provide the research report to 

all class of clients at the same time. A research report shall not be made 

available selectively to internal trading personnel or a particular client or 

class of clients in advance of other clients.  

 

b)  Investors,  either  directly  or  with  the  help  of  registered  investment 

adviser, can take an informed decision whether the recommendations 

given in the research report are suitable for his/her risk profile. 

 

 

Page 14 of 30 

 

 

 

 

 

c)  Research  Analysts  providing  research  services  to  retail  clients  for  a 

separate fee through various packages shall act in the best interests of 

the clients and shall also ensure that the research service offered to the 

investor is based on overall financial situation and investment objectives 

of the client. They shall act in fiduciary capacity and shall comply with 

the requirements specified in Chapter III of IA Regulations. 

 

d)  The  research  services  offered  by  registered  research  entities  shall  be 

considered  as  incidental  to  their  primary  activity  when  there  is  no 

separate fee or consideration being charged from client.  

 

e)  Making  ‘buy/sell/hold’  recommendation  on  a  security  by  providing 

entire  research  report,  shall  continue  to  be  regulated  under  RA 

Regulations. 

 

4.9  Applicability of  risk profiling and suitability requirement for non-individual 

investors: 

 

4.9.1  In  terms  of  IA  Regulations,  it  is  mandatory  to  conduct  risk  profiling  for  all 

category of clients. The current provisions do not differentiate between retail 

individual 

investors  and  non-individual 

investors  such  as  corporate, 

institutional,  etc.  It  is  difficult  to  comply  with  risk  profiling  requirements  in 

case of non-individual investors, because of the following reasons: 

i. 

Some of the prescribed factors for risk profiling may not be applicable 

to non-individual investors 

ii.  Assessment of a non-individual  investor’s ability  to  accept the  risk  of 

loss and ability to absorb such loss requires specialized skills beyond the 

Page 15 of 30 

 

 

 

core  skills  of  Investment  Advisors  and  accordingly  may  not  be 

implemented  with  the  rigour  desired.  Moreover  such  assessment  is 

typically undertaken by the management of non-individual entity. 

iii.  A  non-individual  client  cannot  be  administered  a  psychometric 

 

assessment of risk tolerance. 

 

4.9.2  It is, therefore, proposed that assessment of risk profile and suitability of the 

advice being provided is mandatory for individual investors. For non-individual 

investors such as institutional/corporate clients, risk profiling and suitability of 

the advice being provided shall be mandatory only when the investment advice 

is  related  to  complex  financial  products  such  as  investment  in  derivatives, 

complex structured products, etc.  

 

 

4.10 Clarity on the compliance audit requirement 

 

4.10.1 In terms of Regulation 19 (3) of IA Regulations, an investment adviser shall 

conduct  yearly  audit  in  respect  of  compliance  with  these  regulations  from  a 

member  of  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  or  Institute  of 

Company Secretaries of India. 

 

4.10.2 In  order  to  provide  clarity  in  respect  of  compliance  audit  requirement,  it  is 

proposed that the compliance audit shall be completed within 3 months after 

the end of financial year and adverse observances or comments, if any, shall be 

brought to the notice of SEBI. 

 

 

 

 

Page 16 of 30 

 

 

 

4.11  Clarity on mode of acceptance of fee: 

 

4.11.1 In terms of IA Regulations, investment adviser shall ensure that fees charged 

to the clients is fair and reasonable. IA Regulations do not specify the mode of 

payment  of  fee.  It  is  observed  that  many  investment  advisers  are  receiving 

advisory fee in the form of cash deposit. 

 

4.11.2 It is, therefore, proposed that an investment adviser shall accept fees strictly by 

account payee crossed cheque / demand draft or by way of direct credit into 

the bank account through NEFT/ RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed 

by RBI. 

 

4.12 Requirement of providing ‘Rights and Obligations’ document to the  clients 

 

4.11.1 Under  the  existing  framework,  investment  advisers  are  required  to  maintain 

copies of agreements with clients, if any. However, entering into agreement or 

providing  any  document  clearly  specifying  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the 

advisory services offered is not mandatory. 

 

4.11.2 In order to clearly define the terms and conditions of the service, it is proposed  

that  an  investment  adviser  shall,  at  least  two  days  prior  to  onboarding  the 

clients,  provide  ‘Rights  and  Obligations’  document  to  the  clients  stating  the 

interse relationship and terms and conditions of investment advisory services 

offered,  which  shall  be  binding  on  investment  adviser  and  its  clients.  The 

‘Rights and Obligations’ document shall, inter alia, contain the following: 

 
 

 

Page 17 of 30 

 

 

a. General Obligations of the Investment Adviser: 

i.  The investment adviser shall act in a fiduciary capacity towards its clients 

and shall disclose all conflicts of interests as and when they arise; 

ii.  The investment adviser shall provide suitable investment advice to the client 

which is in best interest of the client after assessing risk profile of the client; 

iii.  The investment adviser shall disclose the following information /details to 

the client before accepting advisory fee from the client: 

a. Scope of services to be provided by the investment adviser subject to the 

activities permitted under IA Regulations; 

b. type of instruments for  which advice is proposed to be provided; 

c. tenure of the services; 

d. fees payable to the investment adviser and the quantum and manner 

thereof; 

e. Disclosure on performance fee, if any; 

f.  risks involved; 

g. liabilities and obligations relating to advisory services; 

h. Disciplinary history;  

i.  Settlement of grievances/disputes and provision for arbitration; 

j.  any other information relevant to IA  Regulations. 

iv.  The  investment  adviser  shall  clearly  and  concisely  state  the  terms  and 

conditions  of  investment  advisory  services  being  provided  for  easy 

understanding of the potential client. 

Page 18 of 30 

 

 

 

 

v.  The  investment  adviser  shall  charge  an  agreed  fee  from  the  clients  for 

rendering  investment  advisory  services  without  guaranteeing  or  assuring, 

either directly or indirectly, any return. 

vi.  The  ‘Rights  and  Obligations’  document  shall  contain  the  following  risk 

factors: 

a. investments  in  securities  are  subject  to  market  risks  and  there  is  no 

assurance    or  guarantee    that    the  objective  of  the  investments  will  be 

achieved. 

b. past performance of the investment adviser does not indicate its future 

performance. 

vii.  The investment adviser shall obtain an acknowledgement from the client 

that he has read and understood the terms and conditions of the advisory 

services and fee structure.  

b. Dispute Resolution 

i.  The  investment  adviser  shall provide  the  client  with  the  relevant  contact 

details of the designated person who is responsible for dispute resolution 

including the name, telephone number and e-mail id. 

ii.  Details of the SCORES URL may also be provided for lodging complaint 

with SEBI. 

iii.  The  investment  adviser  shall  co-operate  in  redressing  grievances  of  the 

client in respect of advisory services. 

iv.  The client and the investment adviser shall refer any claims and/or disputes, 

to arbitration in accordance with the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. 

Page 19 of 30 

 

 

 

 

c. Termination of Relationship 

i.  The  relationship  between  the  investment  adviser  and  the  client  shall  be 

terminated if the registration as an investment adviser is cancelled by SEBI 

for  any  reason  including  voluntary  surrender  of  registration,  death, 

expulsion, etc. 

ii.  The  investment  adviser  and  the  client  shall  be  entitled  to  terminate  the 

relationship between them after giving notice in writing of not less than one 

month to the other party. Notwithstanding any such termination, all rights, 

liabilities  and  obligations  of  the  parties  arising  out  of  or  in  respect  of 

transactions entered into prior to the termination of this relationship shall 

continue  to  subsist  and  vest  in/be  binding  on  the  respective  parties  or 

his/its  respective  heirs,  executors, administrators,  legal  representatives  or 

successors, as the case may be.  

iii.  In case the clients are not satisfied with the services being provided by the 

investment adviser and want to terminate/ stop the advisory services or the 

investor adviser is unable to provide the advisory services, either party shall 

have  a right to  terminate the advisory  relationship  at any  time subject to 

refund of the proportionate advisory fee. 

The  investment  adviser  can  add  additional  clauses  in  the  ‘Rights  and 

Obligations’  document  which  are  not  in  contravention  with  the  aforesaid 

clauses and provisions and circulars issued under IA regulations. 

 

 

 

Page 20 of 30 

 

 

 

 

 

4.13 Advertisement Code: 

 

4.13.1  Under the existing framework, there are no guidelines to be followed by 

any  person  including  investment  advisors  while  issuing  advertisements. 

The  advertisements,  generally,  solicit  investments  and/  or  promise 

unrealistic  returns  in  the  securities  market  and  may  attract  the  general 

public and/or influence their investment decisions.  

 

4.13.2  It is proposed that the following advertisement code shall be followed by 

any person including investment adviser: 

a. An  advertisement  issued  for  investor  solicitation  and/or  motivating 

investors to trade or invest in the securities or in securities related market 

shall not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or is otherwise 

false or misleading. 

 

b.   An advertisement shall be truthful, fair and clear and shall not contain 

any  statement,  promise  or  forecast  which  is  untrue  or  misleading.  An 

advertisement shall be considered to be misleading, if it contains: -  

i.  Statements made about the performance or activities of the advertiser in 

the  absence  of  necessary  explanatory  or  qualifying  statements,  which 

may give an exaggerated picture of the performance or activities, than 

what it really is. 

ii.  An inaccurate portrayal of the past performance or portrayal in a manner 

which implies that past gains or income will be repeated in future. 

 

c. No person shall circulate or distribute an advertisement that:  

i.  Refers to any kind of performance assurance or guarantee. 

Page 21 of 30 

 

 

 

ii.  Refers to any testimonial about the services; 

iii.  Refers  to  past  specific  recommendations,  which  were  or  would  have 

been profitable to any person, except under specified circumstances; 

iv.  Represents that any graph, chart, formula or other device can, in and of 

itself, be used to determine which securities to buy or sell or when to 

buy  or  sell  them,  without  disclosing  the  limitations  thereof  and  the 

difficulties with respect to its use; or 

v.  Refers to any report, analysis, or service as free, unless it actually is free 

and without condition or obligation. 

vi.  Contains 

information,  the  accuracy  of  which 

is  dependent  on 

assumptions. 

 

d.  The advertisement shall not be so designed in  content and format or in 

print  as  to  be  likely  to  be  misunderstood,  or  likely  to  disguise  the 

significance of any statement. Advertisement shall not contain statements 

which directly or by implication or by omission mislead the investor. 

 

e.  As  the  investors  may  not  be  sophisticated  in  legal  or  financial  matters, 

care shall be taken that the advertisement is set forth in a clear, concise 

and  understandable  manner.  Extensive  use  of  technical  or 

legal 

terminology  or  complex  language  and  the  inclusion  of  excessive  details 

which may detract the investors shall be avoided. 

 

 

f.  No  person  shall  be  allowed  to  provide  trading  tips,  stock  specific 

recommendations  to  the  general  public  through  short  message  services 

(SMSs), email, telephonic calls, etc. unless such persons obtain registration 

Page 22 of 30 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as  an  Investment  Adviser  or  is  specifically  exempted  from  obtaining 

 

registration. 

 

g.  No  person  shall  be  allowed  to  provide  trading  tips,  stock  specific 

recommendations  to  the  general  public  through    any  other  social 

networking  media  such  as  WhatsApp,  ChatOn,  WeChat,  Twitter, 

Facebook, etc. unless such persons obtain registration as an Investment 

Adviser or is specifically exempted from obtaining registration. 

h. No person shall organize or offer any scheme/competition/game/league on 

securities or related to securities market.  

i.  The copy of advertisement shall be retained for a period of five years. 

4.14 Display of details on website 

 

 

4.14.1 

It  is  observed  that  many  investment  advisers  are  providing  investment 

advisory  services  through  websites  without  disclosing  their  details  in  a 

proper  manner  and  thereby  creating  confusion  to  the  investors  with 

regard to authenticity of their registration. 

 

4.14.2 

It is, therefore,  proposed that all investment advisers shall display more 

prominently  their  name  as  registered  with  SEBI,    registration  number, 

validity  of  registration,  own  logo,  if  any,  and  complete  address  with 

telephone numbers on its portal /web site, if any, notice / display boards, 

advertisements,  publications,  know  your  client  forms,  client  agreements 

and correspondences with the clients. 

 

 

Page 23 of 30 

 

 

 

4.15 Restriction on providing free trial trading tips. 

 

4.15.1  It is observed that many investment advisers are engaged in providing free 

trial  trading  trips  for  two  to  three  days  to  prospective  clients  without 

considering whether such advice is suitable to them. 

 

4.15.2  Such  free  trial  services  are  being  provided  to  the  prospective  clients 

without any thorough analysis of their needs and without considering the 

risk profile of the client and suitability of the product and the same  may 

not be in their best interest. 

 

4.15.3  In  order  to  curb  the  practice  of  providing  free  trial  trading  tips,  it  is 

proposed that investment adviser shall not be allowed to provide free trial 

of trading tips to prospective clients. 

 

4.16 Online Investment Advisory Services and Use of Automated Tools 

 

4.16.1 Robo advisors are essentially wealth management companies providing an 

automated  support  for  all  financial  advisory  services  without  any  human 

intervention. Be it trading, investment, portfolio rebalancing or tax saving, 

the  robo  advisors  can  help  investors  without  any  human  interference.  It 

works  with  a  pre-defined  algorithm  and  analytics,  and  calculates  the  best 

returns  and  plans  for  each  individual  as  per  his  requirements  and 

preferences. 

 

4.16.2 In  the  United  States  of  America,  they  are  regulated  just  like  independent 

advisers who set up offices and meet clients on a regular basis - they typically 

register with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and are deemed 

 

Page 24 of 30 

 

"fiduciaries" who must put their clients' interests above their own. In India, 

automated  financial  advisory  services  are  provided  by  some  companies 

mainly assisting mutual fund investors in designing their portfolio.  

 

4.16.3 Further, IOSCO has published a report on the IOSCO Social Media and 

Automation  of  Advice  Tools  Surveys.  It  is  inter  alia  stated  in  the  said 

report that: 

i.  From  an  intermediary’s  perspective,  providing  customers  advice 

through an automated means presents an opportunity to formulate and 

deliver advice in a cost effective way. 

ii.  There is a spectrum of Internet-based automated investment selection 

tools  being  used  today.  At  a  basic  level,  there  are  simple  financial 

planning models that are offered on intermediaries’ web-sites. A second 

level of tools provides a list of securities, investment funds or model 

portfolios  that  may  be  considered  low,  medium,  or  high  risk  for 

investors  to  choose  from  based  on  the  customer’s  risk  appetite  but 

without  detailed  information  about  the  individual  customer.  A  third 

level  of  tools  allows  an  intermediary  or  customer  to  indicate  an 

investment  goal  and  input  personalized  investor  information  such  as 

age,  financial  condition,  and  risk  tolerance  and  run  simulations  to 

estimate the probability the customer will meet his/her objective with 

their  current  portfolio.  Many  of  these  tools  then  produce  a 

recommended asset allocation (e.g., 50% large cap, 25% small cap, 25% 

bonds) to address investment allocations. More sophisticated tools may 

then generate either a more general or specific list of securities or model 

Page 25 of 30 

 

 

 

 

 

portfolios  that  a  market  intermediary  could  recommend  or  that  the 

investor  could  choose  to  buy  to  meet  his/her  investment  goal.  In 

summary, there are a wide variety of automated tools available today, 

and it is reasonable to expect more in the future. 

iii.  Some  intermediaries  generally  use  automated  tools  to  assess  a 

customer’s  profile  before  making 

investment  recommendations, 

including  assisting  with  suitability  and  know  your  customer 

requirements. Accordingly, a firm’s automated tools typically take into 

account  a  wide  variety  of  factors including  a  customer’s  age,  income, 

educational  level,  time  horizon,  investing  experience,  risk  tolerance, 

investment  objectives  and  current  assets.  Some  intermediaries  use 

automated  tools  for,  among  other  things,  portfolio  margining, 

surveillance  and  monitoring  of 

intermediaries’ 

interactions  with 

customers,  and  providing  an  objective  and  consistent  approach  to 

customer interactions.  

 

4.16.4 Under  IA  Regulations,  there  is  no  express  prohibition  for  use  of 

automated advice tools by SEBI registered investment advisers. The risk 

profiling  of  the  investor  is  mandatory  and  all  investments  on  which 

investment advice is provided shall be appropriate to the risk profile of 

the client. IA regulations have also specified that where tools are used for 

risk profiling, it should be ensured that the tools are fit for the purpose 

and any limitations are identified and mitigated. The records pertaining 

to    risk  profiling  and  risk  assessment  of  the  client  and  suitability 

Page 26 of 30 

 

 

 

 

 

assessment of the advice being provided shall have to be maintained by 

the investment adviser for a period of five years. 

 

4.16.5 It is proposed that the investment advisers providing online investment 

advisory  services  using  automated  tools,  shall  ensure  the  following 

compliance requirements in addition to the compliance with the existing 

provisions of IA Regulations: 

i. 

ii. 

ensuring that the automated tools used are fit for the purpose; 

robust systems and controls to be in place to ensure that any advice 

made using the tool is in the best interest of the client and suitable 

for the clients; 

iii. 

automated tool is to be used only for the target clients, for which 

it is designed; 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

disclosure to the clients in relation to  how the tool works and its 

limitations of the outputs it generates; 

comprehensive system audit requirements are put in place;  

Investment adviser using the tool shall be held responsible for the 

advice; 

vii.  The automated tools used by the advisers shall also be subject to 

audit and inspection. 

 

4.17 Recognition  to  Chartered  Financial  Analyst  Charter  Programfrom  CFA 

Institute: 

4.17.1 In terms of Regulation 7 (1) of IA regulations, an individual registered as an 

investment adviser under IA Regulations and partners and representatives of 

 

Page 27 of 30 

 

 

an  investment  adviser  registered  under  these  regulations  offering  investment 

advice shall have the following minimum qualifications, at all times: 

(a)  A  professional  qualification  or  post-graduate  degree  or  post  graduate 

diploma 

in  finance,  accountancy,  business  management,  commerce, 

economics,  capital  market,  banking,  insurance  or  actuarial  science  from  a 

university or an institution recognized by the central government or any state 

government or a recognised foreign university or institution or association. 

(b)  A  graduate  in  any  discipline  with  an  experience  of  at  least  five  years  in 

activities relating to advice in financial products or securities or fund or asset 

or portfolio management. 

4.17.2 In terms of Regulation 7 (2) of IA regulations, an individual registered as an 

investment  adviser  and  partners  and  representatives  of  investment  advisers 

registered  under  IA  Regulations  offering  investment  advice  shall  have,  at  all 

times,  a  certification  on  financial  planning  or  fund  or  asset  or  portfolio 

management or investment advisory services: 

(a) from NISM; or 

(b)  from  any  other  organization  or  institution  including  Financial  Planning 

Standards Board India or any recognized stock exchange in India provided 

that such certification is accredited by NISM. 

4.17.3 In this regard,  NISM has launched the following certification examinations:  

i. NISM- Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination 

ii. NISM-Series-X-B: Investment Adviser (Level 2) Certification Examination 

 

Page 28 of 30 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.17.4 Further, NISM has accredited the following certification examinations: 

i. Chartered  Wealth  Manager  (CWM)  by  American  Academy  of  Financial 

Management India Pvt. Ltd. 

ii. Certified Financial Planner (CFP) by Financial Planning Standards Board 

India 

iii. International  Certificate  in  Wealth  &  Investment  Management  (India) 

Certification by Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment. 

iv. Wealth  Management  Certification  (Advance  Level)  by  Centre  for 

Investment Education and Learning Pvt. Ltd. 

 

4.17.5 CFA  Institute  has  requested  SEBI  to  recognize  its  Chartered  Financial 

Analyst  (CFA)  certification  program  as  professional  qualification  under  IA 

Regulations.  It  is,  inter  alia,  stated  that,  Chartered  Financial  Analyst  (CFA) 

program  has  global  recognition.  CFA  institute  is  a  global  association  of 

investment professionals. Further, CFA program has been recognised by many 

regulators across the world including The Unites States of America, Australia, 

Canada, Hongkong, etc. 

 

4.17.6 It is proposed that: 

a)  CFA Institute’s CFA charter program shall be considered as professional 

qualification under Regulation 7(1) (a) of IA regulations. 

b)  The individuals and representatives of firms who hold Chartered Financial 

Analyst  charter  from  CFA  Institute  shall  not  be  required  to  obtain 

certification from either NISM or from its accredited institutions. 

 

Page 29 of 30 

 

 

 

 

 

5.  Public Comments  

In light of the above, public comments are invited on the proposals contained in 

the consultation paper. Comments/suggestions may be provided in the format 

given below:  

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization* 

Sr. No. 

Pertains to Point No 

Suggestions 

Rationale 

* In order to have a consolidated view, mutual fund distributors are requested to send their suggestions 

on the proposals only through their association/representative body.  

The comments may either be forwarded by email to sebiria@sebi.gov.in or may 

be sent by post to the following address latest by November 04, 2016. 

 

Shri Naveen Sharma 

Deputy General Manager 

Investment Management Department 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 

Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051. 

 

Issued On: October 07, 2016 

 

Page 30 of 30 

