 

Consultation Paper 

 

Public Issuance of Non-Convertible Debentures having credit rating below Investment Grade 

 

 
A. Objective: 

To  solicit  the  comments/views 
from  public  on  the  consultation  paper  proposing 
amendments/clarifications to the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 
(hereinafter referred as “ILDS Regulations”). The objective of the consultation paper is to seek 
comments  on  the  proposals  with  respect  to  public  issuances  of  Non-Convertible  Debentures 
having below investment grade credit rating- 
 

1.  To prescribe a framework for ‘Risk-o-meter’ with respect to such issuances 

 

2.  To enhance disclosure requirements with respect to such issuances 

 

3.  Restriction  on  investment  amount  in  case  of  Retail  Investor  and  Allocation  to  Retail 

Investors in Base Issue Size with respect to such issuances 
 

B. Background: 

 

1.  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection  Guidelines),  2000  (hereinafter  referred  as  “DIP 
Guidelines”) were issued to regulate the issue of securities (both equity and debt securities) 
of  a  company  to  public,  shareholders  and  institutional  investors  through  the  primary 
market. The erstwhile guidelines made it compulsory for issuers of debt securities to obtain 
credit  rating  from  not  less  than  two  rating  agencies  and  also  required  that  the  debt 
instruments issued through a public/rights issue shall be of at least investment grade. 
 

2.  In December 2007, SEBI amended the provisions pertaining to issuances of corporate bonds 

under the DIP Guidelines as under- 

 

2.1. Requirement  of  Credit  Rating:    With  a  view  to  reduce  the  cost  of  issuance  of  debt 
instruments,  SEBI  decided  that  credit  rating  from  one  credit  rating  agency  would  be 
sufficient.  
 

2.2. Below Investment Grade debt instruments: In a disclosure based regime, it should be 
left to the investor to decide whether or not to invest in a non-investment grade debt 
instrument. 

 

1 

 

 

 

3.  In  order  to  facilitate  development  of  a  vibrant  primary  market  for  corporate  bonds,  SEBI 
notified SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations in June, 2008 to provide for 
simplified regulatory framework for issuance and listing of non-convertible debt securities 
(excluding bonds issued by Governments) issued by any company, public sector undertaking 
or  statutory  corporations.  Further,  from  the  commencement  of  ILDS  Regulations,  the 
provisions  of  DIP  Guidelines,  2000  related  to  issue  and  listing  of  debt  securities  were 
rescinded.  
 

4.  With  respect  to  the  credit  rating  requirements  for  public  issuance  of  debt  securities, 
Regulation 4(2) of ILDS Regulations mentions that, an issuer making a public issue of debt 
securities has to obtain credit rating from at least one credit rating agency registered with 
the  Board  and  disclose  it  in  the  offer  document.  The  ILDS  Regulations  do  not  specify  any 
minimum credit rating for such issuances. 
 

C. Growth of Corporate Bond Market: 

 
The  corporate  bond  market  has  evolved  gradually  over  time  due  to  the  various  measures 
taken by SEBI. The total primary issuance has increased from Rs. 1, 18,485 crore in FY 2007-
08 to Rs. 4, 91,884 in FY 2015-16 while for FY 2016-17 (till November, 2016) it is Rs. 4, 43,281 
crore. Further, the amount raised through public issuance has grown from Nil in 2007-08 to 
Rs. 33, 811 crore in FY 2015-16 and for FY 2016-17 (till November, 2016) the amount stands 
at Rs. 23, 893 crore. 

Table on amount raised through public and private placement issuances of Corporate Bonds 
in Indian Debt Market (Listed Securities) 

 

Financial 
Year 

2007-08 
2008-09 
2009-10 
2010-11 
2011-12 
2012-13 

 

No.  of 
Public 
Issues 

Amount 
Raised 
through 
Public 
(Rs. Crore) 

Issue 

No.  of  Pvt. 
Placement 

Amount  Raised 
through  Private 
Placement 
(Rs. 
Crore) 

Amount 
Total 
Raised 
through 
Public Issue and Pvt. 
Placement 
(Rs. 
Crore) 

0 
1 
3 
10 
20 
20 

0 
1,500 
2,500 
9,451 
35,611 
16,982 

744 
1041 
1278 
1404 
1953 
2489 

118,485 
173,281 
212,635 
218,785 
261,283 
361,462 

118,485 
174,781 
215,135 
228,236 
296,894 
378,444 

2 

42,383 
9,713 
33,811 
23,893 

1924 
2611 
2975 
2365 

276,054 
4,04,136 
4,58,073 
4,19,388 

 

 

 

 

318,437 
4,13,849 
4,91,884 
4,43,281 

 
2013-14 
2014-15 
2015-16 
2016-17# 
# As on November 2016 

35 
25 
20 
11 

 

D. Need for Revision: 

 

1.  Credit  Ratings  are  opinions  about  credit  risk.  The  ratings  express  an  opinion  about  the 
ability  and  willingness  of  an  issuer,  such  as  a  corporation  or  state  or  city  government,  to 
meet its financial obligations in full and on time. Credit ratings also specify the credit quality 
of  an  individual  debt  issue,  such  as  a  corporate  or  municipal  bond,  and  the  relative 
likelihood that the issue may default. 

 

2.  Investment Grade refers to the quality of a company’s credit and generally indicates a low 
risk of a credit default. Further, a debt issue is considered as Investment Grade if its credit 
rating  is  BBB-  or  higher.  It  may  be  noted  that  during  FY  2015-16,  out  of  20  public  debt 
issuances  of  NCDs  four  issuances  were  rated  BBB  or  below.  Further,  in  FY  2016-17  (till 
November, 2016) 3 public debt issuances out of ten were rated BBB or below. 

 

3.  Unlike private placement of debt securities, retail investors participate in the public issues. 
These  public  issues  which  are  rated  below  investment  grade  (i.e.  below  BBB-)  give  high 
coupon rate. The advertisements of such issues also focus mainly on the coupon which lures 
the retail investors to invest.  

 

4.  Further, certain issuers with credit rating below investment grade, have issued both secured 
and  another  unsecured  NCD  through  same  offer  document  with  different  credit  ratings. 
Thus, for a retail investor to differentiate between secured and unsecured tranches within 
the same offer document and with different credit ratings may be a complex task and may 
affect their investment decision. 

Hence, it is felt that there needs to be an additional layer of protection for the retail investors, 
who  get  attracted  towards  such  debt  securities which  though  on one  side pay  higher  coupon 
but on the other side have a below investment grade credit rating.  

 
 
 

 

3 

 
E.  Recommendations of Corporate Bonds and Securitization Committee (CoBoSAC):  

 
Corporate  Bonds  and  Securitization  Committee  (CoBoSAC),  inter-alia,  deliberated  on 
enhancing  disclosure  requirements  with  respect  to  public  issuances  of  Non-Convertible 
Debentures  having  below  investment  grade  credit  rating  and  prescribing  a  ‘Risk-o-meter’ 
with respect to such issuances. Based on the recommendations of CoBoSAC, the proposals 
for public comments are as follows- 
 

 

F.  Proposals: 

 

1.  It  is  proposed  to  enhance  disclosure  requirements  with  respect  to  such  issuances  and 

simultaneously also introduce Risk-o-Meter. 

 

2.  Introduction of ‘Risk-o-Meter’ or ‘Rate-o-Meter’ 

 

2.1. Credit  Ratings  play  an  important  role  in  the  investment  decision  of  the  investor. 
Currently,  an  issuer  indicates  the  credit  rating  on  the  front  page  of  the  Offer 
Document/Prospectus. An example of the disclosure is mentioned below- 
 

 

 

2.2. An investor, especially retail investor may miss the abovementioned disclosure on the 
credit rating easily. Since rating is an important factor to make an investment decision, 
it  is  felt  that  an  easier  and  better  alternative  would  be  to  introduce  the  rating  in  a 
pictograph or picto-meter format. 

 

2.3. The pictorial representation may be similar to a “Risk-o-meter” which was introduced 
in the offer documents/ schemes of mutual funds or like a speedometer in a car (herein 
after  referred  to  as  “Risk-o-meter”).  A  sample  format  of  the  “Risk-o-meter”  is  shown 
below: 

 

 

 

4 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

AA 

AAA 

Low 

“Risk-o-meter” 

BBB 

BB 

B 

A 

C 

D 

     High 

*Refer table on the back side for explanation of ratings 
 

2.4. The concept of the ‘Risk-o-meter’ would be to draw attention of the investors towards 
the credit rating of the issue. This form of meter may be more relevant than the text on 
rating in the prospectus for investors, particularly retail, as it will make things easy to 
understand  for  them.  The  idea  is  not  only  to  caution  the  investors  but  to  enlighten 
them about the risk factor involved with the debt issue.  

 

2.5. The rating to be displayed on the ‘Risk-o-meter’ would be the latest rating provided by 
the  credit  rating  agency.  Modifiers  such  as  ‘+’  (plus)  or  ’-‘(minus)  may  be  included,  if 
applicable, in the meter. Risk-o-meter shall be exhibited prominently on the front page 
of the offer document/prospectus.  

 

2.6. An asterisk mark shall be put on the ‘Risk-o-meter’ and an explanation of all the credit 
ratings  provided  by  the  credit  rating  agency  shall  be  printed  on  the  back  side  of  the 
front page in tabular format so that the investors can understand the relevance of the 
credit rating of that issue vis-a-vis other ratings provided by the credit rating agency. 

 

2.7. Questions for public comments- 

 
2.7.1.  Which name shall be appropriate ‘Risk-o-meter’ or ‘Rate-o-meter’? 

 

2.7.2.  Whether such kind of meter should be introduced for all issuers or should it be 

introduced only for the issuers who issue below investment grade securities? 
 
 
 
 

5 

 

 

 

 
3.  Enhancing Disclosures- Advertisements 

 
Advertisements in case of issuance of debt securities primarily focus on the coupon rate and 
not on the credit rating of the issue. Credit rating is an important factor considered by the 
investor while taking investment decisions. Further, a pictorial representation of the credit 
rating  (‘Risk-o-meter’  or  ‘Rate-o-meter’,  whatever  it  may  be  called)  as  mentioned  above 
attracts the attention of the investor.  
 
3.1. Questions for public comments- 
 

3.1.1.  Whether the advertisements of public issue of debt securities shall mandatorily 

contain the ‘Risk-o-meter’ or ‘Rate-o-meter’, (whatever it may be called)? 

 

4.  Restriction on  Investment  Amount-  Retail  Investor  and  Allocation to  Retail  Investors  for 

Below Investment Grade Debt Issuances 
 
Below  investment  grade  debt  issuances  have  a  relatively  higher  credit  risk  but  offer  high 
coupon rate due to which retail investors are attracted towards these. Hence, it is felt that 
there needs to be an additional layer of protection for the retail investors who subscribe to 
these debt securities. 
 
4.1. Classification of an Investor as “Retail Investor”: 

 
ILDS Regulations allow issuance of debt securities through public issue. The regulations 
do not differentiate between the types of investors and do not prescribe any maximum 
or minimum limit for any investor (Retail / Institutional). 
 
However,  with  regard  to  issuance  of  tax-free,  secured,  redeemable,  non-convertible 
bonds,  Income  Tax  Act,  1961  mentions  that,  Retail  individual  Investors  means  those 
individual investors, Hindu Undivided Family (through Karta), and Non Resident Indians 
(NRIs),  on  repatriation  as  well  as  non-repatriation  basis,  applying  for  upto  rupees  ten 
lakhs in each issue and individual investors investing more than rupees ten lakhs shall 
be classified as High Net Worth Individuals. 
 
It may also be pertinent to note that, in case of an Initial Public Offering (IPO) of equity 
securities, all investors are allowed to invest in the IPO.  Though SEBI (Issue of Capital 

 

6 

and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations  (“ICDR  Regulations”)  do  not  exclude  any 
investor on the basis of a maximum or minimum investment amount from investing in 
IPO  but  it  does  prescribe  an  allocation  bucket  across  investor  categories.  ICDR 
Regulations, however, define “retail individual investor” as an investor who applies or 
bids for specified securities for a value of not more than two lakh rupees. 

 

 

4.2. Allocation to Retail Investors: 

 
Secured  NCDs  constitute  secured  and  senior  obligations  of  the  issuer  and  generally 
have  first  ranking  pari  passu  with  the  existing  secured  creditors  on  all  loans  and 
advances/  book  debts/  receivables  and  subject  to  any  obligations  under  applicable 
statutory and/or regulatory requirements. 
 
Unsecured NCDs constitute unsecured and subordinated  obligations of the issuer and 
rank  pari  passu  inter  se,  and  subject  to  any  obligations  under  applicable  statutory 
and/or  regulatory  requirements.  The  claims  of  the  Unsecured  NCD  holders  are 
subordinated  to  those  of  the  other  creditors  of  the  issue,  subject  to  applicable 
statutory and/or regulatory requirements. It may be noted that there is no regulatory 
requirement in ILDS Regulations with respect to the allocation limits in investment by 
retail investors. 
 
Certain issuers with credit rating below investment grade have issued both Secured and 
Unsecured NCDs through same offer document/prospectus with same/different credit 
ratings.  For  retail  investors  to  differentiate  between  secured  and  unsecured  tranches 
within  the  same  offer  document  and  with  different  credit  ratings  may  be  a  complex 
task.  

 

4.3. Questions for public comments- 

 
4.3.1.  Whether  the  investment  in  such  issuances  shall  be  allowed  without  putting 
restrictions  on  investment  by  retail  investor  but  with  the  additional  disclosures 
like Risk-o-meter etc. as mentioned above? 

 

OR 

 

7 

 

 

 

4.3.2.  Whether  a  limit  shall  be  prescribed  on  the  investment  amount  by  a  retail 
investor, i.e. defining “Retail Investor”? The definition of Retail Investor shall be 
as under, 
 

a.  Option A- An investor who subscribes to the debt securities for a value of a 

minimum prescribed amount, say two lakh rupees.  
 

OR 

 

b.  Option  B-  An  investor  who  subscribes  to  the  debt  securities  for  a  value  of 

not more than a prescribed amount, say two lakh rupees. 
 
Further, it may be observed from pt. 4.2 that there is a stark difference in the 
priority of claims of the Secured and Unsecured NCD holders. In case Option 
B  is  accepted  and  considering  the  participation  and  interest  of  retail 
investors in the below investment grade issuances which contain relatively 
high  risk,  it  is  proposed  to  limit  the  investment  in  such  issuances  by  retail 
investors as follows- 
 

i.  For Secured NCDs, the allocation in the Issue to Retail Investor shall not 
be more than a certain maximum amount, say 10%, of the Base Issue 
Size. 
 

ii.  As  Unsecured  NCDs  contain  higher  risk  than  Secured  ones,  for 
Unsecured NCDs, the allocation in the Issue to Retail Investor shall not 
be  more  than  a  certain  maximum  amount,  say  5%,  of  the  Base  Issue 
Size. 

 

OR 

 

4.3.3.  Whether the investment in such issuances  shall be allowed with both i.e. the 
limits  on  investment  by  retail  investor  as  mentioned  at  pt.  4.3.2  and  with  the 
additional disclosures like Risk-o-meter etc. as mentioned at pt. 2 above? 
 

G.  Any  other  suggestions  for  enhancing  the  disclosures  and  advertisement  guidelines 
with regard to the Public Issuance of Non-Convertible Debentures having credit rating 

8 

 

 

 

below Investment Grade. 
 

H.  Public Comments: 

 
In  light  of  the  above,  public  comments  are  invited  on  the  proposals  contained  in  the 
consultation paper. Comments/ suggestions may be provided in the format given below: 
 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization 

Sr. No. 

Pertains  to  Point 
No. 

Suggestions 

Rationale 

 
The comments may either be forwarded by email to ilds@sebi.gov.in or may be sent by 
post to the following address latest by January 29, 2017. 
 
Ms. Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Division of Funds I 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, G Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra East 
Mumbai - 400 051 
 
Issued on: January 04, 2017 

9 

 

 

