 

 

Consultation  Paper  on  Amendment  to  SC(R)(SECC)  Regulations,  2012  to 
enableCommodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  to  Deal  in  Instruments  relating  to 
Commodity Derivatives including Options 
 
1.  Objective 
 

1.1. To solicit views from public on suggestion pertaining to amending the definition 
of  “Commodity  Derivatives  Exchange”  and  "National  Commodity  Derivatives 
Exchange" and also" provisions applicable to commodity derivatives exchanges" 
in  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing 
Corporations) Regulations, 2012 (SECC Regulations) in order to enable trading 
instruments  relating  to  commodity  derivatives  including  options  on  commodity 
derivatives exchanges. 

 
2.  Background 

 
2.1. Hon’ble Union Finance Minister, while presenting the budget for the FY 2016-
2017,  announced  permitting  new  derivatives  products  in  the  commodity 
derivatives  markets. 
the 
recommendations  made  by  the  Commodities  Derivatives  Advisory  Committee 
(CDAC),vide  circular  dated  September  28,  2016,  the  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges were permitted by SEBI to introduce trading in 'options'. 
 

thereof,  and  also  based  on 

In  pursuance 

2.2. Thereafter,  SEBI  in  consultation  with  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  and 
market participants has been working on various aspects as product design, risk 
management  norms  and  is  in  the  process  of  finalizing  the  same  for  permitting 
options trading on the commodity derivatives exchanges. 
 

2.3. Among other alternatives, one design that is being primarily being considered is 
options with commodity futures contracts as underlying and the option to settle 
by  devolving  into  the  commodity  futures  contracts  on  expiry.  This  is  akin  to 
derivative of derivative  which  has  not been tried in Indian  Equities  markets so 
far.  This  being  a  complex  product,  there  is  a  need  to  assess  whether  Indian 
Commodity  derivatives  markets  are  ready  for  such  complex  products  and 
whether  such  products  provide  for  regulatory  and  tax  arbitrage.  However,  this 
design  is  most  prevalent  and  most  accepted  in  the  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges  globally.  This  alternative  also  seems  to  be  most  suitable  for 
agricultural  commodities  in  India  where  cash  settlement  is  not  appropriate 
because  of  lack  of  ready  availability  of  robust  spot  market  prices  of  the 
underlying commodity of the specified grade/variety. 

 

 

Page 1 of 5 

 

 

2.4. Globally,  all  leading  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  have  options  contracts 
with  futures  contracts  as  underlying  e.g.  Chicago  Board  of  Trade  (CBOT), 
Intercontinental  Exchange (ICE),  Euronext,  Tokyo  Commodity  Exchange 
(TOCOM), New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), London Metal Exchange 
(LME)  etc.,  in  developed  economiesas  well  as  Johannesburg  Stock  Exchange, 
Bursa Malaysia Berhad, Bolsa de Valores, Mercadorias & Futuros de São Paulo 
(BM&FBOVESPA)  in  developing  economies  have  options  on  futures  in 
agricultural as well as non agricultural commodities. 
 

3.  Legal provisions: 
 
In the aforesaid context, the relevant provisions in securities law are as follows: 
 

3.1. The   Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  (SCRA)  has  the  following 

relevant definitions in this regard: 

 
Section 2, (ac) “derivative”— includes  

(A)  a  security  derived  from  a  debt  instrument,  share,  loan,  whether 
secured  or  unsecured,  risk  instrument or  contract for  differences or any 
other form of security;  
(B) a contract which derives its value from the prices, or index of prices, of 
underlying securities; 
(C) commodity derivatives; and  
(D) such other instruments as may be declared by the Central Government 
to be derivatives; 
 

Section 2, (bc) "commodity derivative" means a contract — 

(i)  for  the  delivery  of  such  goods,  as  may  be  notified  by  the  Central 
Government  in  the  Official  Gazette,  and  which  is  not  a  ready  delivery 
contract; or 
(ii) for differences, which derives its value from prices or indices of prices 
of  such  underlying  goods  or  activities,  services,  rights,  interests  and 
events, as may be notified by the Central Government, in consultation with 
the Board, but does not include securities as referred to in sub-clauses (A) 
and (B) of clause (ac); 
 

Section 2, (d) “option in securities” means a contract for the purchase or sale of a 
right to buy or sell, or a right to buy and sell, securities in future, and includes a 
teji, a mandi, a teji mandi, a galli, a put, a call or a put and call in securities; 
 
Section 2, (h) “securities”— include  

 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 

(i)  shares,  scrips,  stocks,  bonds,  debentures,  debenture  stock  or  other 
marketable securities of a like nature in or of any incorporated company 
or other body corporate; 
(ia) derivative;  
……………………………………………………………… 
 
 

3.2. The definition of “Commodity Derivatives Exchange” as per SECC Regulations 

is as under: 
 

2(1)(fa)  “commodity  derivatives  exchange”  means  a  recognized  stock 
exchange  which  assists,  regulates  or  controls  the  business  of  buying, 
selling or dealing only in commodity derivatives. 
 

3.3. The  definition  of  “National  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchange”  as  per  SECC 

Regulations is as under: 

 
2(1)(ia)  "national  commodity  derivatives  exchange"  means  a  commodity 
derivatives  exchange  that  is  demutualized,  has  an  electronic  trading 
platform  and  is  permitted  to  assist,  regulate  or  control  the  business  of 
buying, selling or dealing in derivatives on all commodities as notified by 
the Central Government from time to time. 
 

3.4. The  Provisions  applicable  to  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  as  per  SECC 

Regulations is as under: 

 
44(D)(1)(c)no  commodity  derivatives  exchange  shall  engage  in  any 
activity other than that of assisting, regulating or controlling the business 
of  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in  commodity  derivatives,  except  with  the 
prior permission of the Board; 
 

4.  Need for Amendment: 

 
4.1. Thus, as per the definition in SCRA, a commodity derivatives contract can have 
only  goods/activities/services/rights/interests/events  as  notified  by  central 
government as underlying. 

 

4.2. An  option  contract  with  commodity  futures  as  underlying  and  settled  by 
devolving into (delivery of) the underlying commodity futures may not therefore 
strictly fit within the definition of 'commodity derivatives'  as per SCRA unless 
such  underlying  commodity  futures  contracts  are  notified  by  the  Central 

 

Page 3 of 5 

 

 

Government from time to time. However, such an option contract does fit within 
the  definition  of  “option  in  securities”[  Section  2(d)  of  SCRA]  when  the 
definition  of  “option  in  securities”  is  read  together  with  the  definitions  of 
“securities”, “derivatives” and “commodity derivatives” in SCRA. 
 

4.3. As per SECC Regulations, a commodity derivatives exchange cannot deal in any 
other  product  except  for  commodity  derivatives,  an  option  contract  with 
commodity  futures  as  underlying  and  settled  by  devolving  into  commodity 
futures may not be eligible for trading on commodity derivatives exchanges. 

5.  Proposal: 

 

 

5.1. In  order  to  overcome  this  legal  hurdleso  asto  enable  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges to also organize trading in option contracts with commodity futures as 
underlying,  it  is  being  considered  to  suitably  amend  the  definition  of 
“Commodity  Derivatives  Exchange”  and  "National  Commodity  Derivatives 
Exchange"  and  also  the  "provisions  applicable  to  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges". Thus, the proposed amendments in Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
(Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012 is as follows: 

 
Section 
2(1)(fa) 

2(1)(ia) 

or 

controls 

Old Provisions 
derivatives 
“commodity 
exchange”  means  a  recognized 
stock  exchange  which  assists, 
regulates 
the 
business  of  buying,  selling  or 
dealing  only 
in  commodity 
derivatives. 
national commodity derivatives 
exchange  means  a  commodity 
derivatives  exchange 
is 
demutualized, has an electronic 
trading 
is 
permitted  to  assist,  regulate  or 
control the business of buying, 
selling or dealing in derivatives 
on  all  commodities  as  notified 
by 
the  Central  Government 
from time to time. 

platform 

that 

and 

derivatives 

Proposed Provisions 
exchange” 
“commodity 
means  a  recognized  stock  exchange 
which  assists,  regulates  or  controls  the 
business  of  buying,  selling  or  dealing 
only  in  commodity  derivativesand such 
other instruments relating to commodity 
derivatives including options. 
derivatives 
national 
commodity 
exchange  means 
derivatives 
that 
is 
demutualized,  has  an  electronic  trading 
platform  and  is  permitted  to  assist, 
regulate  or  control  the  business  of 
buying, selling or dealing in derivatives 
and  such  other  instruments  relating  to 
commodity 
including 
optionson all commodities as notified by 
the  Central  Government  from  time  to 
time. 

commodity 
a 
exchange 

derivatives 

 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 

Section 
44(D)(1)(c)  no 

Old Provisions 

than 

commodity 

derivatives 
exchange  shall  engage  in  any 
that  of 
activity  other 
assisting, 
or 
regulating 
controlling 
the  business  of 
buying,  selling  or  dealing  in 
commodity  derivatives,  except 
with the prior permission of the 
Board; 

of 

regulating 

Proposed Provisions 
no  commodity  derivatives  exchange 
shall  engage  in  any  activity  other  than 
assisting, 
that 
or 
controlling 
the  business  of  buying, 
selling  or  dealing 
in  commodity 
derivatives  and  such  other  instruments 
relating 
commodity  derivatives 
including options, except with the prior 
permission of the Board; 

to 

 

 

5.2. Comments from public are invited on proposal /issues contained in this paper and 

should reach SEBI latest by January31, 2017. 
 
The comments may be sent by email to cdmrd_dmp@sebi.gov.inor alternatively 
may be sent to following address: 

 
Shri VikasSukhwal, 
Deputy General Manager, 
Division of Market Policy, 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
C4-A, G-Block, BKC, Bandra East 
Mumbai-400051 
 

Issued on: January 19, 2017 

 

Page 5 of 5 

