भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Consultation  Paper  for  Review  of  Regulations  and  Relevant  Circulars  pertaining  to 

Market  Infrastructure  Institutions  (MIIs)  viz.,  Stock  Exchanges,  Depositories  and 

Clearing Corporations.  

Objective: 

1.1. To  solicit  the  comments/views  from  public  on  the  suggestions  pertaining  to 

amendments  to  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and 

Clearing  Corporations)  Regulations,  2012 

(hereinafter 

referred  as 

“SECC 

Regulations”),  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India  (Depositories  and 

Participants)  Regulations,  1996  (hereinafter  referred  as  “D&P  Regulations”)  and 

SEBI circular dated December 13, 2012. 

 

2.  Background 

2.1. The SEBI Board, in its meeting held on December 22, 2009 decided to constitute a 

committee  to  examine  issues  arising  from  the  ownership  and  governance  of  MIIs. 

Accordingly,  a  committee  (hereinafter  referred  as  “committee”)  was  constituted 

under  the  Chairmanship  of  Dr.  Bimal  Jalan,  Former  Governor,  Reserve  Bank  of 

India.  

 

2.2. The recommendations of the committee were discussed in the Board meeting held 

on April 02, 2012. Subsequently, SECC Regulations were notified on June 20, 2012, 

providing norms for recognition, ownership, governance, listing of Stock Exchanges 

(SEs)  and  Clearing  Corporations 

(CCs).  Similarly,  governance  norms 

for 

depositories  were  notified  vide  amendment  dated  September  11,  2012,  in  D&P 

Regulations. 

    

2.3. Also, SEBI vide circular dated December 13, 2012 prescribed procedural norms on 

Recognition,  Ownership  and  Governance 

for  SEs  and  CCs, 

for  effective 

implementation of the SECC Regulations. 

 

2.4. The committee had recommended that the working of the MII should be reviewed by 

SEBI after five years, as the stock market is evolving and a review may be inevitable 

in light of the new technological developments, introduction of new products, growth 

of financial markets, trade and capital flows and global integration.  

 

 

Page 1 of 2 

2.5. Thereafter,  from  time  to  time  SECC  Regulations  and  D&P  Regulations  have  been 

amended to address the issue arising out of definition of associates, composite cap 

for Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs), inclusion of definition of commodity derivatives 

exchanges, increased limit of foreign investment from 5% to 15% in Indian SEs, on 

account  of  changes  in  the  government  policies,  merger  of  FMC  with  SEBI,  etc. 

Accordingly,  the  circular  dated  December  13,  2012  was  also  modified  to  provide 

appropriate clarifications with regard to definition of associate etc.  

 

2.6. While SEBI has endeavored to keep the SECC Regulations, D&P Regulations and 

the guidance provided through various circulars in line with the ever evolving market 

dynamics,  still  many  representations  have  been  received  from  various  stakeholder 

such  as  MIIs,  on  issues  related  to  governance,  ownership,  concerns  arising  post 

listing  of  stock  exchanges  and  depositories,  etc.  Therefore,  it  is felt  that the  SECC 

Regulations, D&P Regulations and circular dated December 13, 2012 may require a 

comprehensive  review,  so  as  to  address  the  aforesaid  concerns  and  to  keep  the 

SECC Regulations, D&P Regulations in sync with the changing market dynamics. 

 

2.7. As  mentioned  above,  the  committee  had  also  recommended  to  review  the  SECC 

Regulations  after  5  years.  The  period  of  5  years  from  the  date  of  notification  of 

SECC Regulations i.e. June 2012 will be getting over in June 2017. 

 

3.  Proposal:  

To  seek  public  comments  on  provisions  of  SECC  Regulations,  D&P  Regulations,  and 
circulars dated December 13, 2012, so as to review the extant framework comprehensively 
for MIIs in sync with the evolving market structure. 

 

4.   Public Comments 

4.1. In light of the above, Comments from public are invited on proposal contained in this 

paper and should reach SEBI latest by March 31, 2017. 

The comments may be sent by email to  dsa_mrd@sebi.gov.in or alternatively may 

be sent to following address: 

 

Shri Edward Hillary Marandi 

Assistant General Manager, 

Division of SRO Administration 

Market Regulation Department 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

C4-A, G-Block, BKC, Bandra East 

Mumbai-400051 

 

Issued on: February 22, 2017 

 

Page 2 of 2 

