 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã ‚ããõÀ ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã ºããñ¡ 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Discussion Paper on Draft Code of Conduct for Index Providers 

 

Objective  

To solicit the comments/views from market participants on the issue of code of conduct 
for  index  providers  to  enhance  greater  level  of  transparency,  increased  disclosure 
requirements  and  to  provide  broad  framework  for  Index  Providers  while 
managing/maintaining Indices.  

Background 

 
The International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) published a report 
in July 2013, proposing a framework of standards for financial benchmarks (or indices) 
based  on  international  best  practices.  The  framework  promotes  reliability  and 
independence  of  benchmark  administration  and  addresses  governance,  quality, 
transparency and accountability issues. IOSCO report does not expect a one-size-fits-all 
method of implementation of the framework, nor does it restrict an administrator from 
adopting its own unique methodologies or adapting the methodologies to changing 
market conditions.  IOSCO adherents are directed to either comply with the IOSCO 
principles or explain any non-compliance. 
 
Based  on  the  IOSCO  report,  SEBI  constituted  sub-group  comprising  of  expert  from 
various sections of market participants to suggest a framework for regulation of Index 
Providers in India. The Sub-group has prepared a Code  of conduct for Index Providers 
(“Code”) broadly based on the IOSCO framework for adoption in India. While the Code 
sets  out  uniform  expectations,  it  does  not  expect  a  one-size-fits-all  method  of 
implementation by Index Providers. Indeed, given the large universe of indices and 
possible impact on market dynamics, implementation of the Code may not be identical 
for each Index; rather, these would be broad standards that could be met in different 
ways, depending on specificities of each Index. Application of these principles should 
be proportional to the size and risks posed by each Index and/or Index Providers and 
the index-setting process.  
 
The purpose of the proposed Code is to set forth standards to be adopted by the Index 
Providers in order to ensure the high quality and integrity of the Indices administered, 
maintained or calculated by the Index Providers. 

Code (“Code”) for Index Providers 

This Code prescribes a framework of standards that Index Providers should follow to 
promote the reliability of the Index Administration Process and to address governance, 
quality, transparency and accountability issues and is applicable to Indices (as defined 
herein).  

A.  Applicability of Code of Conduct:  

 

 

1 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã ‚ããõÀ ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã ºããñ¡ 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

“Index  Providers  providing  Administrative  services  (such  as  determining  Index 
composition, governing an Index methodology and/ or otherwise providing index 
maintenance  services)  in  India  for  Indian  markets  are  required  to  adhere  to  the 
proposed Code of Conduct. 
 
Foreign entities from jurisdictions with any type of membership of Financial Action 
Task Force (FATF), can provide Administrative services (such as determining Index 
composition, governing an Index methodology and/ or otherwise providing index 
maintenance services) for Indian indices where such indices are being used as the 
basis of Products in India. Such entities are required to adhere to the proposed Code 
of Conduct”.  

B.  Governance 

An Index Provider should have appropriate governance arrangements in place in 
order to protect the integrity of the Index Administration Process, mitigate conflicts 
of  interest,  and  segregate  those  responsible  for  index  governance  from  those 
responsible for commercializing the indices by implementing appropriate firewalls 
and employing separate reporting lines for each function.  

1.  Overall Responsibility of an Index Provider 

An Index Provider should have primary responsibility for all aspects of its Index 
Administration Process such as the development, calculation and maintenance 
of  an  Index  and  the  establishment  of  credible  and  transparent  governance, 
oversight and accountability procedures. Regardless of the particular structure 
for Index Administration, an Index Provider should be the entity with overall 
responsibility for the integrity of its Index. An Index Provider jointly owning an 
Index  with another entity should establish  clear roles  and  responsibilities  for 
each party and design clear standards for its activities to facilitate delivering the 
Index according to the Index Provider’s Methodology. 

2.  Oversight of Third Parties 

Where activities relating to the Index Administration Process are undertaken 
by  parties  other  than  the  Index  Provider  or  its  affiliates,  an  Index  Provider 
should have in place an appropriate framework to monitor such third parties’ 
activities with the objective of complying with this Code. The framework should 
include  clearly  defined  written  arrangements  setting  out  the  roles  and 
obligations  of  the  parties  involved.  This shall  not  apply  in  relation  to  a  third 
party  from  whom  an  Index  Provider  sources  data  if  that  third  party  is  a 
Regulated Market or Exchange. 

3.  Conflicts of Interest 

The Index Provider should have policies and procedures to manage conflicts of 
interest and to protect the integrity and independence of the various functions 
performed  in  connection  with  administering  its  Indices.  An  Index  Provider 
should document, implement and enforce, as far as practicable, these policies 
2 | P a g e  

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã ‚ããõÀ ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã ºããñ¡ 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

and  procedures  for  identification,  disclosure,  management,  mitigation  or 
avoidance of conflicts of interest. The Index Provider should have policies that 
prevent  personal  interests  or  business  connections  from  compromising  the 
performance  of its  functions, put  in place effective  procedures to control the 
exchange  of  information  among  staff  engaged  in  activities  involving  any 
potential  risk  of  conflicts  of  interest,  require  its  employees  to  comply  with 
applicable  laws  and  regulations  and  protect  confidential  and  material  non-
public information.  This policy should apply to individuals responsible for any 
aspect  of  the  oversight  function  with  respect  to  the  Indices  as  well  as  those 
individuals engaged in the day-to-day governance and operations of calculating 
and maintaining Indices. 
 
Policies should: 
  Specify who has access to Sensitive Information 
  Specify processes for deployment of a firewall for Sensitive Information 
  Specify  trading  restrictions  and  pre-clearance  requirements  for  securities 
impacted by pending index changes for appropriate personnel both of which 
should adhere to applicable laws.  

4.  Control Framework  

An Index Provider should have in place a control framework for calculating, 
maintaining  and  distributing  the  Index.  The  control  framework  should  be 
documented;  and,  upon  request,  made  available  to  the  relevant  Regulatory 
Authorities as appropriate on need to know basis. The control framework should 
have  an  effective  whistle-blowing  mechanism  in  order  to  facilitate  early 
awareness of potential misconduct. The Control framework should include the 
following components: 
  Policies and procedures as prescribed in Section B-3.  
  Quality of the Index and Methodology: The Index Provider should have in 
place robust processes and a Methodology for calculating and maintaining 
the  Index.  As  set  forth  in  Section  C,  the  methodology  document  should 
include  a  scenario  where  discretionary  judgment  could  be  exercised  in 
connection  with  rebalance  decisions  and/or  the  revision  of  constituents 
within indices. 

  Robust  mechanism to  ensure  clear accountability and  effective  complaint 

management.  

  Robust  infrastructure  for  management  of  operational  risk:  An  Index 
Provider should have a sound framework for documenting, maintaining and 
testing business continuity and recovery procedures.  

  Whistle-blowing  mechanism:  A  whistle-blower  policy  should  be  made 
available to each employee. The objective of the policy is to encourage and 
support the making of disclosures by employees who observe any unethical 
practice or grave misconduct. 

  The Index Provider should provide training to all its employees on ethics 

and conflicts of interest on a periodic basis. 

  A framework addressing the protection of Sensitive Information and trading 

restrictions mentioned in Section B-3 shall be in place. 

3 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã ‚ããõÀ ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã ºããñ¡ 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

5.  Internal Oversight 

An Index Provider should have an oversight function for all aspects of the Index 
Administration Process. The oversight function should be separate and distinct 
from the direct day-to-day process of Index calculation and maintenance and, 
as such, be independent of the actual Index calculation process.  
The oversight function should be entrusted to individuals who are experienced 
and knowledgeable in the subject matter. 

The oversight function should Include: 

  Review of any need for change in the Index design or computation 
Methodology  due  to  changes  in  market  dynamics  or  any  other 
reason. It should evaluate the proposed approach for the change, if 
any, along with its impact on the existing Subscribers. 

  Overseeing results of audits and direct implementation of remedial 

actions recommended by those audits 

  Review of procedures for cessation of an Index. 
  Overseeing  standard  procedures  followed  in  the  exercise  of  Expert 

Judgment. 

  An  Index Provider should periodically review the  conditions in the 
underlying Interest which the Index measures to determine whether 
the  Interest  has  undergone  structural  changes  that  might  require 
changes to the design of the Methodology. 

C.  Quality of the Index  

6.  Index Design 

An  Index  design  should  take  into  account  factors  which  result  in  a 
representation of the Interest that the Index seeks to measure. The design of the 
Index  should  also  seek  to  eliminate  factors  that  the  Index  Provider  believes 
might result in a distortion of the price, rate or value of that Index.     

7.  Data Sufficiency  

To  calculate  an  Index,  an  Index  Provider  should  use  data  that,  in  its  view, 
considering  the  availability  of  data,  are  sufficient  to  represent  the  Interest 
measured by the Index. As far as reasonably practicable, such data should be 
based  on  observable  transactions  that  are  traded  or  reported  on  Regulated 
Markets  or  Exchanges.  This  does  not  restrict  an  Index  Provider  from 
constructing  Indices  based  on  non-transaction  data  which  are  anchored  by 
actual market activity.  

8.  Data Inputs  

An  Index  Provider  should  establish  and  make  publicly  available  clear 
guidelines  regarding  the  data  inputs  and  how  such  data  are  used  for  the 
calculation and maintenance of an Index. An Index Provider should use inputs 

 

4 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã ‚ããõÀ ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã ºããñ¡ 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

consistent with the approach to ensure quality, integrity and continuity of its 
Index calculations and maintenance as set out in the Index Methodology.  

9.  Data Submitters and Submissions 

An  Index  Provider  may  obtain  Submissions  from  across  a  wide  universe  of 
market segments. The Index Provider  should perform due diligence on its Data 
Submitters and provide Non-regulated Data Submitters with a Data Submitters 
Code of Conduct which should address quality, oversight, conflicts of interest 
management, record-keeping and whistleblowing. 

10. Transparency of Index Calculation and Maintenance  

An Index Provider should make the Methodology documents publicly available 
to facilitate an understanding of how the Index seeks to measure the Interest 
and how the Index is calculated and maintained. The Index Provider should put 
in  place  clear  guidelines  in  cases  when  the  Index  Provider  uses  Expert 
Judgment to maintain an Index. 
 
In order to bring about the transparency in the dissemination of information 
about changes to Index  constituents, an Index  Provider, should  provide clear 
guidelines  specifying  the  timing  of  announcements  for  changes  to  Index 
constituents (e.g. replacement of constituents in the Indices) in its Methodology 
document. 

D.  Quality of the Methodology  

11. Content of the Methodology  

An  Index  Provider  should  document  and  make  publicly  available  the 
Methodology  used  for  Index  calculation  and  maintenance  to  allow  an 
understanding of how the Index is derived and to assess its representativeness, 
relevance and appropriateness as a reference for financial instruments. 
 
In  its  Methodology  document,  an  Index  Provider,  in  order  to  bring  about 
transparency  in  the  dissemination  of  information  about  Index  constituent 
changes  (adds,  deletions  or  replacements)  in  the  indices,  should  provide  for 
clear  guidelines  addressing  time  frames  for  changes  to  Index  constituents 
which are designed to allow sufficient implementation time. 

12. Changes to the Methodology  

An Index Provider should seek market feedback as appropriate for significant 
changes  to  the  Index  Methodology.  An  Index  Provider  should  review  the 
Methodology  for  an  Index  on  a  periodic  basis  and  may  propose  to  make 
changes,  if  necessary,  to  adhere  to  its  objective.  Wherever  applicable  and 
practical,  the  Index  Provider  should  consult  and  discuss  the  change  in 
Methodology with stakeholders  (e.g., Market  Participants, Subscribers)  before 
implementing  the  change  in  Methodology.  The  Index  Provider  should  also 

 

5 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã ‚ããõÀ ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã ºããñ¡ 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

provide advance notice of the implementation of the proposed change in the 
Methodology. 

13. Transition  

An Index Provider should have policies and procedures to address the need for 
possible  cessation  of  an  Index.  These  policies  and  procedures  may  be 
proportional  to the  estimated  impact  on  Market  Participants  and Subscribers.  
The Index Provider should provide reasonable notice and inform Subscribers 
about the possible cessation of an Index. Wherever reasonably practical and if 
required by the Subscriber for the Index that is to be discontinued completely, 
the Index Provider should maintain the Index for a reasonable period of time. 
The Index Provider, if feasible, should also provide an alternative Index within 
a reasonable timeframe. 

14. Internal Controls over Data Collection 

An Index Provider should maintain appropriate internal controls to address the 
processes for selection of data sources and Data Submitters, for data collection, 
and  for  the  protection  of  data  integrity  and  confidentiality,  including  the 
maintenance of appropriate firewalls.  

E.  Accountability  

15. Complaints Procedure  

An  Index  Provider  should  establish  and  make  publicly  available,  complaints 
redress  policy  by  which  Subscribers  may  submit  complaints  concerning 
whether a specific Index is representative of the underlying Interest it seeks to 
measure,  application  of  the  Methodology  to  a  specific  Index  calculation  and 
other decisions in relation to an Index Administration Process. 
 
 

16. Audits  

An  Index  Provider  should  arrange  for  periodic  review  and  report  on  its 
adherence  to  the  stated  criteria,  including  the  Methodology  criteria.  For  this 
purpose, the Index Provider should use an independent auditor with appropriate 
experience  and  capability.  The  Index  Provider  should  make  available  on  its 
website such auditor’s certification no less frequently than bi-annually for access 
by its market participants, subscribers or the Regulatory Authorities. 

17. Audit Trail  

The Index Provider should retain written records and Audit Trails for five years. 

18. Reporting Requirement 

Index providers are required to submit a monthly/ quarterly report providing 
details regarding compliance with the code of conduct to SEBI.   

6 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã ‚ããõÀ ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã ºããñ¡ 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

F.  Licensing Indices in foreign jurisdictions 

19. While licensing indices in foreign jurisdictions index providers are required to 

follow either of the following broad parameters; 

 
Option- A 
 
“Any  new  license  of  Indian  Indices  by  an  Indian  Index  provider  in  other 
jurisdiction  will  be  subject  to  meeting  all  of  the  following  criteria  for  the 
Jurisdiction/Stock Exchange: 

  Membership of Financial Action Task Force (FATF). 
  Jurisdictions which have not been identified by FATF as jurisdictions with 

strategic AML/CFT deficiencies including its member countries. 

  Jurisdiction  where  MoU  is  signed  for  information  sharing,  information 

exchange etc.  

  The  proposed counterpart Exchange  shall be  recognized Stock  Exchange 

with minimum 5 years of track record in business.  

  Any other condition as may be specified.  

Or  
 
Option B 
 
“Any  new  license  of  Indian  Indices  by  an  Indian  Index  provider  in  other 
jurisdiction  will  be  subject  to  meeting  the  following  criteria  for  the 
Jurisdiction/Stock Exchange: 

 

 

  Any type of membership of FATF including member, affiliated members 
and  countries  having  observer’s  status.  Foreign  jurisdiction  is  defined  as 
under; 

“foreign jurisdiction" means a country, other than India, whose securities market 
regulator is a signatory to International Organization of Securities Commission’s 
Multilateral  Memorandum  of  Understanding  (IOSCO's  MMOU)  (Appendix  A 
signatories)  or  a  signatory  to  bilateral  Memorandum  of  Understanding  with  the 
Board, and which is not identified in the public statement of Financial Action Task 
Force as:  
 

  a jurisdiction having a strategic Anti-Money Laundering or Combating the 
Financing of Terrorism deficiencies to which counter measures apply; or  
  a  jurisdiction  that  has  not  made  sufficient  progress  in  addressing  the 
deficiencies  or  has  not  committed  to  an  action  plan  developed  with  the 
Financial Action Task Force to address the deficiencies; 

7 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã ‚ããõÀ ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã ºããñ¡ 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

20. Disclosure Requirement 

Index  providers  are  required  to  inform  SEBI  immediately  upon  signing 
agreement with foreign jurisdiction for licensing indices. The index providers 
are required to necessarily intimate SEBI before any product is launched in the 
foreign jurisdiction based on such indices in foreign market. 

21. Public Comments 

In  order  to  take  into  consideration  views  of  various  stakeholders,  public 
comments are solicited keeping in mind the following issues; 
  

1.  Whether above code of conduct for index providers mitigate the concerns 
of  misuse  of  information  associated  with  rebalancing/reconstitution  of 
indices? 
 

2.  Whether  above  code  of  conduct  for  index  providers  provide  for  greater 
level of disclosure and transparency regarding stocks moving on and out 
of indices? 

 

3.  Whether above code of conduct are sufficient to provide broad framework 
for  Index  Providers  while  managing/maintaining  Indices  including 
provisions for licensing indices in foreign jurisdictions? 

 
 
Comments/ suggestions may be provided in the format given below:-  
 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization 

Sr. No. 

Issues 

Suggestions  

Rationale 

 

 

 

Comments  may  please  be  emailed  on  or  before  June  20,  2017  to 
vishalp@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to:-  

 

 

 

 

Vishal M Padole 
Assistant General Manager 
Division of Policy, Market Regulation Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block , 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),  
Mumbai - 400 051  

 

**************** 

8 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 

