 

Consultation Paper on Amendments/Clarifications to the SEBI 

(Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 

 

 

 

Background 

SEBI had issued a consultation paper on October 07, 2016 seeking public comments on 

the clarifications/amendments  to  SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations,  2013  (‘IA 

Regulations’).    Large  number  of  comments  have  been  received  on  the  proposals 

enumerated in the consultation paper. Based on the feedback received and meetings held 

with market participants, the following proposals are stated below for public comments. 

1.  Clear  segregation  between  investment  advisory  and  distribution/execution 

services: 

To  prevent  the  conflict  of  interest  that  exists  between  “advising”  of  investment 

products  and  “selling”  of  investment  products  by  the  same  entity/person,  there 

should  be  clear  segregation  between  these  two  activities.  The  investment  adviser 

should act in the best interest of the client and should not receive commission from 

the product manufacturer. Further, the investment adviser shall act with due skill, care 

and diligence and shall ensure that its advice is offered after thorough analysis and 

taking  into  account  the  available  investment  alternatives  and  matching  them  with 

client’s  suitability  and  needs.    Thus,  entities  engaged  solely  in  the  business  of 

“advising”  on  investment  products  shall  not  be  permitted  to  sell  any  products  to 

prevent conflict of interest. 

 

 

Page 1 of 11 

 

 

 

Existing Provision 

In  terms  of  Regulation  22  of  IA  Regulations,  banks,  NBFCs  and  body  corporates 

providing  investment  advisory  services  to  their  clients  shall  keep  their  investment 

advisory services segregated from distribution/execution services.  Such entities are 

allowed  to  offer  investment  advisory  services  only  through  separately  identifiable 

departments or divisions (SIDDs). The distribution or execution services can only be 

offered subject to the following: 

i.  The client shall not be under any obligation to avail the distribution or execution 

services offered by the investment adviser. 

 

ii.  The  investment  adviser  shall  maintain  arms-length  relationship  between  its 

activities as investment adviser and distribution or execution services. 

 

iii.  All fees and charges paid to distribution or execution service providers by the 

client  shall  be  paid  directly  to  the  service  providers  and  not  through  the 

investment adviser. 

Proposal: 

Regulation 22 and other applicable provisions of IA Regulations are proposed to be 

amended as under: 

i.  There shall be clear segregation between the investment advisory activities and 

distribution/execution services. An entity offering investment advisory services 

shall not be permitted to offer distribution/execution services. 

 

Page 2 of 11 

 

 

 

ii.  The  existing provision  on offering execution/distribution  services by  banks, 

NBFCs  and  body  corporates  through  separately  identifiable  departments  or 

divisions (SIDDs) shall be omitted.  

 

iii.  Banks,  NBFCs  and  body  corporates  offering  investment  advisory  services 

through  separately  identifiable  departments  or  divisions  (SIDDs)  under  the 

existing  framework  shall  segregate  the  same  within  a  period  of  six  months 

through a separate subsidiary.  

 

iv.  Investment  advisers  who  provide  holistic  advice/financial  planning  on 

financial  products  across  multiple  categories,  viz.,  securities,  insurance, 

pension, deposits, etc. need to obtain permission from the specific regulator 

and comply with the regulations of the respective regulators, if any. 

 

v.  Entities/persons who are providing advice solely on non-securities shall not 

come under the purview of the SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013. 

 

2.  Distribution of Mutual Fund Schemes by Distributors: 

Existing Provision 

Regulation 4(d) of the IA Regulations, inter alia, provides exemption from registration 

as an investment adviser to any distributor of mutual funds, who is a member of a 

self-regulatory organisation recognised by SEBI or is registered with an association of 

asset management companies of mutual funds, providing any investment advice to its 

clients incidental to its primary activity. 

 

 

Page 3 of 11 

 

 

Proposal: 

 

 

In  order  to  have  clear  segregation  between  advising  on  mutual  fund  products  and 

selling/distribution  of  mutual  fund  products,  it  is  proposed  that  Mutual  Fund 

Distributors (MFDs) can only explain/describe the features of mutual fund schemes 

of  which  they are  distributors  and  distribute  them  while  ensuring  suitability  of  the 

scheme  to  the  investors.  They  can  distribute  suitable  mutual  fund  schemes  to  the 

investors describing material facts of the scheme and the associated risk factors of the 

scheme, etc., subject to the following conditions:  

i.  MFDs should not give any investment advice. 

 

 

ii.  MFDs should offer suitable scheme to the investor considering all the available 

schemes distributed by them. 

 

iii.  MFDs  should  not  offer  any  financial  planning  services  to  the  investor  which 

requires risk profiling, financial goal setting, etc. 

 

 MFDs shall stop usage of nomenclature ‘Independent Financial Adviser’ or  
“Financial Adviser”; rather use the term “Mutual Fund Distributor” only; 

iv. 

 

v.  MFDs shall refrain from mis-selling of mutual fund schemes. There shall be strict 

enforcement  action  on  mis-selling  of  mutual  funds  and  constant  supervision 

towards ensuring suitability of mutual funds sold to investors. 

 

vi.  MFDs shall be required to clearly disclose the following in a form to the investors 

which  would  be  signed  off  by  the  investors  before  making  any  investment  in 

mutual fund scheme through such distributor: 

Page 4 of 11 

 

 

 

 

a.  The list of mutual funds where he is acting as a distributor 

b.  the commission earned/ to be earned,  

c.  suitability of the product sold to the investor, 

d.  Disclaimer that he/she may not be acting in the best interest of investor. 

 

vii.  MFDs  who  want  to  get  registered  as  investment  advisers  shall  be  allowed  to 

receive trail commission for the products already distributed subject to disclosure 

to the clients. They shall not be allowed to sell/distribute any investment product 

pursuant to grant of registration as investment adviser. 

 

3.  Incidental advice by recognised intermediaries: 

Existing Framework 

Under the existing framework, exemptions from registration as an investment adviser 

have been granted to various persons under Regulation 4 of IA Regulations, such as 

stock brokers, portfolio managers giving investment advice to their clients incidental 

to their primary activity, etc. 

Proposal: 

i.  In  order  to  have  clear  segregation  between  investment  advisory  services  and 

other services, it is proposed that all the intermediaries as stated above who are 

receiving  separate  identifiable  consideration  for  investment  advisory  services 

shall  need  to  register  with  SEBI  as  an  investment  adviser.  In  case  they  get 

registered 

as 

investment 

advisers, 

they 

shall  not  provide 

any 

distribution/execution services.  

 

 

Page 5 of 11 

 

 

ii.  All the persons who are engaged in providing holistic advice/financial planning 

services  shall  mandatorily  be  required  to  register  themselves  as  an  investment 

 

adviser.    

 

4.  Relaxation in registration requirements 

Existing Framework 

Under  the  existing  framework,  there  is  no  networth  requirement  and  qualification 

requirement for acting as a mutual fund distributor. There is only the requirement of 

obtaining AMFI Registration Number (ARN) and NISM certification for becoming 

eligible to distribute mutual fund schemes. On the other hand, for getting registered 

as an investment adviser, the persons/representatives engaged in providing advisory 

services  have  to  be  a postgraduate or  a  graduate  with  5  years  of  experience  in  the 

financial services industry. The networth requirement for body corporates and LLPs 

is Rs. 25 lakhs and the registration fees is Rs. 5 lakhs for a period of 5 years. The ARN 

fees  is  very  low  as  compared  to  the  registration  fee  for  investment  advisers. 

Investment advisers are also required to comply with higher requirements than that 

of mutual fund distributors such as fiduciary obligation, maintenance of records, etc.  

 

In  view  of  the  above  differences  in  eligibility  requirements,  the  following  is  being 

proposed. 

Proposal: 

i.  It  is  proposed  that  the  educational  qualification  shall  be  relaxed  for 

representatives/employees  of  registered  investment  advisers.    They  shall  be  a 

 

Page 6 of 11 

 

 

 

graduate in any discipline. In the case of individual investment advisers, there is 

no  relaxation  with  respect  to  eligibility  criteria  and  they  shall  need  to  fulfill 

eligibility  and  certification  requirements  as  specified  in  the  IA  Regulations. 

However, in the case of partnership firms, atleast one of the partners, and in the 

case  of  body  corporates,  at  least  one  of  the  representatives  shall  fulfill  the 

eligibility and certification requirements as specified in the IA Regulations.  

 

ii.  The net worth requirement for body corporates shall be reduced to Rs. 10 lakhs 

from the current requirement of Rs. 25 lakhs.  

 

iii.  Application fees for corporate applicants, for initial 5 years, shall be reduced to 

Rs. 10,000 from the current requirement of Rs. 25,000 and the registration fees 

shall be reduced to Rs. 1,00,000 from the current requirement of Rs. 5,00,000. 

The subsequent fee to continue as investment adviser, after five years from the 

date  of  registration,  shall  remain  as  Rs.  5  lakhs.  For  individual  applicants  and 

partnership firms, the application fees of Rs. 5,000 and registration fees of Rs. 

10,000 shall continue.  

 

5.  Regulation of the activity of ranking of Mutual Fund schemes  

Ranking  of  Mutual  Fund  (MF)  Schemes  refers  to  relative  ranking  of  mutual  fund 

schemes within a peer group based on the past performance of the scheme. Ranking 

is  not  an  opinion  on  the  credit  quality  of  the  mutual  fund  scheme.  It  is  simply  a 

statistical  sorting  of  similar  peer  group  mutual  fund  schemes  based  on  their  past 

performances,  risk  and  return  analysis  etc.  and  is  not  an  opinion  on  the  future 

performance of the scheme/ portfolio. Since ranking of Mutual Fund Schemes is an 

 

Page 7 of 11 

 

 

 

objective  statistical  analysis  of  various  parameters  like  risk  and  return,  liquidity, 

performance ratio etc. for past years, it appears to be more of a research work that 

serves as the basis for investment decision by the investors.  

Ranking agencies engaged in the activity of ranking of MF schemes play an important 

role  in  assisting  investors,  especially  investors  in  the  direct  plan,  while  making 

investment  decisions.  However,  learning  from  lessons  of  the  past,  wherein  rate 

shopping had been observed and the methodology for ranking was not transparent, 

MFs were prohibited from advertising MF scheme ranking; it is therefore important 

to bring the activity of ranking of MF schemes under the regulatory ambit prior to 

allowing publishing of ranking of MF schemes in advertisements issued by MFs.  

Internationally also, MF scheme advertisements are allowed to be accompanied with 

the  respective  ranking  of  the  scheme.  In  the  ongoing  Financial  sector  assessment 

program (FSAP) exercise for India, the assessment team, in their draft report has also 

stated that “over time, it may be appropriate to relax strict limitations on advertising that prohibit 

the  use  of  third  party  non-compensated  fund  rankings  or  other  information  that  is  not  false  or 

misleading”. 

In  the  SEBI  Board  meeting  dated  January  14,  2017,  it  was  decided  that,  prior  to 

allowing publishing of ratings of MF schemes, the activity of rankings of MF schemes  

needs to be brought under the regulatory ambit. 

Proposal 

Considering the activity of Ranking of Mutual Fund Schemes as research report to 

the public that serves as a basis for their investment decision, it is proposed that the 

 

Page 8 of 11 

 

 

 

activity  of  ranking  of  MF  schemes  shall  be  brought  under  the  regulatory  ambit  of 

SEBI (Research Analysts) Regulations, 2014. Accordingly, the definition of research 

analyst shall be appropriately broadened so as to cover such entities in the definition 

of research analyst. A separate chapter shall be made in the RA regulations on ranking 

of mutual fund schemes prescribing methodology, disclosure and other requirements, 

etc. as under:  

i.  Agencies/entities providing ranking of mutual fund schemes shall be required to 

register under SEBI (Research Analysts) Regulations, 2014. 

 

ii.  Agencies/entities providing  ranking of mutual  fund  schemes  on  public  media 

such as newspaper, website, etc., need not obtain registration from SEBI subject 

to  compliance  with  the  requirements  specified  such  as  disclosure  of  financial 

interest,  holdings,  methodology,  etc.  The  proposed  guidelines  on  ranking  of 

mutual fund schemes shall cover the following: 

 

a.  A  Mutual  Fund  ranking  entity  shall  be  defined  as  any  entity  that  ranks 

performance of MFs for general information of the common investors. 

 

b.  A MF ranking entity shall rank the performance of mutual fund schemes 

through  an  objective  methodology  that 

is  based  on  quantitative 

performance measurements and applied consistently to all mutual funds. 

 

c.  A  MF  ranking  entity  should  prominently  disclose  the  criteria,  name  of 

category,  number  of  funds  in  category  and  the  data  used  for  ranking 

different schemes. Also, the disclosure should be in a manner that is easily 

understandable by common investors.  

Page 9 of 11 

 

 

 

 
d.  If all/certain schemes of certain MFs are not ranked, the same as well as the 

reason for non-inclusion should be disclosed prominently.  

 

e.  Ranking must at a minimum be current to the most recent calendar quarter.  

 

f.  A MF ranking entity shall disclose the holding of MF schemes’ by its Board 

of directors and promoters. 

 

g.  A  MF  ranking  entity  should  act  independently  of  the  AMC/MF  and  its 

affiliates in assessing the MF schemes’ performance and should not accept 

any  consideration,  monetary  or  otherwise  and  whose  services  are  not 

procured by the AMC/MF or any of its affiliates to assign the AMC/MF 

or its schemes a ranking. 

 

 

h.  The  rankings  should  be  accompanied  by  the  disclaimer  that  past 

performance  is  no  guarantee  of  future  returns.  Also,  it  should  be 

accompanied with the standard disclaimer that ‘Mutual Fund investments 

are  subject  to  market  risks,  read  all  scheme  related  documents  carefully.’ 

This would be applicable for the ranking entity as well as the MF using this 

ranking. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 10 of 11 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6.  Public Comments  

In light of the above, public comments are invited on the proposals contained 

in the consultation paper. Comments/suggestions may be provided in the 

format given below:  

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization* 

Sr. No. 

Pertains to Point No 

Suggestions 

Rationale 

* In order to have a consolidated view, mutual fund distributors are requested to send their suggestions 

on the proposals only through their association/representative body.  

The comments may either be forwarded by email to sebiria@sebi.gov.in or may 

be sent by post to the following address latest by July 14, 2017. 

Deputy General Manager 

Investment Management Department 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 

Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051. 

Issued On: June 22, 2017 

Page 11 of 11 

 

 

 

