 

 

Consultation Paper on Amendments to the SEBI 

(Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 

 

 

Background 

SEBI  had  issued  a  consultation  paper  on  October  07,  2016  seeking  public 

comments  on  the  clarifications/amendments  to  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers) 

Regulations,  2013  (‘IA  Regulations’).  A  revised  consultation  paper  was  issued  on 

June 22, 2017 clarifying certain issues raised by the market participants. Based on the 

feedback  received  and  to  prevent  the  conflict  of  interest  between  “advising”  of 

investment  products  and  “selling”  of 

investment  products  by 

the  same 

entity/person, the proposals are revised as under. 

Proposals 

i.  There should be clear segregation between the two activities of the entity 

i.e.  providing  investment  advice  and  distribution  of  the  investment 

products/ execution of investment transactions. 

 

ii. 

Individuals  who  are  willing  to  get  registered  as  investment  advisers  shall 

not provide any distribution services in financial products, either directly 

or  through  any  of  their  immediate  relatives.  Similarly,  individuals 

providing  distribution  services  shall  not  provide  advice  for  investing  in 

financial  product  either  directly  or  through  their  immediate  relatives. 

“Immediate  relative”  means  a  spouse  of  a  person,  and  includes  parent, 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 

brother, sister or child of such person or of the spouse as defined under 

SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeover) Regulations, 2011. 

 

 

iii.  Banks, NBFCs, Body Corporates, LLPs and firms who are willing to get 

registered  as  investment  advisers,  shall  not  provide  any  distribution 

services  in  financial  products,  either  directly  or  through  their  holding 

company  or  associate  company  or  subsidiary  company.  Similarly,  banks, 

NBFCs, body corporates, LLPs and firms providing distribution services 

shall not provide investment advice in financial products either directly or 

through  their  holding  company  or  Associates  Company  or  subsidiary 

company.  “Associate  company”  of  an  entity  means  a  body  corporate  in 

which  the  entity  or  its  director  or  partner  holds,  either  individually    or  

collectively,  more  than  fifteen  percent  of  its  paid-up  equity  share 

capital or partnership interest, as the case may be. 

 

iv.  Existing  registered  investment  advisers  who  are  offering  distribution 

services  through  immediate  relatives  or  through  separately  identifiable 

division  or  department  or  through  holding  /  subsidiary  /associate 

company  shall  choose  among  providing  investment  advice  or  the 

distribution  services  before  March  31,  2019.  Similarly,  distributors  who 

are  offering advisory services  through  aforesaid modes  shall also choose 

between distribution services and advisory services. From April 01, 2019, 

any 

person, 

including 

their 

immediate 

relatives 

or 

Page 2 of 4 

 

 

 

 

holding/subsidiary/associate entity, shall offer either investment advice or 

 

distribution services.  

 

v.  Mutual  Fund  Distributors  (MFDs),  while  distributing  their  mutual  fund 

products  can  explain the  features  of  products  to  client,  and shall  ensure 

the  principle  of  ‘appropriateness’of  products  to  the  client.  As  per  the 

extant  SEBI  circulars,  appropriateness  is  defined  as  selling  only  that 

product  categorization  that  is  identified  as  best  suited  for  the  client.  As 

part of disclosures to clients, MFDs shall disclose the list of mutual funds 

they are affiliated with and that the information provided is restricted to 

the mutual fund products being distributed by them. However, the client 

may  also  consider  other  alternate  products,  which  are  not  being  offered 

by them before making investment decision. 

 

Public Comments  

In light of the above, public comments are invited on the proposals contained 

in the consultation paper. Comments/suggestions may be provided in the 

format given below:  

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization* 

Sr. No. 

Pertains to Point No 

Suggestions 

Rationale 

*  In  order  to  have  a  consolidated  view,  mutual  fund  distributors  are  requested  to  send  their 

suggestions on the proposals only through their association/representative body. 

 

 

Page 3 of 4 

 

The comments may either be forwarded by email to sebiria@sebi.gov.in or may 

be sent by post to the following address latest by January 23, 2018. 

 

Deputy General Manager 

Investment Management Department, Division of Funds I 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 

Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051. 

Issued On: January 02, 2018 

Page 4 of 4 

 

 

 

 

