 
 

 

Discussion Paper on  

 

Review of SEBI (Buyback of Securities) 
Regulations, 1998 and SEBI (Substantial 

Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 

Regulations, 2011 

Background and Need for review 

 

 
1.  SEBI  had  entrusted  the  work  of  reviewing  the  SEBI  (Buyback  of  Securities) 

Regulations,  1998  and  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 

Regulations,  2011  to  Shri.  P.  K.  Malhotra,  former  Member,  Securities  Appellate 

Tribunal and former Secretary, Ministry of Law and Justice (‘Expert’). The scope of 

the  said  review  exercise  was  simplifying  the  language,  removing  redundant 

provisions  and  inconsistencies,  aligning  with  provisions  of  the  latest  Companies 

Act, 2013/ other new SEBI Regulations, and incorporating the circulars, FAQs and 

informal guidance in the regulations, without making any policy change. 

   

2.  In  line  with  the  aforesaid  mandate,  the  review  was  undertaken  by  the  expert. 

Pursuant  to  the  review  exercise,  a  significant  number  of  provisions  as  outlined 

under  Section  68  and  70  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  are  proposed  to  be 

incorporated  in  the  Buy-back  Regulations  to  make  it  self-contained  and  more 

comprehensive.  Further,  existing  provisions  have  also  been  re-structured  and  re-

sequenced to give a better flow. Consequent upon these changes, it is proposed to 

re-frame  an  entirely  new  set  of  Buy-back  Regulations  in  lieu  of  the  extant  1998 

version  of  the  regulations.  Further,  in  respect  of  the  Takeover  Regulations, 

amendments have been proposed in the existing set of regulations which includes 

a proposal related to extending the time period for making upward revision of offer 

price. 

 

3.  Accordingly, the draft SEBI (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 is enclosed 

at  Annexure-I  and  the  draft  amendment  notification  for  amending  the  SEBI 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011  is  enclosed 

at Annexure-II.  

  

Public comments: 
 
4.  Considering the implications of the instant matter on the market participants, public 

comments  on  the  draft  buyback  regulations  enclosed  at  Annexure-I  and  draft 

takeover regulations amendment notification enclosed at Annexure-II are solicited. 

Specific  comments/  suggestions  as  per  the  format  given  below  would  be  highly 

appreciated: 

 

Name of entity/ person/ intermediary:  
 

 

Name of organization (if applicable): 
 

 

Contact details:  
 

Sr. 
No. 

Pertains to serial number 

Proposed/ 

Rationale 

in the annexure 

suggested changes 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.  Such  comments  may  please  be  e-mailed  to  bbsast2018@sebi.gov.in  or  sent  by 

post at the following address latest by April 15, 2018: 

 
Shri. Rajesh Gujjar 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Corporate Restructuring 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Phone: +912226449232 

 
Issued on: March 28, 2018 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

Page 2 

 

 

 

 

 

   

ANNEXURE-I 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

 

 NOTIFICATION  

Mumbai, the [●], 2018  

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (BUY-BACK OF SECURITIES) 

REGULATIONS, 2018 

 

 
 

 

WHEREAS  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  had  issued  the  Securities 

and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) Regulations, 1998 under S.O. 975(E);  

 
AND WHEREAS the said Regulations came into force with effect from ____________; 

 
AND WHEREAS certain new legislations have come into existence after the enactment of the said 

Regulations which has necessitated certain changes in  the existing Regulations by making reference 

to the relevant provisions of Law;  

 
NOW, THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 

11 and section 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) read with 

applicable  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act  and  in  supersession  of  the  Securities  And  Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Buy-Back  of  Securities)  Regulations,  1998,  the  Board  hereby  makes  the  following 

regulations, namely:- 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

 

Short title and commencement 

(i)  These regulations shall be called the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Buy-Back of 

Securities) Regulations, 2018. 

 

(ii)  These  regulations  shall  come  into  force  on  the  date  of  their  publication  in  the  Official 

Gazette. 

Page 3 

1. 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

2. 

Definitions 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 
 

(i)  

In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:— 

a) 

‘Act’  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of 

1992); 

 

b) 

‘associate’ includes a person,— 

 

who directly or indirectly by himself or in combination with relatives, 

exercise control over the company or, 

whose  employee,  officer  or  director  is  also  a  director,  officer  or 

employee of another company; 

i) 

ii) 

 

c) 

“Board”  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  established 

under section 3 of the Act; 

 

d) 

‘control’  has  the  same  meaning  as  defined in clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) 

of  regulation  (2)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial 

Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 

 

e) 

‘company’  means  a  company  as  defined  under  the  Companies  Act,  whose 

shares  or  other  specified  securities  are  listed  on  a  Stock  Exchange  and  which 

buys  or  intends  to  buy  such  shares  or  other  specified  securities  in  accordance 

with these regulations; 

 

‘Companies Act’ means the Companies Act, 2013. 

  

‘insider’  means  an  insider  as  defined  in  clause  (g)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of 

regulation  2  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of 

Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; 

f) 

g) 

 

h) 

‘merchant  banker’  means  a  merchant  banker  as  defined  clause  (cb)  of 

Page 4 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

   

regulation  2  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Merchant 

Bankers) Regulations, 1992 and registered under section 12 of the Act; 

‘odd lots’ mean the lots of securities of a company, whose shares are listed 

on a recognised stock exchange, which are smaller than such marketable lots, 

as may be specified by the stock exchange; 

  

‘promoter’  means  promoter  as  defined  in  clause  (s)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of 

regulation  2  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial 

Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 

 

i) 

j) 

k) 

‘registrar’  means  a  registrar  to  an  issue  and  includes  a  share  transfer  agent 

registered under section 12 of the Act; 

l) 

‘securities’  mean  securities  as  defined  in  clause  (h)  of  section  2  of  the 

Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956); 

(m)  

‘small  shareholder’  means  a  shareholder  of  a  company,  who  holds  shares  or 

other  specified  securities  whose  market  value,  on  the  basis  of  closing  price  of 

shares or other specified securities, on the recognised stock exchange in which 

highest  trading  volume  in  respect  of  such  securities,  as  on  record  date  is  not 

more than two lakh rupee; 

 

n) 

‘specified securities’ includes employees’ stock option or other securities as 

may be notified by the Central Government from time to time; 

 

o) 

‘statutory auditor’ means an auditor appointed by a company under section 

139 of the Companies Act; 

p) 

‘stock  exchange’  means  a  stock  exchange  which  has  been  granted 

recognition  under  section  4  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act, 

1956 (42 of 1956); 

q) 

‘tender  offer’  means  an  offer  by  a  company  to  buy-back  its  own  shares  or 

Page 5 

 

 

 

 

   

other  specified  securities  through  a  letter  of  offer  from  the  holders  of  the 

shares or other specified securities of the company; 

 

r) 

‘unpublished    price    sensitive    information’  has  the  same  meaning  as 

defined  in  clause  (n)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  2  of  the  Securities 

and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations, 

2015; 

s) 

‘working day’ means any working day of the Board. 

(ii) 

All  other  expressions  unless  defined  herein  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  has  been 

assigned  to  them  under  the  Act  or  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  or 

Companies Act or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof, as the case may 

be. 

 

 
 

 

 

 

CHAPTER II 

CONDITIONS OF BUY-BACK 

3. 

Applicability: 

 

 

These regulations shall be applicable to buy-back of shares or other specified securities of a 

company in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act.  

4. 

Conditions  and  requirements  for  buy-back  of  shares  and  specified 

securities:  

 
The  maximum  limit  of  any  buy-back  shall  be  twenty-five  per  cent  or  less  of  the 

(i) 

aggregate of paid-up capital and free reserves of the company:  

 

Explanation:  In  respect  of  the  buy-back  of  equity  shares  in  any  financial  year,  the 

reference to twenty-five per cent in this regulation shall mean its total paid-up equity 

capital in that financial year; 

 

 
 

Page 6 

 

 

 

 

   

(ii) 

The  ratio  of  the  aggregate  of  secured  and  unsecured  debts  owed  by  the  company 

after buy-back shall not be more than twice the paid-up capital and free reserves. 

 

Provided  that  the  Central  Government  may,  by  order,  notify  a  higher  ratio  of  the 

debt to capital and free reserves for a class or classes of companies.  

 

(iii) 

All shares or other specified securities for buy-back shall be fully paid-up.  

 

(iv) 

A company  may  buy-back its shares or other specified securities by  any  one  of the 

following methods: 

a) 

from  the  existing  security-holders  on  a  proportionate  basis  through  the 

tender offer; 

 

b) 

from the open market through— 

i) 

ii) 

book-building process, 

stock exchange; 

c) 

from odd-lot holders: 

 

 

Provided that no offer of buy-back for fifteen per cent or more of the paid up capital 

and free reserves of the company shall be made from the open market. 

(v) 

A company shall not buy-back its shares or other specified securities so as to delist 

its shares or other specified securities from the stock exchange. 

 

(vi) 

A  company  shall  not  buy-back  its  shares  or  other  specified  securities  from  any 

person  through  negotiated  deals, whether  on  or  off  the  stock  exchange  or  through 

spot transactions or through any private arrangement. 

 

(vii)  Any person or an insider shall not deal in securities of the company on the basis of 

unpublished  price  sensitive  information  relating  to  buy-back  of  shares  or  other 

specified securities of the company. 

Page 7 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

(viii)  A  company  shall  not  make  any  offer  of  buy-back  within  a  period  of  one  year 

reckoned from the date of closure of the preceding offer of buy-back, if any. 

 

(ix) 

 

(x) 

 

 

A company shall not allow buy-back of its shares unless the consequent reduction of 

its share capital is effected.  

A company may undertake a buy-back of its own shares or other specified securities 

out of— 

(a)  

(b)  

(c)  

its free reserves; 

the securities premium account; or 

the proceeds of the issue of any shares or other specified securities: 

Provided that no such buy-back shall be made out of the proceeds of an earlier issue of 

the same kind of shares or same kind of other specified securities. 

(xi)  No  company  shall  directly  or  indirectly  purchase  its  own  shares  or  other  specified 

securities: 

 

 

(a) through any subsidiary company including its own subsidiary companies;  

(b) through any investment company or group of investment companies; or  

(c) if a default is made by the company in the repayment of deposits accepted either 

before or after the commencement of the Companies Act, interest payment thereon, 

redemption  of  debentures  or  preference  shares  or  payment  of  dividend  to  any 

shareholder,  or  repayment  of  any  term  loan  or  interest  payable  thereon  to  any 

financial institution or banking company:  

 

Provided that the buy-back is not prohibited, if the default is remedied and a 

period of three years has lapsed after such default ceased to subsist.  

(xii)  Where a company completes a buy-back of its shares or other specified securities, it 

shall not make a further issue of the same kind of shares or other securities including 

allotment  of  new  shares  under  applicable  provisions  of  Companies  Act  or  other 

specified securities within a period of six months except by way of a bonus issue or 

in  the  discharge  of  subsisting  obligations  such  as  conversion  of  warrants,  stock 

option schemes, sweat equity or conversion of preference shares or debentures into 

equity shares. 

Page 8 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

General Compliance and Filing Requirements for Buy-back: 

(i) 

The company shall not authorise any buy-back (whether tender offer or from open 

market or odd lot) unless: 

a) 

b) 

The buy-back is authorised by the company's articles; 

 

Except  otherwise  specified  in  this  regulation,  a  special  resolution  has  been 

passed at a general meeting of the company authorising the buy-back; 

 

(ii) 

Every  buy-back  shall  be  completed  within  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  of 

passing of the special resolution at general meeting, or the resolution passed by  the 

board of directors of the company, as the case may be. 

 

(iii) 

The  company  shall, after the completion of the buy-back, file  with the  Registrar of 

Companies  and  the  Board,  a  return  containing  such  particulars  relating  to  the  buy-

back within thirty days of such completion, in the format as may be specified. 

(iv) 

Special Resolution: 

Where  a  special  resolution  is  required  for  authorizing  a  buy-back,  the  explanatory 

statement to be annexed with the notice for the general meeting pursuant to section 

102  of  the  Companies  Act  shall  contain  mandatory  disclosures  mentioned  therein 

and the following disclosures: 

 
Disclosures under sub-section 3 of section 68 of the Companies Act— 

a) 

i) 

ii) 

iii) 

iv) 

v) 

a full and complete disclosure of all material facts; 

the necessity for the buy-back; 

the  class  of  shares  or  securities  intended  to  be  purchased  under  the 

buy-back; 

the amount to be invested under the buy-back; and 

the time-limit for completion of buy-back. 

 

b) 

Additional disclosures under these regulations as provided in Schedule A, 

Page 9 

 

 
 
 
5. 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

 

c) 

Provided  that  where  the  buy-back  is  through  tender  offer  from  existing 

security-holders,  the  explanatory  statement  shall  contain  the  following 

additional disclosures: 

i) 

the  maximum  price  at  which  the  buy-back  of  shares  or  other 

specified securities shall be made and whether the board of directors 

of  the  company  is  being  authorised  at  the  general  meeting  to 

determine subsequently the specific price at which the buy-back may 

be made at the appropriate time; 

 
if the promoter intends to offer his shares or other specified securities, 

ii) 

the  quantum  of  shares  or  other  specified  securities  proposed  to  be 

tendered and the details of their transactions and their holdings for the 

last  six  months  prior  to  the  passing  of  the  special  resolution  for  buy-

back  including  information  of  number  of  shares  or  other  specified 

securities acquired, the price and the date of acquisition. 

 

d) 

Where the buy-back is from open market either through the stock exchange 

or  book  building,  the  special  resolution  shall  specify  the  maximum  price  at 

which the buy-back shall be made. 

 

(v) 

Filing Requirements for the Special Resolution: 

A  copy  of  the  resolution  passed  at  the  general  meeting  under  sub-section  (2)  of 

section  68  of  the  Companies  Act  shall  be  filed  with  the  Board  and  the  stock 

exchanges  where  the  shares  or  other  specified  securities  of  the  company  are  listed, 

within seven days from the date of passing of the resolution. 

(vi) 

Board of Directors Resolution:  

 

(i) 

Nothing contained in sub-regulation (iv) of this regulation shall apply 

to a case where— 

a)  the  buy-back  is,  ten  per  cent.  or  less  of  the  total  paid-up 

equity capital and free reserves of the company; and 

 

Page 10 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

6. 

 

 

 

 

   

b)  such buy-back has been authorised by the Board of Directors 

of  the  company  by  means  of  a  resolution  passed  at  its 

meeting; 

 

(ii) 

Where  the  buy-back  is  from  open  market  either  through  the  stock 

exchange or through book building, the board of directors resolution shall 

specify the maximum price at which the buy-back shall be made. 

(vii)      Filing Requirement for the Board of Directors Resolution 

 

A company, authorized by a resolution passed by the Board of Directors at 

its  meeting  to  buy-back  its  shares  or  other  specified  securities  under  the 

proviso to clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 68 of the Companies Act, 

shall  file  a copy  of  the  resolution,  with  the  Board and  the  stock  exchanges, 

where  the  shares  or  other  specified  securities  of  the  company  are  listed, 

within two working days of the date of the passing of the resolution. 

 

CHAPTER III 

BUY-BACK THROUGH TENDER OFFER 

A company  may buy-back its  shares or other specified securities from its existing security-

holders on a proportionate basis in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter:   

Provided  that  fifteen  per  cent  of  the  number  of  securities  which  the  company 

proposes to buy-back or number of securities entitled as per their shareholding, whichever is 

higher, shall be reserved for small shareholders.  

 
Disclosures, 

7. 

filing 

requirements 

and 

timelines 

for 

public 

announcement: 

 

 
 

(i) 

The  company  which  has  been  authorised  by  a  special  resolution  or  a  resolution 

passed  by  the  Board  of  Directors,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  make  a  public 

announcement within two working days from the date of resolution in at least one 

Page 11 

 

 
 

 

(ii) 

 

 

 

 

 

   

English National Daily, one  Hindi National Daily and one  Regional language  daily, 

all with wide circulation at the place where the Registered Office of the company is 

situated and the said public announcement shall contain all the material information 

as specified in Schedule B. 

A copy of the public announcement along with the soft copy, shall also be submitted 

to the Board, simultaneously, through a merchant banker. 

8. 

Disclosures, filing requirements and timelines for draft letter of offer: 

 
(i) 

 

 

The  company  shall  within  five  working  days  of  the  public  announcement  file  the 

following with the Board: 

 

a) 

a  draft  letter  of  offer,  along  with  a  soft  copy,  containing  disclosures  as 

specified  in  Schedule  C  through  a  merchant  banker  who  is  not  associated 

with the company.  

b) 

a declaration of solvency in specified form and in a manner provided in sub-

section (6) of section 68 of the Companies Act. 

c) 

fees specified in Schedule E. 

(ii) 

SEBI Comments and follow up:  

The Board may provide its comments on the draft letter of offer not later than seven 

working days of the receipt of the draft letter of offer:  

 

Provided  that  in  the  event  the  Board  has  sought  clarifications  or  additional 

information from the merchant banker to the buy-back offer, the period of issuance 

of comments shall be extended to the seventh working day from the date of receipt 

of satisfactory reply to the clarification or additional information sought: 

 

Provided  further  that  in  the  event  the  Board  specifies  any  changes,  the 

merchant banker to the buy-back offer and the company shall carryout such changes 

Page 12 

  

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

in the letter of offer before it is dispatched to the shareholders. 

 

 

9. 

Offer Procedure 

 

(i) 

A  company  making  a  buy-back  offer  shall  announce  a  record  date  in  the  public 

announcement for the purpose of determining the entitlement and the names of the 

security holders, who are eligible to participate in the proposed buy-back offer. 

 

(ii) 

The  letter  of  offer  along  with  the  tender  form  shall  be  dispatched  to  the  security 

holders  who  are  eligible  to  participate  in  the  buy-back  offer,  not  later  than  five 

working days from the receipt of communication of comments from the Board. 

 

Explanation:  

1.  Letter  of  Offer  may  also  be  dispatched  through  electronic  mode  in 

accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act.  

2.  On  receipt  of  a  request  from  any  shareholder  to  receive  a  copy  of  the 

letter of offer in physical format, the same shall be provided.  

3.  The aforesaid shall be disclosed in the letter of offer. 

 

(iii) 

Even if an eligible public shareholder does not receive the tender offer/offer form, 

he may participate in the buy-back offer and tender shares in the manner as provided 

by the Board.  

 

(iv) 

An unregistered shareholder may also tender his shares for buy-back by submitting 

the  duly  executed  transfer  deed  for  transfer  of  shares  in  his  name,  along  with  the 

offer form and other relevant documents as required for transfer, if any. 

 
(v) 

The date of the opening of the offer shall be not later than five working days from 

the date of dispatch of the letter of offer. 

(vi) 

The offer for buy-back shall remain open for a period of ten working days. 

 

(vii) 

The company shall facilitate tendering of shares by the shareholders and settlement 

Page 13 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

of the same, through the stock exchange  mechanism in the manner as provided by 

the Board. 

 
(viii)  The  company  shall  accept  shares  or  other  specified  securities  from  the  security 

holders on the basis of their entitlement as on record date. 

 

(ix) 

The  shares  proposed  to  be  bought  back  shall  be  divided  into  two  categories;  (a) 

reserved  category  for  small  shareholders  and  (b)  the  general  category  for  other 

shareholders,  and  the  entitlement  of  a  shareholder  in  each  category  shall  be 

calculated accordingly. 

 

(x) 

 

After  accepting  the  shares  or  other  specified  securities  tendered  on  the  basis  of 

entitlement, shares or other specified securities left to be bought back, if any in one 

category  shall  first  be  accepted,  in  proportion  to  the  shares  or  other  specified 

securities tendered over and above their entitlement in the offer by security holders 

in  that  category  and  thereafter  from  security  holders  who  have  tendered  over  and 

above their entitlement in other category. 

(xi) 

Escrow account 

 

(a) 

The  company  shall,  as  and  by  way  of  security  for  performance  of  its 

obligations  under  the  regulations,  on  or  before  the  opening  of  the  offer, 

deposit in an escrow account such sum as specified in clause (b);  

(b) 

The escrow amount shall be payable in the following manner: 

(i) 

if the consideration payable does not exceed  Rupees 100 crores; 25 

per cent of the consideration payable; 

(ii) 

if the consideration payable exceeds Rupees 100 crores; 25 per cent 

upto Rupees 100 crores and 10 per cent thereafter. 

(c) 

The escrow account referred to in this regulation shall consist of, 

(i) 

cash deposited with a scheduled commercial bank, or 

Page 14 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

(ii) 

(iii) 

bank guarantee in favour of the merchant banker, or 

deposit  of  acceptable  securities  with  appropriate  margin,  with  the 

merchant banker, or 

(iv) 

a combination of (i), (ii) and (iii). 

 

Explanation:  The  cash  component  of  the  escrow  account  may  be  maintained  in  an 

interest bearing account, provided that the merchant banker ensures that the  funds 

are available at the time of making payment to shareholders. 

 

(d)  Where  the  escrow  account  consists  of  deposit  with  a  scheduled  commercial 

bank,  the  company  shall,  while  opening  the  account,  empower  the  merchant 

banker to instruct the bank to issue a banker’s cheque or demand draft for the 

amount  lying  to  the  credit  of  the  escrow  account,  as  provided  in  the 

regulations. 

(e)  Where the escrow account consists of a bank guarantee, such bank guarantee 

shall be in favour of the merchant banker and shall be valid until thirty days 

after the closure of the offer. 

(f) 

The  company  shall,  in  case  the  escrow  account  consists  of  securities, 

empower the merchant banker to realise the value of such escrow account by 

sale or otherwise and if there is any deficit on realisation of the value of the 

securities, the merchant banker shall be liable to make good any such deficit. 

(g) 

In case the escrow account consists of bank guarantee or approved securities, 

these  shall  not  be  returned  by  the  merchant  banker  till  completion  of  all 

obligations under the regulations. 

(h)  Where the escrow account consists of bank guarantee or deposit of approved 

securities, the company shall also deposit with the bank in cash a sum of at 

least  one  per  cent  of  the  total  consideration  payable,  as  and  by  way  of 

security  for  fulfillment  of  the  obligations  under  the  regulations  by  the 

company. 

Page 15 

 

 

 

 

   

(i) 

On payment of consideration to all the  security-holders who have accepted 

the  offer  and  after  completion  of  all  formalities  of  buy-back,  the  amount, 

guarantee  and  securities  in  the  escrow,  if  any,  shall  be  released  to  the 

company. 

 

(j) 

The  Board 

in  the 

interest  of  the  security-holders  may 

in  case  of 

nonfulfillment  of  obligations  under  the  regulations  by  the  company  forfeit 

the escrow account either in full or in part. 

(xii) 

The  amount  forfeited  under  clause  (j)  may  be  distributed  pro  rata  amongst  the 

security-holders  who  accepted  the  offer  and  balance,  if  any,  shall  be  utilised  for 

investor protection. 

 

 
 

 

 

10.  Closure and Payment to security-holders: 

 

(i) 

The company shall immediately after the date of closure of the offer, open a special 

account  with  a  banker  to  an  issue,  registered  with  the  Board  and  deposit  therein, 

such sum as would, together with ninety per cent of the amount lying in the escrow 

account  make-up  the entire  sum,  due  and  payable  as  consideration  for  buy-back  in 

terms  of  these  regulations  and  for  this  purpose,  may  transfer  the  funds  from  the 

escrow account. 

 

(ii) 

 The  company  shall complete the verification of offers  received and  make  payment 

of  consideration  to  those  security-holders  whose  offer  has  been  accepted  or  return 

the shares or other specified securities to the security-holders within seven working 

days of the closure of the offer. 

 

11.  Extinguishment of certificate and other Closure Compliances: 

 

 
 

(i)  The company shall extinguish and physically destroy the security certificates so bought back 

in the presence of a registrar to issue or the Merchant Banker and the Statutory Auditor 

within fifteen days of the date of acceptance of the shares or other specified securities. 

 

Page 16 

 

 

 

 

   

Provided  that  the  company  shall  ensure  that  all  the  securities  bought-back  are 

extinguished within seven days of the last date of completion of buy-back.  

 

Explanation:  The  aforesaid  period  of  fifteen  days  shall  in  no  case  extend  beyond 

seven days of the last date of completion of buy-back. 

(ii)  The  shares  or  other  specified  securities  offered  for  buy-back  if already  dematerialised  shall 

be  extinguished  and  destroyed  in  the  manner  specified  under  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996, and the bye-

laws, the circulars and guidelines framed thereunder. 

(iii) The  company  shall,  furnish  a  certificate  to  the  Board  certifying  compliance  as  specified  in 

sub-regulation (i) above, and duly certified and verified by: 

a) 

b) 

c) 

 

the registrar and whenever there is no registrar, by the merchant banker;  

two  directors  of  the  company,  one  of  whom  shall  be  a  managing  director, 

where there is one; and 

the statutory auditor of the company, 

This certificate shall be furnished to the Board on a monthly basis by the seventh day of 

the month succeeding the month in which the securities certificates are extinguished and 

destroyed. 

(iv) The  company  shall  furnish  the  particulars  of  the  securities  certificates  extinguished  and 

destroyed  under  sub-regulation  (i),  to  the  stock  exchanges  where  the  shares  of  the 

company are listed on a monthly basis by the seventh day of the month succeeding the 

month in which the securities certificates are extinguished and destroyed. 

 

(v)  Where a company buys back its shares or other specified securities under these regulations, it 

shall maintain a register of the shares or securities so bought, the consideration paid for 

the shares or securities bought back, the date of cancellation of shares or securities, the 

date  of  extinguishing  and  physically  destroying  the  shares  or  securities  and  such  other 

particulars as may be prescribed in sub-section (9) of section 68 of the Companies Act.  

Page 17 

 

 
 

 

  

  

 

 
 

 

 
 
12.  Odd-lot Buy-back 

 

 

 

 

   

The provisions pertaining to buy-back through tender offer as specified in this Chapter shall 

be applicable mutatis mutandis to odd-lot shares or other specified securities. 

 

CHAPTER IV 

BUY-BACK FROM THE OPEN MARKET 

 

A  company  intending  to  buy-back  its  shares  or  other  specified  securities  from  the  open 

market shall do so in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. 

The buy-back of shares or other specified securities from the open market may be in any one 

13. 

 

14. 

of the following methods: 

(a) 

(b) 

through stock exchange, 

book-building process. 

15. 

The company shall ensure that at least fifty per cent of the amount earmarked for buy-back, 

as specified in resolutions referred to in sub-regulation (iv) of regulation 5 or sub-regulation 

(vi) of regulation 5, as the case may be, is utilized for buying-back shares or other specified 

securities.  

Buy-back through stock exchange 

(i) 

The  buy-back  shall  be  made  only  on  stock  exchanges  having  nationwide  trading 

terminals; 

 

(ii) 

The buy-back of the shares or other specified securities through the stock exchange 

shall not be made from the promoters or persons in control of the company; 

(iii) 

The  buy-back  of  shares  or  other  specified  securities  shall  be  made  only  through  the 

order matching mechanism except ‘all or none’ order matching system; 

 

(iv)  Disclosures, filing requirements and timelines of public announcement: 

Page 18 

16. 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

a) 

The  company  shall  appoint  a  merchant  banker  and  make  a  public 

announcement as referred to in regulation 7 pertaining to tender offer; 

 

b) 

The public announcement shall be made within seven working days from the 

date of passing the special resolution or the Board of Directors resolution as 

relevant and shall contain disclosures as specified in  Schedule D; 

 

c) 

Simultaneously  with  the  issue  of  such  public  announcement,  the  company 

shall file a copy of the public announcement with the Board along with the 

fees specified in Schedule E; 

 

d) 

The  public announcement shall also contain disclosures regarding details of 

the  brokers  and  stock  exchanges  through  which  the  buy-back  of  shares  or 

other specified securities would be made; 

Explanation: In case of the buy-back from open market, no draft letter of offer/ letter 

of offer is required to be filed with the Board. 

17.  Opening of the offer on stock exchange: 

 

(i) 

The  identity  of  the  company  as  a  purchaser  shall  appear  on  the  electronic  screen 

when the order is placed; 

(ii) 

 The  buy-back  offer  shall  open  not  later  than  seven  working  days  from  the  date  of 

public announcement and shall close within six months from the date of opening of 

the offer. 

18. 

Subsequent  compliances  for  open  market  Buy-back  through  stock 

exchange: 

(i) 

The  company  shall  submit  the  information  regarding  the  shares  or  other  specified 

securities bought-back, to the stock exchange on a daily basis in such form as may be 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 19 

 

 

 

 

   

specified by the Board and the stock exchange shall upload the same on its  official 

website immediately; 

 

(ii) 

The  company  shall  upload  the  information  regarding  the  shares  or  other  specified 

securities bought-back on its website on a daily basis; 

A company may buy-back its shares or other specified securities in physical form in the open 

market through stock exchange by following the procedure as provided hereunder: 

(i) 

A separate window shall be created by the stock exchange, which shall remain open 

during  the  buy-back  period,  for  buy-back  of  shares  or  other  specified  securities  in 

physical form. 

(ii) 

The  company  shall  buy-back  shares  or  other  specified  securities  from  eligible 

shareholders holding physical shares through the separate window specified in  sub-

regulation (ia), only after verification of the identity proof and address proof by the 

broker. 

 

(iii) 

The price at which the shares or other specified securities are bought back shall be 

the volume weighted average price of the shares or other specified securities bought-

back, other than in the physical form, during the calendar week in which such shares 

or other specified securities were received by the broker: 

Provided  that  the  price  of  shares  or  other  specified  securities  tendered  during  the 

first calendar week of the buy-back shall be the volume weighted average market price of the 

shares or other specified securities of the company during the preceding calendar week. 

Explanation: In case no shares or other specified securities were bought back in the normal 

market during calendar week, the preceding week when  the company  has last bought back 

the shares or other specified securities may be considered. 

 

 
 

  

19. 

 

 

 

 

 

20.  Escrow account for open market Buy-back through stock exchange: 

 

 
 

(i) 

The  company  shall, before  opening of the offer, create an escrow account towards 

Page 20 

 

 

 

 

   

security  for  performance  of  its  obligations  under  these  regulations,  and  deposit  in 

escrow account 25 per cent of the amount earmarked for the buy-back as specified in 

the resolutions referred to in sub-regulation (iv) of regulation 5 or sub-regulation (vi) 

of regulation 5. 

(ii) 

The escrow account referred to in sub-regulation (i) may be in the form of,— 

a) 

b) 

cash deposited with any scheduled commercial bank; or 

bank  guarantee  issued  in  favour  of  the  merchant  banker  by  any  scheduled 

commercial bank. 

 

Explanation: The cash component of the escrow account may be maintained in terms 

of Explanation to clause (c) of sub-regulation (xi) of regulation 9. 

 

(iii) 

For  such  part  of  the  escrow  account  as  is  in  the  form  of  a  cash  deposit  with  a 

scheduled commercial bank, the company shall while opening the account, empower 

the merchant banker to instruct the bank to make payment of the amounts lying to 

the credit of the escrow account, to meet the obligations arising out of the buy-back. 

(iv) 

For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of a bank guarantee: 

 

a) 

the same shall be in favour of the merchant banker and shall be kept valid for a 

period  of  thirty  days  after  the  closure  of  the  offer  or  till  the  completion  of  all 

obligations under these regulations, whichever is later. 

 

b) 

the same shall not be returned by the merchant banker till completion of all 

obligations under the regulations. 

(v)  Where part of the escrow account is in the form of a bank guarantee, the company 

shall  deposit  with  a  scheduled  commercial  bank,  in  cash,  a  sum  of  at  least  2.5  per 

cent  of  the  total  amount  earmarked  for  buy-back  as  specified  in  the  resolutions 

referred to in sub-regulation (iv) of regulation 5 or sub-regulation (vi) of regulation 5 

as and by way of security for fulfillment of the obligations under the regulations by 

the company. 

Page 21 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

(vi) 

The escrow amount may be released for making payment to the shareholders subject 

to at least 2.5% of the amount earmarked for buy-back as specified in the resolutions 

referred to in sub-regulation (iv) of regulation 5 or sub-regulation (vi) of regulation 5 

remaining in the escrow account at all points of time. 

(vii)  On fulfilling the obligation specified in regulation 15, the amount and the guarantee 

remaining in the escrow account, if any, shall be released to the company. 

(viii) 

In  the  event  of  non-compliance  with  regulation  15,  the  Board  may  direct  the 

merchant banker to forfeit the escrow account, subject to a maximum of 2.5 per cent 

of the amount earmarked for buy-back as specified in the resolutions referred to in 

sub-regulation  (iv)  of  regulation  5  or  sub-regulation  (vi)  of  regulation  5,  except  in 

cases where,- 

a) 

volume  weighted  average  market  price  (VWAMP)  of  the  shares  or  other 

specified  securities  of  the  company  during  the  buy-back  period  was  higher 

than  the  buy-back  price  as  certified  by  the  Merchant  banker  based  on  the 

inputs provided by the Stock Exchanges. 

b) 

sell orders were inadequate despite the buy orders placed by the company as 

certified by the Merchant banker based on the inputs provided by the Stock 

Exchanges. 

c) 

such  circumstances  existed  which were  beyond  the  control  of  the  company 

and in the opinion of the Board merit consideration.  

(ix) 

In  the  event  of  forfeiture  for  non-fulfillment  of  obligations  specified  in  sub-

regulation  (viii)  of  this  regulation,  the  amount  forfeited  shall  be  deposited  in  the 

Investor Protection and Education Fund of Securities and Exchange Board of India. 

Extinguishment of certificates: 

(i) 

Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) and (3), the  provisions  of regulation 

11  pertaining  to  the  extinguishment  of  certificates  for  tender  offers  shall  apply  for 

extinguishment of certificates under this Chapter. 

 

(ii) 

The  company  shall  complete  the  verification  of  acceptances  within  fifteen  days  of 

Page 22 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

21. 

 

 
 

 

 
 

the payout. 

 

 

 

 

 

   

(iii) 

The  company  shall  extinguish  and  physically  destroy  the  securities  certificates  so 

bought back  during  the  month  in  the  presence  of  a  Merchant  Banker  and  the  

Statutory Auditor, on or before the fifteenth day of the succeeding month:  

Provided  that  the  company  shall  ensure  that  all  the  securities  bought-back  

are  extinguished within seven days of the last date of completion of buy-back. 

 

22. 

Buy-back through book building 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

A company may buy-back its shares or other specified securities through the book-building 

process as provided hereunder: 

(i) 

Resolutions: 

The Special resolution or the Board of Directors Resolution, as the case may 

be, shall be  passed  in accordance  with  sub-regulation (iv) of regulation 5 or 

sub-regulation (vi) of regulation 5. 

(ii) 

Disclosures, filing requirements and timelines for public announcement: 

(a) 

The  company  shall  appoint  a  merchant  banker  and  make  a  public 

announcement as referred to in regulation 7.  

 

(b) 

The  disclosures  in  the  public  announcement  shall  also  be  in 

accordance with Schedule B. 

 

(c) 

The public announcement shall be made at least seven days prior to 

the commencement of buy-back. 

(iii) 

Subject  to  the  provisions  of  clause  (a)  and  clause  (b)  of  this  sub-regulation, 

the provisions of sub-regulation (xi) of regulation 9 shall apply: 

  

(a) 

The deposit in the escrow account shall be made before the date of 

the public announcement. 

Page 23 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

(b) 

The  amount  to  be  deposited  in  the  escrow  account  shall  be 

determined with reference  to the maximum price as specified in the 

public announcement. 

 

Explanation:  The  cash  component  of  the  escrow  account  may  be 

maintained in terms of the Explanation to clause (c) of sub-regulation (xi) 

of regulation 9. 

(iv) 

A copy of the public announcement shall be filed with the Board within two 

days of such announcement along with the fees as specified in Schedule E. 

(v) 

The public announcement shall also contain the detailed methodology of the 

book-building process, the  manner of acceptance, the format of acceptance 

to be sent by the security-holders pursuant to the public announcement and 

the details of bidding centres. 

(vi) 

The  book-building  process  shall  be  made  through  an  electronically  linked 

transparent facility. 

(vii)  The number of bidding centres shall not be less than thirty and there shall be 

at least one electronically linked computer terminal at all the bidding centres. 

(viii)  The offer for buy-back shall remain open to the security-holders for a period 

not less than fifteen days and not exceeding thirty days. 

(ix) 

The  merchant  banker  and  the  company  shall  determine  the  buy-back  price 

based on the acceptances received. 

(x) 

The  final  buy-back  price,  which  shall  be  the  highest  price  accepted  shall  be 

paid  to  all  holders  whose  shares  or  other  specified  securities  have  been 

accepted for buy-back. 

(xi) 

The  provisions  of  sub-regulation  (ii)  of  regulation  10  pertaining  to 

Page 24 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

   

verification of acceptances and the provisions of regulation 10 pertaining to 

opening of special account and payment of consideration shall be applicable 

mutatis mutandis. 

23.  Extinguishment of certificates 

 

The  provisions  pertaining  to  extinguishment  of  certificates  for  tender  offer  shall  be 

applicable mutatis mutandis to the buy-back through book building. 

 

CHAPTER V 

GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 

 

24.  Obligations of the company for all buy-back procedure: 

 

 

 
 

(i) 

The company shall ensure that,— 

a) 

the  letter  of  offer,  the  public  announcement  of  the  offer  or  any  other 

advertisement, circular, brochure, publicity material shall contain true, factual 

and  material  information  and  shall  not  contain  any  misleading  information 

and must state that the directors of the company accept the responsibility for 

the information contained in such documents; 

 

b) 

the company shall not issue any shares or other specified securities including 

by  way  of  bonus  till  the  date  of  closure  of  the  offer  made  under  these 

regulations; 

 

c) 

d) 

the company shall pay the consideration only by way of cash; 

 

the company shall not withdraw the offer to buy-back after the draft letter of 

offer  is  filed  with  the  Board  or  public  announcement  of  the  offer  to  buy-

back is made; 

 

Page 25 

 

 

 

 

   

e) 

the  promoter(s)  or  his/their  associates  shall  not  deal  in  the  shares  or  other 

specified  securities  of  the  company  in  the  stock  exchange  or  off-market, 

including inter- se transfer of shares among the promoters during the period 

from  the  date  of  passing  the  resolution  under  sub-regulation  (iv)  of 

regulation 5 or sub-regulation (vi) of regulation 5 till the closing of the offer. 

 

f) 

the  company  shall  not  raise  further  capital  for  a  period  of  one  year  from  the 

closure of buy-back offer, except in discharge of its subsisting obligations. 

(ii) 

No  public  announcement  of  buy-back  shall  be  made  during  the  pendency  of  any 

scheme of amalgamation or compromise or arrangement pursuant to the provisions 

of the Companies Act. 

(iii) 

The  company  shall  nominate  a  compliance  officer  and  investors  service  centre  for 

compliance  with  the  buy-back  regulations  and  to  redress  the  grievances  of  the 

investors. 

(iv) 

The  particulars  of  the  security  certificates  extinguished  and  destroyed  shall  be 

furnished by the company to the stock exchanges where the shares or other specified 

securities  of  the  company  are  listed  within  seven  days  of  extinguishment  and 

destruction of the certificates. 

(v) 

The  company  shall  not  buy-back  the  locked-in  shares  or  other  specified  securities 

and non-transferable shares or other specified securities till the pendency of the lock-

in or till the shares or other specified securities become transferable. 

(vi) 

The  company  shall  within  two  days  of  the  completion  of  buy-back  issue  a  public 

advertisement in a national daily, inter alia, disclosing: 

a) 

b) 

c) 

d) 

number of shares or other specified securities bought; 

price at which the shares or other specified securities bought; 

total amount invested in the buy-back; 

details of the security-holders from whom shares or other specified securities 

exceeding  one  per  cent  of  total  shares  or  other  specified  securities  were 

Page 26 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

   

bought back; and 

e) 

the consequent changes in the capital structure and the shareholding pattern 

after and before the buy-back. 

(vii) 

The company in addition to these regulations shall comply with the provisions of buy-

back as contained in the Companies Act and other applicable laws. 

 

25.  Obligations of the Merchant Banker:     

 
The merchant banker shall ensure that— 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

the company is able to implement the offer; 

the provision relating to escrow account has been complied with; 

firm arrangements for monies for payment to fulfill the obligations under the 

offer are in place; 

the public announcement of buy-back is made in terms of the regulations;  

the letter of offer has been filed in terms of the regulations; 

a  due  diligence  certificate  along  with  the  draft  letter  of  offer  has  been 

furnished to the Board; 

(vii) 

the contents of the public announcement of offer as well as the letter of offer 

are true, fair and adequate and quoting the source wherever necessary;  

(viii)  due  compliance  of  sections  68,  69  and  70  of  the  Companies  Act  and  any 

other laws or rules as may be applicable in this regard has been made; 

(ix) 

the  bank  with  whom  the  escrow  or  special  amount  has  been  deposited 

releases  the  balance  amount  to  the  company  only  upon  fulfillment  of  all 

obligations by the company under the regulations; 

(x) 

a final  report is submitted to the Board in the form specified within fifteen 

days from the date of closure of the buy-back offer. 

 

 
 

Page 27 

 

 
 

 

 

CHAPTER VI 

MISCELLANEOUS 

 

 

   

 
26.  Powers of the Board to issue directions. 

 

The  Board  may,  without  prejudice  to  its  right  to  initiate  any  other  enforcement  action, 

including  prosecution  under section 24 of the Act, give  such  directions in the interest of 

investors in securities and the securities market, as it deems fit, including:  

(i) 

(ii) 

prohibiting the person concerned from cancelling any of the securities bought back 

in violation of the Companies Act; 

directing  the  person  concerned  to  sell  or  divest  the  shares  or  other  specified 

securities acquired in violation of the provisions of these regulations or any other law 

or regulations; 

(iii) 

restraining the company from making a further offer for buy-back. 

 
 
27.  Power of the Board to remove difficulties. 

 

In order to remove  any  difficulties in the interpretation or application of the  provisions of 

these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications or guidelines from time to time.   

 
28.  Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations. 

 

 
 

(i)  The  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors  and  the  securities  market,  relax  the  strict 

enforcement of any requirement of these regulations except the provisions incorporated 

from the Companies Act, if the Board is satisfied that: 

1.  the requirement is procedural in nature; or  

2.  the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; 

 

(ii)  For seeking relaxation under sub-regulation (i), the company shall file an application with 

the Board, supported by a duly sworn affidavit, giving details and the grounds on which 

such relaxation has been sought. 

 

(iii) The company shall along with the application referred to under sub-regulation (ii),   pay 

Page 28 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

a  non-refundable  fee  of  rupees  fifty  thousand,  by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank 

account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or by way of a 

banker’s cheque or demand draft payable in Mumbai in favour of the Board. 

 

(iv) The  Board  may  after  affording  reasonable  opportunity  of  being  heard  to  the  applicant 

and  after  considering  all  the  relevant  facts  and  circumstances,  pass  a  reasoned  order 

either granting or rejecting the relaxation sought as expeditiously as possible. 

 

Repeal and Savings 

29. 

 

(i) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) Regulations, 

1998, shall stand repealed from the date on which these regulations come into force.  

 

 

 

 
 

Notwithstanding such repeal,—  

(a)  

anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken 

including comments on any letter of offer, exemption granted by the Board, 

fees  collected,  any  adjudication,  enquiry  or  investigation  commenced  or 

show-cause notice issued under the repealed regulations, prior to such repeal, 

shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  done  or  taken  under  the  corresponding 

provisions of these regulations;  

 

(b)  

the previous operation of the repealed regulations or anything duly done or 

suffered  thereunder,  any  right,  privilege,  obligation  or  liability  acquired, 

accrued or incurred under the repealed regulations, any penalty, forfeiture or 

punishment  incurred  in  respect  of  any    violation  committed  against  the 

repealed  regulations,  or  any  investigation,  legal  proceeding  or  remedy  in 

respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or 

punishment  as  aforesaid,  shall  remain  unaffected  as  if  the  repealed 

regulations has never been repealed;  

(c)  

any  buy-back offer for which a public announcement has been made under 

the  repealed  regulations  shall  be  required  to  be  continued  and  completed 

under the repealed regulations. 

 

Page 29 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

(d) 

any  reference  thereto  in  any  other  regulations  made,  guidelines  or  circulars 

issued  thereunder  by  the  Board  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  reference  made  to 

the 

corresponding 

provisions 

of 

these 

regulations.

Page 30 

 

 
 

 

i) 

ii) 

 

iii) 

 

iv) 

v) 

vi) 

i.  

 

 

 

 

   

 

SCHEDULE - A 

[Regulation 5(iv)(b)]  

Contents of the Explanatory Statement  

Date of the Board meeting at which the proposal for buy-back was approved by the Board of 

Directors of the company; 

 

Necessity for the buy-back; 

Maximum amount required under the buy-back and its percentage of the total paid up capital 

and free reserves; 

Maximum price at which the shares or other specified securities are proposed be bought back 

and the basis of arriving at the buy-back price; 

Maximum number of securities that the company proposes to buy- back; 

 

Method to be adopted for buy-back as referred to in sub-regulation (iv) of regulation 4, 

 

vii) 

(a)  

the  aggregate  shareholding  of  the  promoter  and  of  the  directors  of  the  promoters, 

where the promoter is a company and of persons who are in control of the company 

as  on  the  date  of  the  notice  convening  the  General  Meeting  or  the  Meeting  of  the 

Board of Directors; 

 

(b) 

aggregate number of shares or other specified securities purchased or sold by persons 

including persons mentioned in (a) above from a period of six months preceding the 

date of the Board Meeting at which the buy-back was approved till the date of notice 

convening the general meeting; 

(c) 

the  maximum  and  minimum  price  at  which  purchases  and  sales  referred  to  in  (b) 

above were made along with the relevant dates; 

Page 31 

 

 

 
 

ii. 

 

 
 
viii) 

 

ix) 

 

 

 

 

   

Intention of the promoters and persons in control of the company to tender shares or other 

specified securities for buy-back indicating the number of shares or other specified securities, 

details of acquisition with dates and price; 

A confirmation that there are no defaults subsisting in repayment of deposits, redemption of 

debentures  or  preference  shares  or  repayment  of  term  loans  to  any  financial  institutions  or 

banks; 

 

x) 

A  confirmation  that  the  Board  of  Directors  has  made  a  full  enquiry  into  the  affairs  and 

prospects of the company and that they have formed the opinion- 

 

a) 

 

b) 

 

c) 

that immediately following the date on which the General Meeting or the meeting of 

the Board of Directors is convened there will be no grounds on which the company 

could be found unable to pay its debts; 

as regards its prospects for the year immediately following that date that, having regard 

to their intentions with respect to the management of the company’s business during 

that year and to the amount and character of the financial resources which will in their 

view be available to the company during that year, the company will be able to meet its 

liabilities as and when they fall due and will not be rendered insolvent within a period 

of one year from that date; and 

in forming their opinion for the above purposes, the directors shall take into account 

the  liabilities  as  if  the  company  were  being  wound  up  under  the  provisions  of  the 

Companies Act, 1956 or Companies Act or the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 

(including prospective and contingent liabilities); 

A report addressed to the Board of Directors by the company’s auditors stating that- 

a) 

b) 

c) 

they have inquired into the company’s state of affairs; 

the amount of the permissible capital payment for the securities in question is in their 

view properly determined; and 

the  Board  of  Directors  have  formed  the  opinion  as  specified  in  clause  (x)  on 

reasonable grounds and that the company will not, having regard to its state of affairs, 

will not be rendered insolvent within a period of one year from that date. 

Page 32 

iii. 

 

xi) 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

SCHEDULE - B 

[Regulation 7(i) and Regulation 22(ii)(b)] 

Disclosures in the Public Announcement for buy-back through tender offer and from odd 

lot holders and from the open market through book building process  

 

 
 

 

Particulars  

Content 

Public 

i) 

The  Public  announcement  shall  be  dated  and  signed  on  behalf  of  the 

Announcement 

Board  of  Directors  of  the  company  by  its  manager  or  secretary,  if  any, 

and by not less than two directors of the company one of whom shall be 

a managing director where there is one. 

 

ii) 

A  full  and  complete  disclosure  of  all  material  facts  including  the 

disclosures mentioned in Schedule A shall be made. 

 

 

 
 

Page 33 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

   

SCHEDULE - C 

[Regulation 8(i)(a)] 

Disclosures in the Letter of Offer for buy-back through tender offer and from odd lot holders 

 

Particulars  Content 

Letter of 

The letter of offer shall be dated and signed on behalf of the Board of Directors of the 

Offer 

company  by its manager or secretary,  if any, and by  not less than two directors of the 

company  one  of  whom  shall  be  a  managing  director  where  there  is  one.  The  letter  of 

offer shall, inter-alia, contain the following; 

 

i) 

ii) 

iii) 

Disclosures as mentioned in Schedule - D; 

Disclaimer Clause as may be specified by the Board; 

Record date and ratio of buy-back as per the entitlement in each category. 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 34 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

   

SCHEDULE - D 

[Regulation 16(iv)(b)] 

Public Announcement for Open Market Buy-Back through Stock Exchange 

Particulars  

Content 

 

Public 

i) 

The  Public  announcement  shall  be  dated  and  signed  on  behalf  of  the 

Announcement 

Board of Directors of the company by its manager or secretary, if any, 

and by not less than two directors of the company one of whom shall 

be a managing director where there is one. 

 

ii) 

A  full  and  complete  disclosure  of  all  material  facts  including  the 

disclosures mentioned in Schedule A. 

 

iii) 

In  addition  to  the  disclosures  in  Schedule  A,  the  following  disclosures 

shall be made: 

 

i) 

 

ii) 

 

iii) 

 

iv) 

 

v) 

 

vi) 

Date of shareholders’ approval for buy-back, if applicable; 

Minimum and maximum number of securities that the company 

proposes  to  buy-back,  sources  of  funds  from  which  the  buy-

back would be made and the cost of financing the buy-back; 

Proposed 

time 

table 

from  opening  of  offer 

till 

the 

extinguishment of the certificates; 

Process and methodology to be adopted for the buy-back; 

Brief information about the company; 

Audited  Financial information  for  the  last  3  years  and  the  lead 

manager shall ensure that the particulars (audited statement and 

un-audited statement) contained therein shall not be more than 

 
 

Page 35 

 

 
 

Particulars  

Content 

 

 

 

 

   

more  than  6  months  old  from  the  date  of  the  public 

announcement together with financial ratios as may be specified 

by the Board; 

 

vii)  Details  of  escrow  account  opened  and  the  amount  deposited 

therein; 

 

viii) 

Listing details and stock market data: 

a) 

high, low and average market prices of the securities of 

the  company  proposed  to  be  bought  back,  during  the 

preceding three years; 

b) 

c) 

monthly  high  and  low  prices  for  the  six  months 

preceding the date of the public announcement; 

the  number  of  securities  traded  on  the  days  when  the 

high and low prices were recorded on the relevant stock 

exchanges during the period stated at (a) and (b) above; 

d) 

the  stock  market  data  referred  to  above  shall  be  shown 

separately  for  periods  marked  by  a  change  in  capital 

structure, with such period commencing from the date the 

concerned  stock  exchange  recognises  the  change  in  the 

capital structure.(e.g. when the securities have become ex-

rights or ex-bonus) ; 

e) 

the  market  price  immediately  after  the  date  of  the 

resolution of the Board of directors approving the buy-

back; and 

f) 

the  volume  of  securities  traded  in  each  month  during 

the  six  months  preceding  the  date  of  the  public 

announcement  along  with  high,  low  and  average  prices 

of  securities  of  the  company,  details  relating  to  volume 

of  business  transacted  should  also  be  stated  for 

respective periods. 

ix) 

Present capital structure (including the number of fully paid and 

 
 

Page 36 

 

 
 

Particulars  

Content 

 

 

 

 

   

partly paid securities) and shareholding pattern; 

The capital structure including details of outstanding convertible 

instruments, if any post buy-back; 

Aggregate  shareholding  of  the  promoter  group  and  of  the 

directors  of  the  promoters,  where  the  promoter  is  a  company 

and of persons who are in control of the company; 

Aggregate  number  of  shares  or  other  specified  securities 

purchased  or  sold  by  persons  mentioned  in  clause  xi  above 

during  a  period  of  twelve  months  preceding  the  date  of  the 

public  announcement;  the  maximum  and  minimum  price  at 

which  purchases  and  sales  referred  to  above  were  made  along 

with the relevant dates; 

x) 

 

xi) 

 

xii) 

 

xiii)  Management  discussion  and  analysis  on  the  likely  impact  of 

buy-back  on  the company’s  earnings,  public  holdings,  holdings 

of  NRIs/FIIs  etc.,  promoters  holdings  and  any  change  in 

management structure; 

 

xiv)  Details of statutory approvals obtained; 

 

xv) 

 

Collection and bidding centres; 

xvi)  Name  of  compliance  officer  and  details  of  investors  service 

centres; 

 

xvii) 

Such  other  disclosures  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board  from 

time to time. 

 

 
 

Page 37 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

SCHEDULE - E 

FEES  

[Regulation 8(i)(c), 16(iv)(c) and 22(iv)] 

Every  merchant  banker  shall  while  submitting  the  offer  document  or  a  copy  of  the  public 

announcement to the Board, pay fees as set out below: 

 

Offer Size 

Fee (Rupees) 

Less than or equal to rupees ten crore 

5,00,000/- 

More  than  rupees  ten  crore  but  less  than  or 

0.5% of the offer size 

equal to rupees one thousand crore 

More than rupees one thousand crore 

5,00,00,000/- plus 0.125% of the portion of offer 

size in excess of rupees one thousand crore 

 

 

The fees shall be payable by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS 

or any other mode allowed by RBI or by a demand draft in favour of Securities and Exchange Board 

of India at Mumbai. 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

*** 

 

Page 38 

 

 
 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

ANNEXURE-II 

 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART – III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

NEW DELHI, [●], 2018 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the [●], 2018 

SECURITIES  AND  EXCHANGE  BOARD  OF  INDIA  (SUBSTANTIAL  ACQUISITION 

OF SHARES AND TAKEOVERS) (AMENDMENT) REGULATIONS, 2018  

 

No. [●]. ─ In exercise of the powers conferred under section 30 of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992),  the  Board  hereby  makes  the  following  Regulations  to 

further amend the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 

Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, namely:  

 

1. 

These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial 

Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018. 

 

They  shall  come  into  force  on  the  date  of  their  publication  in  the  Official  Gazette.  

 

In  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 

Takeovers) Regulations, 2011,   

 

(1)  

In regulation 2: 

 

(a) 

For  clause  (j)  of  sub-regulation  (1),  the  following  clause  shall  be 

substituted, namely:- 

 

Page 39 

2. 

3. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

“(j)   “frequently  traded  shares”  means  shares  of  a  target  company,  in 

which the traded turnover on any stock exchange during the twelve 

calendar months preceding the calendar month in which the public 

announcement is required to be made under these regulations, is at 

least ten per cent of the total number of shares of such class of the 

target company: 

 

Provided that where the share capital of a particular class of shares of 

the  target  company  is  not  identical  throughout  such  period,  the 

weighted  average  number  of  total  shares  of  such  class  of  the  target 

company shall represent the total number of shares.” 

(b)   After  clause  (m)  in  sub-regulation  (1),  the  following  clause  shall  be 

inserted, namely:- 

“(ma)  “listing regulations” means the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India 

(Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 

Regulations, 2015.” 

(c)  

For  clause  (r)  of  sub-regulation  (1),  the  following  clause  shall  be 

substituted, namely:- 

 

 

 

 

“(r)   “postal  ballot”  means  a  postal  ballot  as  provided  for  under  Rule 

22  of  the  Companies  (Management  and  Administration)  Rules, 

2014 made under the Companies Act, 2013.” 

 

 

(2)  

In  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  2,  the  words  and  figures  “1956  (1  of  1956)” 

shall be substituted by the words and figures “2013 (18 of 2013)”. 

(3)  

In proviso to sub-regulation (1) of regulation 5A, after the words “detailed public 

statement” the following words shall be added, namely:- 

 

“and a subsequent declaration of delisting will not suffice.”  

Page 40 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

(4)  

For  sub-regulation  (3)  of  regulation  5A,  following  sub-regulation  shall  be 

substituted, namely:- 

“(3) 

 In  the  event  of    failure  of  the  delisting  offer  made  under  sub-regulation 

(1),  the  open  offer  obligations  shall  be  fulfilled  by  the  acquirer  in  the 

following manner:  

 

(i) 

the acquirer, through the manager to the open offer, shall within five 

working  days  from  the  date  of  the  announcement  under  sub-

regulation  (2),  file  with  the  Board,  a  draft  of  the  letter  of  offer  as 

specified in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 16; and  

 

(ii) 

shall  comply  with  all  other  applicable  provisions  of  these 

regulations. 

Provided that the offer price shall stand enhanced by an amount equal to 

a  sum  determined  at  the  rate  of  ten  per  cent  per  annum  for  the  period 

between 

the  scheduled  date  of  payment  of  consideration 

to 

the 

shareholders  and  the  actual  date  of  payment  of  consideration  to  the 

shareholders.  

Explanation: For the purpose of this sub-regulation, scheduled date shall be 

the date on which the payment of consideration ought to have been made to 

the shareholders in terms of the timelines in these regulations.” 

 

 

(5)  

In  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  7,  the  words “total  shares  of”  appearing  after 

the  words  “additional  ten  per  cent  of  the”  shall  be  substituted  by  the  words 

“voting rights in”. 

(6)   

In regulation 9: 

 

(a) 

the words “listing agreement”, wherever occurring, shall be substituted by 

the words “listing regulations”. 

Page 41 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

 

(b) 

in the explanation to clause (c) of sub-regulation (5), the words and figures 

“subsection (1A) of 81 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)” shall be 

substituted  by  the  words  and  figures  “clause  (c)  of  sub-section  (1)  of 

section 62 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)”.  

(7)  

In regulation 10: 

(a) 

The  words  “listing  agreement”,  wherever  occurring,  shall  be  substituted 

by  the  words  “listing  regulations  or  as  the  case  may  be,  the  listing 

agreement.”  

 

 

  

 

(b) 

The following explanation shall be inserted after sub-clause (iii) of clause 

(a) of sub-regulation (1), namely:- 

“Explanation: For the purpose of this sub-clause, the company shall 

include a body corporate, whether Indian or foreign.” 

(c) 

In clause (h) of sub-regulation (1), the words and figures “sub-section (2) 

of section 87 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)” shall be substituted 

by the words and figures “sub-section (2) of section 47 of the Companies 

Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)”. 

(d) 

In the first and third clause of proviso to clause (c) of sub-regulation (4), the 

words  and  figures  “section  77A  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of  1956),” 

wherever occurring, shall be substituted by the words and figures “section 68 

of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)”.  

(8)  

In  regulation  17,  after  proviso  to  sub-regulation  (3),  the  following  explanation 

shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“Explanation: The cash component of the escrow account as referred to in clause 

(a) above may be maintained in an interest bearing account, subject to the 

Page 42 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

merchant banker ensuring that the funds are available at the time of making 

payment to the shareholders.” 

(9)   After  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  18,  before  the  proviso,  the  following 

explanation shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“Explanation:  

(i)  Letter  of  offer  may  also  be  dispatched  through  electronic  mode  in 

accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013. 

(ii)  On  receipt  of  a  request  from  any  shareholder  to  receive  a  copy  of  the 

letter of offer in physical format, the same shall be provided. 

(iii)  The aforesaid shall be disclosed in the letter of offer.” 

(10) In sub-regulation (4) of regulation 18, the words “three working days before the 

commencement of the tendering period” shall be substituted by the words “four working 

days before the closure of the tendering period”. 

 

(11) After sub-regulation (4) of regulation 18, the following new sub-regulation (4A) 

shall be inserted, namely:- 

“(4A) In the event of any revision of the offer price on or after the commencement of the 

tendering  period,  the  shareholders  who  have  already  tendered  their  shares  at  the 

previous offer price shall be entitled to receive the revised offer price.” 

 

(12) In sub-regulation (2) of regulation 22, the words “one hundred per cent of the” shall 

be substituted by the words “the entire”. 

 

(13) In the first proviso to sub-regulation (1) of regulation 24, the words “one hundred 

per cent of the” shall be substituted by the words “the entire”. 

 

 

(14) In sub-regulation (3) of regulation 29, between the words “or the acquisition” and 

the words “of shares or voting rights”, the words “or the disposal” shall be inserted. 

Page 43 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

(15) In sub-regulation (1) of regulation 32, between the words “issue such directions” and 

“as it deems fit”, the words “or any other order” shall be inserted. 

 

(16)  In  regulation  33,  the  words  and  symbol  “shall  have  the  power  to  issue  directions 

through  guidance  notes  or  circulars:”  shall  be  substituted  by  the  words  “may  issue 

clarifications or guidelines from time to time”. 

 

(17) In regulation 33, the proviso shall be omitted. 

 

(18) In sub-regulation (1) of regulation 35, the word “stand” shall be substituted by the 

word “stands”.  

 

Sd/ 

- 

AJAY TYAGI 

CHAIRMAN 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

 

 

Footnotes: 

 

1.   

The SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011  were 

published    in    the    Gazette    of    India    on    23rd    September,    2011    vide    No.    LAD-

NRO/GN/2011 12/24/30181. 

 

2.  

The Principal Regulations were subsequently amended on:  

 

 
 

(a)   March   26, 2013   by   the   SEBI (Substantial   Acquisition   of   Shares   and 

Takeovers)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2013  vide  No.    LAD-NRO/GN/2012 

13/36/7368. 

 

Page 44 

 

 

 

 

   

(b)   October  8,  2013  by  the  SEBI  (Listing  of  Specified  Securities  on  Institutional 

Trading Platform)    Regulations,    2013    vide    No.    LAD-NRO/GN/2013-

14/28/6720. 

 

(c)   May 23,  2014  by  the  SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  

2014 vide Notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/03/1089. 

 

(d)   March   24, 2015   by   the   SEBI   (Substantial   Acquisition   of   Shares   and 

Takeovers)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2015  vide  No.    LAD-NRO/GN/2014-

15/28/542. 

 

(e)   May  5,  2015  by  the  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 

(Second  Amendment)  Regulations, 

2015 

vide  No. 

SEBI/LAD-

NRO/OIAE/GN/2015-16/004. 

 

(f)  

August   14, 2015   by   the   SEBI (Substantial   Acquisition   of   Shares   and 

Takeovers)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015  vide      No.      SEBI/LAD 

NRO/GN/2015-16/009. 

 

(g)   December  22,  2015  by  the  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 

Takeovers)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015  vide  No.  SEBI/LAD-

NRO/GN/2015-16/026. 

 

(h)  

February 17, 2016 by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2016 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2015-16/035. 

 

(i)   May      25,  2016      by      the      SEBI  (Substantial      Acquisition      of      Shares      and 

Takeovers)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  vide  No.  SEBI/  LAD-

NRO/GN/2016-17/002.  

 

(j)   March  6,  2017      by      SEBI  (Payment      of      Fees      and      Mode  of  Payment) 

(Amendment)  Regulations,  2017    vide    No.  SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/037 

Page 45 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

read with notification dated March 29, 2017 vide No. SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-

17/38. 

 

(k)   August  14,  2017  by  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2017 No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2017-18/015. 

 

 

***** 

Page 46 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

