 

 

Consultation paper for determining uniform methodology for pricing of non-traded 

and thinly traded non convertible debt securities  

I.  Objective:  

1.  To  solicit  the  comments/views  from  public  on  the  proposed  uniform  methodology  for 
determining price for non-traded and thinly traded non convertible debt securities ("NCDs" 
hereinafter).   

II.  Background:  

2.  Corporate  bond  markets  are  becoming  more  and  more  dynamic  given  the  growing 
number of issuers, diverse set of institutional investors, growing variety and complexities 
of products and changing dynamics of interest rates. 

3.  The  secondary  market  of  bonds  however  remains  lacklustre  owing  to  various  reasons. 
The  data  given  below  provides  the  average  trading  in  the  total  outstanding  ISINs  in  the 
FY 2017-181. 

Period 

Daily 

Month 

Annually 

Average number of 

Total outstanding 

ISINs traded 

160 

1253 

5226 

ISINs 

18137 

18137 

18137 

% of ISIN traded vis a 
vis outstanding ISIN 

0.88% 

6.91% 

28.81% 

Thus, as can be seen from the abovesaid data, on an average, not even 1% of the  total 
outstanding ISINs are traded daily. 

4.  For  the  institutions,  which  hold  debt  securities  in  their  portfolio,  there  has  to  be  a 
mechanism for finding the fair price of these securities, basis which they can value their 
portfolios and/or trade them. Further, the mechanism shall be so that the values derived 
should be through a uniform and transparent process. 

5.  The requirement of such a framework also assumes importance in view of the fact that a 
large  number  of  such  investors  belong  to  categories  such  as  mutual  funds,  insurance 
companies and pension/retirement funds which have a mandate of daily NAV with an exit 

                                                           
1 Data source - Crisil 

 

Page 1 of 15 

 

 

facility at any point of time for their investors. This requires a reliable and accurate price of 
the outstanding securities on a daily basis. 

6.  Availability  of  such  a  uniform  pricing  framework,  will  ultimately  lead  to  improvement  in 

liquidity in the secondary market and thus will help in deepening the bond markets.  

III.  Current State of affairs 

7.  The August 2016 report of the Working Group on Development of Corporate Bond Market 
in India chaired by Shri  H R Khan,  makes an observation on the current state of  pricing 
norms for corporate bonds in India. The observation made in the report is as under: 

It 

is  recognised 

that  FIMMDA, 

"Currently,  RBI  and  IRDA  have  advised  their  regulated  entities  to  follow  credit  spread 
matrix  published  by  FIMMDA  to  value  their  corporate  bond  portfolio.  FIMMDA publishes 
spread  for  different  ratings  under  various  issuer  segments  like  banking,  NBFC, 
corporates,  etc. 
though  a  quasi  self-regulatory 
organisation, is not a regulated entity. Mutual funds, however, have been, following matrix 
published  by  credit  rating  agencies  (CRAs).  CRAs  are  bound  by  the  code  of  conduct 
under  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies),  1999  to  address  possible  issues  of  conflict  of 
interest. Further, Mutual Funds require daily pricings as they have an obligation to publish 
net asset value of their schemes on a daily basis. However, FIMMDA rates and prices for 
corporate bonds are calculated on a monthly basis. Use of different sources for pricing of 
corporate  bond  portfolio  by  regulated  entities  adversely  impact  trading  in  the  secondary 
market." 

8.  The report further, proposes, following on the matter: 

‘a  uniform  pricing  methodology  available  on  a  daily  basis  may  be  followed  by  all  the 
regulated  entities  for  pricing  of  their  holdings  of  corporate  bonds.    All  regulators  may 
explore  an  acceptable  mechanism 
the  Financial 
Benchmarks India Pvt. Ltd. (FBIL) or credit rating agencies for the same with necessary 
safeguards and regulatory oversight’. 

including  engaging 

for  pricing 

9.  Thus,  as  have  been  observed  in  the  HR  Khan  Committee  report  the  current  practice  of 
pricing of corporate bonds varies for different classes of regulated entities and this impact 
trading  in  the  secondary  market.  It  has  therefore  been  recommended  that  a  uniform 
pricing  methodology  be  evolved,  which  provides  prices  on  a  daily  basis  and  may  be 
followed by all the regulated entities for valuing their corporate bond portfolio. 

 

 

Page 2 of 15 

 

IV.  Consultation with market participants 

 

10. SEBI  consulted  with  representatives  of  various  market  participants  and  industry  bodies 
such  as  Association  of  Mutual  Funds  in  India(hereinafter  "AMFI")  and  Fixed  Income 
Money  Markets  and  Derivatives  Association(hereinafter  "FIMMDA").  A  stock  of  the 
current  set  of  pricing methodologies  was  taken  and  as  identified  in  HR  Khan  committee 
report,  there  are  primarily  two  different  methodologies  are  currently  been  followed,  one 
administered by FIMMDA and the other by credit rating agencies.  

11. These  methodologies  were  discussed  amongst  market  participants,  representatives  of 

FIMMDA, AMFI and regulators viz. SEBI, RBI, IRDA and PFRDA. 

V.  Need for review and proposed framework  

12. The most accurate price of any security can be ascertained from the prices at which that 
particular  security  trades  in  the  market.  However,  as  in  the  case  of  most  of  the  debt 
securities,  there  is  hardly  any  trading  and  thus  alternative  mechanisms  need  to  be 
devised for such calculation of price.  

13. Current  practices  for  pricing  of  corporate  bonds  have  significant  divergences  and  thus 
impacts  both  the  valuation  of  the  investor's  portfolio  and  the  trading  of  such  securities 
among  them.  Therefore,  for  an  investor  in  corporate  bonds  a  reliable  methodology  for 
pricing is desirable, where such methodology reflects the current market situation and the 
process used for calculation of such prices is uniform and standardised. 

14. This  would  help  an  institutional  investor  in  not  only  ascertaining  the  value  of  holding  of 
debt securities in its portfolio, but also in providing exit to its investors, taking appropriate 
risk management decisions and helping in secondary trading.  

15. It is also felt that a single reference price would not be achieved by prescribing a principle 
or methodology, however it  will  generate daily closing prices  which would be derived by 
following  a  consistent  methodology  for  all  the  bonds  in  the  market  and  would  thus  be 
more suitable and timely.  

16. The  proposed  methodology  has  been  framed  keeping  in  mind  the  fact  that  pricing    

illiquid debt securities is as much an art as science, hence making the process completely 
objective  may  neither  be  possible  nor  is  desirable.  Further,  the  idea  is  of  providing 
uniformity to the process, while not taking away the judgement of a pricing agency. 

 

Page 3 of 15 

 
17. The framework proposes to streamline the process flow and various variables used within 
the framework for pricing, this is to ensure that market players will be confident of these 
pricings, will believe in its accuracy and rely on it for transacting. 

 

18. Further, it is felt that with fairly consistent reference price, market participants will have a 
starting  point  to  begin  trading  these  debt  securities  and  this  ultimately  may  act  as  a 
catalyst to spur trading volumes.  

19. Accordingly  it  is  proposed  to  have  a  uniform  methodology  for  pricing  of  non-traded  and 

thinly traded NCDs, which is placed at Annexure- A for public comments. 

VI.  Public comments 

20. Public  comments  are  invited  on  the  proposed  framework  as  at  Annexure-A.  The 
comments,  may  be  sent  by  email  or  through  post,  latest  by  June  18,  2018,  in  the 
following format: 

Details of Responder 

Name1/Organization:  
1if responding in personal capacity 
Contact number: 
Email address: 
 

 

 
 

Comments on consultation paper 

 

Rationale 
 

Sr. No.  Para No. 
 
While  sending  email  kindly  ensure  the  subject  is  "Comments  on  the  Consultation  paper 
for determining uniform methodology for pricing of debt securities" 

Comment/proposed change 
 

Postal Address:                                                                        Email Address:  

Ms. Richa G. Agarwal                                                               bonds@sebi.gov.in 
Deputy General Manager  
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan   
C4-A, G Block  
Bandra Kurla Complex  
Mumbai - 400 051  
Issued on : May 16, 2018 

 

Page 4 of 15 

 

 

Annexure-A 

Proposed framework for determining uniform methodology for pricing of  non-
traded and thinly traded NCDs 

A  Corporate  bonds  is typically  valued  by  discounting  the  stated  cash flows  using the  yields 
derived  from  a  certain  process.  Most  of  the  bonds  can  be  valued  using  a  standardised  
waterfall approach, however there may be certain classes of  non-vanilla  bonds such as tax 
free bonds, perpetual bonds, etc. where the standard approach as proposed herein may not 
be suitable.  

Thus  for  a  non-vanilla  security,  the  pricing  agency  shall  determine  the  list  of  such  type  of 
bonds and the deviations proposed in the standard methodology for valuing such non-vanilla 
bonds. However, such revised methodology shall be made available in the public domain. 

Further,  as  highlighted  above,  a  large  number  of  investors  in  debts  securities  are  mutual 
funds,  insurance  companies  and  pension/retirement  funds,  which  require  prices  on  a  daily 
basis as they have a mandate of daily NAV with an exit facility at any point of time for their 
investors. Thus, the methodology proposes that the pricing exercise  shall be undertaken by 
the pricing agency on a daily basis. 

The draft methodology given under is arranged in following order: 

  Meaning  and  context of  various  terms  used  in  the methodology  are  proposed  in  the 

paper. 

  Details of the methodology for undertaking pricing activity for bonds. 
  Approach of construction of spread matrix. 
  Pollers and polling methodology 
  Dissemination of the pricing related information 

  

1.  Meaning and context of various terms  

A.  Definitions: 

For  the  purpose  of  this  framework,  unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the  terms 
defined    herein    shall    bear    the    meanings    assigned    to    them    below    and    shall    be 
construed accordingly: 

a)  "Pricing  agency"  shall  mean  a  corporate  entity  which  undertakes  the  daily  pricing 
activities  and  is  regulated  by  either  of  SEBI  or  RBI  and  complies  with  following 
requirements: 

 

Page 5 of 15 

i. 

a minimum net worth of INR 10 crore; 

ii. 

shall not price a bond, which it has issued itself; 

 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

has  not  less  than  two  employees,  each  with  at  least  5  years  of  relevant  working 
experience in areas related to bond trading or bond pricing;  

necessary 
arrangements, for  undertaking activities as an bond pricing agency; 

terms  of  systems,  security  and  contingency 

infrastructure 

in 

shall maintain  complete records of  its operations related to bond pricing including 
audit trail of the process and activity for at least seven years;  

the entity, its key personnel's and its directors are fit and proper persons in terms 
of following: 

integrity, reputation and character;  

 
  absence of convictions and restraint orders;  
  competence including financial solvency and networth;  
  absence of categorization as a willful defaulter .  

vii.  where  a  shareholder  in  the  pricing  agency  is  a  credit  rating  agency  (CRA)  or  the 
CRA  is  itself  the  pricing  agency,  adequate    measures  must  be  taken  so  as  to 
mitigate  any  conflict  of  interest  between  the  rating  operations  and  the  pricing 
operations.  Further,  full  independence  shall  be  ensured  of  the  operations  of  the 
pricing agency.  

b)  "Bonds" shall mean non convertible debt securities issued by any corporate  in India; 

c)  "Securities" shall mean Non Convertible Debt Securities (NCDs), Commercial Papers 

(CPs) and Certificate of Deposits (CDs); 

d)  "T- day" shall mean the day for which price is being calculated for a bond; 

e)  "Trade/issuance" shall mean following trades/issuances: 

i.  all trades in securities, value of which is Rs. 5 crore or above; 

ii.  all primary issuances of securities, value of which is Rs. 25 crore or above. 

f)  "Cut  off  time"  shall  mean  timings  within  which  any  trade/issuance  reported  will  be 
taken  into  account  while  determining  the  price  of  bonds  and  such  timings  shall  be 
between 9 am to 5 pm of T-Day. 

Page 6 of 15 

 

 

B.  Other parameters:  

The proposed pricing framework shall be operationalised in context of the parameters as 
defined here under 

 

a)  Similar Maturity:  

i.  While calculating price of a bond the primary reference is the prices at which trades 
have  happened  in  that  bond.  However,  in  the  event  where  no  such  trades  have 
happened, the nearest approximation is the trades in a security which is issued by 
the same issuer and whose residual tenor matches that of the bond, whose price is 
to be determined. 

ii.  While matching the residual tenor of two securities, it may not be possible to match 
the exact tenor. In such cases, the industry practice is to make various buckets of 
residual  tenors  of  the  bonds,  which  are  to  be  priced,  and  match  them  against  the 
securities  which  are  maturing  within  a  certain  time  frame.  Thus,  for  a  particular 
bucket of residual tenor, all the securities maturing in a particular time frame can be 
used. These are categorized as similar maturity security.  

iii.  The proposed criteria to be followed for such categorization shall be as under: 

Residual tenor of bond, which is 
to be priced 
Upto 3 months 

Buckets in which the security is 
maturing 
Calendar Fortnightly bucket 

Greater than 3 months to 1yr 

Calendar Monthly bucket 

Greater than 1yr to 3yr 

Quarterly bucket 

Beyond 3 years 

Half yearly bucket 

iv.  Following example will provide a greater clarity in this matter:   

The price of a bond ABC, which is maturing on June 01, 2019, is to be calculated 
on  May  01,  2018.  Since  the  residual  tenor  of  bond  ABC  lies  between  1  year  to  3 
year, in terms of the aforesaid criteria, any security maturing between April 01, 2019 
to June 30, 2019, will be categorised as similar maturity security.  

Thus, trades in any such similar maturity security can be used for the purposes of 
determining price of bond "ABC". 

 

Page 7 of 15 

 

 

 

b)  Similar issuer:  

i.  Where  the  trades/issuances  are  not  available  for  the  similar  maturity  securities  of 
the  same  issuer,  a  close  approximation  is  the  trades/issuances  for  the  similar 
maturity  securities  of  another  issuer,  where  such  issuer  matches  in  terms  of 
industry,  rating  etc.,  Such  kind  of  reference  issuers  are  categorised  as  similar 
issuer. 

ii.  For the purpose of identification of a “similar issuer” under the proposed framework, 

following criteria may be considered: 

1.  Issuers within same sector/industry 

2.  Issuers within same rating band 

3.  Issuers  with  same  parent/  within  same  group  with  similar  financials  i.e.  net 

worth, debt equity ratio, similar borrowings frequency, etc. 

4.  Issuers with debt securities having same guarantors 

iii.  The aforesaid criterion are broad principles and the pricing agency shall determine 
the  manner  of  identification  of  the  similar  issuers,  in  terms  of  the  criteria  above. 
However, the methodology so used shall be made available in public domain.  

c)  VWAP when multiple trades/ issuances:  

i. 

In  cases  where  there  are  multiple  trades/issuances  of  any  particular  security,  in 
such cases volume weighted average price (VWAP) of all the trades/ issuance price 
shall be used for determining the price under aforesaid framework. 

ii.  This is given the fact that the trades in these securities are far and few and the last 
traded price (LTP), of a security at times may be an aberration or may not represent 
the  existing market levels. Thus, to deal with such issues, VWAP is proposed. 

iii.  Further, a study was conducted for a period of 16 month starting from 01.01.2016 
and it was noted that the deviation between the yields calculated as per VWAP and 
LTP  was less than 5 bps in respect of 94% of the ISINs traded during the period. 
Further,  it  was  also  noted  that  in  respect  of  a  significant  number  of  ISINs  the 
number  of  trades  was  just  one  or  two  and  thus  the  VWAP  and  the  LTP  were  the 
same. 

 

Page 8 of 15 

 

 

 

d)  Outlier trades:  

i.  The prices of the securities at which they are traded, basis which all the calculation 
is carried out, is not traded price but reported price viz. price at which the transfers 
have taken place on bilateral basis and then subsequently reported on exchanges. 

ii.  Thus,  it  would  be  critical  to  identify  and  disregard  trades  which  are  aberrations, 
which do not reflect market levels and may potentially lead to mispricing of security 
or group of securities. 

iii.  The  below-said  criteria  is  proposed  to  determine  „outlier  trade(s)‟,  which  shall  be 

disregarded while calculating the VWAP of the trades: 

1.  Securities with rating of AA and above, in case the residual tenor of securities is 
less than 1 year, any trade outside of plus minus 50 bps from the previous days 
yield of the security should be construed as an outlier trade.  

2.  Securities with rating of AA and above, in case the residual tenor of securities is 
1  year  or  more  than  1  year,  any  trade  outside  of  plus  minus  25  bps  from  the 
previous days yield of the security should be construed as an outlier trade.  

3.  Securities with rating below AA irrespective of residual tenor of such securities, 
trades outside of plus minus 50 bps, from the previous days yield of the security 
should be construed as an outlier trade. 

e)  Exceptional events: 

i. 

It  is  understood  that  there  are  certain  exceptional  events,  occurrence  of  which 
during  market  hours  may  lead  to  significant  change  in  the  yield  of  the  debt 
securities. Hence, such exceptional events need to be factored in while calculating 
the price of the securities.  

ii.  Thus, for the purpose of calculation of VWAP of trades and identification of outliers, 
on  such  exceptional  events  date,  rather  than  considering  whole  day  trades,  only 
those trades shall be considered which have occurred post the event (on the same 
day).  The  pricing  agency,  while  providing  the  prices  shall  however  disclose  the 
timings beyond which trades have been considered. 

iii.  Therefore, there is a need of identifying such events so that there is a defined set of 
such  exceptional  events  available  to  all  the  pricing  agencies.  This  will  help  in 
bringing  uniformity  across  all  the  pricing  agencies  and  will  bring  objectivity  to  the 

Page 9 of 15 

 

 

 

 

entire  process.  The  following  events  are  therefore  proposed  to  be  identified  as 
exceptional events for the purpose of this framework: 

1.  Monetary / Credit policy 

2.  Union budget 

3.  Government borrowing / Auctions days 

4.  Material statements on sovereign rating 

iv.  Based  upon  the  experience  gained  with  this  framework,  the  list  of  exceptional 

events may be expanded at a later stage. 

2.  Proposed methodology for undertaking pricing activity 

For  determining  the  price  of  any  particular  bond, following  waterfall  mechanism  shall  be 
followed. The mechanism and the operating framework of the same is as under:  

A.  Mechanism 

For determination of the price of a bond "X" issued by an issuer "Y", the pricing agency 
shall follow the below-said waterfall mechanism.  

a)  Step 1: Trade in X:  

i.  Pricing agency shall use T-day trade data of the bond "X". 

ii. 

If there are  more than one trade then  value weighted average price (VWAP)  of all 
such trades shall be used to determine the price. Outliers, if any, to be excluded. 

iii. 

In case no trade has taken place on T-day, move onto step 2.  

b)  Step 2: Secondary Trade of similar maturity security of issuer "Y":  

i.  Pricing  agency  shall  use  the  T-day  trade  data  of  any  other  security  by  issuer  "Y", 

where such security is of similar maturity as that of bond "X".  

ii. 

If  more  than  one  trade  has  taken  place  in  such  security,  then  VWAP  of  all  such 
trades shall be used to determine the price. Outliers, if any, to be excluded. 

iii. 

In  case  no  trade  has  taken  place  in  the  same  issuer  similar  maturity  bucket  on T-
day, move onto step 3. 

 

Page 10 of 15 

 

c)  Step 3: Primary issuance of same issuer similar maturity:  

i.  Pricing  agency  shall  use  the  price  at  which  the  primary  issuance  of  a  security  by 
issuer  "Y"  has  taken  place  on T-day,  where  such  security  is  of  similar  maturity  as 
that of bond "X".  

ii. 

If there are more than one issuance of securities within similar maturity bucket, then 
VWAP of  all such issuances shall be used to determine the price.  

iii. 

In  case  there  are  no  issuance  of  a  security  in  the  same  issuer  similar  maturity 
bucket, on T-day, move onto step 4.  

d)  Step 4 :Secondary Trade of similar issuer similar maturity:  

i.  Pricing  agency  shall  use  the  T-day  trade  data  of  a  security  by  any  other  issuer, 
where  such  security  is  of  similar  maturity  as  that  of  bond  "X"    and  the  issuer  is 
categorised within the definition of similar issuer as that of issuer "Y".  

ii. 

If  more  than  one  trade  has  taken  place  in  such  security,  then  VWAP  of  all  such 
trades shall be used to determine the price. Outliers, if any, to be excluded. 

iii. 

In  case  no  trade  has  taken  place  on  in  the  similar  issuer  with  similar  maturity 
security on T-day, move onto step 5.  

e)  Step 5: Primary issuance of similar issuer similar maturity:  

i.  Pricing agency shall use the price at which the primary issuance of a security of any 
other issuer has happened on the T- day, where such security is of similar maturity 
as  that  of  bond  "X"    and  the  issuer  is  categorised  within  the  definition  of  similar 
issuer as that of issuer "Y".  

ii. 

If there are more than one issuance of securities within similar maturity bucket, then 
VWAP of  all such issuances shall be used to determine the price. Outliers, if any, 
to be excluded. 

iii. 

In case no issuance of a security, of similar issuer with similar maturity, has taken 
place on T-day, move onto step 6.  

f)  Step 6: Construction of matrix: This step would involve construction of yield spread 
matrix  by  the  pricing  agency.  The  construction  of  matrix  shall  be  done  in  terms  of 
framework as defined under at Point 3 below. 

Page 11 of 15 

 

 

 

 

Pictorial representation of the aforesaid waterfall mechanism for pricing: 

Step -1: VWAP of the T-day trades in the Bond "X"

Outliers to be excluded

Step -2: VWAP of the T-day trades of same issuer similar maturity security

Outliers to be excluded

Step -3: Price at which primary issuance of same issuer similar maturity
security has happened

If more than one issuance then VWAP

Step - 4: VWAP of the T-day trades of similar issuer similar maturity

Outliers to be excluded

Step -5: Price at which primary issuance of similar issuer similar maturity has
happened

If more than one issuance then VWAP

Step 6: if none of the above data points are available then matrix to be
constructed

 

 

 

Page 12 of 15 

 
3.  Approach for construction of spread matrix: 

 

In  cases  where  the  pricing  of  bonds  is  not  possible  in  terms  of  process  as  mentioned 
between  Step  1  to  Step  5  of  Point  2  above,  than  to  calculate  prices  of  such  bonds, 
spreads  are  to  be  determined  on  certain  representative  securities  of  such  bonds.  The 
manner  of  identification  of  such  representative  issuers  and  calculating  spreads  is  as 
under: 

a)  Segmentation of corporates 

i.  The entire corporate sector is first categorised across  following four sectors i.e. all 

the corporates will be catalogued under one of the below mentioned  bucket: 

1.   Public Sector Undertakings/Financial Institutions/Banks; 

2.  Non Banking Finance Companies - except Housing Finance Companies; 

3.  Housing Finance Companies; 

4.  Other Corporates  

b)  Representative issuers 

i.  For  the  aforesaid  4  sectors,  representative  issuers  shall  be  chosen  by  the  pricing 
agency  for  each  of  the  rating  (I.e.  between  "AAA"  or  equivalent  to  "D"  or 
equivalent).  

ii.  The  spreads  have  to  be  determined  for  the  representative  issuers,  so  chosen,  for 
any  particular  sector.  The  spreads  determined  shall  be  used  for  valuing  bonds 
issued by the corporates identified within that particular sector 

iii.  The manner of identification of the representative issuers shall be as defined by the 

pricing agency and such methodology shall be made available in public domain.  

c)  Calculation of spreads and construction of matrix 

i.  Spreads for any particular sector shall be determined in the following way: 

1.  Spreads to be calculated for representative issuers in entire rating spectrum, for 
securities with following residual maturities of 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 15, 20, 25 
and 30 years. 

 

Page 13 of 15 

 

 

2.  The 

trades/primary 

in  a  security(ies)  of  such 
representative  issuers,  wherever  available,  shall  be  taken  as  trades  for  the 
purpose of calculation of spreads. 

issuances  carried  out 

3.  In the event of no data related to trades/primary issuances in the securities of 
the  representative  issuer  is  available,  polling  shall  be  conducted  from  market 
participants to gauge from the price at which a particular security may be priced 
at.  Further,  while  seeking  market  polling  no  concept  of  outliers  shall  be 
applicable. 

4.  The  spreads  calculated  from  either  of  secondary  trades  on  securities  of  such 
issuers,  primary  issuances  of  securities  or  from  the  market  poll  can  then  be 
depicted in form of a matrix. 

5.  Priority of inputs while constructing the matrix shall be in the order of secondary 
market trades, price at which primary issuance has happened and then market 
polls. If polls are not available for a particular reference, interpolation of existing 
data is to be used. 

ii.  The  principles  of  VWAP,  outlier  trades  and  exceptional  event  shall  be  applicable 

while constructing the matrix on the basis of trades/primary issuances.   

iii.  The credit rating to be used for the representative issuers shall be latest and shall 
not  be    more  than  12  months  old.  Also,  in  case  there  are  two  credit  ratings,  the 
lower rating to be considered.  

iv.  Residual  tenor of  the  securities of  representative  issuers  shall be  used  calculation 

of spreads.  

v.  Polling shall be undertaken with a minimum quorum of atleast 7 pollers, where such 

pollers are identified from the universe of pre identified pollers. 

4.  Pollers and Polling Methodology 

a)  Governance framework 

i.  While constructing a matrix for pricing, one of the very important parameters is the 
polls by the market participants, which provide their view on the yields of securities 
across different sectors and ratings.  

 

Page 14 of 15 

 

 

ii.  The  “Uniform  code  of  Conduct  for  submitters”  issued  by  FIMMDA2,  provides  the 
governance  framework  for  pollers.  The  document,  inter-alia,  provides  the  various 
compliances, policies and procedures to be followed by a poller and the manner of 
polling.  

iii.  The  aforesaid  "Uniform  code  of  conduct  for  submitters"  is  proposed  to  be  the 
guiding  structure  and  a  framework  for  pollers  shall  be  finalised  in  terms  of    the 
aforesaid  Uniform  code  and 
framework. 
Comments/inputs,  if  any  on  the  aforesaid  code  may  also  be  forwarded  along  with 
the comments on the other proposals in this paper. 

the  proposals  contained 

in 

this 

b)  Universe of pollers 

i.  A  universe  of  pollers  shall  be  identified  among  following  regulated  financial  sector 
entities  viz.  insurance  companies,  pension/provident  funds,  banks,  mutual  funds, 
brokers, primary dealers and merchant bankers. Only such entities, of the aforesaid 
class  of  entities,  shall    be  included  in  the  universe  of  pollers  which  deal  in  the 
corporate bond markets and which comply with uniform code of conduct as referred 
at para 4(a) above. 

ii.  From  the  universe  of  pollers,  entities  which  are  required  to  poll  for  any  particular 
day shall be identified as per  the methodology devised by the pricing agency. The 
methodology shall also provide for a rotation policy and the methodology  needs to 
be disclosed in public domain. Further, entities who have been identified for polling 
on any particular day, shall be mandatorily required to poll.  

iii.  All,  the  Financial  sector  Regulators  would  be  requested  to  prescribe  the  same  to 

their regulated entities.  

5.  Dissemination of the data in public domain 

a)  The pricing provided by the different pricing agencies may be made available by them, 
on a daily basis, on their website for public at large. This will ensure that any kind of 
back-testing and/or verification could be easily done. 

b)  However, to ensure that the commercial interest of the pricing agencies is preserved, 

such pricing data may be made available to public at large after a delay of  one day.  

                                                           
2http://www.fimmda.org/Uploads/general/UnifiedCodeofConductforSubmittersofallBenchmarks21stNovember2014-
new.pdf 

 

Page 15 of 15 

