Consultation  paper  for  review  of  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 

 

1.  Objective: 

 

The objective of this consultation paper is to seek comments on the changes proposed in the SEBI 
(Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  (hereinafter  referred  as 
LODR Regulations) with respect to listed companies which have listed its Non-convertible debt 
securities (NCDs) or Non-convertible redeemable preference shares (NCRPS) or both. 

 

2.  Introduction: 

 

LODR Regulations were notified on September 02, 2015. The said Regulations, inter-alia, provide 
for principles governing various disclosures and obligations of listed entities. Chapter V of the 
said Regulations lays down obligations of listed entity which has listed its NCDs or NCRPS or both, 
whereas Chapter VI casts obligations on listed entity which has listed its specified securities and 
either NCDs or NCRPS or both. Also, Regulation 63 of Chapter VI prescribes that all provisions of 
chapter IV and certain Regulations of Chapter V shall apply to entities which have listed both its 
specified securities as well as NCDs and/or NCRPS. 
 
It has been proposed to review the SEBI LODR regulations for the reasons as mentioned below: 
 

2.1. SEBI is in receipt of feedback and representations, from various stakeholders across the 
market,  expressing  difficulties  in  complying  with  various  provisions  of  SEBI  LODR 
Regulations,  some  of  which  are  reportedly  repetitive,  unwarranted  and  also 
cumbersome to comply with. It is felt that keeping this in view, a review is necessary in 
order to ensure ease of compliance on the part of the issuers who have listed their debt 
securities.   

 

2.2. Further, in recent years there has been a spate of incidents regarding non-compliance 

with the SEBI LODR Regulations by the issuers of debts securities. 

 

 
Therefore, in order to ensure safeguard of interest of investors, a need has been felt to 
review and strengthen the SEBI LODR Regulations wherever necessary pertaining to NCDs 
and NCRPS. 

 

 

Page 1 of 17 

 

3.  Review of LODR Regulations: 
 
The provisions which are proposed to be reviewed in this paper are as under: 

 

 
3.1. Intimation to stock exchange(s): 

 
3.1.1. Current requirement : 

 

3.1.1.1.  Regulation  50(1):  Listed  entity  shall  give  prior  intimation  to  the  stock 
exchange(s) at least eleven working days before the date on and from which 
the  interest  and  redemption  amount  is  payable  on  debentures,  bonds  and 
redeemable shares. 
 

3.1.1.2.  Regulation  50(2):  Listed  entity  shall,  prior  to  issuance  of  NCDs  or  NCRPS, 
intimate the stock exchange(s) about its intention to raise funds through these 
securities which it proposes to list either through a public issue or on private 
placement  basis.  Further,  the  above  intimation  may  be  given  prior  to  the 
meeting  of  board  of  directors  wherein  the  proposal  to  raise  funds  through 
these securities shall be considered. 

 

3.1.1.3.  Regulation 50(3): Listed entity shall intimate to the stock exchange(s), at least 
two working days in advance of the meeting of its board of directors, at which 
the  recommendation  or  declaration  of  issue  of  NCDs  or  any  other  matter 
affecting  the  rights  or  interests  of  holders  of  NCDs/NCRPs  is proposed to be 
considered. 
 

3.1.2. Changes proposed: 

 

Regulation  50(1):  The  provisions  with  respect  to  the  intimation  under 
Regulation 50(1) is proposed to be deleted and instead these requirement may 
be incorporated as part of Regulation 57 which provides for other submissions 
to  stock  exchange(s).  It  is  proposed  to  insert  the  following  provision  under 
Regulation 57:  
 
Regulation  57(4):  A  listed  entity  shall  within  5  working  days  prior  to  the 
beginning  of  the  quarter  provide  details  for  all  the  non-convertible  debt 

 

Page 2 of 17 

 

securities  and/or  non-convertible  redeemable  preference  shares  for  which 
interest/dividend shall be payable or redeemable during the quarter. 
 
Regulation 57(5): The listed entity shall within 2 working days from end of the 
quarter provide a certificate confirming about payment of interest or dividend 
or  principal  obligations  for  NCDs/  NCRPS  which  were  due  as  per  Regulation 
57(4). 
 
The  listed  entity  shall  also  intimate  complete  list  of  non-payment  of  interest  or 
dividend or principal obligations for NCDs/ NCRPS which were due as per Regulation 
57(4) and all such dues for the period before. 
 
Rationale:It has been pointed out by the market participants that due dates of 
payment  of  interest  and  redemption  of  principal  are  part  of  Information 
memorandum  circulated  to  investors  as  this  document  is  submitted  to  the 
stock  exchanges  at  the  time  of  listing.  Further,  certain  listed  entities, 
particularly,  the  finance  companies  have  multiple  tranches  of  securities 
outstanding at any particular point of time. Therefore, it would be cumbersome 
for  them  to  provide  separate  intimation  for  each  of  the  tranches  under 
Regulation  50(1).  Also  repeated  intimation  by  the  listed  entity,  to  the  stock 
exchange, about its intention to raise funds through NCDs or NCRPS, prior to 
every  meeting  of  the  board  of  directors  makes  the  compliance  process  very 
cumbersome for such listed entities.  
 

3.1.2.1.  Regulation  50(2):  It  is  proposed  to  delete  this  Regulation  and  make  the 
provisions of this Regulation more inclusive and make it a part of disclosures to 
be made under Regulation 51. 
 
Rationale: It is felt that disclosure under this Regulation may not be of much 
relevance to the debt holders and/or preference shareholders.  
 

3.1.2.2.  Regulation  50(3):  It  is  proposed  to  delete  this  Regulation  and  make  the 
provisions of this Regulation as part of disclosures to be made under Regulation 
51. 
 
Rationale:  This  would  ease  compliance  on  the  part  of  the  issuers,  without 
compromising on the availability of information to the investors. 
 

 

Page 3 of 17 

 

 

3.2. Disclosure  of  information  having  bearing  on  performance/operation  of  listed  entity 

and/or price sensitive information: 

 
3.2.1. Current requirement : 
 

3.2.1.1.  Regulation 51(1) and Regulation 51(2): Regulation 51(1) and (2) read with Part 
B of schedule III to the LODR Regulations provides that the listed entity shall 
promptly inform the stock exchange(s) of all information having bearing on the 
performance/operation of the listed entity, price sensitive information or any 
action that shall affect payment of interest or dividend or redemption of NCRPS 
or NCDs.  The detailed list of such events/ information has been provided in 
Part B of Schedule III of LODR Regulations. 

 
3.2.2. Changes proposed: 

 

The disclosures, as inserted in Part B of Schedule III of LODR Regulations are 
proposed to be carried out in the following manner: 
 

3.2.2.1.  The  listed  entity  shall  first  disclose  to  stock  exchange(s)  of  all  events,  as 
specified  in  revised  Part  B  of  Schedule  III,  or  information  as  soon  as 
reasonably  possible  but  not  later  than  the  time  indicated  for  the  specific 
events. 
 
Provided  that  in  case  the  disclosure  of  occurrence  of  the  event  or 
information  is  made  after  the  specified  time  for  the  intimation,  the  listed 
entity shall, along with such disclosures provide explanation for delay. 

 

3.2.2.2.  The  listed  entity  shall,  with  respect  to  disclosures  referred  to  in  this 
Regulation, make disclosures updating material developments on a regular 
basis, till such time the event is resolved/closed, with relevant explanations. 
 

3.2.2.3.  The  listed  entity  shall  provide  specific  and  adequate  reply  to  all  queries 

raised by stock exchange(s) with respect to any events or  information 
 
Provided  that  the  stock  exchange(s)  shall  disseminate  information  and 
clarification as soon as reasonably practicable.  

 

Page 4 of 17 

 

 

3.2.2.4.  The  listed  entity  suo  moto,  may  confirm  or  deny  any  reported  event  or 

information to stock exchange(s).  
 

3.2.2.5.  The  listed  entity  may  disclose  on  its  website  all  such  events  or  information 
which has been disclosed to stock exchange(s) under this Regulation, and such 
disclosures may be hosted on the website of the listed entity for a minimum 
period of five years and thereafter as per the archival policy of the listed entity, 
as disclosed on its website. 

 

Disclosure of events or Information: NCDs/NCRPS 
 

3.2.2.6.  A. The following shall be events/information which shall be disclosed by the 
listed entity without any application of guidelines of materiality as soon as 
reasonably possible but not later than twenty four hours from occurrence of 
event or information :- 
 
(1)  Any delay or expected delay in payment of interest or dividend according 

to due date/pre-agreed date;   

(2)  Any delay or expected delay in repayment /redemption of principal amount 

according to due date/pre-agreed date;   

(3)  Any  default  or  expected  default  in  payment  of  interest  or  dividend 

according to due date/pre-agreed date;   

(4)  Any  default  or  expected  default 

in  payment  of  principal  amount 

/redemption according to due date/pre-agreed date;   

(5)  Details of any letter or comments made by debenture trustees regarding 
payment/non-payment of interest on due dates, payment/non-payment of 
principal  on  the  due  dates  or  any  other  matter  concerning  the  security, 
listed entity and /or the assets along with its comments thereon, if any;  

(6)  Any proposal or action that shall adversely affect payment of interest on 
non-convertible debt securities or payment of dividend on non-convertible 
redeemable preference shares; 

(7)  Any proposal to change or any change in terms including rights or privileges 
or  nature  or  form  of  non-convertible  debt  securities  or  non-convertible 
redeemable  preference  shares  including  any  such  proposal  with  any 
investor(s)/lender(s);  

 

Page 5 of 17 

(8)  Any proposal or action for changing the terms of issue or  redemption or 

 

both; 

(9)  Any proposal or action with respect to exercising call/put option (right to 

redeem) or any similar option by the listed entity; 

(10) Any proposal or action of listed entity which shall result in the redemption, 
conversion,  cancellation,  retirement  in  whole  or  in  part  of  any  non-
convertible  debt  securities  or  reduction,  redemption,  cancellation, 
retirement  in  whole  or  in  part  of  any  non-convertible  redeemable 
preference shares;   

(11) Periodic rating obtained from credit rating agency or any  revision in the 

rating or any expected revision in rating; 

(12) Delay or failure to create charge on the assets within the stipulated time 

for non-convertible debt securities;  

(13) Any  attachment  or  prohibitory  orders  restraining  the  listed  entity  from 
transferring non-convertible debt securities or non-convertible redeemable 
preference shares; 

(14) Any proposal to change or change or breach of any covenants under the 

terms of NCDs and/or NCRPS; 

(15) Any proposal or action for forfeiture of unclaimed interest or dividend or 
principal  amount  or  forfeiture  of  any  non-convertible  debt  securities 
and/or non-convertible redeemable preference shares;  

(16) Any proposal to change or change of Debenture trustee or Credit rating 

agency or Registrar and Share Transfer Agent; 

(17) Initiation  or  status  update  with  respect  to  reference  to  NCLT  under  the 

Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016; 

(18) Any proposal for borrowings to be made through issuance of NCDs and/or 
NCRPS, other debt instruments viz. term loans, commercial papers, external 
commercial borrowings, Foreign currency convertible borrowings, medium 
term  note  programme,  rupee  denominated  offshore  bonds  or  any  other 
mode of borrowings; 

(19) Intimation in advance of the meeting of its board of directors, at which the 
recommendation  or  declaration  of  issue  of  NCDs  or  any  other  matter 
affecting the rights or interests of holders of NCDs/NCRPs is proposed to be 
considered and also outcome of such meetings.   

(20) In  case  where  an  event  occurs  or  an  information  is  available  with  the 
listed entity, which has not been indicated in Part B of Schedule III, but 

 

Page 6 of 17 

which  may  be  material,  the  listed  entity  is  required  to  make  adequate 
disclosures in this regard. 

 

Explanation.- For the purpose of this part, ‘default’ shall mean non-payment 
of interest or dividend or principal amount or redemption amount in full on the 
pre-agreed  date  and  shall  be  recognized  at  the  first  instance  of  delay  in 
servicing of any interest or dividend or principal or redemption.  

 

 

B. The provisions mentioned at Paragraph A(1), A(6), A(7), A(9), A(10), A(12) 
of Part A of Schedule III shall also be applicable to listed entities which have 
listed their NCDs or NCRPS without application of materiality.  

C. Disclosures as per Paragraph B of Part A of Schedule III after application of 
materiality as determined in terms of Regulation 30(4) of LODR in so far as 
they have a bearing on payment of interest or dividend or principal amount or 
redemption. 

 
Rationale:  The  disclosure  of  information  having  bearing  on  performance/ 
operation  of  listed  entity  and/or  price  sensitive  information  needs  a  review 
because  an  event  which  may  be  material  on  its  own  need  not  necessarily  be 
material  event/information  even  though  it  may  be  price  sensitive.  The  above 
disclosures shall not only ensure alignment with listed entities who have listed their 
specified  securities  but  will  also  provide  a  defined  timeline  for  disclosure  of 
material  event/information.  It  would  also  help  in  ensuring  timely  availability  of 
crucial information to all the stakeholders regarding NCDs/NCRPS which may affect 
the investment decisions/interests of the investors. 
 

3.3. Financial Results: 

 
3.3.1. Current requirement : 

 

3.3.1.1.  Regulation 52(4): The listed entity, while submitting half yearly/ annual financial 
results, shall, inter-alia , disclose  the following line items along with the financial 
results: 
(a)   credit rating and change in credit rating; 
(b) asset cover available in case of non-convertible debt securities,; 
(c)  debt-equity ratio; 

Page 7 of 17 

 

 

(d) previous  due  date 

 
for 
NCRPS/repayment of principal of NCRPS /NCD and whether same is paid 
or not; 

for  the  payment  of 

interest/  dividend 

(e)  next  due  dates 

for 

for 
NCRPS/repayment of principal of NCRPS /NCD and whether same has been 
paid or not. 

interest/  dividend 

the  payment  of 

 

3.3.1.2.  Provisos to Regulation 52(4): The first proviso to Regulation 52(4) provides that 
the requirement of disclosures of debt service coverage ratio, asset cover and 
interest service coverage ratio shall not be applicable for banks or non-banking 
financial companies registered with the Reserve Bank of India, unsecured debt 
instruments  issued  by  regulated  financial  sector  entities  eligible  for  meeting 
capital requirements as specified by respective regulators. 
 
Second  proviso  to  Regulation  52(4)  requires  that  the  provision  of  this 
Regulation shall not be made applicable in case of unsecured debt instruments 
issued  by  regulated  financial  sector  entities  eligible  for  meeting  capital 
requirements as specified by respective regulators.  
 

3.3.1.3.  Regulation 52(6) (e): Regulation52(6) (e) provides that the listed entity which 
has  listed  its  non-convertible  redeemable  preference  shares  shall,  inter-alia, 
make additional disclosures such as breach of any covenants under the terms 
of the non-convertible redeemable preference shares. 

 

3.3.2. Changes proposed: 

 

3.3.2.1. Regulation 52(4): It is proposed to remove requirements of 52(4)(a), (d) and 

(e).  
 
Rationale:  It  is  felt  that  requirement  to  disclose  credit  rating  and  change  in 
credit rating is not a financial requirement and need not be provided along with 
the financial statements. The change in credit rating needs to be disclosed to 
stock exchange under Regulation 51 as it a material information.  
 
Feedback  has  also  been  received  from  the  market  participants  that  the 
disclosures  required  under  Regulation52(4)  (a),  (d)  and  (e)  have  to  be  given 
series wise and considering that the issuers have numerous series of listed ISINs 

 

Page 8 of 17 

outstanding at a given point of time, the disclosures sought under the aforesaid 
clauses cannot be provided as a line item Further, due dates for payment of 
interest/ dividend/repayment of principal of NCRPS /NCD  is already required 
to be intimated in terms of Regulation 50 and whether the payment has been 
made or not is required to be intimated in terms of Regulation 57(1). Therefore, 
the requirements under Regulation 52(4)(d) & (e) are proposed to be deleted.  
 

 

3.3.2.2. Deletion of first and second proviso to Regulation 52(4): It is proposed to 
delete the first and second proviso related to requirements of this Regulation.  
 
Rationale: SEBI vide circular dated August 10, 2016 has provided that banking 
companies  and  insurance  companies  shall  follow  the  formats  as  prescribed 
under  their  respective  Acts/Regulations  as  specified  by  their  Regulators  and 
therefore the provisos are proposed to be deleted. 
 

3.3.2.3. Disclosure of Regulation 52(6) (e) under Schedule III: It is proposed to include 
the disclosure with respect to breach of covenants under the terms of issuance 
of NCDs and /or NCRPS under Schedule III disclosures. 
 
Rationale:  It  is  felt  that  the  disclosure  required  under  Regulation  52(6)(e)  is 
material information affecting the rights of investors and should be provided 
for both NCDs and NCRPS under schedule III read with Regulation 51. 
 

3.4. Utilisation of funds:  

 
3.4.1.  Current requirement: 

 
Regulation 52(7) requires that the listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange on a 
half  yearly  basis  along  with  the  half  yearly  financial  results,  a  statement  indicating 
material deviations, if any, in the use of proceeds of issue of NCDs and NCRPS from the 
objects stated in the offer document. 

Regulation  56(1)(a)  inter  alia  provides  that  the  listed  entity  shall  forward  a  copy  of 
certificate from the listed entity's auditors in respect of utilisation of funds during the 
implementation period of the project for which the funds have been raised. 
 
 
 

Page 9 of 17 

 

 

 

3.4.2. Changes proposed: 

 

 

With regard to intimation for material deviation in the use of proceeds, it is proposed 
that the same may be required to be submitted quarterly. Further, requirement of 
submission of auditor’s certificate in respect of utilization of funds, as required under 
Regulation  56(1)  is  proposed  to  be  deleted  and  instead  incorporated  as  a  part  of 
Regulation 52(7). 
 
Rationale: Material deviations in the use of proceeds is a serious issue and needs to 
be  intimated  more  frequently  than  the  instant  provision.  Accordingly,  it  has  been 
proposed  to  reduce  the  timeline  for  such  intimation  from  half  yearly  to  quarterly. 
Further,  the  proposal  of  deleting  the  requirement  of  submission  of  auditor’s 
certificate in respect of utilization of funds in terms of Regulation 56(1) and making it 
a part of Regulation 52(7), would result in coherence in respect to submissions related 
to use of proceeds. 

 

3.5. Annual Report: 

 
3.5.1.  Current requirement: 

 

3.5.1.1. Regulation  53:  Regulation  53  provides  for  the  disclosures  to  be  made  in  the 
Annual  Report  by  the  listed  entities  which  has  listed  its  NCDs  and/or  NCRPS. 
However, it does not provide the time line for submission of  the same to Stock 
Exchanges. 
 

3.5.1.2. Regulation 58(1): Regulation 58(1) provides that the listed entity shall send the 

following documents: 

(a)  Soft  copies  of  full  annual  reports  to  all  the  holders  of  NCRPS  who  have 
registered their email address(es) for the purpose;  

(b) Hard copy of statement containing the salient features of all the documents, 
as specified in Section 136 of Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder to 
those holders of NCRPS who have not so registered;  

(c)  Hard  copies  of  full  annual  reports  to  those  holders  of  NCDs/  NCRPS,  who 
request for the same.  

 

 

 

 

Page 10 of 17 

 

 

(d)  Half  yearly  communication  as  specified  in  sub-regulation  (4)  and  (5)  of 
regulation 52, to holders of NCDs/ NCRPS.  
  

3.5.1.3. Regulation  56  (1):  Regulation  56(1)  provides  that  the  listed  entity  shall 

promptly provide a copy of the annual report to the Debenture Trustee. 
 

3.5.2.  Changes proposed: 

 

3.5.2.1. Regulation 53: It is proposed that listed entities who have issued NCDs and/or 
NCRPS  shall  submit  the annual  report to  the  stock  exchange  and  Debenture 
Trustees within twenty one days of it being approved and adopted in the AGM 
as per companies Act, 2013. 
 
Rationale:    Regulation  53  does  not  specify  any  time  limit  for  submission  of 
annual  report  whereas  Regulation  34  of the  LODR  Regulations provides  that 
the listed entity issuing equity shares and specified securities shall submit the 
annual  report  to  the  stock  exchange  within  twenty  one  days  of  it  being 
approved and adopted in the AGM as per companies Act, 2013.Therefore, in 
order to ensure parity across all listed issuers, it is proposed to define a timeline 
under  Regulation  53  to  make  the  conditions  uniform  for  submission  of  the 
annual report to the stock exchanges.  
 
It is proposed that all the provisions pertaining to submission of Annual report 
may be provided under one Regulation. Hence, the requirement with respect 
to submission of annual report to Debenture Trustee is proposed to be made a 
part of Regulation 53. 
 

3.5.2.2. Regulation 58(1):  

 
It is proposed that the Soft copies of annual reports required to be sent to the 
holders of non-convertible preference share who have registered their email 
address(es) for the purpose shall also be sent to the email addresses available 
in depository account information. The same is proposed to be incorporated as 
part of Regulation 58(1)(a). Further, Regulation 58(1) (b), (c) & (d) are proposed 
to be deleted. 
 

 

Page 11 of 17 

 

 
Rationale:  As  per  provisions  of  Companies  act,  all  holders  whose  email  id  is 
available with depositories may be provided only soft copy of Annual Report. 
Thus the same is proposed to be streamlined.  
 
Further, it is felt that the documents required in terms of Regulation 58(1) are 
relevant to the holders of equity shares of a company and may not be required 
to be sent to holders of NCDs/ NCRPS in hard copy.  
 
Moreover, as per Regulation 52(4) and Regulation 52(8), the financial results of 
the company along with other relevant information is already available in the 
public domain via the stock exchange website, newspapers etc.  Therefore the 
Regulation 58(1) (b), (c) & (d) are proposed to be deleted. 
 

3.6. Credit Rating: 

 
3.6.1.  Current requirement : 

 

Regulation  55:  Regulation  55  provides  that  each  rating  obtained  by  the  listed 
entity with respect to NCDs shall be reviewed at least once a year by a credit rating 
agency registered by the Board. 

 

3.6.2.  Changes proposed: It is proposed that the credit rating assigned to NCRPS shall 

also be reviewed once a year under Regulation 55.  
 
Rationale: The proposed change would align the requirement of review of rating of 
NCDs with that of NCRPS. 

 

3.7. Documents and Intimation to Debenture Trustees: 

 
3.7.1.  Current requirement : 

 
Regulation  56(1):  Regulation  56(1)  of  the  LODR  Regulations  inter-alia  provides 
that  the  listed  entity  shall  promptly  forward  to  the  Debenture  Trustee  the 
following documents:  

(a)  a copy of the annual report at the same time as it is issued along with a copy 
of certificate from the listed entity's auditors in respect of utilisation of funds 

 

Page 12 of 17 

 

 

during the  implementation period  of  the  project  for  which  the  funds  have 
been raised. 

 

(b)  a copy of all notices, resolutions and circulars relating to-  

(i)  new  issue  of  NCDs  at  the  same  time  as  they  are  sent  to  shareholders/ 
holders of NCDs;  
(ii) the meetings of holders of NCDs at the same time as they are sent to the 
holders  of  NCDs  or  advertised  in  the  media  including  those  relating  to 
proceedings of the meetings;  

(c)  intimations regarding :  

 
(i) any revision in the rating;  
(ii) any default in timely payment of interest or redemption or both in respect 
of the NCDs;  
(iii) failure to create charge on the assets;  

 
(d) a  half-yearly  certificate  regarding  maintenance  of  hundred  percent  asset 
cover in respect of listed NCDs, by either a practicing company secretary or a 
practicing chartered accountant, along with the half yearly financial results:  

 

3.7.2.  Changes proposed: 

3.7.2.1. Regulation  56(1):  It  is  proposed  that  the  listed  entity  shall  forward  the 
material information/documents  as  disclosed  under  Part  B  of  Schedule  III  of 
Regulation 51 in so far as much it relates to interest, principal, issue and terms 
of  NCDs,  rating,  creation  of  charge  on  the  assets,  notices,  resolutions  and 
meetings of holders of NCDs, to the debenture trustee at the same time as it 
has intimated to the stock exchange.  
 
Rationale:  The  proposal  has  been  made  to  rationalize  the  requirement  of 
reporting  of  material  event/  information.  Further,  disclosure  of  material 
information/documents  related  to  interest,  principle,  issue  of  NCDs,  rating, 
creation of charge on the assets, notices, resolutions and meetings of holders 
of NCDs, to the debenture trustee at the same time as it has been intimated to 
the stock exchange, would ease compliance on part of issuers. 
 
Further,  the  submission  of  half  yearly  certificate  regarding  maintenance  of 
asset cover to debenture trustee in terms of Regulation 56(1)(d) would be a 

 

Page 13 of 17 

duplication as the said information is noted by the trustee under  Regulation 
52(5). Hence, the same is proposed to be deleted.  
 
Thus Regulation 56(1) (a), (b), (c) & (d) are proposed to be deleted. 

 

3.8. Other submissions to stock exchange(s): 

 
3.8.1.  Current requirement : 

 
Regulation 57(1): Regulation 57(1) provides that the listed entity shall submit a 
certificate to the stock exchange within two days of the interest or principal or 
both  becoming  due  that  it  has  made  timely  payment  of  interests  or  principal 
obligations or both in respect of the non-convertible debt securities stating the 
fact about non-payment along with the reasons for the same. 
 
Changes  proposed:  The  listed  entity  shall  submit  a  certificate  to  the  stock 
exchange within two days of the interest or principal or both becoming due in case 
of non-payment of such interests or principal obligations or both in respect of the 
non-convertible debt securities. 
 
Rationale: It has been observed that listed entities are submitting certificates to 
the  stock  exchanges  under  Regulation  57(1)  only  when  they  have  made  timely 
payment  of  their  debt  obligations  and  not  otherwise.  However,  the  legislative 
intent of the provision is that disclosures have to be made to the stock exchanges 
irrespective  of  payment  being  made  by  the  listed  entity.  Therefore  intimation 
regarding  non-payment  of  interest  or  dividend  or  principal  obligations  will  also 
emphasize the submission of material information under Regulation 51. 

 

3.9. Structure of NCDs and NCRPS: 

 
3.9.1. Current requirement : 

 
Regulation 59(1) and Regulation 59(2): Regulation59 (1) and (2) provides that the 
listed entity shall not make material modification without prior approval of the stock 
exchange(s) where the NCDs/ NCRPS are listed. Also, such approval shall be taken 
only after: 

i. 

Approval of board of directors and debenture trustee in case of NCDs and ; 

 

Page 14 of 17 

ii. 

Complying with provisions of Companies Act, 2013 including approval of the 
consent of requisite majority of holders of that class of securities. 
 

 

3.9.2. Changes proposed: It is proposed that the listed entity shall not make any material 
modification  without  obtaining  consent  in  writing  of  the  holders  of  not  less  than 
three-fourths,  by  number,  of  holders  of  that  class  of  securities  for  which 
modification in structure is proposed. Further, such consent has to be an affirmative 
one and a mere non response shall not be treated as deemed consent. The consent 
so received from the prescribed number of holders shall be vetted by the debenture 
trustee who shall then issue a certificate to the issuer confirming the same. The said 
certificate shall then be submitted by the listed entity to the stock exchange.  

 

Rationale: The proposed change is to remove ambiguity regarding the process to be 
followed  for  making  material  modification  to  the  structure  of  NCD  and  NCRPS. 
Further,  it  is  felt  that  such  a  change  would  provide  adequate  safeguards  to  the 
interests of investors thus enabling a robust framework for such structural change. 
 

3.10. Website: 

 
3.10.1. Current requirement : 

Regulation  62  of  the  LODR  Regulations  provides  that  the  listed  entity  shall 
maintain a functional website containing information such as details of business 
about the listed entity, its financial statements, details about default by issuer to 
pay  interest  on  or  redemption  amount;  failure  to  create  charge  etc.  The 
Regulation further provides that the listed entity has to ensure that the contents 
of website are correct and updated at any given point of time. 

 

3.10.2. Changes proposed: It is proposed that the listed entity shall update any change in 
the content of its website within two working days from the date of such change in 
content.  
 
Rationale: This has been proposed to align the requirement of timely updation on 
website  by  the  issuers  of  listed  debt  securities  with  that  required  for  specified 
securities in terms of Regulation 46 of LODR Regulations. 
 
 
 

 

Page 15 of 17 

 

3.11.  Applicability of Chapters IV and V: 

 
3.11.1. Current requirement : 

 

 
Regulation 63(1) and Regulation 63(2):Regulation 63(1) read with Regulation 63(2) 
provides that an entity which has listed its ‘specified securities’ and ‘non-convertible 
debt securities’ or ‘non-convertible redeemable preference shares’ or both on any 
recognized stock exchange, shall be comply with all provisions in Chapter IV of these 
Regulations  and  certain  provisions  of  Chapter  V  including  Regulations  such  as 
Regulation 50(2), (3), 51, 53, 54, 55 etc.  
 

3.11.2. Changes  proposed:  It  is proposed to  include  Regulation 62  within the  ambit of 
Regulation 63(2) as the disclosures to be made on the website of listed entity are 
significantly different in case of equity listed and debt listed issuers. Hence, in order 
to have better availability of information in the public domain, it is proposed that 
issuers  who  have  listed  both  their  specified  securities  as  well  as  debt  securities 
would have to comply with Regulation 62. 
 
Rationale: This would ensure better availability of information in the public domain. 

 

4.  Public Comments: 

In light of the above, public comments are invited on the proposals contained in this consultation 
paper.  The  comments, may  be  sent  by  email  or  through post,  latest by  June  11,  2018,  in  the 
following format: 

Details of Responder 

Name1/Organization:  
1if responding in personal capacity 
Contact number: 
Email address: 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Sr. No. 
 

Para No. 
 

Comments on consultation paper 
Comment/proposed change 
 

Rationale 
 

Page 16 of 17 

 

 
Ms. Richa G. Agarwal                                                                
Deputy General Manager  
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan   
C4-A, G Block  
Bandra Kurla Complex  
Mumbai - 400 051  
 
Email Address:  bonds@sebi.gov.in 

While sending email kindly ensure the subject is "Comments on the Consultation paper for review 
of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015" 

Issued on: May 14, 2018 

 

 

Page 17 of 17 

