 

 

 

Consultation paper on measures to enhance efficiency in polling methodology 

adopted for spot price determination of commodities 

 
 
1  Objective 
 
1.1  The objective of this consultation paper is to seek comments / views from 
the  public  on  measures  to  further  enhance  efficiency  in  the  polling 
methodology adopted for determination of spot price for commodities. The 
availability of reliable and transparent information about the spot price of 
any commodity  is essential  and prerequisite for arriving at the  expected 
futures prices of the commodity. 

 

2  Background 
2.1  Generally the futures price of any commodity is estimated by adding up cost 
of carry/storage costs to the spot price of a particular commodity. Therefore, 
the availability of correct and transparent information about the spot 
price of any commodity is essential for arriving at the expected futures 
prices of the commodity since, any divergence in the linkages between 
the two prices could lead to adverse impact on the price in the two markets 
i.e.  derivatives  as  well  as  spot  market.  Derivatives  market  can  achieve 
better  convergence  and  integration  with  the  spot  markets  if  there  is 
availability  of  transparent  and  reliable  spot  prices  of  the  underlying 
commodity.  It  is  essential  that  effective  linkage  is  maintained  between 
derivative contract prices and underlying spot prices at all times, so that 
derivative markets can serve as a true reflection of the physical market. In 
the absence of this linkage, derivatives may not be able to fulfill one of the 
primary  objectives  of  their  existence  viz.,  -  price  risk  management  or 
hedging.  
 
following two ways :- 
 
2.2.1  Physical Settlement: In case of physical settlement, the holder of 
the contract will either have to take or give delivery of the commodity 
and the derivative contract is settled by way of physical delivery of 
the underlying commodity from seller to buyer. 

2.2  Generally, final settlement of derivatives contracts take place in one of the 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 18 

 

 

 

2.4 

2.2.2  Cash Settlement: In case of cash settlement, instead of physical 
delivery of the underlying commodity, the difference in value of the  
underlying commodity in spot market on the expiry date of futures 
contract (Final Settlement Price (FSP)) and the price at which future 
contract was traded, is exchanged between buyer and seller. 
 

2.3 

In case of Cash settlement, the sanctity of FSP is of utmost importance as 
net profit to buyer or seller is directly impacted by the value of FSP i.e. 
higher the value of FSP, higher will be the pay out to buyers and higher 
shall be the pay in obligation of the sellers and vice versa.  
 
In case of physical settlement the role of FSP is limited, since for all the 
open positions at expiry, buyers eventually have to take delivery and sellers 
have to give delivery of the underlying commodity at the price on which 
future  contract  was  entered  into.  However,  in  case  of  physically  settled 
contracts also, the FSP assumes importance in case of any default by a 
contracting party for settling the contract. 
 
2.5  As per the extant policy the preference for settlement for all the derivative 
contracts is by way of physical delivery. Most of the derivatives contracts in 
the commodity derivatives exchanges wherein physical delivery happens, 
the  exchange  polls the spot  prices for dissemination. As majority  of the 
contracts are settled by way of physical delivery, such contracts are not 
dependent on FSP determined by polled spot prices on the expiry date. 
However,  for  the  small  no.  of  contracts  which  are  still  practically  cash 
settled, FSP determined by polled spot prices bears substantial importance. 
 
2.6  Apart  from  the  perspective  of  FSP,  the  availability  of  accurate  and 
transparent  spot  price  data  is  crucial  from  the  perspective  of 
disseminating regular information about the indicative spot prices to 
clients/market  participants 
(irrespective  of  cash  or  physical 
settlement)  facilitating  them  to  take  a  price  view  in  the  derivatives 
market  based  upon  the  spot  prices  made  available  to  them  by  the 
Exchange. In the absence of such information, the market participants may 
find it difficult to keep track of the prices in underlying markets at various 
geographical locations across the country. The information of spot prices on 
a regular basis also helps Exchange to concurrently analyze the price data 
to make meaningful analysis of price movement in the futures market which 
helps  in  the  market  surveillance  function  of  the  Exchange.  The  daily 
dissemination of spot prices by exchanges on the basis of polled spot price, 

 

Page 2 of 18 

 

2.7 

 

 

holds  the  key  to  the  determination  of  futures  price  and  ultimately 
convergence of futures & spot markets on expiry of the contract. 
 
In India, only derivatives contracts are traded on the commodity exchanges 
while  the  underlying  spot  trades,  particularly  in  case  of  agricultural 
commodities, occur in opaque and fragmented markets spread across the 
country,  mostly  regulated  by  provincial  agricultural  marketing  laws/acts. 
Moreover, in the underlying physical markets there exist large variations in 
quality in different parts of the country and also the commodities do not 
trade uniformly throughout the year.  
 
2.8  There  is  no  effective  mechanism  for  capturing  real  time  spot  price 
information of commodities traded in different Mandis and other secondary 
trading centers of the country. The governmental agency which collects and 
disseminates  spot  prices  for  agri-commodities  across  the  country  is 
Agmarknet. It collects the post-trade mandi data, but such information is not 
disseminated on a real time basis. Moreover, such prices do not relate to 
any  specific  quality  of  the  produce  on  a  consistent  basis.  The  data  so 
disseminated  indicates  the  range  of  prices  within  which,  trades  in  the 
commodity have taken place in the market on that day for various qualities. 
Apart 
independent 
agencies/organizations which are also engaged in the process of collection 
and  dissemination  of  spot  prices  of  different  commodities  as  per  their 
respective methodology  of collection of such data. As far as the futures 
market is concerned, the Commodity Derivatives Exchanges require on any 
given day, the representative spot price information for the commodity of 
same  quality  specifications  as  stipulated  for  the  futures  contracts  being 
traded  on 
the 
representative spot price information as prevalent at the ‘basis center’ of a 
particular  commodity [pre-declared in the contract specifications]  being 
traded on its platform so that the same is disseminated to the stakeholders 
on a daily basis for taking informed decisions.  

their  platforms.  The  Commodity  Exchange  needs 

 
3  FMC and SEBI circular on the spot price polling  
 
3.1  The  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  have  been  using  a  ‘Spot  Price 
Polling Mechanism’ to arrive at and disseminating the prevailing spot prices 
to the markets twice/thrice on a given trading day. To arrive at the prevailing 
spot  prices,  the  exchanges  are  polling  the  spot  prices  from  a  panel  of 
market participants, who voluntarily serve as polling agents and submit spot 
prices  of  the  commodity  from  the  basis  center  on  a  daily  basis.  Some 

from  Agmarknet, 

there  are  various  private 

 

Page 3 of 18 

 

 

 

exchanges undertake this price polling activity themselves whereas others 
have outsourced these functions to external data collection agencies. 

 
3.2  Erstwhile FMC, from time to time had prescribed various norms related to 
“Spot Price Polling Mechanism”. SEBI vide its circular dated September 02, 
2016 on Spot Price Polling Mechanism consolidated and updated the norms 
prescribed by erstwhile FMC as under- 
 
“In order to maintain the transparency of spot price polling process and 
dissemination of spot prices arrived at through spot price polling process, 
the commodity derivatives exchanges are directed to: 
 
i.  Have a well laid down and documented policy for the spot price 
polling mechanism.  
display the spot price polling mechanism adopted for every contract 
ii. 
on its website along with following details: 

 

Details 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Details of the contract 
Mechanism of spot price polling 
How spot prices are arrived at 
Whether these prices include or exclude taxes and 
other levies / costs 
Whether spot prices polling has been outsourced to 
any external agency and if so, the details thereof. 
Criteria for selection of these polling participants 
Any  other  information  that  the  Exchange  may 
consider  

S. No.  Particulars 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
5.   
6.   
7.   
 
disclose,  for  every  contract,  following  details  with  respect  to 
individual spot price polling participants on its website: 
Participants  Location  Profession  Price 
quoted 
A1 
 
 
A2 
 

Time, 
Date 
 
 

 
 

 
 

iii. 

 

 

Page 4 of 18 

 

 

 

a)  The Exchanges may assign a code such A1, A2, A3…etc. for 
poling  participants  of  a  particular  contract  and  reveal  his 
location and price (s) for the day.  
b)  This  information  shall  be  updated  on  Exchange  website 
every  day  for  every  contract  traded  on  the  exchange 
platform.  
c)  The information shall continue to be displayed even after the 
expiry of the contract for a period of 3 years. 

 

iv.  Endeavor in increasing the sample size used for fixing the daily spot 
prices during the last 15 days of the contract.  
v.  Review on a monthly basis the prices polled by the participants to 
identify  participants  habitually  polling  unrealistic  prices.  These 
participants could be put under watch and subsequently removed 
from  the  panel  if  such  instances  reoccur  despite  appropriate 
communications.  
vi.  Provide a separate feedback window for receiving complaints in this 
regard. The exchanges shall address such complaints in a time-
bound manner. Further the exchanges shall keep the audit trail of 
all such complaints received and the steps taken for redressal.” 
 

4  Polling Process Currently Followed by Exchanges 
 
4.1 

4.2  The broad methodology adopted by Exchanges (either directly or through 

In terms of the present regulatory framework, to bring in transparency, the 
exchanges are required to disclose on their websites, the spot price polling 
mechanism and polled price details for every contract.  
 
polling agencies) is as detailed below: 
 
4.2.1  The exchanges identify the centers from where the polling would be 
conducted  which  is  based  on  the  contract  specifications.  The 
exchanges also identify the polling participants (submitters) mainly 
belonging to one of the following professions: 
  Traders; 
  Brokers/Commission Agents; 
  Processors/Millers/Manufacturers; 
 
 

Importers/Exporters 

 

Page 5 of 18 

 

 

 

4.2.2 

Information from a cross section of the above market players (value 
chain  participants)  is  sought,  about  the  prevailing  price  of  the 
commodity having specifications as those of the contract traded on 
the exchange in the market.  
 
4.2.3  Polling  for  collection  of  spot  prices  is  done  from  various  centers 
including all Basis Centers and Additional Delivery Centers spread 
across the country.  

 

4.2.4  The price for a commodity at a center is polled from a universe of 
empanelled Polling Participants and the prices are subjected to the 
statistical process to arrive at the final benchmark price. The entire 
process is automated and is completed without manual intervention 
either by the Polling Agency and/or Exchange officials. 

 
4.2.5  Thus,  by  following  the  aforesaid  process,  the  spot  prices  of  the 
underlying commodity so polled are arrived at and disseminated to 
the market every day. 
4.3  Based  on  the  interactions  with  polling  participants  and  polling  agencies 
during  regulatory  sub-group  meeting  of  CDAC,  the  following  affirmative 
observations  with  respect  to  the  present  system  being  followed  by  the 
exchanges has been noted: 
 
4.3.1  They are adequately apprised of the contract specifications by the 
polling agencies/Exchanges and provide the quote according to the 
contract specifications. 
4.3.2  The Exchange regularly reviews the panel of polling participants with 
a view to strengthen the process by adding more participants and 
also removing those which are inactive.  
4.3.3  The  prices  on  the  derivatives  exchange  platforms  are  generally 
viewed by the farmers as a tool for making informed decisions and 
also act as benchmark prices for them. 
 

5  Advice  received  from  external  experts  on  improving  the  spot  price 

polling mechanism 
 
In order to further improve and impart more transparency to the spot price 
polling  mechanism,  SEBI  had  sought  advice 
from  various  external 
experts/forums and the gist of the advices received so far are as under: 
 

5.1 

 

Page 6 of 18 

 

 
 
5.2  The International Advisory Board (IAB) of SEBI suggested that:– 

5.2.1  The present price polling mechanism to determine spot prices may 
need to be suitably reviewed. 
5.2.2  There may be some regulation and financial obligations cast upon 
the agencies carrying out price polling functions as to ensure better 
accountability. 
5.2.3  Some  sort  of  close  watch  on  the  physical  markets  may  also  be 
necessary to reduce asymmetry between the polled and the actual 
spot price. 

 
5.3  A  consultant  to  SEBI,  Oliver  Wyman  recommended  the  following  with 
respect to improvement of polling process:- 
5.3.1  Review of spot price determination process adopted by Commodity 
Derivatives  Exchanges  as  against  IOSCO  Principles  for  Financial 
Benchmarks. 

determination process in line with the IOSCO Principles. 

5.3.2  Appoint independent benchmark administrator/calculation agent 
5.3.3  Support  in  implementing  remedial  actions  to  bring  the  spot  price 
 
5.4  The Sub-Group-II of the Commodity Derivatives Advisory Committee 
(CDAC) of SEBI made following observations/queries :- 
5.4.1  The  spot  price  polled  by  the  Exchange  should  match  the  price 
quoted at the physical market in the basis center and cartelization by 
the polling participants needs to be monitored by the Exchanges 
5.4.2  Whether any methodology can be devised to arrive at spot price by 
using statistical methods on the various sources of spot prices like 
prices  arrived  by  contango-backwardation  on  the  future  prices, 
Mandi Prices and Polled Prices by Exchange.  
5.4.3  Whether  exchange  can  define  the  eligibility  criteria  for  polling 
participants.  

 
5.5  The  Regulatory  sub-group  of  the  Commodity  Derivatives  Advisory 
Committee (CDAC) of SEBI recently made following observations :- 
5.5.1  The polling participants may be incentivized for providing the spot 
prices  and  the  polling  agencies/exchanges  may  enter  into  legal 
contract with polling participants for providing the services. 
5.5.2  The universe of the polling participants should be increased. 
5.5.3  There could be alternate means for collection of the quotes from 
through  an  app)  which  could 

polling  participants  (such  as 
supplement the present system. 

 

Page 7 of 18 

 

 

IOSCO Principles for Financial Benchmarks  

 
 
6 
6.1  Globally, there has been a high degree of regulatory and public focus on 
financial  benchmarks  following  multiple  conduct  related  issues.  In  this 
regard,  International  Organization  of  Securities  Commissions  (IOSCO) 
published final set of Principles for Financial Benchmarks in July 2013. 
 
6.2  The Principles for Financial Benchmarks (the ‘Principles’) by an IOSCO task 
force cover the following four main areas  - 
6.2.1  Governance  covering  the  issues  like  integrity  of  the  benchmark 
determination process and conflicts of interest; 
6.2.2  Quality of the benchmark covering the issues such as benchmark 
design,  the  importance  of  having  robust  input  data  and  the 
transparency of benchmark determinations; 
6.2.3  Quality  of  the  methodology  encompasses  areas  such  as  the 
calculation  methodology  of  benchmarks,  how such  methodologies 
are updated, and the role of submitters; and 
6.2.4  Accountability with respect to complaint handling, auditing, and co-
operation with regulatory authorities. 
The 
at 
may 
https://www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD415.pdf.  
 
It  may  however  be  noted  that  scope  of  these  principles  do  not  cover 
commodity derivatives market in view of the following statement mentioned 
in the scope of these principles.  
“The  Principles  also  exclude  reference  prices  or  settlement  prices 
produced  by  Central  Counterparties  (CCPs),  provided  that  they  are 
produced solely for the purpose of risk management and settlement. The 
prices of single financial securities (e.g., equity securities underlying stock 
options or futures) are not considered Benchmarks for the purposes of 
these Principles.” 
 
introduced different measures for financial benchmarks as under- 
6.4.1  United Kingdom 

6.4  Nevertheless, in line  with the  IOSCO principles,  various regulators have 

principles 

be 

accessed 

above 

 

 

 

6.3 

Historically, benchmarks have not been regulated, however, after the 
misconduct related to the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) 

 

Page 8 of 18 

 

and 

 

 

 

 

benchmark coming into light, Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
was given powers to regulate benchmarks including London Gold 
Fixing; LBMA Silver Price and CE Brent Index.   
With the EU Benchmark Regulation (BMR) coming into effect from 
January  01,  2018,  replacing  previous  regulatory  regime  of  UK. 
Under  the  BMR,  the  FCA  is  the  competent  authority  responsible 
for authorization 
administrators, 
recognition  of  third  country  administrators,  endorsement  of  third 
country benchmarks, enforcement etc… 
 
a)  LBMA Gold Price and LBMA Silver Price 

registration benchmark 

  Established  in  1919,  the  London  gold  fix  was  the  globally 
recognized  price  and  is  used  as  a  reference  for  contracts 
across gold industry participants. The fix price (determined in 
an auction held twice a day, at 10:30AM and 3.00PM) was 
used as underpin for both physical and financial markets. The 
historic London Gold Fix was replaced with LBMA Gold Price 
on March 20, 2015. The LBMA Gold Price and LBMA Silver 
Price are benchmarks regulated by the FCA and administered 
by ICE Benchmark Administration (IBA). 
  The auction process to determine the spot prices runs on the 
ICE  Trading  Platform  which  provides 
real-time  order 
management,  separation  of  house  and  client  orders,  audit 
history, compliance monitoring tools.  
  The auctions run in rounds of 30 seconds. At the start of each 
round, IBA publishes a price for that round. Participants then 
have 30 seconds to enter, change or cancel their orders. At 
the end of each round order entry is frozen and the system 
checks to see if the difference between buying and selling 
(the imbalance) is  within the imbalance threshold (normally 
10,000 oz. for gold and 500,000 oz. for silver). 
If the imbalance is outside the threshold at the end of a round, 
then the auction is not balanced, the price is adjusted and a 
new round starts. If the imbalance is within the threshold then 
the auction is finished and the price is set. Any imbalance is 
shared equally between all direct participants (even if they did 
not place orders or did not log in) and the net volume for each 
participant trades at the final price. 

 

 

Page 9 of 18 

 

 

 

  The final price is then published as the LBMA Gold Price or 
LBMA Silver Price in US Dollars and also converted into the 
benchmarks in other currencies using foreign exchange rates 
from when the final round ended. 
  The prices during the auction are determined by an algorithm 
that  takes  into  account  current  market  conditions  and  the 
activity in the auction. Each auction is actively supervised by 
IBA staff. 
  These  auctions  have  limited  participation  as  LBMA  has 
authorized  only  seven  banks  are  allowed  to  participate 
directly in the Silver auction while fourteen entities in the gold 
auction.  

 
b)  LBMA Platinum and Palladium Prices 
 

  The price is independently administered by the London Metal 
Exchange  (LME)  on  LMEbullion.  The  prices  are  set  twice 
daily  at  09:45  and  14:00  (London  BST)  in  US  dollars  per 
.9995 fine ounces.  
  At  present  5  price  participants  have  been  accredited  to 
contribute. The participation in the price discovery process is 
subject to sufficient experience and expertise in relation to the 
platinum and palladium markets and have received sufficient 
training in relation to the Auction process. The LME’s auctions 
are controlled so that they only progress if there are sufficient 
participants present 
  LMEbullion  delivers  fully  automated  price-display  auctions 
wherein the House traders, client traders and direct clients of 
participants are shown a potential execution price and asked 
to indicate their interest. If the interest of all participants is 
within the permitted tolerance, the price will be confirmed and 
consequential  trade  allocations  are  distributed  back  to  the 
participants.  Once  the  price  has  been  confirmed,  and  the 
trades allocated, the price is disseminated on LME website. 

 
c)  London Metal exchange (LME) 

 
The reference prices published by the LME for various metals is 
derived directly from trading and acts as benchmark prices for 
the global metals market. Each LME metal is traded in a five-
minute Ring sessions with participation limited to selected nine 

 

Page 10 of 18 

 

 

 

ring-dealing members, which is supposed to be representative of 
global supply and demand of that base metal. 

 
6.4.2  Japan- Japan designated financial benchmark administrators of the 
Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate (TIBOR) are required to formulate and 
comply  with  operational  rules,  containing  items  in-line  with  the 
IOSCO Principles.  
 
6.4.3  Hong Kong- Hong Kong Monetary Authority published a Code of 
Conduct for Benchmark Submitters - intended to be of generic 
application  to  all  authorized  institutions  (banks,  restricted  license 
banks or deposit-taking companies) that submit rates for benchmark 
fixings.  

 
6.4.4  Australia- Administrators of significant benchmarks are required to 
license  and  comply  with 
hold  a 
enforceable rules made by the Australian Securities and Investments 
Commission (ASIC). The manipulation of any financial benchmark, 
or  product  used  to  determine  such  a  benchmark,  is  a  specific 
offence and subject to civil and criminal penalties.  

‘benchmark  administrator’ 

 

 
6.5  From the above, it can be seen that the aforesaid IOSCO benchmarks have 
been adopted mainly for the specified financial benchmarks. On the other 
hand  for  commodities,  for  precious  metals  and  other  base  metals,  the 
agencies  are  trusting  on  the  traded  prices  in  the  spot  market  on  their 
platforms whether it’s IBA/LME for LBMA or LME to arrive at the spot prices 
of the respective metal. 
 
IOSCO Principles for Price Reporting Agencies 

7 
7.1  Price Reporting Agencies (PRAs) are publishers and information providers 
who report prices transacted in physical and some derivatives markets, and 
give an informed assessment of price levels at distinct points in time. Some 
PRAs also report news stories relevant to the commodity markets.  
 
In  2012,  IOSCO  published  its  final  report  on  IOSCO  Price  Reporting 
Agencies  Principles,  which  set  out  principles  intended  to  enhance  the 
reliability of oil price assessments that are referenced in derivative contracts 
subject to regulation by IOSCO members. Although the PRA principles were 
developed in the context of PRAs and oil derivatives markets, PRAs were 
encouraged  to  implement  the  principles  more  generally  to  any 

7.2 

 

Page 11 of 18 

 

commodity derivatives contracts. The above principles may be accessed 
at https://www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD391.pdf. 
 
7.3  The PRA principles recognize that there is no requirement on any physical 
market oil participant to submit transaction data to PRAs. Data is submitted 
to  PRAs  on  a  voluntary  basis,  as  any  strict  regulation  of  PRAs  or 
requirements  that  oil  market  participants  who  submit  data  to  PRAs  also 
submit  all  of  their  transaction  data,  could  potentially  result  in  some  oil 
market  participants to  decrease  or  even  cease to submit data to PRAs. 
IOSCO’s approach has therefore focused on creating incentives for PRAs to 
institute  processes 
IOSCO  believes  will  enhance  reliability  of 
assessments that are indicators of the values in the physical oil underlying a 
derivatives contract. Some of the PRA principles are as under- 
7.3.1  Market Data Used in Price Assessments: PRAs to give priority to 
concluded  transactions  in  making  assessments  and  implement 
measures  intended  to  ensure  that  the  transaction  data  submitted 
and considered in an assessment are bona fide, including measures 
to  minimize  selective  reporting.  These  measures  are  intended  to 
promote the quality and integrity of data and in turn the reliability of 
assessments.  
7.3.2  Assessors: The adoption of guidelines to ensure the qualifications of 
assessors  (employees  of  PRA  responsible 
for  assessments), 
including  their  training  and  experience  levels.  This  principle  also 
addresses  continuity  and  succession  planning 
in  respect  of 
assessors. These measures are intended to promote the integrity 
and consistency of assessment. 
implementation  and 
enforcement  of  measures  to  avoid  conflicts  of  interest.  These 
measures  are  intended  to  insulate  assessments  from  improper 
influences, such as commercial or personal interests of the PRA or 
any  of  its  personnel.  The  measures  call  for  the  functional  and 
operational separation of a PRA’s assessment business from any 
other  business  that  may  present  a  conflict  of  interest.  These 
requirements are intended to protect the integrity of assessments.  
7.3.4  External  Auditing:  An  annual  independent  external  auditing  of  a 
PRA’s compliance with its methodology criteria and the requirements 
of these principles, which should be published. This is intended to 
encourage  compliance  with  the  principles  and  provide  additional 
confirmation to market authorities of such compliance.  

Interest:  The  documentation, 

7.3.3  Conflicts  of 

 

 

 

that 

 

Page 12 of 18 

 
7.4 

 

 

It is observed that some of the PRAs like Platts and Argus are also carrying 
out  price  assessments  of  commodities  like  grains  and  metals.  A  brief 
illustration on the process adopted by these two PRA viz., Platts for grains 
and Argus for metals, is highlighted as under: 
7.4.1  Platts grain assessments: 

 

 

 

 

 
It accepts information from variety of sources through telephonic, 
electronic messages etc., and  encourages entities to submit any 
market price such as bids, offers, expressions of interest to trade, 
confirmed transactions, reported transactional activity heard across 
the  market  and  indicative  values  etc.,  for  consideration  in  its 
assessment processes. 
  All  transactional  data  is  factored  equally  for  use  in  a  particular 
assessment, as long as such transactions are deemed repeatable 
and within the established specifications for each product.  
It  normalizes  disparate  information  from  the  diverse  physical 
commodity markets back to the standards. Each assessment is a 
reflection of transactions, bids and offers that fit within established 
specifications regarding lot size, product dimensions, delivery times 
and other factors spelled out in the methodology for each product. 
It does  not specify a  minimum amount of transaction  data,  or a 
transaction  data 
its  price 
assessments  as  physical  commodity  markets  vary  in  liquidity. 
However, it applies judgment when determining whether information 
is  suitable  for  publication,  when  normalizing  data  and  where  to 
assess the final value of the market. 
  When no bid, offer or transaction data exists, it may consider other 
verifiable data reported and published through the day, including 
fully  and  partially  confirmed  trades,  notional  trading  values  and 
other market information as provided  for publication. Under such 
circumstances, it may also be able to observe direct market activity 
or the effect of commonly traded commodities on illiquid markets via 
spread differentials or via shipping economics. 
  Platts publishes price assessments for agricultural products such as 
Wheat and Corn etc. 
 
 
  Argus price assessments are based on information received from a 
wide  cross  section  of  market  participants,  including  producers, 

the  publication  of 

threshold, 

for 

7.4.2  Argus price assessments of metals: 

 

Page 13 of 18 

 

 

 

consumers and intermediaries. It contacts and accepts market data 
from all credible market sources including front and back office of 
market  participants  and  brokers. Argus also receive market  data 
from electronic trading platforms and directly from the back offices 
of market participants.  
  Argus uses the methodological approach deemed to be the most 
reliable and representative for that market. Argus utilizes various 
types of market prices including transacted, bids, offers and other 
market  information,  to  include  spread  values  between  grades, 
locations, timings, and many other data.  
It publish lists of deals in their reports that include price, basis, and 
volume information.  
In illiquid markets, it assesses the range within which metals could 
have traded, based on  bids and offers, movements of similar or 
related grades, and extensive polling of market participants. To be 
included in the price formation process, deals must meet the strict 
delivery, timing and specification requirements in the methodology, 
and must be executed at arm’s length between a willing buyer and 
seller. In markets where liquidity is split across several locations, 
information  may  be  normalized  to  a  single  reference  hub,  for 
example  by  making  adjustments  for  transportation  costs,  where 
appropriate and in line with market practice. 

 
 

 
7.5  Thus, the two large PRAs cited above are observed to be collecting spot 
price data from a wide cross section of market participants across the globe 
through various means of communications and after due statistical analysis 
are  reporting  the  prices  to  the  users.  IOSCO's  second  implementation 
review of PRA principles in 2015 mentioned that all the four major PRAs 
including Platts, Argus, ICIS and OPIS were adhering to the guidelines. 

 
8  Challenges  with current polling methodology in India : 
8.1  Lack of incentive –The universe of the poling participants is limited and the 
same participants are being called many times in a day especially where 
same contract is listed on more than one exchange. As a result, many a 
times these polling agents don’t answer the calls from the Exchanges as 
there is currently no incentive provided to the polling participants to provide 
the prices and the disclosure is entirely voluntary. 
 

 

 

Page 14 of 18 

 

 

 
8.2  Lack of accountability- Since there is no legal obligation on part of polling 
participants  to  provide  fair  prices,  there  is  lack  of  accountability  to  poll 
correct prices. 

 
8.3  Price  as  per  perception  rather  than  Execution  -The  polling  process 
integrates  the  views  of  a  set  of  participants  on  their  perception  of  the 
prevailing price in the underlying market and including/excluding other costs 
at a given point of time. The participation of the polling participant in the 
trade  of  the  specific  variety  of  the  underlying  commodity  is  not  a  pre-
requisite. In times of limited liquidity in the physical markets or when the 
arrivals for specified variety are low, this system permits/requires the polling 
participant to extrapolate the price for the specified variety based on trade of 
other  varieties.    The  basis  for  this  extrapolation  may  vary  as  per  the 
perception of the polling participant. 
 
8.4  Conflict of Interest - The polling participants are from the value chain of the 
commodity.  They  have  vested  interest  in  the  pricing  of  the  commodity. 
Hence there may be possibility that their quotes are influenced to an extent 
by their interest in the trade. A wide universe of polling participants and 
subjecting the raw quotes to a process of bootstrapping to eliminate the 
influence of outliers are the checks put in place to counter this problem.  
 
Improving  transparency  and  Credibility  in  polling  methodology-Some 
suggestions : 

9 

 

 

9.2 

9.1  The  strengthening  of  the  process  of  dissemination  of  spot  prices  of  a 
commodity may strengthen the convergence and integration of spot and 
future prices of a commodity thereby enhancing efficiency of both spot and 
derivatives  market. This  was also highlighted in the report of the expert 
committee on Integration of Commodity Spot and Derivatives Markets. 
 
Ideal situation would be for exchanges to capture the real-time traded spot 
prices  of  the  commodities  having  quality  specifications  exactly/similar  as 
stipulated for the futures contracts being traded on their platform. However, 
such an ideal solution may not be feasible to accomplish on a regular basis 
because of the uncertainty of arrivals of commodities in the mandis and the 
limitation involved in obtaining actual traded prices of a specific quality of 
goods  which are  being traded on  exchange platform. In the interim,  the 
following steps may be considered in order to improve the transparency and 
credibility in polling methodology- 

 

Page 15 of 18 

 

 

 

is 

limited  and 

the  poling  participants 

9.2.1  Making  it  compulsory  for  Exchanges  to  accredit  an  independent 
polling  agency  (or  price  reporting  agencies)  for  spot  price  polling 
who can do the job independently for all the exchanges on a specific 
commodity.  This  is  necessitated  because  of  the  fact  that  the 
universe  of 
the  same 
participants are being called many times in a day especially where 
same contract is listed on more than one exchange or the same 
participant deals in multiple commodities. As a result, many a times 
these polling agents don’t answer the calls from the Exchanges. The 
Exchanges can have contractual arrangements with the Independent 
Polling Agency and issue code of conducts/operating norms under 
which the agency can poll spot prices for the exchanges from a large 
cross-section of physical market participants and provide the same 
to the Exchanges every day as per  pre-scheduled timings.  
9.2.2  Bringing the independent polling agency conducting polling of spot 
prices  as  well  as  the  participants  (price  submitters)  under  the 
regulatory purview of SEBI by registering and supervising them. 
9.2.3  Providing incentive to the polling participants for submitting the spot 
prices and requiring polling agencies/exchanges to enter into a legal 
contract with the polling participants for obtaining their services. This 
will put necessary contractual obligations/disclosures norms on the 
polling  participants  for  submission  of  spot  prices.  The  scheme  of 
incentives  and  dis-incentives  should  be  well  established  in  a 
transparent manner.  
9.2.4  The  universe  of  the  polling  participants  should  be  increased  and 
each polling should have adequate representations from all types of 
value chain participants. 
9.2.5  There should be alternate means for collection of the quotes from 
polling participants like email, app, specific web-based application, 
which  could  supplement 
telephonic 
conversations. 
9.2.6  Exchanges may consider increasing the time slot for collection of 
price from polling participants and also increase the frequency of 
collection  of  the  prices  from  the  polling  participants  so  that  the 
polling agency can obtain reliable spot prices throughout the day. 
9.2.7  There should be uniformity in approach amongst the exchanges on 
the process of price polling methodology. For example issues as to 
whether the spot prices so polled should include or exclude taxes & 
other levies/costs and whether polling should be done only at the 
in  combination  with  additional  centers  with 
basis  centers  or 

the  present  system  of 

 

Page 16 of 18 

 

 

 

to 

weightages  attached  to  each  centers  etc.  should  be  uniformly 
followed by the exchanges across commodities. 
9.2.8  Instead  of  asking  for  perception  of  polling  participants  about  the 
price of specific grade of a commodity (as per contract specification), 
exchange/polling agency may poll them on the actual traded prices 
of  the  commodity  with  detail  of  the  quality  and  grade  of  those 
commodities  traded  by  them.  After  gathering  the  polled  data, 
exchanges may themselves extrapolate these traded prices as per 
the quality/grade of the commodity specified in contract specification 
of  the  derivatives  in  an  objective  manner.  This  way,  distortion  in 
prices  quoted  by  polling  participants  due 
their  subjective 
assumptions on the premium/discount applicable to a specific grade 
may  be  weeded  out.  However  this  may  make  the  process  of 
gathering data from participants more cumbersome as collection of 
exact traded price with supporting quality specifications of the goods 
transacted will be a complex task. Further there will be attendant risk 
in case the estimates and extrapolations made by the exchange for 
quality  premium/discount, 
to 
warehouse etc., turns out to be not correct.  
9.2.9  As stated earlier, IOSCO Principles for Financial Benchmark may 
not  apply  to  the  commodity  future  prices.  However,  the  ISOCO 
principles  for  Oil  Price  Reporting  Agencies  could  be  generally 
applied  to  any  commodity  derivatives  contract  to  collect  and 
disseminate spot prices more accurately and efficiently. It may be 
explored if the Commodity Derivatives Exchanges adopt the IOSCO 
principles  for  the  Independent  Polling  Agencies  apart  from  other 
suggestions  made  above,  for  Spot  Price  determination  of  the 
commodities being traded on their platforms. 
transparency  and 
9.2.10 Any  other  recommendations 
credibility 
for  spot  price 
determination of commodities. 

improving 
in  polling  methodology  adopted 

transportation  cost 

from  mandi 

for 

10  Public Comments: 
In  light  of  above,  public  comments/suggestions  are  invited  for  improving 
transparency,  credibility  and  effectiveness  in  the  existing  spot  price  polling 
methodology. Comments/suggestions may kindly be provided in the format given 
below: 

 
 

 
 
 

 

Page 17 of 18 

 

 

 
Para No. of Paper 
 
 

Name of Entity/Person intermediary/ Organization 
Sr. No. 
Suggestions* 
 
 
 
 
* Any other suggestions on the subject, including on issues not covered in this paper, 
may also be given. 
 

Rational 
 
 

The comments may be sent by email to cdmrd_dmp@sebi.gov.in  or alternatively 
may be sent to following address latest by one month from the date of issue of 
the consultation paper i.e. July 27, 2018. 

 

Shri Vikas Sukhwal, 
Deputy General Manager, 
Division of Market Policy, 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan, Plot C4-A, G-Block,  
Bandra Kurla Complex,  
Mumbai – 400051 
Issued on: June 27, 2018  

 

 

Page 18 of 18 

