 

 

RReevviissiittiinngg  tthhee  ppuubblliicc  iissssuuee  pprroocceessss    

 

Securities  market,  including  the  market  for  public  offerings,  is  dynamic  and  needs  to 

keep pace with the evolving economic and technological environment. In order to keep 

pace  with  the  change,  there  has  been  a  commensurate  change  in  the  regulatory 

framework governing the primary market. 

 

SEBI in its endeavour to provide issuers and investors with an efficient mechanism for 

raising  funds,  has  been  continuously  striving  to  streamline  the  process  and 

methodologies associated with public issue fund raising process.  

 

Towards this end, in order to enable issuers to raise capital in the shortest possible time 

span and to reduce market risk for investors as well as issuers, the time duration from 

issue closure to listing was shortened from 12 days to 6 days with effect from January 

01,  2016,  by  obviating  the  use  of  cheques  and  making  Application  Supported  by 

Blocked Amount (ASBA) mechanism as the sole payment mechanism in public issues.    

 

SEBI has  been exploring ways and means to further streamline the process, including 

shortening the timeline from 6 days. 

 

In view of the significant developments in the payment mechanisms,  it is felt that the 

Unified  Payments  Interface  (UPI),  a  process  for  electronic  funds  transfer  launched  by 

Reserve  Bank  of  India  (RBI)  and  National  Payments  Corporation  of  India  (NPCI)  in 

March  2016,  could  be  incorporated  with  ASBA  mechanism  to  further  improve  the 

efficiency of the process. 

 

As participation and contribution from all stakeholders almost invariably precedes any 

successful  change  in  regulatory  framework,  the  instant  paper  is  to  seek  public 

comments on the proposal to use UPI with ASBA mechanism in public issues. 

 

1. 

Background 

1.1. 

SEBI Board in its meeting held on June 23, 2015, approved the proposal to reduce 

the  post  issue  timeline  for  listing  from  T+12  days  to  T+6  days  (where  T  is  the 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

date of closure of public issue) and ASBA was made mandatory for all categories 

of investors.  

 

2. 

Need for review 

2.1.  Currently,  the  shares  of  the  company  are  listed  on  the  stock  exchanges  on  6th 

working day from the closure of the issue.  

 

2.2.  An investor can submit application for subscribing to a public issue through the 

following channels, with ASBA as the sole mechanism for making payment: 

 
a)  Self-Certified  Syndicate  Bank  (SCSB)  -  Submission  of  application  form, 

physically  at  the  branch  of  SCSB,  i.e.  investor’s  bank,  or  online  platform  if 

provided by the SCSB.  

 

b)  SEBI registered Broker / DP / RTA (Intermediaries) - Submission of physical 

application  with  any  of  the  intermediary  or  through  the  online  platform,  if 

provided by the respective intermediary. 

 

2.3.  To enable issuers to raise capital in the shortest possible time span and to further 

reduce  market  risk  for  investors  as  well  as  issuers,  the  existing  public  issue 

process  was  examined.  Based  on  such  examination  it  is  noted  that  while  the 

ASBA  mechanism  has  resulted  in  various  benefits  to  issuers  and  investors, 

certain  activities 

in  the  process,  particularly  relating  to  retail 

investor 

applications submitted with the intermediaries, could be further streamlined.  

 

2.4.  The  current  process  for  applications  submitted  with  an  intermediary,  is 

summarized as under:  

 

  Bidding and validation process 

a)  The  application  form,  containing  the  investor’s  bid  and  bank  details,  is 

submitted by the investor with the intermediary.  

 

b)  The  intermediary  upon  receipt  of  application  uploads  the  bid  in  the  stock 

exchange  platform.  The  data  uploaded  in  the  stock  exchange  platform  is 

validated for Demat account details and PAN with the depository. Thereafter 

Revisiting the public issue process 
 

Page 2 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

the intermediary forwards the forms to the investors’ bank (one of the SCSBs) 

for blocking of funds. 

 
c)  Investors bank upon receipt of such form from the intermediary, undertakes 

the  process  of  verification  of  investors’  signature,  blocking  of  funds  in 

investors account, and updating the bid file with account number and block 

status. 

 
d)  The said bid file is then provided to  RTA for reconciliation of bid data with 

block of funds corresponding to such bids. 

 

 

 

Allocation and debit process 

e)  After the process of bid and blocking, the basis of allotment is finalized and 

the details are shared by registrar with SCSBs for transfer and unblocking of 

funds. 

 

f)  SCSBs  transfer  funds  to  public  issue  escrow  account  for  shares  proposed  to 

be  allotted,  unblock  remaining  funds/accounts  and  provide  confirmation  to 

registrar in respect of the same.  

 

Revisiting the public issue process 
 

Page 3 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

g)  On  confirmation  of  completion  of  aforesaid  process,  including  credit  of 

shares,  Stock  Exchanges  grant  listing  approval  and  the  trading  commences 

 

from 6th working day. 

 

2.5.  The  activities 

in  the  aforesaid  process  which  require  streamlining  are 

summarized as under: 

a)  Validation of DP ID and PAN of investors with depository, on real time basis 

vis-a-vis current batch processing;  

b)  The manual process of segregation and physical delivery of application forms 

by  the  intermediary  to  the  branches  of  over  60  SCSBs  in  each  location, 

particularly  considering  the  high  volume  of  applications  which  are  bid  and 

uploaded on T day (issue closure day) and  are received by Banks on T and 

T+1 day; 

c)  The manual process of, verification of investors’ signature, blocking of funds 

in investors account, and updating the bid file with details of account number 

and block status; 

d)  Post closure of the offer,  the manual process of RTA obtaining confirmation 

of block of funds from each SCSBs and post finalization of basis of allotment 

sending  separate  instructions  to  each  of  SCSBs  for  debit  and  unblock  of 

funds. 

 

2.6.  While, it is desirable, to minimize the market risk for issues as well as investors 

is minimized by reducing the time gap between issue closure and listing, and to 

Revisiting the public issue process 
 

Page 4 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

reduce  the  number  of  instances  of  failure  to  bid/block  on  account  of  above 

activities, the said objectives may not be met by keeping the present mechanism, 

including the current T+6 days timeline, intact. 

 

2.7. 

In  view  of  the  above,  it  is  proposed  to  use  an  alternate  payment  mechanism, 

which while retaining the benefits of ASBA, would further streamline the public 

issue process and aid in attaining the aforesaid objectives.  

 

3. 

Review process 

3.1. 

It  was  felt  that  the  possibility  of  introducing  a  faster  and  efficient  alternate 

mechanism, for blocking and payment of funds, may be explored to streamline 

the aforesaid activities and reduce the dependency on manual processes.  

 

3.2.  Accordingly,  SEBI  had  discussions  with  the  NPCI  to  explore  the  use  of  a 

payment  mechanism,  which,  while  retaining  the  benefits  of  ASBA  i.e.  blocking 

of  funds,  would  increase  the  efficiency  of  the  existing  system  and  curtail  the 

need for manual intervention at various stages in the process. 

 

3.3.  Based  on  discussions  for  simplifying  the  process  of  investing  in  public  issues, 

use  of  UPI  mechanism,  with  suitable  modifications  relating  to  ASBA  was 

suggested.  

 

3.4.  Unified Payments Interface (UPI) is an instant payment system developed by the 

National  Payments  Corporation  of  India  (NPCI),  an  RBI  regulated  entity.  The 

present UPI system allows instant transfer of money between any two person's 

bank  accounts  using  a  payment  address  which  uniquely  identifies  a  person's 

bank a/c.  

 
For e.g., a person can create a payment address linked to his / her bank account 

which  would  be  in  the  format  xyz@bankname.  One  may  share  the  payment 

address with any other person to receive payments or collect money, without the 

need to provide a bank account number/ IFSC code, etc. 

 
It  was  suggested  that  for  the  purpose  of  public  issues,  the  UPI  system  would 

3.5. 

allow  the  investor  to  authorize  blocking  of  funds  for  making  application,  as  is 

done using ASBA.  

Revisiting the public issue process 
 

Page 5 

 

 
 
3.6. 

 

 

 

 

   

SEBI  also  held  consultations  with  various  market  participants,  consisting  of 

Stock  Exchanges,  Depositories,  Registrar  &  Share  Transfer  Agents  (RTA), 

Merchant  Bankers,  Stock  Brokers  and  Banks  wherein  the  proposed  framework 

with use of UPI was deliberated and broadly agreed upon by the participants.  

 

3.7.  During  the  aforesaid  deliberations,  the  participants  indicated  that  given  the 

amount  per  application  for  Qualified  Institutional  Buyers  (QIBs)  and  Non-

Institutional Investors (NII) greater than the proposed limit of 2 lacs in UPI and 

considering that the number of applications in a public issue by such investors is 

very small, the existing process may continue for QIBs and NIIs.  

 

3.8.  Additionally,  it  was  indicated  that  the  existing  channel  of  submission  of 

application forms directly with SCSBs, by all category of investors, may continue 

as an alternative to the proposed framework. 

 

4. 

Proposal  

Based  on  such  consultations,  the  broad  process  flow  for  retail  investor 

applications  submitted  through  intermediaries  in  public  issues,  using  the  UPI 

mechanism, would be as under: 

 

A.  Bidding and validation process 

4.1.  Before  submission  of  application  with  the  intermediary,  the  investor  would  be 

required  to  create  a  UPI  ID  (xyz@bankname),  with  a  maximum  length  of  45 

characters, including the bank name. The process for creating a UPI ID would be 

provided by the investor’s bank. 

 

4.2. 

Investor  will  fill  in  the  bid  details  in  the  application  form  as  per  the  existing 

process  along  with  his/  her  UPI  ID  i.e.  use  only  his  /  her  own  bank  account 

linked UPI ID with application. 

 

4.3.  As per the existing process, investor may submit the application with any of the 

intermediary, who, upon receipt will upload the bid details along with UPI ID in 

the stock exchange bidding platform.  

 

4.4.  Once  the  bid  has  been  entered  in  the  bidding  platform,  the  exchange  will 

undertake validation of the PAN and Demat Account details of investor with the 

Revisiting the public issue process 
 

Page 6 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

depository.  This  process  is  proposed  to  be  carried  out  on  a  real  time  basis 

between the stock exchange and depository. 

 
Post such validation, the stock exchange will electronically share the  bid details 

4.5. 

along  with  investors  UPI  ID,  with  the  Escrow/Sponsor  Bank  appointed  by  the 

issuer. The Escrow / Sponsor Bank will initiate a mandate request on the investor 

i.e. request the investor to authorize blocking of funds equivalent to application 

amount  in  his  /  her  bank  account  and  subsequent  debit  of  funds  in  case  of 

allotment. 

 

B.  Block process 

4.6.  The  request  raised  by  the  Escrow/Sponsor  Bank,  would  be  electronically 

received  by  the  investor  as  an  intimation  on  his  /  her  bank  provided  mobile 

application. 

 

4.7. 

Investor will  validate  the request on  his mobile application by logging  into the 

mobile application by entering his UPI PIN / login pin. 

 

4.8.  Upon validation of block request by the investor, the said information would be 

electronically  received  by  the  investors’  bank,  where  the  funds,  equivalent  to 

application amount, would get blocked in investors account.  

 

4.9.  The 

information 

containing 

status 

of 

block 

request 

(e.g. 

- 

accepted/decline/pending)  would  be  shared  by  the  investors’  bank  with  the 

Escrow/Sponsor Bank, which in turn would be shared with stock exchange and 

would  be  displayed  on  stock  exchange  platform  for  information  of  the 

intermediary. 

 

4.10. 

Intimation  regarding  confirmation  of  such  block  of  funds  in  investors  account 

would also be received by the investor. 

 

4.11.  As  per  the  existing  process,  the  retail  investors  would  continue  to  have  the 

option to modify or withdraw the bid till the closure of the bidding period. For 

each  such  modification  of  bid,  investor  will  submit  a  revised  bid  and  shall 

receive a fresh block request to validate. 

 

Revisiting the public issue process 
 

Page 7 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

 

C.  Post issue closure – allocation, debit, credit of shares and listing 

4.12.  The registrar, based on information of bidding and blocking received from stock 

exchange, would undertake reconciliation of the bid data and block confirmation 

corresponding to the said bids and prepare the basis of allotment.  

 

 

4.13.  Upon  approval  of  basis  of  allotment  by  Stock  Exchanges,  RTA  will  give 

instructions to sponsor bank  to credit funds in the public  issue  escrow  account 

and unblock the excess money in the investors account. 

 

Revisiting the public issue process 
 

 

Page 8 

 

 

 

 
 
4.14.  Upon confirmation of receipt of funds in the public issue escrow account, shares 

   

 

 

would be credited to the investor’s account. 

 

4.15.  Thereafter,  Stock  Exchanges  will  issue  the  listing  approval  and  trading  is 

expected to commence from next working day. 

 
Benefits from proposed framework 

5. 

The  implementation  of  the  above  proposed  framework,  would  result  in 

following benefits: 

 

5.1.  DP ID and PAN validation would be real time; 

5.2.  No physical movement of application forms from intermediaries to SCSBs; 

5.3.  Automated verification of investor signature and blocking of funds;  

5.4. 

Single point of contact for follow-up by RTA, for block of funds and subsequent 

debit and unblocking of funds.  

 

5.5.  On  account  of  above,  the  post  issue  timelines  are  expected  to  reduce  from  T+6 

days to T+3 days and also result in reduction in manpower costs. 

 

6. 

Applications submitted directly with SCSB 

6.1. 

For application submitted directly with the SCSB, by any category of investor i.e. 

Retail,  QIB  and  NII,  existing  process  of  bidding  and  blocking  of  funds  by  the 

SCSB shall continue.  

 

7. 

QIB and NII applications submitted with intermediary 

7.1. 

Similarly,  for  applications  submitted  by  NIIs  and  QIBs  with  the  intermediary, 

existing process of bidding by intermediary and blocking of funds by SCSB shall 

continue. 

 

8. 

Proposed schedule of major activities 

The day wise activity schedule with expected timelines would be as under: 
 

Revisiting the public issue process 
 

Page 9 

Categories 

Bids  by  Retail 
investors  with 
intermediaries 
(Broker  /  RTA  / 
DP) 

Bids  by  QIBs 
and  NIIs  with 
intermediaries 

 

 

T-3 to T day 

Investor  would  fill  in  the  bid  details  in  the 
application  form  as  per the  existing  process 
along with his/ her UPI ID i.e. use only his / 
her  own  bank  account  linked  UPI  ID  with 
application. 
 
Intermediary will upload the bid data along 
with UPI ID in Stock Exchange Platform. 
 
Upon  upload  of  above 
information  by 
intermediary,  investor  would  receive  an 
intimation  on  his/her  mobile,  seeking 
authorization  to  block  funds  equivalent  to 
bid  amount  and  subsequent  debit  funds  in 
case of successful allotment.  
 
Investor  may  confirm  the  block  of  funds 
anytime during this period.  
 
Investor  would  continue  to  have  the  option 
to  modify  /  withdraw  the  bid  during  this 
period. 
Investor  will  submit  the  application  form 
with intermediary without UPI ID. 
 
Intermediary  will  upload  the  bid  data  in 
Stock Exchange Platform as per the existing 
process. 
 
Intermediary  will  send  the  forms  of  QIBs 
and  NIIs  to  respective  branch  of  SCSB  for 
blocking of funds. 

Bids  by  Retail, 
QIBs  and  NIIs 
with SCSBs 

Investor  to  submit  application  form  with 
SCSB for bidding and blocking of funds. 
 
SCSB  to  upload  the  bid  data  in  the  Stock 
Exchange  platform  and  block  the  funds  in 
the investors account. 

 

 
 

 

 

 

   

T+1 day 

Investors would have 
time till 12:00 p.m. on 
T+1 day to act upon the 
request for block of 
funds, post which all 
pending requests will 
automatically lapse. 
 
As per the existing 
process, no modification 
/ withdrawal will be 
allowed on after T day. 
 
Escrow/Sponsor Bank to 
provide confirmation on 
bank-wise blocking of 
funds to Stock Exchange 
latest by 2:00 p.m. 

 

respective 

Sending  of  applications 
which are bid on last day 
to 
SCSB 
latest  by  10:00 
branch 
a.m. 
 
to  accept 
SCSBs  not 
application  forms  after 
10:00 a.m. 
 
SCSBs  to  provide    Final 
certificate 
Collection 
and  NII 
w.r.t  QIB 
applications, 
to  RTA,  
latest by 2:00 p.m. 
SCSBs  to  provide  Final 
Collection  certificate,  to 
RTA, latest by 2:00 p.m.   

Revisiting the public issue process 
 

Page 10 

 

 

 

 

   

Categories 

T day 

T+1 day 

T+2 day 

Common 

Instructions 

Issuer 

to 

approve 

Transfer of funds to Public Issue 

activities 

for 

to 

prospectus 

escrow account/ and unblocking 

all categories 

depositories 

 

of funds by 2:30 p.m. 

for  Pre  Issue 

Filing  of  prospectus 

 

capital  Lock 

with 

Registrar 

of 

Issuer to approve allotment. 

in 

post 

Companies 

(ROC) 

 

closure 

of 

latest by 5:00 p.m. 

Filing 

of  documents  with 

bidding 

period. 

 

 

 

depositories for credit. 

RTA 

to 

undertake 

 

“Technical  Rejection” 

Filing  of 

listing  applications 

test based on electronic 

along  with  all  other  relevant 

bid details and prepare 

documents with stock exchange 

list 

of 

technical 

 

rejection cases.” 

Receipt of confirmation of credit 

 

of  shares  and  lock-in  of  shares 

Draft basis of allotment 

from  depositories  latest  by  6:00 

to  be  submitted  with 

p.m.  

Stock  Exchange  by 

 

RTA latest by 8:00 p.m. 

File  demat  credit  and  unblock 

 

confirmation with exchange and 

Finalization  of  basis 

obtaining 

trading  permission 

latest  by  11:00  p.m.  on 

latest by 7:00 p.m. 

the  basis  of  receipt  of 

 

filing  of  prospectus 

Receipt  of  Listing  and  Trading 

with ROC 

Approvals latest by 8:00 p.m. 

 

 
 

 

Expected commencement of trading on 3rd working day from closure of the issue 

 

9. 

Public comments on the proposal  

9.1.  Considering  the  implications  of  the  said  matter  on  the  market  participants 

including  listed  companies,  market  intermediaries  and 

investors,  public 

comments on the policy framework proposed above are solicited.  

 

9.2.  The  comments  on  above,  may  be  sent  by  email  or  through  post,  latest  by 

15/08/2018, in the format below: 

 
 

Revisiting the public issue process 
 

Page 11 

 

 

Details of respondent 

Name / Organization 

Contact number 
Email address 

 

 

 

   

 
 
 

Comments on consultation paper 

Sr. No.  Question No. 

Comment /proposed change 

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

While sending email kindly mention the subject as "Comments on consultation 

paper for revisiting the public issue process". 

Email Address: 

listingprocess@sebi.gov.in  

 

 

 

 

 

Postal Address: 

Mr. Narendra Rawat 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No.C4‐A, ʺGʺ Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East) 
Mumbai ‐ 400051 
Ph: +91 22 26449383 
 

 

Revisiting the public issue process 
 

Page 12 

