 

 

SEBI seeks public comments on the ‘Report on the Settlement Mechanism’ 
submitted by the High Level Committee under the Chairmanship of Justice 

A. R. Dave (retd.)  

 

1.  BACKGROUND 

1.1 Settlement for securities laws violations, was introduced in India in the year 2007. It 
has  weathered  the  challenges  in  their  implementation  and  facilitated  the  market 
regulator  to  provide  a  more  effective  mechanism;  the  essential  concomitants  of  a 
legal  proceeding,  without  compromising  on  deterrence  or  providing  equitable 
remedies to the affected investors. The Settlement process was codified and the SEBI 
(Settlement of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings) Regulations  were  notified  on 
January  9,  2014.    In  pursuit  of  the  objectives  of  SEBI  (to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market), as new challenges arise it is important to have a convergence or 
integration  of  the  quasi-judicial  processes  within  SEBI  with  the  alternate  dispute 
resolution process of settlement, to bring forth a more effective harmonized scheme 
to  operate  without  any  conflict  and  delay. The  2014  Regulations  were  a  major 
advancement  in  introducing  a  mathematical  and  transparent  system  of  calculating 
the settlement amount, however certain shortcomings were noticed over a period of 
time. 

1.2 Securities   and   Exchange   Board   of   India   (“SEBI”)   has   constituted   a   High   
Level  Committee under the Chairmanship of Justice A. R Dave (retd. Supreme Court 
of India) assisted by Shri Pratap Venugopal, Advocate on Record, Supreme Court of 
India, as Member of the Committee.  

1.3 The  High  level  Committee  was  constituted  to  review  the  SEBI  (Settlement of 
Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings) Regulations,  2014  and  the  Enforcement 
mechanism  of  SEBI  and  to  suggest  suitable  recommendations  as  it  considers 
necessary.  The  2014  Regulations  have  been  examined  by  the  Committee  and 

 

comprehensively re-worked after taking into account developments in domestic and 
foreign jurisdictions.   

1.4 The  Committee  has  submitted  its  'Report  on  Settlement  Mechanism'  to  SEBI  on 
August  10,  2018  wherein  it  has  inter  alia  recommended  issuance  of  revised 
regulations for settlement proceedings 

 

 

2.  PUBLIC COMMENTS 

Comments  from  the  public  are  invited  on  the  recommendations  contained  in  the 
aforesaid Report in the following format: 
 
Name: 
Sr. 
No. 

Rationale  

Relevant  Chapter  and 
sub-heading/  regulation  / 
clause/ point 
 

Comments  and 
suggested 
changes, if any 

 
 
The  comments  may  either  be  forwarded  by  email  to  settlementdop@sebi.gov.in    or 
may be sent by post to the following address latest by September 1, 2018. 
 
Vijayakrishnan G 
General Manager 
Legal Affairs Department, Division of Policy 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex,  
Bandra (East), Mumbai -400 051 

 
 

 

Issued on: August 13, 2018 

2 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 

HIGH LEVEL COMMITTEE UNDER THE 

CHAIRMANSHIP OF  

JUSTICE A. R. DAVE, FORMER JUDGE, 

SUPREME COURT OF INDIA,  

TO REVIEW THE ENFORCEMENT AND 

SETTLEMENT MECHANISM. 

 

 

REPORT ON THE SETTLEMENT MECHANISM 

 

AUGUST 10, 2018 

 

 

 

 
 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 
 

PREFACE 

 
 

Real success, within any system, especially of an enforcement process depends largely on 
constant evaluation and evolution of the devices and mechanisms used for that purpose. Courts 
are  overburdened  and  delay  is  a  major  concern,  questioning  the  efficiency  of  the  system.  The 
common man is perplexed by the fact of being at the receiving end despite mechanisms being in 
place,  at  considerable  expenditure  to  the  exchequer.  Public  concern  over  accountability  and 
responsibility has to be addressed in a more cost effective, less time consuming manner by seeking 
means  and  devices  to  arrive  at  an  arrangement  relieving  the  aggrieved  of  a  cumbersome 
procedure.  

 
This  necessarily  requires  a  convergence  or  integration  of  the  judicial  decision  making 
processes  with  the  alternate  dispute  resolution  processes,  to  bring  forth  a  more  effective 
harmonized  scheme  to  operate  without  any  conflict.  The  sanctity  of  judicial  decision  making 
cannot  be  discounted.  Legal  research,  in  today's  world  of  better  access  and  more  awareness, 
reveals argumentative possibilities for setting up alternate resolution practices in an organized, 
non-partisan  manner;  especially  in  the  context  of  the  present  scenario  which  clamours  for  a 
speedier processes for dealing with disputes, be it business, societal or personal. 

 
Courts, Tribunals and Adjudicatory Authorities have to be spared  from adjudicating on 
issues; which could be resolved by facilitating a settlement process which would go a long way in 
ensuring speedy and efficient resolution of disputes, if leveraged properly, thus contributing to 
reduction of multiplicity of litigation. 

 
This  tool  of  settlement  by  consent  has  been  successfully  applied,  in  various  disparate 
jurisdictions,  including  in  the  United  States  of  America  and  the  United  Kingdom.  India  too 
adopted this powerful tool of settlement, as a measure of alternate resolution, but without diluting 
the  aspect  of  deterrence,  which  ensures  smooth  functioning  of  the  financial  markets  without 
interruption  or  hampering  legitimate  activities  of  registered  participants;  often  occasioned  in 
regular enforcement proceedings.  

 
Settlement for securities laws violations, was introduced in India in the year 2007. It has 
weathered the challenges in their implementation and facilitated the market regulator to provide 
a  more  effective  mechanism,  saving  time  and  cost;  the  essential  concomitants  of  a  legal 
proceeding, without compromising on deterrence or providing equitable remedies to the affected 
investors. Concerns, however, still crop up challenging the efficacy of the settlement mechanisms; 
some of which appear to be based on an inadequate understanding of the system and a wrong 
appreciation of the legal issues arising there from. 
 

This report on the settlement mechanism is meant to review and add to the existing law 
so as to improve the existing processes and also act as an enabler for ease of doing business in the 
growing securities market.  
 

The  Committee  expresses  its  gratitude  to  Mr.  Ajay  Tyagi,  Chairman,  SEBI  for 
constituting  the  Committee  and  entrusting  it  with  the  task  of  reviewing  the  enforcement  and 
settlement mechanism of SEBI. 
 

 

Page 2 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 
The Committee, during the course of its deliberations, held detailed discussions with the 
Whole Time Members of the Board and their officers, the Enquiry and Adjudication officers and 
officers from the Departments of Investigation, the Integrated Surveillance as well as the officers 
of  Enforcement  Department.  A  detailed  meeting  was  also  held  with  the  members  of  the  High 
Powered  Advisory  Committee  constituted  under  the  existing  settlement  regime.  These 
discussions have been immensely useful to the Committee in taking a considered decision.  
 

I would like to place on record my deep appreciation of the valuable inputs of Shri Pratap 

Venugopal, who has assisted me as Member of the Committee.  

 
The  Committee  is  grateful  to  all  the  participants  for  sharing  their  expertise.  The 
Committee is also grateful to the senior leadership of SEBI for taking time to share their expertise 
during several days of interaction with them.  

 
The  Committee  also  extends  special  thanks  to  the  invaluable  support  and  work  on this 
project to the officers of the Legal Affairs Department, Division of Policy viz. Ms. Babitha Rayudu, 
Mr. G Vijayakrishnan and in particular, Mr. L. Kajio Mao and Mr. Chaudhary Suraj, as well as 
their  contribution  in  setting  the  agenda,  identifying  and  interacting  with  the  participants, 
conducting the briefings and producing this Report. The Committee also thanks the Board for the 
administrative and programmatic support provided. 
 
 
 

 

 
JUSTICE ANIL R. DAVE, 
Former Judge, Supreme Court of India, 
CHAIRMAN. 
 
Mumbai, August 10, 2018 

 

Page 3 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

    

GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN THE REPORT 

Sr. No.  Terms Used 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 

AO 
Board 
Depositories Act 
FCA 
HPAC 
IC 
SAT 
Settlement Regulations 

9 
10 
11 
12 
13 

SCRA 
SEBI 
SEBI Act 
SEC 
WTM 

Meaning 
Adjudicating Officer 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Depositories Act, 1996 
Financial Conduct Authority 
High Powered Advisory Committee 
Internal Committee 
Securities Appellate Tribunal 
 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of 
Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations, 
2014 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
The Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
US Securities and Exchange Commission 
Whole Time Member 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 

PARTICULARS 

PAGE NO. 

The Committee……………………………………………………………………………. 

Terms of Reference and approach…………………………………………………. 

Background…………………………………………………………………………………. 

Structure of the Report…………………………………………………………………. 

 

Part I: Evolution of Settlement Proceedings……………………… 

An Introduction……………………………………………………………………………. 

Need for present revision………………………………………………………………. 

 

Part II: Global Scenario………………………………………………….. 

United States of America………………………………………………………………. 

United Kingdom…………………………………………………………………………… 

 

Part III: Key Recommendations and Rationale ……………….. 

 

6 

7 

8 

10 

 

11 

11 

19 

 

20 

20 

31 

 

32 

 

Part IV: Comparative Table                         ………………………….. 

109 

 

 

Part V: Proposed Draft Regulations ………………………………… 

138 

 

 

Page 5 of 209 

 

 

 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 
HIGH LEVEL COMMITTEE TO REVIEW THE ENFORCEMENT AND SETTLEMENT 

MECHANISM 

 
 
 
Justice A.R. Dave, former Judge, Supreme Court of India – Chairman 

Mr. Pratap Venugopal, Advocate, Supreme Court – Member 
 
 
Core team of SEBI:  
 

1.       Mr. Ananta Barua, Whole Time Member; 

2.      Ms. Babitha Rayudu, Chief General Manager; 

3.      Mr. G Vijayakrishnan, General Manager; 

4.      Mr. L. Kajio Mao, Assistant General Manager; and 

5.      Mr. Chaudhary Suraj, Manager. 

 

 

 

Page 6 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

TERMS OF REFERENCE 

 

The Committee was formed on December 14, 2017 under the Chairmanship of Justice A. R Dave 
(Retd.). The terms of reference of the Committee are as follows: 
 

1.  Review of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of Administrative and 

Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014;  
 

2.  Explore means of legislating a methodology for quantification of the factors indicated in 
Section  15J  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  Section  19I  of  the 
Depositories Act, 1996 and Section 23J of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956; 
 

3.  Review the enforcement mechanism of the Board, in particular, the Recovery mechanism 

under the securities laws; and 
 
 

4.  Any other matter, as the Committee deems fit relating to the terms of reference. 

 
 
 

APPROACH TO THE REPORT ON THE SETTLEMENT MECHANISM 

 

The Committee held nine meetings over a period of eight months with the first meeting held on 
December 14, 2017. This Report sets out the recommendations of the Committee in respect of the 
first  Term  of  Reference:  Review  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  of 
Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014, along with the rationale for the same 
while suitably referencing to any other incidental issues  as  may be required for enhancing the 
Board’s  Settlement  mechanism  as  well  as  the  enforcement  mechanism  as  a  whole.  The 
Committee’s  approach  to  the  recommendations  has  been  driven  by  the  primary  objective  of 
enhancing settlement as a tool of enforcement. In this regard, the Committee believes that there 
are certain recommendations which may require implementation by authorities other than SEBI. 
Therefore,  the  Committee  has  suggested  that  SEBI  take  up  such  recommendations  with  the 
relevant authorities. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 7 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

BACKGROUND 

 

The  adage  “Justice  delayed  is  justice  denied”  holds  utmost  significance  when  the  concept  of 
dispensing justice is discussed.  The constant struggle to uphold this legal maxim has been a bitter 
battle in every judicial system to ensure speedy justice but not at the cost of justice.  
 
Over the years, the judicial system has evolved to incorporate methods for dealing with the arrears 
of cases. 
 
Methods such as plea bargaining have been effective in the United States of America (USA) where 
majority of the criminal cases are not tried but disposed of through plea bargaining.  
 
The  Law  Commission  of  India  after  thorough  examination  of  the  subject  of  plea-
bargaining/compounding/settlement  without  trial  has  in  its  142nd  and  154th  Reports  made 
detailed  recommendations  to  promote  settlement  of  criminal  cases  without  trial.    The 
Commission noted that about 75% of total convictions are the result of plea bargaining in USA 
which contrasted with 75% of the acquittals in India. The Commission also observed that plea-
bargaining is a viable alternative to deal with huge arrears of criminal cases and would involve 
pre-trail negotiations such as “charge bargaining” or “sentence bargaining” that would ultimately 
result in a reduced sentence and early disposal. The recommendation of the Law Commission on 
plea bargaining was also supported by the Malimath Committee on Reforms of Criminal Justice 
System in its report in 2003. Accordingly, it found its way into the Criminal Law (Amendment) 
Bill, 2003 and became enforceable in 2006 under  Section  265A  to 265L, Chapter XXIA  of the 
Criminal  Procedure  Code  which  deals  with  the  concept  of  Plea  Bargaining  as  an  alternative 
method introduced to deal with huge arrears of criminal cases.  
 
The  Companies  Act  1956  provided  for  a  number  of  dispute  resolution  fora  to  provide  judicial 
settlement  in  a  wide  range  of  business  issues  and  the  Indian  Companies  were  required  to 
approach  these  fora  for  resolving  their  disputes  based  on  the  subject  matter  in  dispute.  This 
resulted in a backlog of a number cases and protracted litigation time, which was considered as a 
major impediment in ease of doing business in India. With a view to streamlining the process, the 
Companies Act 2013 effectuated a single forum for adjudication of most of the disputes related to 
companies in India. Further, over the last few years, the Government of India has also taken a 
number of steps in reforming the dispute resolution machinery, to ensure the speedy and efficient 
disposal  of  corporate/commercial 
litigation.  The  establishment  of  Commercial  Courts, 
amendments in the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, passage of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 
2016,  constitution  of  the  National  Company  Law  Tribunal  and  notification  of  Companies 
Mediation  and  Conciliation  Rules,  2016  reflects  a  complete  overhaul  in  the  dispute  resolution 
machinery in India’s Corporate Litigation.  
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission in the USA also introduced the settlement route that 
was  beneficial  for  Courts  since  the  settlement  or  consent  judgments  would  conserve  judicial 
resources, which was the primary reason for the strong policy favoring approval and enforcement 
of consent decrees in the USA and yet decrease the pendency of cases. By doing so, consent decrees 

 

Page 8 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

made it possible for the judicial system to operate more efficiently and more fairly while affording 
plaintiffs an opportunity to obtain relief more expeditiously.  
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India has been given the mandate to protect the interest of 
investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 
In order to accomplish this mandate, SEBI has been vested with quasi legislative, executive and 
quasi-judicial powers under the SEBI Act, 1992. During the last 26 years, SEBI has issued various 
regulations  and  circulars  and  taken  stringent  surveillance,  investigation  and  enforcement 
measures to ensure protection of interest of investors, effective regulation and development of the 
securities market.  
 
With a view to deal with accumulated cases, SEBI felt the need to find an alternate enforcement 
mechanism  to  expedite  the  delivery  of  justice  and  towards  that  end,  introduced  a  settlement 
process in 2007 that would deal with the arrear of cases and simultaneously ensure the protection 
of interest of investors and effective regulation and development of the securities market.   
 
As is the situation globally, SEBI also witnessed and faced challenges in its settlement mechanism 
while dealing with issues such as which cases or violations are to be settled and the manner of 
settlement as also the terms of settlement. Pertinent questions such as what would constitute a 
serious  violation  and  who  may  be  permitted  to  apply  for  the  settlement  process  has  been  a 
constant challenge. Like every judicial process, each case with its facts or violations would vary 
from the other  or  be  similar  and  yet  be  differentiated.  Thus the  need  for  the  applicability  of  a 
uniform yet measurable mechanism has been pursued over the years. Cases where monies are to 
be  refunded  to  investors  or  cases  relating  to  investor  complaints  necessitate  a  more  delicate 
scenario where the interest of investors should always be prioritized. In order to factor in various 
issues and elements in its enforcement mechanism, SEBI created a system in 2012 to pursue a 
quantifiable settlement mechanism that shaped into regulations in 2014 and proved to be quite 
effective. 
 
Yet a need is felt to envisage the ever growing requirements of any free market. Concepts such as 
whistleblower  or  immunity  are  not  new  but  are  fast  becoming  a  rising  requirement  with  the 
simultaneous  rise  in  corporate  or  market  illegalities  globally.  Similarly,  the  need  for  a 
confidentiality clause as part of the settlement process in order to garner information of defaults 
or possible violations from defaulters in the securities market may be considered as a step forward 
to an effective enforcement system. A review of the settlement mechanism is thus much needed 
and  like  any  effective  judicial  or  enforcement  system,  it  must  result  in  an  evolution  of  the 
processes to combat the ever changing and growing securities market.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 9 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

STRUCTURE OF THE REPORT:  

 
 This Report is divided in to the following parts:-  
 

a.  Part I: Provides a brief background of the evolution of settlement proceedings of the Board 

and the need for the present review; 

b.  Part II: Discusses the global scenario in relation to the enforcement proceedings in foreign 

regulators and in particular their settlement approaches; 

c.  Part  III:  Discusses  the  key  recommendations  and  their  rationale  in  view  of  the  issues 

deliberated by the Committee; 

d.  Part IV: Details the comparison between the existing Securities and Exchange Board of 
India  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014  and  the 
proposed Regulations; and 

e.  Part V: Contains the draft of the proposed Regulations. 

Page 10 of 209 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 
 
 

 
 
AN INTRODUCTION 

I. 

EVOLUTION OF SETTLEMENT PROCEEDINGS 

 

To begin any study of a legal system, it is important to first examine its origin and history in order 
to comprehend the factors  that have led to its creation and the factors  and circumstances  that 
have led to changes along the way in order to effectively review it. Accordingly, we begin by first 
examining the enforcement mechanism existing in SEBI. 
 

1.  In terms of its mandate to protect the interest of investors and to regulate the securities 

market, SEBI is empowered to initiate the following types of proceedings: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A.  Civil quasi-judicial proceedings: SEBI is empowered to initiate three types of civil 

quasi-judicial actions under governing legislations: 

(i)  Adjudication proceedings under Chapter VIA of the SEBI Act and the SEBI 
(Procedure for Holding Inquiry and Imposing Penalties by Adjudicating Officer) 
Rules, 1995 (and under the analogous provisions of the SCRA and Depositories 
Act and Rules issued thereunder) may result in imposition of maximum  monetary 
penalty of Rupees 25 crore or upto 3 times the profit, whichever is higher.  

(ii) Enquiry Proceedings under Chapter V of SEBI (Intermediaries) Regulations, 
2008 may inter alia result in suspension/ cancellation of certificate of registration 
of the registered Intermediary. 

(iii) Proceedings  before  the  Board:  The  power  of  issuing  directions  including 
under Section 11, 11B, 11D of the SEBI Act (and under the analogous provisions of 
the SCRA and Depositories Act) has been delegated to the WTM. After making or 
causing to be made an enquiry, if the Board is satisfied that it is necessary to take 
any measures, the WTM may issue such directions as deemed appropriate.   

B.  Prosecution  (Criminal  Proceedings):  Apart  from  civil  proceedings,  SEBI  may 
also choose to initiate criminal proceedings by way of filing a criminal complaint under 
Section  24  of  SEBI  Act  (and  under  the  analogous  provisions  of  the  SCRA  and 
Depositories Act) before the SEBI Special Court, which may result in imprisonment 
upto  10  years  or/and  fine  upto  25  crore.  These  proceedings  being  criminal 
proceedings,  the  procedural  laws  such  as  the  Evidence  Act,  1872  and  the  Code  of 
Criminal Procedure, 1973 are also applicable. 

 

Page 11 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

C.  Settlement/Compounding: Prior to the initiation or during the pendency of any 
civil/criminal  proceedings  or  pending  an  appeal  pursuant  to  such  proceedings,  an 
entity may choose to settle / compound the pending proceedings, as per the agreed 
terms  and  conditions  provided  in  the  SEBI  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil 
Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 and Internal Circular No. ED/LAD/Cir:-1/2016. Such 
settlement/compounding  proceedings  are  very  significant  from  the  perspective  of 
enforcement, since they provide for expeditious disposal of cases saving resources of 
the  regulator  with  similar  benefits  to  the  applicants,  while  taking  into  account  the 
public interest. 

 
D.  Recovery: When a person fails to pay the penalty imposed by the adjudicating officer, 
or fails to comply with any direction of SEBI for refund of monies or fails to comply 
with a direction of disgorgement order or fails to pay any fees due to SEBI, in order to 
recover  such  amounts,  SEBI  is  empowered  to  initiate  recovery  proceedings  under 
Section 28A of SEBI Act, 1992 r/w Section 226 and the Second Schedule of Income 
Tax Act, 1961 (and under the analogous provisions of the SCRA and Depositories Act). 

 

2.  SEBI, whenever a need has arisen, has been improving its quasi-judicial proceedings, by 
way of issuing internal guidance or circulars in addition to the framework provided by the 
relevant Act, Rules and Regulations. 
 

3.  The present framework of settlement proceedings has evolved over a period of time. The 
Securities  Laws  (Second  Amendment)  Act,  1999  inter  alia  amended  Section  15T  of  the 
SEBI Act and inserted Section 23A in the Depositories Act on similar lines.  
 
Section 15T as amended by the Securities Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1999 reads as 
follows, - 
 

“Section 15T. Appeal to the Securities Appellate Tribunal. – 
(1) Save as provided in sub-Section (2), any person aggrieved, - 

(a)    by an order of the Board made, on and after the commencement of the 
Securities Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1999, under this Act, or the rules 
or regulations made thereunder; or  
(b)   by an order made by an adjudicating officer under this Act, 

may prefer an appeal to a Securities Appellate Tribunal having jurisdiction in the 
matter. 
 
(2) No appeal shall lie to the Securities Appellate Tribunal from an order made__  
(a)  by  the  Board  on  and  after  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  Laws 
(Second Amendment) Act, 1999;  
(b) by an adjudicating officer, 

with the consent of the parties. 
 
(3) Every appeal under sub-Section  (1) shall be filed within a period of forty-five 
days  from  the  date  on  which  a  copy  of  the  order  made  by  the  Board  or  the 

Page 12 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

adjudicating officer, as the case may be, is received by him and it shall be in such 
form and be accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed:  
 
Provided that the Securities Appellate Tribunal may entertain an appeal after the 
expiry of the said period of forty-five days if it is satisfied that there was sufficient 
cause for not filing it within that period.  
 
(4) On receipt of an appeal under sub-Section (1), the Securities Appellate Tribunal 
may, after giving the parties to the appeal, an opportunity of being heard, pass such 
orders  thereon  as  it  thinks  fit,  confirming,  modifying  or  setting  aside  the  order 
appealed against.  
 
(5) The Securities Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every order made by it to 
the Board, the parties to the appeal and to the concerned Adjudicating Officer.” 

 

 

 

4.  By these provisions, the Parliament of India recognized the powers of the Board to pass 
consent orders under the SEBI Act and the Depositories Act. Further, Section 24A of the 
SEBI  Act,  Section  23N  of  the  SCRA  and  Section  22A  of  the  Depositories  Act  permit 
composition of offences.  

5.  Consent  orders  provide  flexibility  of  a  wider  array  of  enforcement  actions  which  will 
achieve the twin goals of an appropriate sanction and deterrence without resorting to long-
drawn  litigation  before  SEBI,  SAT,  and  Courts.  Passing  of  consent  orders  also  reduce 
regulatory  costs  and  save  time  and  efforts  in  pursuing  enforcement  actions.  This  effort 
could  more  effectively  be  used  for  pursuing  cases  which  require  the  full  process  of 
enforcement action and for policy initiatives. Accordingly, the Board issued Circular No. 
EFD/ED/Cir-1/2007  on  20.04.20071  and  guidelines  under  the  SEBI  Act,  SCRA  and 
Depositories Act, for, - 

i. 
ii. 

Consent Orders; and 
considering requests for composition of offences, 

6.  In  terms  thereof  appropriate  administrative  or  civil  actions  viz.  proceedings  under 
sections 11, 11B, 11D, 12(3) and 15I of SEBI Act and equivalent proceedings under the SCRA 
and  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  and  other  civil  matters  pending  before  SAT  and  courts 
could be settled between SEBI and a person (party) who may prima facie be found to have 
violated the securities laws or against whom administrative or civil action was commenced 
for such violation. Compounding of offences cover appropriate prosecution cases filed by 
SEBI before the criminal courts. A High-Powered Committee was constituted which made 
suitable  recommendations  to  the  Panel  of  WTMs  for  accepting  or  rejecting  settlement 
proposals.  
 

                                                           
1 Available at <https://www.sebi.gov.in/legal/circulars/apr-2007/guidelines-for-consent-orders-and-for-
considering-requests-for-composition-of-offences_9254.html> 

Page 13 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

7.  On the basis of the experience gained and in order to provide more clarity on its scope and 
applicability,  the  Board  issued  Circular  No.  EFD/ED/Cir-1/2012  on  25.05.20122  to 
partially modify the Circular issued in 2007.   
 

8.  The salient features of the modified Circular, included the following:  

 

 

 

 

 

 

A.  Certain defaults including insider trading, front running, failure to make an open 
offer, redress investor grievances and respond to  summons issued by SEBI, and 
defaults falling in the category of fraudulent and unfair trade practices which in 
the opinion of SEBI are very serious and/or have caused substantial losses to the 
investors were generally excluded from the consent process.     
 

B.  No consent application was to be considered, if any violation was committed within 
a period of two years from the date of any consent order. However, if the applicant 
had already obtained more than two consent orders, no consent application was to 
be considered for a period of three years from the date of the last order.   

C.  No  consent  application  was  to be  entertained  by  SEBI  before  the  completion  of 

investigation / inspection, if any. 

D.  In respect of proceedings pending before SEBI, no consent application was to be 
considered  if  filed  after  60  days  from  the  date  of  the  service  of  the  show  cause 
notice. However, this condition was not applicable in case of proceedings pending 
before the Tribunal/Courts. 

E.  The consent terms were to be determined in terms of the guidelines  (annexed with 
the above referred circular), which inter alia, provided for the following objective 
parameters for determining the consent terms:  

a.  A minimum Benchmark Amount for each category of default attributable 
to  the  default/violation  for  which  the  show  cause  notice  issued  or  to  be 
issued.  

 
b.  The Benchmark Amount to take into consideration the penalty imposed by 

the AO and the order passed by the WTM as the case may be 

c.  Additional amounts for previous defaults/track record of the applicant.  

d.  Weightage  given  to  the  stage  of  the  proceeding,  nature  of  the 
default/violation,  gravity  of  the  default/violation,  volume  traded,  price 
impact, networth, profits made, nature of disclosure not made, its impact, 
etc.  
 

                                                           
2  Available  at  <https://www.sebi.gov.in/legal/circulars/may-2012/amendment-to-the-consent-circular-
dated-20th-april-2007_22808.html> 

Page 14 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

F.  The consent terms also included other directives such as disgorgement of ill-gotten 

profits, etc., if considered necessary.  
 

G.  The HPAC/ Panel of WTMs considering the facts and circumstances  of the case 

and the gravity of the charges, were empowered to-  

a.  enhance the settlement amount in serious cases as per the scheme of the 

SEBI Act, or  
 

b.  reduce 

the 

settlement  amount 

if 

the 

settlement  amount 

is 

disproportionately higher considering the nature of violation, or  

c.  refuse to consider the case under the consent process.  

 

H.  The  HPAC consisted of a  Chairman  (a  retired  judge  of  a  High  Court)  and  three 

other external experts.  
 

I.  Internal Committee/s, comprised of a Chief General Manager not administratively 
associated  with  the  case  and  Division  Chiefs  of  the  concerned  Operational 
Department and Enforcement Department respectively to assist the HPAC.  

J.  In  case  of  rejection  of  the  consent  application,  no  subsequent  application  with 
respect to the same default was to be considered by SEBI at any stage thereafter.   

K.  SEBI was to dispose of the consent application expeditiously preferably within a 

period of six months from the date of registration of the consent application. 

 

 

 

 

9.  The legal validity of SEBI’s power to settle cases with the consent of the parties has been 
upheld by Courts, for example by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, in the case of 
Shilpa Stock Broker Pvt. Ltd. & Anr v SEBI.3 Although Section 15T (2) of the SEBI Act 
provides  that  no  appeal  shall  lie  from  an  order made  by  the  Board or the  Adjudicating 
Officer with the consent of the parties, occasionally cases  were filed challenging SEBI’s 
consent mechanism. As such, with a view to remove any ambiguity over the validity of the 
settlement  process,  in  2014,  the  Parliament  of  India  passed  the  Securities  Laws 
(Amendment) Act, 2014 after issuing three antecedent ordinances4. The Notes on clauses 
to the Bill inter alia provided that a new clause relating to settlement of administrative 
and civil proceedings was being inserted with effect from the 20th day of April, 2007. The 
said clause explicitly empowers the Board to settle administrative and civil proceedings 
upon payment of such sums or on such other terms as may be determined in accordance 
with procedures specified in the regulations framed by the Board. 
 

                                                           
3 2012 (3) ALL MR 908. 
4  The  Securities  Laws  (Amendment)  Ordinance,  2013;  the  Securities  Laws  (Amendment)  Second 
Ordinance, 2013 and the Securities Laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 2014. 

Page 15 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

10. The  Securities  Laws  (Amendment)  Act,  2014  and  its  antecedent  ordinances  inter  alia 
inserted Section 15JB in the SEBI Act, relating to Settlement of administrative and civil 
proceedings.  
 
Section 15JB of the SEBI Act reads as follows, - 
 

“Section 15JB.Settlement of administrative and civil proceedings. - 
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, 
any person, against whom any proceedings have been initiated or may be initiated 
under Section 11, Section 11B, Section 11D, sub-Section (3) of Section 12 or Section 15-
I,  may  file  an  application  in  writing  to  the  Board  proposing  for  settlement  of  the 
proceedings initiated or to be initiated for the alleged defaults.  
 
(2) The Board may, after taking into consideration the nature, gravity and impact of 
defaults,  agree  to  the  proposal  for  settlement,  on  payment  of  such  sum  by  the 
defaulter or on such other terms as may be determined by the Board in accordance 
with the regulations made under this Act.  
 
(3) The settlement proceedings under this Section shall be conducted in accordance 
with the procedure specified in the regulations made under this Act.  
 
(4) No appeal shall lie under Section 15T against any order passed by the Board or 
adjudicating 
section.” 
 

case  may 

officer, 

the 

as 

be, 

under 

this 

Along similar lines, Section 23JA was inserted in the SCRA and Section 19-IA was inserted 
in the Depositories Act.  

 

11.  Pursuant to the Securities Laws (Amendment) Second Ordinance, 2013, the Board issued 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil 
Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 after public consultation.5 The Securities and Exchange 
Board  of  India  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014 
essentially  cast  the  existing  consent  mechanism  issued  under  the  2007  Circular  and 
modified by the 2012 Circular into the form of statutory regulation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                           
5 Updated regulations available at, - <https://www.sebi.gov.in/legal/regulations/dec-2017/securities-and-
exchange-board-of-india-settlement-of-administrative-and-civil-proceedings-regulations-2014-last-
amended-on-december-27-2017-_37185.html> 

Page 16 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

12.  After, the Settlement Regulations were notified in 2014, several settlement applications 

were disposed of by the Board:  

F. Y.   PENDING 

NO. OF 

NO. OF 

NO. OF 

PENDING 

SETTLEMENT 

AT THE 

APPLICATIONS 

APPLICATIONS 

APPLICATIONS 

AT THE 

13.  The  Settlement  Regulations  have  been  amended,  from  time  to  time,  to  include  various 

additional features, - 
 

i. 

Settlement Notice: Parties  very rarely apply  for settlement  before issuance of 
show cause notice since they are not aware of the probable action.  This resultant 
delays  and  diversion  of  resources  was  sought  to  be  avoided  by  of  possible 
enforcement action to the parties upon approval of the said actions by the Board, 
enabling   them to seek settlement of proceedings or make voluntary submissions 
prior to receipt  of a detailed show  cause notice. Where any party avails such an 
opportunity to respond to such a notice, the   proposed proceedings may be settled 
(unless rejected) or discontinued on the basis of the submissions of the noticee (if 
any), where both these eventualities would save the recourses of the Board. 
 
It  is  relevant  to  note  that  on  the  basis  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Wells 
Committee, the SEC on September 27, 1972 issued Securities Act Release No.5310, 
Procedures  Relating  to  the  Commencement  of  Enforcement  Proceedings  and 
Termination of Staff Investigations. Though, it is not legally required to provide a 
notice, SEC sends a letter to the persons or firms when a decision is made to bring 
an  enforcement  action  against  them  as  per  the  said  Release.  The  said  letter  is 
commonly referred as Wells Notice (named after Wells Committee). Upon receipt 
of a Wells Notice, the person or firm concerned has the opportunity to 'contest' the 
said notice by making ‘Wells  submission’ to SEC where a prospective defendant 
can speak directly to the SEC prior to the initiation of regulatory proceedings and 
should make their case as to why they should not be prosecuted. However, Wells 
submissions are not mandatory.  

Page 17 of 209 

BEGINNING 

RECEIVED 

DISPOSED OF 

OF THE 
PERIOD 

112 

120 

187 

108 

177 

171 

232 

241 

BY PASSING 

ORDER 

41 

34 

103 

200 

2014-

15 

2015-

16 

2016-

17 

2017-
18 

 

REJECTED / 
WITHDRAWN 

END OF 

THE 

PERIOD 

AMOUNT 
REALIZED 

(IN INR) 

59 

82 

23 

79 

120 

3,57,95,389 

181 

4,42,26,748 

232 

13,50,83,822 

194 

30,74,70,566 

 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 
Around September, 2014 the Board introduced a notice referred to as ‘Settlement 
Notice’. The Settlement regulations were amended in February 2017 to explicitly 
recognize Settlement Notice under the regulations. 
 

ii.  Guidance  Note  in  relation  to  settlement  of  defaults  relating  to 
fraudulent  and  unfair  trade  practices:  Sub-clause  (b)  of  clause  (2)  of 
Regulation 5 of the Settlement Regulations inter alia provides that the Board shall 
not settle: 
"Fraudulent  and  unfair  trade  practices  including  front  running,  which  in  the 
opinion of the Board are serious and have a market wide impact or have caused 
substantial losses to or affect the rights of investors in securities, especially retail 
investors and small shareholders: 
 

Provided that where the applicant has made or intends to make good the 

losses due to the investors, his application may be considered." 
 
In  view  of  doubts  being  raised  on  the  interpretation  of  the  above  provision,  a 
guidance  note  was  issued  in  April,  2016  under  Regulation  22  of  the  Settlement 
Regulations to clarify that the purpose of sub-clause (b) of clause (2) of Regulation 
5 is not to prohibit settlements in respect of all kinds of fraudulent and unfair trade 
practices  and  that  the  general  rule  shall  be  settlement  of  such  defaults  with 
appropriate terms and rejection in exceptional cases. 
 
The  Settlement  Regulations  were  amended  in  August  2016  and  the  relevant 
proviso and clarification in Schedule II of the Settlement Regulations were inserted 
as per the Guidance Note. 
 
Summary Settlement Procedure: In December 2017, in order to expedite the 
settlement  of defaults relating to disclosures  and  delays in compliance with any 
direction of the Board, a fast track procedure was introduced by inserting Chapter 
VIA  in  the  settlement  regulations  which  empowered  the  Board  to  issue  a 
settlement  notice  indicating  the  settlement  amount  and/or  the  non-monetary 
terms,  on  the  satisfaction  of  which,  the  noticee  could  obtain  a  settlement  order 
within the specified time. 
 
 

iii. 

14. A  dedicated  Settlement  Division  has  also  been  created  within  the  Enforcement 

Department of the Board in October 2016, for dealing with settlement. 

 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 18 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

NEED FOR PRESENT REVISION 

 

 
 

1.  Over a period of time while stating the changes discussed previously, both of procedures 
and practices within the Board and in the Regulations, the following major inadequacies 
were observed to hinder the application of the existing settlement regulations, - 
 

Sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 5 was perceived to discourage the settlement of 
certain matters deemed to be too important, i.e. defaults relating to insider trading, 
serious fraudulent and unfair trading, open offer,  
There  was  no  explicit  guidance  to  deal  with  cases  where  settlement  along  with 
composition  of  corresponding  matters  or  only  composition,  was  required  to  be 
done.  

i. 

ii. 

 

2.  The  Settlement  Regulations,  were  in  letter  and  spirit,  a  continuation  of  the  philosophy 
underpinning  the  2012  Amendment  Circular.  The  said  Amendment  Circular  was  an 
advancement  over  the  liberal  2007  Consent  Circular.  The  2007  Circular  essentially 
followed the approach of major securities jurisdictions across the world, in allowing the 
possibility of settlement of any violation of securities laws. However, other jurisdictions 
have not been lacking in their ability to quantify disproportionate gain or unfair advantage 
made as a result of the default, the loss caused to the investors and other relevant factors.  
 

3.  Even though the 2012 Circular and the subsequent Settlement Regulations were a major 
advancement  in  introducing  a  mathematical  and  transparent  system  of  calculating  the 
settlement amount, they have the following shortcomings, - 
 

i. 
ii. 

iii. 

There is no transparent and predictable method for calculation of profit or loss;  
All factors were not quantified; Some were entirely left to the discretion of the IC, 
the HPAC and the Panel of WTMs; 
There is reliance, in many instances, on the residuary amount indicated in Table-
XII of the Schedule-II of the Settlement Regulations; 

iv.  With  the  passage  of  time,  the  amounts  indicated  in  the  Schedule-II  needed 

revision; and  

v.  With the passage of the Finance Act, 2018, settlement for new defaults relating to 
financial  market  infrastructure  institutions  and  other  new  instruments  and 
regulated entities need to be provided for.  

 

4.  Hence, the existing Settlement Regulations have been examined by this Committee and 
comprehensively  re-worked  after  taking  into  account  developments  in  domestic  and 
foreign jurisdictions. 

 
 
 

 

Page 19 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

II.  GLOBAL SCENARIO 

 
 
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 

1.  By virtue of being the most influential financial market in recent times the USA has been 
a  trend  setter  in  the  field  of  securities  market  regulation.  Several  provisions  of  Indian 
securities laws are based on USA’s securities laws. Enforcement of securities laws in the 
USA, including alternative enforcement through the settlement route, has been a subject 
of much debate6 and a broad overview of this jurisdiction is necessary to provide a proper 
perspective of what is proposed to be achieved in the current exercise. 
 

2.  A Brief History of the Penalty Authority in the SEC7 

a.  The SEC was established in 1934. For the first 50 years of its existence, the SEC 
had no authority to obtain monetary penalties. The SEC could go to court to seek 
an  injunction  to  stop  ongoing  violations  or  prevent  future  ones,  it  could  seek  a 
court  order  directing  a  defendant  to  hand  over  ill-gotten  gains  resulting  from 
violations, and it could bar securities firms and professionals from the securities 
industry. The same Congress that created the SEC granted prosecutors in criminal 
cases the authority to seek monetary penalties, but not the SEC. 
 

b.  In 1984, a new, tougher era began. Congress started slowly and cautiously making 
changes. In the Insider Trading Sanctions Act of 1984, it granted the SEC authority 
to  seek  monetary  penalties,  but  only  for  insider  trading  violations  and  only  by 
going to court. It set the maximum penalty at three times the profit gained or loss 
avoided resulting from the insider trading violation. 

 

 

c.  Four  years  later,  Congress  passed  the  Insider  Trading  and  Securities  Fraud 
Enforcement  Act  of  1988.  It  gave  the  SEC  authority  to  seek  penalties  against 
controlling  persons  of  persons  who  traded  on  inside  information.  Once  again,  
Congress limited the penalty authority to insider trading violations, and required 
the SEC to go to court to prove its right to a penalty. 

 

d.  Two years later the tiny penalty acorn exploded into a mighty oak. As part of the 
Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990, Congress 
authorized  the  SEC  to  go  to  court  to  seek  civil  monetary  penalties  against  any 

                                                           
6 See Testimony of Robert Khuzami on “Examining the Settlement Practices of U.S. Financial Regulators” 
before  the  Committee  on  Financial  Services,  U.S.  House  of  Representatives  (May  17,  2012),  available  at 
<https://www.sec.gov/news/testimony/2012-ts051712rkhtm>. 
7See  K  &  L  Gates  LLP  article  “Brother  Can  You  Spare  $8.9  Billion?  Making  Sense  of  SEC  Civil  Money 
Penalties”,  available  at  <https://www.jdsupra.com/legalnews/brother-can-you-spare-89-billion-maki-
87533/ > 

Page 20 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

person who violated any of the four principal securities statutes. In court cases, 
the SEC could obtain a maximum penalty equal to the amount the defendant made 
from the violation. Thus, for example, if the SEC proved that a defendant made $10 
million from a securities violation, for the first time it could potentially obtain a 
$10  million  penalty  on  top  of  the  $10  million  in  disgorgement.  Alternatively,  it 
could  obtain  different  tiers  of  fines  in  the  amounts  discussed  below  for  “each 
violation” of the securities laws. 

e.  The  Act  also  gave  the  SEC  authority  to  impose  monetary  penalties  in  its  own 
administrative  proceedings  against  regulated  persons  and  companies.  Those 
penalties apply to “each act or omission” violating the securities laws. Depending 
on  the  nature  of  the  violation,  they  now  range  from  a  maximum  of  $7,500  to 
$160,000 for individuals and from $80,000 to $775,000 for companies for “each 
act or omission” violating the securities laws. 

f.  Currently, the law provides two methods for calculating the maximum amount of 
penalties. The first method for levy of penalty, which is applicable in both federal 
civil  cases  and  administrative  actions,  allows  a  per  violation  calculation,  the 
amount  of  which  increases  by  tier  based  approach  on  the  seriousness  of  the 
misconduct. The highest tier available for violations is capped by law at $150,000 
per violation for individuals and $725,000 per violation for entities. The second 
calculation method, generally available only in federal court, allows the imposition 
of a penalty equal to the "gross amount of the pecuniary gain" to the defendant "as 
a result of the violation."8 

 

 

 

g.  The three-tier penalty structure (approx) is as follows9, - 

 

Tier 

Individual 

Others 

Tier 1— 

$7,500 

$80,000 

Any Violation 
Tier 2— 

A Violation Involving Fraud, 
Deceit,  Manipulation  or 
Deliberate 
or  Reckless 
Disregard  of  Regulatory 
Requirement 
Tier 3— 

$80,000 

$400,000 

$160,000 

$775,000 

                                                           
8  See  Speech  by  SEC  Commissioner  Luis  Aguilar,  “Taking  a  No-Nonsense  Approach  to  Enforcing  the 
Federal Securities Laws”, available at <https://www.sec.gov/news/speech/2012-spch101812laahtm>. 
9  See  K  &  L  Gates  LLP  article  “Calculating  SEC  Civil  Money  Penalties”,  available  at 
<https://corpgov.law.harvard.edu/2016/01/24/calculating-sec-civil-money-penalties/> 

Page 21 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

A  Tier  2  Violation  that  Also 
Involves  a  Substantial  Risk 
of Loss to Others or Gain to 
the Violator 

 

 

 

h.  Finally, in 2010 Congress wrote into Section 929P of the 2,200-page Dodd-Frank 
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act yet further the penalty authority 
for the SEC. For the first time, the SEC could impose monetary penalties in its own 
administrative  proceedings  against  any  person  the  SEC  claims  violated  the 
securities  laws,  regardless  of  whether  that  person  or  firm  was  in  the  securities 
business. The SEC could impose penalty by finding that the violation was “willful” 
(which in SEC parlance required no culpability at all) and that the penalty was in 
the  “public  interest,”  which  is  short-hand  for  a  laundry  list  of  factors  covering 
everything from culpability to “such other matters as justice may require.”  
 
In  short,  the  change  in  the  SEC’s  penalty  authority  has  been  breathtaking.  An 
agency that for 50 years could not even go to court to seek a monetary penalty, and 
later could seek penalties only for insider trading violations and only by going to 
court,  can  now  bring  its  own  administrative  proceedings  to  assess  monetary 
penalties against anyone for any alleged securities violation.  

i. 

j.  SEC settlements are essentially court ordered settlements between parties that are 
either approved by the order of a federal court or the SEC’s  Administrative Law 
Judges.  Before  Dodd-Frank,  the  SEC  could  secure  civil  fines  against  registered 
broker-dealers  and  investment  advisers  in  administrative  cease-and-desist 
proceedings  but  had  to  sue  in  U.S.  district  court  the  non-registered  firms  and 
individuals, including public companies and executives charged with accounting 
fraud, or traders charged with insider trading. After Dodd-Frank, except for a few 
remedies that could only be obtained in court, the SEC could choose the forum in 
which it prosecutes enforcement actions. Since Dodd-Frank, the SEC has litigated 
more contested cases before administrative law judges —a move that has received 
considerable attention. At the same time (and without much notice), the SEC also 
shifted its settlement filings from District Court to administrative proceedings, just 
as  it  shifted  litigation  in  contested  actions  to  Administrative  Law  Judges.  Until 
Dodd-Frank, the SEC filed most of its settlements in District Court: Only one-third 
to one-half of settlements were filed in administrative proceedings. In 2013, the 
practice shifted sharply, and, by fiscal year 2015, the SEC filed five times as many 
settlements in administrative proceedings as it did in court.10  

 

                                                           
10 See Professor Urska Velikonja of Emory University School of Law “SEC Settlements After Dodd-Frank”, 
available at<http://clsbluesky.law.columbia.edu/2016/10/18/sec-settlements-after-dodd-frank/>. 

Page 22 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

3.  Overtime, the settlement process in USA have also been reviewed.11 From the earliest days 
of its existence until 2012, the SEC permitted defendants to settle proposed enforcement 
actions  without  either  admitting  or  denying  the  allegations  in  the  SEC’s  charging 
documents,  except  in  a  few  cases.12  Importantly,  as  a  critical  component  of  this  policy, 
settling parties were required to agree that they would not make any public statements 
denying the allegations contained in the SEC order or SEC complaint.13 This settlement 
policy has been codified as follows14, - 

“(e) The Commission has adopted the policy that in any civil lawsuit brought by it or 
in  any  administrative  proceeding  of  an  accusatory  nature  pending  before  it,  it  is 
important to avoid creating, or permitting to be created, an impression that a decree 
is  being  entered  or  a  sanction  imposed,  when  the  conduct  alleged  did  not,  in  fact, 
occur.  Accordingly,  it  hereby  announces  its  policy  not  to  permit  a  defendant  or 
respondent to consent to a judgment or order that imposes a sanction while denying 
the  allegations  in  the  complaint  or  order  for  proceedings.  In  this  regard,  the 
Commission believes that a refusal to admit the allegations is equivalent to a denial, 
unless  the  defendant  or  respondent  states  that  he  neither  admits  nor  denies  the 
allegations.  

(f) In the course of the Commission's investigations, civil lawsuits, and administrative 
proceedings,  the  staff,  with  appropriate  authorization,  may  discuss  with  persons 
involved the disposition of such matters by consent, by settlement, or in some other 
manner. It is the policy of the Commission, however, that the disposition of any such 
matter may not, expressly or impliedly, extend to any criminal charges that have been, 
or  may  be,  brought  against  any  such  person  or  any  recommendation  with  respect 
thereto.  Accordingly,  any  person  involved  in  an  enforcement  matter  before  the 
Commission  who  consents,  or  agrees  to  consent,  to  any  judgment  or  order  does  so 
solely for the purpose of resolving the claims against him in that investigative, civil, or 
administrative matter and not for the purpose of resolving any criminal charges that 
have been, or might be, brought against him. This policy reflects the fact that neither 
the  Commission  nor  its  staff  has  the  authority  or  responsibility  for  instituting, 
conducting, settling, or otherwise disposing of criminal proceedings.  That authority 
and  responsibility  are  vested  in  the  Attorney  General  and  representatives  of  the 
Department of Justice.” 

l. 

Jl. 

Effects, 

103 

Georgetown 

                                                           
11 For detailed history of the SEC settlement policy on admission and denial along with its consequences, 
see J. Siegel, Admit It! Corporate Admissions of Wrongdoing in SEC Settlements: Evaluating Collateral 
Estoppel 
at 
<https://georgetownlawjournal.org/articles/61/admit-it-corporate-admissions/pdf>. 
12  See,  for  example,  SEC  v.  Goldman  Sachs  &  Co.  and  Fabrice  Tourre,  10-CV-3229,  available 
at  <https://www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2010/lr21592.htm>,  Goldman  Sachs  to  Pay  Record  $550 
Million to Settle SEC Charges Related to Subprime Mortgage CDO: Firm Acknowledges CDO Marketing 
Materials  Were  Incomplete  and  Should  Have  Revealed  Paulson’s  Role  (Jul.  15,  2010),  available  at 
<https://www.sec.gov/news/press/2010/2010-123.htm>.  
13 See U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “Examining U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Enforcement: 
Recommendations 
at 
<https://www.centerforcapitalmarkets.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/07/021882_SEC_Reform_FIN1.pdf> 
14  See  the  SEC’s  Informal  and  Other  Procedures,  Enforcement  Activities,  at  17  C.F.R.  (Code  of  Federal 
Regulations) 
<https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-
idx?SID=d6f724aa5c49be7f21b98bb11824e90d&mc=true&node=se17.3.202_15&rgn=div8>.  

Processes 

and 

Practices”, 

on 

Current 

available 

p 

25, 

available 

433, 

available 

§202.5, 

at 

 

Page 23 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

4.  In November 2011, Judge Rakoff in the Southern District of New York rejected a proposed 
SEC settlement with Citigroup and criticized the SEC’s “neither admit nor deny” policy.15 
In  January  2012,  the  SEC  modified  its  long-standing  settlement  policy.  The  then  SEC 
Enforcement  Director  Robert  Khuzami  announced  that  persons  who  were  criminally 
convicted  or  agreed  to  either  non-prosecution  or  deferred-  prosecution  criminal 
agreements, would no longer be allowed to settle with the SEC with the standard language 
of “without  admitting or denying” the SEC’s  allegations.16 In a subsequent  speech, SEC 
Chair, Mary Jo White17 outlined the following characteristics of cases likely to require such 
admissions, -  
 

a.  Cases where a large number of investors have been harmed or the conduct was 

otherwise egregious; 

b.  Cases where the conduct posed a significant risk to the market or investors; 

c.  Cases where admissions would aid investors deciding whether to deal with a 

particular party in the future; 

d.  Cases where reciting unambiguous facts would send an important message to the 

market about a particular case.  

 

5.  SEBI followed suit and in August 2016 amended the Settlement Regulations to provide for 

settlement with admission of guilt in cases of serious violations. 
 

6.  While  settlement  amount  is  not  a  penalty,  an  endeavor  is  usually  made  to  ensure  that 
settlement amounts are not seen as business as usual or a trade or leniency compared to 
the penalties that may be levied on a defaulter. Hence, a comparison between the penalty 
system  in  USA  and  Indian  jurisdiction  becomes  important  to  understand  the  subtle 
differences between the two. The most interesting points of distinction between SEBI and 
SEC penalty system are as follows, - 

 

A.  Keeping aside instances, where penalties are calculated on the basis of 
profit  and  loss,  even  though  Indian  securities  laws  provide  for 
penalties  as  high  as  25  crores  which  approximately  equal  or  exceed 
what SEC can impose, SEC penalties (as well as settlement amounts) in 
fact work out to be much higher (sometimes billions of USD). 

                                                           
15SEC v. Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., 827 F. Supp. 2d (S.D.N.Y. 2011), reversed and remanded, 752 F. 
3rd 285 (2d Cir. 2014). 
16 See Public statement by SEC Staff: Recent Policy Change, available at https://www.sec.gov/news/public-
statement/2012-spch010712rskhtm . Also See Testimony of Robert Khuzami on “Examining the Settlement 
Practices  of  U.S.  Financial  Regulators”  before  the  Committee  on  Financial  Services,  U.S.  House  of 
Representatives 
at  <https://www.sec.gov/news/testimony/2012-
ts051712rkhtm>. 
17See Speech by SEC Chair White, Deploying the Full Enforcement Arsenal (Sept. 26, 2013), available at 
<https://www.sec.gov/news/speech/spch092613mjw>. 

available 

(May 

17, 

2012), 

 

Page 24 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

 

 

a.  The SEBI Act borrows certain provisions (with some modifications) from the US 
law,  which  provides  penalties  for  each  'violation',  'transaction  or  transactions', 
'each  act  or  omission'  violating  the  securities  laws.  The  principal  challenge  is 
figuring out what “each act or omission” or “each violation” means in the context 
of violations  that  may involve hundreds  or even thousands  of arguable acts  and 
omissions. The act or omission has to involve a violation of the securities laws, but 
that  tells  us  very  little.  For  example,  as  a  company  that  sends  an  allegedly 
misleading prospectus to 100,000 investors engaged in a single “act or omission” 
or “violation” or, instead, 100,000 acts or omissions. Theoretically, that could be 
the difference between a maximum $775,000 fine and a $77.5 billion fine.18 
 

b.  In Rapoport v. SEC19, the Administrative Law Judge had consolidated each year's 
violations and levied penalties. This was struck down by the court which held  as 
follows:" These calculations do not follow the formula set by the statute. To impose 
second-tier  penalties,  the  Commission  must  determine  how  many  violations 
occurred and how many violations are attributable to each person, as the statute 
instructs." In Steven E. Muth,20 the court held that "we believe that a civil money 
penalty based on the number of customers that [the respondent] defrauded . . . is 
appropriate.” 

c.  The US system further ensures that the penalties should be in 'public interest' to 
prevent  levy  of  extremely  disproportionate  penalties.  E.g.  In  the  Matter  of 
Raymond  J.  Lucia  Companies,  Inc.  and  Raymond  J.  Lucia,  Sr.21,  while 
determining  the  penalty,  the  Administrative  Law  Judge  held  that  although  the 
respondents  “technically  violated  the  statute  hundreds  of  times,”  imposing 
penalties on that basis “would plainly be disproportionate and unreasonable.” 

d.  By  interpreting  the  numbering  of  violations  alone,  the  US  judicial  system  has 
created  sufficient  leeway  for  seeking  higher  penalties/settlements  without 
amending legislation on a regular basis, for raising the quantum of penalties. 

e.  In the Indian context, such an approach is common in criminal trials under other 
laws but is yet to be adopted in the context of securities laws, where violation of 
statute incurs concurrent civil and criminal liability. The Supreme Court of India 

LLP, 

SEC 

Civil 

Money 

                                                           
18  For  a  more  detailed  discussion,  see  K  &  L  Gates  LLP,  “Calculating  SEC  Civil  Money  Penalties:  Do 
Hundreds  of  Related  Acts  Constitute  a  Single  Course  of  Conduct  or  Hundreds  of  Separate  Violations?”, 
available at <https://www.jdsupra.com/legalnews/calculating-sec-civil-money-penalties-43498/ >; K & L 
Gates 
at 
<https://corpgov.law.harvard.edu/2016/01/24/calculating-sec-civil-money-penalties/ > and   Michael J. 
Missal and Richard M Phillips, The Securities Enforcement Manual: Tactics and Strategies, 2nd edition, 
pp 196-197. 
19682 F.3d 98 (D.C. Cir. 2012) 
20 58 S.E.C. 770, 813 (2005) 
21Initial Decision Release No. 540 (Dec. 6, 2013). 

“Calculating 

Penalties”, 

available 

 

Page 25 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

examined the issue of multiplicity of counts of the same offence in case of financial 
companies  in the matter of  Narinderjit Singh Sahni And Anr. v Union of India 
And Ors,22 and held as follows: 

"As regards the issue of a single-offence, we are afraid that the fact-situation of the 
matters  under  consideration  would  not  permit  to  lend  any  credence  to  such  as 
submission. Each individual deposit agreement shall have to be treated a separate 
and  individual  transaction  brought  about  by  the  allurement  of  the  financial 
companies, since the parties are different, the amount of deposit is different as also 
the  period  for  which  the  deposit  was  effected.  It  has  all  the  characteristics  of 
independent  transactions  and  we  do  not  see  any  compelling  reason  to  hold  it 
otherwise. The plea as raised also cannot have our concurrence." 

The  result  of  such  an  approach,  in  the  context  of  criminal  law,  that  while  it 
theoretically is open for courts to pronounce separate sentences of imprisonments 
for ‘each and every’ count of offence to run concurrently or consecutively; the fine 
leviable for each offence, if levied, would be equal to the amount levied per count 
multiplied  by  the  number  of  each  ‘complete’  offence.  This  approach,  is  the 
approach  adopted  by  the  SEC  for  its  civil  matters  and  has  relevance  for  the 
securities laws in India, as it gives flexibility in arriving at deterrent penalties and 
settlement amounts. The present practice, has an inequitable result. A person who 
engages  in  fraudulent  conduct  against  a  few  penny  stock  investors  or  in  a  large 
index scrip or engages in a few transactions or multiple transactions, seems to have 
the  same  maximum  penalty  amount  of  Rs.  25  crores  (and  indirectly  the  same 
maximum settlement amount). This requires necessary corrections, to sufficiently 
deter repeat offenders. 
 

f.  The Supreme Court in the matter of The Chairman, SEBI v Sriram Mutual Fund 
and Anr23, recognized that the Board is required to take into account the repetitive 
nature of the default and held as follows: 

"Section  15-J  provides  various  factors  which  are  to  be  taken  into  consideration 
while adjudging the question of penalty under Section 15-l namely, the amount of 
disproportionate gain or unfair advantage whenever quantifiable, loss caused to 
an investor or group of investors and the repetitive nature of default… 

It  is  seen  that  the  respondents  themselves  have  admitted  the  violation  of  the 
Regulations  during  a  continuous  period  of  2  years  in  12  instances,  covering  6 
quarters.  Regulation  25  (7)(a)  of  the  Regulation  provides  that  an  Asset 
Management  Company  shall  not  through  any  broker  associated  with  sponsor, 
purchase  or  sell  securities,  which  is  average  of  5%  or  more  of  the  aggregate 
purchases and sale of securities made by the Mutual Fund in all its schemes.  The 
second proviso to the said Regulation clearly provides that the aforesaid limit shall 
apply for a block of 3 months.  Hence, there has been a repetitive violation of the 
said Regulation, and the terms of the Certificate of Registration…. 

                                                           
222001 Supp (4) SCR 114. 
23(2006) 5 SCC 361. 

 

Page 26 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

The  intention  of  the  parties  is  wholly  irrelevant  since  there  has  been  a  clear 
violation of the statutory Regulations and provisions repetitively, covering a period 
of 6 quarters. Hence we hold that the respondents have wilfully violated statutory 
provisions with impunity and hence the imposition of penalty was fully justified." 

 
Thus,  it  is  clear  that  it  is  possible  even  for  a  first-time  defaulter  to  commit  a 
‘repetitive  default’  since  the  focus  is  on  the  nature  of  the  ‘default’  and  not  the 
‘defaulter’. 
 
However, this factor is not applied uniformly in all cases. Hence it is necessary to 
examine how this important factor which has been specifically provisioned for in 
the statute should be worked out while examining the defaults in order to properly 
appreciate the liability of a defaulter. 
 
 

B.  The importance of quantification of 'profits earned/loss avoided' by the 
violator  and  'loss  caused'  to  investors  in  SEC  penalties  compared  to 
SEBI. 

a.  The SEC/US Justice Department regularly calculates the 'profits earned' and 'loss 
avoided' and 'loss caused to investors' in order to impose higher penalties, fines in 
addition to disgorgement of profit, as the case may be. The profit/loss caused is 
important  for  another  reason  i.e.  the  term  of  imprisonment  in  criminal 
proceedings is determined under the US Federal Sentencing Guidelines based on 
their estimate.  
 

b.  US  Federal  Sentencing  Guidelines24:  Before  the  Sentencing  Reform  Act  of 
1984  (SRA)  went  into  effect  on  November  1,  1987,  federal  judges  imposed 
“indeterminate”  sentences  with  virtually  unlimited  discretion  within  broad 
statutory ranges of punishment, and the United States Parole Commission would 
thereafter decide when offenders were actually released from prison on parole.25 
The US Supreme Court recognized that “the broad discretion of sentencing courts 
and  parole  [officials]  had  led  to  significant  sentencing  disparities  among 
similarly situated offenders.”26 In response to both concern regarding sentencing 
disparities  and  also  a  desire  to  promote  transparency  and  proportionality  in 
sentencing,  Congress  created  the  United  States  Sentencing  Commission,  a 

 

                                                           
24  Available  at  <https://www.ussc.gov/>For  a  simpler  discussion  and  understanding,  see  “Federal 
Sentencing:  The  Basics”,  available  at  <https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/research-and-
publications/research-projects-and-surveys/miscellaneous/201510_fed-sentencing-basics.pdf>  and  the 
“Primers” available at <https://www.ussc.gov/guidelines/primers>. 
25Mistretta v. United States, 488 U.S. 361, 363-64 (1989) (describing the federal sentencing system before 
the SRA). 
26Peugh v. United States, 133 S. Ct. 2072, 2079 (2013). 

Page 27 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

bipartisan  expert  agency  located  in  the  judicial  branch.27  The  Commission  is 
composed of up to seven voting members, including a chair, who are nominated 
by  the  President  and  must  be  confirmed  by  the  Senate.  No  more  than  four 
Commissioners can be from the same political party and atleast three  have to be 
federal judges. 

In 2005, in United States v. Booker28, the United States Supreme Court declared 
that the existing guideline system violated the Constitution by permitting judges 
to find facts that raised the maximum guideline range by a preponderance of the 
evidence (as opposed to juries making such findings beyond a reasonable doubt). 
The  Court  in  Booker  opted  to  remedy  the  constitutional  defect  by  striking  the 
provisions  of  the  SRA  that  made  the  guidelines  “mandatory”;  the  result  was  a 
judicially  modified  guideline  system  that  the  Court  described  as  “effectively 
advisory.”  
 
The United States Supreme Court stressed that the advisory guidelines remain the 
“starting point and the initial benchmark” in the federal sentencing process and, 
moreover,  “district  courts  must  .  .  .  remain  cognizant  of  them  throughout  the 
sentencing process.”29 
 

c.  Indian  securities  laws,  as  amended  by  the  Finance  Act,  2018,  require  that  the 
penalty  imposed  by  the  Board or  the  Adjudicating  Officer  take  into  account  the 
profit  made  and  the  loss  caused  to  investors  in  determining  the  penalty  among 
other factors. Even the existing Settlement Regulations require that the Board take 
into  account  these  factors.  However,  there  are  no  satisfactory  guidelines  for  the 
same.  As  a  result,  it  is  possible  to  err  while  calculating  the  resultant  penalty, 
ordering disgorgement or arriving at a settlement amount.  
 

d.  The Committee is cognizant  of the importance of the issue for calculating profit 
made and loss caused while recommending settlement of even serious violations 
such as insider trading. A fair settlement is not possible in the absence of a clear 
and precise methodology for quantification of the factors indicated in Section 15J 
of the SEBI Act, Section 19I of the Depositories Act and Section 23J of the SCRA. 
However, in view of the larger issues involved in the issue, this issue will be dealt 
in detail in another report. 

 

 

                                                           
27 See Dorsey v. United States, 132 S. Ct. 2321, 2326 (2012) (“. . . [T]he Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 . . . 
sought to increase transparency, uniformity, and proportionality in sentencing.”); see also Mistretta v. 
United States, 488 U.S. at 379 (“Developing proportionate penalties for hundreds of different crimes by a 
virtually  limitless  array  of  offenders  is  precisely  the  sort  of  intricate,  labor-intensive  task  for  which 
delegation to an expert body is especially appropriate.”). 
28543 U.S. 220 (2005), at 264-65. 
29Gall v. United States, 552 U.S. 38, 49 (2007). 

Page 28 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

C.  Maintaining  the  deterrent  effect  of  settlement  vis-à-vis  business  as 

usual approach. 
 

a.  In recent years, another collateral issue has cropped up. Applicants that received 
settlement  orders  from  the  Board  have  claimed  business  deduction  of  the 
settlement amount paid to the Board while calculating their taxable income. Under 
the securities laws, the settlement amount is paid into the Consolidated Fund of 
India. The Income Tax monies are also revenue of the Central Government and are 
paid  into  the  Consolidated  Fund  of  India.  Recently,  the  Mumbai  Bench  of  the 
Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) in the case of DCIT v. Shri Anil Dhirajlal 
Ambani30  while  dismissing  the  appeal  of  the  revenue  held  that  the  settlement 
amount  paid  by  the  assessee  was  a  payment  for  the  purpose  of  the  profession 
carried  on  by  the  assessee  to  save  the  time,  cost  and  hassle  of  a  long-winded 
litigation and hence is a business expenditure and that the same is allowable u/s 
37(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 since it is not a penalty or akin to penalty.  

b.  The result of the aforesaid decision is that the applicant essentially ends up paying 
far less to the Central Government and is able to ‘settle’ cases against himself at a 
substantial discount. The problem invariably lies in how the Income Tax Act, 1961 
defines ‘penalty’ (Explanation 1 to sub-Section (1) of Section 37 of the Income Tax 
Act, 1961). 

c.  In this context, the  US law is extremely helpful. The US  Internal Revenue Code 
(IRC)31 §162(a) allows a deduction of "all ordinary and necessary expenses paid or 
incurred during the taxable year in carrying on any trade or business." However, 
IRC §162(f) limits this deduction by providing that "No deduction shall be allowed 
under sub-Section (a) for any fine or similar penalty paid to a government for the 
violation of any law."  

 

 

d.  Further, the IRC §1.162-21(b)(1) defines ‘fines or similar penalty’ as an amount: 

i. 

ii. 

Paid pursuant to conviction or a plea of guilty or nolo contendere for a crime 
(felony or misdemeanor) in a criminal proceeding; 
Paid as a civil penalty imposed by Federal, State, or local law; or  

 

 

order-dated 

23.03.2018 

No.3676/Mum/2016, 

                                                           
30ITA 
at 
<https://indiankanoon.org/doc/168152693/>. See also, ITO v. Reliance Share & Stock Brokers (P.) Ltd. 
(2014) 51 Taxmann 215, (2015) 67 SOT 73 (Mum.) (Trib.); DCIT vsPranav Securities P. Ltd, Mumbai bench 
order  dated  20.12.2016,  available  at  <https://indiankanoon.org/doc/137939694/>.  Also  see,  Kaira  Can 
Company  Ltd.  vs.  DCIT  (2010)  2  ITR  20  (Mum.  -Trib.)  [Deduction  allowed  for  payment  under  SEBI 
Regulation Scheme, 2002]. 
31US  IRC,  Fines  and  Penalties,  at  26  C.F.R.  (Code  of  Federal  Regulations)  §1.162-21,  available  at 
<https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-
idx?SID=6ab14633186e645220eeb85e686683d9&mc=true&node=se26.3.1_1162_621&rgn=div8>. 

available 

 

Page 29 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

iii. 

Paid in settlement of the taxpayer’s actual or potential liability for a fine or 
penalty (civil or criminal). 

Thus, settlement amounts are non-deductible under the US law. Since 2003, the 
SEC  has  followed  a  requirement,  as  a  condition  to  any  settlement,  that  the 
applicant  agree  not  to  seek  any  indemnification,  insurance  coverage,  any  other 
forms of reimbursement, including tax deduction or tax credit.32 

 

 

e.  RECOMMENDATION: It may be appropriate for the Board to write to the Central 
Government to request appropriate changes in the Income Tax Act, 1961 on the 
lines  of  the  US  IRC  and  explore  seeking  an  undertaking,  to  be  reproduced  in 
settlement orders, in respect of non-tax reimbursements. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
32Michael J. Missal and Richard M Phillips, The Securities Enforcement Manual: Tactics and Strategies, 
2nd edition, p 197. 

Page 30 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

THE UNITED KINGDOM 
 

1.  The  FCA’s  Enforcement  Guide33  and  the  Decision  Procedure  and  Penalties  Manual34 
provides for the procedure and principles applied in respect of settlement and penalties. 
The Settlement Decision Makers (SDMs) is drawn from a pool of FCA Directors and Heads 
of  Department.  SDMs  decide  on  behalf  of  the  FCA  whether  to  enter  any  complete 
resolution of the matter or any focused resolution agreement (and for that purpose, what 
issues are resolved). A settlement decision maker does not have been directly involved in 
establishing  the  evidence  on  which  the  decision  is  based.  Communications  exploring 
resolution  of  the  case  between  the  case  team,  SDMs  and  those  under  investigation  are 
made on a ‘without prejudice’ basis. SEBI has not followed the UK FCA procedural aspect 
in  this  regard  and  relevant  fact-finding  authorities  can  be  involved  in  the  settlement 
process and appropriate waivers form part of the settlement application. 

2.  This means  that  if the case proceeds through a contested administrative process to the 
Regulatory  Decision  Committee  (RDC),  the  RDC  is  not  told  about  any  admissions  or 
concessions made during the resolution period, except where they are set out in a focused 
resolution agreement agreed between the parties. Special decision-making arrangements 
apply in relation to settlement. The person concerned may agree all relevant issues with 
the  FCA  (in  which  case  the  settlement  decision  makers  will  give  all  relevant  statutory 
notices). Alternatively, a focused resolution agreement may be agreed (in which case the 
settlement decision makers are responsible for giving the warning notice and the RDC for 
giving any decision notice).  
 

3.  The  FCA  holds  any  settlement  discussions  on  the  basis  that  neither  FCA  staff  nor  the 
person concerned would seek to rely against the other on any admissions or statements 
made  if  the  matter  is  considered  subsequently  by  the  RDC  unless  those  admissions  or 
statements  are  recorded  in  a  focused  resolution  agreement.  This,  however,  does  not 
prevent the FCA from following up, through other means, on any new issues of regulatory 
concern which come to light during settlement discussions. The UK FCA also takes into 
account inter alia the illegal gains while issuing its orders.  
 

4.  While the UK is another major financial market, which may have comparable features on 
account  of  the  common  law  background,  there  are  limited  takeaways  for  the  Indian 
securities  laws  due  to  the  commonality  of  important  factors  between  USA  and  Indian 
securities laws. The UK FCA operates a discount scheme on early resolution for financial 
penalties,  suspensions,  restrictions,  conditions  and  disciplinary  prohibitions.  The  SEBI 
Settlement regulations also adopted a scheme for reducing the settlement amounts.  

 

 
 
 
 

                                                           
33Available at <https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/EG.pdf>. 
34Available at <https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DEPP.pdf>. 

 

Page 31 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

III.  KEY RECOMMENDATIONS AND RATIONALE 

The  Committee  has  examined  the  existing  Settlement  Regulations  in  detail  and  recommends 
several  changes.  In  view  of  the  extensive  changes  proposed,  the  Committee  recommends  that 
existing Settlement Regulations be repealed and revised Regulations be issued after taking into 
account the Committee’s recommendations and public comments.  

 

In this Chapter, the Committee examines the key recommendations for changes in the regulations 
and the rationale for them. 

 

1. Definition of Securities Laws and Specified Proceedings 

 

Current Regulatory provisions: 

 

At present, the current definition of “securities laws” under the Settlement Regulations is limited 
to the SEBI Act, the SCRA, the Depositories Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder. 
There is no mention of the provisions of the Companies Act in so far as it is administered by the 
Board. 

 

Recommendation and rationale: 

 

Under  the  securities  laws,  the  Board  is  empowered  to  settle,  ‘notwithstanding  anything 
contained in any other law for the time being, any  civil and administrative  proceedings  that 
have been initiated or may be initiated’ under the provisions of the securities laws. 

 

Section 24 of the Companies Act, 2013 clearly provides that matters delegated to the Board under 
sub-Section (1) of that Section [provisions of Chapters III and IV and  Section 127 of that Act - 
relating to issue and transfer of securities and non-payment of dividend] and under the proviso 
to sub-Section (1) of Section 458 of that Act, the Board may exercise powers under sub-sections 
(1), (2A), (3) and (4) of Section 11,sections 11A, 11B and 11D of the SEBI Act. 
 
 
As such the exercise of such power involves the initiation of civil and administrative proceedings 
under the securities laws for inter alia directing refund, disgorgement, etc., for the violation of 
securities  laws  and  other  laws  administered  by  the  Board,  including  specific  provisions  of  the 
Companies Act, 2013.   

 

Page 32 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 
 
The  Committee  is  of  the  opinion  that  under  the  present  regulations,  contravention  of  the 
provisions of the Companies Act, in so far as they are administered by the Board, may be settled 
so long as they have been invoked in a civil and administrative proceeding under  the securities 
laws. Accordingly, the Committee recommends that ‘the provisions of any other law to the extent 
it  is  administered  by  the  Board’,  be  included  in  the  definition  of  ‘securities  laws’  to  enable 
settlement of the same. 
 

in  SEBI 

Current  provision 
Settlement Regulations 
"securities  laws"  means  the  Act,  the 
(Regulations) 
Securities  Contract 
Act, 
the 
Depositories  Act,1996  (22  of  1996), 
and  the  rules  and  regulations  made 
thereunder; 

(42  of 

1956), 

1956 

Regulation 
No. 
2(1)(e) 

 

to 

it 

the 

(42  of  1956), 

Proposed  revision 
Settlement Regulations 
"securities laws" means the Act, the 
Securities  Contract  (Regulations) 
Act,  1956 
the 
Depositories Act,1996 (22 of 1996), 
the  relevant  provisions  of  the  any 
other 
is 
administered by the Board and the 
relevant  rules  and  regulations 
made thereunder; 
 

law  to  the  extent 

Accordingly,  the  Committee  recommends  consequential  amendments  to  the  definition  of 
“specified proceedings”. 

Regulation 
No. 
2(1)(f) 

in  SEBI 

Current  provision 
Settlement Regulations 
"specified  proceedings"  means  the 
proceedings  which  have 
been 
initiated  or  may  be  initiated  under 
Section  11,  Section  11B,  Section  11D, 
sub-Section  (3)  of  Section  12  or 
Section 15-I of the Act or Section 12A 
or  Section  23-I  of  the  Securities 
Contracts  (Regulation)Act,  1956  or 
Section  19  or  Section  19H  of  the 
Depositories  Act,  1996,  as  the  case 
may be; 

 

 

 

to 

the 

Proposed  revision 
Settlement Regulations 
"specified  proceedings"  means  the 
proceedings which may be initiated 
or  have  been  initiated  and  are 
pending  before  any  forum,  for  the 
violation  of  securities  laws,  under 
Section 11, Section 11B, Section 11D, 
sub-Section  (3)  of  Section  12  or 
Section  15-I  of  the  Act  or  Section 
12A or Section 23-I of the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or 
Section  19  or  Section  19H  of  the 
Depositories Act, 1996, as the case 
may be; 
 

Page 33 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

2. Limitation for filing a Settlement Application: 

 

Current Regulatory provisions: 

 

At present, a settlement application may be filed within sixty days from the date of service of the 
notice to show cause or supplementary notice to show cause. However, an application filed after 
sixty days may be considered by the Panel of WTMs, provided that in such delayed applications, 
the settlement amount payable by the applicant is increased by a rate of six percent, per annum 
from the last date of filing the application.  

 

Recommendation and rationale: 

 

The Committee is of the opinion that a more arduous approach ought to be adopted to ensure that 
only genuine applications are filed and the settlement process is not adopted as a means of forum 
shopping  and  delaying  civil  and  administrative  proceedings.  To  ensure  and  safeguard  the 
settlement  process  from  such  possible  unwarranted  practices,  the  Committee  recommends  a 
limitation  period  for  filing  a  settlement  application.  Accordingly,  the  Committee  recommends 
that no application should be considered by the Board after hearing is to commence or a period 
of 120 days from the last date for filing an application as specified in Regulation 4(1) of the existing 
settlement  regulations. Further, the  Committee recommends  that  where  an application is filed 
after 6o days and is considered by the  Board, the settlement  amount  otherwise payable by the 
applicant shall be increased by twenty five percent per annum. 

Regulation 
No. 
4(2)  

 

 

in  SEBI 

Current  provision 
Settlement Regulations 
(2)  Notwithstanding 
anything 
contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  the 
Panel of Whole Time Members may 
consider  the  application,  if  it  is 
satisfied  that  there  was  sufficient 
cause  for  not  filing  it  within  the 
period specified in sub-regulation (1) 
and 
is  accompanied  with  an 
application for condonation of delay 
and non-refundable fees as specified 
in Part-B of the Schedule-I. 
 
Provided that where the application 
is filed after sixty calendar days from 

it 

to 

the 

revision 

Proposed 
Settlement Regulations 
(2)  Notwithstanding 
anything 
contained in sub-regulation (1), the 
Board may consider the application, 
if satisfied that there was sufficient 
cause  for  not  filing  it  within  the 
specified 
is 
accompanied  with  non-refundable 
fees  as  specified  in  Part-B  of  the 
Schedule-I: 
 
the 
Provided 
filed  after  sixty 
application 
calendar days from the expiry of the 
period  specified  in  sub-regulation 

that, 
is 

period 

and 

it 

where 

Page 34 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

the expiry of the period specified in 
sub-regulation  (1),  the  settlement 
amount  payable  by  the  applicant 
shall be increased by a levy of simple 
interest at the rate of six per cent, per 
annum, from the expiry of the period 
specified in sub-regulation (1) till the 
date of filing. 
 

the 

amount 
settlement 
(1), 
determined 
in  accordance  with 
Schedule-II  of  these  regulations 
shall  be  increased  by  twenty  five 
percent: 
Provided  further  that,  no  such 
application  shall  be  considered  if 
the  delay  exceeds  hundred  and 
twenty  calendar  days  from  the 
expiry of the period specified in sub-
regulation (1)  or  after  the  first  date 
fixed  for  oral  hearing, 
if  any, 
whichever is earlier. 
 

 

3. Opportunity for filing application: 

 

Current Regulatory provisions: 

 

In the present settlement regulations, an application cannot be filed if the alleged default has been 
committed within a period of 24 months from the date of the last settlement order issued to the 
applicant. Further, an application cannot be filed for the same alleged default again, if the earlier 
application was rejected, save in exceptional circumstances, such as the lapse of time since the 
commission of the alleged default, the weight of evidence against the applicant, etc., and subject 
to the payment of such additional fees and/or interest on the settlement amount from the date of 
rejection of the earlier application till the date of payment of the settlement amount, as may be 
recommended by the HPAC.  

 

Recommendation and rationale: 

 

The Committee believes that the settlement process should not be used as a platform for forum 
shopping. Accordingly, the Committee recommends that an application shall not be filed for the 
same alleged default again, if the earlier application was rejected. Such a step will ensure that the 
settlement process is taken seriously by an applicant. Further, the Committee believes that this 
recommendation  would  ensure  that  the  Board’s  time  will  not  be  misused  or  wasted  by  non-
genuine applications.  

 

 

 

Page 35 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

Further, the Committee also believes that a cooling period after a settlement order should not be 
applied if the application is with regard to a different cause of action. Accordingly, the Committee 
recommends that the provision prohibiting an applicant from filing a settlement application for 
an alleged default if such alleged default was committed within a period of twenty-four months 
from the date of the last settlement order, should be removed. At the same time, the Committee 
believes  also  that  pending  the  completion  of  an  investigation,  audit,  inquiry  or  inspection  no 
settlement application should be entertained unless it will help in the Board in completion of such 
investigation, audit, inquiry or inspection. 

in  SEBI 

Current  provision 
Settlement Regulations 
(1)  No  application  for  settlement  of 
any  specified  proceedings  shall  be 
considered, if:  
(a)the alleged default was committed 
within  a  period  of  twenty  four 
calendar months from the date of the 
last  settlement  order  where  the 
applicant was a party;  
(b) an earlier application with regard 
to the same alleged default had been 
rejected:  
Provided  that  such  an  application 
may  be  considered  in  exceptional 
circumstances,  such  as  the  lapse  of 
time  since  the  commission  of  the 
alleged  default, 
the  weight  of 
evidence  against  the  applicant,  etc 
and  subject  to  the  payment  of  such 
additional fees and/or interest on the 
settlement  amount from the date of 
rejection of the earlier application till 
the date of payment of the settlement 
amount, as may be recommended by 
the 
advisory 
high 
committee. 

powered 

Regulation 
No. 
5(1)  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to 

except 

in 

the 

revision 

Proposed 
Settlement Regulations 
1)  No  application  for  settlement  of 
any  specified  proceedings  shall  be 
considered, if:   
 
(a)  an  earlier  application  with 
regard  to  the  same  alleged  default 
had been rejected; 
 
(b)  the  audit  or  investigation  or 
inspection  or  inquiry,  if  any,  in 
respect of any cause of action, is not 
case  of 
complete, 
applications 
involving 
confidentiality; or 
 
(c)  monies  due  under  an  order 
issued  under  securities  laws  are 
liable  for  recovery  under  securities 
laws. 

Page 36 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

4. Scope of settlement: 

 

Current Regulatory provisions: 

 

Under  the  present  settlement  regulations,  applications  for  settling  specified  proceedings  with 
regard  to  defaults  involving  insider  trading,  serious  cases  of  fraudulent  and  unfair  practices 
including front running, failure to make open offer, defaults or manipulative practices by mutual 
funds,  AIFs,  CIS  etc,  failure  to  redress  investor  grievances,  non-compliance  of  notices  and 
summons issued by Board or the AO, cases involving refund of monies to investors, etc., shall not 
be settled. However, such an application may be considered in the interest of the investors and 
the development of the securities market. Further, the  Panel of WTMs shall have the power to 
reject any application without it being referred to the IC or the HPAC. 

 

Recommendation and rationale: 

 

The existing regulations were drafted with the objective that certain serious violations/defaults 
should not be settled as the settlement regulations must not become a platform where applicants 
may  willfully  violate  the  securities  laws  knowing  that  it  may  be  settled.  It  was  felt  that  cases 
involving certain defaults of a serious nature or impacting investors ought not to be settled and 
such  restriction  must  be  expressly  stated  in  the  regulations.  Further,  in  the  absence  of  clear 
manner of quantifying gains made and losses caused, it is difficult to obtain a fair settlement in 
serious matters. 

 

The power to reject  an application without  it being referred to the IC or HPAC exists  with the 
Panel of WTMs. Since the interest of the investors should be protected, applications with respect 
to specified proceedings that may or have had an impact on investors, should be considered only 
after the applicant has refunded or made good the losses due to the investors, to the satisfaction 
of the Board. However, the Committee feels that the broad list of defaults which cannot be settled 
can be  made principle based in view of the Committee’s ongoing  exercise for quantification of 
gains and loss to enable the Board to arrive at a fair settlement which will take into account the 
interest of investors. Thus, proceedings relating to fraud (including insider trading, front-running 
and misstatements in offer documents) may be settled depending on the facts and circumstances 
of each case. 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 37 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

Regulation 
No. 
5(2) 

provision 

in 

SEBI 

the  Act  and 

Current 
Settlement Regulations 
(2)  A  specified  proceeding,  shall  not  be 
settled,  if  it  involves  any  of  the  following 
defaults, namely,-  
(a)  defaults  involving  insider  trading  and 
communication  of  unpublished  price 
sensitive  information  in  contravention  of 
the  provisions  of 
the 
regulations made thereunder;  
(b)  fraudulent  and  unfair  trade  practices 
including  front  running,  which  in  the 
opinion of the Board are serious and have 
a  market  wide  impact  or  have  caused 
substantial losses to or affect the rights of 
investors  in  securities,  especially  retail 
investors and small shareholders:  
 
Provided  that  where  the  applicant  has 
made  or  intends  to  make  good  the  losses 
due to the investors, his application may be 
considered.  
Provided  further  that  the  defaults  under 
this  clause  shall  be  considered 
in 
accordance with these regulations and also 
the guidelines specified in Schedule-II. 
Explanation.-  For  the  purpose  of  this 
clause,  the  expression  '  front  running' 
means usage of non-public information to 
directly or indirectly, buy or sell securities 
or enter into options or futures  contracts, 
in  advance  of  a  substantial  order,  on  an 
impending  transaction,  in  the  same  or 
related  securities  or  futures  or  options 
contracts,  in  anticipation  that  when  the 
information  becomes  public;  the  price  of 
such securities or contracts may change;  
(c)  failure  to  make  an  open  offer  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Act 
and  the  regulations  made  thereunder, 
except where the applicant agrees to make 
the open offer or where the Board is of the 
opinion that the making of the open offer 

Proposed  revision  to  the 
Settlement Regulations 
(2) The Board may not settle any 

specified  proceeding,  if  it  is  of 

the  opinion  that  the  alleged 

default, - 

i. 

ii. 

has market wide impact, 

caused  losses  to  a  large 

number of investors, or 

iii. 

affected  the  integrity  of 

the market. 

 

(3)  Without  prejudice  to  the 

generality  of 

the 

foregoing 

provisions, 

for  settling  any 

specified  proceeding  the  Board 

may inter alia take into account 

the following factors, - 

 

(a)  whether  the  applicant 

has 

refunded 

or 

disgorged 

the  monies 

due, to the satisfaction of 

the Board;  

 

(b) whether  the  applicant 

has  provided  an  exit  or 

purchase 

option 

to 

investors  in  compliance 

with  securities  laws,  to 

the  satisfaction  of  the 

Board;  

 

 

Page 38 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

in  substantial 

losses 

collective 

funds,  alternative 

would not be beneficial to the shareholders 
or is infructuous;  
(d)  defaults  or  manipulative  practices  by 
mutual 
investment 
funds,  collective  investment  schemes  and 
their  sponsors  or  asset  management 
companies, 
investment 
management company, managers, trustees 
that  result 
to 
investors,  except 
in  cases  where  the 
applicant  has  compensated  the  investors 
for  the  losses,  to  the  satisfaction  of  the 
Board;  
(e) failure to redress investor grievances to 
the satisfaction of the Board, except where 
the alleged default is with regard to delayed 
redressal;  
(f)  failure,  by  issuers  of  securities  or 
entities  who  invite  investment,  to  make 
material disclosures in offer documents as 
required  under  the  relevant  regulations 
framed by the Board;  
(g)  raising  of  monies  by  issuance  of 
securities or pooling of funds, in violation 
of  securities  laws  where  the  remedy  is 
refund of such monies;  
(h)  non-compliance  of  notices  and 
summons issued by the Board or summons 
issued by the adjudicating officer;  
(i)  non-compliance  of  any  order  or 
direction passed under the securities laws. 

(c)  whether the applicant  is 

in 

compliance  with 

securities  laws  or  any 

order 

or 

direction 

passed  under  securities 

laws,  to  the  satisfaction 

of the Board; 

 

(d) any  other  factor  as  may 

be  deemed  appropriate 

by the Board. 

 

(3)  Without  prejudice  to  sub-

regulations  (1)  and  (3),  the 

Board  may  not  settle 

the 

specified proceedings where the 

applicant is a wilful defaulter, a 

fugitive  economic  offender  or 

has defaulted in payment of any 

fees  due  or  penalty  imposed 

under securities laws. 

 

 

5. Withdrawal of Application: 

 

Current Regulatory provisions: 

 

Under the present regulations, an applicant may withdraw its application any time prior to the 
communication of the decision of  the  Panel  of  WTMs  and  shall  thereafter  not  be  permitted  to 
make  another  application  in  respect  of  the  same  default.  However,  such  application  may  be 
considered subject to payment of such additional fees and/or interest on the settlement amount 
from the date of the withdrawal of the earlier application till the date of payment of the settlement 
amount, as may be recommended by the HPAC. 

 

Page 39 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

Recommendation and rationale: 

 

The Committee believes that an option to withdraw an application and file it at a later stage could 
lead to forum shopping and delays in enforcement. Therefore, in order to curb such unwarranted 
practices, the  Committee recommends that  where the HPAC considers an application that  has 
earlier been withdrawn, such application may be considered subject to an increase of at least 50 
percent over the settlement amount otherwise payable.   

Regulation 
No. 
6(2)  

 

 

in  SEBI 

Current  provision 
Settlement Regulations 
(2)  An  applicant  who  withdraws  an 
application under sub-regulation (1) 
shall  not  be  permitted  to  make 
another application in respect of the 
same default:  
Provided  that  such  an  application 
may be considered at the next stage 
of proceedings, as indicated in Table 
I  in  Schedule-II,  if  the  applicant 
makes  out  adequate  grounds  and 
subject 
such 
additional fees and/or interest on the 
settlement  amount from the date of 
withdrawal of the earlier application 
till  the  date  of  payment  of  the 
settlement  amount,  as  may  be 
recommended  by  the  high  powered 
advisory committee. 

to  payment 

of 

to 

the 

revision 

Proposed 
Settlement Regulations 
7. (2)  An applicant who withdraws 
an application under sub-regulation 
(1)  shall  not  be  permitted  to  make 
another application in respect of the 
same default: 
 
 
Provided  that,  as  may  be 
recommended by the High Powered 
Advisory  Committee, 
such  an 
application  may  be  considered 
subject to an increase of atleast fifty 
percent over the settlement amount 
determined 
in  accordance  with 
Schedule-II of these Regulations. 
 

6. Effect of pending application on specified proceedings: 

 

Current Regulatory provisions: 

 

Under  the  present  settlement  regulations,  where  an  application  is  filed  for  settlement  of  any 
specified proceeding, such specified proceedings shall continue and only the passing of final order 
shall be kept in abeyance till the application is disposed of. However, where the application is filed 
in case of proceedings that may be initiated against the applicant, such proceedings shall not be 
initiated till the application is rejected or withdrawn. Hence, the effect of a settlement application 

 

Page 40 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

would be that any proceeding against the applicant that may be initiated would not be initiated 
till such application is rejected or withdrawn.  

 

Recommendation and rationale: 

 

 

The present regulatory framework effectively stayed any proceedings that may be initiated against 
the applicant  till such application is  rejected or withdrawn. The  Committee believes that there 
may be cases or circumstances where it may be necessary to initiate proceedings for the purpose 
of issuing interim directions to protect the interests of investors and maintain the integrity of the 
securities market. In particular, where an application was filed in a pending proceeding, the Board 
could  issue  interim  orders  and  only  the  disposal  by  way  of  final  orders  was  kept  in  abeyance. 
Hence, the Committee recommends that the same needs to be suitably clarified in the regulations. 

 

Further, the Committee recommends that in cases where proceedings is pending or to be initiated 
against  several  persons  but  only  one-person  files  an  application,  the  filing  of  such  application 
should not affect the initiation, continuation or disposal of the proceedings against the others who 
have  not  filed  an  application  for  settlement.  Where  a  noticee  has  not  filed  an  application  for 
settlement, he should not be allowed to benefit from the application filed by another noticee. 

Regulation 
No. 
7  

any 

Current  provision  in  SEBI 
Settlement Regulations 
7.  (1)  Filing  of  an  application  for 
settlement  of 
specified 
shall  not  affect 
proceedings 
continuance  of  the  proceedings 
except that the passing of the final 
order shall be in abeyance till the 
application is disposed of. 
 
 
(2) Where the application is filed 
in case of proceedings that may be 
initiated  against  the  applicant, 
such  proceedings  shall  not  be 
initiated  till  the  application  is 
rejected or withdrawn. 

 

 

of 

any 

to 

the 

revision 

Proposed 
Settlement Regulations 
8.  (1)  The  filing  of  an  application  for 
specified 
settlement 
proceedings  shall  not  affect 
the 
continuance  of  the  proceedings  save 
that the passing of the final order shall 
be kept in abeyance till the application 
is disposed of. 
 
(2)    Where  the  application  is  filed  in 
case  of  proceedings  that  may  be 
initiated  against  the  applicant,  such 
proceedings  shall  not  be  initiated  till 
the 
or 
withdrawn: 
 
Provided 
filing  of  an 
application  shall  not  prohibit  the 
initiation of any proceedings, in so far 
as  may  be  deemed  necessary  for  the 

application 

that, 

the 

is 

rejected 

Page 41 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

interests  of 

purpose of issuance of interim civil and 
administrative  directions  to  protect 
the 
investors  and  to 
maintain the integrity of the securities 
markets. 
 
Explanation.  -  Where  any  proceeding 
is  pending  or  to  be  initiated  against 
several  persons  but  the  settlement 
application is filed only by one or more 
persons, but not  all, the filing of such 
an  application  shall  not  affect  the 
initiation, continuation and disposal of 
the  proceedings  against  the  person 
who  has  not  filed  the  application  for 
settlement and any observations made 
in  such  proceedings  against 
the 
applicant  shall  qua  the  applicant  be 
subject 
the 
settlement  application 
such 
applicant. 
 

the  outcome  of 

to 

filed 

 

 

7. High Powered Advisory Committee: 

 

Current Regulatory provisions: 

 

Presently, the HPAC consists of a retired Judge of a High Court and three external experts. The 
quorum of the HPAC has been kept as three members. However, it does not specify or envisage a 
situation where a member or members of the HPAC may recuse themselves with regard to certain 
applications for reasons relating to conflict of interests. Therefore, it is felt necessary to specify 
the  course  of  action  to  be  adopted  in  the  event  certain  members  recuse  themselves  and  the 
quorum is not met for considering certain applications. 

 

Recommendation and rationale: 

 

The Committee recommends that the HPAC may consist of a Judicial member who has been a 
Judge of  the  Supreme  Court  of India  or  a  High Court  and  three  external  experts.  Further, the 
Committee  recommends  that  where  a  member(s)  recuses  himself  and  the  quorum  of  three 
members is not met, the recommendations of the remaining members may be taken. In the event 

Page 42 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

that  a consensus or majority  cannot  be  arrived at,  the  recommendations  made  by  the  Judicial 
member  shall  be  considered  to  be  the  recommendation  of  the  HPAC.  Further,  if  the  Judicial 
member  has  recused  himself,  the  views  of  the  remaining  members,  irrespective  of  whether  a 
consensus has been reached or not, shall be placed before the  Panel of WTMs. The Committee 
also recommends that in the event all or all but one of the HPAC members recuse themselves in 
respect of any application, another HPAC may be constituted for such application. 

consideration 

Current  provision  in  SEBI 
Settlement Regulations 
10. (1) The Board shall constitute a 
high  powered  advisory  committee 
for 
and 
recommendation  of  the  terms  of 
settlement. 
 
(2)  The  high  powered  advisory 
committee shall consist of a retired 
Judge  of  a  High  Court  and  three 
external  experts  having  expertise 
in  securities  market  or  in  matters 
connected  therewith  or  incidental 
thereto. 
 
(3)  The  quorum  of  the  high 
powered  advisory  committee  shall 
be of three members.  
 
(4) The term of the members of the 
high  powered  advisory  committee 
shall be three years  which may be 
extended  for  a  further  period  of 
two years.  
 
(5)  The  high  powered  advisory 
committee 
its 
meetings  in  the  manner  specified 
by the Board in this regard. 

conduct 

shall 

Regulation 
No. 
10  

 

 

to 

the 

revision 

therewith  or 

Proposed 
Settlement Regulations 
11.  (1)  The  Board  shall  constitute  a 
High Powered Advisory Committee for 
consideration and recommendation of 
the terms of settlement.  
 
(2)  The  High  Powered  Advisory 
Committee  shall  consist  of  a  Judicial 
member who has been the Judge of the 
Supreme  Court  or  a  High  Court  and 
three external experts having expertise 
in  securities  market  or  in  matters 
connected 
incidental 
thereto. 
 
(3)  The  term  of  the  members  of  the 
High  Powered  Advisory  Committee 
shall  be  three  years  which  may  be 
extended  for  a  further  period  of  two 
years. 
 
(4)  The  quorum  for  a  meeting  of  the 
High  Powered  Advisory  Committee 
shall be of three members. 
Explanation. 
-  Meeting 
meeting 
electronic  means  or 
medium of electronic video linkage. 

includes 
audio-video 
the 

through 

through 

 
(5)  The  High  Powered  Advisory 
Committee  shall  conduct  its  meetings 
in the manner specified by the Board in 
this regard: 
Provided  that,  where  any  member  of 
the High Powered Advisory Committee 

Page 43 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

submit 

two)  may 

seeks recusal, the remaining members 
(atleast 
their 
recommendation  on  the  terms  of 
settlement: 
Provided  further  that,  in  case  no 
consensus or majority can be reached, 
the  recommendation  made  by  the 
judicial member shall be considered to 
be  the  recommendation  of  the  High 
Powered  Advisory  Committee  and  in 
case of recusal of the judicial member, 
the recommendations of the remaining 
members 
shall  be 
submitted  for  consideration  to  the 
Panel of Whole Time Members: 
Provided also that, where all or all but 
one  of  the  members  of  the  High 
Powered  Advisory  Committee  recuse 
themselves in respect of an application, 
the Board may constitute another High 
Powered Advisory Committee. 
 
 

(atleast 

two) 

 

8. Settlement Notice: 

 

Current Regulatory provisions: 

 
At present, the regulations provide for the issuance of a Notice of Summary Settlement in respect 
of specified proceedings to be initiated for certain defaults such as filing of returns, reports etc., 
non-disclosure in relation to companies exclusively listed on regional stock exchanges which have 
existed,  failure  to  make  disclosures  in  specified  formats,  delay  in  compliance  of  any  of  the 
requirements of law or directions issued by the Board and any such other violations as may be 
determined  by  the  Board.  Accordingly,  the  applicant  may  submit  the  settlement  amount  or 
comply  or  undertake  to  comply  with  other  non-monetary  terms,  as  may  be  specified  in  the 
summary settlement notice. 

 

Recommendation and rationale: 

The  Committee  feels  the  need  to  provide  for  a  Notice  of  settlement  (not  summary  settlement, 
where the notice of settlement indicates the terms of settlement) for other defaults whereby the 
Board may issue a settlement notice prior to the issuance of the notice to show cause, indicating 

 

Page 44 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

the substance of the probable charges and enforcement actions that may be issued by the Board, 
so as to enable the applicant to file a settlement application. The Committee recommends that the 
applicant will have to make the application for settlement within 15 days from the date of receipt 
of  the  settlement  notice.  Further,  the  probable  charges  and  enforcement  actions  stated  in  the 
settlement  notice  shall  not  be  binding  and  the  Board shall  be  free  to  modify  and  include  such 
enforcement  actions  that  may  be  brought  against  the  noticee.  The  Committee  further 
recommends that if the noticee does not file a settlement application within the stipulated time 
period  or  withdraws  its  application,  the  Board  may  initiate  the  specified  proceedings  and  the 
applicant  shall  thereafter  not  be  permitted  to  file  a  settlement  application  for  the  specified 
proceedings until such proceedings are concluded. 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Regulation 
No. 
None 

Proposed addition to the Settlement Regulations 

Settlement Notice.  
18.  (1)  A  notice  of  settlement  in  the  format  as  specified  in  Part-B  of 
Schedule-III,  indicating  the  substance  of  the  probable  charges  and 
enforcement  actions,  may  except  in  cases  covered  under  Chapter  VII,  be 
issued by the Board prior to the issuance of the notice to show cause so as 
to afford the noticee an opportunity to file a settlement application under 
Chapter-II,  within  fifteen  calendar  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the 
settlement notice. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the settlement notice, the Board 
shall have the right  to modify the nature of the enforcement action to be 
initiated against the noticee and the charges stated in the notice shall not 
confer  any  right  to  seek  settlement  on  the  said  basis  or  avoid  any 
enforcement action due to modified charges. 
 
(3)  Where  a  noticee  does  not  file  a  settlement  application  under  this 
Chapter or withdraws  the settlement  application at  any time prior to the 
communication of the decision of the Panel of Whole Time Members under 
regulation 15, the specified proceedings may be initiated and such a noticee 
shall  only  be  permitted  to  file  a  settlement  application  in  respect  of  the 
proceedings  pending  before  a  Court  or  tribunal,  after  conclusion  of  the 
proceedings before the Adjudicating Officer or the Board, as the case may 
be. 
 

Page 45 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

9. Settlement with Confidentiality: 
 
 
Current Regulatory provision: 
 
 
The  Settlement  Regulation  do  not  have  a  provision  for  settlement  with  confidentiality.  All 
settlement orders contain details of the applicant and are published on SEBI website. There is no 
explicit provisions for an applicant to voluntarily provide information to the Board relating to the 
fraudulent and unfair trade practices and other serious defaults  that would assist the Board in 
dealing with any inquiry, investigation, inspection, and audit.  
 
Recommendation and rationale: 
 
 
The  USA  SEC  has  a  robust  enforcement  mechanism.  The  Committee  has  examined  the  co-
operation program of the USA SEC. On January 13, 2010, the SEC published Policy Statement 
Concerning Cooperation by Individuals in Its Investigations and Related Enforcement Actions.35 
The new Policy Statement is set forth at 17 C.F.R. § 202.1236  
 
Under  the  Policy  Statement,  the  SEC’s  determination  as  to  the  amount  and  the  manner  to  be 
adopted to credit cooperation by individuals involves the following considerations: 
 

 

1.  the  assistance  provided  by  the  cooperating  individual  in  the  investigation  or  related 

enforcement actions; 
 

2.  the importance of the underlying matter in which the individual cooperated; 

 

3.  the societal interest in ensuring that the cooperating individual is held accountable for his 

or her misconduct; and 
 

4.  the  appropriateness  of  cooperation  credit  based  upon  the  profile  of  the  cooperating 

individual. 

 
Notably, the Policy Statement does not include disclosure of privileged information as a criterion 
for assessing the nature or value of cooperation.  There is a wide spectrum of tools available to the 
Commission and its staff for facilitating and rewarding cooperation by individuals and entities. 
These  benefits  to  cooperators  may  range  from  reduced  charges  and  sanctions  in  enforcement 

                                                           
35Available 
<https://www.sec.gov/spotlight/enforcement-cooperation-initiative.shtml>for more details. 
36  See  the  SEC’s  Informal  and  Other  Procedures,  Enforcement  Activities,  at  17  C.F.R.  (Code  of  Federal 
Regulations) 
<https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-
idx?SID=aa38f859c4b1d066d81e30cc32f40d40&mc=true&node=se17.3.202_112&rgn=div8> 

<https://www.sec.gov/rules/policy/2010/34-61340.pdf>; 

available 

Also 

See 

at 

§202.12, 

at 

 

Page 46 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

actions to taking no enforcement action at all. The SEC’s Enforcement Manual37 has a detailed 
chapter on co-operation with the SEC. 
 
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) in August 2004 issued an advisory on 
Cooperation  Factors  in  Enforcement  Division  Sanction  Recommendations38  for  reduced 
penalties on account of co-operation which was updated in January 201739 and September 2017.40 
 
While processes adopted by the FCA in the UK are not as elaborately detailed as the USA SEC and 
CFTC,  the  FCA’s  Decision  Procedure  and  Penalties  Manual41  and  Enforcement  Guide42  also 
consider  co-operation  during  the  investigation  as  a  factor  to be  considered  as  to  issuance  of  a 
public censure or levy of financial penalty and the extent of the penalty. 

 
The  Committee  has  preferred  the  adoption  of  the  Competition  Commission  of  India  (Lesser 
Penalty) Regulations, 2009 which have the added benefit of confidentiality so that the Board may 
seek the assistance of that regulator and use its learnings in developing internal procedures in 
case the Board does adopt the revision recommended by the Committee, after taking into account 
public  comments.  Schedule  II  of  the  Settlement  Regulations  is  also  proposed  to  be  revised  to 
provide for lower settlement amounts for applicants who seek confidentiality. 
 
In India, the Competition Commission of India (Lesser Penalty) Regulations, 2009 provide for 
the detailed manner of receiving information for defaulters who are willing to co-operate against 
other participants of a cartel. These regulations not  only provide for reduced penalty, but also 
have the added benefit of confidentiality to the information provider.  
 

Manual, 

at 

release 

Release: 

See, 

Chapter 

6 

of 

4968-04 

the 

SEC 

available 

Enforcement 

                                                           
37 
<https://www.sec.gov/divisions/enforce/enforcementmanual.pdf> 
38 Available at <https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/files/enf/enfcooperation-advisory.pdf>; Also see 
CFTC 
available 
at<https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/opa/enf04/opa4968-04.htm>  Also  see,  Speech  of  James 
McDonald, Director of the Division of Enforcement Commodity Futures Trading Commission Regarding 
Perspectives  on  Enforcement:  Self-Reporting  and  Cooperation  at 
the  CFTC,  available  at 
<https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/SpeechesTestimony/opamcdonald092517>. 
39  Press  Release,  CFTC's  Enforcement  Division  Issues  New  Advisories  on  Cooperation(Jan.  19,  2017) 
available  at  <https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/pr7518-17>;  Enforcement  Advisory: 
Cooperation Factors in Enforcement Division Sanction Recommendations for Companies (Jan. 19, 2017) 
available 
at 
<https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/idc/groups/public/@lrenforcementactions/documents/legalpl
eading/enfadvisorycompanies011917.pdf>;  and  Enforcement  Advisory:  Cooperation  Factors 
in 
Enforcement  Division  Sanction  Recommendations  for  Individuals  (Jan.  19,  2017)  available  at 
<https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/idc/groups/public/@lrenforcementactions/documents/legalpl
eading/enfadvisoryindividuals011917.pdf>. 
40Enforcement  Advisory:  Updated  Advisory  on  Self-Reporting  and  Full  Cooperation  (September  25, 
2017), 
at  
<https://www.cftc.gov/sites/default/files/idc/groups/public/@lrenforcementactions/documents/legalpl
eading/enfadvisoryselfreporting0917.pdf> 
41Available at <https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DEPP.pdf>. 
42Available at <https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/document/EG_Full_20140401.pdf>. 

available 

 

Page 47 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

In view of the above, the Committee recommends inserting a Chapter similar to that provided in 
the Competition Commission of India (Lesser Penalty) Regulations, 2009 for assistance to  the 
Board in its proceedings.  
 
As under Section 15JB of the SEBI Act, 23JA of the SCRA and 19-IA of the Depositories Act, the 
settlement is ‘done on payment of such sum by the defaulter or on such other terms as may be 
determined  by  the  Board  in  accordance  with  the  regulations  made  by  the  Board’,  a  special 
Chapter is being inserted for providing settlement with confidentiality to an ‘applicant who may 
be  guilty  of  violation  of  securities  laws  and  willingly  assists’  the  Board  in  any  investigation, 
inspection, inquiry, audit and other proceedings under securities laws against any other person. 
Schedule II has been suitably revised to give benefit of a lower settlement amounts to an applicant 
seeking settlement with confidentiality.  
 
It  is clarified that  a whistleblower is not  a person guilty of any violation of securities  laws and 
therefore the question of settlement does not arise in such instances. Only a person guilty of a 
serious  violation  of  securities  laws  and  willing  to  give  assistance  to  the  Board  against  his 
accomplices may apply under the proposed Chapter. 
 
Schedule IV is thus proposed to be inserted to provide for a convenient manner for making an 
application seeking settlement with confidentiality. The Board’s processing fees are also proposed 
to  be  waived  in  case  of  such  applications  in  view  of  the  substantial  and  continuous  assistance 
provided by the applicant.  
 
Confidentiality is multi-faceted and depends on the nature of assistance provided to the Board. 
There will not be any public disclosure unless such disclosure is made by the applicant himself or 
agreed to by the applicant in writing. Such applications and information pertaining to applicants 
and the assistance provided by them to the Board are already protected from disclosure under 
clauses (g) and (h) of sub-Section (1) of Section 8 of the Right to Information Act, 2005 which 
read as follows, - 

 

“Section  8.  Exemption  from  disclosure  of  information.  —  (1)  Notwithstanding 
anything contained in this Act, there shall be no obligation to give any citizen, — 

… 
(g)  information, the disclosure of which would endanger the life or physical safety of 
any person or identify the source of information or assistance given in confidence 
for law enforcement or security purposes; 

(h) information which would impede the process of investigation or apprehension or 

prosecution of offenders; 

…” 

 
Further, the confidentiality also depends upon the nature of the assistance provided to the Board. 
If the assistance is in nature of a clue or information, such as indicating the relevant bank account 
details,  phone  numbers  or  any  other  information  which  can  be  independently  proven  the 
information  pertaining  to  the  applicant  will  not  be  revealed  either  to  the  public  or  during  the 
relevant proceedings to the accomplices who are charged by the Board.  
 

 

Page 48 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

In all other cases, where the applicant may be required to give testimony or other evidence for 
laying  the  foundation  of  any  evidence  that  is  required  to  be  admitted  in  proceedings  under 
securities laws, the Board may require the applicant give such testimony. 
 
It is recommended that the Board should supplement the proposed Chapter by issuing a General 
Order  directing  any  recipient  of  information  relating  to  an  applicant  seeking  confidentiality, 
during proceedings under securities laws from making a disclosure of the identity of the applicant, 
save for the purpose of any appeal under securities laws.  
 
Further, the copy of the settlement order made available to the public by the Board and any order 
issued  against  the  accomplices  shall  expunge  all  details  identifying  the  applicant  by  name  or 
description as well as the assistance provided by him. In any event, the regulatory record of the 
applicant shall not be impacted by his admissions and assistance provided to the Board. 
 
The applicant is required to make a true and full disclosure and co-operate with the Board in the 
providing evidence, as may be available or which he is in a position to obtain. Once the Board is 
broadly  satisfied  with  the  co-operation  provided  the  Board  provides  a  written  assurance  to 
applicant.  If  the  Board  does  not  require  the  applicant  to  give  evidence  in  proceedings  under 
securities  laws  that  it  has  begun  against  other  participants,  it  may  forthwith  pass  an  order  of 
settlement, in all other cases the order of settlement may be passed after such evidence has been 
given to the satisfaction of the Board. 
 
However, the Committee is also mindful that proposed Chapter seeks to target serious violations 
such as fraud, insider trading am the in securities markets, where the information may come from 
pre-dominantly  from  individuals  -  relatives,  employees, business partners  and  friends  - rather 
than corporate entities.  
 
In order to allay any fears of assurances being withdrawn after reasonable assistance is provided, 
the Committee recommends the issuance of a public Circular similar to SEC’s Policy Statement 
Concerning Cooperation By Individuals In Its Investigations And Related Enforcement Actions, 
detailing the nature of assistance that the Board will consider. A draft of the Circular detailing the 
relevant factors is as follows, - 
 

Circular on factors for considering  

an  

application for settlement with confidentiality 

 

Circular-/2018 

 

 

Relevant factors for grant of confidentiality 

 
 

Page 49 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

1.  The  Board  may  assess  the  applicant’s  cooperation  in  the  investigation,  inquiry, 
inspection or audit or during other proceedings under securities laws by considering, 
among other things, - 
 

(a) Assistance provided by the individual, - 

(1)  The  value  of  the  applicant’s  cooperation  to  the  investigation,  inquiry, 
inspection or audit or during other proceedings under securities laws including, 
but not limited to: 

(i) Whether the applicant’s cooperation resulted in substantial assistance to the 
conclusion of the proceeding; 
(ii) The timeliness of the applicant’s cooperation to the Board or to an internal 
compliance  or  reporting  system  of  business  organizations  committing,  or 
impacted by, the securities violations, including whether the applicant was first 
to report the misconduct to the Board or to offer his or her cooperation, and 
whether the cooperation was provided before he or she had any knowledge of 
a pending investigation, inquiry or related action; 
Explanation. - A related action is a judicial or administrative action in respect 
of the same cause of action that is brought by: 

I. 
II. 
III. 
IV. 

The Union or State Government; 
A regulatory authority established by or under any law; 
A self-regulatory organization; or  
A recognized stock exchange. 

 
(iii) The quality of cooperation provided by the applicant, including whether 
the cooperation was truthful, complete, and reliable; and 
(iv) The time and resources conserved as a result of the applicant’s cooperation. 

 
(2) The nature of the applicant’s cooperation, but not limited to: 

(i) Whether the applicant’s cooperation was voluntary or required by the terms 
of an agreement with another law enforcement or regulatory organization; 
(ii) The types of assistance the applicant provided to the Board; 
(iii)  Whether  the  applicant  provided  non-privileged  information,  which 
information was not requested by the staff or otherwise might not have been 
discovered; 
(iv) Whether the applicant encouraged or authorized others to assist the staff 
who might not have otherwise participated in the investigation or inquiry; and  
(v) Any unique circumstances in which the applicant provided the cooperation. 

 
(3) Any unique hardships  experienced by the applicant  as  a result of his or her 
reporting and assisting in the enforcement action. 
 
(4)  Whether  the  applicant  gave  the  Board  original  information  that  was 
sufficiently specific and credible, to cause the Board to commence an examination, 
open  an  investigation  or  inquiry,  inspection,  audit  or  to  inquire  concerning 
different  conduct  as  part  of  a  current  examination  or  investigation  or  inquiry, 

 

Page 50 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

inspection  or  audit,  and  the  Board  brought  a  successful  judicial  or  civil  and 
administrative action based in whole or in part on conduct that was the subject of 
your original information. 
Explanation. - Information to be considered original information, it must be: 

I.  Derived from an independent knowledge or independent analysis; 
II.  Not already known to the Board from any other source, unless the applicant 

is the original source of the information; 

IV. 

III.  Not  exclusively  derived  from  an  allegation  made  in  a  judicial  or  civil  and 
administrative  hearing,  in  a  governmental  report,  hearing,  audit,  or 
investigation, or from the news media, unless the applicant is a source of the 
information; 
 Independent  knowledge  means  factual  information  in  possession  of  the 
applicant that is not derived from publicly available sources but may include 
his experiences, communications and observations in his business or social 
interactions; and 
Independent analysis means applicant’s own analysis, whether done alone 
or in combination with others. Analysis means examination and evaluation 
of information that may be publicly available, but which reveals information 
that is not generally known or available to the public. 

V. 

VI.  The  Board  will  not  consider  information  to  be  derived  from  applicant’s 
independent  knowledge  or  independent  analysis,  in  case  it  is  privileged 
information under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 [Act 1 of 1872]. 

 
(b) Importance of the underlying matter, - 

 

(1) The character of the investigation, inspection, audit or inquiry or a proceeding 
including, but not limited to: 

(i) The type of securities violations; 
(ii) The age and duration of the misconduct; and 
(iii)  The isolated or repetitive nature of the alleged default. 

(2)  The  dangers  to  investors  or  others  presented  by  the  underlying  violations 
involved including, but not limited to, - 

(i) The amount of harm or potential harm caused by the underlying violations; 
(ii) The type of harm resulting from or threatened by the underlying violations; 
and 
(iii) The number of persons harmed. 

 
(c) Interest in holding the applicant accountable, - 

(1)  The  severity  of  the  applicant’s  misconduct  assessed  by  the  nature  of  the 
violations and in the context of the individual’s knowledge, education, training, 
experience, and position of responsibility at the time the violations occurred; 
(2) The culpability of the applicant; 
(3) The degree to which the applicant tolerated illegal activity including, but not 
limited to, whether he or she took steps to prevent the violations from occurring 
or continuing, such as notifying the Board or other appropriate law enforcement 

 

Page 51 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

agency  of  the  misconduct  or,  in  the  case  of  a  violation  involving  a  business 
organization,  by  notifying  members  of  management  not  involved  in  the 
misconduct,  the  board  of  directors  or  the  equivalent  body  not  involved  in  the 
misconduct, or the auditors of such business organization of the misconduct; 
(4) The efforts undertaken by the applicant to remediate the harm caused by the 
violations  including,  but  not  limited  to,  whether  he  or  she  paid  or  agreed  to 
disgorgement to injured investors and other victims or assisted these victims and 
the authorities in the recovery of the fruits and instrumentalities of the violations;  
(5) The sanctions imposed on the applicant by other central or state authorities 
and  industry  organizations  for  the  violations  involved  in  the  investigation  or 
inquiry; 
(6)  Whether  the  applicant  was  aware  of  the  relevant  facts  but  failed  to  take 
reasonable steps to report or prevent the violations from occurring or continuing. 
(7) Whether the applicant was aware of the relevant facts but only reported them 
after learning about a related inquiry, investigation, or enforcement action;  
(8) Whether there was a legitimate reason for the applicant to delay reporting the 
violations; and 
(9) Whether the applicant knowingly interfered with an entity’s established legal, 
compliance,  or  audit  procedures  to  prevent  or  delay  detection  of  the  reported 
securities violation. 

 
(d) Personal and professional profile of the applicant, - 

(1) The applicant’s history of lawfulness, including complying with securities laws; 
(2)  The  degree  to  which  the  applicant  has  demonstrated  an  acceptance  of 
responsibility for his or her past misconduct; and 
(3) The degree to which the applicant will have an opportunity to commit future 
violations of the securities laws in light of his or her occupation—including, but 
not  limited  to,  whether  he  or  she  serves  as:  A  licensed  individual,  such  as  an 
attorney or accountant; an associated person of a regulated entity, such as a broker 
or dealer; a fiduciary for other persons regarding financial matters; an officer or 
director of listed companies; or a member of senior management— together with 
any  existing  or  proposed  safeguards  based  upon  the  individual’s  particular 
circumstances. 

2.  This circular shall not bind the Board in any investigation, inquiry, audit, inspection or 

other proceedings under securities laws.  
 
 

***************** 

Page 52 of 209 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 
Proposed Revision to the Settlement Regulations: 

Present 

Regulations 

None 

 

Suggested Revision 

(New Chapter) 

CHAPTER IX 

 

SETTLEMENT WITH CONFIDENTIALITY  

Seeking Settlement with confidentiality. 

 

19. (1) An applicant seeking the benefit of confidentiality in return for admitting 
for the limited purpose of settlement of specified proceedings to be initiated and 
agreeing  to  provide  substantial  assistance  in  the  investigation,  inspection, 
inquiry or audit, initiated or ongoing, against any other person in respect of a 
violation of securities laws, shall fulfil the conditions of this Chapter, including 
–  
 

(a)  cease to participate in the violation of securities laws from the 
time of the disclosure of information, unless otherwise directed 
by the Board;  

(b) provide and continue to provide complete and true disclosure of 
information, documents and evidence, which is in his possession 
or he is able to obtain, to the satisfaction of the Board in respect 
of the alleged contravention of the provisions of securities laws;  
(c)  co-operate fully, continuously and expeditiously throughout the 
inquiry  or  audit  and  related 

inspection, 

investigation, 
proceedings before the Board; and  

(d) not  conceal,  destroy,  manipulate  or  remove  the  relevant 
in  any  manner  that  may  contribute  to  the 

documents 
establishment of the alleged violation. 

 

Explanation.  –  Violation  of  securities  laws  in  this  Chapter  refers  to  defaults 
other than those of disclosure and reporting requirements detailed in Schedule 
II. 
 
Provided that an application made under this chapter shall be made only in cases 
prior to or pending investigation, inspection, inquiry or audit. 
 

 

Page 53 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, where an applicant fails 
to comply with the conditions mentioned in this regulation, the Board may rely 
upon  the  information  and  evidence  submitted  by  the  applicant  in  any 
proceedings 
 
(3) Without prejudice to sub-regulations (1) and (2), the Board may subject the 
applicant to further restrictions or conditions, as deemed fit, after considering 
the facts and circumstances of the case.  
 
(4)  For  the  purpose  of  seeking  confidentiality,  the  applicant  or  its  authorized 
representative may make an application containing all the relevant disclosures 
pertaining  to  the  information  as  specified  in  Schedule-IV  for  furnishing  the 
information  and  evidence  relating  to  the  commission  of  any  violation  of 
securities laws.  
 
(5) Upon being satisfied the Board may assure the benefit of confidentiality and 
shall thereupon mark the status of the application depending upon its priority 
and convey the same to the applicant in writing.  
 
(6) The Board may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, at any stage, reject the 
application if the information, documents or evidence is found to be incomplete 
or false to the knowledge of the applicant.  
 
(7) The rejection of the application for confidentiality shall be communicated to 
the applicant. 

 

Procedure. — 

20. (1) The provisions of Chapters IV to VI of these regulations may be applied 
mutatis  mutandis  to  a  settlement  application  filed  under  this  Chapter  and  a 
settlement order passed accordingly. 

 

(2) The information, documents and evidence provided by the applicant under 
this chapter shall be submitted in the manner specified by the Board. 

 

Confidentiality and assurance. — 

21. For the purposes of providing the applicant with interim confidentiality and 
assurance  from  being  proceeded  with,  the  Board  may  not  initiate  regulatory 
measures when the Board has a reasonable belief that the information provided 
to it relates to a possible securities law violation that has occurred, is ongoing or 
about to occur.  

 

Page 54 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

Confidentiality. — 

22.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  Chapter  X,  the  following  shall  be 
treated as confidential, - 

(a)  the identity of the applicant seeking confidentiality; and 
(b) the  information,  documents  and  evidence  furnished  by  the 

applicant under this Chapter: 

 

Provided that, the identity of the applicant or such information or documents or 
evidence may not be treated as confidential if, — 

(i) the disclosure is required by law; or 
(ii) the applicant has agreed to such disclosure in writing; or 
(iii) there has been a public disclosure by the applicant. 

 

 

None 

 

(New Schedule) 

 

SCHEDULE IV 

(see Regulation 19) 

 

Application for confidentiality  

 

1.  The application for confidentiality shall be in the format convenient to the 

applicant and shall inter-alia, include the following, - 
 

 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 
v. 

the  applicant  or 

name  and  address  of 
its  authorized 
representative as well as of all other known participants involved 
in the alleged default;  
the  address  of  the  applicant  for  communication  including  the 
telephone numbers and the e- mail address, etc.;  
a  detailed  description  of  the  alleged  arrangement,  including  its 
aims  and  objectives  and  the  details  of  activities  and  functions 
carried out for securing such aims and objectives;  
the commencement and duration of the default;  
the  names,  positions,  office  locations  and,  wherever  necessary, 
home  addresses  of  all  persons  who,  in  the  knowledge  of  the 

Page 55 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

applicant, are or have been associated with the alleged defaulters, 
including those persons who have been involved on behalf of the 
applicant;  
the details of other authorities, forums or courts, if any, that have 
been approached or are intended to be approached in relation to 
the alleged violation;  
a descriptive list of evidence regarding the nature and content of 
evidence  provided 
for 
confidentiality; and  
any other material information as may be directed by the Board.  

the  application 

in 

support  of 

vi. 

vii. 

viii. 

 

(Signature of the applicant) 

(Stamp and Seal of body corporate applicant) 

 

Verification 

I,  ………………………………………………son/daughter/wife  of  (Name  in block 
letters) 

the 

…………………………………..being 

Shri 
applicant/authorised 
representative  (in  case  of  body  corporate)  of  …………………….  do  hereby 
verify and affirm on oath that this application and the contents thereof are 
true to my knowledge and belief and as per the records and that I have not 
suppressed any material facts and shall keep the Board informed without 
delay, of any other relevant information that may come to my notice. 

(Signature of the applicant) 

Date: 

Place :  

 
 

2.  The  undertaking  and  waiver  as  specified  in  Part  C  of  Schedule-I  shall  be 

annexed to the application for confidentiality.  

Page 56 of 209 

 
 

 

 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

10. Service and Publication of settlement Orders: 

 

Current Regulatory provisions: 

 

At present, under regulation 17 the ‘settlement orders shall be served on the applicant and shall 
also be published on the website of the Board’. Such orders shall contain the name of the applicant.  

 

Recommendation and rationale: 

 

Pursuant to the inclusion of the chapter on seeking settlement with confidentiality, the Committee 
recommends that even the settlement order in cases of settlement with confidentiality will need 
to be published. However, the identity of the applicant may not be disclosed. This would be in line 
with the recommendations given for including a chapter for settlement with confidentiality. 

 

 

Regulation 
No. 
17 

Current provision in SEBI 
Settlement Regulations 
17.  Settlement  orders shall be 
served  on  the  applicant  and 
shall  also  be published on  the 
website of the Board. 

Proposed revision to the Settlement 
Regulations 
25.  Settlement  orders  shall be served on 
the applicant and shall also be published 
on the website of the Board: 
Provided 
in 
matters  relating  to  confidentiality  shall 
not,  directly  or  indirectly,  disclose  the 
identity of the applicant, but shall indicate 
the provisions of securities laws which the 
applicant is alleged to have violated. 
 

that  settlement  orders 

11. Settlement Scheme: 

 

Current Regulatory provisions: 

 

 

Page 57 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

At present, there is no provision for having a settlement scheme to regularize/settle in case a 
large number of defaulters. Prior to the Settlement Regulations, the Board has issued various 
settlement schemes in the past.43 

 

Recommendation and rationale: 

 

The Committee recommends that the Board may provide for a settlement scheme for any class of 
persons involved in similar specified defaults, if the Board considers it appropriate to frame such 
a settlement scheme. A settlement scheme would enable SEBI to deal with various defaulters who 
may constitute a certain class of persons. The procedure and settlement terms may be specified 
by the Board in such scheme. 

Regulation 
No. 
None 

Proposed revision to the Settlement Regulations 

Settlement Schemes. 
26.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  these  regulations,  the  Board 
may specify the procedure and terms of settlement of specified proceedings 
under a settlement scheme for any class of persons involved in respect of 
any similar specified defaults. 
 
Explanation. - A settlement order issued under a Settlement scheme shall 
be deemed to be a settlement order under these regulations. 
 

 

 

 

12. Effect of settlement on third party rights or other proceedings: 

 

Current Regulatory provisions: 

 

                                                           
43See,  SEBI  Regularization  Scheme,  2002  for  non-compliance  with  regulations  6  and  8  of  the  SEBI 
(Substantial  Acquisition 
at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/acts/takeoverregu2002.html>; Sebi (Interest Liability Regularisation) Scheme, 
2004available at <https://www.sebi.gov.in/acts/brokerscheme.html>and Rameshchandra Bansal v SEBI 
& Anr, (2006) 2 CompLJ 93 Guj, (2005) 3 GLR 2734, 2006 67 SCL 404 Guj, inter alia holding that, ‘The 
SEBI (Interest Liability Regularization) Scheme, 2004 floated by SEBI is sort of settlement scheme, which 
does not purport, to adjudicate, any rights and liabilities of the stock brokers.’  

Takeovers)  Regulations, 

Shares 

1997, 

available 

of 

and 

 

Page 58 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

Under the present regulations, a settlement order shall not affect the rights of third parties arising 
out of the alleged default. The Committee feels that the regulations need to further elucidate on 
the issue and the effect of the settlement on other proceedings. 

 

Recommendation and rationale: 

 

It is possible that settlement orders may be used as evidence of a default as the settlement order 
specifies  the provisions of the Act, regulations  or rules  and the scrip or the nature of violation 
alleged to have been committed by the applicant. If such orders can be used as evidence, it would 
defeat the very purpose of these regulations for settlement of proceedings. Hence, the Committee 
recommends  that  a  settlement  order  should  not  be  admissible  as  evidence  in  any  other 
proceedings relating to an alleged default not covered under the settlement order.  

 

However, the Committee is also of the view that in specified proceedings against third parties, the 
AO  or  the  Board  may  make  necessary  observations  in  respect  of  the  applicant,  if  required  for 
proving the act of the third parties. Such observations should be subject to the settlement order 
passed against the applicant. This would ensure that proceedings against other co-accused are not 
affected adversely due to settlement by one of the accused and thus leading to a situation where 
violations cannot be established against third parties without the applicant’s involvement being 
observed  in  an  order  against  the  third  parties.  This  would  be  necessary  to  prevent  a  situation 
where only one person in a group comes for settlement, thereby affecting the proceedings against 
the others in the group. Therefore, the  Committee recommends that such observations against 
the  applicant  should  be  permissible  in  third  party  proceedings  and  will  be  subject  to  the 
settlement order of the applicant.   

 

Further, the Committee is of the view that any observations in a settlement order in respect of any 
other  person  for  the  commission  of  an  alleged  default,  should  not  in  itself  be  admissible  as 
evidence against such other person. 

Regulation 
No. 
18 

 

Current  provision  in  SEBI 
Settlement Regulations 
18.  A  settlement  order  under 
these regulations shall not affect 
the right of third parties arising 
out of the alleged default. 

to 

the 

revision 

Proposed 
Settlement Regulations 
27.  (1)  A  settlement  order  under  these 
regulations  shall  not  be  admissible  as 
evidence 
in  any  other  proceeding 
relating to an alleged default not covered 
under the settlement order nor affect the 
right  of  third  parties  arising  out  of  the 
alleged default. 
 

 

Page 59 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

proceeding, 

(2) Where  any  applicant  who  obtains  a 
settlement  order,  is  also  noticee  along 
with  any  other  person  in  any  civil  and 
administrative 
the 
Adjudicating Officer or the Board while 
disposing  proceedings  against  such 
other  person  may  make  necessary 
observations in respect of the applicant 
in so far as is necessary to prove the act 
of another: 
Provided  that,  unless  the  settlement 
order is revoked, such observations qua 
the  applicant  shall  be  subject  to  the 
settlement  order  obtained  by 
the 
applicant. 
 
(3)  Where  any  person  has  obtained  a 
settlement  order,  which 
contains 
observations  in  respect  of  any  other 
person for the commission of an alleged 
default, such an order shall not in itself 
be  admissible  as  evidence  against  such 
other person. 
 

 

 

13. Revocation of the settlement order: 

 

 

Current Regulatory provisions: 

 

Under the present regulations, a settlement order may be revoked if the applicant fails to comply 
with the settlement order or the applicant has not made full and true disclosure or has violated 
the  undertakings  or  waivers.  Accordingly,  the  proceedings  against  which  such  settlement  was 
applied for would be restored against the applicant. 

 

Recommendation and rationale: 

The committee is of the view that failure to comply with settlement order or failing to make full 
and  true  disclosure  or  has  violated  the  undertakings  or  waivers,  should  be  taken  seriously  as 
revocation of a settlement order would have been a complete waste of time and resources of the 
regulator  as  it  may  also  have  mala  fide  intentions  in  delaying  proceedings.  Therefore,  the 

Page 60 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

committee recommends that any amount paid under the regulations for settlement should not be 
refunded when a settlement order is revoked. 

Regulation 
No. 
19 

in  SEBI 

Current  provision 
Settlement Regulations 
Non-compliance  of  settlement 
order.  
19.  If  the  applicant  fails  to  comply 
with  the  settlement  order  or  at  any 
time  after  the  settlement  order  is 
passed, it comes to the notice of the 
Board  that  the  applicant  has  not 
made full and true disclosure or has 
violated the undertakings or waivers, 
settlement order shall stand revoked 
and  withdrawn  and  the  Board  shall 
restore  or  initiate  the  proceedings, 
with respect to which the settlement 
order was passed. 

 

 

 

revision 

to 

the 

that 

the  Board 

Proposed 
Settlement Regulations 
Revocation  of  the  settlement 
order. 
28.  (1)  If  the  applicant  fails  to 
comply with the settlement order or 
at  any  time  after  the  settlement 
order  is  passed,  it  comes  to  the 
notice  of 
the 
applicant has not made full and true 
disclosure  or  has  violated 
the 
undertakings or waivers, settlement 
order  shall  stand  revoked  and 
withdrawn  and  the  Board  shall 
restore  or  initiate  the  proceedings, 
with respect to which the settlement 
order was passed. 
 
(2) Whenever any settlement order 
is  revoked,  no  amount  paid  under 
these regulations shall be refunded. 
 

14. Irregularity in procedure: 

 

Recommendation and rationale: 

 

The  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  at  times  there  may  be  inadvertent  discrepancies  in  the 
calculation of the settlement amount or the constitution of a committee or any procedure in the 
settlement  process.  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  such  discrepancies  should  not 
render a settlement order void. Procedural discrepancies should not render a proceeding void if 
they can be rectified following due process. The Committee feels that such a provision would be 
necessary to avoid unnecessary difficulties that may be caused if settlement orders become void 
on grounds of procedural discrepancies. 

 

 

Page 61 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

Regulation 
No. 
None 

Proposed revision to the Settlement Regulations 

Irregularity in procedure  
31. No settlement order or rejection of a settlement application shall be void 
on  ground  of  any  defect  in  procedure  or  calculation  of  the  settlement 
amount or on account of any vacancy or any defect in the constitution of any 
committee under Chapter V: 
Provided that, nothing in these regulations  shall prohibit  the Board from 
revoking the settlement order where the applicant fails to pay any difference 
due to any discrepancy in calculation of the settlement amount: 
Provided  further  that,  the  applicant  shall  continue  to  be  bound  by  the 
waivers  given  in  respect  of  limitation  or  laches  in  respect  of  initiating  or 
continuing  or  restoring  of  any  legal  proceeding  and  the  waivers  given  in 
sub-paras (d), (e) (f) and (g) of para 12 of the undertaking and waivers as 
provided in Part-C of the Schedule-I. 
 

 

 

 

15. Part B of Schedule I: 

Current Regulatory provisions: 

Under the present regulations, every applicant shall pay a processing fee of rupees ten thousand 
irrespective  of  whether  it  is  an  individual  or  a  body  corporate.  Further,  every  application  for 
condonation shall be accompanied with additional processing fees of rupees two thousand. 

 

Recommendation and rationale: 

The Committee is of the view that a higher processing fee of rupees twenty five thousand may be 
paid by body corporates. Further, processing fee will be non-refundable for both individuals and 
body corporates. The Committee also felt that the additional processing amount for condonation 
need not be levied on the applicant. 

Regulation 
No. 
Part  B 
Schedule I 

of 

in  SEBI 

Current  provision 
Settlement Regulations 
Part-B 
Every applicant shall pay processing 
fees  of  ten  thousand  rupees  and 
every  application  for  condonation 
shall be accompanied with additional 
processing  fees  of  two  thousand 

 

 

to 

the 

revision 

Proposed 
Settlement Regulations 
Part-B 
Every applicant under Chapter II of 
these  regulations  shall  pay  a  non-
refundable processing fee of fifteen 
thousand  rupees,  by  way  of  a 
demand  draft 
of 

favour 

in 

Page 62 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

rupees, by way of a demand draft in 
favour  of  'Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India' payable at Mumbai or 
by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank 
account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS 
or any other mode allowed by RBI. 

'Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India' payable at Mumbai or by way 
of direct credit in the bank account 
through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or any 
other mode allowed by RBI. 
Provided  that,  where  the  applicant 
is  a  body  corporate,  the  non-
refundable  processing  fee  shall  be 
Twenty five thousand rupees. 
 

 

 

16. Chapter I of Schedule II: 
 
Current Regulatory provision: 
 
Chapter I provides the general guidelines  that  lay the foundation of a transparent  approach of 
settlement by the Board. These guidelines simultaneously preserve the discretion of the Board to 
deviate from the same if required in the facts and circumstances of the same. 
 
 
Recommendation and rationale: 
 
The Committee is of the view that if a transparent approach is implemented to determine even 
the profit gained and loss caused to investors, then it is possible to settle even cases like insider 
trading and fraud. Also, the minimum settlement amounts have been raised incrementally. 
 
Further, the guidelines have been amended to provision for a lower Proceeding Conversion Factor 
for applications filed seeking confidentiality. In cases where a body corporate violates securities 
laws, the guidelines now provision for the possibility of payment of the settlement amount by the 
management except where the act of the body corporate was an act ratified by the members or by 
the majority of the public share-holders in case of a listed company. 
 
Schedule-II  has  been  completely  reworked  and  the  categorization  of  minor,  major  and 
miscellaneous defaults is no longer required. This change is reflected in the revision of Chapter I 
of the Schedule II. 
 
 
Proposed Revision to the Settlement Regulations: 
 

Existing Chapter I 

Suggested Revision 

SCHEDULE-II 

SCHEDULE-II 

 

Page 63 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

(See regulation 8) 

 

(See regulation 10) 

 

GUIDELINES FOR ARRIVING AT SETTLEMENT 

GUIDELINES FOR ARRIVING AT 

TERMS 

 

CHAPTER I 

 

SETTLEMENT TERMS 

 

CHAPTER I 

 

The  settlement  amount 

shall 
1. 
comprise of the Indicative Amount (IA) arrived 
at  in  terms  of  these  guidelines  and  the  factors 
provided in regulation 9, wherever applicable. 
 

(SA) 

2. 
Except  for  persons  treated  as  name 
lenders, the IA shall not be less than  Rupees 2 
lakh for first time applicants or Rupees 5 lakh for 
others, as the case may be.  
 

 

Explanation.-A ‘first time applicant’ is a person 
who has never obtained a settlement order from 
the  Board  as  on  the  date  of  the  present 
application. 

 

Based  on 

the  stage  at  which 

3. 
the 
proceeding(s),  for  which  the  application  is 
made, 
proceeding 
conversion  factor  (PCF)  shall  be  applied  when 
calculating the IA.   
 

pending, 

is/are 

the 

4. 
In  cases,  where  an  existing  business  or  
activity  of  a  person  is  either  corporatized  or 
converted into an LLP or partnership or merged 
or taken over by a new management, the existing 
record of the erstwhile entity shall be deemed to 
be the record of the new entity. Considerations 
such  as  change  of  name  or  management  or 
ownership shall be irrelevant when determining 
the liability of the said entity. 
 

5.  Where  an  entity  desires  to  obtain  the 
benefit of a lower PCF, in relation to any alleged 
default it may, suo motto, before the receipt of 
any notice to show cause, intimate the Board of 
such  default  hereinafter 
to  as 

referred 

in 

regulation 

1.  The  settlement  amount  (SA)  shall  comprise 
of  the  Indicative  Amount  (IA)  arrived  at  in 
terms  of  these  guidelines  and  the  factors 
provided 
10,  wherever 
applicable: 
 
Provided that, wherever applicable, the SA in 
relation  to  an  adjudication  proceeding  shall 
not  be  less  than  the  minimum  penalty  that 
may  be  levied  under  securities  laws  by  an 
adjudicating officer. 
 

2.  The IA shall not be less than Rupees  3 lakh 
for first time applicants or Rupees 7 lakh for 
others, as the case may be: 
 
Explanation  1.-A  ‘first  time  applicant’  is  a 
person  against  whom  no  order  has  been 
passed  by  the  adjudicating  officer  or  by  the 
Board  or  who  has  never  obtained  a 
settlement  order  from  the  Board  as  on  the 
date of the present application.  
 
Explanation  2.  -  Individual  applicants  who 
submit to the satisfaction of the IC or HPAC 
or Panel of WTMs that, without knowledge of 
the  illegal  activity,  they  had  lent  the  use  of 
their securities account to the key operator or 
intermediary 
securities  market 
infrastructure  institution  involved  in  such 
activity, the SA may not exceed the minimum 
penalty under securities laws.  
 

or 

3.  Based  on 

the 

is/are  pending, 

stage  at  which 

the 
proceeding(s),  for  which  the  application  is 
made, 
the  proceeding 
conversion  factor  (PCF)  shall  be  applied 
when calculating the IA.   
 

 

Page 64 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

completion 

‘intimation  defaults’  and  co-operate  with  SEBI 
in the investigation, inquiry, inspection or audit. 
It  may  thereafter  file  a  settlement  application, 
upon 
investigation, 
inspection, etc. The application shall be deemed 
to have been made ‘Pre- issue of notice to show 
cause’ for the purpose of calculating the PCF. 
 

of 

the 

6. The IA is to be calculated for each applicant. 
In  a  case  where  multiple  applicants  apply  in 
respect of a default arising from the same cause 
of  action,  the  IA  will  be  calculated  for  each 
applicant, as per the applicable formula except 
in the following cases where the applicants may 
be considered to have joint and several liability,- 

(a)  the  acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert 
(PAC) under the Takeover Regulations; 

(b)    in  case  of  directors,  where  by  reason  of 
commission  or  omission    they  have  only  acted 
collectively for an act of the company; 

(c)      any  other  group  of  persons,  based  on  the 
facts and circumstances of each case, which the 
IC/HPAC may so recommend. 

 
7.  While  considering  the  application,  the 
alleged  default(s)  detailed  in  the  Inspection 
Report or the Investigation Report or the Report 
of the Designated Authority (DA) or the notice 
to  show  cause,  including  any  supplementary 
notice to show cause issued by any authority in 
a  pending  proceeding,  or  the  facts/findings 
detailed in the order of the Designated Member 
(DM) or the Whole Time Member (WTM) or the 
Adjudicating  Officer  (AO)  or  the  Securities 
Appellate Tribunal (SAT), as applicable, may be 
the basis for calculating the IA.  
 

 

 
In  case,  the  Internal  Committee  (IC)  or 
the  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee 
(HPAC)or  the  Panel  of  Whole  Time  Members 
(WTMs) are of the view that the facts disclose a 
different  default,  the  same  may  be  taken  into 
account.  

4.  In  cases,  where  an  existing  business  or 
activity of a person is either corporatized or 
converted  into  an  LLP  or  partnership  or 
merged or taken over by a new management, 
the  existing  record  of  the  erstwhile  entity 
shall be deemed to be the record of the new 
entity.  Considerations  including  insolvency, 
change  of  name  or  management  or 
ownership,  etc.,  shall  be  considered  in 
accordance with the guidelines issued by the 
Board, if any, from time to time. 
 

5.  PCF  for  Applications  made  voluntary  or 
seeking  settlement  with  confidentiality: 
Where an entity desires to obtain the benefit 
of a lower PCF, it may, suo motto, before the 
receipt of any notice to show cause, intimate 
the Board of such default hereinafter referred 
to  as  ‘intimation  defaults’  and  co-operate 
with the Board in the investigation, inquiry, 
inspection or audit. Such an application shall 
be deemed to have been made ‘Pre- issue of 
notice  to  show  cause’  for  the  purpose  of 
calculating the PCF. 

 

6.  The  IA  shall  be  calculated  per  count  of 
default, jointly or separately as per the facts 
and circumstances of the case, in accordance 
with these guidelines. 

 

7.  While  considering 

the  application, 

the 
alleged  default(s)  detailed  in  the  Inspection 
Report  or  the  Investigation  Report  or  the 
Report  of  the  Designated Authority  (DA)  or 
the  notice  to  show  cause,  including  any 
supplementary  notice  to  show  cause  issued 
by any authority in a pending proceeding, or 
the facts/findings detailed in the order of the 
Designated  Member  (DM)  or  the  Whole 
Time  Member  (WTM)  or  the  Adjudicating 
Officer  (AO)  or  the  Securities  Appellate 
Tribunal  (SAT),  as  applicable,  may  be  the 
basis for calculating the IA.  

 

 

 

 

Page 65 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 
8. 
The  alleged  defaults  shall,  wherever 
applicable, be categorised based on the facts and 
circumstances  as  major,  minor,  serious  or 
miscellaneous,  etc.,  by  the  IC  or  HPAC  or  the 
Panel of WTMs.  
 

In  case,  the  Internal Committee  (IC)  or 
 
the  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee 
(HPAC)  or  the  Panel  of  Whole  Time 
Members (WTMs) are of the opinion that the 
facts  disclose  a  different  default, 
the 
modification of the charge(s) may be sought. 

 

In  cases  where 

in  accordance  with 

9. 
Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in 
these  guidelines,  the  IC  or  HPAC  or  Panel  of 
WTMs shall have the discretion to recommend 
acceptance  or  rejection  or  accept  or  reject  an 
application,  to  recommend  a  amount,  lower  or 
higher than the amounts arrived at in terms of 
these  guidelines, 
the 
provisions  of  securities  laws,  considering  the 
facts  and  circumstances  of  the  case  and  the 
gravity of the charges.  
 
10. 
for 
calculating the IA are inapplicable or cannot be 
adapted due to the nature of the default or the 
facts and circumstances of the case or where the 
defaults  detailed 
these 
guidelines  are  not  covered,  the  IC  or  HPAC  or 
Panel  of  WTMs  may  arrive  at  the  SA,    as  they  
deem fit. 
 
It is hereby clarified that— 
11. 
(a) 
the purpose of sub-clause (b) of clause (2) 
of regulation 5 is not to prohibit the settlements 
in  respect  of  all  kinds  of  fraudulent  and  unfair 
trade practices. 

formulae 

the 

in 

the  Tables 

in 

 

(b) 
clause  (b)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of 
regulation 5 disqualifies only the defaults which 
are 'serious' and — 

(i) 

have market wide impact, or 

cause  substantial  losses  to  investors  in 

(ii) 
securities, or 

(iii)  affect the rights of investors in securities, 
especially retail investors  
and  small 
shareholders. 

 

8.  The  alleged  defaults 

shall,  wherever 
applicable, be categorised based on the facts 
and circumstances by the IC or HPAC or the 
Panel of WTMs.  

 

9.  Notwithstanding anything contained in these 
guidelines, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs 
shall  have  the  discretion  to  recommend 
acceptance or rejection or accept or reject an 
application, to recommend an amount, lower 
or  higher  than  the  amounts  arrived  at  in 
terms  of  these  guidelines,  for  reasons  to  be 
recorded,  in  accordance with the  provisions 
of  securities  laws,  considering  the  facts  and 
circumstances of the case and the gravity of 
the charges.  
 

10.  In case the applicant is body corporate, the IC 
or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may require that 
the  SA  payable  by  a  body  corporate is  to be 
paid  by  the  officers  in  default  including  the 
persons  in  charge  of  the  body  corporate  to 
avoid burdening investors holding securities 
issued by the body corporate. 

 
11.  In  cases  where  the  formulae  for  calculating 
the IA are inapplicable or cannot be adapted 
due  to  the  peculiar  nature  of  the  default  or 
the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  case  or 
where  the  defaults  detailed  in  the  Tables  in 
these  guidelines  are  not  covered,  the  IC  or 
HPAC  or  Panel  of  WTMs  may  arrive  at  the 
SA, as they deem fit. 

 

12.  In case of an amendment(s) or repeal of the 
these  guidelines  shall 

securities 

laws, 

 

Page 66 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

continue to apply to similar provisions under 
the amended or new laws, mutatis mutandis. 

 

(c) 
Thus, in order to fall in disqualification of 
clause  (b),  the  default  must  be  serious  and  it 
must  fall  in  any  or  all  of  the  categories 
mentioned in points (i), (ii) and (iii) above. 

 
Notwithstanding  the  same,  where  both 
these criteria are attracted, the application may 
be considered for settlement, if the applicant has 
made or intends to make good the losses to the 
investors in terms of the first proviso to clause 
(b), provided he undertakes in writing that,— 

 

'for  the  limited  purpose  of  settling  the 
 
administrative  and  civil  proceedings  I/We 
admit  the  charge  before  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India.' 

 

(d)  While  considering  its  'seriousness',  the 
default shall be seen in the context of its specific 
nature and the role played by the applicant. The 
charges against the applicant in the show cause 
notice or the investigation report or the report of 
the  designated  authority,  as  the  case  may  be, 
may  not  be  the  only  deciding  factor  in  this 
regard.  The  weight  and  sufficiency  of  the 
evidence  and  the  basis  of  the  charge  levelled 
against  the  applicant  or  the  extent  of  his  co-
operation  during  the  investigation  /inquiry  / 
inspection,  etc.,  if  any  may  also  be  taken  into 
account. 

 

(e) 
Further,  the  fact  that  the  case  has  been 
referred  to  the  Serious  Frauds  Investigation 
Office  by  the  Central  Government  or  the 
fraudulent and unfair trade practices, directly or 
indirectly, pose a systemic risk to the functions 
of any banking or micro-finance institution or a 
systemically  important  non-banking  financial 
company  or  stock  exchange  or  clearing 
corporation  or  a  depository  shall  be  relevant 

 

Page 67 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

factors  for  considering  the  'seriousness'  of  the 
default. 

 

(f)  Market  wide  impact:  shall  mean  the 
defaults which have a bearing on the securities 
market as a whole and not just the listed security 
is 
and 
under 
investigation/inquiry/inspection, etc. 

investors  which 

its 

 

(g) 
The  defaults  which  affect  the  right  of 
investors:  shall  refer  to  the  qualitative  and 
quantitative  impact  on  the  rights  of  investors, 
including  the  number  of  complaints  received, 
especially  from  retail 
investors  and  small 
shareholders.  A  qualitative  impact  refers  to  an 
indirect impact on the rights of investors, such 
as reduction in rating of a scrip as a result of the 
fraudulent  and  unfair  trade  practices  or  an 
increase 
in  promoter  holdings  through  a 
fraudulent  private  placement  to  related  parties 
in  default  of  minimum  public  shareholding 
norms,  etc.  A  quantitative  impact  refers  to  the 
quantifiable  losses  to  investors,  to  the  extent 
determinable. 

 

12. 
 In case of an amendment(s) or repeal of 
the  securities 
laws,  these  guidelines  shall 
continue to apply to similar provisions under the 
amended or new laws, mutatis mutandis. 
 

 

17. Chapter II of Schedule II: 
 
Current Regulatory provision: 
 
Chapter II of Schedule II of the existing Settlement Regulations provides the formula for arriving 
at the indicative amount which when accepted becomes the settlement amount, along with some 
rules  relating  to  cases  where  a  penalty  order  has  already  been  issued  and  in  cases  of  multiple 
proceedings. 
 
Recommendation and rationale: 

 

Page 68 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 
The  Committee  does  not  propose  to  change  the  basic  formula  for  settlement.  The  Committee 
recommends the following changes, - 
 

1.  The guidelines to provision for reduction of the indicative amount in case of an applicant 

seeking settlement with confidentiality; 
 

2.  The manner of computation of the Benchmark Amount is also to be defined in Chapter II 
in a uniform manner instead of calculating it under separate Chapters later in the Schedule 
as was the case earlier; 
 

3.  The Benchmark Amount to take into account the ‘repetitive nature of a default’; 

 

4.  The manner of arriving at  the term in relation to a compounding application has  to  be 

provided for; and 
 

5.  Legal costs may include costs incurred in the filing and conducting any proceedings before 
a Tribunal or Court as well as costs that may be incurred in obtaining the necessary orders 
after  the  terms  of  settlement/compounding  are  placed  before  the  Tribunal  or  Court. 
Accordingly, the word ‘incurred’ is proposed to be deleted. 

 
Proposed Revision to the Settlement Regulations: 
 

Existing Chapter II 

Suggested Revision 

CHAPTER II 

INDICATIVE AMOUNT AND THE 

SETTLEMENT AMOUNT 

Chapter II 

INDICATIVE AMOUNT AND THE SETTLEMENT 

AMOUNT 

 

 

Indicative amount (IA) shall be calculated as 
follows: 

Indicative  amount  (IA)  shall  be  calculated  as 
follows: 

IA= A×B + Legal Costs# 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IA= A×B + Legal Costs# 

#Legal costs as incurred by the Board 
shall  be  applicable  to  a  application 
made at the stages mentioned in points 
“d” and “e” as provided in Table I.   

 #Legal  costs  of  the  Board  may  be 
applicable  to  an  application  made  at  the 
stages  mentioned  in  points  “b”,  “d”  and 
“e” as provided in Table I.   

 

Page 69 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

   ‘A’ = PCF + RAF 

 

 

Where: 

‘A’ = PCF + RAF 

  A  

:  Multiplying Factor 

A:  Multiplying Factor. 

  PCF 

:  Proceeding Conversion Factor 

PCF:  Proceeding Conversion Factor. 

  RAF 

:  Regulatory Action Factor 

RAF:  Regulatory Action Factor. 

 

 

Where 

 

‘B’ = BV x BA 

‘PCF’-   The value assigned on the basis of the 
stage of the proceedings, as on the date of the 
application; and  

B:  Applicable  Benchmark  Amount, 
is  the 
amount attributable to every count of the alleged 
default in accordance with these guidelines; 

‘RAF’- 
  Values  for  prior  orders  and 
regulatory directions issued to the applicant. 

 

 

is 

 Benchmark  Amount, 

‘B’  - 
the 
amount  which  is  attributable  to  the  alleged 
default 
for  which  a  proceeding  under 
securities laws may be or has been initiated 
by the Board; it is determined separately for 
each  category  of  default  and  in  case  of 
multiple  defaults,  the  total  sum  thereof, 
determined in terms of these guidelines; 

 

 

1.  (a) Where the AO has already awarded penalty 
to the applicant, then ‘B’ shall be equal to the 
amount calculated by these guidelines or the 
penalty  awarded  by  the  AO,  whichever  is 
higher; 

(b) In case more than one proceeding arising from 
the  same  cause  of  action  has  been  initiated 
against  the  applicant,  the  IA  shall  be 
increased by 15%;  

(c)    In  cases  where  the  WTM  or  DM  has  issued 
directions  debarring  or  suspending  the 
applicant, the RAF shall take into account the 
value of Y as per Table III. 

 

 

 

‘BV’:  Aggregate  of  the  base  values  given  to  the 
relevant  aggravating  and  mitigating  factors  in 
respect of a particular charge. 

‘BA’: Base amount attributable to every count of 
the  alleged  default  in  accordance  with  these 
guidelines. 

 

 
1. 

 

 

2. 

 

(a)  Where  an  order  of  penalty  has  been 
passed prior to making an application, then 
‘B’  shall  not  be  less  than  the  penalty  so 
awarded; 
(b)  In  case  more  than  one  proceeding 
arising  from  the  same  cause  of  action  has 
been initiated against the applicant, the IA 
shall be increased by 20%;  

In  case  of  grant  of  confidentiality,  the  IA 
arrived  in  accordance  with  this  Schedule 
shall, be further reduced as follows, - 

i. 

those  marked  first  in  priority 
status  may  be  granted  reduction 

Page 70 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

2.  The  amount  which  is  finally  recommended 
by the HPAC after taking into account the IA, 
any mitigating or aggravating factors etc; and 
approved  by  the  Panel  of  Whole  Time 
Members is the SA.  
 

3.  After payment of the SA, the settlement order 
along  with  other  directives,  if  any,  shall  be 
passed accordingly. 
 

 

ii. 

iii. 

of up to  or equal to ninety percent 
of the IA;  
those  marked  second  in  priority 
status  may  be  granted  reduction 
of upto or equal to fifty percent of 
the IA; and 
those marked third or subsequent 
in  the  priority  status  may  be 
granted  reduction  upto  or  equal 
to twenty five percent of the IA. 

3.  The amount which is finally approved by the 

Panel of Whole Time Members is the SA. 
 

4.  Notwithstanding anything in this Schedule, 

- 

of  penalty, 

i.  where  a  compounding  application 
has  been  filed  in  respect  of  an 
offence  under  securities  laws  for 
the 
non-payment 
proposal 
the 
composition  of  the  offence  may  be 
made to the court only on receipt of 
such penalty and interest as deemed 
appropriate along with legal charges 
as determined by the Board; and 

agreeing 

to 

ii.  where a compounding application is 
filed after framing of the charges by 
the  court,  the  proposal  agreeing  to 
the composition may be made after 
increasing  the  amount  calculated 
under  this  Schedule  by  atleast 
twenty-five  per-cent  along  with 
legal charges and any other terms as 
may  be  approved  by  the  Panel  of 
Whole Time Members. 
 

 

18. Chapters III & IV of Schedule II: 
 
Current Regulatory provision: 
 
Chapters III & IV of Schedule II of the existing Settlement Regulations  are related and provide 
weightages  to  specified  proceedings  for  which  an  application  is  filed  as  well  as  the  existing 
regulatory record of the applicant. 

 

Page 71 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 
 
 
Recommendation and rationale: 
 
The Committee propose only minor changes as follows, - 
 

 

1.  The  guidelines  now  provision  for  PCF  in  case  of  an  applicant  seeking  settlement  with 
confidentiality or an application pursuant to a settlement notice as well as a compounding 
application filed during the various stages of a trial; and 
 
The  Table-  III  is  sought  to  be  revised  as  the  Committee  is  independently  considering 
changes in the procedure for taking action against the Certificate of Registration issued to 
an intermediary under the SEBI Act. 

Page 72 of 209 

2. 

 
 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 
Proposed Revision to the Settlement Regulations: 
 

Existing Chapters 

CHAPTER III 

PROCEEDING CONVERSION FACTOR  

 
The values assigned on the basis of the stage of the proceedings, as on 
the date of the application, shall be the PCF as per Table I 
 

TABLE I-PCF 

STAGE OF THE PROCEEDING(S) WHEN THE 

APPLICATION IS MADE 

VALUE 
OF PCF 

Voluntary or suo-moto intimation matters * 

0.65 

Suggested Revision 

CHAPTER III 

 

PROCEEDING CONVERSION FACTOR  

 
 
The values assigned on the basis of the stage of the proceedings, as on 
the date of the application, shall be the PCF as per Table I: 
Provided  that  where  multiple  proceedings  arising  out  of  the  same 
cause of action are sought to be settled, the value of the proceeding 
which  is  at  the  most  advanced  stage,  irrespective  of  the  stage  of 
progress of the other proceedings, shall be taken as the PCF. 
 

TABLE I-PCF 

a.   

b.   

c. 

 

Pre- issue of  the notice to show cause 

0.75 

 

(including applications filed on or before 
15th calendar day from the receipt of the 

settlement notice) 

Post-issue of the first notice to show cause  
pertaining to any pending proceeding in the 
same cause of action (including  applications 
filed after 15th calendar day from the receipt 

0.85 

STAGE OF THE PROCEEDING(S) WHEN 

VALUE OF 

THE SETTLEMENT APPLICATION IS MADE 

PCF 

a.   

Voluntary or for seeking 

0.65 

settlement with confidentiality 

of the settlement notice) 

b.   

Pre- issue of the notice to show 

0.75 

d.   

Proceeding pending after the submission of 

0.9 

the report by the Designated Authority  

cause (including applications filed 
on receipt of the settlement notice) 

[Or 

 

 

 

 

Page 73 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

e.   

f. 

 

Proceedings pending after passing of a final 
order imposing penalty or issuing civil and 
administrative directions, as the case may be  

1.10 

Compounding application filed 

pre-summoning] 

0.85 

Proceedings pending after the passing of the 
order by  the Securities Appellate Tribunal or 

1.20 

High Court  

*Cases relating to fraudulent and unfair trade practices may 
be considered taking into account the evidence, information 
and assistance provided during the course of investigation, 
otherwise b. will apply. 
 
Provided  that  where  multiple  proceedings  arising  out  of  the  same 
cause of action are sought to be settled, the value of the proceeding 
which  is  at  the  most  advanced  stage,  irrespective  of  the  stage  of 
progress of the other proceedings, shall be taken as the PCF. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

c. 

 

Post-issue of the first notice to 
show cause pertaining to any 

pending proceeding in the same 

cause of action (including 

applications filed after period 
provided in settlement notice) 

[Or 

Compounding application filed 
before the framing of charge] 

d.   

Proceeding pending after the 
submission of the report by the 

Designated Authority  

0.9 

[Or 

Compounding application filed 

after framing of charge] 

e.   

Proceedings pending after passing 
of a final order imposing penalty or 

1.10 

issuing civil and administrative 
directions, as the case may be  

f. 

 

Proceedings pending after the 

1.20 

passing of the order by the 

Securities Appellate Tribunal or 

Court  

 

Page 74 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

CHAPTER IV 

VALUE FOR ALL ORDERS AND REGULATORY DIRECTIONS 

 
The  sum  of  all  the  values  assigned  to  the  orders  and  regulatory 
direction(s) issued in the past, if any, shall be ‘RAF’. 
 

‘RAF’= X + Y 

 
 

CHAPTER IV 

 

REGULATORY ACTION FACTOR -VALUE FOR ALL ORDERS AND 

REGULATORY DIRECTIONS 

 
The  sum  of  all  the  values  assigned  to  the  order  and  regulatory 
direction(s) issued in the past, if any, shall be ‘RAF’. 
 

‘RAF’= X + Y 

TABLE II -VALUE FOR ORDERS AND REGULATORY DIRECTIONS 

 

ISSUED X*   

“TABLE II -VALUE for ORDERS AND REGULATORY DIRECTIONS 

*  To also include those orders and directions which have been stayed 
by the SAT or Court, as on the date of the application. In case multiple 
proceedings have been initiated for the same cause of action, the value 
shall be added for each order passed. 

 

ORDERS AND REGULATORY DIRECTIONS 

X 

ISSUED X* 

* To also include those orders and directions which have been stayed 
by  the  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal or Court,  as  on  the date  of  the 
application. In case multiple proceedings have been initiated for the 
same  cause  of  action,  the  value  shall  be  added  for  each  final  order 
passed. 

ISSUED TO THE APPLICANT 

PER ORDER 

ORDERS AND REGULATORY DIRECTIONS 

X 

Exonerated cases i.e. cases where applicant 

0 

was exonerated in an order or appeal or 

review 

Settlement Order  

 

0.01 

 

ALL OTHER ORDERS (EXCEPT FOR WHICH THE 

APPLICATION IS FILED) 

Cease and desist order  

0.02 

 

 

ISSUED TO THE APPLICANT 

PER ORDER 

Exonerated cases (i.e. cases where applicant 

0 

was exonerated in an order or appeal or 

review) and any settlement order involving 

confidentiality 

Any other Settlement Order 

0.01 

ALL OTHER ORDERS (EXCEPT FOR WHICH THE APPLICATION 

IS FILED) 

Cease and desist order 

0.02 

Page 75 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

Order of AO or  WTM issued against other 

0.05 

Final order issued against other persons 

0.05 

market participants 

associated with the securities markets 

Order of AO, DM or WTM issued against 

0.075 

intermediaries or listed companies 

TABLE III- VALUE FOR ORDER OR DIRECTION PASSED OR ISSUED 

FOR WHICH THE APPLICATION IS FILED - Y  

 

Final order issued against an intermediary or 
securities market infrastructure institutions 

or listed companies, and their principal 

0.075 

officers 

PROCEEDING BEFORE  

PROCEEDING BEFORE  

‘Y’ 

DM 

WTM 

Warning issued 

Suspension upto 1 week 

Debarment upto 6 
calendar months 

Suspension for 1 week or 

more, but less than 1 

Debarment for 6 calendar 
months  or more, but less 

month 

than 1  year 

PER 

ORDER 

0.05 

0.1 

0.15 

Suspension for 1 month or 

Debarment for 1 year or 

0.2 

more but less than 3 

more but less than 2 years 

months 

Suspension for 3 months 
or more but less than 1  

Debarment for 2 years or 
more but less than 3 years 

0.25 

year 

Suspension for or more 

than 1 year 

Debarment for 3 years or 
more but less than 5 years 

0.3 

 

this  schedule  an 

In 
‘intermediary  or  securities  market 
infrastructure institutions’ includes any person required by securities 
laws to be registered or recognized by the Board. 
 

TABLE III- VALUE FOR ORDER OR DIRECTION PASSED OR ISSUED 

FOR WHICH THE APPLICATION IS FILED – Y 

 

FINAL ORDER 

FINAL ORDER AGAINST 

‘Y’ 

AGAINST 

ANY PERSON OTHER THAN 

INTERMEDIARY OR 
SECURITIES MARKET 

INTERMEDIARY OR 
SECURITIES MARKET 

PER 

ORDER 

INFRASTRUCTURE 
INSTITUTION, FOR 
WHICH APPLIED 

INFRASTRUCTURE 

INSTITUTION, FOR WHICH 

APPLIED 

Warning issued 

0.05 

Suspension/Debarme

Debarment upto 6 calendar 

0.1 

nt upto 1month 

months 

Suspension/Debarme

nt for 1month or 

Debarment for 6 calendar 
months or more, but less 

0.15 

more, but less than 6 

than 1  year 

months 

 

Page 76 of 209 

 

 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

 

 

Suspension/Debarme

Debarment for 1 year or 

0.2 

nt for 6 month or 

more but less than 2 years 

more but less than 1 

year 

Suspension/Debarme
nt for 1 year or more 
but less than 2 years 

Debarment for 2 years or 
more but less than 3 years 

0.25 

Suspension/Debarme
nt for 2 years or more  

Debarment for 3 years or 
more but less than 5 years 

0.3 

 

Page 77 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

19. Chapters V and VI of Schedule II: 
 
 
Current Regulatory provision: 
 
 
Recommendation and rationale: 
 
In the existing Chapters V to VIII of Schedule II of the existing Settlement Regulations, not all 
defaults are assigned base amounts and the possibility of some factors being applicable across 
all defaults is not considered.  
 
The existing Chapters also do not provide for a detailed manner of calculation of profit caused 
and loss caused. Chapter V does  have some guidelines  on calculation of the  profit but they 
have  not  yet  been  resorted  to  due  to  the  existing  lacunae  in  the  investigation  reports  and 
inquiry  reports.    Further,  the  existing  Chapters  did  not  provision  for  a  host  of  mitigating 
factors. 
 
In order to deal with the aforesaid issues, the Committee has reworked the existing Chapters 
V  to  VIII  into  just  two  Chapters  V  to  VI.  Not  only  does  Chapter  V  consolidate  the  existing 
factors  and  their  weightages  but  also  considers  various  other  aggravating  and  mitigating 
factors.  In  this  respect,  the  factors  detailed  in  FCA’s  Enforcement  Guide  and  the  Decision 
Procedure and Penalties Manual and the FINRA Sanction Guidelines have been considered. A 
suitable weightage has been assigned to these factors. 
 
In Chapter VI, the Committee has reworked the base amounts under the existing Chapters V 
and VIII. These Chapters were not able to deal with the kind of defaults that the Board has had 
to deal with in the past few years and the newer defaults introduced by the Finance Act, 2018. 
The Committee has with suitable modifications adopted the existing scheme of base amounts 
for disclosure and open offer violations, whereas for other violations it has adopted a structure 
similar to SEC’s three-tier penalty structure and the classification of minor and major defaults 
has been done away. Also, the base amounts for disclosure related defaults have been raised 
incrementally. 
 
Proposed Revision to the Settlement Regulations: 

1.  Existing Chapters V to VIII 

 

CHAPTER V 

BENCHMARK AMOUNT FOR FUTP DEFAULTS  

 
The  Benchmark  Amount  for  defaults  related  to  FUTP  i.e.  B  (FUTP),  may  be  computed  as 
detailed in this Chapter. 
 
However, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTM’s may, in cases of serious FUTP default, take the 
Benchmark Amount of the applicant as per the provisions of the securities laws if the amounts 
arrived at on the basis of the calculations  are found to be low and not commensurate to the 
seriousness of the alleged default. 
 

 

 

Page 78 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

Notwithstanding the above, SEBI shall not settle serious fraudulent and unfair trade practices 
which, in its opinion, cause substantial losses to investors especially retail investors and small 
shareholders  or  have  or  may  have  market  wide  impact,  except  those  defaults  where  the 
applicant has made or intends to make good the losses due to the investors to the satisfaction 
of SEBI.  
 

B(FUTP) = SUM OF BASE VALUES AS PER TABLE IV × APPLICABLE AMOUNT 

 

 

TABLE IV - BASE VALUES 

 

NATURE OF DEFAULT  

a.   

FUTP   or  violation of code of conduct 

 

noted in an investigation  related to 

FUTP  

 

Or  

 

FUTP   in combination with  the 

violation of  code of conduct or  any 
other regulation under SEBI (PIT)  

Regulations or SEBI (SAST) 

Regulations  

 

Or  

 

FUTP in combination with a violation 
of SEBI Master Circular on AML, etc. 

b.   

Factors for volume traded and/or 

price change for the default 

BASE VALUE 

1.35 

 
 
 
 
 
 

1.37 

 
 
 
 
 
 

1.4 

 

Sum  of  ‘V’,  ‘P’  and  ‘Q’,  wherever 
applicable, to be applied only if the the 
volume 
traded  or  price  change, 
quantity traded in respect of the group, 
of which the applicant is a part of or of 
the applicant when he acts alone, as the 
case  may  be,  can  be  calculated  from 
findings 
the 
investigation  report  or  notice  to  show 
cause or order, as the case may be. 
In  case  multiple  trading  periods  are 
involved  the  highest  change  has  to  be 
considered. 

brought 

out 

in 

c. 

 

Time value of ill-gotten gains* 

0.09  ×  no.  of  calendar  years  from  the 
date of commission of the default 

d.   
 

Reputation risk applicable in all cases 
 

All applicants - 0.25 

 

*Factor ‘c’ is applicable only in cases where the actual profit and/or loss avoided 
(approx)  is  determinable.  While  calculating  the  period,  the  fractions  may  be 
ignored. 
 

 

Page 79 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

‘V’ = VALUE FOR THE HIGHEST % OF VOLUME TRADED IN ANY TRADING PERIOD DURING 

THE ENTIRE PERIOD OF DEFAULT  

In case of more than one scrip, the scrip with the highest volume traded is to be 

considered 

 

 

 

% VOLUME TRADED 
(ILLIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 50% 

50 -60% 

60-75%# 

75% or more# 

‘V’ 

 

0.05 

0.07 

0.1 

0.15 

% VOLUME TRADED 

(LIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 2% 

2-5% 

5-10%# 

10% or more# 

#Where the volume traded, during any trading period falls within this class, the 
IC or HPAC or Panel of WTM’s shall consider whether the default may be settled. 

‘P’ = VALUE FOR HIGHEST % OF PRICE CHANGE IN ANY TRADING PERIOD DURING THE 

 

ENTIRE PERIOD OF DEFAULT  

 

In case of more than one scrip, the scrip with the highest price change is to be 

considered 

 

 

% PRICE CHANGE 
(ILLIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 50% 

50-100%# 

100-200%# 

200% or more# 

‘P’ 

 

0.05 

0.07 

0.1 

0.15 

% PRICE CHANGE 
(LIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 5% 

5-10%# 

10-20%# 

20% or more# 

#Where the price change during any trading period falls within this class, the IC 
or HPAC or Panel of WTM’s shall consider whether the default may be settled. 
 

‘Q’ = VALUE FOR HIGHEST % OF PRICE CHANGE IN ANY TRADING PERIOD, DURING THE 

PERIOD OF DEFAULT FOR F&O & LEVERAGED PRODUCTS 

In case of more than one product, the contract with the highest price change is 

 

to be considered 

% PRICE CHANGE 

Upto 0.5% 

0.5-1% 

1-5%# 

5% or more# 

‘Q’ 

0.05 

0.07 

0.1 

0.15 

#Where the price change during any trading period falls within this class, the IC 
or HPAC or Panel of WTM’s shall consider whether the default may be settled.  

THE  APPLICABLE  AMOUNT  FOR  AN  APPLICANT  =The  profit  made  and/or  loss 

 

II - APPLICABLE AMOUNT 

avoided* of each applicant  

Or 

The Base Amount as per Table V, 

whichever is higher. 

 

Page 80 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 
 
*IN CHAPTER V TO VII, PROFIT MADE AND/OR LOSS AVOIDED, MAY BE CALCULATED AFTER 
TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THE FOLLOWING: 

1.  In cases, where the profit made and losses avoided both co-exist, the sum thereof shall 
be  taken  into  consideration  for  arriving  at  the  total  ill-gotten  profit  made  by  the 
applicant. 

 

 

 

 

 

2.  In cases of issue of fraudulent securities, fraudulent purchase of securities, including 
where  funding  is  though  circuitous  route,  etc.,  the  profit  made  and/or  loss  avoided, 
shall be calculated after taking into account the market value of the securities on the 
date of purchase, allotment, issue, etc; whichever is relevant, in addition to the profit 
earned from subsequent sale thereof, if any. 

3.  In  cases  involving  the  siphoning  of  funds  or  cornering  of  securities  in  an  issue,  the 
applicant’s profit made and/or loss avoided shall take into account the net proceeds or 
the value of the securities or the share thereof received by the applicant. 

4.  In cases involving an intermediary, the profit made and/or loss avoided shall take into 
account the gross fees earned by the applicant in respect of the default, by whatever 
name called and any proprietary trades, if any. 

5.  In cases where the purpose of the FUTP is to maintain the price, the profit made and/or 
loss avoided shall take into account any means by which the applicant has benefited 
including the value of any pledge, margin requirements, loans against securities, hedge, 
options, hybrids, futures, issue of securities, etc.,  in the scrip in which the applicant 
was interested. 

6.  In cases where trades have been executed after the dissemination of false information, 
the profit and/or loss avoided shall take into consideration the difference between the 
purchase or sale price of the security and the value of that security as measured by the 
trading price of the security after a reasonable period from public dissemination of the 
true information. 

 

TABLE V- BASE AMOUNT  

 

AND  

 

PARAMETERS (WHEREVER APPLICABLE) RELATING TO FUTP INCLUDING AIDING AND 
ABETTING FUTP OR CODE OF CONDUCT NOTED IN AN INVESTIGATION RELATED TO FUTP 

 

In case more than one parameter is applicable, the highest Base Amount, as may be appropriate 
in the facts and circumstances of the case, may be considered.  

CATEGORY OF APPLICANT    

BASE AMOUNT  

AND  

PARAMETER * 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

(i)  Where the entity is charged for 

FUTP or aiding and abetting 
FUTP 

Page 81 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

a. 

 

 

Intermediaries 

 

Rs  15 lakh 

 

Or 

 

1.5% of the value of the  gross fraudulent 
trades executed through the intermediary 

including proprietary trades, 

 

whichever is higher 

 
 

(ii)  Where the intermediary is 

charged for violation of code of 
conduct  

Rs  8 lakh 

 

Or 

 

0.75% of the value of the  gross fraudulent 
trades  executed through the intermediary, 

 

whichever is higher 

 

(iii) 

In cases of proceedings before the 
DM or the WTM, the Base Amount 
may  also  be  computed  by  taking 
into account a suitable fraction or 
multiple  of  the  gross  annual 
income  during  the  period  of 
default,  as  may  be  recommended 
or  decided  by  the  IC  or  HPAC  or 
Panel of WTM’s, after taking  into 
account 
and 
circumstances of the case.  
 

facts 

the 

Applicant charged for 

financing the FUTP 

activities 

 

(Listed companies not 

engaged in lending 

business, but charged 
with financing its Issue 

fall under point ‘d’) 

b.   

 

Promoters 

 
 
 

 

Rs  15 lakh 

 

Or 

 

15% per annum × into funds provided  × 
period for which the funds was provided, 

whichever is higher 

 
Rs  1 crore 

 

Or 

 

 

Page 82 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 
 
 
 

         0.5%  of  the  (highest)  market  value  of 
its/his  holdings  in  the  company  (including 
any convertible warrant or options)  

 

Whole Time Directors 

whichever is higher 

or Chairman 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

Other directors or Key 
Managerial Personnel 

(KMP) 

 

Rs  25 lakh 

 

Or 

 

0.5 % of the (highest) market value of its/his 
holdings  in  the  company  (including  any 
convertible warrants or options)  
 

whichever is higher; 

 
 
 

 
 
 
Note: 

I. 

II. 

Rs  10 lakh 

In  case  of  pre-IPO  related  matters, 
the  market  value  will  be  computed 
on the basis of the listing price. 
In 
listed 
companies,  the  value  of  holdings 
during the period of default shall be 
taken. 

the  case  of  already 

c. 

 

Listed companies 

 

(to be borne by the 
promoter group or 

directors or KMPs or 
the company or both, 

as the case may be) 

 

Rs  10 lakh 

 

Or 

 

0.1% of its (highest) entire market cap 

during the period of the default.  

 

whichever is  higher 

(In case where the 

Note: 

charge against a 

I. 

company is of funding 

its own issue or any 

other FUTP charge and 

II. 

the promoters or 
directors are also 

charged for the same 

default as the company, 

then only point ‘d’ 

In  case  of  pre-IPO  related  matters, 
the  market  value  will  be  computed 
on the basis of the listing price. 
In 
listed 
companies,  the  value  of  holdings 
during the period of default shall be 
taken. 

the  case  of  already 

 

 

Page 83 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

applies. In other cases, 
the higher of point ‘c’ or 
‘d’ shall be borne by the 
promoters or directors, 

as the case may be) 

d.    Name-lender clients or 

front-entities or 
dummy entities 

e.   

Key-operators  

f. 

 

FII  

Proprietary sub-

account 

Non- proprietary sub-

accounts 

To be  determined for each applicant as 
recommended or decided by the IC or 

HPAC or Panel of WTMs  on the basis of the 

facts and circumstances of each case 

To be determined for each applicant as 
recommended or decided by the IC or 

HPAC or Panel of WTMs on the basis of the 

facts and circumstances of each case. 

 

Notwithstanding  the  above,  in  case  of  the 
key  operator  transferring  the  bulk  or  the 
whole of his share of proceeds or securities 
cornered, to another, the base amount may 
also  be  added  by  a  suitable  fraction  taking 
into  account  a suitable fraction or multiple 
of  the  gross  amount  or  transfers  made,  as 
may  be  recommended  or  decided  by  the  IC 
or HPAC or Panel of WTM’s after taking into 
account  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the 
case. 

 

Rs  35 lakh 

 

Or 

 

0.005% of the total assets under custody 

(AUC), 

whichever is higher 

 

Rs  20 lakh 

 

Or 

 

0.005% of the total  AUC, 

whichever is higher 

 

* TO be calculated per scrip or product manipulated. In case the scrip is part of 
any  index maintained  by  BSE  Ltd or  National  Stock  Exchange  of  India  Ltd,  the 
Base Amount shall be increased by 15%.  
 
In these guidelines the following persons shall be treated as ‘name-lender’:  
An  applicant  who  allows  his  name  to  be  used  or  whose  name  is  used  for  opening  a  demat 
account or client account by another, who operates the same as his own account. It includes an 
account-lender whose demat account or client account is allowed to be used or used for market 

 

Page 84 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

g.   

Book running lead 

 

manager or lead 

1% of the issue or takeover size (or the 

manager  

estimated issue size) handled by the  Book 

 

and 

 

running lead manager or lead manager  

and  

 

 other intermediaries 

0.25% for other intermediaries 

associated with an 
issue or takeover 

 

h.    AMC, trustee, sponsor, 

Rs  25 lakh 

etc. 

 

( In case of mutual 

 

Or 

 

fund, etc., to be borne 

0.001% of the total assets under 

by the AMC, CIMC, 

manager, etc., and not 
to be passed on to the 

schemes) 

management (AUM) 

 

Or 

 

0.1% of the net worth;  

whichever is higher 

i. 

  Where none of the 

above are applicable to 

To be  determined for each applicant as 
recommended or decided by the IC or 

the applicant 

HPAC or Panel of WTMs  on the basis of the 

facts and circumstances of each case 

transactions  by  anyone  other  than  himself,  for  the  purpose  of  any  activity  by  such  other, 
including manipulation or other fraudulent activities. 
 
A key operator referred to in these guidelines, includes the main manipulator and any other 
applicant who in the opinion of the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTM’s may be so categorised.  
 
 

 

Chapter VI 

BENCHMARK AMOUNT IN DISCLOSURE RELATED DEFAULTS UNDER SEBI (SAST) 

REGULATIONS , SEBI (PIT) REGULATIONS 

AND OTHER DISCLOSURES AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS, etc. 

 
The Benchmark Amount for disclosure defaults i.e. B (D) may be computed on the basis of this 
Chapter. This chapter does not deal with those disclosure defaults which amount to FUTP. 
 
However the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTM’s, may, in cases of serious disclosure defaults take 
the Benchmark Amount of the applicant as per the provisions of securities laws if the amounts 
arrived at on the basis of the calculations are found to be low and not commensurate to the 
seriousness of the alleged default or the ill-gotten profit and/or loss avoided by the applicant.  
 

B(D) = BASE VALUE AS PER TABLE IX  X SUM OF BASE AMOUNTS AS PER TABLE VI OR 

VII 

 

TABLE VI- BASE AMOUNT - DISCLOSURES UNDER SEBI (SAST) REGULATIONS  

 

Page 85 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

PERCENTAGE OF SHAREHOLDING 
OR VOTING RIGHTS  ACQUIRED OR 
DISPOSED BUT NOT DISCLOSED OR 

PERCENTAGE OF ENCUMBERED 

SHARES  BUT NOT DISCLOSED, etc. 

BASE AMOUNT FOR VIOLATION OF  

REGULATION 7 

REGULATION 

REGULATION 8A 

OF SEBI 
(SAST) 

8 OF  SEBI 

(SAST) 

OF  SEBI 
(SAST) 

REGULATIONS, 

REGULATIONS, 

REGULATIONS, 

1997  

1997* 

 

OR 

 

 

OR 

 

1997 

 

OR 

 

REGULATION 
29 OF  SEBI 

REGULATION 
30 OF  SEBI 

REGULATION  
31 OF  SEBI 

(SAST) 

(SAST) 

(SAST) 

REGULATIONS, 

REGULATIONS, 

REGULATIONS, 

2011 

2011* 

Rs  1 lakh 

+ 

2011 

Rs  5,000/- For every three months delay# or 

part  thereof  

Rs  2 lakh 

+ 

Rs  10,000/- For every three months delay or 

part    thereof 

Rs  5 lakh 

+ 

Upto 2 %  

2% to less than 5 %  

5 % to less than 10%  

10 % to less than 15 % 

Rs  10  lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the holding 

Rs  15,000/- For every three months  delay or 

part   thereof 

not disclosed, etc. 

+ 

Rs  20,000/- For every three months  delay or 

part   thereof 

15% and above  

Rs  15  lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the holding 

not disclosed, etc. 

+ 

Rs  25,000/- For every three months  delay or 

part   thereof 

* The Base Amount shall only be as per the lowest slab, irrespective of change in 
shareholding over the reporting period. In case of defaults related to disclosures 
that are required to be made annually, and application is filed for settlement of 
such defaults, the amount for delay for every three months or part thereof shall 
be computed only for the first non-disclosure. In case the applicant complies with 
the  annual  reporting  requirements  for  a  few  years,  such  compliance  will  not 
result  in  a  higher  base  amount  than  would  have  otherwise  be  calculated  for 
continuous defaults. 
 
#The  period  of  delay  is  to  be  calculated  from  the  last  day,  when  the  disclosure 
ought to have been made, as required by the regulations. 
 

 

Page 86 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

In case a correct disclosure is made on time but filed in the wrong format, the 
Base Amount shall be reduced by 75%. 

TABLE VII- BASE AMOUNT - TRANSACTION SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES UNDER  

REGULATIONS 13(3), 13(4), 13(4A) AND CORRESPONDING 13 (6) OF SEBI (PIT) 

 

REGULATIONS 1992,  

 

PERCENTAGE OF SHAREHOLDING OR 

VOTING ACQUIRED BUT NOT DISCLOSED,  

BASE AMOUNT* 

etc. 

Upto 2% 

2% to less than 5% 

5% to less than 10% 

Rs  1.5 lakh 

+ 

Rs  7,500/- For every  three  months 

delay or part  thereof 

Rs  2.5 lakh 

+ 

Rs  12,500/- For every  three  months  

delay or part thereof 

Rs  6 lakh 

+ 

Rs17,500/- For every  three  months  

delay or part  thereof 

10 % to less than 15% 

Rs  12 lakh + 0.1 %  of the value of the 

holding not disclosed, etc. 

+ 

Rs22,500/- For every  three months  

delay or part  thereof 

 

15% and above  

Rs  20  lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the 

holding not disclosed, etc. 

+ 

Rs25,000/- For every  three  months  

delay or part  thereof 

*In cases of disclosures not made by the connected persons and by the KMPs, the 
Base Amount may be increased by 25%.  
In  case  the  applicant  is  charged  for  non-disclosure  of  both  SEBI  (SAST) 
Regulations and SEBI (PIT) Regulations, the Base Amount arrived at for any one 
of the Regulations shall be reduced by 75%. 

OTHER DISCLOSURES AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS  

 

 

 

B(D) = BASE VALUE AS PER TABLE IX  X SUM OF BASE AMOUNTS AS PER TABLE VIII 

 
 

TABLE VIII- BASE AMOUNT  

 

NATURE OF DEFAULT 

TYPE OF  NON-DISCLOSURE  

BASE AMOUNT 

Page 87 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

SEBI (PIT) Regulations 

 

Periodical and other disclosures 

 

Rs  3 lakh 

+ 

Rs  5,000/- for every three 

months  delay or part  thereof 

SEBI (SAST) Regulations 

 

Reporting requirements or disclosures for 

which exemptions are available, except cases 
of non-compliance of a condition precedent 
for availing exemption would result in the 

 

Rs  2 lakh 

 
+ 
 

Rs  10,000/- for every three 

triggering of an open offer obligation 

months  delay or part  thereof  

(In  respect  of  Regulation  6  of  SEBI  (SAST) 
Regulations,  1997  the  provisions  are  dated  and  no 
amount  may  be  recommended,  except  in  case  of 
standalone violations of Regulation 6 of SEBI (SAST) 
Regulations, 1997 the minimum amount of Rs  2 lacs 
may be applicable) 

SEBI (FII) Regulations  

Failure to provide information  

 
 

 

Rs  20 lakh per default 

 

 

Intimation of material changes 

Code of conduct reporting  requirements 

Others  

                                         or 

 

 
 

Rs  5 lakh per default 

 
 
 

Rs  2 lakh 

+ 

Disclosures on appointment of director 

or 

Rs  10,000/-  for every three 
months delay  or part  thereof 

Any other disclosure related defaults  that are 

not detailed in these guidelines, if deemed 

appropriate 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

TABLE IX - BASE VALUE  

 

NATURE OF DEFAULT  

a)    Per se SAST or PIT or ICDR regulation, 
etc. violation, not falling in any of the 

below mentioned categories 

BASE  VALUE 

1 

Page 88 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

b)    Non-disclosure charge in combination 

with any other  charge 

c)   Charge of non-disclosure, although  timely 
related disclosure made under any other 

Regulation(s) 

d)   Charge of non-disclosure, although timely 
related disclosure made under any other 
regulation of SEBI (SAST) Regulations  or 

listing agreement, etc. 

e)    Companies with paid-up share capital 
below Rs  10 crore (not applicable to 

companies which are exclusively holding 

companies) 

1.1 

0.6 

0.55 

0.5 

 
All factors ‘a’ to ‘e’ in Table IX are mutually exclusive. In case of applicability of 
more than one factor, the lowest factor is to be considered. 
 
 

OPEN OFFER DEFAULTS INCLUDING INDIRECT ACQUISITION 

(CONSENTABLE CASES ONLY) 

 

The  Benchmark  amount  for  open  offer  defaults  i.e.  B  (OO)  may  be  computed  on  the  basis 
provided below.  
 
However the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTM’s, may, in cases of serious open offer default, take 
the Benchmark Amount of the applicant as per the provisions of securities laws if the amounts 
arrived at on the basis of the calculations are found to be low and not commensurate to the 
seriousness of the alleged default.  
 
The  non-compliance  of  a  condition  precedent  for  availing  exemption  would  result  in  the 
triggering of an open offer obligation and would be considered as per under Table X and XI. 
 

B(OO) = SUM OF BASE VALUES AS PER TABLE XI ×BASE AMOUNT AS PER TABLE X 

 

TABLE X-BASE AMOUNT  

NATURE OF DEFAULT  

BASE AMOUNT FOR ACQUIRER 

Delayed open offer 

 

 

Cases of open offer defaults referred for 

adjudication 

AND PACS 

Rs   25 lakh 

or  

0.25%  of  the    open  offer  size, 
i.e.  max  number  of  shares  for 
which open offer must be given 
x  applicable  open  offer  price, 
which ever is higher 
 

 

Delayed open offer  

Rs  50 lakh 

or  

(after direction from the Board) 

0.5% of the open offer size, 

whichever is higher . 

 

Page 89 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

Where the making of the open offer is 

infructuous i.e. when company has been 

delisted, etc. 

 

Where the open offer is not beneficial to 
the shareholders  

 

be 

recommended 

 
 
To 
or 
decided  by  the  IC  or  HPAC  or 
Panel of WTMs  on the basis of 
the facts and circumstances of 
each case 

 

TABLE XI-BASE VALUES 

 

NATURE OF DEFAULT UNDER CONSIDERATION 

BASE VALUE 

a 

b 

c 

Entity in control of the target company, 

prior to triggering the takeover 

Entity not in control of target company, 

prior to triggering the takeover 

Illiquid Scrip 

1 

1.2 

0.3 

Factors ‘a’ and ‘b’ are mutually exclusive. 
 

 

Chapter VII 

BENCHMARK AMOUNT FOR OTHER DEFAULTS BY INTERMEDIARIES , REGULATED ENTITIES, 

 

‘B (I/RE)’: 

The Benchmark Amount for other defaults by intermediaries (I) and other regulated entities 
(RE) i.e. B(I/RE) may be computed on the basis of this Chapter.  This Chapter is not applicable 
where  default  is  dealt  with  under  Chapter  V  or  is  by  a  CIS,  mutual  fund,  etc.,  where  the 
proposed remedy may be disgorgement or refund or winding up of the scheme or fund.  
 
However  the  IC  or  HPAC  or  Panel  of  WTM’s  may  in  cases  of  serious  violations  take  the 
Benchmark Amount of the applicant as per the provisions securities laws if the amounts arrived 
at on the basis of the calculations are found to be low and not commensurate to the seriousness 
of the alleged default.  
 
 

B(I/RE) =  SUM OF ALL BASE AMOUNTS  AS PER TABLE XII + 25 % OF THE GROSS FEE 

EARNED* IN RESPECT OF THE MAJOR DEFAULTS, WHERE DETERMINABLE 

*A lower percentage may be taken in respect of Public Sector Undertakings. 

 

TABLE XII- BASE AMOUNT  

 

NATURE OF DEFAULT 

BASE AMOUNT 

MINOR CASES 

MAJOR CASES# 

 

 

Page 90 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

Code of conduct 
related defaults  

Section 15B of SEBI Act 

, etc. 

Section 15F of SEBI Act 

& 

other 

stock-broker defaults 
vis-à-vis clients, etc. 

Delay in redressing 
investor grievances*   

Section 15D &15E of 
SEBI Act- CIS, AMC, 

and other fund 
activity related 
defaults, etc., 

including conduct 

related defaults 

Other defaults 
not provided 

elsewhere in these 

guidelines, if deemed 

appropriate 

 
 
 

 
 

Rs1 lakh per default                                          

Rs8 lakh per default 

 
 
 

 
 

Rs2 lakh per default 

Rs20 lakh per 

or 

0.001% of the AUM  

default  

or 

or 

0.001% of the AUM  

0.1% of the net worth 

or 

 

0.1% of the net 

whichever is higher 

Rs1 lakh per default 

worth  

 

whichever is higher 
 

Rs8 lakh per 

default 

 

* The IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may based on the facts and circumstance of 
the  case,  gravity  of  the  grievances  and  the  past  track  record  of  the  entity  in 
redressing investor grievances, arrive at a lump sum  Base Amount of `5 lakh or 
a lesser amount. 
 
#  The Base amount may also take into  account  any ill-gotten profit and/or loss 
avoided  in  major  cases.  In  case  of  violations  under  Securities  Contract 
(Regulations)  Act,  1956  and  the  rules,  regulations  made  thereunder  the  IC  or 
HPAC  or  Panel  of  WTMs  may  recommend  or  decide  a  higher  base  amount. 
Further, in case of proceedings before DM or WTM, the Base Amount may also be 
computed  by  taking  into  account  a  suitable  fraction  or  multiple  of  the  gross 
annual income during the period of default, as may be recommended or decided 
by  the  IC  or  HPAC  or  Panel  of  WTM’s,  after  taking  into  account  the  facts  and 
circumstances of the case.  
 
CLARIFICATIONS: 

 

Page 91 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

a.  In case of CIS, mutual fund, AIF, etc., related defaults, the settlement amount shall be 
recovered  from  the  promoter  or  CIMC;  and  from  trustees  or  sponsors  or  AMC  or 
manager  in  case  of  defaults  by  AMCs  or  Mutual  Fund,  etc.,  as  may  be  deemed 
appropriate. 

b.  In case the CIMC or AMC, etc., investment decisions have caused wrongful loss to the 
investors,  the  CIMC  or  AMC,  etc.,  shall  be  required  to  make  good  such  loss,  to  the 
investors.  In  case,  the  same  is  not  possible,  the  amount  shall  be  deposited  in  the 
Investor Protection and Education Fund of SEBI. 

c.  Conduct related defaults may be settled only if the applicant has rectified its conduct 

and the investor grievances have been redressed to the satisfaction of SEBI. 

2.  Proposed Revision: Chapters V and VI 

 

CHAPTER V 

 

APPLICABLE BASE VALUES AND FACTORS 

 BV= 1+ SUM OF APPLICABLE BASE VALUES 

 

I.  While assessing the relevant factors, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into 
account the following general mitigating factors with a base value of ‘-0.2’ applied once 
for all or any of them: 

1.  The  quantum  of  IA  would  affect  the  ability  of  the  applicant  to  make  restitution  to 

investors: 
Explanation. - In such cases higher IA may be sought from the officer who is in default. 

2.  The applicant had minimal participation in the alleged default; 
3.  Proactive and exceptional cooperation, including: 

a.  Prompt and detailed self-identification of suspected or uncovered misconduct; 
b.  Early  self-identification  of  contraventions  followed  by  thorough  internal 

reviews and sharing of discovered facts; 

c.  Substantial assistance to an investigation or inquiry by obtaining and providing 

evidence. 
 

4.  Acceptance of responsibility and acknowledgement of misconduct to the Board prior to 

detection and intervention by truthfully admitting the conduct; 

5.  Voluntarily employing subsequent substantial corrective measures to avoid recurrence 

of misconduct; 

6.  Where the delay in complying with the reporting requirement was less than 7 days  and 

non-reporting did not result in undue gain or loss to any person; 

7.  Voluntary acts of compensation, disgorgement of commission, profits and payment of 

restitution to investors; 

8.  Disclosure made in the incorrect format; and 
9.  Applicant is a unit of governmental authority including a public-sector unit. 

Page 92 of 209 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

II.  While assessing the relevant factors, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into 
account the following general aggravating factors with a base value of ‘0.2’ applied once 
for all or any of them: 

1.  Efforts  to  frustrate  or  prolong  an  investigation,  inquiry or  a  civil and  administrative 

proceeding, including settlement proceedings: 
Explanation. - This factor may be taken into account only when the applicant is or may 
be  charged  for  non-compliance  with  summons  during  investigation  or  when  the 
applicant fails to comply with the summons in a civil and administrative proceeding; 

2.  Providing  inaccurate  or  misleading  testimony  or  information  or  willfully  failing  to 

provide information that he was bound to provide; 

3.  Misconduct over an extended period of time which is not less than 30 days; 
4.  Significant monetary loss to the clients which exceeds in aggregate of Rs 5 crores; 
5.  Applicant had failed to heed prior regulatory guidance and prior warnings; 
6.  Evidence of planning, pre-meditation or sophisticated means: 

Explanation:  Conducting  default  across  different  jurisdictions,  hiding  assets  or 
transactions, or both, through the use of fictitious entities, corporate shells or offshore 
financial accounts ordinarily indicates sophisticated means. 
 

   

7.  A listed intermediary or securities market infrastructure institution was substantially 

jeopardized: 
Explanation. - A listed intermediary or securities market infrastructure institution shall 
be deemed to have been substantially jeopardized if as a result of the alleged default: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

it has become insolvent or an application under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code, 2016 was admitted; 
it  was  unable  on  demand  to  refund  fully  any  public  deposit,  payment  or 
investment; or 
it is so depleted of assets that it is forced to merge with another institution in 
order to continue active operations. 
 

8.  The  liquidity  of  the  securities  of  a  publicly  traded  company  was  substantially 
endangered  i.e.  it  was  delisted  or  trading  of  the  company’s  securities  was  halted  for 
more than one full trading day; 

9.  The applicant abused a position of trust or used a special skill, in a manner such that 

significantly facilitated the commission or concealment of the alleged default: 
Explanation 1. - This factor applies if the applicant occupied and abused a position of 
trust. It does not apply to an ordinary tippee. 
 
Explanation  2.  -  This  factor  applies  if  the  applicant’s  position  involved  regular 
participation or professional assistance in creating, issuing, buying, selling, or trading 
securities  or  products  was  used  to  facilitate  significantly  the  commission  or 
concealment of the default. It does not apply to clerical staff in an organisation; as such 
position ordinarily does not involve special skill. 
 
Explanation 3. - ‘Special skill’ refers to a skill not possessed by members of the general 
public  and  requires  professional  education,  training  or  licensing,  e.g.  charted 
accountant, advocate, auditor, compliance officer, etc.  
 
Explanation 4. - This factor also applies where the applicant has represented himself to 
hold a position of trust when, in fact, he does not. 
 

 

Page 93 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

10.  The applicant was the key-operator, whether or not he himself traded: 

Explanation 1. - A person is a key-operator if he was an organizer or leader of an illegal 
activity or the main beneficiary of the default: 
Provided that, if a person is merely a manager or supervisor (but not an organizer or 
leader or the main beneficiary) then he is not a key-operator.  
 
Explanation 2. - The IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into account factors such 
as share of profits, the recruitment of accomplices, the degree of control and authority 
exercised over others. 
 

11.  Exercising management control by use of fraudulent or forged securities or securities 

issued without appropriate approvals; and 

12.  Reporting of false information. 

III.  While assessing the relevant factors, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into 
account the following factors tending to show the alleged default was deliberate with a 
base value of ‘0.25’ applied once for all or any of them: 

1.  The actions were not in accordance with the applicable internal procedures;   
2.  The  individual knowingly  took  decisions relating  to  the  violation beyond  his  field  of 

competence;   

3.  The  individual  intended  to  benefit  financially  from  the  violation,  either  directly  or 

indirectly;  

4.  The alleged default was repetitive.  

 

IV.  While assessing the relevant factors, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into 
account  the  following  factor  tending  to  show  the  alleged  default  was  reckless  with  a 
base value of ‘0.3’: 

1.  The body corporate or the responsible person, appreciated there was a risk that their 
actions or inaction could result in a violation of securities laws and failed adequately to 
mitigate that risk: 
Explanation. – The following shall be deemed to be reckless, - 

a. 

failure to appoint competent officials for discharge of their duties, including a 
compliance officer;  

b.  failure to put in place adequate systemic safeguards; and 
c. 

failure to put in place a code of conduct. 

 

V.  While  considering  the  various  factors  and  the  aggregate  base  values,  the  following 

specific base values given shall also be taken into account, - 

TABLE IV- GENERAL BASE VALUES, APPLICABLE IN ALL CASES 

NATURE OF VIOLATION  

a.   

 

Fraudulent and unfair trade practice 
(FUTP); or Insider trading, including 
tipping  (IT); or violation of code of 
conduct noted in an investigation or 

inquiry related to FUTP or IT  

 

Or  

 

BASE VALUE 

0.25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 94 of 209 

 

 

 

 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

FUTP or IT in combination with the 
violation of code of conduct or any 

other regulation  

 

Or  

 

FUTP in combination IT or in 
combination with a violation of 

requirement relating to anti-money 

laundering and know your client. 

 

Or  

 

Failure by a market infrastructure 

institution or its principal officers to 
conduct its business in a fair manner. 

 

Or  

 

Failure by a market infrastructure 

institution or its principal officers to 
conduct its business in a fair manner 
in combination with FUTP or IT or 
the violation of code of conduct or 

any other regulation  

 

b.   

Factors for volume traded and/or 

price change for the default 

c. 

 

Time value of ill-gotten gains* 

d.   
 

Reputation risk applicable in all 
settlements without admitting 

violation of securities laws 

 

0.3 

 
 
 
 
 
 

0.35 

 
 
 
 
 

0.50 

 
 
 
 
 
 

0.75 

 
 
 

[In case multiple are applicable, only 

the highest value shall be applied.] 

Sum  of  ‘V’,  ‘P’  and  ‘Q’,  wherever 
applicable,  to  be  applied  to  each 
member  of    group    or  of  the  applicant 
when he acts alone, only if the volume 
traded or price change, quantity traded 
in  respect  of  the  group,  of  which  the 
applicant is a part of or of the applicant 
when he acts alone, as the case may be, 
can  be  calculated  from  the  findings 
brought out in the investigation report 
or  inquiry  or  notice  to  show  cause  or 
order, as the case may be. 
In  case  multiple  trading  periods  are 
involved,  the  highest  change  has  to  be 
considered. 

0.09 × multiple of calendar years from 
the date of commission of the default 

All applicants: 0.25 

 

 

Page 95 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

e.   

f. 

 

Violation in illiquid scrip 

Persons who are indigent or 
undergoing liquidation or 

bankruptcy process or whose 

resolution/repayment plan has been 

submitted to the adjudicating 

authority for approval 

0.3 

- 0.3 

*Factor ‘c’ is applicable only in cases where the actual profit and/or loss avoided 
(approx) is determinable and disgorgement with  interest is not  ordered. While 
calculating the period, the fractions may be ignored. 
 

 

‘V’ = VALUE FOR THE HIGHEST % OF VOLUME TRADED IN ANY TRADING PERIOD DURING 

In case of more than one scrip, the scrip with the highest volume traded is to be 

THE ENTIRE PERIOD OF VIOLATION  

considered 

TABLE IVA- SPECIAL BASE VALUES, IN ADDITION TO GENERAL BASE VALUES 

 

 

% VOLUME TRADED 
(ILLIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 50% 

50 -60% 

60-75% 

75% or more 

‘V’ 

 

0.1 

0.15 

0.2 

0.25 

% VOLUME TRADED 

(LIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 2% 

2-5% 

5-10% 

10% or more 

 

 

 

‘P’ = VALUE FOR HIGHEST % OF PRICE CHANGE DURING THE ENTIRE PERIOD OF 

VIOLATION  

In case of more than one scrip, the scrip with the highest price change is to be 

considered 

TABLE IVB- SPECIAL BASE VALUES, IN ADDITION TO GENERAL BASE VALUES 

% PRICE CHANGE 
(ILLIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 50% 

50-100% 

100-200% 

200% or more 

‘P’ 

 

0.1 

0.15 

0.2 

0.25 

% PRICE CHANGE 
(LIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 5% 

5-10% 

10-20% 

20% or more 

‘Q’ = VALUE FOR HIGHEST % OF PRICE CHANGE, DURING THE PERIOD OF DEFAULT FOR 

F&O & LEVERAGED PRODUCTS 

In case of more than one product, the contract with the highest price change is 

to be considered 

TABLE IVC- SPECIAL BASE VALUES, IN ADDITION TO GENERAL BASE VALUES 

% PRICE CHANGE 

Upto 0.5% 

0.5-1% 

1-5% 

5% or more 

‘Q’ 

0.1 

0.15 

0.2 

0.25 

Page 96 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

TABLE V- SPECIAL BASE VALUES,  IN ADDITION TO GENERAL BASE VALUES  FOR 

DISCLOSURE AND OPEN OFFER DEFAULTS 

NATURE OF VIOLATION  

a.   

Non-disclosure charge (including incorrect or incomplete 

disclosure) under any regulation relating to takeover, insider 
trading or issue or listing of securities in combination with any 

other charge 

BASE 
VALUE 

0.20 

b.   

Non-Disclosure charge (including incorrect or incomplete 

- 0.5 

disclosure) where Applicant is a body corporate with paid-up 

equity share capital (including reserves) below Rupees Ten crores 

(not applicable to companies which are exclusively holding 

companies) 

c. 

 In open offer violations: acquirer not in control of target company, 

0.25 

prior to triggering the takeover 

VI. 

In cases where joint and several liability exists, a single IA may be based on the factors 
and the weightages applicable to the default in general, as the IC or HPAC or Panel of 
WTMs may deem fit and any other factor may also be considered while imposing any 
limit in respect of amounts that may be recovered from a particular applicant, in respect 
of the IA calculated for multiple applicants. 

Page 97 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

CHAPTER VI 

 

APPLICABLE BENCHMARK AMOUNT 

 

TABLE-VI   

 

the Board] 

Or 

whichever is higher. 

The BA as per the Tables in this Chapter, 

APPLICABLE B = 'The illegal profits’ + ‘loss caused to investors', [quantified as per the guidelines, if any, issued by 

 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL GUIDELINE: In case the applicant is charged for non-disclosure of Regulations relating to Open Offer [SEBI (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997, SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 
2011,  and  any  subsequent  similar  regulations]  and  PIT  [Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 1992, SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, and any subsequent similar regulations], 
the Benchmark Amount arrived at for the highest such charge shall be reduced by 75%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

0.25% OF THE OPEN OFFER SIZE, I.E. MAX NUMBER OF SHARES FOR WHICH OPEN OFFER 

MUST BE GIVEN X APPLICABLE OPEN OFFER PRICE, WHICHEVER IS HIGHER 

BA FOR ALLEGED DEFAULT RELATING TO OPEN OFFER 

NATURE OF VIOLATION  

DELAYED OPEN OFFER 

BA FOR ACQUIRER AND PERSONS ACTING IN CONCERT 

0.5% OF THE OPEN OFFER SIZE, 

WHICHEVER IS HIGHER 

(AFTER DIRECTION FROM THE BOARD) 

RUPEES 50 LAKH 

OR  

RUPEES 25 LAKH 

OR  

 

 

 

 

DELAYED OPEN OFFER  

 

 

Page 98 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

WHERE THE MAKING OF THE OPEN 
OFFER IS INFRUCTUOUS I.E. WHEN 

INFRUCTUOUS BY AN 

INFRUCTUOUS DUE TO OTHER REASON, INCLUDING 

ACT OF THE COMPANY 

WHEN OPEN OFFER IS NOT BENEFICIAL TO 

COMPANY HAS BEEN DELISTED, WHEN 

REQUIRED TO MAKE 

SHAREHOLDERS 

OPEN OFFER IS NOT BENEFICIAL TO 

AN OPEN OFFER 

SHAREHOLDERS, ETC 

 
 
 

 

RUPEES 1 CRORE 

OR  

OPEN OFFER SIZE, 

WHICHEVER IS HIGHER 

 

ANY  AMOUNT  BETWEEN  THE  MINIMUM  PENALTY  TO 
PROBABLE COST OF OPEN OFFER AS RECOMMENDED BY THE  
 
CORPORATE FINANCE DEPARTMENT OF THE BOARD 

BA FOR ALLEGED DEFAULT RELATING TO DISCLOSURES UNDER SECURITIES EXCHANGE BOARD OF 

INDIA (SUBSTANTIAL ACQUISITION OF SHARES AND TAKEOVERS) REGULATIONS -1997/2011 

TABLE-VII   

 

PERCENTAGE OF SHAREHOLDING 
OR VOTING RIGHTS  ACQUIRED OR 
DISPOSED BUT NOT DISCLOSED OR 

PERCENTAGE OF ENCUMBERED 

SHARES  BUT NOT DISCLOSED, etc. 

 

REGULATION 7 OF 

1997 

REGULATIONS 

 

OR 

 

REGULATION 29 OF 
2011 REGULATIONS  

 

(I) 

BA FOR VIOLATION OF  

REGULATION 8 OF  
1997 REGULATIONS  

REGULATION 8A OF 1997 

REGULATIONS 

 

OR 

 

REGULATION 30 OF  
2011 REGULATIONS  

 

(II) 

 

OR 

 

REGULATION  
31 OF  2011 

REGULATIONS 

 

(III) 

Upto 2 %  

Rupees 2 lakh 

 
+ 
 

Rupees 5,000/- For every three months delay# or part thereof  

 

Page 99 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

2% to less than 5 %  

5 % to less than 10%  

Rupees 5 lakh 

+ 

Rupees 10,000/- For every three months delay or part thereof 

Rupees 10 lakh 

+ 

10 % to less than 15 % 

Rupees 15 lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the holding not disclosed, etc. 

Rupees 15,000/- For every three months delay or part thereof 

Rupees 20,000/- For every three months delay or part thereof 

+ 

15% and above  

Rupees 20 lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the holding not disclosed, etc. 

Rupees 25,000/- For every three months delay or part thereof 

+ 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to Table VII:  

1.  Table VII is not applicable in cases where the disclosure related violation is in combination with FUTP or PIT. 

Explanation:  Dealing  while  in  possession  of  material  financial  or  shareholding  information  may  be  treated  as  insider 
trading.  

2.  The BA for violation at (II) shall only be as per the lowest slab, irrespective of change in  shareholding over the reporting 
period. In case of violations related to disclosures that are required to be made annually\ the amount for delay for every 
three months or part thereof shall be computed only for the first disclosure violation. In case the noticee complies with the 
annual  reporting  requirements  for  a  few  years,  such  compliance  will  not  result  in  a  higher  amount  than  would  have 
otherwise be calculated for continuous violations. 

3.  The period of delay is to be calculated from the last day, when the disclosure ought to have been made, as required by the 

regulations. 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

Page 100 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

BA – ALLEGED DEFAULT RELATING TO TRANSACTION SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES UNDER REGULATIONS 13(3), 

13(4), 13(4A) AND CORRESPONDING 13 (6) OF 1992 PIT REGULATIONS [INCLUDES, CORRESPONDING 

TABLE VIII  

 

TRANSACTION SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES UNDER REGULATIONS OF 2015  PIT REGULATIONS] 

PERCENTAGE OF SHAREHOLDING OR VOTING RIGHTS  

ACQUIRED OR DISPOSED BUT NOT DISCLOSED OR 
PERCENTAGE OF ENCUMBERED SHARES  BUT NOT 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to Table VIII:  

DISCLOSED, ETC. 

Upto 2% 

2% to less than 5% 

5% to less than 10% 

BA 

Rupees 2.5 lakh 

+ 

Rupees 7,500/- For every three months delay or part 

thereof 

Rupees 6 lakh 

+ 

Rupees 12,500/- For every three months delay or part 

thereof 

Rupees 12 lakh 

+ 

10 % to less than 15% 

Rupees 18 lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the holding not 

Rupees 17,500/- For every three months delay or part 

thereof 

disclosed, etc. 

+ 

Rupees 22,500/- For every three months delay or part 

thereof 

15% and above  

Rupees 25 lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the holding not 

disclosed, etc. 

+ 

Rupees 25,000/- For every three months delay or part 

thereof 

 

 

Page 101 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

1.  In cases of disclosure related violations by connected persons or by key managerial persons, the BA may be increased by 

25%.  

2.  Table VIII is not applicable in cases where the disclosure related violation is in combination with FUTP or IT. 

Explanation: Dealing while in possession of material financial or shareholding information may be treated as IT.  

TABLE IX  

 

BA - DISCLOSURES RELATED VIOLATIONS NOT COVERED IN TABLES VII AND VIII  

NATURE OF ALLEGED DEFAULT 

BASE AMOUNT 

TYPE OF  DISCLOSURE RELATED VIOLATION 

PIT REGULATIONS 

Periodical and other disclosures 

OPEN OFFER REGULATIONS 

Reporting requirements or disclosures for which exemptions are 
available, except cases of non-compliance of a condition precedent 
for availing exemption would result in triggering of an open offer 

obligation 

(The Regulation 6 of 1997 Regulations are dated and no amount may 
be imposed for its violation, except in case of standalone violations 
of Regulation 6 the minimum SA may be applicable) 

 

Rupees 5 lakh 

+ 

Rupees 5,000/- for every three months 

delay or part thereof, if applicable 

 

 

Rupees 5 lakh 

+ 

Rupees 10,000/- for every three months 

delay or part thereof, if applicable 

VIOLATIONS UNDER REGULATIONS RELATED TO FOREIGN INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS  

Failure to provide information  

Rupees 20 lakh per default 

 

 

 

Page 102 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

Intimation of material changes 

Rupees 5 lakh per default 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to Table IX:  
 

RESIDUARY 

Code of conduct reporting  requirements 

 

Disclosures on appointment of director 

or 

or 

Any other disclosure related violations that are not detailed in this  

Chapter, if deemed appropriate 

Rupees 5 lakh 

+ 

Rupees 10,000/- for every three months 

delay or part thereof, if applicable 

1.  In cases of disclosure related violations by key managerial persons, the Benchmark Amount may be increased by 25%.  
2.  Table IX is not applicable in cases where the disclosure related violation is in combination with FUTP or IT. 

Explanation: Dealing while in possession of material financial or shareholding information may be treated as IT.  

RESIDUARY BA, FOR EACH UNIT OF ALLEGED DEFAULT FOR EACH APPLICANT OR ON JOINT LIABILITY BASIS (AS PER THE SUM OF APPLICABLE 

AMOUNTS IN CASE OF JOINT APPLICANTS) 

TABLE-X  

 

 

INDIVIDUA

BODY 

L 

(PRINCIPAL 
OFFICERS 

CORPORAT
E & FIRM 

PRINCIPAL 
OFFICERS& 

 

SECTION 15B 
AND 15F OF 
SEBI ACT 

 

COMPLIANCE 

& 

FAILURE IN 

MARKET 

FUND RELATED 

REDRESSING 

INFRASTRUC

DEFAULTS 

INVESTOR 

GRIEVANCES 

TURE 

(AND PRINCIPAL 

INSTITUTION

OFFICERS IN CASES 

NOT 

(AND 

OFFICERS 

INCLUDED) 

PRINCIPAL 

 

SIMILAR 
DEFAULTS 

(AND PRINCIPAL 

OFFICERS IN  

S 

(AND 

RELATING TO JOINT 

LIABILITY WITH THE 

 

(I) 

OFFICERS 

[WHEN NOT 

(AND 

CASES RELATING 

PRINCIPAL 

IN  CASES 

RELATING 

IN II, IV-

VII] 

PRINCIPAL 

TO JOINT 

OFFICERS IN  

OFFICERS IN  

LIABILITY WITH 

CASES 

FUND) 
(VII) 

 

Page 103 of 209 

 
 
 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

TO JOINT 

LIABILITY 

WITH THE 

BODY 

CORPORAT
E /FIRM) 

(II) 

 

(III) 

CASES 

THE 

RELATING TO 

RELATING TO 

INTERMEDIARY/I

JOINT 

JOINT 

LIABILITY 

WITH THE 

SSUER)  

(V) 

 

LIABILITY 

WITH THE 

INSTITUTION

INTERMEDIAR

(FOR DELAY 

Y) (IV) 

REDUCE TO 1/4) 

) 

(VI) 

BA WHERE: 

RUPEES 15 

RUPEES 1.5 

RUPEES 45 

RUPEES 15 

RUPEES 30 LAKHS 

RUPEES 5 

RUPEES 33 LAKHS  

LAKHS 

CRORES 

LAKHS 

LAKHS 

CRORE 

 

OR 

 

0.01% OF THE AVERAGE 

ASSET UNDER 

MANAGEMENT, AT TIME 

OF VIOLATION  

 

OR 

 

0.05% OF THE AVERAGE 
NET WORTH, AT TIME OF 

VIOLATION,  

 

WHICHEVER IS HIGHER 

DEFAULT RELATE 
TO FUTP OR IT,  

 

CODE OF CONDUCT 

VIOLATION 

RELATING TO 
FUTP OR IT,  

 

INADEQUATE 

SYSTEMIC 

SAFEGUARDS 

RELATING TO 
FUTP OR IT,  

 

FALSE/ 

MISLEADING/ 

INCORRECT/INCO

MPLETE 

DISCLOSURES IN 

OFFER 

DOCUMENTS,  

 

FAILURE BY 

MARKET 

INFRASTRUCTURE 

 

 

Page 104 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

INSTITUTIONS TO 

CONDUCT 

BUSINESS IN THE 

REQUIRED 
MANNER,  

 

 A RECKLESS  
VIOLATION,  

 

 OR  

 
A 

DISGORGEMENT/R
EFUND IN EXCESS 

OF RUPEES 

1CRORE.  (M) 

 

BENCHMARK 

RUPEES 60 

RUPEES 3 

RUPEES 2 

RUPEES 60 

RUPEES 80 LAKHS 

RUPEES 10 

RUPEES 60 LAKHS  

LAKHS 

CRORE 

CRORE 

LAKHS 

CRORE 

WHERE  VIOLATION 
INVOLVED  AT  (M) 
AND, - 

SUCH VIOLATION 

DIRECTLY OR 
INDIRECTLY – 

 

(I) RESULTED IN 

SUBSTANTIAL 

LOSSES TO OTHER 

PERSONS, OR  

 

(II) CREATED A 

SIGNIFICANT RISK 

OF SUBSTANTIAL 

 

OR 

 

0.05% OF THE AVERAGE 

ASSET UNDER 

MANAGEMENT, AT TIME 

OF VIOLATION  

 

OR 

 

0.075% OF THE 

AVERAGE NET WORTH, AT 

TIME OF VIOLATION,  

WHICHEVER IS 
 

Page 105 of 209 

 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

LOSSES TO OTHER 

PERSONS, OR 

 

(III) AFFECTED 

THE INTEGRITY OF 

THE SECURITIES 

MARKET 

(N) 

 HIGHER 

RESIDUARY (O) 

RUPEES 3 

RUPEES 15 

RUPEES 10 

RUPEES 3 LAKHS  RUPEES 6 LAKHS 

RUPEES 3 

RUPEES 15 LAKHS  

LAKHS 

LAKHS 

LAKHS 

CRORE 

 

OR 

 

0.001% OF THE 

AVERAGE ASSET UNDER 
MANAGEMENT, AT TIME 

OF VIOLATION  

 

OR 

 

0.01% OF THE AVERAGE 
NET WORTH, AT TIME OF 

VIOLATION,  

 

WHICHEVER IS HIGHER 

 
Note to Table X:  
 

1.  In case of applicability of more than one BA, the highest is to be considered. 
2.  In this Schedule, ‘Principal Officer’ means a person that may be covered under Section 27 of the SEBI Act, as amended by 

the Finance Act, 2018.  

3.  ‘Fund’ means an AIF, MF, CIS, and any other pooling arrangement required to be registered with the Board. 

 

 

 

Page 106 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

20. Chapter VIII of Schedule II: 
 
Current Regulatory provision: 
 
The  existing  Schedule  II  of  the  Settlement  Regulations  needs  to  be  revised  for  taking  into 
account the repetitive nature of a default. 
 
Recommendation and rationale: 
 
The  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  the  Indicative  Amount  should  take  into  account  the 
repetitive nature of the default. 
 
The Committee’s proposal in the context of repetitive default can be applied even in existing 
cases and also in non-settlement proceedings as the Schedule II is relevant in all enforcement 
proceedings. In this regard the committee has examined the practices of the USA SEC44 and 
the FINRA’s Sanction guidelines45 and accordingly framed Chapter VIII, containing suitable 
guidelines for taking into account the repetitive nature of the default. 
 
Proposed Revision to the Settlement Regulations: 
 

Existing Chapter 

None 

Suggested Revision 

Chapter VIII 

 

Repetitive nature of default 

 

 

I. 

The counts of defaults may be selected using one or more or a 
combination of the methods indicated in this Chapter.  
Explanation.  -  Different  methods  may  be  used  in  respect  of 
different  persons  in  the  same  cause  of  action  as  may  be 
required for arriving at a reasonable IA. 

II. 

In  general,  the  unit  of  alleged  default  may  be  selected  from 
either of, or a combination of, the following, - 

i. 
ii. 

iii. 
iv. 

the (approx.) number of purchase or sale transaction, 
the  (approx.)  number  of 
individual  deceptions 
attempted,  
the (approx.) number of investors involved, or 
‘Course of conduct’ standard 

-whereby  each  counts  amounts  to  a  complete  violation. 
Discretion  may  be  used  to  apply  a  different  standard  that  is 

                                                           
44  See,  e.g.,  SEC  v  Milan  Capital  Group,  Inc.,  2001  U.S.  Dist.  LEXIS  11804  (S.D.N.Y.  Aug  14,  2001) 
(penalties assessed based on each of the 200 fraudulent sales to customers);  SEC v M&A West, Inc., 
2005 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22358 (N.D. Cal. June 20, 2005) (assessing maximum penalty for each of the 
five charges under the statutes and rules); and SEC v Lipkin, 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 10496 (E.D.N.Y 
2006) (treating each of the two fraudulent kickback schemes, rather than each of the fraudulent sales 
to customers during the pendency of the schemes, as a separate violation for penalty purposes). 
45Latest FINRA Sanction Guidelines available at 
<http://www.finra.org/sites/default/files/Sanctions_Guidelines.pdf>. 

Page 107 of 209 

 
 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

less  prejudicial  to  a  person  after  taking  into  account  the 
interest of the investors in securities:  
Provided that, where a large number of counts of a default are 
noted,  for  arriving  at  a  reasonable  IA  a  less  prejudicial 
standard of selecting the unit of default may be applied.  
 
Explanation.  -  In  respect  of  a  default  relating  to  a  report  or 
statement,-  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

each person to whom a misleading report was sent or 
statement made may involve a separate “act”; 
each  distinct  misleading  report  or  statement  made 
may be a separate “act”;  
each  distinct  misleading  statement  within  a  report 
may be a separate “act”; 
the course of conduct standard in respect of all or any 
such reports or statements; or 
a combination of i, ii, iii and iv above 

 

 

III.  Course of Conduct standard: Depending on the facts and 
circumstances  of  a  case,  for  the  purpose  of  arriving  at  a 
reasonable IA, “course of conduct” standard in which multiple 
counts  of  a  violation  are  aggregated  and  counted  as  a  single 
violation for purposes of calculating IA may be applied.  

Explanation  1.  -  It  may  be  reasonable  to  aggregate  multiple 
counts of a default if, - 

(a) the conduct did not involve manipulative, fraudulent 
or deceptive intent or insider trading, except where the 
recommended  IA  would  otherwise  be  extremely 
disproportionate to the conduct;  
Explanation.  –  “disproportionate”  and  “reasonable” 
refer  to  the  appropriateness  vis-à-vis  the  deterrence 
sought to be achieved and not appropriateness vis-à-vis 
the illegal profit made by the applicant or loss caused to 
investors. 
 
(b) the conduct did not result in substantial injury to the 
rights of public investors, or if restitution was made in 
such cases; and 
(c)  the  violations  resulted  from  a  systemic  problem  or 
cause that has been corrected.  

 
Explanation 2. – Depending  on  the facts  and  circumstances, 
the units of violation may be based on how long the violations 
continued, however no uniformity of the period of time (daily, 
weekly, fortnightly, monthly, yearly) is required. The multiple 
counts  of  violation  acts  may  be  combined  into  one  or  more 
than one course of conduct. 

Page 108 of 209 

 

 

 
 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

 

 

Sr. 
No. 

1 

Regul
ation 
No. 
1 

 

2 

IV.  COMPARATIVE TABLE 

Existing Regulations 

Proposed New Regulations 

Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Settlement  of Administrative and Civil 
Proceedings) Regulations, 2014.  
(2) They shall be deemed to have come 
into  force  with  effect  from  20th  day  of 
April 2007. 
Definitions. 
2.(1)  In  these  regulations,  unless  the 
context  otherwise  requires,  the  terms 
defined  herein  shall  bear  the  meanings 
assigned  to  them  below,  and  their 
cognate  expressions  shall  be  construed 
accordingly,–  
(a)  "Act"  means  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 
1992);  
(b) “alleged default” means an alleged or 
probable  non-compliance 
any 
provision of the securities laws;  
(c)  "Board"  means  the  Securities  and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  established 
under the provisions of Section 3 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);  
(d)  "panel  of  whole  time  members" 
means  the  panel  consisting  of  two  or 
more  Whole  Time  Members  of  the 
Board;  
(e) "securities  laws" means  the Act, the 
Securities  Contract  (Regulations)  Act, 
1956  (42  of  1956),  the  Depositories 
Act,1996 (22 of 1996), and the rules and 
regulations made thereunder;  
(f)  "specified  proceedings"  means  the 
proceedings  which  have  been  initiated 
or  may  be  initiated  under  Section  11, 
Section 11B, Section 11D, sub-Section (3) 

of 

Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities 
and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement 
Proceedings) Regulations, 2018.  
(2) They shall be  deemed  to have  come  into  force 
with effect from 20th day of April 2007.  
 

Definitions. 
2.(1)  In  these  regulations,  unless  the  context 
otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 
bear  the  meanings  assigned  to  them  below,  and 
their  cognate  expressions  shall  be  construed 
accordingly, –           

(a)  "Act"  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange 

Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 

(b) “alleged  default”  means  an  alleged  or 
probable  non-compliance  contravention 
of any provision of the securities laws; 

(c)  "Board" means the Securities and Exchange 
Board  of  India  established  under  the 
provisions of Section 3 of the Securities and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of 
1992)Act; 

(d) "Panel of Whole Time Members" means the 
panel consisting of two or more Whole Time 
Members of  the Board;   

(e)  "securities 

the  Act, 

laws"  means 

the 
Securities Contract (Regulations) Act, 1956 
(42 of 1956), the Depositories Act,1996 (22 
of 1996), the relevant provisions of the 
any  other  law  to  the  extent  it  is 
administered  by  the  Board  and  the 
relevant 
regulations  made 
thereunder; 

rules  and 

(f)  "specified 

proceedings"  means 

the 
proceedings which may be initiated or have 
been  initiated  and  are  pending  before 
any  forum,  for  the  violation  of 

 
 

Page 109 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

the 

or 

any 

or 
shall  have 

of Section 12 or Section 15-I of the Act or 
Section  12A  or  Section  23-I  of  the 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)Act, 
1956 or Section 19 or Section 19H of the 
Depositories Act, 1996, as the case may 
be;  
(g)  "specified"  means  specified  by  the 
Board through circulars or guidelines;  
(h)  "Tribunal"  means  the  Securities 
Appellate  Tribunal  established  under 
Section  15K  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 
 
 (2) Words and expressions used and not 
defined in these regulations but defined 
in the Act, the Companies Act, 1956, the 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act, 
1956  and  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  or 
regulations  made 
any 
rules 
thereunder 
same 
meanings respectively assigned to them 
in those Acts, rules or regulations made 
thereunder 
statutory 
modification or re-enactment thereto. 
Application. 
3.  (1)  A  person,  against  whom  any 
specified 
been 
initiated or may be initiated, may make 
an application to the Board in the Form 
specified in Part-A of the Schedule-I:  
 
Provided that any person who proposes 
to  dispose  of  any  proceedings  with 
regard to defaults under securities laws, 
pending before the Tribunal or a court, 
wherein the Board is a party may also file 
the  settlement  proposal  in  the  Form  as 
specified in Part-A of the Schedule-I.  
 
(2)  The  application  made  under  sub-
regulation (1) shall be accompanied by a 
non-refundable  application 
fee  as 
specified in Part-B and the undertakings 
and waivers as specified in Part-C of the 
Schedule-I:  
Provided  that  the  rejection  of  the 
the 
application 

proceedings 

shall  not 

affect 

have 

securities laws, under Section 11, Section 
11B, Section 11D, sub-Section (3) of Section 
12 or Section 15-I of the Act or Section 12A 
or  Section  23-I  of  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation)Act,  1956  or  Section  19  or 
Section  19H  of  the  Depositories  Act,  1996, 
as the case may be; 

(g)  "Tribunal"  means  the  Securities  Appellate 
Tribunal  established  under  Section  15K  of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992.  

 
(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in 
these  regulations  but  defined  in  the  Act,  the 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  the 
Depositories Act, 1996 and  the Companies Act, 
2013 or any rules or regulations made thereunder 
shall have the same meanings respectively assigned 
to  them  in  those  Acts,  rules  or  regulations  made 
thereunder  or  any  statutory  modification  or  re-
enactment thereto.   
 

Application.  
3.  (1)  A  person,  against  whom  any  specified 
proceedings have been initiated and are pending 
or may be initiated, may make an application to the 
Board  in  the  Form  specified  in  Part-A  of  the 
Schedule-I. 
 
Provided  that  any  person  who  proposes  to  seek 
settlement  of  any  proceedings  with  regard  to 
defaults  under  securities  laws, pending before  the 
Tribunal or a  court, where the Board is a party may 
also file the settlement application in the Form as 
specified in Part-A of Schedule-I.   
 
 
(2) The application made under sub-regulation (1) 
shall  be  accompanied  by  a  non-refundable 
application fee as specified in Part-B of Schedule I 
and  the  undertakings  and  waivers    as  specified  in 
Part-C of Schedule-I: 
 
the 
application shall not affect the continued validity of 
the undertakings and waivers and subject to such 

rejection  of 

Provided 

that 

the 

 

3 

 
 

Page 110 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

any 

or 

ongoing 

continued  validity  of  the  undertakings 
and  waivers  and  the  Board  or  the 
applicant,  subject  to  the  undertakings 
and  waivers,  shall  be  free  to  resort  to 
legal recourse as may be available under 
law.  
 
(3)  The  applicant  shall  make  full  and 
true  disclosures  in  the  application  in 
respect  of 
the  alleged  default(s): 
Provided  that  the  facts  established 
against the applicant or admitted by him 
in 
concluded 
proceedings  with  respect  to  the  same 
cause of action, under any law, shall be 
deemed to be admitted by the applicant 
in  respect  of  the  proceedings  proposed 
to be settled.  
 
(4)  The  applicant  shall  make  one 
application  for  settlement  of  all  the 
proceedings  that  have  been  initiated  or 
may  be  initiated  in respect  of  the  same 
cause of action:  
Provided  that  an  applicant,  who  has 
applied  for  compounding  of  an  offence 
before  a  court  for  the  same  cause  of 
action 
specified 
proceedings,  shall,  within  thirty  days 
from the date of making the application, 
make  an  application  under 
sub-
regulation (1) in respect of the specified 
proceedings.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(5) An application that is not complete in 
all  respects  or  does  not  conform  to  the 
requirements  of  these  regulations  shall 
be returned.  
 
(6) The applicant whose application has 
been returned under sub- regulation (5) 

related 

to 

the 

undertakings and waivers, the Board or the 
applicant, shall be free to initiate or pursue 
such proceedings as may be appropriate in 
accordance with law. 
 
 
 
(3)  The  applicant  shall  make  full  and  true 
disclosures  in  the  application  in  respect  of  the 
alleged default(s): 
Provided  that  the  facts  established  against  the 
applicant or admitted in any ongoing or concluded 
proceedings  with  respect  to  the  same  cause  of 
action,  under  any  law,  shall  be  deemed  to  be 
admitted  by  the  applicant  in  respect  of  the 
proceedings proposed to be settled.  
 
 
 
(4)  The  applicant  shall  make  one  application  for 
settlement  of  all  the  proceedings  that  have  been 
initiated or may be initiated in respect of the same 
cause of action. 
 
Provided  that  an  applicant,  who  has  applied  for 
compounding  of  an  offence  before  a  court  for  the 
same  cause  of  action  related  to  the  specified 
proceedings, shall, within thirty days from the date 
of  making  the  application,  make  an  application 
under sub-regulation (1) in respect of the specified 
proceedings.  
 
 
 
(5) The provisions of Chapters IV to VI and 
Schedule-II  may  be  applied  mutatis 
mutandis 
for  arriving  at  a  proposal 
pursuant  to  a  compounding  application 
filed or to be filed before the court. 
 
(6)  An  application  that  is  not  complete  in  all 
respects or does not conform to the requirements of 
these  regulations  shall  be  returned  to  the 
applicant. 
Explanation.  -  An  application  for  settlement  of 
defaults  related  to  disclosures,  shall  to  the  extent 

Page 111 of 209 

 

 
 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

may, within fifteen days from the date of 
communication of the rejection, submit 
the revised application that conforms to 
the requirements of these regulations:  
Provided  that  no  further  opportunity 
shall  be  given  to  the  applicant  to  make 
an  application  in  respect  of  the  alleged 
default. 
 
 
(7) Where the applicant is an association 
or  a  firm  or  a  body  corporate,  the 
application  and  undertakings  and 
waivers shall be executed by the person 
in  charge  of,  and  responsible  for  the 
conduct of the business of such firm or 
association,  or  body  corporate  and  the 
same shall bind the firm or association, 
the body corporate and any officer who 
is in default.  
Explanation.-  For  the  purpose  of  this 
sub-regulation,  the  expression  'officer 
who is in default' has the same meaning 
as  provided  in  sub-Section  (60)  of 
Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013.  
 
(8)  An  application  for  settlement  of 
defaults  related  to  disclosures,  shall  be 
made  after  making 
required 
disclosure. 

the 

 

4 

Limitation. 
4.  (1)No  application  in  respect  of  any 
specified  proceedings  pending  with  the 
Board  shall  be  considered  if  it  is  made 
after sixty days from the date of service 
of 
to  show  cause  or 
supplementary notice(s) to show cause, 
whichever is served later.  
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained 
in sub-regulation (1), the panel of whole 

the  notice 

possible,  be  made  after  making  the  required 
disclosure. 
 
(7)  The  applicant  whose  application  has  been 
returned  under  sub-  regulation  (56)  may,  within 
fifteen days from the date of communication from 
the  Board,  submit  the  complete  and  revised 
application  that  conforms  to  the  requirements  of 
these regulations: 
    Provided  that  no  further  opportunity  shall  be 
given  to  the  applicant  to  make  an  application  in 
respect of the alleged default at the same stage of 
the  proceedings,  as  indicated  in  Table  I  in 
Schedule-II. 
 
 
(8) Where the applicant is an association or a firm 
or  a  body  corporate, 
the  application  and 
undertakings and waivers shall be executed by the 
person in charge of, and responsible for the conduct 
of the business of such firm or association or body 
corporate  or  a  limited  liability  partnership 
and the same shall bind the firm or association, the 
body corporate and any officer who is in default. 
Explanation.  -  For  the  purpose  of  this  sub-
regulation, the expression 'officer who is in default' 
shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  provided  in  sub-
Section  (60)  of  Section  2  of  the  Companies  Act, 
2013. 
 
 
 
(8) An application for settlement of defaults related 
to  disclosures  shall  be  made  after  making  the 
required disclosures. 
 
 
Limitation.  
4. (1)No An application in respect of any specified 
proceedings pending  with before  the Board shall 
not be considered if it is made after sixty days from 
the  date  of  service  of  the  notice  to  show  cause  or 
supplementary notice(s) to show cause, whichever 
is served later. 
 
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-
regulation (1), the  Panel  of  Whole  Time  Members 

Page 112 of 209 

 
 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

the 
time  members  may  consider 
application,  if  it  is  satisfied  that  there 
was  sufficient  cause  for  not  filing  it 
within  the  period  specified  in  sub-
regulation (1) and it is accompanied with 
an application for condonation of delay 
and non-refundable fees  as  specified in 
Part-B of the Schedule-I.  
Provided  that  where  the  application  is 
filed  after  sixty  calendar  days  from  the 
expiry  of  the  period  specified  in  sub-
regulation  (1),  the  settlement  amount 
payable  by  the  applicant  shall  be 
increased by a levy of simple interest at 
the rate of six per cent, per annum, from 
the expiry of the period specified in sub-
regulation (1) till the date of filing. 
 
 
 
(3)The provisions of this regulation shall 
not  apply  in  the  case  of  proceedings 
pending  before  the  Tribunal  or  any 
court. 

Scope of settlement proceedings. 
5.  (1)  No  application  for  settlement  of 
any  specified  proceedings  shall  be 
considered, if:  
(a)the  alleged  default  was  committed 
within a period of twenty four calendar 
months  from  the  date  of  the 
last 
settlement  order  where  the  applicant 
was a party;  
(b) an earlier application with regard to 
the  same  alleged  default  had  been 
rejected:  
Provided  that  such  an  application  may 
be 
exceptional 
circumstances, such as the lapse of time 
since  the  commission  of  the  alleged 
default,  the  weight  of  evidence  against 
the  applicant,  etc  and  subject  to  the 
payment of such additional fees and/or 
interest on the settlement amount from 

considered 

in 

Board  may  consider  the  application,  if  it  is 
satisfied  that  there  was  sufficient  cause  for  not 
filing  it  within  the  specified  period  specifiedin 
sub-regulation  (1)  and  it  is  accompanied  with  an 
application  for  condonation  of  delay  and  non-
refundable  fees  as  specified  in  Part-B  of  the 
Schedule-I: 
 
 
Provided  that,  where  the  application  is  filed  after 
sixty  calendar  days  from  the  expiry  of  the  period 
specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  is  considered  by 
the  panel  of  whole  time  members,  the 
settlement  amount  determined  in  accordance 
with  Schedule-II  of  these  regulations  shall 
be increased by twenty five percent: 
Provided  further  that,  no  such  application 
shall  be  considered  if  the  delay  exceeds 
hundred and twenty calendar days from the 
expiry  of  the  period  specified  in  sub-
regulation (1) or after the first date fixed for 
oral hearing, if any, whichever is earlier. 
 
(3) The provisions of this regulation shall not apply 
in  the  case  of  proceedings  pending  before  the 
Tribunal or any court. 

 

Scope of settlement proceedings. 
5. (1) No application for settlement of any specified 
proceedings shall be considered, if:    
 
(a)an earlier application with regard to the 
same alleged default had been rejected; 
 
(b)  the  audit  or  investigation  or  inspection 
or  inquiry,  if  any,  in  respect  of  any  alleged 
default,  is  not  complete,  except  in  case  of 
applications involving confidentiality. 
 
(c) monies due under an order issued under 
securities laws are liable for recovery under 
securities laws. 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 113 of 209 

 
 

 

 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

and 

the 

in 

the  audit  or 

the  date  of  rejection  of  the  earlier 
application  till  the  date  of  payment  of 
the  settlement  amount,  as  may  be 
recommended  by  the  high  powered 
advisory committee. 
(c)  the  applicant  has  been  party  to  two 
settlement  orders  during  the  period  of 
thirty six calendar months, prior to the 
date of the application; 
(d) 
investigation  or 
inspection,  if  any,  in  respect  of  any 
alleged default, is not complete. 
 
(2) A  specified proceeding, shall not  be 
settled, if it involves any of the following 
defaults, namely,- (a) defaults involving 
insider  trading  and  communication  of 
unpublished price sensitive information 
in contravention of the provisions of the 
Act 
regulations  made 
thereunder;  
(b) fraudulent and unfair trade practices 
including  front  running,  which  in  the 
opinion  of  the  Board  are  serious  and 
have  a  market  wide  impact  or  have 
caused substantial losses to or affect the 
rights  of 
securities, 
especially  retail  investors  and  small 
shareholders:  
Provided  that  where  the  applicant  has 
made or intends to make good the losses 
due to the investors, his application may 
be considered.  
Provided further that the defaults under 
this  clause  shall  be  considered 
in 
accordance  with  these  regulations  and 
also 
in 
Schedule-II.  
Explanation.-  For  the  purpose  of  this 
clause,  the  expression  '  front  running' 
means usage of non-public information 
to  directly  or  indirectly,  buy  or  sell 
securities  or  enter 
into  options  or 
futures  contracts, 
in  advance  of  a 
substantial  order,  on  an  impending 
transaction,  in  the  same  or  related 
futures  or  options 
securities  or 

guidelines 

investors 

specified 

the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2)  The  Board  may  not  settle  any  specified 
proceeding,  if  it  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
alleged default, - 

i.  has market wide impact, 
ii. 

caused  losses  to  a  large  number  of 
investors, or 
affected the integrity of the market. 

iii. 
 
(3)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of 
the  foregoing  provisions,  for  settling  any 
specified  proceeding  the  Board  may  inter 
alia take into account the following factors, 
- 

 

(a) whether  the  applicant  has  refunded 
or  disgorged  the  monies  due,  to  the 
satisfaction of the Board;  
 

(b) whether  the  applicant  has  provided 
to 
an  exit  or  purchase  option 
investors 
compliance  with 
securities  laws,  to  the  satisfaction  of 
the Board;  
 

in 

(c) whether 

is 

the 

applicant 

in 
compliance  with  securities  laws  or 
any  order  or  direction  passed  under 
securities  laws,  to  the  satisfaction  of 
the Board; 
 

(d) any  other  factor  as  may  be  deemed 

appropriate by the Board. 

 

 

Page 114 of 209 

 
 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

and 

the 

the 

contracts, in anticipation that when the 
information becomes public; the price of 
such securities or contracts may change;  
(c)  failure  to  make  an  open  offer  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Act 
regulations  made 
thereunder,  except  where  the  applicant 
agrees to make the open offer or where 
the  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
making  of  the  open  offer  would  not  be 
beneficial  to  the  shareholders  or  is 
infructuous; 
(d) defaults or manipulative practices by 
mutual  funds,  alternative  investment 
funds,  collective  investment  schemes 
and their sponsors or asset management 
collective 
companies, 
investment 
management 
company,  managers, 
trustees that result in substantial losses 
to  investors,  except  in  cases  where  the 
applicant has compensated the investors 
for  the  losses,  to  the  satisfaction  of  the 
Board;  
(e) failure to redress investor grievances 
to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Board,  except 
where the alleged default is with regard 
to delayed redressal;  
(f)  failure,  by  issuers  of  securities  or 
entities who invite investment, to make 
material disclosures in offer documents 
as 
relevant 
regulations framed by the Board;  
(g)  raising  of  monies  by  issuance  of 
securities  or  pooling  of 
in 
violation  of  securities  laws  where  the 
remedy is refund of such monies;  
(h)  non-compliance  of  notices  and 
summons 
issued  by  the  Board  or 
summons  issued  by  the  adjudicating 
officer;  
(i)  non-compliance  of  any  order  or 
direction  passed  under  the  securities 
laws.  
 
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained 
in  this  regulation,  where  the  applicant 
makes  out  adequate  grounds  in  his 

required  under 

funds, 

(3) Without prejudice to sub-regulations (1) 
and  (3),  the  Board  may  not  settle  the 
specified proceedings where the applicant is 
a  wilful  defaulter,  a  fugitive  economic 
offender or has defaulted in payment of any 
fees  due  or  penalty 
imposed  under 
securities laws. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 115 of 209 

 
 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

the 

in 

the 

of 

settlement 

interest  of 

of 
application, 
proceedings  in  respect  of  the  defaults 
referred to in sub-regulation (2) may be 
considered 
the 
investors  and  the  development  and 
regulation 
securities  market: 
Provided that the reasons for settlement 
of such proceeding shall be recorded in 
writing. 
 
these 
(4)  Nothing 
regulations  shall  be  construed 
to 
preclude  the  panel  of  whole  time 
members  to  reject  any  application  in 
respect 
proceedings 
involving  the  defaults  referred  to  in 
clauses  (a),  (g),  (h)  and  (i)  of  sub-
regulation  (2)  without  examination  by 
the  internal  committee  or  the  high 
powered advisory committee. 

specified 

contained 

in 

of 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(4)  Nothing  contained  in  these  regulations 
shall be construed to restrict the right of the 
Panel  of Whole  Time  Members  to  consider 
or  reject  any  application  in  respect  of  any 
specified  proceeding  without  examination 
by  the  Internal  Committee  or  the  High 
Powered Advisory Committee. 
 
 
(Previously at Regulation 20 of existing 
Settlement Regulations) 
 
Rejection of application. 
6 (1) An application may at any time be 
rejected on the following grounds: 

(a) Where the applicant refuses to 

receive or respond to the 
communications sent by the Board; 

(b) Where the applicant does not submit 

or delays the submission of 
information, document, etc., as 
called for by the Board; 

(c)  Where the applicant who is required 
to appear, does not appear before the 
Internal Committee on more than 
one occasion; 

(d) Where the applicant violates in any 

manner the undertaking and waivers 
as provided in Part-C of the 
Schedule-I; 

(e)  Where the applicant does not remit 

the settlement amount within the 
period specified in clause (a) of sub-
regulation (3) of regulation 15 and/or 

Page 116 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

does not abide by the undertaking 
and waivers.  

 
(2) The rejection under sub-regulation (1) 
shall be communicated to the applicant: 
 
Provided that the applicant shall continue to 
be bound by the waivers given in respect of 
limitation  or  laches  in  respect  of  the 
initiation  or  continuation  or  restoration  of 
any legal proceeding and the waivers given 
under sub-paras (d), (e) (f) and (g) of para 
12  of  the  undertaking  and  waivers  as 
provided in Part-C of the Schedule-I. 
 
Withdrawal of application.  
7. (1)  An  application  may  be  withdrawn  at  any 
time prior to the communication of the decision of 
the  Panel  of  Whole  Time  Members  under 
regulation 15. 
 
(2) 
An applicant who withdraws an application 
under sub-regulation (1) shall not be permitted to 
make  another  application  in  respect  of  the  same 
default: 
 
 
Provided  that,  as  may  be  recommended  by 
the  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee, 
such  an  application  may  be  considered 
subject to an increase of atleast fifty percent 
over 
settlement  amount  earlier 
determined in accordance with Schedule-II 
of these regulations. 
 

the 

 

Effect of pending application on specified 
proceedings. 
8. (1) The filing of an application for settlement of 
any  specified  proceedings  shall  not  affect  the 
continuance  of  the  proceedings  save  that  the 
passing of the final order shall be kept in abeyance 
till the application is disposed of. 
 

Page 117 of 209 

 

Withdrawal of application. 
6. (1) An application may be withdrawn 
at any time prior to the communication 
of the decision of the panel of whole time 
members under regulation 14.  
 
(2)  An  applicant  who  withdraws  an 
application  under  sub-regulation  (1) 
shall not be permitted to make another 
application  in  respect  of  the  same 
default:  
 
Provided  that  such  an  application  may 
be  considered  at  the  next  stage  of 
proceedings,  as  indicated  in  Table  I  in 
Schedule-II,  if  the  applicant  makes  out 
adequate  grounds  and  subject 
to 
payment of such additional fees and/or 
interest on the settlement amount from 
the  date  of  withdrawal  of  the  earlier 
application  till  the  date  of  payment  of 
the  settlement  amount,  as  may  be 
recommended  by  the  high  powered 
advisory committee. 
Effect  of  pending  application  on 
the specified proceedings. 
7.  (1)  Filing  of  an  application  for 
settlement of any specified proceedings 
shall  not  affect  continuance  of  the 
proceedings  except  that  the  passing  of 
the  final  order  shall  be  in  abeyance  till 
the application is disposed of.  

 

6 

 

7 

 
 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 
(2) Where the application is filed in case 
of  proceedings  that  may  be  initiated 
against the applicant, such proceedings 
shall not be initiated till the application 
is rejected or withdrawn. 

 

8 

Settlement terms. 
8. (1) The settlement terms may include 
a  settlement  amount  and/or  non-
monetary terms, in accordance with the 
guidelines specified in Schedule-II.  
(2)  The  non-monetary 
terms  may 
include appropriate directions, such as:  
(a) Voluntary suspension of certificate of 
registration or closure of business for a 
specified period;  
(b) Removal from Management;  
(c)  Direction 
the  nature  of 
disgorgement,  where  it  is  possible  to 
identify the investors who have incurred 
losses  on  account  of  the  action  or 
inaction of the applicant;  
(d)  Debarment  of  certain  individuals 
from  acting  as  a  partner  or  officer  or 
director  of  an  intermediary  or  as  an 

in 

 
(2)    Where  the  application  is  filed  in  case  of 
proceedings  that  may  be  initiated  against  the 
applicant,  such  proceedings  shall  not  be  initiated 
till the application is rejected or withdrawn. 
 
Provided  that,  the  filing  of  an  application 
shall  not  prohibit  the  initiation  of  any 
proceedings,  in  so  far  as  may  be  deemed 
necessary  for  the  purpose  of  issuance  of 
interim  civil  and  administrative  directions 
to protect the interests of investors and the 
integrity of the securities markets. 
 
Explanation.  -  Where  any  proceeding  is 
pending  or  to  be  initiated  against  several 
persons  but  the  settlement  application  is 
filed  only  by  one  or  more  persons,  but  not 
all, the filing of such an application shall not 
affect  the 
initiation,  continuation  and 
disposal  of  the  proceedings  against  the 
person who has not filed the application for 
settlement  and  any  observations  made  in 
such proceedings against the applicant shall 
qua the applicant be subject to the outcome 
of  the  settlement  application  filed  such 
applicant. 
 
Settlement terms.  
9.  (1)  The  settlement  terms  may  include  a 
settlement amount and/or non-monetary terms, in 
accordance  with 
in 
Schedule-II. 
(2)  The  non-monetary  terms  may  include  the 
appropriate directions, such as following:- 

the  guidelines  specified 

(a)  Voluntary  Suspension  of  certificate  of 
registration  or  cessation  of  business 
activities for a specified period; 

(b) Exit from Management by voluntary 

agreement; 

(c)  Direction  in  the  nature  of  Disgorgement, 
where it is possible to identify the investors 
who have incurred losses on account of the 
action or inaction of the applicant;  

(d) Voluntary  debarment  Restraint  of  certain 
individuals  from  acting  as  a  partner  or 
officer or director of an intermediary or as 

Page 118 of 209 

 
 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

are 

issued 

to  prevent 

officer or director of a company that has 
a  class  of  securities  regulated  by  the 
Board, for specified periods;  
(e)  Cancellation  of  securities  and 
reduction  in  shareholding  where  the 
securities 
fraudulently 
including  cancellation  of  bonus  shares 
received  on  such  securities,  if  any,  and 
re-imbursement  of  any  dividends 
received, etc;  
(f) Voluntary lock-in of securities;  
(g) Implementation of enhanced policies 
and  procedures 
future 
securities  laws  violations  as  well  as 
direction 
to  appoint  or  retain  an 
independent 
review 
consultant 
policies and procedures;  
(h)  Direction  to  provide  enhanced 
training  and  education  to  employees  of 
intermediaries;  
(i)  Directions  relating  to  internal  audit 
and reporting requirements; 
(j)  Any  other  directions  that  may  be 
issued by the Board under the securities 
laws in the interest of the investors.  
 
 
 
 
 
(3)  The  settlement  amount,  excluding 
the 
legal  costs  and  disgorgement 
amount,  shall  be  credited 
the 
Consolidated Fund of India.  
 
(4)  The  application  fee  referred  to  in 
sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  3,  the 
additional processing fee accompanying 
the application for condonation of delay 
as  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  of 
regulation  4  and  the  legal  costs,  if  any, 
forming  part  of  the  settlement  amount 
shall  be  credited  to  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India General Fund. 
 
 
 

to 

to 

an officer or director of a company that has 
a class of securities regulated by the Board, 
for  specified  periods  by  voluntary 
agreement; 

(e)  Cancellation of securities and reduction in 
holding  where  the  securities  are  issued 
fraudulently 
including  cancellation  of 
bonus shares received on such securities, if 
any, and re-imbursement of any dividends 
received, etc; 

(f)  Voluntary  Lock-in  of 
voluntary agreement; 

securities  by 

(g)  Implementation  of  enhanced  policies  and 
procedures  to  prevent  future  securities 
laws  violations  as  well  as  direction 
agreeing 
to  appoint  or  engage  an 
independent  consultant  to  review  internal 
policies, processes and procedures; 

(h) DirectionAgreement to provide enhanced 
training  and  education  to  employees  of 
intermediaries  and  securities  market 
infrastructure institutions; 

(i)  Directions 

relating 

Voluntary 
submission  to  enhanced  to  internal 
audit and reporting requirements; 

(j)  Any  other  terms,  in  the  interest  of  the 

investors. 

 
(3)  The  settlement  amount,  excluding  the  legal 
costs and disgorged amount, shall be credited to the 
Consolidated Fund of India. 
 
 
(4) The application fee referred to in sub-regulation 
(2)  of  regulation  3  and  the  legal  costs,  if  any, 
forming part of the settlement amount shall 
be  credited  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India General Fund. 
 
Explanation.  –  Legal  costs  shall  include 
liquidated  costs,  as  may  be  determined  by 
the  Board,  in  respect  of  costs  incurred  for 
obtaining  appropriate  orders  from  the 
Tribunal or Court under sub-regulation (2) 
of regulation 24. 
 

Page 119 of 209 

 

 
 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

the 

applicant 

(5)  The  amount  of  ill-gotten  profits 
made or losses avoided by the applicant 
that  may  be  disgorged  as  part  of  the 
settlement terms, shall be credited to the 
Investor Protection and Education Fund 
of the Board. 
Factors to be considered to arrive 
at the settlement terms. 
9.  While  arriving  at  the  settlement 
terms, the Board shall also consider such 
factors  including  but  not  limited  to  the 
following:  
(a)  conduct  of  the  applicant  in  the 
investigation;  
(b)  the  role  played  by  the  applicant  in 
case the alleged default is committed by 
a group of persons;  
(c) nature, gravity and impact of alleged 
defaults;  
(d)  whether  any  other  proceeding 
against 
for  non-
compliance of securities laws is pending 
or concluded;  
(e) whether the alleged default is minor 
or major in nature;  
(f) the extent of amount of harm and/or 
loss  to  investors’  and/or  gain  by  the 
applicant;  
(g)  processes  which  have  been 
introduced  since  the  alleged  default  to 
minimize future defaults or lapses;  
(h)  compliance  schedule  proposed  by 
the applicant;  
(i)  economic  benefits  accruing  to  any 
person  from  the  non-compliance  or 
delayed compliance;  
(j)  conditions  which  are  necessary  to 
deter  future  non-compliance  by  the 
same or another person;  
(k)  satisfaction  of  claim  of  investors 
regarding  payment  of  money  due  to 
them or delivery of securities to them;  
(l) whether the applicant has undergone 
any  other  enforcement  action  for  the 
same violation;  
(m)any  other  factors  necessary  in  the 
facts and circumstances of the case. 

(5) The amount of ill-gotten profits made or losses 
avoided by the applicant that may be disgorged as 
part of the settlement terms, shall be credited to the 
Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund  of  the 
Board. 
 
Factors  to  be  considered  to  arrive  at  the 
settlement terms.   
10.  While  arriving  at  the  settlement  terms,  the 
Board  shall  also  consider  factors  indicated  in 
Schedule-II  may  be  considered,  such factors, 
including but not limited, to the following:  

(a)  conduct  of  the  applicant  during  the 
specified  proceeding,  investigation, 
inspection, inquiry or audit; 

(b) the role played by the applicant in case the 
alleged  default  is  committed  by  a  group  of 
persons; 

(c)  nature,  gravity  and 

impact  of  alleged 

defaults;  

(d) whether  any  other  proceeding  against  the 
applicant  for  non-compliance  of  securities 
laws is pending or concluded; 

(e)  the extent of amount of harm and/or loss to 
the  investors’  and/or  gains  made  by  the 
applicant;  

(f)  processes  that  have  been  introduced  since 
the  alleged  default  to  minimize  future 
defaults or lapses;  

(g)  compliance  schedule  proposed  by  the 

applicant; 

(h) economic  benefits  accruing  to  any  person 
the  non-compliance  or  delayed 

from 
compliance;  

(i)  conditions  which  are  necessary  to  deter 
future  non-compliance  by  the  same  or 
another person; 

(j)  satisfaction of claim of investors  regarding 
payment of money due to them or delivery 
of securities to them;  

(k) whether  the  applicant  has  undergone  any 
other  enforcement  action  that  has  been 
taken against the applicant for the same 
violation;  

(l)  any other factors necessary in the facts and 

circumstances of the case.  

 

 

Page 120 of 209 

 

9 

 
 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

10 

advisory 

advisory 

powered 

committee 

in  matters 

High 
committee. 
10. (1)The Board shall constitute a high 
powered 
for 
consideration  and  recommendation  of 
the terms of settlement.  
 
advisory 
(2)  The  high  powered 
committee  shall  consist  of  a  retired 
Judge of a High Court and three external 
experts  having  expertise  in  securities 
market  or 
connected 
therewith or incidental thereto. 
 
(3)  The  quorum  of  the  high  powered 
advisory  committee  shall  be  of  three 
members.  
 
(4) The term of the members of the high 
powered  advisory  committee  shall  be 
three years which may be extended for a 
further period of two years.  
 
(5)  The  high  powered 
advisory 
committee shall conduct its meetings in 
the  manner  specified  by  the  Board  in 
this regard. 

for 

High powered advisory committee. 
 
11.  (1) The Board shall constitute a High Powered 
Advisory  Committee 
consideration  and 
recommendation of the terms of settlement.  
 
 
(2)  The  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee  shall 
consist  of  a  Judicial  member  who  has  been 
the  Judge  of  the  Supreme  Court  or  a  High 
Court and three external experts having expertise 
in  securities  market  or  in  matters  connected 
therewith or incidental thereto. 
 
(3) The term of the members of the High Powered 
Advisory Committee shall be three years which may 
be extended for a further period of two years. 
 
 (4)  The  quorum  for  a  meeting  of  the  High 
Powered  Advisory  Committee  shall  be  of  three 
members. 
Explanation.  -  Meeting  includes  meeting 
through  audio-video  electronic  means  or 
through  the  medium  of  electronic  video 
linkage. 

 
(5)  The  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee  shall 
conduct its meetings in the manner specified by the 
Board in this regard: 
Provided  that,  where  any  member  of  the 
High  Powered  Advisory  Committee  seeks 
recusal, the remaining members or (atleast 
two) may submit their recommendation on 
the terms of settlement: 
 
Provided further that, in case no consensus 
or  majority 
the 
recommendation  made  by  the  Judicial 
member  shall  be  considered  to  be  the 
recommendation  of  the  High  Powered 
Advisory  Committee  and  in  case  of  recusal 
of 
the 
recommendations 
remaining 
members  (atleast  two)  shall  be  submitted 
for  consideration  to  the  Panel  of  Whole 
Time Members. 

member, 
the 

can  be 

reached, 

Judicial 

the 

of 

 
 

Page 121 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

(1) 

Internal  Committee  shall  be 

 
Provided also that, where all or all but one 
of  the  members  of  the  High  Powered 
Advisory  Committee  recuse  themselves  in 
respect  of  an  application,  the  Board  may 
constitute  another  High  Powered  Advisory 
Committee. 
 
Internal committee(s).  
12. 
constituted by the Board. 
 
(2) The Internal Committee(s) shall comprise of be 
headed  by  an  officer of  the  Board  not  below  the 
rank  of  Chief  General  Manager  and  shall 
comprise of such other officers as may be decided 
by the Board. 
 
Proceedings before the Internal Committee. 
13.  (1)  Save  as  otherwise  provided  in  these 
regulations,  an  application  shall  be  referred  to  an 
Internal  Committee  which  shall  to  examine 
whether the proceedings may be settled and if so to 
determine the settlement terms in accordance with 
these regulations. 
 
(2) The Internal Committee may:  
(a)  call  for  relevant  information,  documents,  etc., 
pertaining  to  the  alleged  default(s)  in  custody  of 
possession  of  the  applicant  or  obtainable  by 
the applicant; 
 
Explanation. – Nothing in these regulations 
shall  confer  a  right  upon  the  applicant  to 
seek information from the Board or require 
the  Board  to  seek  information  from  any 
other person for the purpose of relying upon 
in the settlement proceedings or request the 
Board  to  permit  it  to  present  information 
not  already  disclosed  in  the  application, 
which the applicant was aware of at the time 
of  making 
the  application  or  which 
information  upon  diligent  enquiry  being 
made  could  have  become  known  to  the 
applicant.  
 

 

 

11 

Internal committee(s). 
11.  The  internal  committee(s)  shall 
comprise  of  an  officer  of  the  Board  not 
below 
the  rank  of  Chief  General 
Manager and such other officers as may 
be decided by the Board. 

 

12 

before 

to 

for 

relevant 

internal 

Proceedings 
committee. 
12.  (1)  Save  as  otherwise  provided  in 
these regulations, an application shall be 
referred to the internal committee which 
shall  examine  whether  the  proceedings 
may  be  settled  and  if  so  determine  the 
settlement  terms  in  accordance  with 
these regulations.  
 
(2) The internal committee may:  
information, 
(a)  call 
documents,  etc.,  pertaining 
the 
alleged  default(s)  in  the  custody  of  the 
applicant;  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

Page 122 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 
(b)  call  for  the  personal  appearance  of 
the applicant before it:  
that  a  duly  authorized 
Provided 
representative  of  the  applicant  may 
make  representation  on  behalf  of  the 
applicant;  
 
 
 
 
 
(c)  permit  the  applicant  to  revise 
settlement  terms  within  a  period  not 
exceeding  ten  working  days  from  the 
date of the internal committee meeting.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3)  The  proposed  settlement  terms,  if 
any,  shall  be  placed  before  the  high 
powered advisory committee. 

terms,  placed  before 

Proceedings  before  high  powered 
advisory committee. 
13.  (1)  The  high  powered  advisory 
committee  shall  consider  the  proposed 
settlement 
it 
alongwith the following:  
(a)  the  application,  undertaking  and 
waivers of the applicant;  
(b) factors specified in regulation  
(c) 
settlement 
applicant;  
(d) any other relevant material available 
on record.  
(2)  The  high  powered 
advisory 
committee may require the applicant to 
revise the settlement terms and refer the 
application  back 
internal 
committee.  
 

terms  proposed  by 

revised 
the 

settlement 

terms  or 

to 

the 

the 

(b) call for the personal appearance of the applicant 
before it: 
Provided  that  a  duly  authorized  representative  of 
the applicant may make representation represent 
on behalf of the applicant:  
Explanation.  -  Personal  appearance  under 
this  clause  includes  appearance  through 
audio-video  electronic  means  or  through 
the  medium  of  electronic  video  linkage  as 
may  be  permitted  by 
Internal 
Committee.  
 
(c)  permit  the  applicant  to  submit  revised 
settlement terms within a period not exceeding ten 
working  days  from  the  date  of  the  Internal 
Committee meeting: 
 
Provided  that  the  revised  settlement  terms 
received after ten working days, but within 
twenty  working  days  may  be  considered 
subject to an increase of ten percent over the 
recommended settlement amount. 
 
(3) The proposed settlement terms, if any, shall be 
placed  before 
the  High  Powered  Advisory 
Committee. 
 
Proceedings  before  the  High  Powered 
Advisory Committee.  
14.    (1)  The  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee 
shall  consider  the  proposed  settlement  terms, 
placed before it along with the following: 
(a)  the application, undertaking and waivers of the 

applicant; 

(b) factors specified in regulation 10; 
(c)  settlement  terms  or  revised  settlement  terms 

proposed by the applicant; 

(d) any  other  relevant  material  available  on 

record.  
 

 
(2)  The  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee  may 
require  the  applicant  to  seek  revision  of  the 
settlement terms and refer the application back to 
the Internal Committee. 
 
 

Page 123 of 209 

 

13 

 
 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

14 

shall 

consider 

(3)  The  recommendations  of  the  high 
powered  advisory  committee  shall  be 
placed  before  the  panel  of  whole  time 
members for consideration. 
Action on recommendation of high 
powered advisory committee. 
14.  (1)  A  panel  of  two  whole  time 
members 
the 
recommendations  of  the  high  powered 
advisory  committee  and  may  accept  or 
reject the same.  
 
(2)  Where  the  panel  of  whole  time 
members  accepts  the  recommendation 
of the high powered advisory committee, 
the  applicant  shall  be  communicated 
about  the  same  within  7  days  of  the 
decision of the panel.  
 
(3)  Where  the  panel  has  accepted  the 
recommendation  to  pass  a  settlement 
order, the applicant shall,- 
(a) remit the settlement amount forming 
part  of  the  settlement  terms,  not  later 
than fifteen calendar days from the date 
of receipt of the notice of demand, which 
may be extended by the panel of whole 
time  members 
to  be 
recorded,  by  a  period(s)  of  fifteen 
calendar days.  
Provided  that  in  no  case  shall  such 
remittance  be  accepted  after 
the 
ninetieth calendar day from the date of 
the receipt of the notice of demand.  
 
Provided 
the 
settlement  amount  is  remitted  after 
thirty  calendar  days  from  the  date  of 
receipt  of the notice of demand and on 
or  before  the  ninetieth  day  from  such 
receipt,  the  settlement  amount  payable 
by the applicant shall be increased by the 
levy of simple interest at the rate of six 
per  cent  per  annum  from  the  date  of 
receipt  of  the  notice  of  demand  till  the 
date  of  payment  of  the  settlement 
amount; and/or  

that  where 

for  reasons 

further 

the  recommendations  of 

(3)  The  recommendations  of  the  High  Powered 
Advisory  Committee  shall  be  placed  before  the 
Panel of Whole Time Members for consideration.  
 
Action  on  the  recommendation  of  High 
Powered Advisory Committee.  
15.  (1)  The  Panel  of  Whole  Time  Members  shall 
consider 
the  High 
Powered  Advisory  Committee  and  may  accept  or 
reject the same. 
 
 
(2)  Where  the  Panel  of  Whole  Time  Members 
accepts the recommendation of the High Powered 
Advisory Committee, the applicant shall be issued 
a  notice  of  demand  communicated  about  the 
same within seven working days of the decision of 
the panel and the applicant shall,- 
 
(a) remit the settlement amount forming part of the 
settlement  terms,  not  later  than  fifteen  calendar 
days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  notice  of 
demand,  which  may  be  extended  by  the  Panel  of 
Whole Time Members  for reasons  to be recorded, 
by a period of fifteen calendar days: 
 
Explanation.  –  Remittance  of  settlement 
amount  shall  be  done  by  way  of  a  demand 
draft  in  favour  of  'Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India' payable at Mumbai or by way 
of direct credit in the specified bank account 
through  NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or  any  other 
authorised mode of payment. 
 
 
 
Provided further that where the settlement amount 
is remitted after thirty calendar days from the date 
of receipt of the notice of demand and on or before 
the ninetieth day from such receipt, the settlement 
amount payable by the applicant shall be increased 
by the levy of simple interest at the rate of six per 
cent  per  annum  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the 
notice  of  demand  till  the  date  of  payment  of  the 
settlement amount: 
 

 

 
 

Page 124 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

the 

to 

does 

not 

accept 

to 

settle 

time  provided 

 
 
 
(b)  fulfil/undertake  in  writing  to  abide 
by,  the  other  settlement  terms,  if  any, 
within 
the 
applicant.  
 
(4)  Where  the  panel  of  whole  time 
members 
the 
recommendation  of  the  high  powered 
advisory  committee 
the 
specified proceedings on the settlement 
terms recommended by it, the panel may 
return  the  application  to  the  internal 
committee  for  re-examination  of  the 
settlement  terms  and  thereafter  the 
procedure as applicable in the case of an 
original application shall be followed by 
the  internal  committee  and  the  high 
powered advisory committee.  
 
(5)  Where  the  panel  of  whole  time 
members 
the 
recommendation  to  settle  the  specified 
proceedings,  such  decision  shall  be 
communicated to the applicant. 

disagrees 

with 

 

14A 

Summary Settlement Procedure 
(1)  Notwithstanding  anything 
14A. 
contained 
in  Chapter  VI,  before 
initiating  any  specified  proceeding  the 
Board may issue a notice of settlement in 
the  format  as  specified  in  Schedule-III, 
calling  upon  the  noticee  to  file  a 
settlement  application  in  respect  of the 
specified  proceeding(s)  to  be  initiated, 
upon payment of the settlement amount 
and/or  furnishing  an  undertaking  in 
respect of other non-monetary terms or 
compliance  with  other  non-monetary 
terms,  as  may  be  specified  in  the 
settlement  notice  in  respect  of  the 
following alleged defaults,-  

Provided  further  that,  in  no  case  shall  such 
remittance be accepted after the ninetieth calendar 
day  from  the  date  of  the  receipt  of  the  notice  of 
demand. 
 
(b) fulfil/undertake in writing to abide by, the other 
settlement terms, if any, within the time provided 
to the applicant. 
 
 
(4)  Where  the  panel  of  Whole  Time  Members  do 
not  accept  the  recommendation  of  the  High 
Powered Advisory Committee to settle the specified 
proceedings on the settlement terms recommended 
by  it,  the  panel  may  return  the  application  to  the 
Internal  Committee  for  re-examination  of  the 
settlement  terms  and  thereafter  the  procedure  as 
applicable  in  the  case  of  an  original  application 
shall be followed by the Internal Committee and the 
High Powered Advisory Committee. 
 
 
 
(5)  Where  the  panel  of  Whole  Time  Members 
rejects  the  recommendation  of  the  High 
Powered  Advisory  Committee  to  settle  the 
specified proceedings, such decision of the panel 
of  Whole  Time  Members 
be 
communicated to the applicant.  
 
Summary Settlement Procedure 
16.(1)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in 
Chapter  VI,  before 
initiating  any  specified 
proceeding  the  Board  may  issue  a  notice  of 
summary  settlement  in  the  format  as  specified  in 
Part-A of Schedule-III, calling upon the noticee to 
file a settlement application under Chapter-II, in 
respect of the specified proceeding(s) to be initiated 
and submit the settlement amount and/or furnish 
an  undertaking  in  respect  of  other  non-monetary 
terms  or  compliance  comply  with  other  non-
monetary  terms,  as  may  be  specified  in  the 
summary  settlement  notice  in  respect  of  the 
specified  proceeding(s)  to  be  initiated  for 
the following defaults,- 

shall 

i.  Delayed  disclosures,  including  Late 

filing of returns, report, document, etc.; 

Page 125 of 209 

 
 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

in 

that, 

the 

report, 

relation 

returns, 

filing  of 

i.  Late 
document, etc.;  
ii. Delay in making disclosures; 
to 
iii.  Non-disclosure 
companies exclusively listed on regional 
stock exchanges which have exited;  
iv.  Failure  to  make  disclosures  in  the 
prescribed formats;  
v.  Delay  in  compliance  of  any  of  the 
requirements  of  law  or  with  directions 
issued by the Board;  
vi.  Such  other  violations  as  may  be 
determined by the Board. 
 
specified 
Provided 
proceeding(s) shall not be settled under 
this  Chapter,  if  in  the  opinion  of  the 
Board, the applicant has failed to make a 
full and true disclosure of facts or failed 
to  co-operate  to  the  satisfaction  of  the 
Board:  
 
Provided  further  that,  notwithstanding 
anything  contained  in  the  notice  of 
settlement  ,  the  Board  shall  have  the 
power to modify the enforcement action 
to be brought against the noticee and the 
notice of settlement shall not confer any 
right upon the noticee to seek settlement 
or avoid any enforcement action.  
 
(2)  The  noticee  may  within  thirty 
calendar days from the date of receipt of 
the notice of settlement,-  
(a)  file  a  settlement  application  in  the 
Form  specified 
the 
Schedule-I  alongwith  non-refundable 
application fee as specified in Part-B and 
the  undertakings  and  waivers  as 
specified in Part-C of the Schedule-I;  
 
(b)  remit  the  settlement  amount  as 
specified in the notice of settlement; and  
 
(c) comply or undertake to comply with 
other  non-monetary  terms  as  specified 

in  Part-A  of 

ii       Delay in making disclosures; 

ii.  Non-disclosure  in  relation  to  companies 
stock 

exclusively 
exchanges which have exited; 
Failure  to  make  Disclosures  not  made  in 
the specified formats; 

listed  on 

regional 

iii. 

iv.  Delayedin  compliance  of  any  of 

the 
requirements  of  law  or  with  directions 
issued by the Board; 
Such  other  violationsdefaults  as  may  be 
determined by the Board. 

v. 

 

 

further 

 
Provided that, the specified proceeding(s) shall not 
be  settled  under  this  Chapter,  if  in  the  opinion  of 
the  Board,  the  applicant  has  failed  to  make  a  full 
and true disclosure of facts or failed to co-operate 
in the required manner. 
 
 
 
(2)Provided 
that,  Notwithstanding 
anything  contained in the notice of settlement, the  
Board    shall  have    the    power    to    modify    the  
enforcement    action   to   be   brought    against   the  
noticee and the notice of settlement shall not confer 
any  right  upon  the  noticee  to  seek  settlement  or 
avoid any enforcement action. 
 
 
 
(3)The  noticee  may  within  thirty  calendar  days 
from the date of receipt of the notice of settlement,- 
(a)  file  a  settlement  application  in  the  Form 
specified  in  Part-A  of  Schedule-I  along  with  non-
refundable  application  fee  as  specified  in  Part-B 
and  the  undertakings  and  waivers  as  specified  in 
Part-C of Schedule-I;  
 
 
(b) remit the settlement amount as specified in the 
notice of settlement;   
 
 

 
 

Page 126 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

in  the  notice  of  settlement,  as  the  case 
may be.  
 
Provided that, in case of any discrepancy 
in  calculation  of  settlement  amount 
specified in the notice of settlement, the 
noticee  may  seek  rectification  of  the 
same at the time of filing the settlement 
application  and 
in  such  cases  the 
decision of the Board shall be final and 
remittance  shall  be  done  within  thirty 
calendar days from the date of receipt of 
the decision of the Board.  
 
Provided further that, the Board may for 
reasons to be recorded, grant extension 
of time not exceeding a further period of 
fifteen  calendar  days  for  filing  of  the 
settlement application, remittance of the 
settlement amount and/or furnishing an 
undertaking in respect of any of the non-
monetary terms or compliance with any 
of  the  non-monetary terms  specified  in 
the notice of settlement.  
 
(3) The Board upon being satisfied with 
the  remittance  of  settlement  amount 
and undertaking furnished in respect of 
non-monetary terms or compliance with 
non-monetary terms, if any specified in 
the settlement notice, shall pass an order 
of settlement under regulation 15. 

Notwithstanding 

in  Chapter  VI  and 

anything 
14B. 
contained 
in 
regulation 14A, with respect to specified 
proceedings  pending  as  on  the  date  of 
commencement  of  this  Chapter,  the 
Board  may  issue  a  notice  of  settlement 
under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation 
14A in respect of such proceedings  and 
in such cases the procedure specified in 
regulation  14A  shall  apply  mutatis 
mutandis.  

 

14B 

 
 

amount 

and/or 

 

(c) comply or undertake to comply with other non-
monetary  terms  as  specified  in  the  notice  of 
settlement, as the case may be; and  
 
 
(d)  seek  rectification  of  the  calculation  of 
settlement amount, as communicated in the 
notice of settlement, at the time of filing the 
settlement application and in such cases the 
decision  of  the  Board  shall  be  final  and 
remittance  shall  be  done  within  thirty 
calendar days from the date of receipt of the 
decision of the Board. 
 
 
 
 
Provided further that, the Board may for reasons to 
be recorded, grant extension of time not exceeding 
a further period of fifteen calendar days for filing of 
the  settlement  application,  remittance  of  the 
settlement 
an 
undertaking in respect of any of the non-monetary 
terms or compliance with any of the non-monetary 
terms specified in the notice of settlement. 
 
 
 
 
(4)  The  Board  Upon  being  satisfied  with  the 
remittance of settlement amount and undertaking 
furnished in respect of the non-monetary terms or 
compliance  with  non-monetary  terms,  if  any  as 
detailed in the settlement notice, the Board shall 
pass an order of settlement under regulation 23. 
 
Omitted 
14B.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained 
in 
Chapter  VI  and  in  regulation  14A,  with  respect  to 
specified  proceedings  pending  as  on  the  date  of 
commencement  of  this  Chapter,  the  Board  may 
issue  a  notice  of  settlement  under  sub-regulation 
(1) of regulation 14A in respect of such proceedings 
and  in  such  cases  the  procedure  specified  in 
regulation 14A shall apply mutatis mutandis.  
 

furnishing 

Page 127 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

the  matter 

to 

Notwithstanding 

Explanation.  -  For  the  purposes  of  this 
Chapter,  it  is  clarified  that  a  specified 
proceeding is not deemed to be initiated 
and  pending,  unless  the  Board  has 
communicated 
the 
authority  who  shall  conduct  such 
proceedings. 
anything 
14C. 
contained in these regulations, where a 
noticee  does  not  file  a  settlement 
application under this Chapter or remit 
the  settlement  amount  and/or  comply 
with  other  non-monetary  terms  to  the 
satisfaction  of  the  Board  or  withdraws 
the settlement application, the specified 
proceedings  may  be 
initiated  or 
continued, as the case may be and such 
a noticee shall only be permitted to file a 
settlement  application  in  respect  of 
proceedings  pending  before  a  Court  or 
tribunal after conclusion of proceedings 
before  the  Adjudicating  Officer  or  the 
Board, as the case may be. 
 
 

 

14C 

 

 

Explanation. - For the purposes of this Chapter, it 
is  clarified  that  a  specified  proceeding  is  not 
deemed  to  be  initiated  and  pending,  unless  the 
Board  has  communicated  the  matter  to  the 
authority who shall conduct such proceedings. 

17.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  these 
regulations,  where  a  noticee  does  not  file  a 
settlement application under this Chapter or remit 
the  settlement  amount  and/or  comply  with  other 
non-monetary terms to the satisfaction of the Board 
or  withdraws  the  settlement  application,  the 
specified  proceedings  may  be 
initiated  or 
continued,  as  the  case  may  be  and  such  a  noticee 
shall  only  be  permitted  to  file  a  settlement 
application  in  respect  of  the  proceedings  pending 
before  the  Court  or  tribunal,  after  conclusion  of 
proceedings before the Adjudicating Officer or the 
Board, as the case may be. 
 

 

(New Chapter) 

 

CHAPTER VIII 

 

SETTLEMENT NOTICE 

 

Settlement Notice.  
18.  (1)  A  notice  of  settlement  in  the  format  as 
specified  in  Part-B  of  Schedule-III,  indicating  the 
substance of the probable charges and enforcement 
actions, may except in cases covered under Chapter 
VII, be issued by the Board prior to the issuance of 
the notice to show cause so as to afford the noticee 
an  opportunity  to  file  a  settlement  application 
under Chapter-II, within fifteen calendar days from 
the date of receipt of the settlement notice. 
 
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  the 
settlement notice, the Board shall have the right to 
modify the nature of the enforcement action to be 
initiated against the noticee and the charges stated 
in  the  notice  shall  not  confer  any  right  to  seek 

Page 128 of 209 

 
 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

settlement  on  the  said  basis  or  avoid  any 
enforcement action due to modified charges. 
 
(3)  Where  a  noticee  does  not  file  the  settlement 
application  under  this  Chapter  or  withdraws  the 
settlement  application  at  any  time  prior  to  the 
communication  of  the  decision  of  the  Panel  of 
Whole  Time  Members  under  regulation  15,  the 
specified proceedings  may be initiated and such a 
noticee shall only be permitted to file a settlement 
application  in  respect  of  the  proceedings  pending 
before  a  Court  or  tribunal,  after  conclusion  of  the 
proceedings before the Adjudicating Officer or the 
Board, as the case may be. 
 
 

 

(New Chapter) 

CHAPTER IX 

 

SETTLEMENT WITH CONFIDENTIALITY  

 

 

 

 

Seeking Settlement with confidentiality. 
19.  (1)  An  applicant  seeking  the  benefit  of 
confidentiality  in  return  for  admitting  for  the 
limited  purpose  of  settlement  of  specified 
proceedings to be initiated and agreeing to provide 
substantial  assistance 
investigation, 
inspection,  inquiry  or  audit,  initiated  or  ongoing, 
against any other person in respect of a violation of 
securities  laws,  shall  fulfil  the  conditions  of  this 
Chapter, including –  
 

the 

in 

(a)  cease to participate in the violation 
of  securities  laws  from  the  time  of 
the  disclosure  of 
information, 
unless  otherwise  directed  by  the 
Board;  

documents 

(b) provide  and  continue  to  provide 
complete  and  true  disclosure  of 
information, 
and 
evidence, which is in his possession 
or  he  is  able  to  obtain,  to  the 
satisfaction of the Board in respect 
of  the  alleged  contravention  of  the 
provisions of securities laws;  

 
 

Page 129 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

(c)  co-operate  fully,  continuously  and 
expeditiously 
the 
investigation, inspection, inquiry or 
audit  and 
related  proceedings 
before the Board; and  

throughout 

(d) not conceal, destroy, manipulate or 
remove  the  relevant  documents  in 
any manner that may contribute to 
the  establishment  of  the  alleged 
violation. 

 

Explanation.  –  Violation  of  securities  laws  in this 
Chapter  refers  to  defaults  other  than  those  of 
disclosure  and  reporting  requirements  detailed  in 
Schedule II. 
 
Provided  that  an  application  made  under  this 
chapter  shall  be  made  only  in  cases  prior  to  or 
pending investigation, inspection, inquiry or audit. 
 
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this 
Chapter, where an applicant fails to comply with the 
conditions mentioned in this regulation, the Board 
may  rely  upon  the  information  and  evidence 
submitted by the applicant in any proceedings 
 
(3)  Without  prejudice  to  sub-regulations  (1)  and 
(2), the Board may subject the applicant to further 
restrictions  or  conditions,  as  deemed  fit,  after 
considering the facts and circumstances of the case.  
 
(4) For the purpose of seeking confidentiality, the 
applicant  or  its  authorized  representative  may 
make  an  application  containing  all  the  relevant 
information  as 
disclosures  pertaining  to  the 
specified 
for 
furnishing 
the 
information  and  evidence 
the 
to 
commission of any violation of securities laws.  
 
(5) Upon being satisfied the Board may assure the 
benefit of confidentiality and shall thereupon mark 
the  status  of  the  application  depending  upon  its 
priority  and  convey  the  same  to  the  applicant  in 
writing.  
 
(6)  The  Board  may,  for  reasons  to  be  recorded  in 
writing,  at  any  stage,  reject  the  application  if  the 

in  Schedule-IV 

relating 

 
 

Page 130 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

information, documents or evidence is found to be 
incomplete  or  false  to  the  knowledge  of  the 
applicant.  
 
(7)  The 
for 
confidentiality  shall  be  communicated  to  the 
applicant. 

the  application 

rejection  of 

 

Procedure. — 
20. (1) The provisions of Chapters IV to VI of these 
regulations may be applied mutatis mutandis to a 
settlement application filed under this Chapter and 
a settlement order passed accordingly. 
 
(2)  The  information,  documents  and  evidence 
provided by the applicant under this chapter shall 
be submitted in the manner specified by the Board. 

 

Confidentiality and assurance. — 
21. For the purposes of providing the applicant with 
interim  confidentiality  and  assurance  from  being 
proceeded  with,  the  Board  may  not 
initiate 
regulatory  measures  when  the  Board  has  a 
reasonable belief that the information provided to 
it relates to a possible securities law violation that 
has occurred, is ongoing or about to occur.  
 
Confidentiality. — 
22.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained 
in 
Chapter  X,  the  following  shall  be  treated  as 
confidential, - 

(a)  the  identity  of  the  applicant  seeking 

confidentiality; and 

(b) the 

information,  documents  and 
evidence  furnished  by  the  applicant 
under this Chapter: 

 
Provided that, the identity of the applicant or such 
information or documents or evidence may not be 
treated as confidential if, — 

(i) the disclosure is required by law; or 
(ii)  the  applicant  has  agreed  to  such 
disclosure in writing; or 
(iii) there has been a public disclosure by 
the applicant. 

 

 

Page 131 of 209 

 
 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

15 

 

16 

Settlement  of  proceedings  before 
the  Adjudicating  officer  and  the 
Board. 
15. (1)The adjudicating officer shall pass 
the  settlement  order  in  the  proceeding 
pending  before  him  with  respect  to  the 
alleged default(s).  
 
(2)The panel of the whole time members 
shall pass settlement order with respect 
to  proceedings  initiated  or  proposed  to 
be  initiated  for  alleged  default(s)  other 
than the proceedings referred to in sub-
regulation (1).  
 
(3)  The  settlement  order  passed  under 
these  regulations  shall, 
inter  alia, 
contain  the  details  of  the  alleged 
default(s),  relevant  provisions  of  the 
securities laws, facts and circumstances 
relevant  to  the  alleged  default,  the 
admissions made by the applicant, if any 
and the settlement terms. 
Settlement  of  the  proceedings 
pending before the Tribunal or any 
court. 
16.  (1)  Save  as  otherwise  provided  in 
these  regulations,  the  provisions  with 
regard 
specified 
proceedings  shall  mutatis  mutandis 
apply to an application for settlement of 
any  proceeding  pending  before  the 
Tribunal or any court.  
(2)  The  proposal  of  settlement  along 
with  the  settlement  terms  or  rejection 
thereof  shall  be  placed  before  such 
Tribunal or court for appropriate orders. 

settlement  of 

to 

the 

Settlement  of  proceedings  before 
Adjudicating officer and the Board.  
23.  (1)  The  Adjudicating  Officer  shall  by  an 
appropriate  order  dispose  of  the  pass  the 
settlement order in the proceeding pending before 
him with respect to the alleged default(s). 
 
 
(2) The Panel of the Whole Time Members shall by 
an  appropriate  order  dispose  of  the  pass 
settlement  order  with  respect  to  proceedings 
initiated  or  proposed  to  be  initiated  for  alleged 
default(s) other than the proceedings referred to in 
sub-regulation (1). 
 
(3)  The  settlement  order  passed  under  these 
regulations shall, contain the details of the alleged 
default(s),  relevant  provisions  of  the  securities 
laws, brief facts and circumstances relevant to the 
alleged  default,  the  admissions  made  by  the 
applicant, if any and the settlement terms. 
 

regard 

the  provisions  with 

Settlement  of  the  proceedings  pending 
before the Tribunal or any court.   
 
24.  (1)  Save  as  otherwise  provided  in  these 
regulations, 
to 
settlement  of  specified  proceedings  shall  mutatis 
mutandis apply to an application for settlement of 
any proceeding pending before the Tribunal or any 
court. 
 
(2)  The  proposal  of  settlement  along  with  the 
settlement  terms  or  rejection  thereof  shall  be 
placed  before  such  Tribunal  or  court 
for 
appropriate orders. 
 

 

17 

Service  of  settlement  order  and 
publication. 
17. Settlement orders shall be served on 
the applicant and shall also be published 
on the website of the Board. 

 

Service and Publication of settlement order 
and publication. 
25.  Settlement  orders  shall  be  served  on  the 
applicant and shall also be published on the website 
of the Board. 
Provided that  settlement  orders in  matters 
relating  to  the  confidentiality  shall  not, 
directly or indirectly, disclose the identity of 

Page 132 of 209 

 
 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

the 
the  applicant,  but  shall 
provisions  of  securities  laws  which  the 
applicant is alleged to have violated. 

indicate 

 

 

 

 

 

18 

Effect of settlement order on third 
party rights. 
18.  A  settlement  order  under  these 
regulations  shall  not  affect  the  right  of 
third  parties  arising  out  of  the  alleged 
default. 
 

(New Provision) 
 
Settlement Schemes. 
26.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  these 
regulations,  the  Board  may  specify  the  procedure 
and  terms  of  settlement  of  specified  proceedings 
under a settlement scheme for any class of persons 
involved in respect of any similar specified defaults. 
 
Explanation.  -  A  settlement  order  issued  under  a 
Settlement  scheme  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a 
settlement order under these regulations. 
 
Effect  of  settlement  order  on  third  party 
rights or other proceedings.  
27.  (1)A  settlement  order  under  these  regulations 
shall  not  be  admissible  as  evidence  in  any 
other  proceeding  relating  to  an  alleged 
default  not  covered  under  the  settlement 
order nor affect the right of third parties arising 
out of the alleged default. 
 
(2)  Where  any  applicant  who  obtains  a 
settlement  order  is  also  noticee  along  with 
any  other  person 
in  any  civil  and 
administrative 
the 
Adjudicating  Officer  or  the  Board  while 
disposing  proceedings  against  such  other 
person may make necessary observations in 
respect  of  the  applicant  in  so  far  as  is 
necessary to prove the act of another: 
Provided that, unless the settlement order is 
revoked,  such  observations  shall  qua  the 
applicant be subject to the settlement order 
obtained by the applicant. 
 
(3)  Where  any  person  has  obtained  a 
settlement 
contains 
observations in respect of any other person 
for  the  commission  of  an  alleged  default, 
such  an  order  shall  not 
itself  be 
admissible  as  evidence  against  such  other 
person. 

proceeding, 

in 

order, 

which 

 
 

Page 133 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

Non-compliance Revocation of the 
settlement order. 
28. (1) At any time after the settlement order 
is  passed,  if  it  comes  to  the  notice  of  the 
Board  that  the  applicant  has  failed  to 
comply  with  the  settlement  order  or,  the 
applicant  has  not  made  full  and  true 
disclosures or has violated the undertakings 
or waivers, the settlement order shall stand 
revoked and withdrawn and the Board shall 
give notice of restoration of the proceedings 
with  respect  to  which  the  settlement  order 
was passed.  
 
(2)  Whenever  any  settlement  order  is 
revoked,  no  amount  paid  under  these 
regulations shall be refunded. 
 
(Now shifted/inserted as Regulation 6) 

 

19 

 

20 

settlement 

Non-compliance  of 
order. 
19. If the applicant fails to comply with 
the settlement order or at any time after 
the settlement order is passed, it comes 
to  the  notice  of  the  Board  that  the 
applicant  has  not  made  full  and  true 
disclosure 
the 
undertakings  or  waivers,  settlement 
order 
and 
withdrawn  and  the  Board  shall  restore 
or initiate the proceedings, with respect 
to  which  the  settlement  order  was 
passed. 

violated 

revoked 

has 

or 

shall 

stand 

to 

or 

respond 

Rejection in certain eventualities. 
20.  (1)  The  Board  may  at  any  time 
during  the  course  of  considering  an 
application, reject an application on the 
following grounds:  
(a)  Where  the  applicant  refuses  to 
receive 
the 
communications sent by the Board;  
(b) Where the applicant does not submit 
or delays the submission of information, 
document, etc., required by the Board;  
(c) Where the applicant who is required 
to appear, but does not appear before the 
internal  committee  on  more  than  one 
occasion;  
(d) Where the applicant violates in any 
manner the undertaking and waivers as 
specified in Part-C of the Schedule-I;  
(e) Where  the  applicant  does  not  remit 
the settlement amount within the period 
specified in clause (a) of sub-regulation 
(3)  of  regulation  14  and/or  does  not 
abide by the undertaking and waivers.  
(2)  The  rejection  under  sub-regulation 
(1)  shall  be  communicated  to  the 
applicant. 
 
 

 
 

Page 134 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

21 

information, 

the  Board  and/or 

Confidentiality  of 
etc. 
21.  (1)  All  information  submitted  and 
discussions  held  in  pursuance  of  the 
settlement  proceedings  under  these 
regulations  shall  be  deemed  to  have 
been  received  or  made  in  a  fiduciary 
capacity  and  the  same  may  not  be 
released  to  the  public,  if  the  same 
prejudices 
the 
applicant.  
 
(2) Where an application is rejected, the 
applicant  and  the  Board  shall  not  rely 
upon  or  introduce  as  evidence  before 
any  court  or  Tribunal,  any  proposals 
made  or 
information  submitted  or 
representation  made  by  the  applicant 
under these regulations:  
Provided  that  this  sub-regulation  shall 
not apply where the settlement order is 
revoked  and  withdrawn  under  these 
regulations. 

 

 

 

22 

23 

Power to remove difficulties. 
22. In order to remove any difficulty in 
the  interpretation  or  application  of  the 
provisions  of  these  regulations,  the 
Board  shall  have  the  power  to  issue 
clarifications 
circulars  or 
guidelines. 
Power to specify procedures.  
23. For the purposes of implementation 
of  these  regulations  the  Board  may 
specify norms or procedures, by way of 
circulars or guidelines. 

through 

 

 

 
 

Confidentiality of information. 
 
29. (1) All information submitted and discussions 
held  in  pursuance  of  the  settlement  proceedings 
under  these  regulations  shall  be  deemed  to  have 
been received or made in a fiduciary capacity and 
the same may not be released to the public, if the 
same prejudices the Board and/or the applicant. 
 
 
 
 
(2) Where an application is rejected, the applicant 
and the Board shall not rely upon or introduce as 
evidence  before  any  court  or  Tribunal,  any 
proposals  made  or  information  submitted  or 
representation made by the applicant  under these 
regulations: 
 
 Provided  that  this  sub-regulation  shall  not  apply 
where  the  settlement  order 
is  revoked  and 
withdrawn under these regulations.  
 
Explanation. – When any fact is discovered 
in  consequence  of  information  received 
from  a  person 
in  pursuance  of  an 
application,  so  much  of  such  information, 
whether it amounts to an admission or not, 
as  relates  distinctly  to  the  fact  thereby 
discovered, may be proved. 
 
Power to remove difficulties. 
30.  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulty  in  the 
interpretation or application or implementation 
of  the  provisions  of  these  regulations,  the  Board 
shall  have  the  power  to  issue  clarifications  and 
specify  procedures 
circulars  or 
guidelines 
Omitted 
Power to specify procedures. 
31.  For  the  purposes  of  implementation  of  these 
regulations  the  Board  may  specify  norms  or 
procedures, by way of circulars or guidelines.   
 
(New Provision) 
 
Irregularity in procedure  

through 

Page 135 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

31. No settlement order or rejection of a settlement 
application shall be void on ground of any defect in 
procedure or calculation of the settlement amount 
or on account of any vacancy in or any defect in the 
constitution of, any committee under Chapter V: 
Provided  that,  nothing  in  these  regulations  shall 
prohibit  the  Board  from  revoking  the  settlement 
order where the applicant fails to pay any difference 
due  to  any  discrepancy  in  calculation  of  the 
settlement amount: 
Provided further that, the applicant shall continue 
to  be  bound  by  the  waivers  given  in  respect  of 
limitation  or  laches  in  respect  of  initiating  or 
continuing or restoring of any legal proceeding and 
the waivers given in sub-paras (d), (e) (f) and (g) of 
para 12 of the undertaking and waivers as provided 
in Part-C of the Schedule-I. 
 
Relevance  of  these  regulations  in  specified 
proceedings 
32.  Schedule-II  of  these  regulations  shall  be 
relevant but not bind the Board or an Adjudicating 
Officer in any specified proceeding and the Board 
or the Adjudicating Officer may apply them to the 
extent possible. 
 
Rescission Repeal and savings. 
33.(1)  On  and  from  the  commencement  of  these 
regulations, Securities and Exchange Board of 
India  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and 
Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014  shall 
stand repealed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2) Notwithstanding any such rescissionrepeal:  
 
(a)  Notice  of  settlement  issued  under  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil 
Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014  shall  be 
deemed  to  have  been  filed  in  accordance 
with  these  regulations  and  shall  be  dealt 

Page 136 of 209 

 

 

 

 

 

24 

 
 

the 

Board’s 

circular 

ref  No. 

Board’s 

circular 

these  regulations, 

Rescission and savings.  
24.(1) On and from the commencement 
of 
following 
circulars issued by the Board shall stand 
rescinded:  
ref  No. 
(a) 
EFD/ED/Cir-1/2007  dated  April  20, 
2007; and  
(b) 
CIR/EFD/1/2012 dated May 25, 2012.  
 
(2)  Notwithstanding 
rescission:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

any 

such 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 
 
(a) Applications filed under the circulars 
referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1)  and 
pending with the Board shall be deemed 
to  have  been  filed  in  accordance  with 
these regulations and shall be dealt with 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
these regulations.  
 
 
(b) Settlement  orders  passed under the 
circulars  referred  to  in  sub-regulation 
(1) shall be deemed to have been passed 
under these regulations.  
 
 
 
(c)  The  proposals  of 
internal 
committees  and  the  recommendations 
of the high powered advisory committee 
in accordance with the circulars referred 
to  in  sub-regulation  (1)  and  any  action 
taken by the Board on the basis of these 
recommendations  shall  be  deemed  to 
have 
these 
regulations.  
 
(d)  The  internal  committee(s)  and  the 
high  powered  advisory 
committee 
constituted by  the  Board  in  accordance 
with  the  circulars  referred  to  in  sub-
regulation (1), shall continue to function 
till  such  time  the  Board  re-constitutes 
them. 

been  made 

the 

under 

to  have  been  passed  under 

with  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
these regulations; 
 
(b)  All  applications  filed  under  the  Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of 
Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings) 
Regulations,  2014  and  pending  with  the  Board 
shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  filed  in  accordance 
with  these  regulations  and  shall  be  dealt  with  in 
accordance with the provisions of these regulations; 
 
(c)  All  settlement  orders  passed  under  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil 
Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014shall  be 
deemed 
these 
regulations;  
 
(existing  clause  (c)  inserted  as  clause  (e) 
below) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d)  The  Internal  Committee(s)  and  the  High 
Powered  Advisory  Committee  constituted  by  the 
Board  in  accordance  with  the  Securities  and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  of 
Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings) 
Regulations, 2014, shall be deemed to have 
been constituted under these regulations; 
 
(e) The proposals  of  the  Internal  Committees  and 
the  recommendations  of 
the  High  Powered 
Advisory  Committee  in  accordance  with  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil 
Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014  and  any 
action  taken  by  the  Board  on  the  basis  of  these 
recommendations  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been 
made under these regulations.   
 

Page 137 of 209 

 

 

 
 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

 
 

V. 

PROPOSED REGULATIONS 

GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART – III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

NEW DELHI,                   , 2018 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the                   , 2018 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (SETTLEMENT 

PROCEEDINGS) REGULATIONS, 2018 

No. .-In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 15JB of the Securities and Exchange Board 

of India Act, 1992, Section 23JA of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and Section 

19-IA of the Depositories Act, 1996 read with Section 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board 

of India Act, 1992, Section 31 of the  Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and Section 

25 of the Depositories Act, 1996, the Securities and Exchange Board of India hereby makes 

the following regulations to provide for the terms of settlement and the procedure of settlement 

and matters connected therewith or incidental thereto, namely:— 

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

 

Short title and commencement. 

1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement 

Proceedings) Regulations, 2018.  

 

(2) They shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from the 20th day of April 2007.  

 

 

 

 
 

Page 138 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

Definitions. 

2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 

bear the meanings assigned to  them below and their cognate expressions shall be construed 

accordingly, –           

(a)  "Act" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 

(b) “alleged default” means an alleged or probable contravention of any provision of the 

securities laws; 

(c)  "Board"  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  established  under  the 

provisions of Section 3 of the Act; 

(d) "Panel of Whole Time Members" means the panel consisting of two or more Whole 

Time Members of the Board;   

(e)  "securities laws" means the Act, the Securities Contract (Regulations) Act, 1956 (42 of 

1956), the Depositories Act,1996 (22 of 1996), the relevant provisions of any other law 

to the extent it is administered by the Board and the relevant rules and regulations made 

thereunder; 

(f)  "specified  proceedings"  means  the  proceedings  that  may  be  initiated  or  have  been 

initiated and are pending before any forum, for the violation of securities laws, under 

Section 11, Section 11B, Section 11D, sub-Section (3) of Section 12 or Section 15-I of 

the  Act  or  Section  12A  or  Section  23-I  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)Act, 

1956 or Section 19 or Section 19H of the Depositories Act, 1996, as the case may be; 

(g) "Tribunal" means the Securities Appellate Tribunal established under Section 15K of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  

 

(2) Words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act,, the 

Securities Contracts  (Regulation) Act,  1956 the Depositories Act,  1996 the Companies Act, 

2013  or  any  of  the  rules  or  regulations  made  thereunder,  shall  have  the  same  meanings 

respectively assigned to them in those Acts, rules or regulations or any statutory modification 

or re-enactment thereto.   

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 139 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

Application. 

CHAPTER II 

 

APPLICATION FOR SETTLEMENT 

 

3. (1) A person against whom any specified proceedings have been initiated and are pending 

or may be initiated, may make an application to the Board in the Form specified in Part-A of 

the Schedule-I. 

 

(2) The application made under sub-regulation (1) shall be accompanied by a non-refundable 

application  fee  as  specified  in  Part-B  of  Schedule  I  and  the  undertakings  and  waivers  as 

specified in Part-C of Schedule-I: 

 

Provided that the rejection of the application shall not affect the continued validity of 

the undertakings and waivers and subject to such undertakings and waivers, the Board or the 

applicant,  shall  be  free  to  initiate  or  pursue  such  proceedings  as  may  be  appropriate  in 

accordance with law. 

 

(3) The applicant shall make full and true disclosures in the application in respect of the alleged 

default(s): 

Provided that the facts established against the applicant or admitted in any ongoing or 

concluded proceedings in India or outside India, with respect to the same cause of action, under 

any law, shall be deemed to be admitted by the applicant in respect of the proceedings proposed 

to be settled.  

 

(4) The applicant  shall  make one application for settlement  of all the proceedings that have 

been initiated or may be initiated in respect of the same cause of action. 

 

(5) The provisions of Chapters IV to VI and Schedule-II may be applied mutatis mutandis for 

arriving  at  a  proposal  pursuant  to  a  compounding  application  filed  or  to  be  filed  before  the 

court. 

 

 
 

Page 140 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

(6) An application that is not complete in all respects or does not conform to the requirements 

of these regulations shall be returned to the applicant. 

Explanation. - An application for settlement of defaults related to disclosures, shall to the extent 

possible, be made after making the required disclosure. 

 

(7) The applicant whose application has been returned under sub- regulation (5) may, within 

fifteen days from the date of communication from the Board, submit the complete and revised 

application that conforms to the requirements of these regulations: 

Provided  that  no  further  opportunity  shall  be  given  to  the  applicant  to  make  an 

application in respect of the alleged default at the same stage of the proceedings, as indicated 

in Table I in Schedule-II. 

 

(8) Where the applicant  is an association or a firm or a body corporate or a limited liability 

partnership, the application and undertakings and waivers shall be executed by the person in 

charge of, and responsible for the conduct of the business of such firm or association or body 

corporate and the same shall bind the firm or association, the body corporate and any officer 

who is in default. 

Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-regulation, the expression 'officer who is in default' 

shall have the same meaning as provided in sub-Section (60) of Section 2 of the Companies 

Act, 2013. 

 

Limitation. 

4. (1) An application in respect of any specified proceeding pending before the Board shall not 

be considered if it is made after sixty days from the date of service of the notice to show cause 

or supplementary notice(s) to show cause, whichever is served later. 

 

(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  the  Board  may  consider  the 

application, if satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within the specified period 

and it is accompanied with non-refundable fees as specified in Part-B of the Schedule-I: 

 

Provided that, where the application is filed after sixty calendar days from the expiry 

of the period specified in sub-regulation (1), the settlement amount determined in accordance 

with Schedule-II of these regulations shall be increased by twenty five percent: 

 
 

Page 141 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

Provided further that, no such application shall be considered if the delay exceeds one 

hundred and twenty calendar days from the expiry of the period specified in sub-regulation (1) 

or after the first date fixed for oral hearing, if any, whichever is earlier. 

 

(3) The provisions of this regulation shall not apply in the case of proceedings pending before 

the Tribunal or any court. 

 

CHAPTER III 

 

SCOPE OF SETTLEMENT  

 

Scope of settlement proceedings. 

5. (1) No application for settlement of any specified proceedings shall be considered, if:    

(a) an earlier application with regard to the same alleged default had been rejected; 

 

(b) the  audit  or  investigation  or  inspection  or  inquiry,  if  any,  in  respect  of  any  cause  of 

action, is not complete, except in case of applications involving confidentiality; or 

 

(c)  monies due under an order issued under securities laws are liable for recovery under 

securities laws. 

 

(2) The Board may not settle any specified proceeding, if it is of the opinion that the alleged 

default, - 

i. 

ii. 

has market wide impact, 

caused losses to a large number of investors, or 

iii. 

affected the integrity of the market. 

 

(3) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, for settling any specified 

proceeding the Board may inter alia take into account the following factors, - 

 

(a)  whether the applicant has refunded or disgorged the monies due, to the satisfaction of 

the Board;  

 

 
 

Page 142 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

(b) whether  the  applicant  has  provided  an  exit  or  purchase  option  to  investors  in 

compliance with securities laws, to the satisfaction of the Board;  

 

(c)  whether the applicant is in compliance with securities laws or any order or direction 

passed under securities laws, to the satisfaction of the Board; 

 

(d) any other factor as may be deemed appropriate by the Board. 

 

(3) Without prejudice to sub-regulations (1) and (3), the Board may not settle the specified 

proceedings  where  the  applicant  is  a  wilful  defaulter,  a  fugitive  economic  offender  or  has 

defaulted in payment of any fees due or penalty imposed under securities laws. 

 

(4) Nothing contained in these regulations shall be construed to restrict the right of the Panel 

of  Whole  Time  Members  to  consider  or  reject  any  application  in  respect  of  any  specified 

proceeding  without  examination  by  the  Internal  Committee  or  the  High  Powered  Advisory 

Committee. 

 

Rejection of application. 

6.(1) An application may at any time be rejected on the following grounds: 

(a)  Where the applicant refuses to receive or respond to the communications sent by the 

Board; 

(b) Where  the  applicant  does  not  submit  or  delays  the  submission  of  information, 

document, etc., as called for by the Board; 

(c)  Where  the  applicant  who  is  required  to  appear,  does  not  appear  before  the  Internal 

Committee on more than one occasion; 

(d) Where the applicant violates in any manner the undertaking and waivers as provided in 

Part-C of the Schedule-I; 

(e)  Where the applicant does not remit the settlement amount within the period specified 

in  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (3)  of  regulation  15  and/or  does  not  abide  by  the 

undertaking and waivers.  

 

(2) The rejection under sub-regulation (1) shall be communicated to the applicant: 

Provided  that  the  applicant  shall  continue  to  be  bound  by  the  waivers  given  in  respect  of 

limitation  or  laches  in  respect  of  the  initiation  or  continuation  or  restoration  of  any  legal 

 
 

Page 143 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

proceeding  and  the  waivers  given  under  sub-paras  (d),  (e)  (f)  and  (g)  of  para  12  of  the 

undertaking and waivers as provided in Part-C of the Schedule-I. 

 

Withdrawal of application. 

7. (1) An application may be withdrawn at any time prior to the communication of the decision 

of the Panel of Whole Time Members under regulation 15. 

 

(2) An applicant who withdraws an application under sub-regulation (1) shall not be permitted 

to make another application in respect of the same default: 

 

 

Provided  that,  as  may  be  recommended  by  the  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee, 

such an application may be considered subject to an increase of atleast fifty percent over the 

settlement amount determined in accordance with Schedule-II of these Regulations. 

 

Effect of pending application on specified proceedings. 

8. (1) The filing of an application for settlement of any specified proceedings shall not affect 

the  continuance  of  the  proceedings  save  that  the  passing  of  the  final  order  shall  be  kept  in 

abeyance till the application is disposed of. 

 

(2)    Where  the  application  is  filed  in  case  of  proceedings  that  may  be  initiated  against  the 

applicant, such proceedings shall not be initiated till the application is rejected or withdrawn: 

Provided  that,  the  filing  of  an  application  shall  not  prohibit  the  initiation  of  any 

proceedings, in so far as may be deemed necessary for the purpose of issuance of interim civil 

and administrative directions to protect the interests of investors and to maintain the integrity 

of the securities markets. 

 

Explanation. - Where any proceeding is pending or to be initiated against several persons but 

the settlement application is filed only by one or more persons, but not all, the filing of such an 

application shall not affect the initiation, continuation and disposal of the proceedings against 

the person who has not filed the application for settlement and any observations made in such 

proceedings  against  the  applicant  shall  qua  the  applicant  be  subject  to  the  outcome  of  the 

settlement application filed such applicant. 

 
 

 

 

Page 144 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

CHAPTER IV 

 

TERMS OF SETTLEMENT 

 

Settlement terms. 

9. (1) The settlement terms may include a settlement amount and/or non-monetary terms, in 

accordance with the guidelines specified in Schedule-II. 

 

(2) The non-monetary terms may include the following: 

(a)  Suspension  of  certificate  of  registration  or  cessation  of  business  activities  for  a 

specified period by voluntary agreement; 

(b) Exit from Management by voluntary agreement; 

(c)  Disgorgement, where it is possible to identify the investors who have incurred losses 

on account of the action or inaction of the applicant;  

(d) Restraint  of  certain  individuals  from  acting  as  a  partner  or  officer  or  director  of  an 

intermediary  or  as  an  officer  or  director  of  a  company  that  has  a  class  of  securities 

regulated by the Board, for specified periods by voluntary agreement; 

(e)  Cancellation  of  securities  and  reduction  in  holding  where  the  securities  are  issued 

fraudulently, including cancellation of bonus shares received on such securities, if any, 

and re-imbursement of any dividends received, etc; 

(f)  Lock-in of securities by voluntary agreement; 

(g) Implementation of enhanced policies and procedures to prevent future securities laws 

violations as well as agreeing to appoint or engage an independent consultant to review 

internal policies, processes and procedures; 

(h) Agreement to provide enhanced training and education to employees of intermediaries 

and securities market infrastructure institutions; 

(i)  Voluntary submission to enhanced internal audit and reporting requirements. 

 

(3) The settlement amount, excluding the legal costs and disgorged amount, shall be credited 

to the Consolidated Fund of India. 

 

(4) The application fee referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3 and the legal costs, if 

any, forming part of the settlement amount shall be credited to the Securities and Exchange 

 
 

Page 145 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

Board of India General Fund. 

 

Explanation. – Legal costs shall include liquidated costs, as may be determined by the Board, 

in  respect  of  costs  for  obtaining  appropriate  orders  from  the  Tribunal  or  Court  under  sub-

regulation (2) of regulation 24. 

 

(5)  The  amount  of  ill-gotten  profits  made  or  losses  avoided  by  the  applicant  that  may  be 

disgorged  as  part  of  the  settlement  terms,  shall  be  credited  to  the  Investor  Protection  and 

Education Fund of the Board. 

 

Factors to be considered to arrive at the settlement terms. 

10.  While  arriving  at  the  settlement  terms,  the  factors  indicated  in  Schedule-II  may  be 

considered, including but not limited, to the following:  

(a)  conduct of the applicant during the specified proceeding, investigation, inspection or 

audit; 

(b) the role played by the applicant in case the alleged default is committed by a group of 

persons; 

(c)  nature, gravity and impact of alleged defaults;  

(d) whether  any  other  proceeding  against  the  applicant  for  non-compliance  of  securities 

laws is pending or concluded; 

(e)  the extent of harm and/or loss to the investors’ and/or gains made by the applicant;  

(f)  processes  that  have  been  introduced  since  the  alleged  default  to  minimize  future 

defaults or lapses;  

(g) compliance schedule proposed by the applicant; 

(h) economic  benefits  accruing  to  any  person  from  the  non-compliance  or  delayed 

compliance;  

(i)  conditions which are necessary to deter future non-compliance by the same or another 

person; 

(j)  satisfaction of claim of investors regarding payment of money due to them or delivery 

of securities to them;  

(k) any  other  enforcement  action  that  has  been  taken  against  the  applicant  for  the  same 

violation;  

(l)  any other factors necessary in the facts and circumstances of the case.  

 
 

Page 146 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

CHAPTER V 

 

COMMITTEES 

 

High Powered Advisory Committee. 

11. (1) The Board shall constitute a High Powered Advisory Committee for consideration and 

recommendation of the terms of settlement.  

 

(2) The High Powered Advisory Committee shall consist of a Judicial member who has been 

the Judge of the Supreme Court or a High Court and three external experts having expertise in 

securities market or in matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. 

 

(3) The term of the members of the High Powered Advisory Committee shall be three years 

which may be extended for a further period of two years. 

 

(4)  The  quorum  for  a  meeting  of  the  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee  shall  be  of  three 

members. 

Explanation. - Meeting includes meeting through audio-video electronic means or through the 

medium of electronic video linkage. 

 

(5) The High Powered Advisory Committee shall conduct its meetings in the manner specified 

by the Board in this regard: 

Provided that, where any member of the High Powered Advisory Committee seeks recusal, the 

remaining members (atleast two) may submit their recommendation on the terms of settlement: 

Provided further that, in case no consensus or majority can be reached, the recommendation 

made  by  the  Judicial  member  shall  be  considered  to  be  the  recommendation  of  the  High 

Powered  Advisory  Committee  and  in  case  of  recusal  of  the  Judicial  member,  the 

recommendations of the remaining members (atleast two) shall be submitted for consideration 

to the Panel of Whole Time Members: 

Provided  also  that,  where  all  or  all  but  one  of  the  members  of  the  High  Powered  Advisory 

Committee recuse themselves in respect of an application, the Board may constitute another 

High Powered Advisory Committee. 

 

 
 

Page 147 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

Internal committee(s). 

12.(1) Internal Committee shall be constituted by the Board. 

 

(2) The Internal Committee(s) shall be headed by an officer of the Board not below the rank of 

Chief General Manager and shall comprise of such other officers as may be specified by the 

Board. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 148 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

CHAPTER VI 

 

PROCEDURE OF SETTLEMENT 

 

Proceedings before the Internal Committee. 

13. (1) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, an application shall be referred to an 

Internal Committee to examine whether the proceedings may be settled and if so to determine 

the settlement terms in accordance with these regulations. 

 

(2) The Internal Committee may:  

(a)  call for relevant information, documents, etc., pertaining to the alleged default(s) in 

possession of the applicant or obtainable by the applicant; 

Explanation. – Nothing in these regulations shall confer a right upon the applicant to 

seek information from the Board or require the Board to seek information from any 

other person for the purpose of relying upon it in the settlement proceedings or request 

the Board to permit it to present information not already disclosed in the application, 

which  the  applicant  was  aware  of  at  the  time  of  making  the  application  or  which 

information  upon  diligent  enquiry  being  made  could  have  become  known  to  the 

applicant.  

 

 

(b)  call for the personal appearance of the applicant before it: 

 

 

Provided that a duly authorized representative of the applicant may represent on 

behalf of the applicant:  

Explanation.  -  Personal  appearance  under  this  clause  includes  appearance  through 

audio-video electronic means or through the medium of electronic video  linkage as 

may be permitted by the Internal Committee.  

 

(c)  permit the applicant to submit revised settlement terms within a period not exceeding 

ten working days from the date of the Internal Committee meeting: 

Provided that the revised settlement terms received after ten working days, but 

within twenty working days may be considered subject to an increase of ten percent 

over the recommended settlement amount. 

 

 
 

Page 149 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

(3) The proposed settlement terms, if any, shall be placed before the High Powered Advisory 

Committee. 

 

Proceedings before the High Powered Advisory Committee. 

14. (1) The High Powered Advisory Committee shall consider the proposed settlement terms 

placed before it along with the following: 

(a)  the application, undertaking and waivers of the applicant; 

(b) factors specified in regulation 10; 

(c)  settlement terms or revised settlement terms proposed by the applicant; 

(d) any other relevant material available on record.  

 

(2) The High Powered Advisory Committee may seek revision of the settlement terms and refer 

the application back to the Internal Committee. 

 

(3) The recommendations of the High Powered Advisory Committee shall be placed before the 

Panel of Whole Time Members.  

 

Action on the recommendation of High Powered Advisory Committee. 

15. (1) The Panel of Whole Time Members shall consider the recommendations of the High 

Powered Advisory Committee and may accept or reject the same. 

 

(2)  Where  the  Panel  of  Whole  Time  Members  accepts  the  recommendation  of  the  High 

Powered Advisory Committee, the applicant shall be issued a notice of demand within seven 

working days of the decision of the panel and the applicant shall, - 

(a) remit the settlement amount forming part of the settlement terms, not later than 

fifteen calendar days from the date of receipt of the notice of demand, which may be 

extended by the Panel of Whole Time Members for reasons to be recorded, by fifteen 

calendar days: 

Explanation. – Remittance of settlement amount shall be done by way of a demand 

draft drawn in favour of 'Securities and Exchange Board of India' payable at Mumbai 

or by way of direct credit in the specified bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS 

or any other authorised mode of payment. 

 

 
 

Page 150 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

Provided  that,  where  the  settlement  amount  is  remitted  after  thirty  calendar  days 

from the date of receipt of the notice of demand and on or before the ninetieth day 

from such receipt, the settlement amount payable by the applicant shall be increased 

by the levy of simple interest at the rate of six per cent per annum from the date of 

receipt of the notice of demand till the date of payment of the settlement amount:  

 

Provided further that, in no case shall such remittance be accepted after the ninetieth 

calendar day from the date of the receipt of the notice of demand. 

 

(b) fulfil/undertake in writing to abide by, the other settlement terms, if any, within 

the time provided to the applicant. 

 

(4) Where the Panel of Whole Time Members does not accept the recommendation of the High 

Powered  Advisory  Committee  to  settle  the  specified  proceedings  on  the  settlement  terms 

recommended by it, the panel may return the application for re-examination of the settlement 

terms and thereafter the procedure as applicable in the case of an original application shall be 

followed by the Internal Committee and the High Powered Advisory Committee. 

 

       (5) Where the Panel of Whole Time Members rejects the recommendation of the High Powered 

Advisory Committee to settle the specified proceedings, such decision of the panel of Whole 

Time Members shall be communicated to the applicant.  

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 151 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

CHAPTER VII 

 

SUMMARY SETTLEMENT PROCEDURE 

 

Summary Settlement Procedure 

16.  (1)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  Chapter  VI,  before  initiating  any  specified 

proceeding, the Board may issue a notice of summary settlement in the format as specified in 

Part-A of Schedule-III, calling upon the noticee to file a settlement application under Chapter-

II  and  submit  the  settlement  amount  and/or  furnish  an  undertaking  in  respect  of  other  non-

monetary terms or comply with other non-monetary terms, as may be specified in the summary 

settlement  notice  in  respect  of  the  specified  proceeding(s)  to  be  initiated  for  the  following 

defaults,- 

i.  Delayed disclosures, including filing of returns, report, document, etc.; 

ii.  Non-disclosure  in  relation  to  companies  exclusively  listed  on  regional  stock 

exchanges which have exited; 

iii.  Disclosures not made in the specified formats; 

iv.  Delayed compliance of any of the requirements of law or directions issued by the 

Board; 

v. 

Such other defaults as may be determined by the Board. 

 

 

Provided that, the specified proceeding(s) shall not be settled under this Chapter, if in 

the opinion of the Board, the applicant has failed to make a full and true disclosure of facts or 

failed to co-operate in the required manner. 

 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the notice of settlement, the Board  shall have  the  

power  to  modify  the  enforcement  action  to  be  brought  against  the  noticee and the notice 

of  settlement  shall  not  confer  any  right  upon  the  noticee  to  seek  settlement  or  avoid  any 

enforcement action. 

 

(3)  The  noticee  may,  within  thirty  calendar  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  notice  of 

settlement, - 

 
 

Page 152 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

(a) file a settlement application in the Form specified in Part-A of Schedule-I along with 

non-refundable application fee as specified in Part-B and the undertakings and waivers as 

specified in Part-C of Schedule-I;  

 

(b) remit the settlement amount as specified in the notice of settlement;   

 

(c)  comply  or  undertake  to  comply  with  other  non-monetary  terms  as  specified  in  the 

notice of settlement, as the case may be; and  

 

(d) seek rectification of the calculation of the settlement amount, as communicated in the 

notice of settlement, at the time of filing the settlement application and in all such cases, 

the decision of the Board shall be final and remittance shall be done within thirty calendar 

days from the date of receipt of the decision of the Board: 

 

 

Provided that, the Board may for reasons to be recorded, grant extension of time not 

exceeding  a  further  period  of  fifteen  calendar  days  for  filing  the  settlement  application, 

remittance of the settlement amount and/or furnishing an undertaking in respect of any of the 

non-monetary terms or compliance with any of the non-monetary terms specified in the notice 

of settlement. 

 

(4) Upon being satisfied with the remittance of settlement amount and undertaking furnished 

in respect of the non-monetary terms or compliance with non-monetary terms, if any as detailed 

in the settlement notice, the Board shall pass an order of settlement under regulation 23. 

 

17. Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, where a noticee does not file a 

settlement application under this Chapter or remit the settlement amount and/or comply with 

other  non-monetary  terms  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Board  or  withdraws  the  settlement 

application at any time prior to the communication of the decision of the Panel of Whole Time 

Members under regulation 15, the specified proceedings may be initiated or continued, as the 

case may be and such a noticee shall only be permitted to file a settlement application in respect 

of the proceedings pending before the Court or Tribunal, after conclusion of proceedings before 

the Adjudicating Officer or the Board, as the case may be. 

 
 

 

 

Page 153 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

 

CHAPTER VIII 

 

SETTLEMENT NOTICE 

Settlement Notice. 

18. (1) A notice of settlement in the format as specified in Part-B of Schedule-III, indicating 

the substance of the probable charges and enforcement actions, may, except in cases covered 

under Chapter VII, be issued by the Board prior to the issuance of the notice to show cause so 

as to afford the noticee an opportunity to file a settlement application under Chapter-II, within 

fifteen calendar days from the date of receipt of the settlement notice. 

 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the settlement notice, the Board shall have the right 

to modify the nature of the enforcement action to be initiated against the noticee and the charges 

stated in the notice shall not confer any right to seek settlement on the said basis or avoid any 

enforcement action due to modified charges. 

 

(3) Where a noticee does not file the settlement application under this Chapter or withdraws 

the settlement application at any time prior to the communication of the decision of the Panel 

of Whole Time Members under regulation 15, the specified proceedings may be initiated and 

such  a  noticee  shall  only  be  permitted  to  file  a  settlement  application  in  respect  of  the 

proceedings pending before a Court or tribunal, after conclusion of the proceedings before the 

Adjudicating Officer or the Board, as the case may be. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 154 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

CHAPTER IX 

 

SETTLEMENT WITH CONFIDENTIALITY  

 

Seeking Settlement with confidentiality. 

19. (1) An applicant seeking the benefit of confidentiality in return for admitting for the limited 

purpose  of  settlement  of  specified  proceedings  to  be  initiated  and  agreeing  to  provide 

substantial  assistance  in  the  investigation,  inspection,  inquiry  or  audit,  initiated  or  ongoing, 

against any other person in respect of a violation of securities laws, shall fulfil the conditions 

of this Chapter, including –  

 

(a)  cease  to  participate  in  the  violation  of  securities  laws  from  the  time  of  the 

disclosure of information, unless otherwise directed by the Board;  

(b) provide and continue to provide complete and true disclosure of information, 

documents and evidence, which is in his possession or he is able to obtain, to 

the  satisfaction  of  the  Board  in  respect  of  the  alleged  contravention  of  the 

provisions of securities laws;  

(c)  co-operate fully, continuously and expeditiously throughout the investigation, 

inspection, inquiry or audit and related proceedings before the Board; and  

(d) not  conceal,  destroy,  manipulate  or  remove  the  relevant  documents  in  any 

manner that may contribute to the establishment of the alleged violation. 

 

Explanation. – Violation of securities laws in this Chapter refers to defaults other than those of 

disclosure and reporting requirements detailed in Schedule II. 

 

Provided that an application made under this chapter shall be made only in cases prior to or 

pending investigation, inspection, inquiry or audit. 

 

(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  Chapter,  where  an  applicant  fails  to  comply 

with the conditions mentioned in this regulation, the Board may rely upon the information and 

evidence submitted by the applicant in any proceedings 

 

 
 

Page 155 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

(3) Without prejudice to sub-regulations (1) and (2), the Board may subject the applicant to 

further restrictions or conditions, as deemed fit, after considering the facts and circumstances 

of the case.  

 

(4)  For  the  purpose  of  seeking  confidentiality,  the  applicant  or  its  authorized  representative 

may make an application containing all the relevant disclosures pertaining to the information 

as  specified  in  Schedule-IV  for  furnishing  the  information  and  evidence  relating  to  the 

commission of any violation of securities laws.  

 

(5) Upon being satisfied the Board may assure the benefit of confidentiality and shall thereupon 

mark  the  status  of  the  application  depending  upon  its  priority  and  convey  the  same  to  the 

applicant in writing.  

 

(6) The Board may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, at any stage, reject the application if 

the information, documents or evidence is found to be incomplete or false to the knowledge of 

the applicant.  

 

(7) The rejection of the application for confidentiality shall be communicated to the applicant. 

 

Procedure. — 

20.  (1)  The  provisions  of  Chapters  IV  to  VI  of  these  regulations  may  be  applied  mutatis 

mutandis  to  a  settlement  application  filed  under  this  Chapter  and  a  settlement  order  passed 

accordingly. 

 

(2) The information, documents and evidence provided by the applicant under this chapter shall 

be submitted in the manner specified by the Board. 

 

Confidentiality and assurance. — 

21. For the purposes of providing the applicant with interim confidentiality and assurance from 

being proceeded with, the Board may not initiate regulatory measures when the Board has a 

reasonable belief that the information provided to it relates to a possible securities law violation 

that has occurred, is ongoing or about to occur.  

 

 
 

Page 156 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

Confidentiality. — 

22.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  Chapter  X,  the  following  shall  be  treated  as 

confidential, - 

(a)  the identity of the applicant seeking confidentiality; and 

(b) the information,  documents  and evidence furnished by the applicant  under this 

Chapter: 

 

Provided that, the identity of the applicant or such information or documents or evidence may 

not be treated as confidential if, — 

(i) the disclosure is required by law; or 

(ii) the applicant has agreed to such disclosure in writing; or 

(iii) there has been a public disclosure by the applicant. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 157 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

CHAPTER X 

 

SETTLEMENT ORDERS 

 

Settlement of proceedings before the Adjudicating Officer and the Board. 

23.  (1)  The  Adjudicating  Officer  shall  by  an  appropriate  order  dispose  of  the  proceeding 

pending before him on the basis of the approved settlement terms. 

 

(2) The Panel of the Whole Time Members shall by an appropriate order dispose of proceedings 

initiated or proposed to be initiated other than the proceedings referred to in sub-regulation (1). 

 

 

(3) The settlement order passed under these regulations shall, contain the details of the alleged 

default(s), relevant provisions of the securities laws, brief facts and circumstances relevant to 

the alleged default, the admissions made by the applicant, if any and the settlement terms. 

 

Settlement of the proceedings pending before the Tribunal or any court. 

24. (1) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, the provisions with regard to settlement 

of specified proceedings shall mutatis mutandis apply to an application for settlement of any 

proceeding pending before the Tribunal or any court. 

 

(2)  The  proposal  of  settlement  along  with  the  settlement  terms  or  rejection  thereof  shall  be 

placed before such Tribunal or court for appropriate orders. 

 

Service and Publication of settlement order. 

25. Settlement orders shall be served on the applicant and shall also be published on the website 

of the Board: 

Provided  that  settlement  orders  in  matters  relating  to  the  confidentiality  shall  not, 

directly or indirectly, disclose the identity of the applicant, but shall indicate the provisions of 

securities laws which the applicant is alleged to have violated. 

 

 

 

 

Page 158 of 209 

 
 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

Settlement Schemes. 

26.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  these  regulations,  the  Board  may  specify  the 

procedure and terms of settlement of specified proceedings under a settlement scheme for any 

class of persons involved in respect of any similar specified defaults. 

Explanation. - A settlement order issued under a Settlement scheme shall be deemed to be a 

 

settlement order under these regulations. 

 

Effect of settlement order on third party rights or other proceedings. 

27. (1) A settlement order under these regulations shall not be admissible as evidence in any 

other proceeding relating to an alleged default not covered under the settlement order nor affect 

the right of third parties arising out of the alleged default. 

 

(2) Where any applicant who obtains a settlement order is also noticee along with any other 

person in any civil and administrative proceeding, the Adjudicating Officer or the Board while 

disposing proceedings against such other person may make necessary observations in respect 

of the applicant in so far as is necessary to prove the act of another: 

Provided that, unless the settlement order is revoked, such observations shall qua the applicant 

be subject to the settlement order obtained by the applicant. 

 

(3) Where any person has obtained a settlement order, which contains observations in respect 

of any other person for the commission of an alleged default, such an order shall not in itself 

be admissible as evidence against such other person. 

 

Revocation of the settlement order. 

28.  (1)  If  the  applicant  fails  to  comply  with  the  settlement  order  or  at  any  time  after  the 

settlement order is passed, it comes to the notice of the Board that the applicant has not made 

full and true disclosure or has violated the undertakings or waivers, settlement order shall stand 

revoked and withdrawn and the Board shall restore or initiate the proceedings, with respect to 

which the settlement order was passed. 

 

(2) Whenever any settlement order is revoked, no amount paid under these regulations shall be 

refunded. 

 
 

Page 159 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

 

 

CHAPTER XI 

 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Confidentiality of information. 

29.  (1)  All  information  submitted  and  discussions  held  in  pursuance  of  the  settlement 

proceedings  under  these  regulations  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  received  or  made  in  a 

fiduciary capacity and the same may not be released to the public, if the same prejudices the 

Board and/or the applicant. 

 

(2)  Where  an  application  is  rejected,  the  applicant  and  the  Board  shall  not  rely  upon  or 

introduce  as  evidence  before  any  court  or  Tribunal,  any  proposals  made  or  information 

submitted or representation made by the applicant under these regulations: 

    Provided that this sub-regulation shall not apply where the settlement order is revoked and 

withdrawn under these regulations.  

 

Explanation. – When any  fact  is  discovered in  consequence of information received from  a 

person in pursuance of an application, so much of such information, whether it amounts to an 

admission or not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be proved. 

 

 

Power to remove difficulties. 

30. In order to remove any difficulty in the interpretation or application or implementation of 

the provisions of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue clarifications and 

specify procedures through circulars or guidelines. 

 

Irregularity in procedure  

31. No settlement order or rejection of a settlement application shall be void on ground of any 

defect in procedure or calculation of the settlement amount or on account of any vacancy in or 

any defect in the constitution of any committee under Chapter V: 

Provided  that,  nothing  in  these  regulations  shall  prohibit  the  Board  from  revoking  the 

settlement  order  where  the  applicant  fails  to  pay  any  difference  due  to  any  discrepancy  in 

calculation of the settlement amount: 

 
 

Page 160 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

Provided further that, the applicant shall continue to be bound by the waivers given in respect 

of limitation or laches in respect of initiating or continuing or restoring of any legal proceeding 

and the waivers given in sub-paras (d), (e) (f) and (g) of para 12 of the undertaking and waivers 

as provided in Part-C of the Schedule-I. 

 

Relevance of these regulations in specified proceedings 

32. Schedule-II of these regulations shall be relevant but not bind the Board or an Adjudicating 

Officer in any specified proceeding and the Board or the Adjudicating Officer may apply them 

to the extent possible. 

 

Repeal and savings. 

33. (1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, Securities and Exchange Board 

of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 shall stand 

repealed. 

(2) Notwithstanding any such repeal:  

 

 

 
 

(a)  Notice  of  settlement  issued  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014  shall  be 

deemed to have been filed in accordance with these regulations and shall be dealt with 

in accordance with the provisions of these regulations; 

 

(b) All applications filed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement 

of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014  and  pending  with  the 

Board shall be deemed to have been filed in accordance with these regulations and shall 

be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of these regulations; 

 

(c)  All  settlement  orders  passed  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014  shall  be 

deemed to have been passed under these regulations;  

 

(d) The Internal Committee(s) and the High Powered Advisory Committee constituted 

by  the  Board  in  accordance  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

Page 161 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

(Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014,  shall  be 

deemed to have been constituted under these regulations; 

 

(e)  The  proposals  of  the  Internal  Committees  and  the  recommendations  of  the  High 

Powered Advisory Committee in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board 

of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 and 

any action taken by the Board on the basis of these recommendations shall be deemed 

to have been made under these regulations.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 162 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

SCHEDULE-I  

(See regulation 3) 

 

Part-A 

 

FORM 

Application for settlement  

(To be filed only after conclusion of investigation, inspection, inquiry or audit, as the 

Date of receipt of the application: 

Application Registration Number: 

case may be) 

(For Office use only) 

 

(Instructions: All particulars, including submission regarding details of loss caused to 

investors, profit made and proposed settlement amount must be filled, else application shall 

be returned. Put ‘NA’ only where NOT APPLICABLE.) 

 

 

Before the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

In the matter of ………………………….. 

1. Name/Trade name of the applicant/co-applicants: 

(a) Registration no., if applicable :  

(b) Date of Registration, if applicable : 

(c) PAN/DIN/CIN number, as available:  

(d) Paid-up capital of applicant: 

(e) Aadhaar number or Aadhar enrolment number, if applicable: 

2. If stock broker, name of the stock exchange: 

3. If sub-broker/authorised person, name of stock broker with whom affiliated and name 

of the stock exchange: 

4. Name of the segment (Cash/derivative etc.): 

5. Form of organization: corporate body/ sole proprietorship / partnership / LLP/ financial 

institution (if listed co., details of listing): 

 
 

Page 163 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

6. Names of promoters/directors/proprietors/partners: 

7. Key management personnel(s): 

8. Address/correspondence address, contact no./fax no. and email (any changes in 

aforesaid details shall be communicated to the Board promptly): 

9. Name and contact details (including e-mail) of the contact person (s): 

10. Other registration(s) with the Board, if applicable: 

(a) Trade name : 

(b) Registration type : 

(c) Registration no. : 

     11. Case(s) pending with the Board/SAT/Court (Pl. specify): 

     12. Case(s) pending under 11B/Adjudication/Enquiry/others (pl. specify): 

     13. Stage at which pending: 

     14.  Interim order(s) in the pending proceedings (gist of the orders passed), if any: 

     15.  Other actions pending with/concluded by the Board, if any (with their details): 

(a) Against the applicant 

(b) Against its associates 

 : 

 : 

 

(c) Against its key management personnel(s) : 

(d) Against its other promoters/directors: 

(e) Other details, if any: 

     16.   Date of show cause notice/summons/communication indicating probable cause of 

action, if any, against which the settlement is sought (PLEASE ENCLOSE 

COPIES)*:  

     17.   Full and true disclosure of facts (including the loss caused, profit made, loss avoided, 

gross  fees,  brokerage,  commissions,  etc.,  in  respect  of  the  cause  of  action,  with 

manner of calculation thereof): 

[APPLICANT TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE GUIDELINES PROVIDED IN 

SCHEDULE-II] 

   18.  

Specific charges alleged: 

   19.  

Terms of settlement proposed by the Applicant:- 

 

 

(a) Monetary terms, with manner of calculation:- 

(b) Non-monetary terms, including manner of calculation of terms of disgorgement 

due:- 

   20.   Original documents to be enclosed:  

 
 

Page 164 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

(a) Undertakings and waivers (as per Format specified in Part C). 

(b) Authority letter/Board resolution. 

 

  21.  List of other enclosures:  

(a)  A  copy  of  the  notice  to  show  cause/summons/communication/other  notices 

indicating the probable cause of action, if any, against which the settlement is sought;  

(b) Complete Annual Reports / other relevant financial details for the last three financial 

years and the quarterly audited financial results of the current year;  

 (c) A statement showing net worth of the applicant (only for those applicants who are 

required to comply with the networth requirements as specified by the Board or by the 

stock exchanges), gross annual income before tax, the amount of gross profit made/loss 

avoided, including the gross brokerage, fees, management/performance/transaction fee, 

carried interest, compensation, etc., in respect of the said default;  

(d) Copy of PAN card/Aadhar/ DIN/CIN details; 

(e) Complete Income-tax Returns of the applicant for the last three financial years; 

(f)  In  case  of  a  foreign  body  corporate  applicant,  include  details  relating  to 

incorporation,  place  of  business,  registration  details  with  any  non-Indian  financial 

sector regulatory authority.  

(g) In case of a non-resident applicant, include details relating to passport and national 

identity document, if any. 

(h) Any other relevant document (s)/submissions. 

 (Signature of the applicant) 

(Stamp and Seal of body corporate applicant) 

 

 

 

 

Verification 

 

I, ………………………………………………son/daughter/wife of (Name in block letters) 

Shri …………………………………..being the applicant/authorised representative (in case of 

body  corporate)  of  …………………….  do  hereby  verify  and  affirm  on  oath  that  this 

application and the contents thereof are true to my knowledge and belief and as per the records 

 
 

Page 165 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

and that I have not suppressed any material facts and shall keep the Board informed without 

delay, of any other relevant information that may come to my notice. 

(Signature of the applicant) 

Date: 

Place :  

 

Part-B 

 

Every applicant under Chapter II of these regulations shall pay a non-refundable processing fee 

of fifteen thousand rupees, by way of a demand draft in favour of 'Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India'  payable  at  Mumbai  or  by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account  through 

NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI. 

Provided that, where the applicant is a body corporate, the non-refundable processing fee shall 

be Twenty-five thousand rupees. 

 

 

 

 

 

Part-C 

Undertakings and Waivers   

 

Format  

 

 

Undertaking to be submitted by each applicant, along with the application with stamp 

duty duly paid and duly notarized at the time of execution. 

 

I/We,  …………………,  the  applicant(s)  herein,  as  a  condition  for  making  the  enclosed 

application to the Board for examining and consideration of the application, hereby declare that 

I/we agree and undertake that: 

 

 
 

(1) I/We  admit  the  jurisdiction  and  right  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  to 

initiate appropriate proceedings in respect of the alleged default. 

Page 166 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

(2) I/We  further  agree  and  undertake  that  the  time  spent  during  the  settlement  proceedings 

shall be excluded for computing the limitation  period or laches, if any, for initiating or 

continuing  or  restoring  any  legal  proceedings,  if  any,  against  me/us,  and  waive  any 

objections in this regard.  

(3) The Securities and Exchange Board of India may enforce any claims against me/us arising 

from  or/in  relation  to  any  violation  of  the  settlement  order  passed  pursuant  to  this 

application. 

(4) Nothing in the settlement order shall preclude any other person from pursuing any other 

legal remedy to which such person may be entitled against me/us as per law. 

(5) The settlement proposed by me/us does not limit or create any private rights or remedies 

for any person who is not a party to these proceedings, against me/us.  

(6) The settlement amount including legal costs, if any, shall be paid by me/us to the Board 

within the period stipulated by the Board. 

(7) The settlement order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018, as amended from 

time to time. 

(8) I/We agree that subsequent to the passing of the settlement order, I/We shall not take any 

action or make or permit to be made any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, 

any  finding  of  the  Board  including  that  recorded  in  the  settlement  order  or  creating 

impression that the settlement order is without factual basis.  

(9) I/We hereby declare that nothing in the waiver and undertaking given by me/us shall affect 

my/our (i) testimonial obligations or (ii) right to take legal or factual positions in defence 

of litigation or in defence of a claim or in any other legal proceeding in which the Board 

is not a party. 

(10) I/We for the limited purpose of settlement under these regulations  ‘admit the findings of 

fact and conclusions of law’ or ‘neither admit nor deny the findings of fact and conclusions 

of law’ (strike off whichever is not applicable), and agree to abide by the settlement order 

as may be passed in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement 

Proceedings)  Regulations,  2018  and  guidelines  and  circulars  issued  by  the  Board  in  that 

regard:  

 

Provided  that,  in  relation  to  defaults  related  to  disclosures  other  than  relating  to  a 

prospectus or a letter of offer or a similar such document required to be made in relation to 

an issue of securities, I/we do not deny the alleged default: 

 
 

Page 167 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

(11) I/We  waive  my/our  right  of  taking  any  legal  proceedings  against  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India concerning any of the issue covered in the settlement order that 

may be passed.  

(12) I/We further waive the following: 

(a)   the findings of fact and conclusions of law; 

(b)  the proceedings before the Board or any officer of the Board; 

(c)  the right to all post-hearing procedures; 

(d)   appeal/review before the Tribunal/courts;  

(e) any  plea  relating  to  such  provisions  of  the  regulations  or  other  requirements  of  law, 

including conflict of interest, as may be construed to prevent any member or officer of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  from  participating  in  the  proceedings, 

including settlement proceedings or assisting or advising the Internal Committee, high 

Powered  Advisory  Committee  or  Panel  of  Whole  Time  Members,  as  to,  any  order, 

opinion, finding of fact, or conclusion of law, etc; 

(f)  any  plea  of  bias  or  pre-judgment  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  the 

officers  or  the  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee,  based  on  the  consideration  of  or 

discussions concerning settlement of all or any part of the internal proceedings;  

(g)  any  plea  of  limitation  or  laches  for  initiating  or  restoring  of  the  proceedings,  if  the 

applicant violates the settlement order. 

 

 

(Signature of the applicant with stamp and seal of the body corporate) 

Before me. 

Notary. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 168 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

 

 
 

SCHEDULE-II 

(See regulation 10) 

 

CHAPTER I 

 

GUIDELINES FOR ARRIVING AT SETTLEMENT TERMS 

 

 

1.  The settlement amount (SA) shall comprise of the Indicative Amount (IA) arrived at in 

terms of these guidelines and the factors provided in regulation 10, wherever applicable: 

 

Provided that, wherever  applicable, the SA in  relation to  an adjudication proceeding 

shall not be less than the minimum penalty that may be levied under securities laws by 

an adjudicating officer. 

 

2.  The IA shall not be less than Rupees 3 lakh for first time applicants or Rupees 7 lakh 

for others, as the case may be.  

 

 

Explanation  1.-A  ‘first  time  applicant’  is  a  person  against  whom  no  order  has  been 

passed  by  the  adjudicating  officer  or  by  the  Board  or  who  has  never  obtained  a 

settlement order from the Board as on the date of the present application.  

 

Explanation 2. - Individual applicants who submit to the satisfaction of the IC or HPAC 

or Panel of WTMs that, without knowledge of the illegal activity, they had lent the use 

of  their  securities  account  to  the  key  operator  or  intermediary  or  securities  market 

infrastructure institution involved in such activity, the SA may not exceed the minimum 

penalty under securities laws.  

3.  Based on the stage at which the proceeding(s), for which the application is made, is/are 

pending, the proceeding conversion factor (PCF) shall be applied when calculating the 

IA.   

 

Page 169 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

4.  In  cases,  where  an  existing  business  or  activity  of  a  person  is  either  corporatized  or 

converted into an LLP or partnership or merged or taken over by a new management, 

the existing record of the erstwhile entity shall be deemed to be the record of the new 

entity.  Considerations  including  insolvency,  change  of  name  or  management  or 

ownership,  etc.,  shall  be  considered  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines  issued  by  the 

Board, if any, from time to time. 

 

5.  PCF for Applications made voluntary or seeking settlement with confidentiality: Where 

an  entity  desires  to  obtain  the  benefit  of  a  lower  PCF,  it may,  suo  motto, before  the 

receipt  of  any  notice  to  show  cause,  intimate  the  Board  of  such  default  hereinafter 

referred to as ‘intimation defaults’ and co-operate with the Board in the investigation, 

inquiry, inspection or audit. Such an application shall be deemed to have been made 

‘Pre- issue of notice to show cause’ for the purpose of calculating the PCF. 

 

6. The IA shall be calculated per count of default, jointly or separately as per the facts and 

circumstances of the case, in accordance with these guidelines. 

 

7.  While  considering  the  application,  the  alleged  default(s)  detailed  in  the  Inspection 

Report or the Investigation Report or the Report of the Designated Authority (DA) or 

the notice to show cause, including any supplementary notice to show cause issued by 

any authority in a pending proceeding, or the facts/findings detailed in the order of the 

Designated  Member  (DM)  or  the  Whole  Time  Member  (WTM)  or  the  Adjudicating 

Officer  (AO)  or  the  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal  (SAT),  as  applicable,  may  be  the 

basis for calculating the IA.  

 

 

 

 

In case, the Internal Committee (IC) or the High Powered Advisory Committee 

(HPAC) or the Panel of Whole Time Members (WTMs) are of the opinion that the facts 

disclose a different default, the modification of the charge(s) may be sought.  

 

8.  The alleged defaults shall, wherever applicable, be categorised based on the facts and 

circumstances by the IC or HPAC or the Panel of WTMs.  

 

 
 

Page 170 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

9.  Notwithstanding anything contained in these guidelines, the IC or HPAC or Panel of 

WTMs  shall  have  the  discretion  to  recommend  acceptance  or  rejection  or  accept  or 

reject  an  application,  to  recommend  an  amount,  lower  or  higher  than  the  amounts 

arrived at in terms of these guidelines, for reasons to be recorded, in accordance with 

the provisions of securities laws, considering the facts and circumstances of the case 

and the gravity of the charges.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

10. In case the applicant is body corporate, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may require 

that the SA payable by a body corporate is to be paid by the officers in default including 

the  persons  in  charge  of  the  body  corporate  to  avoid  burdening  investors  holding 

securities issued by the body corporate. 

11. In cases where the formulae for calculating the IA are inapplicable or cannot be adapted 

due to the peculiar nature of the default or the facts and circumstances of the case or 

where the defaults detailed in the Tables in these guidelines are not covered, the IC or 

HPAC or Panel of WTMs may arrive at the SA, as they deem fit. 

 

12. In  case  of  an  amendment(s)  or  repeal  of  the  securities  laws,  these  guidelines  shall 

continue  to  apply  to  similar  provisions  under  the  amended  or  new  laws,  mutatis 

mutandis. 

 

 

 

Page 171 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

Chapter II 

 

INDICATIVE AMOUNT AND THE SETTLEMENT AMOUNT 

 

Indicative amount (IA) shall be calculated as follows: 

 

 

 

 

IA=  A XB + Legal Costs# 

#Legal  costs  of  the  Board  may  be  applicable  to  an  application  made  at  the  stages 

mentioned in points “b”, “d” and “e” as provided in Table I.   

 

Where: 

‘A’ = PCF + RAF 

A:  Multiplying Factor. 

PCF:  Proceeding Conversion Factor. 

RAF:  Regulatory Action Factor. 

 

‘B’ = BV x BA 

B:  Applicable  Benchmark  Amount,  is  the  amount  attributable  to  every  count  of  the 

alleged default in accordance with these guidelines; 

 

‘BV’: Aggregate of the base values given to the relevant  aggravating and mitigating 

factors in respect of a particular charge. 

‘BA’: Base amount attributable to every count of the alleged default in accordance with 

these guidelines. 

1.  The IA shall not exceed the maximum penalty under securities laws that may be levied for 

each count of violation multiplied by the counts of alleged default in accordance with these 

guidelines. 

 

 

2. 

(a) Where an order of penalty has been passed prior to making an application, then ‘B’ 

shall not be less than the penalty so awarded; 

 
 

Page 172 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

(b)  In  case  more  than  one  proceeding  arising  from  the  same  cause  of  action  has  been 

initiated against the applicant, the IA shall be increased by 20%;  

 

3. 

 

 

In case of grant of confidentiality, the IA arrived in accordance with this Schedule shall, 

be further reduced as follows, - 

i. 

those marked first in priority status may be granted reduction of up to  or equal 

to ninety percent of the IA;  

ii. 

those marked second in priority status may be granted reduction of upto or equal 

to fifty percent of the IA; and 

iii. 

those marked third or subsequent in the priority status may be granted reduction 

upto or equal to twenty five percent of the IA. 

4.  The amount which is finally approved by the Panel of Whole Time Members is the SA. 

 

5.  Notwithstanding anything in this Schedule, - 

i.  where  a  compounding  application  has  been  filed  in  respect  of  an  offence  under 

securities  laws  for  non-payment  of  penalty,  the  proposal  agreeing  to  the 

composition of the offence may be made to the court only on receipt of such penalty 

and interest as deemed appropriate along with legal charges as determined by the 

Board; and 

ii.  where a compounding application is filed after framing of the charges by the court, 

the proposal agreeing to the composition may be made after increasing the amount 

calculated  under  this  Schedule  by  atleast  twenty-five  per-cent  along  with  legal 

charges  and  any  other  terms  as  may  be  approved  by  the  Panel  of  Whole  Time 

Members. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 173 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

 

 

CHAPTER III 

 

PROCEEDING CONVERSION FACTOR  

The  values  assigned  on  the  basis  of  the  stage  of  the  proceedings,  as  on  the  date  of  the 

application, shall be the PCF as per Table I: 

Provided that where multiple proceedings arising out of the same cause of action are sought to 

be settled, the value of the proceeding which is at the most advanced stage, irrespective of the 

stage of progress of the other proceedings, shall be taken as the PCF. 

 

 

a.   

b.   

 

TABLE- I 

PCF 

 

STAGE OF THE PROCEEDING(S) WHEN THE SETTLEMENT 

APPLICATION IS MADE 

Voluntary or for seeking settlement with confidentiality 

Pre- issue of the notice to show cause (including applications 

filed on receipt of the settlement notice) 

[Or 

Compounding application filed pre-summoning] 

VALUE 

OF 

PCF 

0.65 

0.75 

c.   

Post-issue of the first notice to show cause pertaining to any 

0.85 

pending proceeding in the same cause of action (including 

applications filed after period provided in settlement notice) 

[Or 

Compounding application filed before the framing of charge] 

d.   

Proceeding pending after the submission of the report by the 

0.9 

Designated Authority  

[Or 

 

 
 

Page 174 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

Compounding application filed after framing of charge] 

e.   

Proceedings pending after passing of a final order imposing 

1.10 

penalty or issuing civil and administrative directions, as the 

case may be  

f. 

 

Proceedings pending after the passing of the order by the 

1.20 

Securities Appellate Tribunal or Court  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 175 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

CHAPTER IV 

 

REGULATORY ACTION FACTOR -VALUE FOR ALL ORDERS AND REGULATORY DIRECTIONS 

 

 

The sum of all the values assigned to the order and regulatory direction(s) issued in the past, if 

any, shall be ‘RAF’. 

 

 

‘RAF’= X  + Y 

“TABLE II -VALUE for ORDERS AND REGULATORY DIRECTIONS ISSUED X* 

*  To  also  include  those  orders  and  directions  which  have  been  stayed  by  the  Securities 

Appellate Tribunal or Court, as on the date of the application.  In case multiple proceedings 

have been initiated for the same cause of action, the value shall be added for each final order 

passed. 

ORDERS AND REGULATORY DIRECTIONS ISSUED TO THE APPLICANT 

X 

PER ORDER 

Exonerated cases (i.e. cases where applicant was exonerated in an order or 

0 

appeal or review) and any settlement order involving confidentiality  

Any other Settlement Order 

ALL OTHER ORDERS (EXCEPT FOR WHICH THE APPLICATION IS FILED) 

Cease and desist order 

Final order issued against other persons associated with the securities markets 

0.01 

0.02 

0.05 

Final order issued against an intermediary or securities market infrastructure 

0.075 

institutions or listed companies, and their principal officers 

In this schedule an ‘intermediary or securities market infrastructure institutions’ includes any 

person required by securities laws to be registered or recognised by the Board. 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 176 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

 

 
 

TABLE III- VALUE FOR ORDER OR DIRECTION PASSED OR ISSUED FOR WHICH THE 

APPLICATION IS FILED – Y 

 

FINAL ORDER AGAINST 

FINAL ORDER AGAINST ANY PERSON 

INTERMEDIARY OR SECURITIES 

OTHER THAN INTERMEDIARY OR 

MARKET INFRASTRUCTURE  

SECURITIES MARKET INFRASTRUCTURE  

INSTITUTION, FOR WHICH APPLIED 

INSTITUTION,  FOR WHICH APPLIED 

Suspension/Debarment upto 1 month 

Debarment upto 6 calendar months 

Warning issued 

‘Y’ 

PER 

ORDER 

0.05 

0.1 

Suspension/Debarment for 1 month or 

Debarment for 6 calendar months  or 

0.15 

more, but less than 6 months 

more, but less than 1  year 

Suspension/Debarment for 6 month or 

Debarment for 1 year or more but less 

0.2 

more but less than 1 year  

than 2 years 

Suspension/Debarment for 1 year or 

Debarment for 2 years or more but less 

0.25 

more but less than 2 years 

than 3 years 

Suspension/Debarment for 2 years or 

Debarment for 3 years or more but less 

0.3 

more  

than 5 years 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 177 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

CHAPTER V 

 

APPLICABLE BASE VALUES AND FACTORS 

 BV= 1+ SUM OF APPLICABLE BASE VALUES 

 

I.  While assessing the relevant factors, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into 

account the following general mitigating factors with a base value of ‘-0.2’ applied once 

for all or any of them: 

1.  The  quantum  of  IA  would  affect  the  ability  of  the  applicant  to  make  restitution  to 

investors: 

Explanation. - In such cases higher IA may be sought from the officer who is in default. 

2.  The applicant had minimal participation in the alleged default; 

3.  Proactive and exceptional cooperation, including: 

a.  Prompt and detailed self-identification of suspected or uncovered misconduct; 

b.  Early  self-identification  of  contraventions  followed  by  thorough  internal 

reviews and sharing of discovered facts; 

c.  Substantial assistance to an investigation or inquiry by obtaining and providing 

evidence. 

 

4.  Acceptance of responsibility and acknowledgement of misconduct to the Board prior 

to detection and intervention by truthfully admitting the conduct; 

5.  Voluntarily employing subsequent substantial corrective measures to avoid recurrence 

of misconduct; 

6.  Where the delay in complying with the reporting requirement was less than 7 days and 

non-reporting did not result in undue gain or loss to any person; 

7.  Voluntary acts of compensation, disgorgement of commission, profits and payment of 

restitution to investors; 

8.  Disclosure made in the incorrect format; and 

9.  Applicant is a unit of governmental authority including a public-sector unit. 

Page 178 of 209 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

II.  While assessing the relevant factors, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into 

account  the  following  general  aggravating  factors  with  a  base  value  of  ‘0.2’  applied 

once for all or any of them: 

1.  Efforts  to  frustrate  or  prolong  an  investigation,  inquiry  or  a  civil  and  administrative 

proceeding, including settlement proceedings: 

Explanation. - This factor may be taken into account only when the applicant is or may 

be  charged  for  non-compliance  with  summons  during  investigation  or  when  the 

applicant fails to comply with the summons in a civil and administrative proceeding; 

2.  Providing  inaccurate  or  misleading  testimony  or  information  or  wilfully  failing  to 

provide information that he was bound to provide; 

3.  Misconduct over an extended period of time which is not less than 30 days; 

4.  Significant monetary loss to the clients which exceeds in aggregate of Rs 5 crores; 

5.  Applicant had failed to heed prior regulatory guidance and prior warnings; 

6.  Evidence of planning, pre-meditation or sophisticated means: 

Explanation:  Conducting  default  across  different  jurisdictions,  hiding  assets  or 

transactions, or both, through the use of fictitious entities, corporate shells or offshore 

financial accounts ordinarily indicates sophisticated means. 

 

   

7.  A  listed  intermediary  or  securities  market  infrastructure  institution  was  substantially 

jeopardized: 

Explanation. - A listed intermediary or securities market infrastructure institution shall 

be deemed to have been substantially jeopardized if as a result of the alleged default: 

a.  it has become insolvent or an application under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 

Code, 2016 was admitted; 

b.  it  was  unable  on  demand  to  refund  fully  any  public  deposit,  payment  or 

investment; or 

c.  it is so depleted of assets that it is forced to merge with another institution in 

order to continue active operations. 

 

8.  The  liquidity  of  the  securities  of  a  publicly  traded  company  was  substantially 

endangered  i.e.  it  was  delisted  or  trading  of  the  company’s  securities  was  halted  for 

more than one full trading day; 

 
 

Page 179 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

9.  The applicant abused a position of trust or used a special skill, in a manner such that 

significantly facilitated the commission or concealment of the alleged default: 

Explanation 1. - This factor applies if the applicant occupied and abused a position of 

trust. It does not apply to an ordinary tippee. 

 

Explanation  2.  -  This  factor  applies  if  the  applicant’s  position  involved  regular 

participation or professional assistance in creating, issuing, buying, selling, or trading 

securities  or  products  was  used  to  facilitate  significantly  the  commission  or 

concealment of the default. It does not apply to clerical staff in an organisation; as such 

position ordinarily does not involve special skill. 

 

Explanation 3. - ‘Special skill’ refers to a skill not possessed by members of the general 

public  and  requires  professional  education,  training  or  licensing,  e.g.  charted 

accountant, advocate, auditor, compliance officer, etc.  

 

Explanation 4. - This factor also applies where the applicant has represented himself to 

hold a position of trust when, in fact, he does not. 

 

10. The applicant was the key-operator, whether or not he himself traded: 

Explanation 1. - A person is a key-operator if he was an organizer or leader of an illegal 

activity or the main beneficiary of the default: 

Provided that, if a person is merely a manager or supervisor (but not an organizer or 

leader or the main beneficiary) then he is not a key-operator. 

 

Explanation 2. - The  IC  or HPAC or Panel  of WTMs  may  take into account  factors 

such  as  share  of  profits,  the  recruitment  of  accomplices,  the  degree  of  control  and 

authority exercised over others. 

 

11. Exercising management control by use of fraudulent or forged securities or securities 

issued without appropriate approvals; and 

12. Reporting of false information. 

 

 
 

Page 180 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

III.  While assessing the relevant factors, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into 

account the following factors tending to show the alleged default was deliberate with a 

base value of ‘0.25’ applied once for all or any of them: 

1.  The actions were not in accordance with the applicable internal procedures;   

2.  The individual knowingly took decisions relating to the violation beyond his field of 

competence;   

3.  The  individual  intended  to  benefit  financially  from  the  violation,  either  directly  or 

indirectly;  

4.  The alleged default was repetitive.  

 

IV.  While assessing the relevant factors, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into 

account the following factor tending to show the alleged default was reckless with a 

base value of ‘0.3’: 

1.  The body corporate or the responsible person, appreciated there was a risk that their 

actions or inaction could result in a violation of securities laws and failed adequately to 

mitigate that risk: 

Explanation. – The following shall be deemed to be reckless, - 

a.  failure to appoint competent officials for discharge of their duties, including a 

compliance officer;  

b.  failure to put in place adequate systemic safeguards; or 

c.  failure to put in place a code of conduct. 

 

V.  While  considering  the  various  factors  and  the  aggregate  base  values,  the  following 

specific base values given shall also be taken into account, - 

TABLE IV- GENERAL BASE VALUES, APPLICABLE IN ALL CASES 

NATURE OF VIOLATION  

BASE VALUE 

a.   

Fraudulent and unfair trade practice 

0.25 

 

(FUTP); or Insider trading, 

including tipping (IT); or violation 

of code of conduct noted in an 

 

 

 

 

Page 181 of 209 

 

 

 

 
 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

investigation or inquiry related to 

FUTP or IT  

 

Or  

 

FUTP or IT in combination with 

the violation of code of conduct or 

any other regulation  

 

Or  

 

 

 

 

 

0.3 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FUTP in combination IT or in 

0.35 

combination with a violation of 

requirement relating to anti-money 

laundering and know your client. 

 

Or  

 

Failure by a market infrastructure 

institution or its principal officers to 

conduct its business in a fair 

manner. 

 

Or  

 

Failure by a market infrastructure 

institution or its principal officers to 

conduct its business in a fair 

 

 

 

 

 

0.50 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0.75 

 

 

 

manner in combination with FUTP 

[In case multiple are applicable, only 

or IT or the violation of code of 

the highest value shall be applied.] 

conduct or any other regulation  

 

 
 

Page 182 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

b.   

Factors for volume traded and/or 

Sum  of  ‘V’,  ‘P’  and  ‘Q’,  wherever 

price change for the default 

applicable,  to  be  applied  to  each 

member of  group  or of the applicant 

when he acts alone, only if the volume 

traded or price change, quantity traded 

in  respect  of  the  group,  of  which  the 

applicant is a part of or of the applicant 

when  he  acts  alone,  as  the  case  may 

be, can be calculated from the findings 

brought out in the investigation report 

or inquiry or notice to show cause or 

order, as the case may be. 

In  case  multiple  trading  periods  are 

involved, the highest change has to be 

considered. 

c.   

Time value of ill-gotten gains* 

0.09 × multiple of calendar years from 

the date of commission of the default 

d.   

Reputation risk applicable in all 

All applicants: 0.25 

 

0.3 

- 0.3 

 

settlements without admitting 

e.   

f. 

 

violation of securities laws 

Violation in illiquid scrip 

Persons who are indigent or 

undergoing liquidation or 

bankruptcy process or whose 

resolution/repayment plan has been 

submitted to the adjudicating 

authority for approval 

*Factor  ‘c’  is  applicable  only  in  cases  where  the  actual  profit  and/or  loss  avoided 

(approx.)  is  determinable  and  disgorgement  with  interest  is  not  ordered.  While 

calculating the period, the fractions may be ignored. 

 

 

 
 

Page 183 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

‘V’ = VALUE FOR THE HIGHEST % OF VOLUME TRADED IN ANY TRADING PERIOD DURING 

THE ENTIRE PERIOD OF VIOLATION  

In case of more than one scrip, the scrip with the highest volume traded is to be 

considered 

TABLE IVA- SPECIAL BASE VALUES, IN ADDITION TO GENERAL BASE VALUES 

 

  % VOLUME TRADED 

‘V’ 

% VOLUME TRADED 

(ILLIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 50% 

50 -60% 

60-75% 

75% or more 

 

0.1 

0.15 

0.2 

0.25 

(LIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 2% 

2-5% 

5-10% 

10% or more 

 

 

 

 
 

‘P’ = VALUE FOR HIGHEST % OF PRICE CHANGE DURING THE ENTIRE PERIOD OF 

VIOLATION  

In case of more than one scrip, the scrip with the highest price change is to be 

considered 

TABLE IVB- SPECIAL BASE VALUES, IN ADDITION TO GENERAL BASE VALUES 

% PRICE CHANGE 

(ILLIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 50% 

50-100% 

100-200% 

200% or more 

‘P’ 

 

0.1 

0.15 

0.2 

0.25 

% PRICE CHANGE 

(LIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 5% 

5-10% 

10-20% 

20% or more 

‘Q’ = VALUE FOR HIGHEST % OF PRICE CHANGE, DURING THE PERIOD OF DEFAULT FOR 

F&O & LEVERAGED PRODUCTS 

In case of more than one product, the contract with the highest price change is to be 

considered 

TABLE IVC- SPECIAL BASE VALUES, IN ADDITION TO GENERAL BASE VALUES 

% PRICE CHANGE 

‘Q’ 

Page 184 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement 
Mechanism 

Upto 0.5% 

0.5-1% 

1-5% 

5% or more 

0.1 

0.15 

0.2 

0.25 

 

 

TABLE V- SPECIAL BASE VALUES,  IN ADDITION TO GENERAL BASE VALUES  FOR 

DISCLOSURE AND OPEN OFFER DEFAULTS 

NATURE OF VIOLATION  

BASE VALUE 

a.   

In Non-disclosure (including incorrect or 

0.20 

incomplete disclosure) charge under any 

regulation relating to takeover, insider trading 

or issue or listing of securities in combination 

with any other charge 

b.   

In Non-Disclosure (including incorrect or 

- 0.5 

incomplete disclosure) matters: Applicant is a 

body corporate with paid-up equity share 

capital (including reserves) below Rupees Ten 

crores (not applicable to companies which are 

exclusively holding companies) 

c.   In open offer violations: acquirer not in control 

0.25 

of target company, prior to triggering the 

takeover 

VI. 

In cases where joint and several penalties exists, a single IA may be based on the factors 

and the weightages applicable to the default in general, as the IC or HPAC or Panel of 

WTMs may deem fit and any other factor may also be considered while imposing any 

limit in respect of amounts that may be recovered from a particular applicant, in respect 

of the IA calculated for multiple applicants. 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Page 185 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

CHAPTER VI 

 

APPLICABLE BENCHMARK AMOUNT 

 

APPLICABLE B = 'The illegal profits’ + ‘loss caused to investors' [quantified as per the guidelines, if any, issued by the Board] 

Or 

The BA as per the Tables in this Chapter, 

whichever is higher. 

GENERAL  GUIDELINE:  In  case  the  applicant  is  charged  for  non-disclosure  of  Regulations  relating  to  Open  Offer  [SEBI  (Substantial 

Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997, SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, and any 

subsequent  similar  regulations]  and  PIT  [Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  1992, 

SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, and any subsequent similar regulations], the Benchmark Amount arrived at for 

the highest such charge shall be reduced by 75%. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TABLE-VI   

 

BA FOR ALLEGED DEFAULT RELATING TO OPEN OFFER 

NATURE OF VIOLATION  

BA FOR ACQUIRER AND PERSONS ACTING IN 

CONCERT 

 

Page 186 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DELAYED OPEN OFFER 

 

 

 

RUPEES 25 LAKH 

OR  

0.25% OF THE OPEN OFFER SIZE, I.E. MAX NUMBER 

OF SHARES FOR WHICH OPEN OFFER MUST BE GIVEN 

X APPLICABLE OPEN OFFER PRICE, WHICHEVER IS 

HIGHER 

 

DELAYED OPEN OFFER  

RUPEES 50 LAKH 

(AFTER DIRECTION FROM THE 

OR  

BOARD) 

0.5% OF THE OPEN OFFER SIZE, 

WHICHEVER IS HIGHER 

WHERE THE MAKING OF THE OPEN 

INFRUCTUOUS BY AN 

INFRUCTUOUS DUE TO 

OFFER IS INFRUCTUOUS I.E. WHEN 

ACT OF THE COMPANY 

OTHER REASON, 

COMPANY HAS BEEN DELISTED, WHEN 

REQUIRED TO MAKE 

INCLUDING  WHEN OPEN 

OPEN OFFER IS NOT BENEFICIAL TO 

AN OPEN OFFER 

OFFER IS NOT 

SHAREHOLDERS, ETC 

 

BENEFICIAL TO 

SHAREHOLDERS 

 

Page 187 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RUPEES 1 CRORE 

ANY  AMOUNT  BETWEEN 

OR  

THE  MINIMUM  PENALTY  

OPEN OFFER SIZE, 

TO  PROBABLE  COST  OF 

WHICHEVER IS HIGHER 

OPEN 

OFFER 

AS 

RECOMMENDED  BY  THE 

CORPORATE 

FINANCE 

DEPARTMENT  OF 

THE 

BOARD 

TABLE-VII   

 

BA FOR ALLEGED DEFAULT RELATING TO DISCLOSURES UNDER SECURITIES EXCHANGE 

BOARD OF INDIA (SUBSTANTIAL ACQUISITION OF SHARES AND 

TAKEOVERS) REGULATIONS -1997/2011 

 

 

Page 188 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PERCENTAGE OF 

SHAREHOLDING OR 

VOTING RIGHTS  

ACQUIRED OR DISPOSED 

BUT NOT DISCLOSED OR 

PERCENTAGE OF 

ENCUMBERED SHARES  BUT 

NOT DISCLOSED, ETC. 

BA FOR VIOLATION OF  

REGULATION 7 

REGULATION 8 OF  

REGULATION 

OF 1997 

1997 

8A OF 1997 

REGULATIONS 

REGULATIONS  

REGULATIONS 

 

OR 

 

 

OR 

 

 

OR 

 

REGULATION 29 

REGULATION 30 

REGULATION  

OF 2011 

OF  2011 

31 OF  2011 

REGULATIONS  

REGULATIONS  

REGULATIONS 

 

(I) 

 

(II) 

 

(III) 

Upto 2% 

Rupees 2 lakh 

+ 

Rupees 5,000/- For every three months delay# or part 

2% to less than 5% 

thereof  

Rupees 5 lakh 

+ 

Rupees 10,000/- For every three months delay or part 

thereof 

 

Page 189 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5% to less than 10% 

Rupees 10 lakh 

+ 

Rupees 15,000/- For every three months delay or part 

thereof 

10 % to less than 15% 

Rupees 15 lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the holding not 

disclosed, etc. 

+ 

Rupees 20,000/- For every three months delay or part 

thereof 

15% and above  

Rupees 20 lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the holding not 

disclosed, etc. 

+ 

Rupees 25,000/- For every three months delay or part 

thereof 

Notes to Table VII:  

 

 

1.  Table VII is not applicable in cases where the disclosure related violation is in combination with FUTP or PIT. 

Explanation: Dealing while in possession of material financial or shareholding information may be treated as IT.  

2.  The BA for violation at (II) shall only be as per the lowest slab, irrespective of change in shareholding over the reporting period. 

In case of violations related to disclosures that are required to be made annually\ the amount for delay for every three months or 

part  thereof  shall  be  computed  only  for  the  first  disclosure  violation.  In  case  the  noticee  complies  with  the  annual  reporting 
Page 190 of 209 

 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

requirements for a few years,  such compliance will not result in a higher amount than would have otherwise be calculated for 

continuous violations. 

3.  The  period  of  delay  is  to  be  calculated  from  the  last  day,  when  the  disclosure  ought  to  have  been  made,  as  required  by  the 

regulations. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TABLE VIII  

 

BA – ALLEGED DEFAULT RELATING TO TRANSACTION SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES UNDER 

REGULATIONS 13(3), 13(4), 13(4A) AND CORRESPONDING 13 (6) OF 1992 PIT 

REGULATIONS [INCLUDES, CORRESPONDING TRANSACTION SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 

UNDER REGULATIONS OF 2015  PIT REGULATIONS] 

PERCENTAGE OF SHAREHOLDING OR 

BA 

VOTING RIGHTS  ACQUIRED OR DISPOSED 

BUT NOT DISCLOSED OR PERCENTAGE OF 

ENCUMBERED SHARES  BUT NOT 

DISCLOSED, ETC. 

Upto 2% 

Rupees 2.5 lakh 

+ 

 

Page 191 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2% to less than 5% 

Rupees 7,500/- For every three months 

delay or part thereof 

Rupees 6 lakh 

+ 

Rupees 12,500/- For every three months 

delay or part thereof 

5% to less than 10% 

Rupees 12 lakh 

+ 

Rupees 17,500/- For every three months 

delay or part thereof 

10 % to less than 15% 

Rupees 18 lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the 

holding not disclosed, etc. 

+ 

Rupees 22,500/- For every three months 

delay or part thereof 

15% and above  

Rupees 25 lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the 

holding not disclosed, etc. 

+ 

Rupees 25,000/- For every three months 

delay or part thereof 

 

Page 192 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

Notes to Table VIII:  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.  In cases of disclosure related violations by connected persons or by key managerial persons, the BA may be increased by 25%.  

2.  Table VIII is not applicable in cases where the disclosure related violation is in combination with FUTP or IT. 

Explanation: Dealing while in possession of material financial or shareholding information may be treated as IT.  

 

 

TABLE IX  

 

BA - DISCLOSURES RELATED VIOLATIONS NOT COVERED IN TABLES VII AND VIII  

NATURE OF ALLEGED DEFAULT 

BASE AMOUNT 

TYPE OF  DISCLOSURE RELATED VIOLATION 

PIT REGULATIONS 

Periodical and other disclosures 

 

Rupees 5 lakh 

+ 

Rupees 5,000/- for every three 

months delay or part thereof, if 

applicable 

 

Page 193 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPEN OFFER REGULATIONS 

Reporting requirements or disclosures for which 

 

 

exemptions are available, except cases of non-

Rupees 5 lakh 

compliance of a condition precedent for availing 

+ 

exemption would result in triggering of an open offer 

Rupees 10,000/- for every three 

obligation 

months delay or part thereof, if 

(The Regulation 6 of 1997 Regulations are dated and no 

applicable 

amount may be imposed for its violation, except in case 

of  standalone  violations  of  Regulation  6  the  minimum 

SA may be applicable) 

VIOLATIONS UNDER REGULATIONS RELATED TO FOREIGN INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS  

Failure to provide information  

Rupees 20 lakh per default 

 

Intimation of material changes 

RESIDUARY 

Code of conduct reporting  requirements 

 

 

or 

 

Rupees 5 lakh per default 

Rupees 5 lakh 

Page 194 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

 

 

 

Notes to Table IX:  

Disclosures on appointment of director 

+ 

or 

Rupees 10,000/- for every three 

Any other disclosure related violations that are not 

months delay or part thereof, if 

detailed in this  Chapter, if deemed appropriate 

applicable 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.  In cases of disclosure related violations by key managerial persons, the Benchmark Amount may be increased by 25%.  

2.  Table IX is not applicable in cases where the disclosure related violation is in combination with FUTP or IT. 

Explanation: Dealing while in possession of material financial or shareholding information may be treated as IT.  

TABLE-X  

 

RESIDUARY BA, FOR EACH UNIT OF ALLEGED DEFAULT FOR EACH APPLICANT OR ON JOINT LIABILITY BASIS 

(AS PER THE SUM OF APPLICABLE AMOUNTS IN CASE OF JOINT APPLICANTS) 

 

INDIVIDU

BODY 

PRINCIP

SECTION 

FAILURE 

MARKET 

FUND 

AL 

CORPOR

AL 

15B AND 

IN 

INFRAST

RELATED 

(PRINCIPA

ATE & 

OFFICER

15F OF 

REDRESS

RUCTUR

DEFAULTS 

L 

FIRM 

OFFICERS 

 

S 

& 

NOT 

SEBI 

ACT 

& 

ING 

E 

(AND 

INVESTO

INSTITUT

PRINCIPAL 

R 

IONS 

OFFICERS IN 

 

Page 195 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INCLUDED

(AND 

COMPLI

SIMILAR 

GRIEVAN

(AND 

CASES 

) 

 

PRINCIP

ANCE 

DEFAULT

AL 

OFFICER

S 

CES 

(AND 

PRINCIP

RELATING TO 

AL 

JOINT 

(I) 

OFFICER

S 

(AND 

PRINCIP

OFFICER

LIABILITY 

S IN  

[WHEN 

PRINCIP

AL 

S IN  

WITH THE 

CASES 

NOT IN 

AL 

OFFICER

CASES 

RELATIN

II, IV-

OFFICER

S IN  

RELATIN

FUND) 

(VII) 

G TO 

VII] 

S IN  

CASES 

G TO 

JOINT 

 

CASES 

RELATIN

JOINT 

LIABILIT

 (III) 

RELATIN

G TO 

LIABILIT

Y WITH 

G TO 

JOINT 

Y WITH 

THE 

BODY 

JOINT 

LIABILIT

THE 

LIABILIT

Y WITH 

INSTITUT

ION) 

(VI) 

CORPOR

Y WITH 

THE 

THE 

INTERME

INTERME

DIARY/ 

DIARY) 

ISSUER)  

(IV) 

(V) 

 

(FOR 

DELAY 

ATE 

/FIRM) 

(II) 

 

Page 196 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BA WHERE: 

RUPEES 15 

RUPEES 

RUPEES 

RUPEES 

RUPEES 

RUPEES 5 

RUPEES 33 

DEFAULT 

LAKHS 

1.5 

45 

15 

30 

CRORE 

LAKHS  

REDUCE 

TO 1/4)   

RELATE TO FUTP 

CRORES 

LAKHS 

LAKHS 

LAKHS 

OR IT,  

 

CODE OF 

CONDUCT 

VIOLATION 

RELATING TO 

FUTP OR IT,  

 

INADEQUATE 

SYSTEMIC 

SAFEGUARDS 

RELATING TO 

FUTP OR IT,  

 

FALSE/ 

MISLEADING/ 

 

OR 

 

0.01% OF THE 

AVERAGE 

ASSET UNDER 

MANAGEMEN

T, AT TIME OF 

VIOLATION  

 

OR 

 

0.5% OF THE 

AVERAGE NET 

WORTH, AT 

TIME OF 

VIOLATION,  

 

Page 197 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

INCORRECT/INC

OMPLETE 

DISCLOSURES IN 

OFFER 

DOCUMENTS,  

 

FAILURE BY 

MARKET 

INFRASTRUCTU

RE 

INSTITUTIONS 

TO CONDUCT 

BUSINESS IN THE 

REQUIRED 

MANNER,  

 

 A RECKLESS  

VIOLATION,  

 

 OR  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WHICHEVER IS 

HIGHER 

 

Page 198 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 

DISGORGEMENT

/REFUND IN 

EXCESS OF 

RUPEES 1 CRORE 

(M) 

 

BENCHMARK WHERE 

RUPEES 60 

RUPEES 3 

RUPEES 2 

RUPEES 

RUPEES 

RUPEES 

RUPEES 60 

VIOLATION 

LAKHS 

CRORE 

CRORE 

60 

80 

10 

LAKHS  

INVOLVED  AT  (M) 

AND, - 

SUCH VIOLATION 

DIRECTLY OR 

INDIRECTLY – 

 

(I)  RESULTED IN 

SUBSTANTIAL 

LOSSES TO OTHER 

PERSONS,  

 

 

LAKHS 

LAKHS 

CRORE 

 

OR 

 

0.05% OF THE 

AVERAGE 

ASSET UNDER 

MANAGEMEN

T, AT TIME OF 

VIOLATION  

 

OR 

 

 

Page 199 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(II) CREATED A 

SIGNIFICANT RISK 

OF SUBSTANTIAL 

LOSSES TO OTHER 

PERSONS,  OR 

 

(III) AFFECTED THE 

INTEGRITY OF THE 

SECURITIES 

MARKETS (N) 

0.075% OF 

THE AVERAGE 

NET WORTH, 

AT TIME OF 

VIOLATION,  

WHICHEVER IS 

 HIGHER 

RESIDUARY (O) 

RUPEES 3 

RUPEES 

RUPEES 

RUPEES 3 

RUPEES 6 

RUPEES 3 

RUPEES 15 

LAKHS 

15 

10 

LAKHS 

LAKHS 

CRORE 

LAKHS  

LAKHS 

LAKHS 

 

OR 

 

0.001% OF 

THE AVERAGE 

ASSET UNDER 

MANAGEMEN

T, AT TIME OF 

VIOLATION  

 

Page 200 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OR 

 

0.01% OF THE 

AVERAGE NET 

WORTH, AT 

TIME OF 

VIOLATION,  

 

WHICHEVER IS 

HIGHER 

Note to Table X:  

1.  In case of applicability of more than one BA, the highest is to be considered. 

2.  In this Schedule, ‘Principal Officer’ means a person that may be covered under Section 27 of the SEBI Act, as amended by the 

Finance Act, 2018. 

3.  ‘Fund’ means an AIF, MF, CIS, and any other pooling arrangement required to be registered with the Board. 

 

 

Page 201 of 209 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

CHAPTER VII 

 

REPETITIVE NATURE OF DEFAULT 

 

 

I.  The counts of defaults may be selected using one or more or a combination of the methods 

indicated in this Chapter.  

Explanation. - Different methods may be used in respect of different persons in the same 

cause of action as may be required for arriving at a reasonable IA. 

 

II. 

In general, the unit of alleged default may be selected from either of, or a combination of, 

the following, - 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

the (approx.) number of purchase or sale transaction, 

the (approx.) number of individual deceptions attempted,  

the (approx.) number of investors involved, or 

‘Course of conduct’ standard 

-whereby each counts amounts to a complete violation. Discretion may be used to apply a 

different standard that is less prejudicial to a person after taking into account the interest 

of the investors in securities:  

 

Provided  that,  where  a  large  number  of  counts  of  a  default  are  noted,  for  arriving  at  a 

reasonable IA a less prejudicial standard of selecting the unit of default may be applied.  

Explanation. - In respect of a default relating to a report or statement, -  

i. 

each person to whom a misleading report was sent or statement made may involve 

a separate “act”; 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

each distinct misleading report or statement made may be a separate “act”;  

each distinct misleading statement within a report may be a separate “act”;  

the course of conduct standard in respect of all or any such reports or statements; 

or  

v. 

a combination of i, ii, iii and iv above. 

Page 202 of 209 

 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

III.  Course of Conduct standard: Depending on the facts and circumstances of a case, for the 

purpose  of  arriving  at  a  reasonable  IA,  “course  of  conduct”  standard  in  which  multiple 

counts  of  a  violation  are  aggregated  and  counted  as  a  single  violation  for  purposes  of 

calculating IA may be applied.  

 

Explanation 1. - It may be reasonable to aggregate multiple counts of a default if, - 

(a) the conduct did not involve manipulative, fraudulent or deceptive intent or insider 

trading,  except  where  the  recommended  IA  would  otherwise  be  extremely 

disproportionate to the conduct;  

Explanation. – “disproportionate” and “reasonable” refer to the appropriateness vis-

à-vis the deterrence sought to be achieved and not appropriateness vis-à-vis the illegal 

profit made by the applicant or loss caused to investors. 

 

(b) the conduct did not result in substantial injury to the rights of public investors, or 

if restitution was made in such cases; and 

(c) the violations resulted from a systemic problem or cause that has been corrected.  

 

Explanation 2. – Depending on the facts and circumstances, the units of violation may be 

based on how long the violations continued, however no uniformity of the period of time 

(daily, weekly, fortnightly, monthly, yearly) is required. The multiple counts of violation 

acts may be combined into one or more than one course of conduct. 

 

 

 

***************** 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 203 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

Schedule III 

 

Part-A 

(See regulation 15) 

Format 

 

 

 

Date 

 

 

Sub: Notice of settlement in the matter of ..................................... 

To 

……. 

Address  

 

 

During  the  course  of  investigation/  inspection/  inquiry/  audit  in  the  matter  of 

…………………………………………….  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(SEBI)  has  prima  facie  observed  that  you  have  violated  the  following  provisions  of  the 

securities laws:  

(i) 

(ii) 

………….. 

………….. 

(iii)  ………….. 

(iv) 

………….. 

Extracts of the findings are enclosed. 

 

2.  In view of the aforesaid, probable proceedings against you under….(relevant provisions 

under which the proceedings may be initiated or continued) may be initiated or continued 

. 

 

3.  Notwithstanding anything contained in this notice, the Board reserves the right to modify 

the proceedings and charges to be brought against you and this notice shall not confer any 

right to seek settlement or avoid any action initiated by the Board. 

Page 204 of 209 

 

 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

 

4.  Subject  to  Regulation  5  of  the  SEBI  (Settlement  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2018  the 

aforesaid  proceedings  to  be  initiated  may  be  settled  and  disposed  of  upon  filing  of  a 

settlement application under Chapter-II of the SEBI (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 

2018 upon remittance of a settlement amount of Rs. …………..to SEBI in terms of ….. 

………………… (provision) of SEBI (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018 within 

30  calendar  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  this  notice  and  upon  complying  with  the 

following non-monetary terms (if applicable): 

(i) . ………………… 

(ii) ......................…… (please specify any other terms) 

 

 

5.  In case the settlement application is not filed or the settlement amount is not remitted 

and/or undertaking in respect of other non-monetary terms is not furnished or other 

non-monetary  terms  are  not  complied  with  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Board  or  the 

settlement  application  is  withdrawn,  the  specified  proceedings  may  be  initiated  or 

continued,  as  the  case  may  be  and  you  shall  be  permitted  to  file  a  settlement 

application only at the next stage in respect of proceedings pending before a Court or 

a  tribunal,  after  conclusion  of  proceedings  before  the  Adjudicating  Officer  or  the 

Board, as the case may be.  

Name, designation and signature  

 

 

Encl: As above 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 205 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

To 

……. 

Address  

 

 

Part-B 

(See regulation 17) 

Format 

 

 

 

Date 

 

 

Sub: Notice of settlement in the matter of ..................................... 

During  the  course  of  investigation/  inspection/  inquiry/  audit  in  the  matter  of 

…………………………………………….  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(SEBI)  has  prima  facie  observed  that  you  have  violated  the  following  provisions  of  the 

securities laws:  

(i) 

(ii) 

………….. 

………….. 

(iii)  ………….. 

(iv) 

………….. 

Extracts of the findings are enclosed. 

 

2.  In view of the aforesaid, probable proceedings against you under….(relevant provisions 

under which the proceedings may be initiated or continued) may be initiated or continued. 

 

3.  Notwithstanding anything contained in this notice, the Board reserves the right to modify 

the proceedings and charges to be brought against you and this notice shall not confer any 

right to seek settlement or avoid any action initiated by the Board. 

4.  Subject  to  regulation  5  of  the  SEBI  (Settlement  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2018,  the 

aforesaid  proceedings  to  be  initiated  may,  be  settled  and  disposed  of  upon  filing  of  a 

Page 206 of 209 

 

 

 

 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

settlement application under Chapter-II of the SEBI (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 

2018 within 15 calendar days from the date of receipt of this notice. 

 

5.  If  the  settlement  application  is  not  filed,  the  Board  may  initiate  any  proceedings 

against  you  in  accordance  with  law  and  you  shall  be  permitted  to  file  a  settlement 

application only at the next stage in respect of proceedings pending before a Court or 

a  tribunal,  after  conclusion  of  proceedings  before  the  Adjudicating  Officer  or  the 

Board, as the case may be.  

Name, designation and signature  

 

 

Encl: As above 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 207 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

SCHEDULE IV 

(see Regulation 19) 

 

Application for confidentiality  

 

 

 

1.  The application for confidentiality shall be in the format convenient to the applicant and 

shall inter-alia, include the following, - 

 

 

i. 

name and address of the applicant or its authorized representative as well as of all 

other known participants involved in the alleged default;  

ii. 

the address  of the applicant  for  communication including the telephone numbers 

and the e- mail address, etc.;  

iii. 

a detailed description of the alleged arrangement, including its aims and objectives 

and the details  of  activities and functions carried out  for securing such aims  and 

iv. 

v. 

objectives;  

the commencement and duration of the default;  

the names, positions, office locations and, wherever necessary, home addresses of 

all persons who, in the knowledge of the applicant, are or have been associated with 

the alleged defaulters, including those persons who have been involved on behalf 

of the applicant;  

vi. 

the details of other authorities, forums or courts, if any, that have been approached 

or are intended to be approached in relation to the alleged violation;  

vii. 

a descriptive list of evidence regarding the nature and content of evidence provided 

in support of the application for confidentiality; and  

viii. 

any other material information as may be directed by the Board.  

 

(Signature of the applicant) 

(Stamp and Seal of body corporate applicant) 

 

 

Page 208 of 209 

Report of The High Level Committee To Review The Enforcement & Settlement Mechanism – Report on Settlement Mechanism 

 

Verification 

I, ………………………………………………son/daughter/wife of (Name in block letters) 

Shri …………………………………..being the applicant/authorised representative (in case 

of  body  corporate)  of  …………………….  do  hereby  verify  and  affirm  on  oath  that  this 

application  and  the  contents  thereof  are  true  to  my  knowledge  and  belief  and  as  per  the 

records and that I have not suppressed any material facts and shall keep the Board informed 

without delay, of any other relevant information that may come to my notice. 

(Signature of the applicant) 

Date: 

Place :  

 

 

2.  The undertaking and waiver as specified in Part C of Schedule-I shall be annexed to the 

application for confidentiality.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

************* 

 

Page 209 of 209 

