 

 

SEBI seeks public comments on Report submitted by the Committee on Fair 

Market Conduct 

 
SEBI  constituted  a  Committee  on  Fair  Market  Conduct  in  August,  2017  under  the 
Chairmanship of Shri T.K. Viswanathan, Ex-Secretary General, Lok Sabha and Ex- Law 
Secretary. The Committee was mandated to review the existing legal framework to deal 
with market abuse to ensure fair market conduct in the securities market. The Committee 
was  also  mandated  to  review  the  surveillance,  investigation  and  enforcement 
mechanisms being undertaken by SEBI to make them more effective in protecting market 
integrity and the interest of investors from market abuse. The Committee comprised of 
representatives  of  law  firms,  mutual  funds,  brokers,  forensic  auditing  firms,  stock 
exchanges, chambers of commerce, data analytics firms and SEBI. 
The  committee  has  submitted  its  report  to  SEBI  on  August  08,  2018  wherein  it  has 
recommended  amendments  to  SEBI  Act,  1992,  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading) 
Regulations,  2015  and  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices 
relating to Securities Markets) Regulations, 2003. 
  
Comments from public are invited on the recommendations contained in the aforesaid 
report in the following format: 
Chapter  and  sub-
heading 
to  which 
the 
comment 
pertains 
 

Rationale for 
Suggestions / 
Comments 

 
Comments  may  be  sent  by  email  to  Ms.  Maninder  Cheema,  General  Manager  at 
maninderc@sebi.gov.in  and  Mr.  Nitesh  Bhati,  Assistant  General  Manager  at 
niteshb@sebi.gov.in latest by August 27, 2018*.  
 
 
 
 
*Date extended from August 24, 2018 to August 27, 2018 

Recommendations 
of Committee  

Suggestions / 
Comments 

 

 

 

 

 

 

REPORT OF 

COMMITTEE ON FAIR MARKET CONDUCT 

  

 

UNDER THE CHAIRMANSHIP OF 

Dr. T. K. VISWANATHAN  

(Ex-Secretary General, Lok Sabha and Ex -Law Secretary)  

 

 

August 08, 2018 

 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

 

2 | P a g e  

 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ................................................................................................. 6 

CONTENTS 

INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................... 12 

Background and Objective ......................................................................................... 12 

Constitution of the Committee .................................................................................... 15 

Terms of Reference of the Committee ....................................................................... 17 

Working Process of the Committee ............................................................................ 17 

Structure of the Report ............................................................................................... 18 

Acknowledgements .................................................................................................... 19 

CHAPTER 1 | MARKET MANIPULATION AND FRAUD ............................................... 20 

1.1.  Rule Based vs Principle Based Regulations .................................................... 20 

1.2.  Scope of PFUTP Regulations .......................................................................... 21 

1.3.  Covering new types of market manipulation .................................................... 23 

1.4.  Financial Statements Fraud ............................................................................. 30 

CHAPTER 2 | INSIDER TRADING ................................................................................ 38 

2.1.  Aligning the SEBI Act on Insider Trading ......................................................... 39 

2.2.  Definitions under the Insider Trading Regulations ............................................ 40 

2.3.  Communication or procurement of unpublished price sensitive information .... 42 

2.4.  Defences under the Insider Trading Regulations ............................................. 45 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

3 | P a g e  

2.5.  Trading Plans ................................................................................................... 47 

CHAPTER 3 | THE CODE OF CONDUCT UNDER INSIDER TRADING REGULATIONS

 ...................................................................................................................................... 49 

3.1.  Separate Code of Conduct for Listed Companies, Market Intermediaries and 

other entities .............................................................................................................. 50 

3.2.  Applicability of code of conduct ........................................................................ 51 

3.3.  Disclosures of trades ........................................................................................ 52 

3.4. 

Institutional Responsibility for Insider Trading .................................................. 53 

3.5. 

Inquiries by Listed Companies in case of suspected leak of UPSI ................... 54 

3.6.  Provision for aiding investigations on insider trading ........................................ 55 

3.7.  Confidentiality agreements / Notice while communicating UPSI ...................... 57 

CHAPTER 4 | SURVEILLANCE, INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT ................. 58 

4.1.  High Frequency Trading (“HFT”) / Algorithmic trading (“algo trading”) ............. 58 

4.2.  Measures to curb manipulation ........................................................................ 60 

4.3.  Power to Intercept Conversation ...................................................................... 61 

4.4. 

Inter-regulatory Cooperation ............................................................................ 62 

4.5.  Whistleblower Mechanism ............................................................................... 62 

4.6.  Discouraging Layering of Funds ....................................................................... 64 

4.7.  Structured library of orders passed by SEBI, SAT and Courts. ........................ 65 

ANNEXURE I ................................................................................................................ 67 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

4 | P a g e  

Amendments to SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to 

Securities Market) Regulations 2003 ......................................................................... 67 

ANNEXURE II ............................................................................................................... 75 

Amendments to SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. ................. 75 

ANNEXURE III .............................................................................................................. 96 

Amendments to SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 – Minimum 

Standards for Code of Conduct .................................................................................. 96 

Annexure IV ................................................................................................................ 109 

Amendments to Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 ........................ 109 

Annexure V ................................................................................................................. 114 

Model Risk Checks for Algo Trading ........................................................................ 114 

 

 

 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

5 | P a g e  

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  

 

The recommendations of the Committee are in four separate parts dealing with market 

manipulation  and  fraud,  insider  trading,  code  of  conduct  related  to  insider  trading  and 

recommendations related to surveillance, investigation and enforcement process. 

Market Manipulation and Fraud 

The  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities 

Market)  Regulations  2003  (PFUTP  Regulations)  deal  with  market  abuse  such  as 

manipulative, fraudulent and unfair trade practices. The Committee noted that the PFUTP 

Regulations, as they currently stand, are a combination of rule-based and principle-based 

approaches of regulation and that such a combination is appropriate for the present stage 

of development of our markets. Based on this broad approach, the Committee has made 

the following recommendations: 

a.  Fraudulent, manipulative or unfair trade practices may be carried out with the aid and 

assistance  of  persons  other  than  the  parties  who  are  transacting  in  the  securities 

market,  including  intermediaries  who  may  have  contributed  to  such  dealings.  The 

prohibition  of  fraudulent  and  unfair  trade  practices  is  in  the  context  of  dealing  in 

securities.  Hence,  the  definition  of  ‘dealing  in  securities’  should  also  include  those 

who  assist  in  and  indeed  often  orchestrate  or  control  the  dealings  in  securities,  or 

those who knowingly influence the decisions to invest in securities. 

b.  Regulation  4(2)  of  the  PFUTP  Regulations  lays  down  specific  rules  that  prohibit 

certain conduct by deeming them fraudulent activities. The Committee is of the view 

that  SEBI  should  regularly  update  the  rule-based  Regulation  4(2)  to  keep  up  with 

changes in the securities market environment. In this context, the Committee deemed 

it fit to reconsider each rule under Reg. 4(2) and recommended changes  aimed at 

ensuring that the revised provisions are relevant to the present market conditions and 

provisions  which  have  become  obsolete  pursuant  to  market  reforms  have  been 

omitted.  

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

6 | P a g e  

c.  The Committee also considered the issue of front entities that lend their names or 

trading accounts, to others. The Committee recommended that trading done by an 

entity in excess of verifiable financial sources should be deemed to be fraudulent, if 

such trading leads to any manipulation in the price or volume of the security. 

d.  The Committee noted that often, due to lack of explicit provision in the regulations, 

the intermediaries alone are held responsible for any fraud. This gives scope to the 

employees and agents of these intermediaries to escape after indulging in fraudulent 

activity.  Hence,  the  Committee  was  of  the  view  that  the  scope  of  the  regulations 

should cover market participants including employees and agents of intermediaries. 

e.  The  Committee  considered  the  issue  of  financial  statements  fraud.  It  was  felt  that 

there is a need for SEBI to take direct action against perpetrators of financial fraud as 

such fraud has an adverse impact on not only the shareholders of the company but 

also impacts the confidence of investors in the securities markets. The Committee 

has  recommended  the  inclusion  of  a  new  sub-section  within  the  SEBI  Act,  1992, 

which  would  specifically  prohibit  devices,  schemes  or  artifices  employed  for 

manipulating  the  books  of  accounts  or  financial  statements  of  a  listed  company  to 

directly  or  indirectly  manipulate price  of  a  listed  securities  or  to  hide  the diversion, 

misutilization or siphoning off public issue proceeds or assets or earnings of a listed 

company or to be listed company.  

Insider Trading 

The SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 (PIT Regulations) deal with 

market abuse of insider trading. The Committee noted that Section 15G of the SEBI Act, 

1992,  mentions  dealing  in  securities  ‘on  the  basis’  of  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information  while  Section  12A  mentions  dealing  in  securities  ‘while  in  possession’  of 

unpublished price sensitive information. Hence, the Committee has recommended that 

Section 15G of the SEBI Act, 1992, needs to be aligned with Section 12 A of SEBI Act, 

1992, and the PIT Regulations. The Committee further observed and recommended inter 

alia the following changes in the PIT Regulations: 

a.  The Committee has recommended the inclusion of definitions for the terms “financial 

literacy”, an important eligibility condition for a compliance officer, and “proposed to 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

7 | P a g e  

be listed”, a crucial factor in determining the applicability of the PIT Regulations to 

certain companies. Noting that all material events which are required to be disclosed 

as per the LODR  Regulations may not necessarily be “unpublished price sensitive 

information” (UPSI) under the PIT Regulations, the Committee has recommended the 

removal  of  the  explicit  inclusion  of  “material  events  in  accordance  with  the  listing 

agreement” contained within the definition of UPSI. 

b.  Under Regulation 3(2) of the PIT Regulations, communication / procurement of UPSI 

is permitted when it is in furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or 

discharge of legal obligations. The Committee has recommended that regulation 3(2) 

may be amended to require the board of directors of every listed company or market 

participants  to  define  their  own  policy  /  definition  relating  to  “legitimate  purposes” 

within the contours provided under law. Further, in order to give some illustrations of 

legitimate purpose, the inclusion of an explanation has been recommended. Every 

listed company / market participant shall be required to maintain an electronic record 

containing  the  names  of  person  with  whom  UPSI  is  shared  and  the  nature  of  the 

UPSI. 

c.  The  Committee  noted  that,  during  the  preliminary  /  nascent  stages  of  a  proposed 

transaction,  it  may  not  be  possible  for  the  board  of  directors  of  the  target  listed 

company to opine whether such proposed transaction is in the best interests of such 

target  listed  company.  Hence,  the  Committee  has  recommended  that  the board of 

directors may instead evaluate and opine on whether the sharing of the UPSI for due 

diligence is in the best interests of the company. 

d.  The Committee has recommended certain amendments to the defences available in 

the PIT Regulations. The defence available for off-market inter-se transfers between 

promoters,  who  were  in  possession  of  the  same  UPSI,  may  be  extended  to  non-

promoters also provided that the possession of UPSI is not as a result of information 

shared for the purpose of conducting due diligence for acquisition transactions. New 

defences may be included for transactions carried out through the block deal window 

mechanism among persons possessing the same UPSI, for transactions carried out 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

8 | P a g e  

in  a  bona  fide  manner  pursuant  to  a  statutory  or  regulatory  obligation,  and  for 

transactions undertaken pursuant to the exercise of stock options. 

e.  The  Committee  noted  that  trading  plans  continue  to  remain  unpopular  as  far  as 

promoters  and  perpetual  insiders  are  concerned.  However,  it  could  not  arrive  at  a 

consensus  on  this  issue  and  thus,  agreed  to  continue  with  the  current  provisions, 

while  clarifying  that  transactions  pursuant  to  trading  plans  will  not  require  pre-

clearance and will not be subject to trading window norms and restrictions on contra 

trades. 

The Code of Conduct under Insider Trading Regulations 

The  Committee  noted  that  the  PIT  Regulations  currently  specify  a  common  Code  of 

Conduct  applicable  to listed  companies, market  intermediaries  and  other  persons  who 

are required to handle UPSI during the course of their business operations. In order to 

bring  clarity  on  the  requirements  applicable  to  listed  companies  and  others,  the 

Committee  has  recommended  that the  PIT Regulations may  be  amended  to  prescribe 

two separate Codes of Conduct prescribing minimum standards for (1) Listed companies 

and  (2)  Market  Intermediaries  and  other  Persons  who  are  required  to  handle  UPSI. 

Further, the Committee has made inter alia the following recommendations: 

a. 

In  regard  to  the  applicability  of  the  Code  of  Conduct,  the  Committee  has 

recommended  that  it  must  be  made  applicable  only  to  “designated  person(s)”. 

Further, the Committee has recommended the explanation to be included in the PIT 

Regulations for the term “designated person(s)” in the context of listed companies, 

market intermediaries and other persons. 

b.  The Committee has recommended that listed companies should initiate inquiries into 

any case of leak of UPSI or suspected leak of UPSI and inform SEBI promptly. The 

listed company should have written policies and procedures for such inquiries, which 

are  duly  approved  by board  of  directors of  the  company.  Listed  companies  should 

also have whistle-blower policies that make it easy for employees to report instances 

of leak of UPSI. 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

9 | P a g e  

c.  The Committee noted that investigation of insider trading is a challenging task and it 

is not easy to establish the link between the insiders who had access to UPSI and the 

persons  who  traded  making  use  of  such  UPSI.  Hence,  in  order  to  facilitate 

investigation, 

the  Committee  has  recommended  mandating  disclosures  by 

designated  persons  of  names  of  immediate  relatives,  persons  with  whom  such 

designated person(s) share a material financial relationship, and persons residing at 

the same address for more than one year. Such information may be maintained by 

the company in a searchable electronic format and may be shared with SEBI when 

sought on case to case basis. 

d.  The  committee  has  recommended  an  institutional  framework  to  ensure  that  the 

institution  takes  responsibility  to  formulate  a  code  of  conduct  and  put  in  place  an 

effective  system  of  internal  controls  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  various 

requirements specified in the PIT Regulation to prevent insider trading.  Further, the 

role  and  responsibility  of  the  Board  of  Directors,  CEO/MD,  Audit  Committee  and 

Compliance officers have been clarified in this context.  

Surveillance, Investigation and Enforcement 

One of the terms of reference of the Committee was to suggest short-term and medium-

term measures for improved surveillance of the markets as well as issues relating to high 

frequency trades, harnessing of technology and analytics in surveillance. The Committee 

reviewed  the  current  processes  followed  by  SEBI  for  surveillance,  investigation  and 

enforcement, and the hurdles faced by SEBI for effective enforcement of securities laws. 

The Committee has made inter alia the following recommendations: 

a.  The Committee endorsed the measures taken by exchanges regarding the approvals 

to be granted for algorithm and the need for assigning a unique identification number 

to  each  approved  algorithm.  The  Committee  made  recommendations  on  need  for 

brokers to self-certify compliance of algorithms with specified norms/ risk checks, and 

implementation of “Model Risk Checks for Algorithmic / Algo Trading”. 

b.  The  Committee  has  recommended  a  two-tiered  approach  for  investigation  and 

enforcement  wherein  sensitive  cases/  new  types  of  manipulation/  cases  involving 

large-cap companies are proposed to be handled by designated SEBI officials in a 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

10 | P a g e  

fast-track  manner,  while  regular  cases  are  handled  by  other  SEBI  officials  in  the 

normal course. 

c.  The Committee has recommended that SEBI may seek direct power to intercept calls 

to aid in investigation, akin to the power granted to the Central Board of Direct Taxes. 

However, proper checks and balances must be ensured for use of the power.  

d.  The Committee has recommended a mechanism to facilitate whistleblowers to come 

forward  and  for  SEBI  to  have  the  power  to  grant  provide  immunity  or  levy  lesser 

penalty on such persons who come forward with full and true disclosure of alleged 

violations. Suitable amendments have been suggested to the SEBI Act to enable this. 

 

The Committee is confident that the recommendations will go a long way in ensuring fair 

market conduct and in protecting the interest of investors in securities markets.  

 

 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

11 | P a g e  

INTRODUCTION 

 

Background and Objective 

 

A  fair  and  efficient  Securities  Market  is  one  of  the  essential  components  of  economic 

growth  of  a  country.  To  ensure  confidence,  trust  and  integrity  in  securities  market,  the 

regulator of the securities market needs to ensure fair market conduct in the securities 

market.  Fair  market  conduct  can  be  ensured  by  prohibiting,  preventing,  detecting  and 

punishing such market conduct that leads to ‘market abuse’.  Market abuse is generally 

understood to include market manipulation and insider trading and such activity erodes 

investor confidence and impairs economic growth. 

In India, the Securities and Exchanges Board of India (“SEBI”) is mandated to protect the 

interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 

securities market.  To fulfill its duty, SEBI has been given legislative, executive and quasi-

judicial  powers  under  the  SEBI  Act,  1992.  Over  the  last  30  years,  SEBI,  using  the 

aforesaid  powers,  has  made  various  regulations  and  taken  stringent  surveillance, 

investigation and enforcement measures to ensure market integrity, fair market conduct 

by market participants and to protect the interest of investors.  

To deal with market abuse related to “market manipulation”, SEBI had framed the SEBI 

(Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities  Markets) 

Regulations  in  1995.  These  Regulations  were  reviewed  and  replaced  with  the  SEBI 

(Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities  Market) 

Regulations  2003  (“PFUTP  Regulations”)  which  were  notified  on  17th  July  2003  and 

thereafter, amended twice in December 2012 and September 2013 respectively. 

To deal with market abuse related to “insider trading”, SEBI had promulgated the SEBI 

(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992. The 1992 Regulations were amended 

in  2002 to  strengthen the  regulations and  bring  in  the  concept of  Code  of  Conduct for 

prevention of insider trading, as well as a code for corporate disclosure practices. As part 

of a periodic review of Regulations and to address challenges in bringing to closure cases 

of Insider Trading, the entire regulations were reviewed by the Sodhi Committee and were 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

12 | P a g e  

replaced by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 (“Insider Trading 

Regulations” or “PIT Regulations”). 

The Supreme Court in its judgment in N Narayanan v Adjudicating Officer, SEBI1 has 

noted that while the Indian capital market has witnessed tremendous growth by increased 

participation of the public, ‘market abuse’ is a common practice in the securities market. 

The Hon’ble Court appreciated that investors’ confidence in the capital market could be 

sustained only by ensuring investors’ protection. The Securities and Exchange Board of 

India Act, 1992 (the “SEBI Act” or “the Act”)) and the regulations made thereunder are 

intended to check market abuse and protect the interest of the investors in the securities 

market. The  SEBI  Act  in  Section 12A prohibits  manipulative  and deceptive  devices  as 

well  as  insider  trading.  Section  11  (2)  of  the  Act  empowers  SEBI  to  take  measures  to 

prohibit fraudulent and unfair trade practices and to prohibit insider trading. 

The  Supreme  Court, while  considering  the provisions  of  the  SEBI  Act  and  the  PFUTP 

Regulations, has recognised the purpose and object of securities law as the prevention 

of market abuse and preservation of market integrity. The Court in the aforesaid judgment 

has stated: 

“Prevention  of  market  abuse  and  preservation  of  market  integrity  is  the  hallmark  of 

securities  law.  Section  12-A  read  with  Regulations  3  and  4  of  the  2003  Regulations 

essentially  intended  to  preserve  “market  integrity”  and  to  prevent  “market  abuse”.  The 

object of the SEBI Act is to protect the interest of investors in securities and to promote 

the development and to regulate the securities market, so as to promote orderly, healthy 

growth  of  securities  market  and  to  promote  investors'  protection.  Securities  market  is 

based on free and open access to information, the integrity of the market is predicated on 

the  quality  and  the  manner  on  which  it  is  made  available  to  market.  “Market  abuse” 

impairs economic growth and erodes investor's confidence. Market abuse refers to the 

use of manipulative and deceptive devices, giving out incorrect or misleading information, 

so  as  to  encourage  investors  to  jump  into  conclusions,  on  wrong  premises,  which  is 

known to be wrong to the abusers. The statutory provisions mentioned earlier deal with 

                                                           
1 2013 12 SCC 152 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

13 | P a g e  

the situations where a person, who deals in securities, takes advantage of the impact of 

an action, may be manipulative, on the anticipated impact on the market resulting in the 

“creation of artificiality”. The same can be achieved by inflating the company's revenue, 

profits,  security  deposits  and  receivables,  resulting  in  price  rise  of  the  scrip  of  the 

company.  Investors  are  then  lured  to  make  their  “investment  decisions”  on  those 

manipulated inflated results, using the above devices which will amount to market abuse.” 

The  Court  also  went  on  to  succinctly  outline  the  duties  and  responsibilities  of  SEBI  in 

regulating and ensuring market security and protecting investors from fraud and market 

abuse: 

“SEBI,  the  market  regulator,  has  to  deal  sternly  with  companies  and  their  Directors 

indulging in manipulative and deceptive devices, insider trading, etc. or else they will be 

failing  in  their  duty  to  promote  orderly  and  healthy  growth  of  the  securities  market. 

Economic offence, people of this country should know, is a serious crime which, if not 

properly dealt with, as it should be, will affect not only the country's economic growth, but 

also slow the inflow of foreign investment by genuine investors and also cast a slur on 

India's  securities  market.  Message  should  go  that our  country  will  not  tolerate  “market 

abuse”  and  that  we  are  governed  by  the  “rule  of  law”.  Fraud,  deceit,  artificiality,  SEBI 

should ensure, have no place in the securities market of this country and “market security” 

is  our  motto.  People  with  power  and  money  and  in  management  of  the  companies, 

unfortunately  often  command  more  respect  in  our  society  than  the  subscribers  and 

investors in their companies. Companies are thriving with investors' contributions but they 

are a divided lot. SEBI has, therefore, a duty to protect investors, individual and collective, 

against opportunistic behaviour of Directors and insiders of the listed companies so as to 

safeguard market's integrity.” 

Today,  developments  in  technology,  information  flow  and  access  to  markets  have 

enabled  new  market  structures  to  evolve  and  impact  the  way  in  which  market 

manipulation  occurs  and  new  methods  of  market  manipulation  have  emerged.  These 

changes have led to the need to review the securities law dealing with market abuse and 

the  methods  used  for  detecting,  investigating  and  carrying  out  enforcement  against 

market abuse. 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

14 | P a g e  

   

Constitution of the Committee 

Considering  this  dynamic  nature  of  the  securities  market  environment,  a  review  of  the 

relevant  regulations  and  regulatory  measures,  assumes  utmost  importance  in  order  to 

effectively discharge the objectives of SEBI. In view of the same, SEBI constituted the 

Committee on Fair Market Conduct under the chairmanship of Dr. T K Vishwanathan, Ex-

Secretary General, Lok Sabha and Ex-Law Secretary as under:  

# 

Members Details 

1.    Dr. T.K. Viswanathan 

Ex-Secretary General, Lok Sabha & Ex-Law Secretary 
 

2.    Shri. Anup Bagchi 

Executive Director, ICICI Bank Ltd 
 

3.    Shri. Arun Kumar 

Chairman & CEO, KPMG 
 

4.    Shri. Ashish Kumar Chauhan 

Managing Director & CEO, BSE Ltd. 
 

5.    Shri. Haigreve Khaitan 
Partner, Khaitan & Co. 
 

6.    Ms. Kaku Nakhate 

County Head, Bank of America Merrill Lynch 
 

7.    Shri. Mihir Doshi 

Managing Director & CEO, Credit Suisse Securities (India) Private 
Limited 
 

8.    Shri. Milind Barve 

Managing Director, HDFC Asset Management Company Limited 
 

9.    Shri. Promeet Ghosh 

Managing Director, Temasek Holdings (Private ) Limited 
 

Capacity 
 
Chairman 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

15 | P a g e  

10.  Shri. Rajat Sethi 

Sr. Partner, S & R Associates 
 

11.   Shri. Sunil Sanghai 

Chair of Capital Market Subcommittee - FICCI  

12.   Shri. Sunny Chhabria 

Head - South Asia, Bloomberg India Private Limited 
 

13.   Shri. Vikram Limaye 

Managing Director & CEO, National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 
 

14.   Shri. Ananta Barua 

Executive Director, SEBI (presently Whole Time Member, SEBI) 
 

15.   Shri. S. Ravindran 

Executive Director, SEBI 
 

16.   Shri Gurdeep Singh 

Chairman & Managing Director, NTPC Limited 
 

17.   Shri Sanjiv Puri 

Managing Director, ITC Ltd. 
 

18.   Shri Sanjiv Mehta 

Managing Director and CEO, Hindustan Unilever Limited 
 

19.   Shri B N Kalyani 

 

Chairman & Managing Director, Bharat Forge Ltd 
 

20.   Shri Tony Sio 

Head of Exchange & Regulator Surveillance, Market Technology, 
NASDAQ 
 

21.   Shri Ashok Dhere 

President, Lokmanya Seva Sang 
 

22.   Ms. Maninder Cheema 

General Manager, SEBI 

 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 
 

Member 
 

Invitee 

Invitee 
 

Invitee 
 

Invitee 
 

Invitee 
 

Invitee 
 

Member 
Secretary 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

16 | P a g e  

 

Terms of Reference of the Committee 

The mandate of the Committee was to review relevant regulations framed by SEBI to deal 

with  market  abuse  and  to  review  the  surveillance,  investigation  and  enforcement 

mechanisms being undertaken by SEBI to make them more effective in protecting market 

integrity  and  the  interest  of  investors  from  market  abuse,  with  the  following  terms  of 

reference: 

 

Identify  opportunities  for  improvement  in  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading) 

Regulations, 2015 and SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 

relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 more particularly with respect to 

Trading Plans, handling of UPSI during takeovers and alignment of Insider Trading 

Regulations with the Companies Act provisions.  

  Suggest short term and medium term measures for improved surveillance of the 

markets  as  well  as  issues  relating  to  high  frequency  trades,  harnessing  of 

technology and analytics in surveillance. 

Working Process of the Committee 

The  Committee  held  several  meetings  to  deliberate  on  the  issues  before  it.  In  its  first 

meeting  on  September  6,  2017,  the  Committee  decided  to  adopt  an  outcome-based 

approach  in  combination  with  a  practice-area  approach.  The  Committee  decided  to 

constitute subcommittees, comprising members with specialized knowledge, to deliberate 

and make preliminary observations / recommendations in a certain area. It was decided 

that  suggestions  /  recommendations  of  each  sub-committee  would  be  taken  up  in  a 

comprehensive  manner  by 

the  main  Committee 

for  deliberation  and 

final 

recommendations.  

The  Committee  constituted  the  following  four  sub-committees  to  work  in  the  following 

specific area: 

1.  Legal  Subcommittee  under  the  chairmanship  of  Shri.  Haigreve  Khaitan  Partner, 

Khaitan & Co. 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

17 | P a g e  

2.  Code  of  Conduct  Subcommittee  under  the  chairmanship  of  Shri.  Milind  Barve 

Managing Director, HDFC Asset Management Company Limited 

3.  Investigation  and  Enforcement  Subcommittee  under  the  chairmanship  of  Shri. 

Anup Bagchi, Executive Director, ICICI Bank Ltd 

4.  Technology and Analytics Subcommittee under the chairmanship of Shri. Sunny 

Chhabria, Head - South Asia, Bloomberg India Private Limited 

The subcommittees held meetings on the following dates to deliberate the issues under 

consideration: 

  Legal Subcommittee - October 13, 2017, November 17, 2017, November 30, 2017 

and April 12, 2018 

  Code of Conduct Subcommittee – October 27, 2017 and April 12, 2017 

 

Investigation and Enforcement Subcommittee  – October 4, 2017 and November 

02, 2017 

  Technology  &  Analytics  Subcommittee  –  October  11,  2017  and  November  09, 

2017 

The main Committee held 7 meetings on the following dates to initiate and deliberate the 

observations 

/ 

recommendations  of 

the  subcommittees,  and 

to 

finalise 

its 

recommendations: 

  September 06, 2017 

  December 18, 2017 

  January 25, 2018 

  February 06, 2018 

  May 18, 2018 

  May 30, 2018 

  June 01, 2018 

Structure of the Report    

The report is structured in four parts. The first part deals with market manipulation and 

suggestions relating to the SEBI (PFUTP) Regulations. The second part deals with insider 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

18 | P a g e  

trading  and  suggestions  relating  to  SEBI  (PIT)  Regulations.  The  third  part  deals  with 

recommendations  related  to  the  Code  of  Conduct  for  market  intermediaries,  listed 

companies  and  other  fiduciaries.  The  fourth  part  deals  with  regulatory  measures  to 

enhance surveillance, investigation and enforcement. Wherever necessary, mention has 

been made regarding changes needed to be carried out in the SEBI Act or the relevant 

Regulations. 

Acknowledgements 

The Committee expresses its gratitude to Ms. Madhabi Puri Buch, Whole Time Member, 

SEBI  for  being  instrumental  in  constitution  of  the  Committee  and  her  invaluable 

contributions  in  shaping  the  discussions of  the  Committee.  She diverted  precious  time 

from her busy schedule to be present for all the proceedings of the Committee meetings. 

The  Committee  was  ably  supported  by  SEBI  officials  Ms.  Maninder  Cheema,  General 

Manager,  Shri  Nitesh  Bhati,  Assistant  General  Manager  and  Shri  Ankit  Bhansali, 

Assistant General Manager who provided, secretarial assistance in addition to providing 

inputs  to  the  committee  and  assistance  in  drafting  of  the  report.  Shri  Vishal  Padole, 

Assistant General Manager also provided inputs to the Committee for deliberation.  

The Committee would like to acknowledge the contributions of Ms. Rachael Israel, S&R 

and Associates, Ms. Shruti Rajan and Shri Rohan Banerjee, Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, 

Shri Moin Ladha and Shri Akshay Bhargav, Khaitan & Co, and Shri Vyom Shah, Advocate 

in doing research and providing background material for deliberations of the Committee 

and drafting of proposed amendments. 

The  senior  SEBI  officials,  namely,  Shri.  Ananta  Barua,  Executive  Director  (presently 

Whole  Time  Member),  Shri.  S.  Ravindran,  Executive  Director,  Shri  Anand  Baiwar, 

Executive  Director,  Shri  V  S  Sundaresan,  Chief  General  Manager,  Shri  Amit  Pradhan, 

Chief  General  Manager,  Shri  Sunil  Kadam, Chief  General  Manager,  made  a    valuable 

contribution based on their rich experience in SEBI.  

The  Committee also  places  on  record  the  contribution  of  all  members  of  the four  sub-

committees based on whose efforts, the Committee built up its recommendations, with 

special thanks to Shri Nehal Vora, BSE Ltd.,  Shri Sudhir Bassi, Khaitan & Co and Shri 

Jinendra Shah, Bank of America Merrill Lynch. 

 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

19 | P a g e  

CHAPTER 1 | MARKET MANIPULATION AND FRAUD 

The  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities 

Market)  Regulations  2003  (“PFUTP  Regulations”)  deals  with  market  abuse  such  as 

manipulative, fraudulent and unfair trade practices.  

1.1.  Rule Based vs Principle Based Regulations 

As innovation leads to new types of market practices, it exposes markets to new methods 

of fraud. Also, over time, system based controls can eliminate certain types of fraudulent 

practices. Hence, the question arises whether regulations need to be principle based so 

as to cover the broad contours of the fraudulent activity without prescribing specific details 

of activity that is prohibited. On the other hand, rule-based regulations are more precise, 

making  it  clear  to  market  participants  the  specific  conduct  that  is  prohibited,  and  also 

reduce  the  burden  on  the  regulatory  system  of  trying  to  cover  various  acts  under  the 

principles. However, the rules become obsolete with time and may not adequately cover 

new practices resulting from use of technology or financial innovation which could lead to 

manipulative activity escaping regulatory attention.  

 The provisions of Regulation 3 and Regulation 4(1) of PFUTP Regulations lay down the 

underlying principles governing fraudulent and unfair trade practices and are intended to 

cover diverse situations and possibilities. Regulation 4(2) on the other hand lays down 

specific  rules  that  prohibit  certain  conduct  by  deeming  them  fraudulent  activities.2  The 

Committee  deliberated  on  the  structure  of  the  PFUTP  Regulations,  with  focus  on  rule 

based approach vs. principle based approach to regulate the market in the light of use of 

new technology and new instruments, as well as new class of participants entering the 

markets. The Committee noted that the current structure of the PFUTP Regulations is a 

combination  of  principle-based  and  rule-based  approaches.  Thus,  while  Regulations  3 

and 4(1) of the PFUTP Regulations enunciate broad principles and prohibit dealings in 

securities  which  were  done  inter  alia  in  a  fraudulent  manner,  or  which  employed  any 

manipulative  or  deceptive  device  or  would  operate  as  fraud  or  deceit,  Regulation  4(2) 

                                                           
2 SEBI v Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel 2017 15 SCC 1 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

20 | P a g e  

specifies detailed rules relating to transactions which are deemed to be fraudulent or an 

unfair trade practice. 

Recommendation 

After  deliberations,  the  Committee  noted  that  such  a  combination  of  rule-based  and 

principle-based approach is appropriate for the present stage of market development as 

such an approach not only enunciates the broad principles for ensuring fair markets but 

also enables rules to be specified to prohibit an illustrative list of identifiable unfair and 

manipulative trade practices. The Committee further noted that at appropriate intervals, 

SEBI should regularly update the rule-based Regulation 4(2) to keep up with changes in 

the securities market environment. 

 

1.2.  Scope of PFUTP Regulations 

The  Committee  noted  that  market  manipulation,  covers  a  wide  variety  of  practices 

undertaken to compromise the market’s integrity and efficiency for one’s personal gains. 

These would include, but not be limited to, market manipulation and fraudulent trades.  

Market manipulation as a concept has been considered by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in 

several judgments. As defined in Palmers Company Law,  and noted by the Apex Court3, 

“Market  manipulation  is  normally  regarded  as  the  ‘unwarranted’  interference  in  the 

operation  of  ordinary  market  forces  of  supply  and  demand  and  thus  undermines  the 

‘integrity’ and efficiency of the market”.  

In  SEBI  v  Rakhi  Trading4  the  Supreme  Court  observed  that  market  manipulation  is  a 

deliberate attempt to interfere with the free and fair operation of the market and create 

artificial,  false  or  misleading  appearances  with  respect  to  the  price,  market,  product, 

security and currency. 

The term ‘fraud’ has been interpreted by the Supreme Court at length in SEBI v Kanaiyalal 

Baldevbhai  Patel5  to  be  wider  than  ‘fraud’  as  used  and  understood  under  the  Indian 

                                                           
3 N. Narayanan v Adjudicating Officer, SEBI 2013 12 SCC 152. 
4 Civil Appeal No. 1969 of 2011, DoD February 8, 2018, [2018 SCC Online SC 101]  
5 2017 15 SCC 1 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

21 | P a g e  

Contract  Act. The  term  ‘unfairness’  has  been  interpreted  to  be  even  broader than  and 

inclusive of the concepts of ‘deception’ and ‘fraud’. Unfair trade practices are not subject 

to a single definition but require adjudication on case-to-case basis. Conduct undermining 

good faith dealings may make a trade practice unfair. The Supreme Court has defined 

unfair trade practices6 as follows:  

“Having regard to the fact that the dealings in the stock exchange are governed by the 

principles of fair play and transparency, one does not have to labour much on the meaning 

of  unfair  trade  practices  in  securities.  Contextually  and  in  simple  words,  it  means  a 

practice  which  does  not  conform  to  the  fair  and  transparent  principles  of  trades  in  the 

stock market.” 

The Courts have recognized that as a matter of principle, while interpreting the PFUTP 

Regulations,  the  court  must  weigh  against  an  interpretation  which  will  protect  unjust 

claims over just, fraud over legality and expediency over principle.7 That being said, the 

Committee was of the opinion that it would be beneficial to have the PFUTP Regulations 

further  strengthened  to  specifically  enable  SEBI  to  have  the  power  to  restrict  such 

‘dealings  in  securities’  instead  of  having  to  rely  on  interpretation  of  the  PFUTP 

Regulations  to  protect  the  market.  It  was  noted  that  in  the  SEBI  Act  and  PFUTP 

Regulations, fraud, manipulative and unfair trade practices are referred to in the context 

of dealing in securities. The Committee considered whether the definition of ‘dealing in 

securities’ under regulation 2(1)(b) of the PFUTP Regulations is adequate in the context 

of  SEBI’s  regulatory  experience  as  well  as  observations  of  the  Supreme  Court.  It  was 

noted that while the definition of ‘dealing in securities’ is reasonably broad,  fraudulent, 

manipulative  or  unfair  trades  may  also  be  carried  out  with  the  aid  and  assistance  of 

persons other than the parties who are transacting in the securities market. 

Recommendation 

Given the increasingly complicated nature of transactions in the securities market as has 

been demonstrated by recent experiences and the indirect role of various persons in such 

                                                           
6 SEBI v Rakhi Trading Pvt Ltd 2018 SCC Online SC 101 
7 SEBI v Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel 2017 15 SCC 1 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

22 | P a g e  

manipulative transactions, the Committee is of the opinion that the definition of “dealing 

in securities” under Regulation 2(1)(b) of the PFUTP Regulations must also be widened 

to include within its ambit persons providing assistance in such dealing in securities. The 

Committee  noted  that  while  SEBI  has  been  charging  various  persons  for  aiding  and 

abetting  prohibited  transactions,  it  would  be  appropriate  that  the  definition  should 

specifically  cover  such  persons  who  are  indirectly  participating  and  indeed  often 

orchestrating  and  controlling  such  prohibited  transactions.    Further,  as  noted  by  the 

Supreme Court in N Narayanan vs SEBI8, manipulation can also be achieved by inflating 

the company's revenue, profits, security deposits and receivables, resulting in price rise 

of  the  scrip  of  the  company.  The  Committee  noted  that  such  actions  may  be  done  by 

persons  who  may  not  themselves  be  directly  dealing  in  securities,  but  who  end  up 

influencing  the  dealing  in  securities  by  their  manipulative  or  unfair  actions.  Thus  the 

definition  of  dealing  in  securities  must  also  cover  such  persons  who  by  their  actions 

influence the decisions of investors dealing in securities. 

The  Committee  is  aware  that  such  an  amendment  may  also  bring  within  the  ambit  of 

‘dealings in securities’, acts by intermediaries who may have contributed to such dealings. 

The Committee is of the opinion, in concurrence with the judgment of the Supreme Court 

in SEBI v Kishore R. Ajmera9, that to an extent such conduct on the part of intermediaries 

can be attributed to negligence occasioned by lack of due care and caution which would 

be in contravention of the Code of Conduct governing the particular intermediary in terms 

of  the  respective  Regulations.  However,  persistent  trading  would  show  a  deliberate 

intention to play the market which the Committee believes should fall within the PFUTP 

Regulations. However, this would depend on all the surrounding facts and circumstances 

of the case. The Regulation should thus adequately address the issue of whether such 

conduct is carried out knowingly and only then consider it fraudulent. 

1.3.  Covering new types of market manipulation 

The heading of Regulation 4 of PFUTP Regulations reads as Prohibition of manipulative, 

fraudulent and unfair trade practices. However, Regulation 4(1) mentions only fraudulent 

                                                           
8 SEBI 2013 12 SCC 152 
9 2016 6 SCC 368 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

23 | P a g e  

and unfair trade practices. In order to ensure the consistency between the heading and 

principle,  it  would  be  prudent  to  include  the  words  manipulative  in  Regulation  4(1). 

Further, the regulation 4(1) refers to fraudulent and unfair trade practices in securities. In 

order to provide more clarity that the conduct/ practices relate to entire securities market, 

as well as for consistency with Section 11(2)(e) of the SEBI Act, including activities such 

as  giving  advice,  unauthorised  trading,  mis-selling,  diversion  of  funds  etc.,  which  may 

impact the eco-system of securities market, it would be prudent that the regulation refers 

to the securities market rather than just securities. 

The Supreme Court in SEBI v Kanaiyalal Baldev Patel10, has stated that: 

“54.  The  definition  of  “fraud”,  which  is  an  inclusive  definition  and,  therefore,  has  to  be 

understood to be broad and expansive, contemplates even an action or omission, as may 

be committed, even without any deceit if such act or omission has the effect of inducing 

another person to deal in securities. Certainly, the definition expands beyond what can 

be normally understood to be a “fraudulent act” or a conduct amounting to “fraud”. The 

emphasis is on the act of inducement and the scrutiny must, therefore, be on the meaning 

that must be attributed to the word “induce”. 

55. The dictionary meaning of the word “induced” may now be taken note of: 

Black's Law Dictionary, 8th Edn., defines “inducement” as “The act or process of enticing 

or persuading another person to take a certain course of action”. 

*** 

Merriam-Webster  Dictionary  defines  “inducement”  as  “a  motive  or  consideration  that 

leads one to action or to additional or more effective actions”. 

The Courts have thus repeatedly expanded the ambit of PFUTP Regulations to restrict 

new practices that could perpetuate market abuse:  

(i) 

The  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  practices  that  did  not  disclose  sufficient 

information  about  the  company  which  was  crucial  for  the  accurate  pricing  of  the 

                                                           
10 (2017) 15 SCC 1 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

24 | P a g e  

companies’ securities and also for the efficient operation of the market fell short of the 

requirements of the SEBI Act and the PFUTP Regulations.11  

(ii) 

The Supreme Court of India has, while recognizing that the object and purpose of 

the  PFUTP  Regulations  is  to  curb  ‘market manipulation’, decided  that front  running  by 

non-intermediaries may be brought under the prohibition prescribed under Regulations 3 

and 4(1) of the PFUTP Regulations, for being fraudulent or unfair trade practice. 12 

(iii) 

The Supreme Court, in a case related to trades where one party consistently made 

loss in a preplanned and rapidly reversed trades in the derivative segment, held that such 

trades were non-genuine and were deemed to be an unfair trade practice. The Court did 

not distinguish between trades in the cash and F&O segment in this regard and held that 

orchestrated trades are a misuse of the market mechanism.13 

The judgments of the Supreme Court of India exemplify the necessity for regulation to 

adequately deal with the novel methods of market abuse, fraud and market manipulation 

that have been encountered by SEBI in recent instances.  

Having  regard  to  the  aforesaid  judgments  and  the  experience  of  SEBI  in  dealing  with 

manipulations  as  specified  under  Regulation  4(2),  the  Committee  noted  that  when  the 

market practice/ trading falls under Regulation 4(2), the element of fraud is deemed to 

exist and there need not be any separate burden cast on SEBI to prove existence of fraud. 

In this context, the Committee deemed it fit to reconsider each rule under Reg. 4(2) and 

ensure that there are adequate safeguards in the deeming provisions. 

Recommendations 

1.  Reg 4(2) (a) deems any act which creates false or misleading appearance of trading 

to be fraudulent. The word “knowingly” may be added before the rule so as to exclude 

inadvertent or accidental trades. 

 

                                                           
11 N. Narayanan v Adjudicating Officer, SEBI 2013 12 SCC 152 
12 SEBI v Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel 2017 15 SCC 1 
13 SEBI v Rakhi Trading Pvt Ltd 2018 SCC Online SC 101 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

25 | P a g e  

2.  Reg.4(2)(c) deals with inducing someone to subscribe to an issue. In order to bring 

further clarity and to ensure that the provision is not misused, the committee was of 

the  opinion  that  the  inducement  should  be  fraudulent.  The  inclusion  of  word 

fraudulent would keep legitimate practices such as market-making out of the purview 

of  this  offence.  Further,  the  earlier  provision  only  included  inducement  by  way  of 

advancement  of  money  but  considering  the  changing  market  dynamics,  the 

Committee deemed it fit to even include other mechanisms to induce subscription of 

shares. 

 

3.  Reg. 4(2)(d) deals with inducing someone to deal in securities with the objective of 

inflating,  depressing,  maintaining  or  causing  fluctuation  in  price  of  a  security  by 

paying money. However, keeping in mind the changing market scenarios it would be 

unfair to limit the scope of this provision to inducement by paying/offering/promising 

money  to  a  person.  The  committee  deemed  it  fit  to  enhance  the  scope  of  this 

provision 

to 

include 

inducement 

by 

any  mechanism 

including 

by 

paying/offering/promising money with the objective of artificially inflating, depressing, 

maintain or causing fluctuation in price of a security. 

 

4.  As  regard  Reg.  4(2)(e),  the  Committee  was  of  the  view  that  the  provision  is 

adequately broad and needs no changes. However, in order to bring more clarity in 

scope it was decided that an explanation may be added which would clarify that any 

act to fraudulently manipulate any reference price or bench mark price would also be 

covered under this provision. One such manipulation is also referred to as ‘marking 

the  close’  in market  parlance  and  would  lead  to  impacting  the  settlement  price for 

derivatives. 

 

5.  Reg.  4(2)(f)  intends  to  cover  publication  of  any  false  information.  However,  the 

Committee  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  clause  currently  has  a  broad  scope  and  in 

order to clarify the scope of the clause, the Committee was of the opinion that false 

information should be relating to securities such as information on financial results, 

financial statements, mergers and acquisitions, regulatory approvals etc. 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

26 | P a g e  

 

6.  Reg. 4(2)(h) deals with stolen or counterfeit securities and the Committee was of the 

opinion that the provision has become obsolete in the current form as the issue of 

counterfeit  security  is  negligible  after  widespread  adoption  of  dematerialization. 

However,  the  Committee  is  mindful  of  the  fact  that  sometimes  securities  may  be 

fraudulently issued and hence the provision may be amended to include dealing in 

fraudulently issued securities as well. However, in order to introduce a safeguard, a 

proviso is proposed to be included to protect the holder in due course as well as a 

person who purchased, in good faith, the securities which were previously traded on 

an exchange. 

 

7.  The Committee was of the view that considering the various reforms introduced by 

SEBI  in  regard  to  dissemination  of  information  and  legitimate  business  practices, 

Reg. 4(2)(i) 4(2)(j) and 4(2)(l) are obsolete and may be deleted. 

 

8.  Reg.  4(2)(k)  deals  with  publication  of  a  misleading  advertisement.  The  Committee 

was of the view that the provision is too narrow in the present context given the use 

of  technology  and  social  media  as  mode  of  communication  and  information 

dissemination. The Committee was of the view that the provision must not be limited 

to ‘advertisements’ but must include  information disseminated through any physical 

or  digital  means  including  internet  which  is  designed  to  influence  the  decision  of 

investors while dealing in securities. 

 

9.  Reg.  4(2)(m)  at  present  deals  with  a  situation  wherein  an  intermediary  doesn’t 

disclose to the client transactions undertaken on its behalf. Considering the reports 

of unauthorized trading by brokers on behalf of their clients, the Committee is of view 

that the provision should be expanded. The provision must be made applicable to all 

market participants. Further, transaction undertaken in the name of a client without 

informing the client or taking instructions from client and mis-utilization or diversion  

of funds or securities of a client held in fiduciary capacity, it should be deemed to be 

fraudulent. 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

27 | P a g e  

 

10. The present scope of Reg. 4(2)(n) is limited to circular trading by intermediaries with 

the  purpose  of  increasing  their  commission  (also  known  as  ‘churning’)  or  to 

manipulate price of security. Since circular trading leading to manipulation in security 

is itself a fraud, the Committee is of the view that the provision should be extended 

to  all  persons  dealing  in  a  security  and  any  circular  transaction  leading  to 

manipulation in the price or volume of a security should be treated as fraud. 

 

11. Reg. 4(2)(o) in its original form is limited to instances of encouragement of clients by 

intermediaries for trading in securities solely with intention of increasing brokerage or 

commission. This  provision  was  inserted  so as  to  avoid  churning  and  ill  advice  by 

intermediaries especially brokers to the clients to trade more and more without any 

economic rationale and with a purpose to get more brokerage or commission since 

brokerage/commission  is  dependent  on  trading  volume.  However,  this  clause 

sometimes is too onerous on the market intermediary as certain genuine advice given 

by  intermediaries  may  not  lead  to  any  profit  for  the  client  but  result  in  higher 

brokerage/commission  for  the  intermediaries.  Hence,  there  is  a  need  to  segregate 

genuine  advice/inducement  for  trading  vis-a-vis  fraudulent  inducement.  Further,  it 

should  be  made  applicable  to  all  market  participants  rather  than  only  on 

intermediaries. The committee is of the opinion that the provision should be revised 

to  incorporate  fraudulent  inducement  to  trade  by  any  market  participant  with  the 

purpose of enhancing brokerage,  commission or income. 

 

12. On examining Reg. 4(2)(p), the Committee was of the opinion the provision should 

be expanded and made applicable to all market participants and further some more 

instances of documents/records may be provided in the provision. 

 

13. The  provision  at  Reg.  4(2)(q)  currently  makes  any  trading  by  an  intermediary  in 

advance of a substantial client order as fraud. In the wake of the judgment of Hon’ble 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

28 | P a g e  

Supreme Court in the matter of Kanaiyalal Patel v. SEBI14, wherein the ambit of front- 

running  was  increased  from  intermediary  to  any  person,  the  Committee  is  of  the 

opinion that if the trading is done by any person based on direct or indirect knowledge 

about an impending transaction by any person it should be treated a fraud. Further, 

the  provision  would  cover  trading  in  the  security  or  its  derivative.  However, 

considering  the  fact  that  some  intermediaries  are  legitimately  aware  of  such 

information in advance, it was decided that protection may be given to trading which 

is based on information which is publicly available. Further, the Committee was of the 

view that the provision should not be construed to bring in the concept of front running 

one’s own trades. 

 

14. The provision at Regulation 4(2)(r) covers planting of any false or misleading news. 

In  order  to  protect  any  inadvertent  or  genuine  news  coverage  which  subsequently 

turns  out  to  be  untrue,  the  Committee  was  of  opinion  that  such  acts  when  done 

knowingly should be considered to be fraud. Further, apart from news, planting of any 

information should be covered under the scope of this provision as news has limited 

connotation in view of multiple ways to disseminate information using new forms of 

media/  technology/communication.  However,  such  planting  of  news  or  information 

would  be  deemed  to  be  a  fraud  if  it  is  done  with  an  objective  to  impact  the 

price/volume of a security. 

 

15. The  provision  at  Regulation  4(2)(s)  was  originally  intended  to  cover  mis-selling  in 

mutual fund  schemes and units.  However,  considering  the  wide  scope of  advisory 

services and the products available in the securities market, the Committee was of 

the view that knowingly mis-selling any securities or services in the securities market 

should be treated as fraud.     

 

16. The Committee also considered the issue of front entities who lend their names or 

trading accounts, to others. Often such persons are not aware of the trading done in 

                                                           
14 (2017) 15 SCC 1 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

29 | P a g e  

their account and they become party to the fraud. Further, in absence of any evidence 

connecting these front entities to the main culprit, it becomes difficult to establish the 

fraud by the main culprit. In the context of use of such front entities to manipulate or 

carry out fraud, the Committee feels that if trading is being legitimately done by any 

entity,  it  should  be  in  proportion  to  the  entity’s  verifiable  financial  sources.  Thus, 

trading done in excess of such verifiable financial sources should be deemed to be 

fraudulent  if  such  trading  leads  to  any  manipulation  in  the  price  or  volume  of  the 

security. There was considerable deliberation on the issue of what verifiable financial 

sources are and what would be included in the same. It was decided that SEBI would 

separately issue a circular prescribing the method for calculating verifiable financial 

sources  and  would  specify  the  intermediary  who  would  be  monitoring  trading  in 

excess  of  the  verifiable  financial  sources,  after  due  consultation  with  market 

participants. 

 

17. As  per  the  current  scheme  of  the  regulation,  in  many  instances,  only  the 

intermediaries are held responsible for any fraud. This gives  scope to the promoters 

/ directors / employees of these intermediaries to escape after indulging in fraudulent 

activity. While inserting new clauses, the Committee felt that the responsibility should 

be extended to intermediaries or entities registered under Section 12 of SEBI Act and 

also to employees working in these entities. Hence, the Committee was of the view 

that  an explanation be  added at the  end  of Reg.  4(2) explaining  the ambit of  term 

“Market Participant”. 

 

The amendments to the PFUTP Regulations suggested on the above lines are 

placed at Annexure I. 

1.4.  Financial Statements Fraud 

Financial  Statements  /  Reports  are  essential  disclosures  made  by  companies  for 

informing  the  financial  position  and  financial  performance  of  the  company  to  various 

stakeholders.  Financial  Statements  /  Reports  include  annual  financial  statements, 

quarterly financial results etc. The significance of accurate financial statements/reports 

for listed companies cannot be stressed enough since financial statements / reports of a 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

30 | P a g e  

company  influence  the  decision  of  the  investors  for  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in  the 

securities market. 

Financial  Statements  Fraud  involves  the  manipulation  of  books  of  accounts  and  other 

information  used  to  prepare  the  financial  statements  which  are  commonly  known  as 

“cooking  of  books  of  accounts”  with  intent  to  report  a  false  and  misleading  financial 

position  and  financial  performance  of  the  company.  While  a  material  misstatement  of 

financial statements can be a result of an error or fraud, in the case of the latter, it is an 

intentional act that results in such misstatements.  There are two types of misstatements 

arising as a result of fraud  — misstatements arising from fraudulent financial reporting 

and  misstatements  arising  from  misappropriation  of  assets.  The  Committee  notes  that 

financial statement frauds are generally done in a listed company to manipulate the share 

prices of listed companies or to hide diversion, misutilization or siphoning off funds and 

resources of the company.  

Financial  Statement  fraud  may  be  accomplished  by  (i)  manipulation,  falsification,  or 

alteration of books of accounts or supporting documents from which financial statements 

are  prepared;  (ii)  misrepresentation  in  or  intentional  omission  from  the  financial 

statements  of  events,  transactions,  or  other  significant  information;  or  (iii)  Intentional 

misapplication  of  accounting  principles  relating  to  amounts,  classification,  manner  of 

presentation, or disclosure. 

The Committee noted that the cases related to “Financial Statement Frauds” in respect 

of listed companies are dealt in two parts 

1.  Fraud perpetrated by manipulating books of accounts and financial statements  to 

manipulate the share prices of listed companies or to hide diversion, misutilization 

or siphoning off funds and resources of the company; and 

2.  Misleading  disclosures  made  by  a  company  by  disclosing  manipulated  financial 

statement / financial results / statement of utilization of issue proceeds because 

disclosures are based on books of accounts/ information which are manipulated.   

In respect of the latter type of financial statement fraud, the Committee noted that SEBI 

has,  in  many  cases,  charged  the  company  and  directors  of  the  company  who  were 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

31 | P a g e  

responsible for  making such misleading disclosures under regulations 4(2) (f), (k) (r) of 

the  PFUTP  Regulations.  However,  even  in  such  cases  there  are  limited  allegations  of 

misleading disclosures made by company by publishing manipulated financial statement 

/ financial results / statement of utilization of issue proceeds etc. Further, in most cases, 

the enforcement actions are taken against the company and the directors of the company 

who were responsible for making such disclosures, rather than against persons who have 

manipulated the books of accounts and financial statements etc.  

In  respect  of  the first part  of financial  statement fraud  as  stated above,  it  is noted  that 

there  are  only  a  few  cases  where  SEBI  has  charged  persons  for  committing  fraud  of 

manipulating books of accounts to manipulate the share prices of listed companies or to 

hide diversion, misutilization or siphoning off funds and resources of the company. 

The  Committee  noted  that  Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs  (MCA)  has  power  under  the 

Companies Act, 2013 to take action against persons responsible for fraud committed by 

manipulating  books  of  accounts.  The  requirement  of  keeping  books  of  accounts  and 

financial statements for every financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of 

the  affairs  of  the  company  flow  from  the  chapter  IX  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013. 

Accordingly, any manipulation in the books of accounts to manipulate the share prices of 

listed companies or to hide diversion, misutilization or siphoning off fund and resources 

of the company results in violation of the Companies Act and  the persons responsible for 

such manipulation are usually charged under the Companies Act. 

The Companies Act is applicable to all companies whether listed or unlisted, public and 

private. However, the manipulation of books of accounts and financial statements have 

very high degree of implication for listed companies rather than for unlisted companies as 

far as investor interest is concerned.  

Generally, promoters, senior management (MD, CEO, CFO etc.) and auditors are found 

to  be  involved  in  these  frauds.  The  victims  of  these  frauds  are  usually  investors/ 

shareholders of the listed company. They lose the value of their investments, especially 

when share prices fall after the frauds are discovered. The offender is not the company 

itself, but some of the people within the company or in the management of the company. 

Discovery  of  the  frauds  often  results  in  total  downfall  of  the  company  due  to  loss  of 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

32 | P a g e  

business, reputation, customers etc. Many mid-sized companies may go into liquidation 

after such fraud.  

Financial statement frauds appear to be less in number in the securities market but the 

impact of these frauds is generally very heavy. Globally, financial statements frauds in 

the  listed  company  have  resulted  in  loss  of  confidence  by  domestic  and  international 

investors  in  not  only  that  listed  company  but  also  the  entire  industry  which  that  listed 

company  belongs  to.    Some  of  the  big  financial  statement  frauds  includes  Enron, 

WorldCom, etc. Indian securities markets also have witnessed financial statement frauds 

in listed companies. One of the biggest frauds in the Indian securities market was in the 

financial statements of Satyam Computers Ltd. 

While in the case of securities market abuse like market manipulation or insider trading, 

investors  who  traded  during  the  period  of  the  manipulation  get  adversely  affected, 

financial statement fraud affects all investors who have invested in the shares of that listed 

company whether they traded during the period of the manipulation or not.  

As  noted  earlier,  the Supreme  Court  in  N  Narayanan  v  Adjudicating  Officer,  SEBI15 

observed that market abuse / manipulation “can be achieved by inflating the company's 

revenue, profits, security deposits and receivables, resulting in price rise of the scrip of 

the  company.  Investors  are  then  lured  to  make  their  “investment  decisions”  on  those 

manipulated inflated results, using the above devices which will amount to market abuse.” 

The Committee deliberated that SEBI, as a regulator of the securities market, has a duty 

to protect the interest of investors from such financial statement frauds.  

SEBI’s  current  jurisdiction  on  companies  finds  its  source  in  Section  24  (1)  of  the 

Companies  Act  2013.  Section  24  (1)  limits  the  jurisdiction  of  SEBI  to  matters  covered 

under Chapters III and Chapter IV and Section 127 of the Companies Act, 2013 insofar 

as they relate to issue and transfer of securities and non-payment of dividend by listed 

companies or companies intending to get their securities listed. As specified in Section 

24(2), SEBI’s jurisdiction is to be exercised in line with the powers conferred upon SEBI 

                                                           
15 2013 12 SCC 152 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

33 | P a g e  

under  the  SEBI Act,  199216. The  Committee  also  notes  that  SEBI’s  jurisdiction to  take 

steps  in  the  interests  of  investors  is  not  curtailed  by  the  jurisdiction  of  other  statutory 

authorities. 

The  Supreme  Court  in  SEBI  v  Pan  Asia  Advisors  Ltd  and  Anr17  was  faced  with  the 

question  of  whether  SEBI  had  jurisdiction  in  a  case  where  Lead  Managers  to  Global 

Depository  Receipts  (“GDRs”)  issued  outside  India  colluded  with  the  companies  by 

issuing  a  large  number  of  GDRs,  and  giving  a  false  respectable  appearance  to  the 

financial statement of the issuing companies while in reality, by making a few entries, it 

was shown as through a large surge in the capital of the issuing companies. The initial 

investors to GDRs were also found to be fictitious, and meant to lure Indian investors to 

invest at a higher share value of the issuing companies at a later stage, upon GDRs being 

converted into shares. The Supreme Court held that SEBI’s jurisdiction is not curtailed by 

jurisdiction that may be exercised by RBI or under FEMA: 

“We are therefore convinced that having regard to the nature of allegations in the interests 

of the investors in securities as well as the statutory obligation/duty cast upon SEBI to 

protect  their  interests,  …..  That apart  under Section  11(3)  it  is provided that  SEBI  can 

exercise its powers under sub-section (2)(i) or (i-a) or sub-section (2-A) notwithstanding 

anything  contained  in  any  other  law  for  the  time  being  in  force,  meaning  thereby,  the 

action that can be taken for any of the violation under FEMA or RBI Act, SEBI can validly 

exercise its powers under the SEBI Act, 1992..”  

The Supreme Court also held - “A perusal of the above details which are required to be 

furnished  statutorily,  shows  that  in  the  event  of  any  wrong  statement  furnished  in  the 

above referred to forms, it provides scope for proceeding against the issuing company as 

well  as  any  person  connected  with  such  violation  and  it  would  certainly  empower  the 

                                                           
16 SEBI’s powers under the SEBI Act are set out in Sections 11 to 11D. These powers include, under Section 11(2) of 
the Act, calling for information and records under Section 11(2)(ia) of the SEBI Act, undertaking inspection of any 
book, register or other record of any listed public company or a public company intending to get its securities listed 
on any stock exchange under Section 11(2A) of the SEBI Act. 
17 2015 14 SCC 71 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

34 | P a g e  

authority  viz.  SEBI  to  initiate  action  under  the  SEBI  Act,  1992  in  order  to  protect  the 

interests of the Indian investors in securities and the security market.”    

The  question  whether  SEBI  has  jurisdiction  to  issue  show  cause  notices  to  Chartered 

Accountants in connection with the work they had undertaken for a listed company in the 

matter of maintaining accounts and balance sheets was also considered by the Bombay 

High Court in Price Waterhouse & Co v SEBI18. In that case, it was held that SEBI, under 

Section 11 of the SEBI Act, had power to prohibit fraudulent and unfair trade practices 

and was empowered to pass appropriate orders to safeguard the interest of investors or 

the securities market. SEBI was held to have had the power to take remedial or preventive 

measures against a Chartered Accountant if there was material against him to the effect 

that he was instrumental in preparing false and fabricated accounts. 

The SEBI Act is to be read in harmony with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956. 

Both  Acts  are  to  work  in  tandem,  in  the  interest  of  investors.19  SEBI  had  power  to 

administer select provisions of the Companies Act as was set out in Section 55A of the 

Companies Act, 1956, which has since been replaced by Section 24 of the Companies 

Act, 2013. Although the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has powers and duty to take 

action for financial statement frauds under the Companies Act, SEBI shall concurrently 

take action against the persons who engage in fraud by manipulating books of accounts/ 

financial  statements  to  manipulate  the  price  of  listed  securities  and  hide  siphoning  / 

diversion / misutilization of funds.  

The Committee noted that SEBI has powers under section 11B of the SEBI Act, 1992 to 

issue various directions including direction to bar person involved in financial statement 

fraud from associating with listed companies as promoter / director / auditor of any listed 

company,  impounding  and  disgorgement  of any  illegal  gain  made by  such  person  etc. 

                                                           
18 2011 2 Bom CR 173 
19 Sahara India Real Estate Corpn Ltd v SEBI 2013 1 SCC 1 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

35 | P a g e  

The Committee noted that such powers are generally not with available with MCA under 

the Companies Act, 2013. 

In view of above, the Committee felt that there is a need for SEBI to take direct  action 

against perpetrators of financial fraud as such fraud has an adverse impact on not only 

the  shareholders  of  the  company  but  also  impacts  the  confidence  of  investors  in  the 

securities markets. While the primary responsibility of monitoring/ supervision of books of 

accounts  of  companies  is  with  MCA  under  the  Companies  Act,  in  respect  of  listed 

companies SEBI should also take action for fraud committed by manipulating books of 

accounts and/ or financial statements to directly or indirectly manipulate the share price 

of a listed company or hide diversion, misutilization or siphoning off public issue proceeds 

/ assets / earnings of a listed company. The Committee also examined the power of SEBI 

to inspect books of accounts and records of a listed company.  

 

Section 11(2A) of the SEBI Act lays down the specific power of SEBI to conduct inspection 

of books of account of a listed company in case it has reasonable grounds to believe that 

the  company  has  been  indulging  in  Insider  Trading  or  Fraudulent  and  unfair  trade 

practices. The Committee noted that the listed companies have to comply with various 

Regulations framed under SEBI Act such as ICDR Regulation, LODR Regulations, etc. 

The Committee was of the view that SEBI should have power to conduct inspections of 

books of accounts of a listed company for contravention of any securities laws without 

limiting it to insider trading or fraudulent or unfair trade practices.   

 

Recommendation  

1.  The committee recommends that section 12A of the SEBI Act, 1992 which prohibits 

manipulative  and  deceptive  devices,  insider  trading  and  substantial  acquisition  of 

securities  or  control  should  be  amended  to  include  a  new  subsection  which  would 

clarify  further  SEBI’s  existing  powers  to  take  steps  for  misstatement  of  financial 

statements and / or misutilisation of issue proceeds etc. The additional sub-section 

may read as under: 

12A. No person shall directly or indirectly - 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

36 | P a g e  

(g)  employ  or  assist  in  employing  any  device,  scheme  or  artifice  to  manipulate  the 

books of accounts or financial statement of a listed company to directly or indirectly 

manipulate  the  price  of  listed  securities  or  hide  the  diversion,  misutilization  or 

siphoning  off  public  issue  proceeds  or  assets  or  earnings  of  a  listed  company  or 

company proposed to be listed.  

 

Further, the Committee recommends that regulation 3 of the PFUTP Regulations may 

also be amended in line with aforesaid amendment proposed to the SEBI Act, 1992. 

 

The Committee mentioned that abovementioned amendments would be in the nature 

of clarification regarding powers already available with SEBI, under which action has 

been  taken for  misstatement  of financial  statements  and  /  or  misutilisation  of  issue 

proceeds etc.  

 

2.  With regard to SEBIs power to inspect books of accounts of listed companies, Section 

11 (2A) of SEBI Act states that  

Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-section (2), the Board may take 

measures  to  undertake  inspection  of  any  book,  or  register,  or  other  document  or 

record  of  any  listed  public  company  or  a  public  company  (not  being  intermediaries 

referred to in section 12) which intends to get its securities listed on any recognised 

stock  exchange  where  the  Board  has  reasonable  grounds  to  believe  that  such 

company has been indulging in insider trading or fraudulent and unfair trade practices 

relating to securities market. 

The Committee recommends that the words “has been indulging in insider trading or 

fraudulent  and  unfair  trade  practices  relating  to  securities  market”  in  the  aforesaid 

section should be replaced with “is involved in violation of Securities Laws”. 

 

The amendments to the SEBI Act, 1992 suggested on the above lines are placed at 

Annexure IV. 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

37 | P a g e  

CHAPTER 2 | INSIDER TRADING 
 

‘Insider  Trading’  is  the  unlawful  act  of  trading  in  securities  while  having  access  to 

unpublished  information  which,  if  published,  could  have  impacted  the  price  of  the 

securities  being  traded  in  the  market.  Insider  trading  has  been  the  subject  of  much 

regulation  world-wide  and  in  the  Indian  context,  SEBI  has  promulgated  the  SEBI 

(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992, which were reviewed by a High Level 

Committee under the chairmanship of Justice N. K. Sodhi which culminated in the SEBI 

(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.  

 

The  Committee  noted  that,  the  number  of  cases  of  insider  trading  are  few  and  far 

between.  One  of  the  reasons  for  this  is  the  challenge  faced  in  investigating  and 

establishing  cases  of  insider  trading.  While  SEBI  has  strengthened  its  Insider  Trading 

Regulations  fairly  recently,  the  challenges  relating  to  investigation  and  gathering  of 

evidence in such cases still remain.  

One  of  the  issues  considered  by  the  Committee  was  the  necessity  of  having  separate 

regulations to deal with Insider Trading which is also considered to be a kind of fraud. The 

Committee  noted  that  because  of  the  peculiar  challenges  related  to  cases  involving 

establishment of insider trading allegations, the burden of proof is structured differently in 

the  Insider  Trading  Regulations  vis-à-vis  the  PFUTP  Regulations.  The  Insider  Trading 

Regulations place the burden of proof on the insider to show that he/she did not trade 

while  in  possession  of  inside  information  (“unpublished  price  sensitive  information”  or 

“UPSI”). On the other hand, under the PFUTP Regulations, the burden of proof is on SEBI 

to show that the manipulation took place. 

The  Committee  also  examined  the  structure  of  insider  trading  regulations  in  various 

jurisdictions,  and  upon  deliberation,  agreed  that  the  existing  regime  of  separate 

regulations for insider trading and fraud / unfair trade practices was justified.  

Considering the challenges faced by SEBI during investigation of insider trading cases, 

the Committee went into some detail to strengthen the ability of SEBI to carry out effective 

investigations, as brought out in the next chapter.  

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

38 | P a g e  

The Committee also deliberated on some of the challenges faced by market participants 

in interpreting the Insider Trading regulations such as the kind of information which can 

be  shared  for  legitimate  purposes,  procedures  involved  in  sharing  information  for  the 

purpose of due diligence etc.  

The following paragraphs deal first with recommendations relating to SEBI Act followed 

by  recommendations  relating  to  PIT  Regulations  in  the  chronology  of  the  Regulations 

which start with definitions in Regulation 2, restrictions on communication of unpublished 

price sensitive information in regulation 3, and prohibition on insider trading in Regulation 

4.  

2.1.  Aligning the SEBI Act on Insider Trading 

Insider  Trading  is  prohibited  under  Section  12A  of  the  SEBI  Act  which  states  that  “no 

person shall engage directly or indirectly in insider trading or deal in securities while in 

possession of material or non-public information or communicate such material or non-

public  information  to  any  other  person  in  a  manner  which  is  in  contravention  of  the 

provisions of the Act or regulations made thereunder. “ 

The penalty for insider trading is prescribed under Section 15 G of SEBI Act which states 

that any insider who,— 

“either on his own behalf or on behalf of any other person, deals in securities of a body 

corporate listed on any stock exchange on the basis of any unpublished price-sensitive 

information; or communicates any unpublished price-sensitive information to any person, 

with or without his request for such information except as required in the ordinary course 

of business or under any law; or 

counsels, or procures for any other person to deal in any securities of any body corporate 

on the basis of unpublished price-sensitive information, 

shall be liable to a penalty which shall not be less than ten lakh rupees but which may 

extend to twenty-five crore rupees or three times the amount of profits made out of insider 

trading, whichever is higher”. 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

39 | P a g e  

Section 15G (i) mentions dealing in securities on the basis of unpublished price sensitive 

information whereas Section 12 A mentions dealing in securities while in possession of 

unpublished price sensitive information.   

There  was  a  need  to  align  the  two  sections  so  that  they  refer  to  the  same  action  i.e. 

dealing in securities while in possession of unpublished price sensitive information. 

Recommendation:  

The Committee recommends that Section 15G of SEBI Act, 1992 needs to be aligned 

with Section 12 A of the Act and the PIT Regulations. 

The amendments to the SEBI Act, 1992 suggested on the above lines are placed at 

Annexure IV. 

2.2.  Definitions under the Insider Trading Regulations 

Regulation 2 of the PIT Regulations defines various terms used in the Regulations. The 

Committee noted that there is need for some clarity on some of the definitions such as 

those relating to qualifications of compliance officer, when a company can be considered 

as proposed to be listed and need for consequential changes to definition of unpublished 

price sensitive information after notification of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“LODR Regulations”).  

Recommendations: 

The  definition  of  “compliance  officer”  under  regulation  2(1)(c)  of  the  Insider  Trading 

Regulations, stipulates, inter alia, that such compliance officer is required to be “financially 

literate” as a prerequisite. While the term “financially literate” has not been defined in the 

PIT Regulations, the Committee noted that the said term is explained under the LODR 

Regulations.20  Accordingly,  the  Committee  recommends  to  adopt  the  definition  of 

“Financially  Literate”  in  the  LODR  Regulations  for  the  purpose  of  the  Insider  Trading 

Regulations.  

                                                           
20 Explanation (1) to Reg. 18(1) 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

40 | P a g e  

The Insider Trading Regulations apply to securities that are listed and “proposed  to be 

listed”. However, the Insider Trading Regulations do not clearly state what “proposed to 

be listed” entails. In the absence of clarity, the phrase “proposed to be listed” could have 

different  interpretations  and  may  include  the  securities  of  a  company  from  the  time 

commencing from the date of: (a) board resolution approving the IPO; (b) appointment of 

merchant bankers; and (c)  filing the draft red herring prospectus or red herring prospectus 

with SEBI. Further, since the definition of UPSI under the Insider Trading Regulations is 

linked to information which on becoming generally available would affect the market price 

of securities, it is pertinent to determine the point in time when information relating to a 

company, which proposes to achieve listing, will be regarded as UPSI. It was noted that 

prior  to  filing  of  the  draft  red  herring  prospectus  with  SEBI,  it  is  difficult  to  state  with 

certainty  that  there  is  any  concrete  intention  for  a  company  to  get  listed  on  the  stock 

exchange(s).  

In view of the above, the Committee recommends that the term “Proposed to be listed” 

be defined as follows:- 

“Proposed  to  be  listed”  shall  refer  to  such  unlisted  company  which  has  filed  offer 

documents or other documents, in connection with listing, with SEBI, stock exchange(s) 

or registrar of companies and the securities of such company are not yet listed; or such 

unlisted  company  which  has  filed  a  draft  scheme  of  arrangement  under  the 

Companies Act 2013, with the stock exchanges for obtaining observations or no-objection 

confirmations  under  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 

Regulations, 2015 and the securities of such company are not yet listed. 

The definition of “unpublished price sensitive information” (UPSI) under regulation 2(1)(n) 

of the Insider Trading Regulations is an inclusive definition and currently “material events 

in accordance with the listing agreement” are deemed to be UPSI. The Committee noted 

that  the  provision  related  to  “material  events”  as  stated  in  Regulation  68  of  LODR 

Regulations is as follows: 

“Disclosure of material events or information.  

The listed entity shall promptly inform to the stock exchange(s) of all events which are 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

41 | P a g e  

material,  all 

information  which 

is  price  sensitive  and/or  have  bearing  on 

performance/operation of the listed entity.” 

The Committee noted that the aforesaid regulation require disclosures of material events 

or information which may or may not be price sensitive. Accordingly, the Committee is of 

the view that all material events which are required to be disclosed as per the Regulation 

68 of the LODR Regulations may not  necessarily  be UPSI under the PIT Regulations. 

Since,  the  definition  of  UPSI  is  inclusive,  the  Committee  recommends  the  removal  of 

explicit inclusion of “material events in accordance with the listing agreement” in definition 

of UPSI. 

2.3.  Communication or procurement of unpublished price sensitive information  

Communication / procurement is in furtherance of legitimate purposes 

Regulation  3  of  the  PIT  Regulations  prohibits  the  communication  and  procurement  of 

unpublished price sensitive information, unless such communication / procurement is in 

furtherance  of  legitimate  purposes,  performance  of  duties  or  discharge  of  legal 

obligations21.  

The  Committee  noted  that  the  term  legitimate  purpose  is  not  defined  under  PIT 

Regulation and is open to various interpretations (strict or expansive)22. However, entities 

are expected to develop practices / policies for responsible treatment of unpublished price 

sensitive information.  

The Committee after deliberation noted that legitimacy of any action under which UPSI is 

communicated / procured remains largely subjective and can only be determined after 

                                                           
21 Insider Trading Regulations, regulations 3(1) and 3(2) 

22 “Considering the settled principles of interpretation, Regulation 3 must be interpreted bearing in mind the basic underlying 
assumption and the intent of the legislature in introducing such Regulations. The Regulations was never intended as an all 
purpose ban on trading. Legitimate transactions undertaking to achieve a corporate purpose or to discharge a fiduciary duty or 
in the interest of a body of public shareholders or stakeholders in a company or transactions in the public interest or transactions 
undertaken without an intent to make profit or to gain unlawfully or without a view to misuse information, or the like, would not 
be hit by the prohibition contained in the Regulations. The whole function of the Regulation is to regulate, not to stop 
transactions from taking place. Any other interpretation will lead to the stifling genuine transactions undertaken for legitimate 
corporate purpose or the like. It is submitted that the whole Regulation is an anti-fraud regulation.” Rakesh Agrawal v SEBI 
[2003] SCC OnLine SAT 38: [2003] SAT 6 [34] 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

42 | P a g e  

having examined circumstances under which the information was dealt. The Committee 

is of the opinion that it may be difficult to unequivocally define such term, whether by way 

of an inclusive definition or otherwise.  

Once UPSI is shared for legitimate purposes, the company loses control over further use 

of that information by those who come into its possession. If such information is misused 

for  insider  trading,  it  becomes difficult  to establish a  connection between  the  company 

and the recipient of information. It would thus be prudent to have a physical and/or digital 

trail of information flows of such legitimately shared information. It would also be prudent 

to intimate the persons receiving the UPSI of their obligation towards preventing mis-use 

of such information for insider trading, by way of an advance notice. 

In a recent case23 on insider trading decided by the SAT, the SAT observed the following  

“Before  parting,  we  would  like  to  bring  it  to  the  notice  of  SEBI  that  the  question  as  to 

whether investors participating in the market gauging exercise should be allowed to trade 

in all segments of the market prior to the issue opens needs to be looked into.” 

This order specifically refers to the exercise of market gauging and raises the issue of 

whether trading can be done on the basis of information shared under market gauging. 

The  Committee  felt  that  intimation  by  serving  noticee  to  or  by  entering  into  a 

confidentiality/  non-disclosure  agreement  with  persons  receiving  UPSI  would  also 

address any possible sharing of UPSI in market gauging.  

Recommendation:  

In view of the above, the Committee recommends that regulation 3(2) may be amended 

to mandate to the board of directors of the listed company or intermediaries to define their 

own policy / definition relating to “legitimate purposes” (albeit, within the contours provided 

under law). This will give freedom to the listed company / market participants (while at 

same time ensuring responsibility since the directors would be required to justify the policy 

/ definition) to decide what may or may not be “legitimate purposes” based on its business 

                                                           
23 Factorial Master Fund v. SEBI, Decided on June 29, 2018 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

43 | P a g e  

/ industry related needs. 

Further, in order to give some illustrations of legitimate purpose, an explanation may be 

included as under: 

Sharing  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  by  any  person  with  partners, 

collaborators,  lenders,  major  customers,  major  suppliers,  investment  bankers,  legal 

advisors, auditors, insolvency professionals or other advisors or consultants is considered 

to be for “legitimate purpose”, subject to such sharing not being carried out to evade or 

circumvent the prohibitions of these regulations; 

The  listed  company  /  market  participant  should  be  required  to  maintain  an  electronic 

record  containing  name  of  person  with  whom  UPSI  is  shared and  the  nature  of  UPSI. 

Further,  while  sharing  UPSI  for  “legitimate  purpose”,  the  listed  company  /  market 

participant should serve a notice on, or sign a confidentiality/ non-disclosure agreement 

with, the person with whom UPSI is shared, informing him/her that he has to ensure the 

compliance of the PIT Regulations while in possession of UPSI shared with him/her.  

Information sharing during due diligence:  

Regulation 3(3) of the Insider Trading Regulations allows communication / procurement 

of UPSI for purposes of facilitating due diligence exercises involved in transactions which 

(a) trigger an open offer and (b) do not trigger an open offer.  

The  Committee  noted  based  on  the  feedback  from  listed  companies  and  market 

participants that currently the board of directors of the target listed company is required 

to be of the informed opinion that any such proposed transaction is in the best interests 

of  such  target  listed  company,  before  allowing  the  UPSI  relating  to  such  target  listed 

company  to  be  communicated  /  procured.  From  a  practical  viewpoint,  due  diligence 

exercises are generally carried out at a very preliminary / nascent stage of the transaction 

with a view to determine the viability of the proposed transaction. The Committee noted 

that at such preliminary / nascent stage, it is not only difficult but also impractical for the 

board of directors to gauge, evaluate and form an opinion as to whether the proposed 

transaction is in the best interests of the target listed company.  

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

44 | P a g e  

Recommendation:  

After deliberation, the Committee agreed that in such cases it may not be possible for the 

board of directors of the target listed company to opine, at the time when due diligence 

exercises are being conducted, that any such proposed transaction is in the best interests 

of such target listed company. However, the  Committee felt that the board of directors 

may at least evaluate and opine on whether the sharing of the UPSI for due diligence is 

in the best interests of the company. Accordingly, the Committee recommends necessary 

amendment in the regulation 3(3)(i) and (ii).  

Such UPSI which is shared is also required to be made generally available at least two 

trading days prior to the proposed transaction being effected in such form as the board of 

directors  may  determine.24  The  Committee  recommends  that  the  information  which  is 

made  generally  available  prior  to  transaction  should  be  adequate  and  fair  to  cover  all 

relevant and material facts.  

 

2.4.  Defences under the Insider Trading Regulations 

 Regulation 4 of the PIT Regulations prohibits trading by insiders while in possession of 

UPSI. However, the regulation allows the insider to prove his innocence by demonstrating 

certain circumstances. These constitute limited defences which an insider charged with 

insider trading may rely on to prove his / her innocence.  

In this regard, the Committee deliberated on the adequacy of the defences and whether 

any  legitimate  transactions  are  getting  covered  in  the  ambit  of  insider  trading  such  as 

exercise of employee stock options25, trades by ‘individual insiders’ other than promoters 

who may transact while being in possession of the same UPSI.  

A need was expressed before the Committee to take into account some of the defences 

adopted  by  overseas  jurisdictions  and  counter-balance  the  wide  import  of  the  Insider 

                                                           
24 Regulation 3 (3) (ii) of the PIT Regulations. 
25 Discussed by SEBI in its PIT Guidance Note (query 1) 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

45 | P a g e  

Trading Regulations with clear, certain and reasonable defences to the charge of insider 

trading, in light of the severe penalties and reputational consequences of being held in 

violation of the Insider Trading Regulations.  

The Committee also considered whether the principle of strict accountability, currently set 

out as a legislative note to regulation 4(1) of the Insider Trading Regulations, may be read 

as subservient to the main regulations, thereby potentially diluting its regulatory sanctity. 

The  legislative  note  indicates  that  the  burden  of  proof  is  on  the  insider  to  prove  his 

innocence  pursuant  to  the  defence(s)  under  the  regulation  4(1)  of  the  Insider  Trading 

Regulations. However, since legislative notes may generally be read as subservient to 

the main regulations, the enunciation of the strict accountability principle as part of the 

said regulation may, enhance the regulatory sanctity of the principle.  

Recommendations:  

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  circumstances  mentioned  as  defences  under 

regulation  4(1)  of  the  Insider  Trading  Regulations  be  amended  /  supplemented  (while 

retaining its inclusive ambit) to include the following: 

a)  Defence available for off-market inter-se transfer between promoters, who were in 

possession of the same UPSI, may be extended to non- promoters also provided 

that  the  possession  of  UPSI  is  not  as  a  result  of  information  shared  under 

Regulation 3 (3) of the PIT Regulations.  

b)  New circumstance may be included for transaction carried out through the block 

deal window mechanism among persons possessing the same UPSI. 

c)  New circumstance may be included for the transaction carried out in a bona fide 

manner  pursuant  to  a  statutory  or  regulatory  obligation  to  carry  out  such 

transaction such as to achieve Minimum Public Shareholding Requirements as per 

the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. 

d)  New circumstance may be included for the transaction undertaken pursuant to the 

exercise of stock options in respect of which the exercise price was pre-determined 

in compliance with applicable regulations.   

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

46 | P a g e  

Further, the principle presently enunciated in the legislative note to regulation 4(1) of the 

Insider Trading Regulations may be expressly stipulated as a proviso to regulation 4(1), 

further clarifying that the burden of proof of innocence would be on the person charged 

as being an insider in violation of regulation 4 of the Insider Trading Regulations. 

 

2.5.  Trading Plans 

As per Regulation 5 of the PIT Regulations, an insider is entitled to formulate a trading 

plan, pursuant to which trades may be carried out on his behalf.26 The trading plan (i) is 

required to cover a period of at least 12 (twelve) months; (ii) is required to be disclosed 

to the stock exchanges prior to its implementation (ie, actual trading); (iii) can be executed 

only after 6 (six) months from its public disclosure; (iv) is irrevocable; and (v) cannot be 

deviated from once publicly disclosed.27  

Thus, on the face of it, the implementation of a trading plan may end up being detrimental 

to the insider. Such restrictions (coupled with the premature price movement issue), can 

lead to a scenario where the insider is forced to trade even if such insider is  put in an 

economically  disadvantageous  position  owing  to  vagaries  such  as  change  in  market 

conditions and regulatory regime, investors dealing in shares of the listed company ahead 

of  the  actual  implementation  of  the  plan  (discussed  above),  etc.  Given  these  issues, 

trading plans under the Insider Trading Regulations have remained unpopular.    

Further,  the  disclosure  to  the  stock  exchanges  and  consequentially  the  public,  can 

potentially  (and  in  all  likelihood)  impact  the  price  movement  of  the  listed  company’s 

shares,  as  investors  becoming  privy  to  the  publicly  disclosed  trading  plan  could  start 

dealing in such shares, ahead of the actual implementation of the trading plan. 

It is also pertinent to note that trading plans were proposed under the Sodhi Committee 

Report  on  an  experimental  basis.  The  discussion  under  the  Sodhi  Committee  Report 

explicitly stated that “…it would be in the fitness of things for India to test the concept of 

a “trading plan” that would enable compliant trading by insiders…”. The Sodhi Committee 

                                                           
26 Insider Trading Regulations, regulations 5(1) 

27 Insider Trading Regulations, regulations 5 (1), 5(2), 5(4) and 5(5) 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

47 | P a g e  

Report further stated that “…upon review of empirical evidence and feedback after the 

concept is introduced, it would always be open to SEBI to dilute or enhance the regulatory 

conditions  attached  to  trading  plans  under  the  Proposed  Regulations.”  The  Sodhi 

Committee Report also mentioned that some of its Committee members were of the view 

that trading plans should not be disclosed to the stock exchange(s) at all, while another 

view  was  that  trading  plans  may  be  disclosed  to  the  stock  exchange(s)  if  the  value  of 

trades envisaged in the trading plan is beyond a certain threshold. 

Recommendations:  

Promoters and perpetual insiders such as chief executive officers (CEOs), chief financial 

officers (CFOs) and active directors may not be able to modify / revoke their trading plans 

once submitted considering that they are always likely to be in possession of UPSI (in 

addition to not being able to implement trades envisaged under a trading plan while in 

possession of UPSI under the current Regulations). This may be against their interests. 

Trading plans may, thus, continue to remain unpopular as far as promoters and perpetual 

insiders are concerned. 

The Committee could not arrive at a consensus on this issue and thus agreed to continue 

with  the  current  provisions.    However,  the  Committee  recommends  the  following 

clarifications with regard to those who file a trading plan:  

a.  Pre-clearance of trade may not be required in case trading plan has been filed 

and approved.  

b.  Adherence to trading window norms and restrictions on contra trade may not 

be applicable for trading done in accordance with the approved trading plan.  

The amendments to the PIT Regulations suggested on the above lines are placed 

at Annexure II. 

 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

48 | P a g e  

CHAPTER 3 | THE CODE OF CONDUCT UNDER INSIDER TRADING REGULATIONS  
 

The “PIT Regulations” or the “Insider Trading Regulations” prescribe certain codes to be 

followed by listed companies, market intermediaries and other entities. The Code of Fair 

Disclosure specified in Regulation 8 of the PIT Regulations deals with the practices and 

procedures to be followed by listed companies for ensuring fair disclosure of unpublished 

price sensitive information. The Code of Conduct specified in Regulation 9 is applicable 

to  listed  companies,  SEBI-registered  market  intermediaries  and  other  entities  for 

regulating, monitoring and reporting trading by their employees and others. 

The  Committee  noted  that  SEBI-registered  intermediaries  are  also  required  to  follow 

Codes of Conduct under the respective regulations governing their activities. For instance 

mutual  funds  are  registered  under  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  (“MF 

Regulations”) and are required to follow the Code of Conduct laid down for mutual funds 

in the said regulations. Similarly, brokers are registered under the SEBI (Stock Brokers 

and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 1992 (“Broker Regulations”) and are required to follow 

the code of conduct laid down under these regulations.  This leads to multiplicity of Codes 

of Conduct to be followed by market intermediaries.  

The  Committee  explored  whether  it  was  possible  to  reduce  multiplicity  of  Codes  of 

Conduct  in  various  Regulations  and  consolidate  them  so  as  to  better  delineate  the 

responsibilities  for  compliance.  The  Committee  also  examined  the  necessity  of  further 

refinements in Code(s) of Conduct for improving transparency and better compliance.  

The Committee noted that the Codes of Conduct specified in the respective Regulations 

governing the activity of a market intermediary fulfilled a different purpose and laid down 

conduct requirements which were specific to the role of the market intermediary, such as 

the fiduciary responsibility of an intermediary towards clients, maintaining high standards 

of fairness and integrity in their business etc. On the other hand, the Code of Conduct 

prescribed in the PIT Regulations dealt specifically with regulating trading in securities by 

persons  who  could  have  access  to  unpublished  price  sensitive  information.  Thus,  the 

different  codes  of  conduct  had  different  roles  and  it  would  be  prudent  to  retain  them 

separately.  

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

49 | P a g e  

The Committee reviewed the Code of Conduct and the Code of Fair Disclosure under the 

PIT  Regulations  from  the  perspective  of  bringing  more  clarity  as  well  as  making 

suggestions  to  have  better  prevention  of  insider  trading.  The  Code  of  Conduct  which 

regulates trading in securities is a means to ensuring that persons who have access to 

UPSI  are  aware  of  their  responsibility  to  not  trade  in  securities  while  in  possession  of 

UPSI. Hence, the codes provide for trading windows when such persons can trade, and 

require  reporting  of  trades  carried  out.  The  Committee  also  considered  enhancing 

reporting requirements to help ease the challenges faced in investigating cases of insider 

trading. 

3.1.  Separate Code of Conduct for Listed Companies, Market Intermediaries and 

other entities  

The PIT  Regulations  currently  specify  a  common  Code  of  Conduct  applicable  to  listed 

companies, intermediaries and other persons who are required to handle UPSI during the 

course  of  their  business  operations,  such  as  auditors,  accountancy  firms,  law  firms, 

analysts  and  consultants.  From  a  practical  viewpoint,  all  provisions  of  the  Code  of 

Conduct  may  not  be  applicable  equally  to  listed  companies,  intermediaries  and  other 

entities like auditors, law firms etc.  

For  instance,  the  requirement  of  trading  window  in  which  employees  can  trade  in  the 

company  stock  is  applicable  only  to  listed  companies.  This  is  not  applicable  for 

intermediaries which may have access to UPSI related to multiple companies with which 

they  have  business  dealings.  Thus,  intermediaries  are  required  to  use  grey  lists  or 

restricted lists of securities in which trading is restricted.  

For  the  purpose  of  convenience,  a  common  term,  “fiduciaries”  may  be  used  in  the 

regulations  for  referring  to  other  persons  who  are  required  to  handle  UPSI  during  the 

course  of  their  business  operations,  such  as  auditors,  accountancy  firms,  law  firms, 

analysts and consultants. 

Recommendation 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

50 | P a g e  

In order to bring clarity on the requirements applicable to listed companies and others, 

the Committee recommends that the PIT Regulations may be amended to prescribe two 

separate Codes of Conduct prescribing minimum standards for (1) Listed companies and 

(2) Other Persons who are required to handle UPSI during the course of their business 

operations  such  as  Market  Intermediaries  and  fiduciaries  which  include  auditors, 

accountancy firms, law firms, consultants etc.  

The suggested draft codes of conduct are placed at Annexure III.  

 

3.2.  Applicability of code of conduct  

As stated above, Regulation 9 of the PIT Regulations deals with the code of conduct for 

regulating  and  monitoring  trades  by  employees  and  other  connected  persons.  The 

regulations implies that the code of conduct is to be followed by all employees. However, 

the  Code  of  Conduct  itself  which  is  contained  in  Schedule  B  (Clause  3)  of  the  PIT 

Regulations states that only employees and connected persons designated on the basis 

of their functional role in the organisation shall be governed by the Code of Conduct. This 

can  result  in  confusion  as  to  the  coverage  of  the  Code  of  Conduct.  Further,  a  listed 

company  or  market  intermediary  cannot  enforce  the  code  on  persons  other  than 

employees  and  their  relatives.  Including  all  connected  persons  under  coverage  of  the 

code may be impractical, considering the wide definition of connected persons. 

Recommendation 

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  code  of  conduct  may  be  made  applicable  to 

“designated person(s)” and immediate relatives of the “designated person(s)” only. The 

term “designated person(s)” should be defined by means of an explanation to regulation 

9(2).  

“Designated  person(s)”  for  listed  company  should  at  least  include Promoter,  CEO  and 

upto  two  levels  below  CEO  of  such  listed  company  and  its  material  subsidiaries 

irrespective  of  their  functional  role  in  the  company  or  ability  to  have  access  to  UPSI. 

“Designated person” should also include any other employees, of such listed company 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

51 | P a g e  

and its material subsidiaries and associate company (s) who are designated on the basis 

of their functional role as having access to UPSI or otherwise have access to UPSI. 

 “Designated person(s)” for intermediaries and other entities such as auditors, advisors, 

law  firms  etc.  should  at  least  include  Promoter  (only  individual  and  Investment 

companies),  CEO  and  upto  two  levels  below  CEO  of  such  intermediary  or  entities.  

“Designated person” should also include any other employees, of such intermediaries and 

other person who are designated on the basis of their functional role as having access to 

UPSI or otherwise have access to UPSI.  

The  board  of  directors  or  such  other  analogous  authority  in  consultation  with  the 

compliance officer should specify the designated persons to be covered by the code of 

conduct on the basis of their role and function in the organisation and the access that 

such  role  and  function  would  provide  to  unpublished  price  sensitive  information 

irrespective of seniority and professional designation. 

Temporary employees and support staff, such as IT staff or secretarial staff, should also 

be covered as “Designated person(s)”, on the basis of their ability to access the UPSI.  

3.3.  Disclosures of trades  

The  Committee  noted  based  on  the  feedback  from  listed  companies  and  market 

participants  that  Regulation  7(2)  of  the  Insider  Trading  Regulations  requires  every 

promoter, employee and director to make disclosures to the listed company (and onward 

by  the  listed  company  to  the  stock  exchange(s))  if  thresholds  therein  are  met.    Such 

requirement results in every employee of the listed company (including those who cannot 

be  expected  to  be  in  possession  of  UPSI  based  on  their  role  /  function)  to  make 

disclosures  under  this  regulation.  This  puts  undue  burden  on  the  listed  company,  its 

employee  and  compliance  officers,  particularly  where  the  company  has  hundreds  or 

thousands of employees. 

Recommendation 

The Committee recommends that the regulation 7 may be suitably amended to restrict 

applicability of these regulation to promoters, directors and designated persons only. (As 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

52 | P a g e  

per the new definition promoter, CEO and two levels below CEO will be covered under 

designated person) 

3.4. 

Institutional Responsibility for Insider Trading 

While  the  PIT  Regulations  provide  for  a  preventive  mechanism  through  the  code  of 

conduct and fair disclosure, sometimes, in the absence of proper implementation of the 

Codes, insider trading can take place.  

To  have  better  implementation  of  preventive  measures  prescribed  under  the  PIT 

Regulations, there is need to have a mechanism for institutional responsibility to prevent 

insider  trading.  The  regulations  should  clearly  specify  the  persons  who  would  be  held 

responsible  in  the  event  of  failure  to  properly  implement  the  preventive  measures  i.e. 

failure  to  formulate  an  effective  code  of  conduct  and  put  in  place  an  adequate  and 

effective  system  of  internal  control  to  ensure  proper  implementation  of  various 

requirements given in the PIT Regulations to prevent insider trading.  

Recommendations 

The Committee recommends that a new regulation may be added to PIT Regulations to 

include the following requirements: 

The Chief Executive Officer / Managing Director of a listed company /market intermediary 

shall formulate a code of conduct and put in place an effective system of internal controls 

to ensure compliance with the requirements given in the SEBI (PIT) Regulation to prevent 

insider trading. These requirements shall include ensuring the following:  

1.  All  the  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  is  identified  and  its  confidentiality 

maintained as per the requirements of the PIT Regulations 

2.  All employees who have access to UPSI are identified as designated employee. 

3.  Adequate  restrictions are  placed  on  communication or  procurement  of  unpublished 

price sensitive information as required by the PIT Regulations  

4.  Lists  of  all employees and  other  person  with  whom  UPSI  is  shared  are maintained 

and  confidentiality  agreements  is  signed  or  Notice  is  served  to  all  such  employees 

and persons 

5.  Compliance with all other relevant requirements specified under the PIT Regulations. 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

53 | P a g e  

6.  Periodic process review to evaluate effectiveness of such internal controls. 

The board of directors of every listed company and the board of directors or head(s) of 

the  organisation  of  market  intermediary  and  fiduciaries.  should  ensure  the  Chief 

Executive Officer / Managing Director comply with aforesaid requirement to formulate the 

code of conduct and put in place  an effective system of internal control. 

Every listed company, market intermediary and fiduciaries should identify and designate 

a compliance officer to administer the code of conduct and implement system of internal 

checks and control under the PIT Regulations. 

The  Audit  Committee  of  a  listed  company  or  other  analogous  body  for  market 

intermediary  or  other  entity  should  review  compliance  with  provisions  of  the  PIT 

Regulations. Further, they should check that the systems for internal control are adequate 

and are operating effectively, at least once in a year. 

The  Committee recommends that intermediaries should also have a similar preventive 

mechanism  to  prevent  frauds  or  market  abuse  such  as  front  running,  miss-selling, 

unauthorised  trading  etc.  The  respective  codes  of  conduct  of  intermediaries  cast  a 

responsibility  on  the  intermediary  to  ensure  integrity  and  fair  conduct  and  avoid 

malpractices and manipulative practices in their area of operation. Intermediaries need to 

put  in  place  an  adequate  and  effective  system  of  internal  controls  to  ensure  that  the 

conduct  requirements  in  their  respective  codes  of  conduct  are  properly  implemented, 

particularly  in  the  context  of  manipulation  and  fraudulent  trading.  The  Chief  Executive 

Officer / Managing Director of market intermediary should be responsible for putting in 

place adequate and effective system of internal control and the compliance officer should 

administer the  internal  controls to prevent manipulation and fraudulent trade practices. 

SEBI may consider issuing appropriate circular with regard to institutional responsibility 

as outlined in this para. 

3.5. 

Inquiries by Listed Companies in case of suspected leak of UPSI 

The  Committee  noted  recent  cases  of  leak  of  UPSI  related  to  listed  companies  on 

Whatsapp messages. Such information originates from within the company and affects 

the listed company in terms of its market price as well as loss of reputation and investors’ 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

54 | P a g e  

/ financers’ confidence in the company. Leakage of UPSI from a company is a matter of 

serious  concern  not  only  for  the  regulator  but  for  the  company  as  well,  and  listed 

companies should take responsibility to find out sources responsible for the leakage and 

plug loopholes in the internal control systems to prohibit reoccurrence of such leakage of 

UPSI. 

 

Recommendations 

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  PIT  Regulations  should  place  the  following 

mandate on listed companies:  

Listed Companies should initiate inquiry in case of leak of UPSI or suspected leak of UPSI 

and  inform  SEBI  promptly.  The  listed  company  should  have  written  policies  and 

procedures for this inquiry approved by Board of Directors of the company.  

Market  Intermediaries and other  person/ entities  who  have  access to  UPSI  should  co-

operate with the listed company for inquiry conducted by listed company for leak of such 

UPSI. 

The  listed  company  should  also  have  whistle-blower  policies  that  make  it  easy  for 

employees to report instances of leak of UPSI. Listed companies should make employees 

aware of policies and procedures for whistle blowing. 

 

3.6.  Provision for aiding investigations on insider trading 

As  mentioned earlier, investigation  of  insider  trading  is a  challenging  task and  it  is not 

easily possible to establish the link between the insiders who had access to UPSI and the 

persons who traded making use of such UPSI. The links may be tenuous as the persons 

who  benefit  from  inside  information  may  be  school/college  friends,  relatives,  ex-

colleagues, professional contacts, or social contacts. At times, insider trading may also 

be done in the name of a front entity who may have no obvious link to the insider.  Hence, 

mechanisms need to be built to enable establishment of such connections in case there 

is suspicion of insider trading. These mechanisms will not only help in investigating insider 

trading but may also prove to be a deterrent to insider trading. 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

55 | P a g e  

These mechanisms are primarily based on building a database of information within the 

listed company/ intermediary of persons who are connected to the “designated persons” 

as defined in the PIT Regulations so that, if required, a chain of connections can be traced 

quickly. 

Recommendations 

The  Committee  recommends  that  a  new  regulation  may  be  added  in  the  SEBI  (PIT) 

Regulations to include the following requirements: 

1.  Designated  persons  should disclose  to  the  listed  company/  market  intermediaries  / 

other entities as applicable, the following information on an annual basis:  

 Names  of  immediate  relatives  including  spouse  of  designated  person,  parents, 

siblings,  or  children  of  such  designated  person  or  of  the  spouse,  irrespective  of 

whether they are dependent financially on such designated person or not. 

 Names of persons with whom such designated person(s) share a material financial 

relationship  

 Names of persons residing  at the same address at which designated persons reside 

for more than one year 

 Phone / mobile /cell numbers which are accessible by them or whose billing address 

is residence address of the designated person.  

 

2.  For this purpose, the term “material financial relationship” shall mean a relationship in 

which one person is a recipient of any kind of payment such as by way of a loan, or 

gift, during the immediately preceding twelve months, equivalent to at least 25%  or 

such percentage as notified by SEBI from time to time of such payer’s annual income. 

However  “material  financial  relationship”  shall  exclude  relationships  in  which  the 

payment  is  based  on  arm’s  length  transactions.  This  kind  of  relationship  is  being 

included  to  cover  those  cases  where  the  insider  may  have  funded  otherwise 

unconnected  persons  to  trade  on  his  behalf  in  order  to  evade  detection.  The 

designated person should disclose the following information on a one time basis 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

56 | P a g e  

  Names of educational institutions where designated persons have graduated 

from  

  Names of their past employers. 

The Committee recommends that the aforesaid disclosures made by designated person 

should  be  maintained  by  the  respective  listed  company  or  entities,  while  ensuring  full 

confidentiality  of  such  information.  SEBI  should  seek  information  from  the  respective 

listed  company  or  entity  in  a  searchable  electronic  format  on  need  to  know  basis  for 

investigating. Further, it is clarified that persons who are named as above by designated 

persons  shall  not  be  deemed  to  be  connected  persons  for  insider  trading  regulations 

unless otherwise covered under the relevant regulations.  

3.7.  Confidentiality agreements / Notice while communicating UPSI  

Persons with whom UPSI is shared as permissible under the PIT Regulations should be 

made  aware  of  the  duties  and  responsibilities  attached  to  the  receipt  of  UPSI  and  the 

liability  that  attaches  to  misuse  or  unwarranted  use  of  such  information.  This  can  be 

achieved  by  signing  confidentiality  agreements  or  non-disclosure  agreements  or  by 

serving of the notice.  

Recommendations  

The  Committee  recommends  that  a  new  regulation  may  be  added  in  the  SEBI  (PIT) 

Regulation to include the following requirements: 

Listed  companies/  market  intermediary  may  sign  specific  personal  confidentiality 

agreements with those with whom UPSI is shared making clear the responsibility of such 

persons  vis-a-vis  the  PIT  Regulation.  These  confidentiality  agreements  should  restrict 

individuals  from  discussing  confidential  information  with  other  people  who  are  not 

authorised.  The  agreements  should  also  deal  with  document  management,  meeting 

protocols, securities trading restrictions and other confidentiality issues etc. 

If it is not practical to sign confidentiality agreements, then a notice may be given to the 

person receiving UPSI containing necessary safeguards to be adopted by such person.     

The amendments to the PIT Regulations suggested on the above lines are placed 

at Annexure II and III. 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

57 | P a g e  

CHAPTER 4 | SURVEILLANCE, INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT 

One of the terms of reference of the Committee was to suggest short-term and medium- 

term measures for improved surveillance of the markets as well as issues relating to high 

frequency trades, harnessing of technology and analytics in surveillance. The Committee 

noted that having appropriate laws/ regulations is one aspect of ensuring market integrity, 

fair market conduct and protection of interest of investors. However, to ensure that the 

laws and regulations are followed is equally important. For this purpose, mechanisms are 

necessary for detection of violations through effective surveillance and investigation and 

punishment thereof by strong enforcement action.  

The  Committee  reviewed  the  current  processes  followed  by  SEBI  for  surveillance, 

investigation and enforcement, and the hurdles faced by SEBI for effective enforcement 

of securities laws from the perspective of whether any improvements could be suggested 

such  as  more  efficient  use  of  technology,  need  for  additional  powers  to  augment 

investigation capacity and measures to enhance surveillance and enforcement.  

4.1.  High Frequency Trading (“HFT”) / Algorithmic trading (“algo trading”) 

HFT or algo trading is perceived as a new risk in securities markets because of various 

reasons, such as the use of opaque algorithms for trading, high speed of trading due to 

use  of  powerful  technology  and  the  growing  percentage  of  such  orders  and  trades 

generated by HFT/ algo trading systems as a percentage of total trading volumes.   

In  order  to  examine  the  scope  for  improvement  and  risk-containment,  the  Committee 

(through  one  of  the  sub-committees  –  Investigation  and  Enforcement  sub-committee) 

sought presentations by NSE and BSE on the systems used by them for surveillance of 

HFT/ algo trading. 

The following concerns with respect to HFT/algo trading were noted by the Committee -  

a)  High orders to trade ratio – the number of orders placed as a proportion to trades 

taking place is very high due to the high speed with which orders can be placed 

and cancelled; 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

58 | P a g e  

b)  High cancellation of orders – Orders are placed fleetingly, either to gauge order 

book (to get an idea of the market for the scrip at that point of time) or create an 

impression of order flow, and then are quickly cancelled; 

c)  Possible  unusual  price  behaviors  –  Algo  trading  could  possibly  cause  unusual 

price movements due to nature of high speed order flow; 

d)  Possible choking of the exchange system resulting in Trading Halt – The capacity 

to throw large numbers of orders at the trading system could potentially choke the 

trading system;  

e)  Effect on level playing field for retail investor – retail investors are unable to invest 

in such technology and hence lose out on price-time priority when placing orders. 

Recommendations 

After deliberation, the Committee recommends that for improving surveillance of HFT / 

Algo trading, the following measures may be taken:- 

a)  Allotment  of  a  Unique  Identification  Number  to  each  approved  algorithm,  which 

shall  reflect  in  the  orders  generated  by  the  said  algorithm.  This  would  help  in 

identifying algorithms which generate potentially manipulative trades. 

b)  Collection  of  information  about  the  algorithm  by  the  exchanges  in  a  structured 

format as suggested jointly by BSE and NSE before providing a limited approval 

of the algorithm. The system of approval for algo trades requires brokers to submit 

some information about the algorithms to exchanges. As the exchanges provide a 

limited approval of the algorithm, they should provide a necessary disclaimer about 

the extent of approval.  

c)  Self-certification is a mechanism to place responsibility on the brokers about the 

technology deployed by them for HFT/ Algo trading. Brokers may be advised to 

ensure self-certification regarding compliance of algorithms with specified norms/ 

risk checks, in order to encourage them to take responsibility for ethical use of the 

technology deployed by them; and  

d)  Implementation of certain “Model Risk Checks for Algo Trading” as suggested  by 

the sub-committee on Technology are suggested at Annexure ‘V’. 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

59 | P a g e  

The Committee noted that many of the aforesaid measures were implemented during the 

course  of  proceedings  of  the  Committee  report.  The  Committee  endorses  these 

measures. 

4.2.  Measures to curb manipulation 

The Committee noted that lack of liquidity in certain stocks made it easier to manipulate 

the price and volume of stocks with lesser efforts and funds by unscrupulous elements. 

The Committee also noted that liquidity was concentrated around the top 500 odd listed 

stocks,  while  the  total  listed  stocks  which  were  traded  numbered  around  2000.    The 

Committee also noted that many of these stocks had very low market capitalization.  

The Committee noted that SEBI and Stock Exchanges were getting overburdened due to 

actions emerging out of manipulation in the small cap companies. The Committee noted 

that the large number of cases coming under investigation in the  small cap companies 

were leading to blockage of administrative time and resources of the regulatory machinery 

while also posing a threat to market activities. 

The Committee noted that with increase in  monitoring and surveillance, the number of 

cases being taken up for investigation by SEBI  is expected to be on a rise. In order to 

ensure  that  critical  cases  / emerging  trends  needing  immediate  attention  are  identified 

and  resolved  as  quickly  as  possible  to  reduce  market  impact  and  set  an  example  for 

market participants, the Committee is of the view that it would be prudent to adopt a risk-

based approach for the purpose of investigation and surveillance.   

Recommendation 

A two-tiered approach of investigation and enforcement is recommended to be followed 

wherein sensitive cases/new types of manipulation/cases involving large-cap companies 

are proposed to be handled by designated SEBI officials to fast-track them, while regular 

cases are handled by other officials in the normal course.  

In order to deter attempts at manipulation in stocks which are illiquid and have low market 

capitalization, the Committee suggests that SEBI may consider the following:- 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

60 | P a g e  

a)  Increasing cost of trading in stocks of such companies 

b)  Taking graded surveillance measures for such stocks 

c)  100 % dematerialization of shares of these companies 

4.3.  Power to Intercept Conversation  

The Committee noted that though call records constitute important evidence which aids 

investigation, SEBI does not have the right to intercept telephonic conversations. While 

the  Committee  acknowledged  that  currently  there  are  several  methods  of  electronic 

communication apart from telephone calls which are fairly widely used, and that telephone 

call interception may only provide information on a subset of potential evidence of wrong 

doing,  it  still felt that  call  interception  would be an  improvement  over  the  present  case 

where  no  interception  is  possible.  The  Committee  suggested  that  interception  of 

electronic communication should also be covered in the powers being sought. It was also 

discussed that this would help to track repetitive offenders and it may not help in the case 

of  one  off  cases  of  unauthorized  information  sharing,  as  a  ground  would  need  to  be 

prepared to initiate telephone interception based on a pattern of potential offenses. Thus, 

the  Committee  recommends  that  SEBI  should  seek  power  to  intercept  telephone  calls 

and electronic communication, to collect strong evidence against repetitive offenders in 

cases including those of insider trading, front running or market manipulation.  

In  respect  of  using  this  power  directly  or  through  other  enforcement  agencies,  the 

Committee deliberated the following pros and cons: 

Power  to  Intercept 

Pros and Cons 

Conversation 

Through 

other 

The other agency may not give preference and priority to SEBI 

enforcement agency  

requests  for  call  recording  which  may  delay  the  evidence 

collection.  

Direct Power 

The direct power will come with huge responsibility to ensure 

that the same is not misused.   

 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

61 | P a g e  

Recommendation 

The  Committee  recommends  that  SEBI  may  seek  direct  power  to  intercept  calls  but 

ensure proper checks and balances for use of the power by necessary amendment in the 

relevant laws. The power sought to intercept conversation details may be equivalent to 

power given to other regulatory agencies, such as the Central Board of Direct Taxes, to 

deal with economic offences.   

4.4. 

Inter-regulatory Cooperation  

During  the  course  of  discharge  of  their  functions,  different  statutory  bodies  and 

enforcement  agencies  of  the  Government  which  deal  with  economic  offences  and 

financial crimes, such as the Reserve Bank of India, the Enforcement Directorate (under 

the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002) the Central Board of Direct Taxes (under 

the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 ) or the Economic Offences Wing of the State 

Police, may acquire evidence on issues which SEBI may find useful in supporting its own 

investigation. Joint investigations and co-operation with such authorities could ensure that 

investigation  is  effective,  discreet  where  required,  and  supported  by  strong  evidence. 

Hence the Committee felt that it would be prudent to have a mechanism for information 

sharing with such agencies. 

Recommendation 

The Committee recommends that SEBI sign a Memorandum of Understanding amongst 

the various regulatory bodies and enforcement agencies like Income Tax, EOW, RBI, ED, 

MCA etc. for information-sharing and joint investigation in certain cases, to enable speedy 

and effective investigation of economic offences.   

4.5.  Whistleblower Mechanism 

The Committee deliberated that Whistleblower Mechanism is an important tool to obtain 

information  on  market  abuse  such  as  market  manipulation  and  insider  trading.  In  the 

absence of a whistle blowing or similar mechanism, there is little incentive to voluntarily 

disclose such unlawful dealings as people will be charged for violations on par with other 

violators  who  conceal information.  It  was  discussed  that  it might  be  useful for  SEBI  to 

have a mechanism to deal with and encourage Whistleblowing.  

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

62 | P a g e  

To  encourage  whistleblowing  by  a  person  who  has  knowingly  or  unknowingly  become 

part of such market abuse, SEBI should have power to grant immunity or impose less 

penalty on a person who brings market manipulation, insider trading or other violations to 

the notice of SEBI.  

Section 24 B of SEBI Act, 1992 deals with “Power to grant immunity”. As per the current 

provision,  the  Central  Government  may,  on  recommendation  by  the  Board,  grant 

immunity to any person from prosecution for any offence under this Act, or the rules or 

the regulations made thereunder or also from the imposition of any penalty under this Act 

with respect to the alleged violation.  

The provision states as under -  

24 B (1) The Central Government may, on recommendation by the Board, if the Central 

Government  is  satisfied,  that  any  person,  who  is  alleged  to  have  violated  any  of  the 

provisions of this Act or the rules or the regulations made thereunder, has made a full and 

true disclosure in respect of the alleged violation, grant to such person, subject to such 

conditions as it may think fit to impose, immunity from prosecution for any offence under 

this Act, or the rules or the regulations made thereunder or also from the imposition of 

any penalty under this Act with respect to the alleged violation: 

Provided  that  no  such  immunity  shall  be  granted  by  the  Central  Government  in  cases 

where  the  proceedings  for  the  prosecution  for  any  such  offence  have  been  instituted 

before the date of receipt of application for grant of such immunity:  

Provided further that recommendation of the Board under this sub-section shall not be 

binding upon the Central Government.  

(2) An immunity granted to a person under sub-section (1) may, at any time, be withdrawn 

by  the  Central  Government,  if  it  is  satisfied  that  such  person  had,  in  the  course  of  the 

proceedings, not complied with the condition on which the immunity was granted or had 

given false evidence, and thereupon such person may be tried for the offence with respect 

to which the immunity was granted or for any other offence of which he appears to have 

been  guilty  in  connection  with  the  contravention  and  shall  also  become  liable  to  the 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

63 | P a g e  

imposition of any penalty under this Act to which such person would have been liable, 

had not such immunity been granted.” 

Recommendation 

The Committee noted that the Central Government has not yet used the power to grant 

immunity in terms of section 24 of the SEBI Act. It also noted that SEBI has also not yet 

made  any  recommendation  to  the  Central  Government  for  granting  immunity  to  any 

person.  

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  Central  Government  may  consider  delegating 

power to grant immunity to SEBI by making necessary amendments to section 24 B (1) 

of SEBI Act, 1992.  

It is suggested  that the section may be amended to give power to SEBI to grant complete 

immunity or impose lesser penalty along the lines of a similar provision in Section 46 of 

the Competition Act, 2002. Further as a matter of policy, SEBI may consider providing 

adequate protection to whistleblowers during the course of enforcement actions. 

The amendments to the SEBI Act, 1992 suggested on the above lines are placed at 

Annexure IV. 

 

4.6.  Discouraging Layering of Funds 

SEBI has often encountered cases where individuals without the means or wherewithal 

to commit economic offences have been used as a front for commission of violations of 

law by the actual offenders. The use of front entities or ”mule accounts” enables layering 

of  funds  /  securities  between  the  source  and  the  front  entity  who  invests/trades  in  the 

securities market. The Committee deliberated on ways to discourage “mule accounts” for 

the  purpose  of  manipulation  whereby  the  real  perpetrators  of  scheme  of  manipulation 

remain untraced. In this context, it was suggested that a mechanism may be put in place 

to prevent use of such mule account, by requiring persons who trade to demonstrate their 

financial  capacity  to  trade. Where  manipulation  is  done  using  such  front  entities/  mule 

accounts,  the  persons  who  are  responsible  for  creating  such  accounts  and  directly  or 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

64 | P a g e  

indirectly providing them funds, also need to be held accountable for such manipulation. 

Recommendations 

The Committee recommends that SEBI may consider the following - 

a)  Rules may be framed to decide on an “affordability index” (like the CIBIL score) based 

on income / net worth of investor which will establish affordability of transactions.  

b)  Broker may be made responsible to calculate affordability index based on supporting 

documents of income and /or net worth given by client. Mechanics of construction of 

such index may be notified by SEBI after due consultation with market participants. 

c)  Based on this, a certain volume of trading would be considered normal. If exceeding 

the  specified  volume  upto  the  next  prescribed  level,  broker  may  be  required  to 

enhance diligence. If the trading volume is even higher than that prescribed level, the 

account would be suspected to be a mule account.  

d)  This would be rebuttable by submitting appropriate documents. 

e)  Appropriate amendments are recommended in the PFUTP regulations in the Chapter 

1 of this report.  

 

4.7.  Structured library of orders passed by SEBI, SAT and Courts. 

Competent knowledge management is helpful to an organization like SEBI in enabling 

quick  verification  of  the  legality  of  proposed  actions,  propriety  of  procedures  of 

investigation and adequacy of evidence collected, amongst other things. The Committee 

felt that a structured library of orders passed by SEBI, the Securities Appellate Tribunal 

and courts, may be made available for use within SEBI. This facility, alongwith data mining 

and analytical tools, will be useful in evidence collection at investigation stage, and may 

be used for reference while passing orders as well as for policy review. The library would 

be an exhaustive database, easily searchable and cross-referenced to related litigation. 

NSE  informed  the  Committee  that  it  has  built  an  e-book  on  orders  passed  by  the 

Securities  Appellate  Tribunal.  It  was  noted  that  SEBI  orders  are  publicly  available 

documents  and  there  are  several  products  available  in  the  market  which  provide  data 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

65 | P a g e  

mining facility on SEBI orders.  

Recommendation 

SEBI may consider hiring a vendor or may create its own customized package for creating 

the structured library 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

66 | P a g e  

Amendments to SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating 

ANNEXURE I   

to Securities Market) Regulations 2003 

 

REG. 

EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

2 

(1) 

Definitions 

In these regulations, unless the 

context otherwise requires: 

 

 

(b) 

“dealing  in  securities”  includes 

“dealing  in  securities”  includes  an  act  of 

an  act  of  buying,  selling  or 

buying,  selling  or  subscribing  pursuant  to 

subscribing  pursuant 

to  any 

any  issue  of  any  security  or  agreeing  to 

issue of any security or agreeing 

buy,  sell  or  subscribe  to  any  issue  of  any 

to  buy,  sell  or  subscribe  to  any 

security or otherwise transacting in any way 

issue  of  any  security  or 

in  any  security  by  any  persons  including 

otherwise 

transacting 

in  any 

as principal, agent, or intermediary referred 

way  in  any  security  by  any 

to in section 12 of the Act and shall also 

persons  as  principal,  agent,  or 

include such acts (or omissions) which 

intermediary 

referred 

to 

in 

may be knowingly designed to influence 

section 12 of the Act 

the  decision  of  investors  in  securities; 

and  any  act  of  providing  assistance  to 

carry out the aforementioned acts.  

4. 

Prohibition  of  manipulative, 

 

fraudulent  and  unfair  trade 

practices 

(1) 

Without 

prejudice 

to 

the 

Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of 

provisions  of  regulation  3,  no 

regulation  3,  no  person  shall  indulge  in  a 

person  shall 

indulge 

in  a 

manipulative,  a  fraudulent  or  an  unfair 

fraudulent  or  an  unfair  trade 

trade practice in securities markets. 

practice in securities. 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

67 | P a g e  

(2) 

Dealing  in  securities  shall  be 

Dealing in securities shall be deemed to be 

deemed to be a fraudulent or an 

a  manipulative,  fraudulent  or  an  unfair 

unfair trade practice if it involves 

trade practice if it involves fraud.  and may 

fraud and may include all or any 

include  all  or  any  of  the  following, 

of the following, namely:— 

namely: 

(a) 

indulging 

in  an  act  which 

Knowingly  indulging  in  an  act  which 

creates 

false  or  misleading 

creates false or misleading appearance of 

appearance  of  trading  in  the 

trading in the securities market 

securities market; 

(b) 

dealing 

in  a  security  not 

- 

intended  to  effect  transfer  of 

beneficial 

ownership 

but 

intended  to  operate  only  as  a 

device  to  inflate,  depress  or 

cause fluctuations in the price of 

such  security  for  wrongful  gain 

or avoidance of loss; 

(c) 

advancing  or  agreeing 

to 

advancing  or  agreeing  to  advance  any 

advance  any  money  to  any 

money to any person thereby fraudulently  

person  thereby  inducing  any 

inducing  any  person  to  offer  to  buy  any 

other person to offer to buy any 

security  in  any  issue  by  advancing  or 

security  in  any  issue  only  with 

agreeing to advance any money to any 

the  intention  of  securing  the 

person or through any other mechanism 

minimum  subscription  to  such 

only  with  the  intention  of  securing  the 

issue; 

minimum subscription to such issue; 

(d) 

paying,  offering  or  agreeing  to 

paying, offering or agreeing to pay or offer, 

pay  or  offer,  directly  or 

directly  or  indirectly,  to  any  person  any 

indirectly,  to  any  person  any 

money or money’s worth for  inducing such 

money  or  money’s  worth  for 

any person for dealing in any security with 

inducing 

such  person 

for 

the  object 

  objective  of  artificially 

dealing  in  any  security  with  the 

inflating,  depressing,  maintaining  or 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

68 | P a g e  

object  of  inflating,  depressing, 

causing  fluctuation  in  the  price  of  such 

maintaining 

or 

causing 

security 

through 

any  mechanism 

fluctuation  in  the  price  of  such 

including by paying, offering or agreeing 

security; 

to pay or offer, directly or indirectly, to 

any  person  any  money  or  money’s 

worth ; 

(e) 

any  act  or  omission  amounting 

any  act  or  omission  amounting 

to 

to manipulation of the price of a 

manipulation of the price of a security; 

security; 

Explanation  –  dealing  in  securities  to 

influence  or  manipulate  the  reference 

price  or  bench  mark  price,  with  the 

object of misleading investors acting on 

the  basis  of  such  prices  shall  also  be 

considered  an  act  amounting 

to 

manipulation of the price of a security. 

(f) 

publishing or causing to publish 

Knowingly publishing or causing to publish 

or reporting or causing to report 

or  reporting  or  causing  to  report  by  a 

by a person dealing in securities 

person dealing in securities any information 

any information which is not true 

relating to securities (including financial 

or which he does not believe to 

results,  financial  statements,  mergers 

be true prior to or in the course 

and  acquisitions,  regulatory  approvals, 

of dealing in securities; 

etc.    )  which  is  not  true  or  which  he does 

not  believe  to  be  true  prior  to  or  in  the 

course of dealing in securities; 

(g) 

entering  into  a  transaction  in 

- 

securities  without  intention  of 

performing it or without intention 

of change of ownership of such 

security; 

(h) 

selling,  dealing  or  pledging  of 

selling,  dealing  or  pledging  of  stolen, 

stolen  or  counterfeit  security 

orcounterfeit  or 

fraudulently 

issued 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

69 | P a g e  

whether 

in 

physical 

or 

securities 

  whether 

in  physical  or 

dematerialized form; 

dematerialized  form;  provided  that  if  (a) 

the  person  selling,  dealing 

in  or 

pledging 

stolen, 

counterfeit 

or 

fraudulently  issued  securities  was  a 

holder  in  due course;  or  (b)  the stolen,  

counterfeit  or 

fraudulently 

issued 

securities were previously traded on the 

market  through  a  bonafide  transaction, 

such  selling,  dealing  or  pledging  of 

stolen, 

  counterfeit  or 

fraudulently 

issued  securities 

  shall  not  be 

considered 

as 

a  manipulative, 

fraudulent, or unfair trade practice;   

(i) 

an 

intermediary  promising  a 

Omitted 

certain price in respect of buying 

or selling of a security to a client 

and  waiting  till  a  discrepancy 

arises  in  the  price  of  such 

security  and 

retaining 

the 

difference in prices as profit for 

himself; 

(j) 

an  intermediary  providing  his 

Omitted 

clients  with  such  information 

relating  to  a  security  as  cannot 

be verified by the clients before 

their dealing in such security; 

(k) 

an 

advertisement 

that 

is 

an 

advertisement 

disseminating 

misleading  or 

that  contains 

information  or  advice  (through  any 

information 

in  a  distorted 

media,  whether  physical  or  digital, 

manner 

and  which  may 

including 

through 

the  use  of 

the 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

70 | P a g e  

influence  the  decision  of  the 

internet) which the disseminator knows 

investors; 

to be false or misleading or that contains 

information  in  a  distorted  manner  and 

which is designed or likely to influence the 

decision of investors dealing in securities; 

(l) 

an 

intermediary 

reporting 

Omitted 

trading 

transactions 

to  his 

clients  entered  into  on  their 

behalf  in  an  inflated  manner  in 

order 

to 

increase 

his 

commission and brokerage; 

(m) 

an intermediary not disclosing to 

an 

intermediary  a  market  participant  

his  client  transactions  entered 

entering into transactions on behalf of client 

into  on  his  behalf 

including 

without  the  knowledge  of  or  instructions 

taking an option position; 

from  client 

including 

taking  an  option 

position  or  misutilizing  or  diverting  the 

funds  or  securities  of  the  client  held  in 

fiduciary capacity 

(n) 

circular  transactions  in  respect 

circular transactions in respect of a security 

of  a  security  entered 

into 

entered  into between  persons  (including 

between intermediaries in order 

intermediaries) 

in  order 

to 

increase 

to 

increase  commission 

to 

commission to artificially provide a false 

provide  a  false  appearance  of 

appearance of trading in such security or to 

trading  in  such  security  or  to 

inflate, depress or cause fluctuations in the 

inflate,  depress  or 

cause 

price or volume of such security;  

fluctuations in the price of such 

security; 

(o) 

encouraging  the  clients  by  an 

fraudulent  inducement  of  encouraging 

intermediary to deal in securities 

the any person by a market participant an 

solely  with 

the  object  of 

intermediary  to  deal  in  securities  solely 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

71 | P a g e  

enhancing  his  brokerage  or 

with the object of enhancing his brokerage 

commission; 

or commission or income; 

(p) 

an  intermediary  predating  or 

a market participant predating or otherwise 

otherwise 

falsifying 

records 

falsifying 

records  such  as 

including 

such as contract notes. 

contract  notes,  client 

instructions, 

balance  of  securities  statement,  client 

account/ statements etc. 

(q) 

an 

intermediary  buying  or 

an intermediary buying or selling securities 

selling securities in advance of a 

in  advance  of a  substantial  client order  or 

substantial  client  order  or 

whereby  a  futures  or  option  position  is 

whereby  a  futures  or  option 

taken  about  an  impending  transaction  in 

position 

is 

taken  about  an 

the  same  or  related  futures  or  options 

impending  transaction  in  the 

contract. 

same  or  related 

futures  or 

Any  order  in  securities  placed  by  a 

options contract. 

person,  while  directly  or  indirectly  in 

possession  of  information  that  is  not 

publically 

available, 

regarding 

a 

substantial  impending  transaction  in 

that  security,  its  underlying security  or 

its derivative 

(r) 

planting 

false  or  misleading 

Knowingly  planting  false  or  misleading 

news which may induce sale or 

news  or  information  which  may  induce 

purchase of securities. 

sale  or  purchase  of  securities  and  such 

news or information should affect the price 

of the security  

(s) 

mis-selling  of  units  of  a  mutual 

mis-selling of units securities or services 

fund scheme; 

relating  to  securities  market    a  mutual 

Explanation- For the purpose of 

fund scheme; 

this clause, "mis-selling" means 

Explanation- For the purpose of this clause, 

sale  of  units  of  a  mutual  fund 

"mis-selling"  means  sale  of  securities  or 

services  relating  to  units  securities 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

72 | P a g e  

scheme by any person, directly 

market of a mutual fund scheme by any 

or indirectly, by─ 

person, directly or indirectly, by─ 

(i) making a false or misleading 

(i) knowingly making a false or misleading 

statement, or 

statement, or 

(ii)  concealing  or  omitting 

(ii)  knowingly  concealing  or  omitting 

material facts of the scheme, or 

material facts of the scheme, or 

(iii)  concealing  the  associated 

(iii)  knowingly  concealing  the  associated 

risk factors of the scheme, or 

risk factors of the scheme, or 

(iv)  not  taking  reasonable  care 

(iv)  not  taking  reasonable  care  to  ensure 

to  ensure  suitability  of 

the 

suitability  of  scheme  the  security  or 

scheme to the buyer. 

service to the buyer. 

(t) 

illegal  mobilization  of  funds  by 

No change 

sponsoring  or  causing  to  be 

sponsored  or  carrying  on  or 

causing  to  be  carried  on  any 

collective  investment  scheme 

by any person. 

 

New Regulation 

(u)  dealing  or  causing  to  deal 

in 

securities  by  deploying  such  quantum 

of  funds  which  are  in  excess  of  the 

verifiable 

financial  sources  of 

the 

person  dealing  in  securities  with  the 

intention of causing manipulation in the 

price or volume of a security; 

Explanation  –  The  Board  may  issue 

such  guidelines  as  may  be  required  to 

ascertain 

the 

verifiable 

financial 

sources  of  a  person  dealing 

in 

securities. 

 

Explanation–  For  the  purposes 

No change 

of  this  sub-regulation,  for  the 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

73 | P a g e  

removal of doubts, it is clarified 

that the acts or omissions listed 

in  this  sub-regulation  are  not 

exhaustive  and  that  an  act  or 

omission  is  prohibited  if  it  falls 

within the purview of regulation 

3,  notwithstanding  that  it  is  not 

included  in  this  sub-regulation 

or 

is  described  as  being 

committed  only  by  a  certain 

category of persons in this sub-

regulation. 

 

 

Explanation:  Market  Participant  shall 

include  any  person  or  entity  registered 

under  Section  12  of  SEBI  Act  and  its 

employees and agents. 

 

 

 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

74 | P a g e  

Amendments to SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. 

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

ANNEXURE II   

2 

(1) 

- 

- 

Definitions 

In these regulations, unless the context 

otherwise 

requires, 

the 

following 

words,  expressions  and  derivations 

therefrom  shall  have  the  meanings 

assigned to them as under: 

(c) 

“compliance officer” means any senior 

“compliance  officer”  means  any 

officer, designated so and reporting to 

senior  officer,  designated  so  and 

the  board  of  directors  or  head  of  the 

reporting to the board of directors or 

organization in case board is not there, 

head  of  the  organization  in  case 

who 

is 

financially 

literate  and 

is 

board is not there, who is financially 

capable  of  appreciating  requirements 

literate 

and 

is 

capable 

of 

for  legal  and  regulatory  compliance 

appreciating  requirements  for  legal 

under these regulations and who shall 

and  regulatory  compliance  under 

be  responsible 

for  compliance  of 

these regulations and who shall be 

policies,  procedures,  maintenance  of 

responsible 

for  compliance  of 

records,  monitoring  adherence  to  the 

policies,  procedures,  maintenance 

rules 

for 

the 

preservation 

of 

of records, monitoring adherence to 

unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

the  rules  for  the  preservation  of 

information,  monitoring  of  trades  and 

confidentiality  of  unpublished  price 

the 

implementation  of 

the  codes 

sensitive  information,  monitoring  of 

specified  in  these  regulations  under 

trades  and  the  implementation  of 

the overall supervision of the board of 

the  codes  specified 

in 

these 

directors  of  the  listed  company  or  the 

regulations  under 

the  overall 

head  of  an  organization,  as  the  case 

supervision of the board of directors 

may be; 

of the listed company or the head of 

an  organization,  as  the  case  may 

be; 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

75 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

 

- 

Explanation 1 – For  the  purpose  

of    this  Regulation,  “financially  

literate”    shall  mean    the    ability  

to  read  and  understand  basic  

financial  statements  i.e.  balance 

sheet,  profit  and  loss  account, 

and statement of cash flows  

(ha) “proposed to be listed” shall 

mean  (i)  such  unlisted  company 

which  has  filed  offer  documents 

or other documents, as the case 

may  be,  with  SEBI,  stock 

exchange(s)  or 

registrar  of 

companies  in  connection  with 

listing and the securities of such 

company are not yet listed; and 

(ii) such unlisted company which 

has  filed  a  draft  scheme  of 

arrangement 

under 

the 

Companies  Act  2013,  with  the 

stock  exchanges  for  obtaining 

observations  or  no-objection 

confirmations  under  the  SEBI 

(Listing 

Obligations 

and 

Disclosure 

Requirements) 

Regulations, 

2015 

and 

the 

securities  of  such  company  are 

not yet listed. 

(n) 

"unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

"unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

information"  means  any  information, 

information" means any information, 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

76 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

relating to a company or its securities, 

relating 

to  a  company  or 

its 

directly  or 

indirectly, 

that 

is  not 

securities, directly or indirectly, that 

generally 

available  which 

upon 

is  not  generally  available  which 

becoming generally available, is likely 

upon becoming generally available, 

to  materially  affect  the  price  of  the 

is likely to materially affect the price 

securities 

and 

shall, 

ordinarily 

of the securities and shall, ordinarily 

including  but  not 

restricted 

to, 

including  but  not 

restricted 

to, 

information relating to the following: 

information relating to the following: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

financial results; 

(i) 

financial results; 

dividends; 

(ii)  dividends; 

change in capital structure; 

(iii)  change in capital structure; 

(iv)  mergers, 

de-mergers, 

(iv)  mergers, 

de-mergers, 

acquisitions, 

delistings, 

acquisitions, 

delistings, 

disposals  and  expansion  of 

disposals  and  expansion  of 

business 

and 

such 

other 

business  and  such  other 

transactions; 

transactions; and 

(v) 

changes 

in  key  managerial 

(v) 

changes  in  key  managerial 

personnel; and 

personnel;  

(vi)  material  events  in  accordance 

(vi)  material 

events 

in 

with the listing agreement. 

accordance  with  the  listing 

agreement.  

3 

Communication  or  procurement  of 

- 

unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

information. 

(2) 

No person shall procure from or cause 

No  person  shall  procure  from  or 

the  communication  by  any  insider  of 

cause  the  communication  by  any 

unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

insider 

of 

unpublished 

price 

information,  relating  to  a  company  or 

sensitive  information,  relating  to  a 

securities  listed  or  proposed  to  be 

company  or  securities 

listed  or 

listed,  except 

in 

furtherance  of 

proposed  to  be  listed,  except  in 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

77 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

legitimate  purposes,  performance  of 

furtherance  of  legitimate  purposes, 

duties or discharge of legal obligations. 

performance of duties or discharge 

of  legal  obligations.  The  board  of 

directors  of  a  listed  company 

may  make 

a 

policy 

for 

determination 

of 

“legitimate 

purposes” as a part of “Codes of 

Fair  Disclosure  and  Conduct” 

formulated  under  the  Regulation 

8.  

Explanation – For the purpose of 

illustration,  the  term  “legitimate 

purpose” shall include sharing of 

UPSI  in  the  ordinary  course  of 

business  by  an 

insider  with 

partners,  collaborators,  lenders, 

customers,  suppliers,  merchant 

bankers, legal advisors, auditors, 

insolvency 

professionals 

or 

other  advisors  or  consultants, 

provided  that  such  sharing  has 

not  been  carried  out  to  evade  or 

circumvent  the  prohibitions  of 

these regulations; 

And  provided  further  that  any 

person in receipt of unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

information 

pursuant 

to 

a 

“legitimate 

purpose” shall be considered an 

“insider”  for  purposes  of  these 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

78 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

regulations  and  due  notice  shall 

be  given  to  such  persons  to 

maintain  confidentiality  of  such 

UPSI  in  compliance  with  these 

regulations. 

(3) 

Notwithstanding anything contained in 

- 

this  regulation,  an  unpublished  price 

sensitive 

information  may 

be 

communicated,  provided,  allowed 

access  to  or  procured,  in  connection 

with a transaction that would: 

(i) 

entail  an  obligation  to  make  an  open 

entail an obligation to make an open 

offer  under  the  takeover  regulations 

offer under the takeover regulations 

where  the  board  of  directors  of  the 

where the board of directors of the 

company is of informed opinion that the 

listed  company 

is  of 

informed 

proposed  transaction  is  in  the  best 

opinion 

that 

the 

proposed 

interests of the company; 

transaction  sharing  of  such 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  to  acknowledge 

information is in the best interests 

the  necessity  of  communicating, 

of the company;  

providing,  allowing  access 

to  or 

NOTE: 

It 

is 

intended 

to 

procuring  UPSI 

for 

substantial 

acknowledge 

the  necessity  of 

transactions 

such  as 

takeovers, 

communicating,  providing,  allowing 

mergers  and  acquisitions 

involving 

access  to  or  procuring  UPSI  for 

trading  in  securities  and  change  of 

substantial  transactions  such  as 

control 

to 

assess 

a 

potential 

takeovers, 

mergers 

and 

investment. In an open offer under the 

acquisitions 

involving 

trading 

in 

takeover  regulations,  not  only  would 

securities  and  change  of  control  to 

the same price be made available to all 

assess a potential investment. In an 

shareholders of the company but also 

open  offer  under 

the 

takeover 

all information necessary to enable an 

regulations,  not  only  would 

the 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

79 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

informed  divestment  or 

retention 

same price be made available to all 

decision by the public shareholders is 

shareholders  of  the  company  but 

required  to  be  made  available  to  all 

also  all  information  necessary  to 

shareholders in the letter of offer under 

enable  an  informed  divestment  or 

those regulations. 

retention  decision  by  the  public 

shareholders is required to be made 

available  to  all  shareholders  in  the 

letter 

of 

offer 

under 

those 

regulations. 

(ii) 

not  attract  the  obligation  to  make  an 

not attract the obligation to make an 

open  offer  under 

the 

takeover 

open  offer  under 

the 

takeover 

regulations  but  where  the  board  of 

regulations  but  where  the  board  of 

directors of the company is of informed 

directors of the listed company is of 

opinion  that  the  proposed  transaction 

informed opinion that the proposed 

is in the best interests of the company 

transaction  sharing  of  such 

and  the  information  that  constitute 

information is in the best interests 

unpublished price sensitive information 

of the company, and the information 

is  disseminated  to  be  made  generally 

that  constitute  unpublished  price 

available at least two trading days prior 

sensitive 

information 

is 

to  the  proposed  transaction  being 

disseminated to be made generally 

effected  in  such  form  as  the  board  of 

available  at  least  two  trading  days 

directors may determine. 

prior  to  the  proposed  transaction 

NOTE: 

It 

is 

intended 

to  permit 

being  effected  in  such  form  as  the 

communicating,  providing,  allowing 

board of directors may determine to 

access  to  or  procuring  UPSI  also  in 

be adequate and fair to cover all 

transactions that do not entail an open 

relevant and material facts. 

offer  obligation  under  the  takeover 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  to  permit 

regulations if it is in the best interests 

communicating,  providing,  allowing 

of the company. The board of directors, 

access to or procuring UPSI also in 

however,  would 

cause 

public 

transactions  that  do  not  entail  an 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

80 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

disclosures  of  such  unpublished  price 

open  offer  obligation  under 

the 

sensitive  information  well  before  the 

takeover 

regulations, 

when 

proposed  transaction  to  rule  out  any 

authorised  by 

the  board  of 

information asymmetry in the market. 

directors 

if  sharing  of  such 

infromation 

it 

is 

in  the  best 

interests  of  the  company.  The 

board  of  directors,  however,  would 

cause  public  disclosures  of  such 

unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

information  well 

before 

the 

proposed transaction to rule out any 

information  asymmetry 

in 

the 

market. 

(4) 

For purposes of sub-regulation (3), the 

For  purposes  of  sub-regulation  (3), 

board  of  directors  shall  require  the 

the  board  of  directors  shall  require 

parties 

to  execute  agreements 

to 

the  parties  to  execute  agreements 

contract  confidentiality  and  non-

to  contract  confidentiality  and  non-

disclosure  obligations  on  the  part  of 

disclosure obligations on the part of 

such  parties  and  such  parties  shall 

such parties and such parties shall 

keep 

information 

so 

received 

keep 

information 

so 

received 

confidential, except for the purpose of 

confidential, except for the purpose 

sub-regulation 

(3),  and  shall  not 

of  sub-regulation  (3),  and  shall  not 

otherwise  trade  in  securities  of  the 

otherwise  trade  in  securities  of  the 

company  when 

in  possession  of 

company  when  in  possession  of 

unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

information. 

information.   

(5) 

- 

The  board  of  directors  shall 

ensure  that  a  structured  digital 

database 

is 

maintained 

containing  the  names  of  such 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

81 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

persons  with  whom  information 

is  shared  under  this  regulation 

along  with 

the  Permanent 

Account Number (PAN) or similar 

identification  where  PAN  is  not 

available.  Such  databases  shall 

be  maintained  with  adequate 

internal  controls  and  checks 

such as time stamping and audit 

trails to ensure non-tampering of 

the database. 

NOTE:  If  UPSI  is  shared  by  a 

listed company with an entity, the 

name  and  PAN  of  such  entity 

shall  be  recorded  by  the  listed 

company  and  that  entity  in  turn 

shall record the names and PAN 

of 

its  employees  who  have 

access to such UPSI as per Code 

of  Conduct  applicable  to  such 

entity under Regulation 9.    

4 

Trading  when 

in  possession  of 

- 

unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

information. 

(1) 

No insider shall trade in securities that 

- 

are listed or proposed to be listed on a 

stock exchange when in possession of 

unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

information: 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

82 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

 

- 

Provided that when a person who 

has traded in securities has been 

in  possession  of  unpublished 

price  sensitive  information,  his 

trades  would  be  presumed  to 

have  been  motivated  by 

the 

knowledge  and  awareness  of 

such 

information 

in 

his 

possession; 

 

Provided that the insider may prove his 

Provided  further  that  the  insider 

innocence  by  demonstrating 

the 

may  prove  his 

innocence  by 

circumstances including the following: 

demonstrating 

the  circumstances 

including the following: 

(i) 

the transaction is an off-market inter-se 

(i)  the  transaction  is  an  off-market 

transfer between promoters who were 

inter-se 

transfer 

between 

in possession of the same unpublished 

promoters  insiders  and  were  in 

price  sensitive 

information  without 

possession 

of 

the 

same 

being  in  breach  of  regulation  3  and 

unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

both parties had made a conscious and 

information without being in breach 

informed trade decision 

of regulation 3 and both parties had 

 

 

made  a  conscious  and  informed 

trade decision; 

Provided  that  such  unpublished 

price  sensitive  information  was 

not  obtained  under  Regulation  3 

(3) of the PIT Regulations. 

(ii)  the  transaction  was  carried 

out 

through 

the  block  deal 

window  mechanism  between 

persons who were in possession 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

83 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

of 

the 

unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

information  without 

being  in  breach  of  regulation  3 

and  both  parties  had  made  a 

conscious  and  informed  trade 

decision; 

Provided  that  such  unpublished 

price  sensitive  information  was 

not  obtained  by  either  person 

under Regulation 3 (3) of the PIT 

Regulations. 

(iii)  the  transaction  in  question 

was  carried  out  pursuant  to  a 

bona fide statutory or regulatory 

obligation  to  carry  out  such 

transaction. 

(iv)  the  transaction  in  question 

was  undertaken  pursuant  to  the 

exercise  of  stock  options 

in 

respect  of  which  the  exercise 

price  was  pre-determined 

in 

compliance  with 

applicable 

regulations.   

 

 

 

 

(ii) 

in the case of non-individual insiders: 

(ii) (v) in the case of non-individual 

(a) 

the individuals who were in possession 

- 

insiders: 

of  such  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information  were  different  from  the 

individuals  taking  trading  decisions 

and  such  decision-making  individuals 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

84 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

were  not 

in  possession  of  such 

unpublished price sensitive information 

when  they  took  the  decision  to  trade; 

and  

(b) 

appropriate 

and 

adequate 

- 

arrangements were in place to ensure 

that these regulations are not violated 

and  no  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information was communicated by the 

individuals possessing the information 

to 

the 

individuals 

taking 

trading 

decisions  and  there  is  no  evidence of 

such  arrangements  having  been 

breached; 

(iii) 

the  trades  were  pursuant  to  a  trading 

- 

plan  set  up 

in  accordance  with 

5 

(3) 

regulation 5 

Trading Plans 

 

The compliance officer shall review the 

The compliance officer shall review 

trading plan to assess whether the plan 

the  trading  plan  to  assess  whether 

would  have  any  potential  for  violation 

the  plan  would  have  any  potential 

of  these  regulations  and  shall  be 

for violation of these regulations and 

entitled 

to 

seek 

such  express 

shall  be  entitled 

to  seek  such 

undertakings  as may be necessary  to 

express  undertakings  as  may  be 

enable  such  assessment  and 

to 

necessary 

to 

enable 

such 

approve 

and 

monitor 

the 

assessment  and  to  approve  and 

implementation of the plan. 

monitor  the  implementation  of  the 

plan. 

Provided  that  pre-clearance  of 

trades  shall  not  be  required  for 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

85 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

any trades in accordance with the 

trading  plan  once  trading  plan 

has  been  approved  by 

the 

compliance officer.  

Provided 

further 

that 

trading 

window  norms  and  restrictions 

on  contra  trade  shall  not  be 

applicable  for  trades  carried  out 

in  accordance  with  the  trading 

plan approved by the compliance 

officer. 

7 

(2) 

Disclosures by certain persons. 

- 

Continual Disclosures. 

Continual Disclosures. 

Every promoter, employee and director 

Every 

promoter, 

employee 

of every company shall disclose to the 

designated person and director of 

company 

the  number  of 

such 

every company shall disclose to the 

securities  acquired  or  disposed  of 

company 

the  number  of  such 

within 

two 

trading  days  of  such 

securities  acquired  or  disposed  of 

transaction if the value of the securities 

within  two  trading  days  of  such 

traded, whether in one transaction or a 

transaction 

if 

the  value  of 

the 

series  of 

transactions  over  any 

securities  traded,  whether  in  one 

calendar  quarter,  aggregates 

to  a 

transaction 

or 

a 

series 

of 

traded  value  in  excess  of  ten  lakh 

transactions  over  any  calendar 

rupees or such other value as may be 

quarter,  aggregates  to  a  traded 

specified; 

value  in  excess  of  ten  lakh  rupees 

or  such  other  value  as  may  be 

Code of Conduct. 

specified; 

- 

The  board  of  directors  of  every  listed 

The  board  of  directors  of  every 

company  and  market 

intermediary 

listed  company  and  the  board  of 

9 

(1) 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

86 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

shall  formulate  a  code  of  conduct  to 

directors  or  head(s)  of 

the 

regulate, monitor and report trading by 

organisation  of  every  market 

its  employees  and  other  connected 

intermediary shall ensure that the 

persons towards achieving compliance 

chief executive officer / managing 

with  these  regulations,  adopting  the 

director 

formulate  a  code  of 

minimum 

standards 

set  out 

in 

conduct  to  regulate,  monitor  and 

Schedule  B 

to 

these  regulations, 

report trading by its employees and 

without diluting the provisions of these 

other 

connected 

persons 

regulations in any manner. 

designated 

persons 

and 

NOTE: 

It 

is 

intended 

that  every 

immediate 

relatives 

of 

company  whose  securities  are  listed 

designated  persons 

 

towards 

on stock exchanges and every market 

achieving  compliance  with  these 

intermediary  registered  with  SEBI  is 

regulations,  adopting  the  minimum 

mandatorily  required  to  formulate  a 

standards set out in Schedule B (in 

code  of  conduct  governing  trading  by 

case  of  a  listed  company)  and 

its employees. The standards set out in 

Schedule  C  (in  case  of  a  market 

the  schedule  are  required 

to  be 

intermediary) to these regulations, 

addressed by such code of conduct. 

without  diluting  the  provisions  of 

these regulations in any manner. 

For  the  avoidance  of  doubt  it  is 

clarified 

that 

market 

intermediaries,  which  are  listed, 

would be required to formulate a 

code  of  conduct  to  regulate, 

monitor and report trading by its 

designated  persons,  by: 

(a) 

adopting the minimum standards 

set  out 

in  Schedule  B  with 

respect  to  trading  in  its  own 

securities,  and  (b)  adopting  the 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

87 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

minimum  standards  set  out  in 

Schedule  C  with  respect 

to 

trading in other securities. 

The  board  of  directors  or  such 

other analogous authority shall in 

consultation with the compliance 

officer  specify  the  designated 

persons  to  be  covered  by  the 

code  of  conduct  on  the  basis  of 

their  role  and  function  in  the 

organisation and the access that 

such  role  and  function  would 

provide 

to  unpublished  price 

sensitive  information  in  addition 

to  seniority  and  professional 

designation. 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  that  every 

company whose securities are listed 

on  stock  exchanges  and  every 

market intermediary registered with 

SEBI  is  mandatorily  required  to 

formulate  a  code  of  conduct 

governing trading by its employees 

designated  persons  and  their 

immediate 

relatives. 

The 

standards  set  out  in  the  schedule 

schedules  are 

required 

to  be 

addressed by such code of conduct. 

(2) 

Every other person who is required to 

The board of directors or head(s) 

handle  unpublished  price  sensitive 

of the organisation, of every other 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

88 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

information  in  the  course  of  business 

person  who  entity  or  any  other 

operations  shall  formulate  a  code  of 

person that28 is required to handle 

conduct to regulate, monitor and report 

unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

trading  by  employees  and  other 

information 

in 

the  course  of 

connected persons  towards  achieving 

business operations shall formulate 

compliance  with 

these  regulations, 

a  code  of  conduct  to  regulate, 

adopting  the  minimum  standards  set 

monitor  and 

report 

trading  by 

out in Schedule B to these regulations, 

employees  and  other  connected 

without diluting the provisions of these 

persons 

their 

designated 

regulations in any manner. 

persons  and  immediate  relative 

NOTE:  This  provision  is  intended  to 

of  designated  persons    towards 

mandate  persons  other  than  listed 

achieving  compliance  with  these 

companies  and  market  intermediaries 

regulations,  adopting  the  minimum 

that 

are 

required 

to 

handle 

standards  set out  in  Schedule  B  C 

unpublished price sensitive information 

to these regulations, without diluting 

to 

formulate  a  code  of  conduct 

the  provisions  of  these  regulations 

governing trading in securities by their 

in any manner.  

employees.  These  entities 

include 

Explanation:  Professional  firms 

professional  firms  such  as  auditors, 

such  as  auditors,  accountancy 

accountancy firms, law firms, analysts, 

firms, 

law 

firms, 

analysts, 

consultants  etc.,  assisting  or  advising 

insolvency  professional  entities, 

listed 

companies, 

market 

consultants, banks etc., assisting 

intermediaries and other capital market 

or  advising 

listed  companies 

participants.  Even 

entities 

that 

shall be collectively referred to as 

normally  operate  outside  the  capital 

fiduciaries  for  the  purpose  of 

market  may  handle  unpublished  price 

these Regulations. 

sensitive  information.  This  provision 

NOTE: This provision is intended to 

mandate  persons  entities  other 

                                                           
28 Rationale: This change has been made to align it with the reference(s) to “entities” in the legislative note and “organization” 
in Clause 3. 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

89 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

would mandate all of them to formulate 

than  listed  companies  and  market 

a code of conduct. 

intermediaries  that  are  required  to 

handle  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information  to  formulate  a  code  of 

conduct  governing 

trading 

in 

securities  by 

their  employees 

designated 

persons. 

These 

entities  include  professional  firms 

such  as  auditors,  accountancy 

firms, 

law 

firms, 

analysts, 

insolvency  professional  entities, 

consultants, banks etc., assisting or 

advising  listed  companies,  market 

intermediaries  and  other  capital 

market  participants. Even  entities 

that  normally  operate  outside  the 

capital  market  may 

handle 

unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

information.  This  provision  would 

mandate  all  of  them  to  formulate  a 

code of conduct.  

The  board  of  directors  or  such 

other analogous authority shall in 

consultation with the compliance 

officer  specify  the  designated 

persons  to  be  covered  by  the 

code  of  conduct  on  the  basis  of 

their  role  and  function  in  the 

organisation and the access that 

such  role  and  function  would 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

90 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

provide 

to  unpublished  price 

sensitive  information  in  addition 

to  seniority  and  professional 

designation. 

(3) 

Every 

listed 

company,  market 

- 

intermediary  and  other  persons 

formulating  a  code  of  conduct  shall 

identify  and  designate  a  compliance 

officer 

to  administer 

the  code  of 

conduct and other requirements under 

these regulations. 

NOTE:  This  provision  is  intended  to 

designate  a  senior  officer  as 

the 

compliance 

officer 

with 

the 

responsibility to administer the code of 

conduct  and  monitor  compliance  with 

these regulations. 

 

 

Explanation 

– 

The 

term 

“designated 

person(s)” 

for 

purposes  of  these  regulations 

shall mean  

(i)  employees  of  such 

listed 

company 

/ 

market 

intermediaries/ fiduciaries and  

its  material  subsidiaries  and 

associates 

company 

(s), 

designated  on  the  basis  of 

their functional role or access 

to UPSI in the organization by 

its Board.  

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

91 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

(ii) 

All  promoters  for 

listed 

companies  and  promoters 

who  are 

individuals  or 

investment  companies  for 

market 

intermediaries/ 

fiduciaries 

(iii)  CEO  and  upto  two  levels 

below  CEO  of  such  listed 

company 

/ 

market 

intermediary/ 

fiduciaries 

and 

its 

material 

subsidiaries and associate 

company  (s)  irrespective 

of  their  functional  role  in 

the  company  or  ability  to 

have access to UPSI. 

(iv) 

any  support  staff  of  listed 

company/ 

market 

intermediary/ 

fiduciaries 

such  as 

IT  staff  or 

secretarial  staff  who  have 

access to UPSI.  

 

NEW Regulation 

Institutional  Mechanism 

for 

(1) 

 

Prevention of Insider trading 

The  Chief  Executive  Officer 

/ 

Managing Director  or such other 

analogous  person  of  a 

listed 

company  /market  intermediary  / 

fiduciary  shall  put 

in  place 

adequate and effective system of 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

92 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

internal  controls 

to  ensure 

compliance 

with 

the 

requirements  given  in  these  to 

prevent insider trading.  

(2) 

 

The 

internal 

controls 

shall 

include the following:  

a)  All  employees  who  have 

access  to  UPSI  are  identified 

as designated employee. 

b)  All 

the  unpublished  price 

sensitive information shall be 

identified 

and 

its 

confidentiality  maintained  as 

per  the  requirements  of  the 

these Regulations 

c)  Adequate restrictions shall be 

placed  on  communication  or 

procurement  of  unpublished 

price sensitive information as 

required by these Regulations  

d)  Lists  of  all  employees  and 

other person with whom UPSI 

is shared shall be maintained 

and 

confidentiality 

agreements  signed  or  Notice 

served  to  all  such employees 

and persons  

e)  All 

other 

relevant 

requirements  specified  under 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

93 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

(2) 

 

(3) 

 

(4) 

 

the  PIT  Regulations  shall  be 

complied with. 

f)  Periodic  process  review  to 

evaluate effectiveness of such 

internal controls. 

The  board  of  directors  of  every 

listed company and the board of 

directors  or  head(s)  of 

the 

organisation 

of 

market 

intermediary/ 

fiduciaries  shall 

ensure  that  the  Chief  Executive 

Officer  /  Managing  Director  or 

such  other  analogous  person 

ensures 

compliance 

with 

regulations 9 and  sub-regulation 

(1) and (2) of this regulation 

The  Audit  Committee  of  a  listed 

company  or  other  analogous 

body  for  market  intermediary  or 

fiduciaries 

shall 

review 

compliance  with  provisions  of 

these  Regulations  and  shall 

verify 

that 

the  systems 

for 

internal control are adequate and 

are operating effectively, at least 

once in a financial year. 

Every 

listed  company  shall 

formulate  written  policies  and 

procedures for inquiry in case of 

leak 

of 

unpublished 

price 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

94 | P a g e  

REG.  EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

(5) 

 

(6) 

 

sensitive 

information 

or 

suspected  leak  of  unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

information, 

which  shall  be  approved  by 

Board  of  Directors  of 

the 

company and accordingly initiate 

appropriate 

inquiries 

on 

becoming  aware  of  leak  of  UPSI 

or  suspected  leak  of  UPSI  and 

inform  SEBI  promptly  of  such 

leaks,  inquiries  and  results  of 

such inquiries.. 

The  listed  company  shall  have 

whistle-blower policies and make 

employees 

aware 

of 

such 

policies  to  enable  employees  to 

report instances of leak of UPSI.  

If an inquiry has been initiated by 

a listed company  in  case of leak 

of  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information or suspected leak of 

unpublished 

price 

sensitive 

information,  the  relevant  Market 

Intermediaries  and 

fiduciaries 

shall  co-operate  with  the  listed 

company in connection with such 

inquiry  conducted  by 

listed 

company. 

 

 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

95 | P a g e  

Amendments to SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 – Minimum 

Standards for Code of Conduct 

ANNEXURE III  

 

 

 

SCHEDULE  B  FOR  LISTED 

SCHEDULE  C  FOR  MARKET 

# 

PARTICULARS 

COMPANY 

INTERMEDIARY 

AND 

FIDUCIARIES  

 Heading(s) 

SCHEDULE B 

SCHEDULE BC 

[See  sub-regulation  (1)  and 

[See  sub-regulation  (1)  and 

sub-regulation 

(2) 

of 

sub-regulation (2) of regulation 

regulation 9] 

9] 

Minimum  Standards  for  Code 

Minimum  Standards  for  Code 

of  Conduct 

for 

Listed 

of  Conduct 

for  Market 

Companies 

to  Regulate, 

Intermediaries 

and 

Monitor and Report Trading by 

fiduciaries 

to 

Regulate, 

Insiders Designated Persons 

Monitor and Report Trading by 

Insiders Designated Persons 

1.   Reporting 

by 

The  compliance  officer  shall 

The  compliance  officer  shall 

compliance 

report to the board of directors 

report to the board of directors 

officer(s) 

and  in  particular,  shall  provide 

or 

heads(s) 

of 

the 

reports to the Chairman of the 

organisation  (or  committee 

Audit  Committee,  if  any,  or  to 

constituted  in  this  regard) 

the  Chairman  of  the  board  of 

and  in  particular,  shall  provide 

directors at such frequency as 

reports to the Chairman of the 

may be stipulated by the board 

Audit  Committee  or  other 

of  directors,  but  not  less  than 

analogous  body,  if  any,  or  to 

once in a year. 

the  Chairman  of  the  board  of 

directors  or  heads(s)  of  the 

organisation 

at 

such 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

96 | P a g e  

 

 

SCHEDULE  B  FOR  LISTED 

SCHEDULE  C  FOR  MARKET 

# 

PARTICULARS 

COMPANY 

INTERMEDIARY 

AND 

FIDUCIARIES  

frequency as may be stipulated 

by  the  board  of  directors  or 

heads(s)  of  the  organization 

but  not  less  than  once  in  a 

year. 

2.   Chinese  walls 

All information shall be handled 

All information shall be handled 

and 

within  the  organisation  on  a 

within  the  organisation  on  a 

communication 

need-to-know  basis  and  no 

need-to-know  basis  and  no 

on 

need-to-

unpublished  price  sensitive 

unpublished  price  sensitive 

know basis 

information 

shall 

be 

information 

shall 

be 

communicated  to  any  person 

communicated  to  any  person 

except  in  furtherance  of  the 

except  in  furtherance  of  the 

insider’s  legitimate  purposes, 

insider’s  legitimate  purposes, 

performance  of  duties  or 

performance  of  duties  or 

discharge 

of 

his 

legal 

discharge 

of 

his 

legal 

obligations.  The 

code  of 

obligations.  The 

code  of 

conduct shall contain norms for 

conduct shall contain norms for 

appropriate  Chinese  Walls 

appropriate  Chinese  Walls 

procedures, and processes for 

procedures, and processes for 

permitting 

any 

designated 

permitting 

any 

designated 

person to “cross the wall”. 

person to “cross the wall”. 

3.   Applicability  of 

Employees  and  connected 

Employees  and  connected 

the 

PIT 

persons  designated  on  the 

persons  designated  on  the 

Compliance 

basis of their functional role 

basis of their functional role 

Code 

to 

(“dDesignated  persons”)  and 

(“dDesignated  persons”)  and 

immediate 

relatives 

of 

immediate 

relatives 

of 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

97 | P a g e  

 

 

SCHEDULE  B  FOR  LISTED 

SCHEDULE  C  FOR  MARKET 

# 

PARTICULARS 

COMPANY 

INTERMEDIARY 

AND 

FIDUCIARIES  

“designated 

designated  persons 

in 

the 

designated  persons 

in 

the 

person” only 

organisation shall be governed 

organisation shall be governed 

by an internal code of conduct 

by an internal code of conduct 

governing dealing in securities. 

governing dealing in securities. 

The  board  of  directors  shall 

The  board  of  directors  shall 

in  consultation  with 

the 

in  consultation  with 

the 

compliance officer(s) specify 

compliance officer(s) specify 

the designated persons to be 

the designated persons to be 

covered by such code on the 

covered by such code on the 

basis  of 

their 

role  and 

basis  of 

their 

role  and 

function in the organisation. 

function in the organisation. 

Due  regard  shall  be  had  to 

Due  regard  shall  be  had  to 

the access that such role and 

the access that such role and 

function  would  provide  to 

function  would  provide  to 

unpublished  price  sensitive 

unpublished  price  sensitive 

information  in  addition  to 

information  in  addition  to 

seniority  and  professional 

seniority  and  professional 

designation. 

designation. 

4.   Trading window   Designated  persons  may 

 Designated  persons  may 

execute 

trades  subject 

to 

execute 

trades  subject 

to 

compliance 

with 

these 

compliance 

with 

these 

regulations.  Towards 

this 

regulations.  Towards 

this 

end,  a  notional 

trading 

end,  a  notional 

trading 

window  shall  be  used  as  an 

window shall be used as an 

instrument 

of  monitoring 

instrument  of  monitoring 

trading  by 

the  designated 

trading  by  the  designated 

persons. The trading window 

persons. 

The 

trading 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

98 | P a g e  

 

 

SCHEDULE  B  FOR  LISTED 

SCHEDULE  C  FOR  MARKET 

# 

PARTICULARS 

COMPANY 

INTERMEDIARY 

AND 

FIDUCIARIES  

shall  be  closed  when  the 

window  shall  be  closed 

compliance 

officer 

when 

the 

compliance 

determines that a designated 

officer  determines  that  a 

person or class of designated 

designated person or class 

persons  can  reasonably  be 

of  designated  persons  can 

expected to have possession 

reasonably  be  expected  to 

of unpublished price sensitive 

have 

possession 

of 

information.  Such  closure 

unpublished price sensitive 

shall be imposed in relation to 

information.  Such  closure 

such securities to which such 

shall be imposed in relation 

unpublished  price  sensitive 

to such securities to which 

information 

relates. 

such  unpublished  price 

Designated persons shall not 

sensitive 

information 

trade  in  securities  when  the 

relates. 

Designated 

trading window is closed.  

persons 

and 

their 

 Trading restriction period can 

be made applicable from end 

of  every  quarter  till  48  hours 

immediate  relatives  shall 

not trade in securities when 

the 

trading  window 

is 

after 

the  declaration  of 

closed.  

financial results. 

 Trading  restriction  period 

 Gap  between  clearance  of 

accounts by Audit Committee 

and Board meeting should be 

as 

narrow 

as 

possible 

preferably on the same day to 

can  be  made  applicable 

from  end  of  every  quarter 

till  48  hours  after 

the 

declaration  of 

financial 

results. 

 Gap 

between 

Audit 

Committee 

and  Board 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

99 | P a g e  

 

 

SCHEDULE  B  FOR  LISTED 

SCHEDULE  C  FOR  MARKET 

# 

PARTICULARS 

COMPANY 

INTERMEDIARY 

AND 

FIDUCIARIES  

avoid 

leakage  of  material 

meeting  should  be  as 

information 

narrow 

as 

possible 

 The  timing  for  re-opening  of 

the  trading  window  shall  be 

determined 

by 

the 

preferably on the same day 

to avoid leakage of material 

information 

compliance officer taking into 

 The  timing  for  re-opening 

account 

various 

factors 

of the trading window shall 

including 

the  unpublished 

be  determined  by 

the 

price  sensitive  information  in 

compliance  officer  taking 

question  becoming  generally 

into 

account 

various 

available  and  being  capable 

factors 

including 

the 

of assimilation by the market, 

unpublished price sensitive 

which  in  any  event  shall  not 

information 

in  question 

be  earlier 

than 

forty-eight 

becoming 

generally 

hours  after  the  information 

available and being capable 

becomes generally available. 

of  assimilation  by 

the 

The  trading  window  shall 

market, which in any event 

also  be  applicable  to  any 

shall  not  be  earlier  than 

person  having  contractual 

forty-eight  hours  after  the 

or  fiduciary  relation  with 

information 

becomes 

the  company,  such  as 

generally  available.  The 

auditors, 

accountancy 

trading  window  shall  also 

firms,  law  firms,  analysts, 

be applicable to any person 

consultants  etc.,  assisting 

having 

contractual 

or 

or advising the company. 

fiduciary  relation  with  the 

 When  the  trading  window  is 

open,  trading  by  designated 

company, such as auditors, 

accountancy 

firms, 

law 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

100 | P a g e  

 

 

SCHEDULE  B  FOR  LISTED 

SCHEDULE  C  FOR  MARKET 

# 

PARTICULARS 

COMPANY 

INTERMEDIARY 

AND 

FIDUCIARIES  

persons  shall  be  subject  to 

firms, analysts, consultants 

pre- 

clearance 

by 

the 

etc.,  assisting  or  advising 

compliance  officer, 

if 

the 

the company. 

value of the proposed trades 

is  above  such  thresholds  as 

the  board  of  directors  may 

stipulate.  

 When the trading window is 

open, Trading by designated 

persons  shall  be  subject  to 

pre- 

clearance 

by 

the 

compliance  officer(s),  if  the 

value of the proposed trades 

is  above  such  thresholds  as 

the  board  of  directors  or 

heads(s) 

of 

the 

organisation may stipulate.  

5.   Maintenance  of 

The compliance officer shall 

The  compliance  officer  shall 

restricted / grey 

confidentially  maintain  a  list 

confidentially  maintain  a  list  of 

list 

of  such  securities  as  a 

such securities as a “restricted 

“restricted  list”  which  shall 

list” which shall be used as the 

be  used  as  the  basis  for 

basis for approving or rejecting 

approving 

or 

rejecting 

applications for  pre-  clearance 

applications 

for 

pre- 

of trades. 

clearance of trades. 

6.   Pre-clearance  

 Prior to approving any trades, 

 Prior to approving any trades, 

the  compliance  officer  shall 

the  compliance  officer  shall 

seek declarations to the effect 

seek declarations to the effect 

that  the  applicant  for  pre-

that  the  applicant  for  pre-

clearance 

is 

not 

in 

clearance 

is 

not 

in 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

101 | P a g e  

 

 

SCHEDULE  B  FOR  LISTED 

SCHEDULE  C  FOR  MARKET 

# 

PARTICULARS 

COMPANY 

INTERMEDIARY 

AND 

FIDUCIARIES  

possession 

of 

any 

possession 

of 

any 

unpublished  price  sensitive 

unpublished  price  sensitive 

information.  He  shall  also 

information.  He  shall  also 

have  regard  to  whether  any 

have  regard  to  whether  any 

such 

declaration 

is 

such 

declaration 

is 

reasonably  capable  of  being 

reasonably  capable  of  being 

rendered inaccurate. 

rendered inaccurate. 

 The  code  of  conduct  shall 

 The  code  of  conduct  shall 

specify 

any 

reasonable 

specify 

any 

reasonable 

timeframe, which in any event 

timeframe, which in any event 

shall not be more than seven 

shall not be more than seven 

trading  days,  within  which 

trading  days,  within  which 

trades  that  have  been  pre-

trades  that  have  been  pre-

cleared  have  to  be  executed 

cleared  have  to  be  executed 

by  the  designated  person, 

by  the  designated  person, 

failing  which 

fresh  pre-

failing  which 

fresh  pre-

clearance  would  be  needed 

clearance  would  be  needed 

for the trades to be executed. 

for the trades to be executed. 

7.   Contra-trade 

The  code  of  conduct  shall 

The  code  of  conduct  shall 

restriction 

specify the period, which in any 

specify the period, which in any 

event shall not be less than six 

event shall not be less than six 

months,  within  which 

a 

months,  within  which 

a 

designated  person  who 

is 

designated  person  who  is  a 

permitted  to  trade  shall  not 

connected  person  of 

the 

execute  a  contra  trade.  The 

listed 

company 

and 

is 

compliance  officer  may  be 

permitted 

to 

trade 

in 

the 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

102 | P a g e  

 

 

SCHEDULE  B  FOR  LISTED 

SCHEDULE  C  FOR  MARKET 

# 

PARTICULARS 

COMPANY 

INTERMEDIARY 

AND 

FIDUCIARIES  

empowered to grant relaxation 

securities 

of 

such 

listed 

from  strict  application  of  such 

company,  shall  not  execute  a 

restriction  for  reasons  to  be 

contra  trade.  The  compliance 

recorded  in  writing  provided 

officer  may  be  empowered  to 

that  such  relaxation  does  not 

grant 

relaxation 

from  strict 

violate 

these 

regulations. 

application  of  such  restriction 

Should  a  contra 

trade  be 

for  reasons  to  be  recorded  in 

executed, 

inadvertently 

or 

writing  provided 

that  such 

otherwise, in violation of such a 

relaxation  does  not  violate 

restriction, the profits from such 

these  regulations.  Should  a 

trade  shall  be  liable  to  be 

contra 

trade  be  executed, 

disgorged for remittance to the 

inadvertently  or  otherwise,  in 

Board for credit to the Investor 

violation  of  such  a  restriction, 

Protection and Education Fund 

the profits from such trade shall 

administered  by 

the  Board 

be  liable  to  be  disgorged  for 

under the Act. 

remittance  to  the  Board  for 

Provided  that  this  shall  not  be 

applicable  for  trades  pursuant 

to exercise of stock options 

credit to the Investor Protection 

and 

Education 

Fund 

administered  by 

the  Board 

under the Act. 

Provided  that  this  shall  not  be 

applicable  for  trades  pursuant 

to exercise of stock options 

8.   Formats 

The  code  of  conduct  shall 

The  code  of  conduct  shall 

stipulate  such  formats  as  the 

stipulate  such  formats  as  the 

board  of  directors  deems 

board of directors or heads(s) 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

103 | P a g e  

 

 

SCHEDULE  B  FOR  LISTED 

SCHEDULE  C  FOR  MARKET 

# 

PARTICULARS 

COMPANY 

INTERMEDIARY 

AND 

FIDUCIARIES  

necessary 

for 

making 

of 

the  organisation 

(or 

applications  for  pre-clearance, 

committee constituted in this 

reporting  of  trades  executed, 

regard)  deems  necessary  for 

reporting  of  decisions  not  to 

making  applications  for  pre-

trade  after 

securing  pre-

clearance,  reporting  of  trades 

clearance, 

recording 

of 

executed, 

reporting 

of 

reasons  for  such  decisions 

decisions  not  to  trade  after 

and 

for 

reporting 

level  of 

securing 

pre-clearance, 

holdings  in  securities  at  such 

recording  of  reasons 

for 

intervals as may be determined 

such  decisions  and 

for 

as being necessary to monitor 

reporting  level  of  holdings  in 

compliance 

with 

these 

securities  at  such  intervals  as 

regulations. 

may  be  determined  as  being 

necessary 

to 

monitor 

compliance 

with 

these 

regulations. 

9.   Disciplinary 

Without prejudice to the power 

Without prejudice to the power 

action 

of the Board under the Act, the 

of the Board under the Act, the 

code of conduct shall stipulate 

code of conduct shall stipulate 

the  sanctions  and  disciplinary 

the  sanctions  and  disciplinary 

actions, including wage freeze, 

actions, including wage freeze, 

suspension 

recovery, 

suspension, 

recovery, 

clawback  etc.,  that  may  be 

clawback  etc.,  that  may  be 

imposed,  by 

the  persons 

imposed,  by 

the  persons 

listed  company  required  to 

market 

intermediary 

formulate  a  code  of  conduct 

fiduciaries 

required 

or 

to 

under  sub-regulation  (1)  and 

formulate  a  code  of  conduct 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

104 | P a g e  

 

 

SCHEDULE  B  FOR  LISTED 

SCHEDULE  C  FOR  MARKET 

# 

PARTICULARS 

COMPANY 

INTERMEDIARY 

AND 

FIDUCIARIES  

sub-regulation 

regulation 

9, 

(2) 

for 

of 

under  sub-regulation  (1)  and 

the 

sub-regulation (2) of regulation 

contravention  of  the  code  of 

9,  for  the  contravention  of  the 

conduct. 

code of conduct. 

10.  Disclosure 

to 

The  code  of  conduct  shall 

The  code  of  conduct  shall 

SEBI 

specify 

that 

in  case 

it 

is 

specify 

that 

in  case 

it 

is 

observed  by 

the  persons 

observed  by 

the  persons 

listed  company  required  to 

market intermediary or other 

formulate  a  code  of  conduct 

entity  required  to  formulate  a 

under  sub-regulation  (1)  and 

code  of  conduct  under  sub-

sub-regulation 

(2) 

of 

regulation (1)  or sub-regulation 

regulation  9,  that  there  has 

(2) 

of 

regulation 

9, 

been  a  violation  of 

these 

respectively,  that  there  has 

regulations, they it shall inform 

been  a  violation  of 

these 

the Board promptly. 

regulations, they such market 

intermediary  or  other  entity 

shall 

inform 

the  Board 

promptly. 

11.  Disclosure  of 

(New provision) 

(New provision) 

close personal 

relationships 

and  material 

financial 

relationships 

Designated persons shall be 

Designated persons shall be 

required  to  disclose  name 

required  to  disclose  name 

and 

PAN 

number 

or 

and 

PAN 

number 

or 

equivalent  identification  of 

equivalent  identification  of 

the following to the company 

the 

following 

to 

the  

on  an  annual  basis  and  as 

intermediary/ fiduciary on an 

annual  basis  and  as  and 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

105 | P a g e  

 

 

SCHEDULE  B  FOR  LISTED 

SCHEDULE  C  FOR  MARKET 

# 

PARTICULARS 

COMPANY 

INTERMEDIARY 

AND 

FIDUCIARIES  

and  when  the  information 

when 

the 

information 

changes:  

changes:  

 Immediate relatives 

 Immediate relatives 

 persons  with  whom  such 

 persons  with  whom  such 

designated 

person(s) 

designated 

person(s) 

share  a  material  financial 

share  a  material  financial 

relationship  

relationship  

 persons  residing  at  the 

 persons  residing  at  the 

same  address  as 

the 

same  address  as 

the 

designated  persons  for  a 

designated  persons  for  a 

consecutive  period  of 

consecutive  period  of 

more than one year  

more than one year 

 Phone / mobile /cell numbers 

 Phone / mobile /cell numbers 

which  are  accessible  by 

which  are  accessible  by 

them  or  whose  billing 

them  or  whose  billing 

address 

is 

residence 

address 

is 

residence 

address  of  the  designated 

address  of  the  designated 

person. 

person. 

In 

addition,  names  of 

In 

addition, 

names 

of 

educations institutions from 

educations  institutions  from 

which  designated  persons 

which  designated  persons 

have  graduated  from  and 

have  studied  and  names  of 

names 

of 

their 

past 

their  past  employers  shall 

employers  shall  also  be 

also  be  disclosed  on  a  one 

time basis 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

106 | P a g e  

 

 

SCHEDULE  B  FOR  LISTED 

SCHEDULE  C  FOR  MARKET 

# 

PARTICULARS 

COMPANY 

INTERMEDIARY 

AND 

FIDUCIARIES  

disclosed  on  a  one  time 

basis 

  

 

Explanation  – 

the 

term 

“material 

financial 

relationship”  shall  mean  a 

relationship 

in  which  one 

person is a recipient of any kind 

of payment such as by  way of 

a 

loan  or  gift)  during 

the 

immediately  preceding  twelve 

months,  equivalent  to  at  least 

25%  of  such  payer’s  annual 

income  but  shall  exclude 

relationships 

in  which 

the 

 

 

Explanation  – 

the 

term 

“material 

financial 

relationship”  shall  mean  a 

relationship 

in  which  one 

person is a recipient of any kind 

of payment such  as by  way of 

a 

loan  or  gift)  during 

the 

immediately  preceding  twelve 

months,  equivalent  to  at  least 

25%  of  such  payer’s  annual 

income  but 

  shall  exclude 

relationships 

in  which 

the 

payment  is  based  on  arm’s 

length transactions. 

payment  is  based  on  arm’s 

 

length transactions. 

 

12.  Indicative  List 

(New provision) 

(New provision) 

of Insiders 

Listed companies shall have an 

Intermediaries  and  fiduciaries 

obligation  to  maintain  lists  of 

shall  have  an  obligation  to 

persons  who  have  access  to 

maintain  lists  of  persons  who 

UPSI including the names of all 

have access to UPSI including 

persons  working 

for 

them 

the  names  of  all  persons 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

107 | P a g e  

 

 

SCHEDULE  B  FOR  LISTED 

SCHEDULE  C  FOR  MARKET 

# 

PARTICULARS 

COMPANY 

INTERMEDIARY 

AND 

FIDUCIARIES  

under 

a 

contract 

of 

working 

for 

them  under  a 

employment, or otherwise, who 

contract  of  employment,  or 

could  have  access  to  inside 

otherwise,  who  could  have 

information 

directly 

or 

access  to  inside  information 

indirectly. 

directly or indirectly. 

Listed  entities  shall  have  a 

 

process  for  how  and  when 

people  are  brought  ‘inside’  on 

sensitive 

transactions. 

Individuals  should  be  made 

aware  of 

the  duties  and 

responsibilities attached to the 

receipt  of  Inside  Information, 

and the liability that attaches to 

misuse  or  unwarranted  use  of 

such information 

Intermediaries  shall  have  a 

process  for  how  and  when 

people  are  brought  ‘inside’  on 

sensitive 

transactions. 

Individuals  should  be  made 

aware  of 

the  duties  and 

responsibilities attached to the 

receipt  of  Inside  Information, 

and the liability that attaches to 

misuse  or  unwarranted  use  of 

such information 

 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

108 | P a g e  

Annexure IV 

Amendments to Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 

SEC. 

EXTANT PROVISION 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

HEADING  Functions of Board. 

 

11(2A) 

Without prejudice to the provisions 

Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions 

contained  in  sub-section  (2),  the 

contained 

in  sub-section  (2), 

the 

Board  may 

take  measures 

to 

Board  may 

take  measures 

to 

undertake inspection of any book, 

undertake  inspection  of  any  book,  or 

or  register,  or  other  document  or 

register, or other document or record 

record  of  any 

listed  public 

of  any  listed  public  company  or  a 

company or a public company (not 

public 

company 

(not 

being 

being intermediaries referred to in 

intermediaries  referred  to  in  section 

section 12) which intends to get its 

12) which intends to get its securities 

securities listed on any recognised 

listed  on  any 

recognised  stock 

stock  exchange  where  the  Board 

exchange  where 

the  Board  has 

has 

reasonable  grounds 

to 

reasonable grounds to believe that 

believe  that  such  company  has 

such company has been indulging 

been indulging in insider trading or 

in insider trading or fraudulent and 

fraudulent  and  unfair 

trade 

unfair  trade  practices  relating  to 

practices  relating 

to  securities 

securities  market. 

involved 

in 

market. 

violation of Securities Laws. 

HEADING  Prohibition of manipulative and 

- 

deceptive 

devices, 

insider 

trading 

and 

substantial 

acquisition  of  securities  or 

control. 

12A 

No  person  shall  directly  or 

- 

indirectly— 

 

New sub-section 

(g)  employ  or  assist  in  employing 

any  device,  scheme  or  artifice  to 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

109 | P a g e  

manipulate  the  books  of  accounts 

or  financial  statement  of  a  listed 

company  to  directly  or  indirectly 

manipulate 

the  price  of 

listed 

securities  or  hide  the  diversion, 

misutilization  or  siphoning  off 

public issue proceeds or assets or 

earnings  of  a  listed  company  or 

company proposed to be listed.  

HEADING  Penalty for insider trading. 

 

 

15G. 

If any insider who,—  

If any insider who,—  

(i)  either on his own behalf or on 

(i)  either  on  his  own  behalf  or  on 

behalf  of  any  other  person, 

behalf of any other person, deals in 

deals  in  securities  of  a  body 

securities  of  a  body  corporate 

corporate  listed  on  any  stock 

listed  on  any  stock  exchange  on 

exchange  on  the  basis  of  any 

the basis  while in possession of 

unpublished 

price-sensitive 

any  unpublished  price-sensitive 

information; or  

information; or  

(ii)  communicates 

any 

(ii)  communicates  any  unpublished 

unpublished 

price-sensitive 

price-sensitive  information  to  any 

information to any person, with 

person, with or without his request 

or without his request for such 

for  such  information  except  as 

information except as required 

required  in  the  ordinary  course  of 

in 

the  ordinary  course  of 

business or under any law; or 

business or under any law; or 

(iii)  counsels, or procures for any other 

(iii)  counsels,  or  procures  for  any 

person to deal in any securities of 

other  person  to  deal  in  any 

any body corporate on the basis of 

securities 

of 

any 

body 

unpublished 

price-sensitive 

corporate  on 

the  basis  of 

information,  shall  be  liable  to  a 

unpublished 

price-sensitive 

penalty  which  shall  not  be  less 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

110 | P a g e  

information, shall be liable to a 

than  ten  lakh  rupees  but  which 

penalty which shall not be less 

may  extend  to  twenty-five  crore 

than ten lakh rupees but which 

rupees  or  three  times  the  amount 

may  extend 

to 

twenty-five 

of  profits  made  out  of  insider 

crore rupees or three times the 

trading, whichever is higher. 

amount  of  profits  made  out  of 

insider  trading,  whichever  is 

higher. 

Heading  Power to grant immunity. 

Power  to  grant  immunity  or  impose 

lesser penalty. 

24B. (1) 

The Central Government may, on 

The Central Government or the Board 

recommendation  by  the  Board,  if 

may,  on  recommendation  by 

the 

the  Central  Government 

is 

Board,  if  the  Central  Government  is 

satisfied,  that  any  person,  who  is 

satisfied,  that  any  person,  who  is 

alleged to have violated any of the 

alleged  to  have  violated  any  of  the 

provisions of this Act or the rules 

provisions  of  this  Act  or  the  rules  or 

or 

the 

regulations  made 

the regulations made thereunder, has 

thereunder,  has  made  a  full  and 

made  a  full  and  true  disclosure  in 

true  disclosure  in  respect  of  the 

respect of the alleged violation, grant 

alleged  violation,  grant  to  such 

to  such  person,  subject 

to  such 

person, subject to such conditions 

conditions as it may think fit to impose, 

as  it  may  think  fit  to  impose, 

immunity  from  prosecution  for  any 

immunity from prosecution for any 

offence under this Act, or the rules or 

offence under this Act, or the rules 

the  regulations  made  thereunder  or 

or 

the 

regulations  made 

immunity also from the imposition of 

thereunder  or  also 

from 

the 

any penalty under this Act or impose a 

imposition  of  any  penalty  under 

lesser  penalty,  as  it  may  deem  fit, 

this Act with respect to the alleged 

than  leviable  under  this  Act  or  the 

violation:  

 

rules or the regulations with respect 

to the alleged violation:  

 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

111 | P a g e  

Provided  that  no  such  immunity 

Provided that no such immunity shall 

shall  be  granted  by  the  Central 

be 

granted 

by 

the  Central 

Government  in  cases  where  the 

Government  or  the  Board  in  cases 

proceedings  for  the  prosecution 

where 

the  proceedings 

for 

the 

for  any  such  offence  have  been 

prosecution for any such offence have 

instituted  before 

the  date  of 

been  instituted  before  the  date  of 

receipt  of  application  for  grant  of 

receipt of application for grant of such 

such immunity:  

 

immunity:  

 

Provided 

further 

that 

Provided further that recommendation 

recommendation  of 

the  Board 

of  the  Board  under  this  sub-section 

under this sub-section shall not be 

shall not be binding upon the Central 

binding 

upon 

the  Central 

Government. 

Government. 

24B (2) 

 An immunity granted to a person 

An 

immunity  or 

lesser  penalty 

under sub-section (1) may, at any 

granted to a person under sub-section 

time, be withdrawn by the Central 

(1) may, at any time, be withdrawn by 

Government,  if  it  is  satisfied  that 

the  Central  Government  or 

the 

such person had, in the course of 

Board,  if  it  is  satisfied  that  such 

the  proceedings,  not  complied 

person  had,  in  the  course  of  the 

with  the  condition  on  which  the 

proceedings,  not  complied  with  the 

immunity  was  granted  or  had 

condition  on  which  the  immunity  or 

given 

false 

evidence, 

and 

lesser  penalty  was  granted  or  had 

thereupon  such  person  may  be 

given  false  evidence,  and  thereupon 

tried for the offence with respect to 

such  person  may  be  tried  for  the 

which  the  immunity  was  granted 

offence  with  respect  to  which  the 

or  for  any  other  offence  of  which 

immunity  or 

lesser  penalty  was 

he appears to have been guilty in 

granted  or  for  any  other  offence  of 

connection with the contravention 

which he appears to have been guilty 

and shall also become liable to the 

in  connection  with  the  contravention 

imposition  of  any  penalty  under 

and  shall  also  become  liable  to  the 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

112 | P a g e  

this  Act  to  which  such  person 

imposition  of  any  penalty  under  this 

would  have  been  liable,  had  not 

Act to which such person would have 

such immunity been granted. 

been liable, had not such immunity or 

lesser penalty been granted. 

  

 

 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

113 | P a g e  

Annexure V 

Model Risk Checks for Algo Trading 

Mandatory risk checks prescribed by the SEBI and Stock Exchanges 

• Price range check 

• Quantity check 

• Order Value check 

• Cumulative Open Order Value check 

• Automated Execution check 

• Trade price protection (Bad trade price) 

• Market price protection (market order within the price bands) 

• Net position v/s available margins 

• RBI violation checks - FII restricted stocks (only for Cash) 

• MWPL checks (only for FO) 

• Position limits checks in FO 

• Spread order Quantity and Value Limit (FO) 

• Security wise User Order limit for each user ID in Cash 

• Trading limits checks (Buy / Sell separate - User Order Value Limit) 

• Exposure limit checks (Individual client/overall) 

• User Order Value limit 

• Branch value limit for each Branch ID 

 

 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

114 | P a g e  

Model - Circuit Breaker Check 

Price limit checks are ineffective for Market Orders by definition. Using a static reference 

price  (e.g.  Arrival-Mid)  allows  setting  an  ultimate  price  beyond  which  Algo  will  not 

participate. 

Intermittent risk checks should be built in with dynamic price reference such that there is 

a combination of soft and hard alerts / checks which alert the Trader and require his/her 

attention and intervention. 

Model - Market Depth Check 

Circuit breaker checks, whilst setting an ultimate price beyond which it will not participate, 

still allows Algo to participate up to and including that price. This check can specifically 

help  better  control  the  liquidity  seeking  Algorithms.  Generally,  in  this  alert,  a  real  time 

order  book-based  check  is  required  to  ensure  that  no  single  trade  impacts  price 

significantly. 

Market depth checks operate to calculate how many price levels will be taken out if an 

order were to execute in the market. A check like Market Depth Checks should be built-

in  so  that  algorithmic  orders  from  the  Exchange  are  pulled  out  if  there  is  not  enough 

liquidity available up-to X% from Far Touch. Far touch is the best price on the opposite 

side. 

Model Last Price Tolerance (LPT) Check 

One limiting factor of market depth checks is that the Far Touch can move rapidly, taking 

the Market Depth Limit along with it. Last Price Tolerance check can help Algorithm from 

not participating at a dislocated far touch price.  

A check like LPT should be built-in so that if the Far Touch moves rapidly, this check can 

act as an additional control. 

Model Fair Value Check 

Fair Value checks operate to prevent algorithms from following a temporary price spike 

by setting a secondary limit based on a short term moving average. 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

115 | P a g e  

A check like this should be built in so that when exceptional volumes have trades either 

due to a large block/fat finger error in split seconds (fractions of second), Fair Value Check 

will help cancel the noise and further unintended cascading effect. 

 

 

 

Report of Committee on Fair Market Conduct | August 2018  

116 | P a g e  

