 

Consultation Paper on 

 

Review of the Regulatory Framework for Debenture Trustees (DTs) 

1.  Objective 

The  objective  of  the  consultation  paper  is  to  seek  comments/  views  from  the  public  on  the 

proposals that are intended to strengthen the regulatory framework for Debenture Trustees (DTs) 

as well as empower the DTs to effectively discharge their responsibilities towards the debenture 

holders of listed debt issues / proposed to be listed debt issues.  

 

2.  Background 

SEBI intends to review the regulatory framework for DTs and put in place provisions that would 

further  secure  the  interests  of  the  debenture  holders  of  listed  debt  issues,  enable  the  DTs  to 

perform their duties in the interest of the investors more effectively and promptly and also aid in 

taking a step forward towards creating and sustaining a vibrant market for debt securities. SEBI 

has  also  held  discussions  with  representatives  of  various  DTs,  other  market  participants/ 

stakeholders  to  understand  their  concerns  and  suggestions.  It  has  been  observed  that  there 

have been cases of delay in enforcing the security in the event of default, which is detrimental to 

the interests of the investors. Data received from the Trustee Association of India (TAI) indicates 

that the DTs have been able to enforce the security successfully in around 35% of the issues 

that have defaulted in the past 5 financial years, thereby building the case for strengthening the 

framework for DTs and ensuring co – operation from the Issuers to enable the DTs to act swiftly 

in taking corrective measures in the interests of the investors. 

The Consultation Paper takes into account suggestions from the various stakeholders and lists 

down proposals for public comments, along with detailed rationale for the same 

 

3.  Proposals 

3.1.  Enhancement of net-worth requirement for DTs: 

Minimum  net  worth  requirement  to  be  eligible  for  grant  of  registration  as  a  DT  to  be 

increased to ` 10 Crores, from current requirement of ` 2 crores. The existing registered 

 

Page 1 of 8 

DTs having a net worth of less than rupees ` 10 crores, shall be provided a period of three 

 

years to meet the said net worth requirement. 

Rationale: 

Currently,  as  per  DT  Regulations,  an  applicant,  desirous  of  getting  registered  as  DT,  is 

required to have a minimum net-worth of ` 2 Crores to be eligible for grant of registration 

as a DT, and the same has to be maintained at all times during the period of registration. 

DTs  have  an  onerous  responsibility  of  working  in  the  interests  of  the  investors  through 

careful  monitoring  of  the  covenants  of  the  trust  deed  and  ensuring  that  regular  interest/ 

principal payments are made to the debenture holders along with complying with various 

Regulations,  Circulars,  etc.  On  account  of  these  enormous  administrative,  legal  and 

enforcement related duties are cast on the DTs. In order to ensure efficient and effective 

discharge of the same, it is necessary that financially sound entities are granted registration 

as DTs.  

With  the  development  of  the  corporate  bond  market  in  India,  the  responsibilities  and 

obligations  of  DTs  have  increased  manifold  over  the  years,  and  their  relevance  in  the 

system is only expected to increase further.  

Accordingly, it is proposed that the minimum net worth requirement to be eligible for grant 

of registration as a DT may be increased to ` 10 Crores. 

3.2.   Additional  interest  to  debenture  holders  for  non  –  creation  of  charge  on  security  

within the prescribed timelines  

In  case  an  Issuer  is  unable  to  create  the  charge  on  security  in  favour  of  DT  within  the 

timelines as specified in the SEBI Regulations/ Companies Act/ Trust Deed, the issuer shall 

pay additional interest to the debenture holders, for the period till such charge is created. 

The  additional  interest  shall  be  specified  in  the  Trust  Deed  and  disclosed  in  the  Offer 

Document. 

 

Rationale: 

Creation  of  charge  on  security  is  of  foremost  importance  in  a  secured  debenture.  The 

debenture holders subscribe to such issue under the comfort that the issuer has kept aside 

Page 2 of 8 

 

 

security to fulfill its payment obligations even in the event of issuer defaulting on its interest/ 

 

redemption payment obligations.  

 

As per Companies (Share capital and debentures) Rules 2014 and SEBI (Issue and Listing 

of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008, a debenture trust deed for securing the issue of debt 

securities in favour of the DT has to be executed by the issuer within three months of the 

closure of the issue.  

 

It has been observed that in the past that there have been cases where there have been 

delays  in    creation  of  charge  on  the  security  in  favour  of  DT  within  the  aforementioned 

specified timelines in spite of regular follow up by the DTs or  the issuer has defaulted on 

creation of charge, resulting in losses to the investors. In such cases, the debenture cannot 

be treated as a secured debenture and would therefore attract a higher interest rate akin 

to  it  being  an  unsecured  debenture.  The  higher  interest  rate  shall  be  applicable  for  the 

period of non-creation of charge. 

 

3.3. Disclosure of compensation arrangement with clients by DTs on their websites  

DTs  shall  disclose  the  nature  of  compensation  arrangements  with  their  clients  on  their 

websites. The disclosure shall include the minimum fee that a DT will charge and factors 

determining the fee charged.  

Rationale: 

With the growth and development of the corporate bond market, the scope of work of DTs 

has enhanced and today DTs are responsible for providing various services/ facilities like, 

data  maintenance,  monitoring  of  the  issue,  information  sharing  with  CRA/  SEBI, 

enforcement actions etc.  However, it has been observed that many DTs, in a bid to outdo 

competition, charge very low fee for the issue, which in turn affects the quality of the work 

done by DTs .It hampers the ability of the DT to monitor the issue for timely payment and    

in securing the interests of the debenture holders at the time of default thereby putting the 

interests of the investors at a huge risk  

In a bid to bring transparency in the market and to make investors aware of the likely price 

structure being charged and its likely impact on the quality of services being offered by the 

Page 3 of 8 

 

 

DT, it is proposed that DTs shall disclose the nature of compensation agreement with its 

clients, including the minimum fee to be charged (in absolute terms or as a percentage of 

 

the issue size) and factors determining the same.  

  

3.4. NOCs from other lenders for creation of charge on security 

For  creation  of  charge  on  the  security  in  favour  of  DT,  no  objection  certificate  shall  be 

obtained from other charge holders on a security before opening of the issue. 

Rationale: 

The creation of charge on the security is of paramount importance for securing the interest 

of  debenture  holders.  It  has  been  observed  that  at  times  the  creation  of  charge  on  the 

security is delayed on account of not obtaining NOCs from other lenders having charge on 

the same security. In such a situation, either a sub charge is created in the favour of DT or 

no  charge  is  created,  which  is  not  in  the  interest  of  the  investor.  Therefore,  it  must  be 

ensured that charge on security is created on priority and in the time limit specified under 

the relevant SEBI regulations. Obtaining NOCs from other such lenders forthwith prior to 

the  opening  of  the  issue  will  ensure  prompt  creation  of  charge  on  security  and  early 

registration of charge with RoC. It is therefore proposed that in cases where there are other 

charge holders on the same security, issuers shall obtain  no objection certificate (NOC) 

from other charge holders on that security and provide the same to the DT before opening 

of the issue.  

 

3.5. No requirement for meeting of debenture holders in case of default in public issues 

In case of public issues, there shall be no requirement of calling for a meeting of debenture 

holders in the event of default by the Issuer and the DT can directly enforce the security 

without obtaining any consent from the debenture holders. 

 

Rationale: 

As per the requirements of SEBI (DT) Regulations, 1993, DTs are obligated to call or cause 

to  be  called  by  the  body  corporate,  a  meeting  of  all  the  debenture  holders  pursuant  to 

happening of any event, which constitutes a default. During such meetings, consent of the 

Page 4 of 8 

 

 

 

holders is taken for enforcing the security. In case of a public issue where retail investors 

form  a  significant  part  of  the  subscriber  base,  while  it  is  necessary  that  the  security  is 

expeditiously  enforced,  it  is  observed  that  taking  such  consent  of  debenture  holders  at 

times  delays  the  process  as  these  large  number  of  investors  are  geographically  widely 

spread.  It  is,  therefore,  proposed  to  do  away  with  the  requirement  of  calling  meeting  of 

debenture  holders  in  the  event  of  default  in  public  issue.  The  DT  would  therefore  be 

empowered  to  directly  enforce  the  security  without  obtaining  any  consent  from  the 

debenture holders in case of public issues. This shall also bring the requirements in line 

with Company (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014, which states, inter – alia, that 

the  requirement  of  calling  such  meetings  shall  not  be  applicable  to  the  public  offer  of 

debentures. 

 

3.6. E- voting for obtaining consent of debenture holders 

 

E – Voting shall be considered a valid option for obtaining the consent of debenture holders 

wherever applicable. 

 

Rationale: 

 

As  a  practice,  DTs  obtain  the  consent  of  debenture  holders  while  taking  decisions  of 

significance, such as enforcement of security post default by an issuer, for which a meeting 

of the debenture holders is called by the DT. However, it has been noticed that very few 

debenture  holders turn up for  the meeting,  which  constrains  the  DT’s  ability  to  take  any 

decision  and  also  poses  the  problem  of  the  decision  not  representing  the  view  of  the 

majority of the holders To enable the DTs to tide over the difficulty of ensuring presence of 

all debenture holders in the meeting, it is proposed that e - voting may be considered by 

the DTs for obtaining consent of the debenture holders. This will not only enable a wider 

participation of the debenture holders but also lead to early and smooth decision on the 

course of action to be taken by the DTs.   

 

3.7. Calendar of interest/ redemptions, due and paid, to be displayed on the website of 

DT(s) for the financial year. 

Page 5 of 8 

 

 

 

DT shall display on their website the details of interest/ redemption due to the debenture 

holders  in  respect  of  all  issues  during  a  financial  year  within  5  working  days  of  start  of 

financial  year.  The  DT  shall  also  include  the  details  of  interest/  redemption  due  of  new 

issues brought out during the financial year within 5 days of closing of the Issue. Status of 

payment shall be updated in the calendar by the DT not later than 1 day from the due date 

of payment. In case the payment is made with a delay by the issuer, the DT shall update 

the calendar specifying the date of such payment, with a remark ‘delayed payment’. 

Rationale: 

Currently, there is no defined platform where the status of payments made by the Issuers 

can be readily accessed. Availability of such a platform shall assist the stakeholders and 

the market participants like Credit rating agencies, Research analysts in keeping track of 

the financial health and payment of the Issuer. This shall ensure prompt dissemination of 

information  regarding  delays  in  payments/  redemptions  by  the  Issuers  and  shall  also 

enable debenture holders in following up with the DT as well as in making additional efforts 

for  regularizing  the  payments.  Such  disclosures  shall  also  ensure  transparency  in  the 

conduct of the DTs and the issuers. 

 

3.8. Extension of time for Issuer for submitting certificate signed by DT in  accordance 

with Regulation 52 (5) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 

After intimation to stock exchanges, the issuer shall furnish its financial results to its DT on 

the  same  day.  The  issuer  shall  have  a  period  of  seven  working  days  from  the  date  of 

submission  of  financial  results  to  the  stock  exchange(s),  to  file  the  certificate  from  the 

debenture trustee that it has taken note of the contents, as proposed in regulation 52(5) of 

LODR. 

Rationale: 

As per Regulation 30 (6) of SEBI LODR Regulations, the company that has listed its shares, 

is required to submit the outcome of the Board Meeting along with financial results to Stock 

Exchanges within 30 minutes of the meeting. As per Regulations 52 (1) and 52 (4)of SEBI 

LODR Regulations, the company that has listed its debentures, has to submit the financial 

results along with other details to stock exchanges within 45 days from the from the end of 

Page 6 of 8 

 

 

 

half year. Further as per Regulation 52 (5) of SEBI LODR Regulations while submitting this 

information, the company has to submit a certificate signed by the DT that it has taken note 

of the contents submitted to the Stock exchanges.  

 

The  issuers  that  have  listed  their  shares  and  debentures  insist  that  the  DTs  issue  the 

aforementioned certificate within 15 minutes of issuer's Board Meeting to enable them to 

submit the same to stock exchange within 30 minutes. Considering the fact that the DTs 

are  acting  for  a  number  of  issues,  DTs  have  expressed  their  inability  to  certify  the 

information submitted to the DTs by the issuers within 30 minutes. Therefore, it is proposed 

that issuers that have their shares also listed shall provide the financial results to DTs on 

the same day, post  intimation of the same  to the stock exchange(s). Thereafter, issuers 

shall have a period of seven working days from the date of submission of financial results 

to the stock exchange(s), to file the certificate from the debenture trustee that it has taken 

note of the contents, as required vide regulation 52 (5) of LODR.  

 

3.9.  Furnishing of updated list of debenture holders to the DT by Issuers/ Registrars to 

an Issue and Share Transfer Agent (RTA) 

 

The  RTA  /  Issuers  shall  forward  the  list  of  debenture  holders  to  the  DT  at  the  time  of 

allotment and thereafter on a monthly basis on the first working day of every next month. 

Rationale: 

 

Generally DTs incorporate a clause in the agreement signed with the Issuer that requires 

the  Issuer  to  submit  details  of  debenture  holders  at  the  time  of  allotment.  Further 

Companies Act mandates that the issuers shall provide list of debenture holders in their 

periodical  reports  to  the  DTs.  However,  most  of  the  times  this  information  is  either  not 

provided or provided with delay to the DTs. Further, when an Issuer defaults or is close to 

default,  the  issuer  does  not  co-operate  with  the  DT  to  provide  latest  list  of  debenture 

holders.  The  DT,  therefore,  does  not  have  updated  details  of  debenture  holders,  in  the 

absence  of  which,  the  DT  is  unable  to  communicate  any  relevant  information  to  those 

debenture holders whose details are not available with the DT.  

Page 7 of 8 

 

 

 

 

In order to provide an alternative source for obtaining and verifying the details provided by 

the issuer, it is proposed that RTAs shall also submit details of debenture holders to the 

DT at the time of allotment and on a monthly basis on the first working day of each month 

thereafter, to assist the DTs in contacting the debenture holders promptly. 

4.  Public Comments: 

Public comments are invited on the proposals contained in the Consultation Paper in the following 

format: 

 

 

Name of entity/ person/ intermediary/ organization: __________________ 

Sr. No. 

Pertains to Point No. 

Comments/ 

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

suggestions 

Comments/ suggestions may be forwarded by email to comments@sebi.gov.in or sent by post to 

the following address latest by November 16, 2018: 

 

Deputy General Manager  

Division of Supervision 3 

Market Intermediaries Regulation and Supervision Department 

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, Bandra Kurla Complex  

Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051  

Ph: 022 - 26449315  

 

Issued on: October 24, 2018 

 

Page 8 of 8 

