 

 

 

Consultation paper on framework for Warehouse Service Providers (WSP), 

warehouses, assayers and other allied service providers engaged in 
respect of non- agricultural goods such as  precious metals, gems & 

stones, metals, minerals and alloys but excluding crude oil, electricity and 

natural gas 

 

 

the 

framework 

1  Objective 
 
1.1  The objective of the consultation paper is to seek comments / views from the 
for  Warehouse  Service  Providers  (WSP), 
public  on 
warehouses, assayers and other allied service providers engaged in respect 
of non- agricultural goods such as  precious metals, gems & stones, metals, 
minerals and alloys but excluding crude oil, electricity and natural gas 

 
2  Background 
2.1  Warehousing or Storage infrastructure and its ancillary services play a critical 
role in the delivery mechanism of the Commodity Derivatives Markets. A 
robust & credible warehousing infrastructure is sine qua non for an effective 
Commodity  Derivatives  Market  that  can  inspire  confidence  amongst  the 
market  participants  and  other  stake  holders.  Clearing  corporations  are 
responsible  for  guaranteeing  settlement  and  ensuring  good  delivery. 
Therefore it is imperative on their part to ensure that warehouses exercise 
due diligence to ensure safety and quality of the goods deposited with them 
by the depositors.  
 
2.2  To achieve this objective, all the Clearing Corporations are required to frame 
norms for storage and other allied services for compliance by the WSPs, 
assayers and other such allied service providers to be engaged by them, so 
as to put in place a robust mechanism, for ensuring good delivery of the goods 
to the market participants. 
 
In this regard, SEBI vide its circular dated September 27, 2016 has already 
issued a comprehensive framework for Warehouse Service Providers (WSP), 
warehouses, assayers and other allied service providers engaged by Stock 
Exchanges/Clearing  Corporations  in  respect  of  agricultural  and  agri-
processed goods.  
 

2.3 

 

Page 1 of 27 

 

 

 
2.4  Besides the agricultural and agri-processed goods, derivative contracts on 
various  non-agricultural  goods  are  also  traded  on  the  stock  exchanges 
wherein deliveries are taking place on the exchanges. Although the stock 
exchanges/clearing corporations may have prescribed certain storage norms 
regarding non-agricultural commodities, there is no uniformity in the norms 
specified by such exchanges/CCs. Hence, in order to ensure good delivery 
by the clearing corporations, SEBI is considering prescribing (as under) a 
broad set of standards and norms for compliance by CC accredited storage 
agencies for storage of physically delivered non-agri goods such as precious 
metals,  gems  &  stones,  metals,  minerals  and  alloys  etc.,  but  presently 
excluding crude oil, electricity and gas. 
 

Agricultural goods: 

3  Tripartite agreement between Stock Exchange, Clearing Corporation and 
WSP:  The  responsibility  of  the  clearing  and  settlement  of  commodity 
derivatives trades lies with the clearing corporations, but the contract design 
lies with the recognised stock exchanges. Thus, it is appropriate that both the 
stock exchanges and the respective clearing corporation (CC) shall enter into 
a tripartite agreement with the WSPs recognised by them. 
4  Accreditation  of  Warehouse  Service  Providers 
 
4.1  Warehouse Service Provider: A warehouse service provider (WSP) is an 
entity which provides a storage facility for storing underlying goods related to 
a commodity derivatives contract. Depending on the nature of the commodity 
the storage facility may include warehouses, sheds, tanks, pipelines, marine 
vessels, open storage areas, vaults or other forms of storage as appropriate 
to a deliverable good. 

 
4.2  The Clearing Corporation shall follow a transparent process for accreditation 
of warehouses/vaults by issuing open advertisements in leading newspapers 
and/or putting the same up on the website and by following a transparent 
selection process thereafter. The selection process being/to be followed for 
such  accreditation  shall  be  displayed  on  the  website  of  the  Clearing 
Corporation in advance. The accreditation of the warehouses/vaults shall be 
done with the approval of the Risk Management Committee of the Clearing 
Corporation. The Clearing Corporations shall ensure that the applications of 
the WSPs are processed within a stipulated time frame. 
 

(WSP) 

for  Non-

 

Page 2 of 27 

 

 

 
4.3  A WSP can be accredited with more than one Clearing Corporation. In such 
case, no Clearing Corporation shall mandate that its WSP cannot provide 
services to another Clearing Corporations.  However, if a warehouse of a 
WSP is accredited for a particular commodity on a Clearing Corporation, then 
the same warehouse shall not be used for the same commodity for another 
Clearing Corporation. 
 
4.4  The accreditation of a WSP shall, unless any expulsion proceedings pending 
against it, be subject to renewal after a period of 3 years considering WSP’s 
performance  during  the  accreditation  period  such  as  quality  of  services 
rendered, number of clients’ complaints and effective resolutions thereof etc.. 
The renewal shall be approved by the Risk Management Committee of the 
Clearing Corporation. During the renewal process, the Clearing Corporation 
and the WSP shall continue to be responsible for the commodities stored 
therein. The existing accreditation, if any, would be valid for 6 months from 
the date of issue of these guidelines and thereafter the same would be subject 
to renewal. 
 
4.5  The Warehouses/ Vaults shall obtain registration under applicable laws or 
any other registration as may be required under any law and the same   may 
be intimated by it to the Clearing Corporation prior to providing the storage 
services to the Clearing Corporation. 

 

 

5  Eligibility and Experience of WSP /Promoters/Promoter Group of WSP: 
 
5.1  A WSP shall be a corporate body and in the business of providing storage 
services for various non-agricultural commodities such as Precious metals, 
Metals, Gems & Stones, etc. 

5.2  The Promoters of the WSP should be responsible persons/entities with a 
good business reputation and credibility, and must be in the warehousing 
business for at least 3 years as on the date of their operation having domain 
knowledge  of  handling  storage/delivery  operations  of  Precious  Metals, 
Metals, Gems & Stones and alloys. 
 

 

Page 3 of 27 

 

 

 
5.3  WSP and Promoters/ Promoter Group of WSP shall not have any previous 
laws  or  being  expelled  by  any 
record  of  serious  violation  of 
Exchange/Clearing Corporation in at least last three years. The Clearing 
Corporation can take an appropriate undertaking from the WSP in this regard. 

 
6  Financial Norms for the WSP: 
 
6.1  Capital and Net worth: A WSP shall be a corporate body with the minimum 

net worth requirement as under: 
6.1.1. An accredited WSP shall have subscribed and paid-up share capital 

6.1.2. An  accredited  WSP  providing  storage  services  shall  meet  the 

 

 

 

of at least, INR 10 crore.  
 
following net worth criteria:- 
 

Commodity Complex 
Precious metals, Gems 

and Stones 

Base/Industrial Metals 

Minimum net worth 

INR  25 crores for Precious metals, 

Gems and Stones 

INR 10 crores for single metal 
INR 25 crores for multiple metals 

6.1.3. Existing WSPs shall meet the requirements prescribed at 6.1.1 and 

6.1.2 latest by March 31, 2020. 

6.1.4. Further, the Clearing Corporation shall ensure that the value of the 
goods stored in the accredited warehouses of WSP shall not, at any 
point of time, exceed 33 times of the net worth of the WSP. 
 
following manner. 
 

6.1.5. The Clearing Corporation shall calculate the net worth of WSP in the 

"the aggregate value of paid up equity share capital plus free 
funds  and 
reserves  (excluding  statutory 

funds,  benefit 

 

Page 4 of 27 

 

 

 

 
the 
reserves  created  out  of  revaluation)  reduced  by 
investments  in  businesses,  whether  related  or  unrelated, 
aggregate  value  of  accumulated 
losses  and  deferred 
expenditure not written off, including miscellaneous expenses 
not written off." 

 
6.1.6. In case of reduction in net worth below the stipulated amount, a time 
period of six month may be allowed to the WSP to augment its net 
worth. In the event the WSP is unable to augment the net worth to the 
requisite level within the allowed time frame, the WSP shall not carry 
out any new business i.e. can not include any new warehouse/vault for 
new contracts/commodity/location. The Clearing Corporation may take 
suitable measures, which shall be disclosed on its website for public 
information, with respect to the existing goods handled by such WSP. 
6.1.7. The WSP shall submit a net worth certificate wherever available 
and/or certificate from its statutory auditors to the Clearing Corporation 
once in every six months i.e. net worth as at the end of every March 
and September, within 45 calendar days, from the end of March and 
September. 
 
6.1.8. The Annual Financial Statements of the WSP should be audited and 
submitted to the Clearing Corporation within six months from the end 
of Financial Year.  Further, each WSP shall also be required to file its 
unaudited  quarterly  financial  statements  for  all  the  quarters  of  a 
financial years to the Clearing Corporation, within 30 calendar days of 
the date of a quarterly statement. 
 

 

6.2  Security Deposit: The WSP / WSP seeking accreditation with a Clearing 
Corporation shall be required to furnish a refundable security deposit along 
with the application form. 
6.2.1.  Such security deposit shall be at least INR 50 lakhs. 
6.2.2.  Security  deposit  shall  not  be  released  until  six  months  after 
cancellation or revocation or surrender of the accreditation of the 
WSP or until after satisfaction of every claim against the deposit, 
whichever is later.  

 

Page 5 of 27 

 

6.2.3.  Such security deposit shall be in form of cash or cash equivalent 

like Bank Fixed Deposits, Bank Guarantees etc. 

 

 

 

 

 
6.3  Financial Security Deposits (FSD):  

 

6.3.1. The  WSP shall furnish FSD in  addition to  the  aforesaid security 

deposit as under :-  

Value of Goods stored 
Upto INR 250 crores 

Above INR 250 crores and 
upto INR 500 crores  
Above INR 500 crores 

FSD  
3% of the aggregate  value of 
stored commodities 
4% of the aggregate  value of 
stored commodities 
5% of the aggregate  value of 
stored commodities 

6.3.2. The FSD shall be in form of liquid assets with applicable haircuts and 

 
concentration limits as listed below:- 

Minimum haircut  Limits 
Item 
Cash 
0 
Bank Fixed Deposit  0 
0 
Bank Guarantees 
Securities of the 
10% 
Central Government 

No Limit but 
minimum 25% 
 
 

 
6.3.3. The Clearing Corporations shall lay down exposure limits either in 
rupee terms or as percentage of the total assets to be received as 
FSD/SD that can be exposed to a single bank directly or indirectly. 
The  total  exposure  towards  any  bank  would  include  Bank  Fixed 
Deposit and Bank Guarantees issued by the bank which have been 
deposited by WSP. 

 

Page 6 of 27 

 

 

 

6.3.4. Not  more  than  1%  of  such  assets  deposited  with  the  Clearing 
Corporation, shall be exposed to any single bank which has a net 
worth of less than INR 500 crores and is not rated P1 (or P1+) or 
equivalent,  by  a  recognized  credit  rating  agency  or by  a  reputed 
foreign credit rating agency, and not more than 10% of such deposit 
deposited with the Clearing Corporations shall be exposed to all such 
banks put together. 
 
6.3.5. A daily monitoring of the FSD vis-à-vis the value of the commodities 
stored needs to be done so as to ensure that the minimum stipulated 
FSD  are  always  maintained  with  the  Clearing  Corporation.  The 
Clearing Corporation may ask for additional FSD over that stipulated 
above, if considered necessary.  

market on replacement value on ongoing basis.  

 
6.3.6. The FSD vis-a-vis the value of goods stored should be marked to 
 
6.3.7. The Clearing Corporations may specify the liquidity ratio (i.e. Liquidity 
Ratio=  Current  Assets/Current  Liabilities)  for  WSP,  however  it  is 
desirable that such ratio is greater than 1. The Clearing Corporations 
may, however, keep higher ratio. 
 

 

7  Fit and Proper Criteria: 
7.1  The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that the WSP,  Promoters of WSP, 
assayers, Key Management Personnel (KMPs) of WSP, warehouses and 
their  Assayers  shall  always  be  'fit  and  proper'  to  carry  out  business  of 
warehousing/vaulting,  have  adequate  knowledge  of,  and  experience  in 
generally  accepted  warehousing  /  vaulting  and  handling  practices  for 
Commodities,  and  are  competent  and  willing 
to  operate  such  a 
warehouse/vault for which the WSP has a valid license/registration /expertise 
under  the  appropriate  state  warehousing  laws/GST  Laws/or  any  other 
registration  as  may  be  required  under  any  law    in  respect  of  the 
warehouses/vaults concerned.  

 
 

 

Page 7 of 27 

 

 

 

 

 
8  Corporate Governance norms for WSP: 
8.1  Management and Employees: The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that 
the accredited WSP has a professional management team to oversee its 
functioning and operations.  
8.1.1. The  Clearing  Corporation  shall  ensure  that  the  Key  Management 
Personnel  (KMPs)  of  WSP  have  adequate  knowledge  of,  and 
experience in generally accepted warehousing and handling practices 
for the specific commodities for which it has been accredited and are 
competent and willing to operate such a warehouse/vault, and do not 
have any conflict of interest in discharge of their functions. 
 
8.1.2. The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that the WSP/Management of 
WSP  (defined  as  ‘key  managerial  personnel’  including  whole  time 
directors of WSP and their ‘relatives’ as per Companies Act, 2013) or 
entities owned or controlled by promoters/management of WSP / Group 
concerns / associates directly or indirectly or persons ‘acting in concert’ 
are not allowed, either directly or indirectly, to trade on the commodity 
derivatives exchange in the commodity for which it is accredited by 
Clearing Corporation. The Clearing Corporation shall not provide for 
any exemption in this regard. 

 
8.1.3. The Clearing Corporation may obtain an annual declaration from the 
compliance officer of WSP to the effect that the WSP/Management of 
WSP or entities owned or controlled by management of WSP/Group 
concerns directly or indirectly or persons ‘acting in concert’ have not 
traded on exchange. 

 
8.1.4. The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that the  WSP has adequate 
number of competent employees at all times who have the experience, 
capacity and ability of operating the business without any conflict of 
interest.  

 
8.1.5. The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that the staff/employees of the 
WSP including the assayers, who are managing the day-to-day affairs 
of the warehouses/vaults, deployed both in the office of the WSP and 
in  its  warehouses/vaults,  are  duly  trained  on  their  expected  tasks 
through the Clearing Corporation’s delivery business related training 

 

Page 8 of 27 

 

 

 

 
 

programmes or are deputed to attend the certification programme on 
commodity derivatives and storage practices/warehousing conducted 
by National Institute of Securities market (NISM), if any. 
 

8.2  Compliance officer: The WSP shall appoint a compliance officer who shall 
be responsible for monitoring the compliance with relevant Act, rules and 
regulations,  notifications,  guidelines  and  instructions  issued  by  relevant 
authorities from time to time. The Compliance officer of the WSP shall ensure 
that  all  norms  mentioned  are  followed  by  the  WSP  and  should  issue  a 
declaration to that effect to the Clearing Corporation, at regular intervals as 
directed by the Clearing Corporation. 

8.3  The WSP shall comply with relevant ISO standards and/or its equivalent.  
8.4  Standard Operating Procedure (SOP): The WSP shall have a SOP and the 
Clearing Corporation shall obtain a standard operating procedure in respect 
of  all  the  concerned  warehouses/vaults  from  the  WSP  before  granting 
accreditation to such warehouses/vaults. The SOP may cover the following 
but not restricted to: 
8.4.1.  Procedures for acceptance of goods to be deposited 
8.4.2.  Weigh bridge empanelment in case of base metals/industrial metals 
while  digital  electronic  weighing  scales  for  the  precious  metals, 
gems and  stones.  Procedure for the calibration  of the  weighing 
scales. 
8.4.3.  Procedures for weighing, sampling of goods to be deposited as per 
industry standards,  
8.4.4.  Procedure  for  verification  of  commodity  and  communication  to 
depositors,  
8.4.5.  Procedure  for  depositing  and  identifying  the  Exchange  related 
goods, 
8.4.6.  Procedure for maintaining the quality of the goods stored as per the 
exchange contract specification, 
8.4.7.  Procedure for Know your depositor requirements, 
8.4.8.  Security  policy  for  ensuring  the  safety  of  the  goods  from  theft, 
8.4.9.  Procedure  and  guidelines  for  scientific  storage  of  commodities 
8.4.10.  Procedure  for  losses  caused  due  to  theft,  fire,  burglary,  fraud, 
8.4.11.  Procedure for internal verification of commodities  

burglary etc., 
including stacking 
negligence and force majeure events, 

 

Page 9 of 27 

 

 
8.4.12.  Selection of Location  
8.4.13.  Grievance redressal procedures 
8.4.14.  Role and responsibilities of employees (including outsourced staff) 
8.4.15.  Model warehouse/vault agreement format 
8.4.16.  Maintenance of surroundings, infrastructure etc. 

 

8.5  The WSP shall have good internal systems and controls which should meet 
the operating guidelines issued by the Clearing Corporation from time to time. 
The  WSP  shall  have  clear  delegation  of  powers  to  meet  operational 
requirement.  

8.6  A WSP shall intimate / notify in writing to the Clearing Corporation, if there is 
any material change in its SOP and its internal systems and control, prior to 
making such change. 

8.7  WSP shall report to the Clearing Corporation within three business days of 
initiation of any civil and criminal proceedings by or against it  and shall also 
intimate the Clearing Corporation if there is probability of any such legal 
proceedings being initiated involving it ,as soon as the same comes to the 
knowledge of the WSP. 

 
9  Know Your Depositor: 
9.1  The WSP shall comply with Know Your Depositor (KYD) Policy as prescribed 

 

by the Clearing Corporation from time to time.  

9.2  The Clearing Corporation and WSP shall at any point of time be able to 
identify the depositor of the goods deposited in registered warehouses/vault, 
the owner of the deposited goods (in case the depositor is an agent of the 
actual owner), and also the actual beneficiary (in case the owner and the 
actual beneficiary are also different) of the deposited/stored commodities. 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Page 10 of 27 

 

 

 

 

 
10  PAN requirement: 
10.1 The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that the WSPs are under obligation to 
provide to the Clearing Corporation the details including PAN numbers of its 
Promoters, Promoter group entities, its holding/subsidiaries/associates and 
other  related  entities,  persons  ‘acting  in  concert’,  Key  Management 
Personnel at the time of accreditation and update the same on periodical 
basis as mandated by the Clearing Corporations and whenever any change 
is noted by WSP, in this regard. 

 
11  Facilities & Infrastructure Requirement  
11.1 The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that the WSP should ideally own the 
warehouse/vault. Alternatively the WSP should hold a direct lease with the 
owners for a long period, say for at least 3 years.  The Clearing Corporation 
shall ensure that the warehouses/vaults provided by the WSP are under 
absolute control of the WSP. In case a warehouse/vault is a leased property 
it should be ensured that no third party including the owner/ lessor of the 
warehouse,  has  any  role  to  play  in  the  operations  and  managing  the 
concerned warehouses operated by the WSP. 

 

 

 

Page 11 of 27 

 

 

A. Precious Metals, Gems and Stones:  

 
 
 
11.2 The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that the WSP for precious metals to 
be eligible for accreditation have reasonable facility and infrastructure for 
proper handling and storage of commodity such as:- 
11.2.1 The warehouses/ vaults are physically and operationally suitable for the 
proper storage of such precious metals and the security and surveillance 
equipments to include: 

11.2.1.1 
11.2.1.2 
11.2.1.3 
11.2.1.4 
11.2.1.5 

CCTV (Close Circuit TeleVision) monitors.  
Indoor & Outdoor IR (Infra-Red) Cameras. 
Sensors: Vibration, Smoke, Movement etc. 
Panic Switches & Alarm Systems. 
Recoding systems such as DVR (Digital Video Recording) System 
and have DVR (Digital Video Recording) in a secured place/ area (pre-
vault Area/Packing Area) under lock and key. 
Interlocking Panel for steel doors. 
Electromagnetic locks for steel doors. 
Control Panel with Auto dialer. 
Video Door Phone/Biometric Sensor. 
The vault shall be attack and fire proof with SFSR (Steel Fabricated 
HSD (High Security Door) with Grill Gate with combination, 

11.2.1.6 
11.2.1.7 
11.2.1.8 
11.2.1.9 
11.2.1.10  Metal Detector. 
11.2.1.11 
11.2.1.12 

Strong Room) or Additional RCC wall 
mechanical & timer locks (Steel Door with 2 mechanical locks may be 
used in low risk areas) to be used to Control Access to Vault. 
All doors to feature high security locking mechanism & equipped 
with a spring or hydraulic automatic door closure. 
The recording / storage capability of surveillance data in the DVR 
should be adequate and meets international standards say for a period of 
minimum one year. 
maintained thereof 
/replaced immediately or as earliest as possible. 

Security & Surveillance system to be checked daily & a record 
Non-functioning items to be reported to Security & repaired 

11.2.1.13 
11.2.1.14 

11.2.1.15 
11.2.1.16 

 

 

Page 12 of 27 

 

 

 
11.3 The WSP  shall  provide  a  fully  secured  indoor  facility  for  the  storage  of 
precious metals, as acceptable to the Clearing Corporation. The Vault for 
gold, silver, other precious metals, gems and stones must be accessible by 
armoured vehicle.  

 

11.4 WSPs shall have adequate security personnel for each of its registered vault 
with  required  facilities  to  immediately  communicate  any  unlawful  entry, 
burglary, theft or damage or potential loss to the deposited goods to the WSP.  
11.5 There shall be provision to accommodate two separate power supplies, one 
for main lighting/fans and other for sensors, cameras, etc. All electrical wiring 
inside vault shall be as per the state-of-the-art safety standards. The power 
for lighting/fans inside vault shall be controlled by a power cut-off switch 
provided on vault door so that when the external vault door is closed, the 
power for lighting/fan inside vault shall get cut-off automatically. The other 
power supply for sensors and cameras inside vault shall continue even after 
the vault door is closed. 

 

 

 

11.6 The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that the vaults provided by the WSP 
are under absolute control of the WSP. In case a vault is a leased property it 
should be ensured that no third party including the owner/ lessor of the vault, 
has any role to play in the operations and managing the concerned vaults 
operated by the WSP.  

11.7 The  Clearing  Corporation  shall  ensure  that  the  accredited  vaults  have 

communication link with the nearest police station.  
 
11.8 The  Clearing  Corporation  shall  develop  the  SOP  with  respect  to  the 
maintenance, preservation and retrieval of data/records/books of accounts 
which  shall  be  uniformly  adopted  by  each  of  their accredited  WSP/vault 
including for- 
11.8.1. 
11.8.2. 
11.8.3. 
11.8.4. 

vault security and access control systems;  
systems for tracking commodities;  
risk control and operations manuals (enclose copies);  
independent  internal  control  mechanisms  for  monitoring, 
evaluation  and  review  of  accounting  safekeeping  and 
reporting systems and procedures.  

 

 

Page 13 of 27 

 

 
11.9 Clearing  Corporation  shall  develop  guidelines  regarding  automatic  data 
processing systems and record keeping- 
11.9.1.  details of hardware, software and communications systems, their 
11.9.2.  details of data storage and back up procedures and sites, their 
11.9.3.  details of disaster recovery systems and procedures. 

capability, function and location;  
capability, function and location; 

 

 
11.10  The WSPs shall not disseminate any information that is false or misleading 
or disclose any confidential information obtained during the course of their 
dealings with the Clearing Corporation or their positions on the market or any 
information received during the course of performance of their duties. 
B. Other Metals and alloys:  

 
11.11  The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that the WSP for metals to be eligible 
for accreditation, has reasonable facility and infrastructure for proper handling 
and storage of commodity such as:-  
11.11.1.  All  its  warehouses  are  well  connected  with  rail  and/or  road 
networks and have sufficient space for parking and movement of 
large  vehicles.  The  warehouse  must  have  a  fully  fenced 
perimeter/boundary. If any side of the warehouse borders a public 
road, then it should not have any operational doors bordering the 
road and any of such doors must always be locked and alarm 
secured.  Loading and unloading shall always take place within 
the perimeter/boundary of the warehouse and not in a public area; 
 
11.11.2.  The warehouses are physically and operationally suitable for the 
proper storage of Metals; 
 

 

 

11.11.2.1. Are of sound construction and in a state of good repair and floor 
properly levelled. The walls, the floor and the roof do not permit 
water seepage; 
11.11.2.2. Ferrous  metals  shall  be  stored  in  a  way  so  as  to  prevent 
distortion, corrosion, scaling and rusting. They shall be stacked 
adequately above the ground level. 
11.11.2.3. Have adequate equipment, installed and maintained in good 
working  order,  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the  Clearing 

 

Page 14 of 27 

 

 

 

 

 

Corporation, for the movement of commodities into, out of and 
within the warehouse.  
11.11.2.4. Have  adequate  fire-fighting  equipment  installed  within  its 
premises and have fire escapes and fire hydrant points clearly 
marked. Further, the employees employed at the warehouses 
shall  undergo  training  in  fire  safety  and  use  of  fire-fighting 
equipments. 
11.11.2.5. Have required ventilation, installed and are maintained in good 
working  order,  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the  Clearing 
Corporation, for proper storage and preservation of quality of 
goods; 
11.11.2.6. Have adequate lighting arrangement as may be prescribed by 
the Clearing Corporation; 
11.11.2.7. Have a safe work environment; 
11.11.2.8. Have ensured adequate security as prescribed by the Clearing 
Corporation for protection of stored or handled commodities to 
prevent from tampering or adulteration; 
11.11.2.9. Have  facilities  for  storing  the  deliverable  commodities  of 
derivative contracts which need to be stored and piled properly 
in  a  separate  storage  area  as  specified  by  the  Clearing 
Corporation thereby providing clear-cut demarcation between 
Exchange / non- Exchange commodities. 
 

11.11.3.  WSPs  shall  have  adequate  security  personnel  for  each  of  its 
registered  warehouse  with  required  facilities  to  immediately 
communicate  any  unlawful  entry,  burglary,  theft  or  damage  or 
potential loss to the deposited goods to the WSPs. 
 
11.11.4.  Each warehouse of a WSP shall assign a special place to store 
the samples (if any) used for inspection and testing for purpose of 
further examination and testing. 

11.11.5.  The Clearing Corporation shall develop the SOP with respect to 
the maintenance, preservation and retrieval of data/records/books 
of accounts which shall be uniformly adopted by each of their 
accredited WSP/warehouse including for- 

11.11.5.1. Warehouse/ vault security and access control systems;  
11.11.5.2. systems for tracking commodities;  
11.11.5.3. risk control and operations manuals  

 

Page 15 of 27 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.11.5.4. independent  internal  control  mechanisms  for  monitoring, 
evaluation  and  review  of  accounting  safekeeping  and 
reporting systems and procedures.  
 
automatic data processing systems and record keeping viz: 
their capability, function and location;  
capability, function and location; 
 

11.11.6.  Clearing  Corporation  shall  develop  guidelines 
regarding 
11.11.6.1. details of hardware, software and communications systems, 
11.11.6.2. details of data storage and back up procedures and sites, their 
11.11.6.3. details of disaster recovery systems and procedures. 
11.11.7.  The WSP shall undertake to have assaying/testing facilities for 
the commodities it intends to offer warehousing facility, or shall 
undertake  to  be  associated  with  an  assaying/testing  agency 
which  may  preferably  be  certified  by  one  or  more 
national/international agencies as specified by the exchange.  
 
11.11.8.  The  WSP  shall  provide  for  accurate  and  efficient  weighing, 
sampling, inspection and grading of the metal deposited in its 
warehouses.  The  Clearing  Corporation  shall  ensure  that  the 
WSP  has  deployed  personnel  who  have  knowledge  and 
experience in sampling, weighing, inspecting and/or grading of 
commodities. 

11.11.9.  Clearing Corporation shall ensure that the WSP has in place, 
necessary policies, control and system in place for dealing with 
the risk that may be arising due to the warehouses being used 
for purposes other than commodity derivatives market. 

11.11.10. The  Clearing  Corporation  and  WSP  shall  be  responsible  to 
accept the goods/commodities in warehouses which meets the 
quantity and quality parameters as per the exchange contract 
specifications. The WSP shall take necessary steps to maintain 
the quality and quantity of goods stored in the warehouse, in 
accordance with the conditions/parameters (for maintaining the 
quality)  as  laid  down  by  the  exchanges  for  each  of  such 
commodity.  

 

Page 16 of 27 

 

 

 

 

11.11.11. The WSP shall display on a daily basis warehouse/ commodity 
wise details of the space available, goods deposited and held in 
transit, details of location of the warehouse/vault, particulars of 
rejection of the goods etc., on its website and the archives of 
such reports shall be available on its website. 

11.11.12. The WSP shall not disseminate any information that is false or 
misleading  or  disclose  any  confidential  information  obtained 
during the course of their dealings with the Clearing Corporation 
or  their  positions  on  the  market  or  during  the  course  of 
performance of their duties. 
Other goods 

 
11.11.13. 
 
Exchanges shall specify storage norms for storage of other goods taking 
into account industry best practices and/or any applicable standards 
specified by any government agency or standard setting body.  

 

 

12  Approval of Armoured Car Company and Weigh master  
12.1 The  Clearing  Corporation  shall  designate  and  approve  an  armoured  car 
company  as  a  carrier  whose  function  is  to  provide  for  the  secure 
transportation of precious metals, gems and stone and shall maintain a chain 
of integrity for each such metal, as described in the applicable metals futures 
contract rule chapters.  
 
function is to verify the weight of the metal.  

12.2 The Clearing Corporation shall designate and approve a weighmaster whose 
 

 

 

Page 17 of 27 

 

 
 
13  Accreditation of assayers 
13.1 The Clearing Corporation shall follow a transparent process for accreditation 
of assayers by issue of open advertisement in leading newspapers and by 
putting up the same on the Clearing Corporation website. The process to be 
followed  for  such  accreditation  shall  be  displayed  on  the  website  of  the 
Clearing Corporation in advance. The accreditation shall be done with the 
approval of the Risk Management Committee of the Clearing Corporation. 
 
13.2 The Clearing Corporation shall conduct independent pre-empanelment due 
diligence of Assayers by visiting the laboratories and assessing the testing 
and certification facilities. The CCs shall give preference to the government 
assayers or to those Assayers who are having government approved testing 
and certification facilities at various locations across India.  
 
13.3 The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that the empanelled assayers work 
independently and their operations are governed by prescribed Standard 
Operating Procedures (SOPs).  

 
 

 

 

 

 

Page 18 of 27 

 

 

 
14  Warehouses/Vaults at delivery centres: 
 
14.1 The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that all the warehouses/vaults of a 
WSP  accredited  by  them  are  registered  with  an  appropriate  statutory 
authority, wherever and whenever applicable.  
 
14.2 The  exchanges  shall  have  at  least  one  warehouse/vault  at  each  of  the 
delivery centres (as specified in the contract specification) at the time of 
launch  of  contract  itself  and  address  of  such  warehouses/vault  shall  be 
mentioned in the contract specifications. 
 
14.3 The Clearing Corporation may accredit an warehouses / vault of a WSP within 
radius of 50 Kms of the delivery centres for base metals and  within the 
municipal  limits  of  the  delivery  centre  in  case  of    the  precious  metals 
depending on the feasibility and market requirements.  
 
14.4 The Clearing Corporations on their websites shall disclose all the details, 
starting from the date of receipt of the application till its disposal (either 
acceptance or rejection) with respect to the processing of the application for 
accreditation of storage infrastructure proposed by the WSPs. 

15  Insurance: 
 
15.1 The WSP  shall at all times ensure to fully cover under insurance, the value 
of goods stored at Clearing Corporation approved warehouses against all 
potential perils  relevant to the commodities for which insurance cover is 
available and necessary.  
 
15.2 The WSP shall undertake to take insurance cover for risks such as viz. Fire 
and  allied  perils  including  flood,  cyclone,  earthquake  and  spontaneous 
combustion, Burglary and Theft and special perils covering riots, strikes and 
terrorism. 
 
15.3 The WSP shall take Fidelity guarantee & crime insurance and Professional 
indemnity cover to cover all deliverable stocks on the Clearing Corporation.  
 
15.4 The value of goods to be insured should be marked to market on replacement 
value on ongoing basis.  
 

 

Page 19 of 27 

 

Corporations: 

 
 
16  Monitoring/Inspection/Audit of warehouses by WSPs and Clearing 
 
16.1 Periodic inspection/audit by WSP: The WSP should ensure that there is 
periodic inspection/audit of the warehouse as well as the commodities stored 
in the warehouses. 
16.1.1 
Inspection staff must be independent of the employees / staff 
deployed at the registered warehouse. 
16.2.1.  The  inspection/audit  report  shall  be  submitted  to  the  Clearing 
Corporation within a week of the completion of such inspection/audit.  
16.2.2.  The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that the physical counting of 
stocks  and  their  reconciliation  with  the  corresponding  electronic 
records is done periodically.  

 
16.2 The  WSP  shall  allow  the  members  /clients  to  do  physical  inspection. 
However, the request for such physical inspection would have to be submitted 
to the Clearing Corporation and the Clearing Corporation after verification of 
such request, shall forward the same to the concerned WSP for allowing such 
inspection within a stipulated time.  

 
16.3 Periodic 

 

inspection/audit  of  warehouses/vaults  by 

the  Clearing 
Corporation: The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that independent audit of 
the stocks and other facilities in the warehouses/vaults is carried out by 
engaging expert agencies, at regular intervals. 

16.3.1. For base metals, such inspections shall be carried out at least twice for 
each accredited warehouse in a calendar year with a gap of not more 
than six months between two inspections/audits of same warehouse. 
While  for  the  vaults  having  precious  metals,  gems  and  stones,  the 
frequency shall be once in a quarter with a gap of not more than 3 months 
between two inspections/audits of same vault. 
16.3.2. The Clearing Corporation shall prepare a panel of such independent 
expert agencies for carrying out inspection of warehouses/vaults, which 
shall also be reviewed by the Clearing Corporation from time to time. In 
addition, the Clearing Corporation shall also conduct in-house physical 
audit of accredited warehouses/vaults at regular intervals.   
16.3.3. Clearing  Corporation  should  also  carry  out  surprise  inspections  of 
warehouses /vaults as and when such exigencies arise in terms of the 
prescribed norms. 

 

Page 20 of 27 

 

 

16.3.4.  The  Clearing  Corporation  shall  have  a  policy  of  rotation  of  such 
independent expert agencies for carrying out inspection after every 3 
years with a provision for  'cooling off' period of 1 year. 
16.3.5.  The Clearing Corporation shall have a detailed inspection manual for 
carrying  out  the  audits  and  inspections  of  the  warehouses/vaults 
concerned. 
16.3.6.  In addition to the above, the audit may also be conducted on risk 
profiling, as identified by the Clearing Corporation. For this purpose, 
the Clearing Corporation shall form a panel of independent expert 
agencies and the cost of such audit shall be borne by the respective 
Clearing Corporation. 
16.3.7.  The result of such audit/audit report shall be displayed by the Clearing 
Corporation on its website immediately after the completion of the 
audit and submission of report by the auditor.  

 

 

 

 

16.4 Monitoring of warehouses/vaults by Clearing Corporation: The Clearing 
Corporation shall be responsible for the monitoring the warehouses/vaults of 
their accredited WSP. In this regard : 
16.4.1. Norms relating to the monitoring of warehouses/vaults shall be placed 
in public domain 
16.4.2. A  deliberation  on 
functioning,  monitoring  and 
compliance  of  norms  by  WSPs/WSPs,  warehouse,  vaults  and 
assayers shall be a mandatory agenda item in all Board meetings as 
well  as  the  Risk  management  committee  meeting  of  the  Clearing 
Corporation. 

the  continuous 

 

 

Page 21 of 27 

 

 

 

 
17  Review of WSPs/warehouses/vaults: 
17.1 The Clearing Corporation shall review and appraise operational performance 
of each WSP every  year. Based on the operational review the  Clearing 
Corporation  may  adjust  the  allocation  of  commodities  and  the  limit  of 
deliveries at various warehouses/vaults of the concerned WSP in accordance 
with the results of such performance evaluation and appraisal.  
 
17.2 Additionally, the Clearing Corporation may carry out biennial and quarterly 
performance review of all warehouses/vaults accredited by it, taking into 
account various performance areas such as storage facilities, the capacity 
and  appearance  of  the  warehouse/vault,  business  capabilities,  business 
performance, accounting, the satisfaction level of members/clients, redressal 
of client grievances, and other factors as the Clearing Corporation may deem 
necessary for its review. 
 
17.3 The Clearing Corporation may take necessary action as mentioned under the 
para “Actions against WSP”, if the warehouse/vault is unable to meet the 
requirements  of  an  accredited  warehouse/vault  and  fails  to  improve  the 
standard within the stipulated time.  

 

18  Code of conduct: 
18.1 The Clearing Corporation shall frame necessary code of conduct for the 

WSPs, warehouses, vaults and assayers.  
 
website. 

18.2 The said code of conduct shall be displayed on the Clearing Corporation 
 

 

 

Page 22 of 27 

 
19  Grievance Cell: 
19.1 The Clearing Corporation shall ensure that it has a Grievance Cell to handle 

 

19.2 The Clearing Corporation shall take proactive steps to resolve  customer 

consumer complaints. 
 
related issues and maintain a record of complaints received / resolved.  
 
19.3 The  Clearing  Corporation  shall  require  the  WSP  to  report  the  details  of 
complaints  received  /  resolved  by  it/  pending  and  action  taken  on  the 
complaints, once in very fortnight.  

20  MIS System:  
20.1 WSP shall have a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) which is process-
dependent and not person-dependent. There should be electronic record of 
information at the WSP and a MIS system with an arrangement for flow of 
real time information from the warehouse/vault location to the central MIS and 
onwards to Clearing Corporation electronically. The MIS should have the 
capability to capture and disseminate information regarding stocks being held 
warehouse-vault  wise/location  wise,  and  the  availability  of  space  in  the 
warehouses/vaults.  
 
20.2 The Clearing Corporation shall display on a daily basis warehouse/ vault wise 
details  of  the  space  available,  stock  of  goods  held,  name  of  the 
warehouse/vault service provider, details of location of the warehouse/vault, 
particulars  of  acceptance/rejection  of  goods  by  the  warehouse/vault 
concerned, details of empanelled assayers and independent assayers, if any, 
attached to the warehouse/vault etc, on its website. The archives of such 
reports shall be available on the Clearing Corporation website. 
 
20.3 The  participants/clients  willing  to  deposit  goods  in  Clearing  Corporation  
accredited  Warehouses  /  Vault  would  submit  a  request  to  the  Clearing 
Corporation. The Clearing Corporation shall use a transparent and time-
bound process for the participants to identify the warehouse/vault where the 
participants can deposit the goods. After such identification, the Clearing 
Corporation shall intimate the participants about the time, place and the 
particular warehouse/vault where they can deposit the goods. The Clearing 
Corporation shall then issue directions to the concerned warehouse/vault for 
accepting deposits from the concerned participants/clients after assaying/ 
quality testing as per the laid down procedure in a transparent manner. The 
warehouse/vault shall accept the goods for deposits only at the instruction of 
Clearing Corporation concerned. 

 

 

Page 23 of 27 

 

 

 

 
21  Surrender/Cancellation of accreditation:  
21.1 Any  WSP  that  applies  for  surrender  of  its  accreditation  shall  submit  its 
Application  for  Surrender  to  the  Clearing  Corporation  for  evaluation  and 
approval. 
 
21.2 The Clearing Corporation may cancel the accreditations of a WSP if it fails to 
comply with the provisions of the rules/regulations specified by it and intimate 
the same to the market participants through circular. Further, the Clearing 
Corporation shall put in place a cancellation policy for WSP in public domain. 
However,  the  Clearing  Corporation  shall  offer  the  WSP  concerned  an 
opportunity  of  being  heard  and  take  a  decision  on  cancellation  after 
considering the explanation of the WSP. 
 
attend to the following matters urgently: 
21.3.1. 
21.3.2. 
21.3.3. 
21.3.4. 

21.3 A WSP that surrenders its accreditation or its accreditation is cancelled, shall 
All commodities for futures contract delivery shall be dispatched 
out of the warehouse/vault or converted to physical commodities; 
All  liabilities  and  debts  vis-a-vis  the  Clearing  Corporation, 
Member and Clients shall be settled; 
There is no obligation on its part to deliver goods to the clients 
pertaining to their trades on the exchange platform, and 
No  customer  complaints  pertaining  to  any  of  its  registered 
warehouses/vaults are pending for redressal. 
 

21.4 SD and FSD shall be returned in accordance with the Clearing Corporation’s 
rules, keeping aside 10% of such deposits with the Clearing Corporation, 
which shall not be released until six months after cancellation or surrender of 
accreditation of the WSP or until satisfaction of all claims against the deposits 
made in its warehouses/vaults, whichever is later.  
 
21.5 A WSP which surrenders its accreditation with the Clearing Corporation shall 
not be eligible to provide its services to the exchange for a period of 3 years. 

 

 

Page 24 of 27 

 

 

 
21.6 Once the accreditation of a WSP is cancelled or WSP is expelled by an 
Clearing Corporation then it shall not be eligible to provide its services to any 
commodity derivatives exchanges for 5 years. 
21.7 Adequate notice intimation to general public / clients should be given through 
widely  published  newspapers  and  website  etc.  before  accepting  the 
surrender of WSP or before cancellation/expulsion of the WSP. 

 
22  Business Continuity Plan: 
 

A WSP shall put in place, a business continuity plan and submit such plan to 
the Clearing Corporation.  

 
23  Actions against WSP: 
 
23.1 The  Clearing  Corporation  may  frame  byelaws/rules/regulations/guidelines 
with respect to its accredited WSP to rectify / correct their misconduct or 
misconduct on the part of any of its approved warehouses/vaults that are 
used  for  storing  goods  for  delivery  on  exchange  platform.  The  Clearing 
Corporation may also direct the WSPs/WSPs to indemnify an entity aggrieved 
by  the  delivery  process  of  its  warehouse/vault  or,  in  serious  cases  of 
misconduct/malfeasance,  revoke 
the  concerned 
warehouse/Vault or/and hold the WSP  accountable for any legal liabilities, if 
the concerned erring WSP/ warehouse/vault engages in any of the following 
offences:  
23.1.1.  refuses to accept delivery without any bonafide reasons or, issues 
23.1.2.  violates  any  of  the  Clearing  Corporation’s  rules  or  limits  the 
the 
23.1.3.  discloses any confidential business information relating to a buyer 
23.1.4.  provide inaccurate or incomplete information, conceal the facts; 
23.1.5.  engages in the futures trading activities; or  
23.1.6.  engages  in  any  other  behaviour  in  breach  of  the  Clearing 
23.1.7.  any other offence not listed above. 

a falsified certificate of delivery;  
movement  of  a  deliverable  commodity 
warehouse/vault;  
or seller or a futures contract;  

Corporation’s rules; or 

the  accreditation  of 

into  or  out  of 

 

However, the above actions may be initiated only after taking due 
approval from the Risk management Committee. 

 

Page 25 of 27 

 

 

 
 
23.2 The accredited WSP shall be liable for any losses resulting from any action 
or inaction on its part or on the part of its warehouses/vaults that prevents the 
buyer or seller from exercising, in whole or in part, their rights. The Clearing 
Corporation shall compensate the aggrieved client for any such losses that 
have been appropriately established in a time bound manner by debiting the 
FSD  of WSP  held  with  the  Clearing  Corporation,  in  accordance  with  its 
applicable rules, and WSP shall within 7 days replenish the FSD as required. 
 
23.3 The Clearing Corporations have necessary arrangements to ensure that in 
the event of bankruptcy or insolvency of the WSP or other such contingency, 
there  must  be  no  restrictions  placed  upon  owners/depositors  of  the 
commodity  wishing  to  take  possession  of  their  individually  identified 
commodity and remove it from the accredited vaults. 

 
24  Status report: 
 
24.1 The Clearing Corporation shall upload a status report on their websites by 5th 
of every month giving the details of the number of applications received for 
for 
accreditation 
accreditation/registration  of  warehouses  rejected  by  Clearing  Corporation 
with reason for the same, etc.  
24.2 The archives of such reports shall be available on the Clearing Corporation 
website. 

of  warehouses/vaults, 

warehouses 

pending 

 

25  Public Comments: 
In light of above, public comments are invited on the proposal contained in this 
consultation paper. Comments/suggestions may kindly be provided in the format 
given below: 

 

 

Name of Entity/Person intermediary/ Organization 
Sr. No. 
Suggestions* 
 
 
 
 

Para  No. 
Paper 
 
 

of 

Rational 
 
 

* Any other suggestions on the subject, including on issues not covered in 
this paper, may also be given 

 

Page 26 of 27 

 

 
 
The comments may be sent by email to cdmrd_dmp@sebi.gov.in  or alternatively 
may be sent to following address latest by one month from the date of issue of the 
consultation paper i.e. December 29, 2018. 

 

 

Issued on: November 29, 2018  
 

Shri Vikas Sukhwal, 
Deputy General Manager, 
Division of New Products and Market Policy, 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan, Plot C4-A, G-Block,  
Bandra Kurla Complex,  
Mumbai – 400051 

 

 

 

Page 27 of 27 

