 

 

Consultation paper on design of commodity indices and product design for 

futures on commodity indices 

 

1.  Objective 

 

 

1.1. The objective of this consultation paper is to seek comments / views from 

the  public  on  commodity  index  design  and  product  design  for  futures  on 

commodity indices. 

 

2.  Background 

 

2.1. In  the  Union  Budget  Speech  for  the  year  2016-17,  the  Hon’ble  Finance 

Minister had announced that “new derivatives products will be developed 

by  SEBI  in  the  Commodity  Derivatives  Market”.  Introduction  of  new 

commodity derivatives products has been a subject of deliberation as it is 

considered to be conducive for the overall development of the commodity 

derivatives  market,  attracting  broad  based  participation,  enhancing 

liquidity, facilitating hedging and bringing in more depth to the commodity 

derivatives market. 

 

2.2. The  matter  was  discussed  in  the  Commodity  Derivatives  Advisory 

Committee (CDAC) of SEBI and it had inter-alia recommended introduction 

of  options,  derivatives  products  on  commodity  indices  and  in  later  stage 

introduction  of  products  such  as  weather  derivatives,  freight  derivatives 

etc.,  in  the  Indian  commodity  derivatives  markets  to  deepen  as  well  as 

broaden them. Accordingly, SEBI vide circular dated September 28, 2016 

allowed introduction of options in Commodity Derivatives Market. Further, 

vide circular dated June 13, 2017, SEBI issued Product Design and Risk 

Management Framework for options on commodity futures. 

 

2.3. Index allows stakeholders to trade in an entire segment or basket, e.g. the 

entire  base  metal  segment,  through  a  single  product.  This  facility  is  of 

 

Page 1 of 9 

 

 

immense  use  to  SMEs  and  other  small  users  who  are  exposed  to  the 

volatility in prices of the entire segment. Index trading allows funds to track 

commodity  basket  prices,  rather  than  a  single  commodity  price.  Retail 

investors can participate in these funds and get the benefits of trading in 

commodity basket. 

 

 

2.4. It  was  envisaged  that  Index-based  products  will  also  encourage  the 

participation of institutions such as mutual funds, insurance companies etc., 

in  the  commodity  derivatives  market.  Further,  trading  in  derivatives 

products  on  commodity  indices  may  also  increase  liquidity  in  underlying 

commodity derivatives products (futures and options) as entities would like 

to carry out arbitrage trades across index products and constituents or may 

use one product to hedge their positions in other.  

 

2.5. The  CDAC  recommended  that  to  begin  with,  futures  contracts  on 

commodity indices may be launched by exchanges. 

 

2.6. Accordingly, draft norms for design of commodity indices and draft product 

design for futures on commodity indices have been  prepared as given in 

subsequent paragraphs. 

 

A.  Design of Index 

 

A.1.  Underlying:  Indices  {composite  i.e.,  comprising  of  commodities  from 

more  than  one  sector  and  sectoral}  meeting  the  eligibility  criteria 

prescribed  herein  are  permitted.  Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  such 

indices  are  compliant  with  IOSCO  Principles  for  Financial  Benchmarks 

for  being  eligible  to  launch  derivatives  upon  and  make  necessary 

disclosures in this regard on their websites. Further the exchanges shall 

also  ensure  that  an  index  is  not  susceptible  to  manipulation  and 

 

Page 2 of 9 

 

 

exchanges  shall  make  mandatory  disclosure  with  respect  to  the  Index 

design parameters on their website.   

 

A.2.  Name: The name of index should include the name of the exchange on 

which the constituents of index are traded. 

 

A.3.  Eligibility  criteria:  The  constituent  futures  contracts  of  an  index  shall 

meet the following eligibility criteria at the time of inclusion/re-balancing- 

 

 

a.  Futures contracts should be in existence on the respective exchange 

for  at 

least  previous 

twelve  months/previous  calendar 

year/previous financial year.  

 

b.  The contracts shall be traded for at least 90% of trading days during 

the  previous  twelve  months/previous  calendar  year/previous 

financial year. 

 

c.  The  average  daily  turnover  of  the  constituent  futures  contracts 

during 

the  previous 

twelve  months/previous  calendar 

year/previous financial year is at least :  

 

INR  75  Crore 

for  agricultural  and  agri-processed 

commodities  

 

INR 500 Crore for all other commodities.  

However, the above turnover requirements may not be applicable for 

sectoral  indices  subject  to  exchanges  ensuring  that  constituent 

futures have adequate liquidity. 

A.4.  Re-balancing:  

 

 

Page 3 of 9 

 

 

 

 

a.  The  index  constituents  and  their  weightage  will  be  periodically  (say 

half-yearly or annually) selected and rebalanced.  

 

b.  However, in case of extraordinary event such as ban /  suspension of 

trading  of  an  index  constituent,  following  action  will  be  taken  by 

exchange- 

Reselection  of  commodities 

(excluding  banned/suspended 

commodities) 

Recalculation of weightage 

 

 

 

The index changes shall be implemented only after market hours. 

 

c. 

If any of the commodity futures constituent of an index fails to meet the 

eligibility criteria, it shall cease to be a constituent of the index, when 

index is re-balanced. 

 

A.5.  Weight of constituents:  

 

a. 

Index  constituents  will  be  assigned  weightage  based  on  their 

production value and liquidity value with appropriate weightages pre-

decided by exchange for production value and liquidity value (provided 

that weightage of either shall not be less than 25%). The liquidity value 

will  be  total  traded  value  of  the  index  constituent  on  the  exchange 

platform in the preceding twelve months prior to the construction / re-

balancing  of  the  index.  The  production  value  will  be  average  of  the 

value  of  deliverable  supply  of  underlying  commodity  for  past  five 

financial years prior to the construction / re-balancing of the index. 

b.  Maximum weightage for any index constituent in a composite index will 

be at most 20% and minimum weightage will be at least 1%. However, 

these  weightage  caps  may  not  be  applicable  for  sectoral  indices 

 

Page 4 of 9 

 

 

 

 

 

subject to exchanges ensuring that a single constituent does not get 

heavily weighted in an index. 

 

c. 

In  case  of  index  having  multiple  commodity  groups,  exchanges  may 

put  in  place  maximum  and  minimum  weightages  for  a  commodity 

group.  

A.6.  Computation and roll over 

 

a.  The  index  value  will  be  computed  using  the  nearest  expiry  futures 

prices of the index constituents.  

 

b.  Exchange shall put in place a transparent methodology for gradual roll 

over of all index constituents from nearest expiry month to next month 

taking  into  account  the  liquidity  in  the  underlying  nearest  expiry/next 

contracts. 

A.7.  Real time dissemination: The index value shall be updated on real time 

continuous basis and shall be displayed on the Exchange website. 

 

A.8.  Dissemination of methodology: Exchange shall ensure a transparent 

methodology  of  index  construction,  calculation,  roll  over,  periodic 

rebalancing etc. and disseminate the same on its website. 

 

B.  Product Design of Futures on Index 

 

B.1.  Trading Hours: The trading hours will be in line with the trading hours 

for underlying futures. In case trading hours vary for constituents, trading 

hours for index derivatives shall be kept such that it is available for trading 

whenever any of the constituent futures contract is available for trading. 

 

Page 5 of 9 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B.2.  Size of the Contract: At least INR 5 lakh at the time of introduction in the 

market.  

B.3.  Tenor of the Contract: To begin with maximum tenor of contracts shall 

be 6 months. 

B.4.  Available  Contracts:  Stock  Exchanges  shall  decide  the  number  of 

contracts,  duration  of  contracts  and  launch  calendar  based  on  market 

requirements. 

B.5.  Position Limits: 

a.  Client level: Client level position limits shall be higher of: 

5% of the total open interest in the market in commodity index futures 

Or 

1000 lots   

 

b.  Trading Member level: Trading member level position limits shall be 

higher of: 

15% of the total open interest in the market in commodity index futures 

Or 

3000 lots   

 

B.6.  Daily Price Limit: Stock Exchanges shall decide appropriate daily price 

limits for commodity index futures. 

 

B.7.  Settlement  Mechanism:  Final  Settlement  for  futures  on  commodity 

index shall be done in cash.  

 

 

Page 6 of 9 

 

 

B.8.  Final  Settlement Price:  The final  settlement  price  shall  be the  closing 

price of the underlying index on the day of expiry. The closing price of the 

underlying  index  shall  be  based  on  last  half  an  hour  VWAP  (Volume 

Weighted Average Price) of the constituents of the underlying index. 

 

B.9.  Expiry:  The stock exchanges shall have the flexibility to set the expiry 

date for  contracts.  However,  the  expiry  date  may  not  coincide  with  the 

roll-over period of the constituents of the underlying index.  

B.10. Application:  Before  launching  any  futures  contract  on  an  index,  a 

Recognised  Stock  Exchange  with  commodity  derivative  segment  shall 

submit  its  proposal  with  contract  specifications  and  risk  management 

framework to SEBI, for approval. 

 

 

 

C.  Risk  Management  Framework:  Exchanges  shall  adopt  risk  management 

framework  compliant  with  the  CPMI-IOSCO  Principles  for  Financial  Market 

Infrastructures, including the following: 

 

C.1.  Margining  model  and  quantum  of  initial  margins:  Exchanges  shall 

adopt  initial  margin  models  and  parameters  that  are  risk-based  and 

generate  margin  requirements  sufficient  to  cover  potential  future 

exposure  to  participants/clients  in  the  interval  between  the  last  margin 

collection  and  the  close  out  of  positions  following  a  participant/client 

default. The model should:  

a) 

use a conservative estimate of the time horizons for close out of 

the positions (including in stressed market conditions), 

b) 

have  an  appropriate  method  for  measuring  credit  exposure  that 

accounts for relevant risk factors and portfolio effects, and 

c) 

to  the  extent  practicable  and  prudent,  limit  the  need  for 

destabilising, pro-cyclical changes.  

 

 

Page 7 of 9 

 

 

Initial margin requirement shall be adequate to cover at least 99% VaR 

(Value at Risk) and Margin Period of Risk (MPOR) shall be at least two 

days. In case of portfolio based margining, this requirement applies to 

each portfolio’s distribution of future exposure.  

Accordingly,  exchanges  shall  fix  prudent  price  scan  range,  and/or 

plausible changes in any other parameters impacting futures price.  

 

 

C.2.  Margining at client level: Exchanges shall impose initial margins at the 

level of portfolio of individual client. 

 

 

C.3.  Real  time  computation:  Though  the  margining  models  may  update 

various scenarios of parameter changes (underlying price, volatility etc.) 

at  discrete  time  points  each  day  (at  least  every  two  hours),  the  latest 

available  scenarios  shall  be  applied  to  client  portfolios  on  a  real  time 

basis. 

 

 

D.  Disclosure:  Exchange  shall  make  necessary  disclosures  such  as  the  open 

interest of top 10 largest participants/group of participants in index derivatives 

(both  long  and  short)  and  the  details  of  their  combined  open  interest  in 

underlying constituents etc., to the public. 

 

E.  Surveillance:  The Exchanges shall augment their monitoring and surveillance 

capacity. 

 

3.  Public comments: Public comments are invited on the proposal contained in 

this consultation paper. Comments/suggestions may kindly be provided in the 

format given below: 

 

 

Page 8 of 9 

 

 

 

Name of Entity/Person intermediary/ Organization 

Sr. No. 

Para   No.   of Paper   Suggestions * 

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

* Any other suggestions on the subject, including on issues not covered in this 

paper, may also be given 

 

The comments may be sent by email to cdmrd_dmp@sebi.gov.in or alternatively 

may be sent to following address latest by one month from the date of issue of the 

consultation paper i.e. January 16, 2019.  

 

 

Shri Vikas Sukhwal,  

Deputy General Manager,  

Division of New Products and Market Policy,  

Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

SEBI Bhavan, Plot C4-A, G-Block,   

Bandra Kurla Complex,   

Mumbai – 400051 

 

 

 

 

Page 9 of 9 

