 

Consultation Paper 

Amendment of SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulation, 2014 and 

SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulation, 2014 

A.  Objective 

(1). 

To  solicit  comments/views  from  public  on  suggestions  pertaining  to  making 
amendments  to  SEBI  (Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2014 
(hereinafter  referred  as  "InvIT  Regulations")  and  SEBI  (Real  Estate  Investment 
Trusts) Regulations, 2014 (hereinafter referred as "REIT Regulations").  

B.  Background 

(2). 

The InvIT and REIT Regulations were notified on September 26, 2014. Till date, 3 
InvITs have issued and listed their units raising approximately Rs. 10,000 crores 
and 1 REIT is in the process of making a public offer.  

(3).  Based  on  experience  gained  and  feedback  received  from  market  participants, 
amendments  to  the  REIT  and  InvIT  Regulations,  as  detailed  below,  are  being 
proposed with a view to providing flexibility to the issuers in terms of fund raising 
and increasing the access of these investment vehicles to investors.  

C.  Proposals for amendments 

(4).  Reduction  in  the  minimum  allotment  and  trading  lot  for  publicly  issued 

InvITs and REITs 

(a).  Current regulatory requirement 

i. 

InvIT 

Regulation  14(4)(c)  of  the  InvIT  Regulations  prescribes  that  the  minimum 
subscription in an initial offer and a follow-on offer from any investor shall be Rs. 
10 lakhs. Further, Regulation 16(9)(b) of the InvIT Regulations prescribes that the 
trading  lot  for  the  purposes  of  trading  of  publicly  listed  units,  on  the  designated 
stock exchange, shall be Rs. 5 lakhs.  

 

 

 

1 

 

ii.  REIT 

Regulation  14(14)  of  the  REIT  Regulations  provides  that  in  the  case  of  a  REIT 
issue, the minimum subscription from any investor in an initial offer, as also in a 
follow-on  public  offer  shall  not  be  less  than  Rs.  2  lakhs.  Further,  as  per 
Regulation  16(4)  of  the  REIT  regulations,  the  prescribed  trading  lot  for  the 
purpose of trading of units of the REIT on the designated stock exchange, is Rs. 
1 lakh.  

(b).  Request for change  

i.  REITs and InvITs are considered as stable, income yielding investment vehicles.  
Representations  have  been  received  that  the  present  investment  limit  for 
minimum  subscription  and  trading  in  units  of  such  vehicles,  as  given  above,  is 
quite high and not in consonance with the current requirements for investment in 
equity instruments.  

ii. 

It  has,  therefore,  been  represented  that  in  order  to  encourage  participation  of 
even  retail  investors,  the  minimum  investment  required  for  subscription  and 
subsequent  trading  in  units  of  REITs  and  InvITs,  may  be  reduced  to  a  lower 
threshold. 

iii.  SEBI’s Working  Group  on  REITs  and  InvITs  also  discussed  on  this  aspect  and 

recommended reduction in subscription and trading lot.  

(c).  Proposal  

i.  The minimum application and trading lot for publicly issued InvITs and REITs  is 

proposed to be revised as follows:  

a.  At the time of initial/follow-on issue, the minimum application and allotment lot 
shall be of 100 units and the value of one such lot shall be within the range of 
Rs. 15,000 – Rs. 20,000. 

b.  Allotment shall be made in multiples of a lot. 

c.  After initial listing, a trading lot shall also be of 100 units. 

ii.  The trading lot for existing publicly issued and listed units shall be reduced by the 
Stock  Exchange(s),  as  per  para  (4)(c)(i)(c)  above,  within  a  period  of  6  months 
from the date of notification of the Regulations. 

 

2 

(5). 

Increase in the leverage limit for InvITs 

(a).  Current Regulatory Requirement 

 

the 

that 

InvIT  Regulations  provides 

Regulation  20(2)  of 
the  aggregate 
consolidated  borrowings  and  deferred  payments  of  the  InvIT  net  of  cash  and 
cash  equivalents  shall  never  exceed  49  %  of  the  value  of  the  InvIT  assets. 
Further,  as  per  Regulation  22(4)(b)  of  the  InvIT  Regulations,  any  borrowing 
exceeding  25%  of  the  value  of  the  InvIT  assets  requires  unit  holders’  approval 
and mandatory credit rating. 

(b).  Request for change 

It  has  been  represented  by  various  stakeholders  that  the  limitation  on  InvITs  to 
raise debt beyond 49 % adversely impacts the profitability of InvITs on account of 
the following:  

i. 

Inability to offer incremental returns as compared to other alternative investment 
avenues: InvITs consist  largely  of operating infrastructure assets, which  provide 
stable  long-term  cash  flows  and  thus  have  the  capacity  to  bear  a  significantly 
higher  leverage  than  the  currently  prescribed  limit,  without  adversely  impacting 
the risk profile of the InvIT. 

The  optimal  leverage  based  on  the  cash-flows  of  the  projects  could  provide 
investors with the ability to enhance their returns on investment. In general, most 
operating  infrastructure  projects  with  good  cash  flows  are  leveraged  between 
70%  to  80%  of  the  value  of  the  assets.  However,  the  current  limitation  on 
leverage restricts the InvITs to offer incremental or similar return as compared to 
other alternative investment avenues with similar assets. 

ii.  Restricting  the  availment  of  additional  capital  for  funding  acquisition:  The 
limitation  on  leverage  also  puts  restriction  on  the  InvITs’  ability  to  acquire  new 
assets for growth. This leads to InvITs not being able to compete for acquisition 
of additional assets towards such growth, which, apart from stable yield, is one of 
the core value propositions for investing in InvITs. 

Also, with a consolidated debt limit of 49%, further acquisition of assets is heavily 
dependent upon  primary  issuance  of units,  thereby  resulting  in  frequent  dilution 
of  existing  investors,  which  reduces  the  attractiveness  of  investment  in  units  of 
InvITs for many investors, especially those with long term investment objectives. 

 

3 

 

iii.  The aspect of increasing limit on leverage was discussed and recommended by 

the SEBI’s Working Group on REITs and InvITs.  

(c).  Proposal  

i. 

It is proposed that the leverage limit for InvITs be increased from existing 49% to 
70% in the following manner - 

of 

aggregate 

Limit 
consolidated 
borrowings 
the 
InvITs,  holdco  and  the 
SPV(s), net of cash and 
cash equivalents 
Exceeds  49% 
maximum of 70% 

of 

- 

till 

Approval  of  unit 
holders  

Credit rating  

Approval  of  75% 
of      unit  holders 
who 
not 
related. 

are 

AAA 

Credit 
rating  of 
consolidated  debt 
and project debt to 
be 
or 
equivalent  from  a 
rating 
agency 
registered  with  the 
Board. 

Track 
record/Distribution 
record  
 

Minimum 
track 
record  of  atleast  3 
years  of  continuous 
distribution 
post 
listing.  

 

ii.  The  enhanced  debt  limit  from  49%  to  70%  shall  be  available  specifically  for 

acquisition of new infrastructure assets.  

iii.  Disclosure requirements: Such InvITs which are increasing their leverage beyond 

49% shall make the following additional disclosures: 

a.  Financial results on quarterly basis along with specific details of Debt Service 

Coverage Ratios and Interest Service Coverage Ratios; and 

b.  Quarterly valuation of assets. 

(6).  New regulatory structure for privately placed unlisted InvITs 

(a).  Current Regulatory Requirement 

i.  The  InvIT  Regulations  provide  for  mandatory  listing  of  units  of  InvITs,  issued 
either  through  public  issue  or  on  private  placement  basis.  As  listing  provides  a 
public  character  to  even  privately  placed  InvITs,  the  investor  protection  and 

 

4 

 

governance measures provided in the regulations are similar to those for publicly 
issued InvITs. 

(b).  Request for change 

i.  Representations have been received from various market participants for relaxing 
some  of  the  regulatory  requirements,  as  given  below,  only  for  privately  placed 
InvITs: 

a.  Increasing the limit on investment by a single investor;  

b.  Relaxing the requirement of minimum number of investors;  

c.  Allowing higher level of  leverage; 

d.  Relaxing the requirement of asset mix in terms of completed and under 

construction assets; 

e.  Removal of mandatory listing requirement.   

ii. 

It has been represented that investors in privately placed InvITs are usually large 
and sophisticated entities, who understand the risks and complexities of investing 
in  such  structures  and  are,  therefore,  comfortable  in  assuming  risks  associated 
with making large investments. The extant maximum investment limit per investor 
of 25% inhibits such investors. Additionally, these sophisticated investors do not 
want  to  get  constrained  by  the  requirement  relating  to  the  minimum  number  of 
investors mandated for such InvIT. 

iii.  Moreover,  such  investors  demand  flexibility  not  only  in  terms  of  higher  gearing 
but also with regard to the composition of asset mix to improve their risk adjusted 
returns. 

(c).  Proposal 

i. 

Infrastructure is important for sustained growth of the country and the needs for 
investment  in  this  sector  are  also  large.  InvIT  is  a  structure  which  facilitates 
channelling of private capital in infrastructure sector. It is, therefore, important to 
provide sufficient flexibility to InvITs so as to satisfy the varying needs of private 
pools  of  capital,  such  that  the  ever  increasing  demands  for  investment  in 
infrastructure sector are suitably met. 

 

5 

ii.  On  consideration  of  these  recommendations,  to  enable  such  unlisted  privately 
placed InvITs, SEBI seeks to provide a separate framework, which, inter-alia, will 
provide the following:  

 

a.  The number of investors in such an InvIT shall be as determined by the 

issuer including the extent of investment by a single investor;  

b.  Leverage  shall  be  as  determined  by  the  issuer  after  consultation  with 

investor;  

c.  The assets can  completed, under construction or both; 

d.  The  minimum  investment  by  an  investor  shall  be  not  less  than  Rs  1 

crore; 

e.  Listing of units of such  InvIT on recognised stock exchanges shall not 

to be permitted.   

iii.  The regulatory framework for privately placed listed InvITs, including registration 
requirements,  structural  obligations,  operational 
requirements,  corporate 
governance  and  investor  protection  measures,  etc.  shall  be  made  applicable 
mutatis-mutandis for the proposed framework for privately placed unlisted InvIT. 
However,  the  same  shall  be  harmonised  in  accordance  with  the  proposal  as 
mentioned at para 6(c)(ii) above. 

iv.  Existing  privately  placed  listed  InvITs  may  choose  to  migrate  to  the  proposed 
framework  for  private  unlisted  InvITs,  if  they  obtain  the  approval  of  more  than 
90%  of  their  unitholders  by  value  and  exit  may  be  provided  to  dissenting 
unitholders.  Consequently,  the  units  of  such  privately  placed  InvIT  shall  get 
delisted from stock exchanges. 

v.  Conversely a privately placed unlisted InvIT, may choose to list its units on stock 
exchanges,  after  complying  with  the  requirements  as  applicable  for  a  privately 
placed and listed InvIT. 

 

 

 

 

6 

D.  Public Comments 

(7).  Public comments are invited on the proposed framework given at Para 4, 5 and 6 
above.  The  comments,  may  be  sent  by  email  or  through  post,  latest  by 
February 18, 2019, in the following format: 

 

Details of Responder 

Name1/Organization:  
1if responding in personal capacity 
Contact number: 
Email address: 

 

 
 

Comments on the proposals in the consultation paper 

Sr. No.  Para No. 

Comment/proposed change 

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

While  sending  email  kindly  ensure  the  subject  is  "Review  of  SEBI  (Infrastructure 
Investment  Trusts)  Regulation,  2014  and  SEBI  (  Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts) 
Regulation, 2014” 

Postal Address:                                                                        Email Address:  
Ms. Richa G. Agarwal                                                                 invit@sebi.gov.in 
Deputy General Manager  
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan   
C4-A, G Block  
Bandra Kurla Complex  
Mumbai - 400 051  
 
Issued on: January 25, 2019 

 

7 

