 

 

Discussion Paper on Applicability of Individual Scrip wise Price Bands/ 

Circuit Filters on F&O scrips 

 
A.  Background 
 
1.  SEBI  vide  circular  SMDRPD/Policy/Cir-37/2001  dated  June  28,  2001  had 
specified individual scrip wise price bands/ circuit filters of 20% either way, for 
all  scrips  in  the  compulsory  rolling  settlement  except  for  the  scrips  on  which 
derivatives  products  are  available  or  scrips  included  in  indices  on  which 
derivatives products are available. 
 

2.  Derivatives markets reflect expectation of spot prices in the future, and as such 
price bands/ circuit filters are generally not applied on them. Further, imposition 
of  price  bands/  circuit  filters  on  the  scrips,  in  the  cash  segment,  on  which 
derivatives are available may lead to possible mis-alignment between the price 
of underlying in cash segment and price of the derivatives. 
 

3.  Notwithstanding the above, in order to prevent executing orders at non-genuine 
prices,  on  account  of  fat-finger  error  or  otherwise,  SEBI  vide  circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/34/2012  dated  December  13,  2012 
read  with  circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/25/2013  dated  September  03,  2013  mandated  dynamic  price 
bands at 10% of the previous day’s closing price for the following securities: 

 
(a) Stocks on which derivatives products are available, 
(b)  Stocks  included  in  indices  on  which  derivatives  products  are 
available, 
(c) Index futures,  
(d) Stock futures. 
 

The  dynamic  price  bands  are to  be  relaxed  by  the  stock  exchanges  in  
increments  of  5%, in  the  event  of  a  market  trend  in  either  direction. Stock 
exchanges were also directed to frame suitable rules with mutual consultation 
for such relaxation of dynamic price bands. The initial threshold set by the stock 
exchanges  for  flexing  were  “10  trades  executed  with  multiple  UCC  on  both 
sides  of  the  trade  at  or  above  7%  or  more  of  the  base  price  and  in  further 
multiples of 5% of the price movement”. 
 

4.  In  May  2014,  the  stock  exchanges  revised  the  criteria for flexing  of  dynamic 
price bands as “10 trades executed with multiple UCC on both sides of the trade 
at or above 9.90% or more of the base price and in further multiples of 5% of 
the price movement”.  These measures were taken by the stock exchanges to 
mitigate  disruption  caused  by  erroneous  orders  and  at  the  same  time  not 
interfere  in  the  price  discovery  process.  In  exigencies  situation,  exchanges 

 
Discussion Paper on Applicability of Individual Scrip wise Price Bands/ Circuit Filters on F&O scrips   1 | P a g e  

consult  and  relax  the  dynamic  price  band  with  a  15  minutes  notice  to  the 
market. 

 

 
5.  Further,  as  a  measure  to  protect  against  excessive  price  movements  with 
respect to those scrips on which no derivatives products are available but which 
are part of index derivatives, subsequent to the recommendation of Secondary 
Market  Advisory  Committee 
(SMAC)  of  SEBI,  SEBI  vide  circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/04/2014 dated February 06, 2014 mandated implementation of 
appropriate individual scrip wise price bands/ circuit filters upto 20% on such 
scrips. However, in terms of stock selection criteria for frontline indices (Nifty 
and Sensex), index providers have stipulated inclusion of only those stocks in 
the  said  indices  which  are  individually  available  for  trading  in  derivatives 
segment. 
 

B.  International Practices 
 
6.  The  World  Federation  of  Exchanges  (WFE)  has  done  a  study  on  the 
implementation  of  circuit  filter  types  across  the  world  in  2016.  It  is  observed 
from the aforesaid report that for orderliness in the marketplace on account of 
wild  swings  in  the  prices  of  certain  stocks,  various  jurisdictions  deploy 
measures ranging from call auctions to temporary trading halts in the security 
to no change in price bands. 
 

7.  Jurisdictions  like  the  US,  UK,  Spain,  Germany,  Switzerland  etc.,  have  call 

auctions on breach of the price band.   

8.  The WFE report is placed as Annexure I.  

 

 
 

C.  Data Analysis 
 
9.  The  examination  of  price  movement  of  scrips,  on  which  derivatives  are 

available,  during the last six months, reveals the following (source: NSE): 
9.1. Forty scrips have witnessed intra-day movement of more than 20% 
9.2. Out  of  this,  twenty  nine  scrips  have  witnessed  intra-day  movement 

between 20%- 30%. 

9.3. Five scrips have witnessed intra-day movement between 30%- 40% 
9.4. Six scrips have witnessed intra-day movement of more than 40% 
 

10. Concerns have been raised that investors’ wealth is getting wiped out in a single 
day by recent falls in stocks on which derivative products are available, as no 
price bands/ circuit filters are applicable on them. In view of recent abnormal 
intra-day price movements, suggestions are being made to review the rules to 
prevent such extraordinary price movements. 
 

 
Discussion Paper on Applicability of Individual Scrip wise Price Bands/ Circuit Filters on F&O scrips   2 | P a g e  

D.  Recent measures to strengthen fair price discovery  
 
11. With a view to strengthen fair price discovery and promote orderliness in the 

 

market, following measures have been taken recently: 

 

11.1. Revision in criteria for flexing dynamic price bands: 

In consultation with SMAC, the existing criteria for flexing the dynamic price 
bands has been revised such that in case price of an F&O scrip  touches 
9.9%, it may be flexed by incremental 5% provided there are minimum 25 
trades & 5 UCCs on both sides. It is expected that this measure shall help 
ensure that the flexing is carried out only on account of genuine market trend 
and not arising out of few erroneous orders. 
 

11.2. Review  of  criteria  for  moving  of  cash  settled  stock  derivatives  to  physical 

addition 

settlement: 
SEBI  vide  circular  SEBI/HO/MRD/DOPI/CIR/P/2018/161  dated  December 
31, 2018 had specified phased movement of cash settled stock derivatives 
to physical settlement (for April 2019 expiry, July 2019 expiry and October 
2019  expiry)  on  the  basis  of  average  daily  market  capitalisation  of  the 
stocks.  
 
circular 
In 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP1/CIR/P/2019/28 dated February 08, 2019 has further 
directed  for  shifting  of  stock  derivatives  to  physical  settlement  from  new 
expiry cycle on the basis of intra-day movement or volatility in such stock. 
Shifting  of  such  stock  to  physical  settlement  is  expected  to  help  reduce 
speculation  and  hence  excessive  intra-day  movement  /  volatility  in  such 
stock. 
 
 

schedule, 

to 

this 

SEBI 

vide 

E.  Available Options 
 
12. With a view to address the concerns arising out of significant price movements 
in scrips having presence in derivatives segment, followings options are being 
put forward  for consultation: 
 

12.1. Option 1- Price Bands/ Circuit Filters (Hard limits) 

 
Whether individual scrip wise price bands/ circuit filters of 20% either way 
be adopted for all scrips, including scrips on which derivatives are available, 
in the compulsory rolling settlement? 
 
The perceived benefits and concerns/ challenges arising out of this proposal 
are as follows. 

 
Discussion Paper on Applicability of Individual Scrip wise Price Bands/ Circuit Filters on F&O scrips   3 | P a g e  

Benefits: 

 

 

 

Imposing  price  bands/  circuit  filters  on  scrips  on  which  derivatives 
products are available may  arrest abnormal movement of the price 
of the scrip beyond a certain limit. 
It  may  also  afford  some  opportunity  to  listed  companies  and  its 
promoters  to  assess  the  movement  of  the  stock  price  and  enable 
them  to  make  market  announcement,  if  any,  to  address  market 
sentiments, which may restore the price to its normalcy. 

 
Concerns/ challenges: 

  Presently,  only  those  stocks  which  satisfy  the  enhanced  eligibility 
criteria (which includes criterion for liquidity) are being permitted in 
derivatives segment. Imposition of price bands/ circuit filters on such 
stocks may hamper fair price discovery and liquidity. 
It may lead to mis-alignment between the price of underlying in cash 
segment  and  price  of  the  derivative  products.  While  the  price 
movement of the underlying scrip in cash segment would be bound 
with the price band/ circuit filter, the price movement of the derivative 
products may go much beyond. 

 

 

12.2. Option 2- Combination of Dynamic and  Fixed price band/ circuit filter or call 

auction mechanism  
 
The current framework for dynamic price band may be allowed to continue 
with  the  initial  threshold  set  by  the  stock  exchanges  for  flexing.  This 
framework  would  be  available  upto  a  threshold  (say  30%  intraday 
movement in either direction).   
 
Upon reaching such threshold, following options may be considered: 
 

i. 

either a fixed price band/ circuit filter on the stock may be imposed. 

or  

ii. 

a call auction shall be conducted for a fixed duration as per criteria to 
be  prescribed  relating  to  minimum  trades,  volume,  etc.  The  price 
discovered  in  such  call  auction  may  be  considered  for  continuous 
market. 

The perceived benefits and concerns/ challenges arising out of this proposal 
are as follows. 
 
Benefits: 

 

Imposing  fixed  price  bands/  circuit  filters  on  scrips  upon  reaching 
certain  threshold  may  arrest  drastic  movement  of  the  price  of  the 
scrip beyond a certain limit. 

 

 
Discussion Paper on Applicability of Individual Scrip wise Price Bands/ Circuit Filters on F&O scrips   4 | P a g e  

 

Introducing call auction  may ensure wider participation of investors 
thereby leading to better price discovery as compared to the current 
system of flexing of dynamic price bands which is based on limited 
number of trades and UCC.  

 

 
Concerns/ challenges: 

 

Imposing fixed price bands/ circuit filters may have same concerns/ 
challenges as enumerated at Para 12.1 above. 

  For a scrip which is also a constituent of an index, computation of the 
index may become a challenge during the period of the call auction 
on account of lack of availability of current market price of the scrip 
during the period. 

 

12.3. Option 3- No change in existing framework 

 
The  present  framework,  including  the  recent  measures  to  strengthen  fair 
price  discovery  as  enumerated  at  Para  11  above,  may  continue  if 
considered as adequate to address the concerns arising out of significant 
price movements in scrips having presence in derivatives segment. In that 
case, no further measures may be required at this stage as the same may 
hamper free market and fair price discovery. 
 

F.  Public comments 

 

Comments from public  are invited on the  proposed  options  given at  Para  12 
above in the following format: 

 

Name of entity/ person 
Sl. 
No. 
 

Reference Para of the discussion 
paper 
 

Suggestions/ 
comments 
 

Rationale 

 

 
In view of the extraordinary price movements witnessed in recent times, there 
is a need to take a timely view in the matter. Accordingly, it is requested that 
comments  should  reach  SEBI  latest  by  February  20,  2019  by  e-mail  to 
manishkj@sebi.gov.in.  

 
Discussion Paper on Applicability of Individual Scrip wise Price Bands/ Circuit Filters on F&O scrips   5 | P a g e  

