 

 

 

Issuance of shares with Differential Voting Rights [DVRs] 

Consultation Paper 

 

1.  BACKGROUND 

1.1. There is increasing debate about the need to enable issuance and listing of shares with 

differential voting rights, commonly known as DVRs in India; and dual class shares or DCS 

in the international context. Such shares have rights disproportionate to their economic 

ownership.  In  promoter/  founder  led  companies  where  promoters/  founders  are 

instrumental  in  the  success  of  the  company,  such  structures  enable  them  to  retain 

decision-making powers and rights vis-à-vis other shareholders either through retaining 

shares with superior voting rights or issuance of shares with lower or fractional voting 

rights to public investors.  

 

1.2. The  matter  was  deliberated  in  the  Primary  Market  Advisory  Committee  of  SEBI  and  a 

group (DVR Group) was constituted amongst the Committee members to do an in-depth 

study of the proposal of introduction of dual-class shares in Indian Scenario.  

 

1.3. The DVR Group has submitted its report [DVR Group report] to SEBI. The Report proposes 

to structure the regulation of DVR issuance under two broad heads. The broad heads will 

cover issuance by companies whose equity shares are already listed on stock exchanges; 

and companies with equity shares not hitherto listed but proposed to be offered to the 

public. 

 

 

2.  PUBLIC COMMENTS 

Considering the implications of the said matter on the market participants including issuers 

and  investors,  public  comments  are  invited  on  the  proposals  contained  in  the  DVR  Group 

Report.  Specific  comments/suggestions  as  per  the  format  given  below  would  be  highly 

appreciated:  

 

 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization: 

 

Sr. No.  Pertains 

to 

specific 

Suggestion(s) 

Rationale 

recommendation  in  DVR  Group 

Report 

 

 

 

 

 

The comments may please be e-mailed on or before April 20, 2019, to Mr. Abhishek Rozatkar, 

Assistant General Manager at abhishekr@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to: 

 

Smt. Yogita Jadhav  

Deputy General Manager  

Corporation Finance Department  

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

SEBI Bhavan Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block Bandra Kurla Complex  

Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051  

Ph: +91-22--26449583  

 

Issued on: March 20, 2019 

PMAC DVR GROUP REPORT 

February 2019 

 

Issuance of Equity Shares with Differential Voting Rights  

 
Table of Contents 
Introduction 
Need for DVR in India 
Advantages and disadvantages for consideration in the context of DVRs 

1 
2 
3.  
 
 
4.  
 
 
 
 
5. 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
 
 
7. 
 

- 
- 

Issuer 
Investor 

Regulatory considerations  in India 

-  The Companies Act 
- 
- 
- 

SEBI Regulations 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 
SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 

Comparison across various jurisdictions 

-  USA 
-  Canada 
-  Hong Kong 
- 
-  Regulators’ views on DCS structures 

Singapore 

Market considerations and Companies with listed DVRs in India 

Share price performance of DVRs  

- 
-  History and analysis of DVRs by Indian companies 

Recommendations of the PMAC DVR Group 
Annexures 

 

2 
2 
3 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
13 
25 

 
 

 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

1 

 

1.  Introduction 

 

The common rule of one share - one vote is considered convenient for corporate governance, both 
from  the  point  of  view  of  the  shareholders  and  the  promoters  of  a  company.  However,  there  is 
increasing  debate  about  the  need  to  enable  issuance  and  listing  of  shares  with  differential  voting 
rights, commonly known as DVRs in India; and dual class shares or DCS in the international context. 
Such  shares  have  rights  disproportionate  to  their  economic  ownership.  In  promoter/  founder  led 
companies  where  promoters/  founders  are  instrumental  in  the  success  of  the  company,  such 
structures enable them to retain decision-making powers and rights vis-à-vis other shareholders either 
through  retaining  shares  with  superior  voting  rights  or  issuance  of  shares  with  lower  or  fractional 
voting rights to public investors.  
 
Such  structures  help  in  fund  raising  without  dilution  of  control  and  serve  as  defense  mechanism 
against any hostile bid for change in control. While the promoters/ founders can maintain control as 
they would hold shares with the superior voting rights, the shareholders participating in the shares 
with lower or fractional voting rights get the opportunity to participate in the growth of the company, 
through higher dividends and capital appreciation, besides the gains in case of a sunset clause, even 
though they have lower voting rights.  
 
In India, the current regulatory regime does not permit DVRs with higher or superior voting rights. 
However, subject to certain conditions, DVR shares with lower voting rights are permitted. DVR shares 
with lower voting rights may be of some interest to small shareholders as dividend yield and capital 
appreciation probably rank higher than voting rights in their investment decisions.  
 
DVR with lower voting rights shares are typically priced lower at issuance and offer higher dividends; 
in return, the voting rights are limited.   
 
2.  Need for DVRs in India 
 
India is experiencing a high growth phase, which requires companies to raise capital to sustain this 
growth. For companies with high leverage or asset light models may prefer equity over debt capital. 
Raising equity on a periodic basis leads to dilution of founder/ promoter stake, which can be effectively 
addressed through use of DVRs as a mode of capital raising. 
 
This is especially relevant for new technology firms which have asset light models, with little or no 
need for debt financing. These firms, however, continuously require grow only through equity, which 
dilutes promoter’s/ founder’s stake, thereby diluting control. It is pertinent to note that in such cases, 
retaining founder’s interest & control in the business is of great value to all shareholders.  
This can be achieved by: 

Issue of shares with superior voting rights to founders and/or 

a) 
b)  Issue  of  shares  with  lower  or  fractional  voting  rights  to  raise  funds  from  private/  public 

investors 
 

One way to let Indian entrepreneurs have some autonomous space for managing and growing their 
business without the suppliers of their capital over-supervising them and offering advice they cannot 
refuse is to allow them to issue shares with differential voting rights to the founders/ promoters. Will 
foreign  funds  want  to  invest  in  such  companies  where  founders  hold  higher  voting  rights?  If  the 
business model and execution capability on offer are compelling, they would, attracted by the financial 
return promised by the venture. Research shows that firms with an exciting story to tell issue dual-
class shares. Market will be willing to give up control to an insider who has proven to be successful. 
 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

2 

 

3.  Advantages and disadvantages for consideration in the context of DVRs 1 

 

The success of dual-class structures in many companies has led both Nasdaq and the NYSE to continue 
to  permit  dual-class  listings.  For  example,  Nasdaq  recently  released  a  report  that  included  an 
endorsement of dual-class stock, including laying out the arguments why companies with dual-class 
stock  should  continue  to  be  listed.  Among  the  reasons  cited  by  Nasdaq  was  the  recognition  that 
encouraging  entrepreneurship  and  innovation  in  the  U.S.  economy  is  best  done  by  “establishing 
multiple  paths  entrepreneurs  can  take  to  public  markets”.  “Because  of  this,  each  “publicly  traded 
company should have flexibility to determine a class structure that is most appropriate and beneficial 
for  them,  so  long  as  this  structure  is  transparent  and  disclosed  up  front  so  that  investors  have 
complete visibility into the company. Dual-class structures allow investors to invest side-by-side with 
innovators and high-growth companies, enjoying the financial benefits of these companies’ success.”  

 

While there is ongoing debate in the SEC about the continuation of DCS2, NYSE continues to actively 
seek to list companies with multi-class stock, including Alibaba, which chose to list on the NYSE after 
the Hong Kong stock exchange raised significant questions about its capital structure. 
 
Presented below is an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of dual class structures for issuers 
and investors: 

 

a.  Advantages to the Issuer: 

  A company can raise money and founders of the company can continue to keep control over 
the company. DVR is a good instrument that would allow founders, especially in case of tech 
startups, to raise capital without losing control.  
In the case of ordinary equity shares, there is a possibility that a person/institution can acquire 
majority of the shares and hence take over the control of the company from the management, 
which is not possible if the founders hold superior voting right shares. 

 

  Founder led companies with effective interest of the founders in such companies is good for 

growth of the business and thereby for all shareholders. 

 
b.  Downsides for the Issuer: 

  Usually strategic investor/PE investors want voting rights as they would like to play a role in 
the management of the company. Many such investors are prohibited by their charters to 
invest in such shares where they hold voting rights than are inferior to any other shareholder. 
Hence, it may pose some challenge for issuers to find investors in situations where founders 
may hold superior voting rights. (A retail investor on the other hand, might be more interested 
in  higher  dividends  and  capital  appreciation than  in the management  of  the  company  and 
hence may be less averse to such structures.) 

  There are always additional questions on corporate governance in companies with dual class 

 

structures. 
Lack of investor awareness pursuant to which investors might not be able to understand the 
DVR structures or risks associated with it to make an informed investment decision. 
 

c.  Advantages to Investors: 

                                                           
1 https://www.directorsandboards.com/news/pros-cons-dual-class-stock-structure-two-corporate-
governance-experts-battle-it-out 
2 http://www.pionline.com/article/20180216/ONLINE/180219888/sec-commissioner-calls-for-curb-on-dual-
class-forever-shares# 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

3 

 

 

 

 

In  case  of  pre-existing  superior  voting  rights  with  the  founders,  investors  would  have  the 
comfort of continued involvement of the founders in the company due to control exercised 
through superior voting rights held by them 
Investors very often invest in a company because of the “trust” they have in the founders and 
entrepreneurs behind such companies  
If the company issues shares with lower or fractional voting rights, the DVR shareholder gets 
equal or higher dividend inspite of lower voting rights.  

  DVRs with lower or fractional voting rights are usually offered at a discount to the price of the 

normal equity shares. 

  Such shares generally pay more dividend than the normal equity shares. 

 

d.  Downsides for Investors: 

  When voting interest is separated from economic interests, it may lead to other externalities 
interests  among  shareholders,  excessive  compensation  of 

such  as  misalignment  of 
management, reduced dividend pay-out, management entrenchment and expropriation 

  There is a concern about whether recourse is available to minority shareholders if founders 

holding superior voting rights are unable to deliver results. 

  DVRs with lower or fractional voting rights are often illiquid. 
  DVRs with superior voting rights with the founders or large proportion of DVRs with lower or 
fractional voting rights with public investors make management excessively powerful, leading 
to issues of corporate governance 

  While DCS structures are allowed in countries like the U.S., Canada, Hong Kong and Singapore, 

they are the exception rather than the norm 

 
 
4.  Regulatory Considerations in India 

 

The regulatory framework in India protects the rights of the dual class shareholders, as well as the 
minority  shares.  For  example,  in  the  United  States,  Berkshire  Hathaway  Inc.  Class  A  equity 
shareholders can convert their shares into class B equity shares, having fewer voting rights. However, 
under the Indian Law, a company cannot convert its existing equity share capital with voting rights 
into equity share capital carrying differential voting rights and vice versa. 
 
a.  The Companies Act, 2013 

 
The Companies Act, 2013, Section 47 provides for every shareholder of a company to have a right 
to vote on every resolution presented before the company.  
 
However, as per Section 43(a)(ii) of the Companies Act, 2013, a company incorporated under the 
laws of India and limited by shares is permitted to have equity shares with differential voting rights 
as part of its share capital. The differential rights appended to such equity shares may be with 
respect to dividend, voting (higher or lower) or otherwise. Such equity shares may be issued by a 
company as per  Rule 4 of the  Companies (Share Capital & Debentures) Rules, 2014 prescribed 
under the Companies Act, 2013.  
 
It is pertinent to note  that the Rules  have clarified that existing equity shares with differential 
rights will continue to have the rights that have been provided at the time of their issuance and 
have  accordingly  been  grandfathered.  Shares  with  differential  voting  rights  would  be  valid 
provided a company has the powers to issue and structure such class of shares under the Articles 
of Association of the company. 
 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

4 

 

Two limiting factors in the Companies Act, 2013 are: 

 

 

1.  “The company must have a consistent track record of distributable profits for the last 3 years”. 
However, the 3-year criterion is silent on IPOs. Further, the same also needs to be looked into 
with SEBI regulations viz. 6(1), 6(2) of the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018 (“SEBI ICDR Regulations”). While it appears that the criteria may not be 
beneficial for startups, a view needs to be taken whether the intention was to open up for all 
companies  including  non-profit  making  or  have  a  filter  as  in  have  it  initially  for  mature 
startups. 

2.  “The  shares  with  differential  rights  shall  not  exceed  26%  of  the  total  post-issue  capital, 

including equity shares with differential rights issued at any point of time”.  

 
 

b.  SEBI Regulations 
 

With the apprehension of possible misuse of “superior voting rights” by the issue of shares by the 
listed  companies,  SEBI  prohibited  the  issue  of  such  shares  in  July  21,  2009.  The  plausible 
justification  for  prohibition  was  the  prevention  from  detriment  of  the  shareholders.  However, 
shares with inferior voting rights are permitted by SEBI. The question of the hour that arises is 
how different the shares with “superior voting rights” are from shares with “differential voting 
rights”, as it is the latter term that has attained some measure of popularity under Indian law and 
practice.  
 
It is significant to comprehend the interpretation of terms “superior and differential voting rights”. 
It appears that while the expression “differential voting rights” is more generic in nature, “superior 
voting rights” means any rights that give the shareholder more than one vote per share on a poll, 
which is the usual norm. This step justifies the prevention of people in control of a company from 
issuing  shares  to  themselves  which  provide  equal  economic  benefits  with  other  shareholders 
(thereby  requiring  equal  outflow of  financial  resources  to obtain those  shares),  but  one which 
gives greater voting rights and hence, better control. Hence, it is possible for listed companies to 
issue  shares with differential voting rights which provide voting rights below the  normal “one-
share-one-vote” rule, conferring voting rights greater than that is prescribed. 

In the Jagatjit Industries case3, the two brothers, Anand and Jagatjit, moved the CLB against the 
company’s decision in 2004 on preferential allotment of shares with DVRs, giving Karamjit 64% 
voting rights on his 32% stake in the company. CLB , in its order, upheld the resolution to allot 
shares with DVRs to the promoter of the company.  
 
Furthermore, while listed companies will now be allowed to issue differential voting entitlements 
only with rights inferior to one-vote-per-share, unlisted companies will still be governed by Section 
86 of the Companies Act, 1956 (Section 43 of the Companies Act, 2013) and the law laid down in 
Jagatjit case whereby they have greater flexibility in issuing shares with differential voting rights, 
both superior and inferior. 

 

 

Some judgments relating to DVRs are briefly described in Annexure 1. 

 
 
 
 
                                                           
3 https://indiacorplaw.in/2009/03/differential-voting-rights-ruling-by.html 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

5 

 

c.  Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 (‘SCRR’): 
 

Rule 19(2)(b) of the SCRR provides for the minimum offer and allotment to public in terms of offer 
document, which shall be: 

a.  at  least  25%  of  each  class  or  kind  of  equity  shares/  debenture  convertible  into  equity 
shares issued by the company, if the post issue market capitalization of company is less 
than or equal to 1600 crore rupees. 

b.  at least such percentage of each class or kind of equity shares/ debenture convertible into 
equity shares issued by the company equivalent to the value of 400 crore rupees, if the 
post issue market capitalization of the company is more than 1600 crore rupees but less 
than or equal to 4000 crore rupees 

c.  at  least  10%  of  each  class  or  kind  of  equity  shares/  debenture  convertible  into  equity 
shares issued by the company, if the post issue market capitalization of company is above 
4000 crore rupees. 

 
Thus, in light of the above rule, it is unclear if, for a company with different class of shares, the IPO 
needs to be undertaken for all class of shares or the company can proceed with listing of any one 
class of share thereby keeping the other class of share as unlisted. 

 
 
d.  SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI LODR Regulations”): 
 

Regulation 41(3) of the SEBI LODR Regulations states that the listed entity shall not issue shares in 
any manner which may confer on any person, superior rights as to voting or dividend vis-à-vis the 
rights on equity shares that are already listed.  
 
Thus, though the SEBI LODR Regulations also permits an issuer to have DVR shares, such DVR shall 
not contain any superior voting rights which shall restrict or reduce the voting rights of the existing 
shareholders. 

 

5.  Comparison across Various Jurisdictions  

 

While many countries4 have permitted the listing of companies with Dual Class Shares, some countries 
like UK, Australia, Spain, Germany and China do not permit the Issuers with DCS structure for listing. 
DCS structure was allowed in UK for listing on Standard Listings. However, subsequently the issuers 
with DCS structure were not allowed listing on standard listings or premium listings. Singapore and 
Hong Kong have recently permitted DCS structures with detailed checks and balances.  
   
  The key features for issuance & listing of DCS structure in different jurisdictions is as follows: 

a.  USA: 

 

Issuers with DCS structures are permitted to list on the NYSE and NASDAQ. Section 313A 
of NYSE Listing Manual provides for shares with differential voting rights with enhanced 
disclosure and safeguarding policies. 

  However, listing is permitted only issuers with pre-existing DCS structure5. Once  listed, 
issuer with one share one vote structure is not permitted to implement the DCS structure 
that would reduce or restrict the interest of existing shareholders.  

                                                           
4 https://www.cfainstitute.org/-/media/documents/survey/apac-dual-class-shares-survey-report.ashx 
5 https://www.nasdaq.com/article/facebook-fb-decides-against-the-creation-of-class-c-shares-cm850469 
  

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

6 

 

  Sunset Clause: There is no mandatory requirement to have a sunset clause for issuer or 
companies  with  DCS  structure,  however  some  companies  have  voluntarily  adopted  a 
sunset period of 5 years post which all the shares with multiple (higher) voting rights will 
be automatically converted into ordinary shares having one vote for one share. 

  Some examples in the US6: 

−  Google founders retain control of the listed entity Alphabet and have subsequently 
restructured their capital structure, creating three classes of shares. Class A shares 
carry one voting right (listed through an IPO and held by public shareholders), Class B 
shares carry 10 votes each (not listed, held by Larry Page and Sergey Brin and has a 
sunset  clause)7,  while  Class  C  shares  carry  no  voting  rights  (issued  to  all  Class  A 
shareholders and Class B shareholders, listed - issued in 20148). The current market 
price of Class  A (1:1 voting right) and Class C shares (no voting rights) is trading at 
almost  the  same  price.  Further  over  time,  founders  have  converted  part  of  their 
holding in Class B shares to Class A shares for liquidity.  

−  Facebook has issued Class A shares which carry one voting right (listed through the 
IPO and held by public shareholders), Class B shares which carry 10 votes each (not 
listed, held by Mark Zuckerberg and affiliates with no sunset clause). Their proposal 
to  issue  Class  C  shares  carrying  no voting  rights  in  lieu  of  dividend was  withdrawn 
pursuant to investor resistance9. 

−  Alibaba  –  has  partisanship  structure  where  27  partners  have  the  right  to  appoint 
majority  of  the  Board.  Through  this  partnership  structure,  the  founders  get  the 
majority control on the affairs of the company. 

−  Snapchat has three classes of shares: Class A, Class B, and Class C. Class A common 
stock is non-voting. Snapchat became the first company to issue no-vote stock in its 
IPO. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to one vote and is convertible into 
one share of Class A common stock. Each share of Class C common stock is entitled to 
ten  votes  and  is  convertible  into  one  share  of  Class  B  common  stock.  The  Class  C 
common stock, which is held by the founders, represents ~90% of the voting power 
of the outstanding capital stock. There is no sunset clause for founders. There is no 
sunset clause for founders10. 

−  Nike has issued Class A shares which has power to elect 75% of the Board of Directors 
(unlisted and held by Philip Knight, Travis Knight, Mark Parke and Trevor Edward) and 
Class B shares which has power to elect 25% of the Board of Directors (listed and held 
by public shareholders).  

−  Viacom11 has issued Viacom is listed on NASDAQ and trades under the symbols "VIA" 
for Class A common stock (with 1:1 voting rights) and "VIAB" for Class B common stock 
(non-voting stock.). While both are listed, Class A common stock is held by Sumner M. 
Redstone, the controlling stockholder of National Amusements, and Class B is held with 
public shareholders Viacom Class A common stock can be converted into shares of Class 
B  common stock  on  a  one-for-one  basis,  but  Viacom Class  B  common  stock  cannot  be 

                                                           
6 https://www.law.ox.ac.uk/business-law-blog/blog/2018/01/should-securities-regulators-allow-companies-
going-public-dual-class 
7 https://www.recode.net/2017/6/13/15788892/alphabet-shareholder-proposals-fair-shares-counted-equally-
no-supervote 
8 http://blogs.marketwatch.com/thetell/2014/04/02/google-investors-are-about-to-get-goog-and-googl-
shares-in-stock-split/ 
9 https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/on-leadership/wp/2018/05/10/a-huge-pension-fund-says-
facebook-is-like-a-dictatorship/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.bfa99de5fe16 
10 https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-investors-voting/top-u-s-funds-seek-sunset-rules-on-dual-class-
share-listings-idUSKCN1MX37C 
11 https://www.thestreet.com/story/13612197/1/viacom-and-27-other-stocks-that-come-with-restricted-
voting-rights.html 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

7 

 

converted into Class A common stock. Shareholders have been resisting the >80% control 
by the CEO through its ~10% shareholding.  

  Regulatory updates/ investor feedback on this subject is at Annexure 2.  

 

b.  Canada: 

  DCS structures are permitted under Canadian federal corporate law and also under Toronto 

 

Stock Exchange (“TSX”) rules, subject to certain safeguards. 
In case a listed company wants to create a multiple voting class of shares, the company needs 
to obtain approval from a majority of the votes cast by holders voting at a meeting, other than 
the promoters, directors, officers, insiders of an issuer or proposed recipient of such shares. 

  TSX imposes a ‘coat tail’ provision for companies with a DCS structure. 
  Canadian Coalition of Good Governance12 in its dual class share policy has published some best 

practices principles for DCS companies such as: 
o 

Holders of MV shares should be entitled to nominate a number of directors equal to the 
least  of  (i)  two-thirds  of  the  board, (ii)  the  number  obtained  when  the  board  size  is 
multiplied by the percentage of total voting rights held by the MV shares, and (iii) if the 
holders of MV shares are related to the management of a company with a controlling 
shareholder (i.e. able to elect the board or direct the management), then one-third of 
the board. 
The  share  structure  should  allow  a  “meaningful  equity  ownership  stake”,  which 
generally requires a voting rights ratio of not more than 4 to 1. 
There should be standard coat tail provisions 
The DCS structure should collapse at an appropriate time as determined by the board 
and, if practicable, as set out in the articles, where a one-for-one conversion occurs, 
unless a majority of the holders of OV shares voting separately as a class approve its 
continuation (for a period no longer than 5 years at each vote). Further, no premiums 
should be paid to the holders of MV shares for the collapse. 

o 

o 
o 

o  MV shares sold by a holder should convert automatically to OV shares on a one-for-one 

basis. 
 

c.  Hong Kong: 

 

 

Listing by companies that have issued dual class shares or Weighted Voting Rights (WVR) was 
introduced in April 2018 by incorporation in the mainboard listing rules. 
Some of the eligibility norms for issuers are as follows: 
a.  Only  innovative  issuers/  biotech  companies  with  certain  eligibility  criteria  permitted  to 

b. 

issue WVRs through an IPO. 
Issuer  should  have  meaningful  third  party  investment  from  at  least  one  sophisticated 
investor  before  the  IPO.  Such  investor(s)  should  retain  an  aggregate  50%  of  their 
investment for at least 6 months post the IPO. This is exempt for a company spun off from 
a parent company 

c.  Market Capitalization: (i) HK$ 40 bn or (ii) HK$ 10 bn & HK$ 1 bn revenue in latest audited 

FY. 

d.  The  beneficiaries  of  the  WVR  should  be  an  individual  with  active  executive  role  in  the 
business  and  has  contributed  materially  to  the  growth  of  the  business.    Each  of  the 
beneficiaries should be a director on the board at IPO.  

e.  The beneficiaries of the WVR should hold at least 10% of economic interest in total issued 

share capital. 

 

If the beneficiaries of WVR shares die, cease to be director or transfer their shares to another 
person, the rights attached to such WVR shall lapse. 

  The  maximum  voting  rights  per  share  an  issuer  can  allow  cannot  exceed  10  times  the 

voting rights on ordinary shares. 

                                                           
12 Consultation paper by SGX on Possible Listing Framework for Dual Class Shares Structures dated February 16, 2017 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

8 

 

  Companies with WVR structure need to adopt enhanced corporate governance measures 

for investor protection. 

  This  is  applicable  for  new  listing  applicants  only.  Secondary  listing  for  companies  with 
WVR/  DCS  structures  that  are  listed  on  NYSE/  NASDAQ  or  London  premium  listing 
segment13 permitted.  

  There  is  no  time-defined “sunset”  clause  for  the WVR,  instead the  WVR  shall  lapse  on 

occurrence of events mentioned above. 
 

d.  Singapore: 

 

In June 2018, Singapore Stock Exchange introduced rules for listing of dual class shares 
structures  on  Mainboard14.  The  amendment  was  followed  by  two  rounds  of  public 
consultation.    

  The Key features based on framework for permitting the listing of companies with DCS 

structure on SGX are as follows: 
o  Only new issuers shall be permitted for listing with DCS structure, subject to various 
suitability  factors  including  business  model,  track  record,  role  and  contribution  of 
Multiple Votes shareholders, participation by sophisticated investors, among other 

o  Holder  of  Multiple  Voting  shares  must  to  director  of  the  Issuer  or  member  of  the 

permitted group. The holders of Multiple Voting shares must be disclosed at IPO 

o  Automatic  conversion  of  Multiple  Voting  shares  to  Ordinary  shares  in  case  the 
Multiple  Voting  shares  are  sold or  transferred or  the  Multiple  Voting  shares  group 
director ceases to be director (unless new director is appointed) 

o  The maximum voting rights per share an issuer can allow cannot exceed 10 times than 

voting rights on ordinary shares (one vote one share are OV). 

o  The holders of MV shares need to observe a moratorium (lock-in) period of 12 months 

o 

in both MV shares and OV shares post listing. 
Issuer  is  prohibited  from  issuing  any  shares  with  multiple  voting  rights  (MV)  post 
listing except in case of Rights issue or other corporate actions like face value split, 
consolidation etc. Provided that, in case of rights issue,  the  Issuer needs to ensure 
that the proportion of MV share to OV shares does not change post rights issue based 
on additional subscription by holders of MV shares. 

o  OV  shareholders  holding  10%  of  the  voting  rights  should  be  allowed  to  convene  a 

general meeting. 

o  For an issuer with a dual class share structure, disclosure shall prominently include: 
(a) a statement on the cover page that the issuer is a company with a dual class share 
structure; and (b) information on the voting rights of each class of shares. 

o  The  majority  of  each  of  the  committees  performing  the  functions  of  an  audit 
committee, a nominating committee and a remuneration committee, including the 
respective chairmen, must be independent. 

In  jurisdictions  where  DCS  is  permitted,  “one-share-one  vote”  concept  is  provided  as  a  default 
principle, however, it is expected that the public shareholders of the listed class of shares hold ordinary 
shares with one share one vote (OV) structure and the founder/ promoters hold the DCS with superior 
voting rights or MV structures, thus retaining control. S&P 500 has removed Snap from their index and 
has decided to bar new entrants with multiple classes of shares from the S&P 500.  
 
  Regulators’ views on DCS15 structures: 

                                                           
13 DCS structures currently not permitted on London SE 
14 Report by Legiswatch dated July 2018 on “SGX introduces Primary Listing Framework for Dual Class Share 
Structures” 
15 https://www.bloomberg.com/quicktake/dual-class-shares 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

9 

 

  ~700 public companies in the US have DCS structures, predominant listed ones being Google, 
Facebook,  Snapchat,  Nike  and  Alibaba.  There  is  ongoing  debate  in  the  SEC  about  the 
continuation of DCS16. 

  There is increasing investor activism against concentrated voting rights with a few founders/ 

management. 

•  Hong  Kong  and  Singapore  recently  allowed  Dual-class  shares  to  encourage  more  new-

• 

technology firms to list. 
In  the  UK17,  DCS  structures  were  used  in  the  1960s  to  protect  corporations  from  hostile 
takeovers or for the Queen to have ‘golden share’, before institutional investors expressed 
strong opposition to such structures. DSC is presently not allowed in the UK 

  Over the past decade, a number of European governments have implemented or debated the 

use of different voting rights. 

•  US,  Canada,  HK,  Singapore,  Denmark,  Spain,  Sweden18  and  Italy  allow  dual-class  shares. 
Germany, Spain, China, Australia disallow listing of shares of companies with DCS structures. 

 
 
6.  Market Considerations and Companies with Listed DVRs in India 
 
The Amendment to Companies Act, 1956 in the year 2000 (Section 86 of the Companies Act, 1956, 
read with Rules of 2001) allowed, for the first time, issuance of shares with differential voting rights. 
Similar provisions are in the Companies Act, 2013 (Section 43 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with 
applicable Rules). 
 
Only 5 listed companies have issued DVRs to the public in India till now viz. Tata Motors; Pantaloons 
Retails  (Now:  Future  Enterprises  Ltd.);  Gujarat  NRE  Coke  Ltd.;  Jain  Irrigation  Systems  Ltd.  and 
Stampede Capital.  
 
History and analysis of the DVRs shares issued by some Indian Corporates is given hereunder:  

Sr. 
No. 

Company 

Name 

Year of 
issue 

 

Features 

1. 

  Tata Motors  

2008 

  Tata Motors came out with Rights issue of DVR Shares after 8 

 

years of amendment in Co. Act. 

  To fund the Jaguar - Land Rover acquisition 
 

Issued 6.4 crores DVRs (“A” Ordinary Shares) priced at Rs. 305 
per share as against Rs. 340 for an ordinary share as Rights 
issue. (10% discount) 

  DVRs has 5% higher dividend on these shares as compared to 

ordinary shares 

  DVRs carry 1/10th voting rights 
  The issue was undersubscribed and promoter subscribed to 

the unsubscribed DVRs 

  These DVRs reported very low trading volumes 
  Market price of DVRs as on Oct 8, 2018 was Rs. 115.45 and 

that of ordinary shares it was Rs. 212.75 (45% discount).  

                                                           
16 http://www.pionline.com/article/20180216/ONLINE/180219888/sec-commissioner-calls-for-curb-on-dual-
class-forever-shares# 
17 https://ecgi.global/sites/default/files/working_papers/documents/SSRN-id2138949.pdf 
18 https://www.issgovernance.com/analysis-differentiated-voting-rights-in-europe/ 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

10 

  An analysis of average trading in the DVRs as compared to 

Ordinary shares in last one month is given hereunder: 
 

 

 

Average No. of shares 

traded 

Period 
Last one 
month 
(Sep 07 to 
Oct 05, 
2018) 
Last one 
year  
(Oct 06, 
2017 to 
Oct 05, 
2018) 

Ordinary 
12,46,914 

7,93,018 
 

DVRs 
2,31,506 
(18.56% of 
ordinary 
shares) 

2,14,161 
(27% of 
ordinary 
shares) 
 

Weighted Average 
Trading Price (Rs.) 
DVRs 

Ordinary 
247 

132 
(46% Dis.) 

343 

194 
(43% Dis.) 

2. 

  Pantaloons 

2009 

Retails 
(Now: 
Future 
Enterprises 
Ltd.) 

 
 
  Pantaloons issued DVRs as bonus shares with the ordinary 

shares 

  These class B shares also had 1/10th voting rights to the 

existing ordinary shares 

  These shares offered 5% additional dividend 
  The trading volume in these shares was significant due to the 
reason that they were offered as bonus shares and not fresh 
issues 

  Market price of DVRs as on Oct 8, 2018 was Rs. 35.20 and that 

of ordinary shares was Rs.34.70.  

  An analysis of average trading in the DVRs as compared to 

Ordinary shares in last one month is given hereunder: 
 

Weighted Average 
Trading Price (Rs.) 
DVRs 

Ordinary 
42 

43 

41 
 

42 

 

Average No. of shares 

traded 

Period 
Last one 
month 
(Sep 07 to 
Oct 05, 
2018) 
Last one 
year  
(Oct 06, 
2017 to 
Oct 05, 
2018) 

 

Ordinary 
1,24,598 

4,43,594 
 

DVRs 

2,105 
(1.68% of 
ordinary 
shares) 

4,991 
(1.12% of 
ordinary 
shares) 
 

In  2009,  in the matter of Anand  Pershad  Jaiswal  and  Ors  v.  Jagatjit  Industries  Ltd.  and  Ors,  CLB 
upheld the issuance of DVR shares which resulted  in  an increase of voting rights  to 62% for the 
promoters who held only 32% of economic stake in the company, as valid. 
 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

11 

 

Following  this  judgement,  SEBI  came  up  with  letter  dated  July  21,  2009  addressed  to  all  stock 
exchanges  which  prohibited  issue  of  DVRs  with  superior  rights  as  to  dividend  or  voting.  Similar 
provisions are there in Reg. 41(3) of SEBI LODR Regulations mentioned above.  
 
So now an issue of the likes of Tata Motors or Pantaloons with higher dividends with lower voting 
rights is not possible. 
 
3. 

  DVR were issued as bonus shares in the ratio of one DVR 

  Gujarat NRE 

2009 

Coke Ltd. 
(post SEBI 
letter dated 
21.07.2009) 

4. 

 

Jain 
Irrigation 
Systems 
Ltd. 

bonus share for every 10 equity shares 

  DVR bonus shares had a voting right which was 1/100th of an 

ordinary share 

  The dividend rights are at par with ordinary shares 
  Trading in the scrip of company is suspended due to 

procedural reasons. NCLT has ordered liquidation of company 
under The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. 

2011 

  DVR shares were issued as bonus shares in the ratio of 1 DVR 

Bonus equity share for every 20 ordinary equity shares. 

  DVR bonus shares had a voting right which was 1/10th of an 

ordinary share 

  The dividend rights are at par with ordinary shares 
  Market price of DVRs as on 08.10.2018 was Rs.41.95 and that 

of ordinary shares it was Rs.61.45 

  An analysis of average trading in the DVRs as compared to 

Ordinary shares in last one month is given hereunder: 
 

 

Average No. of shares 

traded 

Period 
Last one 
month 
(Sep 07 to 
Oct 05, 
2018) 
Last one 
year  
(Oct 06, 
2017 to 
Oct 05, 
2018) 

Ordinary 
8,55,875 

9,55,672 
 

DVRs 

8,429 
(1% of 
ordinary 
shares) 

27,884 
(2.91% of 
ordinary 
shares) 
 

 
Share price performance* of DVRs in India: 
 

 

Weighted Average 
Trading Price (Rs.) 
DVRs 

Ordinary 
76 

50 
(34% Dis.) 

104 

65 
(36% Dis.) 

CMP 
(₹) 

52 week 
High (₹) 

52 week 
Low (₹) 

Dividend per 

Market 

Share (₹) 

Capitalisation  

0.20 
0.30 
0.50 
(17.09.2012) 
0.50 
(17.09.2012) 

(₹ Crores) 

88,039.58 
14,232.98 
169.46 

7.56 

12 

 

Particulars 

Tata Motors 
Tata Motors DVR 
Gujarat NRE Coke 

468.45 
278.50 
2.75 

598.40 
378.15 
4.40 

336.00 
244.15 
2.45 

Gujarat NRE Coke DVR 

2.15 

3.85 

1.70 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

 

14 
12.45 
54.50 
37.05 
1.45 
1.90 

0.10 
0.14 
0.50 
0.50 
Nil 
Nil 

26.90 
26.65 
89.55 
59.40 
1.50 
1.90 

156.45 
139.80 
108.60 
66.90 
10.75 
19.10 

496.41 
Futures Enterprises Ltd. 
29.16 
Futures Enterprises DVR 
2,846.52 
Jain Irrigation Systems  
80.36 
Jain Irrigation Systems DVR 
Stampede Capital# 
8.59 
Stampede Capital DVR# 
43.51 
*data  as  on  March  10,  2017;  Source-  NSE  and  Bloomberg  Note-  CMP=  Current  Market  Price,  MC=Market 
Capitalisation  
# data as on October 10, 2018. 
 
DVRs  are  traded  at  lower  price  than  ordinary  shares  but  earned  better  dividend  as  compared  to 
ordinary shares.  
 
“Considering the strict corporate governance requirements for companies to list dual class shares in 
India and the various laws protecting the rights of DVR shareholders against hostility, it can be argued 
that the discount of 35-45% for DVR shares is a bit excessive. This might be partly explained by the 
fact that these shares are not understood and tracked by investors, and that we might see the discount 
narrowing once there is more awareness about the features of such shares in the market19.”  
 
Even a few years after shares with differential voting rights (DVRs) were introduced in India, very few 
companies have issued DVR shares. Some of them continue to trade at a big discount vis-à-vis ordinary 
shares. Very low additional dividends, discomfort with losing voting powers, and lower interest among 
investors seem to be the reasons. 
 
The DVR construct in India is unique. In India, it is possible to issue shares with inferior (less than one 
vote per share) voting rights. Further, in the case of India, both the classes of shares are listed, whereas 
precedents from the US (except a few cases such as Alphabet) and regulations from HK and Singapore 
permit listing of the ordinary shares and shares while the multiple rights, held by the founders, remain 
unlisted.  
 
The comparison of trading pattern of DCS in US and India is given in Annexure 3.  
 
7.  Recommendations of the DVR Group 

 

Issuance of Equity Shares with Differential Voting Rights  
 
The expressions “differential voting rights” and “dual class shares” are generic in nature. They can mean 
shares carrying superior voting rights (a multiple of voting power on an ordinary equity share) or shares 
carrying inferior voting rights (a fraction of the voting power on an ordinary equity share). In addition to 
voting rights, there can be other differential rights such as dividends etc. 
 
An ordinary equity share is an equity share carrying one vote for one share. For clarity, in this Report, “SR 
Shares” will mean shares with superior voting rights as compared to ordinary equity shares and “FR Shares” 
means shares with fractional voting rights as compared to ordinary equity shares. References to the term 
“DVR” will mean shares with differential voting rights in a generic manner i.e. including SR Shares as well 
as FR Shares. 
 
This Report is a product of deliberations of the Group formed by the Primary Market Advisory Committee 
to work on the subject at its meetings held on 4th October, 2018, 15th October, 2018, 3rd November 2018 
and 2nd January, 2019.   
 
                                                           
19 https://mpra.ub.uni-muenchen.de/87996/16/MPRA_paper_87996.pdf 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

13 

 

This Report proposes to structure the regulation of DVR issuance under two broad heads. The broad 
heads will cover issuance by companies whose equity shares are already listed on stock exchanges; 
and companies with equity shares not hitherto listed but proposed to be offered to the public. 
 
Conditions Precedent 
 
A company would be entitled to issue DVR Shares, subject to following pre-conditions: 
 
 

issue of DVR Shares must have been be authorized in the articles of association of the company; 
and  
 
the issue of DVR Shares is authorized by a special resolution passed at a general meeting of the 
shareholders (for companies already listed, by way of e-voting in accordance with Companies 
Act, 2013) with notice of specific matters, including but not limited to, size of issuance, ratio of 
the difference in the voting rights, rights as to differential dividends, if any, sunset clause, “coat-
tail provisions”, etc., as made applicable by SEBI regulations to be notified in this regard.  

 

 
 

 

 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

14 

 

COMPANIES WHOSE EQUITY SHARES ARE ALREADY LISTED – ISSUANCE OF FR 
SHARES 
 
First issue of FR Shares 
 
A company, whose equity shares are already listed and traded on a recognized stock exchange for at 
least one year, shall be permitted to issue FR Shares by way of: (i) rights issue; (ii) bonus issue pro rata 
to all equity shareholders; or (iii) a Follow-on Public Offer (“FPO”) of FR shares. The first two would 
provide the FR shares to all existing equity shareholders while the third would provide a right to all 
existing shareholders to subscribe to the FR shares, along with third parties. 
 
Subsequent issues of FR Shares once FR Shares are already listed 
 
Rights Issue or Bonus Issue: A company that has already listed FR Shares shall be eligible to transact 
a rights issue or a bonus issue of FR Shares of the same class to all shareholders on a pari-passu basis.  
 
Qualified Institutions Placement (“QIP”) or preferential issue: A company, whose FR Shares are listed 
for at least one year, shall be eligible to do a preferential issue or a QIP of FR Shares of the same class.  
 
Pricing: The pricing of FR shares shall be in accordance with regulatory considerations applicable to 
mode of issuance of FR Shares.   
 
Depository Receipts: A company whose FR Shares are listed for at least one year shall be eligible to 
issue depositary receipts where the underlying shares are FR Shares. 
 
Convertible  Instruments:  A  company  can  issue  convertible  instruments  which  will  convert  into  FR 
Shares subject to applicable regulatory considerations.  
 
Face Value of FR Shares:  The face value of a company’s FR Shares shall be the same as that of its 
ordinary equity shares. 
 
Number of FR Shares: The number of FR Shares that may be issued by a company shall be subject to 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules framed thereunder. 
 
Fast-track: A company shall be eligible to issue FR Shares in a rights issue or an FPO through the fast-
track method in case it meets the eligibility criteria of fast-track issuances.  
 
Voting and Other Rights on FR Shares: The FR Shares shall not exceed a ratio of 1:10, i.e. one vote as 
applicable to one Ordinary Equity Share, would be voting entitlement on 10 FR Shares. The ratio can 
be in full numbers from 1:2 to 1:10. However, at any point of time, the company can only have one 
class of FR Shares.  
 
The  company  shall  disclose  any  other  rights  that  shall  be  provided  (and  also  disclose  those  not 
provided) to the holders of FR Shares.  
 
Dividends:  The  company  may,  at  its  discretion,  decide  to  pay  additional  dividend  per  FR  Share 
compared  to  dividend  paid  on  Ordinary  Equity  Share,  which  shall  be  higher  than  the  dividend  per 
Ordinary Equity Share and the same shall be stated in the terms of the offering. No dividend may be 
payable on FR Shares for such years where no dividend has been declared by the  company for the 
ordinary equity shares. 
 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

15 

 

Minimum  Public  Shareholding:  The  company  shall  comply  with  the  minimum  public  shareholding 
requirements for each class of equity shares, both ordinary equity shares and FR Shares, subject to 
the  provisions  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957  (“SCRR”)  and  other  applicable 
regulations formulated in this regard.  
 
Conversion: The FR Shares can be converted into ordinary equity shares only in cases of schemes of 
arrangement.   
 
Extinguishment:  The  FR  Shares  can  be  extinguished  only  through  buy-back  by  the  company  or 
reduction of capital in accordance with applicable laws. 
 
Delisting: The company can delist the FR Shares in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009. However, in the event ordinary equity shares 
of the company are delisted, the company shall be mandatorily required to delist the FR Shares.  
 
Listing and Trading: The FR Shares shall be held in dematerialized form. However, FR Shares can be 
issued  in  physical  form,  if  such  FR  Shares  have  been  issued  pursuant  to  a  bonus  issue  and  the 
underlying shares are held in physical form.  
 
The FR Shares shall be listed and traded on all stock exchanges where ordinary equity shares of the 
company are listed with a separate identifier from the ordinary equity shares.  
 
Post-Issue Disclosures: The shareholding pattern filed by the company with the stock exchanges shall 
provide  the  details  of  the  FR  Shares  separately  and  in  the  format  specified  by  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India and the stock exchanges. 
 
ESOPs: A company can issue ESOPs of FR Shares post the listing of such shares, subject to applicable 
laws. 
 
Applicability of other SEBI Regulations: SEBI regulations in respect of buy-back, and takeovers shall 
apply to FR Shares, subject to such modification as may be required in the context of FR Shares. The 
FR Shares once listed shall not be delisted on a standalone basis and may be delisted as and when the 
ordinary equity shares are delisted. Required changes in these regulations are stated in Appendix 1 to 
this Report.  
  
Bonus issue by the company which has issued FR shares: If a company which has issued FR shares 
issues bonus shares, then it shall issue to FR shareholders bonus FR shares in the same proportion in 
which bonus shares are issued on ordinary equity shares. 
 

 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

16 

 

COMPANIES WHOSE EQUITY SHARES ARE PROPOSED TO BE LISTED – ISSUANCE 
OF SR SHARES 
 
Eligibility 
 
First issue of SR Shares 
 
SR Shares  can be  issued only  to the promoters of a company by an unlisted company. An unlisted 
company where the promoters hold SR Shares shall be permitted to do an Initial Public Offer (“IPO”) 
of only ordinary equity shares provided the SR Shares are held by the promoters for more than one 
year prior to filing of the draft offer document with SEBI.  
 
Subsequent issue of SR Shares 
 
A company shall not be permitted to issue SR Shares to any person, including to the promoters, in any 
manner whatsoever, including by way of rights issue or bonus issue, once its ordinary equity shares 
have been listed.  
 
Subsequent issue of FR Shares 
 
A company whose SR Shares and ordinary equity shares are already listed shall be permitted to issue 
FR Shares in terms of the applicable provisions for issue of FR Shares by listed companies.   
 
Face Value of SR Shares 
 
The face value of a company’s SR Shares shall be the same as of that of the ordinary equity shares. 
 
Number of SR Shares 
 
A company shall be permitted to issue any number of SR Shares of the same class prior to an IPO, 
subject to provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. 
 
Lock-in of SR Shares  
 
All SR Shares shall remain under a perpetual lock-in after the IPO.  
 
Pledge of SR Shares 
 
Creation  of  any  encumbrance  over  SR  Shares  including  pledge,  lien,  negative  lien,  non-disposal 
undertaking, etc. shall not be permissible. In other words, no third-party interest may be created over 
the SR Shares and any instrument purporting to do so would be void ab initio. 
 
Voting and Other Rights on SR Shares 
 
The SR Shares shall be treated at par with the ordinary equity shares in every respect except in the 
case of voting on resolutions. 
 
The SR Shares shall be of a maximum ratio of 10:1, i.e. ten votes for every SR Share held. The ratio can 
be in whole numbers from 2:1 to 10:1. A ratio once adopted by a company shall remain valid for any 
subsequent issuances of SR Shares. A company can issue only one class of SR Shares. 
 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

17 

 

Any rights or bonus issue by the company post-listing shall be offered only as ordinary equity shares 
to the holders of the SR Shares. 
 
On certain matters to be notified by regulations, the SR Shares would be treated as having only one 
vote.  The initial list of the same is set out in the “coat-tail” provisions set out later in this Report. 
 
Dividend and Other rights 
 
Post  IPO,  the  SR  shares  shall  be  eligible  for  the  same  dividend  and  other  rights  as ordinary  equity 
shares, except for superior voting rights.  
 
Initial Disclosures 
 
The  company  shall  disclose,  in  the  offer  document,  the  names  of  all  holders  of  SR  Shares,  with 
complete details of all special rights that have been provided to them. 
 
No  change  in  the  terms  of  the  SR  Shares,  which  are  favourable  to  the  SR  shareholders,  shall  be 
permitted post-IPO, other than sunset clause.  
 
Minimum Public Shareholding 
 
The company shall comply with the minimum public shareholding requirements in terms of the SCRR 
for the ordinary equity shares that will be  listed. Post-listing, the voting rights  with the promoters 
through the SR Shares and ordinary equity shares shall not exceed 75% of the total voting rights. 
 
Coat-tail Provisions 
 
Post-IPO, the SR Shares shall be treated as ordinary equity shares in terms of voting rights (i.e. one SR 
share one vote) in the following circumstances: 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 

provisions relating to appointment or removal of independent directors and/or auditor; 

in case there is a change in control of the company; 

any contract or agreement of the company with any person holding the SR Shares, in excess of 
the materiality threshold prescribed under Regulation 23 of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirement)  Regulations,  2015  (“SEBI  LODR 
Regulations”); 

 

voluntary winding up of the company; 

any material changes in the  company’s Article of Association or Memorandum, including but 
not  limited  to,  undertaking  variation  in  the  voting  rights  of  the  shareholders,  changing  the 
principal objects of the company, granting special rights in favour of a particular shareholder or 
shareholder groups and such other items as may be prescribed by the SEBI; 

initiation of a voluntary resolution plan under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016; 

extension  of  the  validity  of  the  SR  Shares  post  completion  of  5  years  from  date  of  listing  of 
ordinary equity shares; and 

(d) 
 
(e) 

 
(f) 
 
(g) 

 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

18 

 

any other provisions notified by SEBI in this regard from time to time. 

(h) 
 
Sunset Clause/ Conversion of SR Shares 
 
The SR Shares shall get converted into ordinary equity shares on the 5th anniversary of the listing of 
the Ordinary Shares of the company i.e. they would lose their superior voting rights and each SR Share 
would carry an entitlement to a single vote as if it were an Ordinary Equity Share. The validity of the 
SR Shares can be extended by another 5 years with the approval shareholders by way of a special 
resolution in a general meeting where all members vote on one-share-one vote basis irrespective of 
the nature of their shareholding. The promoters, however, may do an accelerated conversion of their 
SR Shares into ordinary equity shares at any time prior to the 5th anniversary or such extended period.  
 
The SR Shares shall get compulsorily converted into ordinary equity shares in the event of a merger or 
acquisition of the company or whenever these are sold by the identified promoters who hold such 
shares  or  in  the  case  of  demise  of  the  promoter(s).  Transfer  of  SR  Shares  amongst  promoters  or 
persons of the promoter group(s), even though they are inter-se transfers between persons acting in 
concert, shall not be permitted.  
 
Listing and Trading 
 
All SR Shares shall be held in dematerialized form and shall be listed on the main board platform of 
the recognized stock exchanges. For listing of SR Shares, exemption will be granted from Rule 19(2)(b) 
of  SCRR.  The  SR  Shares,  however,  cannot  be  traded  except  upon  conversion  into  ordinary  equity 
shares.  
 
Post-Issue Disclosures 
 
The shareholding pattern to be filed by the company with the stock exchanges shall provide the details 
of both ordinary equity shares and SR Shares in the format specified by SEBI and the stock exchanges. 
 
Applicability of other SEBI Regulations 
 
SEBI regulations in respect of buy-back, and takeovers shall be applicable to SR Shares, subject to such 
modification as may be required in the context of SR shares. 

 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

19 

 

Appendix 1  

 
Relevant Provisions in Acts/Regulations/Rules and Suggested Changes 
 
The Companies Act, 2013 
 
Pursuant to Rule 4(1)(d) of the Companies (Share Capital and Debenture) Rules, 2014, “the company 
must have a consistent track record of distributable profits for the last 3 years” in case it desires to 
issue DVR Shares.   
 
SEBI permits IPOs of companies without a consistent track record of distributable profits for the last 3 
years under Regulation 6(2) of the SEBI ICDR Regulations. New generation technology companies and 
innovative technologies primarily focus  on growing revenue or gross merchandise value  in order to 
rapidly scale their business in the initial years by concentrating on customer outreach and business 
expansion,  and  subsequently  aim  to  generate  profits.  Additionally,  new  generation  technology 
companies and innovative companies focus on sacrificing short term financial gains in the event certain 
projects  create  long  term  value  for  shareholders.  The  current  regulatory  regime  prohibits  such 
companies  from  issuing  DVR  shares.  The  extant  provision  should  be  amended  to  clarify  that  SEBI 
standards on to be listed companies as covered under Regulation 6(2) of the SEBI ICDR Regulations 
would be applicable in case of companies without a consistent track record of distributable profits.     

 

SEBI Regulations 
 
SEBI ICDR Regulations 
 
The SEBI ICDR Regulations do not have a provision for a company to have dual class shares at the time 
of IPO. 
  
The SEBI ICDR Regulations will need to be amended to allow SR Shares to be held by the promoters’ 
post the listing of the company’s ordinary equity shares. Further, provisions with respect to issuance of 
FR  Shares  post  the  listing  of  the  company’s  ordinary  equity  shares  through  modes  such  as  Rights/ 
Bonus/ follow on would need to be incorporated.  
 
Further, SEBI ICDR Regulations need to be amended to include provisions relating to coat-tail; sunset 
clause in case of SR Shares; restrictions on transferability of SR Shares, differential dividend related 
disclosures in case of FR Shares, etc.  
 
SCRR 
 
The SCRR provides for the minimum offer and allotment to public in terms of offer document, which 
shall be: 
 
(a) 

at least 25% of each class or kind of equity shares/ debenture convertible into equity shares 
issued by the company, if the post issue market capitalization of company is less than or equal 
to 1600 crore rupees. 
 
at least such percentage of each class or kind of equity shares/ debenture convertible into equity 
shares  issued  by  the company  equivalent  to  the  value  of 400  crore  rupees,  if  the  post  issue 
market capitalization of the company is more than 1600 crore rupees but less than or equal to 
4000 crore rupees. 
 

(b) 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

20 

 

(c) 

at least 10% of each class or kind of equity shares / debenture convertible into equity shares 
issued by the company, if the post issue market capitalization of company is above 4000 crore 
rupees. 

 

A company with multiple classes of equity shares at the time of undertaking an IPO, is required to 
make an offer of each such class of equity shares to the public in an IPO. The minimum dilution and 
minimum  subscription  requirements  as  prescribed  under  Rule  19(2)(b)  of  SCRR  have  to  be  met 
separately for each class of equity shares. In addition, a company with multiple classes of equity shares 
at the time of an IPO does not have an option of listing only one or some of the classes and should 
mandatorily  list  all  classes  of  its  equity  shares,  including  equity  shares  with  DVR.  In  light  of  the 
abovementioned regulatory framework and the challenge in successfully concluding an IPO for each 
class of the equity shares, till date, no company has undertaken an IPO with multiple classes of equity 
shares in India. 
In  light  of  the  above  rule,  Rule  19(2)(b)  of  the  SCRR  must  be  amended  to  permit  companies  with 
multiple classes of shares to list one or more classes of shares to the exclusion of other classes of shares, 
so that SR shares held by promoters can remain unlisted while ordinary shares can be listed.  
 
SEBI LODR Regulations 
 
Regulation 41(3) of the SEBI LODR Regulations states that the listed entity shall not issue shares in any 
manner which may confer on any person, superior rights as to voting or dividend vis-à-vis the rights 
on equity shares that are already listed.  

 

The Regulations shall need to be amended to allow Superior Rights Shares to be held by the promoters 
post-IPO of its ordinary equity shares and also allow additional dividend for FR shares.  
 
SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 (“SEBI Takeover Code”) 
 
1) 
 

Provisions Relating to Trigger of Open Offer:  

The SEBI Takeover Code is applicable to both direct and indirect acquisitions of voting rights in 
or control over a target company. In accordance with the provisions of the SEBI Takeover Code, 
an acquirer is required to make a public announcement of an open offer, if an acquirer is entitled 
to exercise 25% or more shares or voting rights in a target company, in terms of Regulations 3 
and 4 of the SEBI Takeover Code.  
 
In light of the above regulations, Regulation 10 of the SEBI Takeover Code should be amended 
to clarify that any increase beyond the threshold of entitlement to voting rights as stipulated in 
Regulation 3 of the SEBI Takeover Code would not trigger an open offer obligation in the hands 
of the person acquiring voting rights beyond such threshold by reason of the lapse of superior 
voting power and conversion of SR Shares into ordinary equity shares provided that there is no 
attendant change in control in favour of the person crossing such threshold. 

 
2) 
 

Disclosure requirements:  

As change in voting rights due to extinguishment of voting right on SR Shares is an involuntary 
act on behalf of holder of ordinary equity shares, no disclosure would be required for acquisition 
of  additional  voting  right  by  holder  of  the  ordinary  equity  shares  in  such  situation  under 
Regulation 29 of the SEBI Takeover Code. The format of disclosure under Regulation 30 of the 
SEBI Takeover Code must be modified to provide for separate disclosure of voting rights for SR 
Shares, FR Shares and ordinary equity shares and consolidated voting right.  

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

21 

 

 
3) 
 

Provisions relating to open offer: 

In case of open offer, offer need to be made for 26% of outstanding ordinary equity shares and 
26% of the outstanding FR Shares. 
 
The pricing of open offer for ordinary equity shares will be based on trading price of ordinary 
equity shares and pricing of FR Shares will be based on trading pricing of FR shares. 
 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Buy-  Back  of  Securities)  Regulations,  2018  (‘Buy  Back 
Regulations’) 
 
Reservation 
 
Pursuant to Regulation 6 of the Buy Back Regulations through the Tender Offer, a company can buy-
back  its  shares  or other  specified  securities  from  its  existing  securities  holders  on  a  proportionate 
basis. Further, 15 per cent of the number of securities proposed to be bought back by the company is 
required to be reserved for small shareholders. 
 
Buy Back Regulations should be amended to clarify that (i) company will be required to buy back both 
ordinary equity shares and FR Shares. Allocation of buy back amount between ordinary equity shares 
and FR Shares will be in the proportion of paid up capital of the company. For this purpose, SR Shares 
will be deemed to be part of ordinary equity shares, and (ii) the current reservation of 15% for small 
shareholders would apply to both small shareholders holding FR Shares and small shareholders holding 
ordinary equity shares.  
 
Spill Over 
 
The Buy Back Regulations must be amended to provide for spill over between buy back for ordinary 
equity  shares  and  FR  Shares  in  case  of  undersubscription  in  one  category  and  oversubscription  in 
another category. In case shares tendered in one of the categories is less than the number of shares 
to be bought in that category, companies must be permitted to buy back additional shares from the 
category  where  shareholders  have  shown  interest  to  tender  shares  in  excess  of  the  maximum 
permissible limit, subject to compliance with minimum public shareholding norms prescribed under 
SCRR. 
 
Pricing 
Pursuant to Regulation 5(iv)(c)(i) of the Buy Back Regulations, in the event of a buy-back of securities 
through a tender offer, the explanatory statement must include the maximum price at which the buy-
back of shares shall be made. Additionally, pursuant to Rule 17 of the Companies (Share Capital and 
Debentures) Rules, 2014 read with Section 68 of the Companies Act, 2013, a company is free to choose 
the method for undertaking the buy back and is further required to include the basis for arriving at 
the buy-back price in the explanatory statement.  
Buy Back Regulations should  be amended to permit, in case of companies that have issued SR Shares, 
FR Shares and ordinary equity shares, to price the SR Shares and ordinary equity shares with identical 
price, while FR Shares can be priced differentially. However, companies must be mandated to include 
justification for pricing FR Shares differentially. 
 
Buy back through stock exchange mechanism 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

22 

 

The  provisions  in  relation  to  proportionate  allocation  amongst  ordinary  shares  and  FR  shares  as 
applicable in buy back through tender route will apply mutatis mutandis to buy-back through stock 
exchange mechanism.  
Regulation 15 of the Buy Back Regulation will apply separately for buy-back of ordinary equity shares 
and FR Shares. 
In case of buy-back through book building process, separate book building process would be carried 
out for ordinary equity shares and FR Shares. 
 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Delisting  of  Equity  Shares)  Regulations,  2009  (“Delisting 
Regulations”) 
Floor Price: 
The floor price will be calculated separately for ordinary equity shares and FR Shares as per the existing 
formula under SEBI Delisting Regulations.  
Pursuant  to  Regulation  15  of  the  SEBI  Delisting  Regulations,  the  offer  price  shall  be  determined 
through book building process. 
The SEBI Delisting Regulations must be amended to clarify, in case of companies with FR Shares and 
ordinary equity shares, separate reverse book building processes must be employed for determining 
the offer price of FR Shares and ordinary equity shares. 
 
Related party transactions 
23. (1) The listed entity shall formulate a policy on materiality of related party transactions and on 
dealing with related party transactions [including clear threshold limits duly approved by the board of 
directors and such policy shall be reviewed by the board of directors at least once every three years 
and updated accordingly]. 
 

Explanation—A transaction with a related party shall be considered material if the transaction(s) 
to be entered into individually or taken together with previous transactions during a financial 
year, exceeds ten per cent of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed entity as per the 
last audited financial statements of the listed entity. 
 

[(1A) Notwithstanding the above, a transaction involving payments made to a related party with 
respect to brand usage or royalty shall be considered material if the transaction(s) to be entered 
into individually or taken together with previous transactions during a financial year, exceed two 
per cent of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited financial 
statements of the listed entity.]  

 
(2) All related party transactions shall require prior approval of the audit committee. 
 
(3)  Audit  committee  may  grant  omnibus  approval  for  related  party  transactions  proposed  to  be 
entered into by the listed entity subject to the following conditions, namely— 
 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the audit committee shall lay down the criteria for granting the omnibus approval in line 
with the policy on related party transactions of the listed entity and such approval shall 
be applicable in respect of transactions which are repetitive in nature; 
 
the audit committee shall satisfy itself regarding the need for such omnibus approval and 
that such approval is in the interest of the listed entity; 
the omnibus approval shall specify: 
(i) 

the  name(s)  of  the  related  party,  nature  of  transaction,  period  of  transaction, 
maximum amount of transactions that shall be entered into,  

 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

23 

 

(ii) 

the indicative base price/current contracted price and the formula for variation in 
the price if any; and 

 

such other conditions as the audit committee may deem fit: 

(iii) 
 
Provided that where the need for related party transaction cannot be foreseen and 
aforesaid details are not available, audit committee may grant omnibus approval for 
such transactions subject to their value not exceeding rupees one crore per transaction. 
 
the audit committee shall review, at least on a quarterly basis, the details of related party 
transactions entered into by the listed entity pursuant to each of the omnibus approvals 
given. 

such  omnibus  approvals  shall  be  valid  for  a  period  not  exceeding  one  year  and  shall 
require fresh approvals after the expiry of one year. 

(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(4)  All  material  related  party  transactions  shall  require  approval  of  the  shareholders  through 
resolution and [no related party shall vote to approve] such resolutions whether the entity is a related 
party to the particular transaction or not: 
 

Provided that the requirements specified under this sub-regulation shall not apply in respect of 
a resolution plan approved under section 31 of the Insolvency Code, subject to the event being 
disclosed  to  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  within  one  day  of  the  resolution  plan  being 
approved;  

 
(5) The provisions of sub-regulations (2), (3) and (4) shall not be applicable in the following cases: 
 

(a) 
 
(b) 

 

transactions entered into between two government companies; 

transactions entered into between a holding company and its wholly owned subsidiary 
whose accounts are consolidated with such holding company and placed before the 
shareholders at the general meeting for approval. 

Explanation—For  the  purpose  of  clause  (a), "government company(ies)"  means  Government 
company as defined in sub-section (45) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013. 

 
(6) The provisions of this regulation shall be applicable to all prospective transactions. 
 
(7) For the purpose of this regulation, all entities falling under the definition of related parties shall 
[not  vote  to  approve  the  relevant  transaction]  irrespective  of  whether  the  entity  is  a  party  to  the 
particular transaction or not. 
 
(8)  All  existing  material  related  party  contracts  or  arrangements  entered  into  prior  to  the  date  of 
notification  of  these  regulations  and  which  may  continue  beyond  such  date  shall  be  placed  for 
approval  of  the  shareholders  in  the  first  General  Meeting  subsequent  to  notification  of  these 
regulations. 
 

[(9) The listed entity shall submit within 30 days from the date of publication of its standalone and 
consolidated financial results for the half year, disclosures of related party transactions on a 
consolidated basis, in the format specified in the relevant accounting standards for annual results to 
the stock exchanges and publish the same on its website.]  

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

24 

 

Annexure 1  

 
DVRs: Some Judgments 
 
An interesting perspective by the SEBI was presented in the case of Ashwin K Doshi V SEBI, wherein 
the law was primarily stressed upon the regulations and rules of SEBI but a constructive reference on 
the  Companies  Act  (Amendment)  was  placed.  The  main  issue  for  consideration  was  whether  the 
transaction in question amounted to consolidation of control which in turn was a violation of SEBI 
regulations as no public offer was made. After referring to the Companies Act (Amendment) 2000, the 
judge was of the view that since a company can issue differential voting rights or non-voting rights 
shares therefore there is no prohibition in even transferring the control. However, two guiding factors 
before  such  transfer  were  also  recorded  and  that  is  equality  of  treatment  and  opportunity  to  all 
shareholders and protection of interests of shareholders while administering regulations. 
 
In the same year, Bombay High Court also laid down similar rules with regard to the applicability of 
DVRs in the corporations. In the case of Zycus Infotech, the appellant had issued shares with no voting 
rights from his equity share capital. This precedent essentially reasserted the law defining differential 
voting rights when the original owners gained control over their company. Since the new amendment 
as per 2013 Act was non-existent, hence the Companies Act, 2000 (Amendment) was applied. As per 
the 2000 Act, only two type of shares could be issued, “equity shares” and “preferential shares”. In 
equity shares, further demarcation is done,  as the shares can be  allotted on the  basis of dividend, 
voting or otherwise. 
 
 
 

 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

25 

 

Annexure 2 

 
Regulatory updates/ investor feedback on DVRs  
 
1.  Proposed  updates:  In  February  2018,  the  SEC’s  Investor  Advisory  Committee  issued  a  paper 
regarding  dual  class  and  other  “entrenching  governance  structures”  and  made  a  series  of 
recommendations  to  the  staff  of  the  Division  of  Corporation  Finance.  The  proposals  included 
additional disclosures relating to risks that may accompany dual class structures as well as data 
regarding the difference between the economic ownership of the control group versus the voting 
rights  that  accompany  the  super  voting  shares  owned  by  that  group.    In  response  to  the 
recommendations of the Investor Advisory Committee, a bill has been introduced in Congress (the 
Enhancing  Multi-Class  Share  Disclosures  Act)  that  would  enhance  the  disclosure  obligations  of 
issuers  with  respect  to  disparate  voting  structures.  The  enhanced  disclosure  would  require 
companies  to clearly  show  the  difference  between the  voting  power  and  economic  rights of  a 
shareholder or group of shareholders owning “super voting” shares. To date, neither IOSCO nor 
OECD has adopted a “one share one vote” principle in connection with their governance related 
studies and position papers. While OECD endorses the notion that all holders within a given class 
should have the same voting rights, it has also recognized that many countries permit multiple 
class  capital  structures  with  disparate  voting  rights  and  “does  not  take  a  position  on  the 
desirability of “one share, one vote”. 

 
2. 

Investors Petition NYSE, NASDAQ to Curb Listings of IPO Dual-Class Share Companies Traders 
Magazine Online News, October 24, 201820 
 
The Council of Institutional Investors (“CII”) recently filed petitions with the New York Stock 
Exchange (NYSE) and the NASDAQ, asking both to limit listings of companies with dual-class 
share structures. 
 
Specifically, the petitions ask the exchanges to amend their listing standards to require that, 
going forward, companies seeking to list that have multiple share classes with differential voting 
rights include in their governing documents provisions that convert the share structure within 
seven years of the initial public offering (IPO) to “one, share-one, vote.” This will ensure voting 
power directly proportional to an investor’s capital at risk. 
 
CII, which represents pension funds and other long-term investors, is urging the exchanges to act 
to counter the trend of companies going public with unequal voting rights, which deprive 
shareholders of the means to hold executives and directors accountable. 
 
“While some companies that are controlled by virtue of special voting rights function as 
benevolent dictatorships, we have seen others stumble because of self-dealing, lack of strategic 
planning and ineffective boards,” said CII Chair Ash Williams, executive director and CIO of the 
Florida State Board of Administration. “When problems emerge, external shareowners have 
little recourse. Now, a consensus is emerging—among investors, companies and the law firms 
and other IPO gatekeepers—that time-based sunsets are a sensible solution to the growing 
problem of unequal voting rights, which poses danger to long-term resilience of an increasing 
number of companies.” 
 

                                                           
20 https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/investors-petition-nyse-nasdaq-to-curb-listings-of-ipo-dual-
class-share-companies-300737019.html 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

26 

 

BlackRock, the largest global asset manager, believes that one share, one vote is the preferable 
structure for publicly listed companies. BlackRock also supports time-based sunset provisions for 
multi-class companies and believes that listing exchanges must play an important role. 
 
“BlackRock believes that equal voting rights are a fundamental tenet of good corporate 
governance. Multiple stakeholders – including listing exchanges and policymakers – must play a 
role in setting effective corporate governance standards to protect shareholder rights,” said 
BlackRock Co-founder and Vice Chairman Barbara Novick. “We encourage U.S. exchanges to 
show global leadership on voting rights by requiring companies to either automatically convert 
or give shareholders the right to extend a multi-class structure. Doing so will re-establish the 
importance of equal voting rights for all public shareholders.” 
 
Donna Anderson CFA, vice president and head of corporate governance at asset manager T. 
Rowe Price, said, “A confluence of events has led to what we believe is a growing consensus on 
the issues surrounding differential voting rights. We would like to see the U.S. stock exchanges 
lead the process to find a solution that serves the long-term interests of all market participants.” 
 
California State Teachers’ Retirement System Chief Executive Officer Jack Ehnes said, “One of the 
strengths of the U.S. economy is the dynamism of U.S. companies. Successful American 
companies are constantly changing—and reinventing the way they do business. So it only makes 
sense that they should embrace change in their own governance that ultimately will strengthen 
shareholder value.” 
 
“CalPERS believes in one share, one vote,” said Simiso Nzima, the California Public Employees’ 
Retirement System’s head of corporate governance. “However, we also understand that early in 
a company’s public life, there may be a need for protections that enable management to focus 
on building out a company’s vision and creating the long-term sustainable shareowner value we 
are looking for as investors. We strongly believe such protection should not be perpetual, and 
mandatory time-based sunsets should act as an important safeguard against managerial 
entrenchment.” 
 
CII Executive Director Ken Bertsch agreed that there is convergence in favor of time-based 
sunsets within seven years after IPO as a condition of listing on a U.S. exchange: 
 
• Recent academic research shows that while dual-class companies on average have a valuation 
premium at the time of IPO, that advantage dissipates between six and nine years after IPO and 
then disappears. “We believe seven years is sufficient time for a company to capitalize on 
whatever benefits and control a multi-class structure provides,” Bertsch said. “After that, it 
starts to look like a management-entrenchment device.” 
 
• A growing number of companies are making their public debut with time-based sunsets. Of 38 
U.S. companies that went public in 2017 and 2018 with multi-class structures, CII has tracked 11 
(29%) that incorporated simple time-based sunsets. 
 
• A small but growing share of multi-class IPO companies have used time-based sunsets 
successfully. Examples include Groupon (converted to a single share class after five years), Texas 
Roadhouse (converted after five years) and MaxLinear (converted after seven years). 
 
• Investors have soured on Snap and other high-profile companies (Altice USA, Blue Apron) that 
made their IPO authorizing zero-vote shares. 
 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

27 

 

• Well-established dual-class companies (notably CBS and Viacom) have been hugely distracted 
by fights related to control, and even privately-owned Uber decided to go to one-share, one-
vote after scandal rocked the company 
 
Background: 
 
Silicon Valley entrepreneurs like to boast about disrupting the status quo. With good reason: 
From Alphabet (Google’s parent) to Zillow, young tech companies have achieved success by 
upending traditional business models in one sector after another. But when it comes to how 
they govern their companies many founders embrace frameworks that are bulwarks against 
change. In recent years, a significant number of start-up companies, most but not all tech-based, 
have gone public with dual- or even triple-class stock structures with unequal voting rights that 
guarantee founders and other insiders voting control that can last decades—even as their equity 
stake shrinks. In 2017, we saw the advent of zero-vote shares for outside holders when Snap 
went public. 
 
Last year, 19% of U.S. companies that went public on U.S. exchanges had at least two classes of 
stock with differential voting rights. That is up from just 1% in 2005. In most cases, the superior 
class has 10 votes per share, while the inferior class has one vote per share. Supporters say this 
enables entrepreneurs to focus on the long term and resist pressure from investors to keep 
earnings growing every quarter. 
 
But this “founder knows best” approach challenges the bedrock corporate governance principle 
of “one share, one vote”: Providers of capital should have a right to vote in proportion to the 
size of their ownership. A single class of common stock with equal voting rights makes the board 
of directors accountable to all of the shareholders—and more likely to respond when 
management stumbles. Multi-class structures deprive public shareholders of a meaningful voice 
in how the company is run because the public shareholders lack the votes to influence the board 
or management. 
 
Academic research supports time-based sunsets. A recent study, “The Life Cycle of Dual Class 
Firms,” found that while multi-class companies have a value premium over single-class 
counterparts at the time of their initial public offering (IPO), that benefit fades to a discount six 
to nine years after IPO. Other studies show that multi-class companies have a substantially lower 
total shareholder return compared to single-class companies over 10 years. 
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) believes it lacks the statutory authority to compel 
U.S. exchanges to amend their listing rules. Over the past year, providers of benchmark 
indexes—FTSE Russell, MSCI and S&P Dow Jones—have stepped into the breach, with varying 
curbs on multi-class companies in indexes that are used widely by institutional investors. A 
listing standard would put all dual-class companies on the same footing. 

 

 

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

28 

Comparison of trading pattern of DCS in US and India  

 

 

Annexure 3 

 

Google A Class

Google C Class

Tata Motors ORD

Tata Motors DVR

1,200

1,150

1,100

1,050

1,000

950

900

850

800

500

450

400

350

300

250

)
)

D
S
U

(
 

 

e
c
i
r
P
e
r
a
h
S

(

 
 

)
)

R
N

I
(
 

 

e
c
i
r
P
e
r
a
h
S

(

200

150

DVRs - Group Report  
 

 

 

 

29 

