CONSULTATION PAPER 

 

Review of SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) Regulations, 2015 

A.  Objective: 

 

1.  To seek public comments on the proposals relating to SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as "ILDM Regulations") with a 
view  to,  inter-alia,  broadening  the  universe  of  issuers,  strengthening  investor  protection 
measures and simplifying and easing the process for issuance of debt securities under these 
Regulations. 

 

B.  Background: 

 

2.  SEBI notified the ILDM Regulations, in July 2015, laying down a framework for issuance and 
listing of debt securities. Under these regulations, till date, seven municipalities have raised 
Rs. 1,389 crores through issuance of debt securities on private placement basis. 

 

3.  Based  on  international  practice,  experience  gained  from  municipal  bond  issuances  and 
discussions  with  municipalities,  it  is  proposed  to  review  the  ILDM  Regulations  to  further 
rationalize the process for issuers to raise resources through issuance of debt securities. 

 

C.  Proposals: 

 

4.  Expanding the definition of issuer: 

 

4.1. Current regulatory requirement: 

 
As per Regulation 2(h) of ILDM Regulations, an issuer means any municipality as defined 
under Article 243Q of the Constitution of India or a corporate municipal entity which is a 
subsidiary  of  a  municipality  and  which  is  set  up  for  the  purpose  of  raising  funds  for  a 
specific municipality or group of municipalities. 
 

4.2. Need for review: 

i. 

 
It has been represented that entities/bodies such as urban development authorities and 
city planning agencies etc. perform functions, such as planning and execution of urban 
development  projects/schemes,  which  are  akin  to  those  being  performed  by  a 

 

Page 1 of 11 

 

ii. 

municipality. While these bodies carry out functions which are similar to the functions 
carried out by a municipality, they are not defined as municipalities under Article 243Q of 
the Constitution of India, thereby rendering these entities as ineligible to raise funds via 
issue of debt securities under the ILDM Regulations. 
 
There are other structures wherein a group of municipalities pool their resources together 
to jointly raise funds through issuance of bonds. These structures are generally termed as 
Pooled Finance Development Funds. As these structures are not defined as municipalities 
under Article 243Q of the Constitution of India, they also become ineligible to raise funds 
via issue of debt securities under the ILDM Regulations.  
 

iii.  Under the smart cities mission launched by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the 
implementation of projects is done by a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to be set up at city 
level in the form of a limited company under the Companies Act, 2013 and promoted by 
State/Union Territory and Urban Local Body (ULB).These SPVs have been set up to provide 
functions  such  as  adequate  water  supply,  sanitation,  sustainable  and 
inclusive 
development  of  cities  etc.  Thus,  though  these  SPVs  perform  tasks,  similar  to  that  of 
municipalities,  they  are  not  defined  as  municipalities  under  Article  243Q  of  the 
Constitution of India and thus they also become ineligible to raise funds via issue of debt 
securities under the ILDM Regulations. 
 

4.3. Proposal: 

 
To enable fund raising by bodies/authorities which are carrying out functions akin to that 
of a municipality or are raising funds on behalf of municipalities, it is proposed to widen 
the definition of “Issuer” in ILDM Regulations to include the following: 
 

i. 

ii. 

any Statutory Body or Board, Authority, Trust or Agency established or notified 
under  an  Act  of  Parliament  or  an  Act  of  the  State  Legislature  or  any  Special 
Purpose Vehicle notified by State Government or Central Government, subject to 
the  condition  that  these  entities  perform  one  or  more  functions  listed  in  the 
Twelfth Schedule of the Constitution of India; 
 
any  structure  set  up  by  the  State  Government  under  the  Pooled  Finance 
Development Fund Scheme of the Government of India, subject to the condition 
that Pooled Finance Development Fund raises funds for the purpose of financing 
one or more functions listed in the Twelfth Schedule of the Constitution of India. 

 

Page 2 of 11 

5.  Accounting, auditing and disclosure of financial statements: 

 
A.  Accounting: 

 

5.1. Current regulatory requirement: 

 

 

Regulation  4(b)  and  15(1)(b)  of  the  ILDM  Regulations  provide  that  accounts  of  a 
municipality  shall  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  National  Municipal  Accounts 
Manual  or  in  accordance  with  similar  Municipal  Accounts  Manual  adopted  by  the 
respective State Governments. 

5.2. Need for review: 

 

As brought out above, SEBI is proposing to enhance the definition of issuer under the 
ILDM Regulations to include entities such as  Statutory bodies, Board, Authority, Trust, 
Agency,  Pooled  Finance  Development  Funds  etc.  These  issuers  can  be  incorporated 
either  as  companies  or  trusts  or  statutory  bodies,  etc.  or  may  follow  accounting 
standards as applicable to them. Accordingly, it is essential that the scope of preparation 
of  accounts,  as  given  in  the  ILDM  Regulations,  be  widened  to  take  into  account 
accounting practices applicable to all such entities.  

5.3. Proposal: 

 

ILDM  regulations  to  be  modified  to  include  that  preparation  of  accounts  of  issuers, 
covered under this Regulations, shall be in accordance with the following: 

a)  National Municipal Accounts Manual (NMAM) or; 

b)  Municipal  Accounts  Manual  (similar  to  NMAM)  as  adopted  by  the  respective 

State Governments; or 

c)  Accounting standards, applicable to issuers, as prescribed in the Companies Act 

or; 

d) Accounting  standards/policies,  applicable  to 
in  their 
respective  Acts  and/or  Rules/Regulations  under  which  such  issuers  have  been 
incorporated or constituted. 

issuers,  as  specified 

 

 

Page 3 of 11 

 

B.  Auditing and disclosure of financial statements: 

 

5.4. Current regulatory requirement: 

 

a)  Audit of accounts: Regulation 24(2) of ILDM Regulations provide that the accounts shall 
be  audited  by  persons  appointed  by  the  municipality,  as  permissible  under  its 
constitution/state legislation.  

 

 

b)  Period of submission of accounts: 

The un-audited financial results are required to be submitted, on a half yearly basis, 
to the stock exchange and debenture trustee within three months from the end of 
the half year; and 
 
The annual audited financial results are required to be submitted to stock exchange 
and debenture trustee within six months from the end of the financial year. 

i. 

ii. 

 

5.5. Need for review: 

 
It is given to understand that presently municipalities are audited only by Comptroller 
and  Auditor-General  of  India  (CAG).  As  CAG  also  undertakes  various  other  audit 
assignments,  there  may  be  delay  on  the  part  of  the  issuer  in  submission  of  financial 
results,  to  stock  exchange/debenture  trustee/regulatory  bodies,  within  the  specified 
timelines  

It is noted that in the case of a listed Government company /Public sector undertakings 
etc.  the  first  level  audit  of  accounts  is  done  by  auditors  appointed  by  CAG  to  ensure 
timely submission of financial results to stock exchanges. Thereafter, final audit is carried 
out  by  CAG  based  on  the  annual  report  of  these  auditors.  Currently,  under  ILDM 
Regulations, 
to  be  audited  by  CAG 
empanelled/approved auditors. 

is  no  provision 

there 

for  accounts 

Representation has also been received that it becomes difficult for issuers to submit their 
annual audited accounts within six months from the end of the financial year as audit of 
their accounts and their approval by the competent authority takes substantial amount 
of time. 

 

 

Page 4 of 11 

5.6. Proposal: 

 

 
5.6.1.  Audit of accounts:  
 
issuers  to  submit  their  audited  accounts  to  the  stock 
In  order  to  enable 
exchange/debenture trustee/regulatory bodies, within the specified timelines and in line 
with the provisions applicable to listed public sector undertakings, it is proposed to adopt 
a three step process for audit of accounts, given as under: 
 
a.  The CAG shall appoint an auditor for audit of accounts of issuer. 

 

b.  The auditor so appointed shall conduct first level audit of accounts of the issuer, who 
shall  submit  the  audited  accounts  to  the  stock  exchange  and  debenture  trustee 
within the specified timelines, while simultaneously submitting the same to the CAG 
for finalizing the audit. 
 

c.  The  CAG  shall  finalize  the  audit  of  accounts  and  after  approval  of  the  audited 
accounts  by  the  Standing  Committee  and/or  the  Governing  Body  or  Board  of 
Directors  of  the  issuer,  as  applicable,  the  same  shall  be  submitted  to  the  stock 
exchange and debenture trustee promptly.  

 

5.6.2.  Period of submission of accounts: 

 

I.  With regard to the submission of financial results, it is proposed as under: 

 

 

a)  The issuer shall submit its annual audited financial results, as audited by an 
auditor appointed by CAG, within two months from the end of the financial 
year. (The period of submission is in alignment with the time period prescribed 
for  submission  of  financial  results  by  issuers  who  have  listed  their  debt 
securities and/or equity shares). 
 

b)  Additionally,  the  issuer  shall  submit  its  annual  audited  financial  results  as 

audited by CAG, within nine months from the end of the financial year. 

II. 

The  unaudited  results  for  the  first  half  of  the  financial  year  shall  be  submitted 
within forty five days from the end of the first half year. (The period of submission 

 

Page 5 of 11 

is in alignment with the time period prescribed for submission of financial results 
by issuers who have listed their debt securities and/or equity shares)  
 

6.  Facilitating ease of issuance: 

 
The ILDM regulations, inter-alia, provide for the following provisions to be complied with by 
the issuer: 

 

 

6.1. Current regulatory requirement: 

 

a)  Creation of escrow account: Regulation 5(6) of ILDM Regulations provide for creation 
of a separate escrow account. Regulation 24(3) of the said regulations provide for audit 
of such escrow account by the persons appointed by municipality.  
 

b)  Appointment of monitoring agency: Regulation 5(7) of ILDM Regulations provide for 
appointment of monitoring agency such as public financial institution or a scheduled 
commercial bank to monitor the earmarked revenue in the escrow account. 

 

c)  Appointment of debenture trustee: Proviso to Regulation 5(7) and Regulation 20(1) of 
ILDM Regulations provide that debenture trustee or an independent trustee  shall be 
appointed in the case of a corporate municipal entity or a municipality respectively, for 
creating security in favour of such a trustee.  

 

d)  Viability  certificate  or  detailed  project  appraisal  report:  Regulation  7(6)  of  ILDM 
Regulations provide that viability certificate or detailed project appraisal report shall be 
obtained  by  the  issuer  from  a  scheduled  commercial  bank  or  a  public  financial 
institution. 

 

e)  Separate project implementation cell: Regulation 12(4) of ILDM Regulations provide 
for establishment of a separate project implementation cell to monitor the progress of 
the project(s).  

 
f) 

 

Issuer’s  contribution  for  projects:  Regulation  12(5)of  ILDM  Regulations  provide  that 
Issuer’s contribution for each project to be not less than twenty per cent of the project 
costs to be contributed from their internal resources or grants of the issuer. 
 

Page 6 of 11 

 

g)  Asset  cover/creation  of  security  for  secured  debentures:  Regulation  16  of  ILDM 
Regulations provide for maintenance of 100% asset cover sufficient to discharge the 
principal amount at all times for the debt securities issued.  Regulation 19(1) of ILDM 
Regulations  provide  that  debt  securities  so  issued  shall  be  secured  by  creation  of  a 
charge, on the properties or assets or the receivables of the issuer. Further, in case of 
unsecured debentures, the debt securities  shall be either backed by guarantee from 
State  Government  or  Central  Government  or  shall  have  structured  payment 
mechanism. 

 

6.2. Need for review: 

 
It  has  been  represented  that  presently  certain  provisions  such  as  appointment  of 
monitoring  agency,  obtaining  viability  certificate  etc.,  as  provided  for  in  the  ILDM 
regulations, increase the cost of issuance and compliance burden on the issuer without 
providing  commensurate  protection to  the  investors.  As  Debenture  Trustee  is  already 
being appointed by issuers, the responsibility for carrying out monitoring function can 
also be cast on the Debenture Trustee itself, without the need for appointing separate 
agency. 
 
Municipalities are constitutional bodies or are incorporated as statutory authorities. As 
the  general  security  enforcement  laws  under  Indian  law  may  not  be  applicable  to 
municipalities, as they are governed by the provisions of the state laws under which they 
are incorporated, winding/dissolution or liquidation of their assets to satisfy debts owed 
to creditors may face legal challenges. It has, therefore, been represented that creation 
of charge by municipalities on fixed or immovable assets may not be effective as creditors 
may  not  be  able  to  enforce  the  charge  in  case  of  default by a  municipality.  Thus,  the 
extant requirement of maintenance of 100% asset cover at all times by municipality, may 
not serve the desired objective.  
 

6.3. Proposals: 

6.3.1.  Escrow account:  

 

a)  An escrow account is an account created for the specific purpose of receiving and 
disbursing  funds  towards  discharge  of  contractual  obligations.  Funds  owed  to 
investors/creditors  are  earmarked  to  such  an  account,  thereby  providing 
protection regarding payment of their dues i.e in one sense, an escrow account 

Page 7 of 11 

 

 

 

“No Lien Escrow Account”: 

provides charge on receivables of a municipality. Creation of an escrow account, 
thus,  is  a  significant  element  in enhancing  investor  protection.  Drawing lessons 
from  the  global  best  practices  and  in  consultation  with  municipalities,  it  is, 
therefore, proposed to create the following specific escrow accounts for issuance 
of all types of debt securities to ensure timely servicing of debt obligations: 
 
i. 
 
  All tax revenues and/or user charges and grants etc., as detailed in the offer 
document/private placement memorandum, to be deposited to this account 
to ensure timely servicing of debt obligations. 
 
“Interest Payment Account”: 

ii. 
 
  An Interest Payment Account is an account wherein the interest amount due 

to be paid by the borrower/issuer is deposited.  

 
  Throughout  the  tenure  of  the  debt  securities  issued,  at  least  an  amount 
equivalent  to  two  interest  obligations  is  to  be  kept  in  this  account.  The 
equivalent amount is to be transferred from the “No Lien Escrow Account” to 
the "Interest Payment Account". 

“Sinking Fund Account” 

 
iii. 
 
  A Sinking Fund Account is an account that is created specifically for repayment 

of debt.  

 

  The principal amount, due for repayment, is to be periodically transferred to 
this account, in proportion to the tenure of debt securities issued. The amount 
is to be transferred from the “No Lien Escrow Account” to the "Sinking Fund 
Account". 

 

“General Account” or “Municipal Fund”: 

iv. 
 
  A “General Account” or “Municipal Fund” is an account that is created to set 

aside funds for the general purposes of the issuer/municipality.  

 

 

Page 8 of 11 

 

  All funds set aside for general purposes and any surplus remaining in the “No 

lien escrow account” is to be transferred to this account. 

v. 

 
 

In addition to the aforesaid accounts, in case of issuance of debt securities by 
an issuer raising funds for new projects, a “Project Escrow Funding Account” 
needs to be created: 

It shall be an account where an amount, not less than 20% of the project costs, 
may be deposited/contributed by the issuer, whether in cash or kind, before 
the commencement of the project. 
 

b)  All  the  above  accounts  except  “General  Account  or  Municipal  Account”  to  be 

supervised by the debenture trustee. 
 

c)  The  issuer  shall,  on  a  quarterly  basis,  disclose  the  balances  in  the  aforesaid 
accounts along with notes pertaining to transfers made to/from these accounts, 
on its website.  

 

 

d)  After  all  necessary  transfers  are  made  by  the  issuer  from  the  “No  Lien  Escrow 
Account” to the “Interest Payment” and “Sinking Fund Account”, the Debenture 
Trustee may issue a certificate that the issuer has discharged its debt obligations 
in  a  timely  manner  and  thereafter  any  balance  remaining  in  “No  Lien  Escrow 
Account” may be transferred to the “General Account” or “Municipal Account” 
 

6.3.2.  Debenture Trustee: A SEBI regulated debenture trustee shall be appointed for all 
issuances. 
 
6.3.3.  Given the above, it is proposed to remove the following: 

 

i. 
ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

Requirement of appointing a monitoring agency. 
Requirement  of  obtaining  Viability  certificate  or  Detailed  Project  Appraisal 
report (DPAR) before filing of offer document in case of public issue.  
Requirement  of  establishing  a  separate  project  implementation  cell  for 
monitoring of projects.  
Requirement mandating the issuer to mandatorily contribute 20% of the project 
costs from its own internal resources or grants. 

 

 

Page 9 of 11 

v. 

vi. 

Requirement of maintenance of 100% asset cover and specification of resources 
in whose favour charge can be created by the issuer.  
Requirement of backing of State or Central Government and structured payment 
mechanism in case of unsecured debt securities. 
 

 

7.  Other changes: 

 
7.1. Current regulatory requirement: 

 
a)  Regulation 5(1) and Regulation 5(3), 5(4) of ILDM Regulations provide that if an issuer 
intends to make a public issue, then it can issue only revenue bonds with a minimum 
tenure of three years and maximum tenure of thirty years or such period as specified 
by SEBI from time to time. 
 

b)  Regulation  15(1)(f)  of  ILDS  regulations  provide  that  for  private  placement,  the 
minimum subscription amount per investor is rupees twenty five lakh or such amount 
as may be specified by SEBI from time to time. 

 

7.2. Need for Review: 

 
a)  It has been represented that restricting the ability of the issuers by specifying the type 
of bonds and the tenure for which the funds may be raised under ILDM Regulations 
reduces  the  flexibility  of  the  issuers  to  structure  their  debt  issuance  as  per  their 
resource requirements. Given the investor protection measures relating to creation 
of specific Escrow Accounts, as given at para 6.3.1 above, it is proposed that the issuer 
may be permitted to offer any type of bond, whether revenue or general. 
 

b)  The minimum subscription amount for corporate bonds, in case of private placement, 
is  Rs  10  lakhs.  However,  the  said  requirement  for  municipal  bonds,  in  private 
placement, is Rs 25 Lakhs. It has been represented that the requirement of minimum 
subscription for municipal bonds be aligned with that for corporate bonds. 
 

7.3. Proposals: 

 
a)  It is proposed to align the minimum subscription limit in case of private placement of 
debt securities under ILDM Regulations, with that for corporate bonds. The current 

 

Page 10 of 11 

 

minimum  subscription  amount  is  therefore  proposed  to  be  reduced  from  rupees 
twenty five lakh rupees to rupees ten lakhs and in multiples of rupees ten lakhs. 
 

b)  It is also proposed to delete the following provisions in ILDM Regulations: 

Issuer can issue only revenue bonds in case of public issue 
Revenue bonds shall have a minimum tenure of three years and maximum tenure 
of thirty years. 

i. 
ii. 

 

D.  Public comments: 

 
Public comments are invited on the proposals mentioned in this paper. The comments, may 
be sent by email or through post, latest by June 10, 2019, in the following format: 
 

Details of Responder 
Name1/Organization:  
1if responding in personal capacity 
Contact number: 
Email address: 
Comments on the proposals as mentioned in this paper  
Sr. No. 
 

Para No. 
 

 

 
 

Comment/proposed change 

 

Rationale 
 

While sending email kindly ensure the subject is “Consultation Paper on Review of SEBI (Issue 
and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) Regulations, 2015”. 

Postal Address:                                                                        Email Address:  
Ms. Richa G. Agarwal                                                              bonds@sebi.gov.in 
Deputy General Manager  
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
C4-A, G Block  
Bandra Kurla Complex  
Mumbai – 400 051  
 
Issued on: May 20, 2019 

 

Page 11 of 11 

