Consultation Paper 

Innovators Growth Platform  (IGP) 

 

Norms for Companies listed on IGP to trade under regular category of main 

board of Recognized Stock Exchanges 

 

 

1.  BACKGROUND 

1.1. The SEBI Board, in its meeting on December 12, 2018, approved the proposed 

amendments pertaining to Institutional Trading Platform (“ITP”) in the SEBI (Issue 

of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2018 

 

(“ICDR 

Regulations”).  

 

1.2. One of the proposed amendments is that the  companies listed on the IGP would 

have an option to trade under regular category of main board after completion of 

one year of listing and subject to compliance with exchange requirements. 

 

1.3. The norms for shifting of a Company listed on IGP to regular trade category of the 

main board were discussed with the Bombay Stock Exchange, the National Stock 

Exchange and with the Primary Market Advisory Committee (PMAC) of SEBI. 

 

1.4. After  detailed  deliberations,  the  norms  for  allowing  Companies  listed  on  IGP  to 

trade  under  regular  category  of  the  main  board  were  arrived  at  and  are  as 

proposed under. 

 

2.  Proposals  

A.  General  conditions  for  Companies  listed  on  IGP  to  trade  under  regular 

category of main board of Stock Exchanges 
 

I.  The Company  should have been  listed  on  the Innovators Growth Platform for a 

minimum period of one year. 

II.  At the time of making the application for trading under regular category of main 

board, the number of shareholders should be minimum 200. 

Page 1 of 5 

 

 

 

 

III.  The company, any of its promoters, promoter group or directors are not debarred  

from accessing the capital market by the Board. 

IV.  None of the promoters or directors of the company is a promoter or director of any 

other company which is debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board. 

V.  The company or any of its promoters or directors is not a wilful defaulter. 

VI.  None of the promoters or directors of the Company is a fugitive economic offender. 

 

B.  Other  Eligibility  requirements  for  Companies  listed  on  IGP  to  trade  under 

regular category of main board of Stock Exchanges 

Regulation 6(1) and 6(2) of the ICDR Regulations lay down the framework for initial 

listing  of  companies  on  the  main  board  (Detailed  provisions  of  Regulation  6  is 

placed  at  Annex-A).  Companies  listed  on  IGP,  which  propose  to  move  to  the 

regular category of main board will have to meet  the requirements mentioned in 

Regulation 6(1) of the ICDR Regulations.  

The Companies which do not meet the requirements mentioned in Regulation 6(1) 

of the said Regulations, are eligible to move to the regular category of main board, 

after  fulfilling  the  conditions  under  Regulation  6(2)  of  the  ICDR  Regulations. 

However,  the  requirement  related  to  restated  accounts  shall  not  apply  to  such 

companies since they would already be listed on the IGP. Further, shares held by 

Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs) should be considered in place of allotment to 

QIBs as required in Regulation 6(2) of the ICDR Regulations. Since the company 

would be already an IGP listed Company, the requirements of book building shall 

also not apply. 

C.  Lock –in requirements 

a.  Minimum promoter contribution  

Minimum promoters’ contribution shall be 20% of the total capital.  In  case  the  

total capital held by  the  promoters  is  less  than  twenty  per  cent., alternative  

investment    funds    or    foreign    venture    capital    investors    or    scheduled  

 

Page 2 of 5 

 

commercial  banks or  public  financial  institutions  or  insurance  companies  

registered    with    Insurance    Regulatory    and  Development  Authority  of  India 

may contribute to meet the shortfall in minimum  contribution as specified for 

the promoters, subject to a maximum of ten per cent. of the total capital without 

being identified as promoter(s).  

 

 

b.  Lock-in period 

(i) 

Minimum promoters’ contribution including contribution made by alternative  

investment   funds    or    foreign    venture    capital    investors    or    scheduled  

commercial  banks or  public  financial  institutions  or  insurance  companies  

registered  with  Insurance  Regulatory  and Development Authority of India,  

shall be locked in for a period of three years from the date on which  trading 

approval in main board is  granted, and any excess over and above the 20% 

of promoter’s holding shall be locked-in for a period of one year.  

 

(ii) 

wherever such entities have served a lock-in period of 6 months at the time 

of listing of shares of the Company on the IGP, and are desirous of moving 

to the regular trade category of the main board after completion of listing on 

the IGP for one year, such period shall be deducted from the stipulated lock-

in requirements of three years and one year, as may be applicable. 

 

(iii) 

The condition of lock in would not apply for Company which has been listed 

on the IGP for a minimum period of 3 years or more. 

 

3.  Rationale 

(a) The eligibility norms proposed for  permitting Companies listed on IGP to trade in 

the main board after completion of one year of listing are broadly in line with the 

eligibility conditions laid down in Regulation 5(1) of the ICDR Regulations (Para 

2.A. III-VI) , Regulation 6(1) and Regulation 6(2) of the ICDR Regulations (Para  

B). The said Regulations 5(1), 6(1) and 6(2) of the ICDR Regulations lay down the 

 

Page 3 of 5 

framework for initial listing of companies on the main board.  

 

 

 

(b) The lock-in requirements proposed in Para C are broadly in line with requirements 

of ICDR Regulations.   

 

4.  Public comments 

Considering the implications of the said matter on the market participants including 

issuers and investors, public comments are invited on the proposals contained in the 

discussion  paper.  Specific  comments/suggestions  as  per  the  format  given  below 

would be highly appreciated:  

 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization: 

Sr. 

Pertains 

to  serial  number 

Suggestion(s) 

Rationale 

No. 

under paragraph (2) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The comments may please be e-mailed on or before June 10,  2019, to Ms. Aradhana 

Verma, Deputy General Manager, at aradhanad@sebi.gov.in  or sent by post, to: 

 

Shri. Narendra Rawat  

General Manager  

Corporation Finance Department  

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

SEBI Bhavan Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block Bandra Kurla Complex  

Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051  

Ph: +91-22--26449383  

Issued on : May 20, 2019 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 5 

 

Eligibility requirements for an initial public offer  

6. (1) An issuer shall be eligible to make an initial public offer only if: 

 

Annexure A 

a) 

it has net tangible assets of at least three crore rupees, calculated on a restated 

and consolidated basis, in each of the preceding three full years (of twelve months 

each), of which not more than fifty per cent. are held in monetary assets:  

Provided  that  if  more  than  fifty  per  cent.  of  the  net  tangible  assets  are  held  in 

monetary assets, the issuer has utilised or made firm commitments to utilise such 

excess monetary assets in its business or project; 

Provided further that the limit of fifty per cent. on monetary assets shall not be 

applicable in case the initial public offer is made entirely through an offer for sale. 

 

b) 

it has an average operating profit of at least fifteen crore rupees, calculated on a 

restated  and  consolidated  basis,  during  the  preceding  three  years  (of  twelve 

months each), with operating profit in each of these preceding three years;  

 

c) 

it has a net worth of at least one crore rupees in each of the preceding three full 

years (of twelve months each), calculated on a restated and consolidated basis;  

 

d) 

if it has changed its name within the last one year, at least fifty per cent. of the 

revenue, calculated on a restated and consolidated basis, for the preceding one 

full year has been earned by it from the activity indicated by its new name.  

 

(2)   An issuer not satisfying the condition stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be eligible 

to  make  an  initial  public  offer  only  if  the  issue  is  made  through  the  book-building 

process and the issuer undertakes to allot at least seventy five per cent. of the net 

offer to qualified institutional buyers and to refund the full subscription money if it 

fails to do so.  

 

Page 5 of 5 

