 

 

 

 

DISCUSSION PAPER ON 
FRAMEWORK FOR 
REGULATORY SANDBOX 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CONTENTS 

Objective 

Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

Applicability 

Regulatory exemptions 

Eligibility Criteria for the project 

Limitations 

Potential Risk Mitigates 

Application and Approval Process 

Flowchart: Application and Approval Process 

Evaluation Criteria 

Table 2: Distribution of Marks 

Submission of information and reports 

Interim Reports 

Final Report 

Confirmation of reports 

Monitoring and Supervision of the sandbox 

Extending or Exiting the Sandbox 

Rights and Obligations of the user 

Revocation of the Approval 

Additional issues for which comments are being sought 

Annexure 1- Regulatory sandbox Application Form 

requirements for which relaxation will not be considered 

Requirements that may merit relaxation 

 

 

 

 

2 

3 

4 

4 

5 

6 

6 

7 

8 

10 

10 

11 

11 

12 

12 

12 

12 

13 

14 

16 

17 

20 

20 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

1 | P a g e  

 

OBJECTIVE 

 

 

1.  Participants  in  the  capital  market  in  India  have  been  early  adopters of  technology. 
SEBI believes that encouraging adoption and usage of financial technology (‘FinTech’) 
would have a profound impact on the development of securities market.  FinTech can 
act as an instrument to further develop and maintain an efficient, fair and transparent 
securities market ecosystem. 

 
2.  With  a  view  to  facilitate  the  development  and  adoption  of  innovative  FinTech 
solutions,  SEBI  vide  circular  SEBI/HO/MRD/2019/P/64  dated  May  20,  2019, 
stipulated  a  framework  for  an  industry-wide  Innovation  Sandbox.  Under  this 
framework,  FinTech  startups  and  entities  not  regulated  by  SEBI  may  use  the 
Innovation Sandbox for offline testing of their proposed solution, subject to fulfillment 
of the eligibility criteria.  

 
3.  Moving a step ahead in the same direction, SEBI plans to introduce a framework, to 
be  called  the  ‘Regulatory  Sandbox’.  Under  this  sandbox  framework,  financial 
institutions  regulated  by  SEBI  shall  be  granted  certain  facilities  and  flexibilities  to 
experiment  with  FinTech  solutions  in  a  live  environment  and  on  real  customers. 
These features will be fortified with necessary safeguards for investor protection and 
risk mitigation. 

 
4.  Accordingly, this discussion paper aims to put forth the key principles and proposed 
approach  for  operationalizing  such  ‘Regulatory  Sandbox’.  SEBI  invites  written 
comments  on  the  sandbox  framework  proposed  in  this  discussion  paper.  Further, 
SEBI  would  like  to  encourage  and  invite  any  general  comments  on  the  proposals, 
including suggestions for additional information/clarification on any particular area 
of the framework and any alternative proposal that SEBI should consider. In order to 
facilitate fast assessment and implementation, interested participants are requested 
to please support each comment with a clear rationale and underlying evidence or 
illustration, as the case may be. 

 
5.  Interested parties are requested to provide their comments latest by June 18, 2019 at 

the email address : regsandbox@sebi.gov.in or in writing at the following address: 

Shri. Bithin Mahanta 
Deputy General Manager 
Market Regulation Department, 
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, G-Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E),  
Mumbai, India - 400051 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

2 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

FRAMEWORK FOR REGULATORY SANDBOX  

 
6.  The term “Regulatory Sandbox” shall be defined as a live, testing environment where 
new products, processes, services and business models can be deployed on a limited 
set of eligible customers for a specified period of time with certain relaxations in the 
extant SEBI regulations and guidelines.  

 

7.  Innovation  through  investor-centric  experimentation  has  the  potential  to  create 
better  financial products,  lower  the  costs  of  transaction  for  investors  and  promote 
financial inclusion especially for Indian investors with limited means. However, there 
have been instances when innovation without proper regulatory oversight has caused 
damage to investors and economies. Therefore, it is imperative that new technology 
intensive  business  models  and  innovations  are  deployed  with  proper  regulatory 
oversight and risk mitigation safeguards. 

8.  The  purpose  of  the  sandbox  environment,  as  has  been  discussed  in  the  SEBI’s 
Committee  on  Financial  and  Regulatory  Technologies  (CFRT),  is  to  start  an  early 
dialogue with companies experimenting with innovative technologies, so that more 
innovation and technologically intensive products may be brought under the purview 
of SEBI/ regulatory ambit at an early stage and potential adverse events, if any, can 
be identified and avoided.  

 
9.  The sandbox is intended to serve as a testing ground for new business models and 
technologies  that  benefit  the  investors,  Indian  markets  and  the  Indian  economy  at 
large. SEBI also envisages that the Regulatory Sandbox as a platform would facilitate 
seamless information sharing between innovative firms and SEBI. 

 
10. By participating in the sandbox, while the companies would get an opportunity to test 
their solutions on real customers/ investors, on the other hand, it may help SEBI to 
frame policies that may reduce the time and cost of deploying new investor-centric 
solutions in the capital market. 

11. The following benefits are envisaged through greater FinTech experimentation in the 

Regulatory Sandbox: 

i)  Greater  participation  of  investors  as  well  as  people  who  are  raising  capital  or 
providing  services.  Increased  financial  inclusion  and  penetration  of  financial 
products, especially in Tier II/III towns and cities and rural areas; 
 

ii)  Ease  of  accessibility  for  retail  investors  (especially  those  with  limited  means), 
resulting  in  greater  convenience,  reduced  operational  costs,  lower  fees  and 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

3 | P a g e  

 

 
transaction  charges,  while  at  the  same  time  increasing  the  efficiency  and 
transparency. 
 

iii) Lower risk and more effective supervision. 

 

APPLICABILITY 

 
12. To begin with, it is proposed that all market participants registered with SEBI under 
section  12  of  the  SEBI  Act  1992,  shall  be  eligible  for  testing  within  the  Regulatory 
sandbox. A market participant can come on its own or  use the services of a fintech 
firm.  The  registered  market  participant  shall  be  treated  as  the  principle  applicant, 
even if it uses the services of a fintech firm, and shall be solely responsible for testing 
of the solution in the sandbox.  

13. In  the  subsequent phases, depending on the  response  received, SEBI may consider 
permitting FinTech startups, FinTech firms and other entities that are not regulated 
by  SEBI,  to  participate  in  the  Regulatory  Sandbox.  In  the  interim,  the  innovation 
sandbox shall be available to all. 

 

REGULATORY EXEMPTIONS 

 
14. Within  the  overarching  principles  of  Market  Integrity  and  Investor  Protection,  no 
exemptions  would  be  granted  from  extant  principles  of  Investor  Protection 
framework,  Know-Your-Customer  (KYC)  and  Anti-Money  Laundering  (AML) 
prescribed by SEBI. 
 

15. With  the  intention  to  ensure  that  the  sandboxing  environment  has  minimum 
regulatory burden, SEBI shall consider exemptions/ relaxations, if any, which could 
be  either  in  the  form  of  a  comprehensive  exemption  from  certain  regulatory 
requirements or selective exemptions on a case-by-case basis.  

16. SEBI is considering a separate (new) regulatory regime for sandbox testing wherein 
exemptions from various SEBI regulations may be provided after analyzing specific 
sandbox  testing  applications.  This  could  enable  a  more  flexible  regulatory 
environment for eligible participants to comply. 

17. Depending  on  the  FinTech  Solution  to  be  tested,  SEBI  shall  determine  the  specific 
regulatory  requirements  which  may  be  considered  for  relaxation  on  case-by-case 
basis.  A  reference  list  is  placed  at  Annexure-2  with  examples  of  the  regulatory 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

4 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 
requirements  that  will  be  mandatory  and  those  which  SEBI  may  consider  relaxing 
during the sandbox testing. 
 

18. Alternatively, market participants desirous of participating in the regulatory sandbox 
may make an application for exemption / relaxation from relevant provisions of SEBI 
regulations. Firms desirous of participating in the sandbox are required to apply for 
relaxation of specific regulations that they feel are hampering their innovations or are 
acting as barriers to entry of new products. 

 

 

 

ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR THE PROJECT 

19. The eligibility criteria shall be as follows: 

a)  Genuineness  of  innovation:  The  solution  should  be  truly  innovative  or 
significantly different from existing offering and which adds significant value to 
the existing offering in the Indian market.  

 

b)  Genuine need to test: The applicant should have a genuine need for testing the 
solution on real customers within the sandbox. The applicant should demonstrate 
that the solution cannot be developed without relaxing certain regulations within 
the sandbox. 

 

c)  Limited  prior  testing:  Before  applying  for  testing  in  the  regulatory  sandbox, 
limited  offline  testing  of  the  solution  should  have  been  carried  out  by  the 
applicant.  

 

d)  Direct benefits to users: The solution should offer identifiable benefits (direct or 
indirect) to the investors or capital raising entities and to the capital market and 
the Indian economy at large.  

 

e)  No  risks  to  the  financial  system:  The  solution  should  have  proper  risk 
management  strategy  to  incorporate  appropriate  safeguards  to  mitigate  and 
control potential risks and contain the consequences, if any, of failure. 

f)  Testing readiness of the solution: The applicant has the necessary resources to 
support testing in the sandbox. The applicant must show well developed testing 
plans with clear objectives, parameters and success criteria. 

 

 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

5 | P a g e  

 

 
g)  Deployment post-testing: The applicant should demonstrate the intention and 
ability  to  deploy  the  solution  in  India  on  a  broader  scale.  To  this  effect  the 
applicant should share a proposed sandbox exit and transition strategy. 

h)  Fit  and  proper  person:  The  applicant  shall  satisfy  the  fit  and  proper  criteria 

including but not limited to the following: 

 

 

Integrity, reputation and character; 

i. 
ii.  Absence of convictions and restraint orders; 
iii. 
iv.  Absence of categorization as a willful defaulter. 

Competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

 

 

 

 

 

20. The applicant must demonstrate eligibility to the satisfaction of SEBI by showing clear 

evidence as listed above. 

LIMITATIONS 

21. The solutions/products shall not be permitted to be tested in the Regulatory Sandbox 

under the following circumstances:   

a)  The proposed FinTech solution is similar to those that are already being offered 
in  the  markets,  unless  the  applicant  can  demonstrate  that  either  an  innovative 
(efficient  alternative)  technology  is  being  used;  or  the  same  technology  is  used 
more efficiently (process efficiency). 

b)  The applicant has not carried out its due diligence, including testing the proposed 

FinTech solution in an offline test environment. 

 

c)  The  applicant  has  no  intention  of  deploying  the  FinTech  solution  in  India  on  a 

broader scale after exiting from the Sandbox.  

  

 

POTENTIAL RISK MITIGATES 

 

22. The applicant must identify the potential risks to any market participants that may 
arise  from  the  testing  of  the  solution  in  the  sandbox  and  propose  appropriate 
safeguards to manage the risks and contain the consequences of failure. 

23. The  applicant  will  follow  appropriate  disclosure,  protection  and  compensation 
requirements  related  to  their  users  agreed  upon,  on  a  case-by-case  basis.  The 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

6 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
applicant  is  required to  have  a clearly defined grievance redressal  mechanism and 
user rights. 

24. The  applicant  must  provide  adequate  disclosure  of  the  potential  risks  to  users 
participating in the sandbox and seek prior confirmation from such users that they 
fully understand and accept the attendant risks. 

25. Market participants participating in the sandbox shall have the same protection rights 

as the ones participating in the live market. 

APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS 

26. Monitoring and administering a Regulatory Sandbox is a resource intensive activity 
on part of the regulators. A Rolling approach will be followed wherein the applicant 
can apply anytime for participation in the regulatory sandbox. 

27. The applicant should ensure that the eligibility criteria specified under  Para 19 are 

satisfied before submitting the application and Annexure-1 to SEBI. 

28. The  flowchart  below  depicts  the  application  and  approval  process.  SEBI  will 
communicate with the applicant / sandbox participant in the course of evaluating the 
sandbox application, and continue to do so during the testing phase. 

29. Prior to submitting an application, the applicant can clarify any question regarding 

the sandbox by contacting SEBI at <email id> 

30. If  the  applicant  is  a  suitable  participant  for  the  sandbox  and  the  project  meets  the 
eligibility criteria, it can proceed to submit the sandbox application form signed by 
the  Chief Executive  Officer (CEO) of the  applicant  or officer duly  authorized by the 
CEO or registered individual, to SEBI, by email at <email id>. 

31. At the “Application Stage”, SEBI shall review the application and inform the applicant 
of its potential suitability for a sandbox within 30 working days from the submission 
of  the  complete  application.  SEBI  may  issue  individual  guidance  to  the  applicant 
according  to  the  specific  characteristics  and  risks  associated  with  the  proposed 
solution. 

 

 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

7 | P a g e  

 

 

Applicant is informed that the 

Sandbox application is not suitable 

FLOWCHART: APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS 

 

Applicant 
application to SEBI 

submits 

a 

sandbox 

Application Stage: 

SEBI reviews the application  

Is application 

potentially suitable 

for sandbox? 

NO 

YES 

Evaluation Stage: 

Specific sandbox conditions determined 

Is sandbox 
application 
approved?  

YES 

NO 

Testing Stage 

Testing of the solution begins 

After completion of the evaluation 
period, Sandbox exit criteria will be 

triggered 

 

 

 

32. At the “Evaluation Stage”, SEBI will work with the applicant to determine the specific 
regulatory  requirements  and  conditions  (including  test  parameters  and  control 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

8 | P a g e  

 

 
boundaries)  to  be  applied  to  the  proposed  solution  in  question.  The  applicant  will 
then assess if it is able to meet these requirements. If the applicant is able and willing 
to meet the proposed regulatory requirements and conditions, the applicant will be 
granted a permission to develop and test the proposed FinTech Innovation(s) in the 
sandbox within the parameters and control boundaries agreed upon with SEBI. 

33. In the event that an application is rejected at any stage, the applicant will be informed 
accordingly. The reasons for rejection could include failure to meet the objective of 
the  sandbox  or  any  of  the  eligibility  criteria.  The  applicant  may  re-apply  for  the 
sandbox when it is ready to meet the objective and eligibility criteria of the sandbox, 
subject to a suitable cooling-off period. 

34. Upon approval, the application proceeds towards the “Testing Stage”. The participant 
shall notify its users that the solution is operating in a sandbox and disclose the key 
risks associated with the financial service. The applicant is also required to obtain the 
user’s acknowledgement that they have read and understood these risks. 

35. During  the  testing  stage,  if  the  applicant  intends  to  make  material  changes  to  the 
solution, the applicant should apply to SEBI at least 1 month in advance and provide 
details of the proposed changes with reasons. SEBI’s approval will be required before 
the proposed changes can be implemented.  

 

36. Participant must submit interim reports on the progress of the test. 

37. At the end of the testing period, the sandbox participant shall exit the sandbox and the 

regulatory relaxations provided by SEBI shall expire. 

38. SEBI  shall  assign  a  designated  officer  to  each  of  the  applicants.  Similarly,  each 

applicant shall assign a contact person to coordinate with SEBI. 

39. For a rejected application, a suitable cooling off period shall be observed before the 

applicant is allowed to resubmit the application. 

40. The  complete  application  must  be  submitted  to:  Chief  General  Manager,  Market 
Regulation Department, SEBI Bhavan, Plot No.: C4-A, G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400051. 

41. The  duration  of  the  sandbox  testing  stage  is  proposed  to  be  a  maximum  of  nine 

months with a maximum extension (upon request) of three months. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

9 | P a g e  

 

EVALUATION CRITERIA 

 

42. The  applicants  will  be  evaluated  using  a  scoring  process  based  on  the  information 

submitted in the application form. 

43. The  Market  Regulation  Department,  under  the  guidance  of  the  CFRT,  shall  be  the 

secretariat for the complete duration of the sandbox.  

44. The  concerned departments of SEBI may perform initial evaluation  of the  sandbox 
applications  and  present  the  same  to  the  above-mentioned  committee  for  final 
evaluation and confirmation.  

 

 

 

 

TABLE 2: DISTRIBUTION OF MARKS 

 

Sr.No. 

Evaluation Criteria 

Weightage 

Evaluated by 

 
1 
2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

benefits 

to 

and/or 

scenarios 

innovative  solution 
technology  and/or 

 
Profile of the Applicant 
Usage  of 
including 
processes 
the 
Identified 
investors 
the 
securities/commodities markets 
of  meaningful 
Compilation 
testing 
and 
expected/desired outcomes 
Risk  measured/graded  testing 
conditions and parameters so as 
to  ensure  safety  and  protection 
of the Markets 
Risk  mitigation  for  high  risk 
testing 
and 
parameters 
Intent  and  feasibility  to  deploy 
the  proposed  FinTech  Solution 
post Sandbox testing 

conditions 

(%) 

Department  Committee 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
10 
10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

10 | P a g e  

 

Sr.No. 

Evaluation Criteria 

Weightage 

Evaluated by 

 

Sandbox 

Post 
testing 
deployment, monitoring and exit 
strategy (in case of non-viability 
of solution) 
Other  miscellaneous 
considered relevant by SEBI 
Total 

factors 

(%) 

10 

20 

100 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8 

9 

 

 

45. The applicant has to score minimum marks in each parameter and achieve a minimum 

overall score to qualify for testing in the sandbox. 
 

46. Since these are the early stages of implementation of the regulatory sandbox and the 
learning curve, SEBI shall reserve the right to modify the parameters, weightages and 
cut-offs  as  and  when  necessary.  Further,  SEBI  shall  reserve  the  right  to  reject  the 
project based on its evaluation and judgment. 

 

SUBMISSION OF INFORMATION AND REPORTS 

47. During the testing period in the sandbox, SEBI may require the participant to submit 

information relating to the test. 

48. The participant must ensure proper maintenance of records during the testing period 
to  support  reviews  of  the  test  by SEBI. Further,  the  participant  shall also  maintain 
such records for a  period of  five  5  years  from completion  of testing/ exit  from  the 
sandbox. 

INTERIM REPORTS 

49. The participant must submit interim reports to SEBI on the progress of the test, which 

includes information on the following: 

i)  Key performance indicators, key milestones and statistical information; 

ii)  Key  issues  arising  as  observed  from  fraud  or  operational  incident  reports; 

and 

 

 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

11 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iii)  Actions or steps taken to address the key issues identified above 

 

 

50. The  frequency and specific details to be  included in interim reports  will be  agreed 
between SEBI and the participant, taking into account the duration, complexity, scale 
and risks associated with the test. 

FINAL REPORT 

51. The  Sandbox  Participants  must  submit  a  final  report  containing  the  following 

information to SEBI within 30 calendar days from the expiry of the testing period: 

 

 

 

i)  Key outcomes, key performance indicators against agreed measures for the 

success or failure of the test and findings of the test; 

ii)  A full account of all incident reports and resolution of user complaints; and 

iii)  In the case of a failed test, lessons learnt from the test. 

CONFIRMATION OF REPORTS 

52. The interim and final reports must be confirmed by the CEO/ Registered individual or 

by an officer duly authorized by the CEO/ Registered individual. 

MONITORING AND SUPERVISION OF THE SANDBOX 

53. An officer of SEBI shall be assigned to supervise and guide each applicant during the 

course of product/solution deployment and testing in the sandbox. 

EXTENDING OR EXITING THE SANDBOX 

54. At the end of the testing period, the permission granted to the Sandbox Participant as 
well  as  the  legal  and  regulatory  requirements  relaxed  by  SEBI  will  expire,  and  the 
sandbox participant must exit from the Sandbox. 

55. Upon completion of testing,  
 

i)  SEBI shall decide whether to permit the product, process, service or solution to be 
introduced in the market on a wider scale. Where allowed, participants intending 
to carry out regulated businesses will be assessed based on applicable licensing, 
approval and registration criteria under various SEBI regulations, as the case may 
be. 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

12 | P a g e  

 

ii)  Or the applicant may employ an exit strategy. 

 

iii) Or the applicant may request for an extension period to continue testing in the 

sandbox. The extension period shall be limited to a maximum of three months. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

56. In the event an extension of the testing period is required, the applicant should apply 
to SEBI at least two months before the expiration of the testing period and state the 
additional time required and clearly explain reasons for requiring the extension. 

57. SEBI shall review the application and approval for extension of the testing period shall 
be granted on a case-by-case basis. SEBI’s decision on the application for extension 
shall be final. 

58. The applicant may exit the sandbox on its own by giving SEBI a two-month notice in 
writing of its intention to exit the sandbox. In such cases, upon exiting the sandbox, 
the applicants must take the same actions outlined above. 

59. The  applicant  shall  ensure  that  any  existing  obligation  to  the  users  of  the  FinTech 
Innovation(s) under testing are completely fulfilled or addressed before exiting the 
sandbox or discontinuing the sandbox.  
 

60. The  applicant  is  required  to  maintain  records  of  acknowledgement  of  all  its  users 
stating that obligations have been met, for a period of five years from the date of exit 
from the sandbox.  

 

RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE USER 

 
61. Before  signing  up,  the  user  shall  read  the  full  documentation  provided  by  the 

applicant and confirm that he/she is aware of the risks of using the solution. 
 

62. The  applicant  is  required  to  furnish  complete  details  of  its  obligations  to  the  user 

during the testing phase. 
 

63. In the event the user encounters a serious issue or problem while using the solution, 

the user shall report the same to SEBI, immediately.  

 

 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

13 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 

REVOCATION OF THE APPROVAL 

 

64. SEBI may revoke an approval, to participate in the sandbox, at any time before the 

end of the testing period, if the applicant: 

i)  Fails to carry out risk mitigates as mentioned in Paras 22-25 above. 

ii)  Submits false, misleading or inaccurate information, or has concealed or failed 

to disclose material facts in the applications; 

iii) Contravenes any applicable law administered by SEBI or any applicable law in 

India or abroad; 
 

iv) Loss of reputation 

v)  Is undergoing or has gone into liquidation; 

vi) The digital security and integrity of the service or product is compromised and 

the risk of a cyber-security attack is high. 
 

vii) Carries on business in a manner detrimental to users or the public at large; or 

 

viii)Fails to effectively address any technical defects, flaws or vulnerabilities in the 
product, service or solution which gives rise to recurring service disruptions 
or fraudulent activities.  
 

ix) Fails to implement any directions given by SEBI. 

 

 

 

 

 

65. Further, severe penalty in addition to revocation of approval will be levied on those 
firms which implement solutions in the Sandbox that, in spite of SEBI’s guidance and 
caution: 

i)  Undermine Know Your Customer (KYC) principles 
ii)  Violate user’s/investor’s privacy 
iii) Promote selling of Fraudulent/illegal products or services  
iv) Promote mis-selling of products or services 
v)  Violate Anti-Money Laundering (AML) norms 
vi) Create difficulty in establishing an audit trail 
vii) Create financial stability risk 
viii) Are based on Intellectual Property theft 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

14 | P a g e  

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

66. Before revoking an approval to participate in the sandbox, SEBI shall: 

i.  Give  the  participant  30 days’ notice in writing of its intention  to revoke  the 

approval; and 

 

ii. 

iii. 

Provide an opportunity for the participant to respond to SEBI on the grounds 
for revocation. 
 
Immediately suspend trials on new users i.e. no new users shall be permitted 
to sign up for using/testing the solution. 

67. Where any delay in revoking the approval would be detrimental to the interests of the 
applicant, their users, the financial system or the public in general, SEBI shall revoke 
the approval immediately and provide the opportunity for the participant to respond 
after the effective date of revocation. If the response is accepted by SEBI, SEBI  may 
reinstate the approval to participate in the sandbox. 

68. Upon revocation of an approval, the participant must – 
 

i) 

immediately implement its exit plan to cease the provision of the product, process, 
service or solution to new and existing users; 

 

 

 

 

 

ii)  notify  its  users  about  the  cessation  and  their  rights  to  grievance  redressal 

wherever applicable; 

iii) comply with obligations imposed by SEBI to dispose of all confidential information 

including user’s personal information collected over the duration of the testing; 

iv) compensate any users who had suffered financial losses arising from the test in 
accordance with the safeguards submitted by the participant  under paragraphs 
22-25 above; and 

v)  submit a report to SEBI on the actions taken, under paragraphs 49-51 within 30 

days from the revocation. 
 

vi) Comply with any other directions given by SEBI. 

 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

15 | P a g e  

 

 

ADDITIONAL ISSUES FOR WHICH COMMENTS ARE BEING SOUGHT 

 

 

69. Monitoring  and  administering  the  regulatory  sandbox  will  require  considerable 
resources  from  SEBI.  Should  SEBI  charge  a  minimal  fee  for  every  applicant 
participating in the sandbox? If yes, what should be the quantum of such a fee? If no, 
why? Please justify your view with supporting rationale. 
 

70. The  frequency  for  submission  of  interim  reports  should  be  such  that  SEBI  gets 
adequate information and time to monitor the testing process while at the same time 
not posing a hurdle or burden on the applicant’s testing process. What should be the 
frequency for submission of interim reports? 
 

71. For  a  rejected  application,  what  should  be  the  duration  of  the  cooling-off  period? 

Please suggest a suitable time period with detailed rationale. 
 

72. Any  other  comments  /  suggestions  that  SEBI  should  consider  for  encouraging 

innovation through sandbox testing.  

 

 

*** 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

16 | P a g e  

 

ANNEXURE 1- REGULATORY SANDBOX APPLICATION FORM 

 

Please note that the regulatory sandbox is meant to enable testing of innovative FinTech 
solution that are regulated by SEBI.  For Clarification, if any Applicant may write to <email 
id>  

 

1.  Applicant’s Information 

Name of the Organization 
Address 
Telephone No. 
Website URL 
SEBI Registration no. 
Provide details of the fintech firms involved, if any 
Name of the Authorized Representative 
Designation 
Contact No 
Email id 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2.  Overview: Profile of the Applicant 

Description 

Response 

Provide a brief description of the organization and its core 
businesses including but not limited to: 

registration with other regulators,  
affiliation to prominent societies,  

a. 
b. 
c.  Accreditations,  
d. 
e. 
f. 

significant achievements 
financial standing including avenues for funding 
Profile of key personnel 

 

 

 

 

Sr. 
No. 
2.1 

2.4 

Sr. 
No. 

2.2  Does the applicant have presence in India? If yes then please 

provide details. 

2.3  Does the applicant’s business is already active abroad? If yes 

then please provide details. 
Current orders or proceedings against the applicant in India 
and abroad (if any) 

3.  About the proposed solution 

Description 

Response 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

17 | P a g e  

 

 

3.1 

Provide a short summary of the proposed solution to be tested 
in the sandbox including but not limited to: 

a.  Objective of the proposed FinTech solution or the 

statement of purpose 

b.  Key benefits to the users and markets 
c.  Business Model, including asset deployment and sources 

of revenue 

d.  Target users 
e.  Compliance obligations 
f.  Time period for testing 

3.2 

Summary of technical Solution including but not limited to: 

a.  Technical architecture 
b.  Usage of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, if 

any 

c.  Cyber resilience: VAPT results, if any 
d.  Certification from Common Criteria Recognition 

Arrangement (CCRA), if any 

e.  Business Continuity Plan, if any 
f.  Any other certifications, if any 

3.3  Genuineness of innovation: Explain how applicant’s solution 

constitutes a significantly different offering in the market place 

3.4  Awareness of similar offering in other countries or for other 

than securities/commodities markets 

3.5  Timelines for pan-India Deployment post Sandbox testing 

4.  Sandbox readiness 

4.1 

Illustrate the aspect of FinTech Solution that will be tested 
during the Sandboxing 

4.2  Mention the test criteria and expected outcomes 
4.3  Describe the use case that you are proposing to test in the 

sandbox. 

4.4  Define success for a test. What are the Key Performance 

Indicators that will indicate a successful test 
Probable start and end date of sandbox testing 
Customer Details including but not limited to: 

4.5 
4.6 

a.  Number of participating customers 
b.  Profile of customers (retail, institutional, etc.) 
c.  Process for enrollment and acquisition of customers  
d.  Requirement of KYC? 
e.  User awareness required/conducted 
f. 

Is consent required /has consent been obtained? 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

18 | P a g e  

 

g.  Arrangements to limit loss if applicable e.g. Margin, stop 

 

loss thresholds etc. 

h.  User compensation if any? 
i.  Value at risk per user 
j.  Transaction thresholds per user 

4.7  Risk assessment and mitigation options including but not 

limited to: 

a.  Failure of sandbox testing 
b.  Financial loss to the customers 
c.  Cyber attack 
d.  AML and terrorism financing 

 

4.8  Any legal and regulatory non-compliance for any other 

regulator during the sandbox testing 

 

 

5.1  Applicant’s legal and regulatory status (registration, licensing, 

5.  Legal and Regulatory Assessment : other regulators 
 

authorization, approval, recognition etc.) 
Legal opinion sought on the proposed FinTech Solution, if any 

5.2 
5.3  Does the applicant currently have the relevant license to deploy 

the proposed solution in the production environment? Please 
provide the details. 

6.  Deployment post-testing 

6.1  Describe  how  the  regulatory  requirements  will  be  met  post 

6.2 

6.3 

6.4 

successful sandbox testing 
Please provide a pan-India deployment strategy, post successful 
Sandbox testing 
Please provide monitoring strategy to monitor the outcomes in 
the live scenario. 
Please  provide  exit  and  transition  strategy  if  the  deployed 
solution turns unviable. 

7.  Relaxation of SEBI regulations and guidelines 
7.1  Outline the  list of rules, regulation, guidelines, circulars etc. of 
SEBI  that  you  feel  may  act  as  an  impediment  to  the  proposed 
FinTech Solution, along with detailed rationale. 

7.2  Does the applicant require SEBI to relax any specific regulatory 
requirements  prescribed  by  SEBI,  for  the  duration  of  the 
sandbox? Please provide the details along with rationale. 
In the event of a successful test and before exit from the sandbox, 
provide  details  on  how  the  applicant  intends  to  comply  with 
SEBI’s regulatory requirements  

7.3 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

19 | P a g e  

 

Annexure 2- Regulatory Requirements for the Sandbox 

 

 

 

Depending on the application of the participant and the proposed FinTech Solution, SEBI 
shall  determine  the  specific  legal  and  regulatory  requirements  which  may  merit 
relaxation during the sandbox testing. 

The examples provided below are for illustrative purposes only and are not exhaustive. 

 

REQUIREMENTS FOR WHICH RELAXATION WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED 
 

Confidentiality of customer information  
i. 
ii. 
Fit and proper criteria particularly on honesty and integrity  
iii.  Handling of customer’s moneys and assets by intermediaries  
iv. 
v.  Risk checks (like price check, order value check, etc.)  
vi. 

Principles of KYC 

Prevention of money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism 

 

REQUIREMENTS THAT MAY MERIT RELAXATION 

 

Track record 

i.  Net worth 
ii. 
iii.  Registration fees 
iv. 

SEBI Guidelines, such as technology risk management guidelines and outsourcing 
guidelines 
Financial soundness 

v. 

Discussion Paper on Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 

 

20 | P a g e  

 

