 

 

Discussion Paper on ‘Usage of pool accounts in Mutual Fund Transactions’ 

A.  Background 

 

i.  SEBI, vide circular dated November 13, 2009, permitted units of Mutual Fund (MF) schemes 

to be transacted through registered stock brokers on recognized stock exchanges.  
 

ii.  In order to provide more avenues for transacting in Mutual Fund units, vide circular dated 
November 09, 2010, it was permitted that units of MF schemes may be transacted through 
clearing  members of the registered Stock Exchanges  and redemption requests for  units in 
demat form may be processed by Depository Participants, in addition to transactions directly 
with the mutual funds and through stock brokers. For this purpose,  units on purchase and 
redemption  amount  were  allowed  to  be  routed  through  broker’s/  clearing  member’s  pool 
account.  

 

iii.  Vide circular dated October 04, 2013, MF Distributors (MFDs) were also allowed to use the 
infrastructure of the recognized stock exchanges to purchase and redeem MF units directly 
from  MFs/Asset  Management  Companies  (AMCs)  on  behalf  of  their  clients.  However, 
MFDs were not allowed to  handle pay-in and pay-out of funds and units.  The recognized 
stock exchanges were directed to put in necessary system in place to ensure that pay-in is 
directly  received  by  recognized  Clearing  Corporation  and  pay-out  is  directly  made  to  the 
investor account. Similarly, the units would be credited and debited directly from the demat 
account of the investors. Exchange platforms also facilitate MF transactions in non-demat 
mode. 
 

iv.  Vide circular dated October 19, 2016, SEBI registered Investment Advisers (IAs) were also 
allowed to use stock exchanges infrastructure to purchase and redeem MF units directly from 
MF/AMCs on behalf of their clients under the provisions laid down in Circular dated October 
04, 2013 with respect to MFDs. 

 

B.  Current Structure for Mutual Fund Transactions: 

 

i.  At present, an investor can use any of the following methods to invest in mutual funds: 

a.  Investment directly with the AMCs – Both offline and online 
b.  Investment through Stock Broker(s) /MFD(s) /IA(s) using Exchange Platform 
c.  Investment through MFD(s) /IA(s) outside exchange platforms– Both offline and 

online 

d.  Platforms  for  MF  transactions  provided  by  other  entities  not  covered  above, 
including  those  registered  as  RTAs  and  are  functioning  in  a  manner  similar  to 
clearing corporations - Both offline and online 
 

ii.  As on October 31, 2019, there are 857 brokers, 62,460 distributors and 356 Investment 

Advisers registered with Stock exchanges for Mutual Fund transactions. 

1 

 

 

 

 

iii.  Value  of  MF  transactions  on  NSE  and  BSE  on  a  combined  basis  during  2018-19 
amounted  to  Rs.  1,04,273  crores.  Details  of  such  transactions  executed  on  these 
exchanges  through  pool  route  (i.e.  through  brokers)  and  through  non-pool  route  (i.e. 
through MFDs and IAs) are as under: 

Pool (Rs. 

Cr) 

Non-Pool 
(Rs. Cr) 

Share 
of Pool 

Share of 

Non-

(%) 

Pool (%) 

Pool (Rs. 

Cr) 

Non-Pool 
(Rs. Cr) 

Share 
of Pool 

(%) 

Share 
of Non-
Pool 
(%) 

Share 
of Pool 

(%) 

Share 
of Non-
Pool 
(%) 

BSE 

NSE 

Both Exchanges 

Combined 

FY 2016-17 

31,704.20 

4,293.66 

88% 

12% 

3524.38  6198.32  36.2%  63.8%  77.1%  22.9% 

FY 2017-18 

47,683.77 

8,021.51 

86% 

14% 

4855.76  23569.62  17.1%  82.9%  62.4%  37.6% 

FY 2018-19 

46,191.55  20,784.35  69% 

31% 

7488.28  29808.77  20.1%  79.9%  51.5%  48.5% 

 
Source: BSE & NSE 

C.  Transactions in Pool Account 

 

i.  Transactions through stock brokers on Exchange Platform 

For transactions on stock exchanges (Equity and  Derivatives), funds and securities are 
routed through broker’s pool account. The industry has also evolved to utilize the pool 
account to give greater ease of transactions, convenience and flexibility to the investors 
in making Mutual Fund transactions. 

Simplified  versions  of  process  flows  for  subscription  and  redemption  transactions 
through stock brokers on stock exchange platforms are provided below: 

Transactions in Demat Mode via Stock Brokers – Present Flow of Funds & Units 

 

2 

 

 

 

Transactions in Non-Demat/Statement of Account (SoA) Mode via Stock Brokers – 
Present Flow of Funds & Units 

ii.  Transactions through MFD(s) or registered IAs on Exchange Platform 

 
As stated above in paragraphs A(iii) and A(iv), MFD(s) and registered IAs were allowed 
to use stock exchanges’ infrastructure to purchase and redeem MF units directly from 
MF/AMCs on behalf of their clients. 

It was further stated in the circular dated October 04, 2013 that the MF distributors would 
not  handle pay-in and pay-out of funds and units on behalf of the investors and Stock 
exchanges were advised to put necessary system in place  to ensure that pay in will be 
directly received by recognized clearing corporation and payout will be directly made to 
investors’ bank account and units would be credited and debited directly from the account 
of the investors. Similar provisions were also made applicable for IAs vide circular dated 
October 19, 2016. 
 
Simplified  versions  of  process  flows  for  subscription  and  redemption  transactions 
through MFD(s) / IAs on stock exchange platforms are provided below: 

Transactions in Demat Mode* via  MFD(s) / IAs – Present Flow of Funds & Units 

*NSE does not allow MFDs and IAs to place orders for units in dematerialized form 

3 

 

 

 

Transactions in Non-Demat Mode/SoA via MFD(s)/ IAs – Present Flow of Funds & 
Units 

iii.  Transactions  through  MFD(s)  /  IAs  outside  Exchange  Platform  and  through 

 

platforms mentioned in paragraph B(i)(d) 
 
Many  MFD(s)  registered  with  AMFI  and  SEBI  registered  IAs  commonly  referred  as 
“Channel Partners” and other online platforms covered under paragraph B(i)(d) are also 
providing digitalized services to investors to transact in mutual fund units. Through these 
platforms, investors can place single or multiple orders to transact in mutual funds units. 
These platforms are often pooling the client’s funds in an escrow account / nodal account 
and subsequently transfer to AMCs either on per transaction basis or lump sum basis. It 
is  understood  that,  at  times,  MFDs/  IAs/  other  online  platforms  have  been  enabled  to 
operate  through  the  pool  account  mechanism  based  on  bilateral  understanding  with 
AMCs.  
 
Transaction details are sent by MFDs/ IAs/ other online platforms to AMCs/ RTAs, based 
on which units are issued/ redemption is made.  
 
Simplified  version  of  process  flow  for  such  MFDs/  IAs/  other  platforms,  involving 
pooling of fund, is provided below: 

4 

 

 

 

 

D.  Conveniences available to investors in current structure 

 
i.  Asset  Allocation  /  Cross  Investment  in  Multiple  Products  –  Stock  Broker’s  Pool 
Account allows investors to seamlessly invest across multiple products such as equity, 
derivatives, NCDs, G-Sec, Mutual Funds, ETFs, etc. using the same broking account, 
without the need for investors to make frequent fund transfers.  Triggers for investments 
across products/ sectors etc. can be easily monitored and maintained. 
 
Inter scheme or inter AMC Switch – In case of investments in Mutual funds through 
stock  broker’s  pool  account,  inter  scheme  or  inter  AMC  switch  can  be  easily 
implemented, without the need of investor to make frequent fund transfers. 
 
Investment in SIP- Through pool account, client can start/stop SIP very easily without 
reaching out to the bank or MF. 
 

ii. 

iii. 

iv.  Efficient and cost effective  Fund Transfers - Usage of stock broker’s pool account 
reduces  the  frequency  of  fund  transfers  among  investors/  stock  brokers/  clearing 
corporation etc. therefore becomes cost effective.  

 

v.  Facilitates  Innovation  and  Better  Service  -  A  pool  account  enables  innovation  as 
technology can be used to create tools/ products that provide better understanding about 
their  investment  to  the  investors.  For  example  –  portfolio  visualization  tools  that 
highlight cross-asset exposure to particular security/ sector help investors to re-balance 
their portfolio. 

E.  Extant Practices, Issues and Challenges  

 
Stock Brokers, MFDs and IAs including Channel Partners and other platforms covered under 
paragraph B(i)(d) are providing valuable services to investors and have helped the Mutual 
Fund  Industry  to  grow  at  a  substantial  pace.  However,  certain  challenges  have  been 
envisaged in the current process of using pool accounts. The details are given as under: 
 
In case of Stock Brokers: 
 

i.  Loss  of  traceability  of  transaction  and  funds  -  As  stated  above,  with  respect  to 
investors  who  purchase  and  redeem  MF  units  through  stock  brokers  and  clearing 
members, the units and funds flow through brokers’ or clearing members’ pool account. 
Units and funds move in an aggregate manner from broker’s account to RTA’s/AMC’s 
account. In such case once pooling happens at an intermediary level the traceability of 
funds/ investor details is lost to AMCs/ RTAs. 
 

5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RTAs are not able to identify the exact order details of the investors against which units 
have been moved / not moved which in turn leads to difference in balances between RTA 
and depository books.  
 
Further,  with  respect  to  investors  who  purchase  and  redeem  MF  units  in  demat  form 
through stock brokers and clearing members, MF/AMC is discharged of its obligation of 
payment  /  credit  of  units,  if  such  payment  or  the  units  have  been  credited  to  the 
broker/clearing members.  
 
Therefore, the actual payment of funds to investors or credit of units in investors’ account 
is beyond the purview of MF/AMC. Hence, any dispute regarding non-payment of funds 
or  non-credit  of  units  is  taken  up  by  the  investors  under  the  exchange’s  grievance 
redressal and arbitration mechanism. 

ii.  Potential misuse of pooled funds/ securities 

  

In  the  recent  past,  instances  have  come  to  light  where  client’s  funds/securities  were 
diverted  or  mis-utilized  by  trading  member/  clearing  member  toward  margin 
obligations or settlement obligations of itself or for some third party or for raising loan 
against shares on its own account, etc. 

As  may be observed from  data  provided in paragraph B(iii) above, the  value of MF 
transaction via pool account has remained significant in the last three years. However, 
the share of transactions (value) through non-pool has continuously been on rise in the 
last three years. 

In case of Digital Platforms provided by MFDs and IAs (including Channel Partners) / 
Platforms covered under paragraph B(i)(d): 

The practice of acceptance of funds by above platforms poses several risks as given under: 

 

i.  AMCs lose the sight of the source of funds as they receive the funds from pool/escrow 

accounts (instead of investors’ bank accounts). 
 

ii.  MFDs  are  not  expected  to  handle  clients’  funds  and/or  securities.  In  physical 
applications, MFDs are not allowed to take cheques/payment instruments from clients 
in their names. Instead, clients are required to give cheques/payment instruments which 
are in favour of Mutual Funds/AMCs. IAs are also envisaged to provide non-binding 
advisory  services  to  their  clients.  Routing  of  funds/units  through  them  may  lead  to 
potential misuse of funds/units. 

 

6 

 

iii. 

Similar risks mentioned above in points (i) and (ii) also arise when funds/units are being 
pooled  using  escrow  account  or  in  any  other  form  by  platforms  covered  under 
paragraph B(i)(d). 
 

F.  Proposals 

 
In  order  to  address  the  abovementioned  challenges  and  to  promote  a  secure  investing 
environment in Mutual Funds, the following is proposed:  
 
i. 

Pooling  of  funds/units  by  Stock  Brokers,  MFDs,  IAs  and  other  platforms  may  be 
discontinued for Mutual Fund Transactions. For implementation of the same, following 
may be ensured: 
 

a.  For  transactions  on  Exchange  platforms  through  stock  broker(s),  Exchanges 
shall put necessary system in place to ensure that pay-in is directly received by 
recognized Clearing Corporation from investor’s bank account and pay-out is 
directly  made 
investor’s  bank  account  from  recognized  Clearing 
Corporation’s account. In the same manner, for subscription and redemption, 
units are directly credited into and debited from the investor account (Demat or 
Statement of Account) respectively. 
 

to 

b.  For transactions outside Exchange platforms, as mentioned in paragraph B (i) 
(c) and B (i) (d) above, AMC at its end shall put necessary system in place to 
ensure both subscription and redemption (funds transferred and units transacted 
between investor and AMC) take place without use of pooling through escrow 
/ nodal account etc. 

ii. 

 
Suggestions are also requested for improving ease of transaction in MF units through 
non-pool accounts, as is presently available through pool accounts. 
 

Comments/Suggestions  on  the  above  proposals  may  be  sent  by  email  at 
mfcomments@sebi.gov.in , on or before January 13, 2020 in the following format :  

 

 

 

Name of Entity / Person / Intermediary/ Organization: 
Sr. No. 
 
 
 

Suggestions  
 
 
 

Issues 
 
 
 

Rationale 
 
 
 

7 

