Consultation  paper  on  Review  of  Regulatory  Framework  for 
Investment Advisers (IA) 

1.  Objective  

 

The  objective  of  the  consultation  paper  is  to  seek  comments  from  the  public  on  the 
proposals  that  are  intended  to  strengthen  the  regulatory  framework  for  Investment 
Advisers  (IA)  as  well  as  empower  the  IA  to  effectively  discharge  their  responsibilities 
towards the investors who are the clients of IA. 

 

2.  Background 

 

2.1 Investment adviser means any person, who for consideration, is engaged in the business of 
providing investment advice to clients or other persons or group of persons and includes 
any  person  who  holds  out  himself  as  an  investment  adviser,  by  whatever  name  called. 
Investment Advisers are regulated by SEBI under Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 (IA Regulations) notified on January 21, 2013.  
 

2.2 Any  person  who  is  providing  investment  advisory  services  in  India  is  required  to  be 
registered with SEBI as IA under SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013. However, 
exemptions  from  registration  as  an  investment  adviser  have  been  granted  to  various 
persons under Regulation 4 of IA Regulations, such as any person giving incidental advice 
to  their  clients,  stock  brokers,  portfolio  managers,  chartered  accountants,  company 
secretaries, etc.  

 

2.3 The objective of the IA Regulations, inter alia, was to lay down the framework for advisers 
who acts in a fiduciary capacity towards their clients and to address the conflict of interest 
arising  due  to  the  dual  role  played  by  the  entity  as  adviser  and  distributor  of  financial 
products. Under these regulations, IA is required to comply with various requirements such 
as qualification criteria, net worth criteria, disclosures, maintenance of records etc. Further, 
the investment advisers are mandated to do appropriate risk profiling and have a process 
to arrive at suitable investments in line with the clients’ requirements. 

  

2.4 Investment adviser should act in the best interests of its clients when providing advisory 
services  and  should  disclose  to  the  client  any  actual  or  potential  conflicts  of  interest. 
Further, the entity playing multiple roles should ensure that there is proper segregation of 
roles  so  as  to  minimize any  possible  conflicts  of  interest. In  other words,  to  address the 
issue  of  conflict  of  interest  arising  due  to  multiple  activities,  it  would  be  appropriate  to 
ensure segregation of the activities and proper disclosures about segregation to the clients. 
Such segregation of advisory and distribution activities by the entity may lead to availability 

 

1 | P a g e  

of complete information with the clients and the same may result in informed investment 
decision by them.    

 

2.5 SEBI  has  been  receiving  numerous  investor  complaints  against  investment  advisers. 
Nature  of  the  complaints  includes  assured  returns  being  offered  by  the  Investment 
Advisors,  charging  of  exorbitant  fees  from  client  with  a  false  promises  of  handsome 
returns, mis-selling by IAs without adhering to the risk profile of the client, non-disclosure 
of complete service fees/charges and, extracting money in the name of various charges. 
Such conduct of these entities is against the interest of investors. SEBI has issued orders 
u/s 11B of SEBI Act, 1992 against various entities in the recent past wherein the entities 
were observed violating the provisions of IA regulations and SEBI (PFUTP) Regulations, 
2003. 
 

2.6 To further strengthen and make the IA Regulations robust and at the same time align with 
the  regulatory  framework  with  the  developments  in  the  securities  markets,  SEBI  had 
issued three consultation papers  dated October 7, 2016, June 22, 2017  and January 2, 
2018 seeking public comments on various proposals relating to segregation of advisory 
and distribution activities, usage of misleading nomenclatures by distributors etc.  
 

2.7 Working Group 

In order to address the diverse views received during the aforesaid consultation process, 
SEBI constituted a working group to: 

  Evaluate  the  proposals  stated  in  the  three  consultation  papers  issued  by  SEBI  and 

recommend the implementation measures thereof. 

  Examine the model of client level segregation of advisory and distribution activities, 

highlight the risks in the model and mitigating factors for each risk. 

  Review of IA Regulations. 

The  Working  Group  has  deliberated  on  the  various  proposals  stated  in  aforesaid 
consultation papers, model of client level segregation and issues observed in complaints 
against IAs. The Working Group submitted its report to SEBI in December 2019.  

3.  Issues and Proposals 

Based  on  detailed  deliberations  on  the  Working  Group  recommendations  and  internal 
discussions, it is proposed to seek public comments on the following issues: 

 

 

 

2 | P a g e  

3.1.  Issue 1:  Client Level Segregation of Advisory & Distribution Activities 

 

3.1.1.  In terms of extant IA Regulations, individual and partnership firms registered as IAs are 
not allowed to provide distribution and/or execution services. Only corporate entities 
registered as IAs can offer execution or distribution services, subject to the condition 
that  the  investment  advisory  services  are  offered  through  Separate  Identifiable 
Division  or  Department  (SIDD).  Such  entities  are  required  to  keep  their  investment 
advisory services clearly segregated from other activities and are required to maintain 
arms-length  relationship  between  their  activity  as  an  investment  adviser  and  other 
activities.  Further,  investment  adviser  can  obtain  consideration/fee  from  the  client 
being advised only and is required to comply with the higher requirements than that 
of distributors such as fiduciary obligation, maintenance of records, etc. 

 

3.1.2.  If an investment adviser advising on securities or investment products to a client, also 
earns  consideration  from  distribution  (directly  or  indirectly)  on  the  products  it  is 
advising  on,  then  there may  be  serious  conflict of  interest.  The  advice  given  by the 
investment adviser may not be in the best interest of the client.  In order to address 
the  issue  of  conflict  of  interest  arising  due  to  the  dual  role  played  by  the  entity  as 
adviser  and  distributor  of  financial  products,  a  clear  segregation  on  client  basis 
between Advisory and Distribution activities is proposed.  

 

Proposal 

3.1.3.  There should be clear segregation between the two services provided to the client i.e. 

investment advice and distribution of the investment products.  

 

3.1.4.  For non-individual entities it is proposed to have client level segregation at a group 
level i.e. the same client cannot be accepted for offering both advisory and distribution 
services within the group of the non-individual entity. A client can either be an advisory 
client where no distributor consideration is received at the group level or distribution 
services client where no advisory fee can be collected from the client at the group level. 

 

 

Group  of  Companies  will  be  as  per  the  provisions  of  Companies  Act,  2013.  Similar 
reference may be made for LLP. 

3.1.5.  Further, for Investment Advisers who are individuals, to have a level playing field, it is 
proposed  that  individuals  may  also  be  allowed  to  provide  both  IA  services  and 
distribution services provided client level segregation is adhered to. To enable IAs to 
distribute, they may obtain appropriate distribution registration. To address the issue 
of  conflict  of  interest,  a  client  can  either  be  an  advisory  client  where  no distributor 

3 | P a g e  

 

 

consideration  is  received  at the family  level  or distribution  services  client  where  no 
advisory fee can be collected from the client at the family level, where “family” shall 
include individual, spouse, dependent children and dependent parents. 

 

3.1.6.  To  ensure  client  level  segregation  at  group/family  level,  following  compliance  and 

monitoring processes shall be adopted: 
a)  PAN of each client shall be the control record for identification and client level 

segregation. 

b)  Family of client would be reckoned as a single client and PAN of all the family 
members would jointly and severally be the control record, where “family” shall 
have the same meaning as defined above.A client may decide to transition out 
of advisory by terminating clients’ advisory mandate and entering into a fresh 
mandate in relation to distribution services or vice versa. 

c)  A choice shall be given to all the existing clients to choose between the activities 
they would like to continue with the group/family of service providers. In case of 
existing  clients  who  wish  to  take  advisory  services,  the  same  client  cannot  be 
accepted for offering distribution services within the group/family. Similarly, in 
case  of  existing  clients who  wish to take  distribution  services,  the  same  client 
cannot be accepted for offering advisory services within the group/family. 

d)  In  case  of  new  clients,  the  same  client  cannot  be  accepted  for  offering  both 
advisory  and  distribution  services.  Clients  new  to  the  group/family  to  be 
informed about the option of availing advisory services or distribution services. 
Accordingly, once the new client has made the choice then the client should be 
on-boarded for the relevant services. 

IA)  confirming  compliance  with  the  client 

e)  The investment adviser shall maintain on record an annual certificate from an 
auditor  (in  case  of  individual  IA)  and  its  statutory  auditor  (in  case  of  a  non-
individual 
level  segregation 
requirements. 
IA  shall,  wherever  available,  advice  direct  version  (non-commission  based) 
products only. 
 

f) 

3.2.  Issue 2: Implementation of Advice (Execution) 

 

3.2.1.  In terms of extant IA Regulations, individual investment advisers are not allowed to sell 
any product and/or to provide execution services. Only corporate entities registered 
as  investment  adviser  can  offer  execution  or  distribution  services,  subject  to  the 
condition  that  the  investment  advisory  services  are  offered  through  separate 
identifiable division or department.  

3.2.2.  In the present market scenario, IAs are helping clients in implementation of the advice 
given to the client by charging some consideration as implementation (execution) fees.  

 

4 | P a g e  

As per the experience in the market, clients consider the investment advisers to be 
their trusted adviser and hence expect services as a “one stop shop”.  

 

3.2.3.  To enable the investment advisers in helping clients in implementation of the advice, 

the following is proposed: 

Proposal 

 

3.2.4.  Implementation services in securities market may be allowed to IAs. However, IAs shall 
ensure  that  while  providing  implementation  services  to  the  advisory  clients,  no 
consideration  (including any  embedded/indirect/in kind  commission  or referral fees 
by any name) is received directly or indirectly at IAs group/family level. IA shall provide 
implementation  services  to  its  advisory  clients  only  through  direct  schemes/direct 
code in the securities market.  
 

3.2.5.  IA  is  not  entitled  to  charge  any  implementation  fees  from  the  client.  Further, 

group/family of IA also cannot charge any implementation fees from the client. 

3.2.6.  The client may not be under any obligation to avail implementation services offered 
by the investment adviser i.e. the client may choose to avail implementation services 
from any other entity (outside the group/family) . 

 

3.3.  Issue 3: Terms and Conditions of Investment Advisory Services 

 

3.3.1.  Execution of an investment advisory agreement is not mandatory under the extant IA 
Regulations  –  clients  may  be  thus  unaware  of  the  terms  &  conditions,  processes  of 
advisers and their rights in case of default or breach by IA. 
 

3.3.2.  In  the  absence  of  an  agreement  between  adviser  and  the  client,  the  client  may  be 
unable to exercise his right and prove his/her claims. In order to have transparency, 
explicit client consent and a document available with the client for his record regarding 
the terms and conditions of services availed , the following is proposed: 

 

Proposal 
 

3.3.3.  IAs  to  provide  a  document  to  the  client  detailing  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the 
investment  advisory  services  offered  to  the  client. IAs  shall  ensure  that  neither  any 
investment advice is rendered nor any fee is charged until consent is received from the 
client on the terms and conditions.   
 

5 | P a g e  

 

 

 

3.3.4.  Following minimum mandatory terms shall be included in the aforesaid document: 

 

3.3.4.1. Appointment of the Investment Adviser: Pursuant to valid and proper authority and in 
accordance with Applicable Laws, the client hereby appoints, entirely at his / her / its 
risk, the Investment Adviser to provide services to the client in accordance with the 
provisions  of  this  document,  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers)  Regulations,  2013  and 
circulars issued thereunder (as applicable and in force from time to time). 
 

3.3.4.2. The document must clearly and prominently, on the cover page: 

(a)  seek consent of the client on the following understanding : 

  “I / We have read and understood the terms and conditions of investment 
advisory services provided by the IA and also understood the fee structure 
and mechanism for charging and payment of fee. 

  Based  on  my  written  request  to  the  IA,  I  /  We  was/were  provided  the 
opportunity  by  the  IA  to  ask  questions  and  interact  with  ‘person(s) 
associated with the investment advice’”. 

(b) The IA to clearly declare to the client that: 

 

 

 IA shall not manage funds and securities on behalf of the client and that it 
shall only receive such sums of monies from the client as are necessary to 
discharge the client’s liability towards fees owed to the IA . 

IA shall not, in the course of performing its services to the client, hold out 
any investment advice implying any assured returns or minimum returns or 
target return or percentage accuracy or service provision till achievement 
of target returns or any other nomenclature that gives the impression to 
the client that the investment advice is risk-free and/or not susceptible to 
market risks and or that it can generate returns with any level of assurance.  

(c)  Fees  prescribed  under  IA  Regulations  and  circulars  issued  thereunder.(to  be 

specifically mentioned here) 

(d) Fees applicable to the client. (to be specifically mentioned here) 

3.3.4.3. Scope  of  services:  The  services  to  be  provided  by  the  Investment  Adviser  to  be 
described  in  detail.  However,  the  same  shall  be  subject  to  the  activities  permitted 
under the SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013.The Investment Adviser shall 

 

6 | P a g e  

act in a fiduciary capacity towards its clients and disclose all conflicts of interest as and 
when they arise. 
 

3.3.4.4. Functions of the Investment Adviser: Functions, obligations, duties and responsibilities 
of the Investment Adviser (including principal officer and all persons associated with 
the investment advice), with specific provisions covering, inter alia,: 
(a)  Terms of compliance with the SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 and 

its amendments, rules, circulars and notifications. 

(b) Compliance with the eligibility criteria as specified under the IA Regulations at all 

times. 

(c)  Risk assessment procedure of client including their risk capacity and risk aversion. 
(d) Providing reports to clients on potential and current investments. 
(e)  Maintenance  of  client-wise  KYC,  advice,  risk  assessment,  analysis  reports  of 
investment  advice  and  suitability,  terms  and  conditions  document,  rationale  of 
advice, related books of accounts and a register containing list of clients along with 
dated  investment  advice  in  compliance  with  the  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers) 
Regulations, 2013. 

(f)  Provisions  regarding  compliance  audit  as  per  the  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers) 

Regulations, 2013. 

(g)  Undertaking to abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in the Third Schedule of 

the SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013. 

 

3.3.4.5. Investment objective and guidelines: 

(a)  Types of securities in which investment advice would be provided, including an 
undertaking from the investment adviser to recommend direct implementation of 
advice i.e. through direct schemes/direct codes, and other client specifications / 
restrictions on investments, if any. 

(b) Particulars regarding financial plan or model or strategy as agreed with the client 
(based on the risk profiling conducted for the client, total budgeted investment 
amount of the client and time period for deployment). 

(c)  Tax  related  aspects  pertaining  to  investment  advice  and  as  applicable  on  the 

investment adviser’s fee. 

 

3.3.4.6. Risk  Factors:  A  detailed  statement  of  risks  associated  with  each  type  of  investment 

covering the standard risks associated with each type of investment. 
 

3.3.4.7. Validity of advisory services: Minimum period if any, and provision for renewal, if any, 

along with terms and conditions for such renewal. 
 

 

7 | P a g e  

3.3.4.8. Amendments and termination: Conditions under which the document governing terms 
and  conditions  of  advisory  services  may  be  altered,  terminated,  assigned  and 
implications thereof, such as set off of fees received by the Investment Adviser, refund 
of  fees,  completion/termination  of 
investment-in-progress,  transition  support 
obligations of the Investment Adviser, at least under the following circumstances: 

(a) Voluntary / mandatory termination by the Investment Adviser. 
(b) Voluntary / mandatory termination by the client. 
(c) Suspension/Cancellation of registration of IA by SEBI. 

3.3.4.9.  Any other action taken by other regulatory body/ government authority.Relationship 
with related entities: The Investment Adviser to clearly declare that it is carrying on 
its  activities  independently,  at  an  arms-length  basis  with  its  related  entities. 
Disclosures of conflicts to be made. 

3.3.4.10. Investment Adviser engaged in other activities: 

(i) The Investment Adviser (individual) to represent to the client that it maintains 
an  arms-length  relationship  between  its  activities  as  an  investment  adviser 
and other activities and to covenant that this arm’s length relationship shall 
be maintained throughout the tenure of advisory service; 

(ii)  In case of Investment Advisers who are individuals: 

1.  to represent that they shall not provide any distribution services, for 
securities  and  investment  products  they  advise,  either  directly  or 
through their family to an advisory client. 

2.  to represent that they shall not provide investment advisory services, 
for  securities  and  investment  products  that  they  distribute,  either 
directly or through their family to the distribution client; 

(iii)  The Investment Adviser (non-individual); 

1. to  represent  that  they  shall  not  provide  any  distribution  services,  for 
securities  and  investment  products  they  advise,  either  directly  or 
through their group to an advisory client. 

2. to represent that they  shall not provide investment advisory services, 
for  securities  and  investment  products  that  they  distribute,  either 
directly or through their group to the distribution client; 

3.3.4.11. Representation to client: The investment adviser to ensure that it will take all consents 
and  permissions  from  the  client  prior  to  undertaking  any actions  in relation  to  the 
securities or investment product advised by the investment adviser. 
 

8 | P a g e  

 

 

 

3.3.4.12. No right to seek Power of Attorney: The Investment Adviser to clearly declare that it 
shall  not  seek  any  power  of  attorney  or  authorizations  from  its  clients  for  auto 
implementation of investment advice. 
 

3.3.4.13. No conflict of interest: The Investment Adviser to clearly declare that he/ it does not 
derive any direct or indirect benefit out of the client’s securities/investment products. 

3.3.4.14.  Maintenance of accounts and confidentiality: 

(a)  IA shall be responsible for maintenance of client accounts and data as mandated 

under the SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013. 

 
(b)  An  investment  adviser  shall  not  divulge  any  confidential  information  about  its 
client,  which  has  come  to  its  knowledge,  without  taking  prior  permission  of  its 
client, except where such disclosures are required to be made in compliance with 
any law for the time being in force. 

 
(c)  An investment adviser shall not enter into transactions on its own account which 
are contrary to its advice given to clients for a period of fifteen days from the day 
of such advice.  If, during the period of such fifteen days, the investment adviser is 
of  the  opinion  that  the  situation  has  changed,  then  it  may  enter  into  such  a 
transaction on its own account after giving such revised assessment to the client 
at least 24 hours in advance of entering into such transaction. 

3.3.4.15.  Terms of fees: 

(a)  Provide specific details on the following: 

 

 

(i)  Fees prescribed under IA Regulations and circulars issued thereunder. 
(ii)  The  quantum  and  manner  of  payment  of  fees  for  investment  advice 

rendered.  

(iii)  Fee modalities and periodicity, by attaching a detailed fee schedule to the 

document; 

(iv)  Illustration(s) on how the fee will be determined. 

(b)  The  payment  of  fees  shall  be  through  any  mode  which  shows  traceability  of 
funds. Such modes may include account payee crossed cheque/ Demand Drafts 
or by way of direct credit to the bank accounts through NEFT/ RTGS/ IMPS/ UPI 
or any other mode specified by SEBI from time to time. However, the fees cannot 
be accepted in cash. 

 

9 | P a g e  

 

 

(c)  The Investment Adviser should covenant that it shall receive all considerations 
by way of remuneration or compensation or in any other form from the client 
only and not from any person other than the client being advised, in respect of 
the underlying securities or investment products for which the advice is or to be 
provided. 

3.3.4.16.  Billing: Periodicity of billing with clear date and service period, whether payment to 
be  made  in  advance,  manner  of  payment  of  fees,  type  of  documents  evidencing 
receipt of payment of fee. 
 

3.3.4.17.  Liability of Investment Adviser: Liability of Investment Adviser towards client in case 
of fraud, gross negligence, wilful default in connection with discharge of duties to be 
specified. The document to clearly state that the Investment Adviser shall not incur 
any liability by reason of any loss, which a client may suffer by reason of any depletion 
in the value of the assets under advice, which may result by reason of fluctuation in 
asset  value,  or  by  reason  of  non-performance  or  under-performance  of  the 
securities/funds or any other market conditions. 
 

3.3.4.18.  Representations  and  covenants:  Adequate  and  appropriate  representations  about 
qualifications of the adviser, principal officer, persons associated with the investment 
advice, receipt of all applicable approvals and consents (from regulatory / statutory 
bodies,  third  party  consents,  corporate  approvals  etc.)  and  covenant  to  maintain 
them throughout the validity of advisory service. 
 

3.3.4.19.  Death or Disability of client: Provisions in relation to continuation / termination of 
the  advisory  service  in  event  of  client's  death  /  disability,  succession,  nomination, 
representation etc. to be incorporated. 

 

3.3.4.20.  Death or Disability of investment adviser: Every individual investment adviser must 
appoint  one  of  its  legal  heirs,  executor,  trustee,  administrator  of  estate  of  the 
deceased (the “Obligor”) as the person-in-charge in the event of investment adviser’s 
death / disability. The document must set out the full name, PAN and contact details 
of such Obligor. The document must disclose the steps to be taken by the Obligor in 
the event of the above eventuality in order to ensure protection of interest of the 
clients and redressal of clients’ claims, including but not limited to (a) giving notice to 
all  clients  of  the  occurrence  of  the  eventuality  and  confirmation  of  having  taken 
charge over by the Obligor (b) settlement of account with the client (fees payable 
and/or fees refundable), (c) completion of transition of any outstanding business to 
another duly registered investment adviser, (d) redressal of any outstanding or new 
disputes / claims of clients. 

 

10 | P a g e  

 

3.3.4.21.  Settlement of disputes and provision for arbitration: Adequate provisions to cover 
protection  of  acts  done  in  good  faith  as  well  as  for  dispute  resolution  mechanism 
including  arbitration  that  may  be  prescribed  under  the  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers) 
Regulations, 2013. 
 

3.3.4.22.  Adherence  to  grievance  redressal  timelines:  IA  shall  be  responsible  to  resolve  the 

grievances within the timelines specified under SEBI circulars. 

 

3.4.  Issue 4: Fees  

 

3.4.1.  In terms of extant IA regulations, investment adviser is required to ensure that fees 

charged to the clients is fair and reasonable. 
 

3.4.2.  SEBI  has  received  various  complaints  from  investors  against  investment  advisers 
regarding charging of unreasonable and unfair fees to the client. There are complaints 
where IA has charged unreasonably high fees, forced clients to pay additional fees for 
buying  weekly  reports,  charged  extraneous  fees  like  service  fees,  file  handling  fees 
apart  from  the  advisory  fees  etc.  Such  conduct  of  IA  is  against  the  interest  of  the 
investors and detrimental to the securities market. 
 

3.4.3.   To curb the instances of charging unfair and unreasonable fees to the client, a need is 
felt  to  further  define  the  reasonable  fees  chargeable  to  the  client.  Accordingly, 
following is proposed: 
 
Proposal  
 

3.4.4.  An investment adviser shall be entitled to charge fees in either of the following modes 

to a particular client: 
 

 
A.  Assets under advice (AUA) mechanism of fees: 

 

(i)  “assets under advice” shall mean the aggregate net asset value of : 

  securities and investment products for which the investment adviser has 

rendered investment advice and also provided implementation services. 

  securities and investment products for which the investment adviser only 
rendered  investment  advice  and  the  implementation  was  concluded  by 
the client directly or through other service providers. 
  

 

11 | P a g e  

(ii)  Fees shall be charged on the basis of underlying assets under advice and IA has 
to demonstrate AUA with supporting documents like demat statements, unit 
statements etc. of the client. 
 

(iii)  any portion of Assets Under Advice in relation to which the investment adviser 
is continuing to be / or already has been compensated under any pre-existing 
distribution  arrangement  with  any  third  party  shall  be  deducted  from  assets 
under advice for the purpose of  charging fee. 
 

(iv)  The  maximum  fees  that  can  be  charged  under  this  mechanism  shall  be  2.5 
percent of AUA per annum per family across all schemes/ products/ services 
provided. 
 

B.  Fixed fees:  

 
The maximum fixed fees that can be charged by any IA shall be INR 75000 per 
annum per family across all schemes/ products/ services provided.  
 

3.4.5.  If agreed by the client, Investment Adviser can charge fees in advance. However, such 

advance cannot exceed fees for 2 quarters. 
 

3.4.6.  IA can charge fees from a client under any one mode on  an annual basis. Change of 

mode can be effected only after 12 months of on boarding/last change of mode. 
  

3.4.7.  In the event of pre-mature termination of the investment advisory services, the client 
shall be provided a refund of fees for unexpired period subject to a maximum breakage 
fee of not greater than one quarter fee can be retained by the investment adviser. 
 

3.4.8.  The  investment  advisory  document  shall  clearly set  out  the  details  of  calculation  of 

fees in a simplified manner. 

3.5.  Issue 5: Eligibility Criteria for IAs  

 

3.5.1.  Qualification Criteria 

 

3.5.1.1. In terms of the extant IA regulations, an individual registered as an investment adviser 
under  these  regulations  and  partners  and  representatives  of  registered  investment 
adviser offering investment advice shall have the following minimum qualifications, at 
all times: 

12 | P a g e  

 

 

(a) A professional qualification or post-graduate degree or post graduate diploma in 
finance, accountancy, business management, commerce, economics, capital market, 
banking, insurance or actuarial science from a university or an institution recognized 
by the central government or any state government or a recognised foreign university 
or institution or association; or 
(b)  A graduate in any discipline with an experience of at least five years in activities 
relating  to  advice  in  financial  products  or  securities  or  fund  or  asset  or  portfolio 
management. 

3.5.1.2. Further,  an  individual  registered  as  an  investment  adviser  and  partners  and 
representatives of registered investment adviser offering investment advice shall have, 
at  all  times,  a  certification  on  financial  planning  or  fund  or  asset  or  portfolio 
management or investment advisory services: 
(a)  from NISM; or 
(b)  from any other organization or institution including Chartered Financial  Analyst 
Certification Programme, Financial Planning Standards Board of USA or any recognized 
stock exchange in India provided that such certification is accredited by NISM. 
 

3.5.1.3. In order to ensure that investment advisors possess the requisite skill sets to provide 
advice on investment products and have adequate understanding of business risks of 
each  investment  product,  it  is  imperative  that  an  investment  adviser  should,  in 
addition to being a member of a professional body or having professional qualification 
/ specific certification must have practical understanding through minimum number of 
years of experience of working in the relevant industry.  
 

3.5.1.4. It  is  also  imperative  that  all  persons  involved  in  client-facing  investment  advisory 
services  are  duly  qualified,  experienced  and  certified,  on  an  on-going  basis  (to  be 
confirmed  through  compliance  audit).  To  address  these  issues  the  following  is 
proposed: 
 
Proposal 

3.5.1.5. It is proposed that all persons associated with the provision of advisory services are 
duly  qualified  and  experienced.    Accordingly,  the  following  definition  of  “persons 
associated with investment advice” and “principal officer” may be introduced. 
 

3.5.1.6. “persons associated with investment advice” shall mean any member, partner, officer, 
director  or  employee  or  any  sales  staff  of  such  investment  adviser  (including  any 
person occupying a similar status or performing a similar function irrespective of the 
nature of association with the  IA) who is engaged in  providing  investment advisory 

13 | P a g e  

 

 

 

services to the clients of the investment adviser.  All client-facing operations such as 
sales, service relationship managers and client relationship managers etc. by whatever 
name  called  shall  be  deemed  to  be  persons  associated  with  investment  advice. 
However, it shall not include persons whose functions are clerical or facilities / office 
administrative in nature where there is no client interface. 
 

3.5.1.7. “principal  officer”  shall  mean  the  managing  director  or  designated  director  or 
managing  partner  or  executive  chairman  of  the  board  (or  equivalent  management 
body) who is responsible for the overall function of the business and operations of non-
individual investment adviser. 

 

3.5.1.8. Non-individual IA may appoint a principal officer. 

3.5.1.9. An individual registered as an investment adviser under these regulations and principal 
officer  in  case  of  non-individual  IA  shall  meet  the  following  minimum  qualification 
criteria, at all times: 

i. a  professional  qualification  or  post-graduate  degree  or  post  graduate  diploma 
(minimum  two  years)  - 
in  finance,  accountancy,  business  management, 
commerce,  economics,  capital  market,  banking,  insurance  or  actuarial  science 
from a university or an institution recognized by the central government or any 
state government or a recognised foreign university or institution or association;  
 
and  
 
having  an  experience  of  at  least  five  years  relating  to  advice  in  securities  or 
investment  products  or  fund  management  or  wealth  management  or  asset 
management or portfolio management or in the business of buying, selling and 
dealing of securities;  
 
and 
 

ii. a  certification  on  the  subject  matter  directly  related  to  the  investment  advice 

being offered to the clients, from: 
a)  NISM; or 
b)  any  other  organization  or  institution  including  Chartered  Financial  Analyst 
Certification  Programme,  Financial  Planning  Standards  Board  of  USA  or  any 
recognized  stock  exchange  in  India  provided  that  such  certification  is 
accredited by NISM. 
 

14 | P a g e  

 

 

 

However, all persons associated with investment advice shall  comply with aforesaid 
requirements with minimum two years of experience. 
  

3.5.1.10. The  existing  non  individual  investment  advisers  holding  registration  under  these 
regulations  shall  ensure  that  the  principal  officer  and  persons  associated  with 
investment advice obtain such eligibility conditions within three (3) years. 

 

3.5.1.11. The  existing 

individual 

investment  advisers  holding  registration  under  these 
regulations  shall  ensure  that  the  individual  advisor  and  persons  associated  with 
investment advice obtain such eligibility conditions within three (3) years.  Individual 
investment advisors may opt for corporate structure within the said period to fulfil 
aforesaid  requirements. For  instance,  there  is  a possibility of  individual  investment 
advisors  fulfilling  the  educational  requirement  but  not  fulfilling  experience 
requirement. Such advisors who may not be able to comply with 5 years’ experience 
condition,  can  corporatize  and  employ  principal  officer  to  meet  the  qualification 
criterion.  

 

3.5.2.  Net worth requirements 

 

3.5.2.1. In terms of the extant IA regulations, Investment Advisers which are a body corporate 
are  required  to  have  a  net  worth  of  not  less  than  twenty-five  lakh  rupees  and 
Investment  advisers  who  are  individuals  or  partnership  firms  required  to  have  net 
tangible assets of value not less than rupees one lakh. 
 

3.5.2.2. Financial  capability  of  IA  is  an  important  factor  to  consider  while  assessing  the 
capabilities of a person or an entity to perform the duties of Investment Advisers as 
envisaged  under  the  IA  regulations.  To  ensure  that  only  the  entities  with  adequate 
financial net worth, required to function as investment adviser, it is proposed to modify 
the requirements of net worth for IAs. 
 
Proposal 

3.5.2.3. Investment advisers who are individuals shall have net  worth not less than  ten lakh 

rupees. 
 

3.5.2.4. Non  individual  Investment  advisers  shall  have  a  net  worth  not  less  than  fifty  lakh 

rupees. 

3.5.2.5. The  existing  investment  advisers  shall  comply  with  the  aforementioned  net  worth 

requirement within three (3) years. 

15 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.5.2.6. Further,  any  individual  registered  as  investment  advisers  whose  number  of  clients 
exceed 150 or whose asset under advice exceed forty crore rupees shall compulsorily 
re-register  itself  as  non-individual  investment  adviser  within  6  (six)  months  of  the 
trigger event. 
 

3.6.  Issue 6- Maintenance of record 

 

3.6.1.  SEBI has prescribed several responsibilities on IAs to safeguard interest of the investors 
like charging reasonable fees, mandatory risk profiling, ensuring suitability, disclosures 
to  clients  etc.  However,  as  mentioned  above,  complaints  mentioning  instances  of 
assured returns, charging exorbitant fees, unauthorised trades, advising without doing 
risk  profile  etc.  are  received.  Record  of  interactions  with  clients  can  help  in 
substantiating the statements made by the concerned parties.  
 

3.6.2.  To  strengthen  the  process  of  grievance  handling  it  is  proposed  that  records  of 

interactions with the client including prospective clients shall be maintained by IAs. 
 

3.6.3.  The record of interactions with the client could be, inter alia, in the form of: 

a. Physical record written & signed by client, 
b. Telephone recording, 
c. Email from registered email id, 
d. Record of SMS messages, 
e. Any other legally verifiable record.  

 

3.6.4.  Such records shall begin with first interaction with the client and shall continue till the 

completion of advisory services for the client. 
 

3.6.5.  IAs shall be required to maintain these records for a period of five years. However, in 
cases where dispute has been raised, such records shall be kept till final resolution of 
the dispute. If SEBI desires that specific records be preserved, then such records shall 
be kept till further intimation from SEBI. 

3.7.  Issue 7: Discontinuation of CPE program for validity of the registration as Investment 

Adviser 
 

3.7.1.  Currently, a registered investment adviser can revalidate the certifications provided by 
NISM either through passing examination conducted by NISM or attending Continuing 
Professional Education (CPE) program conducted by NISM accredited CPE providers.  
 

16 | P a g e  

3.7.2.  In  order  to  match  the  dynamic  and  evolving  nature  of  securities  market  and  risk 

involved, periodic certification of IAs is felt essential.  

 

Proposal 
 

3.7.3.  It is proposed that all IAs shall be required to obtain fresh certification each time before 
the expiry of existing certificate to ensure compliance with certification requirement. 
The revalidation through  CPE  program  may be discontinued  after  making  necessary 
changes  in  existing  provisions  of  SEBI  (Certification  of  Associated  Persons  in  the 
Securities market), 2007 or any other applicable legal provisions.  
 

3.8.  Issue 8: Compliance audit requirement 

 

3.8.1.  Regulation 19 of the IA Regulations stipulates that an investment adviser shall conduct 
yearly  audits  in  respect  of  compliance  with  the  IA  Regulations  from  a  member  of 
Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  or  Institute  of  Company  Secretaries  of 
India.  In  order  to  have  a  timely  completion  of  the  compliance  audit,  escalate  the 
adverse findings and submission of action taken thereof to SEBI, following is proposed: 
 
Proposal 
 

3.8.2.  An  investment  adviser  should  complete  the  compliance  audit  within  three  months 
from  end  of  each  financial  year  and  post  completion  of  said  audit  must  report  the 
adverse findings along with action taken thereof to SEBI within a period of one month 
from  the  date  of  the  audit  report  i.e.  not  later  than  July  31st  of  each  year  for  the 
previous financial year. 

 

17 | P a g e  

 

 

 

3.9.  Public Comments: 

 
Public comments are invited on the aforesaid proposals in the following format: 

Name of entity/person/intermediary/organization: 

Sr. No. 

Proposals 

Comments/Suggestions  Rationale 

 

Page No.    Para No.  

 

 

 
Comments/ suggestions may be forwarded by email to  sebiria@sebi.gov.in latest by 
January 30, 2020. 

General Manager  
Division of Funds 1 
Investment Management Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, “G” Block, Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai -400 051 

Issued on: January 15, 2020 

18 | P a g e  

 

 

 

