 

 

Report of the Working Group on Related Party Transactions  

Background 

SEBI constituted a Working Group in November 2019 to review the policy space pertaining to 
related  party  transactions  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Mr.  Ramesh  Srinivasan,  Managing 
Director & CEO, Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited. The Working Group comprised of 
members  from  PMAC  including  persons  from  the  Industry,  Intermediaries,  Proxy  Advisors, 
Stock Exchanges, Lawyers, Professional bodies etc. 

The terms of reference of the Working Group were to make recommendations to SEBI on the 
following issues: 

Review the policy space relating to related party transactions, including the following: 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 

Definition of “related party” and “related party transactions”; 
Thresholds for classification of “related party transactions” as material; and 
Process followed by Audit Committee for approval of related party transactions. 

Review  the  provisions  relating  to  related  party  transactions  in  the  SEBI  (Listing 
Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  vis-à-vis  the  Indian 
Accounting Standards and the Companies Act, 2013. 

Specify a format for periodic disclosure of related party transactions by listed entities.  

Recommendations  for  strengthening  the  monitoring  and  enforcement  of  regulatory 
norms related to related party transactions. 
 
Any  other  matter,  as  the  Working  Group  deems  fit  pertaining  to  related  party 
transactions. 

 

 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

 

The Working group has submitted its report on January 22, 2020.  

Public Comments: 

In order to take into consideration the views of various stakeholders, comments are sought 
from the public on the aforesaid report placed alongside in the following format: 

Name of the person/entity 
Sr. No. 

Recommendation   
in      the report to 
which 
the 
comment 
pertains 

Comment 

Rationale  for 
the comment 

 

 

 

 

any 

Revisions to    the 
recommendations, 
if 
(Please 
provide  revisions 
to amendments as 
well, if possible) 
 

Comments  may  be  sent  by  email 
to  Shri  Pradeep  Ramakrishnan,  GM  at 
pradeepr@sebi.gov.in,  Ms.Ishita  Sharma,  Manager  at  ishitas@sebi.gov.in  and  Ms.  Sonal 
Pednekar, Manager at sonalp@sebi.gov.in no later than February 26, 2020.  

Issued on: January 27, 2020 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

REPORT OF THE WORKING GROUP 

ON 

RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 

 

JANUARY 22, 2020 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Table of Contents  

 

Preface ................................................................................................................................. 1 

Acknowledgements ............................................................................................................ 2 

Chapter 1: Introduction ...................................................................................................... 3 

A. 

I. 

II. 

III. 

B. 

I. 

II. 

C. 

The Working Group on Related Party Transactions ............................................. 3 

Composition of the Working Group ....................................................................... 3 

Terms of Reference of the Working Group ............................................................ 3 

Approach ................................................................................................................. 4 

Related Party Transactions- Regulatory Framework ............................................ 4 

Legislative History ................................................................................................... 5 

Need for Review of RPT Regulatory Framework ................................................... 8 

Recommendations of the Working Group ............................................................. 8 

Chapter 2: Definitions ....................................................................................................... 10 

I. 

II. 

‘Related Party’ ....................................................................................................... 10 

‘Relative’ ................................................................................................................ 13 

III. 

‘Related Party Transaction’ .................................................................................. 13 

Chapter 3: Approval Requirements and Materiality Thresholds .................................... 15 

I. 

II. 

Approval Mechanism for RPTs under the LODR and Companies Act ............... 15 

Materiality Thresholds with respect to Prior Approvals for RPTs...................... 24 

III. 

Process followed by the Audit Committee for Approval of RPTs ...................... 27 

Chapter 4: Disclosure Requirements............................................................................... 33 

I. 

II. 

Information to be provided to Shareholders for consideration of RPTs ........... 33 

Format for Reporting of RPTs to the Stock Exchanges ...................................... 36 

Chapter 5: Strengthening the Monitoring and Enforcement of Regulatory Norms relating 
to Related Party Transactions .......................................................................................... 40 

Annexure A ........................................................................................................................ 42 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Definition of ‘Related Party’ .................................................................................. 42 

Section 188 of the Companies Act ....................................................................... 43 

Definition of ‘promoter’ and ‘promoter group’ under the ICDR .......................... 45 

Appendix – I : Consolidated List of Recommendations ................................................. 48 

Appendix – II: Prescribed Disclosure Format ................................................................. 58 

 

 

 

Preface  

 

I am grateful to the SEBI Chairman, Mr. Ajay Tyagi, for entrusting the Working Group 
with  this  responsibility  and  to  the  SEBI  team  led  by  Mr.  Amarjeet  Singh,  Executive 
Director, for his valuable direction and input. The completion of this Working Group’s 
deliberations and this report in a short span of approximately six weeks was possible 
due  to  the  active  participation  and  wholehearted  support  of  all  the  members  of  the 
Working  Group.  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  gratitude  to  my  fellow 
Working  Group  members  for  their  valuable  time,  input  and  contribution to  many 
deliberations over the past few weeks.   
 
I would like to thank representatives from corporates and institutional investors who 
have  shared  their  experience,  perspective  and  suggestions  with  respect  to  related 
party transactions. 
 
India has a strong capital market with high standards of governance. Over the last few 
years, India has enjoyed increasing comfort with global investors both from a growth 
perspective as well as from a governance perspective. 
 
The corporate governance standards have continuously been strengthened and there 
is increasing focus on the quality of disclosures being made by listed entities.  While it 
is recognised that related party transactions can per se have sound economic rationale 
and can be value enhancing, there have been concerns about some such transactions 
being questionable or against the interest of minority shareholders or even bordering 
on  fraud  or  ill-intent,  particularly  in  the  recent  past.    There  have  also  been  cases 
observed  where  an  entity  has  complied  with  the  letter  of  the  law,  while  ignoring  its 
spirit. The prevalent use of complex group structures and subsidiaries for related party 
transactions,  particularly  with  unlisted  entities,  has  increased  concerns  such  as 
siphoning of funds, money laundering and round tripping. 
 
It  is  with  this  background  that  SEBI  set  up  a  Working  Group  on  Related  Party 
Transactions.  The  Working  Group  has  taken  a  comprehensive  look  at  the  current 
requirements  pertaining  to  related  parties  and  related  party  transactions  by  listed 
entities and made its recommendations inter-alia taking into account the following:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ramesh Srinivasan 
Chairman, Working Group on Related Party Transactions 
January 22, 2020 

enhancing transparency;   
improving quality of information that investors have access to;   
better approval processes by listed entities; and  
more robust enforcement mechanism.  

 

1 

 

 

Acknowledgements 

The Working Group expresses its gratitude to Mr. G. Mahalingam, Mr. Amarjeet Singh, 
Ms. Barnali Mukherjee, Mr. Pradeep Ramakrishnan, Ms. Ishita Sharma and Ms. Sonal 
Pednekar from SEBI.   
 
Special thanks are due to the S&R Associates team  including Ms. Tanya Aggarwal, 
Ms. Aditi Agarwal and Ms. Raveena Dhawan for their assistance with the report. 
 
Special thanks are also due to Ms. Gesu Kaushal and Mr. Lohit Sharma from Kotak 
Mahindra Capital Company Limited, Mr. Avishkar Naik, Mr. Lokesh Bhandari and Mr. 
Ketul Jain from the National Stock Exchange of India Limited, Ms. Aditi Chandani and 
Mr.  Varun  Krishnan  from  Stakeholders  Empowerment  Services  and  Mr.  Sivananth 
Ramachandran from the CFA Institute, for providing their valuable input. 
 
 

 

2 

 

 

A. 
 

I. 

Chapter 1: Introduction 

The Working Group on Related Party Transactions 

Composition of the Working Group  
 

The  Working  Group  to  discuss  related  party  transactions  (“Working  Group”)  was 
constituted on November 4, 2019, with the following members:  

 

S. 
No. 

Member Name 

Organisation and designation 

Capacity 

 

 

 
1.    Mr. Ramesh 

Srinivasan 

2.    Mr. Amarjeet Singh 

3.    Mr. Dolphy D’Souza 
4.    Mr. J. N. Gupta 

5.    Dr. Sridhar 

Jayaraman* 

Managing Director & CEO, Kotak 
Mahindra Capital Company Limited 
Executive Director, Securities and 
Exchange Board of India 
Partner, SRBC & Co. LLP 
Co- Founder & Managing Director, 
Stakeholders Empowerment Services 
Confederation of Indian Industry  

6.    Mr. Sandip Bhagat 
7.    Mr. Khushro Bulsara*  BSE Limited  
8.    Ms. Priya 

Partner, S&R Associates 

Subbaraman* 

9.    Mr. Vidhu Shekhar 

National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited  
Country Head (India), CFA Institute 

 

Chairman 

Member 

Member 
Member 

Member 

Member 
Member 
Member 

Member 

Terms of Reference of the Working Group  

* As nominated by the respective organisation / industry body. 
 
II. 
 
With the aim of strengthening regulatory norms in relation to related party transactions 
undertaken  by  listed  entities  in  India,  the  Working  Group  was  requested  to  make 
recommendations on the following issues: 

6. 

7. 

 

 

 

 

Review  the  policy  space  relating  to  related  party  transactions,  including  the 
following: 

(d) 
 
(e) 

 
(f) 

Definition of “related party” and “related party transactions”; 

Thresholds for classification of “related party transactions” as material; 
and 

Process  followed  by  Audit  Committee  for  approval  of  related  party 
transactions. 

Review the provisions relating to related party transactions in the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  vis-à-vis  the 
Indian Accounting Standards and the Companies Act, 2013. 

3 

 

8. 

 

9. 

Specify a format for periodic disclosure of related party transactions by  listed 
entities.  

Recommendations  for  strengthening  the  monitoring  and  enforcement  of 
regulatory norms related to related party transactions. 
 

10.  Any other matter, as the Working Group deems fit pertaining to related party 

transactions. 

Approach 

 
The Working Group was requested to provide its recommendations in the context of 
equity listed entities. 
 
III. 
 
The Working Group had five meetings over a period of one month with the first meeting 
held on November 14, 2019 and the last on December 11, 2019. The Working Group 
deliberated on each of the terms of reference in detail.  
 
The Working Group reviewed case studies and empirical evidence wherever possible, 
including international practices and feedback from stakeholders to reach a conclusion 
on  the  various  issues  considered  by  it.    The  Working  Group  also  conducted  two 
meetings  with  company  secretaries  and  institutional  investors  to  solicit  views  and 
different perspectives from persons and organisations who deal with issues pertaining 
to related party transactions.  The Report of the Working Group was placed before the 
Primary Market Advisory Committee (“PMAC”) of SEBI in its meeting held on January 
17,  2020  and  the  suggestions  made  by  the  PMAC  have  been  incorporated  in  this 
Report. 
 
This report (“Report”) sets out recommendations of the Working Group which include, 
inter  alia,  amendments  to  certain  provisions  of  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“LODR”).  The Working Group  kept in 
mind  the  objectives  of  investor  protection  as  well  as  ease  of  doing  business  while 
setting  out  these  recommendations.  The  consolidated  draft  of  the  proposed 
amendments to the LODR recommended by the Working Group is set out in Appendix-
I to this Report. 

 

B. 
 

Related Party Transactions- Regulatory Framework 

A related party transaction (“RPT”) is a transfer of resources, services or obligations 
between two parties, irrespective of whether a price is charged or not.  With respect 
to a corporate entity, related parties would broadly consist of its executives, directors 
or promoters, who are responsible for making decisions for the corporate entity.  RPTs 
are prone to abuse by persons in control of the decision making of the corporate entity 
for personal gains and are therefore, strictly regulated under most regimes. RPTs, if 
misused, will cause significant loss of value of the corporate entity entering into the 
RPT. In India, where the existence of promoter driven and closely held companies is 
prevalent, the risk of abuse by way of RPTs is relatively high.    
 

4 

 

RPTs have always been prevalent and have also contributed to the growth of business 
for  entities  around  the  world.  Hence,  in  spite  of  the  possibility  of  misuse,  most 
jurisdictions  have  permitted  RPTs,  albeit  with  certain  safeguards.  Therefore,  the 
Working Group also recognised that there is no need to prohibit RPTs, although the 
regulatory framework should be fortified to mitigate the possibility of abuse. 
 
An  ideal  regulatory  framework  for  RPTs  should  encourage  value  enhancing  RPTs 
while  penalizing  undesirable  RPTs.    In  his  article  on  ‘RPTs  and  Intragroup 
Transactions’,  Jens  Damman  discusses1  three  strategies  that  legal  systems  may 
adopt to deal with RPTs within corporate groups.  First, legal systems may use tax 
and  other  incentives  to  induce  ownership  structures  which  reduce  the  costs  of 
intragroup self-dealing. Secondly, legal systems may provide various protective rights 
to  minority  shareholders  in  order  to  ensure  that  they  avoid  being  subject  to  an 
exploitative controlling shareholder or promoter in the first place.  And thirdly, “once a 
corporate group has emerged, individual transactions can be policed to ensure that 
they do not enrich controlling shareholders at the expense of the minority.”  The last 
two suggestions are within this Working Group’s scope and therefore the discussions 
of the Working Group and this Report are focused around the same.       
 
RPTs can be regulated either by way of a substantive review or a procedural review2.  
Substantive review of RPTs would involve examining the terms of the transaction and 
evaluating the fairness of the transaction.  Procedural review of RPTs would involve 
judging the fairness of the transaction on the basis of the procedure through which the 
RPT  was  executed.  For  this  purpose,  the  regulator  would  have  to  specify  the 
procedure  for  obtaining  approvals  of  persons  considered  to  be  best  placed  to 
objectively judge the RPT.  The Working Group recognised that ideally, review of RPTs 
would need to be a combination of both, substantive and procedural review. 
 
I. 
 
The legal regime in India relating to RPTs has evolved over the years after taking into 
consideration  recommendations  made  by  a  number  of  committees  such  as  the 
Narayana Murthy Committee on Corporate Governance (2003), J.J. Irani Committee 
on  Company  Law  (2005),  the  Company  Law  Committee  (2016)  and  the  Kotak 
Committee on Corporate Governance (2017). 
 
Requirements in relation to RPTs under the erstwhile listing agreement: 
 
Several disclosure requirements with respect to RPTs were mandated under Clause 
49  of  the  erstwhile  listing  agreement.  This  listing  agreement  referred  to  Accounting 
Standard 18 for the definition of the term ‘related party transactions’.   
 

Legislative History  

                                                           
1  

Jens  Dammann,  ‘Related  Party  Transaction  and  Intragroup  Transactions’,  The  Law  and  Finance  of 
Related Party Transactions edited by Luca Enriques and Tobias H. Troger (Cambridge University Press 
2019)  

 
2  

Alessio  M.  Pacces,  ‘Procedural  and  Substantive  Review  of  Related  Party  Transactions’,  The  Law  and 
Finance  of  Related  Party  Transactions  edited  by  Luca  Enriques  and  Tobias  H.  Troger  (Cambridge 
University Press 2019) where the author compares the efficacy of a procedural review based regime with 
a  substantive  review  based  regime  and  ultimately  makes  a  case  for  appointment  of  ‘non-controlling 
shareholder dependent directors’ to better regulate related party transactions.   

5 

 

Under  the  erstwhile  listing  agreement,  the  audit  committee  of  a  listed  entity  was 
required to review the disclosure of related party transactions in the annual financial 
statements  with  the  management  of  the  entity  before  submission  to  the  board  of 
directors  for  their  approval.  The  audit  committee  was  also  required  to  review  a 
statement of significant RPTs submitted to it by the management. The erstwhile listing 
agreement required a disclosure of materially significant RPTs that may have potential 
conflict  with  the  interest  of  the  company  in  the  annual  report.  Pursuant  to  the 
recommendations of the Narayana Murthy Committee on Corporate Governance, the 
following disclosures in the quarterly compliance reports on corporate governance in 
relation to RPTs were mandated in clause 49 of the erstwhile listing agreement:  
 
“(A)  Basis of related party transactions 

(i) 

(ii) 

A statement in summary form of transactions with related parties in the 
ordinary course of business shall be placed periodically before the audit 
committee. 
Details of material individual transactions with related parties which are 
not  in  the  normal  course  of  business  shall  be  placed  before  the  audit 
committee. 

(iii)  Details of material individual transactions with related parties or others, 
which are not on an arm’s length basis should be placed before the audit 
committee, together with Management’s justification for the same.” 

 
Regulation of RPTs under the Companies Act, 1956: 
 
The concept of related party transactions was not explicitly defined in the Companies 
Act,  1956  (“1956  Act”).  However,  restrictions  were  imposed  on  certain  kinds  of 
transactions with certain related parties by way of Sections 294, 294A, 294AA, 297 
and 314 of the 1956 Act.     
 
(i) 

Under  the  1956  Act,  directors  of  companies  and  certain  other  persons  were 
prohibited, without the consent of the board of directors, from entering into a 
contract or arrangement for: 
(a) 
(b) 

sale, purchase or supply of any goods, materials or services; or 
underwriting  the  subscription  of  any  shares  in,  or  debentures  of,  the 
company.  

(ii) 

(iii) 

 
The  prohibition  in  (i)  above  applied  to  a  contract  entered  by  the  director,  his 
relatives, a firm in which such director or the director’s relative is a partner, any 
partner of such firm, or a private company of which the director is a member or 
a director.   
 
If  the  paid-up  share  capital  of  the  company  exceeded  Rs.1  crore,  the  prior 
approval  of  the  Central  Government  was  also  required  in  addition  to  board 
approval, prior to entering into such transactions.   
 

(iv)  An  exemption  from  the  requirement  of  such  prior  approvals  was  granted  for 
cash transactions at prevailing market prices, transactions undertaken regularly 
by  the  company  and  in  case  of  a  banking  or  insurance  company  for  any 
transaction in the ordinary course of business with any director, relative, firm, 
partner or private company as described above.   

6 

 

(v) 

 
Further, Section 314 of the 1956 Act prohibited the director of a company from 
holding any office or place of profit under the company or any subsidiary of the 
company (unless the remuneration received from such subsidiary in respect of 
such  office  or  place  of  profit  was  paid  over  to  the  company  or  its  holding 
company), without the consent of the shareholders of the company by way of a 
special resolution.   
 

(vi)  Additionally,  no  partner  or  relative  of  such  director,  no  firm  in  which  such 
director, or a relative of such director, is a partner, no private company of which 
such director  is a  director  or member,  and  no  director  or manager of  such a 
private company was allowed to hold any office or place of profit carrying a total 
monthly remuneration above a prescribed limit.  
 

(vii)  A monetary threshold was prescribed for the monthly remuneration of the office 
or  place of  profit  in  the  company,  above  which,  prior  approval  of  the  Central 
Government was also required.  
 

(viii)  Sections  294,  294A,  294AA  of  the  1956  Act  dealt  with  appointment  of  sole 
selling  agents  and  prohibition  of  payment  of  compensation  to  sole  selling 
agents for loss of office in certain cases. 

 
Suggestions of the J.J. Irani Committee:  
 
In 2005, the report of the J.J. Irani Committee on Company Law stated that it would 
be appropriate to have a ‘shareholder approval and disclosure-based regime’ in India 
for  regulating  transactions  in  which  directors  or  their  relatives  are  interested  as 
opposed to the ‘government approval based regime’ as existing in 1956 Act.  The J.J. 
Irani Committee further suggested that transactions between a company and director 
or persons connected with the director with regard to the sale or purchase of goods, 
materials or services above a certain materiality threshold should require mandatory 
shareholders’ approval by way of a special resolution.  These recommendations were 
later reflected in the Companies Act, 2013 (“Companies Act”).     
 
Suggestions of the Kotak committee on corporate governance: 
 
More  recently,  the  committee  on  corporate  governance  chaired  by  Mr.  Uday  Kotak 
also dealt with the approval mechanisms and disclosure requirements in relation to 
RPTs. Some of the suggestions of the committee that were accepted and incorporated 
into the LODR are mentioned below:  

Expanding the scope of the definition of ‘related party’ to include any person or 
entity belonging to the promoter or promoter group of listed entity and holding 
20% or more of the shareholding in the listed entity.  

Requiring the policy on RPTs of the listed entity to include clear threshold limits, 
as approved by the board of directors and for such policy to be reviewed and 
updated every three years.  

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 

7 

 

(iii) 

Introduction of a lower materiality threshold for transactions involving payments 
made to related parties with respect to brand usage or royalty.  

 
(iv)  Permitting  related  parties  of  the  listed  entity  to  cast  a  negative  vote  on 

resolutions seeking approval for RPTs. 

 
(v) 

Requiring the listed entity to disclose its RPTs on a consolidated basis, for each 
half-year,  in  accordance  with  the  formats  prescribed  under  the  relevant 
accounting standards for annual results.  

 
(vi)  Requiring disclosure of transactions of the listed entity with any person or entity 
its  promoter/promoter  group  and  holding  10%  or  more 

to 

belonging 
shareholding in the listed entity.       
 

II.  Need for Review of RPT Regulatory Framework 

 

Based on the above recommendations and inputs, the current framework of RPTs has 
evolved.  However,  as  the  corporate  eco-system  evolves,  the  area  of  corporate 
governance including that of Related Party Transactions requires periodic review. 
 
While taking note of some of the recent issues in relation to RPTs, the Working Group 
observed that one commonality in major corporate wrongdoings was that they were 
allegedly  carried  out  by  persons  with  the  ability  to  influence  the  decisions  of  the 
company.  Shell or apparently unrelated companies, controlled directly or indirectly, 
by such persons were purportedly used to siphon off large sums of money through the 
use of certain innovative structures, thereby circumventing the regulatory framework 
of RPT.    
 
Apart  from  use  of  circular  transactions,  companies  appear  to  have  diluted  or 
circumvented the requirements under their policy on RPTs by procuring approvals for 
continuous lending to group companies.   
 
The  Working  Group  reviewed  the  approval  mechanisms  for  RPTs  and  revisited 
disclosure  requirements  relating  to  information  relevant  for  the  persons  (including 
shareholders,  where 
the  approval  mechanism.  The 
recommendations of the Working Group aim to strengthen the approval and disclosure 
processes to assist the audit committee and shareholders in informed decision making 
with respect to RPTs.   
 

required) 

involved 

in 

C. 

Recommendations of the Working Group 
 

The Working Group, based on its deliberations and the terms of reference, has made 
recommendations as set out in the following chapters: 
 
Chapter 2:    Definitions  
 
Chapter 3:   Approval Requirements and Materiality Thresholds 
 

8 

 

Chapter 4:   Disclosure  Requirements  (including  information  to  be  provided  to 
shareholders while seeking approval and periodic disclosure to the stock 
exchanges)  

 
Chapter 5:   Strengthening  the  Monitoring  and  Enforcement  of  Regulatory  Norms 

relating to Related Party Transactions  

 

 

 

9 

 

 

Chapter 2: Definitions 

‘Related Party’ 

This chapter of the Report examines the present regulatory framework for identification 
of  related  parties,  related party  transactions and associated terms and  sets  out  the 
recommendations of the Working Group. 
 
I. 
 
The  definition  of  “related  party”  as  per  the  LODR3  includes  related  parties  defined 
under both the Companies Act and the applicable accounting standards4.  The LODR 
further deems any person or entity belonging to the promoter or promoter group of the 
listed entity and holding 20% or more of the shareholding of the listed entity, to be a 
related party.  
 
Working Group deliberations and recommendations 
 
The  Working  Group  deliberated  and  was  of  the  view  that  all  persons  or  entities 
belonging to the ‘promoter’ or ‘promoter group’5, irrespective of their shareholding in 
the listed entity, should be deemed to be related parties for the following reasons: 

 

(i) 

 

(ii) 

 
(iii) 

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018 (“ICDR”) inter-alia defines a “promoter” as a 
person  who  has  control  over  the  affairs  of  the  issuer,  directly  or  indirectly 
whether as a shareholder, director or otherwise or in accordance with whose 
advice,  directions  or  instructions  the  board  of  directors  of  the  issuer  is 
accustomed  to  act.    Thus,  a  promoter  may  exercise  control  over  a  company 
irrespective of the extent of shareholding.  

The Working  Group  observed  that  the  definition  of  “related  party”  as  per  the 
accounting  standards  includes,  inter-alia,  any  person  who  has  control  or 
significant influence over an entity; however, the accounting standards define 
these terms in a subjective manner.  Hence, there is a possibility that owing to 
the subjectivity of the definition, certain promoters/promoter group entities with 
less  than  20%  shareholding  in  the  listed  entity  may  not  get  categorised  as 
related  parties.    Therefore,  transactions  with  such  persons  may  not  get 
categorised as RPTs under the LODR.  

The Working Group noted that control over a listed entity does not depend only 
on  shareholding.  Further,  a  significant  percentage  of  Indian  businesses  are 
structured as intrinsically linked group entities that operate as a single economic 
unit, with the promoters exercising influence over the entire group. The Working 
Group  observed  that  it  is  thus  not  uncommon  for  group  entities  to  regularly 
engage  in  related  party  transactions  such  as  inter  corporate  loans,  cross 
collateralization and significant influence arrangements; such inter-linkages in 

                                                           
3  
 
4  

Refer Annexure A for definitions of ‘related party’ under the Companies Act and Ind AS 24. 

The applicable accounting standard for Indian companies complying with Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind AS) under Section 133 of the Companies Act is Ind AS 24. 

 
5  

Refer Annexure A for definitions of ‘promoter’ and ‘promoter group’ under the ICDR.  

10 

 

business,  operations  and  management  can  raise  concerns  relating  to  RPTs. 
Considering  that  promoters  may  exercise  control  on  promoter  group  entities 
and  consequently,  influence  decision  making  on  the  group  as  a  whole,  the 
Working  Group  recommended  that  promoter  group  members  may  also  be 
included  under  the  definition  of  a  related  party,  irrespective  of  their 
shareholding. 
 

The  Working  Group  also  deliberated  on  the  compliance  burden  of  subjecting 
transactions with persons or entities belonging to the promoter or promoter group  to 
the regulations governing RPTs.  In this respect, the Working Group was of the view 
that  the  benefits  of  this  measure  would  outweigh  the  additional  compliance  burden 
and  that  legitimate  RPTs  would  still  be  approved  if  they  are  in  the  interest  of  the 
company.  
 
Further, the Working Group  discussed whether certain significant shareholders in  a 
listed entity who do not form part of the ‘promoter’ or ‘promoter group’ should also be 
included  within  the  purview  of  ‘related  parties’.    The  Working  Group  noted  that  in 
several  jurisdictions  such  as  the  United  Kingdom  (“U.K.”),  Italy  and  Korea, 
shareholders with a holding above certain thresholds are deemed to be related parties 
of such company. In such jurisdictions, the rationale for such inclusion is that a person 
with significant shareholding could influence the decisions of a company. The Working 
Group deliberated that in the Indian context also, there may be a shareholder who is 
not classified as a promoter, but may exercise influence over the decisions of the listed 
entity  by  virtue  of  shareholding.  The Working  Group  was  therefore  of  the  view  that 
shareholders above a certain threshold of holding in a company should be classified 
as a related party.   
 
The Working Group deliberated on the threshold for determining shareholding above 
which a person not forming part of the promoter/promoter group would get classified 
as a related party and determined that a 20% threshold would be appropriate for the 
following reasons:  

 

(i) 

(ii) 

The Working Group noted that the term ‘significant influence’ is defined in the 
Companies Act under the definition of ‘associate company’ to mean “control of 
at  least  20%  of  the  total  voting  power,  or  control  or  participation  in  business 
decisions under an agreement”.   
 
The  Indian  Accounting  Standard  on  ‘Investments  in  Associates  and  Joint 
Ventures’ (Ind AS 28) also states that: “If an entity holds, directly or indirectly 
(e.g. through subsidiaries), 20% or more of the voting power of the investee, it 
is  presumed  that  the  entity  has  significant  influence,  unless  it  can  be  clearly 
demonstrated that this is not the case”.   

 
Thus,  a  shareholding  of  20%  is  considered  sufficient  to  confer  a  shareholder  with 
significant influence over the company.    
 
The Working Group further determined that a deeming provision may be created for 
aggregation  of  direct  and  indirect  shareholding  of  individual  shareholders  and  their 
relatives as defined under the Companies Act, for the purposes of calculating the 20% 
threshold.  

11 

 

 
Lastly, the Working Group also discussed if the concept of reciprocity in recognition of 
related  parties  should  be  made  mandatory  by  including  such  a  condition  in  the 
definition of related parties. Certain instances were discussed by the Working Group 
where    Company  ‘A’  identified  Company  ‘B’  in  its  financial  statements  as  a  related 
party but Company ‘B’ did not identify Company ‘A’ as a related party. The Working 
Group debated if this could be changed by making reciprocal recognition of related 
parties mandatory.  
 
The Working Group considered such cases and concluded that specific circumstances 
could  arise  when  Company  ‘A’  recognises  Company  ‘B’  as  a  related  party,  but  the 
converse may not be true. This is because related parties for Company ‘A’ would be 
identified  in  relation  to  Company  ‘A’  itself.  For  instance,  there  could  be  a  situation 
where, say a director in Company ‘A’ is a director in Company ‘B’ and holds more than 
2% of paid-up share capital of Company ‘B’; thus making Company ‘B’ a related party 
of Company ‘A’; however if such director does not have any shareholding in Company 
‘A’, Company ‘A’ would not be classified as related party of Company ‘B’. Accordingly, 
the Working Group did not recommend making such reciprocal recognition mandatory 
by law.   
 
The Working Group therefore recommended the following changes to the LODR: 
 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

2(zb) “related party” means a related 
party  as  defined  under  sub-section 
(76)  of  section  2  of  the  Companies 
Act,  2013  or  under  the  applicable 
accounting standards: 
 
Provided  that  any  person  or  entity 
belonging to the promoter or promoter 
group of the listed entity and holding 
20%  or  more  of  shareholding  in  the 
listed entity shall be deemed to be a 
related party. 
 

Provided  further  that  this  definition 
shall  not  be  applicable  for  the  units 
issued  by  mutual  funds  which  are 
listed  on  a 
stock 
exchange(s); 

recognised 

the 

applicable 

2(zb) “related party” means a related party 
as  defined  under  sub-section  (76)  of 
section  2  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  or 
under 
accounting 
standards: 
 
Provided that:  
(i)  any  person  or  entity  belonging  to  the 
promoter  or  promoter  group  of  the  listed 
entity  and    holding    20%    or    more    of  
shareholding  in  the  listed entity shall be 
deemed to be a related party; or  
 
(ii)  any  person  or  any  entity,  directly  or 
indirectly  (including  with  their  relatives), 
holding  20%  or  more  of 
the  equity 
shareholding in the listed entity,  
 
shall be deemed to be a related party. 

Provided  further  that  this  definition  shall 
not  be  applicable  for  the  units  issued by 
mutual 
listed  on  a 
recognised stock exchange(s); 
 

funds  which  are 

12 

 

 
‘Relative’ 

II. 
 
The LODR currently draws reference from Section 2(77) of the Companies Act for the 
term ‘relative’ which, with reference to a person, includes members of his/her Hindu 
undivided family, husband or wife (as applicable), father (including step-father), mother 
(including  step-mother),  son  (including  step-son),  son’s  wife,  daughter,  daughter’s 
husband, brother (including step-brother) and sister (including step-sister).  
 
Working Group deliberations and recommendations 
 
One concern raised in the discussions of the Working Group was that directors, key 
management  personnel  and  promoters  may  execute  RPTs  through  relatives  not 
covered within the definition under the Companies Act. The Working Group reviewed 
the definition of ‘relative’ under the 1956 Act and the Companies Act, and noted that 
the  scope  of  this  definition  was  narrowed  under  the  Companies  Act.  After 
deliberations, the Working Group concluded that no change needs to be made to the 
definition of ‘relative’ under the LODR since persons intending to carry out fraudulent 
transactions may anyway do so  through a relative not covered within the definition. 
Further,  other  SEBI  Regulations  such  as  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements)  Regulations,  2018 also  define  “relative”  to  mean  relatives  under  the 
Companies Act; hence there is a need to maintain consistency. The Working Group 
thought  it  prudent  to  regulate  RPTs  by  implementing  other  checks  and  balances 
instead.   

 
‘Related Party Transaction’  

III. 
 
The LODR currently defines ‘related party transaction’ as any transfer of resources, 
services  or  obligations  between  a  listed  entity  and  a  related  party  regardless  of 
whether  a  price  is  charged  or  not  and  a  “transaction”  with  a  related  party  shall  be 
construed to include a single transaction or a group of transactions.  
 
Under Section 1886 of the Companies Act, ‘related party transaction’ has been defined 
to include certain types of transactions such as the sale, purchase or supply of goods 
or materials, or selling or otherwise disposing of, or buying property of any kind.  
 
Working Group deliberations and recommendations 
 
The Working Group observed that recently, certain  innovative structures have been 
used  to  avoid  classification  of  transactions  as  RPTs  and  thus  avoid  the  associated 

                                                           
6  

Refer to Annexure A for section 188 of the Companies Act. 

13 

 

regulatory  compliance  and  disclosure  requirements.  Some  such  instances  are 
mentioned below: 
 
 
 

use of complex structures; 
transactions  undertaken  by  a  listed  entity  with  seemingly  unrelated  parties, 
however intended to benefit related parties; and 
instances of loans being given to an unrelated party which in turn gives such 
loan to a related party. 

 

 
Accordingly, the Working Group examined the definition of RPTs from the perspective 
of  strengthening  it  and  recommended  broadening  the  definition  of  RPTs  to  include 
transactions which are undertaken, whether directly or indirectly, with the intention of 
benefitting  related  parties.  This  concept  is  also  captured  in  the  legislation  of  other 
jurisdictions, such as the U.K.   
 
Separately,  the Working  Group  also  considered excluding  certain  corporate  actions 
which, by their very nature treat all shareholders equally, such as payment of dividend, 
sub-division  or  consolidation  of  securities,  buy-back,  rights  and  bonus  issue  of 
securities. Further, corporate actions which are subject to procedures specifically laid 
down by SEBI in its other regulations, such as preferential allotment, should also fall 
outside the purview of RPTs.  
 
The Working Group therefore recommended changes to this definition which, together 
with proposed changes to this regulation to include transactions involving subsidiaries, 
are set out in Chapter 3 below.   
 
 

 

14 

 

 

Chapter 3: Approval Requirements and Materiality Thresholds 

the  present 

regulatory 

framework  and  sets  out 

This  chapter  examines 
recommendations of the Working Group in the following areas:  
 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
 
I. 

the approval mechanism for RPTs under the LODR and the Companies Act;  
the materiality thresholds adopted under the approval process; and  
the process followed by the audit committee while considering an RPT.  

Approval Mechanism for Related Party Transactions under the LODR 
and Companies Act 

 
The  existing  provisions  of  the  LODR  and  the  Companies  Act  provide  the  following 
approval mechanism for RPTs: 

(i) 

(ii) 

 
Approval  of  the  audit  committee  of  the  entity  is  required  for  all  RPTs  under 
Regulation 23(2) of the LODR (for exemptions under the LODR see paragraph 
(iii)  below).    There  is  no  exception  for  transactions  in  the  ordinary  course  of 
business  or  at  arm’s  length,  as  per  the  LODR.  Under  Section  188(1)  of  the 
Companies Act, approval of the board of directors of the company is required 
for a transaction between the company and its related parties if the transaction 
is one of the types mentioned therein, with an exemption for transactions in the 
ordinary course of business and on arm’s length basis. 
 
Approval of the shareholders is required:  
 
(a) 

under Regulation 23(4) of the LODR, for material RPTs as defined under 
Regulation 23(1) and 23(1A) of the LODR; and  

 
(b) 

 

for  transactions  listed  in  Section  188(1)  of  the  Companies  Act  which 
exceed  a  prescribed  threshold  linked  to  certain  parameters,  with  an 
exemption  for  transactions  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business  and  on 
arm’s length basis.  

(iii)  Under  Regulation  23(5)  of  the  LODR,  transactions  between  the  following 
entities are exempt from the requirement of audit committee and shareholder 
approval:  
 
(a) 

between a listed entity and its wholly-owned subsidiary whose accounts 
are  consolidated  with  such  listed  entity  and  placed  before  the 
shareholders at a general meeting for approval; and 

  

(b) 

between two government companies.  

 

The  Companies  Act  also  specifies  that  the  aforementioned  transactions  are 
exempt from the requirement of shareholder approval.   

15 

 

RPTs covered by the Companies Act:  
 
The types of transactions specified in Section 188 of the Companies Act are described 
below.  The  threshold  (to  be  taken  individually  or  together  with  the  previous 
transactions  during  a  financial  year  for  points  (i)  to  (iv)  below)  above  which  the 
requirement  for  shareholder  approval  is  triggered  under  the  Companies  Act  is  also 
described below: 
 
(i) 

sale, purchase or supply of any goods or materials amounting to 10% or more 
of  the  turnover  of  the  company,  whether  such  sale,  purchase  or  supply  is 
carried out directly or through appointment of agent;  

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

 
(iv) 

 
(v) 

 
(vi) 

selling or otherwise disposing of, or buying, property of any kind amounting to 
10% or more of the net worth of the company, whether such sale or disposal is 
carried out directly or through appointment of agent; 

leasing of property of any kind amounting to 10% or more of the turnover of the 
company; 

availing or rendering of any services amounting to 10% or more of the turnover 
of the company, whether such service is availed or rendered directly or through 
appointment of agent; 

such related party’s appointment to any office or place of profit in the company, 
its subsidiary company or associate company where the monthly remuneration 
exceeds Rs.2,50,000; and 

underwriting  the  subscription  of  any  securities  or  derivatives  thereof,  of  the 
company exceeding 1% of the net worth of the company. 
 

Regulation of RPTs by the listed entity at the subsidiary level:  
 
At present, the approval requirements in respect of RPTs under the  Companies Act 
apply to each company in respect of transactions entered into by the relevant company 
with  its  own  related  parties.  The  Companies  Act  also  covers  a  transaction  at  the 
holding company level relating to the appointment of a related party to any office or 
place  of  profit  in  the  subsidiary.  The  LODR  contains  certain  provisions  relating  to 
transactions indirectly undertaken by the listed entity through unlisted subsidiaries, as 
specified below.  However, neither the LODR (except for sale, disposal or leasing of 
20% or more of the assets of a material subsidiary) nor the Companies Act specifically 
requires approvals at the listed entity level in respect of transactions undertaken by an 
unlisted  subsidiary  with  any  related  party  of  the  consolidated  entity  (i.e.,  the  listed 
entity and/or its subsidiaries).  
 
Currently  under  Regulation  23(5)  of  the  LODR,  audit  committee  or  shareholder 
approval is not required for transactions between a listed entity and its wholly-owned 
subsidiary whose accounts are consolidated with such listed entity and placed before 
the shareholders at a general meeting for approval.  
 

16 

 

A  summary  of  the  obligations  of  the  listed  entity  with  respect  to  the  other  entities 
forming part of the consolidated entity under the LODR and the Companies Act is set 
out below:  

 

(i)  With  respect  to  material  subsidiaries  (material  subsidiaries  are  defined  as 
subsidiaries of the listed entity whose income or net worth exceeds 10% of the 
consolidated  income  or  net  worth  respectively,  of  the  listed  entity  and  its 
subsidiaries  in  the  immediately  preceding  accounting  year),  the  following 
requirements apply: 
 
(a) 

Pursuant to Regulation 24(1) of the LODR, at least one (1) independent 
director of the listed entity is required to be a director on the board of an 
unlisted  material  subsidiary  (with  respect  to  this  provision,  material 
subsidiary has been defined with a threshold of 20% of the consolidated 
income or net worth). 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

Pursuant to Regulation 24(6) of the LODR, the sale or disposal or leasing 
of  assets  amounting  to  more  than  20%  of  the  assets  of  a  material 
subsidiary  (on  an  aggregate  basis  during  a  financial  year),  subject  to 
certain  exceptions,  requires  prior  approval  of  the  shareholders  of  the 
listed holding company by way of a special resolution.  

Pursuant  to  Regulation  24A  of  the  LODR,  all  listed  entities  and  their 
Indian  unlisted  material  subsidiaries  are  required  to  undertake  a 
secretarial audit and annex such reports to the annual report of the listed 
entity.  

(ii)  With  respect  to  unlisted  subsidiaries  of  the  listed  entity,  the  following 

requirements apply:  

 

(a) 

(b) 

 

(c) 

 

(d) 

Pursuant  to  Regulation  24(2)  of  the  LODR,  the  audit  committee  of  a 
listed holding company is required to review the financial statements, in 
particular the investments made by all its unlisted subsidiaries.  
 
Pursuant to Regulation 24(3) of the LODR, the board of the listed entity 
is  required  to  review  the  minutes  of  the  boards  of  such  unlisted 
subsidiaries.  

Pursuant  to  Regulation  24(4)  of  the  LODR,  the  management  of  an 
unlisted subsidiary of a listed entity is required to periodically bring to the 
notice  of  the  board  of  the  listed  entity  a  statement  of  all  ‘significant 
transactions and arrangements’ undertaken by the unlisted subsidiary. 
‘Significant  transaction  or  arrangement’  has  been  defined  as  any 
individual transaction or arrangement that exceeds or is likely to exceed 
10%  of  the  total  revenues  or  total  expenses  or  total  assets  or  total 
liabilities  of  the  unlisted  subsidiary  for  the  immediately  preceding 
accounting year. 

Pursuant  to  Regulation  18(3)  read  with  Part  C  of  Schedule  II  of  the 
LODR,  the  role  of  the  audit  committee  includes  reviewing  at  periodic 

17 

 

(iii) 

 
(iv) 

(v) 

intervals the statement of significant related party transactions submitted 
by the management.  The audit committee has been given the discretion 
to  define  the  term  ‘significant  related  party  transactions’  under  the 
regulations.  
 

Pursuant to Regulation 18(3) read with Part C of Schedule II of the LODR, the 
audit committee of the listed entity is also required to: 
 
(a) 

scrutinise all inter-corporate loans and investments of the listed entity; 
and  
 
review the utilisation of loans and/or advances from/investment by the 
holding company in the subsidiary exceeding Rs.100 crore or 10% of the 
asset  size  of  the  subsidiary,  whichever  is  lower,  including  existing 
loans/advances/investments as on April 1, 2019.  

(b) 

Listed  entities  are  also  required  to  disclose  to  the  stock  exchanges  any 
agreements, including loan agreements (as a borrower), which are binding on 
the  listed  entity  and  not  in  the  normal  course  of  business.  Subsequent 
amendments made to such agreements or termination of such agreements are 
also required to be disclosed. The above-mentioned disclosures shall however, 
be subject to the materiality guidelines under Regulation 30(4) of the LODR.   
 
Under Regulation 33(8) of the LODR, the statutory auditor of the listed entity is 
required  to  undertake  a  limited  review  of  the  audit  of  all  entities/companies 
whose accounts are consolidated with the listed entity.  
 

(vi)  Pursuant to Regulation 4 of the LODR, one of the key functions of the board of 
listed  entities  is  “monitoring  and  managing  potential  conflicts  of  interest  of 
management, members of the board of directors and shareholders, including 
misuse of corporate assets and abuse in related party transactions”.  
 

(vii)  The  code  for  independent  directors  under  the  Companies  Act  requires 
independent  directors  to  “pay  sufficient  attention  and  ensure  that  adequate 
deliberations are held before approving related party transactions and assure 
themselves that the same are in the interest of the company.”   

 
Separately, the following disclosures are also required to be made by the listed entity 
which relates to the consolidated entity: 
 
(i) 

Pursuant  to  Regulation  23(9)  of  the  LODR,  the  listed  entity  is  required  to 
disclose  related  party  transactions  on  a  consolidated  basis  in  a  prescribed 
format  within  30  days  from  the  date  of  publication  of  its  standalone  and 
consolidated financial results for the half year.  

 

(ii) 

The listed entity is required to make related party disclosures in its annual report 
in  accordance  with  the  format  provided  in  Schedule  V  of  the  LODR.    Such 
format states that the disclosure requirements for the listed holding company 
would also apply to each of the subsidiaries. This disclosure requirement is not 
applicable to listed banks. 

18 

 

(iii) 

 
All  transactions  of  the  listed  entity  with  any  person  or  entity  belonging  to  its 
promoter/promoter group and holding 10% or more shareholding in the listed 
entity are required to be disclosed in the annual report of the listed entity.  This 
disclosure requirement is not applicable to listed banks. 
 

(iv)  Schedule V of the LODR also requires the corporate governance report forming 
part of the annual report of the listed entity to include “disclosures on materially 
significant related party transactions that may have potential conflict with the 
interest of the listed entity at large”.  

 
Working Group deliberations and recommendations 
 
The  Working  Group  noted  that  the  current  RPT  regulatory  framework  may  be 
insufficient to cover transactions where the listed entity could transfer its assets/value 
to a subsidiary, whether in India or overseas, and such entity could then transact with 
the related parties of the listed entity to move the assets out of the consolidated entity.  
 
Transactions  undertaken  by  an  unlisted  subsidiary  with  related  parties  of  the  listed 
entity would not require prior approval of the audit committee or shareholders of the 
listed  entity  (except  for  sale,  disposal  or  leasing  of  20%  or  more of  the assets of  a 
material subsidiary which require prior approval of the shareholders of the listed entity 
by way of special resolution under Regulation 24(6) of the LODR) and thus, may be 
used as a conduit for moving out from the consolidated entity the value/assets which 
rightfully belongs to the shareholders of the listed entity. 
 
In  light  of  the  above,  the  Working  Group  felt  the  need  to  strengthen  the  laws  for 
regulation and oversight of RPTs undertaken by a subsidiary with the related parties 
of the listed entity or its subsidiaries. It is of significance that the need to regulate the 
consolidated  entity  as  a  whole  was  also  recognised  specifically  in  the  report  of  the 
Kotak  committee  on  corporate  governance  dated  October  5,  2017  in  the  following 
terms–  “The  Committee  notes  that  several  listed entities  in  India  operate  through a 
network of entities– where some companies have over 200 subsidiaries, step-down 
subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures.  While investors hold direct equity only in 
the listed holding company, they have valued the entire business structure at the time 
of investment. Therefore,  it is important for boards to ensure that good governance 
trickles down to the entire structure.”  
 
The  Working  Group  deliberated  on  the  present  regulatory  framework  governing 
transactions of subsidiaries of a listed entity and recommended that prior approval of 
the audit committee of the listed entity should be mandatory for transactions carried 
out between: 
 
(i) 

the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on the one hand and a related party of 
the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on the other hand; or 

 

(ii) 

 

the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on the one hand and any other person 
or entity on the other hand, the purpose and effect of which is to benefit a related 
party of the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries.  

19 

 

The  Working  Group  also  deliberated  that  an  exception  from  taking  approval  of  the 
audit  committee  and  shareholders  of  the  parent  listed  entity  (subject  to  materiality 
thresholds)  should  be  given  for  listed  subsidiaries,  since  they  are  independently 
subject to the LODR framework on RPTs. In addition, in line with the exemption given 
to transactions between a holding company and its wholly owned subsidiary from the 
requirements of  audit committee  and  shareholder  approval,  it  is  recommended  that 
transactions  between  two  wholly  owned  subsidiaries  of  the  listed  holding  company 
should  be  similarly  exempt  from  such  requirements.  Further,  the  Working  Group 
determined  that  an  explanation  be  added  to  clarify  that  for  RPTs  of  unlisted 
subsidiaries  of  a  listed  subsidiary,  the  prior  approval  of  the  audit  committee  or 
shareholders, as applicable, of the listed subsidiary would suffice. 
 
Further,  the  Working  Group  was  cognisant  that  this  provision  may  increase  the 
compliance  burden  for  the  listed  entity  and  the  members  of  the  audit  committee. 
Accordingly, the Working Group discussed the possibility of exempting transactions 
which are below a specified monetary threshold of the subsidiary.  
 
After deliberations, the Working Group determined that the related party transactions 
relating  to  subsidiaries  of  the  listed  entity  should  require  prior  approval  of  the  audit 
committee subject to their value exceeding 10% of the total revenues, total assets or 
net  worth  of  the  subsidiary,  on  a  standalone  basis,  for  the  immediately  preceding 
financial year, whichever is lower, provided that the criterion relating to net worth shall 
not be applicable if the net worth of the subsidiary is negative . Further, it was also 
decided  that  at  this  stage,  associate  companies  and  joint  ventures  need  not  be 
included under such additional prior approval requirements.  
 
The Working Group was of the view that the RPT provisions of the LODR relating to 
disclosure  requirements  in  the  notice  to  the  shareholders  and  requirement  of  prior 
shareholder approval should also apply to subsidiaries of the listed entity, subject to 
materiality thresholds of the listed entity on a consolidated basis.  
 
As a general matter, while the LODR specifically requires prior approval of the audit 
committee, the word “prior” is not used for shareholder approval.  In order to maintain 
consistency, the Working Group recommended that the word “prior” may be added for 
shareholder approval as well.  
 
The Working Group also sought to clarify that subsequent  material modifications of 
RPTs require prior audit committee approval and, if applicable, shareholder approval. 
It  was  noted  that,  under  the  Companies  Act,  approval  of  the  audit  committee  is 
required for subsequent modifications for transactions with related parties. 
 
The Working Group therefore recommended the following changes to the LODR:  
 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

“related  party 

2(zc) 
transaction” 
means  a 
resources, 
services  or  obligations  between  a 
listed  entity  and  a  related  party, 

transfer  of 

2(zc)  “related  party  transaction”  means  a 
transaction 
transfer  of 
resources, services or obligations between 
a listed entity and a related party:  

involving  a 

20 

 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

regardless  of  whether  a  price  is 
charged  and  a  “transaction”  with  a 
related  party  shall  be  construed  to 
include  a  single  transaction  or  a 
group of transactions in a contract: 
 
Provided that this definition shall not 
be applicable for the units issued by 
mutual  funds  which  are  listed  on  a 
recognised stock exchange(s); 
 

 
(i)  the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries 
on the one hand and a related party of 
the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries 
on the other hand; or  

 
(ii)  the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries 
on the one hand, and any other person 
or entity on the other hand, the purpose 
and effect of which is to benefit a related 
party  of  the  listed  entity  or  any  of  its 
subsidiaries,  

 

regardless of whether a price is charged or 
not and a. Such “transaction” with a related 
party shall be construed to include a single 
transaction or a group of transactions.in a 
contract: 
 
Provided  that  the  following  shall  not  be 
treated as related party transactions: 
 
(a) 

Capital 

and 

to 

basis, 

subject 

the issue of specified securities on a 
preferential 
to 
requirements  under  the  Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
of 
Disclosure 
Requirements)  Regulations,  2018 
being complied with; and    
     
the  following  corporate  actions  by 
the  listed  entity  which  are  uniformly 
applicable/offered 
all 
shareholders  in  proportion  to  their 
shareholding: 
 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

payment of dividend;  
 
subdivision  or  consolidation 
of securities; 
 
issuance of securities by way 
of  a  rights  issue  or  a  bonus 
issue; and  
 
buy-back of securities.  

(b) 

 

21 

 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

23(2)  All  related  party  transactions 
shall  require  prior  approval  of  the 
audit committee. 

23(4)  All  material 
related  party 
transactions shall require approval of 
the  shareholders  through  resolution 
and  no  related  party  shall  vote  to 
approve such resolutions whether the 

Provided further that this definition shall not 
be applicable for the units issued by mutual 
funds  which  are  listed  on  a  recognised 
stock exchange(s); 
 
23(2)  All  related  party  transactions  and 
subsequent  material  modifications  shall 
require  prior  approval  of 
the  audit 
committee of the listed entity. 
 
Provided that a related party transaction to 
which  the  subsidiary  of  a  listed  entity  is  a 
party but the listed entity is not a party, shall 
require  prior  approval  of 
the  audit 
committee  of  the  listed  entity  only  if  the 
value of such transaction (whether entered 
into  individually  or  taken  together  with 
previous  transactions  during  a  financial 
year)  exceeds  10%  of  the  annual  total 
revenues,  total  assets  or  net  worth  of  the 
subsidiary,  on  a  standalone  basis,  for  the 
immediately  preceding 
financial  year, 
whichever  is  lower,  provided  that  the 
criterion  relating  to  net  worth  shall  not  be 
applicable if the net worth of the subsidiary 
is negative.   
 
Provided  further  that  prior  approval  of  the 
audit committee of the listed entity shall not 
be required for  a related party transaction 
to which the listed subsidiary is a party but 
the listed entity is not a party, if such listed 
subsidiary is not exempt from regulation 23 
and 
the  other  corporate  governance 
provisions of these regulations specified in 
regulation 15(2). 
  
Explanation:  for  related  party  transactions 
listed 
of  unlisted  subsidiaries  of  a 
subsidiary  specified  above, 
the  prior 
approval of the audit committee of the listed 
subsidiary would suffice. 
23(4) All material related party transactions 
and  subsequent  material  modifications, 
shall 
the 
shareholders  through  resolution  and  no 
related  party  shall  vote  to  approve  such 

require  prior  approval  of 

22 

 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

to 

the 

the 

that 

is  a  related  party 
entity 
particular transaction or not: 
 
Provided 
requirements 
specified  under  this  sub-regulation 
shall  not  apply 
in  respect  of  a 
resolution  plan  approved  under 
section  31  of  the  Insolvency  Code, 
subject  to  the  event  being  disclosed 
to  the  recognized  stock  exchanges 
within one day of the resolution plan 
being approved; 
 

23(5)  The  provisions  of  sub-
regulations  (2),  (3)  and  (4)  shall  not 
be applicable in the following cases: 
 
(a)  transactions 

entered 

into 
government 

between 
companies;  

two 

 
(b)  transactions 

entered 

into 
between a holding company and 
its  wholly  owned  subsidiary 
whose accounts are consolidated 
with  such  holding  company  and 
placed before the shareholders at 
the general meeting for approval; 

that  prior  approval  of 

resolutions  whether  the  entity  is  a  related 
party to the particular transaction or not: 
 
Provided 
the 
shareholders of a listed entity shall not be 
required  for  a  related  party  transaction  to 
which the listed subsidiary is a party but the 
listed  entity  is  not  a  party,  if  such  listed 
subsidiary is not exempt from regulation 23 
and 
the  other  corporate  governance 
provisions of these regulations specified in 
regulation 15(2). 
 
Explanation:  for  related  party  transactions 
of  unlisted  subsidiaries  of  a 
listed 
subsidiary  specified  above, 
the  prior 
approval  of  the  shareholders  of  the  listed 
subsidiary would suffice. 
 
Provided  further  that  the  requirements 
specified under this sub-regulation shall not 
apply  in  respect  of  a  resolution  plan 
approved  under  section  31  of 
the 
Insolvency  Code,  subject  to  the  event 
being  disclosed  to  the  recognized  stock 
exchanges within one day of the resolution 
plan being approved; 
 
23(5) The provisions of sub-regulations (2), 
(3)  and  (4)  shall  not  be  applicable  in  the 
following cases: 
 
(a)  transactions entered into between two 

government companies;  
 

(b)  transactions  entered  into  between  a 
holding company and its wholly owned 
subsidiary  whose 
are 
holding 
consolidated  with 
company  and  placed  before 
the 
shareholders at the general meeting for 
approval; 

accounts 
such 

 

 
Explanation.  -  For  the  purpose  of 
clause 
"government 
company(ies)"  means  Government 

(a), 

(c)  transactions entered into between two 
wholly-owned subsidiaries of the listed 
holding company, whose accounts are 
consolidated  with 
holding 

such 

23 

 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

company  as  defined  in  sub-section 
(45)  of  section  2  of  the  Companies 
Act, 2013. 
 

the 
company  and  placed  before 
shareholders at the general meeting for 
approval. 

 
Explanation.  -  For  the  purpose  of  clause 
(a),  "government  company(ies)"  means 
Government  company  as  defined  in  sub-
section (45) of section 2 of the Companies 
Act, 2013. 
 

 
Voting by interested shareholders under the Companies Act and the LODR: 
 
Pursuant to Section 188(1) of the Companies Act, shareholders of the company that 
are related parties in the context of the transaction for which shareholder approval is 
sought,  cannot  vote  to  approve  such  RPT.  However,  such  restriction  on  voting  by 
shareholders does not apply under the Companies Act in the case of a company where 
90%  or  more  of  the  shareholders  are  relatives  of  promoters  or  related  parties. 
Regulation 23(7) of the LODR adopts a stricter approach and states that no related 
party of the listed entity, irrespective of whether the related party is interested in that 
particular RPT, can vote to approve an RPT.  
 
Working Group deliberations and recommendations 
 
The  Working  Group  discussed  whether  the  LODR  should  be  amended  to  make  it 
consistent with the Companies Act and allow shareholders who are related parties of 
the  listed  entity  but  not  concerned  with  a  particular  RPT  to  vote  in  respect  of  that 
particular  RPT.  Members  of  the  Working  Group  discussed  that  due  to  the  existing 
provisions of the LODR, even parties that are neither interested nor connected with 
the RPT cannot vote on such transactions, except negatively. However, after detailed 
discussions, the Working Group decided not to change the current position under the 
LODR for the following reasons:  
 
(i) 

Determining whether a particular promoter or promoter group is  interested or 
not in an RPT could lead to subjectivity and differing interpretations. 

 

(ii) 

Even  if  a  particular  promoter/promoter  group  is  not  interested  in  a  particular 
RPT, factions of various promoter groups may intentionally collude with each 
other to influence the vote on an RPT.  

Materiality Thresholds with respect to Prior Approvals for RPTs 

 
 
II. 
 
Materiality threshold with respect to prior shareholder approval for RPTs:  
 
Under  Regulation  23(1)  of  the  LODR,  RPTs  undertaken  by  a  listed  entity  taken 
individually or together with the previous transactions during that financial year, which 

24 

 

exceed 10% of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed entity in accordance with 
the last audited financial statements of the listed entity, are considered to be material 
RPTs. Such  material  RPTs  require  approval  of  the  shareholders  of  the  listed  entity 
under Regulation 23(4) of the LODR.  
  
Regulation  23(1)  of  the  LODR  requires  each  listed  entity  to  formulate  a  policy  on 
materiality of RPTs which should be approved by the board of directors.  Such policy 
should also be reviewed by the board of directors of the company every three years 
and updated accordingly.  
  
Regulation 23(1A) of the LODR states that, transaction(s) of a listed entity (entered 
into individually or taken together with previous transactions during a financial year) 
involving  payments  to  related  parties  with  respect  to  brand  usage  or  royalty  are 
considered to be material RPTs if their value exceeds 5% of the annual consolidated 
turnover of the listed entity in accordance with the last audited financial statements of 
the listed entity. 
 
Working Group deliberations and recommendations 
 
The Working Group noted that although under the Companies Act, RPTs carried out 
in the ordinary course of business and which are on arm’s length, do not require prior 
shareholder approval, the LODR does not provide such distinction for an RPT. Further, 
under the current provisions of the LODR, those RPTs which are above a threshold of 
10% of annual consolidated turnover require approval from shareholders.   
 
The Working Group reviewed the data for transactions for the top 500 listed entities 
which involved shareholder resolutions in the past five years, the details of which are 
given below: 
 

Number of listed 

Total number of 

Time period 

entities 

January 2019 through September 2019 
January 2018 through December 2018 
January 2017 through December 2017 
January 2016 through December 2016 
January 2015 through December 2015 

  
53 
58 
58 
59 
73 

shareholders’ 

resolutions 

71 
70 
72 
74 
91 

Source: Stakeholders Empowerment Services 
 
As  may  be  seen  from  the  above,  the  number  of  resolutions  seeking  shareholder 
approval for the top 500 listed entities is not high. No absolute numerical threshold is 
prescribed  at  present.  Accordingly,  the  Working  Group  deliberated  on  the  need  to 
revisit the current threshold. 
 
Members  of  the  Working  Group  were  of  the  view  that  considering  the  data,  the 
threshold of 10% of the consolidated turnover appears to be high. Further, particularly 
in case of listed entities with a high turnover, several RPTs may not be placed before 
the shareholders for approval. To illustrate, an RPT of Rs.1,000 crore by a listed entity 
with  a  turnover  of  above  Rs.10,000  crore  does  not  need  to  be  brought  to  the 
shareholders for approval, even though in absolute terms such transaction of Rs.1,000 

25 

 

crore is a high value transaction. In order to address this issue, the Working Group felt 
the  need  to  reduce  the  percentage  threshold  for  materiality  and  also  introduce  a 
numerical threshold for seeking shareholder approval for RPTs. 
 
The Working Group noted that in the U.K., transactions above a 5% threshold (based 
on gross assets, profits, consideration and gross capital) require shareholder approval, 
with transactions in the ordinary course of business being exempt. Other jurisdictions 
such as Singapore and Malaysia also have a 5% threshold. 
 
It  was  also  noted  that  in  international  jurisdictions,  benchmarks  other  than  turnover 
such  as  assets  have  been  used  to  define  the  materiality  threshold.  Further,  the 
Working  Group  discussed  that  in  case  of  entities  with  a  high  revenue  and  low  net-
worth; an RPT may be a significant proportion of the net-worth, however may form a 
low  proportion  of  revenue  and  thus,  may  not  need  to  be  subject  to  shareholder 
approval.  Accordingly,  the  Working  Group  recommended  that  the  benchmarks  for 
determining materiality may be expanded to include net worth and total assets. 
 
In light of the above, the Working Group concluded that the materiality threshold in 
Regulation 23(1) may be amended to 5% of the annual total revenues, total assets or 
net worth of the listed entity on a consolidated basis or Rs.1,000 crore, whichever is 
lower.  The Working Group also concluded that the net worth criterion would not apply 
to  companies  with  negative  net  worth.   Further,  companies  can  specify  a  lower 
materiality threshold as per their RPT policies. 
 
The Working Group therefore recommended the following changes to the LODR: 
 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

23(1) The listed entity shall formulate 
a policy on materiality of related party 
transactions  and  on  dealing  with 
related  party  transactions  including 
clear  threshold  limits  duly  approved 
by  the  board  of  directors  and  such 
policy shall be reviewed by the board 
of directors at least once every three 
years and updated accordingly: 
 
Explanation.-  A  transaction  with  a 
related  party  shall  be  considered 
material  if  the  transaction(s)  to  be 
entered 
taken 
together  with  previous  transactions 
during  a  financial  year,  exceeds  ten 
percent  of  the  annual  consolidated 
turnover of the listed entity as per the 
last  audited  financial  statements  of 
the listed entity. 

individually  or 

into 

three 

and 

years 

23(1)  The  listed  entity  shall  formulate  a 
policy  on  materiality  of  related  party 
transactions  and  on  dealing  with  related 
party transactions including clear threshold 
limits  duly  approved  by  the  board  of 
directors and such policy shall be reviewed 
by  the  board  of  directors  at  least  once 
every 
updated 
accordingly: 
 
Explanation.-  A  transaction  with  a  related 
party 
transaction  shall  be  considered 
material if the transaction(s) to be entered 
into  individually  or  taken  together  with 
previous  transactions  during  a  financial 
year,  exceeds  ten  Rs.1,000  crore  or  five 
percent  of 
the  annual  consolidated 
turnover total revenues, total assets or net 
worth of the listed entity on a consolidated 
basis  as  per  the  last  audited  financial 
statements of the listed entity., whichever 

26 

 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

is lower, provided that the criterion relating 
to  net  worth  shall  not  be  applicable  if  the 
net worth of the listed entity is negative.   
  

Process followed by the Audit Committee for Approval of RPTs 

 
III. 
 
Regulation 18 of the LODR requires all listed entities to constitute an audit committee.  
The audit committee is required to consist of a minimum of three directors.  Two-thirds 
of the audit committee of a listed entity is required to comprise independent directors, 
unless  the  listed  entity  has  outstanding  equity  shares  with  superior  voting  rights,  in 
which case the audit committee is required to comprise only independent directors.  
The chairperson of the audit committee is required to be an independent director.  All 
members of the audit committee must be able to read and understand basic financial 
statements.  
 
Section 177(1) of the Companies Act mandates constituting an audit committee for: 
 
(i) 

listed companies; and  

 

(ii) 

unlisted public companies having: 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 

paid-up share capital of Rs.10 crore or more; 
turnover of Rs.100 crore or more; or 
outstanding loans, debentures and deposits aggregating to Rs.50 crore 
or more. 

 
The terms of reference of the Working Group included examining the approval process 
followed by the audit committee for RPTs.  Accordingly, the Working Group reviewed 
matters such as the composition of the audit committee,  right of audit committee to 
seek  outside  legal  or  other  professional  advice,  frequency  of  meetings  and  the 
information to be provided to the audit committee for review.   
 
Under the LODR, minutes of meetings of the audit committee are required to be placed 
before the board of directors of the listed entity.  The board of directors is also required 
to evaluate the independent directors on the basis of their performance, fulfilment of 
the  prescribed  criteria  of 
the 
management.  Separately, the board of directors of listed entity is required to disclose 
a confirmation regarding independence of the independent directors, in the corporate 
governance report.  In the event that an independent director resigns before the expiry 
of his tenure, detailed reasons for such resignation along with a confirmation that there 
are  no  other  material  reasons,  is  also  required  to  be  provided  in  the  corporate 
governance  report.    Therefore,  the  LODR  emphasizes  on  the  independence  of  the 
members of the audit committee.   
 
While the responsibility of approving RPTs is placed on the audit committee which has 
a  majority  of  independent  directors,  at  present,  however,  there  is  no  specific 

independence  and 

their 

independence 

from 

27 

 

requirement  on  the  minimum  information  that  should  be  provided  to  the  audit 
committee while seeking approval for a proposed related party transaction.  
 
Working Group deliberations and recommendations 
 
The  Working  Group  was  of  the  view  that,  while  company  management  would  be 
expected to provide all relevant information regarding an RPT to the audit committee 
to  evaluate  the  same,  it  would  be  prudent  to  specify  in  the  LODR,  the  minimum 
information  to  be  provided  to  the  audit  committee  in  relation  to  any  RPT  for  which 
approval is sought. 
 
After deliberations, the Working Group determined that the management of the listed 
entity should mandatorily provide the following information to the audit committee for 
approval of a proposed RPT: 
 
(i) 

Type, material terms and particulars of the related party transaction;  
 
Name  of  the  related  party  and  its  relationship  with  the  listed  entity  or  its 
subsidiary, including nature of its concern or interest (financial or otherwise);  
 
Tenure of the transaction;  
 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv)  Value of the transaction;  

(v) 

 
The percentage of the listed entity’s annual total revenues, total assets and net 
worth, on a consolidated basis, that is represented by the value of the proposed 
RPT (and for a related party transaction involving a subsidiary, such percentage 
calculated  on  the  basis  of  the  subsidiary’s  annual  total  revenues  on  a 
standalone basis);  
 

(vi)  Where the transaction relates to any loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances 

or investments made or given by the listed entity or its subsidiary:  
 
(a) 

details of the source of funds in connection with the proposed RPT; 

 

 

(b) 

(c) 

 
(d) 

where  any  financial  indebtedness  is  incurred  to  make  or  give  loans, 
inter-corporate  deposits,  advances  or  investments,  (i)  nature  of 
indebtedness; (ii) cost of funds; and (iii) tenure; 

applicable  terms,  including  covenants,  tenure,  interest  rate  and 
repayment schedule, whether secured or unsecured and if secured, the 
nature of security; and  

the  purpose  for  which  the  funds  will  be  utilised  by  the  ultimate 
beneficiary of such funds pursuant to the RPT.  

(vii) 

 
Justification as to why the RPT is in the interest of the listed entity;  
 

(viii)  A  copy  of  the  valuation  or  other  external  party  report,  if  any  such  report  has 

been relied upon; and 

28 

 

 

 

(ix)  Any other information that may be relevant. 
 
With respect to the type, material terms and particulars of the related party transaction, 
the Working Group was of the view that brief details, such as whether the proposed 
RPT is a sale or purchase of goods or services or whether it involves a loan, inter-
corporate deposit, advance or investment should be mentioned.  Further, each type of 
RPT  with  a  single  party  should  be  disclosed  separately  and  there  should  be  no 
clubbing or netting of transactions of the same type. However, RPTs with the same 
counterparty and of the same type may be aggregated. Details of sale and purchase 
transactions or loans advanced to and received from the same counterparty should be 
provided separately, without any netting off. 
 
The Working Group was of the view that the tenure of the RPT should be a finite period 
and not open-ended.  Further, if the proposed RPT is a recurring transaction, the time 
period within which such multiple transactions are expected to be completed should 
be  clearly  specified.  The  Working  Group  also  determined  that  the  audit  committee 
should undertake an annual review of the status of long-term (more than one year) or 
recurring RPTs.  
 
In respect of the value of the transaction, the Working Group was of the view that an 
upper limit should be provided.  Further, if the proposed RPT is a recurring transaction, 
then the aggregate value and the time period within which such limit will be exhausted 
should be mentioned.   
 
The Working Group felt that it would be necessary for the audit committee to be aware 
of  the  value  of  a  proposed  RPT  as  a  proportion  of  the  annual  total  revenues,  total 
assets and net worth of the consolidated entity. Further, for a related party transaction 
involving a subsidiary of the listed entity such percentage calculated on the basis of 
the subsidiary’s annual total revenues on a standalone basis should also be provided.   
 
Further, justification for each individual transaction must be provided, unless there are 
a series of transactions interdependent on each other, in which case the justification 
for the entire series of transactions may be given. As justification, the management 
could for instance, provide the prices at which transactions of a similar nature as the 
proposed RPT have been undertaken with unrelated parties; or comparative quotes 
and  if  the  entity  is  not  able  to  source  comparative  quotes  externally,  the  reasons 
thereof  should  be  provided  to  the  audit  committee.  The  audit  committee  may  also 
request management for an analysis of the RPT specifying, for example, the deviation 
from market prices and standard commercial terms.  
 
The  Working  Group  was  of  the  view  that  since  considerable  information  is  being 
provided to the audit committee for approval of a RPT and it has also prescribed an 
extensive  format  for  public  disclosure  of  RPTs,  the  need  to  place,  before  the  audit 
committee, a separate statement of significant related party transactions may not be 
required.  
 
The Working Group also deliberated that there have been cases in the past, where 
the listed entity gives a large contract to a related party which does not otherwise have 
much business (apart from that given by the listed entity). The Working Group thus felt 

29 

 

that it would be desirable for the audit committee, before taking a decision on a RPT, 
to know the percentage of the counter-party’s annual total revenues, total assets and 
net  worth,  that  is  represented  by  the  value  of  the  proposed  RPT.  It  was  further 
deliberated whether making such disclosure mandatory will make it onerous for listed 
entities; hence, to start with, the Working Group felt that such disclosure can be on a 
voluntary basis. 
 
The Working Group therefore recommended the following changes to the LODR: 
 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

Part C of Schedule II of the LODR 
 
B.  The  audit  committee  shall 
mandatorily 
following 
information: 
…. 
 

review 

the 

Modification of paragraph (2) and insertion 
of new paragraph (7) in Part B of Schedule 
II of the LODR 
 
B.  The  audit  committee  shall  mandatorily 
review the following information: 
…. 
 
(2)  statement  of  significant  related  party 
transactions  (as  defined  by 
the  audit 
committee), submitted by management; 
 
with  respect  to  approval  of  a  related  party 
transaction,  the  following  information  as 
provided  by  the  management  of  the  listed 
entity: 

(a)  Type,  material  terms  and  particulars 

of the proposed transaction;  

 
(b)  Name  of  the  related  party  and  its 
relationship with the listed entity or its 
subsidiary,  including  nature  of  its 
concern  or 
(financial  or 
otherwise);  
 

interest 

(c)  Tenure of the proposed transaction;  

 
Explanation.-  The  transaction  should 
have  a  particular  tenure  or  term  and 
should  not  be  indefinite  or  open-
ended. 
 

(d)  Value of the proposed transaction;  

 
Explanation.- An upper limit should be 
provided and in case of a recurring or 

30 

 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

continuous transaction, the aggregate 
value and the time period within which 
such limit will be exhausted.  
 

(e)  The  percentage  of  the  listed  entity’s 
annual  total  revenues,  total  assets 
and  net  worth,  on  a  consolidated 
basis,  for  the  immediately  preceding 
financial  year,  that  is  represented  by 
the value of the proposed transaction, 
provided  that,  for  a  related  party 
transaction involving a subsidiary, the 
value of the proposed transaction as 
the  subsidiary’s 
a  percentage  of 
a 
annual 
standalone 
be 
additionally provided;  
 
If the transaction relates to any loans, 
inter-corporate deposits, advances or 
investments  made  or  given  by  the 
listed entity or its subsidiary:  

revenues 

should 

on 

total 

basis 

(f) 

 
details  of  the  source  of  funds  in 
connection  with 
the  proposed 
related party transaction;  

where any financial indebtedness 
is incurred to make or give loans, 
inter-corporate 
deposits, 
advances or investments, 

  nature of indebtedness; 
  cost of funds; and  
 

tenure;  

terms, 

 
applicable 
including 
covenants,  tenure,  interest  rate 
and 
schedule, 
whether  secured  or  unsecured 
and  if  secured,  the  nature  of 
security; and  

repayment 

the  purpose  for  which  the  funds 
will  be  utilised  by  the  ultimate 
beneficiary 
funds 
pursuant  to  the  related  party 
transaction; 

such 

of 

i. 

ii. 

 

iii. 

 

iv. 

31 

 

 
 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

 

(g) 

Justification  as  to  why  the  related 
party  transaction  is  in  the  interest  of 
the listed entity;  
 

(h)  A  copy  of  the  valuation  or  other 
external report, if any such report has 
been relied upon;  
 
Percentage  of 
the  counter-party’s 
annual  total  revenues,  total  assets 
and net worth, that is represented by 
the  value  of  the  proposed  related 
party transaction: 
 
Provided 
information 
mentioned in this sub-clause may be 
placed before the audit committee on 
a voluntary basis; and 

that 

(i) 

the 

 
(j) 

Any  other  information  that  may  be 
relevant. 

………. 

7. status of long-term (more than one year) 
or recurring related party transactions on 
an annual basis. 
 

 

32 

 

Chapter 4: Disclosure Requirements 

 

This chapter of the Report discusses the existing legal provisions relating to disclosure 
obligations  of  listed  entities  in  relation  to  RPTs  and  the  Working  Group’s 
recommendations  in  respect  thereof.    The  Working  Group’s  aim  was  to  strike  a 
balance  between  the  additional  disclosure  requirements  recommended  on  the  one 
hand and the compliance burden on the other.  
 
This chapter of the Report has been divided into two parts:  
(1)  minimum  information  to  be  provided  to  the  shareholders  for  consideration  of 

(2) 

RPTs; and  
formats for disclosures to be made by the listed entity to the stock exchanges 
in respect of RPTs.   

 
Information to be provided to Shareholders for consideration of RPTs 

 
The  disclosure  requirements  to  the  audit  committee  of  the  listed  entity  have  been 
covered in Chapter 3. 
  
I. 
 
Pursuant to existing requirements under the Companies Act, the notice issued to the 
shareholders in respect of a general meeting is required to contain a statement of the 
business  proposed  to  be  transacted  at  such  meeting.    Additionally,  an  explanatory 
statement  is  required  to  be  annexed  to  such  notice  setting  out  certain  prescribed 
information in respect of any proposed RPT.  The explanatory statement is required 
to contain the following details:  
 
(i) 

Name of the related party; 
 
Name of the director or key managerial personnel who is related, if any;  
 

(ii) 

(iii)  Nature of the relationship;  

(iv) 

(v) 

 
Type,  material  terms,  monetary  value  and  particulars  of  the  contract  or 
arrangement;  
 
Nature of concern or interest (financial or otherwise) of every director, manager 
(if any) and key managerial personnel and their relatives in the RPT;  
 

(vi)  Where the related party is a corporate entity, the extent of shareholding interest 
of every promoter, director, manager, if any, and of every other key managerial 
personnel of the entity in such related party, if the extent of such shareholding 
exceeds 2% of the paid-up share capital of the related party;  
 
If any document has been referred to in the proposed resolution and it is to be 
considered  at  the  meeting,  then  a  statement  specifying  the  place  and  time 
where such document can be inspected;7 

(vii) 

                                                           
7  

The secretarial standard on general meetings states that such documents should be made available for 
inspection in physical or in electronic form during specified business hours at the registered office of the 

33 

 

 

(viii)  Any other information or facts that may enable shareholders to understand the 
meaning,  scope  and  implications  of  the  RPT  and  to  take  a  decision  on  the 
proposed resolution.  
 

Further, under Regulation 17(11) of the LODR, the recommendation of the board of 
directors of the listed entity on each item of special business is required to be disclosed 
in the statement to be annexed to the notice to the shareholders.  
 
Working Group deliberations and recommendations 
 
The  Working  Group  noted  that  the  level  of  minority  shareholder  voting  in  India  is 
currently low and due to the requirement of a majority vote of non-related shareholders 
for RPTs, there is a need to maximize informed shareholder participation.   
 
The Working Group was of the view that the information required to be disclosed to 
the audit committee in Chapter 3 above should also be provided to the shareholders 
in  a  brief  and  comprehensible  manner.  In  addition,  the  Working  Group  after 
deliberations determined that it may be relevant for the shareholders to know whether 
the approval for the RPT was given unanimously by the audit committee. 
 
Further, the Working Group also discussed whether a copy of the valuation report or 
any other external report relied upon by the management of the company should be 
annexed  to  the  notice  to  the  shareholders.  Members  of  the  Working  Group 
acknowledged that such reports could provide useful insights on the RPT. However, 
the Working Group also recognised the fact that such reports may be voluminous and 
technical.    Accordingly,  the  Working  Group  concluded  that  such  reports  would  be 
available for inspection at the registered office of the listed entity.  
 
The Working Group therefore recommended the following changes to the LODR: 
 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

36.  Documents  & 
shareholders  
 
…. 

Information 

to 

 

sent 

Insertion of new sub-regulation 36(6) 
 
36(6).  The  notice  being 
to 
shareholders  seeking  approval  for  any 
proposed related party transaction shall, in 
addition  to  the  requirements  under  the 
Companies Act, 2013, include the following 
information  as  a  part  of  the  explanatory 
statement:  
 
(1)  A  summary  of 

information 
provided  by  the  management  of  the 

the 

                                                           

company and copies thereof shall also be made available for inspection in physical or electronic form at 
the head office and corporate offices of the company. Further, copies of such documents should also be 
made available at the meeting itself. 

34 

 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

listed  entity  to  the  audit  committee 
pursuant to paragraph B(2) of Part C 
of Schedule II;  

 

(2)  The  recommendation  of  the  audit 
committee in respect of the proposed 
transaction,  specifying 
justification 
for  why  the  transaction  is  in  the 
interest of the listed entity;  

 

inter-corporate 

(3)  Where the transaction relates to any 
deposits, 
loans, 
advances  or  investments  made  or 
given  by  the  listed  entity  or  its 
subsidiary, 
the  details  specified 
under paragraph B (2) (f) of Part C of 
Schedule II;  
 

(4)  Whether  the  approval  of  the  related 
the  audit 

transaction  by 

party 
committee was unanimous;  
 

(5)  A  statement  that  the  valuation  or 
other  external  report,  if  any,  relied 
upon by the listed entity in relation to 
transaction  will  be 
the  proposed 
available 
for 
inspection  at 
the 
registered office of the listed entity; 
 

(6)  Percentage  of  the  counter-party’s 
annual  total  revenues,  total  assets 
and net worth, that is represented by 
the  value  of  the  proposed  related 
party transaction: 
 
Provided 
information 
mentioned in this sub-clause may be 
placed 
to 
shareholders on voluntary basis; and 
 

the  notice  sent 

that 

the 

in 

(7)  Any  other  information  that  may  be 

relevant. 

 

35 

 

 
Format for Reporting of RPTs to the Stock Exchanges   

II. 
 
One of the terms of reference of the Working Group was to  discuss formats for the 
periodic disclosures of RPTs by listed entities to the stock exchanges.  The Working 
Group commenced its deliberations with an objective to ensure that the format in which 
data  is  received  from  the  listed  entities  is  easily  readable  by  investors  as  well  as 
regulatory authorities for monitoring. 
 
The existing requirements governing the disclosure of RPTs by a listed entity under 
the LODR and the Companies Act are set out below: 
 
(i) 

The  listed  entity  is  required  to  disclose  its  related  party  transactions  on  a 
consolidated  basis  in  a  format  prescribed  under  the  relevant  accounting 
standard for  annual  results.  Such disclosure  should  be  made  within  30  days 
from the date of publication of its standalone and consolidated financial results 
for the half-year. 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

 

The listed entity is required to disclose RPTs in its annual report in the format 
specified under Schedule V of the LODR.  The annual report is also required to 
contain  disclosure  of  all  transactions  with  persons/entities  belonging  to  the 
promoter/promoter group holding 10% or more of the shareholding in the listed 
entity.  These disclosure requirements are not applicable to listed banks.   

 

The corporate governance report forming part of the annual report of the listed 
entity is required to include “disclosures on materially significant related party 
transactions that may have potential conflict with the interest of the listed entity 
at large”.  

 

The ‘details of all material transactions with related parties’ are required to be 
disclosed  in  the  quarterly  compliance  report  on  corporate  governance  to  be 
submitted by listed entities to the stock exchanges within 15 days from the end 
of the quarter.  

 

Listed  entities  are  also  required  to  disclose  to  the  stock  exchanges  any 
agreements, including loan agreements (as a borrower) which are binding on 
the  listed  entity  and  not  in  the  normal  course  of  business.  Subsequent 
amendments made to such agreements or termination of such agreements are 
also required to be disclosed. The above mentioned disclosures are however, 
be subject to the materiality guidelines under Regulation 30(4) of the LODR.   
 

(vi)  Every company is required to attach to its financial statements,  

the auditor’s report; and 
particulars of contracts or arrangements with related parties referred to 
in Section 188 of the Companies Act in Form AOC-28.    

(a) 
(b) 

 

                                                           
8  

Form AOC-2 requires disclosure of (i) related party transactions entered into by the company which are 
not at arm’s length basis and (ii) material related party transactions which are entered into on arm’s length 
basis. 

36 

 

(vii)  Details of RPTs in which directors are interested are required to be entered into 

the register of contracts or arrangements. 

 
Working Group deliberations and recommendations  
 
The Working Group discussed the format of the half yearly disclosures (i.e., in respect 
of the two six-monthly periods of a financial year).  Based on the existing regulation 
23(9) of the LODR, it was observed that there was no consistency in such disclosures 
across listed entities, more so since there is no specific format prescribed in the Ind 
AS. Thus, there is asymmetry in information due to varied reporting formats and the 
Working Group felt the need to standardize the same through a prescribed format. 
 
While  developing  the  format,  the  Working  Group  first  examined  the  existing 
disclosures as per  Ind  AS  such as  value  of transactions,  outstanding  balances  and 
their  terms  and  conditions  including  whether  they  are  secured,  details  of  any 
guarantees given or received, among others. Further, the Working Group noted that 
Ind AS requires these disclosures only at an aggregate level with a specific category 
of related party such as parent, subsidiary etc. In this respect, the Working Group was 
of  the  opinion  that  disclosure  of  aggregate  level  information  does  not  provide 
substantive information and a breakup of the same should be given such that RPTs 
with different counter-parties should be separately disclosed. Further, considering that 
significant  misuse  of  RPTs  has  been  happening  by  way  of  loans/advances/inter-
corporate  deposits  to related  parties,  the Working  Group  was  of the  view  that  such 
transactions need more detailed disclosures. Taking into consideration the above, the 
Working Group has built upon the existing disclosures and codified the same into a 
standardized format as provided in Appendix-II of this Report. 
 
Separately, the Working Group also discussed whether the listed entity can make the 
prescribed  RPT  disclosures  simultaneously  with  the  publication  of  financial  results.  
Currently, the listed entity is required to make such RPT disclosures within 30 days 
from the date of publication of its standalone and consolidated financial statements. 
The Working Group considered that the details of all RPTs would already be available 
with the listed entity when the financial results are announced; accordingly, the listed 
entity should be able to disclose details of RPTs in the prescribed format on the same 
day.   
 
While the LODR mandates certain disclosures relating to loans and advances under 
Schedule V in the Annual Report of the listed entity, the format recommended by the 
Working Group covers such disclosures except with respect to “loans and advances 
in the nature of loans to firms/companies in which directors are interested by name 
and amount”. Accordingly, in order to avoid duplicity in disclosures, the Working Group 
recommended  that  these  disclosure  requirements  under  Schedule  V  in  the  Annual 
Report should be applicable only to companies with listed debt securities.  Disclosures 
with respect to ‘loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/companies in which 
directors are interested by name and amount’ may be included as part of the corporate 
governance disclosures to be made in the Annual Report of the listed entity as per the 
LODR.  
 
The Working Group therefore recommended the following changes to the LODR: 
 

37 

 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

23(9)  The  listed  entity  shall  submit 
within  30  days  from  the  date  of 
publication  of 
its  standalone  and 
consolidated  financial  results  for  the 
half year, disclosures of related party 
transactions on a consolidated basis, 
in the format specified in the relevant 
accounting  standards 
for  annual 
results  to  the  stock  exchanges  and 
publish the same on its website. 

SCHEDULE V: ANNUAL REPORT 
 
The  annual  report  shall  contain  the 
following additional disclosures: 
 
A.  Related Party Disclosure: 
…. 
 

2.  The  disclosure  requirements  shall 
be as follows: 
…. 
 

C. Corporate Governance Report: 
 
……. 
 
(10) Other Disclosures: 
 
(a)…. 
 
 

format  specified 

in 

the 

23(9)  The  listed  entity  shall  submit  within 
30 days from the date of publication of its 
standalone  and  consolidated 
financial 
results  for  the  half  year,  to  the  stock 
exchanges  disclosures  of  related  party 
transactions    on  a  consolidated  basis,  in 
the 
relevant 
accounting standards for annual results to 
the  stock  exchanges  prescribed  by  SEBI 
and publish the same on its website. 
 
listed  entity  shall  make  such 
The 
disclosures  every  six  months  on  the  date 
of  publication  of 
its  standalone  and 
consolidated financial results. 
 
Modification  of  paragraph  A.(2.)  and 
insertion  of  new  paragraph  (m)  in  (C)(10) 
of Schedule V of the LODR 
 
SCHEDULE V: ANNUAL REPORT 
 
The  annual 
following additional disclosures: 
 
A. Related Party Disclosure: 
…. 
 

report  shall  contain 

the 

2. The disclosure requirements shall be as 
follows:  disclosures  under  A.(2.)  and 
A.(2A.)  of  Schedule  V  below,  shall  be 
applicable  only  to  entities  with  listed  debt 
securities. 
 
…. 
 
C. Corporate Governance Report: 
….. 
 
(10) Other Disclosures: 
 
(a)…. 
 
(m) disclosure of ‘Loans and advances in 
the  nature  of  loans  to  firms/companies  in 
which directors are interested by name and 

38 

 

 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

 

listed  entity  and 

its 

for  a 

amount’ 
subsidiaries.  
 

39 

 

 

Chapter 5: Strengthening the Monitoring and Enforcement of 

Regulatory Norms relating to Related Party Transactions 

Introduction  

This  chapter  of  the  Report  sets  out  certain  other  recommendations  of  the Working 
Group in respect of strengthening the monitoring and enforcement of regulatory norms 
relating to RPTs. 
 
I. 
 
The  monitoring  and  enforcement  of  regulatory  norms  prescribed  under  the  LODR, 
including in relation to RPTs is four tiered: 
 
(i) 

exercise of due diligence by, and active involvement of, the persons identified 
by the regulatory mechanism to review and consider RPTs.  The directors on 
the audit committee of the listed entity are the first gatekeepers to review the 
proposed  RPT,  conduct  due  diligence  and  seek  external  or  expert  opinions 
where necessary.   
 
second  level  of  check  is  provided  by  the  shareholders  of  the  listed  entity 
(whether for matters that come up for shareholder approval or otherwise when 
the RPTs are disclosed periodically).  
 
independent professionals such as statutory auditors and secretarial auditors 
also provide third tier of check on RPTs.  
 
The final  level of monitoring and enforcement of regulatory norms relating to 
RPTs is by the relevant regulatory authority. 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

 
Under the current regulatory framework, a director is disqualified from being appointed 
as a director of any company, if he/she has been convicted of any offence relating to 
RPTs under Section 188 of the Companies Act, in the last five years. Depending on 
the nature of the violation, SEBI can also initiate action against a listed entity and other 
concerned persons for violation of any provision of LODR relating to RPTs including 
caution, warning, adjudication (levy of penalty), and/or debarment, depending on the 
gravity of the violation. 
 
Further,  in  respect  of  any  contract  or  arrangement  entered  into  by  a  listed  entity  in 
violation of Section 188 of the Companies Act, the concerned director or employee of 
the company is liable to a fine ranging from Rs.25,000 to Rs.5 lakh or imprisonment 
for up to one year or both.  The company may also proceed against a director or any 
other employee who had entered into such contract or arrangement in contravention 
of Section 188 of the Companies Act for recovery of any loss sustained by it as a result 
of such contract or arrangement.   
 
Working Group Deliberations and Recommendations 
 
The  Working  Group  considered  improvements  in  monitoring  and  enforcements  in 
three main areas:  
 

40 

 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 

the use of structured data (iXBRL) to augment enforcement;  
the use of standardised identifiers to identify RPTs; and  
capacity  building,  both  human  and  technological,  at  SEBI  and  the  stock 
exchanges. 

Use of Structured Data  

 
(i) 
 
At present, LODR mandates that the disclosures made by a listed entity to the stock 
exchanges shall be in XBRL format, unless there is a statutory requirement to make 
such disclosures in formats which may not be searchable, such as copies of scanned 
documents. This provides users, including investors with better quality, reliability and 
enables  deeper  analysis  of  financial  information  and  allows  other  parties  such  as 
auditors  to  use  audit  data  analytics  to  make  the  audit  more  efficient.  It  also  allows 
regulators to use data analytics to identify violations of regulatory norms. 
 
While SEBI has already mandated the XBRL format for reporting, the Working Group 
recommended that there should be one filing format, which could be based on inline 
XBRL  (iXBRL),  an  open  standard  that  enables  a  single  document  to  provide  both 
human-readable and structured, machine-readable data. Further, SEBI and the stock 
exchanges could consider enhancing their technological capabilities to leverage the 
benefits of developments in structured reporting.  
 
(ii) 
 
To  ensure  better  monitoring  of  RPTs  in  view  of  concerns  such  as  mismatch  in 
reporting,  routing  through  multiple  entities,  etc.,  there  is  a  need  for  standardised 
identification  of  related  parties.    In  the  section  on  disclosure  formats,  one  of  the 
recommendations  made  by  the  Working  Group  is  the  use  of  Permanent  Account 
Number (“PAN”) of the parties involved in related party transactions.  

Introduction of Standardised Identifiers  

 

(iii)  Capacity building at the SEBI and the Stock Exchanges 
 
The Working  Group  also  notes  and  reiterates  the  following  recommendation  of  the 
Kotak  committee  on  corporate  governance,  as  regards  capacity  building  at  SEBI 
(which the Working Group noted could also apply to the stock exchanges): 
 
The  staff  strength  at  SEBI  needs  to  be  increased  to  strengthen  its  monitoring  and 
enforcement functions.  Successful enforcement actions by SEBI can have the twin 
effect  of penalising  the  guilty, on the one  hand, and  creating  a  significant  deterrent 
effect on the other hand. However, for such deterrent effects to be felt in India, SEBI 
must equip itself so that it can adroitly gather evidence with the objective of “investigate 
to  litigate.”  SEBI  needs  to  develop  teams  comprising  data  scientists,  accountants, 
lawyers specialised in corporate law, software engineers. The members need to have 
depth  of  knowledge  within  their  respective  areas  as  also  possess  broad  expertise 
across functional areas.  In addition, SEBI should build its market intelligence through 
regular review of market research. 
 
 

 

41 

 

Annexure A 

 
 

1. 

Definition of ‘Related Party’  
 

 

Companies Act 

 

2. (76) “related party”, with reference to a 
company, means—  
 
(i) 

a director or his relative;  
 
a key managerial personnel or his 
relative;  
 
 a 
in  which  a  director, 
manager or his relative is a partner; 
 

firm, 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(v) 

(iv)  a  private  company  in  which  a 
director or manager  or his relative 
is a member or director;  
 
a  public  company 
in  which  a 
director  or  manager  is  a  director 
and  holds along with his relatives, 
more than two per cent of its paid-
up share capital;  
 

(vi)  any  body  corporate  whose  Board 
of  Directors,  managing  director  or 
manager  is  accustomed  to  act  in 
accordance  with 
the  advice, 
directions  or 
instructions  of  a 
director or manager;  
 

(vii)  any  person  on  whose  advice, 
directions or instructions a director 
or manager is accustomed to act:  
 
Provided 
in  sub-
clauses (vi) and (vii) shall apply to 
the 
or 
instructions given in a professional 
capacity;  
 

that  nothing 

directions 

advice, 

 

Ind AS 24 

 

A related party is a person or entity that 
is  related  to  the  entity  that  is  preparing 
its financial statements (in this Standard 
referred to as the ‘reporting entity’).   

 

(a) A person or a close member of that 
to  a 

family 

related 
person’s 
reporting entity if that person: 
 

is 

(i)  has  control  or  joint  control  of  the 

reporting entity; 

 

(ii)  has  significant  influence  over  the 

reporting entity; or 

 

(iii) 

key 
is  a  member  of 
management  personnel  of 
the 
reporting entity or of a parent of the 
reporting entity.   

the 

 

(b) An  entity  is  related  to  a  reporting 
following 

if  any  of 

the 

entity 
conditions applies: 
 

(i)  The entity and the reporting entity are 
members  of  the  same  group  (which 
means  that  each  parent,  subsidiary 
and fellow subsidiary is related to the 
others).   

 

(ii)  One entity is an associate or joint 
venture  of  the  other  entity  (or  an 
associate  or  joint  venture  of  a 
member  of  a  group  of  which  the 
other entity is a member).   
 

(iii)  Both  entities  are  joint  ventures  of 

the same third party.   

(viii)  any body corporate which is—  

 

(A)  a  holding,  subsidiary  or  an 
associate  company  of  such 
company; or  

(iv)  One  entity  is  a  joint  venture  of  a 
third  entity  and  the  other  entity  is 
an associate of the third entity.   

42 

 

 

Companies Act 

 

 

Ind AS 24 

 

 

(v)  The  entity  is  a  post-employment 
benefit  plan  for  the  benefit  of 
employees  of  either  the  reporting 
entity  or  an  entity  related  to  the 
reporting  entity.  If  the  reporting 
entity  is  itself  such  a  plan,  the 
sponsoring  employers  are  also 
related to the reporting entity.   
 

(vi)  The  entity  is  controlled  or  jointly 
controlled by a person identified in 
(a).   
 

(vii)  A  person  identified  in  (a)(i)  has 
significant influence over the entity 
the  key 
or 
management  personnel  of 
the 
entity (or of a parent of the entity) 
 

is  a  member  of 

(viii)  The  entity,  or  any  member  of  a 
group of which it is a part, provides 
key  management 
personnel 
services to the reporting entity or to 
the parent of the reporting entity.   

(B)  a  subsidiary  of  a  holding 
company  to  which  it  is  also  a 
subsidiary; or 
(C)  an  investing  company  or  the 
venture of the company. 
 
Explanation.-For  the  purpose  of 
this 
investing 
company  or  the  venturer  of  a 
company”  means 
body 
corporate whose investment in the 
company  would  result 
the 
company  becoming  an  associate 
company of the body corporate.  
 

clause, 

“the 

a 

in 

(ix)  such  other  person  as  may  be 

prescribed*; 
 

 
*Rule 3 of the Companies (Specification 
of  Definitions  Details)  Rules,  2014 
prescribes that a director (other than an 
independent director) or key managerial 
personnel of the holding company or his 
relative  with  reference  to  a  company, 
shall be deemed to be a related party.   
 

2. 

 
Section 188 of the Companies Act 
 
188.  Related party transactions. 

 

1. 

 

Except with the consent of the Board of Directors given by a resolution 
at  a  meeting  of  the  Board  and  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be 
prescribed,  no  company  shall  enter  into  any  contract  or  arrangement 
with a related party with respect to–  

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

sale, purchase or supply of any goods or materials; 
selling or otherwise disposing of, or buying, property of any kind; 
leasing of property of any kind; 
availing or rendering of any services; 
appointment  of  any  agent  for  purchase  or  sale  of  goods, 
materials, services or property; 
such related party's appointment to any office or place of profit in 
the company, its subsidiary company or associate company; and 
underwriting  the  subscription  of  any  securities  or  derivatives 
thereof, of the company: 

43 

 

 
Provided that no contract or arrangement, in the case of a company having a 
paid-up share capital of not less than such amount, or transactions exceeding 
such sums, as may be prescribed, shall be entered into except with the prior 
approval of the company by a resolution: 

 

Provided further that no member of the company shall vote on such resolution, 
to  approve  any  contract  or  arrangement  which  may  be  entered  into  by  the 
company, if such member is a related party: 
 
Provided  also  that  nothing  contained  in  the  second  proviso  shall  apply  to  a 
company in which ninety per cent or more members, in number, are relatives 
of promoters or are related parties:  
 
Provided  also that  nothing  in  this  sub-section  shall apply to any transactions 
entered  into  by  the  company  in  its  ordinary  course  of  business  other  than 
transactions which are not on an arm‘s length basis: 
 
Provided also that the requirement of passing the resolution under first proviso 
shall not be applicable for transactions entered into between a holding company 
and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiary  whose  accounts  are  consolidated  with  such 
holding company and placed before the shareholders at the general meeting 
for approval.   
 
Explanation.  In this sub-section, 
 
(a) 

the expression “office or place of profit” means any office or place – 

 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

where  such  office  or  place  is  held  by  a  director,  if  the  director 
holding  it  receives  from  the  company  anything  by  way  of 
remuneration  over  and  above  the  remuneration  to  which  he  is 
entitled  as  director,  by  way  of  salary, 
fee,  commission, 
perquisites, any rent-free accommodation, or otherwise; 

where such office or place is held by an individual other than a 
director or by any firm, private company or other body corporate, 
if the individual, firm, private company or body corporate holding 
it receives from the company anything by way of remuneration, 
salary, 
commission, 
rent-free 
accommodation, or otherwise; 

perquisites, 

fee, 

any 

 
the expression “arm‘s length transaction” means a transaction between 
two related parties that is conducted as if they were unrelated, so that 
there is no conflict of interest.   

Every contract or arrangement entered into under sub-section (1) shall 
be referred to in the Board‘s report to the shareholders along with the 
justification for entering into such contract or arrangement.   

(b) 

2. 

 

 

44 

 

3. 

 

4. 

 
5. 

Where any contract or arrangement is entered into by a director or any 
other employee, without obtaining the consent of the Board or approval 
by a resolution in the general meeting under sub-section (1) and if it is 
not ratified by the Board or, as the case may be, by the shareholders at 
a meeting within three months from the date on which such contract or 
arrangement  was  entered  into,  such  contract  or  arrangement  shall  be 
voidable  at  the  option  of  the  Board  or,  as  the  case  may  be,  of  the 
shareholders and if the contract or arrangement is with a related party to 
any  director,  or  is  authorised  by  any  other  director,  the  directors 
concerned shall indemnify the company against any loss incurred by it.   

Without  prejudice  to  anything  contained  in  sub-section  (3),  it  shall  be 
open  to  the  company  to  proceed  against  a  director  or  any  other 
employee  who  had  entered  into  such  contract  or  arrangement  in 
contravention of the provisions of this section for recovery of any loss 
sustained by it as a result of such contract or arrangement.   

Any director or any other employee of a company, who had entered into 
or authorised the contract or arrangement in violation of the provisions 
of this section shall,– 

 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

in case of listed company, be punishable with imprisonment for a 
term which may extend to one year or with fine which shall not be 
less than twenty-five thousand rupees but which may extend to 
five lakh rupees, or with both; and 

in case of any other company, be punishable with fine which shall 
not  be  less  than  twenty-five  thousand  rupees  but  which  may 
extend to five lakh rupees.   

Definition of ‘promoter’ and ‘promoter group’ under the ICDR 

 
3. 
 
2(1)(oo). “promoter” shall include a person:  

who has been named as such in a draft offer document or offer document or 
is identified by the issuer in the annual return referred to in section 92 of the 
Companies Act, 2013; or  

who has control over the affairs of the issuer, directly or indirectly whether as 
a shareholder, director or otherwise; or  

in  accordance  with  whose  advice,  directions  or  instructions  the  board  of 
directors of the issuer is accustomed to act:  

i) 

 

 

ii) 

iii) 

 

Provided that nothing in sub-clause (iii) shall apply to a person who is acting merely in 
a professional capacity;  

Provided  further  that  a  financial  institution,  scheduled  commercial  bank,  foreign 
portfolio  investor  other  than  individuals,  corporate bodies and  family  offices,  mutual 
fund, venture capital fund, alternative investment fund, foreign venture capital investor, 

45 

 

insurance  company  registered  with  the  Insurance  Regulatory  and  Development 
Authority of India or any other category as specified by the Board from time to time, 
shall not be deemed to be a promoter merely by virtue of the fact that twenty per cent 
or more of the equity share capital of the issuer is held by such person unless such 
person satisfy other requirements prescribed under these regulations; 

2(1)(pp) “promoter group” includes:  

the promoter;  

an immediate relative of the promoter (i.e., any spouse of that person, or any 
parent, brother, sister or child of the person or of the spouse); and  

i) 

ii) 

 

 

iii) 

in case promoter is a body corporate: 

 
A) 
 
B) 

 
C) 

a subsidiary or holding company of such body corporate;  

any body corporate in which the promoter holds twenty per cent or more 
of the equity share capital; and/or any body corporate which holds twenty 
per cent or more of the equity share capital of the promoter;  

any  body  corporate  in  which  a  group  of  individuals  or  companies  or 
combinations  thereof  acting  in  concert,  which  hold  twenty  per  cent  or 
more of the equity share capital in that body corporate and such group 
of  individuals  or  companies or  combinations  thereof  also  holds  twenty 
per cent or more of the equity share capital of the issuer and are also 
acting in concert; and  

iv) 

 
in case the promoter is an individual:  
 
A) 

any body corporate in which twenty per cent or more of the equity share 
capital is held by the promoter or an immediate relative of the promoter 
or a firm or Hindu Undivided Family in which the promoter or any one or 
more of their relative is a member;  

 
B) 

 
C) 

any body corporate in which a body corporate as provided in (A) above 
holds twenty per cent or more, of the equity share capital; and  

any Hindu Undivided Family or firm in which the aggregate share of the 
promoter and their relatives is equal to or more than twenty per cent of 
the total capital;  

v) 

 
all persons whose shareholding is aggregated under the heading “shareholding 
of the promoter group”: 

Provided  that  a  financial  institution,  scheduled  bank,  foreign  portfolio  investor  other 
than individuals, corporate bodies and family offices, mutual fund, venture capital fund, 
alternative  investment  fund,  foreign  venture  capital  investor,  insurance  company 
registered with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India or any 
other category as specified by the Board from time to time, shall not be deemed to be 

46 

 

promoter group merely by virtue of the fact that twenty per cent or more of the equity 
share capital of the promoter is held by such person or entity: 

Provided  further  that  such  financial  institution,  scheduled  bank,  foreign  portfolio 
investor  other  than  individuals,  corporate  bodies  and  family  offices,  mutual  fund, 
venture capital fund, alternative investment fund and foreign venture capital investor 
insurance  company  registered  with  the  Insurance  Regulatory  and  Development 
Authority of India or any other category as specified by the Board from time to time 
shall  be  treated  as  promoter  group  for  the  subsidiaries  or  companies  promoted  by 
them or for the mutual fund sponsored by them; 

47 

 

Appendix – I : Consolidated List of Recommendations 

 

Current Provision in the LODR 

Proposed Changes 

 

 

 

 

Definition of “related party”– Refer to paragraph I of Chapter 2 (page 10) for the 
rationale for the proposed amendment  

 
2(zb) “related party” means a related 
party  as  defined  under  sub-section 
(76)  of  section  2  of  the  Companies 
Act,  2013  or  under  the  applicable 
accounting standards: 
 
Provided  that  any  person  or  entity 
belonging to the promoter or promoter 
group of the listed entity and holding 
20%  or  more  of  shareholding  in  the 
listed entity shall be deemed to be a 
related party. 
 

Provided  further  that  this  definition 
shall not be applicable for  the  units 
issued  by  mutual  funds  which  are 
listed  on  a 
stock 
exchange(s); 

recognised 

 
2(zb) “related party” means a related party 
as defined under sub-section (76) of section 
2 of the Companies Act, 2013 or under the 
applicable accounting standards: 
 
Provided that:  
(i)  any  person  or  entity  belonging  to  the 
promoter  or  promoter  group  of  the  listed 
entity  and    holding    20%    or    more    of  
shareholding    in    the    listed  entity  shall  be 
deemed to be a related party; or  
 
(ii)  any  person  or  any  entity,  directly  or 
indirectly  (including  with  their  relatives), 
holding  20%  or  more  of 
the  equity 
shareholding in the listed entity,  
 
shall be deemed to be a related party. 

Provided  further  that  this  definition  shall 
not  be  applicable  for  the  units  issued  by 
mutual 
listed  on  a 
recognised stock exchange(s); 
 

funds  which  are 

“related  party 

 
Definition  of  “related  party  transaction”-  Refer  to  paragraph  III  of  Chapter  2 
(page 13) and paragraph I of Chapter 3 (page 15) for the rationale for the proposed 
amendment 
 
 
transaction” 
2(zc) 
means  a 
resources, 
services  or  obligations  between  a 
listed  entity  and  a  related  party, 
regardless  of  whether  a  price  is 
charged  and  a  “transaction”  with  a 
related  party  shall  be  construed  to 
include a single transaction or a group 
of transactions in a contract: 
 

 
2(zc)  “related  party  transaction”  means  a 
transaction 
of 
resources, services or obligations between 
a listed entity and a related party:  
 
(i)  the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries 
on  the one hand and a  related  party  of 
the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries 
on the other hand; or  

transfer  of 

involving 

a 

transfer 

 

48 

 

Provided  that  this definition  shall  not 
be  applicable for  the units  issued  by 
mutual  funds  which  are  listed  on  a 
recognised stock exchange(s); 
 

(ii)  the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries 
on the one hand, and any other person 
or entity on the other hand, the purpose 
and effect of which is to benefit a related 
party  of  the  listed  entity  or  any  of  its 
subsidiaries,  

 

regardless of whether a price is charged or 
not and a. Such “transaction” with a related 
party shall be construed to include a single 
transaction  or  a  group  of  transactions.in  a 
contract: 
 
Provided  that  the  following  shall  not  be 
treated as related party transactions: 
 
(a) 

basis, 

subject 

the issue of specified securities on a 
preferential 
to 
requirements  under  the  Securities 
and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue 
of 
Disclosure 
Requirements)  Regulations,  2018 
being complied with; and    
     
the following corporate actions by the 
listed  entity  which  are  uniformly 
applicable/offered to all shareholders 
in proportion to their shareholding: 
 

Capital 

and 

(b) 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

payment of dividend;  
 
subdivision or consolidation of 
securities; 
 
issuance  of  securities  by  way 
of  a  rights  issue  or  a  bonus 
issue; and  
 
buy-back of securities. 

 
Provided further that this definition shall not 
be applicable for the units issued by mutual 
funds which are listed on a recognised stock 
exchange(s); 

Regulation 18(3).  Audit Committee  – Refer  to paragraph III of Chapter  3 (page 
27) for the rationale for the proposed amendment 

 

 

49 

 

role  of 

the  audit 
18(3)  –The 
committee  and  the  information  to  be 
reviewed by the audit committee shall 
be as specified in Part C of Schedule 
II. 

18(3) –The role of the audit committee and 
the information to be reviewed by the audit 
committee, 
including  while  considering 
related  party  transactions,  shall  be  as 
specified in Part C of Schedule II. 
 

Regulation 23(1). Related party transactions– Refer to paragraph II of Chapter 3 
(page 25) for the rationale for the proposed amendment 

 
23(1) The listed entity shall formulate 
a policy on materiality of related party 
transactions  and  on  dealing  with 
related  party  transactions  including 
clear  threshold  limits  duly  approved 
by  the  board  of  directors  and  such 
policy shall be reviewed by the board 
of directors at least once every three 
years and updated accordingly: 
 
Explanation.-  A  transaction  with  a 
related  party  shall  be  considered 
material  if  the  transaction(s)  to  be 
entered  into  individually  or  taken 
together  with  previous  transactions 
during  a  financial  year,  exceeds  ten 
percent  of  the  annual  consolidated 
turnover of the listed entity as per the 
last  audited  financial  statements  of 
the listed entity. 

 
23(1)  The  listed  entity  shall  formulate  a 
policy  on  materiality  of 
related  party 
transactions  and  on  dealing  with  related 
party transactions including clear threshold 
limits  duly  approved  by 
the  board  of 
directors and such policy shall be reviewed 
by the board of directors at least once every 
three years and updated accordingly: 
 
Explanation.-  A  transaction  with  a  related 
party 
transaction  shall  be  considered 
material  if  the  transaction(s)  to  be  entered 
into  individually  or  taken  together  with 
previous  transactions  during  a  financial 
year,  exceeds  ten  Rs.1,000  crore  or  five 
percent of the annual consolidated turnover 
total  revenues, total  assets  or net  worth  of 
the listed entity on a consolidated basis as 
per the last audited financial statements of 
the 
lower, 
provided  that  the  criterion  relating  to  net 
worth shall not be applicable if the net worth 
of the listed entity is negative.   
 

listed  entity.,  whichever 

is 

Regulation 23(2). Related party transactions– Refer to paragraph I of Chapter 3 
(page 15) for the rationale for the proposed amendment 

 
23(2)  All  related  party  transactions 
shall  require  prior  approval  of  the 
audit committee. 

 
23(2)  All  related  party  transactions  and 
subsequent  material  modifications  shall 
require prior approval of the audit committee 
of the listed entity. 
 
Provided that a related party transaction to 
which  the  subsidiary  of  a  listed  entity  is  a 
party but the listed entity is not a party, shall 
require prior approval of the audit committee 
of the listed entity only if the value of such 

50 

 

entered 

(whether 

into 
transaction 
individually or taken together with previous 
transactions  during  a 
financial  year) 
exceeds 10% of the annual total revenues, 
total  assets  or  net  worth  of  the  subsidiary, 
on a standalone basis, for the immediately 
preceding financial year, whichever is lower, 
provided  that  the  criterion  relating  to  net 
worth shall not be applicable if the net worth 
of the subsidiary is negative.   
 
Provided  further  that  prior  approval  of  the 
audit committee of the listed entity shall not 
be required for a related party transaction to 
which the listed subsidiary is a party but the 
listed  entity  is  not  a  party,  if  such  listed 
subsidiary is not exempt from regulation 23 
and 
the  other  corporate  governance 
provisions of these regulations specified in 
regulation 15(2). 
 
Explanation: for related party transactions of 
unlisted  subsidiaries  of  a  listed  subsidiary 
specified  above,  the  prior  approval  of  the 
audit  committee  of  the  listed  subsidiary 
would suffice. 
 

Regulation 23(4). Related party transactions– Refer to paragraph I of Chapter 3 
(page 15) for the rationale for the proposed amendment 

to 

the 

 
23(4)  All  material 
related  party 
transactions shall require approval of 
the  shareholders  through  resolution 
and  no  related  party  shall  vote  to 
approve such resolutions whether the 
entity 
the 
is  a  related  party 
particular transaction or not: 
 
requirements 
Provided 
specified  under  this  sub-regulation 
shall  not  apply 
in  respect  of  a 
resolution  plan  approved  under 
section  31  of  the  Insolvency  Code, 
subject  to  the  event  being  disclosed 
to  the  recognized  stock  exchanges 
within one day of the resolution plan 
being approved; 
 

that 

require  prior  approval  of 

 
23(4) All material related party transactions 
and  subsequent  material  modifications, 
shall 
the 
shareholders  through  resolution  and  no 
related  party  shall  vote  to  approve  such 
resolutions  whether  the  entity  is  a  related 
party to the particular transaction or not: 
 
the 
Provided 
shareholders  of  a  listed  entity  shall  not  be 
required  for  a  related  party  transaction  to 
which the listed subsidiary is a party but the 
listed  entity  is  not  a  party,  if  such  listed 
subsidiary is not exempt from regulation 23 
and 
the  other  corporate  governance 
provisions of these regulations specified in 
regulation 15(2). 
 

that  prior  approval  of 

51 

 

that 

further 

Explanation: for related party transactions of 
unlisted  subsidiaries  of  a  listed  subsidiary 
specified  above,  the  prior  approval  of  the 
shareholders of the listed subsidiary would 
suffice. 
 
Provided 
the  requirements 
specified under this sub-regulation shall not 
apply 
in  respect  of  a  resolution  plan 
approved under section 31 of the Insolvency 
Code, subject to the event being disclosed 
to  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  within 
one  day  of 
the  resolution  plan  being 
approved; 
 
 

 
Regulation 23(5). Related party transactions– Refer to paragraph I of Chapter 3 
(page 15) for the rationale for the proposed amendment 
 
 
23(5)  The  provisions  of 
sub-
regulations  (2),  (3)  and  (4)  shall  not 
be applicable in the following cases: 
 
(a)  transactions entered into between 

 
23(5) The provisions of sub-regulations (2), 
(3)  and  (4)  shall  not  be  applicable  in  the 
following cases: 
 
(a)  transactions  entered  into  between  two 

two government companies;  

 
(b)  transactions entered into between 
a holding company and its wholly 
owned 
whose 
accounts  are  consolidated  with 
such  holding  company  and 
placed before the shareholders at 
the general meeting for approval; 

subsidiary 

(a), 

 
Explanation.  -  For  the  purpose  of 
clause 
"government 
company(ies)"  means  Government 
company  as  defined  in  sub-section 
(45)  of  section  2  of  the  Companies 
Act, 2013. 
 

government companies;  
 

(b)  transactions  entered  into  between  a 
holding  company  and its  wholly  owned 
subsidiary  whose 
are 
holding 
consolidated  with 
company  and  placed  before 
the 
shareholders at the general meeting for 
approval; 

accounts 
such 

 

(c)  transactions  entered  into  between  two 
wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of  the  listed 
holding  company,  whose  accounts  are 
consolidated  with 
holding 
company  and  placed  before 
the 
shareholders at the general meeting for 
approval. 

such 

 
Explanation. - For the purpose of clause (a), 
"government 
means 
Government  company  as  defined  in  sub-
section (45) of section 2 of the Companies 
Act, 2013. 
 

company(ies)" 

52 

 

Regulation 23(9). Related party transactions– Refer to paragraph II of Chapter 
4 (page 36) for the rationale for the proposed amendment 

 
23(9)  The  listed  entity  shall  submit 
within  30  days  from  the  date  of 
publication  of 
its  standalone  and 
consolidated  financial  results  for  the 
half year, disclosures of related party 
transactions on a consolidated basis, 
in the format specified in the relevant 
accounting  standards 
for  annual 
results  to  the  stock  exchanges  and 
publish the same on its website. 

 
23(9) The listed entity shall submit within 30 
days  from  the  date  of  publication  of  its 
standalone  and  consolidated 
financial 
results  for  the  half  year,  to  the  stock 
exchanges  disclosures  of  related  party 
transactions on a consolidated basis, in the 
format  specified  in  the  relevant  accounting 
standards  for  annual  results  to  the  stock 
exchanges prescribed by SEBI and publish 
the same on its website. 
 
The 
listed  entity  shall  make  such 
disclosures every six months on the date of 
publication 
and 
consolidated financial results. 
 

standalone 

its 

of 

Regulation 36. Documents & Information to shareholders– Refer to paragraph 
I of Chapter 4 (page 33) for the rationale for the proposed amendment 

 
36.  Documents  & 
shareholders  
 
…. 

Information 

to 

 
Insertion of new sub-regulation 36(6) 
 
36(6). The notice being sent to shareholders 
seeking  approval  for  any  proposed  related 
party  transaction  shall,  in  addition  to  the 
requirements  under  the  Companies  Act, 
2013, include the following information as a 
part of the explanatory statement:  
 
(1)  A  summary  of 

information 
provided  by  the  management  of  the 
listed  entity  to  the  audit  committee 
pursuant to paragraph B(2) of Part C 
of Schedule II;  

the 

 

(2)  The  recommendation  of  the  audit 
committee in respect of the proposed 
transaction, specifying justification for 
why the transaction is in the interest of 
the listed entity;  

 

(3)  Where  the  transaction  relates  to  any 
loans, 
deposits, 
advances  or  investments  made  or 

inter-corporate 

53 

 

the 

listed  entity  or 

its 
given  by 
subsidiary, the details specified under 
paragraph  B  (2)  (f)  of  Part  C  of 
Schedule II;  
 

(4)  Whether  the  approval  of  the  related 
the  audit 

transaction  by 

party 
committee was unanimous;  
 

(5)  A statement that the valuation or other 
external report, if any, relied upon by 
the  listed  entity  in  relation  to  the 
proposed transaction will be available 
for  inspection  at  the  registered  office 
of the listed entity; 
 

(6)  Percentage  of 

the  counter-party’s 
annual  total  revenues,  total  assets 
and net worth, that is represented by 
the value of the proposed related party 
transaction: 
 
Provided 
information 
mentioned  in this  sub-clause  may  be 
placed 
to 
shareholders on voluntary basis; and 
 

the  notice  sent 

that 

the 

in 

(7)  Any  other  information  that  may  be 

relevant. 

 

Modification of paragraph (2) and insertion of new paragraph (7) in Part B of 
Schedule II – Refer to paragraph III of Chapter 3 (page 27) for the rationale for the 
proposed amendment 

 
Part C of Schedule II of the LODR 
 
B.  The  audit  committee  shall 
mandatorily 
following 
information: 
…. 
 

review 

the 

 
Modification of paragraph (2) and insertion 
of new paragraph (7) in Part B of Schedule 
II of the LODR 
 
B.  The  audit  committee  shall  mandatorily 
review the following information: 
…. 
 
(2)  statement  of  significant  related  party 
transactions  (as  defined  by 
the  audit 
committee), submitted by management; 
 
with  respect  to  approval  of  a  related  party 
transaction,  the  following  information  as 

54 

 

provided  by  the  management  of  the  listed 
entity: 

 
(a)  Type,  material  terms  and  particulars 

of the proposed transaction;  

 
(b)  Name  of  the  related  party  and  its 
relationship with the listed entity or its 
subsidiary,  including  nature  of  its 
concern  or 
(financial  or 
otherwise);  
 

interest 

(c)  Tenure of the proposed transaction;  

 
Explanation.-  The  transaction  should 
have  a  particular  tenure  or  term  and 
should  not  be  indefinite  or  open-
ended. 

(d)  Value of the proposed transaction;  

 
Explanation.- An upper limit should be 
provided and in case of a recurring or 
continuous transaction, the aggregate 
value and the time period within which 
such limit will be exhausted.  
 

(e)  The  percentage  of  the  listed  entity’s 
annual  total  revenues,  total  assets 
and  net  worth,  on  a  consolidated 
basis,  for  the  immediately  preceding 
financial  year,  that  is  represented  by 
the value of the proposed transaction, 
provided  that,  for  a  related  party 
transaction involving a subsidiary, the 
value of the proposed transaction as a 
percentage of the subsidiary’s annual 
total revenues on a standalone basis 
should be additionally provided;  
 
If the transaction relates to any loans, 
inter-corporate deposits, advances or 
investments  made  or  given  by  the 
listed entity or its subsidiary:  

(f) 

i. 

 
details  of  the  source  of  funds  in 
connection  with 
the  proposed 
related party transaction;  

 

55 

 

ii. 

where any financial indebtedness 
is incurred to make or give loans, 
inter-corporate 
deposits, 
advances or investments, 

  nature of indebtedness; 
  cost of funds; and  
 

tenure;  

iii. 

 

iv. 

terms, 

 
applicable 
including 
covenants,  tenure,  interest  rate 
and 
schedule, 
whether  secured  or  unsecured 
and  if  secured,  the  nature  of 
security; and  

repayment 

the  purpose  for  which  the  funds 
will  be  utilised  by  the  ultimate 
of 
beneficiary 
funds 
pursuant 
the  related  party 
to 
transaction; 
 

such 

(g) 

Justification  as  to  why  the  related 
party  transaction  is  in  the  interest  of 
the listed entity;  
 

(i) 

(h)  A  copy  of  the  valuation  or  other 
external report, if any such report has 
been relied upon;  
 
Percentage  of 
the  counter-party’s 
annual  total  revenues,  total  assets 
and net worth, that is represented by 
the value of the proposed related party 
transaction: 
 
Provided 
information 
mentioned  in this  sub-clause  may  be 
placed before the audit committee on 
a voluntary basis; and 

that 

the 

 
(j) 

Any  other  information  that  may  be 
relevant. 

………. 

7. status of long-term (more than one year) 
or recurring related party transactions on 
an annual basis. 
 
 

56 

 

Modification of paragraph A.(2.) and insertion of new paragraph (m) in (C)(10) 
of Schedule V – Refer to paragraph II of Chapter 4 (page 36) for the rationale for 
the proposed amendment  

SCHEDULE V: ANNUAL REPORT 
 
The  annual  report  shall  contain  the 
following additional disclosures: 
 
A.  Related Party Disclosure: 
…. 
 

2.  The  disclosure  requirements  shall 
be as follows: 
…. 
 

Modification  of  paragraph  A.(2.)  and 
insertion of new paragraph (m) in (C)(10) of 
Schedule V of the LODR 
 
SCHEDULE V: ANNUAL REPORT 
 
The annual report shall contain the following 
additional disclosures: 
 
A. Related Party Disclosure: 
…. 
 

C. Corporate Governance Report: 
 
……. 
 
(10) Other Disclosures: 
 
(a)…. 
 
 

2. The disclosure requirements shall be as 
follows: disclosures under A.(2.) and A.(2A.) 
of  Schedule  V  below,  shall  be  applicable 
only to entities with listed debt securities. 
 
… 
 
C. Corporate Governance Report: 
….. 
 
(10) Other Disclosures: 
 
(a)…. 
 
(m)  disclosure  of  ‘Loans  and  advances  in 
the  nature  of  loans  to  firms/companies  in 
which directors are interested by name and 
amount’ 
its 
subsidiaries. 
  

listed  entity  and 

for  a 

57 

 

Appendix – II: Prescribed Disclosure Format 

Details of related party transactions  
 
A.  Name of listed entity  

 

 

B.  Annual consolidated total revenue, total assets and net worth of the listed entity 
for  the  preceding  financial  year  (and  if  there  are  related  party  transactions 
involving  a  subsidiary,  the  relevant  subsidiary’s  annual  total  revenues  on  a 
standalone basis) 
 

C.  Format  for  disclosure  of  related  party  transactions  every  six  months  –  Refer 

Attachment 

 
 

58 

