¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

CONSULTATIVE PAPER WITH RESPECT TO GUARANTEES 

PROVIDED BY A LISTED COMPANY 

Background and rationale for review 

1.  Instances  have come  to  the  notice  of SEBI where  listed  companies have 
extended  corporate  guarantees  on  behalf  of  their  promoters/promoter 
related entities. It is also observed that, at times, promoter/promoter related 
entities  have  sourced  funds  through  various  complex  structures  and 
structured  obligations,  for  which  the  listed  companies  have  provided 
guarantees,  detrimental 
their  shareholders.  This 
consultation  paper  is aimed  at  reviewing  the  practice  of  listed  companies 
extending 
the  benefit  of 
promoter/promoter  related  entities,  where  the  listed  companies  do  not 
derive any economic benefit.  

corporate  guarantees/ 

interest  of 

to 

the 

security 

for 

Current  regulatory  provisions  pertaining  to  guarantees  by 
companies 

listed 

1.  Section 185 of the Companies Act 2013 restricts the companies to extend 
any loan or provide any guarantees/ securities in connection with a loan to 
any  of  its  directors  or  his/her  related  entities,  subject  to  exemptions 
mentioned therein. Loans or guarantees/ securities in connection with any 
loan  can  be  extended  to  the  directors/  related  entities  provided  a  special 
resolution  is  passed  by  the  company  and  such  loans  are  utilized  by  the 
borrowing entity for the principal business activity. An explanatory statement 
along with such notice shall also contain details of such loans, guarantees 
or securities including the purpose for which they would be utilized.  

2.  Section  186  of  the  Companies  Act  2013  states  that  no  company  shall 
directly  or  indirectly  provide  any  loan  or  any  guarantee/  security  in 
connection  with  a  loan  to  any  body-corporate  or  person  or  subscribe/ 
purchase securities of other body corporate exceeding sixty per cent of its 
paid-up share capital, free reserves and securities premium account or one 
hundred  per  cent  of  its  free  reserves  and  securities  premium  account, 
whichever  is  more.  The  company  can  exceed  the  said  limits  provided  a 
special resolution to that effect is passed in the general meeting. 

3.  Regulation 30 read with Part B of Schedule III of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015  requires  the  listed  entity  to  disclose  guarantees  or  indemnities  or 
surety on becoming a third party, subject to the application of the materiality 
guidelines.  Furthermore,  SEBI  vide  circular  no.  CIR/CFD/CMD/4/2015 
dated September 09, 2015 read with Regulation 30 requires the details of 
guarantees/ indemnities etc. and whether such guarantees are extended to 
promoter/  promoter  related  entities  along  with  the  impact  of  such 
guarantees/ indemnities etc.  

 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Analysis & Rationale 

 

 

 

1.  While provisions require passing of special resolution for providing any loan 
or  any  guarantee  /  security  in  connection  with  a  loan  above  certain  limit, 
there is no prohibition on issuance of such loan or any guarantee / security 
in connection with a loan by companies, to any person or body corporate, 
including  a  promoter  wherein  listed  company  has  no  economic  interest. 
Such loan or any guarantee / security in connection with a loan by a listed 
company  create  obligation  on  the  listed  company  without  any  benefit  or 
return.  Such  practices  are  not  in  the  interests  of  shareholders  of  listed 
company, particularly minority shareholders. 

2.  Provisions of Companies Act deals with providing any loan or any guarantee 
/ security in connection with loans of directors/ related entities, but does not 
cover  promoter  /  promoter  group,  Key  Management  Person  (KMP)  etc. 
Since, providing of loan or any guarantee / security in connection with a loan 
creates an obligation on listed company, it is felt that necessary safeguards 
should be put in place before providing any such loan or any guarantee / 
security  to  any  person  (including  promoter(s)/  promoter  group,  director, 
directors relative, KMP etc). 

3.  Guarantees provided by the companies should be in its economic interest, 
so that the interests of the shareholders are protected. General definition of 
‘economic  interest’  involves  financial  interest  of the  entity  in  investments, 
employment,  awarding  of  contracts,  purchases,  leases,  sales  or  other 
related  transactions.  However,  a  specific  legal  definition  of  “economic 
substance”  is  not  readily  available.  Based  on  examination  of  various 
jurisdiction like USA along with Doctrine of Economic Substance, definition 
of economic interest may be evolved as follows: 

“An “Economic Interest” relates to income/ benefit derived from business/ 
non-business  transactions  of  the  listed  entity,  which  may  result  into 
pecuniary benefit or otherwise. Further, any transaction involving “economic 
interest” of the listed entity shall necessarily cover the following scenarios: 

  Have direct/ indirect financial implication on the business activity of 
the  listed  entity,  which  apart  from  monetary  transactions  may  also 
include  competitive  position,  employment,  awarding  of  contracts, 
purchases, leases, sales or any other matter, and / or 
 

  Have a reasonable possibility of generating direct or indirect benefits 

for the listed company 

And  the  benefits  of  such  transactions  shall  necessarily  accrue  to  the 
shareholders of the listed entity.” 

4.  Companies  Act,  2013  provides  that  special  resolution  is  required  for 
providing loan or any guarantee / security in connection with a loan above 
certain limit, however, there is a possibility that a listed company can extend 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

loan or any provide any guarantee / security in connection with a loan to any 
person  or  body  corporate  including  promoter/  promoter  entities  without 
obtaining  the  shareholders’  approval  provided  such  loans/  guarantees/ 
security are within the said limits. 

5.  Companies Act, 2013 requires that rate of interest charged on loan shall not 
be lower than the prevailing yield of Government security closest to the tenor 
of the loan. However, such safeguards do not exist for extending loan or any 
guarantee  /  security  in  connection  with  a  loan  to  promoter  or  promoter 
related entities. Thus the possibility of the entity being arm-twisted to provide 
a  loan  or  a  guarantee/  security  in  connection  with  a  loan  to  facilitate  the 
personal obligations of the promoter/ promoter related entities without any 
probable economic benefit of the company, cannot be completely ruled out. 
Given  the  fact  such  loans/guarantees/  security  do  not  even  require 
shareholders’  approval  below 
such 
loans/guarantees/  security  are  prone  to  misuse  at  the  expense  of  the 
minority investors of the listed companies 

the  prescribed 

threshold, 

Policy proposals: 

6.  To  protect  the  interests  of  minority  shareholders,  in  addition  to  extant 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and disclosure requirements of SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations, 2015, it is proposed that guarantee/ security can be 
extended by a listed entity, provided:  

a.  Extension  of  such  guarantee/  security  to  any  person  /  entity 
(promoter(s)/ promoter group/ director / directors relative / KMP etc) 
is in the ‘economic interest’ of the listed company.  

b.  The  said 

listed  entity  shall  obtain  prior  approval 

the 
shareholders on a “majority of minority” basis, before extending any 
such loan or any guarantee / security. 

from 

Public comments 
 

Comments on the above proposal may be sent on or before March 31, 2020 in 
the following format: 

 

 

 

 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization: 

Sr. No. 

Issues 

Suggestions  

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 4 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 
 

Comments may be sent: 

1.  By email to guaranteereview@sebi.gov.in 

2.  By post to the following address:  

Shri. TVVPS Chakravarti T, 
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department, CMD-II, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),  
Mumbai -400 051 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 4 

 

