 

 

 

Consultation  Paper  on  “Amendment  to  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India  (Delisting  of  Equity  Shares)  Regulations,  2009  for 
Schemes of Arrangement” 

Objective 

 
1)  The objective of this consultation paper is to seek comments / views from the public on 

proposal relating to a scheme of arrangement between a listed holding company and its 

listed  subsidiary  wherein  the  listed  subsidiary  is  desirous  of  getting  delisted  without 

following  the  provisions  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Delisting  of  Equity 

Shares) Regulations,  2009 (Delisting Regulations). 

Background  

 
2)  It is observed that there are listed companies which have listed subsidiaries, and equity 

shares of both are actively traded on stock exchanges. In a number of these cases, both 

the listed subsidiary and its listed parent company are in the same or similar business, 

with  significant  synergies  by  working  together  and  creating  significant  incremental 

shareholder value for both companies. 

 

3)  While a full merger of a listed subsidiary with its listed parent entity would help achieve 

the intended synergies, it may not be favourable for the following reasons: 

 
 

Industry specific constraints (example, license conditions); 

  Value  destroying  transaction  costs  (example,  transfer  costs,  stamp  duties,  state 

level constraints); 

  Cultural  differences  (example,  where  the  listed  subsidiary  was  acquired  by  the 

listed holding company, and not set up by it organically). 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 5 

 

Proposal 

 
4)  The listed parent entity shall integrate the business of the listed subsidiary with that of its 

own  by  providing  a  share  swap  to  all  shareholders  of  the  listed  subsidiary  through  a 

scheme  of  arrangement.  The  listed  subsidiary  shall  become  an  unlisted  wholly  owned 

subsidiary of the parent listed entity. 

 

5)  As  per  the  existing  Delisting  Regulations,  the  listed  subsidiary  desirous  of  getting 

delisted  would  be  required  to  follow  the  delisting  norms  in  terms  of  the  Delisting 

Regulations, which include reverse book building process. 

 

6)  However,  in  the  proposed  scenario,  the  listed  subsidiary  would  be  delisted  without 

following the Delisting Regulations.  The shareholders of the listed subsidiary company 

will be offered shares of the listed parent company and the listed subsidiary will continue 

to exist, albeit as a wholly owned subsidiary of the parent company.  

 

7)  The envisaged proposal is explained herein below with an illustrative example: 

 

  Parent Company (“P”), say, an integrated steel producer -Listed 

  Subsidiary Company (“S”), say, flat steel producer - Listed 

  P  holds,  say,  60%  equity  shareholding  of  S,  balance  40%  of  S  is  held  by  public 

shareholders. 

  XYZ  Promoter  Group  holds,  say,  53%  equity  shareholding  in  P,  with  balance  47% 

being held by public shareholders. 

 

Through  a  scheme  of  arrangement  to  be  approved  by  NCLT  under  the  Companies 

Act,  all  public  shareholders  of  S  will  be  allotted  equity  shares  of  P  in  lieu  of  their 

shareholding in S. This allotment would be based on a share swap ratio, on exactly 

the same lines as in the case of a scheme of arrangement.  

  On approval of scheme of arrangement, S would become a wholly owned subsidiary 

of P, and the equity shareholding of XYZ Promoter Group in P would reduce from the 

current 53% to the extent of the increase in equity shareholding of public shareholder 

in P on account of allotment of equity shares to the public shareholders of S in lieu of 

their shareholding in S.  

  Since S would become a wholly owned subsidiary of P, it would be delisted from the 

exchanges. 

 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Post Restructuring Structure  

XYZ  

Promoter Group 

Public Shareholders  

Say, 60% 

~ Say, 40% 

P   

(Listed) 

100% 

S  

(Delisted and becomes a 

WOS of P) 

 

    

 

Safeguards of the instant proposal 

 

8)  To  ensure  that  this  route  is  not  taken  undue  advantage  of  and  is  detrimental  to  the 

investors, the following safeguards are proposed: 

 

  The  exemption  from  Delisting  Regulations,  shall  be  confined  to  only  a  scheme  of 

arrangement between a listed subsidiary and its listed parent. 

 

  The  process  of  this  proposed  scheme  shall  be  identical  to  a  process  followed  in  a 

merger  wherein  the  holding  listed  company  and  the  listed  subsidiary  shall  seek  no 

objection  from  stock  exchanges  and  SEBI  for  the  proposed  merger  in  terms  of 

Regulation  37  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and 

Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the Circulars issued thereunder. 

 

  Thereafter,  the  holding  listed  company  and  the  listed  subsidiary  company  shall  file 

application(s) before the Hon’ble NCLT. 

 

  The independent valuation of shares of the listed subsidiary and the listed parent for 

the  share  swap  will  ensure  that  the  share  exchange  ratio  based  on  which  all 

Page 3 of 5 

 

 

shareholders of listed subsidiary  (except the parent company) receive shares of the 

listed parent in lieu of the shares they hold in the listed subsidiary. 

 

  The votes cast by public shareholders in favour of the proposal amount to atleast 2 

times the number of votes cast by public shareholders against it. 

 

  A minimum vintage of 3 years of listing of the shares of the listed subsidiary. 

 

  No adverse order or direction from SEBI. 

 

  No further restructuring by the listed holding company for a period of 3 years from the 

date of the NCLT Order. 

 

Proposal Deliberation 

9)  The matter was deliberated at the Primary Market Advisory Committee (PMAC) meeting.  

The PMAC has recommended that SEBI may seek public comments whether a specific 

exemption  may  be  provided  in  the  Delisting  Regulations  for  delisting  of  the  listed 

subsidiary pursuant to the above scheme of arrangement. 

Public Comments 
 
10)  Considering  the  implications  of  the  said  scheme  of  arrangement  on  the  market 

participants  including  issuers  and  investors,  public  comments  are  invited  on  the 

proposals contained in the discussion paper. Public comments on the aforesaid proposal 

may be provided in the following format:  

Name of entity/ person/ intermediary:  
 
 
Name of organization (if applicable): 
 
Contact details:  
 

Sr. 
No. 

 
 

 

Proposals 

Proposed/ 
suggested 
changes 

Rationale 

 

Page No. Para No. 
 

 
 

 
 

While  sending  the  email,  kindly  mention  the  subject  as  “Comments  on  Amendment  to 

Delisting Regulations for Schemes of Arrangement”.  

 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 

11) Comments  may  be  forwarded  by  e-mail  to  komalb@sebi.gov.in    or  sent  by  post  at  the 

following address latest by April 15, 2020. 

Ms. Yogita Jadhav 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph.: +91-22-26449583 
 
Issued on:  March 16, 2020 

 
 
 

******* 

 

Page 5 of 5 

