 

Review of SEBI (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 

 

A.  Background: 

SEBI  vide  notification  dated  June  10,  2009  notified  the  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity 
Shares)  Regulations, 2009  ("Delisting  Regulations"),  thereby  superseding  the  earlier  SEBI  
(Delisting  of  Securities)  Guidelines,  2003.   

Since  then,  several  amendments  have  been  carried  out  in  the  Delisting  Regulations 
according to the changing needs and developments in the securities market.   

To  further  streamline  and  strengthen  the  delisting  process  /  regulations,  a  comprehensive 
review of the delisting regulations is proposed with the following key objectives:  

  Enhance disclosures to help investors to take informed investment decisions 

  Refine process 

  Rationalize  the  existing  timelines,  so  as  to  complete  the  delisting  in  time  bound 

manner. 

  Streamline  the  delisting  regulations  to  make  it  robust,  efficient,  transparent  and 

investor’s friendly. 

  Plug gaps  

  Update references to the Companies Act, 2013 and other securities laws. 

B.  Proposals:  

Enhancing disclosures 

1.  Promoter’s  /  Acquirer’s  intention  to  voluntarily  delist  the  company  and  its 

disclosure  

Extant regulatory framework 

“Regulation 8(1A) Prior to granting approval under clause (a) of sub-regulation (1), the board of directors of 
the company shall,- 
(i) make a disclosure to the recognized stock exchanges on which the equity shares of  the company  are  listed  
that  the  promoters/acquirers  have  proposed  to  delist  the company” 

Page 1 of 24 

 

 

1.1. Currently, promoter / acquirer’s proposal to voluntarily delist the company, is disclosed 

to the recognized stock exchanges by the company’s board of directors.  

Issue 

1.2. It is observed that 

i.  Obligation to disclose the intention to voluntarily delist the company to public is 

not cast on the promoter / acquirer; 

ii. 

 The aforesaid information is not disseminated to the public on immediate basis, 
thus leaving the scope for information asymmetry.  

Concerns 

1.1. The  words  promoter  and  acquirer  are  used  interchangeably  under  the  delisting 
regulations.  Under  the  takeover  regulation,  the  day  acquirer  acquires  or  agrees  to 
acquire becomes the trigger date and the public announcement is required to be made 
on the same day.  

1.2. Promoter’s intention to voluntarily delist the company is a crucial and price sensitive 
information, and should be disseminated in the public domain in a real time manner.  

1.3. Given  the  above,  it  is  considered  appropriate  to  align  this  provision  with  the 

corresponding provisions of the Takeover Regulations.  

Proposal 

1.4. It is proposed that:  

i. 

The  Promoter  / Acquirer shall make  the public announcement, (to be called as 
“Initial  Public  announcement  /  IPA”)  of  their  intention  to  voluntarily  delist  the 
company to all the Stock Exchanges on which the company is listed, on the same 
day, when their said intention is intimated to the company. 

ii.  The IPA shall be made  by  the  acquirer / promoter  through the manager  to  the 

delisting offer. 

iii.  The IPA shall inter-alia contain the information, viz. (a) reasons for delisting; (b) 
compliance with the provisions of Regulations 4(1A), 4(4) and 4(5) of the Delisting 
Regulations;   

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 24 

 
2.  Approval by Board of Directors. 

Extant regulatory framework 

“Regulation 8. (1)  Any  company  desirous  of  delisting  its  equity  shares  under  the  provisions  of Chapter 
III shall, except in a case falling under clause (a) of regulation 6, - 
(a) obtain the prior approval of the board of directors of the company in its meeting; 
 …………………. 
(1A)     …………… 
(ii)  appoint    a    merchant    banker    to    carry    out    due-diligence    and    make    a disclosure  to  this  
effect  to  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  on  which  the  equity shares of the company are listed; 
………………..  
(iv)  obtain  further  details  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (1D)  of  regulation  8  and  furnish the information to 
the merchant banker. 
(1B)  The  board  of  directors  of  the  company  while  approving  the  proposal  for delisting shall certify that 
(i)  the    company   is    in    compliance   with    the    applicable provisions   of  securities laws; 
(ii)  the  acquirer  or  promoter    or  promoter  group  or  their  related  entities,  are  in compliance with sub-
regulation (5) of regulation 4; 
(iii)  the delisting is in the interest of the shareholders. 
(2)  An  application  seeking  in-principle  approval for delisting  under clause  (c)  of  sub-regulation(1)  shall be 
accompanied by an audit report as required under regulation 55A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  
India  (Depositories  and  Participants) Regulations, 1996  in  respect  of  the  equity  shares  sought  to  be 
delisted,  covering  a period of six months prior to the date of the application”. 

 

2.1. Regulation 8(1) of the Delisting Regulations provides that the delisting proposal has 

to be approved by the Board of directors of the company.  

2.2. Upon  receipt  of  the  delisting  proposal  from  the  promoter  /  acquirer,  the  company 
forwards  it  to  the  company’s  Board  of  Directors  and  takes  steps  to  conduct  the 
meeting of the Board of Directors to consider and approve the same.  

2.3. Further,  Regulation  8(1A)  and  (1B)  of  the  Delisting  Regulations,  inter-alia  casts 
several  responsibilities  on  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  company  before  granting 
delisting  approval.  This  includes  appointment  of  the  Merchant  Banker  (“MB”)  for 
carrying out due diligence and giving certification, relying on the MB due – diligence 
report, as per regulation 8(1B).  

2.4. Regulation 8(2) provides, an audit report under regulation 155A of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996 in respect 
of the equity shares sought to be delisted, covering a period of six months prior to the 

                                                           
1 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996 has been substituted by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018 and Reg. 76 is the 
corresponding regulation.  

Page 3 of 24 

 

date of the application, to be submitted to stock exchange while seeking in principal 
approval. However, it is not disseminated to the public by the stock exchanges.  

 

Issue 

2.5. It is observed that  

i. 

Timeline for obtaining Board of Directors’ approval is not specified; and 

ii.  The Board of directors neither disclose the MB’s due-diligence report nor the audit 

report.  

2.6. For  ensuring  that  the  delisting  exercise  is  concluded  in  a  time  bound  matter,  it  is 
imperative  to  specify  the  timeline  for  obtaining  Board  of  Director’s  approval  for 
voluntary delisting.  

2.7. The MB’s due-diligence report and the audit report should also be disclosed through 
stock  exchanges,  as  the  same  may  be  relevant  for  the  shareholders  to  arrive  at 
informed investment decision.  

Proposal 

2.8. It is proposed that: 

i.  Upon  receipt  of  the  delisting  proposal,  the  company  shall  convene  the  Board 
meeting within 21 working days from the date of receipt of delisting proposal to 
consider and approve the delisting proposal;  

ii.  The Board of Directors while communicating their decision  of granting approval 
of delisting shall also disclose to the Stock Exchanges the MB’s due - diligence 
report and the audit report;  

3.  Refining the Role of Board of Directors / Independent Directors 

Extant regulatory framework 

Regulation  8(1A)  and  8(1B)  of  the  Delisting  Regulations  provide  for  protecting  the  interest  of  public 
shareholders in the delisting process and the role of Board of Directors in this regard. Regulation 8(1B)  of 
Delisting Regulations reads as follows: 

“(1B) The board of directors of the company while approving the proposal for delisting shall certify that: 

i. 

ii. 

the company is in compliance with the applicable provisions of securities laws; 

the  acquirer  or  promoter  or  promoter  group  or  their  related  entities,  are  in  compliance  with  sub-

regulation (5) of regulation 4; 

iii. 

the delisting is in the interest of the shareholders.” 

 

Page 4 of 24 

 

 

3.1. It has been represented that presently the board only certifies that the delisting is in 
the interest of the shareholders, without providing any justification.  In this respect it 
has been represented that: 

a)  mere statement may not be of value to the shareholders, unless supplemented 
by  explanation/rationale  justifying  that  the  delisting  is  in  the  interest  of  the 
shareholders. 

b)  On  the  lines of the  requirements  related to open  offer under  SEBI  (Substantial 
Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011 
(“Takeover 
Regulations”), reasoned recommendations of independent directors could also be 
made  in  voluntary  delisting  for  the  benefit  of  the  public  shareholders  to  take 
informed investment decision.  

independent  directors 

3.2. Regulation 26 of the Takeover Regulations inter-alia provides that upon receipt of the 
detailed public statement, the Board of Directors of the target company shall constitute 
a  committee  of 
reasoned 
recommendations on the open offer to the shareholders of the target company. The 
committee shall be entitled to seek external professional advice at the expense of the 
target  company.  Such  recommendations  shall  also  be  published  in  the  same 
newspapers where the public announcement of the open offer was published and a 
copy of the same shall be sent to: (i) SEBI; (ii) all the stock exchanges on which the 
shares of the target company are listed for dissemination to the public; and (iii) to the 
manager to the open offer. 

to  provide 

its  written 

3.3. Further, it has been represented that the voting pattern of the board of directors  -ie 
only the number and not the name of the directors who voted in favour or against such 
resolution should be disclosed.  

Proposals 

3.4. In view of the foregoing, the following is proposed: 

a)  The committee of independent directors in line with the SAST provisions may be 
required to provide their reasoned recommendations on the proposal for delisting. 

b)  Voting  pattern  of  the  Committee  of  the  Independent  Directors  shall  also  be 
disclosed, while giving reasoned recommendations on the proposal of delisting. 
Similar disclosures should also be provided for in the SAST regulations.  

c)  Expenses  relating  to  seeking  expert  opinion  by  the  committee  of  independent 

directors can be borne by the company.  

 

 

Page 5 of 24 

 

 

Refining Process 

4.  Shareholders’ approval by way of Special Resolution 

Extant regulatory framework 

“Regulation 8. (1)  Any  company  desirous  of  delisting  its  equity  shares  under  the  provisions  of Chapter 
III shall, except in a case falling under clause (a) of regulation 6, - 
…………………. 
 (b)  obtain  the  prior  approval  of  shareholders  of  the  company  by  special  resolution passed through 
postal  ballot,  after  disclosure  of  all  material  facts  in  the  explanatory  statement  sent  to  the  shareholders  in 
relation to such resolution…..” 

4.1. Regulation 8(1)(b) of the delisting regulations provides that the special resolution be 

passed through postal ballot. 

4.2. Rule  22  of  Companies  (Management  and  Administration)  Rules,  2014  provides 
timeline of thirty days from the date of dispatch of the notice of postal ballot. However, 
in case of e-voting a minimum timeline of 3 days is required to be given.  

4.3. E-voting is an efficient method for shareholders to participate in the decision making 

process and reduces the time taken significantly.  

Proposal: 

4.4. It  is  proposed  that  the  shareholder’s  approval  through  special  resolution  may  be 
obtained either through postal ballot or through e-voting as per the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder. 

5.  Indicative price 

Extant regulatory framework - No specific provision 

5.1. In some delisting offers, it is observed that acquirer(s) / promoter(s) also mentioned 
indicative price, over and above the floor price (calculated in terms of Regulation 8 of 
Takeover  Regulations),  which  shows  promoter  inclination  to  pay  more.  However, 
Delisting regulations do not contain any provision to enable this. Indicative price may 
actually help the investors to gauge the inclination of the promoters and his willingness 
to pay such price. Thus, promoters / acquirer may be allowed to specify an indicative 
price which shall not be less than the floor price calculated in terms of Regulation 8 of 
Takeover Regulations.  

 

 

 

Page 6 of 24 

 

5.2. Proposal:  

i.  Promoter(s) / Acquirer(s) may be allowed to specify an indicative price which shall 
not be less than the floor price  calculated in terms of Regulation 8 of Takeover 
Regulations.  

6.  Escrow Account 

Extant regulatory framework  

“Regulation  11.  (1)  Before  making  the  public  announcement  under  regulation  10,  the  [acquirer  or]  
promoter  shall  open  an  escrow  account  and  deposit  therein  the  total  estimated amount of consideration 
calculated on the basis of floor price and number of equity  shares outstanding with public shareholders”. 

6.1. Currently, the Acquirer / promoter is required to open an escrow a/c before making 
the  public  announcement  (PA)  and  deposit  an  amount  equivalent  to  total 
consideration  calculated  at  the  floor  price.  PA  is  required  to  be  made  within  one 
working day from the receipt of in-principal approval from the Stock Exchange.  

Issue  

6.2. It is noted that there can be significant gap between making the delisting proposal to 

the company and obtaining the in-principal approval from the stock exchange. 

6.3.  In  order  to  demonstrate  seriousness  and  preparedness  in  the  delisting  offer  and 
ensuring financial capability of the acquirer/promoter, it is warranted that some portion 
of  the  total  consideration  may  be  deposited  in  an  interest  bearing  escrow  account 
after obtaining the approval from the Board of the directors of the company.  

6.4. Further,  the  modalities  of  the  escrow  account  are  not  outlined  in  the  delisting 
regulations. Thus, to bring in clarity it would be appropriate to provide the conditions 
relating to the operation of the escrow account.  

Proposal 

6.5. It is proposed that:  

i.  Promoter(s) / acquirer(s) shall open an escrow a/c with in seven working days of 
the shareholder’s approval and deposit therein an amount equivalent to 25% of 
the total consideration, calculated on the basis of the floor price / indicative price. 
The remaining amount may be deposited as per the existing provisions contained 
in Regulation 11(1).  

ii.  The promoter / acquirer shall enter into tripartite agreement between the Manager 
to the offer and the bank for the purpose of opening the escrow account and shall 
empower the Manager to the offer to operate the account as per the requirement 
of the delisting regulations.  

Page 7 of 24 

 

 

iii. 

In case of failure of the delisting offer, 99% amount lying in escrow account shall 
be released within one working day of public announcement of the failure of the 
voluntary  delisting  and  the  remaining  1%  shall  be  released  post  returning  the 
shares/revoking the lien as per the timelines and ensuring the compliance thereof 
by the MB. 

7.  Reverse Book Building (“RBB”) 

Extant regulatory framework  

Regulation 13 (2) The offer shall remain open for a period of five working days, during which the public 
shareholders may tender their bids. 

7.1. The delisting offer remains open for a period of five working days, during which the 

public shareholders may tender their bids.  

Issue  

7.2. 

It is noted that presently there is no regulation mandating the disclosures regarding 
the  fate  of  the  reverse  book  building  process  (i.e.  meeting  the  target  of  90% 
shareholding) in a specified timeframe.    

7.3. 

It is also observed that during the tendering process, the display bids of the stock 
exchange  reverse  book  building  window  inter-alia  shows  the  unconfirmed  bids. 
Displaying the unconfirmed bids gives false indication.   

Proposal 

7.4. It is proposed that:  

i. 

The outcome of RBB in terms of its success or failure shall be announced within 
two hours of the closure of the tendering period.   

ii.  Unconfirmed  bids  / order  shall  not  be displayed  in  the  stock exchange  reverse 

book building window.  

Rationalizing Timelines  

8.  Timeline for filing applications for in-principle approval and final approval by the 

company 

Extant regulatory framework  

Regulation 8(1) of the Delisting Regulations reads as follows: 

“(1)  Any  company  desirous  of  delisting  its  equity  shares  under  the  provisions  of  Chapter  III  shall, 
except in a case falling under clause (a) of regulation 6, - 

Page 8 of 24 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a)  obtain the prior approval of the board of directors of the company in its meeting; 

(b)  obtain the prior approval of shareholders of the company by special resolution passed through 
postal  ballot,  after  disclosure  of  all  material  facts  in  the  explanatory  statement  sent  to  the 
shareholders in relation to such resolution: 

(c)  make an application to the concerned recognised stock exchange for in-principle approval of 

the proposed delisting in the form specified by the recognised stock exchange; and 

(d)  within one year of passing the special resolution, make the final application to the concerned 
recognised stock exchange in the form specified by the recognised stock exchange: Provided 
that  in  pursuance  of  special  resolution  as  referred  to  in  clause  (b),  passed  before  the 
commencement of these regulations, final application shall be made within a period of one 
year from the date of passing of special resolution or six months from the commencement of 
these regulations, whichever is later.” 

Issue 

8.1. There is no specific timeline provided in the Delisting Regulations with regard to the 

following two steps for the company: 

a)  Filing of application to the concerned stock exchanges for in-principle approval;  

b)  While there is a timeline of 1 year from passing of the special resolution for the 
company  to  make  the  final  application  to  the  concerned  recognised  stock 
exchange, there is no specific timeline between making payment to shareholders 
and making the final application to the stock exchanges. 

8.2. Representations have been received to review the one-year time period for filing the 
final application for delisting. Further, it has inter alia been represented that (a) there 
is no time limit for filing application for in principle approval for delisting to exchanges 
after  shareholders’  approval  of  special  resolution;  and  (b)  that  the  companies  take 
their own time in filing application with the stock exchanges, which may not be in the 
interest of the investors. 

8.3. It is felt that one year time period for filing the final application is a fairly long period, 
especially after the shareholders have approved the resolution for delisting. Present 
position  compels  a  shareholder  to  wait  for  upto  a  year  for  the  delisting  process  to 
complete. With the passage of one year time from the approval of the resolution of 
the  shareholders,  circumstances  may  undergo  lot  of  changes  both  external  and 
internal to the company, which may adversely affect the shareholders. Thus there is 
a need to conclude the delisting as close to the shareholder resolution as possible. 

Page 9 of 24 

 

Proposals 

8.4. In view of the foregoing, the following is proposed: 

a)  A timeline of fifteen working days from the passing of special resolution may be 
stipulated  for  the  company  to  file  application  for  in-principle  approval  by  stock 
exchanges; and  

b)  A  timeline  of  five  working  days  from  the  date  of  making  payment  to  the 
shareholders may be stipulated for the company to make the final application to 
the stock exchanges. 

9.  Timeline provided for issuance of in-principle approval by stock exchanges 

Extant regulatory framework  

Regulation 8(3) of the Delisting Regulations reads as follows: 

“(3)  An  application  seeking  in-principle  approval  for  delisting  shall  be  disposed  of  by  the  recognised  stock 
exchange within a period not exceeding five working days from the date of receipt of such application complete 
in all respects.” 

Issue  

9.1. Representations have been received that sufficient time has not been provided to the 

stock exchanges for processing delisting application.  

9.2. Exchanges are the first level regulator protecting the interest of the shareholders. It 
may be noted that in terms of regulation 8(2)(4) of the Delisting Regulations, the stock 
exchanges are required to satisfy the following: 

a)  compliance with clause (b) of sub-regulation (1); 

b) 

the resolution of investor grievances by the company; 

c)  payment of listing fees to that recognised stock exchange; 

d) 

the compliance with any condition of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  with  that 
recognised stock exchange having a material bearing on the interests of its equity 
shareholders; 

e)  any litigation or action pending against the company pertaining to its activities in 
the  securities  market  or  any  other  matter  having  a  material  bearing  on  the 
interests of its equity shareholders; 

 

Page 10 of 24 

 

f) 

any  other  relevant  matter  as  the  recognised  stock  exchange  may  deem  fit  to 
verify. 

9.3. Further, the exchanges may be required to analyse the surveillance alerts, if any, and/ 
or any significant changes in shareholding pattern prior to the delisting proposal being 
approved by the company.  

9.4. Given the activities involved five days may not be considered as sufficient time for the 
exchange to process the application with examination, if any, at the exchange level.  

Proposal 

9.5. In view of the foregoing, it is proposed that the time-period for granting  in-principle 
approval by the stock exchanges may be extended from the present five working days 
to fifteen working days. 

10. Tendering of shares 

Extant regulatory framework  

Regulation 16 (2) Where the 51[acquirer or] promoter decides not to accept the offer price so determined,- 

(a) the 52[acquirer or] promoter shall not acquire any equity shares tendered pursuant to the offer and the 
equity  shares  deposited or  pledged  by a  shareholder  pursuant to  53[clauses]  7  or  9  of  Schedule  II  shall be 
returned or released to him within ten working days of closure of the bidding period; 

Schedule II, Clause 7: The shareholders holding dematerialised shares desirous of availing the exit opportunity 
may deposit the equity shares in respect of which bids are made, with the special depositories account opened 
by the merchant banker for the purpose prior to placement of orders or, alternately, may mark a pledge for the 
same to the merchant banker in favour of the said account. 

10.1.  Clause  7  of  Schedule  II  provides,  shareholders  holding  dematerialized  shares 
desirous  of  availing  the  exit  opportunity  may  either  deposit  the  equity  shares  in 
respect of which bids are made, with the special depositories account opened by 
the merchant  banker for  the  purpose prior  to  placement  of  orders  or,  alternately, 
may mark a pledge/ lien for the same to the merchant banker in favour of the said 
account. 

10.2.  Regulation 16(2) provides, in case promoter decides not to accept the offer price, 
the  equity  shares  deposited  or  pledged  by  a  shareholder  shall  be  returned  or 
released to him within ten working days of closure of the bidding period.  

Issue 

10.3.  Lien  is  an  efficient process  having  feature  of  complete  audit  trail  without actually 
transferring  the  shares  to  the  beneficiary  account.  Lien  is  executed  through  the 

 

Page 11 of 24 

 

depository’s  framework  linking  with  the  settlement  mechanism  of  the  clearing 
corporation.  

10.4.  This is an investor friendly process and instills security and assurance in the minds 
of the shareholders about the timely return of such shares in the event of failure of 
delisting. 

Proposal 

10.5.  It is proposed that:  

i.  Shares in dematerialized form shares shall be tendered by way of marking a lien 

in favour of the special depositories account, opened for voluntary delisting; 

ii. 

iii. 

In  case  (a)  RBB’s  threshold  of  90%  is  not  met;  or  (b)  promoter  decides  not  to 
accept the discovered price, the shares tendered by way of creating lien shall be 
released on the same day; and  

In respect of physical shares, it is proposed that requisite documents along with 
share certificate shall be sent to RTA of the company before last date of tendering 
period. RTA shall complete the verification on the same day.  

11. Payment of consideration upon acceptance of the discovered price 

Extant regulatory framework  

Regulation 20(2) All the shareholders whose equity shares are verified to be genuine shall be paid the final 
price stated in the public announcement within ten working days from the closure of the offer. 

11.1.  Regulation  20(2)  provides,  in  case  of  success  of  delisting  offer,  payment  to  the 
shareholders, who tendered shares, have to be made within 10 working days from 
the closure of the offer.   

Issue 

11.2.  Ten  days  period  is  fairly  long  period.  Investors  have  represented  that  due  to 
availability of various payment options, it is possible to reduce the timeline required 
to make payment.  

11.3.  Further,  as  the  shares  are  allowed  to  be  tendered  through  stock  exchange 
mechanism, the payment upon acceptance of the final price may be made through 
the secondary market settlement mechanism.  

 

 

 

Page 12 of 24 

 

Proposal 

11.4.  It is proposed that:  

i.  Upon acceptance of the price discovered through RBB:    

a.  If the discovered price is same as the floor price, payment with respect 
to dematerialized shares shall be made through the secondary market 
settlement mechanism,  

b.  If the discovered price is more than the floor price, payment with respect 

to dematerialized shares shall be made within five working days.  

ii.  Payment  with  respect to  physical  shares  shall  continue to  be  made  as  per  the 

extant mechanism. 

12. Announcement of acceptance, rejection of the discovered price or counter Offer: 

Extant regulatory framework  

Regulation 16[(1A) If the price discovered in terms of Regulation 15 is not acceptable to the acquirer or the 
promoter, the acquirer or the promoter may make a counter offer to the public shareholders within two working 
days  of  the  price  discovered  under  regulation  15,  in  the  manner  specified  by  the  Board  from  time  to 
time……………. 

Regulation  18.  Within  [five]  working  days  of  [the]  closure  of  the  offer,  the  67[promoter/acquirer]  and  the 
merchant banker shall make a public announcement in the same newspapers in which the public announcement 
under sub - regulation (1) of regulation 10 was made regarding:- 

(i) the success of the offer in terms of regulation 17 Along with the final price accepted by the acquirer; or 

(ii) the failure of the offer in terms of regulation 19;  

12.1.  As  per  Reg.  18,  the  public  announcement  relating  to  failure  or  success  of  the 
delisting offer has to be made within five working days of the closures of the offer. 
However, as per the Reg. 16(1A), the counter offer needs to be made within two 
working days of the closure of the offer.  

Issue 

12.2.  The  promoter(s)  have  five  days  to  announce  the  success  or  failure  of  the  offer, 
whereas they have only two days to make counter offer. There is need to streamline 
these provisions, such that all the three decisions (accept / reject / counter offer) are 
taken on a single day.  

 

 

 

Page 13 of 24 

 

Proposal 

12.3.  It is proposed that: 

i.  Public announcement for giving either counter offer or accepting or rejecting the 
discovered  price,  shall  be  made  within  two  working  days  of  the  closure  of  the 
tendering period. 

Rationalizing Timelines  

13. Role of Merchant Banker 

Extant regulatory framework  

Regulation 10(4) Before making the public announcement, the [acquirer or] promoter shall appoint a merchant 
banker registered with the Board and such other intermediaries as are considered necessary. 

[Explanation. - The merchant banker conducting due diligence on behalf of the company may also act as the 
manager to the delisting offer.] 

13.1. Presently, in the voluntary delisting offer, firstly, the  Merchant Banker is required to 
be appointed by the company for carrying out due diligence process. Secondly, MB 
is appointed by the Acquirer to act as manager to the delisting offer, upon receiving 
the in principal approval from the stock exchanges.  

13.2. Further, Regulation 10(4) provides that the merchant banker conducting due diligence 

on behalf of the company may also act as the manager to the delisting offer.  

Issue 

13.3. There  is  possibility  of  conflict  of  interest  on  the  part  of  the  merchant  banker  while 
undertaking both the assignments (i) due-dilignece; and (ii) acting as manager to the 
offer, which may compromise its impartiality.  

13.4. Due-diligence work in case of delisting proposal is similar to the secretarial audit. To 
avoid any conflict of interest and ensure objectivity the due-diligence may be carried 
out by the practising Company Secretary.   

13.5. Further,  Delisting  Regulations  do  not  specify  the  role  and  responsibilities  of  the 
Manager to Delisting Offer. It is felt that manager to the offer has important role to 
play while  undertaking the reverse book building process and ensuring  compliance 
with the extant delisting and other applicable laws. Thus, it is warranted to provide a 
detailed framework on the role and responsibilities on the manager to the offer.   

 

 

 

Page 14 of 24 

 

Proposal 

13.6. It is proposed that:  

i.  Prior to making the IPA, the Promoter / Acquirer shall  appoint  a  merchant banker 
registered with the Board, who is not an associate of the acquirer / promoter, as 
the manager to the delisting offer.  

ii.  Due  –  diligence  shall  be  performed  by  peer  reviewed  practicing  Company 
Secretary,  in  place  of  MB,  not  relating  to  MB  /  Acquirer  /  Promoter  /  their 
Associates; 

iii.  Role  and  responsibilities  of  the  manager  to  the  offer,  may  be  provided  in  the 

regulations outlining the following:  

a.  Before making the public  announcement,  the  manager  to  the  delisting  
offer  shall ensure that,— (i) the acquirer is able to implement the delisting 
offer; and  (b)firm arrangements for funds  through  verifiable means  have 
been  made  by  the  acquirer  to  meet  the  payment  obligations  under  the 
delisting offer.  

b.  The  manager  to  the  delisting  offer  shall  ensure  that  the  contents  of  
the  public announcement,  and  the  letter  of  offer and  the  post-offer  
advertisement are  true,  fair  and  adequate  in  all  material  aspects,  are  
based  on  reliable  sources,  state  the source  wherever  necessary,  and  
are  in  compliance  with  the  requirements  under these regulations. 

c.  The manager to the delisting offer shall ensure that market intermediaries 

engaged for the purposes of the offer are registered with the Board.   

d.  The  manager  to  the  delisting  offer  shall  exercise  diligence,  care  and  

professional judgment to ensure compliance with these regulations. 

e.  The manager to the delisting offer shall not deal on his own account in the 
shares of the target company during the reverse book building offer period.  

14. Measures to provide exit to remaining shareholders 

Extant regulatory framework 

Reg. 21 (1) Where, pursuant to acceptance of equity shares tendered in terms of these regulations, the equity 
shares are delisted, any remaining public shareholder holding such equity  shares  may  tender  his  shares  to  
the  promoter  upto  a  period  of minimum one  year from  the  date  of  delisting  ………….. 

 

 

 

Page 15 of 24 

 
Issue 

14.1.  It  is  observed  that  pursuant  to  success  of  the  delisting  offer,  the  acquirer(s)  / 
promoter(s)  do  not  take  active  steps  to  give  exit  opportunity  to  the  remaining 
shareholders.  In  this  regard,  the  Acquirer  /  Promoter  and  the  manager  to  the  offer 
(MB) may be required to take further necessary steps in the interest of the investors.   

14.2.  It will benefit the retail shareholders, who could not participate during the RBB process 
due to any reasons. The active involvement of the MB will bring further transparency 
and instill confidence among the shareholders. 

Proposal 

14.3.  It is proposed that:  

i. 

The  Acquirer  /  Promoter  /  MB  shall  take  following  additional  further  steps  to 
provide the exit to remaining shareholders:  

a.  Acquirer / Promoter / MB shall file the quarterly progress report to the stock 
exchanges, which shall be disseminated thereafter, disclosing the following:  

  Nos. of remaining shareholders at the beginning and end of the quarter.  

  Shareholders who availed the exit opportunity during the quarter:  

b.  Acquirer / Promoter / MB shall send follow up communications to the remaining 

shareholders on  quarterly basis 

c.  Acquirer 

inviting 

/  Promoter  shall  publish,  advertisement 

remaining 
shareholders to avail the exit opportunity, on quarterly basis, during the one 
year exit window.   

ii.  Stock exchanges shall monitor the compliance of aforesaid requirements. 

15. Revisiting public shareholder’s definition 

Extant regulatory framework 

 

 

Reg. 2 (1)(v) Public shareholders mean the  holders  of  equity  shares,  other  than  the following:  
i. 
ii. 
iii.  holders of  depository  receipts  issued  overseas  against  equity  shares held with a custodian 

promoters, promoter group and persons acting in concert with them; 
acquirer(s) and persons acting in concert with such acquirer(s); and 

and such custodian holding the equity shares. 

Issue 

15.2.  The definition of the public shareholding as provided under Rule 2(e) of the Securities 
Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957 (“SCRR”) was substituted on February 25, 2015.  

Page 16 of 24 

 

 

Modified Public shareholding definition 

“Public shareholding means equity  shares  of  the  company  held  by  public including   
shares   underlying   the   depository   receipts   if   the   holder   of   such depository  
receipts  has  the  right  to  issue  voting  instruction  and  such  depository receipts 
are listed on an international exchange in accordance with the Depository Receipts 
Scheme, 2014: 

Provided  that  the  equity  shares  of  the  company  held  by  the  trust  set  up  for 
implementing  employee  benefit  schemes  under  the  regulations  framed  by  the 
Securities   and   Exchange   Board   of   India   shall   be   excluded   from   public 
shareholding”.  

15.3.  MoF-DEA  vide  gazette  notification  date  February  25,  2015  amended  Securities 
Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957 (“SCRR”) and included the holders of depository 
receipt as public shareholders if the holders has rights to issue voting instruction and 
depository receipt listed in an international stock exchange. Thus, the same needs to 
be aligned.  

Proposal 

15.4.  It is proposed to modify the public shareholding definition in line with the SCRR.  

16.  Issues relating to inactive shareholders viz. (a) vanishing companies; (b) struck off 

companies; and (c) whose shares have transferred to IEPF account  

Extant regulatory framework – No specific provision 

16.1.  For successful delisting the acquirer has to acquire 90% of the total share capital of 
the  company.  It  is  possible  that  the  companies  may  have  shareholders  viz.  (a) 
vanishing  companies;  (b)  struck  off  companies;  (c)  whose  shares  have  been 
transferred to IEPF account.  

16.2.  In  such  case,  the  acquirer  may  have  to  acquire  a  higher  threshold  due  to  these 

inactive shareholders.  

Proposal 

16.3.  It is proposed that: 

i. 

For companies having shareholders viz. (a) vanishing companies; (b) struck off 
companies;  (c)  whose  shares  have  been  transferred  to  IEPF  account,  the 
minimum acquisition threshold under RBB shall be calculated after deducting the 
shareholding held by such shareholders. 

 

 

Page 17 of 24 

 

 

Plugging Gaps 

17. Book Value 

Extant regulatory framework 

SEBI Board at its meeting held on September 18, 2018 approved that – 

“In case of voluntary delisting, if the price discovered through the reverse book building process is not 
accepted by the promoters, a counter offer can be given by the promoters. However, the price through 
the counter offer should not be less than the book value and delisting will be successful only if such 
counter  offer  is  accepted  by  such  number  of  public  shareholders  that  the  post  offer  promoter 
shareholding reaches at least 90%.” 

The amendments in this regard were introduced in the Delisting Regulations w.e.f. November 14, 2018. 
The  following  regulation  sub-regulation  1A  was  introduced  under  regulation  16  of  Delisting 
Regulations: 

“If the price discovered in terms of regulation 15 is not acceptable to the acquirer or the promoter, the 
acquirer or the promoter may make a counter offer to the public shareholders within two working days 
of the price discovered under regulation 15, in the manner specified by the Board from time to time: 

Provided that the counter offer price shall not be less than the book value of the company as certified 
by the merchant banker.” 

Subsequently,  SEBI vide  circular  dated  March 13,  2019  provided  detailed  timelines  on  the  process 
relating to counter offer. It was inter alia mentioned in the circular that the public announcement of 
counter offer shall also disclose the book value per share of the company. 

Issue  

17.1.  In this regard, representations have been received requesting SEBI to clarify on the 

following: 

i. 

Which financial statements to be considered (standalone vis-à-vis consolidated) 
for book value; and 

ii.  Which date has to be considered for book value  

17.2.  The  consolidated  financial  statements  are  presented  by  a  parent  (also  known  as 
holding enterprise) to provide financial information about the economic activities of its 
group. These statements are intended to present financial information about a parent 
and  its  subsidiaries  as  a  single  economic  entity  to  show  the  economic  resources 
controlled by the group, the obligations of the group and results the group achieves 
with its resources. 

 

Page 18 of 24 

 

17.3.  There is a concern that much of the activities of the subsidiaries are not available in 
the public domain. The consolidated financial statement allows the investors to get a 
complete overview of the parent company. 

17.4.  In case of IPOs also, the profitability and other financial statements are considered on 
a  consolidated  basis  as  per  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018. 

17.5.  Further, as per SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015,  all  the  listed  companies  having  subsidiaries  are  required  to  submit  quarterly 
/year-to-date consolidated financial results. 

17.6.  With regard to date of financial result, it may be noted that since delisting is a major 
event for the company and the investors, the book value should be recent and at the 
same time reviewed / audited by the auditors. The LODR Regulations require that the 
quarterly financial results should be either audited or be subject to limited review by 
the auditors.  

Proposal 

17.7.  In view of the foregoing, the following is proposed: 

i. 

The  book  value  may  be  considered  on  the  basis  of  both  consolidated  and 
standalone basis, whichever is higher, as per the latest quarterly financial results 
filed  by  the  company  on  the  stock  exchanges,  as  on  the  date  of  public 
announcement for counter offer. 

18. Promoters to accept delisting price, if the price discovered through RBB is same 

as floor price 

Extant regulatory framework 

In  terms  of  the  Delisting  Regulations,  the  exit  price  is  determined  through  the  RBB  as  specified  in 
Schedule II, after fixation of the "floor price". The floor price is computed in terms of Regulation 15(2) 
of the Delisting Regulations read with Regulation 8 of the Takeover Regulations. 

In terms of Regulation 16(1) of Delisting Regulations, the promoters are not bound to accept the RBB 
price. The promoters have the right to either accept, reject or make a counter offer. Regulation 16(1) 
of the Delisting Regulations reads as follows:  

“16. (1) The acquirer or promoter shall not be bound to accept the equity shares at the offer price 
determined by the book building process.” 

Further, Regulation 16(1) of the Delisting Regulations reads as follows: 

“1A) If the price discovered in terms of regulation 15 is not acceptable to the acquirer or the promoter, 
the acquirer or the promoter may make a counter offer to the public shareholders within two working 

Page 19 of 24 

 

 

days of the price discovered under regulation 15, in the manner specified by the Board from time to 
time: 

Provided that the counter offer price shall not be less than the book value of the company as certified 
by the merchant banker.” 

Issue 

18.1.  Representations have been received that in the event the price discovered through 

RBB is equal to the floor price, the promoter should be bound to accept the price. 

18.2.  The  floor  price  is  already  known  to  the  promoter  and  the  entire  delisting  process 
(including formation of escrow account, depositing of amount by promoter, bidding by 
public shareholders, deposit of shares by shareholders etc.) is progressed based on 
the floor price already known to promoters and all stakeholders.  

Proposals 

18.3.  In view of the foregoing, the following is proposed: 

a) 

In  the  event  the  price  discovered  through  RBB  is  equal  to  the  floor  price,  the 
promoter shall be bound to accept the delisting price and the promoter shall not 
have the option of rejecting the delisting.  

b)  The expenses relating to delisting should be borne by the acquirer/promoter, in 

case of failure of delisting. 

19. Reducing the gap for relisting post delisting 

Extant regulatory framework 

 

Regulation 30(1)(a) of the Delisting Regulations provides that: 

“30. (1) No application for listing shall be made in respect of any equity shares, 

(a)  which have been delisted under Chapter III or under Chapter VII (except regulation 27), 

for a period of five years from the delisting;” 

Issue 

19.1. 

Representations have been received from stakeholders to reduce the cooling 
off period for relisting of companies from the existing 5 years to 3 years. In this regard, 
it has been represented that the cooling off period may be reduced to 3 years for the 
following reasons: 

a)  The business environment in the country is constantly evolving and companies 
may  require  funding  for  new  business  opportunities,  subsequent  to  delisting.  5 
years  is  a  considerably  longer  time  period  to  anticipate  the  changes  in  the 

Page 20 of 24 

 

 

business environment. There can be a possibility for fund requirement and need 
to access capital markets within this period and accordingly, a shorter cooling off 
period of 3 years can be considered for relisting the shares once delisted. 

b)  Delisting Regulations prescribe a minimum time gap of 3 years from initial listing 
of the company before making an application for delisting. The cooling off period 
for relisting subsequent to delisting can be synchronized to 3 years in line with 
this requirement. 

c) 

In some situations, delisting decisions may be taken to pursue strategic initiatives 
with longer gestation period and to reduce exposure of public market investors to 
such  projects.  Such  projects  may  require  bringing  on  board  new  strategic/ 
financial investors to get access to requisite technical know-how and funding. On 
successful completion of the new initiatives and achieving the critical performance 
parameters, such companies may want to relist for liquidity event and access to 
capital  markets.  Permitting  relisting  after  completion  of  3  years  of  delisting  will 
encourage such investments. 

Proposal 

19.2.  It is therefore proposed that the cooling off period for relisting post delisting prescribed 
under regulation 30(1)(a) of the Delisting Regulations may be reduced to three years.  

20. Cooling off period after Buy-back and preferential allotment  

Extant regulatory framework  

Regulation 4. (1) No company shall apply for and no recognised stock exchange shall permit delisting of equity 
shares of a company,- 

(a) pursuant to a buyback of equity shares by the company; or 

(b) pursuant to a preferential allotment made by the company; or 

…………………. 

20.1. 

As  per  Reg.  4(1)  of  the  Delisting  regulations,  voluntary  delisting  is  not 

permissible pursuant to buy-back and preferential allotment by the company.  

Issue 

The timeline for voluntary delisting subsequent to buy-back / preferential allotment is 
not  specified.  Consequently,  varying  practices  are  followed  by  the  companies  and 
therefore there is need to provide timelines in this respect.  

 

 

Page 21 of 24 

 
Proposal: 

20.2. 

It is proposed that: 

i.  Voluntary delisting may not be permitted  pursuant to buy-back and preferential 
allotment, unless a period of six months has elapsed from completion of the last 
buy-back or preferential allotment. 

21. Parallel delisting of depository receipts issued overseas 

Extant regulatory framework – No specific provision 

Issue 

21.1.  Delisting  regulations  are  silent  on  the  delisting  of  Depository  Receipt  from  foreign 

jurisdictions subsequent to the delisting of shares of company in India.  

Proposal 

21.2.   It is proposed that after delisting of shares in the home jurisdiction the company shall 
delist all of its depository receipts issued overseas (Subject to consultation with Govt. 
of India). 

22. Cooling off period between two delisting attempts  

Extant regulatory framework – No specific provision 

Issue 

22.1.  Upon failure of the voluntary delisting, the delisting Regulations do not provide any 

specific timeline, pursuant to which voluntary delisting may be re-attempted.  

Concern 

22.2.  Voluntary delisting is a major event, which draws the attention of all the stakeholders. 
Shareholders  anticipating  exit  opportunity  in  the  delisting  process,  feel  short  – 
changed,  upon  failure  of  either  Reverse  book  building  process  or  rejection  of 
discovered price by the Promoter/Acquirer. Voluntary delisting adds to the volatility in 
share price. 

Proposal 

22.3. 

 It is proposed that: 

i. 

There shall be a cooling off period of six months between two delisting offers and 
same  acquirer(s)  /  promoter(s)  cannot  make  another  delisting  offer  during  the 
cooling-off period. 

Page 22 of 24 

 

 
Update references to the Companies Act, 2013  

23. Delisting  pursuant  to  the  resolution  plan  approved  under  Section  31  of  the 

Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 

Extant regulatory framework  

Regulation (2) Nothing in these regulations shall apply to any delisting made pursuant to a scheme sanctioned 
by  the  Board  for  Industrial  and  Financial  Reconstruction  under  the  Sick  Industrial  Companies  (Special 
Provisions) Act, 1985 or by the National Company Law Tribunal under section 424D of the Companies Act, 
1956, if such scheme – 

(a) lays down any specific procedure to complete the delisting; or 

(b) provides an exit option to the existing public shareholders at a specified rate. 

23.1.  Regulation  3(2)  deals  with  the  non-applicability  of  Delisting  Regulations  on  the 
delisting  made  pursuant  scheme  sanctioned  by  the  BIFR  under  Sick  Industrial 
Companies  (Special  Provisions)  Act,  1985  or  by  NCLT  under  section  424D  of 
Companies Act, 1956.  

Issue 

23.2.  Sick  Industrial  Companies  (Special  Provisions)  Act,  1985  has  since  been  replaced 
with Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 and the Companies Act, 2013 has been 
notified. 

Proposal 

23.3.  It is proposed that the Reg. 3(2) may be deleted. 

C.  Public Comments 

1.  Public comments are therefore invited on the aforesaid proposals in the following format:  

Name of entity/ person/ intermediary:  

 

Name of organization (if applicable): 

 

Contact details: Address, Mobile No. etc. 

Sr. 
No. 

Proposals 

Proposed/ 

Rationale 

suggested changes 

 

 

Page No. Para No. 

 

 

 

 

Page 23 of 24 

 
2.   The comments may be forwarded by e-mail to delistingreview2020@sebi.gov.in or sent 

by post at the following address latest by December 21, 2020. 

Sh. Achal Singh  
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Corporate Restructuring -2 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 

*************** 

 

Page 24 of 24 

