¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CONSULTATIVE PAPER ON RE-CLASSIFICATION OF 

PROMOTER/ PROMOTER GROUP ENTITIES AND 

DISCLOSURE OF THE PROMOTER GROUP ENTITIES IN THE 

SHAREHOLDING PATTERN 

Background  

Re-classification of promoter(s)/ promoter group entities 

1.  Regulation 31A of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations,  2015  (“LODR  Regulations  /  LODR”)  provides  for  conditions 
with respect to re-classification of any person as promoter/public. 

2.  A detailed review of the above regulation was undertaken in 2018, with an 
aim  to  simplify,  streamline  and  bring  greater  clarity  in  the  provisions 
specified therein. In this regard, certain provisions that were prone to misuse 
were also strengthened. 

3.  A  brief  summary  of  the  present  re-classification  process  is  given  below 

(relevant extract of regulation is placed at Annexure-A): 

a.  A  listed  entity  makes  an  application  to  Stock  Exchanges  for  re-

classification of any person as promoter.  

b.  The application for re-classification to the stock exchanges shall be 
made by the listed entity consequent to the following procedures and 
not later than thirty days from the date of approval by shareholders 
in general meeting: 

i.  The promoter(s) seeking re-classification make a request for 

re-classification to the listed entity. 

ii.  The board of directors of the listed entity analyse the request 
and  place  the  same  before  the  shareholders  in  a  general 
meeting  for  approval  along-with  the  views  of  the  board  of 
directors on the request. There should be a time gap of at least 
three months but not exceeding six months between the date 
of board meeting and the shareholder’s meeting considering 
the request of the promoter(s) seeking re-classification. 

iii.  The request of the promoter(s) seeking re-classification shall 
be approved in the general meeting by an ordinary resolution 
in which the promoter(s) seeking re-classification and persons 
related  to  the  promoter(s)  seeking  re-classification  shall  not 
vote to approve such re-classification request. 

4.  Certain pre-requisites in terms of shareholding, control, special rights of the 
person seeking reclassification are specified in regulation 31A (3) (b) of the 
LODR.  Further,  Regulation  31A  (3)  (c)  of  the  LODR  prescribes  certain 

 

Page 1 of 7 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

conditions for the listed entity, aimed at ensuring that only compliant listed 
entities are eligible to apply for re-classification. 

Disclosure  of  names  of  promoter  group  entities  in  the  shareholding 
pattern 

5.  With  respect  to  disclosure  of  promoter(s)/  promoter  group  entities, 
Regulation  31(4)  of  SEBI  (LODR)  Regulations,  2015  mandates  a  listed 
entity to disclose separately, all entities falling under promoter and promoter 
group,  in  the  shareholding  pattern  appearing  on  the  website  of  all  stock 
exchanges  having  nationwide  trading  terminals  where  the  specified 
securities of the entity are listed, in accordance with the formats specified 
by  SEBI.  Further,  SEBI  circular  CIR/CFD/CMD/13/2015  dated  November 
30,  2015  specifies  detailed  format  for  disclosure  of  specified  holdings  of 
promoter  and  promoter  group,  public  and  Non  Promoter  Non  public 
shareholders in dematerialized form. 

Need for review 

6.  SEBI has received feedback regarding cases where promoters have desired 
re-classification but have found it difficult under current regulatory regime. 
Relaxation from existing requirement on a case to case basis was given by 
SEBI. 

7.  It  is  therefore  desirous  that  the  existing  provisions  may  be  revisitied  to 

minimize the number of exemptions provided on a case to case basis.  

Review Process 

8.  The matter was discussed by Primary Market Advisory Committee (‘PMAC’) 

of SEBI in its meeting held on November 11, 2020. 

9.  Accordingly, the proposals with respect to review of reclassification of the 

promoter/promoter group entities as public shareholder are as under. 

Proposals: 

Condition pertaining to minimum threshold of voting rights 
 

10. The re-classification condition on share-holding, may be amended such that 
the  promoter(s)  seeking  re-classification  and  persons  related  to  the 
promoter(s) seeking re-classification shall not together, hold 15% or more 
of the total voting rights in the listed entity. 

Rationale 

 

SEBI  has  received  feedback  from  market  participaants  to  review  the 
thershold of 10% so that the persons who may have been promoters but are 
no longer in day-to-day control having shareholding of less than 15% may 
“opt-out” from being classified as “promoters”, without having to reduce their 
share-holding.  

 

 

Page 2 of 7 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Time period between board and shareholders meeting 

 

11. Current time gap of at least three months between the date of board meeting 
and the shareholder’s meeting considering the request of the promoter(s) 
seeking re-classification may be reduced to at least one month. 

Rationale 

 

An  adequate  time  period  needs  to  be  given  to  the  shareholders  for 
considering  the  request  of  the  promoter(s)  seeking  re-classification. 
However,  the  minimum  time  gap  of  three  months  is  felt  to  be  long  which 
increases the total time taken in the process. It is therefore proposed that 
the same  may be reduced to at least one month. This would increase both 
cost and time efficiency of the listed entities. 

Reclassification  pursuant  to  an  order/  direction  of  Government  / 
regulator 

 

 

12. The  exemption  from  regulations  31A(3),  31A(4)  and  31A(8)(a)  &  (b)  of 
LODR,  as  extended  in  case  of  re-classification  of  promoter,  pursuant  to 
resolution  plan,  approved  under  section  31  of  the  Insolvency  Code,  may 
also be extended to re-classification pursuant to an order/ direction of the 
Government  /  regulator  and/or  as  a  consequence  of  operation  of  law, 
subject to the condition that such promoter(s) seeking re-classification shall 
not remain in control of the listed entity. 

Rationale 

 

In cases of reclassification pursuant to order/ direction of the Government/ 
regulator, the re-classification of the promoter is a natural consequence of 
the  order/  direction  of  the  Government  /  regulator.  Hence  the  exemption 
granted  to  companies  under  IBC  as  stated  in  Regulation  31A(9)  may  be 
extended  to  companies  undergoing  reclassification  of  their  promoter(s)/ 
promoter group entities pursuant to government’s/ regulator’s order. 

 
 

Reclassification of existing promoter pursuant to open offer 

 

13. Exemption from the procedure for re-classification may be granted, in cases 
where re-classification is pursuant to an open offer made in accordance with 
the provisions of SAST Regulations, subject to the following conditions:  

a.  The  intent  of  the  existing  promoter(s)  to  re-classify  has  been 

disclosed in the letter of offer  

b.  The promoter / person(s) related to the promoter being reclassified 
fulfil the conditions mentioned at regulation 31A(3)(b) and the listed 
entity fulfils the conditions stipulated at regulation 31A(3)(c) of LODR 

 

Page 3 of 7 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

Rationale 

 

In cases where intent of reclassification has already been mentioned in the 
Letter  of  Offer,  the  requirement  of  promoter  making  an  application  for 
reclassification is a mere procedural formality since the fact of promoter re-
classification as a public shareholder is disclosed in the Letter of Offer and 
the information is already present in the public domain 

 

 

14. Exemption from the procedure for re-classification, may be granted in cases 
where,  pursuant  to  an  open  offer,  a  listed  entity  intends  to  re-classify 
erstwhile promoter(s)/ promoter group entities but the ‘promoters/ promoter 
group  entities’  are  not  traceable  or  are  not  co-operative,  subject  to  the 
following conditions: 

a.  The listed entity should be able to demonstrate that efforts have been 
taken to contact the promoter(s) such as through issuance of notices 
in newspapers, Stock Exchange websites etc.   

b.  Such promoter(s) seeking re-classification shall not remain in control 

of the listed entity 

Rationale 

 

SEBI  has  come  across  cases  where,  pursuant  to  an  open  offer,  the  new 
management  of  a  listed  entity  was  unable  to  reclassify  the  erstwhile 
promoters  because  they  were  un-traceable  or  non-cooperative  and 
therefore was unable to procure reclassification request from the erstwhile 
promoters,  thereby  stalling  the  whole  process.  This  resulted  into  old 
promoters continue to be classified as promoter despite losing control of the 
company.  The  requirement  of  promoter  making  an  application  for 
reclassification is a mere procedural formality. Hence, the reclassification of 
such persons may be permitted provided the company has taken efforts to 
reach out to the erstwhile promoters and such outgoing promoters/ promoter 
group entities not being in control. 

Time period for listed companies to place the reclassification request 
before board 

15. The  Listed  entity  shall  place  the  reclassification  request  before  its  board 
within  one  month  of  receiving  the  reclassification  request  from  its 
promoter(s)/ promoter group entities. 

Rationale 

 

While  current  regulatory  framework  under  Regulation  31A  prescribes  the 
process of reclassification, it does not prescribe a definitive timeline for the 
company to place such reclassification before the  board. It is observed in 
some  cases  that  the  reclassification  requests  from  promoter(s)/  promoter 
group entities have not been placed before the Board, thereby ceasing the 
process in its initial phase. Hence, in order to streamline the reclassification 

 

Page 4 of 7 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

process further, a timeline is prescribed for the request to be placed before 
the board of the listed entity. 

 

Disclosure  of  names  of  promoter  group  entities  in  the  shareholding 
pattern 

16. All  entities  falling  under  promoter  and  promoter  group  shall  be  disclosed 

separately even in case of ‘Nil’ shareholding. 

17. Listed  entities  to  obtain  a  declaration  on  a  quarterly  basis,  from  their 

promoters on the entities / persons that form part of the ‘promoter group’ 

Rationale 

 

While Reg 31 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 mandates that all entities 
falling under promoter and promoter group shall be disclosed separately in 
the  shareholding  pattern,  there  have  been  cases  where  listed  companies 
have not been disclosing names of persons in promoter(s)/ promoter group 
who hold ‘Nil’ shareholding. There is therefore a need for further clarification 
in this regard to the listed companies. 

Public comments 

Considering  the  implications  of  the  said  matter  on  the  market  participants 
including  listed  companies, promoters/promoter  group of  the  said  companies 
and  investors,  comments  on  the  policy  framework  proposed  above  at 
paragraphs 10 to 17 are solicited. Specific comments/suggestions as per the 
format given below would be highly appreciated  

 

 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization: 

Sr. No. 

Issues 

Suggestions  

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Comments may be sent by email to consultationcmd2@sebi.gov.in  or by post 
to the following address, not later than December 24, 2020: 

  

General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department, CMD-II, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),  
Mumbai -400 051 
 

Issued on: November 23, 2020 

 

 

Page 5 of 7 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

ANNEXURE A - REGULATORY PROVISIONS FOR RE-

CLASSIFICATION OF ANY PERSON AS PROMOTER / PUBLIC 

 

to 

the  promoter  group  seeking 

“promoter(s)  seeking 

re-classification”  shall  mean  all  such 
re-

31A. (1) For the purpose of this regulation: 
(a) 
promoters/persons  belonging 
classification of status as public. 
(b) “persons related to the promoter(s) seeking re-classification” shall mean 
such persons with respect to that promoter(s) seeking re-classification who 
fall under sub-clauses (ii), (iii) and (iv) of clause (pp) of sub-regulation (1) of 
regulation 2 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018. 
 
(2) Re-classification of the status of any person as a promoter or public shall 
be  permitted  by  the  stock  exchanges  only  upon  receipt  of  an  application 
from  the  listed  entity  along  with  all  relevant  documents  subject  to 
compliance with conditions specified in these regulations; 
Provided that in case of entities listed on more than one stock exchange, 
the concerned stock exchanges shall jointly decide on the application. 
 
(3) Re-classification of status of a promoter/ person belonging to promoter group 
to public shall be permitted by the stock exchanges only upon satisfaction of the 
following conditions:  
(a) an application for re-classification to the stock exchanges has been made by 
the  listed  entity  consequent  to  the  following  procedures  and  not  later  than  thirty 
days from the date of approval by shareholders in general meeting:  

(i)  the  promoter(s)  seeking  re-classification  shall  make  a  request  for  re-
classification to the listed entity which shall include rationale for seeking such re-
classification and how the conditions specified in clause (b) below are satisfied;  
(ii) the board of directors of the listed entity shall analyze the request and place 
the same before the shareholders in a general meeting for approval along with 
the views of the board of directors on the request:  
Provided that there shall be a time gap of at least three months but not 
exceeding six months between the date of board meeting and the 
shareholder’s meeting considering the request of the promoter(s) seeking re-
classification.  
 
(iii) the request of the promoter(s) seeking re-classification shall be approved in 
the general meeting by an ordinary resolution in which the promoter(s) seeking 
re-classification and persons related to the promoter(s) seeking re-classification 
shall not vote to approve such re-classification request.  

(b) the promoter(s) seeking re-classification and persons related to the 
promoter(s) seeking re-classification shall not:  

(i) together, hold more than ten percent of the total voting rights in the listed 
entity;  
(ii) exercise control over the affairs of the listed entity directly or indirectly;  
(iii) have any special rights with respect to the listed entity through formal or 
informal arrangements including through any shareholder agreements;  
(iv) be represented on the board of directors (including not having a nominee 
director) of the listed entity;  
(v) act as a key managerial person in the listed entity;  
(vi) be a ‘wilful defaulter’ as per the Reserve Bank of India Guidelines;  

Page 6 of 7 

 

 
 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
(vii) be a fugitive economic offender.  

 

(c) the listed entity shall:  

(i) be compliant with the requirement for minimum public shareholding as 
required under regulation 38 of these regulations;  
(ii) not have trading in its shares suspended by the stock exchanges;  
(iii) not have any outstanding dues to the Board, the stock exchanges or the 
depositories.  

 

 

 

(4) The promoter(s) seeking re-classification, subsequent to re-classification as public, 
shall comply with the following conditions:  
(a) he shall continue to comply with conditions mentioned at sub-clauses (i), (ii) and 
(iii) of clause (b) of sub-regulation 3 as specified above at all times from the date of 
such re-classification failing which, he shall automatically be reclassified as promoter/ 
persons belonging to promoter group, as applicable;  
(b) he shall comply with conditions mentioned at sub-clauses (iv) and (v) of clause (b) 
of sub-regulation 3 for a period of not less than three years from the date of such re-
classification failing which, he shall automatically be reclassified as promoter/ persons 
belonging to promoter group, as applicable.  
 
(5) If any public shareholder seeks to re-classify itself as promoter, it shall be required 
to make an open offer in accordance with the provisions of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. 
 
(6)  In  case  of  transmission,  succession,  inheritance  and  gift  of  shares  held  by  a 
promoter/ person belonging to the promoter group:  
(a)  immediately  on such  event, the recipient  of such  shares  shall  be  classified  as  a 
promoter/ person belonging to the promoter group, as applicable.  
(b)  subsequently,  in case  the recipient  classified  as  a  promoter/person  belonging  to 
the promoter group proposes to seek re-classification of status as public, it may do so 
subject to compliance with conditions specified in sub-regulation (3) above.  
(c) in case of death of a promoter/person belonging to the promoter group, such person 
shall  automatically  cease  to  be  included  as  a  promoter/person  belonging  to  the 
promoter group.  
 
(7) A listed entity shall be considered as ‘listed entity with no promoters’ if due to re-
classification or otherwise, the entity does not have any promoter; 
 
(8) The following events shall deemed to be material events and shall be disclosed by 
the listed entity to the stock exchanges as soon as reasonably possible and not later 
than twenty four hours from the occurrence of the event:  
(a)  receipt  of  request  for  re-classification  by  the  listed  entity  from  the  promoter(s) 
seeking re-classification;  
(b) minutes of the board meeting considering such request which would include the 
views of the board on the request;  
(c) submission of application for re-classification of  status as promoter/public by the 
listed entity to the stock exchanges;  
(d) decision of the stock exchanges on such application as communicated to the listed 
entity;  
 
(9) The provisions of sub-regulations 3, 4 and clauses (a) and (b) of sub-regulation 8 
of this regulation shall not apply, if re-classification of promoter(s)/ promoter group of 
the  listed  entity  is  as  per  the  resolution  plan  approved  under  section  31  of  the 
Insolvency  Code,  subject  to  the  condition  that  such  promoter(s)  seeking  re-
classification shall not remain in control of the listed entity.] 

 

Page 7 of 7 

 

