 

Consultation Paper  

Review  of  the  ‘NCDs  along  with  warrants’  as  a  staple  product  and  as  a 

segregated product, offered through Qualified Institutional Placement under SEBI 

(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 

1.  Objective 

1.1. The  objective  of  this  discussion  paper  is  to  seek  comments  /  views  from  the 

public and market intermediaries on review of the ‘NCDs along with warrants’ as 

a stapled product offering or as a segregated product offering, through Qualified 

Institutional Placement (QIP) route under SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, 2018 (‘ICDR). 

2.  Background 

2.1. SEBI  in  the  past  as  an  effort  to  provide  a  competitive  product  to  the  Foreign 

Currency  Convertible  Bonds  (FCCB)  instruments  and  to  arrest  the  export  of 

domestic  capital  market,  explored  alternate  structures  which  would  yield  the 

same  benefits  to  the  issuer,  SEBI,  in  consultation  with  market  participants, 

explored alternate structures which would have same benefits and also enhance 

the suite of products from the investors’ point of view.  

2.2. Accordingly,  SEBI  in  the  year  2008,  permitted  a  listed  company  to  make  a 

combined  offering  of  'Non-convertible  Debentures  (NCDs)  along  with  warrants' 

through  the  QIP  mechanism  under  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection 

(DIP) Guidelines, 2000. This was also captured in the SEBI ICDR Regulations, 

2009 & SEBI ICDR Regulations, 2018. 

3.  Present regulatory framework 

3.1. The chapter VI of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2018, inter alia, provide guidelines 

for  QIP  including  for  eligibility  conditions,  appointment  of  lead  managers, 

placement  document,  pricing  of  securities,  application  and  allotment  of 

securities  etc.  in  respect  of  eligible  securities  offered  under  QIP  route. 

Consultation paper on Review of the ‘NCDs along with warrants’ under QIP 

Page 1 of 5 

 

 

Regulation  171(a)  defines  ‘eligible  securities’  and  the  same  is  reproduced  as 

under - 

“Regulation 171 Definitions  

 For the purpose of this Chapter:  

a)  “eligible  securities”  include  equity  shares,  non-convertible  debt  instruments 

along with warrants and convertible securities other than warrants;” 

“Regulation 179  Application and  Allotment:  

(3) In a qualified institutions placement of non-convertible debt instrument along 

with  warrants,  an  investor  can  subscribe  to  the  combined  offering  of  non-

convertible debt instruments with warrants or to the individual securities, that is, 

either non- convertible debt instruments or warrants 

3.2. Thus  the  above framework  in  2008  allowed the  offering  to be  either  stapled  or 

segregated. 

3.3. Regulation  31  (2)  of  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities)  Regulations, 

2008 (‘SEBI ILDS Regulations’),  
 
“In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power and 

provisions  of  these  regulations,  such  orders  or  circulars  may  provide  for  all  or 

any of the following matters, namely: 

(a) Electronic issuances and other issue procedures including the procedure for 

price discovery;” 

3.4. In  conjunction  with 

the  above  provisions,  SEBI  vide  Circular  no. 

CIR/IMD/DF1/48/2016 dated April 21, 2016, introduced Electronic Book Provider 

(EBP) mechanism, which streamlines procedures for issuance of debt securities 

(including NCDs) offering efficient and transparent price discovery mechanism.  

 

Consultation paper on Review of the ‘NCDs along with warrants’ under QIP 

Page 2 of 5 

 

4.  Need for review  

 

4.1. Present  framework  under  ICDR  allows  that  in  a  QIP  of  'NCDs  along  with 

warrants', an investor can subscribe to the combined offering of NCD instrument 

with  warrants  or  to  the  individual  securities,  that  is,  either  NCD  or  warrants, 

depending on type of offering made by the issuer i.e. whether issuer has offered 

staple  product  (where  warrants  attached  with  NCDs)  or  segregated  product 

(where NCDs and warrants can be subscribed separately).  

4.2. Therefore,  in  case  'NCDs  along  with  warrants'  are  offered  as  segregated 

product,  it  may  technically  be  considered  only  as  “simultaneous  but  unlinked” 

issuance since subscribers can subscribe to both or either of the instrument.  

4.3. In  case  of  issuance  of  NCDs  under  SEBI  ILDS  Regulations,  the  EBP  offers 

issuers  a  large  market  of  investors  and  thus  has  an  advantage  of  an  efficient 

and  transparent  price  discovery  mechanism  thus  lowering  the  cost  of  debt  for 

issuers and consequently benefiting the shareholders of the issuer companies. 

This  has  brought  transparency,  and  done  away  with  the  discretionary  and 

bilateral  allotment  of  debt  to  specific  entities  which  the  market  was  used  to. 

Presently, listing of NCDs of Rs 200 crore or above in a year is possible only if 

such issuance is through EBP mechanism. 

4.4. In contrast to the NCDs on EBP market, ‘NCDs along with warrants’ under SEBI 

ICDR Regulations allows the issuer facility of discretionary allotment which has 

the  advantage  of  choosing  who  the  issuer  can  allot  warrant  and  consequently 

who the shareholder would be. 

4.5. There  are  apprehensions  that  the  product  'NCDs  along  with  warrants'  may  be 

misused where issuers try to stay away from the EBP mechanism by issuing a 

tail  warrant  with  NCDs  to  Qualified  Institution  Buyers  (QIBs)  under  SEBI  ICDR 

Regulations.  

4.6. There  is  a  thought  process  that  the  'NCDs  with  warrants'  with  segregated 

allotment,  where  an  investor  can  subscribe  to  the  individual  securities,  that  is, 

Consultation paper on Review of the ‘NCDs along with warrants’ under QIP 

Page 3 of 5 

 

 

either NCDs or warrants, is no longer a hybrid instrument and thus deserves to 

be treated in terms of issuance in the respective regulations i.e. NCDs issuance 

should be on EBP only in terms of SEBI ILDS Regulations and warrants under 

SEBI ICDR Regulations. 

4.7. Also,  presently  in  terms  of  provisions  under  ICDR  Regulations,  2018,  warrants 

can  also  be  issued  including  to  the  QIBs  through  IPO/FPO/Rights  Issue  and 

Preferential allotment route. Though, in case of IPO/FPO/Rights Issue warrants 

can  only  be  issued  if  attached  with  specified  security,  whereas,  in  case  of 

preferential allotment naked warrants can be issued including to the QIBs by the 

issuer company in terms of provisions of Chapter V of Preferential Issue under 

ICDR  Regulations,  2018  (as  per  the  existing  provisions,  preferential  issue  can 

be  made  to  not  more  than  5  QIBs).  Further,  the  tenure,  pricing  and  upfront 

payment  requirements  for  issuance  of  warrants  under  QIP,  Preferential  issue 

and IPO/FPO/Rights Issue are different. 

5.  Proposal 

5.1. The matter was deliberated at the Primary market Advisory Committee (PMAC), 

which has recommended that SEBI may seek public comments on the following:  

5.1.1.  Discontinuing  segregated  offering  of  ‘NCDs  along  with  warrants’  to  QIBs 

through QIP mechanism under SEBI ICDR Regulations. 

5.1.2.  Stapled  offering  of  ‘NCDs  along  with  warrants’  to  QIBs  may  be  retained 

under  SEBI  ICDR  Regulations,  with  ability  to  segregate  the  instruments 

after the issuance/allotment. However, to curtail misuse of the product by 

way  of  issuing  a  tail  warrant  with  NCDs,  a  minimum  threshold  may  be 

prescribed  for  warrant  portion  [say  warrant  portion  should  constitute 

minimum 40% of total issue size]. 

5.1.3.  Allowing  issuance  of  ‘naked  warrants’  to  QIBs  through  QIP  mechanism 

under SEBI ICDR Regulations with guidelines on upfront payment, pricing 

and tenure of warrants. 

Consultation paper on Review of the ‘NCDs along with warrants’ under QIP 

Page 4 of 5 

 

6.  Public comments  

 

6.1. Considering  the  implications  of  the  said  matter  on  the  market  participants 

including  issuer  companies  and  investors,  public  comments  are  invited  on  

the  proposal    at    para    5    above.    Comments    may    be    sent    by    email    or  

through  post  ,  in the following format: 

Name of entity / person : 
 
Contact Number & Email Address : 

Sr. No. 

 
 

Reference  Para  of 
the 
consultation 
paper 
 

Suggestion/ 
Comments 

Rationale 

 

 

While  sending  email,  kindly  mention  the  subject  as  “Review  of  the  ‘NCDs 

along with warrants’ under QIP".  

6.2. The  comments  may  be  sent  by  email  to  Shri  Rajesh  Dangeti,  GM  at 

rajeshkd@sebi.gov.in  and  Shri  Ankur  Bishnoi,  AGM  at  ankurb@sebi.gov.in  or 

sent by post at the following address latest by December 17, 2020: 

Mr. Rajesh Dangeti 

General Manager 

Corporation Finance Department 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SEBI Bhavan, 

Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 

Bandra Kurla Complex 

Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 

Ph.: +91-22-26449242 

 

 

Issued on:  December 02, 2020 

Consultation paper on Review of the ‘NCDs along with warrants’ under QIP 

Page 5 of 5 

 

