 

Consultation Paper   

Review  of  framework  of  Innovators  Growth  platform  (IGP)  under  SEBI  (Issue  of 

Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018. 

1.  Objective 

1.1.  The objective of this discussion paper is to seek comments / views from various 

stakeholders  including  start-ups  in  particular,  market  intermediaries  and  the 

public on the framework of Innovators Growth platform (IGP) under Chapter X 

of SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 (the 

SEBI ICDR Regulations'). 

2.  Background 

2.1.  In  2015,  a  new  segment  named  as  Institutional  Trading  Platform  (ITP)  was 

introduced  by  SEBI,  with  a  view  to  facilitate  listing  of  new  age  start-ups.  

However, the ITP framework failed to evince interest.  

2.2.  In  2019,  SEBI  attempted  to  revive  the  platform  by  introducing  certain 

amendments  to  the  ITP  framework  and  renamed  it  as  the  Innovators  Growth 

Platform (IGP).  

2.3.  IGP  is  aimed  at  issuers  which  are  intensive  in  use  of  technology,  information 

technology,  intellectual  property,  data  analytics,  bio-technology  or  nano-

technology. 

3.  Present regulatory framework 

3.1.  The Chapter X of SEBI ICDR Regulations, 2018, inter alia, provides stipulations 

for  issuers  seeking  listing  of  their  specified  securities  on  a  stock  exchange 

under IGP framework including eligibility conditions, listing of securities, lock in 

requirements,  minimum  trading  lot  etc.  and  conditions  for  migration  to  Main 

Board.  

Consultation paper on Review of IGP framework under ICDR, 2018 

Page 1 of 12 

 

3.2.  Presently  the  key  requirements  for  issuer  companies  to  list  under  IGP  are  as 

 

under: 

3.2.1.  25  per  cent  of  the  pre-issue  capital,  of  the  issuer  company  should  have 

been held for at least a period of two years by:  

  Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs),  

  Family Trust (with net-worth > 500 crore),  

  Accredited  Investors  (AI)  for  the  purpose  of  IGP  (individual  with  net 

worth> 5 crore and income > 50 lakh / body corporate with net worth > 

25 crore) and 

  Regulated  entities 

like  Foreign  portfolio 

Investor  (FPI),  Pooled 

investment fund (with minimum Assets under management > USD 150 

million) etc. 

Further, not more than 10 per cent of the pre-issue capital held by AIs is to 

be considered for 25% pre-issue capital eligibility requirement. 

3.2.2.  Minimum net offer to public should be in compliance with minimum public 

shareholding norms and minimum offer size to be Rs 10 crore. 

3.2.3.  The minimum application size and minimum trading lot to be INR two lakh 

and in multiples of INR two lakh thereof. 

3.2.4.  Minimum  number  of  allottees  to  be  50  and  allotment  shall  be  on 

proportionate basis. 

3.2.5.  No  requirement  of  minimum  reservation  of  allocation  to  specific  category 

of investors. 

3.2.6.  Migration allowed to main board if the company satisfies the conditions for 

migration.  

Consultation paper on Review of IGP framework under ICDR, 2018 

Page 2 of 12 

 

4.  Need for review  

 

4.1.  Despite aforesaid changes, the IGP could not get any traction and no listing by 

issuers have so far taken place on IGP platform. 

4.2.  Recently  during  various 

interactions  with  various  start-ups  and  market 

participants, SEBI has received certain feedback and suggestions for revisiting 

the IGP norms.  

4.3.  The  recommendations  /  suggestions  received  were  placed  before  Primary 

Market Advisory Committee (PMAC) of SEBI. 

4.4.  Accordingly, the matter was deliberated by the PMAC, which apart from giving 

suggestions,  has  recommended  that  SEBI  may  seek  public  comments  on  the 

following proposed changes to the IGP framework.  

5.  Proposals: 

5.1.  Eligibility  Criteria:  Presently  in  terms  of  the  ICDR  Regulations,  25%  of  pre-

issue capital is required to be held by eligible investors for 2 years.  

Market concern/ suggestion 

In start-ups which are generally high growth companies, the holding  by eligible 

investors above 25% of pre-issue capital may not be an issue, however, there 

may  be  a  lot  of  churn  of  the  investors  as  the  start-up  goes  through  various 

phases.  Therefore,  the  2  year  hold  period  for  eligibility  to  list  on  IGP  may  be 

difficult to meet as eligible investors would want to get regular exits and may get 

replaced  by  new  investors.    Therefore,  the  holding  period  is  suggested  to  be 

reduced to 1 year. 

Recommendation 

The  two  year  hold  period  before  listing  is  perceived  as  an  onerous  condition. 

Reducing the hold period would help start-up companies in attracting investors 

Consultation paper on Review of IGP framework under ICDR, 2018 

Page 3 of 12 

 

 

who  are  inclined  for  an  early  listing  at  the  time  of  investing.  Further,  this  will 

potentially  make  more  number  of  companies  eligible  for  IGP  listing.  From  a 

regulatory  perspective,  25%  of  the  pre-issue  shareholding  would  anyway  be 

held  by  the  eligible  Investors.  Therefore,  the  period  of  holding  of  25%  of  pre-

issue  capital  to be held  by  eligible  investors  for  2  years,  may  be  reduced  to 1 

year. 

5.2.  Lock  –In:    The  entire  pre-issue  capital  of  the  shareholders  is  required  to  be 

locked-in for a period of six months from the date of allotment/listing. However, 

equity shares held by a venture capital fund or alternative investment fund (AIF) 

of Category-I or a foreign venture capital investor etc. are exempted from such 

requirement provided  that  such  equity  shares  are  locked-in  for  a  period  of  

at  least  one  year  from the date of purchase. 

Market concern/ suggestion 

It  has  been  suggested  that  AIF  Cat  –II  investors  may  also  be  exempted  from 

post  issue  six  months  lock  in  requirements  provided  shares  are  held  for  a 

period of 1 year from the date of purchase.  

Recommendation 

In  the  Main  Board,  post  issue  lock-in  requirements  are  not  applicable  for  AIF 

Cat-II,  provided  that  the  shares  are  held  for  a  period  of  1  year  from  date  of 

purchase. Similar exemption may be provided in IGP framework also. Thus the 

provision  in  IGP  treatment  is  sought  to  be  harmonized  with  the  Main  Board 

requirement.   

5.3.  Discretionary  Allotment  to  Anchor  Investors:  Present  regulations  in  IGP 

provide  for  allotment  to  institutional  as  well  as  non-institutional  investors  on  a 

proportionate basis, with no requirement of minimum reservation of allocation to 

specific category of investors.  

Consultation paper on Review of IGP framework under ICDR, 2018 

Page 4 of 12 

 

 

There  is  no  provision  for  any  separate  allocation  for  anchor  investors  or 

allocation to institutional investors on discretionary basis, whereas, in the Main 

Board,  60%  of  the  QIBs  portion  of  the  issue  size  can  be  allocated  to  Anchor 

investors on a discretionary basis prior to issue opening provided that there is 

lock-in of 30 days on the shares allotted to the anchor investors from the date of 

allotment. 

Market concern/ suggestion 

It  is  suggested  that  Issuer  Company  may  be  allowed  to  allocate  upto  60% 

portion of the issue size on a discretionary  basis, prior to issue opening, to all 

those  investors  who  are  eligible  for  25%  pre-issue  capital  as  mandated  in 

Regulation 283 of the ICDR Regulations, provided that there will be a lock in of 

30  days  on  the  shares  allotted  to  them  on  discretionary  basis.  It  has  been 

represented that investors may not be interested in proportionate allotment, as 

smaller  amount  may  not  meet  the  minimum  investment  benchmarks  for  such 

investors.  Thus,  discretionary  allotment  will  help  issuers  to  cater  to  such 

investors. 

Recommendation:  

On  the  lines  of  provisions  in  the  Main  Board,  discretionary  allotment  may  be 

allowed  in  the  IGP  framework  also.  At  present,  unlike  the  Main  Board,  under 

IGP, there is no reservation of shares for QIBs and retail investors as a part of 

the public issue. Under IGP, the issuance is open to all investors including QIBs 

subject to minimum application size of INR 2 lacs.  

Accordingly, in light of the concern expressed above, the issuer company may 

be allowed to allocate upto 60% of the issue size on a discretionary basis, prior 

to  issue  opening.  Further  to  expand  the  options  available  for  the  issuer,  such 

discretionary allotment may be allowed to all eligible investors as defined under 

the IGP framework.  

5.4.  Accredited Investors(AIs):  

Consultation paper on Review of IGP framework under ICDR, 2018 

Page 5 of 12 

 

 

Presently, the shareholding of AIs is only considered for upto 10% of pre-issue 

capital  out  of  eligibility  requirement  of  minimum  25%  to  be  held  by  eligible 

investors  as  defined  under  Regulation  283  of  ICDR  Regulations.  Further,  the 

definition of AI only includes individuals and body corporate.  

Market concern/ suggestion 

a)  AI's  pre-issue  shareholding  may  be  considered  for  entire  25%  of  the  pre-

issue  capital  of  the  issuer  company  as  required  for  eligibility  under  IGP 

framework. 

b)  AI definition requires clarity as to  whether  promoters are excluded from AI 

definition.  Pre-issue  capital  held  by  promoters  /  promoter  Groups  even  if 

they  are  registered  as  AIs  may  not  be  considered  for  25%  eligibility 

requirement.  

c)  AI definition presently covers only individuals and body corporate and does 

not cover Family trusts.  Family trusts may be included in AI definition.  

Recommendation:  

a)  As far as IGP platform is considered, there is no difference between AIs and 

QIBs, as both are informed investors. Therefore, the said limit of 10% on AIs 

may  be  removed  and  AIs’  pre-issue  shareholding  may  be  considered  for 

entire  25%  of  the  pre-issue  capital  required  for  meeting  eligibility  condition 

norms. 

b)  The  said  requirement  of  having  minimum  25%  pre-issue  capital  with 

institutions/eligible  investors  (includes  AIs)  has  been  prescribed  to  ensure 

that  other  than  founders/promoters,  informed  investors  also  hold  shares  in 

start-ups at the time of listing under IGP. Therefore, it may be clarified that 

pre-issue  capital  held  by  promoters/promoters  Groups,  even  if  they  are 

registered  as  AIs  shall  not  be  considered  for  the  said  minimum  25% 

eligibility requirements. 

Consultation paper on Review of IGP framework under ICDR, 2018 

Page 6 of 12 

 

 

 

c)  As  indicated  above,  minimum  25%  of  pre  issue  capital  of  the  issuer 

company  is  required  to  be  held  by  eligible  investors.  The  list  of  eligible 

investors,  as  prescribed  under  the  regulations  includes  Family  Trusts  with 

net worth > INR 500 crs. and AIs as separate sub categories. To expand the 

universe  of  family  trusts  eligible  for  investing  in  companies  aspiring  to  list 

under IGP, the net worth requirement of family trusts may be reduced from 

INR 500 cr. to INR 25 cr.  

Incidentally,  body  corporates  with  net  worth  of  INR  25  cr.,  are  considered 

eligible  as  part  of  accredited  investors.  The  proposed  reduction  in  the  net 

worth stipulation for family trusts will align these requirements.  

Further,  family  trusts  may  be  included  as  a  part  of  AIs  and  consequently 

deleted  as  a  separate  sub  category  under  the  list  of  prescribed  eligible 

investors.   

5.5.  Differential  Voting  Rights  (DVR)  /  Superior  Voting  Right  (SR)  equity 

shares:  Present  provisions  under  IGP  framework  do  not  allow  issuer 

companies to issue DVR / SR equity shares to promoters/founders as allowed 

for Main Board companies.  

Market concern/ suggestion 

It is suggested that DVR / SR equity shares may also be allowed for companies 

listed under IGP framework.  

Recommendation:  

DVRs provide for special voting rights to promoters /founders. Currently, issuer 

companies, which have issued DVRs/SRs to promoters /founders, are allowed 

to do IPO of ordinary shares on main Board, subject to compliance of provisions 

under  ICDR  Regulations.  DVR  concept  was  introduced  on  the  main  Board  for 

technology based companies where promoters/ founders do not intend to give 

Consultation paper on Review of IGP framework under ICDR, 2018 

Page 7 of 12 

 

away their say or voting rights despite equity dilution. Therefore, on same lines, 

issuer  companies  seeking  listing  under  IGP  may  also  be  allowed  to  issue 

 

DVRs/SRs to promoters / founders.  

5.6.  Continuing  Rights:  As  per  present  regulatory  provisions,  Special  Rights 

collapse upon a listing event and shareholder approval is required to reinstate 

any of these special rights. 

Market concern/ suggestion  

Since start-ups are young companies with relatively short operating history, the 

institutional /strategic investors play an important nurturing role in several areas 

such as capital allocation, operating frameworks, business model, and strategy. 

Thus, investors who have a say in these matters by virtue of a Board seat and 

some affirmative rights may in-fact contribute to the success of the startup and 

therefore the continuation of their special rights may be in the interest of larger 

set of minority shareholders. Special rights with existing investors also provide 

sense of continuity to existing investors.  

It  is  therefore  suggested  that,  there  should  be  continuation  of  Special  Rights 

(such as Board Seat and veto / affirmative voting rights) for existing institutional 

investors holding in excess of 10% of capital. 

Recommendation 

In the light of the aforesaid rationale, suggestion for continuation of specifically 

defined special rights for investors holding in excess of 10% of capital may be 

considered.  Special  rights  along  with  thresholds  may  be  built  into  the  offer 

document prior to listing  so as to ensure that all participating investors on IGP 

get upfront information on such rights.  Further, special rights may not be open 

ended  and  be  aligned  with  the  DVR  framework,  with  adequate  checks  and 

balances in terms of coat-tail provisions and a sunset clause. 

Consultation paper on Review of IGP framework under ICDR, 2018 

Page 8 of 12 

 

5.7.  Takeover  requirements:  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 

Takeover) Regulations, 2011 (SAST) stipulate a 25% threshold for triggering an 

 

open offer.  

Further,  any  acquirer  along  with  PACs  needs  to  disclose  their  aggregate 

shareholding, whenever their shareholding reaches 5% and whenever there is 

subsequent change of ± 2% in their shareholding. 

Market concern/ suggestion 

Since,  life  cycle  of  start-up  companies  eventually  lead  them  to  get  merged  or 

acquired by a larger company, stringent takeover requirements, may become a 

roadblock  in  such  scenarios.  Thus  the  threshold  trigger  for  open  offer  may  be 

relaxed  from  the  25%  to  50%  and  accordingly  other  disclosure  requirement 

thresholds may also be relaxed. 

Recommendation  

In  IGP  only  institutions  and  high  net-worth  investors  are  eligible  to  participate. 

As mentioned earlier there is also a higher degree of churn in the investors in 

these companies. Start-up companies also continuously seek larger quantum of 

funding  for  its  capital  expansion  plans.  Strategic  investors  may  like  to  take 

higher  shareholding  in  such  companies.  Thus  a  lower  threshold  for  trigger  of 

open  offer  would  restrict  the  flexibility  of  the  investors  to  move  in  and  out  of 

investments  in  start-ups.  The  SAST  stipulation  for  triggering  open  offer  may 

therefore be relaxed to higher threshold from existing 25% to 49%. However, it 

may be stipulated that any change in control irrespective of value of acquisition 

will trigger open offer. 

This  will  also  allow  existing  financial  investors  to  invest  in  subsequent  fund 

raising  rounds  of  the  Company  in  case  they  decide  to  invest  together  which 

may otherwise be deemed  to be Persons acting in concert and triggering open 

offer.  

Consultation paper on Review of IGP framework under ICDR, 2018 

Page 9 of 12 

 

 

Similarly,  the  threshold  for  disclosure  of  the  aggregate  shareholding  can  be 

increased  from  the  present  5%  to  10%  and  whenever  there  is  subsequent 

change of ± 5% (instead of present ± 2%) in the shareholding.  

5.8.  Voluntary  Delisting:  Under  the  ICDR  Regulations,  any  company  intending  to 

delist  its  shares  from  IGP  platform  is  required  to  comply  with  the  SEBI 

(Delisting)  Regulations,  which  would  involve  among  others  process  of  reverse 

book building including exit price as determined through such process, bidding 

of minimum 90 percent shareholding / voting rights etc.   

Market concern/ suggestion 

Relaxation  of  Delisting  norms  may  be  considered  as  current  requirement  of 

reverse book building process (RBB) for delisting is too daunting and onerous. 

Further  it  is  felt  that  delisting  may  be  considered  at  75%  of  the  total 

shareholding  /  voting  rights.  The  resolution  may  be  passed  by  majority  of 

minority (non-promoters) shareholders and the delisting price may be based on 

a floor price plus an additional delisting premium. 

Recommendations 

The  investors  in  IGP  are  envisaged  to  be  high  net  worth  informed  investors 

having a risk appetite for investments in start-ups. Thus, it may be considered 

that  while  delisting  the  floor  price  may  be  determined  by  delisting  regulations 

along  with  a  new  mandatory  provision  for  premium  for  delisting  which  the 

acquirer  will  have  to  justify.  These  conditions  for  delisting  may  be  part  of  the 

offer document at the time of the public issue.  

The  condition  that  the  delisting  resolution  would  have  to  be  passed  by  non-

promoter shareholders may continue to safeguard the minority interests. 

The success of the shareholder resolution while delisting currently stipulated at 

2/3rd  of  minority  holding  may  be  changed  to  majority  of  minority  which  would 

Consultation paper on Review of IGP framework under ICDR, 2018 

Page 10 of 12 

 

provide  sufficient  protection  to  the  non-promoter  shareholders,  especially  as 

 

they are all sophisticated investors in IGP.  

Further, given that the IGP caters only to sophisticated investors, it is suggested 

that delisting may be considered if 75% of the total shareholding / voting rights 

are acquired.  

5.9. Migration  to  Main  Board:  In  terms  of  the  ICDR  Regulations,  IGP  company 

shall  be  eligible  to  trade  on  the  main  board  of  the  stock  exchange  provided  it 

fulfills conditions of the exchange, viz., during the last three years, it has profits 

of  at  least  fifteen  crores,  net  tangible  asset  of  at  least  INR  three  crores  &  net 

worth of at least one crore, listing on IGP for minimum period of one year, has 

minimum two hundred shareholders etc. Further in case the IGP company does 

not satisfy the requirements of profitability, net worth, net assets etc. as required 

under Regulation 292 (2) of ICDR, 2018, then such IGP company can migrate to 

the main board provided seventy five percent (75%) of its total capital as on the 

date of application of migration to the main board is held by QIBs.  

Market concern/ suggestion 

The said stipulation of QIBs to hold at least 75% of the total issued capital may 

be  reduced  to  a  lesser  threshold  such  as  40%,  as  it  is  very  stringent 

requirement  to  ensure  that  post  listing  on  IGP  platform  75%  of  the  capital  is 

held with QIBs.  

Recommendations 

For  any  company  proposing  to  directly  list  on  the  main  board  but  not  meeting 

the profitability criteria prescribed for listing on the main board, it needs to issue 

at  least  75%  of  its  public  issue  to  the  QIBs,  whereas  for  IGP  companies  the 

aforesaid 75% stipulation is for the total issued capital. Thus, this stipulation for 

IGP  company  to  have  75%  of  the  total  issued  capital  with  QIBs  is  more 

stringent than the requirement for companies directly listed on the main board. 

Further, as shares are freely traded in the market it would be practically difficult 

Consultation paper on Review of IGP framework under ICDR, 2018 

Page 11 of 12 

 

 

for the company to ensure 75% QIB holding post listing on IGP. Therefore, it is 

suggested that given the nature of IGP platform and that there are sophisticated 

investors eligibility requirements to have 75% of its capital to be held by QIBs, 

as on date of application for migration, be reduced from 75% to 40%. 

6.  Public comments  

6.1.  Considering  the  implications  of  the  said  matter  on  the  market  participants 

including  issuer  companies  and  investors,  public  comments  are  invited  on  

the  proposal    at    para    5    above.    Comments    may    be    sent    by    email    or  

through  post ,  in the following format: 

Name of entity / person : 
Contact Number & Email Address : 

  

Sr. No. 

 

 

Reference  Para  of 
the 
consultation 
paper 
 

Suggestion/ 
Comments 

Rationale 

 

 

6.2.  While sending email, kindly mention the subject as “Review of IGP framework 

under ICDR, 2018".  

6.3.  The  comments  may  be  sent  by  email  to  Shri  Rajesh  Kumar  D,  GM  at 

rajeshkd@sebi.gov.in  and  Shri  Ankur  Bishnoi,  AGM  at  ankurb@sebi.gov.in  or 

sent by post at the following address latest by January 11, 2021: 

Mr. Rajesh Kumar D 

General Manager 

Corporation Finance Department 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 

Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),  

Mumbai - 400 051, Ph.: +91-22-26449242 

Issued on:  December 14, 2020 

Consultation paper on Review of IGP framework under ICDR, 2018 

Page 12 of 12 

 

