 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Consultation Paper - Compliance Standards for Index 

Providers 

1.  Objective 

To solicit the comments / views from market participants on compliance standards 
for  index  providers,  to  enhance  greater  level  of  transparency,  promoting  the 
reliability of benchmark determinations, addressing benchmark governance and 
accountability mechanisms, by providing a broad framework for index providers 
managing / maintaining Indices. 

 

2.  Background 

2.1. To  create  an  overarching  framework  of  Principles  for  Benchmarks  used  in 
financial  markets,  the  International  Organization  of  Securities  Commissions 
(IOSCO) published a report in July 2013, proposing a framework of standards 
for financial benchmarks (or indices) based on international best practices.  The 
framework  promotes 
independence  of  benchmark 
administration  and  addresses  governance,  quality, 
transparency  and 
accountability issues. IOSCO report does not expect a one-size-fits-all method 
of implementation of the framework, nor does it restrict an administrator from 
adopting  its  own  unique  methodologies  or  adapting  the  methodologies  to 
changing market conditions.  IOSCO adherents are expected to either comply 
with the IOSCO principles or explain any non-compliance. 
 

reliability  and 

2.2. In addition to the principle prescribed by IOSCO, several foreign jurisdictions 
have  articulated  their  own  framework  tailored  to  the  requirements  in  their 
respective jurisdiction. 

 

2.3. In light of above, it is proposed to prescribe a set of compliance standards for 
index  providers  in  order  to  ensure  quality  and  integrity  of  the  indices 
administered, maintained or calculated by the index providers. 

 

3.  Index  Methodology  -  Broad  Market  Indices  (Domestic  and  International 

practices) 
 
3.1. The  broad  market  indices  are  constructed  to  represent  the  performances  of 
large  universe  of  companies  traded  on  an  exchange  (domestic  or 
international).    Thus,  the  process  and  criteria  for  selection  of  representative 
stocks  in  such  broad  market  indices  is  of  critical  importance.  A  high  level 

 

Page 1 of 14 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

summary1  of  the  approaches  adopted  by  index  providers  in  India  and 
internationally is briefly described below.  
 

3.2. Stock Universe and Stock Selection Process/ Criteria 

 

3.2.1. Nifty 50: (Source: https://www.nseindia.com) 

Universe: Constituents of NIFTY 100 index are eligible for inclusion in 
the NIFTY 50 index.  The Nifty 50 consists of the largest 50 stocks by free 
float  market  capitalization  and  liquidity,  subject  to  stock  selection 
criteria as given below.  

 

Stock selection criteria: 
i. 

Stock should be available for trading in NSE’s Futures & Options 
segment. 

ii.  The  company’s  trading  frequency  should  be  100%  in  the  last  six 

months. 

iii.  For  inclusion  in  the  index,  the  security  should  have  traded  at  an 
average impact cost of 0.50 % or less during the last six months for 
90% of the observations for a portfolio of Rs. 10 crores. 

iv.  Companies will be eligible for inclusion in NIFTY 50 index provided 
the average free-float market capitalization is at least 1.5 times the 
average free-float market capitalization of the smallest constituent 
in the index. 

v.  As part of the semi-annual reconstitution of the index, a maximum 
of 10% of the index size (number of companies in the index) may be 
changed  in a calendar year. However, the limit of maximum 10% 
change shall not be applicable for any exclusion of a company on 
account of scheme of arrangement as stated above. 

 
3.2.2. S&P BSE SENSEX 30: (Source: https://asiaindex.co.in) 

Universe: Constituents of S&P BSE 100 index are eligible for inclusion 
in the S&P BSE Sensex 30 index.  The S&P BSE Sensex 30 consist of 30 
largest, most liquid and financially sound companies that are listed at 
BSE. 

 
 

                                                           
1 The information presented in this paper (unless specified otherwise) has been compiled from public available 
information (respective websites) of index providers / stock exchanges. 

 

Page 2 of 14 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Stock selection criteria: 
i.  The stock must have traded on every trading day at BSE during 6 

month during reference period. 

ii.  All  companies  meeting  the  eligibility  factors  are  ranked  based  on 
their average 6 month float adjusted market capitalization.  Top 75 
companies are identified. 

iii.  All  companies  meeting  the  eligibility  factors  are  ranked  based  on 
their average 6 month total market capitalisation.  Top 75 companies 
are identified. 

iv.  All  companies  identified  based  on  above  are  then  combined  and 
sorted  on  their  annualized  traded  value.  Companies  with  a 
cumulative annualized traded value greater than 98% are excluded 
v.  The remaining companies are then sorted by average 6 month float 
adjusted  market  capitalization.  Companies  with  a  weight  of  less 
than 0.5% are excluded. 

vi.  Remaining companies from step (v.) are then ranked based on their 
average  6  month  float  adjusted  market  capitalization  and  are 
selected for index inclusion according to the following rules: 
(a).  The top 21 companies (whether a current index constituent or 
inclusion  with  no  sector 

index 

for 

not)  are  selected 
consideration. 

(b).  Existing  constituents  ranked  22-39  are  selected  in  order  of 
highest rank until the target constituent count of 30 is reached. 
(c).  If  after  this  step,  the  target  constituent  count  is  not  achieved, 
then  non-constituents  ranked  22-30  are  selected  giving 
preference 
is 
underrepresented  in  the  index  as  compared  to  the  sector 
representation in S&P BSE All Cap. 

companies  whose 

sector 

those 

to 

(d). If  after  this  step,  the  target  constituent  count  is  still  not 
achieved, non-constituents are selected in order of highest rank 
until target constituent count is reached. 

vii.  Annualized traded value is calculated by taking the median of the 
monthly  medians  of  the  daily  traded  values  over  the  six-month 
period.  The annualization is calculated using 250 trading days in a 
year. 

viii. All additions and deletions are made at the discretion of the index 

committee. 

 

Page 3 of 14 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

3.2.3. FTSE 100: (Source: https://www.ftserussell.com) 

Universe: The FTSE 100 consist of the largest 100 UK companies by full 
market  capitalization  (i.e.  before  the  application  of  any  investability 
weightings) which will qualify for inclusion in the index. 
 
Stock selection criteria: 
i.  Minimum  free  float:  To  be  eligible  for  inclusion  in  the  FTSE  UK 
Index Series, a security must have a minimum free float of 25% if 
the issuing company is UK incorporated and greater than 50% if it 
is non-UK incorporated.  However, a new company may be initially 
included  in  the  FTSE  UK  Index  Series  with  a  free  float  below  the 
above parameters (provided it is above 5%*) where the free float is 
expected to meet the minimum requirements within 12 months of 
the company’s first day of trading. 

ii.  Size: In order to determine index membership, all companies with 
eligible securities will be ranked by their full market capitalization 
(i.e. before the application of any investability weightings). 

iii.  Liquidity:  Each security will be tested for liquidity by calculation of 
its monthly median of daily trading volume.  The daily volume for 
each security is calculated as a percentage of the shares in issue for 
that day adjusted by the free float at the end of the month. These 
daily values are then ranked in descending order and the median is 
taken by selecting the value for the middle ranking day if there is an 
odd number of days and the mean of the middle two if there is an 
even number of days.  Each security needs to meet the prescribed 
liquidity threshold in order to form part of the index. 

iv.  A security will be inserted at the periodic review if it rises 90th or 

above. 

v.  A security will be deleted at the periodic review if it falls to 111th or 

below. 

 
3.2.4. S&P 500: (Source: https://www.spglobal.com) 

Universe: The constituents are selected from the constituent list of S&P 
Total Market Index. 
 
Stock selection criteria: 
i.  Eligibility  market  capitalization:  To  be  included,  companies  must 

have an unadjusted mcap of US$ 8.2 billion. 

Page 4 of 14 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

ii.  Public  float:  Investable  Weight  Factor  (free-float  factor)  of  a 
company  should  be  at  least  0.1  and  must  have  a  float  market 
capitalization of at least US$ 4.1 billion. 

iii.  Liquidity:  Using composite pricing and volume, the ratio of annual 
dollar value traded (defined as average closing price over the period 
multiplied  by  historical  volume) 
to  float  adjusted  market 
capitalization  should  be  at  least  1.0  and  a  stock  should  trade  a 
minimum of 250,000 shares in each of the six months leading upto 
the evaluation date. 

iv.  Financial  viability:  Companies  must  have  positive  as-reported 
earnings  over  the  most  recent  quarter,  as  well  as  over  the  most 
recent four quarters (summed together). 

v.  Sector representation: Sector balance, as measured by a comparison 
of  each  GICS  sector's  weight  in  index  with  its  weight  in  the  S&P 
Total  Market  Index,  in  the  relevant  market  capitalization  range  is 
also considered in the selection of companies for the indices. 

 
3.2.5. Nasdaq 100: (Source: https://www.nasdaq.com) 

Universe:  The  Nasdaq  100  index  is  designed  to  measure  the 
performance  of  100  of  the  largest  Nasdaq  listed  non-financial 
companies. 
 
Stock selection criteria: 
i.  Eligibility  market  capitalization:  There  is  no  market  capitalization 

eligibility criterion. 

ii.  Liquidity eligibility:  Each security must have a minimum average 
daily  trading  volume  of  200,000  shares  (measured  over  the  three 
calendar  months  ending  with  the  month  that  includes  the 
Reconstitution reference date). 

iii.  Seasoning eligibility: The security must have traded for at least three 
full calendar months, not including the month of initial listing, on 
an eligible exchange, which includes Nasdaq (Nasdaq Global Select 
Market, Nasdaq Global Market, or Nasdaq Capital Market), NYSE, 
NYSE American or CBOE BZX. 

iv.  Float eligibility criteria:  There is no float eligibility criterion. 
v.  A Reconstitution is conducted on an annual basis, at which time all 
eligible Issuers, ranked by market capitalization, are considered for 
Index inclusion based on the following order of criteria. 

Page 5 of 14 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

vi.  The top 75 ranked Issuers will be selected for inclusion in the Index. 
vii.  Any other Issuers that were already members of the Index as of the 
Reconstitution reference date and are ranked within the top 100 are 
also selected for inclusion in the Index. 

viii. In the event that fewer than 100 issuers pass criteria (vi) and (vii) 
above, the remaining positions will first be filled, in rank order, by 
current  index  members  that  were  in  the  top  100  at  the  previous 
Reconstitution  but  are  ranked  in  positions  101-125  in  the  current 
Reconstitution. 

 

3.3. Calculation method and Weighting 

 
3.3.1. Nifty 50: Index is calculated on free-float market capitalization method 
and  weightages  are  calculated  based  on  the  free-float  market 
capitalization. 
 

3.3.2. S&P  BSE  Sensex  30:  Index  is  calculated  on  free-float  market 
capitalization method and weightages are calculated based on the free-
float market capitalization. 
 

3.3.3. FTSE 100:  Index is calculated on free-float market capitalization method 
and  weightages  are  calculated  based  on  the  free-float  market 
capitalization  (adjusted  for  free  float  and  foreign  ownership  limits 
where applicable to UK investors). 
 

3.3.4. S&P 500:  Index is calculated on free-float market capitalization method 
and  weightages  are  calculated  based  on  the  free-float  market 
capitalization. 
 

3.3.5. Nasdaq  100:  Index  is  calculated  on  modified  market  capitalization 
method  and  weightages  are  calculated  based  on  the  modified  market 
capitalization. 

 

3.4. Review Frequency 

3.4.1. Nifty 50: Index is reviewed semi-annually and changes come into effect 

in March and September. 
 

Page 6 of 14 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

3.4.2. S&P BSE Sensex 30: Index is reviewed semi-annually and changes come 

into effect in June and December. 
 

3.4.3. FTSE 100: The FTSE UK Index Series is reviewed on a quarterly basis 
and changes come into effect in March, June, September and December. 
 

3.4.4. S&P 500: S&P Total Market index (parent index for S&P 500) is reviewed 
on an annual basis.  However, S&P 500 is reconstituted at the discretion 
of the Committee and is based on eligibility criteria. 
 

3.4.5. Nasdaq 100: Nasdaq selects constituents once annually in December. 

 

3.5. Stock/ Sector Weight Capping 

 
3.5.1. Nifty 50:  Stock and sector weight capping is currently not applicable to 
this  index.  The  index  however  complies  with  portfolio  concentration 
norms for ETFs/ Index Funds announced by SEBI on January 10, 2019 
which  mandates  that  the  weightage  of  any  constituent  in  such  index 
shall not exceed  25% and weightage of top 3 constituents in the index 
together  shall  not  exceed  65%  as  on  the  last  trading  day  of  calendar 
quarter March, June, September and December. 
 

3.5.2. S&P BSE Sensex 30:  Stock and sector weight capping is currently not 
applicable  to  this  index.  The  index  would  however  comply  with 
portfolio  concentration  norms  for  ETFs/  Index  Funds  announced  by 
SEBI  on  January  10,  2019  which  mandates  the  weightage  of  any 
constituent in such index shall not exceed 25% and weightage of top 3 
constituents  in  the  index  together  shall  not  exceed  65%  as  on  the  last 
trading day of calendar quarter March, June, September and December. 
 

3.5.3. FTSE  100:    Stock  and  sector  weight  capping  is  not  applicable  to  this 
index.  However,  additional  variants  of  the  index  with  capping 
restrictions are available. 
 

3.5.4. S&P 500:  Stock and sector weight capping is currently not applicable to 
this  index.  However,  additional  variants  of  the  index  with  capping 
restrictions are available. 
 

Page 7 of 14 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

3.5.5. Nasdaq 100:  Weightage of any constituent stock cannot exceed 20% of 
the  index  and  the  aggregate  weight  of  the  constituents  stocks  whose 
weights exceed 4.5% cannot exceed 40%. 

 

4.  Benchmark Indices – a representative of market 

 
4.1. Attributes of Benchmark Indices vis-à-vis all listed stocks  

 

 
Nifty 50:  Nifty 50 index represents 50 largest & most liquid companies and 
represents approximately 68% of average free float market capitalization, 59% 
of average total market capitalization and 57% of average daily turnover of all 
stocks traded at NSE for 6 months ending September 2020. 
 
 Sensex 30: Sensex 30 index represents 30 largest & most liquid companies and 
represents  approximately  59.3%  of  average  free  float  market  capitalization, 
49% of average total market capitalization and 34.2% of average daily turnover 
of all stocks traded at NSE for 6 months ending September 2020. 
 

4.2. Sectoral Exposure of Benchmark Indices vis-à-vis all listed stocks 

Sectoral exposure patterns of Benchmark indices are broadly in line with that 
of  universe  of  all  stocks  listed  on  exchanges  in  India.  Globally,  sectoral 
exposure of popular indices varies depending on different geographies, nature 
and number of companies that constitutes the index. 
 

4.3. Trends in Sector exposure of Benchmark Indices vis-à-vis all listed stocks 

Various  index  providers  follow  different  criteria  However  at  a  broad  level, 
selection of stocks is primarily based upon market capitalization and liquidity 
by all the index providers) for selection of stocks in broad market indices in 
line with index methodology documents published on their websites.  Across 
different geographies, prominence of one or two sectors is generally observed 
in each of the broad market indices.  Any change in the weightage of a sector 
amongst the listed space gets reflected in the corresponding benchmark index 
also. Accordingly, over a period of time, sectoral representation of stocks in 
the  indices  tend  to  undergo  a  change  in  line  with  overall  share  of  various 
sectors in the listed universe. Further, most of the broad market indices do not 
have any sector cap as the indices are supposed to reflect the performance of 
the listed stocks  in the market. However, index providers create variants of 
broad market indices to offer indices that comply with the product guidelines 

 

Page 8 of 14 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

(generally for launch of ETFs and Index funds) which may specify sectoral or 
stock caps. 

 

 

5.  International framework in respect of benchmarks / benchmark administrators 

 
5.1. International practices: Framework with respect to benchmarks / benchmark 

administrators, in some of the foreign jurisdictions is summarized below: 

 
5.1.1.  European  Union:  Regulation  (EU)  2016/1011,  inter-alia,  aims  to  ensure 
benchmarks are robust and reliable, and to minimise conflicts of interest 
in benchmark-setting processes. It contains requirements for benchmark 
administrators,  contributors  of  input  data  to  benchmarks  and  users  of 
benchmarks. The requirements of the aforesaid regulation are similar to 
the IOSCO Principles; however, it is a binding legislation. Administrators 
(EU  and  non-EU)  of  benchmarks  that  fall  within  the  scope  of  the  EU 
regulation  are  required  to  apply  to  their  EU  regulator  for  a  license  to 
provide such benchmark in the EU. The Regulation also applies to non-
EU benchmarks (i.e. if a benchmark is used in the EU but provided by a 
company based outside of the EU). 
 

5.1.2.  Australia: In March 2018, the Corporations Act of 2001 was amended to 
introduce a new regulatory regime for certain benchmarks identified by 
ASIC as ‘significant’ or systemically important to the Australian financial 
market.  ASIC  has  designated  the  following  financial  benchmarks  as 
‘significant’ for the purpose of the Australian benchmark regulation: 

 

the Australian Bank Bill Swap Rate; 
the S&P/ASX 200 Index; 

i. 
ii. 
iii.  the ASX Bond Futures Settlement Price; 
iv.  the Australian Interbank Overnight Cash Rate; 
v. 

the Australian Consumer Price Index. 

 

The benchmark administrators, as such, are subject to ASIC's Financial 
Benchmark  (Administration)  Rules  2018  and  the  ASIC  Financial 
Benchmark (Compelled) Rules 2018.  
 

5.1.3.  USA:  USA  has  not  implemented  laws  specifically  aimed  at  financial 
benchmarks  and  benchmark  administrators.  The  manipulation  or 

 

Page 9 of 14 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

attempted manipulation of financial benchmarks are treated in the same 
manner as any traditional manipulation or fraudulent activity. 
 

5.1.4.  Japan: The Financial Services Agency of Japan cabinet office ordinance 
and  enforcement  order  2015  –  introduced  a  limited  regulation  based 
upon  the  IOSCO  Principles  for  the  administrators  of  specified 
benchmarks that are widely used as the basis of financial transactions. 
Currently the only specified benchmark in Japan is TIBOR. 

 
5.1.5.  Singapore: Securities & Futures (Financial Benchmarks) Regulation 2018 
/  Securities  &  Futures  (Designated  Benchmarks)  Order  2018  –  The 
regulation,  which  came  into  force  in  October  2018,  is  similar  to  that 
passed by the Australian government. It uses the IOSCO Principles as its 
framework and limits the requirements to those benchmarks designated 
as significant by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Currently the only 
designated benchmarks are SIBOR and SOR. 

 

6.  Proposal 

 

6.1. Framework for Compliance Standards for Index Providers in India 

Based on IOSCO principles, practices observed in the foreign jurisdictions and 
suitability for domestic markets, the suggested framework for Index Providers 
in India is as under: 
 
6.1.1.  In respect of Indices based on which any product including derivatives, 
Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), Market Linked Debentures (MLDs)  are 
available/ traded on Indian stock exchanges, stock exchanges shall ensure 
that: 

 

i.  The  Index  Provider  is  compliant  with  ‘Principles  for  Financial 
Benchmarks’  set  out  by  International  Organization  for  Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), both on initial and continuous basis. 

ii.  The  Index  Provider  shall  get  the  IOSCO  compliance  certification 
from an independent third party (globally renoned audit firms or 
business consultant) on a bi-annual basis (once in two years) and the 
same should be available on its website. 

iii.  They enter into appropriate agreement which, inter alia, provides 

for the following conditions: 

Page 10 of 14 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

(a).  The  Index  Provider  shall  continuously  comply  with  IOSCO 

Principles for Financial Benchmarks. 

(b).  The  Index  Provider  shall  immediately  inform  the  stock 
exchange(s)  of  any  change  in  status  of  its  compliance  with 
IOSCO principles in case there are derivatives traded on stock 
exchanges  based  on  the  indices  provided  by  the  index 
providers. Further, on a bi-annual basis (once in two years), the 
Index Provider shall confirm to the stock exchange(s) regarding 
the  status  of  its  compliance  with  IOSCO  principles.  The 
aforesaid  status  of  compliance  of  the  Index  Provider  with 
IOSCO principles shall also be disclosed on the website of the 
stock exchange(s). 

(c).  For  other  products  available  and  traded  on  stock  exchanges 
including  ETFs  and  MLDs,  ETF  provider/  MLD    issuer  shall 
immediately  inform  the  stock  exchange(s)  of  any  change  in 
status  of  compliance  of  the  underlying  indices  with  IOSCO 
principles. Further, on a bi-annual basis (once in two years), the 
Index Provider shall confirm to the ETF provider/ MLD issuer 
regarding 
IOSCO 
principles.The  aforesaid  status  of  compliance  of  the  Index 
Provider with IOSCO principles shall also be disclosed on the 
website of the Product Issuer(s). 

its  compliance  with 

the  status  of 

 
6.1.2.  In respect of Indices  provided by the index providers  that are used by 
Mutual  Funds  for  benchmarking  of  funds  performances  or  issuance  of 
Index Funds, Asset Management Company shall ensure: 
 

i.  The  Index  Provider  is  compliant  with  ‘Principles  for  Financial 
Benchmarks’  set  out  by  International  Organization  for  Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), both on initial and continuous basis. 

ii.  The  Index  Provider  shall  get  the  IOSCO  compliance  certification 
from an independent third party on a bi-annual basis (once in two 
years) and the same should be available on its website. 

iii.  They enter into appropriate agreement which, inter alia, provides 

for the following conditions: 
(a).  The  Index  Provider  shall  continuously  comply  with  IOSCO 

Principles for Financial Benchmarks. 

Page 11 of 14 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

(b).  The  Index  Provider  shall  immediately  inform  the  Asset 
Management  Company  of  any  change  in  status  of  its 
compliance with IOSCO principles.  
Explanation:  The  index  providers  mentioned  in  point  6.1.2 
above  shall  exclude  those  index  providers  which  are  already 
covered under point 6.1.1 above. 

 

6.1.3.  In respect of Indices which are constructed based on data provided by 
Indian  stock  exchange(s),  stock  exchange  shall  assess  whether  any 
product  including  derivatives,  based  on  such  Indices,  available  in  a 
foreign jurisdiction hampers trading of a similar product  in the Indian 
market.  In  case  the  stock  exchange  is  of  the  view  that  such  product 
available in a foreign jurisdiction hampers trading of a similar  product 
in  India,  they  shall  terminate  the  existing  agreement  with  such  Index 
Provider. 

In cases where the stock exchange decides to continue with the existing 
data sharing agreement or enters into an agreement, post notification of 
these standards, stock exchange shall ensure: 

i.  The  Index  Provider  is  compliant  with  IOSCO  Principles  for 

Financial Benchmarks, both on initial and continuous basis. 

ii.  The  data  sharing  agreement  entered  into  between  stock  exchange 

and Index Provider, shall inter alia, provide for the following:  
(a).  The  Index  Provider  shall  license  Indices  to  only  those 

jurisdictions, which fulfill the following criteria:  
  The jurisdiction is a Member of Financial Action Task Force 

(FATF); 

  The  jurisdiction  has  not  been  identified  by  FATF  as  a 

jurisdiction with strategic AML/CFT deficiencies; 

  The  jurisdiction  which  has  signed  a  Memorandum  of 

Understanding (MoU) with SEBI for sharing and exchange 

of information; 

  Any other condition, as may be specified by SEBI from time 

to time.   

(b).  If  any  Exchange  Traded  derivative,  based  on  such  Indices,  is 
proposed  to  be  made  available  in  a  foreign  jurisdiction,  the 
Index  Provider  shall  seek  prior  approval  from  the  concerned 
Indian stock exchange(s), giving appropriate justification how 

Page 12 of 14 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

the product to be launched in a foreign jurisdiction would not 
hamper trading of any product in the Indian market. The above 
justification  shall  be  assessed  by  the  stock  exchange(s)  before 
according approval. 

(c).  The Index Provider shall continuously comply with the above 
stated  conditions  at  6.1.3  (ii)  (a)  and  6.1.3  (ii)  (b)  above.  The 
Index Provider shall immediately inform the stock exchange of 
any  change  in  status  of  its  compliance  with  the  aforesaid 
conditions. Further, on an annual basis, the Index Provider shall 
confirm  to  the  stock  exchange  of  the  status  of  its  compliance 
with  the  aforesaid  conditions.  The  aforesaid  status  of 
compliance  of  the  Index  Provider  with  the  above  stated 
conditions  shall  also  be  disclosed  on  the  website  of  the  stock 
exchanges. 

(d). Appropriate  framework  for  termination  of  the  data  sharing 

agreement for: 
  Breach  of  the  aforesaid  clauses  of  the  data  sharing 

agreement, or 

  Any  material  impact  on  trading  of  product(s)  in  India 

arising out of aforesaid product in foreign jurisdiction. 

iii.  The  conditions  mentioned  at  sub-clauses  6.1.3  above  shall  not  be 
applicable  to  issuance  of  any  Exchange  Traded  Funds  or  similar 
products  on  an  Index  by  any  entity,  subject  to  prior  written 
permission of the Indian stock exchange(s) whose data may be used 
for creating and/ or computing the Index. 

 

7.  Public Comments 

7.1. In  order  to  take  into  consideration  views  of  various  stakeholders,  public 
comments are solicited on the above proposal keeping in mind the following: 
 
7.1.1.  Whether  the  above  Compliance  Standards  for  Index  Providers  would 
provide  for  greater  level  of  disclosure  and  transparency,  promote  the 
reliability  of  benchmark  determinations,  and  address  benchmark 
governance and accountability mechanisms? 
 

7.1.2.  Whether above Compliance Standards for Index Providers are sufficient 
Index  Providers  while 

to  provide 

for 

broad 

framework 

 

Page 13 of 14 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

managing/maintaining Indices including provisions for licensing indices 
in foreign jurisdictions? 

 
7.1.3.  Whether  there  is  need  for  a  formal  regulatory  framework  for  Index 

Providers? 

 
7.1.4.  Whether SEBI should specify certain indices as significant and apply the 
regulatory  framework  to  only  those  indices  as  is  done  in  some 
international jurisdictions as mentioned above? 

 

7.2. Comments may please be emailed to Shri Sudeep Mishra, General Manager, 
Market Regulation Department and sent by email at sudeepm@sebi.gov.in or 
through post (address given below), latest by January 07, 2021, in the format 
below: 

Name/ Organization 
Contact number 
Email address 

Details of respondent 

 
 
 

 

Comments on discussion paper 

Comments/ Suggestions 

 

Rationale 

 

Kindly  mention  the  subject  of  the  communication  as  "Comments  on 
Discussion paper on Compliance Standard for Index Providers.” 
 
Postal Address: 

 

Shri Sudeep Mishra 
General Manager 
Market Regulations Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, G Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),  
Mumbai - 400 051 

************ 

Page 14 of 14 

 

 

