 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA  

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART – III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

NEW DELHI, JULY 15, 2015 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 15th of July, 2015         

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(ISSUE AND LISTING OF DEBT SECURITIES BY MUNICIPALITIES) 

REGULATIONS, 2015 

 

No. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2015-16/006.- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 30 of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), to put in place a framework 
for public issue of debt securities by municipalities, listing and trading of such securities and 
matters incidental thereto, the Board hereby makes the following regulations, namely, —  

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title and commencement. 

1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) Regulations, 2015. 

(2)  These  regulations  shall  come  into  force  on  the  date  of  their  publication  in  the  Official 
Gazette. 

Definitions. 

2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined shall bear 
the  meanings  assigned  to  them  below,  and  their  cognate  expressions  shall  be  construed 
accordingly,–   

(a)  “Act”  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of 

1992); 

(b)  “advertisement”  includes  all  forms  of  communication  including  notices, 
brochures,  pamphlets,  show  cards,  catalogues,  hoardings,  placards,  posters, 
insertions in newspaper, cover pages of offer documents, pictures, films, etc., in 
any  print  media  or  electronic  media  or  social  media,  radio,  television 
programme; 

Page - 1 - of 29 

 

 

(c) 

"Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under 
section 3 of the Act; 

(d)  “corporate  municipal  entity”  means  a  company  as  defined  under  Companies 
Act, 2013, which is a subsidiary of a municipality and which is set up for the 
purpose of raising funds for a specific municipality or group of municipalities; 

(e)  “debt  securities”  means  a  non-convertible  debt  securities  which  create  or 
acknowledge  indebtedness,  and  include  debenture,  bonds  and  such  other 
securities  of  a  municipality,  or  a  corporate  municipal  entity,  whether 
constituting a charge on the assets of such body or not; 

(f) 

“designated  stock  exchange”  means  a  recognised  stock  exchange  in  which 
securities of an issuer are listed or proposed to be listed and which is chosen by 
the issuer as a designated stock exchange for the purpose of a particular issue of 
debt securities under these regulations; 

(g)  "general obligation bonds" means debt securities where principal and interest 

are serviced through tax proceeds of the municipality. 

(h)  "issuer” means any municipality or a corporate municipal entity, which makes 
or  proposes  to  make  an  issue  of  debt  securities  in  accordance  with  these 
regulations or which has its securities listed on a recognised stock exchange or 
which seeks to list its debt securities on a recognised stock exchange; 

(i) 

(j) 

"municipality"  means  an  institution  of  self-government  constituted  under 
Article 243Q of the Constitution of India;  

"national municipal accounts manual" means the municipal accounting manual 
formulated by the Ministry of Urban Development; 

(k)  "offer document” means prospectus or shelf prospectus and includes any such 
document  or  advertisement  whereby  the  subscription  to  debt  securities  are 
invited by the issuer from public; 

(l) 

"private placement" means any offer of debt securities or invitation to subscribe 
to debt securities to a select group of persons by a municipality through issue of 
a private placement offer letter to not more than two hundred persons, which 
shall not intend to result in, directly or indirectly,  the debt securities becoming 
available for subscription or purchase by persons other than those receiving the 
offer or invitation: 

 
Provided that for a corporate municipal entity, it shall mean an offer or 
invitation made in terms of section 42 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules 
made thereunder, through issue of a private placement offer letter; 

(m)  “public issue” means an offer or invitation by an issuer to public to subscribe to 

the debt securities, which is not in the nature of a private placement; 

(n)  "revenue bonds" means debt securities which are serviced by revenues from one 

or more projects; 

Page - 2 - of 29 

 

 

(o)  “schedule" means a schedule annexed to these regulations; 
(p)  "shelf prospectus" means a prospectus in respect of which the securities or class 
of securities included therein are issued for subscription in one or more issues 
over a certain period without the issue of a further prospectus: 

Provided  that  for  a  corporate  municipal  entity,  it  shall  have  the  same 

 
meaning as assigned to it in section 31 of Companies Act, 2013; 

(q)  “specified”  means  specified  by  a  general  or  special  order  or  circular  issued 

under the Act or these regulations. 

(2) All other words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations, shall have the 
same  meanings  respectively  assigned  to  them  in  the  Act  or  the  Companies  Act,  2013  or 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996 or the Rules and the 
Regulations made thereunder or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto. 

 

Applicability.  

3. These regulations shall apply to - 

(a) 

(b) 

public issue of debt securities; and 

listing of debt securities issued through public issue or on private placement basis on 
a recognised stock exchange. 

CHAPTER II 
ELIGIBILITY 

Eligible municipalities.  

4. No issuer shall be eligible to issue debt securities to public under these regulations, unless 
the following criteria are complied with: 

(a)  municipality,  whether  proposing  to  issue  debt  securities  itself  or  through  corporate 

municipal entity, should be eligible to raise funds under its constitution;   

(b)  accounts  of  municipality  shall  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  National  Municipal 
Accounts Manual or in accordance with similar Municipal Accounts Manual adopted 
by the respective State Government for at least three immediately preceding financial 
years; 

(c)  municipality  shall  not  have  negative  net  worth  in  any  of  the  three  immediately 

preceding financial years; 

(d)  municipality shall not have defaulted in repayment of debt securities or loans obtained 
from Banks or Financial Institutions, during the last three hundred and sixty five days: 

Provided that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, the requirements at (b), 
(c) and (d) shall be complied by the Municipality which is being financed. 

 

Page - 3 - of 29 

 

 Explanation.-For this purpose, the term default means where interest and/ or principal 
amount has remained overdue for a period of more than ninety days; 

(e)  no  order  or  direction  of  restraint,  prohibition  or  debarment  by    Board  against  the 

corporate municipal entity or its directors is in force; 

(f) 

the corporate municipal entity, its promoter, group company or director(s), should not 
have been named in the list of the wilful defaulters published by the Reserve Bank of 
India  or  should  not  have  defaulted  of  payment  of  interest  or  repayment  of  principal 
amount in respect of debt instruments issued by it to the public, if any. 

CHAPTER III 

REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC ISSUE 

General  conditions. 

5. (1) An issuer making public issue of debt securities shall only issue revenue bonds.  

(2)  No  issuer  shall  make  a  public  issue  of  revenue  bonds  unless  following  conditions  are 
complied with: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

it has made an application to one or more recognised stock exchanges for listing of such 
securities therein: 

Provided  that  where  the  application  is  made  to  more  than  one  recognised  stock 
exchanges, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange: 
Provided  further  that  where  any  of  such  stock  exchanges  have  nationwide  trading 
terminals, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange; 
Explanation.-For any subsequent public issue, the issuer may choose a different stock 
exchange as a designated stock exchange subject to the requirements of this regulation; 
it has obtained in-principle approval for listing of its revenue bonds on the recognised 
stock exchanges where the application for listing has been made; 

credit rating has been obtained from at least one credit rating agency registered with the 
Board and is disclosed in the offer document: 

Provided that the revenue bonds intended to be issued shall have a minimum investment 
grade rating:  

Provided further that where credit ratings are obtained from more than one credit rating 
agencies, all the ratings, including the unaccepted ratings, shall be disclosed in the offer 
document; 

it  has  entered  into  an  arrangement  with  a  depository  registered  with  the  Board  for 
dematerialisation of the revenue bonds that are proposed to be issued to the public, in 
accordance with the Depositories Act, 1996 and regulations made there under. 

(3) The revenue bonds shall have a minimum tenure of three years or such period as specified 
by the Board from time to time. 

 

Page - 4 - of 29 

 

(4) The revenue bonds shall have a maximum tenure of thirty years or such period as specified 
by the Board from time to time. 

(5) The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers registered with the Board at least 
one of whom shall be a lead merchant banker. 

(6)  The  issuer  shall  create  a  separate  escrow  account  for  servicing  of  revenue  bonds  with 
earmarked revenue. 

(7)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  a  monitoring  agency  such  as  public  financial  institution  or  a 
scheduled  commercial  bank  to  monitor  the earmarked  revenue  in  the  escrow  account  under 
sub-regulation (6): 

Provided that where the issuer is corporate municipal entity, it shall appoint a debenture trustee 
registered  with  the  Board  in accordance  with the  provisions  of the  Securities and  Exchange 
Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993 and Companies Act, 2013. 

 

Disclosures in the offer document. 

6. (1) The offer document shall contain true, fair and material disclosures, which are necessary 
for the subscribers of the revenue bonds to take an informed investment decision. 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the issuer, which is a municipality, 
and the lead merchant banker shall ensure that the offer document contains the following: 

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 

disclosures specified in Schedule Iof these regulations; 
disclosures with respect to compliance with regulation 12; 
additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board: 

Provided  that  in  case  of  issuer  being  a  corporate  municipal  entity,  the  issuer  and  the  lead 
merchant banker shall ensure that the offer document contains the following: 
 

(i) 

(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 

disclosures  as  specified  in  Companies  Act,  2013  and  Companies 
(Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014; 
disclosures specified in Schedule I of these regulations; 
disclosures with respect to compliance with regulation 12;  
additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board. 

Filing of draft offer document 

7. (1) No issuer shall make a public issue of revenue bonds unless a draft offer document has 
been filed with the designated stock exchange through the lead merchant banker: 
Provided that where an issuer has filed a shelf prospectus, not more than four public issuances 
shall be made through a single shelf prospectus during a financial year.  
(2) The draft offer document filed with the designated stock exchange shall be made public by 
posting the same on the website of the designated stock exchange for seeking public comments 
for a period of seven working days from the date of filing the draft offer document with such 
exchange. 

 

Page - 5 - of 29 

 

(3)  The  draft  offer  document  may  also  be  displayed  on  the  website  of  the  issuer,  merchant 
bankers and the stock exchanges where the revenue bonds are proposed to be listed. 
(4) The lead merchant banker shall ensure that the draft offer document specifies the names 
and contact details of the compliance officer of the lead merchant banker, the officer concerned 
and  the  project  officer,  wherever  applicable,    of  the  issuer  including  their  postal  and  email 
address, telephone and fax numbers. 
(5)  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  all  comments  received  on  the  draft  offer 
document are suitably addressed: 
Provided that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, the lead merchant banker shall 
ensure that all comments received on the draft offer document are suitably addressed prior to 
the filing of the final offer document with the Registrar of Companies. 
(6)  The issuer  shall,  before  filing  of  draft  offer  documents  with  Board,    obtain  a  “Viability 
Certificate“ or Detailed Project Appraisal Report (DPR) from a scheduled commercial bank or 
public  financial  institution  stating  that  the  project  is  financially  viable,  based  on  the 
estimates/assumptions available at that time. 
(7) A copy of draft and final offer document shall also be forwarded to the Board for its records, 
simultaneously with filing of these documents with designated stock exchange. 
(8) The issuer filing a shelf prospectus shall file a copy of an information memorandum with 
the recognised stock exchanges and the Board and in case of a corporate municipal entity, file 
the same with the Registrar of Companies. 
 
(9) Where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, the information memorandum shall contain 
the disclosures specified in Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder and shall include 
disclosures regarding summary term sheet, material updations including revision in ratings, if 
any, along with the rating rationale and financial ratios specified in Schedule I. 
(10) The lead merchant banker shall, prior to opening of the public issue, furnish to the Board 
a due diligence certificate as per Schedule II of these regulations: 
Provided that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, the lead merchant banker shall, 
prior to filing of the final offer document with the Registrar of Companies, furnish to the Board 
a due diligence certificate as per Schedule II of these regulations. 
(11)  The  debenture  trustee,  wherever  appointed  under  proviso  to  sub-regulation  (7)  of 
Regulation 5 shall, prior to the opening of the public issue, furnish to the Board a due diligence 
certificate as per Schedule III of these regulations. 
 

Mode of disclosure of offer document. 

8. (1) The draft and final offer document shall be displayed on the websites of stock exchanges 
and shall be available for download in PDF / HTML formats. 
(2)  The  draft  offer  document  shall  be  filed  with  the  designated  stock  exchange,  for 
dissemination on its website prior to the opening of the issue: 
Provided that where the issuer is a Corporate Municipal Entity, the final offer document shall 
be  filed  with  the  designated  stock  exchange,  simultaneously  with  filing  thereof  with  the 
Registrar of Companies, for dissemination on its website prior to the opening of the issue. 

 

Page - 6 - of 29 

 

(3) Where any person makes a request for a physical copy of the offer document, the same shall 
be provided to him by the issuer or lead merchant banker. 
 

Advertisements for public issues. 

9. (1)The issuer may make an advertisement in a national daily with wide circulation, on or 
before the issue opening date and such advertisement shall, amongst other things, contain the 
disclosures as per Schedule IV. 

(2) No issuer shall issue an advertisement which is misleading in material particular or which 
contain any information in a distorted manner or which is manipulative or deceptive. 

(3) The advertisement shall be truthful, fair and clear and shall not contain a statement, promise 
or forecast which is untrue or misleading. 

(4) Any advertisement issued by the issuer shall not contain any matters which are extraneous 
to the contents of the offer document. 

(5)  The  advertisement  shall  urge  the  investors  to  invest  only  on  the  basis  of  information 
contained in the offer document. 

(6) Any promotional or educative advertisement issued by the issuer during the subscription 
period shall not make any reference to the issue of revenue bonds or be used for solicitation. 

Abridged prospectus and application forms. 

10. (1) The issuer and lead merchant banker shall ensure that: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

every application form issued by the issuer is accompanied by a copy of the 
abridged prospectus; 
the abridged prospectus shall not contain matters which are extraneous to the 
contents of the prospectus; 
adequate space shall be provided in the application form to enable the 
investors to fill in various details like name, address, etc. 

(2) The issuer may provide the facility for subscription of application in electronic mode. 

 

Minimum subscription. 

11. (1) The issuer may decide the amount of minimum subscription which it seeks to raise by 
issue of debt securities and disclose the same in the offer document: 
Provided such minimum subscription limit shall not be less than seventy five per cent of the 
issue size. 
(2)  In  the  event  of  non-receipt  of  minimum  subscription  as  specified  above,  all  application 
moneys received in the public issue shall be refunded forthwith to the applicants, within twelve 
days from the date of the closure of the issue. 
(3) In the event, there is a delay by the issuer in making the aforesaid refund, then the issuer 
shall refund the subscription amount along with interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum 
for the delayed period. 

 

Page - 7 - of 29 

 

Utilization of issue proceeds. 

12. (1) The funds raised from public issue of debt securities shall be used only for projects that 
are specified under objects in the offer document.  
(2) The proceeds of the issue shall be clearly earmarked for a defined project or a set of projects 
for which requisite approvals have been obtained from concerned authorities. 
(3) The issuers shall maintain a bank account in which the amount raised from the issue shall 
be transferred immediately after the closure of the issue and such amount shall only be utilised 
for specified project(s): 
Provided that where the issuer is a Corporate Municipal Entity, the issue proceeds, net of issue 
expenses,  shall  be  used  only  for  onward  lending  to municipalities,  as  disclosed  in  the  offer 
document: 
Provided further that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, it shall maintain sufficient 
interest margin while onward lending to the municipalities, to meet its operating expenses and 
obligations.  
 
(4)  The  issuer  shall  establish  a  separate  project  implementation  cell  and designate  a  project 
officer who shall not be below the rank of deputy commissioner, who shall monitor the progress 
of the project(s) and shall ensure that the funds raised are utilised only for the project(s) for 
which the debt securities were issued: 
Provided  that  where  the  issuer  is  a  corporate  municipal  entity,  such  requirement  shall  be 
complied by the Municipality which is being financed. 
(5) Issuer’s contribution for each project shall not be less than twenty per cent. of the project 
costs, which shall be contributed from their internal resources or grants: 
Provided that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, contribution of the concerned 
municipality, which is being financed by the corporate municipal entity, shall not be less than 
twenty per cent. of the project costs, which shall be contributed from its internal resources or 
grants. 
(6) The issuer shall disclose the schedule of implementation of the project in the offer document 
in a tabular form and the funds raised by the issuer shall be utilized in accordance with the said 
schedule. 

 

Underwriting. 
13. A public issue of revenue bonds may be underwritten by an underwriter registered with the 
Board and in such a case adequate disclosures regarding underwriting arrangements shall be 
disclosed in the offer document. 

 

CHAPTER IV 

LISTING OF DEBT SECURITIES 

Mandatory listing. 

14.  An  issuer  desirous  of  making  an  offer  of  debt  securities  to  the  public  shall  make  an 
application for listing to one or more recognised stock exchanges:  
Provided that in case of issuer being corporate municipal entity, such an application shall be 
made in terms of sub-section (1) of section 40 of the Companies Act, 2013. 

 

Conditions for listing of debt securities issued on private placement basis. 

 

Page - 8 - of 29 

 

15. (1) An issuer may list its debt securities issued on private placement basis on a recognised 
stock exchange subject to the following conditions:  
 

(a)  an issuer may issue general obligation bonds or revenue bonds;  
(b) accounts of municipality being the issuer, shall be prepared in accordance 
with  National  Municipal  Accounts  Manual  or  in  accordance  with  similar 
Municipal  Accounts  Manual  adopted  by  the  respective  State  Government 
for at least three immediately preceding financial years; 

(c)  no order or direction of restraint, prohibition or debarment by  Board against 

the corporate municipal entity or its directors is in force; 

(d) the  issuer,  being  a  corporate  municipal  entity,    has  issued  such  debt 
securities in compliance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 and 
particularly  section  42  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  and  rules  prescribed 
there under and other applicable laws; 

(e)  the issuer shall not solicit or collect funds by issue of debt securities, except 

by way of private placement; 

(f)  the minimum subscription amount per investor shall not be less than rupees 
twenty five lakh or such amount as may be specified by Board from time to 
time; 

(g) credit rating has been obtained in respect of such debt securities from at least 

one credit rating agency registered with the Board;  

(h) the debt securities proposed to be listed are in dematerialized form;  
(i)  the  disclosures  as  provided  in  Schedule  Iof  these  regulations  have  been 

made. 

 

CHAPTER V 

REQUIREMENTS FOR BOTH PUBLIC ISSUES AND PRIVATE PLACEMENT 

 
Asset cover. 
16. An issuer, proposing to issue debt securities shall maintain 100% asset cover sufficient to 
discharge the principal amount at all times for the debt securities issued. 

Buy-back. 

17. The issuers may provide an option to buy-back the debt-securities at a value which shall 
not be less than the face value of the debt securities, from the investors: 
Provided in such cases, appropriate disclosure shall be made in the offer document 

Prohibitions of mis-statements in the offer document. 

18. (1) The offer document shall not omit disclosure of a material fact which may make the 
statements made therein misleading, in light of the circumstances under which they are made.  
(2)  The  offer  document  or  abridged  prospectus  or  any  advertisement  issued  by  an  issuer  in 
connection  with  a  public  issue  of  debt  securities  shall  not  contain  any  false  or  misleading 
statement. 

 

Page - 9 - of 29 

 

Creation of security for secured debentures. 

19. (1) The debentures shall be secured by the creation of a charge, on the properties or assets 
or the receivables of the issuer, having a value which is sufficient for the due repayment of the 
amount of debentures and interest thereon: 
Provided that in case unsecured debentures are intended to be listed on stock exchange(s), then 
such  debt  securities  shall  either  be  backed  by  guarantee  from  State  Government  or  Central 
Government or shall have a structured payment mechanism whereby the issuer shall deposit 
debt servicing amounts in the designated bank account at least 10 working days before due date 
of payment.  
 
(2)  The  total  value  of  secured  debentures  issued  shall  not  exceed  the  market  value  of 
immovable  property/other  assets  or  receivables  of  the  issuer,  for  which  a  charge  shall  be 
created. 
(3) The issuer shall give an undertaking in the offer document that the assets on which charge 
is created are free from any encumbrances and if the assets are already charged to secure a debt, 
the permissions or consent to create second or paripasu charge on the assets of the issuer have 
been obtained from the earlier creditor. 
(4)  The issue  proceeds  shall  not  be  utilised  until  the  documents  for  creation  of  security  are 
executed. 

Trust deed. 

20. (1) A trust deed for securing the issue of debentures shall be executed by the issuer in favour 
of the independent trustee or debenture trustee, as applicable, within three months of the closure 
of the issue. 
(2)  The  trust  deed  shall  contain  such  clauses  as  may  be  prescribed  in  Schedule  IV  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993: 
Provided that in case of private placement by a corporate municipal entity, the trust deed shall, 
in-addition, contain such clauses as prescribed under section 71 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules 2014. 
(3) The trust deed shall not contain a clause which has the effect of: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

limiting or extinguishing the obligations and liabilities of the debenture trustees or the 
issuer in relation to any rights or interests of the investors; 
limiting  or  restricting  or  waiving  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  these  regulations  and 
circulars or guidelines issued by the Board; 
indemnifying the debenture trustees or the issuer for loss or damage caused by their act 
of negligence or commission or omission. 

Redemption and roll-over. 

21. (1) The issuer shall redeem the debt securities in terms of the offer document. 
(2) Where the issuer being a corporate municipal entity, desires to roll-over the debt securities 
issued, it shall do so only upon passing of a special resolution to that effect and give twenty 
one days notice of the proposed roll over to the holders of debt securities: 

 

Page - 10 - of 29 

 

Provided  where the issuer  is a municipality, the notice  shall be  given  to the  holders  of  debt 
securities and stock exchanges where the debt securities are listed, upon the said decision: 
Provided further that in case the issuer is a municipality, if the holders of debt securities do not 
provide consent for the proposed roll over within the notice period, the issuer shall redeem the 
debt securities of such holders. 
(3) The notice referred to in sub- regulation (2) shall contain disclosures with regard to credit 
rating and rationale for roll-over. 
 
(4) The issuer  being a corporate municipal entity shall, prior to sending the notice to holders 
of debt securities, file a copy of the notice and proposed resolution with the stock exchanges 
where such securities are listed, for dissemination of the same to public on their websites. 
(5) The debt securities issued can be rolled over subject to the following conditions: 

(a)  The roll-over is approved by a special resolution passed by the holders of debt securities 
through postal ballot having the consent of not less than 75% of the holders by value of 
such debt securities: 
Provided  that  this  condition  shall  not  be  applicable  to  the  issuer,  which  is  a 
municipality: 
Provided further that in case of issuer being a municipality, a period of seven days shall 
be granted to the holders of debt securities to provide their consent; 

(b) atleast one rating is obtained from a credit rating agency within a period of six months 
prior  to  the  due date of redemption and  is  disclosed  in  the  notice  referred  to  in  sub-
regulation (2); 

(c)  fresh trust deed shall be executed at the time of such roll over or the existing trust deed 

may be continued if the trust deed provides for such continuation ; 

(d) adequate security shall be created or maintained in respect of such debt securities to be 

rolled–over. 

(6)  The  issuer  shall  redeem  the  debt  securities  of  all  the  holders,  who  have  not  given  their 
positive consent to the roll-over. 
 

Debenture redemption reserve. 

22. (1) For the redemption of the debentures issued by a corporate municipal entity, the issuer 
shall create debenture redemption reserve in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder. 
(2) Where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity and the issuer has defaulted in payment of 
interest on debt securities or redemption thereof or in creation of security as per the terms of 
the issue of debt securities, any distribution of dividend shall require approval of the debenture 
trustees. 
 

CONDITIONS FOR CONTINUOUS LISTING AND TRADING OF DEBT 

CHAPTER VI 

Continuous listing conditions. 

 

SECURITIES 

Page - 11 - of 29 

 

23. (1) All the issuers making public issues of debt securities or seeking listing of debt securities 
issued on private placement basis, shall comply with conditions of listing including continuous 
disclosure  and  other  requirements  specified  by  the  Board  in  general  and  those  specified  in 
Schedule V to these regulations.  
 
(2)  Where  the  issuer  is  corporate  municipal  entity,  one-third  of  its  Board  shall  comprise  of 
independent directors, as defined in section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
(3) Every rating obtained by an issuer shall be periodically reviewed by the registered credit 
rating agency and any revision in the rating shall be promptly disclosed by the issuer to the 
stock exchange(s) where the debt securities are listed. 
(4) In the event of credit rating being downgraded by two or more notches below the rating 
assigned at the time of issue, the issuer shall present to all bondholders, the reasons for fall in 
rating and the steps, if any, it intends to take to recover the rating. 
(5) Any change in rating shall be promptly disseminated in such manner as the stock exchange 
where such securities are listed may determine from time to time. 
(6) The issuer, the respective debenture trustees, wherever appointed, and stock exchanges shall 
disseminate all information and reports regarding debt securities including compliance reports 
filed by the issuers and the debenture trustees, if appointed, to the investors and the general 
public by placing them on their websites. 
(7) The information referred to in sub-regulation (5) shall also be placed on the websites, if 
any, of the debenture trustee, the issuer and the stock exchanges. 
 

Accounting and audit. 

24.  (1)  An  Issuer,  being  a  municipality,  shall  prepare  its  accounts  in  accordance  with  the 
National  Municipal  Accounts  Manual  or  in  accordance  with  similar  Municipal  Accounts 
Manual adopted by the respective State Government: 
Provided  that in case of the  Issuer  being a corporate municipal entity,  the accounts  shall  be 
prepared in accordance with section 129 and 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules 
made thereunder. 
(2) In case of the issuer being a municipality, the accounts of the issuer shall be audited by the 
persons  appointed  by  the  municipal  corporations,  as  permissible  under  its  constitution/state 
legislation governing the municipality: 
Provided that in case of an issuer being a corporate municipal entity, the accounts of the issuer 
shall be audited by an auditor, in terms of section 139 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules 
made thereunder: 

(3) The bank account for issue proceeds and separate escrow account with earmarked revenues, 
shall be audited by persons so appointed by the municipality or the corporate municipal entity, 
within six months of the close of every financial year. 

Trading and reporting of debt securities. 

25. (1) The debt securities issued to the public or on a private placement basis, which are listed 
in recognised stock exchanges, shall be traded and such trades shall be cleared and settled in 
recognised clearing corporation subject to conditions specified by the Board.  

Page - 12 - of 29 

 

 

 
(2) The trading lot for privately placed debt securities shall be rupees one lakh or such amount 
as may be specified by the Board. 
(3) In case of trades of debt securities which have been made over the counter, such trades shall 
be reported on a recognised stock exchange having a nationwide trading terminal or such other 
platform as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(4) The information in respect of issues such as issuer details, instrument details, ratings, rating 
migration, coupon, buyback, redemption details,  shall be required to be reported to a common 
database with depositories or any other platform as may be specified by the Board. 
 

                  OBLIGATIONS OF INTERMEDIARIES AND ISSUERS 
 

CHAPTER VII 

Obligations of monitoring agency and trustee. 

26.    (1)  The  monitoring  agency  appointed  under  sub-regulation  (7)  of  regulation  5  shall  be 
vested with the requisite powers for protecting the interest of holders of debt securities. 
(2) The monitoring agency shall inspect on half yearly basis, the utilization of issue proceeds 
in  accordance  with  objects  of  the  issue  as  specified  in  offer  document  and  report,  material 
deviation, if any, to the concerned stock exchange for public dissemination. 
(3) The monitoring agency shall monitor earmarked revenue in the separate escrow account.  
(4) The debenture trustee, wherever appointed, shall be vested with the requisite powers for 
protecting the interest of holders of debt securities:  
Provided that , where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, such powers shall include a 
right to appoint a nominee director on the Board of the issuer, in consultation with institutional 
holders of such securities. 
(5) the debenture trustee, wherever appointed, shall disclose the information to the investors 
and the general public by issuing a press release in any of the following events: 

(a)  default by issuer to pay interest on debt securities or redemption amount; 
(b) failure to create a charge on the assets; 
(c)  revision of rating assigned to the debt securities. 

(6)  The  debenture  trustee,  wherever  appointed,  shall  carry  out  its  duties  and  perform  its 
functions  under  these  regulations,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Debenture 
Trustees) Regulations, 1993, the trust deed and offer document, with due care, diligence and 
loyalty. 
(7) The debenture trustee, wherever appointed, shall ensure disclosure of all material events on 
an ongoing basis 
(8)  The  debenture  trustees,  wherever  appointed,  shall  supervise  the  implementation  of  the 
conditions  regarding  creation  of  security  for  the  debt  securities  and  debenture  redemption 
reserve. 
 

Obligations of the issuer and merchant banker. 

 

Page - 13 - of 29 

 

27.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  disclose  all  the  material  facts  in  the  offer  documents  issued  or 
distributed to the public and shall ensure that all the disclosures made in the offer document 
are true, fair and adequate and there is no mis-leading or untrue statements or mis-statement in 
the offer document. 
(2)  The  merchant  banker(s)  shall  verify  and  confirm  that  the  disclosures  made  in  the  offer 
documents are true, fair and adequate and ensure that the issuer is in compliance with these 
regulations.   
(3)  The  merchant  banker(s)  shall  ensure  that  all  transaction  specific  disclosures  required  in 
Schedule I of these regulations are complied with: 
Provided where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, merchant banker(s) shall also ensure 
that the disclosures under Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder are complied with. 
(4) The issuer shall treat the applicants in a public issue of debt securities in a fair and equitable 
manner as per the procedures as may be specified by the Board. 
(5) The issuer and merchant bankers shall be responsible for the due diligence in respect of 
assignments undertaken by them in respect of issue, offer and distribution of securities to the 
public. 
(6) No person shall employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud in connection with issue 
or subscription or distribution of debt securities which are listed or proposed to be listed on a 
recognised stock exchange. 
(7) The issuer and the merchant bankers shall ensure that the security created to secure the debt 
securities is adequate to ensure hundred per cent. asset cover for the debt securities. 
 

CHAPTER VIII 

MISCELLANEOUS 

 

Any contravention of these regulations shall be dealt with by the Board in accordance 

Sanction for violations. 
28. 
with the Act. 
 
Power to remove difficulties. 
29. 
In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions 
of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes 
or circulars:                                               
 
Provided that where any direction is issued by the Board in a specific case relating to 
interpretation or application of any provision of these regulations, it shall be done only after 
affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the concerned persons and after recording 
reasons for the direction. 

 

Disclosures 
 

 

SCHEDULE I 

[See Regulation 6(2)] 

Page - 14 - of 29 

 

1.  Where  the  issuer  is  a  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,  it  shall  make  disclosures  in 
accordance with Schedule I to SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 
2008  and  shall  also  make  below  mentioned  disclosures,  whichever  is  relevant, 
pertaining the municipalities proposed to be financed by the issue;  
 

2.  Where the issuer is a municipality, it shall make below mentioned  disclosures: 

 

A.  General Information 

1.  The relevant Act under which the issuer of such securities is incorporated and governed  
2.  Copy of the Committee Resolution/Municipal Corporation authorizing the borrowing 

and list of authorized signatories.  

3.  Copy of  the necessary Resolution(s) for the allotment of debt securities 
4.  Copy  of  budget  documents  for  last  3  years  containing  actual  financial  performance 

and/or revised estimates along with the details of related party transactions 

5.  An undertaking from the issuer stating that the necessary documents for the creation of 
the charge, where applicable, including the Trust Deed would be executed within the 
time frame prescribed in the relevant regulations/act/rules etc and the same would be 
uploaded on  the  website  of  the  recognised  Stock exchange  where the  debt  securities 
have been listed, within five working days of execution of the same.  

6.  Any other particulars or documents that the recognised stock exchange, where the debt 

security have been listed, may call for as it deems fit.  

7.  An  undertaking  that  permission  /  consent  from  the  prior  creditor  for  a  second  or 
paripassu  charge  being  created,  where  applicable,  in  favor  of  the  trustees  to  the 
proposed issue has been obtained. 

8.  Name and contact details of the monitoring agency.  
9.  Details  of  the  separate  escrow  account  opened  for  servicing  of  debt  securities  with 

earmarked revenue, wherever applicable. 

 
Issuer shall submit the following disclosures to the Debenture Trustee in electronic form 
(soft copy) at the time of allotment of the debt securities: 

1.  The  relevant  Act  under  which  the  issuer  of  such  securities  is  incorporated  and 

governed. 

2.  Copy of the Resolution authorizing the borrowing and list of authorized signatories.  
3.  Copy of the necessary Resolution(s) for the allotment of debt securities 
4.  Copy of budget documents for last 3 years containing actual financial performance 

and/ or revised estimates. 
 

B.  An undertaking to the effect that the Issuer would, till the redemption of the debt securities, 
submit the details relating to the financials of the issuer to the Trustee within the timelines 
prescribed  by  SEBI  for  furnishing  /publishing  its  half  yearly/  annual  result.  Further,  the 
Issuer  shall,  forthwith,  submit  a  copy  of  the  latest  annual  report  to  the  Trustee  and  the 
Trustee  shall  be  obliged  to  share  the  details  submitted  under  this  clause  to  debenture-

 

Page - 15 - of 29 

 

holders within two working days of their specific request. The following disclosures shall 
be made in the offer document where relevant: 
 

I.  Name and address of the following:-  
a.  Head office/quarters of the Issuer  
b.  Compliance officer of the Issuer  
c.  Complete  Details  of  the  Official  In-charge  of  dealing  with  investor 
Grievances related to the Municipal Bonds, his/her address, phone number, 
email ID, etc.  

d.  Chief Accounts and Finance Officer or equivalent of the Issuer  
e.  Arrangers, if any, of the instrument  
f.  Trustee of the issue  
g.  Registrar to an issue  
h.  Credit Rating Agency (-ies) of the issue and  
i.  Auditors of the Issuer 
j.  The relevant Act under which the issuer is incorporated and governed 

 

II.  Comprehensive Disclosure regarding the Risk Factors, including project risks, 

operational risks, credit risks, liquidity risks, etc.  
 

C.   Organization details: 

1.  Details of Mayor / Deputy Mayor including date of appointment, etc. 
2.  Details of Commissioner/ Deputy Commissioner including date of appointment, 

etc 

3.  Details of any Reorganization or Reconstruction in the last 1 year:-  
Type of Event 

Date of 

Date of 

Details 

 

 

 

 

Announcement 

Completion 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.  Details  of  the  members  of  the  Committee  approving  the  project/  various 
Standing  Committees  relating  to  Taxation  /  Finance  /Accounts/  Audit/ 
Infrastructure  

Name 
Designation 

and 

Date 
Appointment/ 
Resignation 

of 

Member of the Committee since  
(in case of resignation) 

Remarks 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page - 16 - of 29 

 

5.  Details of the Auditors  

Name 

Address 

Auditor since 

 

 

 

 

 

6.  Details of trustee  

Name  

Address  

Contact person 

 

 

 

 

D.  A brief summary of the business/ activities of the Issuer and its project for which funds are 

to be raised containing atleast following information 
1.  Overview of the issuer 
2.  Management Structure of the issuer and the relevant department issuing the bond  
3.  Details of all the project undertaken or proposed in terms of cost and means of financing 
4.  Complete details of the project/s for which finance is raised 

i.  An  investment  plan  for  the  project  components  indicating  phasing  as  well  as 

financing approved by the local authority or the agency as the case may be 
Schedule of implementation of the project  

ii. 
iii.  Capital  structure  relating  to  projects  for  which  funds  are  proposed  to  be 

mobilized 

iv.  Capital grant for the proposed project and the amount received in this regard 
v.  Details of State Finance Commission Grant on annual basis 
vi.  Benchmarks  for  commencement  and  completion  of  the  project  including 

milestone dates for all components of the project 

vii.  Details and status of the regulatory approval (if required) 
viii. 

Financial viability of the project showing the stage wise cost and revenue flows 
for the project. 

ix.  Revenue  generation/resources  and  sufficiency  for  timely  servicing  and 

redemption 

x.  Details of the independent trustee of the escrow account 
xi. 

Latest  Audit  report  of  the  escrow  and  project  account  by  a  firm  of  chartered 
accountants appointed by the concerned State Urban Development Departments 
from a panel CA’s approved by the C& AG. 
 

5.  Performance with respect to key financial and operational parameters for the last 3 years  
I.  Abridged  Balance  Sheet,  Income  and  Expenditure  and  Receipts  and  Payments 

Accounts for the last three years with major heads; 
Link  to  the  web  page  where  the  entire  financials  of  the  Municipal  Body  can  be 
accessed should be given.   
Financial Parameters: 

II. 

III. 

Page - 17 - of 29 

 

 

Key Financial Figures 

FY 

FY 

FY 

 

Revenue Income 

Revenue expenditure (Excl. Interest) 

Operating revenue Surplus 

Interest expense 

Principal  repayment  (outside  sinking 
Fund) 

Contribution to Sinking fund 

Revenue Surplus 

Capital Income 

Capital Expense 

Capital Surplus 

Overall Surplus 

Deposits and Advances (net) 

Initial Cash / Bank balance 

Change in Cash / Bank balance 

Final Cash / Bank balance 

Loan repayment from sinking fund 

Initial Sinking fund balance 

Change in sinking fund 

Final sinking fund balance 

Total Debt 

Ratio  of  Total  Expenditure 
Revenue 

/Total 

Cash Surplus / Total Revenue 

Ratio of Debt Service / Total Revenue 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IV.  Operational Parameters: 

Page - 18 - of 29 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Details of top 5 revenue sources for last 3 years 

Revenue Receipt type 

Actual 

Actual 

Actual 

 

XYZ 1 

XYZ 2 

XYZ 3 

XYZ 4 

XYZ 5 

FY 

FY 

FY 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

V.  Details of property tax collection 

Demand Raised 

  

Collections 

  

Particulars 

Arrears  Current  Total 

Current   Arrear  Total 

Overall 
Collection 
ratio 

Current 
Collection 
ratio 

FY  

FY  

FY  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Status of reforms with respect to e-governance, cost recovery on water supply & 
Solid  Waste  Management  (SWM),  property  tax,  double  entry  accounting  and 
others, as specified by MoUD and authorities concerned 

 

 

 

VI. 

 

E.  Details of  Issuer’s outstanding borrowing 

I.  Details of borrowings of the Issuer, as on the latest quarter end:-  
II.  Details of Secured Loan Facilities:-  

Lender’s 

Type of 

Amt 

Principal 

Repayment 

Security 

Name 

Facility 

Sanctioned 

Amt 

Date / 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

outstanding 

Schedule 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

III.  Details of Unsecured Loan Facilities:-  

Page - 19 - of 29 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lender’s 

Type 

of  Amt 

Principal 

Repayment   

 

Name 

Facility 

 

 

 

 

Sanctioned  Amt 

Date 

 

 

 

outstanding  Schedule 

 

 

 

 

/ 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IV.  Details of NCDs/Bonds: - 

 

 

 

 

Debenture/B
ond Series 

/ 
Tenor 
Period  of 
Coupon  Amount 
Maturity 

Date 
Allotment 

of 

Redemption 
Date/ 
Schedule 

Credit 
Rating 

/ 
Secured 
Security 
Unsecured 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

V. 

List of Top 10 Debenture Holders (as on ……)  

 

 

 

 

Sr. No. 

Name of Debenture Holders 

Amount 

 

 

 

 
Note:  Top  10  holders’  (in  value  terms,  on  cumulative  basis  for  all  outstanding  debentures 
issues) details should be provided. 

VI. 

The amount of charge created along with name of the counterparty (like name of 
the project etc.) 

VII.  Details  of  Commercial  Paper:-  The  total  Face  Value  of  Commercial  Papers 
Outstanding as on the latest quarter end to be provided and its breakup in following 
table:- 

Maturity Date 

Amount Outstanding 

 

VIII.  Details of Rest of Borrowings 

 

IX. 

Estimated Scenarios of Asset Liability Mis-matches, efforts intended to resolve the 
same 

 

Page - 20 - of 29 

 

X.  Details of all default/s and/or delay in payments of interest and principal of any 
kind  of  term  loans,  debt  securities  and  other  financial  instrument  issued  by  the 
Issuer, in the past 3 years .  

XI.  Details of change in terms  and conditions of debt securities issued in past 5 years 

( i.e. change in coupon, maturity, call/put option etc.) 

XII.  An  undertaking  should  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  that  the  issue  has 
obtained Lenders consent for creating charge on assets (if the issue is of secured 
Bonds) 

XIII.  Details  of  any  outstanding  borrowings  taken/  debt  securities  issued  for 
consideration other than cash, whether in whole or part, at a premium or discount, 
or in pursuance of an option;  

XIV.  Any  material  event/  development  or  change  having  implications  on  the 
financials/credit  quality  (e.g.  any  material  regulatory  proceedings  against  the 
Issuer, resulting in material liabilities,  restructuring event etc) at the time of the 
issue which may affect the issue or the investor’s decision to invest/ continue to 
invest in the debt securities. 
The  detailed rating  rationale (s)  adopted  (not  older  than  one  year on  the date of 
opening of the issue)/ credit rating letter issued (not older than one month on the 
date of opening of the issue) by the rating agencies shall be disclosed.  
XVI.  Credit Enhancement Mechanisms if any, with complete details, if any. 
XVII. 

XV. 

 The security is backed by a guarantee or letter of comfort or any other document 
/  letter  with  similar  intent,  a  copy  of  the  same  shall  be  disclosed.  In  case  such 
document does not contain detailed payment structure (procedure of invocation of 
guarantee and receipt of payment by the investor along with timelines), the same 
shall be disclosed in the offer document. 
In case there is an escrow mechanism for the repayment of the interest/principal, 
details of the same should be given.  
The  names  of  the  debenture  trustee(s)  shall  be  mentioned  with  statement  to  the 
effect  that  debenture  trustee(s)  has  given  his  consent  to  the  Issuer  for  his 
appointment. This also needs to be mentioned in all subsequent communications 
sent to the holders of debt securities. 

XVIII. 

XIX. 

XX.  Names of all the recognised stock exchanges where the debt securities are proposed 

XXI. 

to be listed clearly indicating the designated stock exchange.  
Penal interest payable by the Municipal Corporation in case of delay in execution 
of Trust Deed and Charge documents  

XXII.  Additional interest to be paid, above the Coupon Rate, in case of default in payment 

XXIII. 

of Interest and/or principal redemption on the due dates 
Penal interest payable by the Municipal Corporation in case of delay in listing of 
debt securities from the deemed date of allotment 

XXIV.  Other details  
XXV.  DRR/such other reserve creation - relevant regulations and applicability.  
XXVI. 

Issue/instrument  specific  regulations  -  relevant  details  (Relevant  Act,  RBI 
guidelines, etc).  

Page - 21 - of 29 

 

 

XXVII.  Application process 
XXVIII. 

XXIX. 

XXX. 
XXXI. 

Procedure  for  deciding  and  adjusting  payment  dates  (in  response  to  days  when 
payment can’t be made due to any reason like sudden bank holiday.  
List of documents which have been executed/ will be executed in relation to the 
issue 
Investor grievances mechanisms 
Such  other  details  necessary  for  the  investors to make a  well  informed  decision 
making regarding their investment in the proposed issue  

XXXII.  Declaration signed by the Mayor and Commissioner  of the concerned Municipal 
Body stating that offer document contains true, fair and adequate information to 
enable  investors  to  make  a  well  informed  decision  making  regarding  their 
investment in the proposed issue. 

XXXIII.  Declaration  signed  by  the  Director(s)  of  the  Corporate  Municipal  Entity  stating 
that offer document contains true, fair and adequate information to enable investors 
to  make  a  well  informed  decision  making  regarding  their  investment  in  the 
proposed issue. 
 

F. Issue details  
Summary  term  sheet  shall  be  provided  which  shall  include  at  least  following 
information (where relevant) pertaining to the Secured / Unsecured Non Convertible 
debt securities (or a series thereof):-  

Security Name 

Issuer 
Type of Instrument 

Seniority 

Mode of Issue 

Eligible Investors 

Listing  (  including  name  of  stock 
Exchange(s) where it will be listed 
and timeline for listing) 

Name of the bond which includes (Issuer Name, Coupon 
and maturity year) e.g. 8.70% XXX 2015. 

  
Secured or Unsecured 

Senior or Subordinated. 

Private placement/Public issue 

  

  

Rating of the Instrument 

_______ by _____ Ltd. 

Issue Size 

Option  to  retain  oversubscription 
(Amount) 

  

  

Objects of the Issue 

  The  proceeds  of  the  proposed  issue  shall  be  clearly 
earmarked for a defined project or a set of projects; 
The project(s) shall be financially viable project(s),  

 

Page - 22 - of 29 

 

i.e., should be able to generate a stream of revenue which 
should be sufficient to finance Operational & Maintenance 
cost 

Details  of  the  utilization  of  the 
Proceeds 

Coupon Rate 

Taxable/Tax free 

  

  

 

Step Up/Step Down Coupon Rate  

  

Coupon Payment Frequency 

  

Coupon payment dates 

Dates on which coupon will be paid 

Coupon Type 

Fixed, floating or other coupon structure 

Coupon  Reset  Process  (including 
rates, 
spread,  effective  date, 
interest rate cap and floor etc). 

  

Day Count Basis 

Actual/ Actual 

Interest on Application Money 

  

Tenor 

__   Months from the Deemed from the date of Allotment 

Redemption Date 

Redemption Amount 

Redemption Premium /Discount 

Dates on which Principal will be paid 

  

  

Issue Price 

The price at which bond is issued 

Discount  at  which  security  is 
issued and the effective yield as a 
result of such discount. 

Put option Date 

Put option Price 

Call Option Date 

Call Option Price 

  

  

  

  

  

Put Notification Time 

Timelines  by  which  the  investor  need  to  intimate  Issuer 
before exercising the put option. 

 

Page - 23 - of 29 

Call Notification Time 

Timelines  by  which  the  Issuer  need  to  intimate  investor 
before exercising the call option. 

 

Face Value 

  Minimum  Application  and  in 
multiples  of  _Debt  Securities 
thereafter 

Issue Timing 
1. Issue Opening Date 
2. Issue Closing date 
3. Pay-in Date 
4. Deemed Date of Allotment 

 

 

  

Issuance mode of the Instrument 

Rs.  10  lakh  per  instrument  for  Demat  only  (for  private 
placement) 

Trading mode of the Instrument 

Demat only (for private placement) 

Settlement mode of the Instrument 

Depository 

Business Day Convention 

 

  

  

Record Date 

15 days prior to each Coupon Payment date / Redemption 
date. 

(where 

Security 
applicable) 
(Including  description,  type  of 
security, type of charge, likely date 
of  creation  of  security,  minimum 
security 
revaluation, 
replacement of security). 

cover, 

Transaction Documents 

Conditions 
Disbursement 

Precedent 

to 

  

  

  

 

Page - 24 - of 29 

 

Condition 
Disbursement 

Subsequent 

to 

Events of Default 

Provisions related to Cross Default 
Clause 

Role  and  Responsibilities  of 
Debenture Trustee 

Governing Law and Jurisdiction 

  

  

 

  

  

 
Notes: 
 
Any change in Coupon Rate, along with events which lead to the change if there is any 
change in Coupon Rate pursuant to any event including elapse of certain time period or 
downgrade in rating, then such new Coupon Rate and events which lead to such change 
should be disclosed.  
 
 
 

SCHEDULE II 

[See Regulation 7 (10)] 

FORMAT FOR DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE AT THE TIME OF FILING THE 
OFFER  DOCUMENT  BY  AN  ISSUER  OR  A  CORPORATE  MUNICIPAL  ENTITY 
WITH  REGISTRAR  OF  COMPANIES  AND  PRIOR  TO  THE  OPENING  OF  THE 
ISSUE 

 

To, 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________ 
 
1.We  confirm  that  neither  the  issuer  nor  its  promoters  or  directors  (in  case  of  corporate 
municipal entity), have been prohibited from accessing the capital market under any order or 

Page - 25 - of 29 

 

 

direction passed by the Board. We also confirm that none of the intermediaries named in the 
offer document have been debarred from functioning by any regulatory authority. 
 
2. We confirm that all the material disclosures in respect of the issuer have been made in the 
offer document and certify that any material development in the issue or relating to the issue 
up to the commencement of listing and trading of the shares offered through this issue shall be 
informed  through  public  notices/  advertisements  in all  those  newspapers  in  which  pre-issue 
advertisement and advertisement for opening or closure of the issue have been given. 
 
3. We confirm that the offer document contains all disclosures as specified in the Securities 
and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities  by  Municipalities) 
Regulations, 2015. 

4.  We  also  confirm  that  all  relevant  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013,  if  applicable, 
Securities  Contracts,  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act, 
1992 and the Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Circulars issued thereunder are complied with.  
 
We confirm that all comments/ complaints received on the draft offer document filed on the 
website of ________ (designated stock exchange) have been suitably addressed. 
 
PLACE 
DATE:                                                          LEAD MERCHANT BANKER (S) 

 

SCHEDULE III 

[See Regulation 7 (11)] 

 
FORMAT  OF  DUE  DILIGENCE  CERTIFICATE  TO  BE  GIVEN  BY  THE 
DEBENTURE TRUSTEE BEFORE OPENING OF THE ISSUE 
 
To, 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________________Ltd (Corporate 
Municipal Entity) 
 
We, the Debenture Trustee (s) to the above mentioned forthcoming issue state as follows: 
(1) We have examined documents pertaining to the said issue and other such relevant 
documents. 
(2) On the basis of such examination and of the discussions with the issuer, its Mayor/Deputy 
Mayor  /Directors  and  other  officers,  other  agencies  and  of  independent  verification  of  the 
various relevant documents, 

Page - 26 - of 29 

 

 

WE CONFIRM that: 
(a) The issuer has made adequate provisions for and/or has taken steps to provide for adequate 
security for the debt securities to be issued. 
(b) The issuer has obtained the permissions / consents necessary for creating security on the 
said property (ies) / receivables. 
(c) The issuer has made all the relevant disclosures about the security and also its continued 
obligations towards the holders of debt securities. 
We have satisfied ourselves about the ability of the issuer to service the debt securities. 
 
PLACE 
DATE:                         DEBENTURE TRUSTEE TO THE ISSUE WITH HIS SEAL 
 
 
SCHEDULE  IV 

[See Regulation 9 (1)] 

 

FORMAT OF ISSUE ADVERTISEMENTS FOR PUBLIC ISSUES 

This is an advertisement for information purposes 

_________ _________ Municipal Corporation or ______________ Ltd (or Corporate 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Relevant State Act or the Companies 

Municipal Entity) 

Act  as __________________ 

and subsequently renamed ______________ on __________) 

Registered Office: _____________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 
Corporate Office: _____________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 

e-mail: _____________ Website: _____________________________ 

Public issue of ___________ debt securities of Rs. ____ each at a price of Rs._____ 

(Summary Details of Coupon, Redemption, etc shall be disclosed) 

THE ISSUE 

MAYOR/ DEPUTY MAYOR /COMMISSIONER/PROMOTERS 

XXXX 

 

PROPOSED LISTING 

Names of Stock Exchanges 

 

MERCHANT BANKERS 

(Names) 

 

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF THE ISSUER 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address 

 

Page - 27 - of 29 

 

 

 

 

(The Rating Obtained shall be disclosed prominently along with the meaning of the same) 

CREDIT RATING 

 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES 

( Names) 

 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS 

Names of Issuer, Lead Managers, etc. (Addresses optional) 

AVAILABILITY OF OFFER DOCUMENT 

 

Investors are advised to refer to the offer document, and the risk factors contained therein, 
before applying in the issue. Full copy of the offer document is available on websites of 
issuer / lead manager(s) / Stock Exchange(s) on www.__________ 
 
                                                       ISSUE OPENS ON: 
                                                       ISSUE CLOSES ON: 

Issued by 
Directors of Issuer 

 
 

 

SCHEDULE  V 

[See Regulation 23 (1)] 

Periodic Disclosures to be made by Issuers: 

1.  The  issuer  shall  file  its  Annual  Audited  financial  results,  forthwith,  with  the 

stock exchange and debenture trustee, wherever applicable. 

2.  Further,  following  periodic  disclosures  shall  be  made  by  the  Issuer  on  half 
yearly basis to the stock exchange and debenture trustee, wherever applicable.: 
i.  Utilization  of  funds  for  the  projects  –  Half  yearly  certification  of  Chartered 
Accountant on Utilizations of the issue proceeds for execution of the projects 
stated in the offer document. 

ii.  A  report  containing  status  of  implementation  of  project(s),  which  is  being 

iii. 

financed alongwith reasons for delay, if any. 
Project  development  -  Details  with  respect  to the  development  of  the  Project 
along with certifications from the Project Engineer should be furnished to the 
bond trustee, Rating Agencies and stock exchanges on Half Yearly Basis and 
should be publicly disseminated.  

iv.  Material adverse changes affecting ability to service bonds. 
v. 

Proposal  for  pre-payment,  valuation  of  bond  in  case  of  sale/purchase  before 
maturity etc. 
Important ratios like Debt Equity Ratio, Debt Service Coverage Ratio, Interest 
Service Coverage Ratio etc. 

vi. 

Page - 28 - of 29 

 

vii.  Half Yearly return on servicing of bonds, maintenance of Asset Cover, Credit 

enhancement facilities and Investors Grievances &Redressal 

viii.  A CA/Bank certificate for timely servicing of bonds.    

 
 

 

U. K. SINHA 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

 

 

Page - 29 - of 29 

