THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART – II – SECTION 3 – SUB SECTION (II) 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

the 24 September, 2002 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(ISSUE OF SWEAT EQUITY) REGULATONS, 2002 

S.O. No.1031 (E) In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 30 of the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India, 1992 read with Clause (d) of sub sections (1) of Section 79A as 

inserted by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1998 (1 of 1999), the Board, hereby makes 

the following regulations, namely:- 

CHAPTER – I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title and commencement. 

1 

(a) These regulations shall be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Issue of Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2002. 

(b) These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in the 

Official Gazette. 

Definitions. 

2. 

(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: - 

(a)  ‘Act’ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992; 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

(b)  ‘assoc iate’ includes a person, 

(i)   who directly or indirectly by himself or in combination with relatives, exercise 

control over the company; or, 

(ii) whose employee, officer or director is also a director, officer or employee of the 

company; 

(c)  ‘Board’ means th e Board as defined in clause (a) of sub section (1) of section 2 of 

the Act; 

(d)  ‘control’ shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the 

management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting 

individually or in concert, directly or indirectly, including by virtue of their 

shareholding or management rights or shareholders or voting agreements or in any 

other manner; 

(e)  ‘company’ means a company as defined in Companies Act, 1956; 

(f)   ‘director’ means, a d irector as defined in sub-section (13) of section 2 of the 

Companies Act, 1956; 

(g)  ‘employee’ means, 

(i)  a permanent employee of the company working in India or abroad; or 

(ii)  a director of the company whether a whole time director or not; 

(h) 

‘ESOS’  means  an  Employee  Stock  Option  Scheme  as  defined  in  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Employee  Stock  Option  Scheme  and  Employee  Stock 

Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999; 

(i) 

‘insider’ means an insider as defined in clause (e) of regulation 2 of Se curities and 

Exchange Board of India (Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992; 

(j)  ‘merchant banker’ means a merchant banker registered under Section 12 of the Act; 

(k) ‘promoter’ means promoter as defined in clause (h) of sub regulation (1) of regulation 

2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares 

and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997; 

(l)   ‘registrar’ means a registrar to an issue and includes a share transfer agent registered 

under Section 12 of the Act; 

(m)  ‘securities ’ means securities as defined in clause (h) of section 2 of the Securities 

Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956); 

(n)  ‘statutory auditor’ means an auditor appointed by  a company  under Section 224 of 

the Companies Act 1956 (1 of 1956); 

(o)   ‘Recog  nised  Stock  Exchange’  means  a  stock  exchange  which  has  been  granted 

recognition under Section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 

1956); 

(p)   ‘sweat equity shares’ means sweat equity shares as defined in Explanation II of sub 

section (1) of Section 79A of the Companies Act, 1956; 

(q)  ‘Schedule’ means a schedule to these regulations. 

(r)    ‘valuer’ means a Chartered Accountant or a merchant banker appointed to determine 

the value of the intellectual property rights or other value addition. 

(2) Words and expressions not defined in these regulations shall have the same meaning as 

have been assigned to them under the Act or the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 

1956  or  the  Companies  Act,  1956  or  any  statutory  modification  or  re-enactment 

thereof, as the case may be. 

Applicability. 

3. 

Nothing contained in these regulations shall apply to an unlisted company; 

Provided the unlisted company coming out with initial public offering and 

seeking listing of its securities on the stock exchange, pursuant to issue of sweat 

equity shares, shall comply with the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000. 

CHAPTER II 

ISSUE OF SWEAT EQUITY BY A LISTED COMPANY 

Sweat equity shares may be issued to employee, promoter. 
4.  A company whose equity shares are listed on a recognized stock exchange may issue 

sweat equity shares in accordance with Section 79A of Companies Act, 1956 and these 

Regulations to its  – 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

(a)  Employees 

(b)  Directors 

Special Resolution. 

5.  (1) For the purposes of passing a special resolution under clause (a) of sub section (1) 

of  Section  79A  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  the  explanatory  statement  to  be 

annexed  to  the  notice  for  the  general  meeting  pursuant  to  section  173  o  f  the 

Companies Act, 1956 shall contain disclosures as specified in the Schedule. 

(2) The issue of sweat equity shares to promoters shall be subject to the requirements 

specified in Regulation 6 of these Regulations. 

Issue of Sweat Equity Shares to Promoters. 

6. 

(1)  In  case  of  Issue  of  sweat  equity  shares  to  promoters,  the  same  shall  also  be 

approved by simple majority of the shareholders in General Meeting; 

Provided  that for passing such  resolution,  voting through postal  ballot  as specified 

under Companies (Passing of the resolution by Postal Ballot) Rules, 2001 shall also 

be adopted; 

Provided further that the promoters to whom such Sweat Equity Shares are proposed 

to be issued shall not participate in such  resolution. 

(2) 

Each transaction of issue of Sweat Equity shall be voted by a separate 

resolution. 

(3)  The resolution for issue of Sweat Equity shall be valid for a period of not more 

than twelve months from the date of passing of the resolution. 

(3) For the purposes of passing the resolution, the explanatory statement shall contain 

the disclosures as specified in the Schedule. 

Pricing of Sweat Equity Shares. 

7.  (1) The price of sweat equity shares shall not be less than the higher of the following: 

(a)  the average of the weekly high and low of the closing prices of the related equity 

shares during last six months preceding the relevant date;  or 

(b) the average of the weekly high and low of the closing prices of the related equity 

shares during the two weeks preceding the relevant  date. 

Explanation: “Relevant date” for this purpose means the date which is thirty days prior to 

the date on which the meeting of the General  Body of the shareholders is convened, in 

terms of clause (a) of sub section (1) of section 79A of the Companies Act. 

(2) 

If the shares are listed on more than one stock exchange, but quoted only on one 

stock exchange on given date, then the price on the stock exchange shall be considered. 

(3) 

If the share price is quoted on more than one stock exchange, then the stock exchange 

where there is highest trading volume during that date shall be considered. 

(4) 

If the shares are not quoted on the given date, then the share price on the next trading 

 

 

day shall be considered. 

Valuation of intellectual Property. 

8. 

(1) The valuation  of the intellectual property  rights  or  of  the know how provided  or 

other value addition mentioned in Explanation II of sub section (1) of Section 79A of the 

Companies Act, 1956 shall be carried out by a merchant  banker. 

(2)  The merchant banker may consult such experts and valuers, as he may deem fit having 

regard to the nature of the industry and the nature of the property or other value addition. 

(3) 

The  merchant  banker  shall  obtain  a  certificate  from  an  independent  Chartered 

Accountant  that  the  valuation  of  the  intellectual  property  or  other  value  addition  is  in 

accordance with the relevant accounting standards. 

Accounting Treatment. 

9. 

(1) Where the sweat equity shares are issued for a  non-cash  consideration, such non 

cash consideration shall be treated in the following manner in the books of account 

of the company:- 

(a)  where  the  non  cash  consideration  takes  the  form  of  a  depreciable  or 

amortizable asset, it shall be carried to the balance sheet of the company in 

accordance with the relevant accounting standards; or 

(b)  where clause (a) is not applicable, it shall be expensed as provided in the 

relevant accounting standards. 

 

 

 

 

Placing of Auditors Before Annual General Meeting. 

10. 

In the General meeting subsequent to the issue of sweat equity, the Board of 

Directors shall place before the shareholders, a certificate from the auditors of the 

company that the issue of sweat equity shares has been made in accordance with 

the Regulations and in accordance with the resolution passed by the company 

authorizing the issue of such Sweat Equity  Shares. 

Ceiling on Managerial Remuneration. 

11.  The  amount  of  Sweat  Equity  shares  issued  shall  be  treated  as  part  of  managerial 

remuneration for the purpose of sections 198, 309, 310, 311 and 387 of the Companies 

Act, 1956, if the following conditions are  fulfilled: 

(i) 

(ii) 

the Sweat Equity shares are issued to any director or manager; and 

they are issued for non cash consideration, which does not take the form of an 

asset which can be carried to the balance sheet of the company in accordance 

with the relevant accounting standards. 

Lock-in of sweat equity shares. 

12. 

(1) The Sweat Equity shares shall be locked in for a period of three years from the 

date of allotment. 

(2) 

 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Disclosures and Investor 

Protection) Guidelines, 2000 on public issue in terms of lock-in and 

computation of promoters’ contribution shall apply if a company makes a public 

issue after it has issued after it has issued sweat  equity. 

Listing. 

13.  The Sweat Equity issued by a listed company shall be eligible for listing only if such 

issues are in accordance with these regulations. 

Applicability of Takeover. 

14.  Any acquisition of Sweat Equity Shares shall be subject to the provision of Securities 

and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 

Regulations, 1997. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER III 

GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 

Obligations of the Company 

15.  (1) The company shall ensure that  - 

(a)  The  explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  for  general  meeting  shall  contain 

disclosures as are specified under clause (b) of sub section (1) of Section 79A 

and sub regulation (1) of Regulation 5. 

(b)  The Auditor’s certificate as required under Regulation 10 shall be placed in the 

general meeting of shareholders. 

(c)  The company shall within seven days of the issue of sweat equity, issue or send 

statement to the exchange, disclosing: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

number of sweat equity shares; 

price at which the sweat equity shares are issued; 

total amount invested in sweat equity  shares; 

details of the persons to whom sweat equity shares are issued; and 

the consequent changes in the capital structure and the shareholding 

pattern after and before the issues of sweat equity. 

Action against intermediaries. 

16.  The Board may, on failure of the merchant banker to comply with the obligations under 

these  regulations  or  failing  to  observe  due  diligence  in  respect  of  valuation  of 

intellectual property or value addition, initiate action against merchant banker in  terms 

of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992. 

CHAPTER IV 

PENALTIES AND PROCEDURE 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Power of the Board to order inspection or investigation. 

17.  (1) The Board may, suo-motu or upon information received by it, cause an inspection 

to be made of the books of account or other books and papers of any company or an 

investigation to be made in respect of the conduct and affairs of any person associated 

with the process of sweat equity, by appointing an officer of the Board 1[not below the 

rank of Assistant General Manager for the purpose of conducting inspection and not 

below the rank of Division Chief for the purpose of conducting an investigation]: 

Provided that no such inspection or investigation shall be made except for the purpose 

specified in sub-regulation (2). 

2)  The purpose referred to in sub-regulation (1) are the following, namely:- 

(a) 

to ascertain whether there are any circumstances which would render any person 

guilty  of  having  contravened  any  of  these  regulations  or  any directions  issued 

thereunder; 

(b) 

to investigate into any complaint of any contravention of the regulation, received 

from any investor, or any other  person; 

3) 

  An  order  passed  under  the  sub  regulation  (1)  shall  be  sufficient  authority  for 

Inspecting or Investigating Officer to undertake the inspection or investigation as the 

case  may  be  and  on  production  of  an  authenticated  copy  of  the  order,  the  person 

concerned shall be bound to carry out the duty imposed in Regulation 18. 

Duty to produce records etc. 

18. 

(1)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  person  in  respect  of  whom  an  inspection  or 

investigation  has  been  ordered  under  Regulation  17,  to  produce  before  the 

inspecting or the investigating officer such book, accounts and other documents 

in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and 

1 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Sweat Equity) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 27-8-2003. 

information as the said officer may require from the purposes of the inspection 

or investigation. 

(2)  Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-regulation (1) such 

person shall - 

(a)  extend  to  the  Inspecting  or  Investigating  Officer  reasonable  facilities  for 

examining any books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control 

(whether  kept  manually  or  in  computer  or  in  any  other  form)  reasonably 

required for the purposes of the inspection or investigation; 

(b) 

to  provide  such  inspecting  or  investigating  officer  copies  of  such  books, 

accounts  and  records  which,  in  opinion  of  the  Officer,  are  relevant  to  the 

inspection  or  investigation  or,  as  the  case  may  be,  allow  him  to  take  out 

computer printouts thereof. 

(c) 

to provide such assistance and co-operation as may be required in connection 

with  the  inspection  or  investigation  and  to  furnish  information  relevant  to 

such inspection or investigation as may be sought by such officer. 

(3)  The  Inspecting  or  Investigating  Officer  shall  for  the  purpose  of  inspection  or 

investigation, have the full powers; 

 

 

 

 

Submission of Report to the Board. 

19. 

(1) The Inspecting or Investigating Officer shall, on completion of the inspection or 

Investigation after taking into account all relevant facts and circumstances, submit 

a report to the Board. 

(2) On the receipt of report under sub-regulation (1), the Board may initiate such action 

as it may be deemed fit to do in the interests of investors and the securities market. 

Power of the Board to Issue directions. 

20.  The Board may in the interests of the securities market and without prejudice to its 

rights  to  initiate  action, including  criminal  prosecution  under  Section  24  of  the  Act  or 

Section 621 of Companies Act give such directions as it deems fit including:- 

(a)  directing the person concerned not to  further deal in securities in any  particular 

manner; 

(b)  directing the person concerned to sell or divest the sweat equity shares acquired in 

violation of the provisions of these Regul ations or any other law or regulations; 

(c)  prohibiting the persons concerned, from accessing the securities market; 

(d)  directing the disgorgement of any ill-gotten gains or profits or avoidance of loss; 

(e) 

restraining the company from making a further offer for sweat equity. 

POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 

1[CHAPTER V 

 

 

Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 

21. 

 (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all 

or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but 

not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects 

relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live 

environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets. 

(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to 

the  applicant  satisfying  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board 

including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. 

Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live 

testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may 

be  deployed  on  a  limited  set  of  eligible  customers  for  a  specified  period  of  time,  for 

furthering  innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be 

specified by the Board.] 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                      
1 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 

 
 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(ISSUE OF SWEAT EQUITY) Regulations, 2002 

[Under Regulation 6(4)] 

The explanatory statement to the notice and the resolution proposed to be passed in the 

general  meeting  for  approving  the  issuance  of  sweat  equity  shall,  inter  alia,  contain  the 

following information: 

a)  The total number of shares to be issued as sweat  equity. 

b)  The current market price of the shares of the  company. 

c)  The value of the intellectual property rights or technical know how or other value 

addition  to  be  received  from  the  employee  or  director  along  with  the  valuation 

report / basis of valuation. 

d)  The names of the employees or directors or promoters to whom the sweat equity 

shares shall be issued and their relationship with the company. 

e)  The consideration to be paid for the sweat equity. 

f)  The price at which the sweat equity shares shall be  issued. 

g)  Ceiling on managerial remuneration, if any, which will be affected by issuance of 

such sweat equity. 

h)  A statement to the effect that he company shall conform to the accounting policies 

as specified by the Board. 

i)  Diluted  Earning  Per Share pursuant  to  the issue  of  securities  to  be calculated in 

accordance with  International  Accounting Standards /  standards specified by  the 

Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. 

Notification: No. SO 1031 (E), dated 24-9-2002. 

