SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT SCHEMES) REGULATIONS, 1999 

 
CONTENTS 
 
CHAPTER I: PRELIMINARY 
 

1.  Short title and commencement 
2.  Definitions 

 
CHAPTER II: REGISTRATION OF COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT 
MANAGEMENT COMPANY 
 

3.  No person other than Collective Investment Management Company to 

launch collective investment scheme 
4.  Application for grant of certificate. 
4A. Application by a scheme or arrangement deemed to be a collective investment scheme 
5.  Application by existing Collective Investment Schemes 
6.  Application fee to accompany the application 
7.  Application to conform to the requirements 
8.  Furnishing information 
9.  Conditions for eligibility 
9A. Criteria for fit and proper person 
10. Grant of Certificate 
11. Terms and conditions to be complied with 
12. Procedure where registration is not granted 

 
CHAPTER III: BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF 
COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY 
 

13. Restrictions on business activities 
14. Obligations of Collective Investment Management Company 
15. Submission of information and documents 

 
CHAPTER IV: TRUSTEES AND THEIR OBLIGATIONS 
 

16. Trust Deed to be registered under the Registration Act 
17. Contents of trust deed 
18. Eligibility for appointment as trustee 
19. Appointment of trustee not found guilty 
20. Agreement with collective investment management company 
21. Rights and obligations of the trustee 
22. Termination of trusteeship 
23. Termination of the Agreement with the Collective Investment 

Management Company 

 

24. Procedure for launching of collective investment schemes 
25. No guaranteed returns 
26. Disclosures in the offer document 
27. Advertisement material 
28. Appraising Agency 
29. Misleading Statements 
30. Offer period 
31. Allotment of Units and refunds of moneys 
32. Unit certificates 
33. Transfer of units 
34. Money to be kept in separate account and utilisation of money 
35. Investments and segregation of funds 
36. Listing of collective investment schemes 
37. Winding up of collective investment scheme 
38. Effect of commencement of winding up proceedings 
39. Cessation of the collective investment scheme 

 
CHAPTER VI: GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 
 

40. To maintain proper books of account and records, etc. 
41. Financial year 
42. Dispatch of warrants and proceeds 
43. Statement of Accounts and Annual Report 
44. Auditor’s Report 
45. Functions of auditors of collective investment scheme 
46. Removal or Resignation of auditors 
47. Publication of Annual Report and summary thereof 
48. Periodic and continual disclosures 
49. Quarterly disclosures 
50. Disclosures to the investors 
51. Calling of meeting of unit holders, transfer and transmission of units 

CHAPTER  V:  COLLECTIVE 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY 
 

INVESTMENT  SCHEMES  OF  COLLECTIVE 

 
CHAPTER VII: INSPECTION AND AUDIT 
 

52. Board’s right to inspect and investigate 
53. Notice before inspection and investigation 
54. Obligations during inspection and investigation 
55. Submission of report to the Board 
56. Action on inspection or investigation report 
57. Appointment of Auditor and recovery of expenses 

 
 
 

CHAPTER VIII: PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 
 

58. Omitted by the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer 

and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f, 27-09-2002. 

59. Liability for action in case of default 
60. Omitted by the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry 

Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f, 27-09-2002. 

61. Omitted by the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer 

and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f, 27-09-2002. 

62. Omitted by the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer 

and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f, 27-09-2002. 

63. Omitted by the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer 

and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f, 27-09-2002. 

64. Omitted by the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer 

and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f, 27-09-2002. 

65. Directions by the Board 
66. Action against intermediaries 
67. Appeal to the Central Government 

 
CHAPTER IX: EXISTING COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES 
 

68. Existing collective investment schemes to obtain provisional registration 
69. No collective investment scheme to be launched until grant of registration 
70. Consideration of application for grant of provisional registration 
71. Grant of provisional registration 
72. Registration to existing collective investment scheme 
73. Manner of repayment and winding up 
74. Existing collective investment scheme not desirous of obtaining registration to repay 

 
CHAPTER IX A EXISTING SCHEMES OR ARRANGEMENTS DEEMED TO BE A 
COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME  

 
74A.  Existing  schemes  or  arrangements  deemed  to  be  a  collective  investment  scheme  to 

obtain provisional registration 

CHAPTER X: MISCELLANEOUS 
 

75. Power of the Board to issue clarifications 

 
FIRST SCHEDULE: FORMS 

FORM A: APPLICATION FOR THE GRANT OF REGISTRATION AS 
COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY 
FORM B: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION 
FORM C: TRUSTEESHIP OF THE COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT 
SCHEME 

 

 

SECOND SCHEDULE: FEES 
 
THIRD SCHEDULE: CODE OF CONDUCT 
 
FOURTH SCHEDULE: CONTENTS OF THE TRUST DEED 
 
FIFTH SCHEDULE: CONTENTS OF THE AGREEMENT FOR MANAGING 
COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME PROPERTY 
 
SIXTH SCHEDULE: CONTENTS OF THE OFFER DOCUMENT 
 
SEVENTH SCHEDULE: ADVERTISEMENT CODE 
 
EIGHTH SCHEDULE: PROCEDURE FOR CONDUCT OF MEETINGS 
 
NINTH SCHEDULE: ACCOUNTING NORMS, INVESTMENTS AND 
EXPENSE CEILING 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 

PART-II- SECTION -3- SUB-SECTION (ii) 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

THE FIFTEENTH DAY OF OCTOBER, 1999 

NOTIFICATION 

MUMBAI 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT SCHEMES) REGULATIONS, 1999 

 
 
In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  section  30  read  with  section  11  and  section  19  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India hereby makes the following regulations, namely :— 
 

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

 
Short title and commencement 
 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Collective 
Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999. 
 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
 
Definitions 
 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: 

(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(b) “advertisement” includes: 

(i)  notices,  brochures,  pamphlets,  circulars,  showcards,  catalogues,  hoardings, 
placards, posters, insertions in newspapers, pictures, films and cover pages of 
offer documents; 

(ii) any other matter to which publicity is given through print medium, radio, television 
programmes or electronic media; 

(c) “appraising  agency”  means  an  agency  empanelled  with  the  Board  for  the  purpose  of 

conducting technical or financial appraisal of the 1[collective investment scheme]; 

(d) “associate”  in  relation  to  a  collective  investment  management  company  or  trustee, 

includes a person: 

(i)  who,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  himself,  or  in  combination  with  other  persons, 
exercises control over the Collective Investment Management Company or the 
trustee, as the case may be, or 

                                                            
1  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 

Companies Act, 1956; 

provisions of section 3 of the Act; 

regulations; 

(ii) in respect of whom the Collective Investment Management Company or the trustee, 
as the case may be directly or indirectly, by itself, or in combination with other persons, 
exercises control, or 
(iii)  whose  director,  officer  or  employee  is  a  director,  officer  or  employee  of  the 
Collective Investment Management Company or the trustee, as the case may be; 

(e) “auditor”  means  a  person  qualified  to  audit  the  accounts  of  companies  under  the 

(f) “Board”  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  established  under  the 

(g) “certificate”  means  a  certificate  of  registration  granted  under  regulation  10  of  these 

(h) ”Collective  Investment  Management  Company”  means  a  company  incorporated  under 
the  Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of  1956)  and  registered  with  the  Board  under  these 
regulations,  whose  object  is  to  organise,  operate  and  manage  a  collective  investment 
scheme; 

(i) “collective investment scheme” has the meaning assigned to it by sub-regulation (2) of 

this regulation; 

(j) “closed-ended  2[collective  investment  scheme]”  means  any  3[collective  investment 
scheme] launched by a Collective Investment Management Company, in which the period 
of maturity of the 4[collective investment scheme] is specified and there is no provision 
for re-purchase before the expiry of the maturity of the 5[collective investment scheme]; 
(k) “control” or “controlling interest” means control exercised or controlling interest held : 

(i)  in case of a company, by any person or combination of persons who directly or 
indirectly own, control or hold shares carrying not less than 10% of the voting 
rights of such company; or 

(ii) (ii)  as  between  two  companies,  if  the  same  person  or  combination  of  persons, 
directly or indirectly, own, control or hold shares carrying not less than 10% 
of the voting rights of each of the two companies; or 

(iii)(iii) majority of the directors of any company who are in a position to exercise 

control over the Collective Investment Management Company; 

(l) “credit rating agency” means a body corporate registered under Securities and Exchange 

Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999; 

(m) “depository”  means  a  body  corporate  as  defined  in  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  (22  of 

1996); 

(n) “economic  offence”  means  an  offence  to  which  the  Economic  Offences  (Limitation  of 

Prosecutions) Act, 1974 (12 of 1974) applies for the time being; 

(o) “form” means any of the forms specified as such in the First Schedule; 
(p) “fraud”, has the same meaning as is assigned to it in section 17 of the Indian Contract 

Act, 1872 (9 of 1872); 

                                                            
2  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
3 ibid. 
4 ibid. 
5 ibid. 

(q) “inspecting officer” means any person appointed as such by the Board under Chapter VII 

(r) “key  personnel”  in  relation  to  a  company,  means  the  persons  who  exercise  effective 

of these regulations; 

control over its affairs; 

(s) “net  worth”  means  the  aggregate  value  of  the  paid-up  equity  capital  and  free  reserves 
(excluding  funds  created  out  of  revaluation),  reduced  by  the  aggregate  value  of 
accumulated  losses  and  deferred  expenditure  not  written  off,  including  miscellaneous 
expenses not written off; 

(t) “offer document” means any document by which applications for subscribing to units of 

the 6[collective investment scheme] are invited from the public; 

(u) “regulation” means a regulation forming part of these regulations; 
(v) “relative” means a person who is a relative, as defined in section 6 of the Companies Act, 

1956 (1 of 1956); 

(w) “registrars to an issue and share transfer agent” means a person registered as Registrars to 
an Issue and Share Transfer Agents under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993; 
(x) “schedule” means any of the schedule appended to these regulations; 

 
7[(y) ****] 

(z)  “8[collective investment scheme] property” includes: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 

subscription  of  moneys  or  money’s  worth  (including  bank  deposits)  to  the 
9[collective investment scheme]; 
property  acquired,  directly  or  indirectly,  with,  or  with  the  proceeds  of, 
subscription of money referred to in item (i) of this Clause; or 
income  arising,  directly  or  indirectly,  from  subscription  money  or  property 
referred to in item (i) or (ii), 
 

z)  “securities laws” means: 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956); and 
the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996), as amended from time to time; 

aa) “stock  broker”  means  a  stock  broker  as  defined  in  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India (Stock Brokers and Sub-brokers) Rules, 1992; 

bb) “trustee” means a person who holds the property of the collective investment scheme in 

trust for the benefit of the unit holders, in accordance with these regulations; 

cc) “unit”  includes  any  instrument  issued  under  a  10[collective  investment  scheme],  by 

whatever name called, denoting the value of the subscription of a unit holder; and 

                                                            
6  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
7 Omitted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 
9-1-2014. 
8  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
9 ibid. 

 

 
 

dd) “unit holder” means a person holding a unit in a 11[collective investment scheme]. 

12[(2) In these regulations the expression ‘collective investment scheme’ shall have the 
same meaning as assigned to it under section 11AA of the Act.] 
 
(3) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations, but defined in the 
Act shall have the same meanings as are respectively assigned to them in the Act. 

CHAPTER II 

 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
10  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
11 ibid. 
12  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2000, 
w.e.f. 14-2-2000. Prior to its substitution the sub-regulation 2 of Regulation 2 read as under: 
"(a) the purpose of which is to enable the investors to participate in the scheme or arrangements 
by  way  of  subscriptions  and  to  receive  profits  or  income  or  produce  arising  from  the 
management of such property or the investments made thereof; and 
(b)  in  which  the  subscriptions  of  the  investors  by  whatever  name  called,  are  pooled,  and  are 
utilized for the purposes of the schemes or the arrangements; and 
(c) in which the property or such subscriptions are managed on behalf of the investors, who do 
not have day to day control over the management or operation of the scheme, whether or not 
such properties or subscriptions and the investments made thereof are evidenced by identifiable 
properties or otherwise; 
Provided that following shall not be deemed to be a collective investment scheme: 
(a) acceptance of deposits by companies under section 58A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 
1956) or by Non-Banking Financial Companies as defined in section 45-I of the Reserve Bank of 
India Act, 1934 ( 2 of 1934 ); 
b) acceptance of funds by Chit Funds in terms of the Chit Funds Act, 1982 (40 of 1982); 
(c) acceptance of funds by companies declared as Nidhi companies under section 620A of the 
Companies Act, 1956, ( 1 of 1956 ), as per directions issued under, section 637A of the said Act; 
(d) contracts of insurance under the Insurance Act, 1938 ( 4 of 1938 ); 
(e) any scheme of the employer as per Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions 
Act, 1952, ( 19 of 1952); or any other recognized Provident Fund under the Income Tax Act, 
1961; 
(f) arrangements of cooperative societies under the Cooperative Societies Act, 1912 ( 2 of 1912 ) 
including  Cooperative  Societies  registered  under  any  Provincial  Act  or  State  Act  for  the  time 
being in force; 
(g)  any  scheme  under  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds  )  Regulations, 
1996; 
or 
(h) any other scheme or arrangement specifically exempted by the Board, from the operation of 
these regulations.” 
 

REGISTRATION OF COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY 

 
No Person Other than Collective Investment Management Company to Launch 13[collective 
investment scheme] 
 
3. No person other than a Collective Investment Management Company which has obtained a 
certificate  under  these  regulations  shall  carry  on  or  sponsor  or  launch  a  collective  investment 
scheme. 
 
Application for grant of certificate. 
 
4. Any person proposing to carry any activity as a Collective Investment Management Company 
on or after the commencement of these regulations shall make an application to the Board for the 
grant of registration in Form A. 
 
14 [Application by a scheme or arrangement deemed to be a collective investment scheme 
4A. (1) Any person proposing to carry on or sponsor or launch any scheme or arrangement which 
would be deemed to be a collective investment scheme under the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 
11AA  of  the  Act,  shall  make  an  application  for  grant  of  registration  as  a  Collective  Investment 
Management Company in Form A: 
Provided that any scheme or arrangement which is otherwise regulated or prohibited under any other 
law shall not be deemed to be a collective investment scheme. 
(2) All other provisions of these regulations and the guidelines and circulars issued thereunder, shall 
apply to any scheme or arrangement deemed to be a collective investment scheme under the proviso 
to sub-section (1) of section 11AA of the Act.] 
 
Application by existing Collective Investment Schemes. 
 
5.  (1)  Any  person  who  immediately  prior  to  the  commencement  of  these  regulations  was 
operating  a  15[collective  investment  scheme],  shall  subject  to  the  provisions  of  Chapter  IX  of 
these regulations make an application to the Board for the grant of a certificate within a period of 
two months from such date. 
(2)  An  application  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  contain  such  particulars  as  are  specified  in 
Form A and shall be treated as an application made in pursuance of regulation 4 and dealt with 
accordingly. 
 
Application fee to accompany the application 
 
6.  Every  application  for  registration  under  regulation  4  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  non-
refundable application fee as specified in the Second Schedule. 
                                                            
13  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
14 Inserted, ibid. 
15 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 

 
Application to conform to the requirements 
 
7. An application, which is not complete in all respects or does not conform to the requirements 
of regulation 6 or regulation 9 shall be rejected by the Board Provided that before rejecting any 
such application, the applicant may be given an opportunity to remove within one month such 
objections as may be indicated by the Board Provided further that the Board may on sufficient 
reasons being shown extend the time in order to enable the applicant to remove such objections. 
 
Furnishing information 
 
8. (1) The Board may direct the applicant to furnish such further information or clarification as 
may be required by it, for the purpose of processing the application. 
(2) The Board, if it so desires, may ask the applicant or its authorized representative to appear 
before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of a certificate. 
 
Conditions for eligibility 
 
9. The Board shall not consider an application for the grant of a certificate unless the applicant 
satisfies the following conditions, namely:— 

a)  the  applicant  is  set  up  and  registered  as  a  company  under  the  Companies  Act, 

1956; 

b)  the applicant has, in its Memorandum of Association specified the managing of 

collective investment scheme as one of its main objects; 

c)  the applicant has a net worth of not less than rupees five crores: 

      Provided that at the time of making the application the applicant shall have a   
minimum net worth of rupees three crores which shall be increased to rupees five 
crores within three years from the date of grant of registration; 

d)  the applicant is a fit and proper person for the grant of such certificate; 
e)  the  applicant  has  adequate  infrastructure  to  enable  it  to  operate  collective 

f) 

investment scheme in accordance with the provision of these regulations; 
the directors or key personnel of the applicant shall consist of persons of honesty 
and  integrity  having  adequate  professional  experience  in  related  field  and  have 
not been convicted for an offence involving moral turpitude or for any economic 
offence or for the violation of any securities laws; 

g)  at least fifty per cent of the directors of such Collective Investment Management 
Company  shall  consist  of  persons  who  are  independent  and  are  not  directly  or 
indirectly  associated  with  the  persons  who  have  control  over  the  Collective 
Investment Management Company; 

h)  no person, directly or indirectly connected with the applicant has in the past been 

refused registration by the Board under the Act. 

 
Explanation:  For  the  purposes  of  this  clause,  the  Board  shall  take  into  account  whether  the 
previous  application  for  a  certificate  of  any  person,  directly  or  indirectly,  connected  with  the 
applicant has been rejected by the Board or any disciplinary action has been taken against such 
person under the Act or any of the rules or any of the regulations made under the Act. 

 
(i)  at  least  one  of  the  directors,  on  the  Board  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management 
Company, who is not subject to retirement, is a representative of the trustee; 
 
(j) the Collective Investment Management Company is not a trustee of any collective investment 
scheme; 
 
(k)  in  case  the  applicant  is  an  existing  collective  investment  scheme,  it  complies  with  the 
provisions of Chapter IX of these regulations. 
 
16[Criteria for fit and proper person 
 
9A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  collective  investment 
management company is a fit and proper person, the Board may take into account the criteria 
specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008.] 
 
Grant of Certificate 
 
10.  (1)  The  Board  may,  on  receipt  of  an  application  and  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant 
complies  with  the  requirements  specified  in  regulation  9,  call  upon  the  applicant  to  pay 
registration fee as specified in the Second Schedule. 
 
(2) On receipt of registration fee, the Board shall grant a certificate in Form B, on such terms and 
conditions as are in the interest of investors and as may be specified by the Board. 
 
Terms and conditions to be complied with 
 
11.  The  certificate  granted  under  regulation  10  shall  be  subject  to  the  following  conditions, 
namely:— 
(a) 

any director of the Collective Investment Management Company shall not be a 
director  in  any  other  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  unless  such 
person  is  an  independent  director  referred  to  in  clause  (g)  of  regulation  9  and 
approval of the board of Collective Investment Management Companies of which 
such person is an independent director, has been obtained; 

                                                            
16  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008,  w.e.f.  26-05-2008.  Prior  to  its 
substitution  Regulation  9A  as  inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Criteria  for  Fit  and  Proper  Person) 
Regulations, 2004, w.e.f. 10-03-2004, read as under: 
“9A. Applicability of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Criteria for Fit and Proper 
Person)  Regulations,  2004.  –  The  Provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Criteria  for  Fit  and  Proper  Person)  Regulations,  2004,  shall,  as  far  as  may  be,  apply  to  all 
applicants or the Collective Investment Management Companies under these regulations.” 
 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  forthwith  inform  the 
Board  of  any  material  change  in  the  information  or  particulars  previously 
furnished, which have a bearing on the certificate granted by it; 
appointment of a director of a Collective Investment Management Company shall 
be made with the prior approval of the trustee; 
the Collective Investment Management Company shall comply with provisions of 
the Act and these regulations;  
no  change  in  the  controlling  interest  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management 
Company shall be made without obtaining prior approval of the Board, the trustee 
and  the  unit  holders  holding  at  least  one-half  of  the  nominal  value  of  the  unit 
capital of the 17[collective investment scheme]; 
the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  take  adequate  steps  to 
redress the grievances of the investors within one month from the date of receipt 
of the complaint from the aggrieved investor; 

(h) 

18[(g)   the Collective Investment Management Company shall enter into an agreement 
with  a  depository  for  dematerialization  of  the  units  of  collective  investment 
scheme proposed to be issued; 
all monies payable towards subscription of units of collective investment scheme 
shall  be  paid  through  cheque  or  demand  draft  or  through  any  other  banking 
channel, but not by cash; 
the Collective Investment Management Company shall comply with KYC (know 
your client) norms as specified by the Board.] 

(i) 

 
Procedure where registration is not granted 
 
12. (1) Where an application made under regulation 4 for grant of registration does not satisfy 
the  conditions  specified  in  regulation  9,  the  Board  may  reject  the  application  after  giving  the 
applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard and inform the applicant of the same. 
 
(2) The decision shall be communicated to the applicant by the Board within 30 days of such 
decision stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected. 
 

BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY 

CHAPTER III 

 
Restrictions on business activities 
 
13. The Collective Investment Management Company shall not : 

a)  undertake  any  activity  other  than  that  of  managing  the  19[collective  investment 

scheme]; 

                                                            
17  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
18 Inserted, ibid. 

b)  act as a trustee of any 20[collective investment scheme]; 
c)  launch  any  21[collective  investment  scheme]  for  the  purpose  of  investing  in 

securities; 

d)  invest in any 22[collective investment scheme] floated by it. 

                             Provided that a Collective Investment Management Company may invest in its               
own 23[collective investment scheme], 
(i)  if  it  makes  a  disclosure  of  its  intention  to  invest  in  the offer  document  of  the  24[collective 
investment scheme], and 
(ii) does not charge any fees on its investment in that 25[collective investment scheme]. 
 
Obligations of Collective Investment Management Company 
 
14. Every Collective Investment Management Company shall: 
(a) be responsible for managing the funds or properties of the 26[collective investment scheme] 
on behalf of the unit holders; 
(b) take all reasonable steps and exercise due diligence to ensure that the 27[collective investment 
scheme] is managed in accordance with the provisions of these regulations, offer document and 
the trust deed; 
(c) exercise due diligence and care in managing assets and funds of the 28[collective investment 
scheme]; 
(d) be responsible for the acts of commissions and omissions by its employees or the persons 
whose services have been availed by it; 
 (e) remain liable to the unit holders for its acts of commission or omissions, notwithstanding 
anything contained in any contract or agreement; 
(f) be incompetent to enter into any transaction with or through its associates, or their relatives 
relating to the 29[collective investment scheme]: 
Provided  that  in  case  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  enters  into  any 
transactions relating to the 30[collective investment scheme] with any of its associates, a report to 
that effect shall immediately be sent to the trustee and to the Board. 
(g) appoint registrar and share transfer agents; 
(h) abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in the Third Schedule; 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
19  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
20 ibid. 
21  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
22 ibid. 
23 ibid. 
24 ibid. 
25 ibid. 
26 ibid. 
27 ibid. 
28 ibid. 
29 ibid. 
30 ibid. 

(i)  give  receipts  for  all  monies  received  by  it  and  give  a  report  to  the  Board  every  month, 
particularly of receipts and payments; 
(j) hold a meeting of the Board of Directors to consider the affairs of  31[collective investment 
scheme] at least twice in every three months; 
(k)  ensure  that  its  officers  or  employees  do  not  make  improper  use  of  their  position  or 
information to gain, directly or indirectly, an advantage for themselves or for any other person or 
to cause detriment to the 32[collective investment scheme]; 
(l) obtain adequate insurance against the property of the 33[collective investment scheme]; 
(m) comply with such guidelines, directives, circulars and instructions as may be issued by the 
Board from time to time, on the subject of collective investment schemes. 
 
Submission of information and documents 
 
15. (1) The Collective Investment Management Company shall prepare quarterly reports (i.e., as 
at the end of March, June, September and December) on its activities and the position regarding 
compliance with these regulations and submit the same to the trustees within one month of the 
expiry of each quarter. 
 
(2) The Collective Investment Management Company shall file with the trustee and the Board— 
(a) particulars of all its directors along with their interest in other companies within fifteen days 
of their appointment; and 
(b) any change in the interests of directors, within fifteen days of such change. 
 
(3) The Collective Investment Management Company shall furnish a copy of the Balance Sheet, 
Profit and Loss Account and a copy of the summary of the yearly appraisal report to the unit 
holders within two months from the closure of financial year. 
 
(4) The Collective Investment Management Company shall furnish to the Board and the trustee 
such  information  and  documents  to  the  Board  and  the  trustee  as  may  be  required  by  them 
concerning the affairs of the 34[collective investment scheme]. 
 
 

Trust Deed to be registered under the Registration Act 
 
16.  (1)  A  35[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  be  constituted  in  the  form  of  a  trust  and  the 
instrument  of  trust  shall  be  in  the  form  of  a  deed  duly  registered  under  the  provisions  of  the 

                                                            
31  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
32 ibid. 
33 ibid. 
34 ibid. 
35 ibid. 

CHAPTER IV 

TRUSTEES AND THEIR OBLIGATIONS 

 

Indian Registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908) executed by the Collective Investment Management 
Company in favour of the trustees named in such an instrument. 
 
 
Appointment of trustees 
 
(2) A Collective Investment Management Company shall appoint a trustee who shall hold the 
assets of the 36[collective investment scheme] for the benefit of unit holders. 
 
Contents of trust deed 
 
17. (1) The trust deed shall contain such clauses as are specified in the Fourth Schedule and such 
other clauses as are necessary for safeguarding the interests of the unit holders. 
(2) No trust deed shall contain a clause which has the effect of— 
(i)  limiting  or  extinguishing  the  obligations  and  liabilities  of  the  Collective  Investment 
Management Company in relation to any 37[collective investment scheme] or the unit holders; or 
(ii)  indemnifying  the  trustee  or  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  for  loss  or 
damage  caused  to  the  unit  holders  by  their  acts  of  negligence  or  acts  of  commissions  or 
omissions. 
 
Eligibility for appointment as trustee 
 
18.  (1)  Only  persons  registered  with  the  Board  as  Debenture  Trustee  under  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustee) Regulations, 1993 shall be eligible to be appointed 
as trustees of collective investment scheme. 
Provided that no person shall be eligible to be appointed as trustee, if he is directly or indirectly 
associated  with  the  persons  who  have  control  over  the  collective  investment  management 
company. 
(2) The Collective Investment Management Company shall furnish to the Board particulars as 
specified in Form C in respect of trustees appointed under sub-regulation (1). 
 
Appointment of trustee not found guilty 
 
19. No person shall be appointed as trustee of a 38[collective investment scheme] if— 
(a) he has been found guilty of an offence under the securities laws, or 
(b) the Board or any authority to which the Board has delegated its power has passed against 
such person, an order under the Act for violation of any provision of the Act or of regulations 
made hereunder. 
 
Agreement with collective investment management company 
 

                                                            
36  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
37 ibid. 
38 ibid. 

20.  (1)  The  trustee  and  the  Collective  Investment  Management  company  shall  enter  into  an 
agreement for managing the 39[collective investment scheme] property. 
(2) The agreement for managing the 40[collective investment scheme] property shall contain such 
clauses  as  are  specified  in  the  Fifth  Schedule  and  such  other  clauses  as  are  necessary  for  the 
purpose of fulfilling the objectives of the 41[collective investment scheme]. 
 
Rights and obligations of the trustee 
 
21. (1) The trustee shall have a right:— 
(a)  to  obtain  from  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  such  information  as  is 
considered necessary by the trustee. 
(b)  to  inspect  the  books  of  account  and  other  records  relating  to  the  42[collective  investment 
scheme]. 
 (2) The trustee shall ensure that the Collective Investment Management Company has:— 
(a) the necessary office infrastructure; 
(b) appointed all key personnel including managers for the 43[collective investment scheme] and 
submitted their bio-data which shall contain the educational qualifications and past experience in 
the areas relevant 
for fulfilling the objectives of the 44[collective investment scheme]s; 
(c) appointed auditors to audit the accounts of the 45[collective investment scheme] from the list 
of auditors approved by the Board; 
(d) appointed a compliance officer to comply with the provisions of the Act and these regulations 
and to redress investor grievances; 
(e) appointed registrars to an issue and share transfer agent; 
(f) prepared a compliance manual and designed internal control mechanisms including internal 
audit systems; 
(g) taken adequate insurance for the assets of the 46[collective investment scheme]; 
(h) not given any undue or unfair advantage to any associates of the company or dealt with any 
of the associates in any manner detrimental to the interest of the unit holders; 
(i) operated the  47[collective investment scheme] in accordance with the provisions of the trust 
deed, these regulations and the offer document of the 48[collective investment scheme](s); 
(j) undertaken the activity of managing 49[collective investment scheme]s only; 

                                                            
39 ibid. 
40  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
41 ibid. 
42 ibid. 
43 ibid. 
44 ibid. 
45 ibid. 
46 ibid. 
47 ibid. 
48 ibid. 
49 ibid. 

(k) taken adequate steps to ensure that the interest of investors of one  50[collective investment 
scheme] are not compromised with the object of promoting the interest of investors of any other 
51[collective investment scheme]; 
(l)  minimum  networth  on  a  continuous  basis  and  shall  inform  the  Board  immediately  of  any 
shortfall; 
(m) been diligent in empanelling the marketing agents and in monitoring their activities. 
 (3)  Where  the  trustee  has  reason  to  believe  that  the  conduct  of  business  of  the  52[collective 
investment  scheme]  is  not  in  accordance  with  these  regulations,  trust  deed  and  the  offer 
document of the 53[collective investment scheme], the trustee shall forthwith take such remedial 
steps as are necessary and shall immediately inform the Board of the action taken. 
(4) The trustee shall be accountable for, and be the custodian of, the funds and property of the 
respective 54[collective investment scheme]s and shall hold the same in trust for the benefit of the 
unit holders in accordance with these regulations and the provisions of trust deed. 
(5)  The  trustee  shall  be  responsible  for  the  calculation  of  any  income  due  to  be  paid  to  the 
55[collective investment scheme] and also for any income received in the 56[collective investment 
scheme] to the unit holders. 
(6) The trustee shall convene a meeting of the unit holders— 
(a) whenever required to do so by the Board in the interest of the unit holders; or 
(b) whenever required to do so on the requisition made by unitholders holding at least one-tenth 
of nominal value of the unit capital of any 57[collective investment scheme]; or 
(c)  when  any  change 
investment 
scheme]Provided  that  no  such  change  shall  be  carried  out  unless  the  consent  of  unit  holders 
holding at least three-fourths of nominal value of the unit capital of the 59[collective investment 
scheme] is obtained. 
Explanation  :-  For  the  purposes  of  this  clause  “fundamental  attributes”  means  the  investment 
objective and terms of a 60[collective investment scheme]. 
(7) The trustee shall review : 
(a) on a quarterly basis (i.e., by the end of March, June, September and December) every year all 
activities carried out by the Collective Investment Management Company; 
 (b) periodically all service contracts relating to registrars to an issue and share transfer agents 
and satisfy itself that such contracts are fair and reasonable in the interest of the unit holders; 
(c)  investor  complaints  received  and  the  redressal  of  the  same  by  the  Collective  Investment 
Management Company. 

the  fundamental  attributes  of  any  58[collective 

in 

                                                            
50  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
51 ibid. 
52 ibid. 
53 ibid. 
54 ibid.. 
55 ibid. 
56 ibid.. 
57 ibid. 
58 ibid. 
59 ibid. 
60 ibid. 

(8) (i) The trustee shall ensure that:— 
(a) net worth of Collective Investment Management Company is not deployed in a manner which 
is detrimental to interest of unit holders; 
(b)  property  of  each  61[collective  investment  scheme]  is  clearly  identifiable  as  62[collective 
investment  scheme]  property  and  held  separately  from  property  of  the  Collective  Investment 
Management Company and property of any other 63[collective investment scheme]; 
(c)  clearances  or  no  objection  certificate  is  obtained,  in  respect  of  transactions  relating  to 
property  of  the  64[collective  investment  scheme]  from  such  authority  as  is  competent  to  grant 
such clearance or no objection certificate. 
(ii) The trustee shall abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in the Third Schedule. 
(9)  The  trustee  shall  furnish  to  the  Board  on  a  quarterly  basis  (i.e.,  by  end  of  March,  June, 
September and December), every year— 
(a) a report on the activities of the 65[collective investment scheme]; 
(b)  a  certificate  stating  that  the  trustee  has  satisfied  himself  that  affairs  of  the  Collective 
Investment  Management  Company  and  of  the  various  66[collective  investment  scheme]s  are 
conducted  in  accordance  with  these  regulations  and  investment  objective  of  each  67[collective 
investment scheme]. 
(10) The trustee shall cause:— 
(a) the profit and loss accounts and balance sheet of the 68[collective investment scheme]s to be 
audited at the end of each financial year by an auditor empanelled with the Board. 
 (b) each 69[collective investment scheme] to be appraised at the end of each financial year by an 
appraising agency. 
(c) 70[collective investment scheme] rated by a credit rating agency. 
(11) A meeting of the trustees to discuss the affairs of the 71[collective investment scheme] shall 
be held at least twice in every three months in a financial year. 
(12) The trustee shall report to the Board any breach of these regulations and has had, or is likely 
to have, a materially adverse effect on the interests of unit holders as soon as they become aware 
of the breach. 
(13) The trustee shall ensure that— 
(a)  the  fees  and  expenses  of  the  72[collective  investment  scheme]  are  within  the  limits  as 
specified in Part I of the Ninth Schedule; 

                                                            
61  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
62 ibid. 
63 ibid. 
64 ibid. 
65 ibid. 
66 ibid. 
67 ibid. 
68 ibid. 
69 ibid. 
70 ibid. 
71 ibid. 
72 ibid. 

(b)  accounts  of  the  73[collective  investment  scheme]s  are  drawn  up  in  accordance  with  the 
accounting norms as specified in Part II of the Ninth Schedule. 
(c) accounts of the 74[collective investment scheme] comply with the format of the balance sheet 
and the profit and loss account as specified in Part III of the Ninth Schedule. 
 
Termination of trusteeship 
 
22. (1) The trusteeship of a trustee shall come to an end— 
(a)  if  the  trustee  ceases  to  be  trustee  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993; or 
(b) if the trustee is in the course of being wound up; or 
(c) if unit holders holding at least three-fourths of the nominal value of the unit capital of the 
75[collective  investment  scheme]  pass  a  resolution  for  removing  the  trustee  and  the  Board 
approves such resolution; or 
(d) if in the interest of the unit holders, the Board, for reasons to be recorded in writing decides 
to remove the trustee for any violation of the Act or these regulations committed by them; or 
Provided  that  the  trustee  shall  be  afforded  reasonable  opportunity  of  hearing  before  action  is 
taken under this clause; 
(e) if the trustee serves on the Collective Investment Management Company a notice of not less 
than three months expressing its intention not to continue as trustee. 
(2)  On  termination  of  the  trusteeship  under  sub-regulation  (1),  another  trustee,  eligible  to  be 
appointed  under  regulation  18,  shall  be  appointed  by  the  Collective  Investment  Management 
Company. 
(3) The appointment of the new trustee under sub-regulation (2), shall be completed within three 
months from the date the previous trusteeship came to an end. 
(4) The Board may notwithstanding anything contained in regulation 18 appoint any person as a 
trustee if the Collective Investment Management Company fails to appoint a trustee under sub-
regulations (2) and (3). 
(5) The trustee appointed under sub-regulations (3) and (4) shall stand substituted as a trustee in 
all the documents to which the trustee so removed was a party. 
(6)  The  person  appointed  by  the  Board  shall  apply  to  the  Court  for  an  order  directing  the 
Collective Investment Management Company to wind up the 76[collective investment scheme]. 
(7) A trust deed in the form as specified under regulation 16 shall be executed by the Collective 
Investment  Management  Company  in  favour  of  the  trustee  so  appointed  and  from  the  date  of 
such  appointment,  trustees  shall  be  subject  to  all  the  rights  and  duties  as  specified  in  the 
regulations. 
(8)  The  trustee  so  removed  shall  from  such  date  be  discharged  from  complying  with  the 
obligations under the trust deed but shall remain liable for any action taken by them before such 
removal. 
 

                                                            
73 ibid. 
74  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
75 ibid. 
76 ibid. 

 
 
 
Termination of the Agreement with the Collective Investment Management Company 
 
23. (1) The agreement referred to in regulation 20 entered into by the trustee with the Collective 
Investment Management Company may be terminated— 
(a) if the Collective Investment Management Company is in the course of being wound up as per 
the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956; or 
(b) if unit holders holding at least three-fourths of the nominal value of the unit capital of the 
77[collective  investment  scheme]  pass  a  resolution  for  terminating  the  agreement  with  the 
Collective  Investment  Management  Company  and  the  prior  approval  of  the  Board  has  been 
obtained; or 
(c) if in the interest of the unit holders the Board or the trustee, after obtaining prior approval of 
the  Board,  and  after  giving  an  opportunity  of  being  heard  to  the  Collective  Investment 
Management  Company,  decide  to  terminate  the  agreement  with  the  Collective  Investment 
Management Company. 
 
(2)  Upon  termination  of  agreement  under  sub-regulation  (1),  another  Collective  Investment 
Management Company, registered with the Board, shall be appointed by the trustee within three 
months from the date of suchtermination. 
 
(3) The Collective Investment Management Company so removed shall continue to act as such at 
the  discretion  of  trustee  or  the  trustee  itself  may  act  as  Collective  Investment  Management 
Company till such time as new Collective Investment Management Company is appointed. 
 
(4)  The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  appointed  under  subregulation  (2)  shall 
stand substituted as a party in all the documents to which the Collective Investment Management 
Company so removed was a party. 
 
(5) The Collective Investment Management Company so removed shall continue to be liable for 
all acts of omission and commissions notwithstanding such termination. 
 
 (6)  If,  none  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company,  registered  under  these 
regulations, consent to be appointed as Collective Investment Management Company within a 
further  period  of  three  months,  then  the  trustee  may  wind  up  the  78[collective  investment 
scheme]. 
 
(7) An agreement for managing  79[collective investment scheme] property shall be executed in 
favour  of  the  new  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  subject  to  all  the  rights  and 
duties as specified in the regulations. 

                                                            
77  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
78 ibid. 
79 ibid. 

 

 
 

 

80[COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME]S OF COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT 

CHAPTER V 

MANAGEMENT COMPANY 

Procedure for launching of 81[collective investment scheme]s 
 
24.  (1)  No  82[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  be  launched  by  the  Collective  Investment 
Management Company unless such 83[collective investment scheme] is approved by the Trustee. 
 
Rating 
 
(2)  No  84[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  be  launched  by  the  Collective  Investment 
Management Company without obtaining rating from a credit rating agency. 
 
Appraisal 
 
(3)  No  85[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  be  launched  by  the  Collective  Investment 
Management  Company  without  getting  the  86[collective  investment  scheme]  appraised  by  an 
appraising agency. 
 
Close ended 87[collective investment scheme] and 88[collective investment scheme] duration 
 
(4) Collective Investment Management Company shall:— 
(a) launch only close ended 89[collective investment scheme]s; 
(b) the duration of the 90[collective investment scheme]s shall not be of less than three calendar 
years. 
 
Insurance 
 

                                                            
80  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
81 ibid. 
82 ibid. 
83 ibid. 
84 ibid. 
85 ibid. 
86 ibid. 
87 ibid. 
88 ibid. 
89 ibid. 
90 ibid. 

(5)  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  obtain  adequate  insurance  policy  for 
protection of the 91[collective investment scheme]e property. 
 
No guaranteed returns 
 
25. No 92[collective investment scheme] shall provide guaranteed or assured returns. 
Provided  that  indicative  return  may  be  indicated  in  the  offer  document  only,  if  the  same  is 
assessed by the appraising agency and expressed in monetary terms. 
 
Disclosures in the offer document 
 
26.  (1)  The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  before  launching  any 
93[collective investment scheme] file a copy of the offer document of the 94[collective investment 
scheme] as referred to in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 24 with the Board and pay filing fees as 
specified in the Second Schedule. 
 
(2) The offer document shall contain such information as specified in the Sixth Schedule. 
 
(3)  The  offer  document  shall  also  contain  true  and  fair  view  of  the  95[collective  investment 
scheme] and adequate disclosures to enable the investors to make informed decision. 
 
(4) The Board may in the interest of investors require the Collective Investment Management 
Company to carry out such modifications in the offer document as it deems fit. 
 
(5) In case no modifications are suggested by the Board in the offer document within 21 days 
from  the  date  of  filing,  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  may  issue  the  offer 
document to public. 
 
Advertisement material 
 
27.  (1)  Advertisements  in  respect  of  every  96[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  be  in 
conformity with the Advertisement Code as specified in the Seventh Schedule. 
(2) The advertisement for each 97[collective investment scheme] shall disclose in addition to the 
investment  objectives,  the  method  and  periodicity  of  valuation  of  98[collective  investment 
scheme] property. 
 

                                                            
91 ibid. 
92  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
93 ibid. 
94 ibid. 
95 ibid. 
96 ibid. 
97 ibid. 
98 ibid. 

Appraising Agency 
28. The appraising agency whose appraisal report forms part of the offer document and has given 
a written consent for the inclusion of the appraisal report in the offer document shall be liable for 
any statement in the appraisal report which is misleading, incorrect or false. 
Misleading Statements 
 
29. (1) The offer document and advertisement materials shall not be misleading or contain any 
statement or opinion which are incorrect or false. 
(2)  Where  an  offer  document  or  advertisement  includes  any  statement  or  opinion  which  are 
incorrect or false or misleading, every person— 
(i) who is a director of the Collective Investment Management Company at the time of the issue 
of the offer document; 
(ii) who has issued the offer document and shall be punishable under the Act unless he proves 
either that the statement or opinion was immaterial or that he had reasonable ground to believe at 
the time of the issue of the offer document or advertisement that the statement was true. 
 
Offer period 
 
30. No 99[collective investment scheme] shall be open for subscription for more than 90 days. 
 
Allotment of Units and refunds of moneys 
 
31. (1) The Collective Investment Management Company shall specify in the offer document,— 
(a) the minimum and the maximum subscription amount it seeks to raise under the 100[collective 
investment scheme]; and 
(b) in case of oversubscription the process of allotment of the amount oversubscribed. 
 
(2) The Collective Investment Management Company shall refund the application money to the 
applicants,— 
(i)  if  the  101[collective  investment  scheme]  fails  to  receive  the  minimum  subscription  amount 
referred to in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1). 
 
(3)  Any  amount  refundable  under  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be  refunded  within  a  period  of  six 
weeks from the date of closure of subscription list, by Registered A.D. and by cheque or demand 
draft marked “A/C Payee” to the applicants. 
 
 (4) In the event of failure to refund the amounts within the period specified in sub-regulation (3), 
the Collective Investment Management Company shall pay interest to the applicants at a rate of 
fifteen per cent per annum on the expiry of six weeks from the date of closure of the subscription 
list. 
 

                                                            
99  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
100 ibid. 
101 ibid. 

 
 
 
 
Unit certificates 
 
32.  The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  issue  to  the  applicant  whose 
application has been accepted, unit certificates as soon as possible but not later than six weeks 
from the date of closure of the subscription list : 
Provided that if the units are issued through a depository, a receipt in lieu of unit certificate will 
be  issued  as  per  provisions  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Depositories  and 
Participants) Regulations, 1996 and byelaws of the depository. 
 
Transfer of units 
 
33.  (1)  A  unit  certificate  issued  under  the  102[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  be  freely 
transferable. 
(2)  The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall,  on  production  of  instrument  of 
transfer together with relevant unit certificates, register the transfer and return the unit certificate 
to the transferee within thirty days from the date of such production. 
Provided that if the units are held in a depository such units shall be transferable in accordance 
with  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Depositories  and 
Participants) Regulations, 1996 and the byelaws of the depository. 
 
Money to be kept in separate account and utilisation of money 
 
34. (1) The subscription amount received shall be kept in a separate bank account in the name of 
the 103[collective investment scheme] and shall be utilised for— 
(a) adjustment against allotment of units only after the trustee has received a statement from the 
registrars to the issue and share transfer agent regarding minimum subscription amount, as stated 
in the offer document, having been received from the public, or 
(b) for refund of money in case minimum subscription amount, as stated in the offer document, 
has not been received or in case of over-subscription. 
 
(2) The minimum subscription amount as specified in the offer document shall not be less than 
the  minimum  amount,  as  specified  by  the  appraising  agency,  needed  for  completion  of  the 
project for which the 104[collective investment scheme] is being launched. 
 
(3) The moneys credited to the account of the 105[collective investment scheme] shall be utilised 
for the purposes of the 106[collective investment scheme] and as specified in the offer document. 

                                                            
102 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
103 ibid. 
104 ibid. 
105 ibid. 

 
(4) Any unutilised amount lying in the account of the 107[collective investment scheme] shall be 
invested in the manner as disclosed in the offer document. 
Investments and segregation of funds 
 
35. The Collective Investment Management Company shall: 
(a)  not  invest  the  funds  of  the  108[collective  investment  scheme]  for  purposes  other  than  the 
objective of the 109[collective investment scheme] as disclosed in the offer document. 
(b) segregate the 110[collective investment scheme] assets of different s111[collective investment 
scheme] s. 
(c)  not  invest  corpus  of  a  112[collective  investment  scheme]  in  other  113[collective  investment 
scheme]s. 
(d)  not  transfer  funds  from  one  114[collective  investment  scheme]  to  another  115[collective 
investment scheme]: 
Provided  that  inter-scheme  transfer  of  116[collective  investment  scheme]  property  may  be 
permitted at the time of termination of the 117[collective investment scheme] with prior approval 
of the trustee and the Board. 
 
Listing of 118[collective investment scheme]s 
 
36. The units of every 119[collective investment scheme] shall be listed immediately after the date 
of allotment of units and not later than six weeks from the date of closure of the  120[collective 
investment scheme] on each of the stock exchanges as mentioned in the offer document. 
 
Winding up of 121[collective investment scheme] 
 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
106 ibid. 
107 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
108 ibid. 
109 ibid. 
110 ibid. 
111 ibid. 
112 ibid. 
113 ibid. 
114 ibid. 
115 ibid. 
116 ibid. 
117 ibid. 
118 ibid. 
119 ibid. 
120 ibid. 
121 ibid. 

37. (1) A 122[collective investment scheme] shall be wound up on the expiry of duration specified 
in  the  123[collective  investment  scheme]  or  on  the  accomplishment  of  the  purpose  of  the 
124[collective investment scheme]. 
 
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  a  125[collective  investment 
scheme] may also be wound up— 
(a) on the happening of any event which, in the opinion of the trustee, requires the 126[collective 
investment scheme] to be wound up and the prior approval of the Board is obtained; or 
(b)  if  unit  holders  of  a  127[collective  investment  scheme]  holding  at  least  three-fourth  of  the 
nominal value of the unit capital of the 128[collective investment scheme] pass a resolution that 
the 129[collective investment scheme] be wound up and the approval of the Board is obtained; or 
(c)  if  in  the  opinion  of  the  Board,  the  continuance  of  the  130[collective  investment  scheme]  is 
prejudicial to the interests of the unit holders; or 
(d)  if  in  the  opinion  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company,  the  purpose  of  the 
131[collective  investment  scheme]  cannot  be  accomplished  and  it  obtains  the  approval  of  the 
trustees  and  also  of  the  unit  holders  of  the  132[collective  investment  scheme]  holding  at  least 
three-fourth of the nominal value of the unit capital of the 133[collective investment scheme] with 
a  resolution  that  the  134[collective  investment  scheme]  be  wound  up  and  the  approval  of  the 
Board is obtained. 
 
(3) Where a 135[collective investment scheme] is to be wound up under sub-regulation (1) or sub-
regulation (2), the trustee shall give notice disclosing the circumstances leading to the winding 
up of the 136[collective investment scheme] in a daily newspaper having nationwide circulation 
and in the newspaper published in the language of the 
region where the Collective Investment Management Company is registered. 
 
(4)(a) The trustee shall dispose of the assets of the 137[collective investment scheme] concerned 
in the best interest of the unit holders of that 138[collective investment scheme]. 

                                                            
122 ibid. 
123 ibid. 
124 ibid. 
125 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
126 ibid. 
127 ibid. 
128 ibid. 
129 ibid. 
130 ibid. 
131 ibid. 
132 ibid. 
133 ibid. 
134 ibid. 
135 ibid. 
136 ibid. 
137 ibid. 

(b) The proceeds of sale realised under clause (a), shall be first utilized towards the discharge of 
such  liabilities  as  are  due  and  payable  under  the  139[collective  investment  scheme]  and  after 
making  appropriate  provision  for  meeting  the  expenses  connected  with  such  winding  up,  the 
balance shall be paid to the unit holders in proportion to their unit holding. 
 
(5)  On  the  completion  of  the  winding  up,  the  trustee  shall  forward  to  the  Board  and  the  unit 
holders : 
(a) a report on the steps taken for realisation of assets of the 140[collective investment scheme], 
expenses for winding up and net assets available for distribution to the unit holders, and 
(b) a certificate from the auditors of the 141[collective investment scheme] to the effect that all the 
assets of the 142[collective investment scheme] are realised and the details of the distribution of 
the proceeds. 
 
(6) The unclaimed money if any at the time of winding up shall be kept separately in a bank 
account by the trustee for a period of three years for the purpose of meeting investors’ claims and 
thereafter shall be transferred to investor protection fund, as may be specified by the Board. 
 
Effect of commencement of winding up proceedings 
 
38. On and from the date of the publication of notice under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 37, 
the trustee or the Collective Investment Management Company as the case may be, shall cease to 
carry on any business activities in respect of the 143[collective investment scheme] so wound up. 
 
Cessation of the 144[collective investment scheme] 
 
39.  If,  after  the  receipt  of  the  report  under  sub-regulation  (5)  of  regulation  37,  the  Board  is 
satisfied that all the measures for winding up of the 145[collective investment scheme] have been 
complied with, the 146[collective investment scheme] shall cease to exist. 
 

 

CHAPTER VI 

GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 

To maintain proper books of account and records, etc. 
 
40. (1) Every Collective Investment Management Company shall— 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
138 ibid. 
139 ibid. 
140 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
141 ibid. 
142 ibid. 
143 ibid. 
144 ibid. 
145 ibid. 
146 ibid. 

(a) keep and maintain proper books of account, records and documents, for each  147[collective 
investment  scheme]  so  as  to  explain  its  transactions  and  to  disclose  at  any  point  of  time  the 
financial position of each 148[collective investment scheme] 
and in particular give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 149[collective investment 
scheme], and 
(b) intimate to the Board and the trustees the place where such books of account, records and 
documents including computer records are maintained. 
 
(2) Every Collective Investment Management Company shall continue to maintain and preserve, 
for a period of five years after the close of each 150[collective investment scheme], its books of 
account, records, computer data and documents. 
 
Financial year 
 
41. The financial year for all the 151[collective investment scheme]s shall end as on March 31 of 
each year. 
 
Dispatch of warrants and proceeds 
 
42. The Collective Investment Management Company shall, 
(a)  Dispatch  to  the  unit  holders  the  warrants  within  42  days  of  the  declaration  of  the  interim 
returns. 
(b)  Dispatch  the  redemption  proceeds  within  30 days  of  the  closure  or  the  winding  up  of  the 
152[collective investment scheme]. 
 
Statement of Accounts and Annual Report 
 
43. (1) The Collective Investment Management Company shall: 
 (a)  not  exceed  the  ceilings  on  expenses  or  fees  in  respect  of  the  153[collective  investment 
scheme] as specified in Part I of the Ninth Schedule; 
(b) prepare the accounts of the 154[collective investment scheme] in accordance with accounting 
norms as specified in Part II of the Ninth Schedule; 
(c) comply with format of balance sheet and profit and loss accounts as specified in Part III of 
the Ninth Schedule. 
 

                                                            
147 ibid. 
148 ibid. 
149 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
150 ibid. 
151 ibid.. 
152 ibid. 
153 ibid. 
154 ibid. 

(2) An annual report and annual statement of accounts of each 155[collective investment scheme] 
shall be prepared in respect of each financial year. 
 
(3) Every Collective Investment Management Company shall within two months from the date 
of closure of each financial year forward to the Board a copy of the Annual Report. 
Auditor’s Report 
 
44.  (1)  Every  156[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  have  the  annual  statement  of  accounts 
audited by an auditor who is empanelled with the Board and who is not in any way associated 
with the auditor of the Collective Investment Management Company. 
 
(2) The auditor shall be appointed by the trustee. 
 
(3)  The  auditor  shall  forward  his  report  to  the  trustee  and  such  report  shall  form  part  of  the 
Annual Report of the v. 
 
(4) The auditor’s report shall comprise the following:— 
(a) a certificate to the effect that:— 
(i)  he  has  obtained  all  information  and  explanations  which,  to  the  best  of  his  knowledge  and 
belief, were necessary for the purpose of the audit; 
(ii) the balance sheet and the revenue account give a fair and true view of the v, state of affairs 
and surplus or deficit in the 157[collective investment scheme] for the accounting period to which 
the Balance Sheet or, as the case may be the Revenue Account relates; 
 (iii)  the  statement  of  account  has  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  accounting  policies  and 
standards as specified in Part II of the Ninth Schedule; 
(iv)  any  other  matter  which  in  the  opinion  of  the  auditor  is  vital  and  has  a  bearing  on  the 
158[collective investment scheme]s. 
 
Functions of auditors of 159[collective investment scheme] 
 
45. (1) The auditor of the 160[collective investment scheme] shall, as soon as possible, notify the 
Board and the trustee in writing if he has reasonable grounds to suspect that a contravention of 
the regulations has occurred or if the  161[collective investment scheme]s are not conducted on 
sound commercial principles. 
(2) The auditor of the 162[collective investment scheme]: 

                                                            
155 ibid. 
156 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
157 ibid. 
158 ibid. 
159 ibid. 
160 ibid. 
161 ibid. 
162 ibid. 

(a)  shall  have  a  right  to  access  at  all  reasonable  times  to  the  books  of  the  163[collective 
investment scheme]; and 
(b) may require any employee of the Collective Investment Management Company to give the 
auditor information and explanations for the purposes of the audit. 
 
 
Removal or Resignation of auditors 
46. (1) The trustee, after prior approval of the trustee and for reasons to be recorded in writing 
remove the auditor of the v for misconduct or inefficiency after giving the auditor a reasonable 
opportunity of hearing : 
Provided that another auditor for the  164[collective investment scheme] is appointed by trustee 
immediately from auditors empanelled with the Board. 
 
(2) The auditor of the  165[collective  investment  scheme]  may  resign  by  giving  a  three  months 
written notice to the Collective Investment Management Company and to the trustee. 
 
Publication of Annual Report and summary thereof 
47.  (1)  The  166[collective  investment  scheme]  wise  annual  report  or  an  abridged  form  thereof 
shall be published in a national daily as soon as possible but not later than two calendar months 
from the date of finalisation of accounts. 
 
 (2)  The  annual  report  shall  contain  details  as  specified  in  the  Ninth  Schedule  and  such  other 
details as are necessary for the purpose of providing a true and fair view of the operations of the 
collective investment scheme. 
 
(3) The report if published in abridged form shall carry a note that full annual report shall be 
available for inspection at the Head Office and all branch offices of the Collective Investment 
Management Company. 
 
Periodic and continual disclosures 
 
48.  (1)  The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  and  the  trustee,  shall  make  such 
disclosures  or  submit  such  documents  as  they  may  be  called  upon  by  the  Board  to  make  or 
submit. 
(2)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  sub-regulation  (1),  the  Collective  Investment 
Management  Company  on  behalf  of  the  167[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  furnish  the 
following periodic reports to the Board, namely: 
(a) copies of the duly audited annual statements of account including the balance sheet and the 
profit and loss account in respect of each 168[collective investment scheme], once a year; 

                                                            
163 ibid. 
164 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
165 ibid. 
166 ibid. 
167 ibid. 

(b) a copy of quarterly unaudited accounts; 
(c)  a  quarterly  statement  of  changes  in  net  assets  for  each  of  the  169[collective  investment 
scheme]s. 
 
 
Quarterly disclosures 
 
49. A Collective Investment Management Company, on behalf of the  170[collective investment 
scheme] shall before the expiry of one month from the close of each quarter that is 31st March, 
30th June, 30th September and 31st December publish its unaudited financial results in one daily 
newspaper having nationwide circulation and in a newspaper published in the language of the 
region where 
the Head Office of the Collective Investment Management Company is situated. 
Provided that the quarterly unaudited report referred in this sub-regulation shall contain details as 
specified in the regulations and such other details as are necessary for the purpose of providing a 
true and fair view of the operations of the 171[collective investment scheme]. 
 
Disclosures to the investors 
 
50.  The  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  Collective Investment  Management  Company  shall  make 
such disclosures to the unit holders as are essential in order to keep them informed about any 
matter which may have an adverse bearing on their investments. 
 
Calling of meeting of unit holders, transfer and transmission of units 
 
51.  The  calling  of  meeting  of  unit  holders  as  well  as  transfer  and  transmission  of  units  of 
172[collective investment scheme] shall be as per the provisions of the Eighth Schedule. 
 
 

CHAPTER VII 

INSPECTION AND AUDIT 

 

Board’s right to inspect and investigate 
 
52.  (1)  The  Board  may  appoint  one  or  more  persons  as  Inspecting  Officer  to  undertake  the 
inspection  of  the  books  of  account,  records,  documents  and  infrastructure,  systems  and 
procedures  or  to  investigate  the  affairs  of  the  trustee  and  Collective  Investment  Management 
Company for any of the following purposes, namely: 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
168 ibid. 
169 ibid. 
170 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
171 ibid. 
172 ibid. 

(a)  to  ensure  that  the  books  of  account  are  being  maintained  by  the  Collective  Investment 
Management Company in the manner specified in these regulations; 
(b) to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied with 
by the trustee and Collective Investment Management Company; 
(c)  to  ascertain  whether  the  systems,  procedures  and  safeguards  followed  by  the  Collective 
Investment Management Company are adequate; 
(d)  to  investigate  into  the  complaints  received  from  the  investors  or  any  other  person  on  any 
matter having a bearing on the activities of the trustee and Collective Investment Management 
Company. 
 
Notice before inspection and investigation 
 
53. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 52 the Board shall give not less than ten 
days notice to the Collective Investment Management Company or trustee as the case may be. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in 
the interest of the investors no such notice is required to be given, it may, by an order in writing 
direct that such inspection or investigation be taken up immediately without any notice. 
 
 (3)  During  the  course  of  inspection  or  investigation,  the  trustee  or  Collective  Investment 
Management Company against whom the inspection or investigation is being carried out shall be 
bound to discharge his obligations as provided in regulation 54. 
 
Obligations during inspection and investigation 
 
54. (1) It shall be the duty of the trustee or Collective Investment Management Company whose 
affairs  are  being  32  inspected  or  investigated,  and  of  every  director,  officer  and  employee 
thereof, to produce such books, accounts, records, and other documents in its custody or control 
and furnish him such statements and information relating to the activities as trustee or Collective 
Investment Management Company, as the inspecting officer may require, within such reasonable 
period as the inspecting officer may specify. 
 
(2) The trustee or Collective Investment Management Company shall allow the inspecting officer 
to have a reasonable access to the premises occupied by it or by any other person on its behalf 
and  also  provide  necessary  infrastructure  for  examining  any  books,  records,  documents,  and 
computer data in the possession of the trustee and Collective Investment Management Company 
or  such  other  person  and  also  provide  copies  of  documents  or  other  materials  which  in  the 
opinion of the inspecting officer are relevant for the purpose of the inspection. 
 
Submission of report to the Board 
 
55. The inspecting officer shall, on completion of the inspection or investigation, submit a report 
to the Board : 
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he shall submit interim reports also. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
173Action on inspection or investigation report 
 
56. The Board or the Chairman shall after consideration of inspection or investigation report take 
such  action  as  the  Board  or  Chairman  may  deem  fit  and  appropriate  including  action  under 
174Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008].] 
 
Appointment of Auditor and recovery of expenses 
 
57. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of regulation 52, the Board shall have the power to 
appoint an auditor to inspect or investigate, as the case may be, into the books of account or the 
affairs of the trustee or Collective Investment Management Company in respect of 175[collective 
investment scheme]s : 
Provided that the Auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting officer as 
stated in regulation 52 and the obligation of the Collective Investment Management Company or 
trustee  and  their  respective  employees  in  regulation  54,  shall  be  applicable  to  the  inspection 
under this regulation. 
 
Payment of inspection fees to the Board 
(2) The Board shall be entitled to recover such expenses including fees paid to the auditors as 
may be incurred by it for the purposes of inspecting the books of account, records and documents 
of the trustee or Collective Investment Management Company. 

CHAPTER VIII 

                                                            
173 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by 
Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002. Prior to substitution the regulation 56 
read as under: 
“Communications of findings, etc. 
56.  (1)  The  Board  shall,  after  consideration  of  the  report  referred  to  in  regulation  55, 
communicate 
the findings to the trustee or Collective Investment Management Company as the case may be, 
and give him an opportunity of being heard within fourteen days from the date of receipt of such 
communication. 
(2) Without prejudice to its right to initiate necessary action under the Act and these regulations, 
the Board upon receipt of the reply, if any, from the trustee or Collective Investment 
Management Company may call upon it to take such remedial measures as the Board may direct 
in this behalf and may also initiate action under Chapter VIII of these regulations.” 
174 Substituted for “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry 
by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” by the SEBI (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 26-05-2008. 
 
175 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 

PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 

 

58. 176[***] 
177Liability for action in case of default 
 
59. In case a Collective Investment Management Company— 
 
(a) contravenes any provision of the Act or these regulations; 
 
(b) for the purposes of these regulations furnishes any information which is false or misleading 
or suppresses any material information; 
 
(c) does not co-operate in any inspection, investigation or inquiry conducted by the Board under 
the Act or these regulations; 
 
(d) fails to comply with any directions issued by the Board under the Act or the regulations; 
 
(e) fails to resolve the complaints of the investors or fails to furnish to the Board a satisfactory 
reply in this behalf when called upon to do so by the Board; 
 
(f) commits a breach of any provision of the Code of Conduct specified in the Third Schedule; 
 
(g) fails to pay the fees specified in the Second Schedule; 
 
(h) commits a breach of the conditions of registration; or 
 
(i)  fails  to  make  an  application  for  listing  or  fails  to  list  units  of  a  178[collective  investment 
scheme]  in  a  recognized  stock  exchange,  shall  be  dealt  with  in  the  manner  provided  in 
179[Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008]. 
 
60. to 64. 180[***] 
 
Directions by the Board 
 

                                                            
176  Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing 
Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-09-2002. 
177 Substituted by the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing 
Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f, 27-09-2002. 
178 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
179 Substituted for “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry 
by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” by the SEBI (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 26-05-02008. 
180 Regulations 60 to 64 omitted by the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer 
and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-09-2002. 

65.  The  Board  may,  in  the  interests  of  the  securities  market  and  the  investors  and  without 
prejudice  to  its  right  to  initiate  action  under  this  Chapter,  including  initiation  of  criminal 
prosecution under section 24 of the Act, give such directions as it deems fit in order to ensure 
effective observance of these regulations, including directions: 
(a)  requiring  the  person  concerned  not  to  collect  any  money  from  investors  or  to  launch  any 
181[collective investment scheme]; 
(b) prohibiting the person concerned from disposing of any of the properties of the 182[collective 
investment scheme] acquired in violation of these regulations; 
(c)  requiring  the  person  concerned  to  dispose  of  the  assets  of  the  183[collective  investment 
scheme] in a manner as may be specified in the directions; 
(d) requiring the person concerned to refund any money or the assets to the concerned investors 
along  with  the  requisite  interest  or  otherwise,  collected  under  the  184[collective  investment 
scheme]; 
(e) prohibiting the person concerned from operating in the capital market or from accessing the 
capital market for a specified period. 
 
Action against intermediaries 
 
66.  The  Board  may  initiate  action  for  suspension  or  cancellation  of  registration  of  an 
intermediary holding a certificate of registration under section 12 of the Act who fails to exercise 
due diligence in the performance of its functions or fails to comply with its obligations under 
these regulations : 
Provided  that  no  such  certificate  of  registration  shall  be  suspended  or  cancelled  unless  the 
procedure specified in the regulations applicable to such intermediary is complied with. 
 
Appeal to the Central Government 
 
18567. Any person aggrieved by an order of the Board made, on and after the commencement of 
the Securities Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1999, (i.e., after 16th December, 1999), under 

                                                            
181 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
182 ibid. 
183 ibid. 
184 ibid. 
185  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Appeal  to  the  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2000, w.e.f. 28-03-2000. Prior to its substitution the regulation read as under: 
“  67.  Any  person  aggrieved  by  an  order  of  the  competent  authority  or  the  Board  under  these 
regulations: 
(a) suspending the certificate of registration; or 
(b) canceling such certificate; or 
(c) issuing directions under regulation 65 
may  prefer  an  appeal  to  the  Central  Government  against  such  order,  in  accordance  with  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Appeals to Central Government) Rules, 1993." 
 

these regulations may prefer an appeal to a Securities Appellate Tribunal having jurisdiction in 
the matter.] 
 
 
 
 

CHAPTER IX 

EXISTING COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES 

 
Existing 186[collective investment scheme]s to obtain provisional registration 
 
68.  (1)  Any  person  who  has  been  operating  a  collective  investment  scheme  at  the  time  of 
commencement  of  these  regulations  shall  be  deemed  to  be  an  existing  collective  investment 
scheme and shall also comply with the provisions of this Chapter. 
 
Explanation : The expression ‘operating a collective investment scheme’ shall include carrying 
out the obligations undertaken in the various documents entered into with the investors who have 
subscribed to the 187[collective investment scheme]. 
 
(2)  An  existing  collective  investment  scheme  shall  make  an  application  to  theBoard  in  the 
manner specified in regulation 5. 
 
(3) The application made under sub-regulation (2) shall be dealt with in any of the following 
manner: 
(a) by grant of provisional registration by the Board under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 71; 
(b) by grant of a certificate of registration by the Board under regulation 10; 
(c) by rejection of the application for registration by the Board under regulation 12. 
 
No 188[collective investment scheme] to be launched until grant of registration 
 
69.  No  existing  collective  investment  scheme  shall  launch  any  new  189[collective  investment 
scheme]  or  raise  money  from  the  investors  even  under  the  existing  190[collective  investment 
scheme], unless a certificate of registration is granted to it by the Board under regulation 10. 
 
Consideration of application for grant of provisional registration 
 
70. (1) The applicant for the purpose of being considered eligible for the grant of provisional 
registration shall satisfy the Board that— 

                                                            
186 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
187 ibid. 
188 ibid. 
189 ibid. 
190 ibid. 

 (a)  the  191[collective  investment  scheme]s  of  the  applicant  are  in  the  nature  of  collective 
investment schemes; 
(b) the affairs of the applicant are not being conducted in a manner detrimental to the interest of 
existing investors; 
(c) the applicant has at least 50% independent directors at the time of making the application. 
 
Explanation  :—  “Independent  directors”  shall  mean  directors  who  are  not  associates  of  the 
persons operating the existing collective investment scheme; 
(d) any person, directly or indirectly connected with it has not been granted registration by the 
Board under the Act. 
 
(2) The Board for the purposes of grant of provisional registration may, inter alia, inspect the 
192[collective investment scheme]s, books of account, records and documents of the applicant. 
 
(3) The Board shall recover from the applicant such expenses including fees paid to the auditor, 
appraising  agency  as  may  be  incurred  by  it  for  the  purposes  of  inspecting  the  193[collective 
investment scheme]s, books of account, records and documents of the applicant. 
 
(4)  The  Board  on  being  satisfied  that  the  requirements  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  are  not 
fulfilled  may  reject  the  application  and  the  applicant  thereupon  shall  wind  up  its  existing 
194[collective investment scheme] (s) in the manner specified in regulation 73. 
 
Grant of provisional registration 
 
71. (1) The Board after being satisfied that the conditions specified in regulation 70 are fulfilled 
may grant provisional registration to the applicant subject to the following conditions, namely 
:— 
 (a) the applicant shall get the existing 195[collective investment scheme]s rated by a credit rating 
agency within 196[two] year from the date of grant of provisional registration; 
(b) the applicant shall get the existing 197[collective investment scheme]s audited by an auditor 
within a period of 198[two] year from the date of grant of provisional registration; 

                                                            
191 ibid. 
192 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
193 ibid. 
194 ibid. 
195 ibid. 
196 Word “one” in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 71 is substituted by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, 
w.e.f, 17-01-2002. 
197 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
198 Word “one” in clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 71 is substituted by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, 
w.e.f, 17-01-2002. 

(c) the applicant shall get existing 199[collective investment scheme]s appraised by an appraising 
agency within a period of 200[two] year from the date of grant of provisional registration; 
(d) the applicant shall create a trust and appoint trustees in the manner specified in Chapter IV of 
these  regulations  within  a  period  of    201[two]  years  from  the  date  of  grant  of  provisional 
registration; 
(e) the applicant shall comply with accounting and valuation norms in respect of  202[collective 
investment scheme]s floated before the commencement of these regulations as specified in Part 
II of the Ninth Schedule within a period of 203[two] year from the date of provisional registration; 
(f) the applicant shall meet the minimum net worth of Rupees one crore within one year from the 
date of grant of provisional registration which shall be increased by Rupees one crore each 
within  two  years,  three  years,  four  years  and  five  years  from  the  date  of  grant  of  provisional 
registration; 
 
 (g) the applicant shall not dispose of the 204[collective investment scheme] property except for 
meeting obligations arising under the offer document of the 205[collective investment scheme]; 
(h) the applicant shall comply with the conditions specified in regulation 11; 
(i) such other conditions which the Board may impose. 
 
(2) The applicant shall give a written undertaking to the Board to comply with the conditions 
specified in sub-regulation (1). 
 
(3) The applicant who has been considered eligible for the grant of provisional registration by the 
Board shall pay provisional registration fee as per the Second Schedule. 
 
(4) An applicant who after grant of provisional registration fails to comply with the conditions as 
specified in sub-regulation (1) and regulation 9 shall not be considered eligible for the grant of 
certificate  of  registration  under  regulation  10  and  shall  wind  up  the  206[collective  investment 
scheme] in the manner specified in regulation 73. 

                                                            
199 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
200 Word “one” in clause (c) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 71 is substituted by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, 
w.e.f, 17-01-2002. 
201  Word  “one”  in  clause  (d)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  Regulation  71  is  substituted  by  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2002, w.e.f, 17-01-2002. 
202 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
203 Word “one” in clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 71 is substituted by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, 
w.e.f, 17-01-2002. 
204 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
205 ibid. 
206 ibid. 

 
Registration to existing 207[collective investment scheme] 
 
72.  (1)  An  existing  Collective  Investment  Scheme  which  satisfies  the  Board  that  the 
requirements specified in regulation 9 and the conditions specified under regulation 71 have been 
fulfilled,  shall  be  granted  a  certificate  of  registration  under  regulation  10  upon  payment  of 
registration fees as specified in paragraph 2 of the Second Schedule and on such terms and 
conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
 
(2) An existing Collective Investment Scheme which has been granted certificate of registration 
under sub-regulation (1) may be allowed to float new 208[collective investment scheme]s on such 
terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
 
Manner of repayment and winding up 
 
73. (1) An existing collective investment scheme which: 
(a) has failed to make an application for registration to the Board; 
or 
 (b) has not been granted provisional registration by the Board; or 
(c) having obtained provisional registration fails to comply with the provisions of regulation 71; 
shall wind up the existing 209[collective investment scheme]. 
 
(2) The existing Collective Investment Scheme to be wound up under sub-regulation (1) shall 
send  an  information  memorandum  to  the  investors  who  have  subscribed  to  the  210[collective 
investment scheme]s, within two months from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board, 
detailing the state of affairs of the  211[collective investment scheme], the amount repayable to 
each investor and the manner in which such amount is determined. 
 
(3) The information memorandum referred to in sub-regulation (2) shall be dated and signed by 
all the directors of the 212[collective investment scheme]. 
 
(4) The Board may specify such other disclosures to be made in the information memorandum, 
as it deems fit. 
 
(5) The information memorandum shall be sent to the investors within one week from the date of 
the information memorandum. 
 

                                                            
207 ibid. 
208 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
209 ibid. 
210 ibid. 
211 ibid. 
212 ibid. 

(6) The information memorandum shall explicitly state that investors desirous of continuing with 
the  213[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  have  to  give  a  positive  consent  within  one  month 
from  the  date  of  the  information  memorandum  to  continue  with  the  214[collective  investment 
scheme]. 
 
(7)  The  investors  who  give  positive  consent  under  sub-regulation  (6),  shall  continue  with  the 
215[collective investment scheme] at their risk and responsibility : 
Provided that if the positive consent to continue with the  216[collective investment scheme], is 
received  from  only  twenty-five  per  cent  or  less  of  the  total  number  of  existing  investors,  the 
217[collective investment scheme] shall be wound up. 
 
(8)  The  payment  to  the  investors,  shall  be  made  within  three  months  of  the  date  of  the 
information memorandum. 
 
(9) On completion of the winding up, the existing collective investment scheme shall file with 
the Board such reports, as may be specified by the Board. 
 
Existing 218[collective investment scheme] not desirous of obtaining registration to repay 
 
74.  An  existing  collective  investment  scheme  which  is  not  desirous  of  obtaining  provisional 
registration from the Board shall formulate a scheme of repayment and make such repayment to 
the existing investors in the manner specified in regulation 73. 
 

219[CHAPTER IX A 

INVESTMENT SCHEME 

EXISTING SCHEMES OR ARRANGEMENTS DEEMED TO BE A COLLECTIVE 

 
Existing  schemes  or  arrangements  deemed  to  be  a  collective  investment  scheme  to  obtain 
provisional registration 
74A. (1) Any person who has been operating a scheme or arrangement deemed to be a collective 
investment scheme under the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 11AA of the Act at the time of 
commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Collective  Investment  Schemes) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2014, shall be deemed to be an existing collective investment scheme and 
shall also comply with the provisions of Chapter IX: 
Provided that any scheme or arrangement which is otherwise regulated or prohibited under any other 
law shall not be deemed to be a collective investment scheme. 

                                                            
213 ibid. 
214 ibid. 
215 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
216 ibid. 
217 ibid. 
218 ibid. 
219 Inserted, ibid. 

Explanation  :  The  expression  ‘operating  a  scheme  or  arrangement  deemed  to  be  a  collective 
investment scheme’ shall include carrying out the obligations undertaken in the various documents 
entered into with the investors who have subscribed to the scheme or arrangement. 
(2) An existing collective investment scheme shall make an application to the Board in the manner 
specified in regulation 5.] 

Power of the Board to issue clarifications 
 
75. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the 
Board shall have the power to issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of notes or circulars 
which  shall  be  binding  on  the  trustee  or  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  or  any 
other intermediary in the capital market. 
 
 
 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT SCHEME) REGULATIONS, 1999 

APPLICATION FOR THE GRANT OF REGISTRATION AS COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY 

CHAPTER X 

MISCELLANEOUS 

FIRST SCHEDULE 

FORMS 
FORM A 

[Regulations 4, 5(2)] 

 

 

 

1. NAME OF THE APPLICANT : 
 
2. CONTACT PERSON : 
 
3. NAME OF THE COMPLIANCE OFFICER : 
TELEPHONE NO. :                                      FAX NO. : 
 
4. ADDRESS OF THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE APPLICANT : 
PIN CODE : 
TELEPHONE NO. :                                      FAX NO. : 
 
5. ADDRESS OF THE APPLICANT FOR CORRESPONDENCE : 
PIN CODE : 
TELEPHONE NO. :                                      FAX NO. : 
 
6. ADDRESS OF BRANCH OFFICES (IN INDIA & ABROAD) OF THE 
APPLICANT, IF ANY : 
(A) 
(B) 
(C) 

 
7.  WHETHER  ANY  OTHER  APPLICATION  UNDER  SECURITIES  AND  EXCHANGE 
BOARD OF INDIA ACT, 1992 HAS BEEN MADE FOR GRANT OF CERTIFICATE, IF SO, 
DETAILS THEREFOR : 
 
8.  DATE  AND  PLACE  OF  INCORPORATION  OF  THE  COLLECTIVE  INVESTMENT 
MANAGEMENT COMPANY : 
(Enclose a copy of certificate of incorporation) 
 
9. OBJECTS OF THE COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY : 
(Enclose copy of the Memorandum and Articles of Association) 
 
10. MAIN OBJECTS : 
 
11. ANCILLARY OBJECTS : 
(the  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  should  have  necessary  clause  in  respect  of 
collective  investment  scheme  and  amendments,  if  any,  shall  have  to  be  incorporated  in  the 
existing Memorandum and Articles of Association) 
 
12. CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND SHAREHOLDING PATTERN : 
(give list of major shareholders holding 5% or more voting rights and percentage of their share 
holdings, as of the latest date) 
 
13. NET WORTH OF THE COMPANY : 
(as of the latest date) 
 
14. PRESENT LINE(S) OF BUSINESS ACTIVITIES: 
(History, major achievements and present activity) 
 
15. FINANCIAL INFORMATION : 
(Enclose Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss account for the immediately preceding 3 years) 
 
16. ACCOUNTING POLICIES: 
(Furnish description of significant accounting policies) 
 
17.  NAMES  AND  ACTIVITIES  OF  ASSOCIATE  COMPANIES/CONCERNS  CARRYING 
ON  ACTIVITIES  RELATED  TO  THE  SECURITIES  MARKET  AND  GRANTED 
REGISTRATION BY SEBI : 
 
18. MANAGEMENT OF THE COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY: 
 
19. BOARD OF DIRECTORS : 
(Indicate  name,  qualifications,  background,  experience,  whether  directorship  is  on  whole-
time/part-time basis, other directorships, of the Directors. Whether any of the Directors is in full 
employment elsewhere; give details thereof. If any of the Directors is a member of a professional 

body i.e., the ICAI or ICSI, to furnish permission of the professional body for acting as director 
of the applicant ) 
 
20. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL : 
(Furnish the names, qualifications, experience of the key management personnel indicating their 
experience. Also, submit proof of acceptance of appointment letter, latest salary slips) 
 
21. OTHER EMPLOYEES : 
(Furnish the names, qualifications, experience of the other employees) 
 
22. DETAILS OF INFRASTRUCTURAL FACILITIES : 
 
23. OFFICE SPACE : 
(Mention extent of area available at the place where the main activity would be carried out; detail 
of  office  space  available  at  all  the  locations;  certified  copies  of  relevant  sale  deed/lease 
deed/rental agreement etc. in respect of each of the premises to be enclosed.) 
24. OFFICE EQUIPMENT : 
(mention the details of electronic office equipment, computers, fax, telephones etc; submit proof 
of purchase of the above equipments.) 
 
25. INVOLVEMENT IN CASES : 
(a) Court cases/litigations in which the applicant may have been involved in the last 3 years. 
(b) Involvement in any offence relating to moral turpitude/economic offences of the directors, 
employees of the applicant in the last 3 years. 
 
26. AUDITORS 
 
27. OTHER INFORMATION : 
Any other information considered relevant to the nature of services rendered by the applicant. 
Names and addresses of the auditors of the applicant : 
 
28. DOCUMENTS : 
Submit copies of : 
(a) Draft Trust Deed; and 
(b) Draft Investment Management Agreement 
 
INSTRUCTION FOR FILLING UP THE FORM :— 
(a) Applicants must submit a completed application form together with appropriate supporting 
documents to the Board. 
(b) It is important that this application form should be filled in accordance with the regulations. 
(c) An application which is not complete is liable to be rejected. 
(d) Answers must be typed and legible. 
(e)  Information  which  needs  to  be  supplied  in  more  details  may  be  given  on  separate  sheets 
which should be attached to the application form. 
(f) The application must be signed by the competent person having authority to do so and all 
signatures must be in original. 

FORM B 

 
 

 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT SCHEME) REGULATIONS, 1999 

[Regulation 10] 

CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION 

to 

as 

an  Collective 

.................................................................. 

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act,  1992  (15  of  1992),  read  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Collective 
Investment Scheme) Regulations, 1999 made thereunder the Board hereby grants a certificate of 
registration 
Investment 
Management Company. 
 
Registration Code for the Collective Investment Management Company is  
CIMC/CIS/ / / 
 
Date 
By order 
Sd/- 
For and on behalf 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
 

FORM C 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT SCHEME) REGULATIONS, 1999 

TRUSTEESHIP OF THE COLLECTION INVESTMENT SCHEME 

[Regulation 18(2)] 

 
(1) Furnish the following particulars : 
(a) Name of the Institution 
(b) Address/telephone/telex/fax Nos. 
(c) Name of the contact person 
(d) SEBI Registration No.: 
(e) Management of the trustee 
Board of Directors 
Key Personnel 
Other Employees 
(f) Details of Infrastructure facilities 
Office Space 
Office Equipment 
(g) Court cases/litigations in which the trustee may have been involved in 
the last three years and whether the case is pending or has been 

adjudicated. 
 (h) Any penalty imposed by SEBI or by other regulatory bodies during the 
last three years. 
(i) Any other information considered relevant to the nature of services 
rendered by the trustee. 
(2) INSTRUCTION FOR FILLING UP THE FORM 
(See Form A) 
 

SECOND SCHEDULE 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT SCHEME) REGULATIONS, 1999 

[Regulations 6, 10, 26(1), 59(g), 71(3), 72(1)] 

FEES 

 
1. (a) Application fees payable by the applicant :             Rupees Twenty- Five Thousand 
 
(b) Provisional registration fees payable by existing        Rupees Five Lacs 
collective investment scheme: [see para 2 below] 
 
 (c) Registration fees payable by the applicant for            Rupees Ten Lacs 
grant of registration as collective investment 
management company : 
 
 (d) Filing fees for offer document :                                  Rupees Twenty-Five thousand 
 
2. The applicant who has paid provisional registration fee of Rs. 5 lacs under sub-paragraph (b) 
of  paragraph  1,  shall  pay  remaining  registration  fee  of  Rs.  5  lacs  at  the  time  of  grant  of 
registration. 
 
3. The fees referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, shall be paid by means of a bank draft in 
favour of “Securities and Exchange Board of India” at Mumbai or at the regional offices where 
the application for registration or draft offer document is submitted. 
 
 
 

THIRD SCHEDULE 

 

 

 

 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT SCHEME) REGULATIONS, 1999 

[Regulations 14(h), 21(8), 59(f)] 

 

CODE OF CONDUCT 

1. Interests of all classes of unit holders to be protected 
The  organisation,  operation  and  management  of  the  Collective  Investment  Scheme  and  the 
creation of assets therein shall be conducted— 
(a) in the interest of all classes of unit holders of the 220[collective investment scheme]; and 
(b)  not  merely  in  the  interests  of  the  directors  of  the  company  or  associated  persons  or  any 
special class of unit holders. 
 
2. Dissemination of information 
(a)  the  trustee  and  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  ensure  the  timely 
dissemination  to  all  unit  holders,  of  adequate  accurate  and  explicit  information  about  the 
investment  policies,  investment  objectives,  financial  position  and  general  affairs  of  the 
221[collective investment scheme]; 
(b) all such information shall be fairly presented in simple language. 
 
3. Conflict of interest 
The trustee and the Collective Investment Management Company shall in managing the affairs 
of the 222[collective investment scheme]s avoid conflicts of interest and treat the interests of all 
unit holders paramount in all matters. 
 
4. Segregation 
The  trustee  and  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  ensure  scheme-wise 
segregation of funds and assets as created. 
 
5. Integrity, investments as per objects, etc. 
The trustee and the Collective Investment Management Agency shall 
(a)  carry  on  the  business  and  make  investments  in  accordance  with  the  investment  objectives 
stated in the offer documents and take investment decisions solely in the interests of unit holders; 
 (b) not use any unethical means for marketing their  223[collective investment scheme]s or for 
inducing investors to bring the same; 
(c) carry on all their activities in the interests of unit holders and with strict regard to integrity 
and honesty. 
 
 

FOURTH SCHEDULE 

 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT SCHEME) REGULATIONS, 1999 

[Regulation 17(1)] 

                                                            
220 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
221 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
222 ibid. 
223 ibid. 

CONTENTS OF THE TRUST DEED 

 

1. Principal Clauses 
The Trust Deed shall contain the following clauses, namely:— 
(a) the responsibilities, obligations and rights of the trustee for the protection of the assets of the 
224[collective investment scheme], 
(b) provisions to ensure that management of 225[collective investment scheme] property shall be 
in accordance with that specified in the offer document and these regulations, 
(c)  the  responsibilities,  obligations  and  rights  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management 
Company, 
(d) the policies for issue, pricing of units and expenses of the 226[collective investment scheme], 
including payment of fees and distribution of income and gains and accounting, 
(e)  the  policies  for  disclosures  of  the  investors  of  various  227[collective  investment  scheme]s 
objectives and investment objectives in offer documents and advertisements and annual and half-
yearly reporting requirements, 
(f)  provisions  to  ensure  that  the  auditor  for  the  228[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  be 
different from the Auditor of the Collective Investment Management Company. Further, it shall 
contain  conditions  of  appointment,  retirement,  removal  and  replacement  of  auditor  of  the 
229[collective investment scheme], 
(g) broad policies regarding allocation of expenditure to capital or income, 
(h)  provisions  to  explicitly  forbid  the  acquisition  of  any  asset  out  of  the  trust  property  which 
involves the assumption of any liability which is unlimited or shall not result in encumbrance of 
the trust property in any way, 
(i) trusteeship fee, if any, payable to the trustee, 
 (j) provisions to the effect that no amendment to the Trust Deed shall be carried out without the 
prior approval of the Board and unit holders, 
(k) provisions to ensure that removal of the trustee in all cases shall require the prior approval of 
the  Board  and  the  provisions  regarding  appointment  of  new  trustee  and  their  removal  be 
specified, 
(l) procedure for seeking approval of the unit holders, 
(m)  provisions  for  redressal  of  grievances  of  the  investors  and  time  within  which  such 
complaints shall be redressed, 
(n) the circumstances under which the assets may be disposed of with the approval of the trustee, 
(o) provisions regarding transfer of units, meeting of unit holders and maintenance of upto date 
register of unit holders, 
(p) the time within which the unit certificates shall be issued after allotment and the time within 
which transfer of units shall be completed, 

                                                            
224 ibid. 
225 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
226 ibid. 
227 ibid. 
228 ibid. 
229 ibid. 

(q) provisions to ensure that any document required to be lodged with the Board shall be signed 
by at least two Directors of the Collective Investment Management Company with at least one of 
them being an independent director, 
(r) provisions to ensure the public availability of the trust deed for inspection of unit holders and 
investors, 
(s) provisions to ensure that unit holders shall have beneficial interest in the trust property to the 
extent of individual holding in respective 230[collective investment scheme]s only. 
 
2. Trustee’s duties regarding information properly, etc. 
The Trust Deed shall lay down that the trustee shall: 
(a)  obtain  necessary  information  and  a  quarterly  report  from  the  Collective  Investment 
Management Company, 
(b) make spot checks on the Collective Investment Management Company regarding pricing of 
units and payment into and out of the 231[collective investment scheme] and proper accounting of 
the income of the 232[collective investment scheme] and charging of expenses and distribution as 
permitted, 
 (c)  maintain  an  arms’  length  relationship  with  other  companies,  or  institutions  or  financial 
intermediaries or any body corporate with which it may be associated, 
(d) take into their custody, or under their control all the property of the 233[collective investment 
scheme]s and hold it in trust for the unit holders,  
(e) act in the interest of the unit holders, 
(f) provide or cause to be provide information to unit holders and Board as may be specified by 
the Board, 
(g) enter into an agreement for managing the 234[collective investment scheme] property with the 
Collective Investment Management Company for this purpose, and shall enclose the same with 
the Trust Deed, 
(h) supervise the collection of any income due to be paid to the 235[collective investment scheme] 
and for claiming any repayment of tax and holding any income received in trust for the holders 
in accordance with the Trust Deed, Offer document and regulations, 
(i)  take  reasonable  care  to  ensure  that  the  funds  under  the  236[collective  investment  scheme]s 
floated by and managed by the Collective Investment Management Company are in accordance 
with the Trust Deed, Offer document and regulations, 
(j) have to remove the Collective Investment Management Company under the specific events 
only with the approval of Board in accordance with the regulations, 
(k) be responsible for the supervision of its activities of the Collective Investment Management 
Company in relation to the 237[collective investment scheme] and shall also act as a Custodian of 
the assets of the 238[collective investment scheme]. 

                                                            
230 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
231 ibid. 
232 ibid. 
233 ibid. 
234 ibid. 
235 ibid. 
236 ibid. 

 
3. Obligations of the Company 
The Trust Deed shall lay down that Collective Investment Management 
Company shall: 
(a)  float  239[collective  investment  scheme]s  for  the  240[collective  investment  scheme]  after 
approval by the trustee, and manage the funds mobilised under various 241[collective investment 
scheme]s, in accordance with the provisions of the Trust Deed, Offer document and regulations, 
(b)  not  invest  the  corpus  of  the  242[collective  investment  scheme]  in  other  243[collective 
investment scheme], 
 (c) not without the approval of the trustee publish or cause to be published any advertisement 
containing any invitation to buy units, or any statement with respect to the sale price of the units 
or the return expected from the 244[collective investment scheme], 
(d) use its best endeavours to carry on and conduct its business in a proper and efficient manner 
and to ensure that the 245[collective investment scheme] to which the deed relates is carried on 
and conducted in a proper and efficient manner, 
(e)  make  available  to  the  trustee  or  to  the  auditors  for  inspection  all  the  books  of  the 
246[collective investment scheme], 
(f) furnish to the trustee or to the auditors such oral or written information as the trustee or the 
auditor  requires  with  respect  to  all  matter  relating  to  the  247[collective  investment  scheme]  or 
otherwise relating to the affairs of the 248[collective investment scheme], 
(g) not exercise the right to vote in respect of any units relating to the 249[collective investment 
scheme] held by the Collective Investment Management Company. 
 
 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT SCHEME) REGULATIONS, 1999 

CONTENTS OF THE AGREEMENT FOR MANAGING SCHEME 

FIFTH SCHEDULE 

 

[Regulation 20(2)] 

PROPERTY 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
237 ibid. 
238 ibid. 
239 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
240 ibid. 
241 ibid. 
242 ibid. 
243 ibid. 
244 ibid. 
245 ibid. 
246 ibid. 
247 ibid. 
248 ibid. 
249 ibid. 

 

The Investment Management Agreement shall contain the following clauses namely:— 
 
Obligations of the Collective Investment Management Company: 
 
1. The Collective Investment Management Company 
 
(a) shall be responsible for floating 250[collective investment scheme]s after obtaining approval 
from  the  trustee  and  managing  the  funds  mobilised  under  various  251[collective  investment 
scheme]s, in accordance with the provisions of the Trust Deed, Offer document and regulations; 
 
(b) shall invest the funds raised under various 252[collective investment scheme]s in accordance 
with the provisions of the Trust Deed, Offer document and the regulations; 
 
(c)  shall  not  acquire  any  assets  out  of  the  253[collective  investment  scheme]  property  which 
involves the assumption of any liability which is unlimited or which may result in encumbrance 
of the 254[collective investment scheme] property in any way; 
 
(d) shall not give or guarantee loans or take up any activity in contravention of the regulations; 
 
(e)  shall  ensure  that  no  application  form,  or  sales  literature  or  other  printed  matter  issued  to 
prospective investors, or advertisement, or report and/or announcement addressed to the general 
body of unit holders, or to the public, or to the press or other communications media, is issued or 
published without the trustee’s prior approval in writing, and contains any statement or matter 
extraneous to the Trust Deed or Offer Document  255[collective investment scheme] particulars 
approved by the trustee and Board; 
 
(f) shall submit quarterly reports on the functioning of the 256[collective investment scheme]s to 
the trustee or at such intervals as may be required by the trustee or Board. 
 
2. The trustee : 
 
(a)  shall  have  the  right  to  obtain  from  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  all 
information concerning the operations of the various 257[collective investment scheme]s managed 
by the Collective Investment Management Company at such intervals and in such a manner as 

                                                            
250 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
251 ibid. 
252 ibid. 
253 ibid. 
254 ibid. 
255 ibid. 
256 ibid. 
257 ibid. 

SIXTH SCHEDULE 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT SCHEME) REGULATIONS, 1999 

[Regulation 26(2)] 

CONTENTS OF THE OFFER DOCUMENT 

 

 

 

required  by  the  trustee  to  ensure  that  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  is 
complying with the provisions of the Trust Deed, Offer document and regulations; 
(b) shall have the power to remove the Collective Investment Management Company under the 
specific events only with the approval of Board in accordance with the regulations. 
 
3. Meeting the losses 
No loss or damage or expenses incurred by the Collective Investment Management Company or 
its officers or any person delegated by the Collective Investment Management Company, shall be 
met out of the trust property. 
 

Contents 
 
The offer document filed with the Board shall contain, in addition to the requirements specified 
in the regulations, following information so as to enable the investors to make a true, fair and 
informed decision on the investments in the 258[collective investment scheme], namely: 
 
1. Outer Cover Pages 
 
1.1 Front Outer Cover Page 
 

(i)  The front outer cover page of the offer document filed with the Board shall 

contain the following details only:— 
The name of the  259[collective investment scheme], name and address of the 
registered  office  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  and 
trustee along with their telephone number and fax number. 
(ii) The nature, number, price and amount of the units offered. 
(iii)The following clause in respect of general risk should be incorporated: 

“Investment in units involve a degree of risk and investors should not invest 
any funds in this offer unless they can afford to take the risk of losing their 
investment.  Investors  are  advised  to  read  the  risk  factors  carefully  before 
taking  an  investment  decision  in  this  offering.  For  taking  an  investment 
decision,  investors  must  rely  on  their  own  examination  of  the  260[collective 
investment scheme] and the offer including the risks involved. The units have 

                                                            
258 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
259 ibid. 
260 ibid. 

not  been  recommended  or  approved  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India  (SEBI)  nor  does  SEBI  guarantee  the  accuracy  or  adequacy  of  this 
document.” 
Specific attention of investors shall be invited to the summarized and detailed 
statement of Risk Factors by indicating their page number(s) in the ‘General 
Risks’. 

(iv) Collective  Investment  Management  Company’s  Absolute  Responsibility 

clause to be incorporated as under: 
“The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company,  having  made  all 
reasonable  inquiries,  accepts  responsibility  for  and  confirms  that  this  offer 
document contains all information with regard to the 261[collective investment 
scheme] and that the information contained in the offer document is true and 
correct in all material aspects and is not misleading in any material respect, 
that  the  opinions  and  intentions  expressed  herein  are  honestly  held  and  that 
there are no other facts, the omission of which make this document as a whole 
or  any  of  such  information  or  the  expression  of  any  such  opinions  or 
intentions misleading in any material respect.” 

(v) The name and address of the Registrar to the issue along with the telephone 

number and fax number. 

(vi) The name and address of the auditor of the 262[collective investment scheme]. 
(vii)  Opening, Closing and Earliest closing date (if any) for the offer. 
(viii)  Credit Rating - Name of the Credit Rating Agency, the rating given, the 

tenure of the rating. 

(ix) Name of the Compliance Officer. 
(x) Name of the appraising agency - A brief appraisal report. 
(xi) The front cover page shall be white. No patterns or pictures shall be printed on 

(xii)  The cover page paper shall be of adequate thickness (preferably minimum 

this page. 

100 gcm quality). 
 

1.2 Front Inside Cover Page 
Index shall appear on the Front Inside Cover Page. 
 
1.3 Inner Cover Pages 
The other risk factors shall be printed in clear readable font (preferably of minimum point 10 
size) starting on the first inner cover page to be numbered page i (and, if need be, shall continue 
on subsequent pages ii, iii, etc. as distinct from the page number of the offer document proper 
which would run as 1, 2, 3, etc. ) in addition to appearing in the offer document. 
 
1.4 Back cover Pages Back 
Inside Cover Page and Back Outside Cover Page shall be in white and blank. 

                                                            
261 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
262 ibid. 

Any  ‘notes’  required  to  be  given  prominence  shall  appear  immediately  after  the  Risk  Factors 
wherever they appear. 
 
2. Risk Factors 
 
The Collective Investment Management Company shall classify the risk factors as those which 
are specific and internal to the  263[collective investment scheme] and those which are external 
and  beyond  the  control  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company.  Collective 
Investment Management Company’s perception of the internal and external risk factors shall be 
given immediately after each of the risk factors and not as a separate heading under management 
perception. 
 
3. Disclaimer Clause 
 
The offer document shall contain the following disclaimer clause in capital letters and bold.  
It is to be distinctly understood that submission of offer document to SEBI should not in any way 
be deemed or construed that the same has been cleared or approved by SEBI. SEBI does not take 
any responsibility either for the financial soundness of any 264[collective investment scheme] for 
which the issue is proposed to be made or for the correctness of the statements made or opinions 
expressed 
Investment  Management  Company, 
............................  has  certified  that  the  disclosures  made  in  the  offer  document  are  generally 
adequate and are in conformity with SEBI (Collective Investment Scheme) Regulations, 1999 in 
force  for  the  time  being.  This  requirement  is  to  facilitate  unit  holders  to  take  an  informed 
decision for making investment in the proposed issue. 
It  should  also  be  clearly  understood  that  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  is 
primarily responsible for the correctness, adequacy and disclosure of all relevant information in 
the offer document. 
 
WE THE COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY CONFIRM that: 
 
the offer document forwarded to SEBI is in conformity with the documents, materials and paper 
relevant  to  the  issue;  all  the  legal  requirements  connected  with  the  said  issue,  as  also  the 
guidelines, instructions, etc. issued by SEBI, the Government and any other competent authority 
in this behalf have been duly complied with; and the disclosures made in the offer document are 
true,  fair  and  adequate  to  enable  the  investors  to  make  a  well  informed  decision  as  to  the 
investment in the proposed 265[collective investment scheme]. 
We confirm that beside ourselves, all the intermediaries named in the prospectus are registered 
with SEBI and till date such registration is valid. 
 

the  offer  document.  Collective 

in 

                                                            
263 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
264 ibid. 
265 ibid. 

4.  Undertaking  from  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  The  following 
undertaking  by  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  be  incorporated  in  the 
offer document: 

(i)  that the complaints received in respect of the issue of units of the  266[collective 

investment scheme] would be attended to expeditiously and satisfactorily, 

(ii) that the funds required for despatch of refund orders/allotment letters/certificates 
by  registered  post  shall  be  made  available  to  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue  by  the 
Collective Investment Management Company, 

(iii)that the certificates of the units/refund orders to the non-resident Indians shall be 

despatched in time, 

(iv) that no units shall be issued to the public later than six months after the date of the 

offer document i.e. the date when the offer document is filed with the Board. 

 
5. Fictitious Applications 
Any person who makes in a fictitious name an application for acquiring or subscribing for any 
units of a  267[collective investment scheme], or otherwise induces the  268[collective investment 
scheme]  to  allot,  or  register  any  transfer  of  units  therein  to  him,  or  to  any  other  person  in  a 
fictitious name, shall be punishable under the provisions of the SEBI Act, 1992. 
 
6. Minimum Subscription Clause 
The Collective Investment Management Company shall state that the minimum subscription of 
units  necessary  for  the  purpose  of  launching  the  269[collective  investment  scheme].  The 
minimum subscription clause is to be incorporated in the offer document as under: 
“If the 270[collective investment scheme] does not receive the above stated minimum subscription 
of units from the public on the date of closure of the issue, then the entire subscription amount 
received shall be refunded forthwith.” 
 
7. Maximum Subscription Clause 
The Collective Investment Management Company shall state the maximum number of units that 
shall be offered through the offer document. 
Minimum and Maximum - by Appraising Agency compared. 
 
8. Terms of the present issue 
8.1 Terms of payments 
8.2 Rights of the investors 
8.3 How to apply - availability of forms, offer document and mode of payment 
8.4 Any special tax benefits for investing in the 271[collective investment scheme]. 
 

                                                            
266 ibid. 
267 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
268 ibid. 
269 ibid. 
270 ibid. 
271 ibid. 

9. Appraisal of the Project 
Project to be appraised by appraising agency for carrying out appraisal and salient features of the 
appraisal report to be detailed. The scope and purpose of the  appraisal along with the date of 
appraisal may be disclosed. The cost of the project and means of finance as per the appraisal 
report should also be disclosed. The weakness and threats, if any, given in the appraisal report 
should also be disclosed by way of risk factors. 
 
10. Project relating to the 272[collective investment scheme] 
The Collective Investment Management Company shall disclose— 
(i) detail particulars as are sufficient to disclose the true nature of the  273[collective investment 
scheme], 
(ii) the nature and description of property and the conditions or circumstances under which it will 
become vested with the trustee, 
(iii) with respect to the property purchased or acquired or proposed to be purchased or acquired 
in relation to the 274[collective investment scheme], the following shall be given : 
- the name and address of the vendor(s) 
- the amount of cash or other consideration paid or payable to the vendor or each vendor, as the 
case may be, 
- short particulars of any transaction relating to the property, in which any vendor of the property 
or any person who is, or was at the time of the transaction, having control or controlling interest 
in or director of the Collective Investment Management Company or directly or indirectly related 
to the Collective Investment Management Company 
(if the property to be acquired by the trustee is to be taken on lease then the term “vendor” would 
construe to mean “lessor”, the expression “purchase money” would include the consideration for 
the lease) 
(iv) the amount or estimated amount of, 
(v) the expense of setting up the 275[collective investment scheme], and 
(vi) the expense of the issue, and the names of the persons by whom any of these expenses have 
been paid or are payable. 
 
11. Management of the 276[collective investment scheme] 
11.1  This  section  shall  describe  the  manner  in  which  the  277[collective  investment  scheme]  is 
managed. 
The disclosures shall include— 

(i)  Identification  of  Collective  Investment Management  Company  and  the  name  of 
the key personnel of the Collective Investment Management Company who would 
be responsible for managing the v along with his qualifications, experience and 
background; 

                                                            
272 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
273 ibid. 
274 ibid. 
275 ibid. 
276 ibid. 
277 ibid. 

(ii) Name and address of the Investor Relations Officer; 
(iii)The  name  and  the  address  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company 
and  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  Directors  on  the  Board  of  the  Collective 
Investment Management Company with a brief description of the experience of 
the Collective Investment Management Company; 

(iv) disclosure of the date of entering the Investment Management Agreement; 
(v) Full information regarding the remuneration/compensation of the trustee and the 
Collective Investment Management Company respectively, the manner in which 
that remuneration/compensation is provided for, and the changes (if any) that will 
be  made  by  way  of  that  remuneration/compensation  upon  the  sale  of  or 
subscription for any units of the  278[collective investment scheme] and upon the 
distribution  of  income  and  capital  or  otherwise  in  connection  with  the 
279[collective investment scheme]. 

11.2  The  identity  of  any  other  person  who  provides  significant  administrative  or  business 
management services and a brief description of the services provided and the compensation to be 
paid therefore. 
11.3 The name and principal business address of the Registrars and Transfer Agents. A statement 
to the effect that the trustee and the Collective Investment Management Company have ensured 
that the Registrar has adequate capacity to discharge responsibilities with regard to processing of 
applications and despatching unit certificates to unit holders within the time limit prescribed in 
the regulations and also has sufficient capacity to handle investor complaints. 
11.4 Identification and name and address of the statutory auditor for the 280[collective investment 
scheme]. 
 
12. Constitution of the Collective Investment Scheme 
Under this head, the following shall be discussed: 

(i)  A brief description of the objectives of the 281[collective investment scheme]; 
(ii) Functions  and  responsibilities  of  the  constituents  of  the  Collective  Investment 

Scheme viz., Collective Investment Management Company and trustee; 

(iii)Names and addresses of the Directors of the trustee and details of their principal 

occupations and current directorships; 

(iv) Summary of substantial provisions of the Trust Deed which may be of material 

interest to the unit holders. 

 
Units and Offer 
 
13. Describe concisely the nature and the most significant attributes of the units being offered, 
including: 

(i)  The minimum and maximum number of units on offer and refund beyond this amount 

shall be disclosed. 

                                                            
278 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
279 ibid. 
280 ibid. 
281 ibid. 

(ii) The  circumstances  under  which  refund  may  take  place  and  the  period  within  which 

refunds must be carried out. 

certificates. 

(iii)A  calendar  indicating  opening,  closing,  earliest  closing,  allotment  and  despatch  of 

(iv) The  period  within  which  allotment  and  despatch  of  certificates  will  be  completed  and 
relevant  regulations  in  this  regard  alongwith  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  an 
advertisement  will  be  published  in  a  newspaper  soon  after  completion  of  allotment 
procedure. 

(v) Maturity period or duration of the 282[collective investment scheme]. 
(vi) The circumstances under which the 283[collective investment scheme] shall be wound up 

(in accordance with regulations). 

(vii) 
(viii) 
(ix) The address where the register of unit holders is or will be kept and the days on which 

Procedures to be followed for transfer and transmission of units. 
The rights of the unit holders including voting, calling of meetings etc. 

and the hours during which the register is or will be accessible to the public. 

(x) The  amount,  if  any,  paid  or  payable  as  commission  for  subscribing  or  agreeing  to 
subscribe,  or  procuring  or  agreeing  to  procure  subscriptions  for  any  units  of  the 
284[collective investment scheme], or the rate of any such commission. Also, the names of 
persons having control or controlling interest in or director of the Collective Investment 
Management Company who are entitled to receive any such commission and the amount 
or rate of that commission. 

(xi) Any amount or benefit paid or given or intended to be paid or given, to persons having 
control  or  controlling  interest  in  or  director  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management 
Company out of the proceeds of an issue of units, and the consideration for the payment 
or giving of the amount or benefit. 

The  policy  regarding  the  valuation  of  any  investment  made  or  property  held  in 

relation to the 285[collective investment scheme]. 

The policy regarding distribution of income to the unit holders derived from the 

(xii) 

(xiii) 

286[collective investment scheme]. 

 
14. Outstanding Litigations, Defaults, Dues, etc. 

(i)  All  pending  litigations  in  which  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  is 
involved, defaults to the financial institutions/banks and nonpayment of statutory dues by 
the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  be  listed  in  the  offer  document 
together with the amounts involved and the present status of such litigations/defaults. 

(ii) The above information is required to be furnished in addition to the litigations against the 
Collective Investment Management Company or against any other entity whose outcome 

                                                            
282 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
283 ibid. 
284 ibid. 
285 ibid. 
286 ibid. 

could  have  a  materially  adverse  effect  on  the  position  of  the  287[collective  investment 
scheme]. 

(iii)The  pending  proceedings  initiated  for  economic  offences  against  the  directors  of  the 
Collective  Investment  Management  Company,  shall  be  disclosed  separately  indicating 
their present status. The Collective Investment Management Company shall furnish the 
details of the past cases in which penalties were imposed by the concerned authorities. 

(iv) Outstanding litigations, defaults, etc., pertaining to matters likely to affect operations and 
finances  of  the  288[collective  investment  scheme]  including  disputed  tax  liabilities  etc. 
shall be furnished in the offer document. 

(v) The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  ensure  to  appropriately 
incorporate  in  the  offer  document  and  as  risk  factor(s)  information  regarding  pending 
litigations,  defaults,  non-payment  of  statutory  dues  and  proceedings  initiated  for 
economic offences/Civil offences against the 289[collective investment scheme]s. 

(vi) If any of the abovementioned litigations, etc., arise after the filing of the offer document, 
the facts shall be incorporated appropriately in the offer document (and as risk factors). In 
case there are no such cases a distinct negative statement is required to be made in this 
regard in the offer document. 

(vii) 

An  enquiry/adjudication  proceedings  under  the  SEBI  Act  and  the  regulations 
made thereunder, that are in progress against the 290[collective investment scheme] or any 
company  associated  in  any  capacity  with  the  Collective  Investment  Management 
Company, trustee or any of the Directors or key personnel of the Collective Investment 
Management Company shall be disclosed. 

 
15. Disclosure on investor grievances and redressal system The offer documents should disclose 
the  arrangements  or  any  mechanism  evolved  by  the  Collective  Investment  Management 
Company for redressal of investor grievances. By way of additional information, the company 
should disclose the time normally taken by it for disposal of various types of investor grievances. 
Also describe briefly the investor’s complaints history for the last three fiscal years of existing 
291[collective  investment  scheme]  and  the  redressal  mechanism,  thereof.  The  offer  document 
should include data updated 30 days prior to the launch of the 292[collective investment scheme] 
on  the  number  of  complaints  received,  redressed  and  pending  with  the  collective  investment 
scheme. 
 
16. Disclosures about stockinvests 
The  disclosures  regarding  manner  of  obtaining  Stockinvests,  and  disposal  of  applications 
accompanied by Stockinvest, Mode of drawing stockinvests, utilisation of stockinvests by third 
party, time period for utilisation of stockinvests by the purchasers should be incorporated at the 
appropriate places in the offer document in line with the prevailing instructions of RBI in this 

                                                            
287 ibid. 
288 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
289 ibid. 
290 ibid. 
291 ibid. 
292 ibid. 

regard. Further, name of the bank through which the stockinvests shall be realised, shall be given 
in  the  offer  document.  Also  the  following  paragraph  shall  appear  at  the  appropriate  places  : 
“Registrars to the Issue have been authorised by the trustee to sign on behalf of the trustee to 
realise the proceeds of the Stockinvest from the issuing bank or to affix non-allotment advice on 
the instrument or cancel the stockinvest of the non-allottees or partially successful allottees who 
have enclosed more than one stockinvest. Such cancelled Stockinvest shall be sent back by the 
Registrars directly to the Investors.” 
Stockinvests should be marked account payee and inscribed with the words - 
Collective Investment Scheme - A/c 293[collective investment scheme]. 
 
17. Despatch of Refund Orders 
The following clause should be incorporated in the offer document: 
“The trustee shall ensure despatch of refund orders of value over Rs. 1,500 and unit certificates 
by  Registered  Post  only  and  adequate  funds  for  the  purpose  will  be  made  available  to  the 
Registrars.” 
 
18.  Interest  in  case  of  delay  in  despatch  of  allotment  letters/refund  orders  The  caption  should 
appear under terms of the present issue and should contain the following: 
“The trustee agrees that as far as possible allotment of units offered to the public shall be made 
within  30  days  of  the  closure  of  the  issue.  The  trustee  further  agrees  that  it  shall  pay  interest 
@15%  per  annum  if  the  allotment  letters/refund  orders  have  not  been  despatched  to  the 
applicants within 30 days from the date of the closure of the issue.” 
 
19. Appointment of Compliance Officer 
The  name  of  Compliance  Officer  appointed  should  be  mentioned  in  the  offer  document  with 
details such as telephone number, fax number and address on which he/she would be available. 
The investor’s attention should also be invited to contact the Compliance Officer in case of any 
pre-issue/post-issue related problems. 
 
20. Promise vis-à-vis performance 
A  separate  para  entitled  “Promise  v.  Performance  -  All  earlier  294[collective  investment 
scheme]s”  shall  be  given  indicating  whether  all  the  objects  mentioned  in  the  respective  offer 
documents relating to the earlier 295[collective investment scheme]s launched by the Collective 
Investment Management Company were met and whether all projections made in the said offer 
documents  were  achieved.  If  not,  non-achievement  of  objects/projections  shall  be  brought  out 
distinctly (shortfall/delay to be quantified). 
 
21. Utilisation of stockinvest by third parties 
SI should be utilised by the purchaser(s) and the purchaser’s name/name of one of the purchasers 
should be invariably indicated as the first applicant in the share application form. Thus, if the 
signature  of  the  purchaser  on  the  stockinvest  and  the  signature  of  the  first  applicant  on  the 

                                                            
293 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
294 ibid. 
295 ibid. 

application form does not tally, the application should be treated as having been accompanied by 
a third party stockinvest. 
 
22. Utilisation of stockinvest within 10 days 
Stockinvests are to be used by the purchaser(s) within 10 days of issue and for the purpose. The 
last day for use of the SI for submitting application to the bank is indicated on the face of the SI 
with a notation “To be used before ..........”. 
 
23. Due Diligence Certificate 

(i)  The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company,  while  filing  the  draft  offer 

document with the Board, shall furnish a due diligence certificate. 

(ii) The Collective Investment Management Company shall also:— 

a)  certify  that  all  amendments  suggested/observations  made  by  Board  have 

been given effect to in the offer document; 

b)  furnish a fresh certificate immediately before the opening of the issue that 

no corrective action on its part is needed; 

c)  furnish a fresh certificate after the issue has opened but before it closes for 

subscription. 

 
24. The Collective Investment Management Company shall submit with the offer document the 
following certificates: 

i.  all  refund  orders  of  the  previous  issues  were  despatched  within  the  prescribed 

time and in the prescribed manner; 

ii.  all unit certificates were despatched to the allottees within the prescribed time and 

in the prescribed manner; and 

 
25. Appointment of other intermediaries 

(i)  Collective 

Investment  Management  Company 

the 
intermediaries being appointed are registered with the Board, wherever required. 
The Collective Investment Management Company shall independently assess the 
capability and the capacity of the various intermediaries to handle the issue. 

should  ensure 

that 

(ii) Collective Investment Management Company should ensure that Bankers to the 

Issue are appointed in all the mandatory collection centres. 

(iii)Collective Investment Management Company shall ensure that Registrars to Issue 

registered with the Board are appointed. 

(iv) Registrar  to  an  issue  who  is  associated  with  the  Collective  Investment 
Management Company as a promoter or a director shall not be allowed to act as 
Registrar for that issue. 

 
26. Offer document to be made public 
The draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public for a period of 21 days from 
the date of filing the offer document with the Board. 
The Collective Investment Management Company shall make copies of offer document available 
to the public. Collective Investment Management Company can charge an appropriate sum to the 
person requesting for the copy. 
 

27. Despatch of Issue Material 
The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  ensure  that  offer  document  and  other 
issue materials are dispatched to the bankers to the issue, investors association etc. in advance. 
 
28. No Complaints Certificate 
After a period of 21 days from the date the draft offer document was made public, the Collective 
Investment Management Company shall file a statement with SEBI: 

(i)  giving a list of complaints received by it, 
(ii) a statement by it whether it is proposed to amend the draft offer document or not, 

 
29. Mandatory Collection Centres 
There  should  be  at  least  30  mandatory  collection  centres  which  should  invariably  include  the 
places where stock exchanges have been established. 
 
30. Authorised Collection agents 

and 

(iii)highlight those amendments. 

(i)  The Collective Investment Management Company’s are also permitted to appoint 
authorised collection agents subject to necessary disclosures including the names 
and addresses of such agents being mentioned in the offer document. While the 
modalities  of  selection  and  appointment  of  collection  agents  are  left  to  the 
discretion  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company’s,  it  should  be 
ensured that the agents so selected are properly equipped for the purpose, both in 
terms of infrastructure and manpower requirements. 

(ii) The  collection  agents  should  be  permitted  to  collect  such  applications  as  are 
accompanied  by  payment  of  application  moneys  paid  by  cheques,  drafts  and 
stockinvests.  Under  no  circumstances  they  should  be  permitted  to  collect 
application moneys in cash. 

(iii)The  applications  so  collected  shall  be  deposited  in  the  special  unit  application 
account with designated scheduled bank either on the same date or latest by the 
next  working  day.  The  application  forms  along  with  duly  reconciled  schedules 
should be forwarded to the Registrars to the Issue after realisation of cheques and 
after  weeding  out  the  applications  in  respect  of  cheques  return  cases,  within  a 
period of 2 weeks from the date of closure of the issue. 

(iv) The  applications  accompanied  by  stockinvests  should  be  sent  directly  to  the 
Registrars to the Issue along with the schedules within one week from the date of 
closure  of  the  issue.  Further,  the  offer  documents  and  application  forms  should 
specifically indicate that the acknowledgement of receipt of application moneys 
given  by  the  collection  agents  shall  be  valid  and  binding  on  the  Collective 
Investment Management Company and other persons connected with the issue. 

(v) The  investors  from  the  places  other  than  from  the  places  where  the  mandatory 
collection centres and authorised collection agents are located, can forward their 
applications  along  with  stockinvests  to  the  Registrars  to  the  Issue  directly  by 
Registered Post with Acknowledgement Due and such applications shall be dealt 
with by the Registrars to the Issue in the normal course. 

 

31. Post issue Monitoring reports 

(a) Collective Investment Management Company shall ensure the submission of the post 
issue  monitoring  reports  irrespective  of  the  level  of  subscription.  These  reports  are 
required to be submitted within 3 working days from the due dates. 
(b) 3-day post issue monitoring report 
The due date for this report shall be the 3rd day from the date of closure of subscription 
of the issue. 
(c) 98-day post issue monitoring report 
The due date for this report shall be the 98th day from the date of closure of subscription 
of the issue. 

 
Bankers to an issue 
 
32. The trustee shall ensure that moneys received pursuant to the issue shall be utilised only after 
the minimum subscription as mentioned in the offer document has been received and a statement 
to that effect has been given by the Registrars to the Issue. 
 
33. Post-issue advertisements 
33.1 Collective Investment Management Company shall ensure that in all issues, advertisement 
giving details relating to oversubscription, basis of allotment, number, value and percentage of 
applications  received  along  with  stockinvest,  number,  value  and  percentage  of  successful 
allottees who have applied through stockinvest, date of completion of despatch of refund orders, 
date  of  despatch  of  certificates  is  released  within  10  days  from  the  date  of  completion  of  the 
various activities in at least two national dailies. 
33.2  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  ensure  that  advisors/brokers  or  any 
other agencies connected with the issue do not publish any advertisement stating that issue has 
been oversubscribed or indicating investors’ response to the issue, during the period when the 
public issue is still open for subscription by the public. 
33.3  Advertisement  stating  that  the  subscription  list  has  been  closed  may  beissued  after  the 
actual closure of the issue. 
 
34. Other responsibilities 
34.1  In  case  of  delay  in  refund  of  subscription  moneys/excess  subscription,  the  Collective 
Investment  Management  Company  shall  ensure  that  the  interest  for  the  delayed  period  as 
mentioned in the offer document, is paid to the applicants. 
34.2 The Collective Investment Management Company shall ensure that the despatch of refund 
orders/allotment letters/share certificates is done by way of registered post/certificate of posting 
as may be applicable. 
 
35. Certificate Regarding Realisation of Stockinvests 

(i)  The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  submit  within  two  weeks 
from the date of allotment, a Certificate to the trustee certifying that the stockinvests on 
the basis of which allotment was finalised, have been realised. 

 (ii) Subscription list for the 296[collective investment scheme] shall be kept open for not 
more than 90 working days and this fact should be disclosed in the offer document. 

 
Retention of Oversubscription 
 
36. The quantum of issue shall not exceed the amount specified in the offer document. However, 
an oversubscription to the extent of 10% of the amount mentioned is permissible for the purpose 
of rounding off to the nearer multiple of 100 while finalising the allotment. 
 
 
37. Updation of Offer Document 

(i) The Collective Investment Management Company should ensure that the particulars 
(audited statement) contained therein should not be more than 6 months old from issue 
opening date. 
(ii) Restrictions, if any, on transfer and transmission of units. 
(iii) Tax treatment of Investments in vs. A detailed write-up on the various tax benefits 
that are available and the taxes that are charged to the unit holders in the  297[collective 
investment scheme]s. 

 
38. Basis of Allotment 
In  each  and  every  issue  of  units  to  the  public  that  has  been  oversubscribed,  the  Collective 
Investment Management Company and the Registrar to an Issue, shall ensure that allotments are 
made in the following manner : 
(a) Proportionate allotment procedure: 

The allotment shall be subject to allotment in marketable lots, on a proportionate basis as 
explained below: 
(i) Applicants will be categorised according to the number of units applied for. 
(ii) The total number of units to be allotted to each category as a whole shall be arrived at 
on  a  proportionate  basis  i.e.,  the  total  number  of  units  applied  for  in  that  category 
(number of applicants in the category × number of units applied for) multiplied by the 
inverse of the oversubscription ratio as illustrated below : 
Total number of applicants in category of 100s - 1,500 
Total number of units applied for - 1,50,000 
Number of times oversubscribed - 3 
Proportionate allotment to category - 1,50,000 × 1/3 
                                                          = 50,000 
 
Number  of  the  units  to  be  allotted  to  the  successful  allottees  will  be  arrived  at  on  a 
proportionate  basis  i.e.,  total  number  of  units  applied  for  by  each  applicant  in  that 
category multiplied by the inverse of the oversubscription ratio. 
Number of units applied for by – 100 each applicant 

                                                            
296 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
297 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 

Number of times oversubscribed - 3 
Proportionate allotment to each successful applicant - 100 × 1/3 = 33 
                                                                                      (to be rounded off to 100) 
(iii) All the applications where the proportionate allotment works out to 
less than 100 units per applicant, the allotment shall be made as 
follows: 
*Each successful applicant shall be allotted a minimum of 100 units; and 
(iv)  *The  successful  applicants  out  of  the  total  applicants  for  that  category  shall  be 
determined by drawal of lots in such a manner that the total number of units allotted in 
that category is equal to the number of units worked out as per (ii) above. 
(v) If the proportionate allotment to an applicant works out to a number that is more than 
100 but is not a multiple of 100 (which is the marketable lot), the number in excess of the 
multiple of 100 would be rounded off to the higher multiple of 100 if that number is 50 or 
higher. If that number is lower than 50, it would be rounded off to the lower multiple of 
100.  (As  an  illustration,  if  the  proportionate  allotment  works  out  to  250,  the  applicant 
would be allotted 300 units. If however the proportionate allotment works out to 240, the 
applicant would be allotted 200 units). All applicants in such categories would be allotted 
units arrived at after such rounding off. 
(vi) If the units allocated on a proportionate basis to any category is more than the units 
allotted to the applicants in that category, the balance available units for allotment shall 
be first adjusted against the category comprising applicants applying in number of units 
and  thereafter  the  remaining,  if  any  surplus  still  remains,  should  be  adjusted  to  next 
higher category and so on till the surplus is fully used. 
(vii) As the process of rounding off to the nearer multiple of 100 may result in the actual 
allocation  being  higher  than  the  units  offered,  it  would  be  necessary  to  allow  a  10% 
margin i.e., the final allotment may be higher upto 110% of the size of the offering. 

 
39. The Date of the Offer Document 
The date of the offer document shall be reckoned to be the date when the offer document was 
filed with the Board. 
 
40. Trust Deed 
(a) The offer date shall mention the date of, and parties to, the trust deed relating to the collective 
investment scheme. 
(b) The summary of the provisions of the trust deed and the regulation regarding the retirement, 
removal and replacement of trustee and Collective Investment Management Company. 
 
41. 298[Collective investment scheme]s and investments 
All offer documents shall contain : 

a)  All  offer  documents  shall  contain  the  name  and  description  and  the  date  of 
commencement  of  operation  of  every  other  299[collective  investment  scheme] 
involving the issue of units to the public conducted by the Collective Investment 

                                                            
298 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
299 ibid. 

Management Company within the 5 years immediately preceding the date of the 
offer document. 

b)  A  report  by  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  summarising  the 
current investment relating to the 300[collective investment scheme] made up to a 
date not more than 28 days before the date of the offer document. 

c)  A  report  by  the  auditor  of  the  301[collective  investment  scheme],  in  respect  of 
every  issue  of  units  relating  to  any  other  302[collective  investment  scheme], 
launched  by  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company,  within  the  five 
financial years immediately preceding the date of the offer document, setting out 
such information as sufficiently discloses the number of distribution (if any) of 
income to holders to units relating to a Collective Investment Scheme in each of 
the 5 financial years immediately preceding the date of the offer document during 
which those units had been in existence, the amount and each distribution and the 
nature and value of each of the components of the distribution. 

d)  A report by the auditors of the 303[collective investment scheme], setting out the 
profits or losses of the Collective Investment Management Company in respect of 
each  of  the  5  financial  years  immediately  preceding  the  date  of  the  offer 
document  during  which  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  was 
carrying on business, and the rates of dividends (if any) paid by the company in 
respect  of  each  of  those  years,  and  the  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  Collective 
Investment Management Company as at the last date on which its accounts were 
made up being a date no more than 12 months before the date of issue of the offer 
document. 

 
 

SEVENTH SCHEDULE 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT SCHEME) REGULATIONS, 1999 

[Regulation 27(1)] 

ADVERTISEMENT CODE 

 

(1) A 304[collective investment scheme] advertisement shall: 

a.  be truthful, fair and clear and shall not contain any statement which is untrue or 

b.  be  set  forth  in  a  clear,  concise  and  understandable  language.  Extensive  use  of 
technical, legal terminology or complex language and the inclusion of excessive 
details which may detract the investor, shall be avoided, 

c.  not  contain  statements  which  promise  or  guarantee  an  appreciation  of  rapid 

misleading, 

profits, 

                                                            
300 ibid. 
301 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
302 ibid. 
303 ibid. 
304 ibid. 

d.  not  contain  any  information  or  language  that  is  not  contained  in  the  offer 

document, 

e.  not include any slogans or brand names except the normal commercial name of 

the 305[collective investment scheme]s, 

f.  not have slogans, expletives or non-factual and unsubstantiated titles, 
g.  contain  risk  factors  giving  equal  importance  in  all  respects  including  the  print 
size. The print size of highlights and risk factors in issue advertisements shall not 
be less than point 9 size. It shall mention the names of  306[collective investment 
scheme]s, Collective Investment Management Company, trustee, address of their 
registered office and Registrars to the Issue, 

h.  contain “Risk Factors” in respect of the concerned issue : 

Provided that an offer opening/closing advertisement which does not contain the 
highlights need not contain risk factors. 

ii. 

 
(2) A 307[collective investment scheme] advertisement shall be considered to be misleading, if it 
contains— 
i. 

statements  made  about  the  performance  or  activities  of  the  308[collective 
investment  scheme]s  in  the  absence  of  necessary  explanatory  or  qualifying 
statements,  which  may  give  an  exaggerated  picture  of  the  performance  or 
activities, than what it really is. 
an  inaccurate  portrayal  of  past  performance  or  its  portrayal  in  a  manner  which 
implies that past gains or income will be repeated in the future. 

 
(3) Any advertisement reproducing or purporting to reproduce any information contained in an 
offer document shall reproduce such information in full and disclose all relevant facts and not be 
restricted to select extracts relating to that item. 
 
(4)  No  models,  celebrities,  fictional  characters,  landmarks  or  caricatures  or  the  likes  shall  be 
displayed  on  or  form  part  of  the  offer  documents  or  advertisements  of  the  309[collective 
investment scheme]. 
 
(5)  No  corporate  advertisement  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  be 
issued  after  21  days  of  the  filing  of  the  offer  document  with  the  Board  till  the  closure  of  the 
310[collective investment scheme] unless the risk factors as are required to be mentioned in the 
offer document, are mentioned in such advertisement. 
 

                                                            
305 ibid. 
306 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
307 ibid. 
308 ibid. 
309 ibid. 
310 ibid. 

(6) No advertisement shall be issued stating that the 311[collective investment scheme] has been 
fully  subscribed  or  oversubscribed  during  the  period  the  312[collective  investment  scheme]  is 
open  for  subscription,  except  to  the  effect  that  the  issue  is  open  or  closed.  No  announcement 
regarding closure of the issue shall be made except on the last closing date. If the 313[collective 
investment  scheme]  is  fully  subscribed  before  the  last  closing  date  as  stated  in  the  offer 
document, the announcement shall be made only after the  314[collective investment scheme] is 
fully subscribed and such announcement is made on the date on which the issue is to be closed. 
 
(7)  Announcement  regarding  closure  of  315[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  be  made  only 
after the trustee is satisfied that at least minimum number of units have been subscribed and a 
certificate has been obtained to that effect from the Registrar to the Issue. 
 
(8)  No  incentives  shall  be  offered  through  any  advertisements  to  any  one  associated  with 
marketing the issue. 
 
 (9)  In  case  there  is  a  reservation  for  the  Non-resident  Indians,  the  316[collective  investment 
scheme]  advertisement  shall  specify  the  same  and  indicate  the  place  in  India  from  where  the 
individual NRI applicant can procure application forms. 
 
(10) The advertisement shall not compare one  317[collective investment scheme] with another, 
implicitly  or  explicitly,  unless  the  comparison  is  fair  and  all  information  relevant  to  the 
comparison is included in the advertisement. 
 
(11)  If  any  existing  collective  investment  scheme  indicates  the  past  performance  of  the 
318[collective  investment  scheme]  in  advertisements,  the  basis  for  computing  the  rates  of 
return/yield  and  adjustments  made  (if  any)  must  be  expressly  indicated  with  a  statement  that, 
such information is not necessarily indicative 
of future results and may not necessarily provide a basis for comparison with other investments. 
 
(12) Advertisements on the performance of a 319[collective investment scheme] or its Collective 
Investment Management Company shall compare the past performances only on the basis of per 
unit of statistics as per these regulations. Advertisements for NAVs, if any, must indicate the past 
as well as the latest NAV of a 320[collective investment scheme]. The yield calculations shall be 
made as provided in these regulations. 

                                                            
311 ibid. 
312 ibid. 
313 ibid. 
314 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
315 ibid. 
316 ibid. 
317 ibid. 
318 ibid. 
319 ibid.. 
320 ibid. 

 
(13) The trustee shall: 

 
 

(i)  ensure strict compliance by the Collective Investment Management Company set 
with the code of advertisement set out above, (ii) obtain an undertaking from the 
Collective  Investment  Management  Company  to  the  effect  that  the  Collective 
Investment Management Company shall not directly or indirectly release, during 
any  conference  or  at  any  other  time,  any  material  or  information  which  is  not 
contained in the offer documents, 

(ii) ensure that the Collective Investment Management Company obtains approval in 
respect  of  all  321[collective  investment  scheme]  advertisements  and  publicity 
materials from them. 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT SCHEME) REGULATIONS, 1999 

EIGHTH SCHEDULE 

[Regulation 51] 

 
PROCEDURE FOR CONDUCT OF MEETINGS 
 
MEETINGS 
Procedure relating to conduct of meeting are as follows: 
The  trustee  or  unit  holders  holding  one-tenth  in  nominal  value  of  the  unit  capital  of  the 
322[collective investment scheme] may call a meeting of the unit holders in the manner as set out 
below: 

(i)  Within 21 days of the receipt of the notice from the unit holders, the trustee shall 
call  a  meeting  of  the  unit  holders  by  causing  to  send  a  notice  by  post  of  the 
proposed meeting at least 7 days before the proposed meeting to each of the unit 
holders or, in the case of joint holders, to the joint holder whose name appears 
first in the records. 

(ii) The trustee shall preside as chairman at every meeting. 
(iii)Any  unit  holder  may  appoint  another  person  as  his  proxy  to  attend  and  vote 

instead of himself. 

(iv) Proxy so appointed shall not have any right to speak at the meeting. 
(v) Each unit holder shall have one vote for every 1.00 unit of capital contributed by 
him (or his predecessor in title). Except where expressly provided to the contrary 
in  the  deed  or  the  regulations,  all  decisions  relating  to  the  323[collective 
investment scheme] shall be by ordinary resolution. Equality of voting shall result 
in the resolution being deemed lost. The Chairman shall have a casting vote. An 
extraordinary resolution shall be carried if threequarters of the votes are in favour 
of the resolution. 

                                                            
321 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
322 ibid. 
323 ibid. 

(vi) No business shall be transacted at a meeting without a quorum. Quorum shall be 
met if unit holders (including proxies) holding at least one-tenths in nominal value 
of  the  unit  capital  of  the  324[collective  investment  scheme]  are  present  at  the 
meeting. 

The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  keep  a  minute 

book in which the Minutes and Resolutions of each meeting shall be recorded. 

At any meeting a resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be decided 
on a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by the Chairman or by any unit 
holder present in person. 

(ix) Entry  of  a  resolution  in  the  Minute  Book  shall  be  conclusive  evidence  of  the 

(vii) 

(viii) 

number of votes recorded in favour of or against the resolution. 

(x) A resolution of the unit holders shall be invalid if it constitutes a fraud on those 

unit holders who oppose the resolution. 

 
 

NINTH SCHEDULE 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (COLLECTIVE 

INVESTMENT SCHEME) REGULATIONS, 1999 

[Regulations 21(13), 43(1), 44(4)(iii), 71(1)(e)] 

ACCOUNTING NORMS, INVESTMENTS AND EXPENSE CEILING 

PART I -CEILING ON EXPENSES 

 

 

The expenses incurred shall be subject to a ceiling as specified below : 
(1) Initial Issue Expenses 
(a) These may include: 

• cost of offer documents and related costs; 
• marketing and selling expenses including agents’ commission, if any; 
• fees to Lead Managers, if any, Registrars and collecting banks; 
• initial rating and appraisal fees. 

 
(b) These expenses shall be borne by the 325[collective investment scheme]. 
 
(c) These expenses shall not exceed 

(i)  7.00  per  cent  of  the  funds  raised  under  the  326[collective  investment  scheme]  for  a 
327[collective investment scheme] of duration upto 8 years and 
(ii)  9.00  per  cent  of  the  funds  raised  under  the  328[collective  investment  scheme]  for  a 
329[collective investment scheme] having a duration of more than 8 years. 

                                                            
324 ibid. 
325 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
326 ibid. 
327 ibid. 
328 ibid. 
329 ibid. 

 
(d) These expenses shall be amortized equally over a period not exceeding seven years or the 
period of the 330[collective investment scheme], whichever is less. 
 
(2) Management and Advisory Fees to CIMC 
(a) Such fees may consist of: 

• Basic Fee 
• Incentive Fee 

 
(b) The ‘basic fee’ shall not exceed: 

(i) 1.00 per cent each year of the funds raised under the 331[collective investment scheme] 
for the first five years of operation of the 332[collective investment scheme]; 
 (ii)  1.25  per  cent  each  year  of  the  funds  raised  under  the  333[collective  investment 
scheme] for the next five years of operation of the 334[collective investment scheme]; 
(iii)  1.50  per  cent  each  year  of  the  funds  raised  under  the  335[collective  investment 
scheme]  for  the  subsequent  period  thereof  till  the  termination  of  the  336[collective 
investment scheme]. 

 
Incentive fees 
The incentive fees shall not exceed 25 per cent of the excess return realized over and above the 
indicative return as shown in the offer document (excluding the unit capital) at the time of the 
termination of the 337[collective investment scheme]. In case the return at the termination of the 
338[collective investment scheme] is less than or equal to the indicative return as shown in the 
offer document, then no incentive fees shall 
be paid. 
 
(3) Other Expenses 
Only the following expenses should be borne by the 339[collective investment scheme] namely : 

• registrar services for transfer of units sold or redeemed; 
• fees and expenses of trustees; 
• audit fees; 
• subsequent rating and appraisal fees; 
• listing fees; 

                                                            
330 ibid. 
331 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
332 ibid. 
333 ibid. 
334 ibid. 
335 ibid. 
336 ibid. 
337 ibid.. 
338 ibid. 
339 ibid. 

•  other  direct  costs  (if  any)  which  are  incidental  to  the  operation  of  the  340[collective 
investment scheme], as may be approved by trustee; 

 
(4) All other expenses shall be borne by the CIMC. 
 
 

PART II - ACCOUNTING NORMS 

 

Plantation 341[collective investment scheme] 

 
1. Accounting norms for plantation 342[collective investment scheme] 
 
2. Unit Capital 
 
2.1  All  amounts  received  from  an  investor,  by  whatever  name  called,  during  the  period  the 
343[collective investment scheme] is open for subscription shall be treated as towards the sale of 
units of the 344[collective investment scheme] and shall be accounted as Unit Capital. 
 
2.2 Unit capital will be disclosed in the Balance Sheet of the 345[collective investment scheme] 
under the head “Sources of Funds” (in the same manner as Share Capital in the case of a limited 
company). No portion of Unit capital shall be apportioned to revenue or to any other account 
under any circumstances. 
 
3. Costs Relating to Land 
 
3.1 Land Acquired with Ownership Rights should be accounted as a Fixed Asset in accordance 
with Accounting Standard 10 (‘AS-10’) on “Accounting for Fixed Assets” issued by ICAI. In 
respect  of  land  with  ownership  rights,  the  cost  of  the  land  should  be  amortised  over  the 
346[collective  investment  scheme]period  by  way  of  a  suitable  charge  to  ‘Crop  Development 
Expenses’. 
 
3.2 Land acquired under lease may either be against: 
• Payment of (non-refundable) premium; or 
• Payment of monthly or periodic lease rentals 
 

Land  acquired  against  payment  of  non-refundable  premium  should  be  accounted  as  a  Fixed 
Asset and separately disclosed in the Fixed Assets schedule. Such premium paid for leasehold 

                                                            
340 ibid. 
341 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014 
342 ibid. 
343 ibid. 
344 ibid. 
345 ibid. 
346 ibid. 

land should be capitalised as cost of land and amortized over the lease period or the period of the 
sc347[collective investment scheme], whichever is less. 
In respect of land acquired against the payment of periodic lease rentals, such amounts shall be 
charged to the profit and loss account. The following disclosures are required in the financial 
statements: 

• Period of Lease 
• Owner of land 
• Relationship of owner with trustees and directors of CIMC 
• If lease period is shorter than tenure of the 348[collective investment scheme], the period 
of lease and conditions for future renewals of lease. 

 
3.3 Land Development Expenses 
These include expenses on : 

• New access roads and fencing 
• Major changes in land contours 
• Levelling, uprooting and terracing 
• Regular upkeep and maintenance of land 

Expenses of a capital nature should be added to the cost of land. 
In case of leasehold land, these expenses should be written off over the period of the lease or the 
period of 349[collective investment scheme], whichever is less. 
Expenses of a revenue nature should be charged to the Profit and Loss Account in the year in 
which they are incurred. 
 
3.4 Infrastructure and other facilities shall include : 

• Roads and Fencing 
• Security and Research and Development Buildings 
• Drip Irrigation systems, water systems 
• Agriculture Equipments and Production facilities 

These should be accounted as Fixed Assets in accordance with AS-10 on “Accounting for Fixed 
Assets” issued by ICAI. 
 
3.5 IAS 36 requires that impairment losses in respect of assets should be recognised. Impairment 
arises  whenever  an  asset’s  carrying  amount  exceeds  its  recoverable  amount.  All  impairment 
losses should be provided for. 
 
3.6 In case such assets are taken on lease, then the amounts spent should be accounted on the 
same basis as mentioned in Paragraph 3.2 and the disclosure requirements mentioned therein will 
also apply. 
 
4. Fixed Assets (other than land and related infrastructure facilities) 
 

                                                            
347 ibid. 
348 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
349 ibid. 

4.1 Such Fixed Assets should be accounted in accordance with AS-10 on “Accounting for Fixed 
Assets” issued by ICAI – Basically that the cost of a fixed asset comprises its purchase price and 
any attributable cost of bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. 
 
4.2 These assets should be depreciated as per Schedule XIV to the Companies Act, 1956. 
 
4.3 Capital Subsidies received should be accounted as per Accounting Standard (‘AS’) – 12 on 
“Accounting for Government Grants” issued by ICAI – Basically that the recognition of a grant 
should depend on assurance of the compliance of conditions and certainty of receipts and grants 
relating to specific fixed assets should be deducted from the gross value of assets in arriving at 
their book value. 
 
4.4  As  required  by  IAS  36,  impairment  losses  in  respect  of  assets  should  be  recognised. 
Impairment arises whenever an asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
 
4.5 In case such assets are taken on lease, then the amounts spent should be accounted on the 
same basis as mentioned in Paragraph 3.2 and the disclosure requirements mentioned therein will 
also apply. 
 
5. Crop Development Expenses 
 
5.1 There are generally expenses incurred for development and upkeep of crop. This includes 
expenses on: 

• Soil Manuring. 
• Sapling and crop Plantation. 
• Regular maintenance and upkeep of crop. 
•  Lease  rentals  paid  for  land  and  for  any  other  assets  directly  attributable  to  crop 
development. 
•  Amount  proportionately  amortised  over  the  350[collective  investment  scheme]  period 
relating to cost of land. 
• Depreciation and maintenance of fixed assets directly attributable to crop development. 
• Other expenses directly attributable to crop development. 

These  expenses  should  be  accounted  as  “Crop  Development  Expenses”.  They  should  be 
disclosed  as  a  separate  item  appearing  between  “Fixed  Assets”  and  “Current  Assets”  in  the 
Balance Sheet. 
 
5.2 The total of Crop development expenses at the end of the year should be compared with Net 
Realisable Value (‘NRV’). NRV would generally mean the amount that would be realised in the 
normal course, in case the standing crops are disposed of on that day. NRV can be determined on 
the basis of estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated cost to be 
incurred in future for bringing the crop to maturity, and the cost necessarily to be incurred to 
make the sale. In case the NRV is lower than the total of the crop development expenses at the 

                                                            
350 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 

year end, then a suitable provision for the difference between these two figures should be made 
and disclosed as follows : 
Crop Development Expenses (At Cost)    X 
Less : Provision for diminution in value     Y 
                                                        __________ 
                                                                X-Y 
 
5.3 The crop development expenses and the provision for diminution will be carried forward to 
the next year at gross values. A similar exercise would be done at the end of each year. In case 
the  NRV  at  the  end  of  the  second  or  subsequent  year  is  greater  than/or  equal  to  cost  in  the 
respective year, then it will be possible to recoup the provision account by transferring it to the 
credit of Profit and Loss Account only to the extent such a provision was made in the past. The 
basic principle of valuation at lower of Cost or NRV, would still hold good every year. In case 
the crop is at such a stage that it is not possible to determine NRV, these expenses should be 
valued At Cost and a suitable disclosure to that effect should be made in the financial statements. 
These expenses will be set off against income arising from the sale of crops, either in stages or at 
the terminal point. 
 
5.4  Considering  the  peculiar  nature  of  this  expenditure  and  the  long  production  cycle,  “Crop 
Development  Expenses”  should  be  separately  disclosed  between  “Fixed  Assets  and  Current 
Assets” as discussed in Paragraph 5.1 above. 
 
6. Investments 
 
6.1  All  investments  should  be  carried  at  lower  of  cost  and  fair  value  determined  either  on  an 
individual investment basis or by category of investment, but not on an overall (or global) basis. 
 
6.2 In respect of quoted investments, market value generally provides the best evidence of fair 
value. 
 
6.3 Unquoted investments in debt instruments should be valued on a yield to maturity basis, the 
capitalisation factor being determined for comparable traded investments and with an appropriate 
discount for lower liquidity. 
 
7. Inventory Valuation 
Inventories other than Crop Development Expenses should be valued as per the basic principles 
laid down by AS 2 on Inventory Valuation – Inventory should be valued at the lower of cost and 
net realisable value and the Accounting Policy for valuation should be disclosed in the financial 
statements. 
 
8. Revenue Recognition 
 
8.1  Revenue  should  be  recognized  as  per  Accounting  Standard  (‘AS’)  –  9  on  “Revenue 
Recognition” issued by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, to the extent it is applicable 
–  Revenue  should  be  recognised  only  if  there  is  a  reasonable  certainty  of  collectibility  or 
measurability. 

 
8.2 Income would generally arise from the following sources: 

•Sale  of  Crops  -  the  sale  proceeds  of  crops  arising  at  periodical  intervals  should  be 
accounted during the year in which the sale has been effected. The cost allocable to such 
sale proceeds should be set off against the crop development expenses account and the 
surplus, if any, should be transferred to Profit and Loss account. 
• Sale of Residuals and Scraps - the sales proceeds shall be accounted as income in the 
year of sale and credited to Profit and Loss account. 
• Income from Investments - income arising out of investments of surplus bank balances, 
etc.  shall  be  accounted  on  a  time  proportion  basis  taking  into  account  the  amount 
outstanding and the rate applicable. 
•  Dividend  from  Investments  -  dividends,  if  any,  will  be  recognized  when  the  right  to 
receive payment is established. 
• Sale of Standing Crops at terminal point - sale proceeds/transfer value of the standing 
crops  at  the  terminal  point  shall  be  accounted  as  and  when  they  are  disposed 
off/transferred.  The  profit  arising  on  such  transactions  over  the  book  value  shall  be 
accounted  at  the  point  of  sale/disposal;  this  should  be  set  off  against  the  crop 
development expenses. 

 
9. Expenses 
 
9.1 Expenses other than Crop Development Expenses can be broadly classified as under: 

• Initial Marketing and Launch Expenses 
• Normal Business Expenses 

 
9.2 Initial issue expenses 
Initial issue expenses may be treated as deferred revenue expenses to be written off over eight 
years or duration of the 351[collective investment scheme] whichever is earlier. 
 
9.3 Normal Business Expenses would include: 

• Registrar services for transferor of units sold or redeemed 
• CIMC and trustee Fees 
• Depreciation 
• Audit Fees 
• Subsequent Rating and Appraisal Fees 
• Listing Fees 
•  Other  costs,  (if  any),  which  are  incidental  for  the  operation  of  the  352[collective 
investment scheme], as may be approved by trustees. 

These expenses shall be treated as an expense of the year in which they are incurred and written 
off to the Profit and Loss Account. 
 
10. Returns to Investors 

                                                            
351 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
352 ibid. 

 
10.1  Interim  Returns  to  investors  in  respect  of  CIS  can  be  paid  only  out  of  the  distributable 
surplus of the CIS. Interim Returns can be paid only in cash and not in kind. 
 
10.2 “Distributable surplus” means the profits of the CIS after: 

•  Providing  for  all  expenses  on  accrual  basis  including  depreciation  as  discussed  in 
paragraph 4.2 above 
•  Providing  for  diminution  in  value  of  crop  development  expenses  as  discussed  in 
paragraph 5.2 above 
• Fully setting off the debit balance in Profit and Loss account, if any 
•  Transferring  50%  of  the  remaining  balance  to  a  separate  reserve  called  “Special 
Reserve” 

 
10.3 The amount of interim returns distributed to investors should not exceed the distributable 
surplus. 
 
10.4 The balance in the Special Reserve cannot be utilised for any purpose except for distribution 
to unit holders at the termination of the 353[collective investment scheme]. 
 
10.5  At  the  end  of  the  tenure  of  the  354[collective  investment  scheme],  the  surplus  of  the 
355[collective investment scheme], if any, shall be calculated on the basis of realisable value of 
all  the  assets,  including  land,  of  the  356[collective  investment  scheme].  The  surplus  of  the 
357[collective investment scheme] distributed in cash shall be in proportion to unit capital. 
 
 

ACCOUNTING NORMS: LIVESTOCK 358 [COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME] 

 
1. Costs relating to owned land 
 
1.1 Land acquired with ownership rights should be accounted as a Fixed asset in accordance with 
Accounting Standard 10 (AS-10) on “Accounting for Fixed Assets” issued by ICAI. 
 
1.2 Cost of such land should not be amortised over the 359[collective investment scheme] period 
(refer paragraph 2.3 above). 
 
2. Livestock development expenses 
 

                                                            
353 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
354 ibid. 
355 ibid. 
356 ibid. 
357 ibid. 
358 ibid. 
359 ibid. 

2.1  There  are  generally  expenses  incurred  on  rearing  and  development  of  livestock  including 
maintenance and upkeep. This includes expenses on: 

• Cost of base stock. 
• Food costs. 
• Medicines and other maintenance. 
• Cost of artificial insemination. 
•  Lease  rentals  paid  for  land  and  for  any  other  assets  directly  attributable  to  livestock 
development. 
•  Depreciation  and  maintenance  of  fixed  assets  directly  attributable  to  livestock 
development. 
• Any other expenses directly attributable to livestock development. 

These  expenses  should  be  accounted  as  “Livestock  Development  Expenses”.  They  should  be 
disclosed  as  a  separate  item  appearing  between  “Fixed  Assets”  and  “Current  Assets”  in  the 
balance sheet. (Reference is invited to Paragraph 5.1). 
 
2.2 Valuation of livestock development expenses and provision for diminution in value would be 
in the same manner as in respect of crop development expenses which is discussed in Paragraphs 
5.2 and 5.3. 
 
3. Livestock Trading 
 
3.1  Separate  quantitative  information  should  be  maintained  in  respect  of  livestock  that  is 
procured  for  resale  without  being  used  in  rearing/development  activity.  An  annual  trading 
account  should  be  prepared  in  respect  of  Livestock  traded  during  the  year  (which  shall  be 
exclusive of Livestock under rearing/development). 
 
3.2  A  suitable  annual  charge  should  be  made  in  respect  of  cost  of  maintenance  etc.  of  the 
livestock which remained for trading purpose only. 
The cost of maintenance etc. to be charged to the livestock trading account shall be calculated on 
the basis of quantitative proportion of livestock held under rearing/development and for trading. 
 
4. Valuation of by-products 
 
4.1 Inventory of by-products at the year end (i.e., manure in case of Goat, eggs in case of Poultry 
etc.) should be carried at “lower of cost or market value”. 
 
4.2 Cost of by product shall be calculated on the basis of specific cost incurred on the by-product 
after the point of separation to make it marketable. 

 
1. Scheme wise financial statements 
 

PART III -FORMAT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Basic Framework relating to Financial Statements 

 
 

 

1.1 Broadly, financial statements would consist of 

• Balance sheet 
• Revenue account 

 
1.2 These should be prepared schemewise 
 
2. Contents of scheme wise Balance sheet 
 
2.1 Asset side of the balance sheet 
The assets of the balance sheet shall be grouped into the following categories : 

 
I. Fixed assets 
Cost, accumulated depreciation and net block should be disclosed for each of the following: 

• Fixed assets 
• Investments 
• Crop development expenses 
• Current assets 
• Deferred revenue expenditure 

• Land 
• Leasehold land 
• Land development expenses 
• Infrastructure and other facilities 
• Buildings 
• Plant and machinery 
• Furniture and fixtures 
• Research and development assets 
• Others 

 
II. Investments 
The following types of investment shall be separately disclosed: 

• Central or State Government securities 
• Deposits with scheduled banks 
• Debentures, Bonds and Deposits with public sector companies and financial institutions 
• Other Investments 

 
III. Crop Development Expenses 
The following information should be disclosed: 

• Opening balance 
• Expenses incurred during the year 
• Deductions 
• Closing balance 

 
In addition, net realisable value at year end and the Break up of various expenses included in 
closing balance should be disclosed. The closing balance in provisions for diminution in value in 
Crop Development Expense Account, if any, will be shown as a deduction from closing balance 
of Crop Development Expenses. 

 
IV. Current assets 
The following should be separately disclosed : 

• Balances with banks in current account 
• Cash on hand 
• Sundry debtors, distinguishing between good and doubtful 
• Inventories 
• Outstanding and accrued income 
• Advances recoverable in cash or kind 
• Deposits 
• Others 
 

V. Deferred revenue expenditure 
The following should be disclosed: 

• Opening balance 
• Additions during the year 
• Amount amortised during the year 
• Closing balance 

 
VI. The debit balance in Profit and Loss Account, if any, shall be brought out 
 
2.2 Liability side of the balance sheet 
Liabilities in the balance sheet shall be grouped into the following categories: 

• Unit Capital 
• Reserves and Surplus 
• Current liabilities and provisions 
 

I. Unit Capital 
Unit capital (including number of units and face value per unit) 
 
II. Reserves & Surplus 
The following should be separately disclosed: 

• General reserve 
• Revaluation reserve 
• Special reserve 
• Any other reserve (disclosing its nature) 
• Surplus in Profit and Loss account 

 
III. Current liabilities and provisions 
(a) Current Liabilities 
The following should be separately disclosed : 

• Sundry creditors 
• Statutory liabilities 
• Bank account overdrawn as per books 
• Unclaimed distributed income 
• Others 

 
IV. Contingent liabilities 
Disclosure should be made of all contingent liabilities, showing separately the nature and amount 
of each such liability. 
 
3. Contents of scheme wise Revenue account 
 
3.1 Income 
The following should be separately disclosed: 
• Surplus on Sale proceeds from crops 
• Dividend 
• Interest 
• Profit on sale/fixed assets and investments 
• Sale of residuals and scrap 
• Other income (indicating nature) 

 
3.2 Expenses and losses: 
The following should be separately disclosed: 

 

(b) Provisions 
The following should be separately disclosed: 

• Provision for gratuity 
• Proposed income distribution on unit capital 
• Provision for taxation 
• Other provisions 

• Crop development expenses also disclosing each major item of expense under this head 
• Provision for doubtful debtors and other assets 
• Loss on sale of fixed assets and investments 
• Management fees 
• Trusteeship fees 
• Registration and local charges 
• Audit fees 
• Repairs and maintenance 
• Deferred revenue expenses written off 
• Depreciation of fixed assets 
• Registration fees 
• Other operating expenses 

 
3.3 Increase/decrease in amount of Crop Development Expenses. 
 
4. Accounting policies 
Accounting policies in respect of the following should be separately disclosed at one place and 
form part of the financial statements: 
(a) Fixed assets 
1. Land 
2. Others 

 
(b) Depreciation 
1. Land 
2. Others 

 
(c) Investments 
 
(d) Crop Development Expenses (major items under this head should be disclosed) 
 
(e) Inventories 
 
(f) Revenue recognition 
 
(g) Retirement benefits 
 
(h) Foreign currency transactions 
 
(i) Deferred revenue expenditure 
 
5. Approval and authorisation 
The  financial  statements  shall  be  signed  by  the  schemewise  fund  managers  and  the  Board  of 
trustees and reported upon by the Auditors. They should be approved at a meeting of the Board 
of Directors of the Collective Investment Management Company and also at a meeting of the 
trustees or in case of a trustee company, by the Board of directors of the trustee Company. 
 
6. Auditors report 
 
6.1 All funds operating CIS shall be required to get their accounts audited in terms of a provision 
to that effect in their trust deeds. The Auditors’ Report shall form a part of the Annual Report. It 
should  accompany  the  Balance  Sheet,  Profit  and  Loss  Account  and  Revenue  Account.  The 
auditor shall report to the Board of trustees and not to the unitholders. 
 
6.2 The auditor shall state whether:— 

(a) he has obtained all information and explanations which, to the best of his knowledge 
and belief, were necessary for the purpose of his audit,  
(b)  the  Balance  Sheet,  Profit  and  Loss  Account  and  the  Revenue  account  are  in 
agreement with the books of account of the 360[collective investment scheme]. 

 
6.3 The auditor shall give his opinion as to whether: 

(a) the Balance Sheet gives a true and fair view of the schemewise state of affairs of the 
361[collective investment scheme] as at the balance sheet date, and  

                                                            
360 Substituted by the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 9-1-2014. 
361 ibid. 

(b) the Profit and Loss Account gives a true and fair view of the surplus/deficit of the 
362[collective  investment  scheme]  for  the  year/period  ended  at  the  Balance  Sheet  date, 
and 
(c) the Revenue Account gives a true and fair view of the schemewise surplus/deficit of 
the 363[collective investment scheme] for the year/period ended at the balance sheet date. 

                                                            
362 ibid. 
363 ibid. 

