 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
NEW DELHI, JUNE 10, 2009 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 10th June, 2009 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(DELISTING OF EQUITY SHARES) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

No.  LAD-NRO/GN/2009-2010/09/165992.  -  In  exercise  of  the 
powers  conferred  bysection  31  read  with  section  21A  of  the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42of 1956), section 30, 
sub-section (1) of section 11 and sub-section (2) of section 11A ofthe 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the 
Board herebymakes the following regulations, namely: - 
 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

of 

India 

(Delisting 

the  Securities  and 
Shares) 

of  Equity 

Short title andcommencement. 
1.  (1)  These  regulations  may  be  called 
ExchangeBoard 
Regulations,2009. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication inthe 
Official Gazette. 
Definitions 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, 
(i) ‘Act’ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,1992 
(15 of 1992); 
(ii) 
Indiaestablished under section 3 of the Act; 
(iii)‘company’ means a company within the meaning of section 3of 
the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and includes a bodycorporate or 
corporation established under a central Act, stateAct or provincial Act 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

‘Board’  means 

 

1 

the 

to 
SecuritiesandExchangeBoardofIndia(Issueof 

for  the  time  being  in  force,  whose  equity  shares  are  listed  on  a 
recognised stock exchange; 
(iv)‘compulsory  delisting’  means  delisting  of  equity  shares  of 
acompany by a recognised stock exchange under Chapter V ofthese 
regulations; 
1[(iva)“promotergroup”shallhavethesamemeaning  as  assigned 
itunder 
CapitalandDisclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009] 
(v)  ‘public  shareholders’  means  the  holders  of  equity  shares,other 
than the following: 
(a) promoters; 
(b) holders of depository receipts issued overseas againstequity shares 
held with a custodian and suchcustodian; 
(vi)‘recognised stock exchange’ means any stock exchange whichhas 
been  granted  recognition  under  section  4  of  the  SecuritiesContracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956; 
(vii) ‘Schedule’ means a Schedule appended to theseregulations; 
(viii)  ‘voluntary  delisting’  means  delisting  of  equity  shares  of 
acompany  voluntarily  on  application  of  the  company  underChapter 
III of these regulations; 
(ix)‘working days’ means the working days of the Board. 
concert’, 
(2)  The  words 
in 
‘promoter’,2['acquirer']and  ‘public  shareholding’  shall  have 
the 
meanings  respectivelyassigned  to  them  under  the  3[Securities  and 
Exchange  Board  ofIndia  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 
Takeovers)Regulations, 2011] as amended from time to time. 
(3)  Words  and  expressions  not  defined  in  these  regulations, 
but3defined 
the  Securities 
Contracts(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or the Companies Act, 
1956(1  of  1956),  or  any 
re-
enactmentthereof,  shall  have  the  same  meanings  as  in  or  under 
thoseenactments. 
 
                                                            
1Inserted by SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 
22ibid. 
3  Substituted  for  words  "Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 1997" by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 
24-03-2015. 
 

statutory  modification  or 

the  Act 

in 

or 

under 

‘control’, 

‘person 

acting 

or 

 

2 

CHAPTER II 

DELISTING OF EQUITY SHARES 

 
Applicability 
3.  (1)  These  regulations  shall  apply  to  delisting  of  equity  shares  of 
acompany  from  all  or  any  of  the  recognised  stock  exchangeswhere 
such shares are listed 4[:] 

5[Provided  that  these  regulations  shall  not  apply  to  securities 
listed without making a public issue, on the institutional trading 
platform of a recognised stock exchange.] 

the  Sick 

(2)  Nothing  in  these  regulations  shall  apply  to  any  delisting 
madepursuant to a scheme sanctioned by the Board for Industrialand 
Financial  Reconstruction  under 
IndustrialCompanies 
(Special  Provisions)  Act,  1985  or  by  the  NationalCompany  Law 
Tribunal  under  section  424D  of  the  CompaniesAct,  1956,  if  such 
scheme – 
(a) lays down any specific procedure to complete thedelisting; or 
(b)  provides  an  exit  option  to  the  existing  public  shareholdersat  a 
specified rate. 
 
Delisting  notpermissible  incertaincircumstancesand  conditions 
for delisting 
4. (1) No company shall apply for and no recognised stockexchange 
shall permit delisting of equity shares of a company,- 
(a) pursuant to a buyback of equity shares by the company;or 
(b) pursuant to a preferential allotment made by the company;or 
(c) unless a period of three years has elapsed since the listingof that 
class of equity shares on any recognised stockexchange; or 

 
 
 

3 

                                                            
4Substituted for the full stop  by the SEBI (Listing of Specified Securities on Institutional Trading Platform) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 08-10-2013  
5Substituted by SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Second Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 14-08-2015. 
Prior to its substitution, the proviso to sub-regulation (1) read as under: 
“Provided that these regulations shall not apply to securities listed on the institutional trading platform of a 
recognised stock exchange.” 

 

(d) if any instruments issued by the company, which areconvertible 
into the same class of equity shares that aresought to be delisted, are 
outstanding. 
6[(1A)  No    promoter  or  promoter  group  shall    propose  delisting  of 
equity shares of a company, if any entity belonging to the promoter or 
promoter group has sold equity shares of the company during a period 
of  six  months  prior  to  the  date  of  the  board  meeting  in  which  the 
delisting  proposal  was  approved  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (1B)  of 
regulation 8.] 
(2)  For  the  removal  of  doubts,  it  is  clarified  that  no  company 
shallapply for and no recognised stock exchange shall permitdelisting 
of convertible securities. 
(3) Nothing contained in clauses (c) and (d) of sub-regulation (1)shall 
apply  to  a  delisting  of  equity  shares  falling  under  clause  (a)  of 
regulation 6. 
(4)  No  promoter  shall  directly  or  indirectly  employ  the  funds  ofthe 
company to finance an exit opportunity provided underChapter IV or 
an  acquisition  of  shares  made  pursuant  to  sub  regulation(3)  of 
regulation 23. 
(5)  No  7[acquirer  orpromoter      or  promoter  group  or  their  related 
entities] shall – 
(a) employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud anyshareholder 
or other person; or 
(b) engage in any transaction or practice that operates as a fraud or 
deceit upon any shareholder or other person; or 
(c)  engage  in  any  act  or  practice  that  is  fraudulent,  deceptiveor 
manipulative – 
in  connection  with  any  delisting  sought  or  permitted  or 
exitopportunity given or other acquisition of shares made underthese 
regulations. 
 

CHAPTER III 

VOLUNTARY DELISTING 

Delisting fromall recognised stock exchanges 

                                                            
6Inserted by SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 
7  Substituted  for  words  "promoter  or  other  person"  by  the  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity  shares)  (Amendment) 
Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 

4 

 

they  are 

5. Subject to the provisions of these regulations, a company maydelist 
its equity shares from all the recognised stock exchangeswhere they 
are listed or from the only recognised stock exchange where they are 
listed:Provided  that  all  public  shareholders  holding  equity  shares  of 
theclass  which  are  sought  to  be  delisted  are  given  an  exit 
opportunityin accordance with Chapter IV. 
 
Delisting fromonly some of therecognised stock exchanges 
6.  A  company  may  delist 
its  equity  shares  from  one  or 
listed  and 
morerecognised  stock  exchanges  where 
continuetheir 
listing  on  one  or  more  other  recognised  stock 
exchanges,subject to the provisions of these regulations and subject to 
thefollowing –  
(a)  if  after  the  proposed  delisting  from  any  one  or  morerecognised 
stock  exchanges,  the  equity  shares  wouldremain  listed  on  any 
recognised stock exchange whichhas nationwide trading terminals, no 
exit opportunityneeds to be given to the public shareholders; and, 
(b) if after the proposed delisting, the equity shares wouldnot remain 
listed  on  any  recognised  stock  exchangehaving  nationwide  trading 
terminals, exit opportunityshall be given to all the public shareholders 
holding  theequity  shares  sought  to  be  delisted  in  accordance 
withChapter IV. 
Explanation:  For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation,  ‘recognised 
stockexchange  having  nationwide 
terminals’  means 
theBombay Stock Exchange Limited, the National Stock Exchangeof 
India Limited or any other recognised stock exchange whichmay be 
specified by the Board in this regard. 
 
Procedure fordelisting where noexit opportunity is required 
7. (1) In a case falling under clause (a) of regulation 6 – 
(a)  theproposed  delisting  shall  be  approved  by  a  resolutionof  the 
board of directors of the company in its meeting; 
(b) the company shall give a public notice of the proposeddelisting in 
at  least  one  English  national  daily  with  widecirculation,  one  Hindi 
national  daily  with  widecirculation  and  one  regional  language 
newspaper  of  theregion  where  the  concerned  recognised  stock 
exchangesare located; 

trading 

 

5 

(c)  the  company  shall  make  an  application  to  the  concerned  
recognised stock exchange for delisting its equity shares;and 
(d) the fact of delisting shall be disclosed in the first annualreport of 
the company prepared after the delisting. 
(2) The public notice made under clause (b) of sub-regulation (1)shall 
mention the names of the recognised stock exchangesfrom which the 
equity shares of the company are intended tobe delisted, the reasons 
for  such  delisting  and  the  fact  ofcontinuation  of  listing  of  equity 
shares  on  recognised  stockexchange  having  nationwide  trading 
terminals. 
(3)  An  application  for  delisting  made  under  clause  (c)  of  sub 
regulation(1)  shall  be  disposed  of  by  the  recognised  stockexchange 
within  a  period  not  exceeding  thirty  working  daysfrom  the  date  of 
receipt of such application complete in allrespects. 
 
Conditions  andprocedure  fordelisting  whereexit  opportunity  is 
required 
8.  (1)  Any  company  desirous  of  delisting  its  equity  shares  under 
theprovisions of Chapter III shall, except in a case falling underclause 
(a) of regulation 6, - 
(a) obtain the prior approval of the board of directors ofthe company 
in its meeting; 
(b)  obtain  the  prior  approval  of  shareholders  of  thecompany  by 
special resolution passed through postalballot, after disclosure of all 
material  facts  in  theexplanatory  statement  sent  to  the  shareholders 
inrelation to such resolution:Provided that the special resolution shall 
be  acted  uponif  and  only  if  the  votes  cast  by  public  shareholders 
infavour of the proposal amount to at least two times thenumber of 
votes cast by public shareholders against it. 
(c)  make  an  application  to  the  concerned  recognised  stockexchange 
for  in-principle  approval  of  the  proposeddelisting  in  the  form 
specified by the recognised stockexchange; and 
(d)  within  one  year  of  passing  the  special  resolution,  makethe  final 
application  to  the  concerned  recognised  stockexchange  in  the  form 
specified by the recognised stockexchange:Provided that in pursuance 
of  special  resolution  asreferred  to  in  clause  (b),  passed  before 
thecommencement  of  these  regulations,  final  applicationshall  be 

 

6 

the  commencement  of 

made within a period of one year from thedate of passing of special 
resolution  or  six  monthsfrom 
these 
regulations,whichever is later.8 
[(1A)     Prior to granting approval under clause (a) of sub-regulation 
(1), the board of directors of the company shall,- 
(i) make a disclosure to the recognized stock exchanges on which the 
equity shares of the company are listed that the promoters/acquirers 
have proposed to delist the company; 
(ii) appoint  a  merchant  banker  to  carry  out  due-diligence  and  
make  a disclosure to this effect to the recognized stock exchanges on 
which the equity shares of the company are listed; 
(iii) obtain details of trading in shares of the company for a period of 
two  years  prior  to  the  date  of  board  meeting  by  top  twenty  five 
shareholders as on the date of the board meeting convened to consider 
the  proposal  for  delisting,  from  the  stock  exchanges  and  details  of 
off-market transactions of such shareholders for a period of two years 
and furnish the information to the merchant banker for carrying out 
due-diligence; 
(iv)  obtain  further  details  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (1D)  of 
regulation 8 and furnish the information to the merchant banker. 
(1B)  The  board  of  directors  of  the  company  while  approving  
the  proposal  for delisting shall certify that : 
(i) the  company  is  in  compliance  with  the  applicable  provisions  
of securities laws; 
(ii)  the  acquirer  or  promoter    or  promoter  group  or  their  related 
entities, are in compliance with sub-regulation (5) of regulation 4; 
(iii)  the delisting is in the interest of the shareholders. 
(1C)  For  certification    in  respect  of  matters  referred  to  in  sub-
regulation (1B), the board of directors of the company shall take into 
account  the  report  of  the  merchant  banker  as  specified  in  sub-
regulation (1E) of regulation 8. 
(1D) The merchant banker appointed by the board of directors of the 
company under clause (ii) of sub-regulation (1A) shall carry out due-
diligence  upon  obtaining  details  from  the  board  of  directors  of  the 
company in terms of clause (iii) of sub-regulation (1A) of regulation 
8 
                                                            
8Inserted by SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 

 

7 

Provided  that  if  the  merchant  banker  is  of  the  opinion  that  details 
referred  to  in  clause  (iii)  of  sub-regulation  (1A)  of  regulation  8  are 
not  sufficient  for  certification  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (1E)  of 
regulation  8,  he  shall  obtain  additional  details  from  the  board  of 
directors of the company for such longer period as he may deem fit. 
(1E)  Upon  carrying  out  due-diligence  as  specified  in  terms  of  sub-
regulation (1D) of regulation 8,  the merchant banker shall submit a 
report  to  the  board  of  directors  of  the  company  certifying  the 
following: 
(a) the  trading  carried  out  by  the  entities  belonging  to  acquirer  
or promoter   or   promoter   group   or   their   related   entities   was   
in compliance or not, with the applicable provisions of the securities 
laws; and(b) entities belonging to acquirer or promoter  or promoter 
group or  their related entities have carried out or not, any transaction 
to  facilitate  the  success  of  the  delisting  offer  which  is  not  in 
compliance with the provisions of sub-regulation (5) of regulation 4.] 
(2)  An  application  seeking  in-principle  approval  for  delistingunder 
clause  (c)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  accompaniedby  an  audit 
report  as  required  under  regulation  55A  of  theSecurities  and 
Exchange Board of India (Depositories andParticipants) Regulations, 
1996 in respect of the equity sharessought to be delisted, covering a 
period of six months prior tothe date of the application. 
(3) An application seeking in-principle approval for delistingshall be 
disposed  of  by  the  recognised  stock  exchange  withina  period  not 
exceeding  9[five]  working  days  from  the  date  ofreceipt  of  such 
application complete in all respects. 
(4) While considering an application seeking in-principleapproval for 
delisting,  the  recognised  stock  exchange  shallnot  unfairly  withhold 
such application, but may require thecompany to satisfy it as to - 
(a) compliance with clause (b) of sub-regulation (1); 
(b) the resolution of investor grievances by the company; 
(c) payment of listing fees to that recognised stockexchange; 
(d)  the  compliance  with  any  condition  of  the  listingagreement  with 
that  recognised  stock  exchange  havinga  material  bearing  on  the 
interests of its equityshareholders; 

                                                            
9Subsituted for word "thirty" by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 
24-03-2015. 

8 

 

(e) any litigation or action pending against the companypertaining to 
its  activities  in  the  securities  market  orany  other  matter  having  a 
material bearing on theinterests of its equity shareholders; 
(f)  any  other  relevant  matter  as  the  recognised  stockexchange  may 
deem fit to verify. 
(5)  A  final  application  for  delisting  made  under  clause  (d)  of  sub 
regulation(1)  shall  be  accompanied  with  such  proof  of  havinggiven 
the exit opportunity in accordance with the provisionsof Chapter IV, 
as the recognised stock exchange may require. 
 

CHAPTER IV 

EXIT OPPORTUNITY 

 

Applicability of Chapter IV 
9. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to any delistingsought to 
be made under regulation 5 or under clause (b) ofregulation 6. 
 
Public announcement 
10.  (1)  The  10[acquirers  or]  promoters  of  the  company  shall 
11[withinoneworking  day  fromthe  date  of]  receipt  of  inprinciple 
approval  for  delisting  from  the  recognised  stock  exchange,  make  a 
public announcement in at least oneEnglish national daily with wide 
circulation,  one  Hindinational  daily  with  wide  circulation  and  one 
regionallanguage 
the 
concernedrecognised stock exchange is located. 
(2)  The  public  announcement  shall  contain  all  materialinformation 
including the information specified in ScheduleI and shall not contain 
any false or misleading statement. 
(3) The public announcement shall also specify a date, being aday not 
later 
thepublic 
announcement, which shall be the ‘specified date’ fordetermining the 
names of shareholders to whom the letter ofoffer shall be sent. 

thirty  working  days  from 

the  date  of 

the 

region  where 

newspaper 

of 

than 

                                                            
10Inserted by SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 
11Substituted for word "upon" by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 
24-03-2015. 

 

9 

(4)  Before  making  the  public  announcement,  the  12[acquirer  or] 
promoter  shallappoint  a  merchant  banker  registered  with  the  Board 
andsuch other intermediaries as are considered necessary. 
(5)  It  shall  be  the  responsibility  of  the  13[acquirer/promoter]  and 
themerchant  banker  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  provisionsof  this 
Chapter. 
(6)  No14[acquirer/promoter]  shall  appoint  any  person  as  a  merchant 
bankerunder sub-regulation (4) if such a person is an associate ofthe 
15[acquirer/promoter]. 
16[(7)Noentitybelongingtotheacquirer,promoterandpromotergroup 
ofthe 
companyshallsellsharesofthecompanyduringtheperiodfrom 
thedateofthe  board  meeting  in  which  the  delisting  proposal  was 
approved till the completion of the delisting process.] 
 
Escrow account 
11. (1) Before making the public announcement under regulation10, 
the  17[acquirer  or]  promoter  shall  open  an  escrow  account  and 
deposittherein  the  total  estimated  amount  of  considerationcalculated 
on  the  basis  of  floor  price  and  number  of  equityshares  outstanding 
with public shareholders. 
of 
(2)  On 
determination 
publicannouncement under regulation 18 accepting the finalprice, the 
18[acquirer or] promoter shall forthwith deposit in the escrowaccount 
such  additional  sum  as  may  be  sufficient  to  makeup  the  entire  sum 
due  and  payable  as  consideration 
inrespect  of  equity  shares 
outstanding with publicshareholders. 
(3) The escrow account shall consist of either cash deposited with a 
scheduled  commercial  bank,  or  a  bank  guarantee  infavour  of  the 
merchant banker, or a combination of both. 
(4)  Where  the  escrow  account  consists  of  deposit  with  ascheduled 
commercial  bank,  the  promoter  shall,  whileopening  the  account, 
empower  the  merchant  banker  toinstruct  the  bank  to  issue  banker’s 
                                                            
12 Inserted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 
13Substituted for word "promoter" by the SEBI (Delisting of  Equity  shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, 
w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 
14Ibid 
15Ibid 
16 Inserted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 
17Ibid 
18Ibid 

and  making 

of 

final 

price 

 

10 

cheques  or  demand  draftsfor  the  amount  lying  to  the  credit  of  the 
escrow account, forthe purposes mentioned in these regulations, and 
the  amountin  such  deposit,  if  any,  remaining  after  full  payment 
ofconsideration for equity shares tendered in the offer and 
those  tendered  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  21shall  be 
released to the promoter. 
(5) Where the escrow account consists of a bank guarantee,such bank 
guarantee shall be valid till payments are made inrespect of all shares 
tendered under sub-regulation (1) ofregulation 21. 
 
 
 
Letter of offer 
12. (1) The19[acquirer or] promoter shall despatch the letter of offer to 
the publicshareholders of equity shares, not later than 20[two]working 
days from the date of the public announcement 21[***]. 
(2) The letter of offer shall be sent to all public shareholdersholding 
equity shares of the class sought to be delistedwhose names appear on 
the register of the company ordepository as on the date specified in 
the publicannouncement under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 10. 
(3)  The  letter  of  offer  shall  contain  all  the  disclosures  made  inthe 
public announcement and such other disclosures as maybe necessary 
for the shareholders to take an informeddecision. 
(4) The letter of offer shall be accompanied with a biddingform for 
use of public shareholders and a form to be used bythem for tendering 
shares under sub-regulation (1) ofregulation 21. 
 
Bidding period 
13.  (1)  The  date  of  opening  of  the  offer  shall  not  be  later  than 
22[seven] working days from the date of the publicannouncement. 

                                                            
19Ibid 
20Substituted  for  the  words  "forty  five"  by  the  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity  shares)  (Amendment)  Regulations 
2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 
21Omitted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. Prior to 
omission it read as "so as to reach them at least five working days before the opening of the bidding period" 
22Substituted  for  the  words  "fifty  five"  by  the  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity  shares)  (Amendment)  Regulations 
2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015 

 

11 

23[(1A)  Theacquirerorpromotershallfacilitatetenderingofsharesbythe 
shareholders and settlement of the same, through the stock exchange 
mechanism as specified by the Board.] 
(2) The offer shall remain open for a  24[***] period of five working 
days,during which the public shareholders may tender their bids. 
 
 
Right ofshareholders toparticipate in thebook building process 
14. (1) All public shareholders of the equity shares which aresought to 
be delisted shall be entitled to participate in thebook building process 
in the manner specified in ScheduleII. 
(2) 25[An acquirer orpromoter] or a person acting in concert with any 
of  thepromoters  shall  not  make  a  bid  in  the  offer  and  the 
merchantbanker  shall  take  necessary  steps  to  ensure  compliance 
withthis sub-regulation. 
(3) Any holder of depository receipts issued on the basis ofunderlying 
shares held by a custodian and any suchcustodian shall not be entitled 
to participate in the offer. 
(4)  Nothing  contained  in  sub-regulation  (3)  shall  affect  the  right  of 
any  holder  of  depository  receipts  to  participate  in  thebook  building 
process  under  sub-regulation  (1)  if  the  holderof  depository  receipts 
exchanges  such  depository  receiptswith  shares  of  the  class  that  are 
proposed to be delisted. 
 
Offer price 
15.  (1)  The  offer  price  shall  be  determined  through  book  building 
inthe  manner  specified  in  Schedule  II,  after  fixation  of  floorprice 
under  sub-regulation  (2)  and  disclosure  of  the  same  inthe  public 
announcement and the letter of offer. 
26[(2)  Thefloorprice  shallbe  determinedin  terms  of  regulation8  of 
Securities 
ExchangeBoardofIndia(Substantial 
AcquisitionofSharesandTakeovers)  Regulations,  2011,asmay  be 
applicable.]  
                                                            
23 Inserted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 
24Omitted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015.Prior to 
omission it read as "minimum period of three working days and a maximum" 
25Substituted for the words "A promoter" by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 
2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015 
26 Substituted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 

and 

 

12 

(3) 27[***] 
 
Right of thepromoter not to accept the offer price 
16. (1) The28[acquirer or] promoter shall not be bound to accept the 
equity  sharesat  the  offer  price  determined  by  the  book  building 
process. 
(2) Where the 29[acquirer or] promoter decides not to accept the offer 
price sodetermined,- 
(a)  the  30[acquirer  or]  promoter  shall  not  acquire  any  equity 
sharestendered pursuant to the offer and the equity sharesdeposited or 
pledged by a shareholder pursuant toparagraphs 7 or 9 of Schedule II 
shall be returned orreleased to him within ten working days of closure 
ofthe bidding period; 
(b) the company shall not make the final application to theexchange 
for delisting of the equity shares; 
(c)  the31[acquirer  or]  promoter  may  close  the  escrow  account 
openedunder regulation 11; and, 
(d)32[***] 
(3) 33[***] 
 
Minimumnumber ofequity shares tobe acquired 
34[17.  An  offer  made  under  chapter  III  shall  be  deemed  to  be 
successful only if,- 
(a)  the  post  offer  promoter  shareholding  (along  with  the  persons 
acting  in  concert  with  the  promoter)  taken  together  with  the  shares 
accepted  through  eligible  bids  at  the  final  price  determined  as  per 
Schedule II, reaches ninety per cent. of the total issued shares of that 
class excluding the shares which are held by a custodian and against 
which depository receipts have been issued overseas; and 
(b)  at  least  twenty  five  per  cent  of  the  public  shareholders  holding 
shares in the demat mode as on date of the board meeting referred to  

                                                            
27 Omitted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 
28 Inserted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 
29Ibid. 
30Ibid. 
31Ibid. 
32 Omitted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-201.5 
33Ibid. 
34Substituted  bythe SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 

 

13 

in  sub-regulation (1B) of regulation 8  had participated in the Book 
Building Process: 
 
Provided that this requirement shall not be applicable to cases where 
the  acquirer  and  the  merchant  banker  demonstrate  to  the  stock 
exchanges that they have delivered the letter of offer to all the public 
shareholders either through registered post or speed post or courier or 
hand delivery with proof of delivery or through email  as  a  text  or  
as    an    attachment    to    email    or    as    a    notification    providing 
electronic link or Uniform Resource Locator including a read receipt. 
 
Explanation.-  In  case  the  delisting  offer  has  been  made  in  terms  of 
regulation 5A of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011,  the 
threshold limit of ninety per cent. for successful delisting offer shall 
be  calculated  taking  into  account  the  post  offer  shareholding  of  the 
acquirer  taken  together  with  the  existing  shareholding,  shares  to  be 
acquired  which  attracted  the  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  and  
shares accepted through eligible bids at the final price determined as 
per Schedule II.] 
 
Procedure after closure of offer 
18.  Within  35[five]  working  days  of  closure  of  the  offer,  the 
36[promoter/acquirer]and  the  merchant  banker  shall  make  a  public 
announcement 
the  public 
announcement  undersub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  10  was  made 
regarding:- 
(i)  thesuccess  of  the  offer  in  terms  of  regulation  17  Along  with  the 
final price accepted by the acquirer; or 
(ii) the failure of the offer in terms of regulation 19; or 
(iii) rejection under regulation 16 of the final pricediscovered under 
Schedule II, by the promoters. 
 
Failure of offer 

inthe  same  newspapers 

in  which 

                                                            
35Substituted for  the  word  "eight"  by the  SEBI  (Delisting of  Equity  shares)  (Amendment) Regulations  2015, 
w.e.f. 24-03-2015 
36Substituted for the word "promoter" by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, 
w.e.f. 24-03-2015 

 

14 

19.  (1)  Where  the  offer  is  rejected  under  regulation  16  or  is 
notsuccessful as per regulation 17, the offer shall be deemed tohave 
failed and no equity shares shall be acquired pursuantto such offer. 
(2) Where the offer fails – 
(a)  the  equity  shares  deposited  or  pledged  by  ashareholder  under 
paragraphs 7 or 9 of Schedule IIshall be returned or released to him 
within tenworking days from the end of the bidding period; 
37[Providedthattheacquirershallnotberequiredtoreturnthesharesif 
the 
offeris  made  pursuant  to  regulation5A  of  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  ofSharesand  Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011.] 
(b) no final application shall be made to the exchangefor delisting of 
the equity shares; and 
(c) the escrow account opened under regulation 11shall be closed. 
 
Payment ofconsiderationand return of equity shares 
20. (1) The promoter shall immediately on ascertaining success ofthe 
offer, open a special account with a banker to an issueregistered with 
the Board and transfer thereto, the entireamount due and payable as 
consideration in respect ofequity shares tendered in the offer, from the 
escrow account. 
(2) All the shareholders whose equity shares are verified to begenuine 
shall be paid the final price stated in the publicannouncement within 
ten working days from the closure ofthe offer. 
(3) The equity shares deposited or pledged by a shareholderpursuant 
to  paragraphs  7  or  9  of  Schedule  II  shall  bereturned  or  released  to 
him,  within  ten  working  days  fromthe  closure  of  the  offer,  in  cases 
where the bids pertainingthereto have not been accepted. 
 
Right ofremainingshareholders totender equity shares 
21.  (1)  Where,  pursuant  to  acceptance  of  equity  shares  tendered 
interms  of 
the  equity  shares  are  delisted, 
anyremaining  public  shareholder  holding  such  equity  sharesmay 
tender  his  shares  to  the  promoter  upto  a  period  of  atleast  one  year 
from the date of delisting and, in such a case,the promoter shall accept 

these  regulations, 

                                                            
37 Inserted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 

 

15 

the  shares  tendered  at  the  samefinal  price  at  which  the  earlier 
acceptance of shares wasmade. 
(2)  The  payment  of  consideration  for  shares  accepted  undersub-
regulation  (1)  shall  be  made  out  of  the  balance  amountlying  in  the 
escrow account. 
(3) The amount in the escrow account or the bank guaranteeshall not 
be released to the promoter unless all payments aremade in respect of 
shares tendered under sub-regulation (1). 
 

CHAPTER V 

COMPULSORY DELISTING 

 

Compulsorydelisting by a stock exchange                                 
22. (1) A recognised stock exchange may, by order, delist anyequity 
shares of a company on any ground prescribed in therules made under 
section 21A of the Securities Contracts(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 
1956):Provided  that  no  order  shall  be  made  under  this  sub 
regulationunless the company concerned has been given a reasonable 
opportunity of being heard. 
(2)  The  decision  regarding  compulsory  delisting  shall  be  takenby  a 
panel to be constituted by the recognised stockexchange consisting of 
–(a)  two  directors  of  the  recognised  stock  exchange  (one  ofwhom 
shall be a public representative); 
(b) one representative of the investors; 
(c) one representative of the Ministry of Corporate Affairsor Registrar 
of Companies; and 
(d)  the  Executive  Director  or  Secretary  of  the  recognisedstock 
exchange. 
(3)  Before  making  an  order  under  sub-regulation  (1),  therecognised 
stock exchange shall give a notice in one Englishnational daily with 
wide  circulation  and  one  regionallanguage  newspaper  of  the  region 
where  the  concernedrecognised  stock  exchange  is  located,  of  the 
proposeddelisting,  giving  a 
than 
fifteenworking days from the notice, within which representationsmay 
be made to the recognised stock exchange by anyperson who may be 
aggrieved by the proposed delisting andshall also display such notice 
on its trading systems andwebsite. 

time  period  of  not 

less 

 

16 

(4) The recognised stock exchange shall while passing anyorder under 
sub-regulation  (1),  consider  the  representations,if  any,  made  by  the 
company as also any representationsreceived in response to the notice 
given  under  sub  regulation(3)  and  shall  comply  with  the  criteria 
specified inSchedule III. 
(5)  The  provisions  of  Chapter  IV  shall  not  be  applicable  to 
acompulsory delisting made by a recognised stock exchangeunder this 
Chapter. 
(6) Where the recognised stock exchange passes an order undersub-
regulation (1), it shall, - 
(a) forthwith publish a notice in one English national dailywith wide 
circulation and one regional languagenewspaper of the region where 
the  concerned  recognised  stock  exchange  is  located,  of  the  fact  of 
such  delisting,disclosing  therein  the  name  and  address  of  the 
company,the fair value of the delisted equity shares determinedunder 
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 23 and the namesand addresses of the 
promoters of the company whowould be liable under sub-regulation 
(3) of regulation23; and 
(b)  inform  all  other  stock  exchanges  where  the  equity  shares  of  the 
company  are 
thesurrounding 
circumstances. 
 
Rights  of  publicshareholders  incase  of  acompulsory  delisting23. 
(1)Where  equity  shares  of  a  company  are  delisted  by  arecognised 
stock  exchange  under  this  Chapter,  the  recognisedstock  exchange 
shall appoint an independent valuer orvaluers who shall determine the 
fair value of the delistedequity shares. 
(2)The recognised stock exchange shall form a panel of expertvaluers 
from  whom  the  valuer  or  valuers  shall  be  appointedfor  purposes  of 
sub-regulation (1). 
(3)The  promoter  of  the  company  shall  acquire  delisted  equityshares 
from the public shareholders by paying them the valuedetermined by 
the valuer, subject to their option of retainingtheir shares.Explanation: 
For the purposes of sub-regulation (1), - 
(a) ‘valuer’ means a chartered accountant within the meaningof clause 
(b) of section 2 of the Chartered AccountantsAct, 1949 (38 of 1949), 
who  has  undergone  peer  reviewas  specified  by  the  Institute  of 

listed,  about  such  delisting  and 

 

17 

Chartered  Accountants  ofIndia  constituted  under  that  Act,  or  a 
merchant  bankerappointed  to  determine  the  value  of  the  delisted 
equityshares; 
(b)  value  of  the  delisted  equity  shares  shall  be  determined  by 
thevaluer having regard to the factors mentioned in regulation 15. 
 
 
Consequences ofcompulsory delisting 
24.  Where  a  company  has  been  compulsorily  delisted  under 
thisChapter, the company, its whole time directors, its promotersand 
the companies which are promoted by any of them shall notdirectly or 
indirectly  access  the  securities  market  or  seek  listingfor  any  equity 
shares for a period of ten years from the date ofsuch delisting. 
 

CHAPTER VI 

POWERS OF THE BOARD 

 
 

 

in 

to  remove  any  difficulties 

Power of theBoard to issue clarifications 
25.  In  order 
the  application 
orinterpretation of these regulations, the Board may issueclarifications 
and guidelines in the form of circulars. 
 
38[Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations. 
25A.(1) 
TheBoardmayforreasonsrecordedinwriting,grantrelaxationfrom 
strictenforcementofany  of  therequirementsof  theseregulations,if  the 
Boardissatisfiedthattherelaxationisintheinterestsof 
investorsin 
securities and the  securities market. 
(2)  For  seekingexemptionunder  sub-regulation  (1),  the  promoter  or 
the acquirer or the company shall file anapplication with the Board, 
supported 
byadulyswornaffidavit,givingdetailsforseekingsuchexemptionand  the 
grounds 
sought.(3) 
Thepromoterortheacquirerorthecompany,asthecasemaybe,shall 
                                                            
38 Inserted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 

on  which 

been 

the 

exemption 

has 

 

18 

alongwiththeapplicationreferred 
toundersub-regulation(3)payanon- 
refundable fee of rupees fifty thousand, by way of a banker’s cheque 
or demand draft payable in Mumbai in favour of the Board. 
(4)  TheBoardmayafteraffordingreasonableopportunityofbeingheardto 
the  applicant    and    after    considering    all  therelevantfacts    and 
circumstances,pass  a  reasonedorder  eithergranting  or  rejectingthe 
exemption or relaxation sought as expeditiously as possible.] 
 
Directions by the Board 
26.  Without  prejudice  to  provisions  of  the  Act  and  those  of 
theSecurities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), theBoard 
may in case of any violation of these regulations and inthe interests of 
the investors and the securities market give suchdirections as it deems 
fit: 
Provided  that  the  Board  shall,  either  before  or  after  passing 
suchorders, give an opportunity of hearing to the concerned person. 

SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SMALL COMPANIES AND 

CHAPTER VII 

DELISTING BY 

OPERATION OF LAW 

 

twentyfivecrorerupeesason 

Special provisionsin case of small companies 
27.  39[(1)  Equity  shares  of  a  company  may  be  delisted  from  all  the 
recognisedstockexchangeswherethey 
arelisted,withoutfollowingthe 
procedure in Chapter IV, if,- 
a)  thecompanyhasapaid upcapitalnotexceedingten crorerupeesand net 
worthnotexceeding 
thelastdateof 
preceding financial year; 
b) 40[the number of equity shares of the company traded on each such 
recognised  stock  exchange  during  the  twelve  calendar  months 
immediately preceding the date of board meeting referred to in sub-
regulation (1B) of regulation 8 is less than ten per cent of the total 
number of shares of such company: 
                                                            
39Substituted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015.  
40Substituted by SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2016, w.e.f. 12-01-2016. Prior to 
its substitution, clause (b) read as under: 
“theequitysharesofthecompanywere not traded in any recognised stock exchangefor aperiodof 
oneyearimmediately preceding the date of board meeting referred to in  sub-regulation (1B) of regulation 8; 
and” 

 

19 

Provided that where the share capital of a particular class of shares of 
the  company  is  not  identical  throughout  such  period,  the  weighted 
average of the shares of such class shall represent the total number of 
shares of such class of shares of the company; and] 
c)the company has not been suspended by any of the recognised stock 
exchangeshavingnation-widetradingterminalsforanynon-compliance 
in the preceding one year; ] 
(2) 41[***] 
(3) A delisting of equity shares may be made under sub regulation(1) 
42[***]only  if,  in  addition  tofulfilment  of  the  requirements  of 
regulation 8, thefollowing conditions are fulfilled:- 
(a) the promoter appoints a merchant banker anddecides an exit price 
in consultation with him; 
(b) 43[(b) the exit price offered to the public shareholders shall not be 
less than the floor price determined in terms of sub-regulation (2) of 
regulation  15  of  these  regulations  read  with  clause  (e)  of  sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 8 of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 
2011;] 
(c)  the  promoter  writes  individually  to  all  publicshareholders  in  the 
company  informing  them  ofhis  intention  to  get  the  equity  shares 
delisted,indicating  the  exit  price  together  with  then  justification 
therefore and seeking their consent forthe proposal for delisting; 
(d)  at  least  ninety  per  cent.  of  such  publicshareholders  give  their 
positive  consent  in  writingto  the  proposal  for  delisting,  and  have 
consentedeither  to  sell  their  equity  shares  at  the  priceoffered  by  the 
promoter  or  to  remain  holders  ofthe  equity  shares  even  if  they  are 
delisted; 
(e) the promoter completes the process of inviting thepositive consent 
and  finalisation  of  the  proposalfor  delisting  of  equity  shares  within 
seventy  fiveworking  days  of  the  first  communication  madeunder 
clause (c); 

                                                            
41. Omitted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 
42  Omitted  the  words  "or  sub-regulation  (2)"  by  the  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity  shares)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 
43Substituted by SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2016, w.e.f. 12-01-2016. Prior to 
its substitution, clause (b) read as under: 
“the exit price offered to the public shareholders shall not be less than the price arrived at in consultation with 
the merchant banker;” 

 

20 

(f) the promoter makes payment of consideration incash within fifteen 
working  days  from  the  date  ofexpiry  of  seventy  five  working  days 
stipulated inclause (e). 
(4) The communication made to the public shareholders underclause 
(c) of sub-regulation (3) shall contain justificationfor the offer price 
with  particular  reference  to  the  applicableparameters  mentioned  in 
regulation  15  and  specificallymention  that  consent  for  the  proposal 
would  includeconsent  for  dispensing  with  the  exit  price  discovery 
throughbook building method. 
(5) The concerned recognised stock exchange may delist suchequity 
shares upon satisfying itself of compliance with thisregulation. 
 
Delisting in caseof winding up,derecognition,etc 
28. (1) In case of winding up proceedings of a company whoseequity 
shares are listed on a recognised stock exchange, therights, if any, of 
the shareholders of such company shall bein accordance with the laws 
applicable to those proceedings. 
to  a 
(2)  Where 
stockexchange or refuses renewal of recognition to it, the Boardmay, 
in  the  interest  of  investors  pass  appropriate  order  inrespect  of  the 
status of equity shares of the companies listedon that exchange. 
 

the  Board  withdraws 

recognition  granted 

CHAPTER VIII 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Recognised stockexchanges tomonitorcompliance 
29. The respective recognised stock exchanges shall comply withand 
monitor compliance with the provisions of these regulationsand shall 
report  to  the  Board  any  instance  of  non-compliancewhich  comes  to 
their notice. 
 
 
Listing of delistedequity shares 
30. (1) No application for listing shall be made in respect of anyequity 
shares, 
(a) which have been delisted under Chapter III orunder Chapter VII 
(except regulation 27), for aperiod of five years from the delisting; 

 

21 

(b)  which  have  been  delisted  under  Chapter  V,  for  aperiod  of  ten 
years from the delisting. 
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation(1),  an 
application for listing of delisted equity sharesmay be made where a 
recommendation  in  this  regard  hasbeen  made  by  the  Board  for 
Industrial  and  FinancialReconstruction  under  the  Sick  Industrial 
Companies(Special Provisions) Act, 1985. 
(3)  While  considering  an  application  for  listing  of  any  equityshares 
which had been delisted the recognised stockexchange shall have due 
regard to facts andcircumstances under which delisting was made. 
(4) An application for listing made in respect of delistedequity shares 
shall  be  deemed  to  be  an  application  forfresh  listing  of  such  equity 
shares  and  shall  be  subject  toprovisions of law relating to listing of 
equity shares ofunlisted companies. 
 
Transitional provisions 
31.  (1)  Anything  done  or  omitted  to  be  done  or  any  right,privilege, 
obligation or liability acquired or accrued orincurred under Securities 
and  Exchange  Board  of  India(Delisting  of  Securities)  Guidelines, 
2003  prior  to  thecommencement  of  these  regulations  shall  be 
governed bysaid guidelines. 
44[(2)Anyproposalfordelistingmadebycompanyoranypromoteroracquir
erwho  wanted    to    delist    securities    of    the    company,    prior    to  
commencement 
these 
regulationsandwheretheofferpricehasnotbeendeterminedintermsofsub- 
regulation(1)ofregulation15asonthedateofsuchcommencement,shallbe 
proceededwithundertheSecuritiesandExchangeBoardofIndia(Delisting
of 
Equity)Regulations,2009asamendedbytheSecuritiesandExchangeBoar
dof  India  (Delisting  of  Equity  Shares)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2015.] 
(3) The remaining procedures in respect of an exitopportunity already 
completed or an exit opportunityinitiated but not completed under the 
of 
Securities 
Securities)Guidelines, 
of 

(Delisting 
commencement 

India 

andExchange  Board 

of 

of 

2003 

prior 

to 

 

 

                                                            
44Substituted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 

 

22 

SCHEDULE I 

[See regulation 10(2)] 

theseregulations,  shall  be  completed  and  the  application  fordelisting 
made pursuant thereto shall be dealt under thesaid guidelines. 
 

CONTENTS OF THE PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT 
1. The floor price and the offer price and how they were arrived at. 
2. The dates of opening and closing of the offer. 
3. The name of the exchange from which the equity shares are sought 
to be delisted. 
4. The manner in which the offer can be accepted by the shareholders. 
5.  Disclosure  regarding  the  minimum  acceptance  condition  for 
success of the offer. 
6.  The  names  of  the  merchant  banker  and  other  intermediaries 
together with thehelpline number for the shareholders. 
7. The specified date fixed as per sub-regulation (3) of regulation 10. 
8. The object of the proposed delisting. 
9. The proposed time table from opening of the offer till the payment 
ofconsideration or return of equity shares. 
10. Details of the escrow account and the amount deposited therein. 
11. Listing details and stock market data: 
(a)  high,  low  and  average  market  prices  of  the  equity  shares  of  the 
companyduring the preceding three years; 
(b) monthly high and low prices for the six months preceding the date 
of thepublic announcement; and, 
(c) the volume of equity shares traded in each month during the six 
monthspreceding the date of public announcement. 
12. Present capital structure and shareholding pattern. 
13. The likely post-delisting shareholding pattern. 
14. The aggregate shareholding of the promoter together with persons 
acting  inconcert  and  of  the  directors  of  the  promoter  where  the 
promoter  is  a  company  andof  persons  who  are  in  control  of  the 
company. 
15. A statement, certified to be true by the board of directors of the 
company,disclosing  material  deviation,  if  any,  in  utilisation  of 
proceeds  of 
the  five  years 

issues  ofsecurities  made  during 

 

23 

immediately  preceding  the  date  of  publicannouncement,  from  the 
stated object of the issue. 
16. A statement by the board of directors of the company confirming 
that  all  materialinformation  which  is  required  to  be  disclosed  under 
the  provisions  of  continuouslisting  requirement  have  been  disclosed 
to the stock exchanges. 
45[16A:  A  statement  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the  company 
certifying that:- 
(a)  the  company  is  in  compliance  with  the  applicable  provisions  of 
securities laws; 
(b) the acquirer or promoter or promoter group or their related entities 
have  not  carried  out  any  transaction  during  the  aforesaid  period  to 
facilitate the success of the delisting offer which is not in compliance 
with the provisions of sub-regulation (5) of regulation 4; 
(c) the delisting is in the interest of the shareholders.] 
17. Name of compliance officer of the company. 
18.  It  should  be  signed  and  dated  by  the  promoter.  Where  the 
promoter  is  a  company,the  public  announcement  shall  be  dated  and 
signed  on  behalf  of  the  board  ofdirectors  of  the  company  by  its 
manager or secretary, if any, and by not less thantwo directors of the 
company, one of whom shall be a managing director where there is 
one. 

 

SCHEDULE II 

[See regulation 15(1)] 

THE BOOK BUILDING PROCESS 

1. The book building process shall be made through an electronically 
linkedtransparent  facility  and  the  promoter  shall  enter  into  an 
agreement with a stockexchange for the purpose. 
2. The public announcement and letter of offer shall be filed without 
delay  withthe  stock  exchange  mentioned  in  paragraph  1  and  such 
stock exchange shallforthwith post the same in its website. 
3. The minimum number of bidding centres shall be: 
(a) the four metropolitan centres situated at Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata 
andChennai; 

                                                            
45 Inserted by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015. 

 

24 

(b)  such  cities  in  the  region  in  which  the  registered  office  of  the 
companyis situated, as are specified by the stock exchange mentioned 
inparagraph 1. 
4. There shall be at least one electronically linked computer terminal 
at allbidding centres. 
5.  The  shareholders  may  withdraw  or  revise  their  bids  upwards  not 
later than oneday before the closure of the bidding period. Downward 
revision of bids shallnot be permitted. 
6.  The  promoter  shall  appoint  ‘trading  members’  at  the  bidding 
centres, whomthe public shareholders may approach for placing bids 
on the on-lineelectronic system. 
7. The shareholders holding dematerialised shares desirous of availing 
the exitopportunity may deposit the equity shares in respect of which 
bids  are  made,with  the  special  depositories  account  opened  by  the 
merchant  banker  for  thepurpose  prior  to  placement  of  orders  or, 
alternately, may mark a pledge for thesame to the merchant banker in 
favour of the said account. 
8. The merchant banker shall ensure that the equity shares in the said 
specialdepositories  account  are  not  transferred  to  the  account  of  the 
promoter unlessthe bids in respect thereof are accepted and payments 
made. 
9. The holders of physical equity shares may send their bidding form 
togetherwith  the  share  certificate  and  transfer  deed  to  the  trading 
member  appointedfor  the  purpose,  who  shall  immediately  after 
entering  their  bids  on  the  systemsend  them  to  the  company  or  the 
share transfer agent for confirming theirgenuineness. The company or 
the share transfer agent shall deliver thecertificates which are found to 
be  genuine  to  the  merchant  banker,  who  shallnot  make  it  over  to 
promoter unless the bids in respect thereof are acceptedand payment 
made. The bids in respect of the certificates which are found tobe not 
genuine shall be deleted from the system. 
10. The verification of physical certificates shall be completed in time 
for makingthe public announcement under regulation 18. 
11.  The  bids  placed  in  the  system  shall  have  an  audit  trail  which 
includes  stockbroker  identification  details,  time  stamp  and  unique 
order number. 

 

25 

to  11  sh
ss  where
hanism as 
ulations.] 
l offer pr
d through
r the acqu
nt. of the
are  he
pts  have 
moter  sh
bids place
final pric
ce. 

A.  Para  1 
ng  proce
nge mech
hese regu
The final
accepted
omoter or
ety per ce
which 
toryreceip
the  prom
ponding b
than the 
final pric

46[11A
buildin
exchan
13 of th
47[12. T
shares 
the pro
to nine
shares 
deposit
then, 
corresp
lesser 
higher 
 
An illu
ustration f
 
below:

for arrivin

Bid price 

(Rs.) 

hall  not  b
e  settlem
specified

be  applica
ment  is 
d insub-re

able  in  re
carried  o
egulation

espect  of
out  throu
n (1A) of 

f  the  boo
ugh  stoc
regulatio

ok 
ck 
on 

ice shall 
h eligible 
uirer (alon
e total issu
eld  by 

been  iss
hall  accep
ed are at 
ce. The p

be determ
bids, tha
ng with th
ued share
a  custo
sued.  If  t
pt  all  sh
the final 
promoter 

mined as 
at takes th
he person
es of that 
odian  an
the  final 
hares  ten
price or 
may, if h

the price
he shareh
ns acting i
class exc
nd  again
price  is 
ndered  w
at a price
he deems

e at whic
ch 
holding o
of 
in concert
t) 
he 
cluding th
nst  whic
ch 
accepted
d, 
he 
where  th
e which i
is 
a 
s fit, fix 

ng at the 

final offe

er price is

 given in 

 
the table

mulative demand 
mber of shares)
2,50,000
0
6,50,000
0
8,50,000
0
12,50,000
0
13,70,000
0
15,00,000
0
17,10,000
0
18,50,000
0
20,00,000
0
25,00,000
0

550 
565 
575 
585 
595 
600 
605 
610 
615 
620 

Cum
(Num

mber of 

Number of 
investors 
5 
8 
10 
4 
6 
5 
3 
3 
3 
1 
48 
or  price 
t  75%  an
00,000, th

Demand (Num
shares)
2,5
4,0
2,0
4,0
1,2
1,3
2,1
1,4
1,5
5,0
25,0
of  Rs.55
nd  numbe
he final p

50,000
00,000
00,000
00,000
20,000
30,000
10,000
40,000
50,000
00,000
00,000
50/-  per 
er  of  sha
price wou

  

 

Assum
shareho
delistin

ming  floo
olding  at
ng as 15,0

 

inal Offer Price
Fi
e 

share,  p
ares  requi
uld be the

promoter/
ired  for 
e price at 

/  acquire
er 
successfu
ul 
he 
which th

                  
46 Inserted 
47 ibid. 

                       
by the SEBI (D

                   
Delisting of Eq

quity shares) (A

Amendment) R

Regulations 20

15, w.e.f. 24-0

3-2015. 

26

promoter reaches the threshold of 90%, i.e., it would be Rs.600/- per 
share.] 

SCHEDULE III 

[See regulation 22(4)] 

 

CRITERIA FOR COMPULSORY DELISTING 

1.  The  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  take  all  reasonable  steps  to 
trace thepromoters of a company whose equity shares are proposed to 
be  delisted,  with  aview  to  ensuring  compliance  with  sub-regulation 
(3) of regulation 23. 
2. The recognised stock exchange shall consider the nature and extent 
of  the  allegednon-compliance  of  the  company  and  the  number  and 
percentage  of  shareholderswho  may  be  affected  by  such  non-
compliance. 
3.  The  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  take  reasonable  efforts  to 
verify the status ofcompliance of the company with the office of the 
concerned Registrar ofCompanies. 
4. The names of the companies whose equity shares are proposed to 
be delisted andtheir promoters shall be displayed in a separate section 
on the website of therecognised stock exchange for a brief period of 
time. If delisted, the names shallbe shifted to another separate section 
on the website. 
5.  The  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  in  appropriate  cases  file 
prosecutions  underrelevant  provisions  of  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation)  Act,  1956  or  anyother  law  for  the  time  being  in  force 
against  identifiable  promoters  and  directorsof  the  company  for  the 
alleged non-compliances. 
6.  The  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  in  appropriate  cases  file  a 
petition  forwinding  up  the  company  under  section  433  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of1956) or make a request to the Registrar of 
Companies  to  strike  off  the  name  ofthe  company  from  the  register 
under section 560 of the said Act. 

K. M. ABRAHAM 
WHOLE TIME MEMBER 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

 

 

27 

