Part-IV Organisational Matters of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

PART FOUR: ORGANISATIONAL MATTERS OF THE

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

Part  Four  of  the  Annual  Report  deals  with
the organization matters of the Board like the
composition  and  meetings  of  the  Board,  its
human  resources  development,  visit  of
Parliamentary  Committees,  promotion  of
Official  language,  and  the  status  of
information technology.

SEBI BOARD :

1.
As  on  March  31,  2003,  the  Board  consisted
of Chairman Shri G N Bajpai, and members
Shri  Vinod  Kumar  Dhall,  Secretary,
Department  of  Company  Affairs,  Ministry  of
Finance,  Government  of  India,  Shri  G  P
Muniappan, Deputy Governor, Reserve Bank
of  India  and  Shri  Dhirendra  Swarup,
Additional Secretary, Department of Economic
Affairs,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Government  of
India.

Shri Dhirendra Swarup, Additional Secretary,
Department  of  Economic  Affairs,  Ministry  of
Finance, Government of India was nominated
as one of the Members on the Board in terms
of Government of India Notification No. 5/24/
CM/2002  dated  May  28,  2002  in  pursuance
of  sub  section  3  of  Section  4  of  Securities
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (Act
No.  15  of  1992)  in  place  of  Dr  Rakesh
Mohan.

Shri. R L Meena, Secretary Law, is a special
invitee to the Board.

During the year vide amendment to the SEBI
Act,  1992,  (with  effect  from  29.10.2002)  the
constitution  of  the  Board  has  been  modified
to  provide  for  five  additional  members  (from
two  additional  members),  of  whom  three
members  would  be  whole  time  members  in
addition to Chairman.

132132132132132

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

BOARD MEETINGS

During  the  year  2002-2003  nine  Board
Meetings were held.

The  details  regarding  attendance  of  the
Members is given in the Box 4.1

Box 4.1: Attendance of Members of

the Board

Chairman/Member

Meetings Meetings
held during attended

the year

9

8

9

2

6

9

9

9

2*

7**

(i) Chairman :

Shri G N Bajpai

(ii) Members of the Board:

Shri Vinod Kumar Dhall,
Secretary, Department of
Company Affairs, Ministry
of Finance and Company
Affairs, Government of India.

Shri G P Muniappan,
Deputy Governor,
Reserve Bank of India.

Dr Rakesh Mohan*
Adviser to Finance Minister,
Ministry of Finance,
Government of India.

(Member of the Board
upto May 2002)

Shri Dhirendra Swarup**
Additional Secretary,
Department of Economic
Affairs, Ministry of Finance,
Government of India.

(Member of the Board from
June 2002 onwards)

During his tenure 2 meetings were held.

*
** During his tenure since July 2002, 7 meetings

were held.

2. HUMAN RESOURCES
Human  resource  development  was  for  the
first  time  brought  into  strategic  focus  at
the  Board.  The  Strategic  Action  Plan  for
for  Building  and
2002-03  provided 
upgrading  competencies, 
in
policy  making,  strengthening  physical
infrastructure,  revamping  the  performance
appraisal  system  to  provide  for  objectivity
and  appropriate  communication  mechanisms
with  the  staff.

transparency 

I.

Staft Strength, Recruitment,
Deputation And Retirement

As on March 31, 2003, SEBI had 217 Officers
and 147 Staff Members (Total 364) in various
grades.  During  2002  –  2003,  16  Trainee
Officers joined the services of the Board. Two
officers  joined  the  services  of  the  Board  on
deputation and six officers serving the Board
on deputation have retired / been repatriated
to their parent cadre.

Training

II.
With  a  view  to  enhancing  the  skills  and
efficiencies, officers and secretarial staff were
nominated  for  various  training  programmes
during  the  year  April  2002  to  March  2003.
The  training  was  imparted  with  a  view  to
achieving  overall  individual  development  of
the  employees  as  also  significant
enhancement of the knowledge / skill relating
to  their  job  responsibilities.  The  training
programs  included  training  on  technology,
new  areas  such  as  interest  rate  derivatives
and  exposure  to  regulation  in  overseas
markets.  The  officers  also  participated  in
seminars  and  conferences  in  India  and
abroad.

III. Promotions
During  the  year  2002-03,  26  Officers  and
four  Secretaries  were  promoted  against
vacancies.

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

IV. Staff Suggestion Scheme
During  the  year  the  Board  introduced  Staff
Suggestion Scheme with a view to receiving
invaluable suggestions from its employees for
the betterment of functioning of the Board. The
Scheme received good response from the staff
and the suggestions received were put up to
a Committee of Executive Directors (COED)

V. Gratuity
With  a  view  to  encouraging  a  sense  of
belongingness and to reward employees with
longer service, the Securities and Exchange
Board  of  India  (Payment  of  Gratuity  to
Employees) Rules, 2003 have been approved
by the Board.

VI. Performance Appraisal
A  revised  system  of  Performance  Appraisal
Report  (PAR)  incorporating  setting  of  Key
Result  Areas  (KRA),  self  appraisal,
assessment of competencies and two levels
of  review  is  implemented  with  effect  from
January  1,  2003.  All  Officers  have  been
provided  training  on  the  procedures  and
modalities of the revised system.

VII. Communication Plan
Under  the  Communication  plan  which  has
been  made  operational  this  year,  the
Divisional heads held fortnightly meeting with
the  staff  members;  the  Executive  Directors
held monthly assessment of performance and
grievances  relating  to  the  departments.
Chairman  held  two  open  house  meetings
which were attended by all the staff members.
The  open  house  meetings  provided
opportunity  for  staff  members  to  directly
interact with Chairman and know the policies
and  programs  of  the  Board.  In  addition,  a
monthly meeting of all of the level of Division
Chiefs(DCs)  and  above 
(designated
‘Management  Committee’)  was  organized
regularly.

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

133133133133133

Part-IV Organisational Matters of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

3.

Indo-Us Financial Institutions Reform
and Expansion Project – Capital
Markets

The  Financial  Institutions  Reform  and
Expansion (FIRE) Project of the United States
Agency  for  International  Development
(USAID) aims to broaden and deepen India’s
securities market by inducing greater investor
participation in the markets through improved
transparency  and  efficiency,  increased
liquidity,  effective  supervision  and  self-
regulation,  and  introduction  of  new  and
innovative securities instruments.

The agreement for the project was signed on
September  27,  1993  between  SEBI  and
USAID.  The  project  was  suspended  due  to
the sanctions imposed by the US Government
in  1998.  Though  the  project  was  re-started
under  a  special  sanctions  waiver  in  March
2000,  the  implementation  of  the  resumed
project  began  in  July  2001  only.  SEBI  and
IBM  (the  project  consultants  appointed  by
USAID) had chalked out a plan for year 2002
–  03  under  which  the  project  consultants
provided assistance in various areas related
to  development  and  regulation  of  the
securities markets.

Parliamentary Committee

4.
Public  Accounts  Committee  under  the
Chairmanship  of  Shri  Buta  Singh  held  a
meeting with the Chairman and other Senior
Officials of the Board at Mumbai on June 19,
2002.

The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Stock
market  scam  held  meeting  at  Delhi  on  June
27, 2002 and the final report of the Committee
was submitted on December 12, 2002.

Promotion of Official Language

5.
In  furtherance  of  achievement  of  objectives
envisaged  in  the  SEBI  Act,  the  Board  is
putting  in  its  best  efforts  to  protect  the

134134134134134

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

interests of the investors. In this direction, one
of the major challenges before the Board was
of education and awareness of the investors.
It  could  only  be  possible  if  the  investors  are
provided  with  the  educative  material  in  their
own language and in a simple way. To meet
this  challenge,  SEBI  has  put  in  various
laudable efforts including providing educative
material to the investors not only in Hindi but
also  in  regional  languages.  Besides,  the
Board  is  also  putting  efforts  to  educate  the
investors  through  conducting  various
programmes in various languages. Thus, the
development  of  capital  market  and
implementation of Official Language Policy -
both  are  complementary  and  are  equally
important to the Board.

The  year  was  fully  dedicated  by  the  Board
to  the  Rajbhasha.  The  endeavour  was  to
provide basic infrastructure, training etc. and
to  create  working  environment 
for
implementation  of  Rajbhasha,  so  that  the
employees may adopt it as a part and parcel
of  their  routine  official  work.  To  provide
smooth working environment for development
of  Rajbhasha,  various  activities  were
undertaken  by  the  Board  like  providing
suitable  package,  study  material,  training  of
most  of  the  employees,  organizing  various
functions  and  activities  in  all  the  offices  of
the  Board  throughout  the  year.  It  created
greater awareness among all the employees
of the Board towards their duty to implement
the Official Language Policy of Govt. of India.

The Board has always been making valuable
contribution  towards  various  programmes
organized by other institutions for the growth
and  development  of  Rajbhasha  Hindi.  SEBI
is  also  providing  the  expertise  to  various
institutions  for  updation  and  development  of
bilingual  glossary,  enabling  various
educational  institutions  to  impart  education
through  Hindi  medium  in  the  subjects  like
Finance and Capital Market.

6.

Status of Information Technology at
SEBI

Information Technology (IT) initiatives at SEBI
during  the  financial  year  2002-2003  have
taken  care  of  emerging  trends  in  the  IT
industry.  Some  of  the  implementations  at
SEBI during the year are listed below:

Databases at SEBI

I.
The back-end database system used at SEBI
has  been  successfully  migrated  to  Oracle8i.
Some  of  the  applications  have  been  web-
enabled  and  direct  uploading  of  data  has
been  implemented  for  custodians  of  foreign
institutional  investors /  mutual  funds  so  that
relevant  data  could  be  loaded  to  SEBI
database directly from their place. Databases
relating Staff Payments/Reimbursements were
also  integrated  to  intranet  so  that  such
information can be published on the intranet
with secured employee access.

Intranet

II.
As  part  of  ‘Less  Paper  Office’  initiatives  in
the  Board,  information  related  to  employees
such  as  bills  reimbursement,  salary  details,
loan details, leave records, agenda / minutes /
action  taken  report  of  various  committee
meetings, committee /working group reports,
etc. have been published on intranet.

III. Networking
Wide Area Connectivity has been established
at all the offices of SEBI, to access the SEBI
Central  database,  Mail/Messaging,  etc.  The
Wide  Area  Connectivity  also  provides  Voice
over  IP  facilities  to  all  its  offices,  to  reduce

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

the outstation telephone calls charges. Video
conference facilities have also been setup at
all the offices of SEBI. SEBI has established
Virtual Private Network and Digital Signature
for  some  of  the  intermediaries  to  provide
secured network for direct upload of data.

IV. SEBI Web Site

SEBI web site has been re-structured and re-
designed with the latest technology. The web
site  has  been  made  database-driven.  It  has
been designed in such a way that any desired
information  can  be  obtained  in  utmost  three
clicks.  Powerful  search  engine  has  been
incorporated  to  ensure  quick  accessibility  of
relevant  information.  Orders  of  Securities
Appellate Tribunal (SAT) and Board’s Orders
have also been published on the web-site. A
separate sub-section titled “Reports for Public
Comments”  has  also  been  created  wherein
all  draft  reports  seeking  suggestions  from
public  are  published.  A  separate  page  for
“Investors Education’ has been created.

7.

Physical Infrastructure :

During  the  year,  The  Board  approved  an
ambitious project to construct its own building
at  the  new  Financial  Centre  in  Mumbai,  the
Bandra-Kurla  Complex.  With  the  kind  help
from  the  Government  of  Maharashtra,  the
Board could procure land from MMRDA, the
nodal  agency  at  Mumbai,  at  a  discount,
resulting  in  huge  savings  in  cost  of  land
acquisition.  It  was  also  decided  to  appoint
CPWD  as  the  agency  for  project  consultant
and work is expected to start soon.

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

135135135135135

(cid:1) (cid:6)	(cid:1)(cid:11)R (cid:14)(cid:16)(cid:6)(cid:17)

(cid:3)(cid:5)W	<(cid:14)(cid:17)

	W(cid:6)(cid:25)(cid:6) 
  " (cid:3)		S	(cid:3)(cid:27)(cid:14)S" 

(cid:17)(cid:14)S	DJJFMMMIA>ECLE

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

Mittal Court, ‘B’ Wing, 1st Floor, 224, Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400 021

Website: http://www.sebi.gov.in

Head Office:

