PART ONE: POLICIES AND PROGRAMMES

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

This  Annual  Report  of  the  Securities  and
Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  presents  a
review  of  its  policies  and  programmes,  its
working and operations in the financial year,
2002-03.  The  Report  also  describes  the
manner  in  which  the  SEBI  has  been
discharging  its  functions  and  exercising
powers  in  terms  of  the  Securities  and
Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992;  the
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956;
the  Depositories  Act,  1996;  as  well  as  in
terms  of  the  delegated  powers  under  the
Companies  Act,  1956.  The  Report  also
provides details of the developments in Indian
securities  market  during  2002-03  and  their
bearing  on  and  relation  with  the  work  of  the
SEBI.  The  Report  has  been  prepared  in
accordance with the format prescribed in the
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Annual  Report)  Rules,  1994,  notified  in  the
Official Gazette on April 7, 1994.

The SEBI operates within the legal framework
of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992.  The  statutory
objectives  of  the  SEBI  as  enshrined  in  the
SEBI Act, 1992 are fourfold:

 Protection of the interests of investors in

securities

 Development of the securities market

 Regulation of the securities market, and

 Matters  connected 

therewith  and

incidental thereto.

activities,  viz,  the  investors,  issuers,
intermediaries and the regulatory regime. To
the investors, the SEBI strives to assure that
their  rights  are  protected,  they  are  able  to
make informed choices and decisions and the
market is fair in the financial dealings.

To the issuers, the SEBI strives to provide a
transparent,  efficient  market  where  they  are
able  to  raise  resources  at  reasonable  cost,
and  conduct  themselves  in  accordance  with
the  highest  standards  of  corporate
governance  and  that  they  are  conscious  of
and meet their regulatory obligations.

To  the  intermediaries,  the  SEBI  strives  to
provide a market in which they can compete
freely  and  operate  in  a  manner  which  gives
the  investors  and  market  participants
confidence that the market is efficient, orderly
and  fair.  In  the  regulatory  regime,  the  SEBI
seeks  to  ensure  that  it  always  remains
appropriate,  proportionate  and  effective  in
which all “stakeholders” have the confidence.

With  these  strategic  aims  in  view,  the  SEBI
has been constantly reviewing and reapprising
its  policies and programmes, formulating new
policies  and  regulations  to  cover  areas
hitherto unregulated or inadequately regulated
and  to  implement  them  in  a  manner  to
promote  the  growth  of  the  market  with
transparency, fairness, efficiency and integrity.

In keeping with these statutory objectives, the
SEBI  has  set  for  itself  strategic  aims  in  the
four  key  spheres  which  encompass  SEBI’s

The  major  policy  reforms  and  developments
in  the  Indian  securities  market  during  2002-
03 are presented in Box 1.1.

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

11111

Part-I Policies and Programmes

Box 1.1: Major Policy Reforms and Developments in the Securities Markets

during 2002-03:

During  2002-03,  SEBI  initiated  several  structural  changes  in  the  securities  market  and  worked  assiduously  to
achieve them. Some of the major accomplishments of SEBI during the last financial year are as follows :































Implementation of T+3 rolling settlement for all listed securities across the exchanges from April 2, 2002 to
move T+2 on April 1, 2003.
Introduction of scientific model for risk management, based on VaR.
Introduction of Electronic Data Information Filing And Retrieval (EDIFAR) System to facilitate electronic filing
of  certain  documents/statements  by  the  listed  companies  and  their  immediate  disclosure  to  the  market
participants.
Launch of Securities Market Awareness Campaign.
Introduction  of  rating  corporate  governance  on  the  principles  of  wealth  creation,  wealth  management  and
wealth sharing.
Introduction of Straight Through Processing (STP) for the securities transaction.
Implementation of a comprehensive risk management system for Mutual Funds.
Introduction of the Dual fungibility of ADRs and GDRs.
Establishment of the Central Listing Authority (CLA).
Issuance of necessary guidelines/circulars for Corporatization and Demutualization of stock exchanges.
Introduction of the trading of Government Securities on the Stock Exchanges.
Posting all the orders passed by the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) and the Board on the SEBI website,
to bring in regulatory transparency.
Introducing  the  consultative  process  on  policy  formulation  by  putting  all  reports  of  committees  and  draft
regulations on the SEBI website for seeking comments, suggestions and opinions from public.
Issuance of guidelines on Delisting of Securities from the Stock Exchanges.
Establishment of inter-depository transfer through on-line connectivity between CDSL and NSDL.

 Review and amendment of the following regulations and guidelines – a measure of regulatory proactiveness

(cid:2) SEBI (Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992
(cid:2) SEBI (Underwriters) Regulations 1993
(cid:2) SEBI (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993
(cid:2) SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 1993
(cid:2) SEBI (Foreign Institutional Investors) Regulations 1995
(cid:2) SEBI (Mutual Fund) Regulations, 1996
(cid:2) SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations 1997
(cid:2) SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme & Employee Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999.
(cid:2) SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999
(cid:2) SEBI (Issue of Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2002
(cid:2) SEBI(Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations 2002.
Announcement  of  Accounting  Standards  and  disclosure  practices  of  the  Indian  companies  by  ICAI  in
consultation with SEBI in accordance with International Accounting Standards.
Expansion of the derivatives products basket.
Introduction of benchmarking of all the Mutual Funds Schemes to facilitate the understanding of the investors
about the performance of the funds.
Introduction of nomination facility for the unit holders of mutual funds.
Simplification of documentation procedure for FII registration and reduction of registration fee for FIIs.











 Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) for co-operation and information sharing were signed with international
regulators  like  Securities  and  Finance  Commission  of  Mauritius  and  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission
of Sri Lanka.

22222

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

1. REVIEW OF THE GENERAL

ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND
THE INVESTMENT CLIMATE

General Economic Environment

I.
The  growth  rate  in  Gross  Domestic  Product
(GDP)  of  India  has  been  experiencing  a
checkered  history  in  the  recent  past.
Provisional  estimates  of  Central  Statistical
Organization  for  the  year  2002-03  show  an
expected  GDP  growth  rate  of  4.4  per  cent.
Compared  to  the  immediate  previous  year  it
is  lower  by  1.6  percentage  points.  A  fall  of
27  per  cent.  The  agriculture  sector  –  pulled
deceleration  in  growth,  in  2002-03  clouding
across-the-board  improvement  in  the  growth
performance  of  industry  and  services.
Actually,  industry  and  services  sectors
recorded  growth  from  3.3  percent  to  6.1
percent  and  6.8  percent  to  7.1  percent
respectively, between 2001-02 and 2002-03.

Gross Domestic Savings
Gross Domestic Savings (GDS) have been
hovering around an average 23 percent for the
past 4 years. The details of GDS and its

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

components are presented in Table 1.1 and
Chart 1.1. A noteable feature of savings is that
household savings have been increasing for the
past 5 years starting from 1997 -98 till 2001-02;
it grew from 17.6 percent to 22.5 percent of
GDP. Public sector savings have been coming
down gradually from 1995-96 till 2001-02 and
the pace of decline accelerated in 2000-01.
Public sector savings showed negative savings
for the past four years. The ratio of financial
assets to physical assets has been increasing.
Savings in financial assets have been rising for
the past four years albeit slowly. More than 50
percent of the household savings have been in
financial assets. The portion of shares and
debentures have come down drastically, it was
0.9 percent of GDP in 1999-00 and fell to 0.3
percent of GDP in 2001-02 recording a two-
thirds decline. Investments in contractual
savings is more or less stable over the past four
years. Details of savings and investments,
household savings in financial assets and other
macro economic indicators are presented in
Tables 1.1 to 1.3 and Charts 1.1 to 1.3

Table 1.1:  Savings and Investment Trends in Indian Economy

Gross Domestic Savings
Public
Private
Households Savings
Financial Assets
Physical Assets
Private Corporate Saving
Gross Domestic Investment
Public
Private
GFCF

1998-99

1999-2000

2000-01 (P) 2001-02 #
As percent of GDP at Current Market Prices
21.5
24.0
- 2.5
-1.0
4.0
3.7
18.8
22.5
NA
10.5
NA
8.4
NA
3.7
22.6
23.7
5.9
6.5
15.7
15.1
21.5
21.7

23.4
- 2.3
4.1
21.6
11.0
9.9
4.2
24.0
6.1
15.8
21.8

24.1
-1.0
4.4
20.8
10.8
9.6
3.7
25.2
6.2
15.6
21.8

GFCF: Gross Fixed Capital Formation
P: Provisional estimates. NA: Not Available # Preliminary
Source: Economic Survey, Government of India 2002-03, RBI Annual Report 2001-02.

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

33333

Part-I Policies and Programmes

Table 1.2: Savings of the Household Sector in Financial Assets

Item

Financial Assets

Currency

Deposits

Claims on Government

Shares and Debentures +

Contractual savings *

Financial Liabilities

1998-99

2,07,390
(11.9)

21,822
(1.3)

80,250
(4.6)

28,220
(1.6)

6,992
(0.4)

69,836
(4.0)

26,773
(1.5)

1999-00

2,39,058
(12.4)

20,845
(1.1)

89,598
(4.6)

28,985
(1.5)

17,045
(0.9)

82,585
(4.3)

35,275
(1.8)

2000-01

2,56,734
(12.3)

17,686
(0.8)

1,05,078
(5.0)

39,008
(1.9)

6,135
(0.3)

88,828
(4.3)

32,229
(1.5)

Savings in financial Assets

1,80,617
(10.4)

2,03,783
(10.6)

2,24,505
(10.8)

#

+

*

Preliminary

Includes Units of UTI and other Mutual Funds

Comprise Life Insurance, Provident and Pension Funds.

Figures in parentheses are percent of GDP at current market prices.

Source: RBI Annual Report 2001-02.

44444

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

(Rs crore)

2001-02 #

2,91,405
(12.7)

28,192
(1.2)

1,12,517
(4.9)

49,923
(2 B.2)

6,946
(0.3)

93,827
(4.1)

40,451
(1.8)

2,50,954
(10.9)

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

55555

Part-I Policies and Programmes

Foreign  exchange  reserves  of  India  have
been  growing  at  a  faster  rate  over  the  past
few years. With growth rates of 11.1 percent,
28.2  percent  and  38.1  percent  during  2000-
01,  2001-02  and  2002-03  respectively,  the
total reserves at the end of 2002-03 stood at
US$  74.805  billion.  This  is  a  record
achievement.  Average  inflation  (provisional)
for  the  year  2002-03  is  3.0  percent,  higher
than what it was in 2001-02. The growth rate
of money supply (M3) has been more or less
constant  providing  further  strength  to  stable
price  levels  and  interest  rates.  A  close  look
at  these  macro  economic  indicators  reveals
stable  and  positive  developments.  Thus  the
economy  of  the  country  looks  strong  and  is
marching  ahead.  This  should  auger  well  for
the capital market also.
Facilitated by relatively lower inflation, interest
rates continued to soften during the year. The
RBI reduced the bank rate by 25 basis point
to  6.25  percent  in  October  2002.  At  the
present  level,  the  bank  rate  is  the  lowest
since 1973. The yield on 7.4 percent 12 year
government  paper  reached  a  low  of  6.13
percent on December 31, 2002.

In 2002-03 fewer number of issuers accessed
capital  market  through  the  primary  market
route  to  mobilise  resources  compared  to
2001-02. In 2002-03, a total of Rs. 4070 crore

Table 1.3: Macro Economic Indicators
Parameters

Money Stock (M3) *
(Rs. Crore)
Foreign Exchange Reserves *
(US $ Bn.)

Wholesale Price Index *
(Base Year 1993-94 = 100)
Gross Domestic Product
(Rs. Crore) (current prices)
Gross Domestic Product (1993-94 prices )
(Rs. Crore)

was  mobilized  as  against  Rs.  7543  crore  in
2001-02. Both public and rights issue market
exhibited  subdued  trend  in  2002-03.  Banks
and  financial  institutions  were  the  main  fund
mobilisers during the year.

Performance of secondary market also did not
show any encouraging trend. In fact popular
indices such as S&P CNX Nifty and Sensex
and other broad indices such as BSE National
Index  and  S&P  CNX  500  also  recorded
losses ranging from 8 percent to 13.4 percent.
Nifty  lost  the    maximum  while  BSE  500  lost
the  least  at  13.4  percent  and  8  percent,
respectively.  But  considering  the  P/E  and
price  to  book  ratio,  Indian  market  continued
to  be  more  attractive  (cheaper).  The  total
turnover  of  all 
in
2002-03 grew up by 8 percent at Rs. 9,69,164
crore  compared  to  Rs.  8,95,817  crore  in
2001-02.  Turnover  at  NSE  was  the  largest
(20  percent  growth)  while  BSE  recorded  an
increase of 2.2 percent.

the  exchanges 

Mutual  funds  mobilized,  on  gross  basis,  a
record  Rs.  3,14,706  crore  in  2002-03  but
repurchases  also  rose  substantially  to  Rs.
3,10,509 crore recording a net inflow of only
Rs.4196 crore.

The  year  2002-03,  thus,  witnessed  a  mixed
record of performance. Some sectors, like the

2000-01

1311583
(16.4)
42.256
(11.1)

160.7
(5.2)
1917724
(8.8)
1186300
(4.3)

2001-02

1500003
(14.1)
54.154
(28.2)
11.9
164.7
(2.5)
2094013
(9.2)
1257000
(6.0)

2002-03

1727877
(15.3)
74.805
(38.1)
20.7
171.6
(4.2)
2217800
(6.6)
1309900
(4.4)

Figures in the parentheses indicate percentage change over the previous year.
* Last day of the respective year.
Source: Reserve Bank of India and Central Statistical Organisation

66666

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

mutual  funds,  performed  better  than  the
previous year while others including resources
mobilised in primary issues and performance
of  secondary  market  continued  to  be
subdued.

2. REVIEW OF POLICIES AND

PROGRAMMES

During  2002-03,  SEBI  took  several  new
initiatives  and  revised  some  of  its  existing
policies  and  programmes.  These  measures
have  been  listed  at  the  beginning  of  the
annual report. In the following sections these
are discussed in greater detail.

I.

Primary Securities Market

The  objectives  of  reviewing  the  existing
policies  and  for  initiating  new  policies  in
Primary Market Department, are as follows :

A. To  help  the  investors  make  more

informed investment decision.

B. To  make  regulations  more  transparent,
effective  and  understandable  to  the
regulated entities.

C. To  give  confidence  to  the  investors  and
other  participants  that  the  markets  are
efficient, orderly and clean.

D. To  increase  the  transparency,  efficiency
of  the  primary  market  so  as  to  sustain
the  confidence  of  investors  and  market
participants.

To achieve the above objectives, the following
steps were taken:

A. The  disclosure  requirements  in  offer
documents for Public Issue/Rights Issue/
Offer  for  Sale,  were  streamlined  and
strengthened.

B. The  existing  procedure  and  process  of
registration  and  renewal  of  registration
were reviewed and streamlined.

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

C. The  existing  regulations  pertaining  to
intermediaries / other existing guidelines/
regulations, were reviewed and amended
where necessary.

Accordingly  following  regulations  were
amended /reviewed:

a. SEBI  (Merchant  Bankers)  Rules  and

Regulations, 1992

b. SEBI  (Debenture  Trustees)  Rules  and

Regulations, 1993

c. SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  Rules  and

Regulations, 1993

d. SEBI  (Registrars  to  an  Issue  and  Share
Transfer Agents) Rules and Regulations,
1993

e. SEBI 

(Underwriters)  Rules  and

Regulations, 1993

f.

SEBI  (Employee  Stock  Option  Scheme
and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme)
Guidelines, 1999

g. SEBI 

(Issue  of  Sweat  Equity)

Regulations, 2002

II.

Secondary Securities Market

A. Shortening of settlement cycle from

T+5 to T+3 to T+2

Rolling  settlement  on  T+5  basis,  which  was
made  compulsory  in  all  stock  exchanges  for
200  actively  traded  scrips  in  BSE  and  NSE,
was  extended  to  cover  all  scrips  from
December 31,2001. The settlement cycle was
then  shortened  to  T+3  from  April  01,  2002.
The  transition  from  T+5  to  T+3  took  place
smoothly  without  any  glitches.  In  order  to
derive greater benefits of increased efficiency
of the rolling settlement and ensure speedier
settlement, the need for contracting the rolling
settlement cycle from existing T+3 to T+2 was
felt. Market participants were intimated about

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

77777

Part-I Policies and Programmes

further  shortening  of  the  settlement  cycle  to
T+2 from April 1, 2003.

c.

B. Demutualisation and Corporatisation

of the Stock Exchanges

Following the announcement by the Hon’ble
Finance Minister in the Parliament on March 13,
2001 that “corporatisation of stock exchanges
by which ownership, management and trading
membership would be segregated from each
other, SEBI constituted a ‘Committee on
Corporatisation and Demutualisation of Stock
Exchanges’ under the Chairmanship of Justice
M H Kania, former Chief Justice of India, for
advising  SEBI  on  corporatisation  and
demutualisation  of  exchanges  and  to
recommend the steps that need to be taken to
implement the same. Recommendations of the
committee were accepted with the exception
that in the case of NSE, the present structure
of its board would be maintained and the voting
rights of the shares held by the broker members
would be determined by SEBI in consultation
with the Government of India.

SEBI issued circulars to all stock exchanges
advising them the scheme for uniform model
of  corporatisation  and  demutulisation.  The
stock exchanges are required to submit their
proposals  to  SEBI  in  accordance  with  the
scheme,  within  6  months  from  January  30,
2003, the date of the SEBI Circular.

C. Guidelines for Delisting of Securities

on Stock Exchanges

A  committee  was  constituted  on  delisting  of
securities to –

a. examine  and  review 

the  present
conditions  for  delisting  of  securities  of
companies  listed  on  recognized  stock
exchanges  and  suggest  changes  in
norms and procedures in this regard.

b. examine the concept of listing at regional
stock exchange and the establishment of
a  listing  authority  across  the  stock
exchanges.

88888

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

suggest ways for effective implementation
of listing conditions and penal provisions
for non-compliance

the  acceptance  of 

Following 
the
recommendations  of  the  Committee  by  the
SEBI  Board,  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Securities)
Guidelines 2003, were issued on February 17,
2003.

Some of the salient features of the guidelines
are –

a. Applicability to any acquisition of shares
of the company (either by a promoter or
by  any  other  person)  or  scheme  or
arrangement, by whatever name referred
to,  consequent  to  which  the  public
shareholding  falls  below  the  minimum
limit  specified  in  the  listing  conditions  or
listing  agreement  that  may  result  in
delisting of securities.

b. Companies are not permitted to use the
buy-back provision to delist its securities.

c. No  longer  would  there  be  any  stock
exchange  designated  as  regional  stock
exchange.

d. A company can delist the securities from
all  the  stock  exchanges  including  the
regional stock exchange provided that the
securities of the company have been listed
for a minimum period of 3 years on any
stock exchange.

e. An  exit  price  for  delisting  of  securities
would  be  determined  through  book
building  process,  which  will  be  made
available  through  the  stock  exchange
terminals.

f.

Such  opportunity  need  not  be  given  in
cases  where  securities  continue  to  be
listed  in  a  stock  exchange  which  has
nation  wide  trading  terminals  viz.  BSE,
NSE  or  any  other  stock  exchange
specified by SEBI.

D. Unique Client ID
The  brokers  were  required  to  use  unique
client  codes  for  all  clients  for  order  values
over  Rs.  1  lakh.  The  stock  exchanges  were
required  to  deactivate  the  trading  terminals
of  the  brokers,  who  do  not  comply  with  the
norms of unique client code from January 01,
2003.  As  there  is  no  single  identity  code  for
investors in India, such as the social security
number available in many countries, the code
could be passport number, ration card, driving
license  or  PAN  Card,  with  a  provision
available on stock exchanges for mapping to
establish  one  to  one  correspondence.  SEBI
is  in  discussion  with  NSDL  to  work  out  a
system  of  providing  unique  number  to  all
investors.  NSDL  has  been  entrusted  by  the
Government to set up the registry of the Tax
Payer Information Network.

E. Risk Containment Measures

a) Withdrawal of margins
In  response  to  the  volatility  witnessed  in  the
markets in March 2001, margins were levied
on  the  institutional  trades  and  volatility
margins  were  made  applicable  to  the
positions  of  financial  institutions,  foreign
institutional  investors,  banks  and  mutual
funds.  With  the  implementation  of  the  VaR
based  margins,  the  institutional  business
continued  to  be  margined  on  their  net
outstanding  sale  position  which  was
equivalent to the positive differential between
the minimum VaR (1.75 times index VaR) and
the actual margin percentage calculated.

Considering that the market structure and the
overall  margin  system  witnessed  a  major
structural change with the implementation of
rolling  settlement  on  T+5  basis  and  further
reduction  to  T+3,  the  margins  applicable  on
the  financial  institutions,  FIIs,  banks  and
mutual funds were withdrawn.

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

b) Removal of price bands
As a temporary measure, a price band of 10
per cent was imposed on 53 scrips on which
the  derivatives  products  were  available  to
address  excess  market  volatility  pursuant  to
the events of September 11, 2001 in the US.
The  price  band  on  the  stocks  on  which
derivatives  products  were  available  was
subsequently withdrawn.

c)

Threshold for maintenance of minimum
margin deposit

The clients have to maintain a margin deposit
with  the  broker  which  is  atleast  10  per  cent
of  his  net  outstanding  positions  at  any  point
of time. The deposit was to be maintained in
the  form  of  cash,  bank  guarantees,  fixed
deposit receipts or approved securities. It was
represented  that  this  called  for  continuous
monitoring  and  caused  considerable
inconvenience  to  the  clients.  In  view  of  the
representation, an exemption was granted for
clients  for  collection  of  10  per  cent  upfront
margin to the extent of Rs 50, 000, i.e., only
if  a  client’s  position  exceeds  Rs  5lakhs,  the
broker  would  necessarily  collect  the  10  per
cent upfront margin.

The  compliance  officer  appointed  by  the
broker  in  terms  of  regulation  18A  of  the
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,
(Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations,
1992 shall certify the compliance of the broker
with this requirement.

d) Risk Management for T+2 rolling

settlement

The risk containment measures were revised
and  rationalized  for  the  reduced  T+2  rolling
settlement.  Pursuant  to  the  deliberations  of
the  Advisory  Committee  on  Derivatives  and
Market  Risk  Management  the  revised  risk
containment  measures  were  implemented
with  effect  from  April  01,  2003.  The  scrips
were  classified  into  three  categories  based

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

99999

Part-I Policies and Programmes

on  their  liquidity  and  volatility.  Based  on  the
classification  of  the  scrips,  the  VaR  based
margins were applicable for these scrips.

F. Model Rules Prescribed For Stock

Exchanges

The  committee  set  up  by  SEBI  to  examine
the  existing  Articles  and  Memorandum  of
Association, Rules, Bye-laws and Regulations
of  Stock  Exchanges  and  to  frame  a  uniform
set of Rules and Bye-laws to be followed by
all  the  stock  exchanges,  has  submitted  its
report.  The 
the
recommendations  has  been  put  up  on  SEBI
website for public comments. After examining
these  comments,  SEBI  issued  a  circular  to
the stock exchanges, to amend their rules in
line with the recommendations.

report  alongwith 

G. Trading of Government Securities on

the Stock Exchanges

Trading  in  government  securities  on  nation
wide  anonymous,  order  driven,  and  screen
based trading system of the stock exchanges,
was launched by Hon’ble Minister of Finance
and  Company  Affairs.  India  is  the  first
jurisdiction,  which  allows  government
securities  to  trade  through  screen  based,
automated,  anonymous,  price  time  priority
system  on  the  stock  exchanges.  World  over
the market is limited to select players and is
solely  a  negotiated/  telephone  market.  All
government securities, as notified by RBI from
time to time, would be traded along with the
equity  segment  of  the  eligible  exchanges
where the minimum order size of 10 units of
Rupees  One  hundred  each  and  multiples
there  of  and  the  traded  price  would  be
inclusive of interest.

H. Amendments to Listing Agreement
To  compensate  the  aggrieved  party  for
opportunity  losses  due  to  delay  in  transfer,
the clause 12A has been amended to provide
for the compensation to the investors in case

1010101010

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

of delay in transfer of securities and furnishing
of objection memo beyond the specified time.

I. Continuous disclosures for Listed

Companies

Accounting  Standards  Committee  of  SEBI
recommended  the  following  disclosures  to
further enhance the quality of disclosures and
timely  availability  of  information  for  the
investors :

a. Amendment to Clause 41 of the

Listing Agreement

Clause  41  that  provides  for  continuous
disclosures  and  financial  disclosures  was
amended as follows :
i Publication of audited results:  The
companies which opt to publish audited
results  for  the  entire  year  within  3
months instead of publishing un-audited
results for the last quarter within 30 days
are  required  to  publish  annual  audited
results in the prescribed format.

ii Audit Qualification: The companies would
have to make disclosures regarding audit
qualification  in  the  audited/unaudited
financial  results  published  by  the
companies along with the impact of audit
qualification on their profit & loss.

iii Limited Review for un-audited quarterly
results:  The  unaudited  quarterly  results
would also be subjected to limited review
from the quarters ending on or after June
30,  2003.  In  this  regard,  all  other
provisions relevant to half yearly limited
review  became  applicable  to  limited
review of unaudited quarterly results.

iv Publication of consolidated financial
results: All listed companies would have to
publish consolidated financial results along
with standalone annual financial results.

b. Clause 32 of the Listing Agreement
The  clause  32  of  listing  agreement  which
provides  for  continuous  disclosures  was

amended  to  incorporate  certain  disclosures
related  to  loans/advances  and  investment  in
its  own  share  by  listed  companies,  their
subsidiaries, associates, etc. This is expected
to  bring  in  a  greater  degree  of  transparency
in  the  investments  made  by  companies  in
shares and debentures :

a) Disclosure  will  have  to  made  in  the
annual accounts of the parent company
about  the  loans  and  advances  in  the
nature  of  loans  to  subsidiaries  and
associates  by  name  and  amount.  The
parent  company  would  also  have  to
disclose  loans  and  advances  in  the
nature  of  loans  by  name  and  account
where  there  is  no  repayment  schedule/
repayment  beyond  7  years  or  where
there  is  no  interest/interest  less  than
Section  372A  of  Companies  Act.
Disclosures  will  also  have  to  be  made
on loans and advances in the nature of
loans  by  name  and  account  given  to
firms and companies where directors of
the parent company are interested. The
same set of disclosures as applicable to
parent company shall also be applicable
to subsidiary companies.

b)

The  investments  by  the  loanee  in  the
shares of parent company and subsidiary
company, when the company has made
a loan or advance in the nature of loan
has  to  be  disclosed  in  the  accounts  of
parent company. These disclosures have
to be made with respect to the amounts
at  the  year  end  and  maximum  amount
of 
loan/advances/investments
outstanding during the year.

The  above  set  of  disclosures  became
necessary  as  SEBI  investigations  have
revealed  that  a  large  number  of  shell
investment  companies  are  floated  by
corporate  houses  wherein,  directors  are
employees  of  these  corporates  or  are  the
nominees  of  the  Chartered  Accountants/

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

Financial  Consultants.  These  investment
companies act as fronts for the corporate and
large  industrialist  house  and  are  used  for
routing  of  funds  into  the  stock  market  into
various layers. These investment companies
thus  provide  a  façade  for  the  promoters  of
the 
industrial  house  who  carry  out
transactions  which  are  not  allowed  or  are  in
contravention of various rules and regulations
under SEBI Act,1992, SC(R) Act, 1956, Indian
Companies Act, 1956 etc.

J. Electronic Data Information Filing

and Retrieval (EDIFAR):

The  Electronic  Data  Information  Filing  and
Retrieval (EDIFAR) System was launched in
July 2002. EDIFAR was set up as a website
by  SEBI  in  association  with  National
Informatics  Center  (NIC)  to  facilitate  filing  of
certain  documents/statements  by  the  listed
companies  on  line  in  the  EDIFAR  web-site-
www.sebiedifar.nic.in.  This  would  enable
electronic  filing  of  information  in  a  standard
format  by  the  companies  and  would  benefit
various  classes  of  market  participants  like
investors,  regulatory  organization,  research
institutions, etc.

Initially the company would be allowed to file
the documents both physically with the stock
exchanges and electronically on the web site.
Till  March  31,  2003,  1750  companies  were
brought  within  the  scope  of  EDIFAR.  It  is
intended  that  after  gaining  experience  and
further  refining  the  website  and  filing
procedure as well as the security aspect, the
physical filing will be discontinued.

K. Review of Corporate Governance
SEBI  constituted  a  new  committee  on
corporate governance under the chairmanship
Shri  N.R.Narayana  Murthy  to  have  a  fresh
look on the corporate governance with a view
to further improving the corporate governance
standards,  to  review  the  adequacy  of  the
existing  requirements  of  the  corporate

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

1111111111

Part-I Policies and Programmes

governance  and  suggest 
revisions /
improvements,  wherever  necessary.  The
Committee  has  submitted  its  report  to  SEBI
which is under consideration .

Meanwhile, SEBI has worked with the credit
rating  agencies  to  prepare  “Corporate
Governance  Index”  as  a  measure  of  wealth
creation, management and its distribution by
the  corporates.  Some  companies  have
already been rated on this index. At present
the index is voluntary. It is expected that over
time,  as  more  and  more  companies  will  get
themselves  rated  voluntarily  and  the  rating
methodology is refined. This index would be
regarded as a valuable indicator of corporate
governance of companies and will be widely
used by the market.

L. Restructuring of Subsidiary

Management

SEBI, has allowed the stock exchanges to float
subsidiaries to obtain the membership of BSE
and NSE. Through this measure, the brokers
in the same stock exchange which had virtually
no trading could trade through NSE and BSE.
To  ensure  that  subsidiaries  effectively
discharge  their  responsibilities  towards
investors  protection,  SEBI  mandated  certain
changes  in  management  structure  of  the
subsidiaries. The subsidiary companies would
be  required  to  comply  with  the  minimum
stipulated requirements in order to ensure that
the transactions in subsidiaries are conducted
in  a  manner  which  is  not  detrimental  to  the
interest  of  the  investors  and  to  enable
subsidiaries to provide a safe and transparent
mechanism for transaction in securities.

M. Arbitration Proceedings
It has been noted that arbitration proceeding
take  unduly  long  time  to  reach  the  stage  of
arbitration  awards.  The  procedure  provided
under the Bye Laws of the stock exchanges
for distributing the assets after the award has
been  granted,  are  too  cumbersome  and

1212121212

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

the  completion  of 

further  delay 
the
proceedings.  There  has  been  some
refinement in the arbitration proceedings.

Arbitration  Tribunal  to  make  arbitral  award
within  three  months  from  the  date  of  the
reference  and  the  time  taken  to  make  the
award  not  to  extend  more  than  three  times
and even if three extensions are sought in a
particular  case,  the  arbitration  award  should
be passed within a period of six months from
the date of entering into a reference. In other
words, extension of time of award can be for
a maximum period of three months.

N. Monitoring Compliance of SEBI

Inspection Report

To simplify the procedures and to ensure that
the  arbitration  proceedings  are  completed
speedily, SEBI issued a directive to the stock
exchanges requiring the stock exchanges to
form a sub-committee of Governing Board of
Stock  Exchanges  shall  comprising  of
Executive  Director/Managing  Director,  two
public representatives, one SEBI nominee and
one  broker  representative  to  review  the
actions  taken  by  the  stock  exchange  to
implement  the  suggestions  of  SEBI’s
Inspection Report.

This  Committee  should  meet  at  least  twice
each  quarter  to  review  the  actions  taken  to
implement  the  suggestions  of  SEBI’s
inspection  report  and  put  up  same  to  the
Board of the Exchange. The Sub-Committee
is  required  to  approve  all  the  compliance
reports sent by the Stock Exchange to SEBI
related  to  inspection.  To  strenghten  SEBI’s
internal systems of inspection and follow-up,
SEBI set up a separate division for inspection
and monitoring.

O. Private Placements
SEBI Secondary Market Advisory Committee
recommended  a  regulatory  framework  for
issuance  and  trading  of  all  corporate  debt

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

securities, including those issued through the
private  placement  route.  These  have  been
placed  on  the  website  of  SEBI  for  public
comments.

The Derivative Exchange Segments are now
required to work out an appropriate policy for
inspecting its members and the stipulation of
100 percent inspection has been removed.

P. Derivatives
The SEBI Advisory Committee on Derivatives
reviewed  the  report  of  the  Dr.  L.C.Gupta
committee on derivatives in the context of the
present  market  structure  which  is  vastly
different from the time the recommendations
were made by Dr. L.C.Gupta Committee. The
advisory  committee  reviewed  the  eligibility
criteria  for  stocks  on  which  derivatives  are
traded. The recommendation of the adivosry
committee were placed on the SEBI website
for  pubic  comments.  SEBI,  after  examining
the  public  comments  accepted 
the
recommendations.  Accordingly,  the  previous
eligibility  criteria  was  based  on  the  turnover,
market capitalisation, minimum non-promoter
holding and volatility of the stock vis-à-vis the
index.  These  were  replaced  by  liquidity,
market  capitalization,  average  daily  traded
volume and quarter sigma order size.

Simultaneously, 
the  risk  containment
measures were also modified with the change
in the eligibility criteria. It has now been linked
to the impact cost of the underlying scrip. The
Derivatives Exchange/ Segment can also now
determine  the  manner  of  adjustment  in
derivative  contracts  at  the  time  of  corporate
actions.

The  Advisory  Committee  on  Derivatives  had
recommended  that  SEBI  and  RBI  should
consider  utilising  the  exchange  platform  to
introduce  Interest  Rate  and  Currency
Derivatives. RBI had constituted a committee
on  OTC  Rupee  Derivative  where  SEBI  was
also 
committee
recommended  introduction  of  exchange
traded  Interest  Rate  derivative  contracts.
Steps  are  underway  to  introduce  such
derivatives shortly.

a  member.  The 

Mutual  Funds  have  been  allowed  to
participate  in  Derivatives  trading  for  the
purpose  of  hedging  and  portfolio  balancing.
Committee  on  Derivatives  has  clarified  the
types  of  transactions  which  may  be
considered  as  hedging  and  portfolio
balancing.  These  have  been  clarified  based
on the recommendations of the committee.

III. Mutual Funds
SEBI  initiated  a  number  of  policy  measures
in the year 2002-03 to safeguard the interests
of  investors  in  mutual  funds  and  to  develop
and regulate the mutual fund industry and thus
achieving  the  objectives  as  specified  in  the
SEBI Act, 1992.

A. Corporate Governance/

Professionalism in Operations of
Mutual Funds

SEBI  introduced  a  number  of  measures  to
improve corporate governance standards and
professionalism in the mutual funds industry.

a. Benchmarks for Mutual Funds Schemes
In  order  to  provide  the  investors  objective
analysis  of  the  performance  of  the  mutual
fund schemes in comparison with the rise and
fall  in  the  markets,  the  mutual  funds  were
advised  to  disclose  the  performance  of
benchmark indices also while publishing half-
yearly results. These benchmark indices can
be  decided  by  the  AMCs  and  trustees  and
any  change  at  a  later  date  is  required  to  be
recorded and reasonably justified.

The boards of AMCs and trustees were also
advised  to  review  the  performance  of  their
schemes on periodical basis and compare the
performance  of 
their  schemes  with
benchmarks  in  all  of  their  meetings.  They

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

1313131313

Part-I Policies and Programmes

should  also  review  the  performance  of  their
schemes  in  the  light  of  performance  of  the
mutual funds industry as published from time
to time by independent research agencies and
financial newspapers and journals and to take
corrective  action  in  case  of  unsatisfactory
performance. While guidelines for benchmarks
for  equity  oriented  schemes  were  issued  in
March  2002,  guidelines  for  benchmarks  for
debt-oriented  schemes  and  balanced  fund
schemes were issued in April 2002.

b.

Introducing Best Practices Standards -
Certification and Code of Conduct for
Mutual Funds Intermediaries

Intermediaries  play  a  very  important  role  in
distribution of mutual funds units. They interact
with  investors  and  advise  them  for  making
investment in various mutual funds schemes.
SEBI took a number of measures to improve
the quality of intermediaries and also that they
do not indulge in unethical practices.

SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996
specify that mutual funds should not use any
unethical means to sell, market or induce any
investor  to  buy  their  scheme.  Further  the
Regulations  also  require  that  mutual  funds
should  maintain  high  standards  of  integrity
and  fairness  in  all  their  dealings,  render  at
all  times  high  standards  of  service  and
exercise due diligence. In furtherance of these
objectives,  SEBI  has  made  it  mandatory  for
all distributors and agents to pass certification
examination  and  to  follow  SEBI  (Mutual
Funds)  Regulations  with  specific  focus  on
regulations/  guidelines  on  advertisements/
sales  literature  and  code  of  conduct.  SEBI
has also advised the mutual funds to monitor
the  activities  of  their  agents/distributors  to
ensure  that  they  do  not  indulge  in  any  kind
of  malpractice  or  unethical  practice  while
selling / marketing mutual fund units.

The  distributors  and  agents  must  follow  the
detailed  code  of  conduct  as  recommended
by AMFI. If any intermediary does not comply

1414141414

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

with  the  code  of  conduct,  the  mutual  funds
are  required  to  report  it  to  AMFI  and  SEBI.
No  mutual  fund  allowed  to  deal  with  those
intermediaries who do not follow the code of
conduct.  The  intermediaries  have  been
advised  not  to  share  commission  with
investors. Investors should subscribe to units
of  a  mutual  fund  on  the  basis  of  merits  and
performance and not on the basis of quantum
of commissions.

All  intermediaries  engaged  in  selling  and
marketing of mutual fund units were required
to be registered with AMFI. Such registration
will  be  subject  to  passing  of  certification
examination and adherence to guidelines as
specified  by  SEBI  and  AMFI  from  time  to
time. However, senior citizens with experience
in  distributing  mutual  funds  units  have  been
allowed  exemption 
from  certification
examination. They should have completed 60
years  of  age  as  on  March  31,  2003  and
should  have  two  years  of  experience.  They
should follow SEBI and AMFI guidelines and
should be registered with AMFI. They should
also attend a mutual fund training programme
within  one  year  from  March  31,  2003  and  a
certificate to that effect endorsed by a mutual
fund should be submitted to AMFI.

The mutual funds are required to monitor the
compliance  of  these  guidelines  and  code  of
conduct  by  their  intermediaries  in  terms  of
business  done  across  all  mutual  funds.  In
case  of  non-compliance,  the  empanelling
mutual  funds  may  suspend  further  business
and  pay  out  of  commissions,  etc.  until  full
compliance by them.

c. Applicability of Insider Trading

Regulations (2002)

The  trustee  companies,  asset  management
companies and their employees and directors
have  been  advised  to  strictly  follow  the
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Insider  Trading)  (Amendment)  Regulations,
2002.

d. Bi-monthly Trustee Meetings
A  number  of  responsibilities  have  been
assigned  to  trustees  of  mutual  funds  under
SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations. Therefore,
it has been decided that the trustees should
meet  on  bi-monthly  basis  to  review  the
performance  and  compliance  related  issues
of  their  mutual  funds,  instead  of  the  earlier
requirement of meeting on a quarterly basis.

e.

Independent Directors on the Board of
AMCs and Trustee Companies

to  SEBI(Mutual  Funds)
According 
Regulations, 1996, 50 percent of directors of
AMC  and  two-third  of  the  trustees  are
required  to  be  independent  i.e.  who  are  not
associates of the sponsors. With an objective
to improve corporate governance and to bring
about  transparency  in  the  operations  of  the
mutual  funds,  the  definition  of  Independent
Directors  was  revised  so  that  certain
categories of persons could not be considered
as  ‘associates’  and  not  as  independent
directors.

With  a  view  to  implementing  the  regulation
in  letter  and  spirit  and  improving  corporate
governance standards in mutual funds, it has
been  clarified  to  mutual  funds  that  persons
providing any type of professional service to
the mutual fund, asset management company,
trustee  company  and  sponsors  shall  be
considered  as  associate  directors  of  AMCs
or  trustee  companies,  as  the  case  may  be.
Also, persons having any material pecuniary
relationship  with  these  entities,  which  in  the
judgement  of  the  trustees  may  affect
independence  of  directors,  shall  be  treated
as associate directors.

At times, an unduly long period of time elapses
before  an  outgoing  independent  director  is
replaced  on  the  board  of  AMC.  After
discussions in SEBI Advisory Committee, the
mutual  funds  were  advised  to  appoint
independent  director(s)  in  place  of  the

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

outgoing director(s) within a period of 3 months
from the date of resignation. The Mutual funds
were  also  advised  to  maintain  a  panel  of
eligible  persons  who  could  be  appointed  as
independent directors as and when required.
Also that they may consider appointing more
than  the  required  minimum  number  of
independent directors in order to enhance the
standards of corporate governance.

f. Risk Management System
Guidelines were issued to all mutual funds to
ensure a minimum standard of due diligence
or risk management system while undertaking
various activities by the mutual funds like fund
management,  operations,  customer  service,
marketing  and  distribution,  disaster  recovery
and business contingency, etc. The purpose is
to eliminate/ minimise the risks in operations
of  mutual  funds.  A  comprehensive  risk
management manual was issued to all mutual
funds.

g. Strengthening Roles of Chief

Executives and Fund Managers of
Mutual Funds

Chief  executives  and  fund  managers  of
mutual  funds  play  very  important  role  in  the
functioning  of  mutual  funds.  After  taking
feedback  from  chief  executives  and  fund
managers  from  all  mutual  funds,  the  SEBI
defined  their  roles  in  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)
Regulations, 1996.

Accordingly  the  Chief  Executive  Officer
(whatever the designation may be) of the asset
management company is required to ensure
that the mutual fund complies with all the
provisions of SEBI (Mutual Fund) Regulations,
1996 and the guidelines issued thereunder and
that  the  investments  made  by  the  fund
managers  are  in  the  interests  of  the
unitholders. He/ She shall also be responsible
for the overall risk management function of the
mutual fund. The fund manager (whatever the
designation may be) is also required to ensure

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

1515151515

Part-I Policies and Programmes

that the funds of the mutual fund schemes are
invested to achieve the objective of the scheme
and in the interests of the unitholders.

The objective of these measures is to enable
the  chief  executives  and  fund  managers  of
mutual funds to play their roles in the interest
of  investors  without  any  influence  and
pressures.

h. Transactions of Mutual Funds in the

Government Securities in
Dematerialised Form and their
Reconciliation

All mutual funds have been advised to enter
into  transactions  relating  to  government
securities  only  in  dematerialised  form.  They
have  also  been  advised  to  reconcile  their
accounts with the RBI periodically.

In order to make the transactions in government
securities  transparent  without  any  scope  of
misuse, it has been decided in consultation with
RBI  to  introduce  a  system  of  monthly
reconciliation between RBI and mutual funds
maintaining SGL/CSGL Accounts in respect of
government  securities  on  an  ongoing  basis.
The  Public  Debt  Offices  of  RBI  will  issue
monthly statement of balances to the mutual
funds, which are to be reconciled by the mutual
funds for the transactions undertaken by them.
The reconciliation procedure shall be made a
part  of  internal  audit  and  the  auditors  shall
check, on a continuous basis, about the status
of reconciliation and submit a report to the Audit
Committees.  These  reports  are  also  to  be
placed in the meetings of boards of AMCs and
trustees. These measures would prevent any
major loss arising out of non-reconciliation of
government securities.

B. Prudential Investment and Valuation

Norms

a. Guidelines for Valuation of Unlisted

Equity Shares

SEBI  issued  guidelines  for  the  valuation  of
unlisted equity shares with a view to bringing

1616161616

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

about uniformity in the calculation of NAVs of
the  schemes  by  all  mutual  funds.  The
guidelines prescribe detailed methodology for
valuation of unlisted equity shares based on
stringent  pricing  formula.  The  mutual  funds
have  been  prohibited  from  buying  unlisted
equity  shares  at  a  price  higher  than  that
worked  out 
the
methodology.  Guidelines  also  prescribe
exercise of due diligence while making such
investments.

in  accordance  with 

b. Treatment and Disposal of Illiquid

Securities/ NPAs at the Time of
Maturity/ Closure of the Scheme

Some of the investments made by mutual funds
may become non-performing assets (NPAs) or
illiquid at the time of maturity / closure of the
schemes, which may be realised by the mutual
funds in due course i.e. after winding up of the
scheme.

SEBI  issued  guidelines  during  the  year  and
the  mutual  funds  were  advised  to  distribute
such amount, if it is substantial and is realised
within two years, to the old investors. In case
the amount is not substantial or it is realised
after  two  years,  it  may  be  transferred  to  the
Investor Education Fund maintained by each
mutual fund. The decision as to determination
of  substantial  amount  is  to  be  taken  by  the
trustees of the mutual funds after considering
relevant factors.

Investment Valuation Norms

c.
According to the investment valuation norms
specified  in  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)
Regulations,  any  change  in  securities  and
in  the  number  of  units  is  to  be  recorded  in
the  books  not  later  than  the  first  valuation
date  following  the  date  of  transaction.  If  this
is  not  possible  given  the  frequency  of  the
net asset value disclosure, the recording may
be  delayed  upto  a  period  of  seven  days
following the date of the transaction, provided

that  as  a  result  of  non-recording,  the  NAV
calculation shall not be affected by more than
two  percent.  As  a  result,  the  investors  of  a
scheme  may  be  affected  by  variation  of  two
percent  in  the  NAV.  This  variation  of  two
percent  was  now  felt  to  be  on  the  higher
side.  As  improvement  in  systems  and
technology  over  the  years,  should  make  it
possible  for  the  mutual  funds  to  calculate
the NAV accurately than what was when the
rate was formulated so as that the investors
may  enter  or  exit  at  sale  and  repurchase
prices  based  on  NAV  which  is  very  near  to
the actual NAV.

SEBI  Regulations  have  been  amended  to
reduce  the  allowable  variation  in  NAV  from
the  present  ‘2  percent’  to  ‘1  percent’.  The
Regulations also now require that in case the
NAV of a scheme differs due to non-recording
of  transactions  by  more  than  one  per  cent,
the 
investors  or  schemes  shall  be
compensated.  If  investors  are  allotted  units
at  higher  NAV  or  they  are  given  lower  NAV
at the time of their sale of units, they should
be  compensated  by  the  schemes.  However,
if investors are charged lower NAV at the time
of  their  purchase  of  units  or  they  are  given
higher NAV at the time of their sale of units,
asset  management 
shall
compensate the schemes.

company 

d. Accuracy and Uniformity in Valuation
Uniformity  and  accuracy  in  valuation  by  the
mutual  funds  is  necessary.  If  each  mutual
fund has its own valuation methods, it is very
much likely that two mutual funds in spite of
having  same  portfolios  would  have  different
NAVs.  Therefore,  SEBI  has  been  issuing
valuation guidelines from time to time.

During the year 2002-03, SEBI issued further
guidelines that all mutual funds shall provide
transaction  details  of  various  types  of  debt
securities  like  NCDs,  Mibor  Linked  floaters
and  CPs  on  a  daily  basis  in  the  prescribed
format to the agency recommended by AMFI.

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

Submission of data would help in daily matrix
generation, improve uniformity and accuracy
of valuation in the mutual funds industry.

C. New Products/ Activities

Investment in Foreign Securities

a.
The investments limit on foreign securities has
been  raised  from  the  earlier  limit  of  four
percent  of  net  assets  (as  on  February  28,
2002)  to  10  percent  of  net  assets  of  each
mutual  fund  as  on  January  31,  2003.
However  a  minimum  of  US$  5  million  and
maximum of US$ 50 million is permissible to
each  mutual  fund  irrespective  of  size  of
assets.  It  was  also  clarified  to  the  mutual
funds  that  the  regulations  which  restrict
investments  in  mutual  fund  units  upto  five
percent  of  net  assets  and  prohibits  charging
of  fees  is  not  applicable  to  investments  in
mutual  funds  in  foreign  countries.  The
management  fees  and  other  expenses
charged by mutual fund(s) in foreign countries
along with the management fee and recurring
expenses  charged  to  the  domestic  mutual
fund  scheme  should  not  exceed  the  total
limits  on  expenses  prescribed  under  the
Regulations.  Where  the  mutual  fund  is
investing only a part of the net assets in the
foreign  mutual  fund(s),  the  same  principle  is
applicable for that part of the investment. The
details  of  the  calculation  for  charging  such
expenses  is  to  be  reported  to  the  Boards  of
AMC  and  trustees  and  is  to  be  disclosed  in
the annual report of the scheme.

Mutual  funds  have  also  been  permitted  to
invest  in  the  equity  of  listed  overseas
companies  subject  to  certain  restrictions.
Necessary  guidelines  have  been  issued  to
mutual funds.

b. Clarifications for Participation by Mutual

Funds in Trading in Derivatives

Guidelines  for  participation  by  mutual  funds
in  trading  in  derivatives  were  issued  on

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

1717171717

Part-I Policies and Programmes

February  9,  2002.  The  SEBI  Advisory
Committee  on  Derivatives  clarified  certain
types of transactions with illustrative examples
which  could  be  considered  by  mutual  funds
as hedging and portfolio balancing. Necessary
clarifications were issued to mutual funds.

c. Fund of Funds

A  fund  of  funds  (FoFs)  is  a  mutual  fund
scheme  that  invests  in  schemes  of  other
mutual  funds    instead  of  investing  in
securities.  They  may  invest  in  equity-
oriented, debt-oriented and liquid schemes or
sector specific schemes. They may also exit
from a particular scheme depending on their
perception  of  market  conditions  which  may
not be possible for an investor to decide.

Investors  may  invest  in  a  particular  FoF
scheme  depending  on  their  investment
objectives  instead  of  investing  in  a  number
of schemes. Such schemes would be subject
to (i) maximum limit on expenses to the extent
of 0.75 per cent of net assets and (ii) certain
restrictions  and  disclosures  in  SEBI  (Mutual
Fund)  Regulations,  1996  which  are  in  the
process of being notified.

D.

Improvement in Disclosure
Standards

SEBI  has  taken  a  number  of  steps  over  the
years  in  the  area  of  disclosures  so  that  the
investors may take well informed investment
decisions.  During  the  year  2002-03,  SEBI
initiated the following measures:

a. Portfolio Disclosure

While making half-yearly portfolio disclosures,
mutual  funds  have  been  advised  to  make
certain  disclosures  in  the  equity  and  debt
oriented schemes. In case of equity-oriented
schemes,  the  mutual  funds  are  required  to
disclose  the  portfolio  turnover  ratio  as  a
footnote and the name of the industry against

1818181818

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

the name of each security in accordance with
industry  classification  as  recommended  by
AMFI.  The  same  industry  classification  can
also  be  followed  by  the  mutual  funds  while
making  disclosure  of  portfolios  to  investors,
distributors and others, which are non-statutory
in  nature.  Further,  in  case  of  debt-oriented
schemes,  the  average  maturity  period  is
required to be disclosed as a footnote.

b. Simplification of Disclosure in Offer

Documents

The standard offer document for mutual funds
prescribed  in  April  1998  inter-alia  requires
disclosure  of  all  penalties  imposed  on  the
sponsor/AMC  or  their  associates.  Many
mutual  funds  who  have  a  very  long  history
or  a  large  number  of  associate  entities  with
many of them based in various countries had
expressed  their  difficulty  in  collating  the
required  information  and  updating  the  same
on a continuous basis. In view of this genuine
concern,  SEBI  reviewed  the  requirement  of
disclosure  on  penalties  in  consultation  with
mutual funds industry. The modified disclosure
criteria  was  finalised  and  communicated  to
all  the  mutual  funds.  SEBI  made  sure  that
the  difficulty  in  collecting  information  would
be  minimized  without  sacrificing 
the
requirement  of  disclosing  the  regulatory
conduct of the group.

c. Other Disclosure Requirements
SEBI also prescribed disclosure requirements
for  conversion  of  close  ended  schemes  into
open ended schemes and in case of change
in controlling interest of mutual funds.

E.

Investor Servicing

a. Nomination Facility for Unitholders of

Mutual Funds.

SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 were
amended  by  including  a  provision  for  the
AMCs to provide an option to the unitholder(s)

to nominate a person in whom the units held
by  the  unitholder(s)  can  be  vested  in  the
event  of  the  death  of  the  unitholder(s).  The
format  for  nomination  has  also  been
prescribed.

b. Uniformity in Calculation of Sale and

Repurchase Price and Rounding off of
NAVs

All  the  mutual  funds  have  been  advised  to
follow a uniform method to calculate the sale
and repurchase price. The mutual funds must
clarify  in  the  offer  documents  that  the  loads
shall be charged as a percentage of NAV i.e.
applicable  load  as  a  percentage  of  NAV  will
be added to NAV to calculate sale price and
will  be  subtracted  from  NAV  to  calculate
repurchase  price.  They  are  also  required  to
explain  the  calculation  by  means  of  an
example.

Apart  from  bringing  about  uniformity  in  the
mutual  funds  industry,  it  would  now  be  very
easy for the investors to calculate their sale /
repurchase price.

The  mutual  funds  have  also  been  advised
to  round  off  NAV  upto  four  decimal  places
in  respect  of  index  funds  and  all  types  of
debt-oriented  schemes  like  liquid/money
market  mutual  fund  schemes  i.e  in  case  of
schemes  which  invest  predominantly  in
money market instruments, gilt, income short
term  plans,  fixed  maturity  plans,  monthly
income  plans  etc.  and  upto  two  decimal
places  in  case  of  equity-oriented  and
balanced fund schemes. However, the mutual
funds  can  round  off  NAVs  upto  more  than
two decimal places in case of equity-oriented
and  balanced  fund  schemes  also,  if  they  so
desire.  This  has  been  introduced  so  that
there  is  uniformity  in  the  mutual  funds
industry. The mutual funds are also required
to  make  necessary  disclosures  in  the  offer
documents.

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

c. Effective Investor Grievances Redressal

Mechanism

Investor grievances against mutual funds are
handled  on  priority  basis  by  SEBI.  Due  to
regular  monitoring  and  follow-up,  the  rate  of
redressal  has  always  been  about  99.5  per
cent.  The  difference  of  0.5  per  cent  is
because  some  of  the  complaints  are  under
processing  i.e.  being  forwarded  to  mutual
funds,  reporting  by  mutual  funds  and
incorporation in our data base. It may be said
that  all  complaints  received  from  investors
against mutual funds are redressed promptly.

F. Re-Engineering of Systems and

Processes

Several  initiatives  were  taken  by  SEBI
towards  re-engineering  of  systems  and
processes in the case of mutual funds.

a. Revised format for Annual Statistical

Report (ASR)

The format of Annual Statistical Report earlier
running  into  several  pages  was  revised  and
simplified  to  a  one  page  report,  so  that  we
may  compile  and  analyse  the  data  received
from  mutual  funds.  The  analysis  of  the  data
in the ASRs gave industry the opportunity to
study  distribution  of  holdings  of  the  mutual
fund  units  by  individual  investor,  corporates,
NRI  /OCBs,  FIIs  trusts.,  etc.  The  ASR  is
available on the SEBI’s web site.

b. New Scheme Reports simplified

The format for new scheme reports required
to  be  filed  by  the  mutual  funds  have  been
simplified and revised. While earlier they were
required to file two separate reports, one after
closure  of  scheme  and  another  after
allotment,  now  they  are  required  to  file  only
one  report  after  allotment.  While  earlier
reports  were  for  the  purpose  of  data
collection,  new  format  of  the  report  also
covers regulatory compliances by the mutual
funds.

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

1919191919

Part-I Policies and Programmes

c. Quarterly reports on movement in net

f. Clarifications on SEBI Regulations and

assets discontinued

The  statement  of  movement  in  net  assets/
portfolios, in prescribed formats on quarterly
basis  was  discontinued  as  the  purpose  was
adequately served by other reports submitted
by the mutual funds.

d. Transparency in registration of mutual

funds and VCFs/FVCIs

In order to further streamline the process and
shorten  the  time  taken  for  registration  as  a
mutual  fund,  we  have  taken  the  initiative  to
post  the  entire  step  by  step  procedure  of
granting  registration  on  SEBI  website  under
‘Mutual  Funds  Section”  -  ‘How  to  get
registered as a Mutual Fund’. All information
required in addition to that in the application
form  has  been  included.  SEBI  has  also
mentioned the benchmark time period within
which  our  observation/replies  will  be
communicated to them.

This exercise will greatly help the applicants
to  understand  the  procedural  formalities  in
getting  registered  with  SEBI.  This  will  also
make  registration  procedure  completely
transparent.  This  will  also  help  the  foreign
sponsors in various countries.

e. Cross-reference between Regulations

and circulars/guidelines

SEBI (Mutual Fund) Regulations, 1996 have
been modified/ amended and guidelines and
clarifications,  which  have  the  sanctity  of
Regulation, have been issued from time to time.
To avoid the risk of inadvertent non-compliance
and to help the funds to have an integrated view
of the updated Regulations and inter-related
circulars  and  guidelines,  we  have  indicated
suitable linkages and cross-references to the
relevant  circulars,  schedules  and  guidelines
issued till September 30, 2002. The same has
been circulated among the mutual funds and
has  also  been  posted  in  our  website  under
“Mutual Funds Section”.

2020202020

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

Guidelines
issued 

certain 

clarifications/
SEBI 
interpretations of regulations to AMFI for
circulation among the mutual funds. This will
help the existing as well as new mutual funds
to understand and interpret the Regulations and
guidelines in their true spirit. This initiative is just
the beginning. In future also, such clarifications
would be issued from time to time.

g. Conversion of Close ended schemes into

open ended schemes

information 

Guidelines/instructions  were  issued  to  the
mutual  funds  to  be  followed  for  conversion
of  close  ended  schemes  into  open  ended
ones.  Certain 
like  past
performance of the scheme, comparison with
benchmarks,  etc  must  be  disclosed  in  the
letter  to  the  unitholders  so  that  they  may
take well informed investment decisions. Also,
the  unitholders  must  be  given  a  period  of  at
least  30  days  for  the  purpose  of  exercising
the exit option.

h. Procedure for Change in Controlling

Interest of Mutual Funds

After handling such cases, we have evolved
certain  procedure  in  this  regard.  The  entire
procedure to be followed for obtaining SEBI’s
approval was put on SEBI website. In cases
where  there  has  been  change  in  controlling
interest of mutual funds has been placed with
SEBI’s website.

IV. Venture Capital : Development and

Policy Initiatives

SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulations
were  notified  in  1996.  Subsequently,  on  the
basis  of  recommendations  made  by  the
committee  set  up  by  SEBI  under  the
chairmanship  of  Shri  K.B.  Chandrashekhar,
regulations  were  amended  in  September
2000.  Also,  for  the  first  time,  regulations  for
foreign venture capital investors were notified.

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

Thereafter,  SEBI  has  received  some
representations/suggestions from the venture
capital  industry.  To  deliberate  upon  these
issues,  SEBI  has  set  up  an  Advisory
Committee  on  Venture  Capital  under  the
chairmanship  of  Dr.  Ashok  Lahiri,  Chief
Economic  Advisor,  Minsitry  of  Finance,
Government of India.

V.

Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs)

electronic  trade  processing  with  a  common
messaging standard i.e. ISO15022 with effect
from  December  02,  2002  on  a  voluntary
basis.  After  gaining  some  experience  it  is
intended  to  make  STP  mandatory  across  all
segments of market.

VI. Substantial Acquisition of Shares

and Takeovers

A. Amendment to the SEBI (Substantial

A. Simplification of documentation

required for registration as an FII

Acquisition of Shares and
Takeovers), Regulations, 1997

SEBI(FII) Regulations, 1995 was amended to
reduce the requirement for documentation and
following  list  specifies  documents  required.
The registration fee was also reduced to US$
5,000 from US$ 10,000.

Based on the recommendations made by the
Bhagwati  Committee,  SEBI  made  certain
amendments to the Takeover Regulations on
September  9,  2002.  Major  amendments
include -

B. Adoption of Straight Through

Processing

Straight Through Processing (“STP”) involves
capturing and processing transactions in one
pass,  from  the  point  of  first  deal  to  final
settlement.  This  will  obviate  the  need  for
manual  entry  and  re-entry  of  data  of  trade
particulars which is time consuming and prone
to errors.

In  order  to  examine  the  feasibility  of  STP  in
the  Indian  markets,  SEBI  constituted  a
committee  of  representatives  from  various
market intermediaries and the Reserve Bank
of India.

The Committee in its report recommended the
following:

a.

Adoption  of  ISO  15022  messaging
standards by the market participants

b.

Electronisation of contract notes

a) Removal  of  automatic  exemption  for
acquisition through preferential allotment.

b) Additional  condition  in  case  of  inter  se
transfer  amongst  different  promoters  or
groups  of  promoters  added  i.e.  interse
transfers at a price not exceeding 25 per
cent price as determined in terms of the
provisions  of  the  Regulations  alone
would merit automatic exemption.

c)

Increased  frequency  in  disclosure  of
shareholding when it crosses 5 percent,
10 percent and 14 percent.

d) Disclosure  of  purchases  or  sales  at
every 2 percent level, in respect persons
holding  between  15  percent  and  75
percent.

e) Change  of  control  through  special
resolution  including  giving  the  facility  of
voting  through  postal  ballot  instead  of
ordinary resolution.

c. Connectivity  among 

the  market
participants and implementation of STP.

f)

SEBI 
the  Committee’s
recommendations  and  introduced  STP  for

accepted 

Dispensation  with  the  requirement  of
advance  submission  of  copy  of  draft
public  announcement  to  SEBI,  stock
exchanges and target company.

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

2121212121

Part-I Policies and Programmes

g) Additional parameter of two weeks daily
average of the high and low of the prices
preceding  the  date  of  the  public
announcement for determination of offer
price.

h)

Factoring of payment made towards non-
compete  agreement  in  excess  of  25
percent of the offer price arrived in terms
of  the  Regulations  while  calculating  the
open offer price.

i) Minimum  offer  size  of  20  percent  in  all

cases.

j)

k)

Reduction  in  creeping  acquisition  limit
from 10 percent to 5 percent with effect
from October 01, 2002.

In case of indirect acquisition or change
in  control,  the  open  offer  may  be  made
within  3  months  of  consummation  of
such acquisition or change in control or
restructuring  of  the  parent  or  the
company  holding  shares  of  or  control
over  the  Indian  target  company.
However,  the  offer  price  has  to  be
determined with reference to the date of
public  announcement 
for  parent
company  and 
date  of  public
announcement for Indian target company
and whichever is higher would apply.

l)

Facility of withdrawal of acceptances by
shareholders  upto  three  working  days
before the closure of the offer.

m) Removal  of  the  facility  of  withdrawal  by
the first acquirer in case of a competitive
bid.

n)

o)

The shares of the target company would
be  deemed  to  be  infrequently  traded  if
the  trading  turnover  is  less  than  5per
cent (instead of 2per cent earlier) of the
shares listed on the stock exchange.

relaxations 

The 
for
disinvestment of central PSUs have been
made applicable for state PSUs as well.

extended 

2222222222

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

p)

The  directions  that  could  be  given  by
SEBI  for  the  various  violations  have
been increased to include :

i. Appointment of a merchant banker
for 
the  purpose  of  causing
disinvestment of shares acquired in
breach of regulations 10, 11 or 12;

ii. Transfer  of  any  proceeds  or
securities 
Investors’
Protection  Fund  of  a  recognised
stock exchange;

the 

to 

iii. The  target  company  or  depository
to  cancel  the  shares  where  an
acquisition of shares pursuant to an
allotment is in breach of regulations
10,11 or 12;

iv. The 

target  company  or 

the
depository  not  to  give  effect  to
transfer or further freeze the transfer
of  any  such  shares  and  not  to
permit the acquirer or any nominee
or  any  proxy  of  the  acquirer  to
exercise  any  voting  or  other  rights
attached to such shares acquired in
violation of regulations 10, 11 or 12;

q) Additional parameter of two weeks daily
average of the high and low of the prices
preceding  the  date  of  the  public
announcement for determination of offer
price would not be applicable in the case
of  disinvestment  of  a  Public  Sector
Undertaking.

B. SEBI Regularisation Scheme, 2002
In terms of Chapter II of the SEBI (Substantial
Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)
Regulations, 1997 (hereinafter referred to as
‘the  Takeover  Regulations,  1997’)  certain
categories of persons are required to disclose
their  shareholding  and/or  control  in  a  listed
company to that company. Such companies,
in  turn,  are  required  to  disclose  such  details

to  the  stock  exchanges  where  shares  of  the
company are listed. It has been observed that
many listed companies and/or their promoters/
shareholders have either not complied at all or
have complied with the said requirements after
the  expiry  of  the  time  specified  in  the  said
regulations.

to 

comply  with 

In  order  to  enable  such  persons  and
companies 
these
requirements,  SEBI  introduced  a  scheme,
namely, “SEBI Regularization Scheme, 2002”
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  `the  Scheme’).
Under  the  Scheme,  the  persons  and
companies  who  have  not  made  disclosures
or who have made disclosures after the expiry
of  the  period  as  specified  in  the  Takeover
Regulations,  1997  are  permitted  to  make
disclosures  to  the  company  and  the  stock
exchange  as  the  case  may  be,  and  pay  the
lump-sum amount specified herein.

The scheme was in force for –
a) A period of 3 months, i.e. from October
1, 2002 to December 31, 2002 {later on
extended to February 28, 2003} , for the
shareholders/  promoters  of  the  listed
target companies.

b) A period of 4 months, i.e. from October
1,  2002  to  January  31,  2003  {later  on
extended  to  March  31,  2003}  ,  for  the
listed target companies. As of February
28,  2003,  131  companies  have
participated.

VII. Other Policies and Programmes

Having a Bearing on the Working of
the Securities Market

A. Amendment to the Companies Act,

1956

a. Companies (Amendment) Act, 2002

i Notified with effect from 6.2.2003.
ii

It makes provision for registration of
certain  entities  operating  on  the

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

basis  of  mutual  assistance  as
producer companies under the new
part  IXA  of  the  Companies  Act.
They  will  be  akin  to  private  limited
companies.

B. Companies Act – Schedules

a.

Schedule II of the Companies Act

i. The  Schedule  amended  by  the
Central Government with effect from
17.9.2002, requiring the declaration
from  the  directors  of  the  company
inviting subscription from the public
that  all  relevant  provisions  of  the
Companies  Act  and  the  SEBI
Guidelines  and  Government
Guidelines have been complied with
and that no statement made in the
prospectus  is  contrary  to  the
Companies  Act,  the  SEBI  Act  and
the rules made or guidelines issued
thereunder  and  the  guidelines
issued by the Central Government.

b.

Schedule V of the Companies Act

i. The  Schedule  dealing  with  format
of  annual  return  has  been  altered
with effect from 2.11.2002 and now
contains a revised certificate stating
that  all  amounts  mentioned  in
section  205C  remaining  unpaid  /
unclaimed  for  a  period  of  7  years
as specified have been transferred
to  the  Investors  Education  and
Protection Fund.

c.

Schedule VI of the Companies Act

i The  Schedule  dealing  with  the
format  of  balance  sheet  has  been
altered with effect from 13.11.2002
to  contain  details  of  the  amounts
credited to the Investors Education
and Protection Fund under the head
‘Current Liabilities and Provisions’.

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

2323232323

Part-I Policies and Programmes

ii Permissible  rounding  off  of  the
amounts  mentioned  in  the  balance
sheets  have  been  revised  with
effect from 1.8.2002.

appointment 

iii The  limit  of  paid-up  capital  for
of
compulsory 
Company Secretaries under section
383 A has been raised from Rs.50
lakh  to  Rs.2  crore.  Companies
having  lesser  paid-up  capital  will
have 
the  prescribed
secretarial compliance certificate.

file 

to 

C. Companies Act – Rules /

Amendments Rules / Circulars

a. Companies  (Issue  of  Indian  Depository

Receipts) Rules, 2002.

i SEBI  has  given 

its  detailed
comments on the Draft Companies
(Issue  of 
Indian  Depository
Receipts) Rules drafted by the DCA
under  section  605A  of 
the
Companies Act.

b.

The Directors’ Relatives (Office or
Place of Profit) Rules, 2003

i

It applies to all offices and places of
profits  in  a  company  carrying  a
monthly remuneration of more than
Rs.  50,000/-  per  month.  The
obtaining of approval of the Central
Government for appointment to such
offices is mandatory. The factors
which the Central Government would
take into consideration while granting
or  refusing  approval  have  been
indicated in the Rules.

ii By General Circular No. 2 of 2003,
the DCA has clarified that the Cost
Auditor of a company can take part
in 
its  Audit
Committee  in  his  capacity  as  an
internal auditor, but cannot become

the  meeting  of 

2424242424

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

a  member  thereof  and  cannot
exercise voting rights therein.

D. Amendment to the Securities and
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992

The Securities and Exchange Board of India
Act,  1992  has  been  amended  by  Securities
and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Amendment)
Act, 2002 with effect from 29.10.2002 :

a. Management of the Board

i The  Board  shall  consist  of  a
Chairman,  two  members  from
amongst Officials of the Ministry of
the  Central  Government  dealing
with  Finance  and  Administration  of
the  Companies  Act,  one  member
from  the  Reserve  Bank  and  five
other  members  of  whom  atleast
three shall be whole-time members,
to  be  appointed  by  the  Central
Government.

ii The  composition  of  the  Board  has
been  increased  to  nine  members
with further provision that out of five
members other than those from the
Central  Government  and  the
Reserve Bank, atleast three shall be
whole-time members.

iii After 

the 

amendment 

the
representative  of  the  Central
Government on the Board shall not
be from the Ministry of Law.

b. Functions of the Board

i The  Board  has  been  conferred
powers  to  call  for  information  and
record  from  any  Bank  or  other
Authority  or  Board  or  Corporation
constituted  under  any  Central  or
State  Act  in  respect  of  any
transaction  in  securities  which  is
under  investigation  or  enquiry  by
the Board.

ii Section  11  (2A)  empowers  the
Board  for  taking  measures  to
undertake inspection of any book or
register  or  document  or  record  of
any  listed  company  or  a  public
company  which  intends  to  get  its
securities  listed  on  a  recognised
stock  exchange,  if  the  Board  has
reasonable grounds to believe that
such  company  has  been  indulging
in  insider  trading  or  fraudulent  and
unfair  trade  practices  relating  to
securities market.

iii Section  11(3)  further  extends  the
power of a Civil Court to the Board
in  respect  of  inspecting  any  book
or  register  or  document  or  record
of  a  listed  company  or  a  public
company  which  intends  to  get  its
securities  listed  on  a  recognised
stock  exchange  and  in  respect  of
issuing  commissions 
the
examination of witnesses.

for 

iv The  Board  has  been  conferred
powers  for  passing  an  order  for
reasons to be recorded in writing, in
the interest of investors or securities
market, either pending investigation
or enquiry or on completion of such
investigation  or  enquiry  for  taking
any of the following :

persons 

 Suspend  the  trading  of  any
security in any recognised stock
exchange.
 Restrain 

from
accessing the securities market
and  prohibit  any  person
associated  with  the  securities
market  to  buy,  sell  or  deal  in
securities.

 Suspend  any  office  bearer  of
any  stock  exchange  or  self
regulatory  organization  from
holding such position.

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA



retain 

Impound  and 
the
proceeds or securities in respect
of  any  transaction  which  is
under investigation.

 Attach  one  or  more  bank
account  of  any  intermediary  or
person  associated  with  the
securities market in any manner
involved  in  violation  of  any  of
the provisions of the Act, Rules
or  Regulations.  However,  such
order  of  attachment  can  be
made  by  the  Board  only  after
passing of an order by a Judicial
Magistrate of the First Class on
an  application  made  for  the
approval. Further, such order of
attachment  can  be  made  only
for  a  period  not  exceeding  one
month  and  that  only  the  bank
account  so  far  as  it  relates  to
the  proceeds  actually  involved
in  violation  of  the  provisions  of
the  Act,  Rules,  or  Regulations
shall be allowed to be attached.

 Direct  any  intermediary  or  any
person  associated  with  the
securities market in any manner
not to dispose off or alienate an
asset  forming  part  of  the
transaction  which  is  under
investigation.

v The  Board  may,  for  the  protection
of  investors,  by  general  or  special
orders -

 Prohibit  any  company  from
issuing  prospectus,  any  offer
document,  or  advertisement
soliciting money from the public
by the issue of securities;

 Specify the conditions subject to

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

2525252525

Part-I Policies and Programmes

which the prospectus, such offer
document  or  advertisement,  if
not prohibited, may be issued.

vi The  Board  may  specify 

the
requirements for listing and transfer
of  securities  and  other  matters
incidental thereto.

c.

Investigation

i The  Board  may,  by  an  order  in
writing,  direct  any  person  to
investigate  the  affairs  of  such
intermediary or persons associated
with  the  securities  market  and  to
report thereon to the Board.

ii

It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every
manager, managing director, officer
and other employee of the company
and every intermediary to preserve
and to produce to the Investigating
Authority  all  the  books,  registers,
other  documents  and  record  of,  or
relating  to,  the  company  or,  as  the
case  may  be,  of  or  relating  to,  the
intermediary or such person, which
are in their custody or power.

iii The  Investigating  Authority  may
require  the  concerned  persons  to
furnish  such  information  to,  or
produce  such  books,  or  registers,
or  other  documents,  or  record
before him.

iv The  Investigating  Authority  may
keep  in  its  custody  any  books,
registers,  other  documents  and
record for six months and thereafter
shall  return  the  same  to  the
concerned persons by whom or on
whose  behalf  the  books,  registers,
other  documents  and  record  are
produced.  The 
Investigating
Authority  may  call  for  any  book,

2626262626

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

register, other document and record
if they are needed again.

v The  Investigating  Authority  may
examine  on  oath,  any  manager,
managing director, officer and other
employee  of  any  intermediary  or
any  person  associated  with
securities market in any manner, in
relation to the affairs of his business
and  may  administer  an  oath
accordingly  and  for  that  purpose,
may  require  any  of  those  persons
to appear before him personally.

vi

to  an 

If  any  person 
fails  without
reasonable  cause  or  refuses  to
produce 
Investigating
Authority  any  book,  register,  other
document  and  record  or  to  furnish
any information which it is his duty
or to appear before the Investigating
Authority  personally  when  required
to do so or to answer any question
which  is  put  to  him  by  the
Investigating Authority or to sign the
notes  of  any  examination  he  shall
be punishable with imprisonment for
a  term  which  may  extend  to  one
year, or with fine, which may extend
to  one  crore  rupees,  or  with  both,
and  also  with  a  further  fine  which
may  extend  to  five  lakh  rupees  for
every  day  after  the  first  during
which 
failure  or  refusal
continues.

the 

vii The  Investigating  Authority  may,
pursuant  to  an  order  made  on  an
application  by 
the  Judicial
Magistrate  of  the  first  class  having
jurisdiction-

 enter the place or places where
such  books,  registers,  other
documents and record are kept;





search  that  place  or  those
places  in  the  manner  specified
in the order ; and

seize  books,  registers,  other
documents  and 
it
considers  necessary  for  the
purposes of the investigation.

record 

viii Seizure of books, registers, other
documents and record, of listed
public company or a public company
(which is not an intermediary which
intends to get its securities listed on
any recognized stock exchange) is
not permitted unless such company
indulges in insider trading or market
manipulation.

d. Cease and Desist proceedings

i

If the Board finds, after causing an
inquiry to be made that any person
has  violated,  or  is  likely  to  violate,
any  provisions  of  this  Act,  or  any
rules  or 
regulations  made
thereunder, the Board may pass an
order  requiring  such  person  to
cease  and  desist  from  committing
or causing such violation.

ii Board  shall  pass  such  order  in
respect of listed public company or a
public company which intends to get
its securities listed on any recognized
stock exchange only if such company
has indulged in insider trading or
market manipulation.

e. Prohibition of Manipulative and

Deceptive Devices, Insider Trading and
Substantial Acquisition of Securities or
Control

The following activities have been prohibited -

i use  or  employment  of  any
manipulative or deceptive device or
contrivance  in  contravention  of  the

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

provisions of this Act or the rules or
the regulations made there under;

ii employment of any device, scheme
or  artifice  to  defraud  in  connection
with issue or dealing in securities ;

iii engaging  in  any  act,  practice,
course of business which operates
or would operate as fraud or deceipt
upon any person, in connection with
the  issue,  dealing  in  securities  in
contravention  of  the  provisions  of
this  Act  or  the  rules  and  the
regulations made there under;

iv engaging in insider trading;

v dealing  in  securities  while  in
possession of material or non-public
information or communicating such
material or non-public information to
any other person, in a manner which
is in contravention of the provisions
of  this  Act  or  the  rules  and  the
regulations made there under;

vi acquiring control of any company or
securities more than the percentage
of equity share capital of a listed
company in contravention of the
provisions of this Act or the rules and
the regulations made there under.

f. Penalties and Adjudication

i The  penalties  to  be  imposed  by
Adjudicating  Officer  have  been
enhanced  so  as  to  serve  as
effective deterrents.

ii The  sum  realized  by  way  of
penalties  shall  be  credited  to  the
Consolidated Fund of India.

g. Establishment of Securities Appellate

Tribunal (SAT)

i The  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal
shall  consist  of  a  Presiding  Officer
and two other members.

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

2727272727

Part-I Policies and Programmes

ii A person, who is a sitting or retired
Judge  of  the  Supreme  Court  or  a
sitting  or  retired  Chief  Justice  of  a
High  Court,  may  be  appointed  as
Presiding Officer in consultation with
the  Chief  Justice  of  India  or  his
nominee.

iii A person who is a person of ability,
integrity  and  standing  who  has
shown  capacity  in  dealing  with
problems  relating  to  securities
market  and  has  qualification  and
experience  of  corporate  law,
securities laws, finance, economics
or accountancy shall be qualified for
appointment as Member

iv A  member  of  the  Board  or  any
person  holding  a  post  at  level
equivalent  to  Executive  Director  in
the Board shall not be appointed as
Presiding  Officer  or  Member  of  a
Securities Appellate Tribunal during
his  service  or  tenure  as  such  with
the Board or within two years from
the date on which he ceases to hold
office as such in the Board.

v The Presiding Officer, Members and
other officers and employees of the
Securities  Appellate  Tribunal  shall
be deemed to be public servants.

vi Appeal  to  Supreme  Court-  Against
any  decision  or  order  of  the
Securities  Appellate  Tribunal  an
appeal shall to the Supreme Court.

vii Such appeal may be filed by the
aggrieved party within sixty days from
the date of communication of the
decision or order on any question of
law arising out of such order.

h. Offences

i The penalties for offences under the
Act enhanced to ten years, or with

2828282828

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

fine,  which  may  extend  to  twenty-
five crores rupees or with both.

i. Compounding of Offences

i Any  offence  punishable  under  the
Act,  not  being  an  offence
punishable  with  imprisonment  only
or with imprisonment and also with
fine  may  either  before  or  after  the
institution  of  any  proceeding,  be
compounded  by  a  Securities
Appellate Tribunal or a court before
which  such  proceedings  are
pending.

j. Power to Grant Immunity

i

If on recommendation by the Board,
the Central Government is satisfied
that  any  person,  who  is  alleged  to
have violated any of the provisions
of  this  Act  or  the  rules  or  the
regulations  made  thereunder,  has
made  a  full  and  true  disclosure  in
respect  of  the  alleged  violation,  it
may  grant  to  such  person,  subject
to  such  conditions  as  it  may  think
fit  to  impose,  immunity  from
prosecution  for  any  offence  under
this  Act,  or  the  rules  or  the
regulations made thereunder or also
from  the  imposition  of  any  penalty
under  this  Act  with  respect  to  the
alleged violation.

ii No  such  immunity  can  be  granted
in cases where the proceedings for
the  prosecution  for  any  such
offence have been instituted before
the date of receipt of application for
grant of such immunity.

iii An  immunity  granted  to  a  person
may,  at  any  time,  be  withdrawn  by
the  Central  Government,  if  it  is
satisfied  that  such  person  had,  in
the  course  of  the  proceedings,  not

complied  with  the  condition  on
which the immunity was granted or
had given false evidence.

k. Cognizance of Offences by Courts

i A  court  of  the  rank  of  a  Court  of
Session  shall  try  an  offence
punishable under the Act.

E. SEBI Regulations and Amendment to

SEBI Regulations

Some  of  the  amendments  have  been  listed
in  the  chapter.  This  section  describes  the
amendments in greater details.

a. SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry

by Enquiry Officer and Imposing
Penalty) Regulations, 2002 were
notified on 27.9.2002 vide S.O.
No.1045 (E).

i The  provisions  regarding  enquiry
proceedings  provided  under  the
various regulations deleted.

ii A  common  and  comprehensive
procedure of enquiry and imposition
of penalty provided.

iii The  Enquiry  Officer  may  be
appointed  by  the  Chairman  or  a
member designated in this behalf in
the  matter  involving  technical  or
complicated questions of fact or law.
The Chairman or the member may
appoint  more  than  one  Enquiry
Officer  to  function  as  a  bench
presided  over  by  the  Senior
amongst them.

iv The  notice  may  be  served  by
Registered  Post  by  A.D.  or  by  the
courier  service  approved  by  the
board.  If  the  notice  cannot  be
served  by  these  modes  the  same
may be served by affixing the same
on 
the  door  or  some  other
conspicuous part of the premises of

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

the registered office or the principal
office  of  the  intermediary.  In  case
of  a  stock  broker  the  notice  shall
be  served  through  the  concerned
stock exchange.

v The  intermediary  may  appear
before  the  Enquiry  Officer  through
an authorized representative who is
not  a  legal  practitioner  unless  the
Chairman  or  the  member  has
appointed  a  legal  practitioner  as
presenting officer.

vi The  Enquiry  Officer  may
recommend  minor  penalties  or
major  penalties  by  giving
justification therefor.

vii The  minor  penalties  and  major
penalties have been defined. Minor
penalties 
include  warning,
prohibiting the intermediary to take
up  any  new  assignment  upto  six
months, suspension of certificate for
a period upto three months etc. The
major penalties include cancellation
of  certificate,  suspension  for  a
period  exceeding  three  months,
prohibiting  or  debarring 
the
intermediary for a period exceeding
six months.

viii The grounds for imposing of major

penalties prescribed.

ix The Chairman or the Member may
pass  the  appropriate  order  after
considering  the  reply  to  the  show
cause  notice 
the
intermediary  after  the  report  of  the
enquiry officer.

issued 

to 

x If the Enquiry Officer recommends
minor penalty and the Chairman or
the member proposes to impose
major penalty, a notice to make
written submissions within 15 days
and after considering the written
submissions if any, the Chairman or
the Member may pass suitable order.

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

2929292929

Part-I Policies and Programmes

xi A  summary  procedure  has  been
provided 
in  case  of  certain
circumstances involving established
facts as provided in the regulations.

xii For  the  summary  procedure,  the
Chairman  or  the  Member  may
appoint  an  officer  of  the  Board  not
below the rank of Division Chief to
pass  appropriate  orders  under  the
circumstances  specified  in  the
regulations in this behalf. The officer
so  appointed  shall  give  a  notice  to
the  concerned  intermediary  for
making  written  submissions.  After
considering the written submissions
the  officer  shall  pass  appropriate
orders.

xiii The  orders  passed  under  the
regulations  are  to  be  published  by
issue of press release in respect of
the  order  in  two  newspapers  of
which  atleast  one  shall  have
nationwide  circulation.  The  order
shall also be put on the website of
the Board.

b. SEBI (Central Listing Authority)

Regulations, 2003

These  regulations  were  notified  on  13th
February, 2003 vide S.O. No. 171 (E).

i A  Central  Listing  Authority  (CLA)

shall be constituted by the SEBI.

rejecting 

issuing  or 

ii The  CLA  shall  have  the  functions
of 
the
application  made  by  any  body
corporate, mutual fund or collective
investment  scheme  for  letter  of
recommendation  for  listing,  of
making  recommendations  as  to
listing conditions and of discharging
such  other  functions  as  may  be
specified by SEBI from time to time.

iii Before  making  an  application  for
listing  to  any  stock  exchange,  a

3030303030

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

body  corporate,  mutual  fund  or
collective  investment  scheme  shall
obtain  a  letter  of  recommendation
for  listing  from  the  CLA  on  an
application made in that behalf.

iv An exchange shall not consider any
listing application made by any body
corporate, mutual fund or collective
investment  scheme,  unless  it  is
accompanied  by  a 
letter  of
recommendation  issued  by  the
CLA.

recommendation 

v Where  the  CLA  refuses  to  issue  a
letter  of 
in
accordance with the procedure laid
down  in  the  Regulations,  the
aggrieved  party  may  approach
SEBI, which may, if satisfied, direct
the  CLA  to  issue  a  letter  of
recommendation.
If the exchange refuses listing to the
body  corporate,  mutual  fund  or
collective  investment  scheme,  it
may  prefer  an  appeal  to  the
Securities  Appellate  Tribunal  as
provided in the Securities Contracts
(Regulation) Act, 1956.

vi

c. SEBI (Portfolio Managers)

(Amendment) Regulations, 2002

SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  Amendment
Regulations 2002 were notified on 11.10.2002
to  amend  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)
Regulations,  1993  to  provide  inter-alia  the
following:

i The Portfolio Manager to be a Body

Corporate.

ii Multiple registration i.e. registration
to  associates/group  companies/
companies 
same
management  of  the  Portfolio
Manager  may  be  considered.  The
application  may  be  rejected  if  any
application  of  a  person  directly  or

under 

indirectly  connected  with  applicant
has  been 
rejected  or  any
disciplinary  action  has  been  taken
by the Board against such person.
iii Requirement  of  minimum  two  key

personnel.

iv Before  taking  up  an  assignment  of
management of funds and portfolio
of securities, the portfolio manager
shall  enter  into  an  agreement  in
writing  with  the  client  clearly
defining the inter se relationship and
setting  out  their  mutual  rights,
liabilities and obligations relating to
the  management  of  funds  or
portfolio of securities.

v The  details  to  be  contained  in  the
agreement  are  specified 
in
Schedule  IV.  Such  agreement
between the portfolio manager and
the client shall, inter alia, contain:



the  investment  objectives  and
the services to be provided;



 areas  of 

investment  and
restrictions,  if  any,  imposed  by
the  client;  type  of  instruments
and proportion of exposure;
tenure  of  portfolio  investments;
terms  for  early  withdrawal  of
funds  or  securities  by  the
clients;  period  of  the  contract
and 
early
provision 
termination, if any

of 

 attendant  risks  involved  in  the

management of the portfolio;



 amount  to  be  invested  subject
to  the  restrictions  provided
under the regulations;
fees  payable  to  the  portfolio
manager;  the  quantum  and
manner  of  fees  payable  by  the
client for each activity for which
service  is  rendered  by  the

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA



portfolio  manager  directly  or
indirectly (where such service is
out sourced) ;
in  case  of  a  discretionary
portfolio  manager  a  condition
that the liability of a client shall
not  exceed  his  investment  with
the portfolio manager;

vi The portfolio manager shall provide
to  the  client,  the  Disclosure
Document  alongwith  a  certificate
regarding  the  correctness  of  the
contents,  atleast  two  days  prior  to
entering into an agreement with the
client.  The  contents  of 
the
Disclosure  Document  have  been
specified in Schedule.

in 

the 

respect 

vii The  Disclosure  Document,  shall
inter  alia  contain  the  complete
disclosures 
of
transactions with related parties as
per  the  accounting  standards
specified  by 
Institute  of
Chartered  Accountants  of  India  in
this regard; the performance of the
portfolio manager;
audited
financial statements of the portfolio
manager  for  the  immediately
preceding three years.

the 

viii The  contents  of  the  Disclosure
Document  shall  be  certified  by  an
independent chartered accountant.

ix Disclosure Document to filed with
SEBI before its issue and thereafter
every six months or effecting material
change in Document whichever is
earlier.

x The portfolio manager shall charge
an  agreed  fee  from  the  clients  for
rendering  portfolio  management
services  without  guaranteeing  or
assuring, any return and the fee so
charged  may  be  a  fixed  fee  or  a

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

3131313131

Part-I Policies and Programmes

return  based  fee  or  a  combination
of both.

accounts  of  the  portfolio  manager
relating to his transactions.

xi The  portfolio  manager  shall  not
accept  from  the  client,  funds  or
securities  worth  less  than  five  lacs
rupees.

xii The  portfolio  manager  shall  not
borrow funds or securities on behalf
of the client. The portfolio manager
shall  not  lend  securities  held  on
behalf  of  clients  to  a  third  person
except  as  provided  under  these
regulations.

xiii The  money  or  securities  accepted
by  the  portfolio  manager  shall  not
be  invested  or  managed  by  the
portfolio  manager  except  in  terms
of  the  agreement  between  the
portfolio manager and the client.

xiv The  funds  or  securities  can  be
withdrawn  or  taken  back  by  the
client  before  the  maturity  of  the
contract  under  the  circumstances
specified in the regulations.

xv Permit Portfolio Managers to invest
in Derivatives. However, leveraging
of  portfolio  shall  not  be  permitted
in  respect  of 
in
derivatives.

investment 

xvi The portfolio manager may, subject
to  authorisation  by  the  client  in
writing,  participate  in  securities
lending.

xvii The  portfolio  accounts  of  the
portfolio  manager  shall  be  audited
annually  by  an 
independent
chartered accountant and a copy of
the  certificate  issued  by  the
chartered accountant shall be given
to the client.

xviii The client may appoint a chartered
accountant  to  audit  the  books  and

3232323232

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

d. SEBI (Underwriters) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2002  were  notified  on
December  10,  2002  vide  S.O.  No.
1291(E).  The  amendment  provides  that
an  applicant  being  a  merchant  banker
and  seeking  registration  as  underwriter
would not be entitled to exemption from
payment of the registration fees.

e. SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading)
(Second Amendment) Regulations,
2002  were  notified  on  29th  November,
2002 vide S.O. No. 1245(E).

i The definition of ‘person deemed to
be  a  connected  person’  includes
concerns,  firms,  companies  etc.  in
which other specified insiders have
more than 10per cent of the holding
or  interest.  The  reference  to
holdings  of  relatives  of  such
persons has been removed.

ii Any  communication  made  in  the
ordinary  course  of  profession  or
employment  shall  also  be  exempt
from  the  prohibition  of  regulation
3(ii) in addition to those made in the
ordinary  course  of  business  or
under any law.

in  proceedings 

iii A  new  regulation  3B  has  been
introduced  to  lay  down  certain
defences 
for
violation  of  regulation  3A  in
specified  circumstances.  Sub-
regulation (1) says that a company
would not be liable under regulation
3A for entering into a transaction in
securities  while  its  officer  or
employee  was  in  possession  of
unpublished  price 
sensitive
information relating to the securities,
if the decision to deal was taken by
a  person  other  than  that  officer  or

employee,  and  there  are  systems
and  procedures  in  the  company
which  ensure  that  such  person
cannot  have  access  to  such
information  or  to  advice  regarding
the  transaction  from  that  officer  or
employee  and  if  the  information  or
advice  was 
not
communicated to such person. Sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 3B gives
exemption in case of an acquisition
made in accordance with the SEBI
(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares
and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997.

fact 

in 

iv The 

continuous 

disclosure
requirements  in  regulation  13(4)
have  now  been  made  applicable
only in a case where the change in
holdings  exceeds  the  lower  of  Rs.
5 lacs in value, or 25000 shares or
1per  cent  of  the  total  shareholding
or voting rights.

v The  definition  of  ‘designated
employee’  for  the  purpose  of  the
Model  Code  of  Conduct  for  Listed
Companies does not now extend to
all  the  employees  of  the  finance
department.  Only  employees  who
are  in  the  top  three  tiers  of
management and those specifically
designated  by  the  company  would
be covered.

vi

It  has  been  clarified  that  the  time
of commencement of closure of the
trading  window  in  connection  with
certain  specified  events  shall  be
decided by the company.

f. SEBI (Foreign Institutional Investors)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2002 were
notified  in  the  Official  Gazette  on
December  10,  2002  vide  S.O.  No.
1292(E).  The  amendment  proposes  to
further rationalize the registration process
of Foreign Institutional Investors.

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

i

It is required that a certified copy of
the  relevant  clauses  or  articles  of
the  Memorandum  and  Articles  of
Association  of  the  applicant  or  the
agreement authorizing the applicant
to  invest  on  behalf  of  its  clients  is
enclosed  alongwith  the  application
form.

ii The requirement of filing the audited
financial  statement  and  annual
report  pertaining  to  the  last  five
years is dispensed with. The copies
of these documents for the last one
year, not being less than 12 months
are  required  to  be  filed  with  the
application.

evidencing 

iii The  requirement  of  filing  the
documents 
the
registration  of  the  applicant  with  a
Securities  Commission  or  self
regulatory organization or any other
regulatory  authority  removed.  It
would  be  now  sufficient  if  a
declaration is made by the applicant
with the requisite particulars.

iv Instead  of  filing  a  copy  of  the
agreement  with  the  domestic
custodian,  it  would  suffice,  if  a
declaration is made by the applicant
that it has entered into a custodian
agreement  together  with  details  of
the domestic custodian.

v The  registration  fee  has  been
reduced from US $ 10,000/- to US
$ 5,000/-.

g. SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2002  The
asset  management  company  shall
provide an option to the unitholder(s) to
nominate a person in whom the units held
by the unitholder(s) can be vested in the
event  of  the  death  of  the  unitholder(s).
The format for nomination has also been
specified in the Regulations.

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

3333333333

Part-I Policies and Programmes

h. SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Third
Amendment)  Regulations,  2002
notified  in  July,  2002  vide  S.O.
No.809(E)

i The  variation  in  NAV  has  been
to

‘2  percent’ 

reduced 
‘1percent’.

from 

ii The Regulations also require that in
case  the  NAV  of  a  scheme  differs
due to non-recording of transactions
by  more  than  1per  cent,  the
investors  or  schemes  shall  be
compensated.

iii

If investors are allotted units at higher
NAV or they are given lower NAV at
the time of their sale of units, they
should  be  compensated  by  the
schemes. However, if investors are
charged lower NAV at the time of their
purchase of units or they are given
higher NAV at the time of their sale of
units, asset management company
shall compensate the schemes.

iv It  has  been  provided  that  the
meeting  of  the  Trustees  shall  be
held  atleast  once  in  every  two
calendar  months  and  at  least  six
such  meetings  to  be  held  in  every
calendar year.

i. SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2002 were
notified in September, 2002 Vide S.O.
No.956(E) to provide for:

i Service  fees  linked  to  the  assets
under  management  as  on  31st
March of the previous year.

ii The  service  fees  of  Rupees  two
lakhs  fifty  thousand  payable  by  all
mutual  fund  to  the  service  fees
payable based on the net assets of
the  fund  as  on  31st  March  of  the
previous  year  has  been  modified.

3434343434

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

The  Regulations  provide  for  scale
of  service  fees  payable  from
Rs.2.50  Lacs  to  Rs.7.50  Lacs
based  on  the  NAV  as  on  31st
March of the previous year.

j. SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2003 were
notified  on  19.02.03 
Vide  S.O.
No.203(E).  The  following  amendments
were made:

i The  proviso  to  Regulation  27
provides that Credit Rating Agency
may  rate  a  security  issued  by  its
associate  having  a  common
independent  director  with  it  or  its
rating committee.

ii The  above  relaxation  is  provided
subject  to  condition  that  the
independent  director  does  not
participate  in  the  discussions  on
rating decisions and that the Credit
Rating Agency makes a disclosure
in  the  rating  announcement  of  the
associate about the existence of the
independent director and about his
non  participation  in  the  rating
decisions.

iii The  expression  “independent
director” has been explained to be as
a director who, apart from receiving
director’s remuneration does not
have  any  material  pecuniary
relationship or transaction with a
company, 
its
management or its subsidiaries,
which in the judgement of the Board
of  the  company  may  affect  the
independence of the judgement of
such director.

its  promoters, 

VIII. Retrospect and Prospects

a) Retrospect : The year that went by had
now posed several challenges to SEBI.

On one hand there was the challenge of
restoring investor confidence which was
battered by the market turbulence, while
on  the  other  hand  the  challenge  of
continuously  reviewing,  improving  and
developing  the  regulatory  framework  to
provide  for  a  market  which  is  fair  and
transparent  as  functions  with  a  high
degree of efficiency and integrity. In the
midst of these challenges, SEBI for the
first  time  forged  for  itself  a  vision  –“the
most dynamic and respected regulator -
globally”,  and  carefully  crafted  out  a
strategic action plan, in consonance with
SEBI’s objective and its mission to help
the  securities  market  retain 
the
competitive  edge  and  to  address  the
structural, systemic and operational risks
of the markets. It goes to the credit of the
team  of  SEBI  that  it  was  able  to
successfully complete a large number of
the activities. The remaining activities are
of continuing nature and SEBI would have
to work at these continuously. The major
milestones  covered  by  SEBI  during  the
year have already been delineated earlier
in this chapter.

b) Prospects:  In  furtherance  of  its  vision
and  mission,  the  team  of  SEBI  laid  out
its Second Strategic Action Plan for the
year ahead. If the current year’s (2002-
03)  plan  aimed  at  building 
the
competitive edge for the Indian Securities
Market,  the  aim  of  the  next  year’s  plan
is  to  make  Indian  Securities  Market,  a
global  benchmark.  SEBI  would  work
assiduously  in  conjunction  with  the
government  ,  other  regulatory  agencies
and market participants to reach the goal
and  to  make  Indian  Securities  Market  ,
a  vibrant  and  a  destination  for  global
capital.  Some  of  the  salient  features  of
the Strategic Action Plan for 2003-04 are
given below :-

S E C U R I T I E S
AND  EXCHANGE
BOARD OF INDIA

 Development  of  SROs  in  various

segments of the Market.

 Greater co-ordination with the other
regulators with global view of the issue
and deliver the better values to the
market.

 Enhanced cooperation with overseas
regulators for superior regulation and
to improve the visibility of the Indian
Securities Market at the global level.

 Disclosures for private placements of

debt(listed).

 Disclosure norms for debt issues by

International Multilateral Agencies.

 Comprehensive  Review  of  Market
intelligence  and  Surveillance
Systems

 Concrete  measures  to  enhance

liquidity in market

 Disclosures by Market Participants.

 Certification for various intermediaries
in  the  Securities  Market  to  bring  in
the higher level of professionalism.

 Enhance  speed  of  enforcement

actions.

 Physical settlement of the derivative

products.

 Cross margining between the cash
and derivatives markets to economize
the use of capital of the participants in
the market.

 Introduction  of  new 

financial
instruments  like  fund  of  funds  and
real estate funds.

 Policy  formulation  for  the  Indian

Depository Receipts (IDRs)

 Expansion of STP across the market
participants 
the
processing  speed  through  the
seamless flow of information.

to  enhance 

ANNUAL REPORT 2002 - 2003

3535353535

