Assessment and Prospects

At present, Indian securities markets are passing through an  important  phase.  The  Indian  corporate  sector  and   the  securities industry and the securities markets are  changing  rapidly  in  the  face of economic reforms.  As  the  Indian  economy  undergoes  structural  changes,  and  opens  up  to  domestic   and   international   competition,   trade    and  investment;   financial  intermediation  through   household  investment in stocks, bonds and mutual funds units, which is  still  a  relatively small proportion of  household  savings  compared  to developed markets will have to fast become  the  investment channel of choice for the household sector. It is  only  when this happens will the securities markets be  able  to  provide  the  long term resources for industry  and  the  economy.  For  this to happen, it is important  to  build  a  regulatory  system  which would inspire  the  confidence  of  investors.
In the short and medium term efforts will have to be made to  follow   up  and  further  consolidate  progress   made   on  initiatives taken by SEBI. SEBI intends to:

consolidate and revise of the Guidelines for Disclosure    and Investor Protection
take  follow up action on the recommendations  of  the    Justice Dhanuka Committee on securities laws
take  measures  towards  the  implementation  of  the    recommendations of the Chandrashekaran Committee, on issues    relating  to  the  transfer and registration  of  physical    securities
prescribe regulations for credit rating agencies
take  follow  up  action towards the  introduction  of    derivative trading on the basis of the report of the Dr. L C    Gupta Committee, which is expected to be submitted in  the    course of the coming year
further  improve  disclosure  norms,  streamline  and    shorten  issue procedures so as to reduce issue costs  for    Indian issuers
make efforts in the direction of modernisation of  the    market  infrastructure  to ease  clearing  and  settlement    difficulties so that settlement cycles are shortened and our    markets move towards rolling settlement and DVP on the lines    suggested by the Group of Thirty. 

The  present  regulatory regime for the  securities  markets  established under the SEBI Act 1992, has led to improvements  in  standards  of investor protection. At the  same  time  a  number  of  challenges  remain and  there  is  a  scope  for  potential further improvements and greater efficiency in the  regulatory  system. Some of the measures that SEBI  proposes  to  take  in  this  direction are mentioned  above.  As  the  changes  and  reforms brought in by SEBI get bedded  in  and  markets  mature,  it  is  expected  that  Indian  securities  markets  will  take  up their rightful role  in  the  Indian  economy.