Intermediaries Associated with The Securities Markets
Primary market intermediaries

Merchant bankers Merchant  bankers play an important role in issue management  process. Lead managers (category I merchant bankers) have to  ensure correctness of the information furnished in the offer  document. They have to ensure compliance with SEBI rules and  regulations as also Guidelines for Disclosures and  Investor  Protection. To this effect, they are required to  submit  to  SEBI  a  due  diligence  certificate  confirming  that   the  disclosures made in the draft prospectus or letter of  offer  are  true,  fair  and  adequate to  enable  the  prospective  investors  to make a well informed investment decision.  The  role  of  merchant bankers in performing their due diligence  functions   has   become  even  more  important   with   the  strengthening  of  disclosure  requirements  and  with  SEBI  giving  up  the  vetting  of  prospectuses.  SEBI's  various  operational  guidelines issued during the year  to  merchant  bankers primarily addressed the need to enhance the standard  of disclosures. It was felt that a further strengthening of the criteria for  registration  of  merchant bankers was necessary,  primarily  through  an increase in the net worth requirements, so  that  their  capital  would  be commensurate  with  the  level  of  activities  undertaken by them. With this in view,  the  net  worth requirement for category I merchant bankers was raised  in  1995-96  to Rs. 5 crore. In 1996-97, the SEBI  (Merchant  Bankers)  Regulations,  1992 were  amended  to  require  the  payment of fees for each letter of offer or draft prospectus  that  is filed with SEBI. Part III gives further details  of  the registration of merchant bankers during 1996-97.   
Underwriters Underwriters are required to register with SEBI in terms  of  the  SEBI  (Underwriters) Rules and  Regulations,  1993.  In  addition  to underwriters registered with SEBI in  terms  of  these  regulations,  all  registered  merchant  bankers   in  categories  I, II and III and stockbrokers and mutual  funds  registered with SEBI can function as underwriters. Part  III  gives  further  details of registration of underwriters.  In  1996-97,  the  SEBI  (Underwriters) Regulations,  1993  were  amended mainly pertaining to some procedural matters. 
Bankers to an Issue Scheduled  banks acting as bankers to an issue are  required  to  be registered with SEBI in terms of the SEBI (Bankers to  the  Issue)  Rules and Regulations, 1994. These  regulations  lay  down  eligibility criteria for bankers to an issue  and  require registrants to meet periodic reporting requirements.  Part III gives further details of registration of bankers to  an issue. 
Portfolio managers Portfolio  managers are required to register  with  SEBI  in  terms   of   the   SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)   Rules   and  Regulations,   1993.   The  registered  portfolio   managers  exclusively  carry  on portfolio management  activities.  In  addition all merchant bankers in categories I and II can act  as  portfolio managers with prior permission from SEBI. Part  III  gives  further details of the registration of portfolio  managers. 
Debenture trustees Debenture trustees are registered with SEBI in terms of  the  SEBI (Debenture Trustees) Rules and Regulations, 1993. Since  1995-96,  SEBI has been monitoring the working of  debenture  trustees  by  calling  for details regarding  compliance  by  issuers  of the terms of the debenture trust deed,  creation  of  security, payment of interest, redemption of  debentures  and  redressal of complaints of debenture holders  regarding  non-receipt  of interest/redemption proceeds on  due  dates.  Part  III  gives  further  details of  the  registration  of  debenture trustees. 
Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents Registrars to an issue (RTI) and share transfer agents (STA)  are registered with SEBI in terms of the SEBI (Registrar  to  the  Issue  and Share Transfer Agent) Rules and Regulations,  1993.  Under  these regulations, registration  commenced  in  1993-94 and is granted under two categories: category I - to  act  as both registrar to the issue and share transfer agent  and category II - to act as either registrar to an issue  or  share  transfer agent. With the setting up of the depository  and  the  expansion  of  the network  of  depositories,  the  traditional  work  of  registrars is  likely  to  undergo  a  change. 

Secondary Market Intermediaries

Stock brokers All  stock brokers dealing in securities are registered with  SEBI  in  terms  of  SEBI (Stock Brokers  and  Sub  Brokers)  Regulation 1992. During 1996-97, 391 additional brokers were  registered  with SEBI making the total registered membership  to 8,867 as on March 31, 1997. 
Sub brokers In many cases, individual investors transact in securities  through sub brokers. It is therefore absolutely imperative  to regulate this class of intermediary. As on March 31, 1997  only 1,798 sub brokers were registered with SEBI. The main  reason for the limited success in registering large number  of sub brokers is that brokers are reluctant to take  responsibility of the acts of the sub-brokers. Measures  initiated by SEBI for bringing sub-brokers more fully under  the ambit of regulatory oversight have been described  earlier in this Report. 
