PART IV 
ORGANISATIONAL MATTERS OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE 
BOARD OF INDIA  
 
Board 
 
During the year 2001-02 (April to March), nine Board Meetings were held.   
 
Shri  G  N  Bajpai  assumed  the  Office  of  Chairman  of  SEBI  with  effect  from  the  afternoon  of 
February 20, 2002.   Shri D R Mehta relinquished  the charge of office of Chairman of SEBI 
from the close of business on February 20, 2002. 
 
Prof. J R Varma, Full time Member, SEBI Board was relived from his duties with effect from the 
close of business on June 21, 2001.  
 
Shri Kumar Mangalam Birla, Part-Time Member, relinquished the office  on November 9, 2001, 
on expiry of the three year term. 
 
Shri  G  P  Muniappan,  Deputy  Governor,  Reserve  Bank  of  India  was  nominated  as  one  of  the 
Members on the Board in terms of Government of India Notification No. 5/25/CM/2001 dated 
July 25, 2001 in pursuance of Section 3 read with Section 4 (15 of 1992) of SEBI Act of 1992 in 
place of Shri S P Talwar. 
 
Shri Vinod Kumar Dhall, Secretary, Department of Company Affairs was also nominated as one 
of the Members on the Board in terms of Government of India Notification No.5/11/CM/2000 
dated August 22, 2001 in pursuance of Section 3 read with Section 4 (15 of 1992) of SEBI Act of 
1992 in place of Shri V Govindarajan.  
 
Human Resources 
 
As on March 31, 2002, SEBI had 215 Officers and 149 Staff Members (Total 364) in various 
other cadres.  During the year the Board recruited 47 personnel in various cadres.  Of the total 
staff of 364, 20 persons belong to SC,   49 to OBC and 1 to ST categories. 
 
Parliamentary Committee 
 
Joint  Parliamentary  Committee  on  Stock  Market  Scam  under  the  Chairpersonship  of  Shri 
Prakash Mani Tripathi held a meeting with the Chairman and other Senior Officials of the Board 
at Mumbai on July 12, 2001. 
 
Promotion of Official Language 
 
Board's endeavour has always been to implement the Official Language Policy of Government of 
India in its offices as well as in the capital market.  In furtherance of this objective, the Board has 
brought  out  number  of  valuable  publications  in  bilingual  form.      These  publications  include 
"Capital Market Guide" originally written in Hindi, which proved very useful in educating the 

investors of Capital Market.  The Board has taken number of initiatives to make available the 
material related to securities market in Hindi as well as in regional languages.   
 
To  facilitate  smooth  implementation  of  Official  Language  Policy  and  in  order  to  bring 
uniformity in the interpretation of meanings of various words and phrases prevailing in financial 
market, SEBI brought out a book titled "SEBI Rajbhasha Sahayika".  In addition to this, SEBI 
also published books like Rajbhasha Sandarshika, Hindi Aashu-Tankan Sandarshika and Vidhi 
Karya  Sahayika  so  as  to  provide  reference  material  to  its  employees  so  that  they  do  not  face 
much difficulty in implementing the Official Language in their day-to-day work. 
 
Owing to globalization of capital market, new terminology has emerged and the Hindi equivalent 
of  these  terms  are  not  available.    Keeping  in  mind  the  problems  faced  by  Indian  investors  in 
interpretation of these new terms in Hindi, Official Language Division is putting its best efforts 
to establish suitable Hindi equivalents of these new concepts.   
 
In addition to creating a conducive atmosphere for implementation of Official Language Policy 
in  its  offices,  the  SEBI  also  coordinated  with  other  agencies/institutions  for  effective 
implementation of the Official Language. The Board is determined to accelerate the progress of 
implementation of Official Language in the capital market in future. 
 
Status of Information Technology in SEBI  
 
The  responsibilities  and  activities  of  Information  Systems  Department  include  framing  of  IT 
policy and development of centralised database system for dissemination of information across 
various  departments  under  a  collaborative  computing  environment  ensuring  data  integrity  and 
security.  
 
During the year, appropriate Security/Audit trail mechanism was implemented over the existing 
application software packages relating to Foreign Institutional Investment, Legal, Intermediaries 
Administration,  Take-overs,  Initial  Public  Offering,  Action  Taken  Reports,  etc.,  to  ensure 
secured dissemination of information. 
 
The  SEBI  has  been  developing  a  team  of  trained,  qualified  Information  Technology 
professionals and all application software packages have been developed in-house.  
 
Databases at SEBI 
 
Various  central  databases,  engineered  on  Relational  Database  Management  System  (RDBMS) 
model, have been upgraded to the latest available version.  
 
Intranet 
 
In order to develop knowledge management on IT related issues, SEBI Intranet has been widely 
enhanced with Discussion forum / Help Desk / SEBI IT newsletter. 
Networking  
 

Communication facilities and network bandwidth are constantly being reviewed and connectivity 
with its regional offices (Chennai, Delhi, Kolkatta) through leased line is under consideration.  
To meet the growing demands on Internet accessibility, the Internet connectivity has also been 
upgraded.  
 
SEBI’s Web Site  
 
The official web-site of SEBI, http://www.sebi.gov.in, a source for dissemination of information 
on SEBI regularly has been updated. Features like departmental classification, circular archive 
etc., have been added during the year.  SEBI also initiated the process of restructuring its existing 
Web Solution to include latest Internet Technologies.  
 
Electronic Office  
 
Periodic  review,  training  and  discussions  are  organised  to  nurture  "less  paper"  office 
environment and accordingly the existing application software packages have been upgraded. 
 

