Foreign Institutional Investment
Changes to the SEBI (Foreign Institutional Investors) Regulations, 1995
In  1996-97,  several changes have been  made  to  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Institutional  Investors)  Regulations,  1995   to  diversify  the foreign institutional investor  base  and  to  further  facilitate inflow of foreign portfolio  investment.  The  changes  have also aimed at facilitating investment  in  debt  securities through the FII route. The changes  are  as  follows:
 

the eligible categories of FIIs have been expanded  to    include   university   funds,   endowments,   foundations,    charitable  trusts and charitable societies which  have  a    track  record of 5 years and which are registered  with  a    statutory  authority in their country of incorporation  or    establishment 
each FII or sub-account of an FII has been permitted to    invest upto 10% of the equity of any one company, subject to    the  overall limit of 24% on investments by all FIIs, NRIs    and OCBs 
the  24%  limit may be raised to 30% in  the  case  of    individual companies who have obtained shareholder approval    for the same 
FIIs  have  been  permitted  to  invest  in  unlisted    securities 
FIIs  have  been  allowed to invest their  proprietary    funds 
FIIs who obtain specific approval from SEBI have  been    permitted  to  invest  100% of their  portfolios  in  debt    securities. Such investment may be in listed or to be listed    corporate debt securities or in dated government securities,    and is treated to be part of the overall limit on external    commercial borrowing. 

The  impact  of these changes was felt as several  endowment  funds,  proprietary  funds  and  100%  debt  funds  of  FIIs  obtained registration. Further details are given in Part  II  of  this  Report. In order to simplify the FII  registration  process,  SEBI and RBI set up a co-ordination committee.  At  the  end  of  1996-97  there were no  applications  for  FII  registration pending with SEBI and RBI.
Foreign  investment in Indian securities has also been  made  possible through the purchase of Global Depository Receipts,  Foreign  Currency  Convertible Bonds  and  Foreign  Currency  Bonds issued by Indian issuers which are listed, traded  and  settled  overseas. Foreign investors, whether registered  as  FII or not, may also invest in Indian securities outside the  FII  route.  Such investment requires case by case  approval  from  the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) and  the  RBI, or only by the RBI depending the size of investment and  the industry in which this investment is to be made.
Foreign  financial  services  institutions  have  also  been  allowed  to  set  up joint ventures in stock broking,  asset  management  companies, merchant banking and other  financial  services  firms  along  with Indian  partners.  The  foreign  participation in financial services requires the approval of  FIPB.  In 1996-97, the FIPB announced guidelines for foreign  investment in the non-banking financial services sector.