Mutual Funds
"Mutual Funds 2000"
During  1995-96, SEBI had prepared and widely  circulated  a  paper  titled "Mutual Funds 2000" which identified  ways  to  improve  the  working  and regulation  of  the  mutual  fund  industry,  so  that  mutual funds  could  provide  a  better  performance  and service to all categories of investors  and  offer a range of innovative products in a competitive manner  to  match  investor  needs  and preferences  across  various  investor  segments. Based on the comments  received  on  the  recommendations made in the paper by market participants and  investors  and  on discussions held with the Association  of  Mutual  Funds  of  India  (AMFI), the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1993  were  revised and  the  new  regulations  notified in December 1996.
The SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996
The revised regulations embodied far reaching changes in the  regulation  and  functioning of mutual  funds.  The  revised  regulations provide for
 

enhanced level of investor protection
empowerment of investors
stringent disclosure norms in the offer documents,  so    that investors are better informed, better advised, better    aware of risks and rewards
standardisation  of  norms for  valuation  of  assets,    computation of Net Asset Values (NAVs) of schemes of mutual    funds and accounting standards and policies
complete  freedom  to  asset management  companies  to    structure schemes in accordance with investor preferences
removal of quantitative restrictions on investment  by    mutual funds and replacement by prudential supervision
replacement of vetting of offer documents by filing
guaranteed  return schemes by mutual  funds  permitted    provided returns including capital were guaranteed
indication  of expected returns based on  hypothetical    portfolio permitted
better  governance  of  mutual  funds  through  higher    responsibilities and empowerment of trustees as front-line    regulators of mutual funds
closer   scrutiny  through  off  site  and  on   site    inspections
code of ethics for asset management companies 

The  impact  of  the  new regulations was immediately  felt.  Asset management companies framed several schemes which made  use  of the freedom provided to them by the new regulations.  Not  only did the number of schemes filed with SEBI increase  significantly in a short period of time, but also there  was  greater  variety in the investment products  offered.  There  was  also  a significant improvement in disclosures  in  the  offer documents.
The  new  regulations have brought into  greater  focus  the  responsibilities  of  trustees  of  mutual  funds  who   are  uniquely  positioned  to  promote  the  interests   of   the  unitholders  and  to ensure that mutual  funds  are  managed  responsibly and ethically. The trustees act independently to  uphold  the public trust. In this process, trustees  act  as  the  first  level regulators and are critical in helping  to  ensure  the profitability and progress of the mutual  funds.  To  assist  trustees in their new role, and to set  out  the  manner  in  which  they could best perform this  role,  SEBI  appointed  a committee under the chairmanship of  Shri  P  K  Kaul,  former Cabinet Secretary and Ambassador to the United  States.
SEBI  is using its interface with AMFI to assess the  impact  of the new regulations on the working of mutual funds and to  examine further ways of improving the performance of  mutual  funds  so  as to restore investor confidence in  them.  SEBI  also  continued working with AMFI so that it becomes a  more  effective  body  representing the mutual fund  industry  and  embarks on a campaign to sharpen the industry's focus on the  consumer.
Pension schemes and money market mutual funds
Another  important development in the mutual  fund  industry  during  the  year was the issuance of Guidelines  for  Money  Market   Mutual   Funds  by  RBI.  These   guidelines   were  subsequently incorporated into the revised SEBI  regulations  and  paved  the  way for the introduction  of  money  market  schemes  by  mutual  funds for the  first  time.  Similarly,  pension  schemes were also launched by mutual funds for  the  first time under section 88 (xiii-c) of the Income Tax  Act,  1961
Difficulties faced by assured return schemes
Some  of  the  mutual  funds who had launched  schemes  with  assured  return  features prior to the notification  of  the  SEBI  (Mutual Fund) Regulations, 1993 found it difficult  to  fulfil  the  assurances.  These schemes  are  the  `Canstar'  scheme  of the Canbank Mutual Fund (CBMF) and the  `GIC  Big  Value' scheme of the GIC Mutual Fund (GICMF). In the case of  Canstar  scheme  of  CBMF which assured  return  by  way  of  repurchase price of Rs 23/- commencing from September  1996,  the  trustees  of  the  Fund  had  sought  the  approval  of  unitholders  for alteration of the terms of  the  scheme  by  calling  a  unitholders' meeting. As the scheme had  over  2  lakh investors SEBI felt that it will not be proper to allow  the fund to alter the terms of the scheme on the basis of  a  unitholders' meeting that few unitholders would be  able  to  attend.  It had therefore directed CBMF to conduct a  postal  ballot to seek the opinion of all the unitholders. This  was  the first time that the procedure of postal ballot to obtain  the  consent of the unitholders was used in the country. The  216  unitholders  who attended the meeting and  over  33,000  unitholders   who   participated  in   the   postal   ballot  overwhelmingly  rejected the proposal  of  the  trustees  of  modifying the terms of the scheme or winding up the scheme.
It  has  been  SEBI's consistent view in  keeping  with  its  mandate  to  protect  the interest  of  the  investors  that  wherever any commitment has been made by any mutual fund  to  its  investors, the mutual fund must honour that commitment.  SEBI  would consider appropriate action under its regulatory  framework  in  case  the mutual fund  does  not  honour  its  commitment.
In  the  case of GIC Big Value scheme which also  could  not  meet the commitment by way of assured repurchase price, SEBI  had  directed  the GIC Asset Management Company  to  discuss  with  the  Board of GIC, the sponsor of the mutual fund  and  with  other shareholders of the asset management company  on  the manner in which the shortfall would be met and till such  time  the  mutual  fund will not be allowed  to  launch  any  further  schemes till the commitment was met by the fund  in  respect of the GIC Big Value scheme. The shortfall was  also  noticed  in  the assured return schemes of two other  mutual  funds viz. LIC Mutual Fund and SBI Mutual Fund. The sponsors  of  these funds voluntarily agreed to meet the shortfall  in  the  resources  by  funding the respective asset  management  companies.
With the present requirement that the assured return schemes  can  now be launched provided the returns are guaranteed  by  the sponsor or asset management company and sufficient funds  are  available  with  them  to meet  the  guarantee,  it  is  expected  that  investors  will be  protected  from  similar  difficulties in the future.