CHRONOLOGY  OF  MAJOR  INITIATIVES  BY  SEBI

Chronology of Major Initiatives by SEBI

Date

2007

April 13

April 16

Announcements

 BSE  and  NSE  permitted  to  put  in  place  corporate  bond  trading
platforms  to  enable  efficient  price  discovery  and  clearing  and
settlement in a gradual manner.

 Guidelines  for  parking  of  funds  by  Mutual  Funds  in  short  term
deposits  with  Scheduled  Commercial  Banks  (SCBs)  were  issued  and
these  were  applicable  to  all  fresh  investments  whether  in  a  new  or
an existing scheme.

April 20

 The format of the Monthly Cumulative Report modified to incorporate

data on Gold Exchange Traded Funds (Gold ETFs) and other ETFs.

April 20

 Guidelines  issued  for  consent  orders  and  consideration  of  requests
for  composition  of  offences  under  SEBI  Act,  SC(R)  Act  and
Depositories  Act.

April 26

 Clause  32  of  the  Equity  Listing  Agreement  amended  to  align  with

the provisions of Section 219(iv) of the Companies Act.

April 27

 PAN  was  made  the  sole  identification  number  for  all  transactions  in

securities market irrespective of the amount.

April 30

May 11

May 14

May 24

May 28

 SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000,  amended
to  reflect  processing  of  draft  offer  documents,  mandatory  grading  of
IPOs, and to provide the eligibility of pledged shares for computations
of  minimum  promoters’  contribution.  Guidelines  on  pre  allotment
and QIPs were also amended.

 Clarifications  issued  regarding  the  application  for  renewal  of
Certificate  of  Registration  for  portfolio  managers  under  Regulation  9
(1) of SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations.

 Investment limit of Mutual Funds in ADRs/ GDRs/ Foreign Securities
enhanced  to  USD  4  billion  with  a  sub-  ceiling  for  individual  Mutual
Funds to 10 per cent of the net assets managed by them on March 31
of  each  relevant  year  and  subject  to  a  maximum  of  USD  200  million
per Mutual Fund.

 SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000  amended
to  include  the  words  “where  the  aggregate  value  of  such  securities,
including  premium,  if  any  exceeds  Rs  50  lakh”  in  the  opening  Para
of the clause 2.1.2 of the guidelines.

 Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulation,
1996  amended  on  filing  fees  for  offer  documents  and  deployment  of
funds in short term deposits with Scheduled commercial banks.

Contd.

139

Annual Report 2007-08

Date

June 25

June 27

July 03

July 05

July 10

July 10

August 06

Announcements

 Requirement  of  Unique  Identification  Number  (UIN)  under  SEBI
(Central  Database  of  Market  Participants  Regulations),  2003(MAPIN
regulations)/  circulars  discontinued.

 The  time  limit  for  uploading  of  NAV  for  Fund  of  Fund  Schemes
extended  to  10.00  a.m.  the  following  business  day  and  to  appear  in
the newspaper with one day time lag.

 Clarification  issued  that  the  provisions  of  Regulation  46  of  the  SEBI
(Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulation  are  applicable  to  DPs  in
respect of their branches also. Therefore, DPs required to put in place
appropriate  mechanisms  to  ensure  that  their  branches  carry  on  the
operations  in  compliance  with  the  applicable  regulations,  bye-laws,
etc.

 Asset  Management  Companies  allowed  to  do  reporting  on  a
bi-monthly  basis  for  the  exceptions  to  be  reported  to  SEBI  in  the
Compliance Test Report with the same format and contents.

 Clause  41  of  Equity  Listing  Agreement  amended  to  rationalise  the
formats  for  submission  of  financial  results  to  stock  exchanges  and  to
simplify the procedure for the submission of the same.

 SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines  amended  to  facilitate  government  companies/
corporations, statutory authorities/ corporation or any special purpose
vehicle set up by them, engaged in infrastructure sector, to raise funds
in the Indian primary market through IPOs.

 Companies  issuing  debentures  and  debenture  trustees/  stock
exchanges  required  to  disseminate  all  information  regarding
debentures  to  investors  and  the  general  public. A  press  release  to  be
issued  in  case  of  default  by  issuer  company  in  payment  of  interest
on  debentures  or  redemption  amount,  failure  to  create  a  charge  on
the assets or revision of rating assigned to the debentures.

August 09

 Guidelines issued for overseas investment by Venture Capital Funds.

September  07

September  11

September  26

 Depositories  advised  to  discontinue  with  the  practise  of  accepting
‘MAPIN  card’  as  one  of  the  documents  for  the  purpose  of  ‘proof  of
identity’ while opening a Beneficial Owner account.

 The Clearing members permitted to accept foreign sovereign securities
with  ‘AAA’  rating  as  collateral  from  FII  client  with  necessary
safeguards.

 The  aggregate  ceiling  for  permissible  overseas  investments  raised  to
USD 5 billion with a maximum of USD 300 million per Mutual Fund.
For investment in overseas ETFs, overall ceiling fixed at USD 1 billion
subject to a maximum of USD 50 million per Mutual fund.

Contd.

140

Chronology of Major Initiatives by SEBI

Date

Announcements

October  26

 The  tenure  of  the  term  deposits  placed  as  margin  for  trading  in

derivatives by Mutual funds was fixed for a maximum of 182 days.

October  31

November  29

December  03

December  20

December  20

 Enabling provisions were made for a Mutual Fund to engage in short
selling  of  securities  as  well  as  lending  and  borrowing  of  securities  to
be  effective  after  the  new  framework  for  short  selling  of  securities
and securities lending and borrowing put into place.

 DIP  Guidelines  amended  to  introduce  fast  track  issues  (FTIs)  and
provision  permitting  companies  making  public  issues  to  issue
securities  to  retail  investors/  retail  individual  investors  at  discounted
price.  In  addition,  amendments  were  also  made  for  mandatory
quotation of PAN, issue of IDRs, monitoring of issue proceeds etc.

 SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines  2000  amended  to  facilitate  development  of  a
vibrant  primary  market  for  corporate  bonds  in  India  making
requirement  of  credit  rating  from  one  credit  rating  agency,  allowing
issuance of below investment grade bonds to the public and removing
structural restrictions on debt instruments.

 Clarifications  issued  regarding  the  procedure  to  be  adopted  in  case
of  change  in  affiliation  by  the  sub-  brokers  and  documents  to  be
submitted for change in affiliation.

 All  class  of  investors  permitted  to  short  sell  subject  to  a  specified
framework  to  be  put  in  place  for  a  full-fledged  securities  lending
and borrowing (SLB) scheme for all market participants.

December  27

 Clauses  43A,  and  52  introduced  in  Equity  Listing  Agreement  and

existing clauses 49 and 51 amended.

December  27

 Mini-derivatives  contract  on  Index  (Sensex  and  Nifty)  introduced.

Contract size and risk containment measures were specified.

December  31

 No entry load to be charged for direct applications received by AMCs
for investments in existing schemes with effect from January 04, 2008
and in new schemes launched on and after the said date.

2008

January  11

January  31

 Long  term  options  on  Sensex  and  Nifty  with  tenures  up  to  3  years
introduced and the options cycle, risk containment measures specified.

 Volatility  index  to  be  constructed  and  disseminated  by  the
Exchange.The  cumulative  debt  investment  limit  available  for
investment  by  FIIs/  Sub-Accounts  in  Government  Securities / T-Bills
enhanced  to  USD  3.2  billion.  The  investment  by  FIIs/  Sub-accounts
in debt oriented Mutual fund units (including units of money market
and liquid funds) to be considered as corporate debt investments and
reckoned  within  the  stipulated  limit  of  USD  1.5  billion  earmarked
for FII/ Sub-account investment in corporate debt.

Contd.

141

Annual Report 2007-08

Date

Announcements

February  01

 The  facility  of  refund  through  ECS  in  public/  rights  issues  extended

to 68 centres.

February  22

 The provisions of Section 47 (xv) of the Income Tax Act to be equally
applicable  to  transactions  under  securities  lending  scheme  in  the
hands  of  the  lender.  The  transactions  in  the  nature  of  lending  and
borrowing  under  the  scheme  do  not  fall  within  the  scope  of  section
98 to the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004 and consequently, the transactions
of  lending  and  borrowing  are  not  liable  to  STT.  This  is  as  per  the
CBDT circular on Securities Lending/ Borrowing.

February  26

 In  consultation  with  AMFI,  it  was  decided  to  enhance  the  time  of
display  and  voice  of  the  standard  warning  in  audio  visual
advertisements  as  well  as  in  audio  advertisements  to  5  seconds  with
effect from April 01, 2008.

February  28

 Restrictions  with  regard  to  issue  of  Delivery  Instructions  Slips  (DIS)
booklets  issued  by  the  depository  participants  to  Beneficial  Owner
(BOs)  withdrawn.

February  29

 Format of the New Scheme Report by Mutual funds revised.

March 01

March 11

March 12

 SEBI  advised  Exchanges  to  submit  on  a  half-yearly  basis  every  year
the  information  with  regard  to  the  Governing  Council/  Executive
Committee  of  Derivative  Exchange/  Segment,  with  regard  to  the
Clearing  Council/  Executive  Committee  of  Derivatives  Clearing
House/  Clearing  Corporation,  as  well  as  with  regard  to  the  Statutory
Committees.

 Merchant  Bankers  instructed  not  to  refuse  acceptance  of  applications
without  copy  of  PAN  card.  They  were  further  advised  to  respond
directly  to  complains/  comments  received  on  offer  documents  filed
with  SEBI,  provide  adequate  disclosure  and  inform  SEBI  in  case  of
complains  pointing  out  inadequate  disclosure.  They  were  also
instructed  to  confirm/clarify  in  reply  to  SEBI  that  the  replies  by  the
issuer  company  to  Merchant  Banker  are  satisfactory  and  all  relevant
disclosures have been made.

 The  need  of  having  a  price  band  on  the  first  day  of  commencement/
recommencement  of  trading  was  withdrawn  in  cases  of  merger,
demerger,  amalgamation,  capital  reduction,  scheme  of  arrangement,
in  terms  of  the  Companies  Act  and  or/as  sanctioned  by  the  Courts,
in cases of rehabilitation packages approved by the Board of Industrial
and  Financial  Reconstruction  under  Sick  Industrial  Companies  Act
and in cases of Corporate Debt Restructuring (CDR) packages by the
CDR  Cell  of  the  RBI.  The  price  band  in  all  other  cases  on  the  first
day shall continue.

Contd.

142

Date

March 17

March 18

March 19

March 19

Chronology of Major Initiatives by SEBI

Announcements

 SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  2000  amended  to  insert  sub-clause  regarding
National  Investment  Fund  after  sub-clause  (k)  in  sub-clause  (v)  of
clause  2.2.2B.

 The  entry  as  well  as  exit  load  on  bonus  units  and  of  units  allotted
for reinvestment of dividend shall not to be charged by AMCs as per
the recommendations of of AMFI Working Group on Standardization
of  Key  Operational  Areas.  It  would  be  applicable  to  all  redemption
by  existing  unit  holders  with  effect  from  April  1,  2008.Risk
management  framework  for  the  cash  market  partially  modified  to
provide that all institutional trades in the cash market will be subject
to payment of margins as applicable to transactions of other investors
with effect from April 21, 2008.

 All  institutional  trades  in  the  cash  market  would  be  margined  on  a
T+1 basis with margin collected from the custodian upon confirmation
of  trade  and  subsequently  from  June  16,  2008,  the  collection  of
margins would move to an upfront basis.

 The  specified  broad  framework  for  short-selling  by  institutional
investors and a full-fledged securities lending and borrowing scheme
for all market participants to be operationalised with effect from April
21, 2008.

143

