PART  FIVE:  ORGANISATIONAL  MATTERS

Part  Five:  Organisational  Matters

1.

SEBI  BOARD

Shri  V.  K  Chopra  was  appointed  as  a
Whole  Time  Member  of  SEBI  under  Section
4  (1)  (d)  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992,  by  the
Government  of  India  vide  notification  dated
June  05,  2006.  Shri  Chopra  assumed  charge
as Whole Time Member with effect from June
06, 2006.

Mr.  Anurag  Goel,  Secretary,  Ministry  of
Corporate  Affairs  was  nominated  under
Section 4 (1) (b) of the SEBI Act, 1992, as one
of  the  Members  on  the  Board,  in  terms  of
Government  of  India  notification  dated  May
18, 2006, in place of Ms. Komal Anand.

During 2006-07, SEBI Board met on five

occasions  (Table  5.1).

2. HUMAN  RESOURCES

Human  Resources  Development  (HRD)
Division continued to play an important role
with  prime  focus  on  implementation  of
policies  on  promotions,  placement  and
transfers.  The  SEBI  Board  undertook
recruitment  (both  All  India  and  Campus
selection) exercise in an effort to augment its
staff  strength  in  areas  such  as  Legal  and
General  Stream.  76  Trainee  Officers  (22  in

Table 5.1: Board Meetings during 2006-07

Number  of Number  of
Meetings Meetings
Attended

Held

1

(i) Chairman

Shri M. Damodaran

(ii) Whole  Time  Members
Shri  G. Anantharaman
Dr. T. C. Nair
Shri V. K. Chopra

(iii) Members

Dr. Ashok K. Lahiri
Shri Anurag Goel
Dr. K. P. Krishnan
Shri V. Leeladhar
Shri  Venu  Srinivasan

2

5

5
5
5

5
5
5
5
5

3

5

5
5
5

4
3
5
4
2

Legal  Stream  and  54  in  General  Stream)
joined the services of SEBI in 2006-07.

Recruitment  in  the  General,  Research
and Legal Streams was also resorted to from
reputed  management  institutions  and
National  Law  Schools.

I.

Staff Strength, Recruitment and
Deputation

As  on  March  31,  2007,  SEBI  had  a  total
of 492 employees, in various grades, with 342
officers,  150  secretaries,  and  other  staff.
Under  the  Scheme  for  Deputation  /
Secondment  /  Tour  of  SEBI  officers  to
overseas  regulatory  bodies  and  multilateral
organisations,  one  officer  was  sent  on
deputation  to  Eastern  International  LLC,
Bukhtir  Group  of  Companies,  United  Arab
Emirates  (U.A.E.)  and  another  officer  was
sent  on  deputation  to  Al-Basti  &  Muktha
LLC, U.A.E. During 2006-07, one Whole Time
Member, one officer as Adviser (Legal) in the
rank of Executive Director, and three Officers
on  Special  Duty  (OSD)  in  the  rank  of  Chief
General  Managers,  joined  SEBI.

II. Training

Several 

for 

training 

initiatives  were
undertaken  during  the  year  to  enhance  the
skills  and  efficiency  of  staff  members.  Staff
members  were  deputed 
training
programmes  /  seminars  both  within  India
and  abroad.  During  2006-07,  162  staff
members  were  exposed  to  67  training
programmes.  HRD,  in  collaboration  with
National  Institute  of  Securities  Markets
(NISM),  organised  one  week  residential
training  programme  on  ‘Leadership  and
Employee  Engagement’ 
for  General
Managers,  and  ‘Personnel  and  Managerial
Effectiveness’  for  Deputy  General  Managers.
These  courses  were  conducted  by  faculty
from  IIM,  Bangalore.

SEBI  sends  officials  for  training
programmes/  conferences/  seminars  held  by

125

Annual Report 2006-07

international  bodies  such  as  IOSCO,  IMF,
OECD, ADB  and  financial  market  regulation
programmes  organised  by  securities  market
regulators of developed markets. The purpose
of these programmes is to provide training as
well  as  exposure  to  SEBI  officials  to  best
practices  in  international  financial  market
regulation. During 2006-07, seventeen officials
from SEBI were sent for thirteen such training
programmes/ conferences/ seminars.

III. Vigilance Week

Vigilance Awareness Week was observed
from  November  6-10,  2006.  The  pledge
was administered by Whole Time Member G.
Anantharaman  to  Executive  Directors  and
Division Chiefs, who in turn, administered the
pledge to other staff. The Regional Managers
at regional offices administered the pledge to
their staff. A banner on “Vigilance Awareness
Week” was prominently displayed outside the
office  premises  at  Mumbai  and  all  Regional
Offices.

IV. Promotions

During  2006-07,  following  promotions
took  place  against  the  existing  vacancies
(Table 5.2).

Table 5.2: Promotions during 2006-07

No. of Persons

Promoted

1

1

1

3

From

2

To

3

Chief  General

Manager

Executive
Director

Trainee  Officer

Research  Officer

Secretary
Grade A

Secretary
Grade B

V. Revision of Staff Pay, Allowances,

and Benefits

i.

The  Board  revised  the  pay  scale  of  its
Executive  Directors  with  effect  from
November  01,  2002,  in  consonance  with
the  pay  scale  of  Reserve  Bank  of  India
(RBI).

ii. During 2006-07, the board enhanced the

staff benefits in the areas of :
a. Reimbursement  towards  official

entertainment;

b. Payment of uniform house allowance;
c. Scheme for furnishing of residence of

staff;

salary 

d. Driver ’s 

and  vehicle
maintenance expenses, for officers in
Grade E, F, and Executive Directors;
e. Reimbursement of book grant; and
f. Lodging charges on tour.

iii. After  shifting  of  office  premises  to
Bandra-Kurla  Complex,  the  head  office
timings were changed as given below:

Monday -
Thursday
Friday

– From 9:30 a.m.

to 5:30 p.m.

– From 9:30 a.m.

to 5:15 p.m.

iv. During  2006-07,  SEBI  introduced  the
Scheme  of  Medical  Benefits  for  Retired
Employees.

During 2006-07, amendments were made
to  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Employees’  Service)  Regulations,  2001
wherein  it  was  stated  that  recruitment  of
Officers in the service of SEBI will be directly
in Grade A / B. Accordingly, recruitment to the
post of Trainee Officers is to be discontinued.

3.

PROMOTION OF OFFICIAL
LANGUAGE IN SEBI

SEBI continued its efforts to promote the
usage  of  Rajbhasha  Hindi  in  the  activities
related  to  the  Indian  securities  market.
Accordingly,  various  important  steps  were
initiated  to  enhance  the  scope  of  the  official
language  in  the  functioning  of  the  stock
market, interaction with the investors, and in
the internal activities of SEBI. The major steps
in  this  regard  were  increasing  availability  of
publications  in  Rajbhasha  and  creating
awareness  amongst  the  employees  of  SEBI
regarding  the  implementation  of  the  official
language policy of the Government of India.

126

With  the  passage  of  time,  SEBI
publications  have  improved  their  quality.  To
execute the internal work of SEBI in Hindi, the
number of valuable publications brought out
has now gone up to eight. All the regulations
issued by SEBI are available in bilingual form
which  helps  the  investors  in  understanding
the  regulations.  During  the  year,  SEBI’s
endeavour  was 
to  provide  suitable
Information  Technology  solutions,  which
facilitate  the  discharge  of  official  work  in
bilingual form.

The information and published material
relating  to  securities  market  was  made
available to investors in regional languages as
well.  It  was  a  step  forward  in  protecting  the
interests of investors by enabling them to take
informed investment decisions.

All  the  employees  of  SEBI  were  made
aware of the requirements of official language
implementation  and  related  basic  facilities.
Regular  trainings  were  also  conducted.
Various incentive schemes were introduced in
the  offices  of  SEBI.  These  schemes  included
reward  schemes  for  the  staff  members  and
senior  officials  as  well  as  Rajbhasha  Shield
Scheme for the departments and other offices
of SEBI.

For  the  enrichment  and  development  of
the official language, SEBI continued to make
valuable contribution in various programmes
organised  by  other  institutions.  SEBI  is
determined to make official language a strong
vehicle  for  education  and  protection  of  the
interests  of  investors  and  also  for  regulation
and development of securities market.

4.

INFORMATION  TECHNOLOGY

SEBI  shifted  to  its  own  building  “SEBI
BHAVAN” during the year which gave a new
dimension  to  its  technology  initiatives.  It  is
now  the  era  of  convergence  and  integration
of technology both in terms of hardware and
software  applications.  Some  of  the  IT
initiatives  taken  during  the  year  are
highlighted below:

127

Part  Five:  Organisational  Matters

I.

IP Telephony

IP  Telephony  System  was  implemented
at  SEBI  Bhavan  (Head  Office)  and  Regional
Offices. This system enables call conferencing,
voice mail, caller identification, etc in addition
to  various  other  benefits.  It  also  resulted  in
considerable  reduction  in  expenditure  on
office telephones. It further enhanced quality
of communication between SEBI offices.

II.

Information Security

Intrusion  Prevention  System  (Tipping
Point)  was  implemented  at  SEBI  Bhavan  to
protect  the  SEBI  network.  Bio-metric
authentication was implemented for accessing
attendance  recording  system  and  also
respective individual personal computers. The
same authentication is used for single sign-on
across enterprise wide software applications.

Intelligent  network  with  end  point
security was implemented at SEBI Bhavan to
ensure  access  to  enterprise  server  /
applications  by  authorised  persons  only.
Intelligent  cabling  helped  in  minimising
network  downtime  by  monitoring  passive
networking  components.  Patch  Management
System  ensured  periodical  distribution  /
installation  of  latest  security  patches  and
software needs.

III. Wireless Local Area Network

(WLAN)

WLAN  systems  provide  users  access  to
real-time  information  anywhere  in  their
organisation through cordless connectivity to
network. SEBI implemented secured wireless
LAN  at  appropriate  places.  Users,  especially
visitors  or  delegates,  can  make  use  of  this
facility  for  connecting  to  their  own  network
or to internet with proper authentication.

5.

PHYSICAL  INFRASTRUCTURE

I. Head Office Building at Mumbai

The Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Dr.
Manmohan Singh, inaugurated ‘SEBI Bhavan’

Annual Report 2006-07

the new SEBI office building-in Bandra Kurla
Complex  on  October  06,  2006.  SEBI  Bhavan
has features of an intelligent, energy-efficient
and  environment-friendly  building.  It  has  a
built  up  area  of  1,25,000  square  feet  in  super
structure for offices and 90,000 square feet in
two  basements  for  parking,  storage,  and
accommodating various services. SEBI offices
which  were  earlier  at  different  locations  in
Mumbai  were  shifted  to  SEBI  Bhavan.  The
new building provided substantial synergy to
SEBI’s  operations  with  modern  amenities  to
staff to make their working more efficient.

II. Regional Offices

Regional Offices of SEBI at Delhi, Kolkata
and Chennai play an important role  (Box 5.1).
SEBI  is  augmenting  infrasturcture  at  these
locations to facilitate effective functioning.

SEBI  furnished  and  shifted  its  Northern
Regional  Office  at  the  new  premises
measuring 5,678 sq. ft. acquired on Leave and

License  basis  at  Bank  of  Baroda  building,
Parliament Street, New Delhi.

III. Residential Accommodation for

Employees

SEBI  acquired  123  flats  on  ownership
basis  for  providing  accommodation  to  its
employees.

6.

I.

INTERNATIONAL
CO-OPERATION

International Organisation of
Securities Commissions (IOSCO)

SEBI is an active member of the IOSCO.
IOSCO is globally recognised as the setter of
standards for practically all securities markets.
The Organisation has a membership of about
109  jurisdictions.  These  members,  put
together,  are  responsible  for  regulation  of
more than 90 per cent of the world’s securities
markets. In June 2006, during the 31st Annual

Box 5.1 Role of Regional Offices

The  regional  offices  of  SEBI  at  Delhi,  Kolkata  and  Chennai  serve  as  an  effective  contact  point
for  local  investors.  These  offices  play  an  important  role  in  facilitating  efficient  supervision  and
development of various constituents of the securities market in different parts of the country.

Regional offices played a significant role in the inspection process, right from selection of entities
for  inspection  to  enforcement.  The  work  related  to  registration,  renewal  and  assistance  of  investors
associations was also carried out by regional offices. In 2006-07, six investor associations were granted
SEBI recognition through the efforts of regional offices, including one in Mizoram and one in Orissa.

Matters  in  various  courts  within  respective  regions  were  actively  pursued  by  regional  offices,

facilitating  expeditious  disposal  of  cases.

The regional offices of SEBI were actively engaged in providing guidance to investors and ensuring
redressal of investor grievances received against companies in their respective regions. Offer documents
in respect of offerings upto Rs. 20 crore by companies in the respective regions were filed with regional
offices for processing and issuance of observations. These offices were conducting investigations against
market intermediaries and others as referred to by the head office from time to time. Regulatory actions
against erring collective investment schemes were also pursued by these offices.

During  2006-07,  Northern  Regional  Office,  which  also  acted  as  an  effective  interface  between
head office and various ministries of the Central Government moved to new centrally located premises.
A  data  centre  for  business  continuity  plan  was  established  in  the  premises  of  Southern  Regional
Office. Additional office space for the Eastern Regional Office has already been identified and possession
of  the  same  will  be  taken  soon.  Further  decentralisation  in  various  areas  and  strengthening  of  these
offices is contemplated in the coming years.

128

Conference  of  IOSCO  held  at  Hong  Kong,
SEBI  Chairman,  Shri  M.  Damodaran  was
elected  as  Chairman  of  IOSCO  Emerging
Markets  Committee  (IOSCO  EMC)  for  a  two
year term. The Emerging Markets Committee
is  the 
largest  forum  within  IOSCO,
representing  80  members  from  70  countries.
The  Chairmanship  of  the  IOSCO  EMC
signifies India’s growing importance amongst
emerging markets, as an attractive investment
destination with robust regulatory framework
and market practices.

IOSCO  EMC  works  on  key  strategic
issues  affecting  emerging  markets  including
regulation  of  secondary  markets,  market
intermediaries,  accounting  standards,
enforcement,  and  exchange  of  information
between regulators. In addition, IOSCO EMC
is  also  engaged  in  training  and  assistance
programmes for EMC members, use of IOSCO
MoU  Assistance  Programme,  and  IOSCO
Principles  Assessment  and  Implementation
Programme.

IOSCO EMC held two plenary meetings
in  2006-07.  The  first  meeting  took  place  on
June  05,  2006  during  the  31st  IOSCO  Annual
Conference  in  Hong  Kong.  The  second
meeting  was  held  on  September  30,  2006  at
Shanghai.

II. South Asian Securities Regulators

Forum

The  South  Asian  Securities  Regulators
Forum (SASRF) was formed on May 13, 2005
at  Islamabad,  Pakistan,  as  a  regional
association  to  promote  co-operation  among

Part  Five:  Organisational  Matters

securities  regulators  for  fostering  common
understanding  on  regional  regulatory  issues,
sharing  of  information,  experience,  and
harmonisaton  of  regulations  and  policies  to
the  extent 
feasible.  The  Forum  has
representatives  from  securities  market
regulators  from  India,  Bangladesh,  Pakistan,
Nepal,  Bhutan,  Sri  Lanka,  Mauritius,  and
Maldives.

The  first  annual  meeting  of  the  Forum
was held in Colombo, Sri Lanka on August 24,
2006.  During  this  meeting,  Sri  Lanka  was
appointed as Chair of the Forum, and Pakistan
was appointed as the Vice-chair. The issues of
capacity  building  within  the  region  and
regional  training  programmes  figured  as
major concerns for the Forum. It was resolved
that  a  training  programme  would  be
conducted  by 
India 
the  SASRF
jurisdictions during 2007.

for 

III. Bilateral Memorandum of

Understanding (MoU)

SEBI signed two bilateral Memoranda of
Understanding  (MoUs)  in  2006-07  with
securities  market  regulators  from  China  and
UAE  (Table  5.3).  The  MoUs  were  signed  for
information  sharing,  mutual  co-operation,
consultation,  and  assistance  between  the
regulatory authorities, in order to facilitate the
fulfilling  of  their  regulatory  responsibilities.
With  the  increasing  internationalisation  and
interdependence of securities markets and the
need  for  closer  co-operation  between
regulatory authorities, the MoUs will facilitate
mutual assistance, the strengthening of cross-
border  co-operation,  contribute  towards

Table 5.3: Bilateral MoUs signed during 2006-07

Foreign  Regulatory
Authority

Memorandum  of  Understanding
(MoU)  Title

China  Securities  Regulatory
Commission

MoU  regarding  Securities  and  Futures
Regulatory  Co-operation

Date of Signing

September 15, 2006

Emirates  Securities  and
Commodities  Authority

MoU regarding Assistance and Mutual
Co-operation  on  Exchange  of  Information

March 26, 2007

129

Annual Report 2006-07

efficient  performance  of  the  supervisory
functions,  and  effective  enforcement  of  the
laws and regulations governing the markets.

SEBI  had  signed  bilateral  MoUs  for  co-
operation, information sharing, and technical
assistance  with  six  other  jurisdictions  in  the
past,  and  a  Letter  of  Intent  with  one
jurisdiction.

IV. Visits by Overseas Regulators

SEBI  received  several  delegations  from
overseas  regulators/  agencies  during  2006-07
for future co-operation, better understanding
of  Indian  markets  and  for  establishing  inter-
regulatory  dialogue  between  the  respective
authorities. The authorities whose delegations
visited  SEBI  include  China  Securities
Regulatory  Commission,  Development
Research Centre, China, Luxembourg Bankers
Association, Luxembourg Funds Association,
Luxembourg  Stock  Exchange,  and  Russian
Trade Federation.

7.

i.

ii.

PARLIAMENT  QUESTIONS

SEBI received a list of points on Demand
for Grants for 2005-06 of the Ministry of
Finance,  raised  by 
the  Standing
Committee  on  Finance  for  2006-07,  in
April  2006.  SEBI  furnished  replies  to
these  lists  of  points  in  a  time  bound
manner.

For  the  year  2006-07,  the  Standing
Committee  on  Finance  selected  the
following subjects for examination.
a) Efficacy  of  reform  process  in  the

capital market (recent IPO scam);

b) Foreign Institutional Investment (FII)
flows,  inclusive  of  participatory
notes; and

c) Mechanism 

for  protection  of
investors’  rights  and  interests  in  the
capital market - an appraisal.

SEBI  furnished  background  notes  for
these aforesaid subjects in a time bound
manner.

iv.

iii. SEBI  received  list  of  points  on  Demand
for  Grants  for  the  years  2006-07  of  the
Ministry  of  Finance,  raised  by  the
Standing Committee on Finance for 2007-
08,  in  February  2007.  SEBI  furnished
reply  to  these  lists  of  points  in  a  time-
bound manner.
In  its  quest  to  further  improve  systems
and  work  flow  pertaining  to  reply  to
Parliament  Questions,  assurances  and
VIP  References  and  Parliamentary
Committee work, a ‘PQ Cell’ was set up
in  January  2007,  under  the  charge  of
Executive  Director  (Administration).  It
has  been  strengthened  by  posting  an
officer  in  the  rank  of  Assistant  General
Manager.  The  PQ  cell  will  be  the  nodal
and interface point for all Parliament and
Government related work/ issues.

8. RIGHT TO INFORMATION ACT

SEBI has put in place an office headed by
an  Executive  Director  at  head  office  as  the
Central  Public  Information  Officer  (CIPO)
supported  by  the  Regional  Managers  at  its
regional  offices.  In  its  second  year  since  RTI
Act  has  come  into  force,  there  was  rise  in
number of applications received under the Act
in SEBI. Applicants from all over the country
have  been  seeking  information  on  various
issues.

in  2005-06.  Out  of 

During  2006-07,  494  applications  were
received  and  replied  compared  to  69
applications 
the
applications  received  in  2006-07,  119  were
appealed  before  the  Appellate  Authority  in
SEBI  under  the  RTI  Act  and  17  appeals  of
Appellate  Authority  were  challenged  before
the  Central  Information  Commission  (CIC).
Where  as  in  2005-06,  there  were  14  appealed
before the Appellate Authority and there was
no  appealed  before  the  CIC.  The  CIC  has
upheld,  till  date,  all  the  decisions  of  the
Appellate  Authority  in  SEBI,  except  with
minor  modifications.

130

Part  Five:  Organisational  MattersNotes

131

Annual Report 2006-07
Notes

132

