Securities and Exchange Board of India
PART I
POLICIES AND PROGRAMMES

Annual Report 2000-2001

The Annual Report of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) for the financial year
(FY)  2000-01,  reviews  the  policies  and  programmes  of  the  SEBI,  its  working  and  operations,
and the developments in Indian securities market during the financial year. It also describes the
manner  in  which  the  SEBI  discharged  its  functions  in  fulfillment  of  the  twin  objectives  of
investor protection and market development mandated by the Securities and Exchange Board of
India  Act,  1992  (the  Act)  and  exercised  its  power  conferred  on  it  by  the  Act;  the  Securities
Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  (SCRA);  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  as  well  as  in  terms  of
the  delegated  powers  under  the  Companies  Act,  1956.  The  Report  has  been  prepared  in
accordance with the format prescribed in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Annual
Report)  Rules,  1994,  notified  in  the  Official  Gazette  on  April  7,  1994.  The  SEBI  has  been
constantly  reviewing  and  reappraising  its  existing  policies  and  programmes,  formulating  new
policies  and  crafting  new  regulations  to  nurture  areas  hitherto  unregulated  and  to  implement
them to promote the growth and to ensure that the Indian securities markets work with efficiency
and  integrity  and  to  protect  the  interest  of  investors.  The  major  reforms  and  developments  in
the securities markets during 2000-01 are given in Box 1.1.

Box 1.1: Major Policy Reforms and Developments in Securities Markets during 2000-01

Streamlining of the Disclosure and Investor Protection Guidelines
 To  ensure  availability  of  adequate  information  to  investors,  the  guidelines  issued  to  companies  to  disclose
the  details  of  utilization  and  deployment  of  unutilized  part  of  promoter’s  contribution,  firm  allotment  and
reservation  in  their  balance  sheet.  Similar  requirements  also  specified  in  case  of  monies  accrued  to  the
company  as  a  result  of  a  preferential  issue.  Companies  required  to  indicate  the  purpose  for  which  such
monies are utilised and the form in which such unutilised monies have been invested.

 To  address  apprehensions  about  an  overly  optimistic  future  performance  by  the  company,  no  forecast  or

projections relating to financial performance of the issuer company to be given in the offer document.

Book-building
To  further  strengthen  the  book-building  and  to  rationalise  the  existing  provisions  of  book-building  guidelines
and to introduce greater transparency in the book-building process, following guidelines issued
 100 percent one stage book-building permitted with bidding centres at all cities having stock exchanges.
 The provision of 75 percent of the issue to be offered through book-building of which :

(cid:2) 60 percent to be allocated to institutional investors such as banks/FIIs and other financial institutions and
at  least  15  percent  to  be  distributed  on  proportionate  basis  to  non-institutional  investors  applying  for
more than 1000 shares and

(cid:2) The remaining 25 percent of shares to be available to small investors.

Entry Norms and Book Building
Book building process further used to strengthen and streamline the entry point norms for public issues and to
help investors make better judgement of quality and price of the issue on the assumption that QIBs who would
be subscribing first to the offer under the book building have ability to assess the quality of the investment and
their investment decision would effectively amount to a market appraisal of the quality and price of the issue.
 Issuers not having net-worth of Rs. 1 crore and distributable profits in 3 out of the immediately preceding 5

(contd. on next page)

1

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(contd. from previous page)

years  or  proposing  to  raise  more  than  5  times  its  pre-issue  net  worth,  required  to  make  issues  to  be
compulsorily through book-building route offering 60 percent to Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs).

 Institutional investors under the category of QIBs like banks, FIIs, mutual funds and other financial institutions

to be allocated not more than 60 percent of the book-built portion.

Preferential Allotment Disclosures and Lock-in
 To safeguard investors’ interest, guidelines on preferential allotment modified requiring companies to include
detailed  disclosures  in  the  explanatory  statement  in  the  notice  for  the  general  meeting  or  AGM  of  the
shareholders.  viz.  objective  of  the  issue  and  intention  of  promoters,  directors,  key  management  persons,
shareholding pattern etc.

 Lock-in period of one year from the date of allotment stipulated for instruments allotted on preferential basis
to any person including promoters/promoter group except for such allotments which involve share swap for
acquisitions.

Promoters Contribution and Lock-In
 To  ensure  promoters’  association  and  commitment  to  company  and  to  enhance  investors’  confidence  in
public issues of unlisted companies, the minimum promoters contribution of 20 percent for unlisted companies
required to be locked-in for 3 years and the balance of the entire pre-IPO capital to be locked in for 1 year
from the date of commencement of commercial production or the date of allotment in the public issue which
ever is later.

IPOs in Dematerialised Mode
 To  eliminate  the  problems  relating  to  loss  of  allotment  letters,  share  certificates,  etc.,  and  to  induce  the
investors to opt for allotment of dematerialised shares , the trading for all IPOs in dematerialised form made
compulsory with an option available to the investors for physical shares.

Guidelines for Issue of Debt Instruments
 To  help  the  development  of  debt  market  and  to  provide  a  wider  variety  of  debt  instruments  the  SEBI
(Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000  amended  to  allow  issuers  to  issue  unsecured/
subordinated debt instruments with maturity of less than 18 months in the nature of mezzanine capital.

Public Issues Through Stock Exchange Mechanism
 To  reduce  issue  costs  as  well  as  time  taken  in  public  issues,  guidelines  issued  for  offering  securities  in
public  issues  through  the  stock  exchange  mechanism,  giving  the  issuers  the  option  to  issue  securities
through the on-line system of the stock exchange or through the existing banking channel.

Allotment Procedure
 To  speed  up  the  listing  process,  in-  principle  approval  from  the  stock  exchanges  for  listing  of  securities
required to be obtained by the lead merchant banker within 15 days of filing of the offer document with the
stock exchange.

 To  ensure  speedier  completion  of  the  issue  process,  and  to  minimize  the  risks  associated  with  volatile
markets,  the  time  for  finalising  allotment  reduced  from  30  to  15  days  in  book-built  issues  and  the  period
between finalisation of basis of allotment and listing reduced to 7 working days to impart quicker liquidity to
the investments made in primary issues.

 To  ensure  that  investors  get  the  shares/  refund  orders  quickly,  the  despatch  of  share  certificates/refund
orders/cancel stock invest and demat credit required to be completed within two working days of finalisation
of the basis of allotment, in place of present requirement of 30 days.

 To further simplify the present allotment procedure, market lots replaced with simple proportionate allotment
to  the  applicants  in  the  respective  categories.  To  prevent  fractional  allotments  and  allotments  of  miniscule

(contd. on next page)

2

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(contd. from previous page)
value,  the  minimum  allotment  to  be  higher  of  the  following:  a)  one  share  or  b)  smallest  integral  number  of
shares that have a value of Rs. 1000/- calculated on the basis of issue price.

Relaxation of Minimum Offer to Public
 To encourage companies in the new economy while ensuring good quality issues with sufficient stock available

for trading:
(cid:2) Indian companies in information technology, media, entertainment and telecom sectors permitted to access
the markets with a minimum offer of 10 per cent of post-issue capital to the public subject to a minimum
offering  of  20  lakh  shares  for  the  amount  of  not  less  than  Rs.50  crore.  This  relaxation  subsequently
extended  to  all  companies  with  the  same  conditions  and  the  issue  size  increased  from  Rs.  50  crore  to
Rs. 100 crore.

(cid:2) The  restriction  of  minimum  public  issue  size  of  Rs.  25  crore  in  case  of  an  IPO  through  book-building

removed for all companies.

Listing of Debt Before Equity
 The present facility of listing of debt securities of infrastructure companies and municipal corporations without
having  listed  their  equity,  extended  to  all  companies  subject  to  investment  grade  credit  rating,
promoters’contribution of 20 per cent, three years lock-in, maintaining same standard of continuing disclosures,
no partly paid-up shares/ other securities, and book-building option, etc.

Financial Disclosures Requirements for Issuers and Other Entities
To strengthen the financial disclosures norms for the listed entities :
 The unaudited financial quarterly results of the companies made more transparent and meaningful, additional

disclosure norms prescribed and half-yearly results subjected to a “limited review” by the auditors,

 The issuers required to prepare cash flow statement referred to in the listing agreement in accordance with

relevant accounting standard,

 The  issuers  required  to  disclose  materially  significant  transactions,  i.e.,  transactions  of  the  company  of
material  nature,  with  its  promoters,  the  directors  or  the  management,  their  subsidiaries  or  relatives,  etc.
which may have potential conflict with the interests of issuers at large,

 The public disclosure of details of non-compliance, penalties, strictures imposed by the stock exchange or
the  SEBI  or  any  matter  of  company  related  to  the  capital  market  during  the  last  three  years  required;  and
separate disclosure for all material on non-recurring/abnormal income/gain and expenditure/loss and effect
of all changes in accounting practices affecting the profits materially,

 All stock exchanges and subsidiaries of stock exchanges, clearing corporations advised to post their annual
accounts in their respective websites, besides making available a copy of their annual accounts to investors,
intermediaries and general public.

 Valuation  methods  standardised  for  net  asset  value  of  mutual  funds  for  debt  securities,  thinly  traded  and

non-traded debt and equities.

 The  ICAI  issued  accounting  standards  for  consolidation  of  accounts,  segment  reporting,  related  party

transactions, deferred tax liability.

 These  standards  will  be  mandatory  for  all  listed  companies  as  per  the  phased  programme  of  corporate

governance issued by SEBI.

Corporate Governance
 The  recommendations  of  the  Kumar  Mangalam  Birla  Committee  on  corporate  governance  in  relation  to

listing agreement entered into by the companies with the stock exchanges implemented.

 According  to  the  recommendations  of  the  Accounting  Standards  Committeee,  the  companies  required  to
immediately disclose all material information simultaneously to all the stock exchanges where the securities
of the company are listed.

(contd. on next page)

3

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(contd. from previous page)

 The  regional  stock  exchanges  required  to  disseminate  the  information  to  all  stock  exchanges  where  the

securities of the company are listed or traded .

 Further, any material event arising out of decisions taken in the board meetings regarding announcement of
results, dividends, bonus, rights etc. are to be furnished to the stock exchanges within fifteen minutes of the
closure of the board meetings.

 The companies to report extent of compliance of corporate governance in their Annual Reports.
 The stock exchanges directed to monitor corporate governance compliance on quarterly basis.

Continuous Listing
 Guidelines issued to all listed companies to maintain a minimum level of non-promoter holding on a continuous

basis as a measure of investor protection as it would ensure availability of floating stocks.

Rolling Settlement
 Rolling  settlement  which  was  first  introduced  voluntarily  from  January  1998  on  all  scrips  included  in  the
demat  segment  and  then  compulsorily  to  163  scrips  to  be  expanded  to  414  scrips  by  covering  additional
251 scrips from July 2, 2001 following the announcement made by the Government on March 13, 2001 in
Parliament.

 The  list  of  additional  251  scrips  to  include  all  scrips  having  the  facility  of  ALBM  /  BLESS  or  MCFS  in  any
stock exchange. In addition if there is any scrip which is included in the BSE 200 scrip but not covered by
the above list also to be included in the compulsory rolling settlement on a nation-wide basis.

 All deferral products cease to be available from July 2, 2001 except for the limited purpose of liquidating the
outstanding positions till September 3, 2001. However liquidation of outstanding deferral positions as of the
date of announcement of SEBI decision to take place by September 3, 2001.

 Simultaneously exchanges permitted to introduce stock options from July 2, 2001 .

Risk Containment Measures:

A) Rationalisation and strengthening of Margin System
 Margins of 10 per cent made applicable for exposures up to Rs. 20 crore and 15 per cent made applicable
for  exposures  exceeding  Rs.  20  crore  and  up  to  Rs.40  crore  or  a  uniform  rate  of  12.5  per  cent  margin
made applicable under MCFS and ALBM .

 Price band for 200 scrips and scrips under compulsory rolling settlement, was relaxed to 16 per cent.
 Scrip  limit  in  carry-forward  position  in  Modified  Carry-Forward  System  (MCFS)  or  the  trade  position  in
Automated  Lending  and  Borrowing  Mechanism  (ALBM)  was  fixed  at  Rs  5  crore  per  scrip  per  member  in
account period and also in rolling settlement, and the exposure limit was fixed at Rs. 4 crore per broker.

 No volatility margin in compulsory rolling settlement system.
 Cash component to be minimum at 30 per cent of the total margin, to be deposited by the broker.
 To encourage delivery based transactions, the margins to be provided only in the shape of bank guarantees

and cash component need not be insisted.

 Several measures taken following the events in the stock market in March 2001.

B) Price Band :
To further strengthen the risk management system the following measures adopted:
 The  price  bands  initially  placed  at  8  per  cent  such  that  once  a  scrip  touched  the  8  percent  price  band  in
either direction, the trading in that scrip to be restricted upto the price band for half an hour, and thereafter,
the  price  band  to  be  further  relaxed  by  4  percent  in  the  direction  in  which  the  price  moved  to  touch  the
ceiling .

 The relaxation of the price band could only be done at BSE or NSE. The other exchanges to relax the price

band (by 4 percent ) only after such relaxation is applied at BSE or NSE.

(contd. on next page)

4

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(contd. from previous page)

 Subsequently, the price band was relaxed by further 8 per cent for 200 actively traded scrips jointly decided

by BSE and NSE.

 Following  the  events  in  the  securities  markets  in  March  2001  all  transactions  to  be  backed  by  delivery
unless the sale transaction has been preceded by a purchase position of at least an equivalent amount in
the  name  of  the  same  client  in  the  same  or  any  other  exchanges.  This  restriction  was  temporary,  to  be
removed depending on the condition of the market.

Mandatory Client Code
 To  help  establish  the  identity  of  buyers  and  sellers  of  securities  and  to  improve  and  facilitate  market

surveillance, the client code made mandatory at the brokers’ level operating on all the stock exchanges.

 The unique client code also to be introduced across exchanges.

Abolition of No - Delivery Period
 No-delivery period of seven days abolished for companies whose securities are traded in the compulsory

dematerialised mode.

Code of Ethics for Directors and Functionaries of Stock Exchanges
 ‘Code of ethics’ for directors and functionaries of stock exchanges introduced to raise the professional and
ethical  standards  of  exchanges  and  their  functionaries  and  also  to  avoid  conflict  of  interest,  and  promote
market integrity.

Delivery Versus Payment (DVP)
 To  bridge  the  gap  between  pay-in  and  pay-out  of  securities  and  funds,  the  DVP  Committee  set  up  to  look
into the mechanism for efficient payment and delivery system for securities and funds simultaneously. The
recommendations of the committee awaited.

Trading and Settlement of Securities in Dematerialised Form
 To  protect  the  interest  of  investors  and  enhance  the  safety  of  the  dematerialisation  process,  additional
safeguards  introduced.  Directives  issued  to  depositories/depository  participants  to  standardize  the  account
opening procedure and to maintain the list of account holders. Additional guidelines also issued for proper
verification of the debit instruction slips.

 To  enhance  the  efficiency  of  the  dematerialisation  process  and  to  prevent  any  possible  misuse  of  pool
account  balances,  directives  issued  to  the  depositories  and  depository  participants,  to  reduce  the  pool
account balances, to restrict the use of pool account balances only for effecting deliveries in the particular
settlement  and  to  levy  penal  charges  for  failure  to  reduce  the  pool  account  balances  after  the  stipulated
period.

Derivatives Trading
 To  provide  liquidity  to  the  market  and  to  enable  market  to  absorb  larger  shocks  for  a  small  change  in  the
prices, the derivatives trading was approved in June 2000 first in index futures contracts, both at NSE and
BSE.

 Derivative products were expanded subsequently to include options on indices and thereafter to options on

individual stocks.

 The risk containment measures for exchange traded index futures contracts outlined by the SEBI under the
framework  consistent  with  the  risk  management  guidelines.  The  exchanges  are  free  to  adopt  any  risk
management model available globally.

Internet Trading
 To provide benefits to investors as an added advantage of convenience, transparency and real time trading,
the  internet  based  trading  allowed  through  order  routing  system  which  will  route  client  orders  to  exchange
trading systems for execution of trades on the stock exchanges.

(contd. on next page)

5

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(contd. from previous page)

Securities Lending Scheme
 To facilitate smooth securities settlement, the schemes of ALBM and BLESS transactions of NSE and BSE,

respectively, as generic products.

Investor Education
 A  Working  group  appointed  on  investor  education  which  recommended  application  of  information  booklets
on dematerialisation, secondary and primary market operations, imparting education on radio and television.

Mutual Funds
 A  common  format  prescribed  for  all  Mutual  Fund  schemes  to  disclose  their  entire  portfolios  on  half  yearly
basis so that the investors can get meaningful information on the deployment of funds. Mutual Funds also
required  to  disclose  the  investment  in  various  types  of  instruments  and  percentage  of  investment  in  each
scrip to the total NAV, illiquid and non performing assets, investment in derivatives and in ADRs and GDRs.
 To  bring  about  transparency  in  the  investment  decisions,  and  ensure  due  diligence  of  the  AMCs  in  their
investment of public funds, all the AMCs directed to maintain records in support of each investment decision
which would indicate the data, the facts and other related opinion leading to an investment decision.

 Further the AMCs required to record the basis for taking individual scrip-wise investment decision in equity
and  debt  securities  and  report  its  compliance  in  their  periodical  reports  to  the  trustees.  After  checking  its
compliance  through  independent  auditors  or  internal/statutory  auditors,  the  trustees  required  to  report  to
SEBI in their half-yearly reports.

 To  enable  the  investors  to  make  informed  investment  decisions  guidelines  issued  to  mutual  funds  to  fully

revise and update offer document and memorandum atleast once in two years.

 Mutual funds also required to :

(cid:2) bring uniformity in disclosures of various categories of advertisements, with a view to ensure consistency

and comparability across schemes of various mutual funds,

(cid:2) reduce initial offer period from a maximum of 45 days to 30 days,
(cid:2) despatch statements of account once the minimum subscription amount specified in the offer document

is received even before the closure of the issue,

(cid:2) invest in mortgaged backed securities of investment grade by Credit Rating Agency,
(cid:2) identify and make provisions for the non-performing assets (NPAs), according to criteria for classification
of NPAs and treatment of income accrued on NPAs and to disclose NPAs in half yearly portfolio reports,
(cid:2) disclose  information  in  a  revised  format  on  unit  capital,  reserves,  performance  in  terms  of  dividend  and
rise  /  fall  in  NAV  during  the  half  year  period,  annualized  yields  over  the  last  1,  3,  5  years  in  addition  to
percentage  of  management  fees,  percentage  of  recurring  expenses  to  Net  Assets,  investment  made  in
associate companies and payment made to associate companies for their services, details of large holdings
etc. since their operation

(cid:2) declare  their  NAVs  and  sale  /  repurchase  prices  of  all  schemes  updated  daily  on  regular  basis  on  the

AMFI web site by 8:00 p.m. and declare NAVs of their close-ended schemes on every Wednesday

 To give operational flexibility, mutual funds also allowed to constitute committees who can approve proposals

for investment in unrated debt instruments after being approved by the AMC board and the trustees

Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs)
 To avoid discrimination between Indian and foreign fund managers, the SEBI (Foreign Institutional Investors)
Regulations 1995 amended on February 29, 2000 to permit domestic fund managers to also manage foreign
funds.

 To  facilitate  investment  by  FIIs,  foreign  corporate  bodies  and  foreign  individuals  permitted  to  invest  upto  5

per cent of the total issued capital of the company.

 To further facilitate the foreign inflows the FIIs and sub-accounts permitted to invest in commercial papers

(contd. on next page)

6

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(contd. from previous page)

 To  facilitate  disinvestment  in  holding  by  FIIs  which  did  not  desire  to  renew  registration,  SEBI  (Foreign

Institutional Investors) Regulations, 1995 amended.

Venture Capital Funds (VCFs)
 To facilitate automatic transfer of shares from Venture Capital Funds or Foreign Venture Capital Investors to
promoters of a venture capital undertaking, exemption granted from applicability of Open Offer requirements
based on the recommendations of Shri K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital.

The SEBI had set certain targets to be achieved in the short and medium term . The achievements
of the SEBI during the year under review measured against the targets set out in the previous
Annual Report of the SEBI are presented in (Table 1.1).

Table 1.1 Targets and Achievements

Targets Set Out in the Annual Report of
1999-2000

1. To achieve complete and full implementation

of corporate governance framework.

2. To  further  strengthen  the  rolling  settlement

system.

Achievements in 2000-01

The  guidelines  of  SEBI  on  corporate
governance  have  been  implemented  through
the  amendment  of  the  listing  agreement  of  the
stock  exchanges.  The  mandatory  guidelines
were  made  applicable  first  to  all  the  listed
companies  included  either  in  group  A  of  the
BSE  and  the  S  &  P  CNX  Nifty  index.  In  their
Annual  Reports,  the  corporates  have  to  report
the extent of compliance of the guidelines. The
SEBI has issued directions to stock exchanges
to  follow  up  the  compliance  of  corporate
governance by the companies. The ICAI issued
accounting  standards  for  consolidation  of
accounts,  segment  reporting,  deferred  tax
liability, related party transactions and earnings
per  share.  Some  of  these  standards  are
mandatory  for  all  companies.  Those  which  are
not  mandatory  will  be  made  mandatory  for  all
those  listed  companies  for  which  corporate
governance  code  is  applicable  as  per  the
phased programme.

The  SEBI  has  further  strengthened  rolling
settlement  system.  The  list  of  scrips  under
compulsory rolling settlement was expanded to
cover  all  scrips  included  in  the  ALBM/BLESS
or  MCFS  in  any  stock  exchange  for  all  stock
exchanges  from  July  2,  2001.  In  addition,  if
there is any scrip which is included in the BSE
200 list, but not covered by the above list, was
also  to  be  included  in  the  compulsory  rolling
settlement  on  a  nationwide  basis.  Rolling
(contd. on next page)

7

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(contd. from previous page)

settlement  for  the  remaining  scrips  would  be
introduced from January 2002 and till that time
these scrips will be traded on uniform settlement
cycle 
in  all  stock
exchanges.

(Monday - Tuesday) 

the  programme  of
SEBI  announced 
dematerialisation  to  cover  all  actively  traded
scrips  on  all  stock  exchanges  by  March  31,
2001.  SEBI  also  took  several  measures  to
ensure  procedural  safety  and  simplification  of
dematerialisation. Besides a group was also set
up to suggest steps for moving towards DVP.

A  risk  management  group  was  set  up,  and
several measures were taken to streamline and
strengthen the risk management system.

The  SEBI  permitted  Internet  based  trading
through order routing system and has prescribed
minimum technical standards for ensuring safety
and security of transactions between clients and
brokers.  The  NSE  and  BSE  have  already
permitted  their  brokers  to  start  internet  based
trading. SEBI also permitted WAP based trading.

A  committee  on  uniform  bye-laws  for  stock
exchanges  has  submitted  its  report  regarding
the uniform rules. The report is being examined.
In  the  meanwhile,  the  SEBI  has  been
continuously reviewing the existing bye-laws in
consultation  with  the  stock  exchanges,  so  that
the  bye-laws  reflect  the  changes  and  new
developments  taking  place  in  the  market
structure and the administrative structure of the
stock  exchanges.  The  bye-laws  of  the  stock
exchanges  are  thus  now  uniform  across  all
stock exchanges.

The SEBI has notified the guidelines for Foreign
Venture  Capital  Investor  Regulation,  2000  for
registration  and  regulation  of  foreign  venture
capital  investment  in  India  following  the
announcement  made  by  the  Finance  Minister
in the Budget of 2000-01.

Several measures have been taken to promote
the  use  of  book  building  and  simplify  and
(contd. on next page)

3. To  further  strengthen  the  clearing  and
settlement  system  and  to  speed  up  the
process  of  dematerialisation  and
dematerialised trading.

4. To  set  up  a  risk  management  group  to
further refine the existing margining system
with a view to reducing the transaction cost
without affecting the safety and addressing
the risk arising from market volatility.

5. To  encourage  wider  use  of  internet  for
trading and other activities in the securities
market.

6. To  continue  efforts  for  bringing  uniform  by-

laws for stock exchanges.

7. To increase the role of venture capital funds.

8. To strengthen the process of book-building.

8

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(contd. from previous page)

streamline  the  process  and  increase  the
efficiency  of  book-building.  To  strengthen  the
book-building  process,  the  SEBI  has  permitted
100 per cent one stage book-building at bidding
centres  in  all  cities  having  stock  exchanges.
Companies  having  no  track  record  can  make
IPOs  only  through  the  book-building  route
provided  60  percent  is  allotted  to  QIBs  and
companies which want to issue only 10 percent
as  minimum  offering  as  post  issue  capital  to
public, have also to come through book-building.
These  steps  will  promote  the  growth  of  book-
building process.

The  SEBI  issued  guidelines  based  on  the
recommendations  of  the  committee  on  market
making  to  stock  exchanges  to  permit  brokers
to  take  up  market  making  in  the  equity  shares
of  a  company  in  whose  case  the  number  of
trades  is  more  than  50  and  the  value  of  trade
on  daily  basis  is  more  than  Rs.10  lakh.  The
activity has, however, not picked up.

The  SEBI  granted  final  approval  to  derivatives
trading at NSE and BSE on May 25, 2000. The
SEBI  in  principle  permitted  trading  in  Futures
Contracts  based  on  BSE  Sensex  and  S  &  P
CNX Nifty indices. The SEBI has also approved
trading in options related to index based futures
contract.  The  guidelines  for  risk  containment
measures in relation to derivatives trading were
also issued.

SEBI  streamlined  disclosure  guidelines  for
issues  in  the  primary  market  and  further
strengthened 
financial  disclosure
requirement  for  the  listed  companies.  Detailed
guidelines on disclosure norms to mutual funds
were also issued.

the 

Efforts  were  made  to  strengthen  surveillance
and  monitoring  of  the  stock  exchanges.  The
exchanges  had  introduced  the  stock  watch
system.  A  code  of  ethics  were  also  introduced
for all stock exchanges.

The  SEBI  has  taken  a  number  of  initiatives  to
educate  investors.  SEBI  distributed  nearly  1
crore  booklets  entitled  ‘A  Quick  Reference

(contd. on next page)

9

9. To enhance the role of market making.

10. To  implement  derivative  trading  on  the

exchanges.

11. To  continue  upgrading  and  widening  the
disclosure  norms  for  the  protection  of  the
investors.

12. To  strengthen 

the  surveillance  and

monitoring system at the exchanges.

13. To  develop  programme 

investor
education  to  enhance  the  awareness  of
securities market.

for 

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(contd. from previous page)

14. To  develop  measures  to  strengthen  links
with  stock  exchanges  and  regulatory
authorities in foreign countries.

Guide for Investors’ and guided other agencies
to  provide  printed  information  on  educational
aspects  of  investments  to  investors.  As  such
BSE released a diary on information relating to
primary  market,  secondary  market  and
derivatives.  NSE  distributed  more  than  1  lakh
copies of its publication on investors education.
The  AMFI  published  and  distributed  a  booklet
on  ‘Making  Mutual  Funds  Work  For  You’,  BSE
and  NSE  again  were  supposed  to  distribute
booklets  on  dematerialisation  and  secondary
and  primary  market  operations.  This  printed
material was distributed in Hindi also.

SEBI  has  taken  steps  to  strengthen  links  with
stock  exchanges  and  regulatory  authorities  in
foreign  countries  through  participation  at  the
meetings  of  the  President’s  Committee,
Executive Committee, Technical Committee and
Emerging Markets Committee of IOSCO and in
the meetings of Financial Services Forum (FSF).
The  Chairman,  SEBI  is  chairman  of  the
Emerging  Markets  Committee  and  a  member
of  Executive  Committee  of  IOSCO  and  FSF  .
Besides,  SEBI  has  signed  an  MoU  with  the
Malaysian  Securities  commission  during  the
year.

A] REVIEW OF THE GENERAL ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND

THE INVESTMENT CLIMATE

General Economic Environment
During 2000-01, the economic growth according to estimates of Central Statistical Organisation
(CSO)  slowed  down  by  1.2  percentage  points  as  the  GDP  in  real  terms  (at  1993-94  prices)
recorded a lower growth of 5.2 per cent as against a growth of 6.4 per cent during 1999-2000.
All the three sectors namely agriculture (from 0.7 per cent to 0.2 per cent), industry (from 6.1
per cent to 5.3 per cent) and services (from 9.6 per cent to 7.7 per cent) registered fall in their
respective  growth  rate  during  2000-01  over  the  previous  year.  Services  sector  despite  the  fact
that it experienced a noticeable fall in its growth from 9.5 per cent in 1999-2000 to 7.5 per cent
in 2000-01, improved its share from 53.0 per cent in 1999-2000 to 54.2 per cent in 2000-01.

Trends in domestic saving and domestic investment have been the cause of concern. According
to the data available so far, domestic saving ratio has been practically constant at low level of
22.0  per  cent  of  GDP  during  1998-99  and  22.3  per  cent  during  1999-2000.  The  saving  ratio
compares  very  unfavorably  with  the  achievement  of  25.1  per  cent  in  1995-96.  Consequently,
domestic  investment(gross  capital  formation)  has  also  decelerated  from  26.5  per  cent  in

10

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

1995-96  to  23.3  per  cent  in  1999-2000.  Public  sector  continued  to  show  disappointing
performance as its saving rate was negative at 1.2 per cent in 1999-2000 compared to a lower
negative  rate  of  0.8  per  cent  in  the  previous  year.  The  private  sector  saving  rate,  however,
remained constant at 3.7 per cent in 1999-2000 as it was in the previous year. However, household
saving which was 19.1 per cent in 1998-99 increased to 19.8 per cent in 1999-2000. Household
savings in financial assets, which had increased from 9.9 per cent of GDP in 1997-98 to 10.9
per  cent  in  1998-99,  declined  to  10.5  per  cent  in  1999-2000.  Households  savings  in  terms  of
physical assets, however, improved from 8.0 per cent in 1997-98 to 8.2 in 1998-99 and further
to  9.2  per  cent  in  1999-2000.  This  implies  that  households  have  been  diverting  their  savings
from financial assets to physical assets.

There  was  a  compositional  change  in  the  structure  of  financial  assets  of  households.  It  would
be observed from Table 1.3 that share of investment in shares and debentures which had increased
from 2.9 per cent in 1997-98 to 6.4 percent in 1999-2000 declined to 2.7 per cent in 2000-01.
On  the  otherhand  share  of  contractual  savings  increased  from  30.1  percent  to  33.4  percent
during  the  same  period.  When  comparison  is  made  between  2000-2001  and  1999-2000,  it  is
observed  that  investments  in  shares  and  debentures  registered  decline  from  6.4  percent  to  2.7
percent  where  as  share  of  deposits  increased  from  39.1  percent  to  44.3  percent  and  share  of
currency decreased from 8.5 percent to 6.4 percent.

Foreign inflows strengthened the external position of India as total foreign exchange reserves at
the end of March 2001 increased to US$ 42.3 billion from US$ 38 billion at the end of March
2000. These favourable achievements of the economy have sustained the external credibility of
the country in the perception of foreign equity investors.

On exchange rate front the Re against the US$ depreciated by about 7 per cent between April
and  October  2000  and  forex  market  witnessed  considerable  instability.  The  foreign  inflows
amounted  to  US$  3.3  billion  during  April-February  2000-01  as  compared  to  US$  5.2  billion
during the previous year.

The  primary  market  which  had  shown  a  growth  of  40  per  cent  in  resource  mobilisation  from
Rs.5586.5  crore  in  1998-99  to  Rs.7816.8  crore  in  1999-2000,  suffered  a  set  back  in  2000-01.
The total resources mobilised declined to Rs. 6107.8 crore in 2000-01 recording a fall of 21.9
per cent. The decline in resource mobilisation from the market was contributed by both public
issues as well as rights issues. The public issues reported a decrease of 14.0 per cent whereas
rights issues were lower by 53.3 per cent than the amount reported during the previous year. It
was significant that fresh capital raised by the listed companies declined by more than 33.6 per
cent whereas capital raised through IPOs was sustained at the level achieved last year.

The secondary market recorded subdued trend and stock prices as measured by the BSE Sensex
in  2000-01  on  point  to  point  basis,  declined  from  5001  as  on  March  31,  2000  to  3604  as  on
March 30, 2001 or by 27.9 per cent. Other indices like BSE 100, NSE 50 and S & P CNX 500
dropped by 41.7 per cent, 24.87 per cent and 42.9 per cent respectively, during the same period.
There was a sharp fall in equity market capitalisation. The market capitalisation of NSE which
stood  at  Rs.10,20,426  crore  at  end  March  2000  substantially  and  continuously  declined  to
Rs. 6,57,847 crore recording a fall of 35.5 per cent over the year. The market capitalisation at

11

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

BSE declined from Rs.9,12,842 crore to Rs.5,71,554 crore during the same period at the rate of
37.3 per cent.

The stocks prices in March 2001 were volatile. From October 2000 to the middle of February
2001, the Sensex rose from a level of around 3700 to 4300. Thereafter, the market was, however,
in a declining trend. On February 28, 2001 the day of Union Budget 2001 the Sensex opened at
4070 and rose by 177 points to 4247 , recording an eleven month peak for a single day. There
was  also  a  rise  of  24  points  in  the  Sensex  on  March  1,  2001  to  4271.  However  on  March  2,
2001 the index reported a sharp fall of 176 points from the closing of March 1, 2001 to 4095.
The Sensex, thereafter, showed a declining trend. The intra-day decline was of 246 points. The
market  behaviour  following  the  budget  raised  the  apprehension  of  market  manipulations.  The
SEBI, therefore, took several measures to address various concerns to safeguard the interest of
the  investors.  SEBI  also  began  investigating  several  stock  broking  entities  and  other  market
participants for market manipulation. The specific measures undertaken by the SEBI in March
2001 were as follows:

 The  threshold  limit  for  the  applicability  of  the  volatility  margin  was  reduced  from  80  per

cent to 60 per cent so as to bring more scrips under the ambit of the volatility margin.

 No exemptions were allowed in the applicability of volatility margin to any class of investors
and that the volatility margins were made applicable to sale positions of financial institutions,
foreign institutional investors banks and mutual funds.

 All  the  scrips  in  MCFS/  ALBM  and  BLESS  were  to  attract  additional  margin  @  10  per

cent on end of the day net outstanding sale position.

 All sales transactions effective from March 8, 2001 were required to be backed by delivery
unless a sale transaction is preceded by a purchase position of at least an equivalent amount
in the name of the same client in the same or any other exchange. This was to be applicable
to the proprietary trading by members, on a self-certification basis and is subject to exchange
off-site  inspection  upto  sub-broker  and  client  level.  The  exchanges  were  required  to  share
information  to  facilitate  the  verification.  It  was  made  applicable  to  scrips  in  the  MCFS,
ALBM, BLESS and other deferral products.

 The current margining system was moved to the VaR scrip-wise model from July 01, 2001.

 The additional margin of 10 per cent on the “end of the day” net outstanding sale position
of all scrips in Modified Cary Forward System (MCFS)/ Automated Lending and Borrowing
Mechanism (ALBM) and Borrowing and Lending of Securities Scheme (BLESS) imposed
on March 5, 2001, was increased to 25 per cent with effect from March 12, 2001

 A ceiling was placed on the broker-wise end of the day outstanding position (aggregate of
all securities) of a member on any stock exchange other than the BSE/NSE to Rs.50 crore
with  effect  from  March  12,  2001.  The  BSE  and  NSE  were  excluded  from  the  purview  of
this stipulation in view of the size of their trade and settlement guarantee funds.

 The gross exposure limit for the members of the stock exchanges was reduced to 10 times
of the base capital and the additional base capital in the case of NSE and to 15 times for the
other stock exchanges with effect from March 12, 2001.

12

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

The stock exchanges were permitted to use the settlement guarantee fund maintained by them
for  meeting  the  shortages  arising  out  of  the  non-fulfillment/partial  fulfillment  of  the  funds
obligations by the members in the settlement before declaring the concerned member defaulter.
This  is  in  line  with  the  practice  followed  by  the  NSE.  This  is  also  in  accordance  with  the
international practice.

Besides the above measures, the SEBI also began investigations against some market participants.
Further,  in  the  interest  of  investors  and  the  orderly  development  of  the  securities  market  in
India, the following actions were taken :

 Shri  Anand  Rathi  was  restrained  from  acting  as  a  Director  of  the  Governing  Board  of  the

Stock Exchange, Mumbai until further notice.

 Shri Anand Rathi and his concerns were directed not to undertake any fresh business as a

broker, till further orders are passed by SEBI in this regard.

 All  broker  member  directors  of  the  Stock  Exchange,  Mumbai  were  restrained  from  acting

as directors on the governing board of the Stock Exchange, Mumbai until further notice.

On the Calcutta Stock Exchange, 10 members were declared defaulters. Those of the defaulters
who  were  board  members  resigned.  Other  elected  members  of  the  Calcutta  Stock  Exchange
also resigned from the committee of the exchange on March 30, 2001.

On March 13, 2001, the Government of India announced measures on the floor of the Parliament
to  improve  institutional  mechanisms  and  trading  practices  in  stock  market.  First  was  the
corporatisation of stock exchanges by which ownership, management and trading rights would
be segregated from each other. The rolling settlement as a second measure was extended to 200
category  ‘A’  stock  in  MCFS,  ALBM  and  BLESS  schemes  by  July  2001.  SEBI  took  steps  to
implement  these  announcements.  As  mentioned  elsewhere  in  this  Annual  Report,  SEBI  had
already announced the list of additional 251 scrips to be covered in rolling settlement from July
2,  2001  and  the  programme  of  rolling  settlement  to  cover  the  rest  of  the  market  by  January
2002. SEBI is also drawing a plan for corporatisation and demutualisation of the stock exchanges.

Interestingly,  the  volatility  in  stock  prices  in  India  during  financial  year  2000-01  showed  by
and  large  a  declining  trend  except  for  certain  months.  The  BSE  Sensex,  which  displayed  a
volatility of 3.9 per cent in April 2000, recorded an average volatility of 1.6 per cent by October
2000. In March 2001 volatility in the market of the BSE Sensex increased to 2.9 per cent but
was  lower  than  April  2000.  Volatility  of  BSE  Natex,  which  was  3.8  per  cent  in  April  2000,
declined  to  1.8  per  cent  in  February  2001  but  rose  back  to  3.3  per  cent  in  March  2001.  The
S&P CNX Nifty demonstrated a volatility of 3.5 per cent in April 2000 which decreased to as
low as 1.2 per cent by January 2001.

The average daily turnover at BSE and NSE which had risen from Rs.2,071 crore and Rs.2,606
crore in March 1999 to Rs.4,050 crore and Rs.5,028 crore in March 2000 markedly declined to
Rs.2,150  crore  and  Rs.2,867  crore  in  March  2001  respectively.  There  was  a  fall  of  46.9  per
cent in case of BSE and 42.8 per cent in case of NSE turnover.

13

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

The trading pattern at the bourses has shown varying trends during 2000-01. While, of the total
traded companies, 40.6 per cent were traded at BSE for above 100 days and 25.9 per cent were
traded for less than 10 days, at NSE, 79.4 per cent companies were traded for above 100 days
and 14.1 per cent were traded for less than 10 days.

Mutual funds, mobilised Rs. 9,128 crore on a net basis in 2000-01 less than half of the amount
mobilised in 1999-2000 at Rs. 18,970 crore. Though the gross mobilisation by the mutual funds
sharply  increased  from  Rs.  61,241  crore  in  1999-2000  to  Rs.  92,957  crore  in  2000-01,  net
mobilisation  markedly  declined  due  to  increased  repurchase/redemption.  During  2000-01,  in
almost  all  the  months  gross  sales  of  equity  shares  by  mutual  funds  was  more  than  the  gross
purchases  indicating  large  disinvestment  by  mutual  funds  during  the  year.  On  the  other  hand,
gross sales of debt instruments were less than the purchases in almost all the months reflecting
that  mutual  funds’  net  investment  in  this  instrument  was  positive  during  the  year.  The
disinvestment  of  mutual  funds  may  have  had  downward  impact  on  equity  prices  during  the
year.

Foreign  Institutional  Investors  (FIIs)  continued  to  repose  their  confidence  in  Indian  securities
market as their net investment aggregated to about US$ 2.2 billion in 2000-01 as compared to a
figure of US$ 2.3 billion during the previous year.

Table 1.2: Trends in Gross Domestic Savings

(As percentage of GDP at current market prices)

Sector

1994-95

1995-96

1996-97

1997-98

1998-991999-2000 Q

Households
Private Corporate
Public
Total

19.7
3.5
1.7
24.8

18.1
4.9
2.0
25.1

17.0
4.5
1.7
23.2

17.8
4.2
1.5
23.5

19.1
3.7
-0.8
22.0

19.8
3.7
-1.2
22.3

Q = Quick Estimates.
Source : Economic Survey, 2000-01.

Table 1.3: Financial Assets–wise Distribution of Households

Savings in Percentage Share

(Rs. in crore)

Item

1997-98

1998-99P

1999-00P

2000-01 #

Financial Assets (Gross)
Currency
Deposits @
Claims on Government
Shares and Debentures ++
Contractual Saving**

171740
7.4
46.6
12.9
2.9
30.1

209664
10.4
39.3
13.5
3.6
33.3

244143
8.5
39.1
11.9
6.4
34.2

264669
6.4
44.3
13.1
2.7
33.4

#  preliminary P: provisional @ Comprise bank deposits, non-bank deposits and trade debt(net) ++ Including units of UTI and
other MFs. ** Comprise LIC,PF and Pension Funds
Source: RBI Annual Report 2000-01

14

Securities and Exchange Board of India
B] REVIEW OF POLICIES AND PROGRAMMES
A review of the major policies and programmes adopted by the SEBI during 2000-01 is given
below:

Annual Report 2000-2001

i. Primary Securities Market
The following paragraphs discuss the measures taken by the SEBI in the primary market during
the year 2000-01.

Strengthening of eligibility norms
 During the year under review, the SEBI further strengthened and streamlined the eligibility
norms for accessing the capital market in order to enhance the level of investors’ protection
and to rationalise the procedures for the issue of capital. Hitherto, companies could access
the primary markets if (i) they had a track record of distributable profits in terms of section
205 of the Companies Act for atleast 3 out of the immediately preceding 5 years and a pre-
issue networth of not less than Rs. one crore in 3 out of the immediately preceding 5 years
or (ii) if their project was appraised by a bank or a financial institution which had financed
atleast 10 per cent of the project cost. The rationale underlying the second norm was that an
appraisal  of  the  project  by  a  bank/FIs  would  give  an  indication  of  its  soundness  to  the
prospective  investors.  Further,  financing  the  project  to  the  extent  of  10  per  cent,  would
ensure long term participation and monitoring by the bank / financial institution which was
expected  to  give  confidence  to  the  investors  about  the  future  prospects  of  projects.  It  was
observed  that  in  practice  the  norm  did  not  serve  its  intended  purpose.  The  requirement  of
appraisal by a Bank/FI was also done away with.



If the issuer did not have a stipulated net worth or track record of distributable profits or if
the  issuer  is  a  listed  company  which  proposed  to  raise  more  than  5  times  its  pre-issue
networth,  the  revised  guideline  require  the  issue  to  be  compulsorily  made  through  book-
building route wherein 60 per cent of the offer has to be allotted to Qualified Institutional
Buyers  (QIBs).  In  case  60  per  cent  cannot  be  allotted  to  QIBs  the  issue  will  have  to  fail.
The  QIBs  have  been  defined  to  include  QIBs  financial  institutions,  banks,  mutual  funds,
foreign  institutional  investors,  multilateral  and  bilateral  development  financial  institutions
and venture capital funds registered with SEBI.

 The underlying rationale for this entry norm is that under the book-building procedure, the
issue quality is appraised by well informed investors – the QIBs and the price is decided on
the  basis  of  their  bids.  Thus,  a  level  playing  field  is  created  for  the  investing  public  who
now  have  the  facility  of  the  issue  having  already  been  appraised  by  large  market  players
before  they  put  in  their  applications.  This  measure  provides  safety  to  retail  investors  by
reason of market appraisal and price acceptance by well informed investors.

The  above  mentioned  entry  norms  would  also  be  applicable  to  companies,  which  propose  to
make an offer for sale.

Any  listed  company  which  has  changed  its  name  to  indicate  that  it  is  a  company  in  the
information technology sector during a period of 3 years prior to filing of offer document with

15

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

SEBI, would also be required to comply with the entry norms prescribed for public issues by
unlisted companies.

Relaxation of requirement of minimum offer to public
 Earlier  companies  could  access  the  primary  market  only  if  they  offered  a  minimum  of  25
per cent of their post-issue capital to the public as prescribed under Rule 19(2)(b) of Securities
Contracts  (Regulations)  Rules,  1957.  This  requirement  of  minimum  25  per  cent  was  a
deterrent to going public, thus depriving the Indian public to participate in issues of sound
companies as the companies floated their issues abroad. In order to facilitate availability of
good quality paper in the Indian markets, Indian companies in Information technology sector
were permitted to make a public offer upto 10 per cent of the post-issue capital instead of
25 per cent subject to minimum offering of 20 lakh shares for an amount not less than Rs.
50  crore.  In  August  2000,  this  relaxation  was  extended  to  companies  in  the  media/
entertainment  and  telecom  sector  also  and  on  December  12,  2000  this  benefit  of  offering
only 10 per cent of post-issue capital to the public was made available to all sectors subject
to the condition of minimum offering of 20 lakh shares. However, in order to ensure a wide
float, it was stipulated that the minimum issue size should be increased from Rs. 50 crore to
Rs.  100  crore.  Companies  not  fulfilling  the  aforesaid  conditions  are  required  to  make  a
minimum  public  offering  of  25  per  cent.  For  this  purpose,  SEBI  recommended  to  the
Government  to  suitably  modify  Rule  19(2)(b)  of  SCRR,  1957  to  provide  for  offering  of
minimum 10 per cent of post-issue capital subject to the aforesaid conditions.

 The restriction of minimum public issue size of Rs. 25 crore in the case of an IPO through
book-building  was  removed  and  all  companies  were  allowed  to  make  issue  through  book-
building.  However,  if  the  track  record  criteria  is  satisfied,  allocation  to  QIBs  can  be  less
than 60 per cent.

Book-building
In  order  to  further  strengthen  the  book-building  process  in  the  light  of  the  experience  gained
from the recent issues through book-building, the following amendments to the book-building
guidelines  were  issued  by  the  SEBI  in  addition  to  the  requirement  already  laid  down.  These
amendments will help further to rationalise the existing provisions of book-building guidelines
and introduce greater transparency in the price discovery process.

Box 1.2 : Streamlining guidelines for book-building
 100  per  cent  one  stage  book-building  has  been  permitted  with  bidding  centres  at  all  cities  with  stock

exchanges.

 The present provision of allowing 75 per cent of the issue to be offered through book-building would continue.
The fixed price issue portion applicable for the balance 25 per cent of the issue will continue to be available
to individual investors applying for upto1000 shares.

 The allocation of 100 per cent book building will be as follows :

a. Not more than 60 per cent of the book built portion will be allocated to institutional investors i.e. Banks,

(contd. on next page)

16

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(contd. from previous page)

FIIs, Mutual Funds and other Financial Institutions as defined in Section 4A of the Companies Act, on a
discretionary basis. The maximum bid by these categories is restricted to the investment limit prescribed
in the respective Regulations/Guidelines as applicable to these institutions.

b. These  changes  are  to  the  advantage  of  individual  investors  as  the  scope  of  discretionary  allocation  to

the institutional investors would get reduced.

c. At  least  15  per  cent  of  the  book-built  portion  of  shares  would  be  distributed  on  proportionate  basis  to

non-institutional investors applying for more than 1000 shares.

d. The remaining 25 per cent of the shares would be available to the small investors to be allocated on pro-

rata basis.

 On-line-display shall be mandatory for all issues through book-building. Data entry of bids shall be on a real
time  basis.  Availability  of  information  about  the  demand  at  different  price  levels  would  thus  be  assured  to
facilitate genuine price discovery.

 Uniform margin shall be collected from non-institutional and individual investors if any.
 The price band under the prevailing system has resulted in bidding only at the upper end and has effected

proper price discovery. Only the floor price will now be required to be disclosed as an indicative price.

 Names of all book runners would be allowed to be mentioned on the front cover page to enhance transparency

in the book building process, price determination and allocation.

Promoter’s contribution and lock-in of pre-IPO share capital
 SEBI  has  in  place  provisions  relating  to  lock-in-period  for  promoter’s  contribution.  In
addition, there were different lock-in requirements for unlisted companies which made issues
at a price below the IPO price. In order to streamline the provisions and to ensure that pre-
IPO investors of the company do not take an entry and price advantage, SEBI has mandated
that in case of unlisted companies, the minimum promoters contribution of 20 per cent shall
be locked in for 3 years and the balance of the entire pre-IPO capital, shall be locked in for
1 year from the date of commencement of commercial production or the date of allotment
in the public issue, whichever is later. The entire pre-issue share capital shall be locked-in
except  which  is  held  by  Venture  Capital  Funds  and  Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investors
registered  with  the  SEBI.  However,  there  would  be  a  lock-in,  if  applicable  as  per  the
provisions  of  the  SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  and  any  amendment
thereto and the SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) Regulations, 2000. The stipulation
for lock-in of pre-issue share capital would ensure that the promoters and associates remain
committed  to  the  company  and  do  not  use  the  public  issue  and  subsequent  listing  of  the
company’s  shares  as  an  exit  route.  The  SEBI  has  also  stipulated  that  all  firm  allotments
shall be locked in for a period of one year

 It  was  also  been  provided  that  promoters  contribution  is  required  to  be  kept  in  escrow
account  with  a  scheduled  commercial  bank  and  the  same  can  be  released  only  with  the
public issue proceeds. This requirement ensures the same treatment for promoters contribution
as is prescribed currently in respect of application monies received from public issues.

Disclosure requirements enhanced
 During  2000-01,  the  SEBI  prescribed  enhanced  disclosure  requirements  to  be  made  by
companies in offer documents requiring the issuer companies to disclose the details of utilised

17

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

and unutilised monies received under promoters’ contribution, firm allotments and reservations
in their balance sheet. Companies are now required to indicate the purpose for which such
monies  were  utilised  and  also  state  the  form  in  which  such  unutilised  monies  have  been
invested.  These  requirements  have  also  been  specified  in  case  of  monies  accrued  to  the
company as a result of a preferential issue.

 In  case  the  promoters’  contribution,  which  was  brought  prior  to  the  public  issue  and  has
already  been  deployed  by  the  company,  it  was  stipulated  that  the  issuer  companies  are
required  to  give  the  cash  flow  statement  in  the  offer  document  disclosing  the  use  of  such
funds.

 To  address  apprehensions  about  disclosure  of  overly  optimistic  future  performance  by  the
company,  the  SEBI  prohibited  issuer  companies  from  giving  any  forecast  or  projections
relating to their financial performance in their offer documents.

 The issuer companies and their lead merchant bankers are required to provide justification
for the issue price and no lead manager can proceed with the issue in case the accounting
ratios do not justify the issue price. In case of book-built issues, it should be stated that the
final price has been determined on the basis of the demand from the QIBs.

Reduction in time taken for completion of formalities relating
to allotment, despatch of certificates and listing
SEBI has also reviewed the procedure regarding the time frame for completion of allotment of
shares and subsequent listing of public issues as well as book-built issues. The time for finalising
the  allotment  has  been  reduced  from  30  to  15  days  in  book-built  issues.  Therefore,  the  issue
process would be completed faster and risks associated with volatile markets is expected to be
minimised.  In  order  to  ensure  that  investors  get  the  shares/refunds  earlier  than  the  present
minimum period of 30 days, it has also been stipulated that the despatch of share certificates/
refund orders/ cancelled stock invests and demat credits is completed within 2 working days of
finalisation  of  basis  of  allotment.  Further,  the  SEBI  has  stipulated  that  listing  and  trading  of
shares allotted in the public issue should be done within 7 working days of finalisation of basis
of allotment, thereby giving the investors an early exit.

The SEBI has stipulated that the lead merchant banker should obtain from the stock exchange
where the securities are proposed to be listed, in-principle an approval for listing of the securities,
within 15 days of filing of the draft offer document with the stock exchanges. The same should
then be furnished to SEBI. This would rationalise the listing procedures and also enable listing
and trading of securities within 7 days from the date of allotment.

Preferential allotment disclosures and lock-in
The guidelines on preferential allotment were modified to provide for additional disclosures in
the  explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  for  the  general  meeting  in  terms  of  Section  173  of
Companies  Act,  1956.  It  was  stipulated  that  the  notice  shall  state  the  objective  of  the  issue

18

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

through preferential offer, intention of promoters/directors/key management persons to subscribe
to  the  offer,  shareholding  pattern  before  and  after  the  offer,  proposed  time  within  which  the
allotment shall be complete and the identity of the proposed allottees and the percentage of post
preferential issue capital that may be held by them. The aforesaid stipulation would enable the
shareholders to have adequate information regarding the allotment on the basis of which they can
accord their approval to the allotment. In the absence of such disclosures, in the past, shareholders
routinely  approved  resolutions  without  knowing  the  purpose  of  allotment,  the  identity  of  the
allottees and other price-sensitive information that would have had a bearing on them indirectly.

In  addition  to  the  prevailing  requirements  for  lock-in  of  instruments  allotted  on  preferential
basis  to  promoters/promoter  group,  the  SEBI  has  prescribed  that  instruments  allotted  on
preferential  basis  to  any  person  including  promoters/promoter  group  shall  be  locked-in  for  a
period  of  one  year  from  the  date  of  their  allotment  except  for  such  allotments  which  involve
share swap for acquisition.

Compulsory trading in dematerialised form
The SEBI has stipulated that the trading for all IPOs would compulsorily be in dematerialised
form, though investors could opt to apply for and get physical shares. Therefore, investors are
induced  to  opt  for  demat  credit  of  allotments.  This  would  ensure  that  the  shares  are  already
with  the  investor  before  listing  and  trading  commences  and  problems  with  loss  of  allotment
letters, share certificates are done away with.

Unsecured debt instruments of maturity less than 18 months
According  to  the  earlier  guidelines,  debt  instruments  with  maturity  over  18  months  were
compulsorily  to  be  secured.  In  order  to  provide  a  variety  of  debt  instruments  and  to  help  the
development of the debt market, the SEBI permitted the issue of unsecured/ sub-ordinated debt
instruments  for  providing  mezzanine  capital  provided  that  these  are  subscribed  by  QIBs  or
where the debenture allottees/holders have given their positive consent.

Guidelines for offering securities in public issues through
the stock exchange mechanism
In  order  to  simplify  issue  procedures,  reduce  issue  costs  as  well  as  reduce  the  time  taken  in
public  issues,  the  SEBI  issued  guidelines  permitting  companies  to  offer  securities  in  public
issues through the stock exchange mechanism. Issuer companies now have the option of issuing
securities  through  the  on-line-system  of  the  stock  exchange  or  through  the  existing  banking
channel.  In  this  system,  brokers  would  place  ‘buy’  orders  for  shares  in  the  primary  issue  on
behalf  of  their  clients.  The  brokers  would  transfer  the  valid  order  data  to  the  registrars  to  the
issue on a daily basis. On closure of the issue, the basis of allocation would be finalised after
which  brokers  would  intimate  the  fact  of  allocation  and  allocation  money  payable  to  their
client. On receiving the money, the broker would hand over the application forms and monies
to  the  exchange  after  adjusting  for  any  margin  money  previously  collected.  On  completion  of
the above, the company would allot shares to the applicants. The system envisages that allotment
of securities should be made not later than 15 days from the closure of the issue.

19

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

Recommendations of the working group on multiple applications
A  working  group  was  set  up  by  the  SEBI,  under  the  chairmanship  of  Prof.  J.R.  Varma,  full-
time  member,  to  recommend  methods  to  tackle  the  problems  due  to  multiple  applications  and
make recommendations for modifications in market practices and procedures relating to public
issues for improving the transparency and fairness in the capital market. The Group submitted
its report. The SEBI Board considered the report and accepted all its recommendations. Some
of the important recommendations are given in Box 1.3.

Box 1.3: Recommendations of the Working Group on Multiple Applications
 Multiple applications in an issue would be permitted subject to the applicant declaring in all his application
forms  except  the  first  form,  that  he  is  making  multiple  applications  and  identify  all  such  applications.  All
these applications (in single name as well as joint names) would be clubbed and will be considered in the
higher category (>10 market lots) and therefore be subject to smaller proportion of allotment while finalising
the basis of allotment. In case of wrong/false declaration by the applicant to this effect, all his applications
would be compulsorily rejected and the applications monies would be refunded. Actual allocation of shares
to each applicant would be made on a pro-rata basis.

 A  uniform  minimum  standard  procedure  would  be  used  by  all  registrars  to  an  issue  for  the  purpose  of

detection of multiple applications.

 Disclosure  of  the  full  names  in  the  application  forms  should  be  made  compulsory  by  investors  to  facilitate

easy detection of multiple applications.

 All suspicious and fictitious applications should be detected. The allotments on these applications would be
completed in the same manner as that for normal applications but the despatch of share certificates/ credit
to demat account in respect of these ‘fictitious’ applications would be frozen until such time that the identity
and  genuineness  of  the  applicant  is  established.  Only  after  satisfactory  verification  of  the  genuineness  of
the applicant, the shares would be credited/ released to the allottee.

 During  the  period  for  which  the  shares  are  ‘frozen’,  the  investors  would  be  given  an  option  to  sell  the
shares  kept  in  abeyance  if  they  so  desire.  However,  the  proceeds  of  such  sale  would  remain  frozen  and
would  be  released  only  after  the  completion  of  verification  and  identification  of  the  applicants.  In  case  the
applicants are not genuine, the proceeds of the sale of shares would go to the Investor Protection Fund.

 Compliance with the above process is to be ensured by the issuer/ merchant banker/registrars to the issue
irrespective of the level of subscription of the issue. The group recommends that prosecutions under Section
68A of the Companies Act shall also be initiated against the fictitious applicants wherever found appropriate.
 Additionally, the group recommends that as the powers under Section 68A of the Companies Act have now
been delegated to SEBI, the instances of fictitious applications noticed shall be scrutinised and prosecution
proceedings  shall  be  initiated  by  the  SEBI.  This  is  with  a  view  to  prevent  further  occurrence  of  fictitious
applications and also to enforce actions against the fictitious applicants.

 The  present  system  of  allotment  in  market  lots  would  be  done  away  with.  There  would  be  a  simple
proportionate allotment to the applicants in the respective categories. However, to prevent fractional allotments
and allotments of miniscule value, the minimum allotment should be higher of the following :
a) one share or
b) smallest integral number of shares that have a value of Rs. 1000/- calculated on the basis of issue price.
 Application forms for new issues can be made available through alternative sources of supply of applications
such as through internet, newspaper, photocopies in addition to the present system of pre-printed applications
 In  case  of  issues,  where  the  issue  size  is  less  than  Rs.  10  crore,  the  investor  shall  have  the  option  of
receiving  share  certificates  in  dematerialised  or  physical  form,  as  permitted  under  Section  68B  of  the
Companies (Amendment) Act, 2000. If the investor chooses that the share certificate needs to be issued in
form  of  physical  certificates,  he  has  the  option  of  receiving  the  same  in  market  lots  or  as  one  jumbo
certificate.

(contd. on next page)

20

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(contd. from previous page)

 The  requirement  of  pre-numbering  of  applications  forms  issued  through  other  sources  (i.e.  other  than  the
present system of pre-printed application forms) would not be necessary and application numbers would be
assigned by the collecting banker and/ or registrar at the time of acceptance of applications.

 All advertisements in newspapers featuring application forms of issues shall contain the abridged prospectus
in order to enable prospective investors to read the prospectus and the application form before making an
investment  decision.  On  the  website  also  the  application  forms  shall  be  posted  along  with  the  contents  of
the abridged prospectus. Further, it was suggested that the application forms may be downloaded only after
the user has downloaded the abridged offer document and clicked on a button signifying that he has done
so  and  that  he  accepts  the  obligation  not  to  distribute  the  form  without  the  accompanying  abridged  offer
document. The downloaded application form shall also bear a legend that it is illegal to distribute the form
without the abridged offer document.

Listing of debt before equity
SEBI permitted all companies to issue debt securities to the public without listing equity subject
to fulfilling certain conditions, to help infrastructure companies who may raise resources from
the market through debt instruments.

Malegam committee
The Standing Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements under the chairmanship of Shri
Y  H  Malegam  held  a  number  of  meetings  during  the  year  2000-01.  The  committee  reviewed
the present disclosure requirements for public and rights issues and suggested modifications to
them. The suggestions of the Committee were considered by the SEBI. Some of the suggestions
were implemented and the remaining are under implementation. Further, the Committee discussed
certain  issues  such  as  disallowing  issues  by  companies  involving  persons  having  questionable
track record, listing of risk factors in order of their criticality, branding of issues etc. Deliberations
are under progress.

ii. Secondary Securities Market

Corporate governance
Strong corporate governance is indispensable to resilient and vibrant capital markets and is an
important instrument of investor protection. The development of capital market is dependent on
good  corporate  governance  without  which  investors  do  not  repose  the  confidence  in  the
companies. The committee on corporate governance set up by the SEBI under the chairmanship
of  Shri  Kumar  Mangalam  Birla,  member  SEBI  Board  with  the  objective  of  strengthening  and
promoting  the  standard  of  corporate  governance  of  listed  companies,  had  made  several
recommendations.

This  is  the  first  formal  code  of  corporate  governance  in  the  country  implemented  through  the
listing  agreement  entered  into  by  the  companies  with  the  stock  exchanges.  It  is  expected  that
the  introduction  of  these  measures  will  raise  the  awareness  and  make  a  good  beginning  for
raising the standard of functioning of corporates. The SEBI board accepted the recommendations
of the committee.

21

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

The recommendations of Kumar Mangalam Birla Committee for listed companies are mandatory
and non-mandatory. The mandatory recommendations have been enforced on the listed companies
for  initial  and  continuing  disclosures  in  a  phased  manner  within  specified  dates,  through  the
listing agreement. The non-mandatory recommendations would be implemented by the companies
voluntarily.  However,  these  companies  are  required  to  disclose  the  compliance  with  non-
mandatory requirement. The SEBI has also written letters to RBI and other relevant authorities
to  consider  the  recommendations  of  the  committee  while  issuing  guidelines  to  entities  under
their jurisdiction. The SEBI has also written letters to financial institutions, chambers of commerce
and  other  entities  to  observe  the  recommendations  contained  in  the  report  that  would  help  in
raising the standards of corporate governance.

With  a  view  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  corporate  governance  in  the  listing
agreement of the stock exchanges, the SEBI issued guidelines to stock exchanges that they will
be required to set up separate monitoring cells with identified personnel. The companies, which
are scheduled in the first phase, will be required to submit a quarterly compliance report to the
stock exchanges.

The SEBI has also stipulated that all the IPOs seeking listing for the first time will be required
to  comply  with  corporate  governance  provisions  at  the  time  of  listing,  except  in  cases  where
there are genuine legal issues. The stock exchanges must ensure that these have been complied
with before granting listing. For this purpose, it will be enough if these companies have set up
the  Boards  and  constituted  the  committees  such  as  audit  committee,  shareholder  grievance
committee etc., before seeking listing. In addition, the lead merchant bankers will also be required
to incorporate the compliance as a part of the ‘Due Diligence Certificate’ submitted to SEBI. In
case of companies failing to comply with this requirement, the application money will be kept
in an escrow account till compliance.

Stringent financial disclosures
SEBI  has  introduced  stringent  financial  disclosure  norms  for  the  listed  entities.  Some  of  the
disclosure norms are as follows:

 With  a  view  to  make  the  unaudited  financial  quarterly  results  of  the  companies  more
transparent  and  meaningful,  certain  additional  disclosure  norms  have  been  prescribed  and
also  half  yearly  results  have  been  subjected  to  a  ‘Limited  Review’  by  the  Auditors  with
effect from half year ending March 31, 2000.

 The Cash Flow Statement as per the Listing Agreement required to be mandatorily prepared

in accordance with the relevant Accounting Standard.

 Disclosures on materially significant related party transactions i.e. transactions of the company
of material nature, with its promoters, the directors or the management, their subsidiaries or
relatives etc. that may have potential conflict with the interests of company at large.

 Details of non-compliance of penalties, strictures imposed on the company by Stock Exchange
or SEBI or any statutory authority, on any matter related to capital markets, during the last
three years.

22

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

Accounting standards committee
The  Accounting  Standards  Committee,  was  set  up  by  the  SEBI  as  Standing  Committee  under
the  Chairmanship  of  Shri  Y  H  Malegam,  to  inter-alia  review  the  continuous  disclosures
requirements under the listing agreement for the listed companies and provide inputs to Institute
of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  (ICAI)  for  evolving  new  accounting  standards  and  review
the  existing  ones,  wherever  required  in  order  to  make  disclosure  standards  and  accounting
practices at par with the international practices.

Major recommendations of the Committee that have been implemented by the SEBI are given
below:

 Based  on  the  recommendation  of  the  Secondary  Market  Advisory  Committee  regarding
corporate  announcements  under  Clause  20  and  22  of  the  Listing  Agreement,  it  has  been
prescribed that

 the  company  shall  immediately  disclose  all  material  information  simultaneously  to  all

the Stock Exchanges where the securities of the company are listed.

 in respect of the any material events arising out of decisions taken in the Board Meetings
including  the  announcements  of  results,  dividends,  bonus,  rights  etc,  the  information
shall be furnished to the stock exchanges within 15 minutes of the closure of the Board
Meetings.

 the Regional Stock Exchange of the listed company shall disseminate the information to

all other stock exchanges where the securities of the company are listed or traded.



In order to improve the reliability of the information provided to the investors, it has been
prescribed that companies shall have an option to publish audited half yearly financial results
within two months instead of publishing unaudited results within one month followed by a
Limited Review within two months.

 Considering  the  recommendation  of  Reserve  Bank  of  India  (RBI),  a  separate  format  for
reporting  of  quarterly/half  yearly  results  and  review  reports  for  the  listed  banks  has  been
prescribed.

 With  a  view  to  provide  information  to  the  investors  regarding  usage  of  the  funds,  it  has
been  prescribed  that  the  companies  which  are  yet  to  commence  commercial  production,
shall  make  additional  disclosures  as  prescribed  under  schedule  VI  of  the  Companies  Act,
for the balance of unutilized monies raised by issue and the form in which such unutilized
funds have been invested, on quarterly basis.

 The  Committee  has  recommended  that  in  order  to  significantly  increase  the  disclosures  of
financial information by the companies, ICAI may issue Accounting Standards on Segmental
Reporting, Related Party Transactions, Consolidation of Accounts, Deferred Taxes and Earning
Per Share. ICAI has issued Accounting Standards on the above subject.

23

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

Sub-Committee on dot com companies
In  the  light  of  concern  for  investor  protection  in  the  era  of  new  economy  highlighted  by  the
SEBI  at  the  IOSCO’s  Annual  Conference,  the  Accounting  Standards  Committee  constituted  a
Sub-Committee to:







examine and recommend additional disclosure requirements to be made in offer documents
of dot-com companies with the objective of providing sufficient information, both financial
and non-financial, to potential investors to enable them to understand the business model of
the dot-com companies and determine their fair value.
examine  and  recommend  initial  and  continuous  disclosure  requirements  for  dot-com
companies including disclosures in their financial statements.
prescribe accounting and financial reporting guidance to be adopted by dot-com companies
and  to  identify  and  define  critical  items  emerging  due  to  the  unique  nature  of  business  of
dot-com  companies  (such  as  the  definition  of  revenue,  principles  of  revenue  recognition,
treatment  of  expenses  as  pre-paid  or  intangible  assets  as  opposed  to  their  recognition  as
period costs, etc).

Meeting of the Secondary Market Advisory Committee
The  Secondary  Markets  Advisory  Committee  (SMAC)  met  on  November  28,  2000  which
discussed  the  state  of  the  capital  market  and  suggested  measures  for  the  improvement  in  the
functioning of the stock exchanges. Shri S. S. Tarapore, former Dy. Governor, Reserve Bank of
India was the Chairman of the Committee. The major recommendations of the Committee were
on abolition of no-delivery period, reduction in period between two book closures, use of digital
signature on contract notes, uniform client code, disclosure of material event, minimum floating
stock  requirement  for  continuous  listing,  relationship  between  broker  and  sub  broker,  know
your  client,  model  code  for  registrars  and  IPOs  through  Secondary  Market  Route.  These
recommendations have already been implemented.

Other measures to strengthen Securities Market
SEBI  convened  a  meeting  of  the  all  the  stock  exchanges  on  January  17,  2001  and  took  the
following decisions:

Distribution of share holding
To bring about greater transparency in respect of disclosure of shareholding pattern of companies,
the listed companies will be required to disclose the shareholding pattern on a quarterly basis
within 15 days of end of the quarter in a format to be specified by the SEBI.  This  disclosure
will also include, disclosure in respect of all entities in the promoter group - individual or body
corporates.  Besides,  names  of  all  persons  who  have  one  percent  shareholding  will  also  be
disclosed. The foreign holdings and GDR and ADR holdings will be disclosed separately.

Conditions for continuous listing
Currently there is no regulatory requirement to maintain a minimum floating stock post listing
on a continuous basis. The SEBI issued the following policy provisions for continuous listing

24

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

as  a  measure  of  investor  protection  as  it  would  ensure  availability  of  floating  stock  on  a
continuous basis. Henceforth there will be a requirement for all listed companies to maintain a
minimum level of non-promoter holding on a continuous basis as a condition for listing.

 All  new  companies  shall  be  required  to  maintain  on  a  continuous  basis  the  non-promoter
holding at the same level as applicable at the point of entry (i.e. 10 per cent or 25 per cent).
For existing listed companies, where the non promoter holdings is less than the applicable
limit at the point of entry, the companies will be given time upto one year to raise the level
of  non-promoter  holding  to  at  least  10  per  cent.  In  case  they  fail  to  do  so,  they  will  be
required  to  buy  out  the  public  shareholding  in  a  manner  similar  to  that  provided  in  the
SEBI (Substantial Acquisitions and Takeovers) Regulations.

 No preferential allotment/ buy back of listed companies would be permitted if as non promoter
holding falls below the ceilings permitted under the SEBI (DIP) guidelines applicable at the
point of entry.

 None of the above conditions will apply to BIFR companies.

 The stock exchanges will monitor the level of non- promoter holding on a half-yearly basis
from  the  returns  to  be  submitted  by  companies  in  specified  formats.  The  non-promoter
holding will also be disclosed half yearly as part of half-yearly disclosures by the companies.

Rolling settlement
The SEBI has been committed for introduction of rolling settlement on Indian bourses. Rolling
Settlement avoids the trade processing congestion, improves operational efficiency and reduces
risk  in  the  system.  The  rolling  settlement  was  introduced  on  experimental  basis  for  10  scrips
and thereafter more scrips were added to it taking to a total of 163 scrips under rolling settlement
in  the  non-specified  group.  Following  the  announcement  made  by  the  government  in  the
parliament,  the  scope  of  rolling  settlement  was  expanded.  All  scrips  included  in  the  ALBM  /
BLESS or MCFS which were required to be traded only in the compulsory rolling settlement
on a nation wide basis from July 2, 2001. This measure was taken pursuant to the announcement
made  by  the  government  in  the  parliament.  In  addition  if  there  was  any  scrip  included  in  the
BSE 200 list but not covered by the above list will also be included in the compulsory rolling
settlement. With that expansion on March 20, 2001 that rolling settlement covered an additional
number  of  251  scrips  to  be  traded  compulsorily  in  rolling  settlement  from  July  2,  2001  thus
bringing  the  total  number  of  scrips  on  rolling  settlement  to  414  by  that  date.  The  facility  of
deferral products namely ALBM /BLESS or MCFS also ceased to be available from that date
for  all  scrips  except  as  a  transitional  measure  only  for  the  purpose  of  liquidating  outstanding
positions by September 3, 2001.

Introduction of automated lending and borrowing mechanism
The  SEBI  constituted  a  working  Group  under  the  chairmanship  of  Prof.  J  R  Varma,  Member,
SEBI Board to discuss various issues related to Automated Lending and Borrowing Mechanism

25

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(ALBM).  The  Risk  Management  Group  constituted  by  the  SEBI  also  discussed  these  issues.
Based on their recommendations of these Groups, following decisions were taken :



It was decided that ALBM would be permitted as a generic product. The basic purpose of
ALBM would be to facilitate lending and borrowing of securities as envisaged by the Stock
Lending Scheme 1997 (SLS). The ALBM however may also serve the purpose of deferral
of settlement by netting off obligations in ALBM with obligations in the normal settlement.
This  would  result  in  carrying  forward  of  the  positions  in  the  normal  settlement  as  in  the
case of Modified Carry Forward System.

 An Exchange would be eligible to introduce the ALBM if it satisfies the following conditions:

i. The  exchange  must  demonstrate  that  it  has  a  well-designed  software  for  margin
computation and well established governance structures and administrative infrastructure
for  monitoring  and  enforcing  the  margining  system.  If  necessary,  an  inspection  of  the
exchange  would  be  carried  out  by  SEBI  to  satisfy  itself  about  the  adequacy  of  its
margining system.

ii. The  exchange  or  its  clearing  corporation  must  be  an  approved  intermediary  under  the

stock lending scheme.

 Exchanges desirous of implementing ALBM will obtain SEBI approval for :

i. The eligibility criteria for scrips to be included in the ALBM list

ii. The process of choosing the scrips in the ALBM list

iii. Disclosure and transparency provisions relating to the above

Position Limits

There will be a position limit per broker of Rs.40 crores in the aggregate and Rs 5 crores per
scrip. These limits will be determined on the basis of gross position for the broker. These limits
would  apply  only  to  trade  positions  that  are  netted  against  ALBM  positions,  and  would  not
apply  to  stand-alone  ALBM  positions.  However,  the  positions  of  pure  securities  borrowers,
who would be withdrawing the shares would be included in the above mentioned overall position
limit of Rs.40 crores in aggregate and Rs.5 crores per scrip.

Short Sale Transactions

A  short  seller  receives  charges  in  the  ALBM  when  the  lending  price  is  below  the  clearing
price.  Such  charges  shall  be  released  to  the  short  seller  only  if  either  the  seller  actually  owns
the shares (and is using ALBM only for operational convenience or other reasons) or the seller
actually  has  funds  by  which  he  could  have  taken  delivery  of  the  borrowed  shares  even  if  the
ALBM transactions and trade transactions were not netted off. In other cases, the excess of the
clearing price over the lending price would be credited to the Investor Protection Fund of the
Exchange and shall not be released to the short sellers.

26

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

Margins
Margining on Gross Basis : ALBM transactions, which are netted against trade positions, would
be subjected to margining on the basis of gross positions i.e. positions grossed across clients.

ALBM Margin : The margin on all trade positions that are proposed to be netted against ALBM
transactions shall not be less than 10 per cent. Further, in cases where the position so netted by
a member exceeds Rs 20 crores, the excess over Rs 20 crores shall attract a margin which shall
be at least 15 per cent (5 per cent above the 10 per cent limit).

The  minimum  ALBM  margins  would  start  applying  only  at  the  end  of  the  ALBM  session,  as
because  of  the  very  nature  of  the  product  it  would  be  difficult  to  achieve  the  segregation  of
twin track in the case of ALBM as in the case of carry forward system.

Incremental ALBM Margin : In case the gross position in ALBM in any exchange, in any scrip,
exceeds  the  parameters  mentioned  below,  the  additional  margin  shall  be  levied,  in  addition  to
the ALBM margin, at a rate which is higher of the rates determined as per the tables below :

Gross Outstanding
Market Position
(Rs. in crores)

Rate of Margin

Deferred Gross Positions in
ALBM (in number of shares

 as % of total number of shares

Rate of
Margin

Exceeding 75 and up to 100

Exceeding 100 and up to 150

Exceeding 150 and up to 200

Exceeding 200 and up to 300

Exceeding 300 and up to 400

Exceeding 400

5%

8%

12%

17%

23%

30%

paid up)

Exceeding 3%
going upto 4%
Exceeding 4%
going upto 5%
Exceeding 5%
going upto 6%
Exceeding 6%
going upto 7%
Exceeding 7%
going upto 8%
Exceeding 8%

5%

8%

12%

17%

23%

30%

The positions shown above exclude the positions pertaining to the pure securities borrowers to
the extent that the collateral securities are kept with the clearing house/corporation. Once this
margin  is  imposed  by  any  exchange  having  ALBM  or  MCFS  facility,  the  other  exchanges
having ALBM or MCFS will also follow the same from the start of next settlement.

Collection of Margins  : These margins would be paid 100 per cent in cash or fixed deposits or
government  securities,  or  a  combination  of  three.  Mark  to  market  margin  shall  be  collected
separately  from  daily/exposure  margin,  as  the  purpose  of  the  two  margins  is  different.  Risk
management of pure securities borrowers’ obligations to return securities. Pure securities borrower
means a borrower of securities who does not have an offsetting long trade position.

27

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

Pure  securities  borrowers  will  have  the  option  of  depositing  the  collateral  with  the  clearing
corporation. A pure securities borrower who does so would not be subjected to any margin.

However, if at the end of the settlement, the pure securities borrower wishes to initiate a fresh
transaction  to  continue  the  pure  borrowing  of  securities  for  one  more  week,  mark  to  market
margin would be imposed at that stage. The pure securities borrower who opt for withdrawing
the  shares  from  the  clearing  house/clearing  corporation  shall  be  subject  to  margins  such  as
mark to market margin, exposure margin etc. in addition to ALBM margins. The stock exchanges
would  be  allowed  to  introduce  ALBM  after  satisfying  the  conditions  and  modalities  detailed
above and after seeking formal approval from SEBI in this regard.

Carry forward, automated lending and borrowing and continuous net
settlement in the rolling settlement
The SEBI in its meeting held on June 14, 2000 had considered and approved the proposals for
the carry forward and the continuous net settlement system in the rolling settlement. Later on, a
meeting  of  the  stock  exchanges  having  facilities  of  carry  forward  and  automated  lending  and
borrowing was held on August 23, 2000 to discuss the preparedness of the stock exchanges for
the  introduction  of  carry  forward,  ALBM  and  the  continuous  net  settlement  in  the  rolling
settlement, the features of which are given below:

Carry forward under rolling settlement (CFRS)
It was decided that there would be carry forward session at the end of each trading day and, the
investor  would  have  a  choice  of  carrying  forward  a  position  for  1,  2,  3,  4  or  5  trading  days.
There would be separate screens where bids and offers could be posted for each of these five
variants. During the term of a carry forward for greater than 1 day the investor may square off
the  carry  forward  position.  In  such  a  case,  the  investor  would  first  have  to  square-off  the
position  in  the  market  by  carrying  out  appropriate  buy/sell  transaction  and  then  do  a  contra
carry forward for the remaining period of the carry forward. e.g. an investor who carries forward
for one week (5 trading days) today, would be able to square off tomorrow by taking an offsetting
position tomorrow and carrying it forward in the four day carry forward market.

Automated lending and borrowing under rolling settlement (ALBRS)
The ALBM session would be held everyday and would involve lending and borrowing for 1, 2,
3, 4 or 5 working days. The separate screens will provide the facility for lending/borrowing for
these five variants. Thus, for the ALBM session held on day T the first leg will be settled on
T+5 day. For a one-day tenure lending, the reverse leg will be created on T+1 day and will be
settled on T+6 day. Similarly, in case of a 2 day tenure lending, the reverse leg will be created
on T+2 day and will be settled on T+7 day and so on.

Continuos net settlement (CNS)
Internationally,  the  CNS  has  been  effectively  employed  by  the  clearing  corporations  for  the
settlement  of  transactions  and  for  maintaining  an  orderly  flow  of  money  and  securities.  The

28

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

CNS is carried out by the Clearing Corporation / Clearing House as a post settlement processing
whereby,  the  seller  who  has  failed  to  deliver  securities  can  postpone  the  settlement  of  his
obligations to the subsequent settlement. This is primarily a tool for imparting flexibility to the
seller.

The key features of the CNS are as under :

 The CNS would be available only in the Compulsory Rolling Settlement segment.

 CNS is essentially post settlement processing.

 The CNS is delivery initiated.



In the CNS process, the short deliveries of the seller are marked to the closing price of the
day and the corresponding amount is debited to the delivering member.

 The settlement of the CNS positions is postponed to subsequent settlement.

 Since  the  CNS  is  a  post  settlement  activity,  the  receiving  member  has  to  necessarily  fulfil
his funds pay-in obligation. The receiving member however would be subsequently credited
for the value of the deliveries to the extent that he has received short.

 The  receiving  member  has  the  option  of  insisting  on  delivery.  The  members  can  indicate
the  preference  for  compulsory  receipt  of  delivery  in  which  case  it  will  be  given  higher
priority  for  delivery  receipt.  In  the  event  of  failure  to  deliver  shares  to  such  receiving
members,  these  positions  would  be  removed  from  the  CNS  and  subjected  to  compulsory
delivery. Compulsory buy-in or close-out would be effected in the event of failure to deliver.

Eligibility of stock exchanges
The exchanges which have already implemented the MCFS or Automated Lending and Borrowing
Mechanism (ALBM) as prescribed by SEBI in account period settlement would be eligible to
implement CFRS and ALBRS respectively. The other exchanges would seek the prior permission
of SEBI for introduction of CFRS or ALBRS. The exchanges would have to seek prior permission
of  SEBI  for  the  introduction  of  CNS.  For  obtaining  such  permissions  the  exchange  must
demonstrate  that  it  has  a  well  designed  software,  well  established  governance  structure  and
administrative infrastructure for monitoring and enforcing the margining system and surveillance
capability.  If  necessary,  an  inspection  of  the  exchange  would  be  carried  out  by  the  SEBI  to
satisfy itself.

Eligibility of scrips
The criteria for scrips eligible for these products would be issued separately.

Risk containment measures
Risk  containment  measures  for  these  products  would  also  be  issued  separately.  Subsequently,
while expanding the list of rolling settlement to 414 scrips, and removing the availability of all
deferral products from July 2, 2001, it was decided to defer the introduction of CNS.

29

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

Setting up of trade/settlement guarantee fund by stock exchanges
In  June  1997,  the  SEBI  issued  guidelines  for  setting  up  Settlement  Guarantee  Fund(SGF)  by
the stock exchanges, and prescribed that in the event of a failure of member/s to honour their
settlement commitment, the SGF will fulfill the commitment only after declaring the member/s
as  defaulter/s  and  such  member/s  would  not  be  eligible  to  continue  to  trade,  and  default
proceedings as per the bye-laws of the exchange would have to be initiated against him.

The  stock  exchanges  were  allowed  to  utilise  the  SGF  maintained  by  them  for  meeting  the
shortages arising out of non-fulfillment/partial fulfillment of the funds obligations by the members
in a settlement before declaring the concerned member defaulter in the same manner as in the
case  of  NSCCL.  Towards  this  end,  the  bye-laws  would  be  suitably  amended  and  norms  for
utilisation of SGF would have to be prescribed. The bye-laws were amended on the following
lines.

“In the event a member fails to meet obligations to the clearing house of the exchange arising
out  of  clearing  and  settlement  operations  of  such  deals  as  provided  in  the  Bye-laws  and
Regulations, the relevant authority may utilise the settlement guarantee fund and other monies
to the extent necessary to fulfill the obligation under such terms and conditions as the relevant
authority may specify from time to time.”

The following norms for utilisation of full SGF were also laid down :

 The settlement guarantee fund maintained by the exchange, may be utilised for meeting the
shortages  arising  out  of  non-fulfillment/partial  fulfillment  of  the  funds  obligations  by  the
members  in  a  settlement  before  declaring  the  concerned  member  defaulter  subject  to  the
following:



In cases where amount shortages are in excess of the base minimum capital (BMC) prescribed,
the trading facility of the member is withdrawn and the securities pay-out due to the member
is withheld. In cases where the amount of shortages exceed 20 per cent of the BMC and is
less than the BMC on six occasions within a period of three months, the trading facility of
the  member  is  withdrawn  and  the  securities  pay-out  due  to  the  member  is  withheld.  On
recovery of the complete shortages, the member is permitted to trade with a reduced gross
exposure as indicated in the table below:

Cumulative Funds Shortage

20% of BMC – 50% of BMC

50% of BMC – 100% of BMC

Exposure limit allowed

(%of current exposure limit)

80%

60%

 This  reduced  gross  exposure  level  is  maintained  for  a  period  of  four  settlements.  If  the
cumulative funds shortage for the next 4 settlements is less than 20 per cent of BMC, the
exposure limits shall be restored. The exposure limit may be restored if a member provides
a cash deposit equivalent to his cumulative funds shortages as the ‘funds shortage collateral’
in  his  clearing  account.  Such  deposit  will  be  kept  with  the  exchange  for  a  period  of  4

30

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

settlements  and  will  be  released  only  if  no  further  funds  shortages  are  reported  for  the
member in next 4 consecutive settlements. There is neither exposure benefit nor any interest
payment on this amount so deposited as ‘funds shortage collateral’. Members may deposit
the ‘funds shortage collateral’ by way of cash, FDR or Bank Guarantee.

 The outstanding amount would carry a penal interest of not less than 0.09 per cent per day.

According to information available with SEBI, 11 settlement guarantee funds were in operation
as on 31.3.2001. Details of funds in operation are provided in Table 1.4.

Table 1.4 : Stock exchange-wise SGF Details

S.No. Name of Stock Exchange

SGF Schemes Operational as on 31.3.2001

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

Bombay
Ludhiana
Bangalore
Calcutta
Delhi
Vadodara
Madras
OTCEI
ICSEIL
Ahmedabad
Hyderabad

Source : NSE Clearing Corporation.

May 12, 1997
February 27, 1998
January 23, 1998
March 10, 1998
April 03, 1998
August 04, 1998
August 21, 1998
October 09, 1998
January 06, 1999
February 02, 1999
July 09, 1999

Scrip-wise price bands
To contain abnormal price variations, SEBI had earlier introduced the system of scrip specific
daily price bands. The system of price bands was fine-tuned and further variation of 8 per cent
was allowed in the scrip price beyond the existing limit of 8 per cent after a cooling-off period
of 30 minutes. This measure has provided additional exit route to investors. This modification
was made applicable in the top 200 scrips, identified jointly by BSE and NSE.

Code of ethics for directors and functionaries of exchanges
The ‘Code of Ethics’ for directors and functionaries of the stock exchanges, aimed at improving
the  professional  and  ethical  standards  in  the  functioning  of  exchanges  thereby  creating  better
investor confidence in the integrity of the market, was approved by the SEBI Board.

The  code  of  ethics  is  based  on  the  fundamental  principles  of  fairness  and  transparency  in
functioning of exchange, avoidance of conflict of interest in decision making, and compliance
with  all  laws/  rules/  regulations  laid  down  by  regulatory  agencies/  exchanges  and  exercising
due diligence in the performance of duties. The code of ethics requires stock exchanges to form

31

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

an ethics committee to oversee implementation of the code and provides, among other things,
for the following:
a) Disclosure  of  dealings  in  securities  by  functionaries  and  directors  of  the  exchange  -
transactions by functionaries of the exchange should be of an investment nature and should
be held for a minimum period of 60 days.

b) Prohibition  on  dealings  in  securities  in  proprietary  account  by  elected  office  bearers  -
president, vice president and treasurer of an exchange shall refrain from proprietary trades
in securities.

c) Disclosures of beneficial interest of functionaries and directors of the exchange
d) The president and directors shall not interfere in the day to day functioning of the exchange
and shall limit their role to decision making on policy issues and to issues as the Governing
Board may decide.

e) There should be prescribed channels through which information shall move and there should

be audit trail of the same.

Trading in unlisted securities
The  OTCEI  was  permitted  to  develop  a  trading  window  for  unlisted  securities  where  QIBs
including venture capital funds/foreign venture capital investors would be permitted to participate.

Depositories and paperless trading and other related issues
Dematerialisation of securities is one of the major steps for improving and modernising market
and enhancing the level of investor protection through elimination of bad deliveries, forgery of
shares  and  expediting  the  transfer  of  shares.  Recognizing  the  far  reaching  benefits  that  would
accrue  to  the  market  through  the  removal  of  physical  securities,  the  speeding  up  of
dematerialisation  process  has  been  high  on  the  agenda  of  the  SEBI.  During  the  year  2000-01
also,  the  SEBI  continued  its  policy  to  enhance  the  growth  of  paperless  trading  and  electronic
book  entry  transfer  but  in  a  phased  manner  so  as  to  allow  time  for  required  infrastructure  to
develop and to gain acceptance of the investors and the market. The SEBI constantly reviewed
the  safeguards  in  the  system  and  took  steps  to  enhance  safety  of  the  system  so  as  to  better
protect  the  interest  of  investors  and  to  streamline  the  procedures.  These  measures  were  taken
by the SEBI in consultation with the depositories, stock exchanges and the users of the system
after obtaining feedback of the investors. The following measures have been taken by the SEBI
during the year under review:

 The  SEBI  issued  directive  to  the  companies  included  in  the  list  of  securities  for
dematerialisation to effect compulsory dematerialised trading for all investors on the scheduled
dates  announced  and  to  sign  agreements  and  complete  all  formalities  with  both  the
depositories  and  establish  connectivity  on  time  so  that  dematerialisation  could  proceed  on
schedule.

 Further to address the problem of delay in dematerialisation of shares just before the scheduled
date  for  compulsory  dematerialised  trading  for  all  investors,  it  was  decided  that  the  date

32

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

already  announced  by  the  SEBI  shall  henceforth  be  treated  as  the  date  for  establishing
connectivity  with  the  depositories,  and  compulsory  trading  in  dematerialised  form  for  all
investors shall commence three months hence.

 Companies which fail to sign the agreement and establish connectivity with the depositories
within the stipulated time, the shares of such companies shall be traded only on “trade for
trade settlement” window of the exchanges from that date.

 Companies  whose  shares  are  being  traded  compulsorily  in  dematerialised  form  by  all
investors,  are  required  to  compulsorily  provide  for  simultaneously  transfer  and
dematerialisation of securities. The time given to the investor to submit the authority letter
to  the  participant  for  dematerialisation  was  increased  from  fifteen  days  to  one  month,  to
take care of the postal delay.

 The SEBI had meetings at periodical intervals, with companies whose names figure in the
list  of  top  25  companies  unduly  delaying  dematerialisation  of  shares  forwarded  by  the
depositories. These companies have been advised to reduce the balances of pending demat
requests within a week and report compliance to the depositories.

 The SEBI also allowed the stock exchanges themselves to announce up to 150 scrips other
than the scrips announced by the SEBI, for compulsory dematerialized trading by all investors.
This  would  help  the  exchanges  to  identify  and  announce  the  list  of  scrips  not  included  in
the SEBI list to be traded compulsorily in dematerialised form by all investors.

 A  Standing  Committee  co-chaired  by  the  Managing  Directors  of  NSDL  and  CDSL  was
formed  to  meet  at  least  once  a  month  to  resolve  issues  between  DPs,  registrars  and
depositories  which  may  arise  from  time  to  time.  The  other  members  of  the  committee  are
SHCIL,  HDFC  Bank,  Standard  Chartered  Bank,  Integrated  Enterprises  (I)  Ltd.,  Karvy
Consultants, ICICI Ltd. and representative from RAIN.

 CDSL  and  NSDL  were  required  to  persuade  major  DPs  to  open  branches  in  cities  where

DP services are not available.

 The  ‘No  Delivery  Period’  on  account  of  book  closure/record  dates  for  corporate  actions
such as issue of dividend and bonus shares in respect of the scrips, which are traded in the
compulsory, dematerialised mode was also abolished. The present system of ‘No  Delivery
Period’ on account of book closure/record date for the rights issues, will continue.

 Inspection of depository participants of NSDL and CDSL was carried out during the year.
In  the  light  of  the  findings  of  inspection,  the  importance  of  exercising  utmost  care  and
caution  in  the  opening  of  beneficiary  owner’s  accounts  and  diligently  following  the
instructions laid down for the purpose in the SEBI circulars was stressed upon the depository
participants. These are critical steps for the safety, integrity and efficient functioning of the
depository system.

 The SEBI also advised both the depositories to put safeguards in place to protect the interest
of the investors against any possible misuse of the pool account balances. To further address
the issue of pool account, stock exchanges were advised to introduce the settlement system

33

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

for direct delivery of securities to the investors’ beneficiary account and it was stressed that
any  balance  in  the  clearing  member  pool  account  shall  be  transferred  to  the  beneficiary
accounts  of  clients  within  4  calendar  days  or  2  working  days,  whichever  is  later,  beyond
which such balances shall attract penalties.

 All new shares issued by an existing company were made should be initiated in all respects
and  the  existing  ISIN  were  allotted.  Existence  of  multiple  ISINs  of  a  company  created
confusion  in  the  depository  system  and  led  to  frequent  instances  of  instructions  failure  on
account of wrong ISIN. This problem was eliminated due to the above decision.

 The exit route to small investors to sell 500 shares in physical form to continue in respect
of  shares  included  in  the  list  of  compulsory  rolling  settlement  and  dematerialised  trading
was continued.

The committee on dematerialisation of shares was also seized of the following issues below :

 Standardization of various procedures related to trading in depository system:

 Safety features and standards for depository operations:

 Expansion of depository infrastructure and making the branch offices with ‘live” connectivity:

 Systemic tracking of delays at the hands of the depository participants, share transfer/issuer

companies and depositories:

 Adequacy/capability of the depository system and systemic changes necessary to cope with

the workload present as well as future:

 One stage processing for transfer and dematerialisation:

 Reduction in the size of batch processing from the present level of 1000 requests per batch:

 Good/bad delivery norms to be made mandatory on the registrars:

Beneficiary accounts with depository participants
In  order  that  the  depository  participants  exercise  utmost  care  and  caution  in  the  opening  of
beneficiary owner’s accounts and diligently follow the instructions laid down for the purpose in
various SEBI circulars, guidelines were issued requiring the depository participants to verify all
documents with the original and the photographs and signature duly authenticated, before accounts
are opened. These critical steps are necessary for the safety, integrity and efficient functioning
of  the  depository  system.  It  was  also  pointed  out  that  any  failure  in  this  regard  would  invite
appropriate regulatory action.

The depository participants were advised that:
 A beneficiary account must be opened only after obtaining a proof of identity of the applicant.
The applicant’s signature and photograph must be authenticated by an existing account holder

34

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

or by the applicant’s bank or after due verification made with the original of the applicant’s
valid passport, voter ID, driving license or PAN card with photograph.

 The account opening form should be supported with proof of address such as verified copies
of ration card/ passport/ voter ID/ PAN card/ driving license/ bank passbook. An authorized
official of the depository participant, under his signature shall verify the original documents.

All  the  depository  participants  were  directed  to  immediately  verify  the  accounts  of  all  the
beneficiary owners who had opened accounts with them and confirm in writing to the depository,
within 30 days of the receipt of the instruction of SEBI, that they have fully complied with the
above procedure in all the cases.

In case any account holder failed to produce the original documents for verification within the
above period of 30 days, it was to be brought to immediate notice of the concerned depository.
Failure to produce the original documents within the prescribed time would invite appropriate
action against such account holders, which could even include freezing of their account.

System for direct delivery of securities to the investors
In  order  ensure  that  securities  are  moved  quickly  to  beneficiary  accounts  of  investor  and  to
prevent any possible misuse of pool accounts, it was decided that with effect from February 12,
2001:
 Clearing member shall be required to transfer the securities from their respective CM Pool
account  to  the  respective  beneficiary  account  of  their  clients  within  6  calendar  days  after
the pay-out day, instead of the existing time limit of 15 days.

 Any  balance  lying  in  the  pool  account  beyond  the  above  period  would  not  be  eligible  for
delivery in the subsequent settlement(s) and would also not be eligible for pledging or stock
lending purpose.



 The balances lying in the pool account beyond the above period would also attract a penalty
at  the  rate  of  6  basis  point  per  week  on  the  value  of  securities  lying  in  the  CM  pool
account.  The  penalty  so  collected  shall  be  earmarked  by  the  depository  for  defraying  the
expenses in connection with investors’ education and awareness.
Initially, the securities, which are lying in these accounts beyond the specified period, shall
be  identified  on  First-in  First-out  (FIFO)  basis.  However,  it  was  decided  that  with  effect
from  March  5,  2001,  securities  shall  be  identified  based  on  the  settlement  number  basis.
The  clearing  corporations/houses  were  directed  to  provide  the  settlement-wise  details  of
securities to the depositories and the depositories shall maintain the settlement-wise records
for the purpose.

It was decided that this system will be introduced by stock exchanges with effect from April 2,
2001, which means that securities in the pay-out shall not be credited to Clearing Member Pool
account except in exceptional circumstances. It was also decided that with effect from April 2,
2001,  the  time  limit  of  6  calendar  days  after  the  pay-out  day  shall  be  reduced  to  4  calendar
days  or  2  working  days,  whichever  is  later.  The  penal  provisions  mentioned  at  point  no.1
above, was made applicable on the balances lying in the pool account after this period.

35

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

Derivatives trading

Derivatives are used as “Risk Management” products. Their availability in the Indian Securities
Market would provide the participants with broad-based risk management tools.

The SEBI granted final approval to the derivative segment of the BSE and the NSE and their
clearing houses / corporations for commencement of trading and settlement in SEBI approved
derivative contracts on May 25, 2000. Trading in derivatives started with index futures contracts.
The  SEBI  granted  approval  for  trading  in  futures  contracts  based  on  BSE-30  (Sensex)  index
and on S&P CNX Nifty index. The trading and settlement in derivatives contracts would be in
accordance with the rules, bye-laws and regulations of the respective exchanges and their clearing
house / corporation duly approved by the SEBI and notified in the Official Gazette.

The BSE and NSE began trading in index futures contracts on June 9, 2000 and June 12, 2000
respectively. The NSE futures contract has S&P CNX Nifty as underlying index, whereas BSE
started trading futures contract on BSE Sensex. The SEBI also laid down the risk containment
measures  for  options  on  indices  in  December  2000.  The  SEBI  proposed  to  lay  down  the  risk
containment measures for individual stock option contracts as recommended by Dr. L. C. Gupta
Committee (introduction of derivative contracts in sequence such as index futures, index options
and stock options).

Though  the  volumes  in  the  derivatives  market  have  been  modest,  each  successive  month  has
attracted higher volumes. Volumes in the derivatives market would grow with increased awareness
amongst the participants and with introduction of multiple product range.

Technical group to identify new derivative products

The  technical  group  set  up  by  the  SEBI  to  identify  new  derivative  products,  which  could  be
introduced  in  the  market,  headed  by  Prof.  J.R  Varma,  full-time  member,  SEBI  Board  while
taking  the  notice  of  the  trading  volumes  in  the  index  futures  contracts  recommended  that  the
preparatory  work  for  the  introduction  of  other  derivative  products  that  would  include  options
on indices, covered warrants and options on individual stocks. With introduction of stock options,
Indian derivatives market would turn into a multi-product derivatives market.

Trading through the internet on the stock exchanges

The  SEBI  allowed  Internet  Based  Trading  through  order  routing  systems  which  stipulated  to
route  client  orders  through  exchange  trading  systems,  for  execution  of  trades  on  the  existing
stock exchanges. Only SEBI registered brokers can provide the service of internet based trading
after obtaining permission from respective stock exchanges. The NSE and BSE have permitted
their brokers to start internet based trading. The SEBI has prescribed minimum technical standards
for  ensuring  safety  and  security  of  transactions  between  clients  and  brokers  which  would  be
enforced by the respective stock exchanges. Internet trading would provide benefits to investors
as an added advantage of convenience, transparency and real – time trading.

36

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

To further promote internet trading, the SEBI appointed a technical committee which made the
following recommendations subsequently adopted by the Standing Committee on Internet Based
Securities Trading.



Internet trading on wireless media using Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) was permitted
subject to the adherence of all the requirements stipulated earlier by the SEBI for internet
based trading and the minimum security features laid down in this regard. This will enable
the  WAP  mobile  device  (mobile  phones,  Personal  digital  assistants,  etc.)  users  to  trade  in
securities using their mobile sets. This is expected to further extend the reach of the market
and increase the number of investors, volumes and liquidity.

 On the issue of messaging standards between brokers, depositories / depository participants,
and  banks,  it  was  decided  to  adopt  the  messaging  standards  on  the  lines  of  the  standards
being evolved by the RBI working group on Inter Bank Messaging Standards.

 For  the  derivatives  trading  on  internet,  the  same  minimum  systems  and  operational
requirements as have been laid down earlier for internet based trading by the SEBI, shall be
applicable.

iii. Mutual Funds

Policy Initiatives
In consultation with mutual funds industry, SEBI took a number of policy decisions during the
year 2000-2001 to protect the interests of investors of mutual funds and to develop and regulate
the mutual funds industry. The regulations were amended accordingly and necessary guidelines
have been issued to the mutual funds. The details of policy decisions taken are as follows:-

Guidelines for advertisements by mutual funds
Guidelines  on  advertisement  (supplementary  to  the  Advertisement  Code  in  the  Regulations)
were issued to mutual funds in order to bring about uniformity in disclosures of various categories
of advertisements viz. (a) Tombstone Advertisement (b) Product Launch Advertisement and (c)
Performance Advertisement and also to ensure consistency and comparability across the schemes
of  various  mutual  funds.  The  guidelines  are  also  applicable  to  all  sales  literature  and
communications of mutual funds.

Investments by mutual funds in mortgaged backed securities
The SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 were amended in order to permit mutual funds to
make  investment  in  mortgaged  backed  securities  which  are  rated  not  below  investment  grade
by a credit rating agency registered with the SEBI.

Recording of investment decisions by mutual funds
SEBI Regulations provide for exercise of due diligence by asset management companies (AMCs)
in their investment decisions. For effective implementation of the regulations and also to bring

37

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

about transparency in the investment decisions, all the AMCs were required to maintain records
in support of each investment decision which would indicate the data, facts and other opinion
leading  to  an  investment  decision.  While  the  AMCs  can  prescribe  broad  parameters  for
investments,  the  basis  for  taking  individual  scrip-wise  investment  decision  in  equity  and  debt
securities would have to be recorded. The AMCs are required to report its compliance in their
periodical  reports  to  the  trustees  and  the  trustees  are  required  to  report  to  SEBI  in  their  half-
yearly reports. Trustees can also check its compliance through independent auditors or internal/
statutory auditors or through other systems developed by them.

Payment of interest for delay in despatch of repurchase/ redemption proceeds
In accordance with sub-clause c) of Regulation 53, in the event of failure to despatch repurchase/
redemption proceeds within the time specified in sub clause b) of the SEBI (MF) Regulations,
(i.e. 10 working days), the mutual funds are now liable to pay interest to the unitholder, @ 15
per cent per annum, for the period of delay in despatch of these proceeds. Such interest would
be required to be borne by the AMC. Details of such delays and interest paid to investors are
required to be informed to SEBI by the mutual funds in their quarterly Compliance Test Report.

Guidelines on provisioning of non-performing assets
Guidelines were issued to all mutual funds on identification and provisioning of non-performing
assets  (NPAs),  criteria  for  classification  of  NPAs,  treatment  of  income  accrued  on  NPAs,
provisions  to  be  made  on  account  of  NPAs  and  disclosure  of  NPAs  in  half  yearly  portfolio
reports.

Guidelines on valuation of securities
Guidelines were issued on valuation of traded securities, thinly traded securities and non-traded
securities.  These  guidelines  were  issued  with  a  purpose  of  streamlining  the  procedure  of
calculation of NAV of the schemes of mutual funds.

Reduction in initial offer period and time taken for allotment of units and despatch of
accounts statements
The  earlier  limit  of  a  maximum  of  45  days  for  initial  offer  period  was  reduced  to  30  days  in
case of open-ended schemes. The mutual fund are also required to despatch statements of accounts
within 30 days from the closure of scheme instead of the earlier requirement of six weeks. The
scheme  is  now  required  to  open  for  ongoing  sales  and  repurchases  within  30  days  from  the
closure  of  scheme.  The  AMCs  were  also  been  allowed  to  start  despatching  the  statements  of
accounts  once  the  minimum  subscription  amount  specified  in  the  offer  document  is  received
even before the closure of the issue.

Format for half yearly disclosure of portfolio
In  accordance  with  Regulation  59A,  all  mutual  fund  schemes  are  required  to  disclose  their
entire portfolios on half yearly basis. A common format for this purpose was prescribed so that

38

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

the investors get meaningful information on the deployment of funds. Mutual funds were required
to disclose the investment in various type of instruments and percentage of investment in each
scrip to the total NAV, illiquid and non-performing assets, investment in derivatives and ADRs/
GDRs, etc.

Unclaimed redemption amount
Guidelines  were  issued  to  mutual  funds  according  to  which  the  unclaimed  redemption  and
dividend  amounts  can  now  be  deployed  by  the  mutual  funds  in  call  money  market  or  money
market  instruments  and  the  investors  who  claim  these  amounts  during  a  period  of  three  years
from the due date shall be paid at the prevailing Net Asset Value. After a period of three years,
this  amount  can  be  transferred  to  a  pool  account  and  the  investors  can  claim  the  amount  at
NAV prevailing at the end of the third year. The income earned on such funds can be used for
the  purpose  of  investor  education.  The  AMC  has  to  make  a  continuous  effort  to  remind  the
investors through letters to take their unclaimed amounts. In case of schemes to be launched in
the future, disclosures on the above provisions are required to be made in the offer documents.
Also,  the  information  on  amount  unclaimed  and  number  of  such  investors  for  each  scheme  is
required to be disclosed in the annual reports of mutual funds

Annual reports of the AMCs to be made available to the unitholders
SEBI issued a directive during the year that the annual report containing accounts of the asset
management companies should be displayed on the websites of the mutual funds. It should also
be  mentioned  in  the  annual  report  of  mutual  fund  schemes  that  the  unitholders,  if  they  so
desire, can request for the annual report of the asset management company.

Expenses chargeable by the AMC
At present mutual funds charge certain expenses to the scheme as specified in Regulation 52(4).
Apart  from  these  expenses,  any  other  expense  as  may  be  approved  by  the  SEBI  under  clause
(xiii) of Sub Regulation 52(4) can also be charged to mutual fund schemes. With a view to give
flexibility to mutual funds, such other expenses, which are directly attributable to the scheme,
can  now  be  charged  with  the  approval  of  the  trustees  within  the  overall  limits  as  specified  in
Regulation 52 (6). However, a negative list of expenses has also been prescribed i.e. the expenses
which  cannot  be  charged  to  a  scheme.  Further,  each  item  of  expenditure  accounting  for  more
than 10 per cent of total expenditure should be disclosed in the accounts or the notes thereto of
the schemes.

Prior approval for investment in unrated debt instruments
Mutual funds were required to get prior approval of the board of trustees and AMCs to invest
in  unrated  debt  instruments.  In  order  to  give  operational  flexibility,  mutual  funds  can  now
constitute committees who can approve proposals for investments in unrated debt instruments.
However, the detailed parameters for such investments must be approved by the AMC boards
and trustees. The details of such investments are required to be communicated by the AMCs to
the  trustees  in  their  periodical  reports  and  it  should  be  clearly  mentioned  how  the  parameters

39

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

have  been  complied  with.  However,  in  case  a  security  does  not  fall  under  the  parameters,  the
prior approval of the board of the AMC and trustees is required to be taken.

Guidelines for investment / trading in securities by employees of AMCs and mutual fund
trustee companies
SEBI  formulated  guidelines  for  investment/  trading  in  securities  by  employees  of  AMCs  and
mutual  fund  trustee  companies  so  as  to  avoid  any  conflict  of  interest  or  any  abuse  of  an
individual’s  position  and  also  to  ensure  that  the  employees  of  AMCs  and  trustee  companies
should not take undue advantage of price sensitive information about any company.

It was decided that access persons i.e. the employees who have access to investment decisions
of the mutual fund should take prior approval before making any investment. Other employees
who do not have such access will be required to report their transactions. Access persons will
also be prohibited from making profits by selling securities within 60 days of buying them.

The boards of AMCs and trustee companies are required to review the procedures concerning
personal investments by the employees and any violations requiring remedial action. Any such
violation  and  action  taken  by  the  mutual  funds  would  have  to  be  reported  to  SEBI  in  the
periodical reports

Better disclosures in half-yearly results by mutual funds
The mutual funds were required to publish unaudited financial results in the newspapers, before
the expiry of two months from the close of each half year i.e. March 31 and September 30 in
the prescribed format. It was observed that the reports were too cumbersome and as a result the
investors were not getting meaningful information from the disclosures in the reports. Moreover,
in many cases the print of such advertisements was so small that it was not readable.

In order to provide the investors with some meaningful information regarding the operations of
mutual funds schemes, the format for half-yearly results was revised and guidelines were issued
to mutual funds. A lot of information which was not available to investors earlier would have
to  be  disclosed  in  the  revised  format  like  disclosure  on  unit  capital,  reserves,  performance  in
terms of dividend and rise/fall in NAV during the half-year period, annualised yields over the
last 1,3,5 years and also since inception, percentage of management fees, percentage of recurring
expenses to the net assets, investment made in associate companies, payment made to associate
companies  for  their  services,  details  of  large  holdings,  etc.  Thus  the  investors  would  get  all
relevant information in a concise format.

Further,  the  mutual  funds  were  required  to  publish  the  disclosures  within  one  month  of  the
close of each half-year. Further, they must publish the half-yearly results in at least 7 point font
with proper spacing for easy readability.

Reporting of securities transactions by directors of asset management companies
According to SEBI Regulations, the directors of the AMCs were required to file a statement of
holdings  in  securities  with  the  trustees  at  the  end  of  each  financial  year  but  they  were  not

40

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

required  to  disclose  the  details  of  their  purchase  and  sale  transactions  in  securities  during  the
course of the year. SEBI issued directives that the directors of AMCs should file the details of
their purchase and sale transactions in securities on a quarterly basis. As in the case of trustees,
they may report only those transactions which exceed the value of Rs. 1 lakh.

Updating the offer document on a continuous basis by mutual funds
It has been observed that the disclosures in the offer documents of open-ended schemes are not
updated periodically and new investors have to refer the offer document prepared at the time of
launch of the scheme for making an investment decision. Over a period of time, there may be
various changes of material nature like constitution of the AMC, imposing or enhancing entry
or exit loads, change in the key personnel of the AMC especially the fund manager, addition of
new plans in the existing scheme, change in management/controlling interest, fresh adjudication
cases referred by SEBI, penalties imposed, etc.

Considering the fact that the offer document or the memorandum containing key information is
the main basis of reference for any investor who intends to invest in a scheme, the SEBI issued
directives that the offer document should be revised and updated at least once in two years. Till
the time the offer document is revised and reprinted, an addendum giving details of the changes
may  be  attached  to  offer  documents  and  abridged  offer  documents.  The  addendum  should  be
circulated to all the distributors/brokers so that the same can be attached to all offer documents
and abridged offer documents already in stock. The addendum will also be sent to the existing
unitholders.

After completion of one year of any open-ended scheme, the condensed financial information
of the scheme as per format specified in the standard offer document has to be included in the
offer document and this information has also to be updated in the subsequent years in the form
of addendum to the offer document till the time new revised offer document is printed.

The applicability of loads is also required to be disclosed in the statement of accounts or in the
covering letter issued to the unitholders so that they are fully aware how it would affect their yields.

The purpose of the above measures is that the investors get all material information before they
take investment decisions.

Reduction in Time frame for despatch of dividend warrants
As per the provisions of Regulation 53 (A), all mutual funds are required to despatch dividend
warrants  to  the  unitholders  within  42  days  of  the  declaration  of  the  dividend.  SEBI  issued
directive  that  the  present  requirement  of  42  days  should  be  reduced  to  30  days  so  that  the
investors get dividend within a shorter time period.

Daily NAVs and sale/repurchase prices on AMFI website
The  NAV  and  sale/repurchase  prices  of  all  schemes  are  now  required  to  be  declared  on  a
regular basis and are to be updated daily on the AMFI Website by 8 p.m. Thus, the investors
can get this information at one place.

41

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

Launching of additional plans under existing schemes
Mutual  funds  can  now  launch  additional  plans  (other  than  dividend  and  growth  plans),  which
differ  from  the  main  scheme  in  terms  of  portfolio,  maturity  and  any  other  characteristics  in
accordance with the guidelines which prescribe detailed disclosure requirements.

Publication of NAV of close-ended schemes on Wednesday
In  order  to  bring  uniformity  in  the  industry  and  also  to  enable  comparison  and  analysis  of
performance,  all  the  mutual  funds  are  now  required  to  declare  the  NAVs  of  their  close-ended
schemes on every Wednesday. Earlier, the mutual funds were declaring such NAVs on different
days of the week.

Collective Investment Schemes (CISs)
The SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999 were notified on October 15, 1999.
With  the  notification  of  the  Regulations,  no  person  other  than  a  Collective  Investment
Management Company which has obtained a certificate of registration under the SEBI (Collective
Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999 can carry on or sponsor or launch a Collective Investment
Scheme. Also, no existing Collective Investment Scheme can launch any new scheme or raise
money from the investors even under the existing schemes, unless a certificate of registration is
granted to it under the said Regulations. Further, an existing collective investment scheme which
has  (i)  failed  to  make  an  application  for  registration  to  the  Board;  or  (ii)  not  been  granted
provisional  registration  by  the  Board;  or  (iii)  having  obtained  provisional  registration  fails  to
comply  with  the  provisions  of  Regulation  71;  shall  have  to  wind  up  its  existing  schemes  and
make repayment to the investors.

Prior to the notification of the Regulations, as a follow up to the Governments’ directions, that
schemes through which instruments like agro bonds, plantation bonds etc. are issued would be
treated as “Collective Investment Schemes” coming under the provisions of Sec.11 (2)c of the
SEBI  Act,  SEBI  vide  its  press  release  dated  November  26,  1997  and  its  public  notice  dated
December 18, 1997 had directed existing Collective Investment Schemes (CISs) entities to file
the details of their schemes with the SEBI.

Venture Capital Funds
SEBI had set up K B Chandrasekhar Committee to identify the impediments in the development
of venture capital industry in India and to suggest suitable measures for its rapid growth. The
report of the Committee was submitted to the SEBI Board in January 2000. The recommendations
of the Committee were widely discussed. The recommendations were accepted in-principle by
the Government also and pursuant to the same, the Finance Minister in the Budget 2000 speech
announced that SEBI would be the single point nodal agency for registration and regulation of
both domestic and overseas venture capital funds and the SEBI registered Venture Capital Funds
would be given total tax pass-through.

In the light of the recommendations of the SEBI Committee on Venture Capital and the Budget
announcements,  the  Board  of  SEBI  in  its  meeting  held  on  September  14,  2000  approved  the

42

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2000  and  also  the  SEBI  (Foreign
Venture Capital Investors) Regulations, 2000.

The SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeover) Regulations were amended whereby
the acquisition of shares from venture capital funds/foreign venture capital investors either by
company or by any promoter/s (on the same footing as that of acquisition from the state level
financial institutions) would be exempt from making an open offer to other shareholders.

The venture capital funds/foreign venture capital investors are eligible to participate in the IPO
through  book  building  route  as  Qualified  Institutional  Buyer  subject  to  compliance  with  the
SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Fund)  Regulations.  Board  also  approved  the  amendment  in  the  SEBI
(Mutual Fund) Regulations permitting mutual funds to invest in venture capital funds.

SEBI notified the Foreign Venture Capital Investors, Regulations, 2000 on September 15, 2000.

The  SEBI  submitted  a  proposal  to  the  Government  to  reconsider  the  condition  of  exit  from
investment within one year from the date of listing of shares of venture capital undertaking to
seek tax pass-through, Government agreed to remove such condition. Accordingly, the Board at
its meeting held on December 22, 2000 amended the regulations removing the clause requiring
mandatory exit.

The  SEBI  advised  all  the  registered  venture  capital  funds  vide  circular  no.  Cir-1-2001  dated
February 12, 2001 to report every quarter about their resource mobilisation and investments.

A) The following are the salient features of SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) (Amendment)

Regulations, 2000:
1. Definition of venture capital fund : The Venture Capital Fund is now defined as a fund
established in the form of a trust, or a company including a body corporate and registered
with SEBI which:

A.

B.

C.

has a dedicated pool of capital;

raised in the manner specified under the Regulations; and

to invest in Venture Capital Undertakings in accordance with the Regulations.”

2. Definition of venture capital undertaking: venture capital undertaking means a domestic

company :-

(a) Whose shares are not listed on a recognised stock exchange in India

(b) Which  is  engaged  in  business  including  providing  services,  production  or
manufacture  of  articles  or  things,  but  does  not  include  such  activities  or  sectors
which  are  specified  in  the  negative  list  by  the  Board  with  the  approval  of  the
Central  Government  by  notification  in  the  Official  Gazette  in  this  behalf.  The
negative  list  includes  real  estate,  non-banking  financial  services,  gold  financing,
activities not permitted under the Industrial Policy of the Government of India.

43

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

3. Minimum contribution and fund size : The minimum investment in a Venture Capital
Fund  from  any  investor  shall  not  be  less  than  Rs.  5  lakh  and  the  minimum  firm
commitment of the fund before the fund can start activities shall be atleast Rs. 5 crores.

4.

Investment  criteria  :  The  earlier  investment  criteria  has  been  substituted  by  a  new
investment criteria which has the following requirements :

 disclosure of investment strategy;

 maximum  investment  in  single  venture  capital  undertaking  not  to  exceed  25  per

cent of the corpus of the fund;

 Investment in the associated companies not permitted;

 atleast 75 per cent of the investible funds to be invested in unlisted equity shares

or equity linked instruments.

 Not more than 25 per cent of the investible funds may be invested by way of:

(a)

subscription  to  initial  public  offer  of  a  venture  capital  undertaking  whose
shares are proposed to be listed subject to lock-in period of one year;

(b) debt or debt instrument of a venture capital undertaking in which the venture

capital fund has already made an investment by way of equity.

5. Disclosure and information to investors: In order to simplify and expedite the process
of  fund  raising,  the  requirement  of  filing  the  Placement  memorandum  with  SEBI  is
dispensed  with  and  instead  the  fund  will  be  required  to  submit  a  copy  of  Placement
Memorandum/  copy  of  contribution  agreement  entered  with  the  investors  along  with
the  details  of  the  fund  raised  for  information  to  SEBI.  Further,  the  contents  of  the
Placement Memorandum are strengthened to provide adequate disclosure and information
to investors. The SEBI will also prescribe suitable reporting requirements for the funds
on their investment activity.

B) Government of India guidelines

The  Government  of  India  (MOF)  Guidelines  for  Overseas  Venture  Capital  Investment  in
India dated September 20, 1995 have been repealed by the MOF after notification of SEBI
Venture Capital Fund Regulations.

C) The following are the salient features of SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital Investors)

Regulations, 2000 :

1. Definition of foreign venture capital investor : any entity incorporated and established
outside India which proposes to make investment in Venture Capital Fund or Venture
Capital Undertaking and registered with SEBI.

44

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

2. Eligibility criteria: entity incorporated and established outside India in the form of
investment company, trust, partnership, pension fund, mutual fund, university fund,
endowment fund, asset management company, investment manager, investment
management company or other investment vehicle incorporated outside India would be
eligible for seeking registration from SEBI. The SEBI for the purpose of registration shall
consider whether the applicant is regulated by an appropriate foreign regulatory authority;
or is an income tax payer; or submits a certificate from its banker or its promoters’ track
record where the applicant is neither a regulated entity nor an income tax payer.
Investment criteria: the same conditions as applicable in case of domestic Venture Capital
funds.

3.

4. Hassle free entry and exit: The foreign venture capital investors proposing to make venture
capital investment under the Regulations would be granted registration by the SEBI. SEBI
registered Foreign Venture Capital Investors shall be permitted to make investment on an
automatic route within the overall sectoral ceiling of foreign investment under Annexure
III of Statement of Industrial Policy without any approval from FIPB. Further, SEBI
registered FVCIs shall be granted a general permission from the exchange control angle
for inflow and outflow of funds and no prior approval of RBI would be required for pricing.
However, there would be ex-post reporting requirement for the amount transacted.

iv. Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs)

Grant of registration to domestic fund managers as deemed FIIs
With  a  view  to  avoid  discrimination  between  Indian  and  foreign  fund  managers,  the  SEBI
(Foreign Institutional Investors) Regulations 1995 were amended on February 29, 2000 to permit
domestic fund managers to also manage foreign funds. Consequently Indian portfolio managers
and  approved  asset  management  companies  who  are  registered  portfolio  managers  can  get  a
deemed Foreign Institutional Investor (FIIs) status under the Regulations. But this will be only
for the purpose of managing the foreign funds. The management of foreign funds would involve
procurement of FEMA approval (for convertibility of funds), appointment of domestic custodian
and designated bank, daily reporting of transactions etc. As these requirements are stipulated in
the above regulations only, the entities have been granted registration as deemed FII under the
regulations.  It  may  be  highlighted  that  these  entities  can  only  manage  funds  raised  abroad  by
authorised entities/funds and cannot make proprietary investments through this route. In other
words, these entities have to fulfil the obligations cast on them under the Regulations such as
appointment  of  designated  bank  and  custodian,  reporting  of  trades  to  SEBI  and  RBI  etc.  but
cannot make proprietary investments. On the other hand, FIIs can invest their own funds also
which facility is not available to Indian portfolio managers.

Investment limit of foreign corporate bodies and foreign individuals increased
SEBI  (Foreign  Institutional  Investors)  Regulations,  1995  were  amended  on  October  20,  2000
permitting  portfolio  investment  by  each  foreign  corporate  bodies  and  foreign  individuals  to
invest upto 5 per cent of the total issued capital of the company.

45

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

Investment in commercial paper by FIIs permitted

SEBI (Foreign Institutional Investors) Regulations, 1995 were amended on February 13, 2001
permitting FIIs and the sub accounts to invest in commercial papers.

Disinvestment by FIIs subsequent to expiry of registration

SEBI (Foreign Institutional Investors) Regulations, 1995 were amended on February 13, 2000
in order to facilitate disinvestment of holdings by FIIs, which did not desire to renew registration.

v. Intermediaries Associated with the Securities Markets

Primary Market Intermediaries

Merchant bankers, underwriters and portfolio managers

During  the  year,  a  committee  was  constituted  to  review  the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  Rules
and Regulations, 1993. The draft report of the committee is under preparation.

In  May  2000,  the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  Rules  and  Regulations,  1993  were  amended  to
provide that portfolio managers may manage funds raised or collected or brought from outside
India in accordance with the SEBI (FII) Regulations, 1995.

Part  III  gives  further  details  of  registration  of  merchant  bankers,  underwriters  and  portfolio
managers during 2000-01.

Debenture trustees
Debenture  trustees  are  registered  and  regulated  by  the  SEBI  under  the  provisions  of
SEBI (Debenture Trustees) Rules and Regulations, 1993. As on 31.3.2000, 38 debenture trustees
were registered with SEBI.

Debenture  trustees  are  required  to  submit  quarterly  reports  in  the  prescribed  format  to  SEBI.
The SEBI is also conducting inspection of their activities. On the basis of quarterly reports and
the inspection reports, the SEBI monitors the activities of the debenture trustees and take suitable
action against them in case of violation/non-adherence to rules, regulations, etc. The quarterly
report was amended vide circular dated April 19, 2000 to make the information called for from
the DT comprehensive.

Bankers to an issue
Bankers  to  an  Issue  are  registered  and  regulated  by  the  SEBI  under  the  provisions  of  SEBI
(Bankers  to  an  Issue)  Rules  and  Regulations,  1994.  Under  these  regulations,  registration
commenced  in  1994-95.  SEBI(  Bankers  to  an  Issue)  Regulations,  1994  were  amended  (vide
gazette notification dated September 30, 1999) making it mandatory for the intermediary to pay

46

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

the fees up front at the time of grant of certificate of registration and renewal there after. After
amendment the registration fee is Rs.5,00,000/- and the renewal fee is Rs.2,50,000/-.

All registered bankers to an Issue were directed by way of circular on July 9, 1999 to submit
the annual report as stipulated in our earlier circular dated April 21, 1995.

Registrar to an issue and share transfer agents
Registrars to an Issue (RTI) and Share Transfer Agents (STA) are registered and regulated by
the SEBI under the provisions of SEBI (Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Rules
and  Regulations,  1993.  Under  these  regulations,  registration  commenced  in  the  year  1993-94
and is granted under the two categories: category I to act as both registrar to an issue and share
transfer agent and category II to act as either registrar to an issue or share transfer agents.

Registrars  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agents  are  required  to  submit  quarterly  reports  in
prescribed  format  to  SEBI.  The  SEBI  is  also  conducting  inspection  of  their  activities.  On  the
basis of the quarterly reports and the inspection reports, the SEBI monitors the activities of the
registrars to an issue and share transfer agents and take suitable action against them in case of
violation of provisions of rules, regulations and circulars etc.

SEBI (Registrars to an issue and Share Transfer Agent) Regulations were amended (vide gazette
notification  dated  September  30,  1999)  making  it  mandatory  for  the  intermediary  to  pay  the
fees  up  front  at  the  time  of  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  and  renewal  there  after.  The
registration  fees  for  category  I  –  Rs.  50,000/-  and  category  II–  Rs.30,000/-.  The  renewal  fees
for category I – Rs.40,000/- and category II – Rs.25,000/-

During the year, the SEBI (RTI/STA) Rules and Regulations were amended to provide that in-
house  STA  need  not  fulfill  the  capital  adequacy  requirement  of  having  a  net  worth  of  Rs  3
lakh.

vi. Other Policies and Programmes Having a Bearing on the Working of the

Securities Market

Changes in the regulatory frame work for:

A. Amendment to Companies Act

The companies Act, 1956 was amended by Companies (Amendment) Act, 2000. The amendments
having a bearing on securities market are as under

Prospectus
Section 55 A inserted wherein under Sections 55 to 58, 59 to 84, 109 to 122, 206, 206A and
207 SEBI is given power to administer those sections so far as they relate to issue and transfer

47

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

of  securities  and  non  -  payment  of  dividend  in  case  of  listed  public  companies,  and  those
public companies which intend to get their securities listed on any stock exchange in India.

Shelf prospectus
Section 60 A inserted according to which a public financial institution, public sector bank or
scheduled bank whose main object is financing may file a shelf prospectus. The above mentioned
companies  shall  not  file  fresh  prospectus  at  every  stage  of  offer  of  securities  but  file  only  an
information memorandum on all material facts relating to new changes created.

Information memorandum
Section  60  B  inserted  which  imposes  conditions  to  be  fulfilled  with  regard  to  information
memorandum in respect of book building such as the circulating the information memorandum
to  be  circulated  at  least  prior  to  the  opening  of  public  issue.  Information  and  red  -  herring
prospectus shall carry same obligations applicable as in the case of prospectus and if there are
any  variations  shall  be  highlighted  and  individually  informed  to  the  subscribers.  In  case  of
those  advance  subscribers  the  issuing  company  shall  not  encash  subscription  moneys  or  post
dated  cheques.  Such  subscribers  shall  be  given  an  option  to  withdraw  their  applications  after
the  intimation  of  variations  in  prospectus.  Upon  the  closure  of  the  offer  a  final  prospectus
stating  total  capital  raised  and  other  details  in  case  of  public  company  shall  be  filed  with  the
SEBI and Registrar of Companies.

Deemed public issue
A proviso inserted to Sub - section (3) of 67 An offer to fifty persons or more shall be treated
as public offer provided that this provision shall not be applicable to a non - banking financial
companies or public financial institutions

Sub section (3A) inserted after sub section (3), in Section 67 by which SEBI along with RBI
is  given  power  to  make  guidelines  in  respect  of  offer  or  invitation  to  the  public  by  a  public
financial institution specified under section 4A or non-banking financial company’s referred to
in clause (f) of section 45-I of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934

Initial offer of securities to be in dematerialised form in certain cases
Section 68B is inserted under which every listed company, making initial public offer of any
security for a sum of rupees ten crores or more, shall issue the same only in dematerialised form.

New issue of share capital to be only of two kinds
Section 86 has been amended  enabling the companies to issue shares with differential rights
as to dividend, voting or otherwise as may be prescribed.

Section 88 has been deleted effecting in enabling companies to issue shares with disproportionate
rights

48

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

Debenture trust deed
Section 117A inserted which requires a trust deed for any issue of debentures to be in prescribed
form and to be executed within prescribed time.

Appointment of debenture trustees and duties of debenture trustees
Section  117B  inserted  requires  a  company  to  appoint  one  or  more  debenture  trustees  before
issuing  a  prospectus  or  a  letter  of  offer  to  the  public.  The  section  also  prescribes  certain
qualifications  to  be  appointed  as  debenture  trustee.  The  section  also  lays  down  obligation  on
debenture trustee to redress grievances of debenture holders.

Liability of company to create security and debenture redemption reserve
Section  117C  inserted  requires  a  company  which  issued  debentures  after  the  commencement
of this Act to create a debenture redemption reserve and adequate amount shall be credited out
of  profits  of  company  until  debentures  are  redeemed.  The  said  reserve  shall  be  used  only  for
the aforesaid purpose and in accordance with terms and conditions of their issue.

Passing of resolutions by postal ballot
Section  192A  inserted  provides  for  postal  ballot  wherein  the  company  may  in  case  of  such
matters  as  declared  by  the  Central  Government  may,  by  notification,  declare  to  be  conducted
only  by  postal  ballot,  shall  get  any  resolution  passed  by  means  of  postal  ballot  instead  of
transacting the business in general meeting of the company.

Interim dividend
Section 205 (1A)  inserted empowers Board of Directors to declare interim dividend and such
amount  shall  be  deposited  in  a  separate  bank  account  to  be  used  only  for  payment  of  interim
relief. Sections 205, 205A, 205C, 206, 206A and 207 shall, as far as may be also apply to any
interim relief.

Penalty for failure to distribute dividends within thirty days
Section 207 is substituted by the following Section 207 “if a dividend has been declared and
not been paid or the warrant has not been issued in thirty days, every director of the company
is liable for a imprisonment for a term which may extend up to three years and a fine of one
thousand rupees every day during which such default continues

Non compliance of above provision is not an offence provided if the dividend has not been paid
(a) by reason or operation of law
(b) a shareholder has given directions and those directions cannot be complied with
(c) where there is a dispute regarding right to receive the dividend
(d)
(e)

the dividend has been adjusted against any sum due
for any other reason which was not due to any default on the part of the company

49

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

Power to inspect
In sub - section (1) of section 209A existing clause (ii) substituted by the present clause (ii)
empowers  Central  Government  and  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  to  conduct
inspection with a notice to the company and  provided  that Securities and Exchange Board of
India  is  can  conduct  inspection  in  respect  of  matters  covered  under  sections  referred  to  in
section 55A

Board’s report
Sub  -  section  (2AA)  inserted  to  section  217  which  requires  Board  to  include  director’s
responsibility statement indicating









that accounting standards have been followed in the preparation of the annual accounts

that directors selected accounting policies applied them consistently, made judgements and
estimates that are reasonable and prudent to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the company

that  the  directors  had  taken  proper  and  sufficient  care  for  the  maintenance  of  adequate
accounting records

that the directors had prepared the annual accounts on a going concern basis

Section 224 (8) (aa) empowers Comptroller and Auditor General to appoint auditor in respect
of Govt companies and shareholders shall fix their remuneration in the AGM

Section 226-(3) (e) debars a shareholder of the company from being appointed as auditor of the
company

Section  252  requires  a  public  company  having  paid  up  capital  of  five  crores  or  more  and
thousand or more small shareholders may have a director elected by small shares in the manner
prescribed  by  companies  Amendment  Rules  2001.  The  small  shareholder  has  been  defined  to
mean a shareholder holding share of nominal value of Rs. 20, 000/- or less

Disqualifications of directors
Clause  (g)  inserted  in  sub  -  section  (1)  of  section  274  additional  disqualifications  added  to
include a person who has not filed the annual accounts for any continuous three financial years
commencing  on  and  after  1st  April  1999  or  has  failed  to  repay  its  deposit  or  interest  due  or
redeem its debentures or pay dividend and such failure continues for one year or more. He is
also not eligible to be appointed as a director of any other public company for five years

Audit Committee Section 292A inserted  which requires every public company having paid -
up  capital  of  not  less  than  five  crores  of  rupees  to  constitute  a  committee  of  Board  known  as
“Audit Committee” with at least three directors as members and two thirds to be directors other
than managing or whole - time directors and the Audit Committee has to comply the conditions
specified in sub - sections (2) to (10) of section 292A

50

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

Offer of Indian Depository Receipts
Section 605A inserted  empowering Central Government to make rules applicable for the offer
of, requirement of disclosure in prospectus or letter of offer in connection with, the manner to
be  dealt  in  a  depository  mode  and  by  custodian  and  underwriters  and  the  manner  of  sale,
transfer  or  transmission  of  Indian  Depository  Receipts  by  a  company  incorporated  or  to  be
incorporated  outside  India,  whether  the  company  has  or  has  not  been  established  or,  will  not
establish any place of business in India.

Offences against Act to be cognizable
Proviso  inserted  after  first  proviso  in  sub  -  section  (1)  of  section  621  empowers  courts  to
take  cognizance  of  offence  relating  to  issue  and  transfer  of  securities  and  non  -  payment  of
dividend  on  a  complaint  in  writing  by  a  person  authorised  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Board of India.

B. Companies Act - Rules /Amendments Rules

I. Companies (Issue of Share Capital with differential Voting Rights) Rules, 2001
Every company limited by shares may issue shares with differential rights as to dividend, voting
or otherwise, if the company -

1. has distributable profits

2. not defaulted in filing annual reports

3. has not failed to repay its deposits or interest or redeem its debentures on due date

4. has authority under Articles of Association to issue shares with differential rights

5. has not been convicted of any offence arising under Securities and Exchange Board of India
Act, 1992 and Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, Foreign Exchange Management
Act, 1999

6. has not defaulted in meeting investor’s grievances

7. has obtained approval of shareholders in General meeting by passing resolution

8. has approval of shareholders through postal ballot in case of listed public company

9.

in  the  notice  of  meeting  at  which  resolution  is  proposed  to  be  proposed  has  sent  an
explanatory statement stating
(a)

the rate of voting right

(b)

the scale or in proportion to which the voting rights of such class or type of shares will
vary

(c)

the company shall not convert equity capital with voting rights into equity share capital

51

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

with differential voting rights and the rights with differential voting rights into equity
share capital with voting right

the shares with differential voting rights shall not exceed 25 per cent of the total share
capital issued

that a member of the company holding any equity share with differential voting rights
shall be entitled to bonus shares, right shares of the same class,

the holders of the equity shares with differential voting rights shall enjoy all the other
rights  to  which  the  holder  is  entitled  to  excepting  right  to  vote  as  indicated  in  (a)
above.

(d)

(e)

(f)

II. Companies (Appointment of the Small Shareholders’ Director) Rules, 2001
1) A  company  may  suo  motu  elect  a  small  shareholders’  director  from  amongst  small
shareholders or upon the notice of small shareholders, who are not less than 1/10th of total
shareholders.

2) Such  shareholders  intending  to  propose  a  person  shall  leave  a  notice  of  at  least  14  days

before the meeting under the signature of at least 100 small shareholders

3) The  person  who  is  name  has  been  proposed  for  the  post  of  small  shareholders’  director

shall file his consent in writing with the company

4) The listed public company shall elect small shareholders subject to sub - rules (1), (2) and

(3) through postal ballot

5) The unlisted company may appoint small shareholders nominee subject to above conditions

if majority of small shareholders recommend

6) Tenure of small shareholders’ director shall be for a maximum period of 3 years subject to
the  requirement  of  provisions  of  Companies  Act  except  that  he  need  not  have  to  retire  by
rotation.

7) After  the  expiry  of  Tenure  the  same  person  if  so  desired  by  small  shareholders  may  be

elected for a period of another 3 years.

8) Small  shareholders  shall  be  treated  as  director  for  all  purposes  except  for  appointment  as

whole - time director.

5. Disqualification of person to be appointed as small shareholders’ director if he

(i) has been found to be of unsound mind

(ii) is an undischarged insolvent

(iii) has applied to be adjudicated as an insolvent

52

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(iv) has been convicted by a Court for any offence involving moral turpitude and sentenced

to imprisonment for not less than six months

(v) has not paid any call in respect of shares the company

(vi) an order disqualifying him for appointment as director has been passed by a Court

6. A person appointed as small shareholders’ directors shall vacate the office

(i) if he ceases to be a small shareholder

(ii) he has been disqualified by virtue or rules (1) or rule (5)

(iii) if he fails to pay any call in respect of shares of the company

(iv) he absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the Board of directors or from
all  the  meetings  of  the  Board  for  a  continuous  period  of  three  months  whichever  is
longer

(v) he is a partner of any private company of which he is a director, accepts a loan or any

guarantee or security for a loan from the company in contravention of section 295

(vi) he acts in contravention of section 284

(vii) he becomes disqualified by an order of Court under section 203

(viii) he is removed in pursuance of section 299

7. No person shall hold office at the same time as small shareholders’ director in the more that

two companies.

C. Amendments to SEBI Regulations

1. Debenture Trustees

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) (Second Amendment)
Regulations, 2000
(issued under S.O.No.743(E) published in the Gazette of India dated 8th August, 2000).
 The definition of the term “associate” in relation to a debenture trustee, or body corporate
has been widened to include a person who by himself (either directly or indirectly) or in
combination  with  relatives,  debenture  trustee  or  the  body  corporate,  director  of  the
debenture trustee or the body corporate exercise control. [Reg. 2 (a)].

 Restrictions have been put on debenture trustee to act for any issue of debentures if it is
an associate of the body corporate or a moneylender to the body corporate. [Reg. 13A ].
 Duty  imposed  on  the  debenture  trustee  to  ensure  that  the  debenture  certificates  are
dispatched  by  the  body  corporate  to  the  debenture  holders  within  30  days  of  the
registration of the charge with the RoCs. [Reg.15(1) (g) (i) ].

53

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

 Duty  imposed  on  the  debenture  trustee  to  appoint  a  nominee  director  on  the  Board  of
the  body  corporate  in  the  event  of  two  consecutive  defaults  in  payment  of  interests  to
the  debenture  holders  or  default  in  creation  of  security  for  debentures  or  default  in
redemption of debentures. [Reg. 15(1)(m)].

 Duty imposed on the debenture trustee to communicate to the debenture holders on half
yearly basis the compliance of the terms of the issue by the body corporate, defaults (if
any) in payment of interest or redemption of debentures and action taken therefor. [Reg.
15 (1) (n)].

 Duty imposed on the debenture trustee to ensure that the trust deed, inter alia, provide
for the time limit for creation of the security for issue of debentures. [Schedule IV (b)].

2. Depositories and Participants

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2000.
(issued under S.O.No.1160(E) published in the Gazette of India dated 26th December, 2000 ).

 Status  of  a  ‘sponsor’  given  to  the  person  acting  alone  or  in  combination  with  others
holding not less than 51 per cent of the share capital of the depository as a sponsor and
undertakes to perform the obligation under these regulations. [Reg. 2 (1) (g].

3. Foreign Institutional Investors

3.1 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Institutional Investors) (Second

Amendment) Regulations, 2000.
(issued under S.O.No.946(E) published in the Gazette of India dated 20th October, 2000).
 For  investment,  in  equity  shares  of  a  company  by  an  FII  on  behalf  of  its  sub-
accounts, not to exceed 10 per cent of the total issued capital of the company, it is
made  mandatory  on  sub-accounts  not  to  invest  more  than  5  per  cent  of  the  total
issued capital of that company. [Reg.15 (6)]

3.2 Securities and Exchange Board Of India (Foreign Institutional Investors)

(Amendment) Regulations, 2001
(issued under S.O 128 (E) published in the Gazette of India dated 13th February 2001)

 Provided  that  a  Foreign  Institutional  Investor  who  does  not  desire  to  renew  its
registration  or  has  failed  to  make  an  application  for  renewal  under  sub-regulation
(1), shall, at the time of expiry of registration, obtain a specific permission from the
Board, for disinvesting the securities held by it on its own account or on behalf of
its sub-account(s), within a stipulated time period, subject to such terms and conditions
as may be specified by the Board. [Reg 9 (1)]

 Provided further that where a Foreign Institutional Investor does not desire to renew
registration  of  any  of  its  sub-account(s)  or  has  failed  to  make  an  application  for

54

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

renewal  of  registration  of  sub-account(s),  the  Foreign  Institutional  Investor  shall  at
the time of expiry of registration, obtain, a specific permission from the Board, for
disinvesting the securities held by it on behalf of sub-account(s) within a stipulated
time period, subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board.
[Reg 9 (1)]
‘Commercial paper’ [Reg 15 (1) (e)]
FII’s  are  now  allowed  to  invest  in  commercial  paper  and  according  the  following
amendments were made
In  the  explanation  to  proviso,  the  words,  ‘commercial  paper’,  were  inserted,  after
the words, ‘government securities’ and before the words, ‘and treasury bills’.  [Reg
15 (2)]





In the first proviso, the words, ‘commercial paper’, were inserted, after the words, ‘government
securities’ and before the words ‘including treasury bills’. [Reg 15 (3) (c )]

4. Mutual Funds

4.1 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment)

Regulations, 2000
(issued under S.O.No.484 (E) published in the Gazette of India dated 22nd May, 2000)–
read with corrigenda dated 26th July, 2000.
 A  duty  imposed  on  the  trustees  to  exercise  caution  while  effecting  changes  in  the
fundamental attributes of any scheme or the trust and informing each unitholder by
a written communication about the proposed change. [Reg. 18 (15A) (i)].
It  was  also  made  mandatory  on  the  trustees  to  give  to  the  unitholders  an  option  to
exit at the prevailing Net Asset Value without any exit load, if the trustees require to
effect change in fundamental attributes. [Reg.18 (15A) (ii)].



 To effect change in the controlling interest of the asset management company, it has
been  made  mandatory  to  obtain  prior  approval  of  the  trustees  &  the  Board  and  to
communicate in writing about the proposed change to the unitholder and publication
of  an  advertisement  in  the  daily  newspapers  in  English  and  in  the  language  of  the
region.  Also  to  effect  change  in  the  controlling  interest  of  the  asset  management
company, the trustees are required to give an option to the unitholders to exit on the
prevailing Net Asset Value without any exit load. [Reg.22 (e)].
In case of securitised debts, the mutual fund can now invest not only in asset-backed
securities but also mortgaged-backed securities. (previously this was restricted only
to asset-backed securities). [Reg. 43].



 The investment in debt-instruments with extendable limit of 20 per cent is allowed
to be made in mortgaged-backed securities debt which are rated not below investment
grade by a credit rating agency registered with the Board.  [Schedule VII – Reg. 43
(1A) Second proviso to clause].

55

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

 A  mutual  fund  scheme  can  now  invest  upto  5  per  cent  of  its  NAV  in  the  unlisted
equity shares or equity related instruments in case of open-ended scheme. Further, in
case of close-ended scheme, the mutual fund can now invest upto 10 per cent of its
NAV. [Schedule VII – Reg. 43 clause 11].

4.2 Securities and Exchange Board Of India (Mutual Funds)(Amendment) Regulations,

2001
(issued under S.O. 69. (E) Published in the Gazette of India dated 23rd January 2001)
 Thinly traded securities as defined in the guidelines shall be valued in the manner as

specified in the guidelines issued by the Board. [Schedule VIII clause (6)]

 The aggregate value of illiquid securities as defined in the guidelines shall not exceed
15  per  cent  of  the  total  assets  of  the  scheme  and  any  illiquid  securities  held  above
15  per  cent  of  the  total  assets  shall  be  valued  in  the  manner  as  specified  in  the
guidelines issued by the Board. [Schedule VIII clause 7]

 Where income receivable on investments has accrued but has not been received for
the period specified in the guidelines issued by the Board, provision shall be made
by debiting to the revenue account the income so accrued in the manner specified by
guidelines issued by the Board [Schedule IX clause (g)]

 The  Balance  sheet  shall  disclose  under  each  type  of  investment(s)  the  aggregate
carrying value and market value of non performing investments. An investment shall
be regarded as non –performing if it has provided no returns in the form of dividend
or  interest  for  a  period  specified  in  the  guidelines  issued  by  the  Board.  [Schedule
XI clause 3 (iii)]

6. Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2000
(issued under S.O.No.787(E) published in the Gazette of India dated 30th August, 2000 ).

 Turnover  of  the  sub-broker  of  a  subsidiary  company  acting  as  a  stock  broker  of  the
stock  exchange  has  been  made  liable  to  be  excluded  from  the  turnover  of  the  stock
broker if the stock broker has paid five years turnover-based fees plus fee for a block of
five years on the concerned stock exchange which has formed the subsidiary company.”
[Schedule III – para 4A ]

7. Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and
Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2000.

a)

(issued under S.O.No.1178(E) published in the Gazette of India dated 30th December, 2000)
 Provisions contained in regulations 10, 11 and 12 of the Regulations shall, inter lia,
not  apply  to  “the  transfer  of  shares  from  venture  capital  funds  or  foreign  venture

56

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

capital  investors  registered  with  the  Board  to  promoters  of  a  venture  capital
undertaking  or  venture  capital  undertaking  pursuant  to  an  agreement  between  such
venture capital fund or foreign venture capital investors with such promoters or venture
capital undertaking.” [Reg. 3 (1) (ia].

8. Venture Capital Funds

8. 1 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) (Amendment)

a)

Regulations, 2000.
(issued under S.O.No.831(E) published in the Gazette of India dated 15th September,
2000)
 The term ‘associate’ has been defined to mean a person who (directly or indirectly,
by  himself  or  in  combination  with  relatives,  exercises  control  over  the  venture
capital fund; or in respect of whom the venture capital fund, directly or indirectly,
by itself, or in combination with other persons, exercises control; or whose director,
is also a director, of the venture capital fund. [reg.2 (aa].

[To note: The said definition has been substituted by the term ‘associate company’ by Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2000.
(issued under S.O.No.1179 (E) published in the Gazette of India dated 30th December, 2000).

8. 2 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) (Second

Amendment) Regulations, 2000.
(issued under S.O.No.1179(E) published in the Gazette of India dated 30th December,
2000).

 The  term  “associate  company”  has  been  defined.  For  a  company  to  be  called
“associate  company”  it  is  made  mandatory  on  the  director  /  trustee  /  sponsor  /
settler  of  the  venture  capital  fund  or  asset  management  company  to  hold,  either
individually  or  collectively,  equity  shares  in  excess  of  15  per  cent  of  the  paid  up
equity share capital of venture capital undertaking. [Reg. 2 (aa)].

 For a Venture capital fund to get its units listed on any recognised stock exchange
it  is  made  mandatory  on  it  to  complete  3  years  from  the  date  of  the  issuance  of
units by the venture capital fund. [Reg. 13].

9. Amendments to SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000

1. DIP (Compendium) Circular No.3 dated August 4, 2000 -

(a) Eligibility Norms:

(i) The eligibility norms have been modified to provide that the IPOs of issue size upto
5  times  the  pre  issue  networth  shall  be  allowed  only  if  the  company  has  a  track
record of distributable profits and a pre issue networth of not less than Rs.1 crore in
three out of preceding five years.

57

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(ii) The  companies  not  satisfying  the  above  requirement  may  make  IPO  only  through
book  building  route  subject  to  the  condition  that  60  per  cent  of  the  issue  size  is
allotted to the Qualified Institutional Buyers.

(iii) Public issue by listed companies for more than five times of its pre issue networth is
allowed only if the issue is made through book building route subject to the condition
that 60 per cent of the issue size is allotted to the Qualified Institutional Buyers.

(iv) A listed company which has changed its name so as to indicate that it is a company
in the information technology sector during a period of three years prior to filing of
the offer document shall comply with the requirements for unlisted companies.

(b) Promoters contribution and lock-in requirements:

(i) The  lock-in  provisions  in  respect  of  IPOs  have  been  rationalised  to  provide  that  the
minimum  promoters’  contribution  shall  be  locked  in  for  three  years  and  entire  pre
issue share capital other than the capital locked in as promoters’ contribution shall be
locked  in  for  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  of  commencement  of  commercial
production  or  the  date  of  allotment,  whichever  is  later.  However,  this  will  not  be
applicable  to  the  pre  issue  share  capital  held  by  venture  capital  funds  and  the  share
capital  held  for  a  period  of  atleast  one  year  at  the  time  of  filing  of  offer  document
and being offered to the public through offer for sale.

(ii) The  promoters’  contribution  brought  in  the  form  of  cash  either  before  or  with  the
issue  shall  be  kept  in  an  Escrow  Account  with  a  scheduled  commercial  bank  which
shall  be  released  to  the  company  along  with  the  public  issue  proceeds.  Where  the
contribution has been brought prior to the issue and has already been deployed by the
company,  a  cash  flow  statement  shall  be  given  in  the  offer  document  disclosing  the
use of funds.

(iii) The  instruments  allotted  on  preferential  basis  to  any  person  including  promoters  /
promoters group shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of allotment
except for such allotments on preferential basis which involve swap of equity shares /
securities,  for  acquisition.  This  requirement  shall  be  in  addition  to  the  lock  in
requirement of promoters’ contribution.

(c)

Issue obligations: / contents of the offer document
(i) It has been required that the lead manager shall file the draft offer document with the
stock exchanges where the securities are proposed to be listed and make the copies of
the offer document available to the public. Lead manager shall also obtain and furnish
to the Board, an in-principle approval of the stock exchanges for listing of the securities
within fifteen days of filing of the draft offer document with the stock exchange.

(ii) In the offer document a statement of the Board of Directors shall be included to the
effect  that  the  utilisation  of  monies  received  under  promoters’  contribution,  firm
allotments and reservations and the details of all unutilised monies.

58

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

(iii) The  requirement  of  incorporation  of  forecast  of  estimated  profits  and  financial

projections have been done away with.

(iv) The company is required to provide the accounting ratios to justify the basis of issue
price and in case of book built issues it has to disclose that the final price has been
determined on the basis of demand from the investors.

(v) The lead manager has been required to ensure that the despatch of share certificates /
refund  orders  /  cancelled  stock  invests  /  demat  credit  is  completed  and  the  listing
documents are submitted to the stock exchange within two working days of finalisation
of  the  basis  of  allotment  and  listing  and  commencement  of  trading  are  done  within
seven working days of the finalisation of basis of allotment.

(d) Listing requirements - A company in eligible sector i.e. a company deriving 75 per cent or
more  of  its  turnover  from  information  technology/  media  /  entertainment  or
telecommunication activities during the preceding two years, may offer 10 per cent of its
securities to public subject to the conditions specified in the guidelines.

(e) Preferential issue guidelines - It has been decided to strengthen the disclosure requirements
in the notice for the general meeting in terms of section 173 of the Companies Act and to
require  the  disclosure  requirement  of  utilisation  of  money  out  of  the  preferential  issue
under an appropriate head in the balance sheet indicating the purpose of such utilisation.
The details of unutilised monies is also to be disclosed under a separate head in the balance
sheet indicating the form of investments of such unutilised money.

2. DIP (Compendium) Circular No.4 dated September 6, 2000

(a) The  companies  are  allowed  to  issue  unsecured  sub-ordinate  debt  instruments  which
are not public deposits provided such issue is subscribed by QIBs or other investors
who have given positive consent for subscribing to such instruments/obligations.

3. DIP (Compendium) Circular No. 5 dated November 30, 2000

(a)

(b)

It  has  been  decided  to  allow  the  IPOs  through  stock  exchange  mechanism.  A  new
Chapter XI A has been added to the Guidelines which shall be applicable in respect
of fixed price issues as well as for the fixed portion of book built issues. The companies
making  issues  of  securities  shall  now  have  an  option  to  issue  securities  through  the
on-line system of the stock exchange or the existing banking channel.
In the stock exchange mechanism the company shall enter into an agreement with a
stock  exchange  including  the  regional  stock  exchange  having  the  requisite  system.
The  exchange  shall  appoint  the  registered  brokers  who  shall  be  considered  as  the
collection  centre.  The  broker  shall  collect  the  money  from  the  client  and  guarantee
the payment from the client.

4.

Press Release dated 22nd December 2000 -
(i)

In the meeting of the Board held on December 22, 2000 it has been decided that the
companies in all sectors may be permitted to offer 10 per cent of securities issued to

59

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

public  provided  20  lakh  securities  are  offered  to  the  public  (excluding  promoters’
contribution) firm allotment and reservations and the size of the net offer to the public
is  atleast  Rs.100  crores.  Provided  further  that  the  issue  is  made  only  through  book
building method with allocation of 60 per cent to QIBs.

(ii)

It  was  also  decided  to  remove  the  limit  of  Rs.25  crores  and  allow  all  companies  to
make issues through book building.

5.

Press Release No.48/2001 dated March 15, 2001 - In the meeting held on March 15,
2001, the Board decided the following:

(a) Multiple Applications:

(i) Multiple applications i.e. two or more applications in single names and / or joint
names  with  the  first  applicant  being  one  and  the  same  would  not  be  permitted
unless the applicant declares and identifies in all his applications except in first
that he is making multiple applications and identify all such applications.

(ii) All  these  applications  would  be  clubbed  and  considered  in  the  higher  category

i.e. > 10 market lots.

(iii) The allotments on these applications would be completed in the same manner as
that of normal applications but the dispatch of share certificates / credit to demat
account will be frozen until the time the identity and genuineness of applicants
is established.

(b) Basis  of  Allotment  -  The  present  system  of  allotment  in  market  lots  is  done  away
with. It has been decided that to prevent fractional allotment and allotments of miniscule
value,  the  minimum  allotment  shall  be  higher  of  the  one  share  or  smallest  integral
number of shares that has a value of Rs.1, 000/- calculated on the basis of issue price.

(c) Alternate source of applications - Applications can be made available through Internet,
newspaper or photocopies of the printed application forms provided such applications
are accompanied by abridged prospectus. The pre-numbering of such applications will
not  be  necessary  and  the  application  numbers  shall  be  assigned  by  the  collecting
bankers and / or registrar to issue at the time of accepting the application.

(d)

It has been decided to allow all companies to issue debt securities to the public without
listing the equity, subject to the following conditions:

(i) The  securities  carry  an  investment  grade  credit  rating.  For  issues  above  Rs.100
crores such rating from two credit rating agencies shall be required. The instrument
may be secured or unsecured. The company satisfies the eligibility norms specified
in the Guidelines.

(ii) A 20 per cent band on the coupon rate / pricing may be indicated at the time of

filing of the draft offer document.

(iii) There  is  no  partly  paid  up  shares  or  other  securities  at  the  time  of  filing  of  the
draft offer document. If the company proposes to issue equity to the public during

60

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

the period when it has only its debt instruments listed, it shall comply with the
guidelines  applicable  to  IPOs  of  equity.  The  equity  of  promoters  may  be  listed
along with IPO of equity.

(iv) The issue of debt securities to the public shall be exempted from the requirement
that there should be no outstanding warrants or other securities convertible into
equity at a later date subject to the condition that the floor price for conversion
is fixed and disclosed upfront in the offer document of the public issue of debt
instrument.

(v) The company shall have option to make the issue through book building process

to ascertain and determine the coupon rate / price of the debt security.

10. Amendments to listing agreement
 By a Circular dated 6th April 2000, the stock exchanges have been advised to amend the
clauses  20  and  22  of  the  Listing  Agreement  to  the  effect  the  announcement  regarding
dividends,  rights,  bonus  shares,  etc.,  can  be  made  outside  the  market  hour  i.e.  if  such
announcements  have  to  be  made  before  the  opening  of  the  market  hours  it  can  be  made
atleast half an hour before the market opens.

 By a Circular dated 10th April 2000, no delivery period arising out of the book closure of
the  record  dates  in  respect  of  the  scrips  for  which  the  delivery  by  all  investors  has  been
made compulsory in dematerialised form reduced to one settlement period i.e. one week.

 SEBI vide its Circular dated 27th April 2000 clarified that the companies which are already
listed on one or more stock exchanges shall be allowed to change the standard denomination
of the equity shares only if they are in compulsory demat list for all the investors announced
by SEBI from time to time.

 SEBI vide its Circular dated 10th May 2000 specified that the statement showing variations
between the projected utilisation of funds and / or projected profitability settlement made
by it in the offer document and the actual utilisation of funds and / or actual profitability
shall be provided on a quarterly basis and should be published along with the unaudited /
audited financial results as required under clause 41 of the Listing Agreement.

 Vide Circular dated 4th July 2000, clause 41 of the Listing Agreement was amended pursuant
to  the  recommendations  of  the  Accounting  Standard  Committee  to  provide  for  limited
review  of  the  quarterly  unaudited  results  by  the  auditors  of  the  company.  A  copy  of  the
review report shall be submitted to the stock exchange within 2 months from the close of
the half-year if quarterly unaudited results in respect of any item varies by 20 per cent or
more from the respective half-year results. A statement explaining the results to the stock
exchanges along with a review report to be submitted in the prescribed format.

 By a Circular dated 25th July 2000, the format of review report was partially modified by

substituting the word “misstatement” with “material misstatement”.

 Vide Circular dated 4th June 2000, the procedure for the listing was modified as under:

61

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001



Issuer  to  file  the  draft  offer  document  simultaneously  with  stock  exchange  which  are
securities are proposed to be listed while filing the offer document in SEBI.

 The  stock  exchanges  shall  accept  or  decline  the  request  for  in-principle  approval  for

listing within 15 days of submission of the draft-offer document.

 The lead manager shall furnish to SEBI the in-principle approval on stock exchanges
within the said 15 days period and if no such in-principle approval is given, the issuer
shall not proceed with the issue and the file shall be closed.

 The details of in-principle approval to be disclosed in the offer document.

 Despatch  of  share  certificates  /  refund  order  /  cancellation  of  stock  invest  and  demat
credit  shall  be  completed  and  the  allotment  and  listing  agreement  to  be  submitted  to
the stock exchanges within 2 working days of finalisation of the basis of allotment.

 Regional  stock  exchange  shall  give  its  final  approval  for  listing  and  trading  within  3

working days thereafter.

 The other stock exchanges should give automatic approval for listing and trading once

the regional stock exchange gives its consent.

 The  lead  manager  to  ensure  that  the  issuer  completes  the  formalities  for  listing  and
commencement  of  trading  at  all  stock  exchanges  where  the  securities  are  to  be  listed
within 7 working days of the finalisation of the basis of allotment.

 Vide  Circular  dated  10th  July  2000,  amendment  to  the  Listing  Agreement  was  made  in
connection  with  the  recommendation  of  Shri  Kumar  Mangalam  Birla  Committee  on
corporate governance as under :

 Except in the case of Government companies, institutional directors on the Boards of
Companies should be considered as independent directors whether the institution is an
investment institution or a lending institution.

 For the purpose of considering the limit on committees of which a director can serve
public  limited  companies  whether  listed  or  not  shall  be  included  all  other  companies
i.e.  private  limited  companies  or  foreign  companies  shall  be  excluded.  Further,  3
committees  i.e.  audit  committee,  the  shareholder  grievance  committee  and  the
remuneration committees shall be considered for this purpose.

 Clause 43 of the Listing Agreement amended vide circular dated 10th August 2000 to
provide that the funds raised through preferential offers and their actual utilisation as per
the  objects  of  the  preferential  offer  shall  also  be  made  part  of  the  same  provision  of
disclosure as are applicable in case of raising of funds through public or rights issues.

 Vide  Press  Release  dated  28th  February  2000,  SEBI  specified  minimum  floating  stock

requirements for continuous listing as under :

 No preferential allotment or buy-back of listed companies to be permitted if as a result
of such preferential allotment the non - promoter holding below the ceiling permitted

62

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001

under the Disclosure & Investor Protection Guidelines at the point of entry i.e. 10 per
cent  for  IT,  media,  entertainment  and  infrastructure  companies  and  25  per  cent  for
others. In case of new companies the above limit i.e.10 per cent or 25 per cent to be
maintained on continuous basis after listing also.



In case of existing companies the non-promoter holding must be atleast 10 per cent. In
case  whether  such  holding  is  less  than  10  per  cent  the  companies  will  be  given  time
upto  1  year  to  raise  the  level  of  non-promoter  holding  to  10  per  cent  or  buy  out  the
public shareholding in a manner specified under SEBI Takeover Regulations.

 None of the above will apply to BIFR Cos

 The  stock  exchange  will  monitor  the  level  of  non-promoter  holding  on  half-yearly

basis from the returns to be submitted by the companies.

 By  a  Circular  dated  6th  December  2000,  no  delivery  period  on  account  of  book  closure  /
record  dates  of  corporate  account  such  as  for  issue  of  dividends  and  bonus  shares  was
abolished in respect of scrips which are traded in the compulsory dematerialised trading.

 Clause  16  of  the  Listing  Agreement  amended  to  provide  for  the  gap  between  two  book

closures and record dates should be atleast 30 days instead of 90 days.

 Vide Circular dated 2nd September 2001, SEBI advised setting up of a separate monitoring
cell to monitor compliance with provisions of corporate governance and the companies to
submit  a  quarterly  compliance  report  to  the  stock  exchanges  within  15  days  from  the
under of the quarter.

 Vide  Circular  dated  15th  January  2001,  clause  20,  22,  36  &  41  of  the  Listing  Agreement
was advised to be amended to provide that companies shall immediately disclose all material
information simultaneously to all the stock exchanges where the securities of the companies
are  listed.  In  respect  of  any  material  information  arising  out  of  any  decision  taken  in  the
Board  meetings  including  the  announcement  of  the  results,  dividends,  bonus,  rights,  etc.,
the information shall be furnished to the stock exchange within 15 minutes of the disclosure
of the Board meeting.

 Clause  41  of  the  Listing  Agreement  was  advised  to  be  amended  to  provide  that  the
companies  have  an  option  to  publish  the  audited  half-yearly  financial  results  within  two
months instead of publishing the unaudited results within one month followed by a limited
review within 2 months. Separate form for disclosure of quarterly results and review reports
specified for banks as recommended by RBI.

 The  disclosure  requirements  which  are  prescribed  under  Schedule  VI  of  the  Companies
Act in respect of unutilised monies raised by issue and the form in which such unutilised
funds have been invested shall also be disclosed under clause 41 of the Listing Agreement.

The companies were also advised vide circular dated 4th February 2000 to disclose the aggregate
of  non-promoter  shareholding  along  with  half-yearly  results  under  clause  41  of  the  Listing
Agreement with effect from March 31, 2000.

63

Securities and Exchange Board of India
vii. Assessment and Prospects
During  the  year  under  review,  the  SEBI  took  several  measures  for  modernising  the  securities
market and enhancing its fairness, transparency and efficiency. To this end the SEBI has carried
out wide ranging reforms and reviewed its existing policies and regulations in primary market,
secondary  market,  mutual  funds,  foreign  institutional  investments,  takeovers  and  depositories.
The  SEBI  stepped  up  its  efforts  to  protect  the  integrity  of  markets  also  through  various  risk
containment measures, surveillance system, and enforcement actions.

Annual Report 2000-2001

The  measures  announced  by  the  SEBI  towards  the  end  of  the  financial  year,  especially  the
expansion  of  rolling  settlement  from  July  2,  2001  to  include  all  scrips  which  hitherto  had  the
facility  of  trading  with  deferral  products  and  further  expansion  of  the  list  to  cover  all  traded
securities by January 2002, removal of all deferral products from July 2, 2001, expansion of the
scope of derivative trading to include stock options, are changes which will significantly alter
the  market  micro  structure  in  the  future.  The  shift  from  traditional  account  period  settlement
system  to  rolling  settlement,  alone  is  a  measure,  which  marks  an  important  change  for  any
market. While in the short term this measure could adversely impact the liquidity of the market
and result in the fall of turnover on the stock exchanges, in the long run, the beneficial impact
of  all  these  measures  put  together  will  be  felt.  However,  for  sustainability,  acceptance  and
success of these measures, market would need to have additional facilities which are normally
and  widely  available  in  developed  and  several  developing  markets  wherever  such  changes  in
market  structure  have  been  successfully  implemented.  Some  of  these  facilities  would  include
wide  availability  of  electronic  fund  transfer  in  all  metros  and  in  towns  and  cities  which  have
terminals of BSE, NSE and other exchanges, margin trading in line with international practices,
Continuous net settlement. These measures will not only ensure availability and flow of funds
into the market in a regulated and transparent manner but also help reduce transaction cost.

In addition to the above measures, the Government had also announced that all stock exchanges
would be corporatised wherein ownership, trading rights and management would be segregated.
corporation with these objectives would significantly alter the traditional structure of the stock
exchanges in the country. It will also have an impact on the functioning of the stock exchanges
and is likely to lead to consolidation of stock exchanges as has been noticed in other markets.
Steps would have to be taken by the SEBI to ensure successful implementation of corporatisation
programme.

With the above objectives in view, in the short and medium term the SEBI intends to take the
following initiatives. Some of these initiatives would need to be taken in coordination with the
RBI.

 Draw up a plan for successful implementation of corporatisation and demutualisation of all

stock exchanges.



Implement successfully the programme of rolling settlement;

 Coordinate  with  RBI  for  speedy  implementation  of  electronic  funds  transfers  across  the

country in a time bound manner;

64

Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annual Report 2000-2001



Introduction of margin trading facility as available in several developed markets;

 Expand the scope of derivative trading by taking measures to encourage trading in existing

derivative products and introduce new derivative products;



Introduce  VaR  based  margin  system  for  the  cash  market  and  gross  margining  of  all
transactions;

 Streamline  further  the  risk  management  system  across  market  segments  i.e.  cash  and

derivatives market;





Introduce unique client code on all stock exchanges for all market participants and investors;

Introduce market wide index based circuit filters;

 Review  constantly  the  existing  depository  system  and  take  measures  to  further  streamline
and  simplify  the  procedures  for  the  benefit  of  investors  and  market  participants  and  also
introduce further safe guards to protect the interest of investors;

 Take steps for retail participation in Government securities market through trading of such

securities in stock exchanges;

 Take steps to encourage securitisation of assets;

 Further enhance financial disclosures, both initial and continuing disclosure requirements;







Introduce delivery versus payment system by enhancing the efficiency of funds settlement;

Introduce web based system for collecting and disseminating corporate information;

Improve  disclosure  standards  for  mutual  funds  and  introduce  further  safeguards  to  protect
interest of investors.

Further  strengthening  the  surveillance  system  in  the  stock  exchanges  by  implementing  the
stockwatch system in the stock exchanges.

65

