PART  FOUR:  REGULATORY  CHANGES

Part Four: Regulatory Changes

1. REGULATORY  DEVELOPMENTS

I. Amendments to Acts

etc.,  mandatory  from  the  date  as  may
be specified by SEBI.

A) Amendments to the SEBI Act/ SC(R)A/

III. Amendments to the Existing

Depositories  Act

Regulations

i)

The  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)
Amendment  Act,  2007

i)

in 

section 

The  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)
Act,  1956  (SCRA)  was  amended  by  the
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Amendment
Act,  2007  (No.  27  of  2007)  on  May  28,  2007
whereby  a  new  sub-clause  (ie)  has  been
inserted 
2(h)  declaring
securitisation  certifications  or  instruments
issued by a special purpose distinct entity as
securities.  Further,  a  new  section  17  A  was
also  inserted  to  provide  that  such  securities
can  be  offered  to  the  public  or  listed  on  any
RSE, if the issue fulfils such eligibility criteria
and compliance with such other requirements
as  may  be  specified  by  regulations  made  by
SEBI.  Pursuant  to  above,  SEBI  has  issued
draft  regulations  as  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and
Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)
Regulations, 2007 for public comments.

II. New  Regulations

i)

a)

SEBI  (Certification  of  Associated
Persons  in  the  Securities  Markets)
Regulations,  2007

The  SEBI  (Certification  of  Associated
Persons  in  the  Securities  Markets)
Regulations,  2007,  were  notified  on
October  17,  2007  vide  F.  No.  11/LC/GN/
207/4567.  The  Regulations  seek  to  make
the certification of employees and agents
working  with  the  intermediaries  in
certain  posts  such  as  the  persons  who
deals  or  interacts  with  the  investors,
issuers or clients of intermediaries; deals
with  assets  or  funds  of  investor  or
clients;  handles  redressal  of  investor
grievances;  and 
for
compliance  of  any  rules  or  regulations

responsible 

Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Manner  of  Service  of  Summons  and
Notices 
the  Board)
(Amendment)  Regulations,  2007,
notified on 23.04.2008

issued  by 

The  amendment  Regulations  inter-alia
provides  that  notices  may  be  served  by
delivering  or  tendering  to  that  person  or  his
duly  authorised  agent.  Further,  apart  from
registered  post,  speed  post  and  courier
services,  provision  had  also  been  made  to
avail  the  electronic  mode  of  transmission  of
documents  such  as  fax  message  and
electronic  mail  services.  In  case  of  service
upon  stock  broker,  the  same  may  be  served
through  the  concerned  stock  exchanges.  In
case  of  failure  of  all  these  mode  of  services
of  notice,  provision  had  been  made  to  serve
the  same  by  posting  such  notices  on  the
Board’s  website,  in  addition  to  provision
for  affixing  on  the  conspicuous  part  of
premises.

ii) Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Amendment)

Funds) 

(Mutual 
Regulations,  2007

The  amendment  Regulations  were
notified  on  May  29,  2007,  which  capped  the
filling  fees  for  offer  documents  for  a  new
fund offer at a maximum of Rs. one crore.

iii) Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and
Takeovers)  (Amendment)  Regulations,
2007

The  amendment  Regulations  were
notified  on  May  29,  2007,  which  capped  the
fees,  to  be  filed  with  draft  offer  documents
filed  under  the  regulations,  at  a  maximum
of Rs. 10 crore for offer above Rs. 5,000 crore.

115

Annual Report 2007-08

iv) Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Buy-Back  of  Securities)  (Amendment)
Regulations,  2007

The  amendment  Regulations  were
notified  on  May  29,  2007,  which  capped  the
fees, to be filed with draft letter of offer filed
under  the  regulations,  at  a  maximum  of
Rs. 10 crore for offer above Rs.5,000 crore.

v)

Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Merchant  Bankers)  (Amendment)
Regulations,  2007

The  amendment  Regulations  were
notified  on  May  29,  2007,  which  revised  the
filing  fees  in  case  of  public  issue  and  rights
issue to a flat charge of Rs. 10 crore for public
issues  above  Rs.  25,000  crore  and  to  flat
charge  of  Rs.  25  lakh  for  rights  issue  above
Rs. 500 crore.

vi) SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)

(Amendment)  Regulations,  2007

The  amendment  Regulations  were
notified  on  October  10,  2007,  whereby  a
proviso  to  the  existing  clause  (c)  of  the
Regulation  7  was  inserted  enabling  a
depository  to  carry  on  any  activity  assigned
by  either  the  Central  Government  or  by  any
regulator in the financial sector. Such activity
may  be  carried  out  by  such  depository  only
through  the  establishment  of  Strategic
Business  Unit  with  the  prior  approval  of  the
Board.

vii) Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Mutual  Funds)  (Second  Amendment)
Regulations,  2007

The  amendment  Regulations  were
notified on October 31, 2007, whereby a new
clause  (mn)  has  been  inserted  in  Regulation
2  which  defines  “index  fund  scheme”  as  to
mean  a  mutual  fund  scheme  that  invests  in
securities in the same proportion as an index
of securities was introduced. This amendment
further  substituted  sub-Regulation  (4)  of  the

Regulation  44  with  new  sub-Regulation  (4)
enabling  a  mutual  fund  to  lend  and  borrow
the  security  within  the  frame  work  for  short
selling specified by SEBI.

viii) SEBI  (FII)  (Second  Amendment)

Regulations,  2007

The  amendment  Regulations  were
notified  on  December  31,  2007,  which
allowed  short  selling  by  the  FIIs  in
accordance  with  the  framework  specified  by
the  Board  in  this  regard.  It  further  enabled
the  FIIs  and  sub-accounts  to  lend  or  borrow
the  securities  in  accordance  with  the
framework specified by SEBI in this regard.

ix) SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)

(Amendment)  Regulations,  2008

The  amendment  Regulations  were
notified  on  March  17,  2008,  which  provided
for  the  shareholding  such  as  sponsor  should
at all times hold at least 51per cent shares in
the  depository,  no  person  either  singly  or
together  with  persons  acting  in  concert,  can
hold  more  than  five  per  cent  of  the  equity
share capital in the depository, the combined
holding  of  all  persons  resident  outside  India
in  the  equity  share  capital  of  the  depository
shall  not  exceed,  at  any  time,  49  per  cent  of
its  total  equity  share  capital,  subject  further
to the following:







the  combined  holdings  of  such  persons
acquired  through  the  foreign  direct
investment route is not more than 26 per
cent  of  the  total  equity  share  capital,  at
any time;

the  combined  holdings  of  foreign
institutional  investors  is  not  more  than
23  per  cent  of  the  total  equity  share
capital, at any time;

no foreign institutional investor acquires
shares  of  the  depository  otherwise  than
through the secondary market; and

116

Part Four: Regulatory Changes

no  foreign  institutional  investor  should
have  any  representation  in  the  Board  of
directors of the depository.

b)

Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Custodian  of  Securities)  Regulations,
1996



x)

SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees)  (Amendment)
Regulations,  2008

The amendment Regulations which were
notified  on  March  31,  2008,  sought  to  revise
the  fees  which  were  payable  to  SEBI  under
per 
various 
the
Regulations 
recommendations  of 
committee
constituted by SEBI to revisit the existing fee
structure of SEBI. The following amendments
were  made  to  reduce  the  fees  chargeable
under  earlier  Regulations:

as 
the 

a)

Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Buy-back  of  Securities)  Regulations,
1998.

Amendment  Act  revised  the  fee  to  be
charged under the Regulation as provided in
Table 4.1:

Table 4.1: Revised Fee Structure: Buy-back

of  Securities

Offer  size

Amount of fee (Rs.)

1

2

Less than or equal to One lakh rupees
ten crore rupees.

(Rs.  1,00,000).

More than ten crore
rupees, but less than
or equal to one
thousand  crore
rupees.

More than one
thousand  crore
rupees, but less
than or equal to
five  thousand
crore  rupees.

More than five
thousand  crore
rupees.

0.125 per cent of the offer
size.

One crore twenty five lakh
rupees  (Rs.  1,25,00,000)
plus 0.03125 per cent of
the portion of the offer size
in excess of one thousand
crore  rupees
(Rs. 1000,00,00,000 )

A flat charge of three crore
rupees (Rs. 3, 00, 00,000).

This amendment revised the annual fees
for  Custodian  of  Securities  to  Rs.  10  lakh  or
0.0005  per  cent  of  the  assets  under  custody
of such custodian, whichever is higher.

c)

Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Merchant  Bankers)  Regulations,  1992

Vide  this  amendment  the  fee  to  be
charged  under  the  Merchant  Bankers
Regulations  has  been  revised  as  provided  in
Table 4.2:

d)

Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996:

This amendment revised the registration
fees  to  Rs.  25  lakh  and  filing  fees  for  offer
document  to  0.005  per  cent  of  the  amount
raised  in  the  new  fund  offer,  subject  to
minimum  of  Rs.  1  lakh  and  maximum  of
Rs. 50  lakh.

e)

Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and
Takeovers)  Regulations,  1997.

The  Amendment  regulation  revised  the
fee  to  be  charged  under  the  Regulation  as
provided in Table 4.3:-

f)

Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulations,
1996 –

This amendment revised the registration
fee for Venture Capital Fund to Rs. five lakh.

IV. Other  Notifications

i.

On  July  05,  2007,  vide  notification  no.
SEBI/LE/98096/2007,  SEBI  withdrew  the
recognition  granted  to  the  Saurashtra
and  Kutch  Stock  Exchange  Limited  by
notifying the order.

ii. On August 29, 2007, vide notification no.
F.No.  SEBI/LE/102158/2007,  Pune  Stock
Exchange  was  granted  renewal  of

117

Annual Report 2007-08

Table 4.2: Revised Fee Structure: Merchant Bankers

Size of the issue, including intended

retention  of  over  subscription

Amount / Rate of fees

1

2

A. Public  Issues

Less than or equal to ten crore rupees.

A flat charge of twenty five thousand rupees (Rs.25,000).

More than ten crore rupees, but less
than or equal to five thousand crore rupees.

0.025 per cent of the issue size.

More than five thousand crore rupees,
but less than or equal to twenty five
thousand  crore  rupees.

One crore twenty five lakh rupees (Rs.1,25,00,000) plus
0.00625 per cent of the portion of the issue size in
excess of five thousand crore rupees (Rs.5000,00,00,000).

More than twenty five thousand crore rupees.

A flat charge of three crore rupees (Rs.3,00,00,000).

B. Rights  Issues

Less than or equal to ten crore rupees.

A flat charge of twenty five thousand rupees (Rs.25,000).

More than ten crores rupees and less than
or equal to five hundred crore rupees.

0.005 per cent. of the issue size.

More than five hundred crore rupees.

A flat charge of five lakh rupees (Rs.5,00,000).

Table 4.3: Revised Fee Structure: Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers

Offer  size

1

Amount of fee (Rs.)

2

Less than or equal to ten crore rupees.

One lakh rupees (Rs. 1, 00,000).

More than ten crore rupees, but less than
or equal to one thousand crore rupees.

0.125 per cent of the offer size.

More than one thousand crore rupees,
but less than or equal to five thousand
crore  rupees.

One crore twenty five lakh rupees (Rs. 1,25,00,000) plus
0.03125 per cent of the portion of the offer size in excess of
one  thousand  crore  rupees  (Rs.1000,00,00,000).

More than five thousand crore rupees.

A flat charge of three crore rupees (Rs. 3,00,00,000).

recognition  for  a  period  of  one  year
commencing from September 02, 2007.

iii. On September 03, 2007, vide notification
no.  SEBI/LE/102396/2007,  SEBI  notified
the  order  refusing  the  grant  of  renewal
of  recognition  of  Magadh  Stock
Exchange  Limited.

iv. On September 24, 2007, vide notification
no.  SEBI/MRD/DSA/104459/2007,  SEBI
notified  the  appointed  date  for  various
stock  exchanges  by  which  they  had  to
complete  the  corporatisation  and
demutualization 
as
hereunder:-

processes 

Table 4.4: Appointed  Date 

for  Stock

Exchanges

Stock  Exchange

2

UPSE

Sl.
No.

1

1.

Appointed

date

3

21.08.2007

2. Madras  Stock  Exchange Limited

25.08.2007

Cochin  Stock  Exchange Limited

25.08.2007

BgSE

27.08.2007

Gauhati  Stock  Exchange  Limited 27.08.2007

CSE

DSE

28.08.2007

28.08.2007

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

118

v. On December 31, 2007, vide notification
no. SEBI/MRD/DSA/111917/2007 dates of
completion  of  corporatisation  and
demutualisation of Pune Stock Exchange
Ltd.  and  Madhya  Pradesh  Stock
Exchange  Ltd.  were  notified  as  August
25,  2007  and  August  28,  2007,
respectively. These dates were appointed
as  “appointed  date”  for  the  aforesaid
exchanges.

F.No. 

vi. On  January  03,  2008,  vide  notification
no. 
SEBI/LE/112072/08(E),
recognition  was  granted  to  Vadodra
Stock Exchange for a period of one year
commencing from January 04, 2008.

vii. On March 31, 2008, vide notification no.
F.No. 11/LC/GN/2008/21670 under clause
(u)  of  sub-section  (1)  of  section  2  of  the
Securitisation  and  Reconstruction  of
Financial  Assets  and  Enforcement  of
Security  Interest Act,  2002,  (SARFAESI),
it was notified by SEBI to consider non-
banking  financial  companies  (NBFCs),
registered  under  section  45-IA  of  the
Reserve  Bank  of  India,  1934,  as  a
qualified  institutional  buyer  for  the
purposes  of  the  SARFAESI  Act,  which
satisfy  following  conditions  :

a)

b)

systemically  important  non-deposit
taking  NBFCs  with  asset  size  of  Rs.  100
crore and above; and

other  non-deposit  taking  NBFCs  which
have asset size of Rs. 50 crore and above
and  “Capital  to  Risk-weighted  Assets
Ratio”  (CRAR)  of  10  per  cent  as
applicable  to  non-deposit  taking  NBFCs
as per the last audited balance sheet.

V. Consent  Order

Consent  order  scheme  was  introduced
by  SEBI  on  April  20,  2007.  The  powers  are
derived by SEBI for the same under the SEBI
Act  and  Depositories  Act.  The  details  are
provided in Box 4.1.

Part Four: Regulatory Changes

VI. Compounding  of  Offences

Under Section 621 A of Companies Act,
the Company Law Board (CLB) is empowered
to compound the offences under the said Act.
On producing the order of CLB, the court
before which the case is pending discharges
the accused. Similarly, under Section 24A of
SEBI Act, power to compound the case is
conferred on the court before which the case is
pending.  Similar  provisions  are  there  in
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act and
Depositories Act. Under the said provisions,
the accused persons can make application in
this regard to the court, which is decided after
considering the facts and circumstances of the
case and the reply filed by SEBI.

For ensuring uniformity in the matters,
SEBI specified the procedure to be followed on
receipt of the application for compounding of
offences under the securities laws, and the
factors  to  be  taken  into  account  while
considering such applications. Accordingly, a
High Powered Advisory Committee (HPAC)
headed by a former Judge of Bombay High
Court, Justice H. Suresh was constituted for
examining the compounding applications and
making appropriate recommendations to the
Board.  On 
said
recommendations by the Board, reply is filed
in  the  concerned  court  thereby  either
opposing the application or agreeing to it
subject to the conditions specified by HPAC.

approval  of 

the 

2.

I.

i.

SIGNIFICANT  COURT
PRONOUNCEMENTS

Supreme  Court

Civil Appeal 1672/2006- G.L.Sultania &
Others. vs. SEBI & others; Civil Appeal
1704/2006-  H.L.  Somany  &  Others.  Vs.
SEBI & others; Civil Appeal 1740/2006-
R.K.  Somany  &  Others.  Vs.  SEBI  &
others

The  Supreme  court  held  that  the
valuation  of  shares  is  not  only  a  question  of

119

Annual Report 2007-08

Box 4.1: Consent Order

The  Parliament  of  India  recognises  the  powers  of  SEBI  to  pass  consent  orders  under  the  SEBI
Act  1992  and  the  Depositories  Act  1996.  The  powers  are  derived  by  SEBI  under  Section  15T  of  the
SEBI  Act  1992  and  section  23  A  of  the  Depositories  Act.  Further,  section  24A  of  the  SEBI  Act,
section 23N of the SCRA and section 22A of the Depositories Act also permit composition of offences.
However, consent orders cannot be construed as waiver of statutory powers by the SEBI Board.

Consent  orders  are  passed  by  Competent  Authority/SAT/Court  where  proceedings  are  pending,
subject to the party taking remedial action and on such further consent terms including consent bars
or  settlement  penalties  as  the  Competent  Authority/SAT/Court  where  proceedings  are  pending,  may
find  appropriate  in  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  case.  Consent  orders  can  be  passed  either  a)
admitting guilt or b) without admitting or denying guilt. Where an order is passed without admitting
or  denying  guilt,  such  person  shall  never  represent  subsequently  that  he/she  is  not  guilty.  In  the
event  such  a  representation  is  made,  the  enforcement  process  may  be  reopened.  Similar  appropriate
terms will be sought by SEBI from Court where the prosecution is pending.

Consent  Order  may  be  passed  at  any  stage  after  probable  cause  of  violation  has  been  found.
However,  in  the  event  of  a  serious  and  intentional  violation,  the  process  should  not  be  taken  up  till
the  fact  finding  process  is  completed  whether  by  way  of  investigation  or  otherwise.  Compounding  of
Offence  can  take  place  after  filing  criminal  complaint  by  SEBI.  Where  a  criminal  complaint  has  not
yet been filed but is envisaged, the process for consent orders will be followed.

The consent orders are binding on the party and failure to obey consent orders invites appropriate

action under the respective statute, revival of the pending administrative/civil action.

Where a matter is pending before SAT/Court, the same consent process is to be undertaken and
the  draft  consent  terms  recommended  by  the  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee  and  approved  by
the  panel  of  two  Whole  Time  Members  is  to  be  filed  before  the  SAT/  Court.  The  SAT/Court  may  if
found  fit,  pass  an  order  in  terms  of  the  consent  terms  and  subject  to  such  further  terms  as  the  SAT/
Court  may  find  appropriate  in  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  case.If  SEBI  rejects  the  offer  of
settlement,  the  person  making  the  offer  shall  be  notified  of  the  same  and  the  offer  of  settlement  shall
be deemed to be withdrawn.

fact,  but  also  raises  technical  and  complex
issues which may be appropriately left to the
wisdom  of  the  experts,  having  regard  to  the
many imponderables which enter the process
of valuation of shares.

The  parameters  laid  down  in  the
Regulation  20  (5)  of  SEBI  Takeover
Regulations are by no means exhaustive. The
Regulation  itself  does  not  prescribe  the
weightage  to  be  assigned  to  different
enumerated parameters. The weightage to be
given  to  different  factors  that  go  into  the

process  of  valuation  must  be  left  to  the
wisdom,  experience  and  knowledge  of  the
experts  in  the  field  of  share  valuation.  Such
being  the  method  of  share  valuation  which
involves 
objective
considerations, there is considerable scope of
difference of opinion even amongst experts.

subjective 

and 

Regulation 20 (5) is meant to provide
guidance to arrive at a fair value of shares
objectively which the acquirer is expected to
offer  to  the  shareholders  of  the  target
company. The offer price shall be determined

120

Part Four: Regulatory Changes

fictitious  names  for  cornering  the  retail
proportion  of  the  IPO  shares  which  would
have  otherwise  gone  to  genuine  retail
applicants,  and  had  thus  abused  the  IPO
allotment  process.

SEBI  passed  an  interim  order  dated
January  12,  2006,  directing  Mr.  Manojedev
Seksaria  to  refrain  from  buying,  selling  or
dealing  in  the  securities  market,  either
directly  or  indirectly,  till  further  directions.
The  said  order  was  posted  on  the  SEBI
website  and  was  also  communicated  to  the
media through press release.

However,  M/s  Brics  Securities  Ltd.  and
M/s  ASK  Financial  Services  Ltd.  executed
transactions  for  their  client  Manojedev
Seksaria.  The  Adjudicating  Officer  (AO)
imposed a penalty of Rs. 10 lakh each against
M/s  BRICS  Securities  and  M/s  ASK
Financials.

Aggrieved by the order of the AO, both
appellants  filed  separate  appeals  before  the
Hon’ble  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal  (SAT).
By order dated October 29, 2007, the Hon’ble
SAT  dismissed  the  said  appeals.  In  the  case
of  BRICS  Securities,  the  Hon’ble  SAT  held
that the broker had defaulted in not carrying
out  due  diligence  by  accessing  the  website
of  SEBI  or  the  NSE  which  had  clearly
published  the  restraint  order.  The  act  of
BRICS Securities in not accessing the website
amounted  to  culpable  negligence  which
resulted  in  a  barred  entity  being  permitted
to trade in the securities market.

In  the  case  of  ASK  Financials,  the
Hon’ble  SAT  pointed  out  that  ASK  should
have sought clarification from the authorities
regarding  the  barred  entity’s  name  and
details  before  it  had  executed  the  trades  on
behalf of Seksaria. Further, SAT held that the
factors  to  consider  while  levying  penalty
under  Section  15J  are  not  exhaustive  and  it
is open to the adjudicating officer to take into
consideration such other relevant facts which

by the acquirer and the merchant banker
taking into account the factors mentioned
therein. The Board as a regulator is not bound
to accept the offer price which is required to be
incorporated in the public offer, if it suspects
that the offer price does not truly represent the
fair  value  of  the  shares  determined  in
accordance with Regulation 20 (5).

There  is  nothing  in  the  Regulations
which requires SEBI to pass a reasoned order
for  all  it  does  as  a  regulator.  SEBI  must
approve  the  price  offered  unless  it  is  shown
that  the  valuation  arrived  at  must  be  faulted
for  non-compliance  with  the  regulations
which  lay  down  the  norms  and  parameters
which must be observed. In the present case,
SEBI  had  acted  in  a  reasonable  manner  and
in  consonance  with  the  regulations.  Only
after  considering  all  relevant  matters  it
approved  the  offer  price  to  be  incorporated
in the public offer document.

It  was  also  held  that  “unless  it  is  shown
that some well accepted principle of valuation has
been  departed  from  without  any  reasons,  or  that
the approach adopted is patently erroneous or that
the  relevant  facts  has  not  be  considered  by  the
valuer  or  that  the  valuation  was  made  on  a
fundamental  erroneous  basis  or  that  the  valuer
adopted  a  demonstrably  wrong  approach  or  a
fundamental error going to the root of the matter,
this  court  would  not  interfere  with  the  valuation
of the expert.”

In  result,  the  appeal  was  dismissed

finding no merit in the case.

ii. Civil  Appeal  No.  D3753/2008-  ASK
Financial  Services  Ltd.  vs.  SEBI,  Civil
Appeal  No.  D5971/2008-  BRICS
Securities  Ltd.  vs.  SEBI,  before  the
Hon’ble Supreme Court of India

Investigations  in  the  case  of  IDFC
revealed  that  certain  entities  had  adopted  a
modus  operandi  of  making  applications  in

121

Annual Report 2007-08

may  go  to  determine  the  gravity  of  the
default committed by the delinquent.

The  appellants,  through  separate
appeals,  approached  the  Hon’ble  Supreme
Court  against  the  decision  of  the  Hon’ble
SAT.  The  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  dismissed
both the appeals.

iii. SLP  Civil  No.  5197/2008-  Saurashtra
Kutch  Stock  Exchange  Ltd.  vs.  SEBI,
before  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  of
India

SEBI  vide  Order  dated  July  05,  2007,
withdrew  the  recognition  granted  to  the
appellant,  Saurashtra  Kutch  Stock  Exchange
Ltd.  (SKSE)  under  section  5  of  the  Securities
Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956.  The  said
SEBI order was challenged before the Hon’ble
SAT  wherein  the  SAT  upheld  the  impugned
order  and  dismissed  the  appeal.  Upon
rejection  of  the  application  for  renewal  by
SEBI,  SKSE  filed  a  special  civil  application
before  the  Hon’ble  High  Court  of  Gujarat
held  that  the  SAT  was  empowered  to  hear
the appeal under Section 15T of the SEBI Act,
1992 and also under Section 23L of the SCRA.
The  exercise  of  power  by  the  Whole-Time
member  of  SEBI  is  not  only  under  Section  5
of  the  SCRA  but  also  under  Section  11  and
Section  19  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992  read  with
Government  of  India  Notification  dated
September 13, 1994, issued under Section 29A
of  the  SCRA.  Since  the  SEBI  order  is  a
composite one and since SEBI may in writing
delegate  its  power  to  any  member  of  the
Board,  even  an  order  withdrawing
recognition  under  Section  5  of  the  SC(R)A
cannot be said to be unjust or arbitrary or de
hors  the  provisions  of  the  Statute.  Therefore,
the  contention  of  SKSE,  that  the  remedy  of
appeal  to  the  Tribunal  was  not  available  to
it,  was  not  accepted  by  the  Hon’ble  High
Court.  Further,  the  Hon’ble  Court  held  that

as  against  the  order  passed  by  the  Hon’ble
SAT,  the  only  remedy  available  was  to
approach the apex court.

The appellant preferred an appeal before
the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  against  the
decision  of  the  Hon’ble  High  Court  of
Gujarat.  The  said  appeal  too,  was  dismissed
by the Hon’ble Supreme Court.

iv) Civil  Appeal  No.  4164  of  2006  with
Civil  Appeal  Nos.  4182,  4183,  4186,
4189,  4191,  4204,  4205  &  4206  of  2006:
Ketan  Parekh  &  Others  Vs  SEBI  –
Before  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court.  –
Order dated May 18, 2007.

SEBI  vide  its  order  dated  December  12,
2003  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  upon  it
u/s  11B  and  11(4)  (b)  of  SEBI  Act  read  with
regulation  11  and  13  of  SEBI  (PFUTP)
Regulations,  2003  had  prohibited  Shri  Ketan
Parekh,  Kartik  K  Parekh,Classic  Credit  Ltd.,
Panther  Fincap  and  Management  Services
Ltd.  Luminant  Investment  Ltd.,  Chitrakut
Computers  Pvt.  Ltd.,  Saimangal  Investrade
Ltd., Classic Infin and Panther Investrade Ltd.
from  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in  securities
in any manner directly or indirectly and also
debarred  them  from  associating  with  the
securities market for a period of 14 years.

The  aforesaid  entities  filed  separate
appeals against the said order of SEBI which
were heard together whereupon SAT vide its
order  dated  July  14,  2006  observed  that  the
appellants  had  rigged  the  market  in  a  big
way  and  the  penalty  imposed  on  them  is
quiet reasonable having regard to the gravity
of the charges proved, SAT agreed with SEBI
and dismissed all the appeals in toto.

Aggrieved  by  the  said  order  of  SAT,  all
these  nine  entities  had  preferred  appeals
before  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court.  The
Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  after  hearing  the
matter  dismissed  all  the  appeals  in  toto
holding  that  it  is  proved  that  Ketan  Parekh

122

Part Four: Regulatory Changes

the  matter  on  the  basis  of  the  consent
terms  arrived  at  between  SEBI  and  Rakesh
Agarwal.

vii) Sumedha  Fiscal  Services  Ltd.  Vs  SEBI
and  Ratnabali  Capital  Markets  Ltd.  vs.
SEBI

The  appellants  are  in  the  category  of
Merger/Amalgamation.  The  appellant  in  this
matter had initially filed an appeal before the
SAT  claiming  the  fee  continuity  benefit  as
envisaged in the circular dated September 30,
2002  issued  by  the  SEBI  since  the  appellant
had  merged  itself  into  another  entity.  The
said circular dated September 30, 2002, issued
by  the  SEBI  prescribes  that,  “Where  mergers/
amalgamations  are  carried  out  as  a  result  of
compulsion of law, fees would not have to be paid
afresh  by  the  resultant  transferee  entity  provided
that  majority  shareholders  of  such  transferor
entity  continue  to  hold  majority  shareholding  in
transferee  entity.  The  Exchange  would  have  to
enumerate  what  constitutes  “compulsion  of  law”
resulting  in  such  merger/  amalgamations,  for
consideration  of  SEBI.”

The  Hon’ble  SAT  had  dismissed  the
appeals  filed  by  the  appellants.  When  the
appeals have been preferred against the order
of  SAT,  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  had
dismissed  the  appeals  and  held,  “…....Under
circular  dated  September  30,  2002  what  SEBI
intends  to  say  is  that  fresh  turnover/registration
fees  would  not  be  payable  by  a  company  which
goes  for  amalgamation/merger  as  an  alternative
to  liquidation……..The  difference  between  the
amount  recorded  as  fresh  share  capital  issued  by
the transferee company on amalgamation and the
amount of share capital of the transferor company
to  be  reflected  in  the  Revenue  reserve  (s)  of  the
transferee company was the sole object behind the
amalgamation.  Therefore,  SEBI  was  right,  in  the
present  case,  in  refusing  to  give  the  benefit  of
exemption  to  the  transferee  companies…...”

and  associated  entities 
manipulation.

indulged 

in

v. Appeal  Nos.  502  and  544  of  2007  -
Triumph  International  Finance  India
Limited.  –  Order  dated  January  21,
2008.

SEBI  investigation  had  revealed  that
during  market  scam  all  the  KP  entities
manipulated  the  market  while  conducting
transactions  through  specified  set  of  their
own/associated  broking  entities.  Therefore,
after  conducting  enquiry  proceedings,  the
registration granted to Triumph International
Finance  India  Limited  as  stock  broker  was
cancelled  by  SEBI.  Aggrieved  by  this  order
Triumph  International  Finance  India  Limited
appealed  before  SAT  and  SAT  vide  its  order
dated  04.05.2007,  dismissed  the  appeal  and
upheld  the  cancellation  of  its  registration.
This  SAT  Order  was  challenged  before  the
Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  and  the Apex  Court
while  agreeing  with  SEBI  and  SAT  upheld
the cancellation of registration and dismissed
the  appeal.

vi. Appeal No 2 of 2004 – SEBI vs. Rakesh
Agarwal – order dated January 23, 2008.

SEBI vide order dated June 10, 2001, had
directed  Rakesh  Agarwal  to  deposit  Rs.  34
lakh  in  the  Investor  Protection  funds  of  BSE
and  NSE  for  violating  the  provisions  of  the
Insider  Trading  Regulations.  When  appealed
before  SAT,  it  set  aside  SEBI  order  and
aggrieved  by  the  same,  SEBI  filed  the
captioned appeal in the Supreme Court.

Meanwhile,  SEBI  came  out  with  the
circular  dated  April  20,  2007,  whereby  the
parties to the dispute can get the same settled
on  the  basis  of  the  consent  terms  arrived  at
between the parties.

The  apex  court  vide  its  order  dated
January  23,  2008,  was  pleased  to  dispose  off

123

Annual Report 2007-08

II. High Court

i) Writ  Petition  174/1998-  Harinarayan  G.
Bajaj  vs.  Union  of  India  &  others-
Before the Hon’ble Bombay High Court

The  above  Writ  Petition  was  filed
challenging  the  order  of  the  Appellate
Authority  dated  October  09,  1997,  whereby
the  Appellate  Authority  had  upheld  the
SEBI’s  order  dated  March  06,  1997.  SEBI  had
by  order  dated  March  06,  1997,  rejected  the
complaint filed by the petitioner holding that
indirect  acquisition  of  Sesa  Goa  Ltd.  by
Mitsui  &  Company  through  Finsider
International  Co.  Ltd.  (FINCO)  did  not
trigger the Takeover Code, 1994.

On  the  issue  of  maintainability,  the
Hon’ble Court held events which have taken
place  subsequent  to  the  presentation  of  the
W.P.  would  not  refrain  the  Court  from
addressing the key issue in the W.P.

The  concept  of  indirect  acquisition  of
shares  and  change  in  control  has  been
introduced  for  the  first  time  by  the  1997
Takeover  Regulations.

From  the  Bhagwati  Committee  Report,
it  is  evident  that  indirect  acquisitions  were
not covered by the 1994 Regulations, the 1994
Regulations  did  not  cover  the  transaction  in
the  present  case.  The  Committee  had
acknowledged  that  cases  such  as  the  present
one  were  not  covered  by 
the  1994
Regulations.

The acquisition of shares must be of the
target  company  not  only  formed  and
registered under the Companies Act, 1956 or
earlier  Companies  Act  but  shares  of  such
company  should  be  listed  on  a  stock
exchange  in  India,  for  the  provisions  of
Chapter  III  of  the  1994  Regulations  relating
to  Takeovers  to  become  applicable.  If  there
is  no  acquisition  of  shares  in  the  target
company the provisions of Chapter III of the
1994 Regulations do not get triggered.

The  1994  regulations  on  being  repealed
will  be  restricted  in  operation  as  provided
under  regulation  47  of  the  1997  regulations.
Regulation  47  of  1997  Regulations  nowhere
provide  for  retrospective  application  of  the
1997  Regulations.

ii) W.P.  No.  18384/2007-  Harikishore
Bhattad  &  Others  vs.  SEBI,  before  the
Hon’ble Andhra Pradesh High Court

As  per 

the  Corporatisation  and
Demutualisation  Scheme  approved  and
notified by SEBI for the erstwhile Hyderabad
Stock Exchange (HSE) under Section 4B(1) of
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  within
12  months  from  August  29,  2005  (date  of
publication  of  Notification),  the  HSE  had  to
either  by  fresh  issue  of  equity  shares  to  the
public  or  in  any  other  manner  specified  by
Regulations  made  by  SEBI,  ensure  that  at
least  51  per  cent  of  its  equity  share  capital  is
held  by  the  public  other  than  the  share
holders  having  trading  rights.  This  period
expired  on August  28,  2006.  By  invoking  the
proviso to Section 4-B (8), SEBI extended time
to  comply  with  the  demutualisation  process
within  the  next  12  months  i.e.  on  or  before
August  28,  2007.  However,  HSE  could  not
complete  the  process  of  demutualisation
before  August  28,  2007  and  therefore,  by
operation  of  law,  i.e.,  Section  5  (2)  of  the
SC(R)A,  the  recognition  stood  automatically
withdrawn w.e.f. August 29, 2007.

The members of the erstwhile HSE filed
a  writ  petition  contending  that  while  the
Scheme was notified on August 29, 2005, the
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Manner  of
Increasing 
and  Maintaining  Public
Shareholding in Recognised Stock Exchanges)
Regulations,  2006,  which  were  meant  for
implementing  the  Scheme  were  issued  only
on  November  13,  2006.  Further,  if  HSEL was
de-recognised, 
the  post-derecognition
procedure  had  not  been  contemplated  or
indicated  anywhere.  The  petitioners  hence
challenged  the  notification  of  de-recognition

124

Part Four: Regulatory Changes

III. Securities  Appellate  Tribunal

i.

Appeal  No.  97/2006-  Blue  Chip  Tex
Industries Vs. Bombay Stock Exchange
– Before Hon’ble SAT

The price of preferential shares is fixed
with reference to the “relevant date” which
has to be the date thirty days prior to the date
on which the meeting of the general body of
shareholders is convened in terms of section
81(1-A) of the Companies Act. It was further
observed that in the present case the relevant
date could have been either the one referred to
in the explanation to Para 4 of the guidelines
dated August 04, 1994 issued on preferential
issues or it could be a date thirty days prior to
the date on which the holder of the warrants
becomes entitled to apply for the said shares.
The Board of Directors are bound to inform
the shareholders the basis on which the price
of the shares arising out of warrants shall be
determined. Thus, the issuer company should
exercise the option of fixing the “relevant
date” in the meeting of the general body of
shareholders itself as that alone will give them
the basis of determining the price of those
shares. The “relevant date” cannot be fixed at
any  later  point  of  time.  In  preferential
allotment made under section 81 (1-A) of the
Companies  Act,  the  general  body  of
shareholders is excluded from that allotment
and therefore the law requires that the Board
of Directors must obtain their sanction by way
of a special resolution before such allotment is
made.

Having  obtained  the  authority  from  the
shareholders  on  the  basis  that  the  resultant
shares  would  be  allotted  to  the  preferential
allottees at the rate of Rs.14.63 per share, the
Board  of  Directors  is  not  justified  to  allot
those shares at the reduced price of Rs.10 per
share.  The  company  in  the  EGM  had  to  fix
the relevant date and that it did fix the same
as  the  date  being  thirty  days  before  the
meeting  of  the  shareholders  under  section
81(1-A)  of  the  Companies  Act  and  having

as being arbitrary, illegal and contrary to the
provisions of the SC(R)A, 1956.

The  Hon’ble  High  Court  did  not  accept
the reasons highlighted by the petitioners and
held  that  Section  5  (2)  of  the  Act  is  not
controlled  by  Section  4B  (8)  of  the  Act  and
Section 5 (2) of the Act being mandatory, the
same  would  be  operative.  Hence,  in  light  of
the same, the Hon’ble High Court upheld the
order  passed  by  SEBI  stating  that  it  was
neither  arbitrary  nor  contrary  to  the
provisions of the SC(R)A.

iii. Order  dated  July  13,  2007  in  W.P.  No.
14837  of  2007;  K.  Venkateshwaralu  vs.
SEBI  &  others.-  Before  the  High  Court
of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad.

In this writ petition the petitioner had
prayed for issuance of writ of mandamus to the
Board to initiate an enquiry in the alleged
price manipulation in the scrip of M/s Unitech
Ltd. and to file a report into the High Court.

The Court inter-alia observed as under :

“….Merely  because  there  is  fall  in  the
price of shares, there cannot be any automatic
inference  that  same  is  on  account  of
manipulation  by  the  Company,  Lanco
Infratech  as  alleged  by  the  Petitioner.  The
share  price  will  depend  upon  many
circumstances  and  if  one  invests  in  the  stock
market, he has to take risk of the fluctuations
in  the  share  prices.  Merely  because  the  price
of  the  share  had  fallen  subsequently,  there
cannot  be  any  inference  of  manipulation.
………..  As  such,  in  absence  of  bringing  to
the  notice  of  the  first  respondent-Board,  any
specific  information  of  manipulation  by  the
second  respondent-Company,  there  is
absolutely  no  basis  for  the  petitioner  to
approach  this  Court,  by  way  of  this  petition
filed  under Article  226  of  the  Constitution  of
India,  for  directions,  to  investigate  in  the
matter.  The  Writ  Petition  is  totally  devoid  of
merits and is accordingly dismissed.”

125

Annual Report 2007-08

done  so,  it  was  not  open  to  the  Board  of
Directors  to  change  that  date  subsequently
as  that  would  alter  the  basis  of  determining
the  price  of  the  converted  shares.  Merely
because  the  company  had  the  option  at  the
time  of  EGM  would  not 
justify  the
subsequent  change.  This  is  clearly  contrary
to  the  mandate  given  by  the  shareholders  in
the  EGM  besides  being  contrary  to  the
guidelines.  It  was  held  that  the  Board  was
right  in  observing  that  the  company  could
call  for  the  remaining  amount  of  Rs.4.63  per
share  from  such  allottees  to  make  the
preferential shares eligible for listing.

ii. Appeal  No.  137/2006  -  Mathew  Easow
Vs. SEBI, before the Hon’ble Securities
Appellate  Tribunal

SEBI  vide  Order  dated  September  26,
2006, imposed a penalty of Rs.20 lakh against
Mathew  Easow,  an  analyst,  for  providing
misleading  tips  to  the  investors  through
CNBC  TV  Channel  and 
its  portal
www.moneycontrol.com  thereby  violating
Regulation  4  (2)  (f)  of  SEBI  (Prohibition  of
Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices
relating  to  Securities  Market)  Regulations,
2003.  The  primary  finding  against  Mathew
Easow  was  that  he  had  been  advising  the
market  to  buy  certain  stocks  while,  he
himself, had taken contrary positions.

An  appeal  was  filed  by  Mathew  Easow
against  the  order  of  the Adjudicating  Officer
before  the  Hon’ble  SAT.  The  Tribunal  set
aside  the  order  passed  by  the  Adjudicating
Officer stating that the latter had misread the
investment  recommendations  made  by  the
appellant. The Hon’ble SAT observed that the
recommendations  made  by  the  appellant
were  not  only  a  ‘buy’  recommendation  and
that  a  ‘sell’  recommendation  was  inherent  in
it.  Also,  the  Tribunal  held  that  the
Adjudicating  Officer  had  failed  to  note  that
the  appellant  had  only  sold  a  part  of  his
portfolio  and  not  the  whole  of  it.  The  SAT
disagreed  with 
the

findings  of 

the 

Adjudicating  Officer  that  the  appellant  had
taken  an  opposite  trading  position  to  what
had  been  recommended  by  him  to  the
investors  at  large  or  that  he  had  misled  the
investors 
investment
recommendations.  Further,  the  SAT  imposed
costs of Rs. one lakh on SEBI.

through 

his 

SEBI  has  challenged  the  SAT  order
before  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court.  The
Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  has  stayed  the  costs
imposed on SEBI and the appeal is pending.

iii. Appeal  No.188/2004  -  Millennium
Equities  (India)  Pvt.  Ltd.  vs.  SEBI,
before the Hon’ble Securities Appellate
Tribunal

SEBI  vide  Order  dated  September  13,
2004, suspended the certificate of registration
granted  to  Millennium  Equities  (I)  Pvt.  Ltd.,
for  a  period  of  six  months  for  indulging  in
market  manipulation  by 
executing
synchronized transactions in the scrip of DSQ
Software.

The  Hon’ble  SAT  vide  Order  dated
November  29,  2006,  set  aside  the  order
passed  by  SEBI.  The  SAT  reached  a
conclusion  that  matching  of  trades  in  price,
quality and time did not lead to a conclusion
that  the  stock  broker  had  knowledge  of
fictitious  trades  being  executed  between
buyer and seller. The SAT also concluded that
SEBI needed to have some material on record
other  than  the  trade  logs  in  order  to  infer
such  knowledge  on  the  part  of  the  stock
broker and hence set aside the order of SEBI.

SEBI preferred an appeal to the Hon’ble
Supreme  Court  challenging  the  order  passed
by  the  Hon’ble  SAT.  The  appeal  has  been
admitted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court.

iv. Appeal  No.55/2007-  Alok  Ketan  vs.
SEBI,  before  the  Hon’ble  Securities
Appellate  Tribunal

In this case, the appellant transferred the
letter  of  allotment  of  the  shares  of  Padmini

126

Part Four: Regulatory Changes

appellant  that  he  violated  the  provisions  of
Regulations  4(1),  (2)  (a),  (b)  (e),  (n)  of  SEBI
(Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade
Practices  Relating  To  Securities  Market)
Regulations,  2003.  As  the  charges  stood
established, AO imposed a penalty of Rs. five
lakh  on  the  appellant.  In  appeal,  SAT  found
that  appellant  and  four  clients  had  been
executing  trades  among  themselves  in  the
scrip  of  RMIL.  SAT  held  that  matching  buy
and  sell  orders  were  placed  by  them  on  the
screen  of  the  Exchange  and  these  orders
matched  in  all  respects  i.e.  in  quantity,  time,
price  and  disclosure  volumes  on  the  screen-
SAT  further  held  that  the  amount  of  penalty
that  could  be  levied  U/s  15  HA  of  SEBI  Act
1992  can  be  Rs.  25  crores  or  three  times  the
amount  of  profit  made  out  of  such  trades,
whichever  is  higher.  Tribunal  was  satisfied
that  appellant  along  with  aforesaid  four
clients  had  executed  matching  trades  for  the
purpose of creating artificial volumes without
intending  to  transfer  beneficial  ownership  in
the traded scrip. Vide order dated August 20,
2007, SAT dismissed the appeal.

vii. Appeal  No.  131  of  2006  –  Gautam  N.
Jhaveri,  Sole  Proprietor  of  M/s  Rajesh
N. Jhaveri Vs. SEBI

SEBI  carried  out  investigations  in  the
trading  in  the  scrip  of  the  RMIL  for  the
period  from  March  03,  2003  to  July  07,  2003.
Investigations  revealed  that  the  appellant
traded  in  the  scrip  of  the  RMIL  from  May
27,  2003  to  July  07,2003  through  his  broker
Grishma  Securities  Pvt  Ltd.  with  one
Nrupesh  C.  Shah  who  in  turn  was  acting
through  his  broker  Anil  Mistry.  Both  the
appellant  and  Nrupesh  C.  Shah  carried  on
circular trading in the scrip of the RMIL and
executed structured and synchronized trades.
The  charges  levelled  against  the  appellant
were  that  he  violated  the  provisions  of
Regulations  4(1),  (2)  (a),  (b)  (e),  (n)  of  SEBI
(Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade
Practices  Relating  to  Securities  Market)

Technologies  Ltd.  off  the  market  before  they
were  listed  and  received  payment  for  the
same  on  the  date  of  the  transaction.  The
question  that  arose  before  the  Hon’ble
Tribunal  was  what  would  amount  to  a
transfer  of  security.  The  Hon’ble  Tribunal
concluded that a transfer of allotment letters,
as  was  done  in  this  case,  amounted  to  a
transfer of security.

v. Appeal  No.  96/2004  –  Triumph
Securities Limited vs. SEBI and Appeal
No  98/2004  –  Classic  Share  &  Stock
Broking  Ltd  vs.  SEBI  and  Appeal
No.99/2004 – NH Securities Limited–

Appeals  were  filed  against  the  order  of
SEBI  dated  March  08,  2004,  whereby  the
certificates  of  registration  of  the  appellants
were  cancelled  for  the  alleged  violations  of
the provisions of SEBI Fraudulent and Unfair
Trade  Practices  (FUTP)  Regulations  and
Broker  Regulations.  The  appellants  were
found  guilty  of  manipulating  the  market  by
trading  in  the  scrips  of  Lupin  Laboratories
Ltd.,  Global  Trust  Bank  Ltd.,  and  Aftek
Infosys  Ltd.,  Global  Trust  Bank,  Himachal
Futuristic  Communications  Ltd.,  Zee
Telefilms Ltd. and Padmini Polymers Limited.

SAT  vide  order  dated  May  05,  2007,
dismissed  the  appeals  in  toto.  SAT,  while
rejecting the contention of the appellants that
they  are  not  entities  connected  to  or
controlled  by  Ketan  Parekh,  opined  that
“it was Ketan Parekh who was running the show
on behalf of the appellant”.

vi. Appeal  no.  116  of  2006  –  Shravan

Kumar Goyal vs. SEBI

The  appellant  traded  in  large  quantities
in  the  scrip  of  Radaan  Mediaworks  India
Limited  (RMIL)  during  the  period  of  03-  03-
2003  to  07-  07-  2003.  It  was  alleged  that  the
appellant  while  trading  in  the  scrip  of  the
RMIL had executed structured deals with the
four parties. The charges levelled against the

127

Annual Report 2007-08

Regulations,  2003. Adjudicating  Officer,  after
considering  the  material  available,‘  imposed
a penalty of Rs. 5 lakh on the appellant under
section  15  HA  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992  holding
that the appellant had indulged in fraudulent
and  unfair  trade  practices.  The  appellant
challenged  the  order  of AO  before  SAT.  SAT
examined  the  trade  executed  in  detail  and
found  that  appellant  with  Nrupesh  C.  Shah
carried on circular trading in the scrip of the
RMIL  and  executed  structured  and
synchronized deals. The price of the security
punched  into  the  system  both  by  the  buyer
and  seller  was  the  same,  the  quantity  of  the
shares  to  be  sold  was  also  the  same  and  the
time  at  which  the  two  orders  were  punched
in  is  almost  the  same.  There  were  as  many
as 327 trades executed between the appellant
and  Nrupesh  C.  Shah.  SAT  did  not  accept
the  plea  of  the  appellant  that  the  penalty
imposed on his client was on the higher side
and  that  the  same  to  be  reduced.  SAT  did
not  find  any  scope  for  reducing  the  penalty
and vide order dated 23-08-2007 was pleased
to dismiss the appeal in toto.

viii. Appeal  No.99/2007  in  the  matter  of
HSBC  Securities  and  Capital  Markets
(India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs. SEBI

HSBC  Securities  and  Capital  Markets
(India)  Pvt.  Ltd.  Vs  SEBI  -  was  filed  against
the  order  of  SEBI  dated  March  07,  2007,
whereby  a  minor  penalty  of  censure  on  the
certificate of registration of the appellant was
imposed  by  SEBI  for  violation  of  Clauses  1,
2  and  7  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  specified  in
Schedule  III  of  the  Merchant  Banker
Regulations,  and  Regulation  24(4)  of  the
Takeover  Regulations.

The  main  charge  on  the  appellant  was
that as a merchant banker it failed to comply
with  regulation  24(4)  of  the  Takeover  Code
and  clauses  1,  2,  7  and  9  of  the  Code  of
Conduct  prescribed  in  Schedule  III  to  the
Merchant Bankers Regulations in as much as

in the letter of offer dated September 15, 2000,
there  was  a  wrong  disclosure  that  all
2,44,94,200  issued  equity  shares  of  the  target
(Saptarishi  Agro  Industries  Ltd.)  company
were  listed  on  the  stock  exchanges  of
Chennai,  Mumbai,  Delhi  and  Ahmedabad
whereas  1,40,30,000  shares  were,  in  fact,  not
listed  on  the  Bombay  Stock  Exchange  and
these  included  59,80,000  shares  not  listed  on
any stock exchange.

This  inaccuracy  came  to  the  notice  of
SEBI from the letter of offer issued in August
2003,  in  connection  with  the  takeover  of  the
same target company by another acquirer.

The  Hon’ble  Tribunal  agreed  with  the
contention  of  SEBI  that  ensuring  the  truth
and  correctness  of  the  letter  of  offer  is  a
fundamental  responsibility  of  the  merchant
banker  which  he  has  to  discharge  by
exercising  due  diligence  and  vide  its  order
dated  February  20,2008,  was  pleased  to
dismiss the said appeal.

ix. National Securities Depository Limited
Vs.  SEBI,  SAT  Appeal  No.  147/  2006
(decided  on  22.11.2007)

SEBI  vide  its  order  dated  November  21,
2006,  directed  the  appellants  in  these  cases
to  jointly  and  severally  disgorge  an  amount
of  Rs.115.82  crore  in  two  sets  within  six
months  from  the  date  of  the  order  for  their
role  in  the  Initial  Public  Offerings  (IPO)
irregularities.

The  investigation  carried  out  by  SEBI
into  the  dealings  in  the  shares  allotted  in
various IPOs before their listing on the stock
exchanges  revealed  that  certain  entities  had
cornered  IPO  shares  reserved  for  retail
applicants  by  making  applications  in  retail
category  through  the  medium  of  fictitious/
benami  applicants  with  each  application
being  for  small  values  as  to  be  eligible  for
allotment  under 
the  retail  category.
Subsequent  to  the  receipt  of  IPO  allotment,

128

these  fictitious/  benami  allottees  transferred
the  shares  to  their  principals  who  in  turn
transferred those shares to the financiers who
financed the whole game plan. The financiers
then  are  alleged  to  have  sold  most  of  these
shares  on  the  first  day  of  listing  thereby
realizing  a  windfall  gain  because  of  the
difference  in  price  between  the  IPO  issue
price and the price on the listing date.

In  view  of  the  preliminary  finding,  the
Board  passed  a  comprehensive  ex-parte  ad-
interim order dated April 27, 2006 and issued
directions,  among  others,  to  various  entities
prohibiting them from dealing in the securities
market  till  further  orders.  After  the
investigations  were  completed,  the  Board
initiated various proceedings / actions against
the concerned entities including the appellants
in  the  form  of  enquiries,  adjudication  and
prosecution  under  the  SEBI  Act,  1992.  The
Board,  as  a  remedial  measure,  to  protect  the
interest of securities market and investors and
to  prevent  the  perpetrators  of  the  unlawful
activity along with other market participants
who  facilitated  the  same  from  enjoying  the
fruits  of  their  ill  gotten  gains,  passed  the
impugned order dated November 21, 2006.

The Hon’ble SAT observed as follows:

“We  have  heard  the  learned  senior
counsel  for  the  parties  who  have  taken  us
through  the  record.  It  is  not  in  dispute  that
the  proceedings  against  the  appellants  are
still  pending  at  different  stages  and  the
question  whether  they  are  guilty  or  not  of
the  charges  levelled  against  them  has  yet  to
be  decided.  Strangely  enough,  even  before
determining  the  guilt,  if  any,  of  the
appellants,  the  Board  has  directed  them  to
disgorge  a  sum  of  Rs.115.82  crore.  In  other
words, the amount which the appellants have
to  disgorge  has  been  determined  in  the

Part Four: Regulatory Changes

impugned  order  though  their  guilt  has  yet
to  be  established.  It  has  also  not  been
established whether they made any ill gotten
gains.  Having  done  this,  the  Board  has
observed that in case the appellants are found
guilty  of  any  wrong  doing  in  the  final  order
which has yet to be passed, they shall become
liable  to  disgorge  the  amount  without  any
further  hearing  being  afforded  to  them  and
in case they are exonerated they shall be free
from any liability under the impugned order.
Not  only  that  the  appellants  will  not  be
heard, they have also been directed to deposit
the amount within six months of the passing
of  the  impugned  order.  It  is,  thus,  clear  that
the  appellants  will  not  be  heard  any  further
in the matter of disgorgement. They have not
been  issued  any  notice  to  show-cause  why
they  should  not  be  called  upon  to  disgorge
the amount. This is clearly in violation of the
principles of natural justice. We do not think
that  the  Board  could  direct  the  appellants  to
disgorge  the  aforesaid  amount  without  first
determining their guilt and whether they had
made  any  illegal  gains.  Again,  it  is  not  that
every  erring  entity  is  held  liable  to  disgorge
the  amount.  Persons  who  have  made  illegal
or  unethical  gains  alone  could  be  asked  to
disgorge  their  ill  gotten  profits.  We  are
further  of  the  view  that  all  these  issues
should  have  been  determined  only  after  the
passing  of  the  final  order  holding  the
appellants guilty of the alleged wrong doings
for  which  proceedings  are  still  pending.  In
this view of the matter, we have no hesitation
in  setting  aside  the  impugned  order  qua  the
appellants  which  we  hereby  do  leaving  it
open  to  the  Board  to  initiate,  in  accordance
with  law,  disgorgement  proceedings  against
such  entities  as  may  become  liable  to
disgorge.  The  appeals  are  accordingly
allowed with no order as to costs.”

129

