SEBI (MUTUAL FUNDS) REGULATIONS, 1996 

 

 

 

Arrangement of Regulations 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title, application and commencement. 

Definitions. 

CHAPTER II 

REGISTRATION OF MUTUAL FUND 

Application for registration 

Application  fee to accompany the application 

Application to conform to the requirements 

Furnishing information 

Eligibility criteria 

Applicability  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Criteria  for  Fit  and 
Proper Person) Regulations, 2004 

Norms for shareholding and governance in mutual funds 

Consideration of application 

Grant of Certificate of Registration 

Terms and conditions of registration 

Rejection of application 

Payment of annual service fee 

Failure to pay annual service fee 

CHAPTER III 

CONSTITUTION AND MANAGEMENT OF MUTUAL FUND AND  

OPERATION OF TRUSTEES, ETC. 

Trust deed to be registered under the Registration Act 

Contents of trust deed 

Disqualification from being appointed as trustees 

Approval of the Board for appointment of trustee 

Rights and obligations of the trustees. 

Page 1 of 120 

1.  

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

7A. 

 

7B. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

 

CONSTITUTION AND MANAGEMENT OF ASSET MANAGEMENT  

CHAPTER IV 

COMPANY AND CUSTODIAN 

Application by an asset management company 

Appointment of an asset management company 

Eligibility criteria for appointment of asset management company 

Terms and conditions to be complied with 

Procedure where approval is not granted 

Restrictions on business activities of the asset management company 

Asset management company and its obligations 

Appointment of custodian 

Agreement with custodian 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

CHAPTER V 

SCHEMES OF MUTUAL FUND 

28. 

29. 

Procedure for launching of schemes 

Disclosures in the offer document 

29A.  Nomination 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

Advertisement material. 

Misleading statements 

Listing of close ended schemes 

Repurchase of close ended schemes 
Offering period 
Allotment of units and refunds of moneys 
Statement of accounts or unit certificates 

Transfer of units 

Guaranteed returns 

38A. 

Capital Protection oriented schemes 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 

Winding up 

Effect of winding up 

Procedure and manner of winding up 

Winding up of the scheme 

42A.  Delisting of units 

 

 

Page 2 of 120 

 

INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES AND VALUATION POLICIES 

CHAPTER VI 

43. 

44. 

45. 
46. 

47. 

48. 

49. 

Investment objective 

Investment, borrowing, restriction, etc. 
Carry forward transactions, derivatives transactions and short selling transactions. 
Underwriting of securities 
Valuation of investments 
Computation of Net Asset Value 
Pricing of Units 

CHAPTER VIA 

REAL ESTATE MUTUAL FUND SCHEMES 

49A.  Definitions 

Applicability 

49B. 
49C.  Additional eligibility criteria 
49D.  Other conditions for real estate mutual fund schemes 

49E. 

Permissible investments 
Valuation of real estates assets and declaration of net asset value 

49F. 
49G.  Duties of asset management company 
49H.  Usage of real estate assets of a real estate mutual fund scheme 

49I. 

49J. 

49K. 

 

Duties of trustees 
Disclosures in offer document and other disclosures 
Transactions by employees etc. 

                             CHAPTER VI -B 

             INFRASTRUCTURE DEBT FUND SCHEMES 
 
 Definitions 
49L.                          
49M.  Applicability 

49N. 

49NA. 

49O. 

49OA. 

Eligibility criteria for launching infrastructure debt fund scheme  
Offering Period 
Conditions for infrastructure debt fund schemes 
Private Placement 
Permissible investments 

49P. 
49Q.  Valuation of assets and declaration of net asset value 
49R.  Duties of asset management company 
49S. 

Disclosures in offer document and other disclosures 
Transactions by employees etc. 

49T. 

Page 3 of 120 

 

CHAPTER VII 

GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 

50. 

To maintain proper books of account and records, etc. 

Financial year 
Limitation on fees and expenses on issue of schemes 

51. 
52. 
52A.  Declaration of dividends 
53. 
54. 
55. 

Despatch of warrants and proceeds 
Annual Report 
Auditor’s report 

56. 

57. 
58. 
59. 
59A. 
60. 

61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 

68. 
69.  

70.  

71.  

72.  

Providing copies of Annual Report and summary thereof 

Annual Report to be forwarded to the Board 
Periodic and continual disclosures 
Half-yearly disclosures 
Statement of Portfolio  
Disclosures to the investors 

CHAPTER VIII 

INSPECTION AND AUDIT 

Board’s right to inspect and investigate 
Notice before inspection and investigation 
Obligations on inspection and investigation 
Submission of report to the Board 
Action on inspection or investigation report 
Appointment of auditor 
Payment of inspection fees to the Board 

CHAPTER IX 

PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 

Liability for action in case of default 
Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and 
Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. 
Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and 
Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. 
Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and 
Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. 
Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and 
Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. 

Page 4 of 120 

 

73. 

74.  

 Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and 
Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. 
Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and 
Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. 
Action against intermediaries 

75. 
75A.  Action against mutual fund and/or asset management company 
76. 

Adjudication, etc. 

CHAPTER X 

MISCELLANEOUS 

77. 
78. 

Power of the Board to issue clarifications 
Repeal and saving 

 

SCHEDULES 

 

FIRST SCHEDULE 

FORMS 

SECOND SCHEDULE 

FEES 

THIRD SCHEDULE 

CONTENTS OF THE TRUST DEED 

FOURTH SCHEDULE 

CONTENTS OF THE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 
AGREEMENT 

FIFTH SCHEDULE 

CODE OF CONDUCT 

SIXTH SCHEDULE 

ADVERTISEMENT CODE 

SEVENTH SCHEDULE 

RESTRICTIONS ON INVESTMENTS 

EIGHTH SCHEDULE 

INVESTMENT VALUATION NORMS 

NINTH SCHEDULE 

ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND STANDARDS 

TENTH SCHEDULE 

AMORTISATION OF INITIAL ISSUE EXPENSES FOR 
CLOSE ENDED SCHEMES 

ELEVENTH SCHEDULE 

ANNUAL REPORT 

TWELFTH SCHEDULE 

FORMAT FOR DISCLOSURE OF HALF-YEARLY 
FINANCIAL RESULTS 

 

 
 

Page 5 of 120 

 

 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA  

EXTRAORDINARY  

PART II - SECTION 3 - SUB-SECTION (ii)  

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY  

NEW DELHI, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1996 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

NOTIFICATION  

Mumbai, the 9th December, 1996  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

(MUTUAL FUNDS) REGULATIONS, 1996 

S.O. 856 (E).- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30, read with clause (c) of 
sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 
of 1992), the Securities and Exchange Board of India hereby makes the following regula-
tions :— 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title, application and commencement. 

1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 
Funds) Regulations, 1996. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 

Definitions. 

2. In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:— 

 (a)  “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
 (b)  1[“advertisement” shall include all forms of communication issued by or on behalf of 
the asset management company/mutual fund that may influence investment decisions 
of any investor/prospective investors;]  

                                                 
1 Substituted by the  SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 21-2-2012. Prior to its 

substitution, clause (b) read as under; 

"(b)   “advertisement”  includes  every  form  of  advertising,  whether  in  a  publication,  by  display  of 
notices, signs, labels or by means of circulars, catalogues or other documents, by an exhibition of 

Page 6 of 120 

 

  (c)  “associate” includes a person,— 

  (i)  who directly or indirectly, by himself, or in combination with relatives, exercises 
control over the asset management company or the trustee, as the case may be, 
or 

 (ii)  in  respect  of  whom  the  asset  management  company  or  the  trustee,  directly  or 
indirectly, by itself, or in combination with other persons exercises a control, or 

(iii)  whose director, officer or employee is a director, officer or employee of the asset 

management company; 

 (d)  “asset  management  company”  means  a  company  formed  and  registered  under  the 
Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of  1956)  and  approved  as  such  by  the  Board  under  sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 21; 

  (e)  “broker” means a stock broker as defined in Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Stock Brokers and Sub-brokers) Rules, 1992; 

2[(ea)  “capital  protection  oriented  scheme”  means  a  mutual  fund  scheme  which  is 
designated  as  such  and,  which  endeavour’s  to  protect  the  capital  invested  therein 
through suitable orientation of its portfolio structure;]  

  (f)  “close-ended  scheme”  means  any  scheme  of  a  mutual  fund  in  which  the  period  of 

maturity of the scheme is specified; 

 (g)  “control” means,— 

  (i)  in the case of a company any person or combination of persons who directly or 
indirectly own, control or hold shares carrying not less than 10% of the voting 
rights of such company; or 

 (ii)  as between two companies, if the same person or combination  of persons directly 
or indirectly, own, control or hold shares carrying not less than 10% of the voting 
rights of each of the two companies; or 

(iii)  majority of the directors of any company who are in a position to exercise control 

over the asset management company; 

 (h)  “custodian” means a person who has been granted a certificate of registration to carry 
on the business of custodian of securities under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Custodian of Securities) Regulations, 1996; 

  (i)  “depository” means a body corporate as defined in the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 

1996); 

 

(j)  “economic offence” means an offence to which the Economic Offences (Limitation  

of Prosecution) Act, 1974 (12 of 1974), applies for the time being; 

  (k)   3[***] 
 

(l)  “form” means any of the forms specified as such in the First Schedule; 

                                                 

pictures  or  photographic  films,  by  way  of  sound  broadcasting  or  television,  or  in  any  other 
manner;" 

2 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 3-8-2006. 
3 Omitted by SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 
2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2003. Prior to omission  clause (k) read as under; 
“(k) “enquiry officer” means any person appointed as such by the Board under chapter ix;” 

Page 7 of 120 

 

  (m)  “fraud”  for the purpose of these regulations has the same meaning as is assigned to 

it in section 17 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (9 of 1872); 

4[(ma)  “fund of funds scheme” means a mutual fund scheme that invests primarily in other 

schemes of the same mutual fund or other mutual funds;] 

5[(mb)  “gold exchange traded fund scheme” shall mean a mutual fund scheme that invests 

primarily in gold or gold related instruments; 

  (mc) “gold related instrument” shall mean such instrument having gold as underlying, as 

may be specified by the Board from time to time;] 

6[(mm) “group” means a group as defined in clause (ef) of section 2 of the Monopolies and 

Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969);] 

 7[(mn)“index fund scheme” means a mutual fund scheme that invests in securities in the 

same proportion as an index of securities;] 

8[(mo)  “InvIT”  or  “Infrastructure  Investment  Trust”  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  in 
clause (za) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014;] 

  (n)  “inspecting officer” means any person appointed as such by the Board under Chapter 

VIII; 

  (o)  “money market instruments” includes commercial papers, commercial bills, treasury 
bills,  Government  securities  having  an  unexpired  maturity  up  to  one  year,  call  or 
notice money, certificate of deposit, usance bills, and any other like instruments as 
specified by the Reserve Bank of India from time to time; 

  (p)  “money market mutual fund” means a scheme of a mutual fund which has been set 

up with the objective of investing exclusively in money market instruments; 

 9[(q)  “mutual fund” means a fund established in the form of a trust to raise monies through 
the sale of units to the public or a section of the public under one or more schemes 
for  investing  in  securities  including  money  market  instruments  or  gold  or  gold 
related instruments or real estate assets10[:]] 
11[Provided that infrastructure debt fund schemes may raise monies through private 
placement of units, subject to conditions specified in these regulations;]  

 

(r)  “offer document” means any document by which a mutual fund invites public for 

subscription of units of a scheme; 

                                                 
4 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 29-5-2003. 
5 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 12-1-2006. 
6 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 29-5-2003.. 
7 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) ((Second Amendment) Regulations, 2007, w.e.f.31-10-2007. 
8 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15-02-2017. 
9 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. Prior to  its 
substitution , clause (q) read as under; 
“(q) “mutual fund” means a fund established in the form of a trust to raise monies through the sale of units 
to  the  public  or  a  section    of  the  public  under  one  or  more  schemes  for  investing  in  securities,  including 
money market instruments *[or gold or gold related instruments];” 
[*Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 12-1-2006] 
10 Substituted for ";" by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 
11 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 

Page 8 of 120 

 

 

(s)  “open-ended scheme” means a scheme of a mutual fund which offers units for sale 

without specifying any duration for redemption; 

12[(sa)  "private  placement"  means  any  offer  of  units  of  a  mutual  fund  scheme  or 
invitation to subscribe such units to a select group of persons, by a mutual fund (other 
than by way of public offer) through issue of a placement memorandum and which 
is not being calculated to result, directly or indirectly in the units becoming available 
for  subscription  or  purchase  by  persons  other  than  those  receiving  the  offer  or 
invitation;] 

   13[(sb) “REIT” or “Real Estate Investment Trust” shall have the meaning assigned in 
clause (zm) of sub-regulation 1 of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014;] 

14[15(sc)  “real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme”  means  a  mutual  fund  scheme  that  invests 
directly or indirectly in real estate assets or other permissible assets in accordance 
with these regulations;] 

 

(t)  “relative” means a person as defined in section 6 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 

1956); 

  (u)  “scheme” means a scheme of a mutual fund launched under Chapter V; 

  (v)  “schedule” means any of the schedules annexed to these regulations; 

  (w)  “securities laws” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 
of  1992),  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  (42  of  1956)  and  the 
Depositories  Act,  1996  (22  of  1996),  including  their  amendments  and  such  other 
laws as may be enacted from time to time; 

  (x)  “sponsor” means any person who, acting alone or in combination with another body 

corporate, establishes a mutual fund; 

16[(y)  “trustees” mean the Board of Trustees or the Trustee Company who hold the property 

of the Mutual Fund in trust for the benefit of the unit holders;] 

 

(z)  “unit” means the interest of the unit holders in a scheme, which consists of each unit 

representing one undivided share in the assets of a scheme; 

 (z)(i)  “unit holder” means a person holding unit in a scheme of a mutual fund. 

CHAPTER II 

REGISTRATION OF MUTUAL FUND 

 

Application for registration 

                                                 
12 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 
13 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15-02-2017.  
14 Renumbered by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. The clause 
was inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. 
15 Renumbered by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15-02-2017. 
16 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999, w.e.f. 8-12-1999. Prior to its  
substitution , clause (y) read as under; 
“  (y)  “trustee”  means  a  person  who  holds  the  property  of  the  mutual  fund  in  trust  for  the  benefit  of  the 
unitholders and includes a trustee company and the directors of the trustee company;” 

Page 9 of 120 

 

3. An application for registration of a mutual fund shall be made to the Board in Form A 
by the sponsor. 

 

Application fee to accompany the application 

4.  Every  application  for  registration  under  regulation  3  shall  be  accompanied  by  non-
refundable application fee as specified in the Second Schedule. 

Application to conform to the requirements 
5. An application, which is not complete in all respects shall be liable to be rejected: 
Provided  that,  before  rejecting  any  such  application,  the  applicant  shall  be  given  an 
opportunity  to  complete  such  formalities  within  such  time  as  may  be  specified  by  the 
Board. 
 

Furnishing information 

6. The Board may require the sponsor to furnish such further information or clarification 
as may be required by it. 

 

Eligibility criteria 

7. For the purpose of grant of a certificate of registration, the applicant has to fulfill the 
following, namely— 

 (a)  the sponsor should have a sound track record and general reputation of fairness and 

integrity in all his business transactions. 

 

  Explanation:  For  the  purposes  of  this  clause  “sound  track  record”  shall  mean  the 

sponsor should— 

  (i)  be carrying on business  in  financial services  for  a period of not  less than five 

years; and 

 (ii)  the networth is positive in all the immediately preceding five years; and 

(iii)  the  networth  in  the  immediately  preceding  year  is  more  than  the  capital 

contribution of the sponsor in the asset management company; and 

 (iv)  the sponsor has profits after providing for depreciation, interest and tax in three 

out of the immediately preceding five years, including the fifth year; 

17[(aa)  the applicant is a fit and proper person;] 
 (b)  in the case of an existing mutual fund, such fund is in the form of a trust and the trust 

deed has been approved by the Board; 

  (c)  the sponsor has contributed or contributes at least 40% to the net worth of the asset 

management company: 

 

  Provided  that  any  person  who  holds  40%  or  more  of  the  net  worth  of  an  asset 
management company shall be deemed to be a sponsor and will be required to fulfill 
the eligibility criteria specified in these regulations; 

                                                 
17 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 

Page 10 of 120 

 

 (d)  the sponsor or any of its directors or the principal officer to be employed by the mutual 
fund  should  not  have  been  guilty  of  fraud  or  has  not  been  convicted  of  an  offence 
involving moral turpitude or has not been found guilty of any economic offence; 

  (e)  appointment of trustees to act as trustees for the mutual fund in accordance with the 

provisions of the regulations; 

  (f)  appointment of asset management company to manage the mutual fund and operate 

the scheme of such funds in accordance with the provisions of these regulations; 

18[(g) appointment of custodian in order to keep custody of the securities or gold and gold 
related instrument or other assets of the mutual fund held in terms of these regulations, 
and provide such other custodial services as may be authorised by the trustees.] 

 
19[Norms for Shareholding and Governance in Mutual Funds 
7B. (1) No sponsor of a mutual fund, its associate or group company including the asset 
management company of the fund, through the schemes of the mutual fund or otherwise, 
individually or collectively, directly or indirectly, have – 
 

(a)  10%  or  more  of  the  share-holding  or  voting  rights  in  the  asset  management 

company or the trustee company of any other mutual fund; or 
 

(b) representation  on  the  board  of  the  asset  management  company  or  the  trustee 

company of any other mutual fund. 

 
(2) 
Any shareholder holding 10% or more of the share-holding or voting rights in the 
asset  management  company  or  the  trustee  company  of  a  mutual  fund,  shall  not  have, 
directly or indirectly, - 
 

(a)  10%  or  more  of  the  share-holding  or  voting  rights  in  the  asset  management 

company or the trustee company of any other mutual fund; or 
 

(b) representation  on  the  board  of  the  asset  management  company  or  the  trustee 

company of any other mutual fund. 

 

(3)   Any person not in conformity with the sub-regulations (1) and (2) of this regulation, 
as on the date of the coming into force of this regulation shall comply with sub-regulations 
(1)  and  (2)  within  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  of  the  coming  into  force  of  this 
regulation:] 

 

                                                 
18 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. Prior to its 
substitution , clause (g) read as under; 
“(g)  appointment  of  a  custodian  in  order  to  keep  custody  of  the  securities  *[or  gold  and  gold  related 
instruments] and carry out the custodian activities as may be authorised by the trustees.” 
[*Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 12-1-2006.] 
19 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-03-2018. 

Page 11 of 120 

 

20[Provided that in the event of a merger, acquisition, scheme of arrangement or any other 
arrangement  involving  the  sponsors  of  the  mutual  funds,  shareholders  of  the  asset 
management companies or trustee companies, their associates or group companies which 
results in the incidental acquisition of shares, voting rights or representation on the board 
of the asset management companies or trustee companies, this regulation shall be complied 
with within a period of one year of coming into force of such an arrangement.] 

 

Consideration of application 

8. The Board, may on receipt of all information decide the application. 

 

Grant of Certificate of Registration 

9. The Board may register the mutual fund and grant a certificate in Form B on the applicant 
paying the registration fee as specified in Second Schedule. 

 

Terms and conditions of registration 

10. The registration granted to  a mutual  fund under regulation  9, shall be subject  to  the 
following terms and conditions— 

 (a)  the  trustees,  the  sponsor,  the  asset  management  company  and  the  custodian  shall 

comply with the provisions of these regulations; 

 (b)  the mutual  fund shall forthwith inform  the Board, if any information  or  particulars 

previously submitted to the Board was misleading or false in any material respect; 

  (c)  the  mutual  fund  shall  forthwith  inform  the  Board,  of  any  material  change  in  the 
information  or  particulars  previously  furnished,  which  have  a  bearing  on  the 
registration granted by it; 

 (d)  payment of fees as specified in the regulations and the Second Schedule. 

 

Rejection of application 

11. Where the sponsor does not satisfy the eligibility criteria mentioned in regulation 7, the 
Board may reject the application and inform the applicant of the same. 

 
Payment of 21[annual] service fee12. A mutual fund shall pay before the 15th April each 
year a service fee as specified in the Second Schedule for every financial year from the 
year following the year of registration: 

Provided that the Board may, on being satisfied with the reasons for the delay permit the 
mutual fund to pay the service fee at any time before the expiry of two months from the 
commencement of the financial year to which such fee relates. 

 

                                                 
20 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 06-12-2018. 
21 Substituted for “service” by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 3-8-
2006. 

Page 12 of 120 

 

Failure to pay 22[annual] service fee 
13. The Board may not permit a mutual fund who has not paid service fee to launch any 
scheme. 

CHAPTER III 

CONSTITUTION AND MANAGEMENT OF MUTUAL FUND AND  

OPERATION OF TRUSTEES, ETC. 

 

Trust deed to be registered under the Registration Act 

14. A mutual fund shall be constituted in the form of a trust  and the instrument of trust 
shall  be  in  the  form  of  a  deed,  duly  registered  under  the  provisions  of  the  Indian 
Registration  Act,  1908  (16  of  1908),  executed  by  the  sponsor  in  favour  of  the  trustees 
named in such an instrument. 

 

Contents of trust deed 

15. (1) The trust deed shall contain such clauses as are mentioned in the Third Schedule 
and such other clauses which are necessary for safeguarding the interests of the unitholders. 

(2) No trust deed shall contain a clause which has the effect of— 

  (i)  limiting or extinguishing the obligations and liabilities of the trust in relation to any 

mutual fund or the unitholders; or 

 (ii)  indemnifying  the  trustees  or  the  asset  management  company  for  loss  or  damage 
caused  to  the  unitholders  by  their  acts  of  negligence  or  acts  of  commission  or 
omission. 

 

 

Disqualification from being appointed as trustees 

16. (1) A mutual fund shall appoint trustees in accordance with these regulations. 

(2) No person shall be eligible to be appointed as a trustee unless— 

 (a)  he is a person of ability, integrity and standing; and 

 (b)  has not been found guilty of moral turpitude; and 

  (c)  has not been convicted of any economic offence or violation of any securities laws; 

and 

 (d)  has furnished particulars as specified in Form C. 
(3)  23[No  asset  management  company  and  no  director  (including  independent  director), 
officer or employee of an asset management company shall be eligible to be appointed as 
a trustee of any mutual fund.]” 

                                                 
22 Substituted for “service”, ibid.  
23 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 21-12-2006. Prior 
to its substitution, sub-regulation (3)  read as under; 
 “(3) An asset management company or any of its officers or employees shall not be eligible to act as a trustee 
of any mutual fund.” 

Page 13 of 120 

 

 (4)  24[No  person  who  is  appointed  as  a  trustee  of  a  mutual  fund  shall  be  eligible  to  be 
appointed as  a trustee of any other mutual fund: 

Provided that any mutual fund which is not in compliance with sub-regulation (3) or (4) as 
at the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2006 shall ensure compliance therewith within three 
months from such commencement.]”  

25[(5) Two-thirds of the trustees shall be independent persons and shall not be associated 
with the sponsors or be associated with them in any manner whatsoever.] 

(6) In case a company is appointed as a trustee then its directors can act as trustees of any 
other trust provided that the object of the trust is not in conflict with the object of the mutual 
fund. 

 

Approval of the Board for appointment of trustee 

17. (1) No trustee shall initially or any time thereafter be appointed without prior approval 
of the Board. 
26[***] 
(2) The existing trustees of any mutual fund may form a trustee company to act as a trustee 
with the prior approval of the Board. 

 

Rights and obligations of the trustees. 

18. (1) The trustees and the asset management company shall with the prior approval of 
the Board enter into an investment management agreement. 

(2) The investment management agreement shall contain such clauses as are mentioned in 
the  Fourth  Schedule  and  such  other  clauses  as  are  necessary  for  the  purpose  of  making 
investments. 

(3)  The  trustees  shall  have  a  right  to  obtain  from  the  asset  management  company  such 
information as is considered necessary by the trustees. 

(4) The trustees shall ensure before the launch of any scheme that the asset management 
company, has,— 

                                                 
24 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 21-12-2006. Prior 
to its substitution, sub-regulation (4)  read as under; 
 “(4) No person who is appointed as a trustee of a mutual fund  can be  appointed as a trustee of any other 
mutual fund unless— 
  (a)  such a person is an independent trustee referred to in sub-regulation (5); and 
   (b) prior approval of the mutual fund of which he is a trustee has been obtained for such an appointment.” 
25 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998. Prior to its 
substitution, sub-regulation (5)  read as under; 
“Atleast  50%  of  the  trustees  shall  be  independent  persons  and  no  such  trustee  shall  be  an  associate  or  a 
subsidiary or associated in any manner with the sponsor.” 
26 Omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f.12-1-1998. Prior to 
omission, regulation 17(1) proviso read as under; 
“Provided further that if any trustee resigns or retires, a new trustee shall be appointed within a period of 
three months with the prior approval of the Board.” 

Page 14 of 120 

 

 (a)  systems in place for its back office, dealing room and accounting; 

 (b)  appointed  all  key  personnel  including  fund  manager(s)  for  the  scheme(s)  and 
submitted  their  bio-data  which  shall  contain  the  educational  qualifications,  past 
experience in the securities market with the trustees, within 15 days of their appoint-
ment; 

  (c)  appointed auditors to audit its accounts; 
27[(d)  appointed  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the 
compliance of the Act,  rules and regulations,  notifications, guidelines, instructions, 
etc.,  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central  Government  and  for  redressal  of  investors 
grievances;] 

  (e)  appointed registrars and laid down parameters for their supervision; 

  (f)  prepared a compliance manual and designed internal control mechanisms including 

internal audit systems; 

 (g)  specified norms for empanelment of brokers and marketing agents; 
28[(h)  obtained, wherever required under these regulations, prior in principle approval 

from the recognised stock exchange(s) where units are proposed to be listed.] 

29[(4A)  The  compliance  officer  appointed  under  clause  (d)  of  sub-regulation  (4)  shall 
immediately and independently report to the Board any non-compliance observed by him.] 

(5)  The  trustees  shall  ensure  that  an  asset  management  company  has  been  diligent  in 
empanelling the brokers, in monitoring securities transactions with brokers and avoiding 
undue concentration of business with any broker. 

(6) The trustees shall ensure that the asset management company has not given any undue 
or  unfair  advantage  to  any  associates  or  dealt  with  any  of  the  associates  of  the  asset 
management company in any manner detrimental to interest of the unitholders. 

(7) The trustees shall ensure that the transactions entered into by the  asset  management 
company are in accordance with these regulations and the scheme. 

(8) The trustees shall ensure that the asset management company has been managing the 
mutual fund schemes independently of other activities and have taken adequate steps to 
ensure that the interest of investors of one scheme are not being compromised with those 
of any other scheme or of other activities of the asset management company. 

(9) The trustees shall ensure that all the activities of the asset management company are in 
accordance with the provisions of these regulations. 

(10) Where the trustees have reason to believe that the conduct of business of the mutual 
fund is not in accordance with these regulations and the scheme they shall forthwith take 
such remedial steps as are necessary by them and shall immediately inform the Board of 
the violation and the action taken by them. 

                                                 
27 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advise by Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2001, w.e.f. 
29-5-2001. Prior to its substitution, clause (d)  read as under; 
“(d)  appointed  a  compliance  officer  to  comply  with  regulatory  requirement  and  to  redress  investor 
grievances;” 
28 Inserted by SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 8-4-2009. 
29  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Investment  Advice  by  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2001,  w.e.f.  29-5-
2001. 

Page 15 of 120 

 

30[(11) Each trustee shall file the details of his transactions of dealing in securities with the 
Mutual Fund on a quarterly basis.] 

(12) The trustees shall be accountable for, and be the custodian of, the funds and property 
of the respective schemes and shall hold the same in trust for the benefit of the unitholders 
in accordance with these regulations and the provisions of trust deed. 

(13) The trustees shall take steps to ensure that the transactions of the mutual fund are in 
accordance with the provisions of the trust deed. 

(14) The trustees shall be responsible for the calculation of any income due to be paid to 
the mutual fund and also of any income received in the mutual fund for the holders of the 
units of any scheme in accordance with these regulations and the trust deed. 

(15) The trustees shall obtain the consent of the unitholders— 

 (a)  whenever required to do so by the Board in the interest of the unitholders; or 

 (b)  whenever  required  to  do  so  on  the  requisition  made  by  three-fourths  of  the  unit- 

holders of any scheme; or 

  (c)  when the majority of the trustees decide to wind up or prematurely redeem the units. 
 (d)  31[* * *] 
32[(15A)  The  trustees  shall  ensure  that  no  change  in  the  fundamental  attributes  of  any 
scheme or the trust or fees and expenses payable or any other change which would modify 
the scheme and affects the interest of unitholders, shall be carried out unless,— 

                                                 
30 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999, w.e.f. 8-12-1999. Prior to its 
substitution, sub-regulation (11)  read as under; 
“(11) Each trustee shall file the details of his holdings in securities on a half early basis with the trust.” 
31 Omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2000, w.e.f. 22-5-2000. Earlier 
second proviso was inserted by SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999, w.e.f. 8-12-1999.. 
Prior to omission clause (d) read as under; 
“(d) when any change in the fundamental attributes of any scheme or the trust or fees and expenses payable 
or any other change which would modify the scheme or affect the interest of the unitholders is proposed to 
be carried out unless the consent of not less than three-fourths of the unit holders is obtained: 
Provided that no such change shall be carried out unless three fourths of the unit holders have given their 
consent and the unit holders who do not give their consent are allowed to redeem their holdings in the scheme.  
*[Provided further that in case of an open ended scheme, the consent of the unitholders shall not be necessary 
if:  

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

the change in fundamental attribute is carried out after one year from the date of allotment of 
units.  
(ii) the unitholders are informed about the proposed change in fundamental attribute by sending 
individual  communication  and  an  advertisement  is  given  in  English  daily  newspaper  having 
nationwide circulation and in a newspaper published in the language of the region where the 
head office of the mutual fund is situated.  
the unitholders are given an option to exit at the prevailing Net Asset Value without any exit 
load]  

Explanation: For the purposes of this clause "fundamental  attributes"  means the investment objective and 
terms of a scheme." 
[* this proviso had been inserted by Amendment Regulations, 1999, as mentioned above]. 
32 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2000, w.e.f. 22-5-2000. 

Page 16 of 120 

 

  (i)  a written communication about the proposed change is sent to each unitholder and an 
advertisement is given in one English daily newspaper having nationwide circulation 
as well as in a newspaper published in the language of region where the Head Office 
of the mutual fund is situated; and 

 (ii)  the unitholders are given an option to exit at the prevailing Net Asset Value without 

any exit load.] 

(16) The trustees shall call for the details of transactions in securities by the key personnel 
of the asset management company in his own name or on behalf of the asset management 
company and shall report to the Board, as and when required. 

(17)  The  trustees  shall  quarterly  review  all  transactions  carried  out  between  the  mutual 
funds, asset management company and its associates. 
(18) The trustees shall 33[quarterly] review the networth of the asset management company 
and in case of any shortfall, ensure that the asset management company make up for the 
shortfall as per clause (f) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 21. 

(19)  The  trustees  shall  periodically  review  all  service  contracts  such  as  custody 
arrangements,  transfer  agency  of  the  securities  and  satisfy  itself  that  such  contracts  are 
executed in the interest of the unitholders. 

(20) The trustees shall ensure that there is no conflict of interest between the manner of 
deployment of its networth by the asset management company and the interest of the unit- 
holders. 

(21)  The  trustees  shall  periodically  review  the  investor  complaints  received  and  the 
redressal of the same by the asset management company. 

(22) The trustees shall abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in the Fifth Schedule. 

(23) The trustees shall furnish to the Board on a half-yearly basis,— 

 (a)  a report on the activities of the mutual fund; 

 (b)  a certificate stating that the trustees have satisfied themselves that there have been no 
instances  of  self-dealing  or  front  running  by  any  of  the  trustees,  directors  and  key 
personnel of the asset management company; 

  (c)  a certificate to the effect that the asset management company has been managing the 
schemes independently of any other activities and in case any activities of the nature 
referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 24 have been undertaken by the asset 
management company and has taken adequate steps to ensure that the interests of the 
unitholders are protected. 

34[(24) The independent trustees referred to in sub-regulation (5) of regulation 16 shall give 
their comments on the report received from the asset management company regarding the 
investments by the mutual fund in the securities of group companies of the sponsor.] 
35[(25) Trustees shall exercise due diligence as under: 
A. General Due Diligence: 

                                                 
33 Substituted for ‘continuously’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-
1998. 
34 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
35 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999, w.e.f. 8-12-1999. 

Page 17 of 120 

 

  (i)  The Trustees shall be discerning in the appointment of the directors on the Board of 

the asset management company. 

 (ii)  Trustees  shall  review  the  desirability  or  continuance  of  the  asset  management 
company if substantial irregularities are observed in any of the schemes and shall not 
allow the asset management company to float new schemes. 

(iii)  The  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  trust  property  is  properly  protected,  held  and 

administered by proper persons and by a proper number of such persons. 

 (iv)  The Trustee shall ensure that all service providers are holding appropriate registrations 

from the Board or concerned regulatory authority. 

  (v)  The Trustees shall arrange for test checks of service contracts. 

 (vi)  Trustees  shall  immediately  report  to  the  Board  of  any  special  developments  in  the 

mutual fund. 

B. Specific due diligence: 

The Trustees shall: 

  (i)  obtain internal audit reports at regular intervals from independent auditors appointed 

by the Trustees, 

 (ii)  obtain  compliance  certificates  at  regular  intervals  from  the  asset  management 

company, 

(iii)  hold meeting of trustees more frequently, 

 (iv)  consider  the  reports  of  the  independent  auditor  and  compliance  reports  of  asset 

management company at the meetings of trustees for appropriate action, 

  (v)  maintain records of the decisions of the Trustees at their meetings and of the minutes 

of the meetings, 

 (vi)  prescribe and adhere to a code of ethics by the Trustees, asset management company 

and its personnel, 

(vii) communicate  in  writing  to  the  asset  management  company  of  the  deficiencies  and 

checking on the rectification of deficiencies. 

(26) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulations (1) to (25), the trustees shall 
not be held liable for acts done in good faith if they have exercised adequate due diligence 
honestly. 

(27)  The  independent  directors  of  the  trustees  or  asset  management  company  shall  pay 
specific attention to the following, as may be applicable, namely:— 

  (i)  the  Investment  Management  Agreement  and  the  compensation  paid  under  the 

agreement, 

 (ii)  service  contracts  with  affiliates—whether  the  asset  management  company  has 

charged higher fees than outside contractors for the same services, 

(iii)  selections of the asset management company’s independent directors,  

 (iv)  securities  transactions  involving  affiliates  to  the  extent  such  transactions  are 

permitted, 

  (v)  selecting and nominating individuals to fill independent directors vacancies, 

 (vi)  code  of  ethics  must  be  designed  to  prevent  fraudulent,  deceptive  or  manipulative 

practices by insiders in connection with personal securities transactions, 

Page 18 of 120 

 

(vii) the  reasonableness  of  fees  paid  to  sponsors,  asset  management  company  and  any 

others for services provided, 

(viii) principal underwriting contracts and their renewals, 

 (ix)  any service contract with the associates of the asset management company.] 
 

CHAPTER IV 

CONSTITUTION AND MANAGEMENT OF ASSET MANAGEMENT  

COMPANY AND CUSTODIAN 

Application by an asset management company 

19. (1) The application for the approval of the asset management company shall be made 
in Form D. 

(2) The provisions of regulations 5, 6 and 8 shall, so far as may be, apply to the application 
made under sub-regulation (1) as they apply to the application for registration of a mutual 
fund. 

 

Appointment of an asset management company 

20. (1) The sponsor or, if so authorised by the trust deed, the trustee, shall appoint an asset 
management company, which has been approved by the Board under sub-regulation (2) of 
regulation 21. 

(2) The appointment of an asset management company can be terminated by majority of 
the trustees or by seventy-five per cent of the unitholders of the scheme. 

(3) Any change in the appointment of the asset management company shall be subject to 
prior approval of the Board and the unitholders. 

 

Eligibility criteria for appointment of asset management company 

21. (1) For grant of approval of the asset management company the applicant has to fulfill 
the following :— 

 (a)  in case the asset management company is an existing asset management company it 

has a sound track record, general reputation and fairness in transactions. 

 

  Explanation: For the purpose of this clause sound track record shall mean the networth 

and the profitability of the asset management company; 

36[(aa)  the asset management company is a fit and proper person;] 
 (b)  the  directors  of  the  asset  management  company  are  persons  having  adequate 
professional experience in finance and financial services related field and not found 
guilty of moral turpitude or  convicted of any economic offence or violation of any 
securities laws; 

                                                 
36 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 

Page 19 of 120 

 

  (c)  the key personnel of the asset management company 37[have not been found guilty of 
moral turpitude or convicted of economic offence or violation of securities laws] 38[or 
worked]  for  any  asset  management  company  or  mutual  fund  or  any  intermediary 
39[during the period when its] registration has been suspended or cancelled at any time 
by the Board; 

 (d)  the board of directors of such asset management company has at least fifty per cent 
directors, who are not associate of, or associated in any manner with, the sponsor or 
any of its subsidiaries or the trustees; 

  (e)  the Chairman of the asset management company is not a trustee of any mutual fund; 
  (f)  the asset management company has a networth of not less than rupees 40[fifty crore]: 
Provided  that  an  asset  management  company  already  granted  approval  under  the 
provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual  Funds) Regulations, 
41[1996]  shall  within  a  period  of  42[three  years]  from  the  date  of  notification  of 
43[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2014] increase its networth to rupees 44[fifty crore]: 
45[***]  
Provided further that no new schemes shall be allowed to be launched or managed 
by such asset management company till the networth has been raised to rupees 46[fifty 
crore].] 
47[Explanation : For the purposes of this clause, “networth” means the aggregate of 
the paid up capital and free reserves of the asset management company after deducting 

                                                 
37 Inserted ibid.. 
38 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998, for the words, 
“has not been working”.  
39 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998, for the words, 
“whose”. 
40  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f.  06-05-2014,  for  the 
words, “ten crores”. 
41  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f.  06-05-2014,  for  the 
figure, “1993”. 
42  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f.  06-05-2014,  for  the 
figure, “twelve months”. 
43 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 30-12-2014, for 
the words, “these regulations”. 
44  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f.  06-05-2014,  for  the 
words, “ten crores”. 
45  Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f.  06-05-2014.  Prior  to 
omission, as inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998, it read 
as under: 
"Provided  further  that the period specified in the first proviso may be extended in appropriate cases by the 
Board up to three years for reasons to be recorded in writing:" 
46  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f.  06-05-2014,  for  the 
words, “ten crores”. 
47 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999, w.e.f. 8-12-1999. Prior to its 
substitution, explanation  read as under; 
“Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, “networth” means the paid up capital and free reserves of the 
company.” 

Page 20 of 120 

 

therefrom  miscellaneous  expenditure  to  the  extent  not  written  off  or  adjusted  or 
deferred revenue expenditure, intangible assets and accumulated losses.] 
48[Provided further that an asset management company of a mutual fund eligible to 
launch only infrastructure debt fund schemes, shall have a networth of not less than 
rupees ten crore.] 
49[Provided  further  that  in  cases  where  the  Board  is  satisfied  that  an  asset 
management  company  is  taking  steps  to  meet  the  networth  requirement  within  the 
specified time, the asset management company may be allowed to launch upto two 
new schemes per year.]  
50[Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, "networth" means the aggregate of the 
paid up capital and free reserves of the asset management company after deducting 
therefrom  miscellaneous  expenditure  to  the  extent  not  written  off  or  adjusted  or 
deferred revenue expenditure, intangible assets and accumulated losses. ] 

(2) The Board may, after considering an application with reference to the matters specified 
in sub-regulation (1), grant approval to the asset management company. 

 

Terms and conditions to be complied with 

22. The approval granted under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 21 shall be subject to the 
following conditions, namely:— 

 (a)  any director of the asset management company shall not hold the office of the director 
in another asset management company unless such person is an independent director 
referred  to  in  clause  (d)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  21  and  approval  of  the 
Board  of  asset  management  company  of  which  such  person  is  a  director,  has  been 
obtained; 

 (b)  the  asset  management  company  shall  forthwith  inform  the  Board  of  any  material 
change in the information or particulars previously furnished, which have a bearing 
on the approval granted by it; 

  (c)  no appointment of a director of an asset management company shall be made without 

prior approval of the trustees; 

 (d)  the asset management company undertakes to comply with these regulations; 
51[(e)  no  change  in  the  controlling  interest  of  the  asset  management  company  shall  be 

made unless,— 

                                                 
48 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 06-05-2014. 
49 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 30-12-2014 
50 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999, w.e.f 08-12-1999  
51 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2000, w.e.f. 22-5-2000. Prior 
to its substitution, clause (e) read as under;. 
“ *[(e) any change in controlling interest of the asset management company shall be only with prior approval 
of trustees, the Board and the unitholders.”  
“Provided that in case of an open ended scheme, the consent of the unitholders shall not be necessary if; 
(i) 
(ii) 

the change in control takes place after one year from the date of allotment of units  
(ii)  the  unitholders  are  informed  about  the  proposed  change  in  the  controlling  interest  of  asset 
management company by sending individual communication and an advertisement is given in one 

Page 21 of 120 

 

  (i)  prior approval of the trustees and the Board is obtained; 

 (ii)  a written communication about the proposed change is sent to each unitholder 
and an advertisement is given in one English daily newspaper having nationwide 
circulation and in a newspaper published in the language of the region where the 
Head Office of the mutual fund is situated; and 

(iii)  the  unitholders  are  given  an  option  to  exit  on  the  prevailing  Net  Asset  Value 

without any exit load;] 

  (f)  the asset management company shall furnish such information and documents to the 

trustees as and when required by the trustees. 

 

Procedure where approval is not granted 

23. Where an application made under regulation 19 for grant of approval does not satisfy 
the eligibility criteria laid down in regulation 21, the Board may reject the application. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
52[Restrictions on business activities of the asset management company 

                                                 

English  daily  newspaper  having  nationwide  circulation  and  in  a  newspaper  published  in  the 
language of the region where the head office of the mutual fund is situated.  
(iii) 
The unitholders are given an option to exit at the prevailing Net Asset Value without any exit load.]" 
 [*this Proviso had been added by SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations., 1999,w.e.f. 8-12-1999.] 
52 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 30-8-2011. Prior to its 
substitution, regulation 24 read as under: 
“*[24.  Restrictions  on  business  activities  of  the  asset  management  company.─The  asset  management 
company shall— 

(1) not act as a trustee of any mutual fund; 
(2) not undertake any other business activities except activities in the nature of  [portfolio management 
services,] management and advisory services to offshore funds, pension funds, provident funds, venture 
capital  funds,  management  of  insurance  funds,  financial  consultancy  and  exchange  of  research  on 
commercial basis if any of such activities are not in conflict with the activities of the mutual fund : 
Provided  that  the  asset  management  company  may  itself  or  through  its  subsidiaries  undertake  such 
activities if it satisfies the Board that the key personnel of the asset management company, the systems, 
back office, bank and securities accounts are segregated activity-wise and there exist systems to prohibit 
access to inside information of various activities : 

Page 22 of 120 

 

24. The asset management company shall, -  

(a)  not act as a trustee of any mutual fund; 

(b) not undertake any business activities other than in the nature of management and 
advisory  services  provided  to  pooled  assets  including  offshore  funds,  insurance 
funds, pension funds, provident funds, 53[or Category I foreign portfolio investor as 
specified in Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) 
Regulations, 2014], if any of such activities are not in conflict with the activities of 
the mutual fund:  

 

Provided that the asset management company may itself or through its subsidiaries 
undertake such activities, as permitted under clause (b), if, -   
(i) 

it satisfies the Board that bank and securities accounts are segregated activity 
wise;   

(ii) 

it meets with the capital adequacy requirements, if any, separately for each 
such  activity  and  obtain  separate  approval,  if  necessary  under  the  relevant 
regulations; 

(iii)  it  ensures  that  there  is  no  material  conflict  of  interest  across  different 

activities; 

(iv)  the absence of conflict of interest shall be disclosed to the trustees and unit 
holders  in  scheme  information  document  and  statement  of  additional 
information; 

(v) 

there are unavoidable conflict of interest situations, it shall satisfy itself that 
disclosures are made of source of conflict, potential ‘material risk or damage’ 
to investor interests and detailed parameters for the same; 

(vi)  it appoints separate fund manager for each separate fund managed by it unless 
the investment objectives and asset allocation are same and the portfolio is 
replicated across all the funds managed by the fund manager, within a period 
of six months from the date of notification of Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011; 
54[Provided that the requirements of this clause shall not apply if the funds 
managed  are  of  Category  I  foreign  portfolio  investors  and/or  Category  II 
foreign  portfolio  investors  which  are  appropriately  regulated  broad  based 
funds,  as  specified  in  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014]   

                                                 

Provided  further  that  asset  management  company  shall  meet  capital  adequacy  requirements,  if  any, 
separately for each such activity and obtain separate approval, if necessary under the relevant regulations. 
(3) The asset management company shall not invest in any of its schemes unless full disclosure of its 
intention  to  invest  has  been  made  in  the  offer  documents    [in  case  of  schemes  launched  after  the 
notification of these regulations] : 
Provided that an asset management company shall not be entitled to charge any fees on its investment in 
that scheme.]” 

[*amended  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  1999,  w.e.f.  8-12-1999  and  SEBI 
(Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998] 
53 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 15-05-2015 
54 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. 15-5-2015 

Page 23 of 120 

 

(vii)  it  ensures  fair  treatment  of  investors  across  different  products  that  shall 
include,  but  not  limited  to,  simultaneous  buy  and  sell  in  the  same  equity 
security  only  through  market  mechanism  and  a  written  trade  order 
management system;  and 

(viii) it  ensures  independence  to  key  personnel  handling  the  relevant  conflict  of 
interest is provided through removal of direct link between remuneration to 
relevant  asset  management  company  personnel  and  revenues  generated  by 
that activity:  

Provided further that the asset management company may, itself or through its subsidiaries, 
undertake portfolio management services and advisory services for other than broad based 
fund till further directions, as may be specified by the Board, subject to compliance with 
the following additional conditions:- 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

it satisfies the Board that key personnel of the asset management company, 
the system, back office, bank and securities accounts are segregated activity 
wise  and  there  exist  system  to  prohibit  access  to  inside  information  of 
various activities; 

it meets with the capital adequacy requirements, if any, separately for each 
of  such  activities  and  obtain    separate  approval,  if  necessary  under  the 
relevant regulations.   

55[Provided further that the asset management company may become a proprietary 
 
trading member for carrying out trades in the debt segment of a recognised stock exchange, 
on behalf of a mutual fund.] 
Explanation:─For the purpose of this regulation 56[, with the exception of proviso to clause 
(vi) of first proviso to clause (b)], the term ‘broad based fund’ shall mean the fund which 
has  at  least  twenty  investors  and  no  single  investor  account  for  more  than  twenty  five 
percent of corpus of the fund.] 

 

 

Asset management company and its obligations 

25. (1) The asset management company shall take all reasonable steps and exercise due 
diligence to ensure that the investment of funds pertaining to any scheme is not contrary to 
the provisions of these regulations and the trust deed. 

(2)  The  asset  management  company  shall  exercise  due  diligence  and  care  in  all  its 
investment decisions as would be exercised by other persons engaged in the same business. 
57[2A)  The  asset  management  company  shall  obtain,  wherever  required  under  these 
regulations, prior in-principle approval from the recognized tock exchange(s) where units 
are proposed to be listed.] 

                                                 
55 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f  19-8-2013 
56 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. 15-5-2015 
57 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 8-4-2009. 

Page 24 of 120 

 

(3)  The  asset  management  company  shall  be  responsible  for  the  acts  of  commission  or 
omission by its employees or the persons whose services have been procured by the asset 
management company. 

(4) The asset management company shall submit to the trustees quarterly reports of each 
year on its activities and the compliance with these regulations. 

(5)  The  trustees  at  the  request  of  the  asset  management  company  may  terminate  the 
assignment of the asset management company at any time: 

Provided that such termination shall become effective only after the trustees have accepted 
the  termination  of  assignment  and  communicated  their  decision  in  writing  to  the  asset 
management company. 

(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or agreement or termination, the 
asset  management  company  or  its  directors  or  other  officers  shall  not  be  absolved  of 
liability to the mutual fund for their acts of commission or omission, while holding such 
position or office. 
58[(6A)  The  Chief  Executive  Officer  (whatever  his  designation  may  be)  of  the  asset 
management company shall ensure that the mutual fund complies with all the provisions 
of these regulations and the guidelines or circulars issued in relation thereto from time to 
time and that the investments made by the fund managers  are in  the interest  of the unit 
holders and shall also be responsible for the overall risk management function of the mutual 
fund. 

Explanation.—For the purpose of this sub-regulation, the words “these regulations” shall 
mean and include the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 
1996 as amended from time to time. 

(6B) The fund managers (whatever the designation may be) shall ensure that the funds of 
the schemes are invested to achieve the objectives of the scheme and in the interest of the 
unit holders.] 
59[(7)(a) An asset management company shall not through any broker associated with the 
sponsor, purchase or sell securities, which is average of 5 per cent or more of the aggregate 
purchases and sale of securities made by the mutual fund in all its schemes : 

Provided that for the purpose of this sub-regulation, the aggregate purchase and sale of 
securities shall exclude sale and distribution of units issued by the mutual fund : 

Provided further that the aforesaid limit of 5 per cent shall apply for a block of any three 
months. 

(b) An asset management company shall not purchase or sell securities through any broker 
[other than a broker referred to in clause (a) of sub-regulation (7)] which is average of 5 
per cent or more of the aggregate purchases and sale of securities made by the mutual fund 
in  all  its  schemes,  unless  the  asset  management  company  has  recorded  in  writing  the 

                                                 
58 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 29-5-2003. 
59 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f.  12-1-1998. Prior to its 
substitution, sub-regulation 7 read as under; 
“(7)  No asset management company shall deal in securities through any broker associated with the sponsor 
or a firm which is an associate of a sponsor beyond 5% of the daily gross business of the mutual fund.” 

Page 25 of 120 

 

justification for exceeding the limit of 5 per cent and reports of all such investments are 
sent to the trustees on a quarterly basis : 

Provided that the aforesaid limit shall apply for a block of three months.] 

(8) An asset management company shall not utilise the services of the sponsor or any of its 
associates, employees or their relatives, for the purpose of any securities transaction and 
distribution and sale of securities: 

Provided that an asset management company may utilise such services if disclosure to that 
effect is made to the unitholders and the brokerage or commission paid is also disclosed in 
the half-yearly annual accounts of the mutual fund : 
60[Provided further that the mutual funds shall disclose at the time of declaring half-yearly 
and yearly results : 

  (i)  any  underwriting  obligations  undertaken  by  the  schemes  of  the  mutual  funds  with 

respect to issue of securities associate companies, 

 (ii)  devolvement, if any, 

(iii)  subscription by the schemes in the issues lead managed by associate companies, 

 (iv)  subscription  to  any  issue  of  equity  or  debt  on  private  placement  basis  where  the 

sponsor or its associate companies have acted as arranger or manager.] 

(9) The asset management company shall file with the trustees the details of transactions 
in securities by the key personnel of the asset management company in their own name or 
on behalf of the asset management company and shall also report to the Board, as and when 
required by the Board. 

(10) In case the asset management company enters into any securities transactions with any 
of  its  associates  a  report  to  that  effect  shall  61[***]  be  sent  to  the  trustees  62[at  its  next 
meeting]. 

(11)  In case any  company  has invested more than 5 per cent  of the net  asset value of  a 
scheme, the investment made by that scheme or by any other scheme of the same mutual 
fund in that company or its subsidiaries shall be brought to the notice of the trustees by the 
asset management company and be disclosed in the half-yearly and annual accounts of the 
respective schemes with justification for such investment 63[provided the latter investment 
has been made within one year of the date of the former investment calculated on either 
side]. 

(12) The asset management company shall file with the trustees and the Board— 

 (a)  detailed bio-data of all its directors along with their interest in other companies within 

fifteen days of their appointment;  

 (b)  any change in the interests of directors every six months; and 

                                                 
60 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999, w.e.f. 8-12-1999. 
61 Word ‘immediately’ omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-
1998. 
62 Inserted  ibid.. 
63 Inserted  ibid.. 

Page 26 of 120 

 

64[(c)  a quarterly report to the trustees giving details and adequate justification about the 
purchase and sale of the securities of the group companies of the sponsor or the asset 
management  company,  as  the  case  may  be,  by  the  mutual  fund  during  the  said 
quarter.] 

65[(13)  Each  director  of  the  asset  management  company  shall  file  the  details  of  his 
transactions  of  dealing  in  securities  with  the  trustees  on  a  quarterly  basis  in  accordance 
with guidelines issued by the Board.] 

(14) The asset management company shall not appoint any person as key personnel who 
has been found guilty of any economic offence or involved in violation of securities laws. 

(15) The asset management company shall appoint registrars and share transfer agents who 
are registered with the Board: 

Provided if the work relating to the transfer of units is processed in-house, the charges at 
competitive  market  rates  may  be  debited  to  the  scheme  and  for  rates  higher  than  the 
competitive market rates, prior approval of the trustees shall be obtained and reasons for 
charging higher rates shall be disclosed in the annual accounts. 

(16) The asset management company shall abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in 
the Fifth Schedule. 
66[(17) The asset management company shall not invest in any of its scheme, unless full 
disclosure  of  its  intention  to  invest  has  been  made  in  the  offer  documents,  in  case  of 
schemes launched after the notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 
Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011: 

Provided that an asset management company shall not be entitled to charge any fee on its 
investment in that scheme.  

(18) The asset management company shall not carry out its operations including trading 
desk, unit holder servicing and investment operations outside the territory of India: 

Provided that the asset management company having any of its  operations outside India 
shall wind up and bring them within the territory of India within a period of one year form 
the  date  of  notification  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2011:   

Provided further that the Board may grant a further period of one year if it is satisfied that 
there  was  sufficient  cause  for  not  winding  up  of  the  operation  outside  India  within  that 
period.] 
67[(19)  The  asset  management  company  shall  compute  and  carry  out  valuation  of 
investments  made  by  its  scheme(s)  in  accordance  with  the  investment  valuation  norms 
specified in Eighth Schedule, and shall publish the same.  

                                                 
64 Inserted  ibid.. 
65 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2001, w.e.f. 23-7-2001. Prior 
to its substitution, sub-regulation (13) read as under; 
“(13) A statement of holding in securities of the directors of the asset management company shall be filed 
with the trustees with the dates of acquisition of such securities at the end of each financial year.”  
66 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 30-8-2011. 
67 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 21-2-2012. 

Page 27 of 120 

 

(20) The asset management company and the sponsor of the mutual fund shall be liable to 
compensate  the  affected  investors  and/or  the  scheme  for  any  unfair  treatment  to  any 
investor as a result of inappropriate valuation. 

(21) The asset management company shall report and disclose all the transactions in debt 
and money market securities, including inter scheme transfers, as may be specified by the 
Board.] 

 

Appointment of custodian 

26. (1) The mutual fund shall appoint a Custodian to carry out the custodial services for 
the schemes of the fund and sent intimation of the same to the Board within fifteen days of 
the appointment of the Custodian: 
68[Provided that in case of a gold exchange traded fund scheme, the assets of the scheme 
being gold or gold related instruments may be kept in custody of a bank which is registered 
as a custodian with the Board.] 
69[Provided further that in case of a real estate mutual fund scheme, the title deed of real 
estate assets held by it may be kept in the custody of a custodian registered with the Board.] 
(2) No custodian in  which the sponsor or its associates hold  50 per  cent  or more of the 
voting  rights  of  the  share  capital  of  the  custodian  or  where  50  per  cent  or  more  of  the 
directors of the custodian represent the interest of the sponsor or its associates shall act as 
custodian  for  a  mutual  fund  constituted  by  the  same  sponsor  or  any  of  its  associates  or 
subsidiary company: 

70[Provided that where the sponsor or its associates hold 50 per cent or more of the 
 
voting rights of the share capital of the custodian, such custodian may act as custodian for 
a  mutual  fund  constituted  by  the  same  sponsor  or  any  of  its  associates  or  subsidiary 
company if: 

 

 
 
 

 

(i)  the sponsor has a net worth of at least twenty thousand crore rupees at 

all points of time; 

(ii) 50 per cent or more of the directors of the custodian are those who do 

not represent the interest of the sponsor or its associates; 

(iii)the custodian and the asset management company of a mutual fund are 

not subsidiaries of each other; 

(iv) no person is a director of both the custodian and the asset management 

company of a mutual fund; and 

 
 
 

  (v) the custodian and the asset management company of a mutual fund  
       sign an undertaking that they will act independently of each other in  
       their dealings with the scheme.] 

Agreement with custodian 

                                                 
68  Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 12-1-2006. 
69  Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. 
70 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f  19-8-2013 

Page 28 of 120 

 

27. The mutual fund shall enter into a custodian agreement with the custodian, which shall 
contain the clauses which are necessary for the efficient and orderly conduct of the affairs 
of the custodian: 

Provided that the agreement, the service contract, terms and appointment of the custodian 
shall be entered into with the prior approval of the trustees. 
 

CHAPTER V 

SCHEMES OF MUTUAL FUND 

 

Procedure for launching of schemes 

28. (1) No scheme shall be launched by the asset management company unless such scheme 
is approved by the trustees and a copy of the offer document has been filed with the Board. 
71[(2) The mutual fund shall pay the minimum filing fee specified in the Second Schedule 
to the Board while filing the offer document under sub-regulation (1). 

(3)  The  mutual  fund  shall  pay  the  balance  filing  fee  calculated  in  accordance  with  the 
Second Schedule to the Board within such time as may be specified by the Board.]  
72[(4) The sponsor or asset management company shall invest not less than one percent of 
the amount which would be raised in the new fund offer or fifty lakh rupees, whichever is 
less, in the growth option of the scheme and such investment shall not be redeemed unless 
the scheme is wound up: 

Provided that this sub-regulation shall not apply to close ended schemes. 

(5)  The  sponsor  or  asset  management  company  of  schemes  existing  as  on  date  of 
notification of the SEBI(Mutual Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2014 shall invest not 
less  than  one  percent  of  the  assets  under  management  of  the  scheme  as  on  date  of 
notification of these regulations or fifty lakh rupees, whichever is less, in the growth option 
of the scheme and such investment shall not be redeemed unless the scheme is wound up: 

Provided that the amount calculated as per this sub-regulation shall be invested within one 
year from the date of notification of these regulations: 

Provided further this sub-regulation shall not apply to close ended schemes.] 

Disclosures in the offer document 

29. (1) The offer document shall contain disclosures which are adequate in order to enable 
the  investors  to  make  informed  investment  decision  73[including  the  disclosure  on 
maximum investments proposed to be made by the scheme in the listed securities of the 
group companies of the sponsor.] 

                                                 
71 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 3-8-2006. Prior to 
its substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as under; 
“(2) Every mutual fund shall along with the offer document of each scheme pay filing fees as specified in the 
Second Schedule.” 
72 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 06-05-2014. 
73 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 

Page 29 of 120 

 

(2) The Board may in the interest of investors require the asset management company to 
carry out such modifications in the offer document as it deems fit. 

(3) In case no modifications are suggested by the Board in the offer document within 21 
74[working]  days  from  the  date  of  filing,  the  asset  management  company  may  issue  the 
offer document. 
75[(4) No one shall issue any form of application for units of a mutual fund unless the form 
is accompanied by the memorandum containing such information as may be specified by 
the Board.] 
76[(5)  The  offer  document  shall  contain  the  disclosure  regarding  the  prior  in  principle 
approval obtained from the recognized stock exchange(s), where units are proposed to be 
listed in accordance with these regulations.] 

 
77[Nomination 
29A.  (1)  The  asset  management  company  shall  provide  an  option  to  the  unitholder  to 
nominate, in the manner specified in Fourth Schedule, a person in whom the units held by 
him shall vest in the event of his death. 

(2) Where  the units are held  by more than one person jointly, the joint  unitholders may 
together nominate a person in whom all the rights in the units shall vest in the event of 
death of all the joint unitholders.] 

Advertisement material. 
30. 78[***] Advertisements 79[***] shall be in conformity with the Advertisement Code as 
specified in the Sixth Schedule and shall be submitted to the Board within 7 days from the 
date of issue. 
(2) 80[***] 
 

Misleading statements 

31. The offer document and advertisement materials shall not be misleading or contain any 
statement or opinion which are incorrect or false. 

 
81[In-principle approval from recognised stock exchange(s). 

                                                 
74 Inserted by ibid.. 
75 Inserted by ibid.. 
76 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 8-4-2009. 
77 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-6-2002. 
78 Symbol and number, “(1)” omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 
21-2-2012. 
79 Words “in respect of every scheme” omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, 
w.e.f. 21-2-2012. 
80 Sub-regulation (2) omitted, ibid. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (2) read as under,- 
“(2) The advertisement for each scheme shall disclose investment objective of each scheme.” 
81 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 , w.e.f. 01-
12-2015 

Page 30 of 120 

 

31A. The listed entity, which intends to list units of its  scheme on the recognised stock 
exchange(s), shall obtain ‘in-principle’ approval from recognised stock exchange(s) in the 
manner as specified by the recognised stock exchange(s) from time to time.  
 
Listing Agreement. 
31B. (1) Every mutual fund desirous of listing units of its schemes on a recognised stock 
exchange shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange.  
 
(2)  Every  mutual  fund  which  has  previously  entered  into  agreements  with  a  recognised 
stock exchange to list units of its schemes shall execute a fresh listing agreement with such 
stock exchange within six months of the date of notification of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.] 

 

 
82[Listing of close ended schemes 
32. Every close ended scheme, other than an equity linked savings scheme, shall be listed 
on a recognised stock exchange within such time period and subject to such conditions as 
specified by the Board: 
Provided that listing of close ended scheme launched prior to the commencement of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009 
shall not be mandatory — 
(a) if the said scheme provides for periodic repurchase facility to all the unitholders with 
restriction, if any, on the extent of such repurchase; or 
(b) if the said scheme provides for monthly income or caters to special classes of persons 
like  senior  citizens,  women,  children,  widows  or  physically  handicapped  or  any  special 
class of persons providing for repurchase of units at regular intervals; or 
(c) if the details of such repurchase facility are clearly disclosed in the offer document; or 
(d) if the said scheme opens for repurchase within a period of six months from the closure 
of subscription; or 

                                                 
82  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009,  w.e.f.  8-4-2009. Prior  to  its 
substitution,  regulation 32  read as under; 
“Listing of close ended schemes  
32. Every  close  ended  scheme  shall  be  listed  in  a  recognized  stock  exchange  within  six  months  from  the 
closure of the subscription: 
Provided that listing of close ended scheme shall not be mandatory— 
(a)  if the said scheme provides for periodic repurchase facility to all the unitholders with restriction, if any, 
on the extent of such repurchase; or 
(b)  if the said scheme provides for monthly income or caters to special classes of persons like senior citizens, 
women, children, widows or physically handicapped or any special class of persons providing for repurchase 
of units at regular intervals; or 
(c)  if the details of such repurchase facility are clearly disclosed in the offer document; or 
(d)  if the said scheme opens for repurchase within a period of six months from the closure of subscription. 
*[(e) if the said scheme is a capital protection oriented scheme.]” 
[*Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 3-8-2006.] 

Page 31 of 120 

 

(e) if the said scheme is a capital protection oriented scheme.] 

 

Repurchase of close ended schemes 
33.  83[(1)  Units  of  a  close  ended  scheme,  other  than  those  of  an  equity  linked  savings 
scheme, launched on or after the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009 shall not be repurchased before the 
end of maturity period of such scheme.] 
(2) The units of close ended schemes referred to in the proviso to regulation 32 may be 
open for sale or redemption at fixed predetermined intervals  84[***] if the maximum and 
minimum  amount  of  sale  or  redemption  of  the  units  and  the  periodicity  of  such  sale  or 
redemption have been disclosed in the offer document. 
85[***] 
(3) The units of close ended scheme may be converted into open-ended scheme,— 
 (a)  if  the  offer  document  of  such  scheme  discloses  the  option  and  the  period  of  such 

conversion; or 

86[(b) the unitholders are provided with an option to redeem their units in full 87[; and]] 
88[(c)  the  initial  issue  expenses  of  the  scheme  launched  prior  to  commencement  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2008 have been amortised fully in accordance with the Tenth Schedule.] 

(4) A close ended scheme shall be fully redeemed at the end of the maturity period 89[***]  
90[Provided that a close-ended scheme may be allowed to be rolled over if the purpose, 
period and other terms of the roll over and all other material details of the scheme including 
the likely composition  of assets immediately before the roll over, the net assets and net 
                                                 
83  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009,  w.e.f.  8-4-2009. Prior  to  its 
substitution, clause (1) read as under; 
“(1) The asset management company may at its option repurchase or reissue the repurchased units of a close 
ended scheme.” 
84 Words ‘without listing’ omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-
1-1998. 
85 Omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 8-4-2009. Prior to omission,  
clause (2A) read as under; 
“* [(2A) The asset management company shall not repurchase units of a capital protection oriented scheme 
before end of the maturity period.]” 
[*Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 3-8-2006.] 
86 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998, for the words 
‘the majority of the unitholders gives a consent to that effect.” 
87 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f22-5-2006. 
88 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. Prior to its 
substitution, clause (c) read as under; 
“*[(c)  the  initial  issue  expenses  of  the  scheme  have  been  amortised  fully  in  accordance  with  the  Tenth 
Schedule.]” 
[*Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 22-5-2006.] 
89 The words, ‘unless a majority of the unitholders otherwise decide for its roll over by passing a resolution’ 
omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
90 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998  

Page 32 of 120 

asset value of the scheme, are disclosed to the unitholders and a copy of the same has been 
filed with the Board : 
Provided further that such roll over will be permitted only in the case of those unitholders 
who express their consent in writing and the unitholders who do not opt for the roll over or 
have not given written consent shall be allowed to redeem their holdings in full at net asset 
value based price.] 

 

 

 

 

Offering period 
34.  No  scheme  of  a  mutual  fund  other  than  the  91[initial]  offering  period  of  any  equity 
linked savings schemes shall be open for subscription for more than 92[15] days: 
93[Provided that in case of mutual fund schemes eligible under Rajiv Gandhi Equity 
 
Savings Scheme, the period specified in this regulation shall not be more than thirty days.] 

 

Allotment of units and refunds of moneys 
35. (1) The asset management company shall specify in the offer document,— 
 (a)  the minimum subscription amount it seeks to raise under the scheme; and 
 (b)  in case of oversubscription the extent of subscription it may retain : 
Provided that where the asset management company retains the oversubscription referred 
to  in  clause  (b),  all  the  applicants  applying  upto  five  thousand  units  shall  be  given  full 
allotment subject to the oversubscription mentioned in clause (b). 
(2)  The  mutual  fund  and  asset  management  company  shall  be  liable  to  refund  the 
application money to the applicants,— 
  (i)  if the mutual  fund  fails to receive the minimum  subscription amount referred to  in 

clause (a) of sub-regulation (1); 

 (ii)  if the moneys received from the applicants for units are in excess of subscription as 

referred to in clause (b) of sub-regulation (1). 

(3) Any amount refundable under sub-regulation (2) shall be refunded within a period of 
94[five working days] from the date of closure of subscription list, by Registered post with 
acknowledgement  due  and  by  cheque  or  demand  draft  marked  “A/c  payee”  to  the 
applicants: 

95[Provided that in case of mutual fund schemes eligible under Rajiv Gandhi Equity 
 
Savings Scheme, the period specified in this sub-regulation shall be fifteen days from the 
closure of the initial subscription list.] 

(4)  In  the  event  of  failure  to  refund  the  amounts  within  the  period  specified  in  sub-
regulation  (3),  the  asset  management  company  shall  be  liable  to  pay  interest  to  the 

                                                 
91 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
92 Substituted for ‘45’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 29-7-2010. 
93 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 19-6-2013 
94 Substituted for “six weeks”  ibid. 
95 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 19-6-2013 

Page 33 of 120 

 

applicants at a rate of fifteen per cent per annum from the expiry of 96[five working days] 
from the date of closure of the subscription list: 

97[Provided that in case of mutual fund schemes eligible under Rajiv Gandhi Equity 
 
Savings Scheme, the period specified in this sub-regulation shall be fifteen days from the 
closure of the initial subscription list.] 

 

 
98[Statement of accounts or unit certificates 
36. (1) The asset management company shall issue to the applicant whose application has 
been  accepted,  a  statement  of  accounts  specifying  the  number  of  units  allotted  to  the 
applicant  as  soon  as  possible  but  not  later  than  99[five  working  days]  from  the  date  of 
closure of the initial subscription list and/or from the date of receipt of the request from the 
unitholders in any open ended scheme: 

Provided that if an applicant so desires, the asset management company shall issue 
 
the unit certificates to the applicant within 100[five working days] of the receipt of request 
for the certificate: 

101[Provided  further  that  in  case  of  mutual  fund  schemes  eligible  under  Rajiv 
 
Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme, the period specified in this sub-regulation shall be fifteen 
days from the closure of the initial subscription list.] 
(2) An applicant in a close ended scheme whose application has been accepted shall have 
the option either to receive the statement of accounts or to hold units in dematerialised form 
and the asset management company shall issue to such applicant, a statement of accounts 
specifying the number of units allotted to the applicant or issue units in dematerialized form 
as soon as possible but not later than 102[five working days] from the date of closure of the 
initial subscription list: 

                                                 
96 Substituted for “six weeks”, ibid. 
97 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 19-6-2013 
98  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009,  w.e.f.  8-4-2009. Prior  to  its 

substitution, regulation 36 read as under: 

“*[Unit certificates or statement of accounts 
36. The asset management company shall issue to the applicant whose application has been accepted, unit 
certificates  or  a  statement  of  accounts  specifying  the  number  of  units  allotted  to  the  applicant  as  soon  as 
possible but not later than six weeks from the date of closure of the *[initial subscription list and/or from the 
date of receipt of the request from the unitholders in any open ended scheme] : 
Provided that if an applicant so desires, the asset management company shall issue the unit certificates to the 
applicant within six weeks of the receipt of request for the certificate.” 
[*Substituted for the words ‘subscription list’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, 
w.e.f. 12-1-1998] 
99 Substituted for “thirty days” by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 29-7-

2010. 

100 Substituted for “thirty days”, ibid. 
101 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 19-6-2013 
102 Substituted for “thirty days”, ibid. 

Page 34 of 120 

 

103[Provided  that  in  case  of  mutual  fund  schemes  eligible  under  Rajiv  Gandhi 
 
Equity Savings Scheme, the period specified in  this  sub-regulation  shall  be fifteen days 
from the closure of the initial subscription list.] 

(3) The asset management company shall issue units in dematerialized form to a unitholder 
in a close ended scheme listed on a recognised stock exchange within two working days of 
the receipt of request from the unitholder.] 
104[(4) The asset management company shall ensure that consolidated account statement 
for each calendar month is issued, on or before tenth day of succeeding month, detailing 
all the transactions and holding at the end of the month including transaction charges paid 
to the distributor, across all schemes of all mutual funds, to all the investors in whose folios 
transaction has taken place during that month:   

Provided  that  the  asset  management  company  shall  ensure  that  a  consolidated  account 
statement  every  half  yearly  (September/  March)  is  issued,  on  or  before  tenth  day  of 
succeeding month, detailing holding at the end of the six month, across all schemes of all 
mutual funds, to all such investors in whose folios no transaction has taken place during 
that period:   

Provided  further  that  the  asset  management  company  shall  identify  common  investor 
across  fund  houses  by  their  permanent  account  number  for  the  purposes  of  sending 
consolidated account statement.  

Explanation:-  For  the  purpose  of  this  regulation,  the  word  ‘transaction’  shall  include 
purchase,  redemption,  switch,  dividend  payout,  dividend  reinvestment,  systematic 
investment  plan,  systematic  withdrawal  plan,  systematic  transfer  plan  and  bonus 
transactions.] 

 

Transfer of units 
37. (1) 105[A unit] unless otherwise restricted or prohibited under the scheme, shall be freely 
transferable by act of parties or by operation of law. 
106[(1A) A unitholder, in a close ended scheme listed on a recognized stock exchange, who 
desires to trade in units shall hold units in dematerialised form.] 

(2) The asset management company shall, on production of instrument of transfer together 
with  relevant  unit  certificates,  register  the  transfer  and  return  the  unit  certificate  to  the 
transferee within thirty days from the date of such production: 

Provided  that  if  the  units  are  with  the  depository  such  units  will  be  transferable  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996. 

 

Guaranteed returns 

38. No guaranteed return shall be provided in a scheme,— 

                                                 
103 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 19-6-2013 
104 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 30-8-2011. 
105 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 8-4-2009, for the words 

‘A unit certificate’. 

106 Inserted  ibid. 

Page 35 of 120 

 

 (a)  unless  such  returns  are  fully  guaranteed  by  the  sponsor  or  the  asset  management 

company; 

 (b)  unless a statement indicating the name of the person who will guarantee the return, is 

made in the offer document; 

  (c)  the manner in which the guarantee is to be met has been stated in the offer document. 

 
107[Capital Protection oriented schemes 
38A. A capital protection oriented scheme may be launched, subject to the following: 

(a)  the  units  of  the  scheme  are  rated  by  a  registered  credit  rating  agency  from  the 
viewpoint of the ability of its portfolio structure to attain protection of the capital 
invested therein; 

(b) the scheme is close ended; and 
(c)  there is compliance with such other requirements as may be specified by the Board 

in this behalf.] 

 

Winding up 

39.  (1)  A  close-ended  scheme  shall  be  wound  up  on  the  expiry  of  duration  fixed in  the 
scheme on the redemption of the units unless it is rolled over for a further period under 
sub-regulation (4) of regulation 33. 

(2) A scheme of a mutual fund may be wound up, after repaying the amount due to the unit 
holders,— 

 (a)  on  the  happening  of  any  event  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the  trustees,  requires  the 

scheme to be wound up; or 

 (b)  if  seventy-five  per  cent  of  the  unit  holders  of  a  scheme  pass  a  resolution  that  the 

scheme be wound up; or 

  (c)  if the Board so directs in the interest of the unitholders. 
(3) Where a scheme is to be wound up under 108[***] sub-regulation (2), the trustees shall 
give notice disclosing the circumstances leading to the winding up of the scheme:— 

 (a)  to the Board; and 

 (b)  in  two  daily  newspapers  having  circulation  all  over  India,  a  vernacular  newspaper 

circulating at the place where the mutual fund is formed. 

 

Effect of winding up 

40. On and from the date of the publication of notice under clause (b) of sub-regulation (3) 
of regulation 39, the trustee or the asset management company as the case may be, shall— 

 (a)  cease to carry on any business activities in respect of the scheme so wound up; 

 (b)  cease to create or cancel units in the scheme; 

                                                 
107 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 3-8-2006. 
108  Words  ‘sub-regulation  (1)  or’  omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  1998, 
w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 

Page 36 of 120 

 

  (c)  cease to issue or redeem units in the scheme. 

 

Procedure and manner of winding up 

41. (1) The trustee shall call a meeting of the unitholders to approve by simple majority of 
the unitholders present and voting at the meeting resolution for authorising the trustees or 
any other person to take steps for winding up of the scheme: 

Provided that a meeting of the unitholders shall not be necessary if the scheme is wound 
up at the end of maturity period of the scheme. 

(2)(a) The trustee or the person authorised under sub-regulation  (1) shall  dispose of the 
assets of the scheme concerned in the best interest of the unitholders of that scheme. 

(b) The proceeds of sale realised under clause (a), shall be first utilised towards discharge 
of such liabilities as are due and payable under the scheme and after making appropriate 
provision for meeting the expenses connected with such winding up, the balance shall be 
paid to the unitholders in proportion to their respective interest in the assets of the scheme 
as on the date when the decision for winding up was taken. 

(3) On the completion of the winding up, the trustee shall forward to the Board and the 
unitholders a report on the winding up containing particulars such as circumstances leading 
to  the winding up, the steps taken for disposal  of assets of the  fund before winding up, 
expenses of the fund for winding up, net assets available for distribution to the unit holders 
and a certificate from the auditors of the fund. 

(4)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  regulation,  the  provisions  of  these 
regulations in respect of disclosures of half-yearly reports and annual reports shall continue 
to be applicable 109[until winding up is completed or the scheme ceases to exist]. 
 

Winding up of the scheme 

42. After the receipt of the report under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 41, if the Board is 
satisfied  that  all  measures  for  winding  up  of  the  scheme  have  been  complied  with,  the 
scheme shall cease to exist. 
 
110[Delisting of units 
42A. The units of a mutual fund scheme shall be delisted from a recognised stock exchange 
in accordance with the guidelines as may be specified by the Board.] 

INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES AND VALUATION POLICIES 

CHAPTER VI 

 
111[Investment objective 

                                                 
109 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
110 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 8-4-2009. 
111 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 12-1-2006. Prior to its 
substitution, regulation 43  read as under;  
“Investment objective 

Page 37 of 120 

 

43. (1) Subject to other provisions of these regulations, a mutual fund may invest moneys 
collected under any of its schemes only in— 

  (a)  securities;  

 (b)  money market instruments;  

  (c)  privately placed debentures; 

 (d)  securitised  debt  instruments,  which  are  either  asset  backed  or  mortgage  backed 

securities; 112[***] 

  (e)  gold or gold related instruments113[; or] 
114[(f) real estate assets as defined in clause (a) of regulation 49A 115[;or]] 
116[(g)infrastructure debt instrument and assets as specified in clause (1) of regulation 49L.] 
(2)  Any  investment  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the 
investment objective of the relevant mutual fund scheme. 

(3) Moneys collected under any money market scheme of a mutual fund shall be invested 
only in money market instruments. 

(4) Moneys collected under any gold exchange traded fund scheme shall be invested only 
in gold or gold related instruments, in accordance with sub-regulation (5) of regulation 44.] 
117[(5)  Moneys  collected  under  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  shall  be  invested  in 
accordance with regulation 49E.] 
 

Investment, borrowing, restriction, etc. 

44.  (1)  Any  investment  to  be  made  under  regulation  43  shall  be  invested  subject  to  the 
investment restriction specified in the Seventh Schedule: 
118[Provided that nothing in the Seventh Schedule shall apply to a gold exchange traded 
fund scheme.] 
119[(1A) The mutual fund having an aggregate of securities which are worth Rs. 10 crores 
or more, as on the latest balance-sheet date, shall subject to such instructions as may be 
issued from time to time by the Board settle their transactions entered on or after January 
15, 1998, only through dematerialised securities.] 

                                                 
43. The moneys collected under any scheme of a mutual fund shall be invested only in transferable securities 
in the money market or in the capital market or in privately placed debentures or securitised debts:  
Provided that moneys collected under any money market scheme of a mutual fund shall be invested only in 
money market instruments in accordance with directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India:  
Provided  further  that  in  case  of  securitised  debts  such  fund  may  invest  in  asset  backed  securities  *[and] 
mortgaged backed securities. 
 [* word ‘and’ substituted for the word ‘excluding’ by SEBI (MF) (Second Amend.) Regulations, 2000.] 
112 Word ‘or’ omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. 
113 Substituted for “.” by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. 
114 Inserted  ibid. 
115 Substituted for “.” by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 30-8-2011. 
116 Inserted, ibid. 
117 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. 
118 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 12-1-2006. 
119 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 

Page 38 of 120 

 

(2)  The  mutual  fund  shall  not  borrow  except  to  meet  temporary  liquidity  needs  of  the 
mutual funds for the purpose of repurchase, redemption of units or payment of interest or 
dividend to the unitholders: 

Provided that the mutual fund shall not borrow more than 20 per cent of the net asset of 
the scheme and the duration of such a borrowing shall not exceed a period of six months. 
120[(3) Save as otherwise expressly provided under these regulations, the mutual fund shall 
not advance any loans for any purpose.] 
121[(4) A mutual fund may lend and borrow securities in accordance with the framework 
relating to short selling and securities lending and borrowing specified by the Board.] 
122[(5) A gold exchange traded fund scheme shall be subject to the following investment 
restrictions: 
  (a)  123[***] 
 (b)  the funds of any such scheme shall be invested only in gold or gold related instruments 
in accordance with its investment objective, except to the extent necessary to meet the 
liquidity requirements for honouring repurchases or redemptions, as disclosed in the 
offer document; and 

  (c)  pending  deployment  of  funds  in  accordance  with  clause  (b),  the  mutual  fund  may 

invest such funds in short-term deposits of scheduled commercial banks.] 

 
124[Carry 
transactions. 
45. (1) The funds of a scheme shall not in any manner be used in carry forward transactions: 

transactions  and  short  selling 

forward 

transactions,  derivatives 

                                                 
120 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 30-8-2011. Prior to its 
substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as under; 
“(3) The mutual fund shall not advance any loans for any purpose.” 
121  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2007,  w.e.f.  31-10-2007. 
Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (4) read as under; 
“*[(4) The mutual fund may lend securities in accordance with the Stock Lending Scheme of the Board.]” 
[* Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f.12-1-1998.]  
122 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 12-1-2006 
123 Omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. Prior to this it 
had been inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 12-1-2006 as, 
“the initial issue expenses in respect of any such scheme shall not exceed six per cent of the funds raised 
under that scheme;” 
124  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2007,  w.e.f.  31-10-2007. 
Prior to its substitution, regulation 45  read as under; 
“*[Option trading, etc. 
45.  The  funds  of  a  scheme  shall  not  in  any  manner  be  used  in  option  trading  or  in  short  selling  or  carry 
forward transactions: 
Provided that a mutual fund may enter into derivatives transactions in a recognised stock exchange, subject 
to such Guidelines as may be specified by the Board].” 
[*Amended  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2006,  w.e.f.  22-5-2006  and 
SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment).] 

Page 39 of 120 

 

 Provided that a mutual fund may enter into derivatives transactions on a recognized stock 
exchange, subject to the framework specified by the Board. 
(2) A mutual fund may enter into short selling transactions on a recognized stock exchange, 
subject  to  the  framework  relating  to  short  selling  and  securities  lending  and  borrowing 
specified by the Board.] 
 

Underwriting of securities 
46.  Mutual  funds  may  enter  into  underwriting  agreement  after  obtaining  a  certificate  of 
registration in terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Rules 
and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993 authorising 
it to carry on activities as underwriters. 
Explanation: (1) For the purpose of these regulations, the underwriting obligation will be 
deemed as if investments are made in such securities. 
(2) The capital adequacy norms for the purpose of underwriting shall be the net asset of the 
scheme: 
Provided that the underwriting obligation of a mutual fund shall not at any time exceed 
the total net asset value of the scheme. 
 
125[Valuation of investments 
47.  Every  mutual  fund  shall  ensure  that  the  asset  management  company  computes  and 
carries  out  valuation  of  investments  made  by  its  scheme(s)  in  accordance  with  the 
investment valuation norms specified in Eighth Schedule, and publishes the same.] 

 

Computation of Net Asset Value 
48. (1) Every mutual fund shall compute the Net Asset Value of each scheme by dividing 
the net assets of the scheme by the number of units outstanding on the valuation date. 
126[(2)  The  Net  Asset  Value  of  the  scheme  shall  be  calculated  on  daily  basis  and 
127[disclosed in the manner specified by the Board].]  
 

                                                 
125 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 21-2-2012. Prior to its 
substitution, regulation 47 read as under; 
“47. Method of valuation of investments.─ Every mutual fund shall compute and carry out valuation of its 
investments in its portfolio and publish the same in accordance with the valuation norms specified in Eighth 
Schedule.” 
126  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f.  01-10-2012. 
Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as under:  
“”(2) The Net Asset Value of the scheme shall be calculated and published at least in two daily newspapers 
at intervals of not exceeding one week : 
Provided that the Net Asset Value of a close ended scheme, other than that of equity linked savings scheme, 
shall be calculated on daily basis and published in at least two daily newspapers having circulation all over 
India.” 
127 Substituted for the words “published in at least two daily newspapers having circulation all over India” 
by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30.5.2018. 

Page 40 of 120 

 

Pricing of Units 
49. (1) The price at which the units may be subscribed or sold and the price at which such 
units may at any time be repurchased by the mutual fund shall be made available to the 
investors 128[in the manner specified by the Board]. 
(2) 129[The mutual fund shall provide the methodology of calculating the sale and repurchase 
price of units in the manner specified by the Board.] 
(3)  While  determining  the  prices  of  the  units,  the  mutual  fund  shall  ensure  that  the 
repurchase price is not lower than 93 per cent of the Net Asset Value and the sale price is 
not higher than 107 per cent of the Net Asset Value: 
130[Provided that the repurchase price of the units of close ended scheme launched prior 
to  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2009 shall not  be lower than ninety five per cent  of the Net 
Asset Value:] 
Provided further that the difference between the repurchase price and the sale price of the 
unit shall not exceed 7 per cent calculated on the sale price: 
131[***] 
132[(3A) Where a mutual fund repurchases units in a close ended scheme 133[launched prior 
to  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2009] which fulfils the conditions mentioned in sub-regulation 
(3B),  it  shall  deduct  an  amount  representing  proportionate  initial  issue  expenses  or  part 
thereof remaining unamortized, from the repurchase proceeds. 
Explanation:  The  term  “proportionate  initial  issue  expenses  or  part  thereof  remaining 
unamortised” refers to such proportion of the expenses of the scheme as are attributable to 
the units being repurchased. 
134[(3B) The conditions referred to in sub-regulation (3A) are the following: 

                                                 
128 Inserted ibid. 
129 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30.5.2018. Prior 
to the substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as follows: 
“(2) The mutual fund, in case of open-ended scheme, shall at least once a week publish in a daily newspaper 
of all India circulation, the sale and repurchase price of units.” 
130 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 8-4-2009. Prior to its 
substitution, proviso read as under; 
“Provided that the repurchase price of the units of a close ended scheme shall not be lower than 95 per cent 
of the Net Asset Value:” 
131 Omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. Prior to this, 
proviso read as under; 
“Provided further that no entry load shall be charged by any close-ended scheme after commencement of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006.” 
[*Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 22-5-2006] 
132 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 22-5-2006. 
133 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 8-4-2009. 
134 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. Prior to its 
substitution, sub regulation (3B) read as under; 
“(3B) The conditions referred to in sub-regulation (3A) are the following : 

Page 41 of 120 

 

(a)  the  scheme  is  launched  after  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India (Mutual Funds)(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006 and prior to 
commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2008; 

(b) initial issue expenses in respect of the scheme are accounted in the books of accounts 

of the scheme in accordance with Tenth Schedule.]  

(3C) The amount recovered under sub-regulation (3A) shall be credited to the unamortized 
initial issue expenses of the scheme.] 
(4) The price of units shall be determined with reference to the last determined Net Asset 
Value as mentioned in sub-regulation (3) unless,— 
 (a)  the scheme announces the Net Asset Value on a daily basis; and 
135[(b)  the sale price is determined with or without a fixed premium added to the future net 

asset value which is declared in advance.] 

 

136 [CHAPTER VIA 

REAL ESTATE MUTUAL FUND SCHEMES 

Definitions 
49A. For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires- 
(a) “real estate asset” means an identifiable immovable property- 

(i) which is located within India in such city as may be specified by the Board from 
time to time or in a special economic zone within the meaning of clause (za) of section 
2 of the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 (28 of 2005); 
(ii) on which construction is complete and which is usable; 
(iii) which is evidenced by valid title documents; 
(iv) which is legally transferable; 
(v) which is free from all encumbrances; 
(vi) which is not subject matter of any litigation; 
but does not include- 
I. a project under construction; or 4 
II. vacant land; or 
III. deserted property; or 
IV. land specified for agricultural use; or  

(a) 

the scheme is launched after commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(b) 

initial issue expenses in respect of the scheme have been charged or are proposed to be 

                                                 
 
(Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006; and 
 
charged to the mutual fund, as per clause (a) of sub-regulation (4) of regulation 52.” 
[*Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 22-5-2006.] 
135 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998 for, 
“the sale price is determined by adding to the future Net Asset Value a fixed premium which is declared in 
advance. 
136 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. 

Page 42 of 120 

 

V. a property which is reserved or attached by any Government or other authority or 
pursuant  to  orders  of  a  court  of  law  or  the  acquisition  of  which  is  otherwise 
prohibited under any law for the time being in force; 

(b)  “real  estate  valuer”  means  a  qualified  valuer  of  real  estate  assets  who  has  been 
accredited by a credit rating agency registered with the Board. 

 

Applicability 
49B. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to real estate mutual fund schemes. 
(2) Unless the context otherwise requires, all other provisions of these regulations and the 
guidelines and circulars issues thereunder shall apply to real estate mutual fund schemes, 
and trustees and asset management companies in relation to such schemes, except where 
specific provisions are made in relation thereto under this Chapter. 

 

Additional eligibility criteria 
49C. (1) A Certificate of registration may be granted under regulation 9 to an applicant 
proposing to launch only real estate mutual fund schemes if he;- 

(a) has been carrying on business in real estate for a period of not less than five years; 
(b) fulfills eligibility criteria provided in regulation 7, except that specified in item (i) 

of the Explanation to clause (a) thereof: 

(2) A real estate mutual fund scheme of a mutual fund registered under subregulation (1) 
shall not  invest in  the securities mentioned in sub-clauses (ii) to  (iii) of  clause  (a) or in 
clause  (b)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  49E  unless  it  has  key  personnel  having 
adequate professional experience in finance and financial services related field. 
(3)  An  existing  mutual  fund  may  launch  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  if  it  has  an 
adequate number of key personnel and directors having adequate experience in real estate. 

 

Other conditions for real estate mutual fund schemes 
49D. (1) Every real estate mutual fund scheme shall be close-ended and its units shall be 
listed on a recognized stock exchange: 
Provided  that  the  redemption  of  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  may  be  done  in  a 
staggered manner. 
(2) The units issued by a real estate mutual fund scheme shall not confer any right on the 
unit  holders  to  use  the  real  estate  assets  held  by  the  scheme  and  any  provision  to  the 
contrary in the trust deed or in the terms of issue shall be void. 
(3) The title deeds pertaining to real estate assets held by a real estate mutual fund scheme 
shall be kept in safe custody with the custodian of the mutual fund. 
(4)  A  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  shall  not  undertake  lending  or  housing  finance 
activities. 
(5) All financial transactions of a real estate mutual fund scheme shall be routed through 
banking channels and they shall not be cash or unaccounted transactions. 

 

Permissible investments 

Page 43 of 120 

 

49E. (1) Every real state mutual fund scheme shall invest at least thirty five per cent. of the 
net assets of the scheme directly in real estate assets. 
(2) Subject to sub-regulation (1), every real estate mutual fund scheme shall invest- 

(a) at least seventy five per cent. of the net assets of the scheme in- 

 
 
 

 
 
 

(i) real estate assets; 
(ii) mortgage backed securities (but not directly in mortgages); 
(iii)  equity  shares  or  debentures  of  companies  engaged  in  dealing  in  real  estate 
assets or in undertaking real estate development projects, whether listed on a 
recognized stock exchange in India or not; 

(b) the balance in other securities; 

(3) Unless otherwise disclosed in the offer document, no mutual fund shall, under all its 
real estate mutual fund schemes, invest more than thirty per cent. of its net assets in a single 
city. 
(4) No mutual fund shall, under all its real estate mutual fund schemes, invest more than 
fifteen per cent. of its net assets in the real estate assets of any single real estate project. 
Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation, “single real estate project” means a project 
by a builder in a single location within a city. 
(5) No mutual fund shall, under all its real estate mutual fund schemes, invest more than 
twenty five per cent. of the total issued capital of any unlisted company. 
(6) No mutual fund shall invest more than fifteen per cent of the net assets of any of its real 
estate mutual fund schemes in the equity shares or debentures of any unlisted company. 
(7) No real estate mutual fund scheme shall invest in – 

(a) any unlisted security of the sponsor or its associate or group company; 
(b)  any  listed  security  issued  by  way  of  preferential  allotment  by  the  sponsor  or  its 

associate or group company; 

(c)  any  listed  security  of  the  sponsor  or  its  associate  or  group  company,  in  excess  of 

twenty five per cent of the net assets of the scheme. 

(8) No mutual fund shall transfer real estate assets amongst its schemes. 
(9) No mutual fund shall invest in any real estate asset which was owned by the sponsor or 
the asset management company or any of its associates during the period of last five years 
or in which the sponsor or the asset management company or any of its associates hold 
tenancy or lease rights. 

 

Valuation of real estates assets and declaration of net asset value 
49F. (1) The real estate assets held by a real estate mutual fund scheme shall be valued – 

(a) at cost price on the date of acquisition; and 
(b) at fair price on every ninetieth day from the day of its purchase in accordance with 

the norms specified in Schedule IXB. 

(2) The asset management  company, its directors, the trustees and the real  estate valuer 
shall ensure that the valuation of assets held by a real estate mutual fund scheme are done 
in  good  faith,  in  accordance  with  the  norms  specified  in  Schedule  IX  B  and  that  the 

Page 44 of 120 

 

accounts of the scheme are prepared in accordance with accounting principles specified in 
Schedule XI. 
(3)  The  net  asset  value  of  every  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  shall  be  calculated  and 
declared at the close of each business day on the basis of the most current valuation of the 
real estate assets held by the scheme and accrued income thereon, if any. 

 

 

 

Page 45 of 120 

 

Duties of asset management company 
49G.  (1)  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of  regulation  21,  the  asset  management 
company of a mutual fund having real estate mutual fund schemes shall appoint suitable 
number of qualified key personnel with relevant experience, before undertaking investment 
management of real estate assets of a real estate mutual fund scheme. 
(2) The asset management company may appoint advisors to advise it on acquisitions or 
proposed acquisitions of real estate assets. 
(3) The asset management company shall exercise due care while appointing real estate 
valuers for valuing the real estate assets held by the real estate mutual fund scheme and 
shall ensure that there is no conflict of interest. 
(4) The asset management company shall lay down an adequate system of internal controls 
and risk management. 
(5) The asset management company shall put in place systems to ensure that all financial 
transactions  are  done  through  banking  channels  and  exclude  transactions  in  cash  or 
unaccounted transactions. 
(6)  The  asset  management  company  shall  exercise  due  diligence  in  maintenance  of  the 
assets  of  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  and  shall  ensure  that  there  is  no  avoidable 
deterioration in their value. 
(7) The asset management company shall ensure that the real estate assets held by a real 
estate mutual fund scheme are adequately insured against impair, damage or destruction. 
(8) The asset management company shall ensure that the cost of maintenance and insurance 
of real estate assets is within reasonable limits and that no funds of the scheme are utilized 
towards development of such assets. 
(9)  The  asset  management  company  shall  ensure  that  a  real  estate  valuer  certifies 
compliance with sub-regulation (8) on an annual basis. 
(10) The asset management company shall ensure that no real estate valuer continues with 
valuation  of particular real  estate asset for more than two  years and that no such valuer 
values the same asset for a period of at least three years thereafter. 
(11)  The  asset  management  company  shall  record  in  writing,  the  details  of  its  decision 
making process in buying or selling real estate assets together with the justifications for 
such decisions and forward the same periodically to trustees. 
(12) The asset management company shall ensure that investment of funds of the real estate 
mutual fund scheme is not made contrary to provisions of this chapter and the trust deed. 
137[(13)  The  asset  management  company  shall  obtain,  wherever  required  under  these 
regulations, prior in-principle approval from the recognized stock exchange(s) where units 
are proposed to be listed.] 

 

Usage of real estate assets of a real estate mutual fund scheme 
49H. (1) The asset management company may let out or lease out the real estate assets held 
by the real estate mutual fund scheme if the term of such lease or letting does not extend 
beyond the period of maturity of the scheme. 

                                                 
137 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 8-4-2009. 

Page 46 of 120 

 

(2) Where real estate assets are let out or leased out, the asset management company shall 
diligently collect the rents or other income in a timely manner. 
(3) Real estate assets held by a real estate mutual fund scheme may be let out to the sponsor, 
asset  management  company  or  any  of  their  associates,  at  market  price  or  otherwise  on 
commercial terms: 
Provided that not more than 25% of the total rental income of the scheme shall be derived 
from assets so let out. 

 

Duties of trustees 
49I. (1) The trustees shall ensure that the asset management company has the necessary 
expertise,  internal  control  systems  and  risk  management  mechanism  to  invest  in  and 
manage investments in real estate assets on a continuous basis. 
(2) The trustees shall monitor whether due diligence is exercised by the asset management 
company in managing the investments. 
(3)  The  trustees  shall  review  the  market  price  of  the  units  during  the  year  and  shall 
recommend proportionate buy back of units from  unit holders, if the units are traded at 
steep discount to the net asset value. 
(4)  The  magnitude  of  discount  which  shall  amount  to  steep  discount  referred  to  in  sub-
regulation (3) shall be disclosed in the offer document. 
(5)  The  trustees  shall  ensure  that  only  permissible  investments  are  made  by  the  asset 
management company. 
(6) The trustees shall ensure that all financial transactions of the real estate mutual fund 
scheme  are  made  only  through  banking  channels  and  that  systems  exist  to  exclude 
transactions in cash and unaccounted transactions. 
(7) The trustees shall lay down the criteria for empanelment of real estate brokers. 
(8)  The  trustees  shall  lay  down  the  broad  procedure  to  be  followed  by  the  assert 
management company while transacting in real estate assets. 
(9) The trustees shall require the asset management company to set up such systems and 
submit such reports to trustees, as may be necessary for them to effectively monitor the 
performance and functioning of the real estate mutual fund schemes. 
(10)  The  trustees  shall  include  a  confirmation  on  compliance  with  sub  regulation  (9)  in 
their half yearly reports made to the Board. 
138[(11)  The  trustees  shall  obtain,  wherever  required  under  these  regulations,  prior  in-
principle approval from the recognised stock exchange(s) where units are proposed to be 
listed.] 

 

Disclosures in offer document and other disclosures 
49J. (1) The offer documents of real estate mutual fund schemes shall contain disclosures 
which are adequate for investors to make informed investment decisions and such further 
disclosures as may be specified by the Board.  

                                                 
138 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 8-4-2009. 

Page 47 of 120 

 

(2) The portfolio disclosures and financial results in respect of a real estate mutual fund 
scheme shall contain such further disclosures as are specified by the Board. 
(3) Advertisements  in  respect  of  real  estate mutual  fund schemes shall  conform  to  such 
guidelines as may be specified by the Board. 

 

Transactions by employees etc. 
49K. (1) All transactions done by the trustees or the employees or directors of the asset 
management company or the trustee company in real  estate assets  shall be disclosed by 
them to the compliance officer within one month of the transaction. 
(2)  The  compliance  officer  shall  make  a  report  thereon  from  the  view  point  of  possible 
conflict of interest and shall submit it to the trustees with his recommendations, if any. 
(3) The persons covered in sub-regulation (1) may obtain the views of the trustees before 
entering into the transaction in real estate assets, by making a suitable request to them.] 

 

139[CHAPTER VI -B 

INFRASTRUCTURE DEBT FUND SCHEMES 

Definitions. 
49L. For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires- 
(1)  “Infrastructure debt fund scheme” means a mutual fund scheme that invests primarily 
(minimum 90% of scheme assets) in the debt securities or securitized debt instrument of 
infrastructure companies or infrastructure capital  companies or infrastructure projects or 
special  purpose  vehicles  which  are  created  for  the  purpose  of  facilitating  or  promoting 
investment  in  infrastructure,  and  other  permissible  assets  in  accordance  with  these 
regulations  or  bank  loans  in  respect  of  completed  and  revenue  generating  projects  of 
infrastructure companies or projects or special purpose vehicles.  
(2)  “Infrastructure” includes the sectors as specified by guidelines issued by the Board or 
as notified by Ministry of Finance, from time to time. 
(3) ‘Strategic Investor’ means; 

(i)  an  Infrastructure  Finance  Company  registered  with  Reserve  bank  of  India  as 

Non Banking Financial Company; 

(ii) a Scheduled Commercial Bank; 

(iii) International Multilateral Financial Institution; 
140[(iv) Systemically Important Non Banking Financial Companies registered with 

Reserve Bank of India; 

(v)  Foreign  Institutional  Investors  registered  with  the  Board,  subject  to  their 

applicable investment limits, which are long term investors in terms of   the 
norms specified by SEBI.] 

 
 

                                                 
139  Chapter  VI-B  consisting  of  sections  49L  to  49T,  inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 30-8-2011. 

140 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 

Page 48 of 120 

 

Applicability. 

49M.  (1)The  provisions  of  this  chapter  shall  apply  to  infrastructure  debt  fund  schemes 
launched by mutual funds. 
(2)  All  other  provisions  of  these  regulations  and  the  guidelines  and  circulars  issued 
thereunder,  unless  the  context  otherwise  require  or  repugnant  to  the  provisions  of  this 
chapter, shall apply to infrastructure debt  fund schemes, trustees  and  asset management 
companies in relation to such schemes. 

 

Eligibility criteria for launching infrastructure debt fund scheme 
 
49N. (1) An existing mutual fund may launch an infrastructure debt fund schemes if it 
has an adequate number of key personnel having adequate experience in infrastructure 
sector. 
(2) A certificate of registration may be granted under regulation 9 to an applicant proposing 
to launch only infrastructure debt fund schemes if the sponsor or the parent company of 
the sponsor: - 

(a)  has been carrying on activities or business  in infrastructure financing sector 

for a period of not less than five years; 

(b) 

fulfills eligibility criteria provided in Regulation 7. 
Explanation-  For  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  ‘parent  company  of  the 
sponsor’ shall mean a company which holds at least 75% of paid up equity 
share capital of the sponsor. 
 

141[Offering period. 
 
49NA. No scheme of an infrastructure debt fund, in the case of a public offer,  shall be 
open for subscription  for more than forty five days.] 

 

Conditions for infrastructure debt fund schemes. 

 
49O.  (1)    An  infrastructure  debt  fund  scheme  shall  be  launched  either  as  close-ended 
scheme maturing after more than five years or interval scheme with lock-in of five years 
and 142[specified transaction period of not more than forty five days] as may be specified 
in the scheme information document143[:] 
144[Provided that the tenure of the scheme may be extended to two years subject to approval 
of two-thirds of the unitholders by value of their investment in the scheme.] 
(2) Units  of  infrastructure  debt  fund  schemes  shall  be  listed  on  a  recognized  stock 

exchange, provided that such units shall be listed only after being fully paid up.  

                                                 
141 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 
142 Substituted for "interval period not longer than one month" by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 
143 Substituted for "." by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 
144 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 

Page 49 of 120 

 

(3) Mutual Funds may disclose indicative portfolio of infrastructure debt fund scheme to 

its potential investors disclosing the type of assets the mutual fund will be investing. 

(4) An infrastructure debt fund scheme shall have minimum five investors and no single 

investor shall hold more than fifty percent of net assets of the scheme.  

(5) No  infrastructure  debt  fund  scheme  shall  accept  any  investment  from  any  investor 

which is less than Rupees one crore. 

(6) The minimum size of the unit shall be Rupees ten lakhs. 
(7) Each scheme launched as infrastructure debt fund scheme shall have firm commitment 
from the strategic investors for contribution of an amount of at least Rupees twenty five 
crores  before  the  allotment  of  units  of  the  scheme  are  marketed  to  other  potential 
investors. 

(8)  Mutual Funds launching infrastructure debt fund scheme may issue partly paid units 

to the investors, subject to following conditions:  

(a)  The  asset  management  company  shall  call  for  the  unpaid  portions 

depending upon the deployment opportunities; 

(b)  The  offer  document  of  the  scheme  shall  disclose  the  interest  or  penalty 
which  may  be  deducted  in  case  of  non  payment  of  call  money  by  the 
investors within stipulated time; and  

(c)  The amount of interest or penalty shall be retained in the scheme. 

 

 

145[Private Placement. 
 
49-OA. (1) The units of an infrastructure debt fund scheme may be offered through private 
placement to less than fifty persons, subject to approval by the trustees and the board of 
the asset management company. 
(2) The offer made under sub-regulation (1), shall be subject to the following: 

(a) A placement memorandum, in the manner as specified by the Board,  shall be filed 
by the mutual fund with the Board at least seven days prior to the launch of the scheme; 
and 
(b)  the  mutual  fund  shall  pay  to  the  Board,  filing  fee  as  specified  in  the  Second 
Schedule.] 

 
Permissible investments.  
 
49P. (1) Every infrastructure debt fund scheme shall invest at least ninety percent of the 
net  assets  of  the  scheme  in  the  debt  securities  or  securitized  debt  instruments  of 
infrastructure companies or projects or special purpose vehicles which are created for the 
purpose of facilitating or promoting investment in infrastructure or bank loans in respect 
of  completed  and  revenue  generating  projects  of  infrastructure  companies  or  special 
purpose vehicle 146[:] 

                                                 
145 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 
146 Substituted for "." by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 

Page 50 of 120 

 

147[Provided that the funds received on account of re-payment of principal, whether by way 
of pre-payment or otherwise, with respect to the underlying assets of the scheme, shall be 
invested as specified in this sub-regulation: 
Provided further that if the investments specified in this sub-regulation are not available, 
such  funds  may  be  invested  in  bonds  of  Public  Financial  Institutions  and  Infrastructure 
Finance Companies.] 
(2) Subject  to  sub-regulation (1), every infrastructure debt  fund scheme may   invest the 
balance amount in equity shares, convertibles including mezzanine financing instruments 
of  companies  engaged  in  infrastructure,  infrastructure    development  projects,  whether 
listed on a recognized stock exchange in India or not; or money market instruments and 
bank deposits. 
(3) The investment  restrictions shall be applicable on the life-cycle of the infrastructure 
debt fund scheme and shall be reckoned with reference to the total amount raised by the 
infrastructure debt fund scheme. 
(4) No mutual fund shall, under all its infrastructure debt fund schemes, invest more than 
thirty per cent of its net assets in the debt securities or assets of any single infrastructure 
company  or  project  or  special  purpose  vehicles  which  are  created  for  the  purpose  of 
facilitating or promoting investment in infrastructure or bank loans in respect of completed 
and revenue generating projects of any single infrastructure company or project or special 
purpose vehicle.  
(5) An infrastructure debt scheme shall not invest more than 30% of the net assets of the 
scheme  in  debt  instruments  or  assets  of  any  single  infrastructure  company  or  project  or 
special  purpose  vehicles  which  are  created  for  the  purpose  of  facilitating  or  promoting 
investment in infrastructure or bank loans in respect of completed and revenue generating 
projects of any single infrastructure company or project or special purpose vehicle148[.] 
149[***] 
150[(5A) The overall investments by an infrastructure debt fund scheme in debt instruments 
or  assets  of  infrastructure  companies  or  projects  or  special  purpose  vehicles,  which  are 
created for the purpose  of facilitating or promoting investment  in infrastructure or bank 
loans in respect of completed and revenue generating projects of infrastructure companies 
or  projects  or  special  purpose  vehicles,  which  are  rated  below  investment  grade  or  are 
unrated, shall not exceed 30% of the net assets of the scheme: 
Provided that the overall investment limit may increase up to 50% of the net assets of the 
scheme  with  the  prior  approval  of  the  trustees  and  the  board  of  the  asset  management 
company.] 
(6)  No infrastructure debt fund scheme shall invest in – 

 

                                                 
147 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 
148 Substituted for ":" by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. The 
words  "which  are  rated  below  investment  grade  or  unrated"  were  omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 
149 Omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. Prior to this, it 
read as, 
“Provided that such investment limit may be extended upto 50% of the net assets of the scheme with the 
prior approval of the board of trustees and the board of asset management company.” 
150 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 

Page 51 of 120 

 

(i) Any unlisted security of the sponsor or its associate or group company; 
(ii) Any listed security issued by way of preferential  allotment  by the sponsor or its 

associate or group company; 

(iii) Any listed security of the sponsor or its associate or group company or bank loan 
in respect of completed and revenue generating projects of infrastructure companies 
or special purpose vehicles of the sponsor or its associate or group companies, in 
excess of twenty five per cent of the net assets of the scheme, subject to approval 
of  trustees  and  full  disclosures  to  investors  for  investments  made  within  the 
aforesaid limits; or 

151[(iv)  any asset or securities owned by the sponsor or asset management company or 

their associates in excess of 30% of the net assets of the scheme, provided that- 
(a) such investment is in assets or securities not below investment grade; 
(b)  the  sponsor  or  its  associates  retains  atleast  30%  of  the  assets  or 
securities,  in  which  investment  is  made  by  the  scheme,  till  the  assets  or 
securities are held in the scheme portfolio; and  
(c)  approval  for  such  investment  is  granted  by  the  trustees  and  full 
disclosures are made to the investors regarding such investment.] 

 

 
 

 

Valuation of assets and declaration of net asset value.  

 
49Q. (1) The assets held by an infrastructure debt fund scheme shall be valued “in good 
faith” by the asset management  company on the  basis of appropriate valuation methods 
based on principles approved by the trustees.  
(2) The valuation shall be documented and the supporting data in respect of each security 
so valued shall be preserved at least for a period of five years after the expiry of the scheme.  
(3) The methods used to arrive at values ‘in good faith’ shall be periodically reviewed by 
the Trustees and by the statutory auditor of the mutual fund.  
(4) The valuation  policy  approved by the board of  asset management company  shall be 
disclosed in the scheme information document. 
(5) The net asset value of every infrastructure debt fund scheme shall be calculated and 
declared atleast once in each quarter. 

 

Duties of asset management company.  

 
49R. (1) The asset management company shall lay down an adequate system of internal 
controls and risk management. 

                                                 
151 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. Prior to 
substitution, clause (iv) read as follows: 
"Any asset or securities owned by the sponsor or asset management company or its associates, in excess of 
20%  of  the  net  assets  of  the  scheme  not  below  investment  grade,  subject  to  approval  of  trustees  and  full 
disclosures to investors for investments made within the aforesaid limits." 

Page 52 of 120 

 

(2) The  asset  management  company  shall  exercise  due  diligence  in  maintenance  of  the 
assets  of  an  infrastructure  debt  fund  scheme  and  shall  ensure  that  there  is  no  avoidable 
deterioration in their value. 
(3) The  asset  management  company  shall  record  in  writing,  the  details  of  its  decision 
making  process  in  buying  or  selling  infrastructure  companies’  assets  together  with  the 
justifications for such decisions and forward the same periodically to trustees. 
(4) The  asset  management  company  shall  ensure  that  investment  of  funds  of  the 
Infrastructure Debt Fund schemes is not made contrary to provisions of this chapter and 
the trust deed. 
(5) The  asset  management  company  shall  obtain,  wherever  required  under  these 
regulations, prior in-principle approval from the recognized stock exchange(s) where units 
are proposed to be listed.  
(6) The  asset  management  company  shall  institute  such  mechanisms  as  to  ensure  that 
proper  care  is  taken  for  collection,  monitoring  and  supervision  of  the  debt  assets  by 
appointing a service provider having extensive experience thereof, if required. 

 

Disclosures in offer document and other disclosures. 

 
49S. (1) The offer documents of infrastructure debt fund schemes shall contain disclosures 
which are adequate for investors to make informed investment decisions and such further 
disclosures as may be specified by the Board.  
(2) The portfolio disclosures and financial results in respect of an infrastructure debt fund 
schemes shall contain such further disclosures as may be specified by the Board. 
(3)  Advertisements in respect of infrastructure debt fund schemes shall conform to such 
guidelines as may be specified by the Board. 

 

Transactions by employees etc. 

 
49T. (1) All transactions done by the trustees or the employees or directors of the asset 
management company or the trustee company in the investee companies shall be disclosed 
by them to the compliance officer within one month of the transaction. 
(2) The  compliance  officer  shall  make  a  report  thereon  from  the  view  point  of  possible 
conflict of interest and shall submit it to the trustees with his recommendations, if any. 
(3) The persons covered in sub-regulation (1) may obtain the views of the trustees before 
entering into the transaction in investee companies, by making a suitable request to them.] 

 

 

CHAPTER VII 

GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 

To maintain proper books of account and records, etc. 

Page 53 of 120 

 

50. (1) Every asset management company for each scheme shall keep and maintain proper 
books of account, records and documents, for each scheme so as to explain its transactions 
and to disclose at any point of time the financial position of each scheme and in particular 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the fund and intimate to the Board the 
place where such books of account, records and documents are maintained. 
(2) Every asset management company shall maintain and preserve for a period of 152[eight] 
years its books of account, records and documents. 

(3) The asset management company shall follow the accounting policies and standards as 
specified  in  Ninth  Schedule  so  as  to  provide  appropriate  details  of  the  schemewise 
disposition of the assets of the fund at the relevant accounting date and the performance 
during  that  period  together  with  information  regarding  distribution  or  accumulation  of 
income accruing to the unitholder in a fair and true manner. 

 
Financial year 
51. The financial year for all the schemes shall end as of March 31st of each year; 
Provided that, for a new scheme commenced during a financial year, the disclosure and 
reporting requirements would apply for the period beginning from the date of its 
commencement and ending on March 31st of 153[that financial] year. 
 
154[Credit of exit load to scheme.  
51A. The exit load charged, if any, after the commencement of the SEBI (Mutual Funds) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2012, shall be credited to the scheme.] 
 
Limitation on fees and expenses on issue of schemes 
52.  (1)  All  expenses  should  be  clearly  identified  and  appropriated  in  the  individual 
schemes.  
155[(2)  The  asset  management  company  may  charge  the  scheme  with  investment  and 
advisory fees which shall be fully disclosed in the offer document.] 

                                                 
152 Substituted for ‘ten’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
153 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998, for the words 
‘the following’. 
154 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 01-10-2012. 
155  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f.  01-10-2012. 
Prior to its substitution, Sub-regulation (2) read as under; 
“(2) The Asset Management Company may charge the mutual fund with investment and advisory fees which 
are fully disclosed in the offer document subject to the following namely:— 
 
year for the scheme concerned, as long as the net assets do not exceed Rs.100 crores, and 
 
Rs.100 crores. 
Provided that in case of an index fund scheme, the investment and advisory fees shall not exceed three fourths 
of one percent (0.75%) of the weekly average net assets. ” 

(i) One and a quarter of one per cent of the weekly average net assets outstanding in each accounting 

(ii) One per cent of the excess amount over Rs.100 crores, where net assets so calculated exceed 

Page 54 of 120 

 

 (3) 156[***]  
(4) In addition to the fees mentioned in sub-regulation (2), the asset management company 
may charge the 157[scheme] with the following expenses, namely:— 
 (a) 158[***] 
 (b)  recurring expenses including:— 

  (i)  marketing and selling expenses including agents’ commission, if any ; 
 (ii)  brokerage and transaction cost ; 
(iii)  registrar services for transfer of units sold or redeemed ; 
 (iv)  fees and expenses of trustees ; 
  (v)  audit fees ; 
 (vi)  custodian fees ; 
159[(vii) costs related to investor communication ; 
(viii) costs of fund transfer from location to location ; 
 (ix)  costs  of  providing  account  statements  and  dividend/redemption  cheques  and 

warrants ; 

  (x)  insurance premium paid by the fund ; 
 (xi)  winding up costs for terminating a fund or a scheme ; 
(xii) costs of statutory advertisements ;]  160[***] 

161[(xii-a) in  case  of  a  gold  exchange  traded  fund  scheme,  recurring  expenses  incurred 

towards storage and handling of gold; 162[***]] 

163[(xii-b) in case of a capital oriented scheme, rating fees; 164[***]] 
165[(xii-c)  in  case  of  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme,  insurance  premia  and  costs  of 
maintenance  of  the  real  estate  assets  (excluding  costs  of  development  of  such 

                                                 
156  Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f.  29-7-2010.  Prior  to  its 
omission, sub-regulations (3) read as under; 
“(a) For schemes launched on a no load basis, the asset management company shall be entitled to collect an 
additional management fee not exceeding 1% of the weekly average net assets outstanding in each financial 
year.” 
157 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 01-10-2012, for 
the words “mutual fund”. 
158  Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2008,  w.e.f.  16-4-2008.  Prior  to 
omission, sub-regulation (4)(a) read as under; 
“*[initial expenses of launching close-ended schemes, which shall be accounted in the books of account of 
the scheme in accordance with the Tenth Schedule;]” 
[*Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 22-5-2006] 
159 Sub-clause (vii) to (xii) inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-
1-1998. 
160 The word ‘and’ omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 12-1-2006. 
161 Inserted by ibid. 
162  The  word  ‘and’  omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2006,  w.e.f. 
3.8.2006. 
163 Inserted by ibid. 
164 The word ‘and’ omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. 
165 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 8-4-2009. Prior to its 
substitution, sub-regulation (xii-b) read as under; 

Page 55 of 120 

 

assets)  over  and  above  the  expenses  specified  in  regulation  52  to  the  extent 
disclosed in the offer document;] 

166[(xii-d) listing fees, in case of schemes listed on a recognised stock exchange; and] 
167[(xiii)] such other costs as may be approved by the Board. 
(5) Any expense other than those specified in sub-regulations (2) and (4) shall be borne by 
the asset management company 168[or trustee or sponsors]. 
169[***] 
170[(6) The total expenses of the scheme excluding issue or redemption expenses, whether 
initially borne by the mutual fund or by the asset management company, but including the 
investment management and advisory fee shall be subject to the following limits:— 

                                                 
“*[(xii-b) in case of a real estate mutual fund scheme, insurance premia and costs of maintenance of the real 
estate  assets  (excluding  costs  of  development  of  such  assets)  over  and  above  the  expenses  specified  in 
regulation 52 to the extent disclosed in the offer document; and]” 
[*Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008.] 
166 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 8-4-2009. 
167 Sub-clause (vii) renumbered as sub-clause (xiii) by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 
1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
168 Inserted ibid.. 
169 Omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. Prior to this, 

proviso of sub-regulation (5) read as under; 
“*[Provided that initial expenses of launching a close-ended scheme shall not exceed six per cent of initial 
resources raised under that scheme:] 
#[Provided  further  that  any  excess  over  the  6  per  cent  initial  issue  expense  shall  be  borne  by  the  asset 
management company.]” 
[*Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 22-5-2006] 
[#Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998] 

170   Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 29-7-2010. Prior to its 

 

 
 
 
 

substitution, sub-regulation (6)  read as under; 
“*[(6) The total expenses of the scheme excluding issue or redemption expenses, whether initially borne 
by the mutual fund or by the asset management company, but including the investment management and 
advisory fee shall be subject to the following limits :— 
(i)  On the first Rs.100 crores of the average weekly net assets 2.5%; 
(ii)  On the next Rs.300 crores of the average weekly net assets 2.25%; 
(iii) On the next Rs.300 crores of the average weekly net assets 2.0%; 
(iv)  On the balance of the assets 1.75% : 
Provided that such recurring expenses shall be lesser by at least 0.25% of the weekly average net assets 
outstanding in each financial year in respect of a scheme investing in bonds : 
 Provided further that in case of a fund of funds scheme, the total expenses of the scheme including the 
management  fees  shall  not  exceed  0.75%  of  the  daily  or  weekly  average  net  assets,  depending  upon 
whether the NAV of the scheme is calculated on daily or weekly basis. 
Provided further that in case of an index fund scheme, the total expenses of the scheme including the 
investment and advisory fees shall not exceed one and one half percent (1.5%) of the weekly average 
net assets.]” 
[*Amended by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 19-5-2003 and SEBI 
(Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations,  2007, w.e.f. 31-10-2007] 

Page 56 of 120 

 

171[(a) in case of a fund of funds scheme, the total expenses of the scheme including 
weighted average of charges levied by the underlying schemes shall not exceed 
2.50 per cent of the daily net assets of the scheme.]  

 

(b) in case of an index fund scheme or exchange traded fund, the total expenses of the 
scheme including the investment and advisory fees shall not exceed one and one 
half percent (1.5%) of the 172[daily] net assets; 

(c) in case of any other scheme- 

(i) on the first Rs.100 crores of the daily 173[* * *] net assets 2.5%; 
(ii) on the next Rs.300 crores of the daily 174[* * *] net assets 2.25%; 
(iii) on the next Rs.300 crores of the daily 175[* * *] net assets 2.0%; 
(iv) on the balance of the assets 1.75%: 
Provided that in respect of a scheme investing in bonds such recurring expenses 
shall be lesser by at least 0.25% of the daily  176[* * *] net assets outstanding in each 
financial year.] 

177[(6A)  In  addition  to  the  limits  specified  in  sub-regulation  (6),  the  following  costs  or 
expenses may be charged to the scheme, namely-   
(a) brokerage and transaction costs which are incurred for the purpose of execution of trade 
and is included in the cost of investment, not exceeding 0.12 per cent in case of cash market 
transactions and 0.05 per cent in case of derivatives transactions; 
(b) expenses not exceeding of 0.30 per cent of daily net assets,  if the new inflows from 
such cities as specified by the Board from time to time are at least - 

 
 

(i) 30 per cent of gross new inflows in the scheme, or; 
(ii) 15 per cent of the average assets under management (year to date) of the scheme,  

                                                 
171  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f.  01-10-2012. 
Prior to its substitution, clause (a) read as under; 
“(a) in case of a fund of funds scheme, the total expenses of the scheme including the management fees shall 
be either:- 
(i) not exceeding 0.75% of the daily or weekly average net assets, depending upon whether the NAV of the 
scheme is calculated on daily or weekly basis; or 
(ii) it may consist of - 
(A) management fees for the scheme not exceeding 0.75% of the daily or weekly average net assets depending 
upon whether the NAV of the scheme is calculated on daily or weekly basis; 
(B)  other expenses relating to administration of the scheme; and 
(C)  charges levied by the underlying schemes: 
Provided that the sum total of (A), (B) and the weighted average of the total expense ratio of the underlying 
schemes shall not exceed 2.50% of the daily or weekly average net assets (depending upon whether the NAV 
of the scheme is calculated on daily or weekly basis) of the scheme.” 
172 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 01-10-2012, for 
the words “weekly average”. 
173 Words “or average weekly” omitted ibid. 
174 Words “or average weekly” omitted ibid. 
175 Words “or average weekly” omittedibid.. 
176 Words “or weekly average” omitted ibid. 
177 Inserted  ibid. 

Page 57 of 120 

 

Provided  further  that  expenses  charged  under  this  clause  shall  be  utilised  for 

whichever is higher: 
 
 
Provided that if inflows from such cities is less than the higher of sub-clause (i) or 
sub-  clause  (ii),  such  expenses  on  daily  net  assets  of  the  scheme  shall  be  charged  on 
proportionate basis: 
 
distribution expenses incurred for bringing inflows from such cities: 
 
Provided further that amount incurred as expense on account of inflows from such 
cities shall be credited back to the scheme in case the said inflows are redeemed within a 
period of one year from the date of investment; 
 (c) additional expenses, incurred towards different heads mentioned under sub-regulations 
(2)  and  (4),  not  exceeding  178[0.05]  per  cent  of  daily  net  assets  of  the  scheme  179[or  as 
specified by the Board:] ] 
180[Provided that such additional expenses shall not be charged to the schemes where the 
exit load is not levied or applicable.] 
(7) Any expenditure in excess of the limits specified in  181[sub-regulations (6) and (6A)] 
shall be borne by the asset management company 182[or by the trustee or sponsors]. 
(8) The provisions of sub-regulations (3), (4), (5) and (6) will come into effect 183[from 1st 
April,  1997]  for  those  schemes  of  mutual  funds  which  have  been  launched  prior  to 
notification of these regulations. 
 
184[Declaration of dividends 
52A.  A  mutual  fund  may  declare  dividends  in  accordance  with  the  offer  document  and 
subject to such Guidelines as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
Despatch of warrants and proceeds 
53. Every mutual fund and asset management company shall, 
 (a)  despatch to the unitholders the dividend warrants within 185[30] days of the declaration 

of the dividend; 

 (b)  despatch the redemption or repurchase proceeds within 10 working days from the date 

of redemption or repurchase; 

                                                 
178 Substituted for the figure “0.20” by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 30.5.2018.  
179 Inserted ibid. 
180 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30.5.2018. 
181 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 01-10-2012, for 
the words, symbols and number “sub-regulation (6)”. 
182 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998 
183  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  1997,  w.e.f.  15-4-1997, 
for“after three months from the date of notification of these regulations”. 
184 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 22-5-2006. 
185 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2001, w.e.f. 23-7-2001, for 
‘42’. 

Page 58 of 120 

 

186[(c)  in the event of failure to despatch the redemption or repurchase proceeds within the 
period specified in sub-clause (b), the asset management company shall be liable to 
pay interest to the unitholders at such rate as may be specified by the Board for the 
period of such delay; 

(d) 

 
notwithstanding  payment  of  such  interest  to  the  unit-holders  under  sub-
clause (c), the asset management company may be liable for penalty for failure to despatch 
the redemption or repurchase proceeds within the stipulated time.] 
 
Annual Report 
54. Every mutual fund or the asset management company shall prepare in respect of each 
financial year an annual report and annual statement of accounts of the schemes and the 
fund as specified in Eleventh Schedule. 
 

Auditor’s report 

55. (1) Every mutual fund shall have the annual statement of accounts audited by an auditor 
who is not in any way associated with the auditor of the asset management company. 
Explanation : For the purposes of this sub-regulation and regulation 66 “auditor” means a 
person  who  is  qualified  to  audit  the  accounts  of  a  company  under  section  224  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). 
(2) An auditor shall be appointed by the trustees. 
(3) The auditor shall forward his report to the trustees and such report shall form part of 
the Annual Report of the mutual fund. 
(4) The auditor’s report shall comprise the following:— 
 (a)  a certificate to the effect that,— 

  (i)  he  has  obtained  all  information  and  explanations  which,  to  the  best  of  his 

knowledge and belief, were necessary for the purpose of the audit ; 

 (ii)  the balance sheet and the revenue account give a fair and true view of the scheme, 
state of affairs and surplus or deficit in the Fund for the accounting period  to 
which the Balance Sheet or, as the case may be, the Revenue Account relates ; 

    (iii)  the  statement  of  account  has  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  accounting   

policies and standards as specified in the Ninth Schedule. 

 
187[Providing copies of Annual report and summary thereof] 

                                                 
186 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2000, w.e.f. 14-3-2000. 
187 Title substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30.5.2018. 
Prior  to  the  amendment,  the  title  read  as  “Mailing  of  Annual  Report  and  summary  thereof”.  The  word 
“Mailing” appeared therein was substituted for the word “Publication” by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-2-2002.  

Page 59 of 120 

 

56. (1) The scheme wise Annual Report of a mutual fund or an abridged summary thereof 
188[***] shall be 189[provided] to all unitholders as soon as may be but not later than 190[four 
months] from the date of closure of the relevant accounts year 191[in the manner specified 
by the Board]. 
192[] 
(2) The Annual Report and abridged summary thereof shall contain details as specified in 
the Eleventh Schedule and such other details as are necessary for the purpose of providing 
a true and fair view of the operations of the mutual fund: 
193[Provided that the abridged scheme wise Annual Report 194[provided] to the unitholders 
is in the format prescribed by the Board in this regard.] 
195[(3)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  the  mutual  fund  shall 
provide physical copy of the abridged summary of the Annual Report without any cost, if 
a request through any mode is received from a unitholder.] 

                                                 
188 Words ‘shall be published through an advertisement and an abridged schemewise annual report” omitted 
by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2002,  w.e.f.  20-2-2002.  Prior  to  this  the 
words “ and an abridged schemewise annual report shall be mailed to all unitholders” had been inserted by 
SEBI (MF) Amend. Regulations, 1998. 
189 Substituted for the word “mailed” by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 30.5.2018. 
190 Substituted for ‘six months’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 
29-9-2008. 
191 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30.5.2018.  
192 Proviso omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30.5.2018. 
Prior to the omission, the proviso read as follows:  
“Provided that the scheme wise annual report or abridged summary thereof may be sent to investors in 
electronic form on their registered e-mail address in the manner specified by the Board” 
193 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 29-9-2008. Prior 
to this,) proviso read as under; 
“Provided that the abridged scheme wise annual report mailed to unitholders need not contain full portfolio 
disclosure but  must contain details on  group company investments such as the  name of the company, the 
amount of investment made in each company of the group by each  scheme and the aggregate investments 
made by all schemes in the group companies of the sponsor. 
#[***]]” 
[* Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998] 
[#  Omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-2-2002. Prior to 
this it had been inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) Amend. Regulations, 1998 as, 
“Provided  further  that  full  portfolio  disclosure  is  not  required  if  the  full  accounts  are  published  in 
newspapers.”] 
194 Substituted for the word “mailed” by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 30.5.2018. 
195 Inserted ibid. 

Page 60 of 120 

 

196[(3A)] The report 197[198[provided] in abridged summary form as per sub-regulation (1)] 
shall carry a note that 199[for unitholders of a scheme] full Annual Report shall be available 
for  inspection  at  the  Head  Office  of  the  mutual  fund  and  a  copy  thereof  shall  be  made 
available to unitholder on payment of such nominal fees as may be specified by the mutual 
fund. 
200[(4) The asset management company shall display the link of the full scheme wise annual 
reports prominently on their website.] 

 
Annual Report to be forwarded to the Board 
57. Every mutual fund  201[***] shall within  202[four months] from the date of closure of 
each financial year forward to the Board a copy of the Annual Report and other information 
including  details  of  investments  and  deposits  held  by  the  mutual  fund  so  that  the  entire 
schemewise portfolio of the mutual funds is disclosed to the Board. 
 
Periodic and continual disclosures 
58. (1) The mutual fund, the asset management company, the trustee, custodian, sponsor 
of the mutual fund shall make such disclosures or submit such documents as they may be 
called upon to do so by the Board. 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the mutual fund 203[***] shall 
furnish the following periodic reports to the Board, namely:— 
 (a)  copies of the duly audited annual statements of accounts including the balance sheet 
and the profit and loss account for the fund and in respect of each scheme, once a year; 

 (b)  a copy of six monthly unaudited accounts ; 
  (c)  a quarterly statement of movements in the net assets for each of the schemes of the 

fund; 

 (d)  a quarterly portfolio statement, including changes from the previous periods, for each 

scheme. 

(3) No sale of units of any scheme of a mutual fund shall be made by the trustees or an 
asset management company unless accompanied by documents which contain information 
which is adequate for the investors to take an informed decision. 

                                                 
196  Renumbered  by  the  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2018,  w.e.f. 
30.5.2018. 
197  Substitute  for  ‘if  published  in  summary  form’  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-2-2002 
198 Substituted for the word “mailed” by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 30.5.2018. 
199 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
200 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 30-8-2011. 
201  Words  ‘‘and  asset  management  company’  omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
202 Substituted for ‘six months’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 
29-9-2008. 
203  Words  ‘‘and  asset  management  company’  omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 

Page 61 of 120 

 

 
204[Half-yearly Disclosures 
59. (1) A mutual fund and asset management company shall within one month from the 
close of each half year, that is on 31st March and on 30th September, host a soft copy of 
its unaudited financial results on their website: 
 
Provided that the half-yearly unaudited report referred to in this sub-regulation shall 
contain details as specified in Twelfth Schedule and such other details as are necessary for 
the purpose of providing a true and fair view of the operations of the mutual fund. 
(2)  A  mutual  fund  and  asset  management  company,  shall  publish  an  advertisement 
disclosing the hosting of such financial results on their website, in atleast one English daily 
newspaper  having  nationwide  circulation  and  in  a  newspaper  having  wide  circulation 
published  in  the  language  of  the  region  where  the  Head  Office  of  the  mutual  fund  is 
situated.] 
 
Statement of Portfolio 
205[59A. A mutual fund shall before the expiry of 206[ten days] from the close of each half-
year (i.e., 31st March and 30th September), send to all unitholders a complete statement of 
its scheme portfolio207[, in the manner specified by the Board]. 
208[ ] 
Disclosures to the investors 
60. The trustee shall be bound to make such disclosures to the unitholders as are essential 
in order to keep them informed about any information which may have an adverse bearing 
on their investments. 

 

                                                 
204 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 01-10-2012 for 
the existing regulation 59. Prior to its substitution, regulation 59 read as under; 
“Half-yearly disclosures 
59. A mutual fund and asset management company shall before the expiry of one month from the close of 
each half year that is on 31st March and on 30th September, publish its unaudited financial results in one 
English daily newspaper circulating in the whole of the India and in a newspaper published in the language 
of the region where the Head Office of the mutual fund is situated. The half-yearly results must be printed in 
at least 7 point times Roman font with proper spacing for easy reading : 
Provided that the half-yearly unaudited report referred in this sub-regulation shall contain details as specified 
in Twelfth Schedule and such other details as are necessary for the purpose of providing a true and fair view 
of the operations of the mutual fund.” 
205 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2000, w.e.f. 14-3-2000. 
206 Substituted for the words “one month” by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2018, w.e.f. 30.5.2018. 
207 Inserted ibid.  
208 Proviso omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30.5.2018. 
Prior to the omission, the proviso read as follows: 
“Provided that statement of scheme portfolio may not be sent to the unitholders, if the statement is published, 
by  way  of  an  advertisement,  in  one  English  daily  circulating  in  the  whole  of  India  and  in  a  newspaper 
published in the language of the region where the head office of the mutual fund is situated.” 

Page 62 of 120 

 

CHAPTER VIII 

INSPECTION AND AUDIT 

 
Board’s right to inspect and investigate 
61. (1) The Board may appoint one or more persons as inspecting officer to undertake the 
inspection  of  the  books  of  account,  records,  documents  and  infrastructure,  systems  and 
procedures or to investigate the affairs of a mutual fund, the trustees and asset management 
company for any of the following purposes, namely :— 
 (a)  to  ensure  that  the  books  of  account  are  being  maintained  by  the  mutual  fund,  the 
trustees and asset management company in the manner specified in these regulations; 
 (b)  to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied 

with by the mutual fund, the trustees and asset management company ; 

  (c)  to ascertain whether the systems, procedures and safeguards followed by the mutual 

fund are adequate ; 

 (d)  to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act  or  any  rules  or  regulations  made 

thereunder have been violated ; 

  (e)  to investigate into the complaints received from the investors or any other person on 
any matter having a bearing on the activities of the mutual funds, trustees and asset 
management company ; 

  (f)  to suo motu ensure that the affairs of the mutual fund, trustees or asset management 
company are being conducted in a manner which is in the interest of the investors or 
the securities market. 

 
Notice before inspection and investigation 
62. (1) Before ordering an inspection or investigation under regulation 61 the Board shall 
give not less than ten days notice to the mutual fund, asset management company or trustees 
as the case may be. 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied 
that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may, by an order in 
writing direct that such inspection or investigation be taken up without such notice. 
(3)  During  the  course  of  inspection  or  investigation,  the  mutual  fund,  trustees  or  asset 
management company against whom the inspection or investigation is being carried out 
shall be bound to discharge his obligations as provided in regulation 63. 
 
Obligations on inspection and investigation 
63. (1) It shall be the duty of the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company whose 
affairs  are  being  inspected  or  investigated,  and  of  every  director,  officer  and  employee 
thereof,  to  produce  to  the  inspecting  officer  such  books,  accounts,  records,  and  other 
documents  in  its  custody  or  control  and  furnish  him  such  statements  and  information 
relating to the activities as mutual funds, trustees or asset management company, as the 
inspecting officer may require, within such reasonable period as the inspecting officer may 
specify. 

Page 63 of 120 

 

(2)  The  mutual  fund,  trustees  or  asset  management  company  shall  allow  the  inspecting 
officer to have a reasonable access to the premises occupied by it or by any other person 
on  its  behalf  and  also  extend  reasonable  facility  for  examining  any  books,  records, 
documents  and  computer  data  in  the  possession  of  the  mutual  fund,  trustees  and  asset 
management company or such other person and also provide copies of documents or other 
materials which in the opinion of the inspecting officer are relevant for the purpose of the 
inspection. 
(3) The inspecting officer, in the course of inspection or investigation, shall be entitled to 
examine or record the statements of any director, officer, or employee of the mutual fund, 
trustees and asset management company. 
(4)  It  shall be the duty  of every director, officer,  or employee of the mutual  fund, asset 
management  company  or  trustee  to  give  to  the  inspecting  officer  all  assistance  in 
connection  with  the  inspection  or  investigation,  which  the  inspecting  officer  may 
reasonably require. 
 
Submission of report to the Board 
64. The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection or 
investigation submit a report to the Board: 
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report. 
 
209[Action on inspection or investigation report 
65.  The  Board  or  the  Chairman  shall  after  consideration  of  inspection  or  investigation 
report take such action as the Board or Chairman may deem fit and appropriate including 
action under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry 
by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002.] 
 
Appointment of auditor 
66. Without prejudice to the provisions of regulation 55, the Board shall have the power to 
appoint an auditor to inspect or investigate, as the case may be, into the books of account 
or the affairs of the mutual fund, trustee or asset management company: 
Provided that the Auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting officer 
as  stated  in  regulation  61  and  the  obligation  of  the  mutual  fund,  asset  management 
company, trustee, and their respective employees in regulation 63, shall be applicable to 
the investigation under this regulation. 

                                                 
209  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) 
Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. Prior to its substitution,  regulation 65 read as under; 
“(1) The Board shall, after consideration of the inspection report referred to in regulation 64, communicate 
the findings report of the inspecting officer to the mutual fund, trustee or asset management company as the 
case may be, and give him an opportunity of being heard: 
Provided that if any proceeding under Chapter viii are initiated the procedure under Chapter shall be followed. 
(2) On receipt of the reply if any, from the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company, as the case 
may be the Board may call upon the trustees or asset management company to take such measures as the 
Board may deem fit in the interest of investors, securities market and for due compliance with the provisions 
of these regulations.” 

Page 64 of 120 

 

 
Payment of inspection fees to the Board 
67. The Board shall be entitled to recover such expenses including fees paid to the auditors 
as may be incurred by it for the purposes of inspecting the books of account, records and 
documents of the mutual fund, the trustees and the asset management company. 

CHAPTER IX 

PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 

 
210[Liability for action in case of default 
68. A mutual fund which— 
 (a)  contravenes any of the provisions of the Act and these regulations; 
 (b)  fails to furnish any information or furnishes wrong information relating to its activity 

as a mutual fund as required under these regulations; 

  (c)  fails to submit periodical returns as required under these regulations; 
 (d)  does not co-operate in any inquiry or inspection conducted by the Board; 
  (e)  fails to comply with any directions of the Board issued under the provisions of the Act 

or the regulations; 

  (f)  fails to resolve the complaints of the investors or fails to give a satisfactory reply to 

the Board in this behalf; 

 (g)  indulges in unfair trade practices in securities. 

                                                 
210  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) 
Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. Prior to its substitution, regulation 68  read as under; 
“The Board may suspend a certificate granted to a mutual fund if such mutual fund : -  
(a) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act and these regulations;  
(b) fails to furnish any information or furnishes wrong information relating to its activity as a mutual fund as 
required under these regulations;  
(c) fails to submit periodical returns as required under these regulations;  
(d) does not co-operate in any inquiry or inspection conducted by the Board;  
(e) fails to comply with any directions of the Board issued under the provisions of the Act or the regulations;  
(f) fails to resolve the complaints of the investors or fails to give a satisfactory reply to  the Board in this 
behalf;  
(g) indulges in unfair trade practices in securities;  
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause "unfair trade practices" has the same meaning as in Securities & 
Exchange Board of India (Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices in Securities Market) Regulations, 1995; 
(h)  is  guilty  of  misconduct  or  improper  or  unbusinesslike  or  unprofessional  conduct  which  is  not  in 
accordance with the Code of Conduct specified in the Fifth Schedule;  
(i) asset management company fails to maintain the networth in accordance with the provisions of regulation 
21;  
(j) fails to pay any fees;  
(k) violates the conditions of registration;  
(l) mutual fund, asset management company or trustees of that mutual fund does not carry out its obligations 
as specified in these regulations.” 
 

Page 65 of 120 

 

 

  Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause “unfair trade practices” has the same 
meaning as in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent 
and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 1995; 

 (h)  is  guilty  of  misconduct  or  improper  or  unbusinesslike  or  unprofessional  conduct 
which is not in accordance with the Code of Conduct specified in the Fifth Schedule; 
  (i)  asset  management  company  fails  to  maintain  the  net  worth  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of regulation 21; 

  (j)  fails to pay any fees; 
  (k)  violates the conditions of registration; 
  (l)  mutual  fund,  asset  management  company  or  trustees  of  that  mutual  fund  does  not 

carry out its obligations as specified in these regulations, 

shall be dealt with  in  the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange  Board of 
India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) 
Regulations, 2002.] 
69. to 74. 211[***] 

its 

continuance 

is  not 

in 

the 

and  other  mutual 

interest  of  unitholders 

                                                 
211  Regulations  69  to  74  omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and 
Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. Prior to its substitution, regulation 69 to 74 read as 
under; 
“69. The Board may cancel the certificate of registration granted to a mutual fund, if such mutual fund.  
(a) is guilty of fraud, or has been convicted of an economic offence;  
(b) has been guilty of repeated defaults of the nature specified in regulation 68;  
(c) the mutual fund, asset management company, trustee of that mutual fund indulges in price manipulation 
or price rigging or cornering activities affecting the securities market and the investors interest;  
(d) the financial position of the mutual fund deteriorates to such an extent that the Board is of the opinion 
that 
funds. 
70. Manner of making order of cancellation or suspension  
No order of suspension or cancellation of certificate or the approval, as the case may be, shall be made by 
the  Board  against  a  mutual  fund,  trustees,  asset  management  company  except  after  holding  an  enquiry  in 
accordance with the procedure specified in regulation 71.  
71. Manner of holding enquiry before suspension or cancellation.  
(1) For the purpose of holding an enquiry, under regulation 70 the Board may appoint one or more enquiry 
officers.  
(2) The enquiry officer shall issue to the mutual fund, asset management company or the trustee, as the case 
may be, at its registered office or the principal place of its business, a notice setting out the grounds on which 
action is proposed to be taken against it and calling upon it to show cause against such action within a period 
of fourteen days from the date of receipt of the notice.  
(3) The mutual fund, asset management company or trustee shall within fourteen days of the date of receipt 
of such notice, furnish to the enquiry officer a written reply, together with copies of documentary or other 
evidence relied on by it or sought by the Board from the mutual fund, trustees, or asset management company.  
(4) The enquiry officer shall give a reasonable opportunity of hearing to the mutual fund, trustees, or asset 
management company, to enable it to make submissions in support of its reply made under sub-regulation 
(3).  
(5) Before the enquiry officer, the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company may either appear in 
person or through any person duly authorised by the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company.  
Provided  that  no  lawyer  or  advocate  shall  be  permitted  to  represent  the  mutual  fund,  trustees  or  asset 
management company at the enquiry:  

Page 66 of 120 

 

Action against intermediaries 
75.  The  Board  may  initiate  action  for  suspension  or  cancellation  of  registration  of  an 
intermediary holding a certificate of registration under section 12 of the Act who fails to 
exercise due diligence or to comply with the obligations under these regulations: 
Provided that no such certificate of registration shall be suspended or cancelled unless the 
procedure specified in regulations applicable to such intermediary is complied with. 
 
 

is 

action 

                                                 
Provided further that where a lawyer or an advocate has been appointed by the Board as a presenting officer 
under  sub-regulation  (6),  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  mutual  fund,  asset  management  company  or  trustee  to 
present its case through a lawyer or advocate.  
(6) The  enquiry  officer  may  if  he  considers  it  necessary,  ask  the  Board  to  appoint  a  presenting  officer  to 
present its case.  
(7) The enquiry officer shall, after taking into account all relevant facts and submissions made by the mutual 
fund, trustees or asset management company submit a report to the Board and recommend the action, if any, 
to be taken against the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company as also the grounds on which the 
penal 
justified. 
72. Show cause notice and order (1) On receipt of the report from the enquiry officer, the Board shall consider 
the same and issue to the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company, a show-cause notice.  
(2) The  mutual  fund, asset  management company or trustee, shall  within  fourteen days  of the date of the 
receipt of the show-cause notice, send a reply to the Board.  
(3) The Board, after considering the reply of the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company, if any, 
shall as soon as possible pass such order as it deems fit.  
(4) The Board shall send to the mutual fund, trustees, or asset management company, a copy of the order 
made under sub-regulation (3). 
73.Effect of suspension or cancellation of certificate of registration  
(1) On and from the date of the suspension of the certificate or the approval, as the case may be, the mutual 
fund, trustees or asset management company, shall cease to carry on any activity as a mutual fund, trustee or 
asset  management company, during the period of suspension, and shall be subject to the directions of the 
Board with regard to any records, documents, or securities that may be in its custody or control, relating to 
its activities as mutual fund, trustees or asset management company.  
(2) On and from the date of cancellation of the certificate or the approval, as the case may be, the mutual 
fund, trustees or asset management company shall with immediate effect, cease to carry on any activity as 
mutual fund, trustees or asset management company, as the case may be.  
(3) The Board may in the interest of the unit holders issue directions with regard to the transfer of any records, 
documents or securities that may be in its custody or control, relating to its activities as mutual fund, trustees 
or asset management company.  
(4) The Board may in order to protect the interest of the unit holders order the transfer of records, document, 
securities,  etc.  to  any  person  specifically  appointed  for  the  purpose  or  to  any  other  trustee  or  asset 
management company.  
Provided that the Board shall while appointing such a person determine the terms and conditions of such an 
appointment. 
74. Publication of order of suspension or cancellation. 
The order of suspension or cancellation passed under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 72, may be published 
by the Board in two newspaper.” 

Page 67 of 120 

 

212[Action against mutual fund and/or asset management company 
75A. Without prejudice to regulation 68, a mutual fund and/or asset management company 
shall be liable for action under the applicable provisions of the Act and the Regulations 
framed thereunder,− 

(a)  in case the advertisement issued is in contravention with the Advertisement Code 

specified in Sixth Schedule; 

(b) in  case  the  valuation  of  securities  is  in  contravention  of  the  Principles  of  Fair 

Valuation specified in Eighth Schedule.] 

 
Adjudication, etc. 
76. The Board may for the offences specified in sections 15A to 15E of the Act initiate 
action under section 15-I of the Act and in case of violation of any of the provisions of the 
Act or the regulations, initiate action under section 11, 11B or section 24 of the Act. 
(2) The Board may in addition to suspension or cancellation of certificate, order suspension 
of  launching  of  any  scheme  of  a  mutual  fund  for  a  period  not  exceeding  one  year  for 
violation of any of the provisions of these regulations after following procedure under this 
Chapter. 
(3) The Board may during the pendency of any proceeding of suspension or cancellation 
under this Chapter also order suspension for launching of any scheme not exceeding three 
months without following procedure under this Chapter : 
Provided that no order shall be passed without giving an opportunity of hearing. 

CHAPTER X 

MISCELLANEOUS 

 
Power of the Board to issue clarifications 
77.  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of  these 
regulations,  the  Board  shall  have  the  power  to  issue  clarifications  and  guidelines  in  the 
form of notes or circulars which shall be binding on the sponsor, mutual funds, trustees, 
asset management companies and custodians. 
 
Repeal and saving 
78. (1) The Securities & Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1993 are 
hereby repealed. 
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal : 
 (a)  anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken, including 
registration  or  approval  granted,  fees  collected,  scheme  announced,  registration  or 
approval, suspended or cancelled, any inquiry or investigation commenced under the 
said regulations, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding 
provisions of these regulations ; 

                                                 
212 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 21-2-2012. 

Page 68 of 120 

 

 (b)  any application made to the Board under the said regulations and pending before it 
shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  made  under  the  corresponding  provisions  of  these 
regulations ; 
 any appeals preferred to the Central Government under the said regulations and 
pending before it shall be deemed to have been preferred under the corresponding 
provisions of these regulations. 

(c) 

 

 

Page 69 of 120 

 

FIRST SCHEDULE 

FORMS 
FORM A 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

Application for the grant of registration of mutual fund 

(Regulations 3, 5) 

Name of applicant.......................………………………..…………………………….. 

Contact person . ................................…………………..…………………………….. 
Name of the Compliance officer...............................................................…………. 
Telephone No. : ...................................................... Fax No. .................................... 
Instruction for filling up form:— 
  1.  Applicants  must  submit  a  completed  application  form  together  with  appropriate 

supporting documents to the Board. 

  2.  It  is  important  that  this  application  form  should  be  filled  in  accordance  with  the 

regulations. 

  3.  An application which is not complete is liable to be rejected. 
  4.  Answers must be typed and legible. 
  5.  Information  which  needs  to  be  supplied  in  more  details  may  be  given  on  separate 

sheets which should be attached to the application form. 

  6.  The application must be signed by the competent person having authority to do so and 

all signatures must be in original. 

 

 

APPLICATION BY SPONSOR OF THE MUTUAL FUND FOR REGISTRATION 

  Telephone Nos. 
  Telex Nos. 
  Fax Nos. 

  1.  Name of the sponsor 
  2.  Address of the registered office/correspondence address 
 
 
 
  3.  Name of the contact person 
  4.  Date and place of incorporation of the sponsor 
 
  (enclose a copy of certificate of incorporation) 
  5.  Objects of the sponsor 
 
 
 
  6.  Capital structure and shareholding pattern 
  7.  Present line of business activities 
 
  8.  Condensed financial information 
 
  9.  Accounting policies 

  (enclose copy of the Memorandum and Articles of Association) 
  Main objects 
  Ancillary objects 

  Number of years in that line 

  (enclose balance sheets and profit and loss account for five years) 

Page 70 of 120 

 

  (furnish description of significant accounting policies) 

 
 10.  Systems and procedures 
 

  (furnish description of systems and procedures in the company and essential internal 

controls in order to carry on the business of the company) 

 11.  Names of the associate organisations/group companies/subsidiaries, etc. 
 12.  Management of the sponsor 
 

  Board of the company with names, experience, qualification, and profession of the 

Directors 

  Names of key personnel 
  Organisational structure 
  Board of Directors of associate organisations, companies and subsidiaries 

 
 
 
 13.  Names and addresses of the bankers of the sponsor 
 14.  Names and addresses of the auditors of the sponsor 
 15.  Court cases/litigations in which the sponsor may have been involved in the last three 

years 

 16.  An application for registration of mutual fund shall be accompanied by a copy each 

of  
 (A)  Draft trust deed; 
 (B)  Draft investment management agreement; and 
 (C)  Draft custodian agreement 

CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

(A) Income statement 

  

  

Income: 

 

 

 

 

 

Dividend 

Trading 

Management Fee 

Other income 

Total 

Expenses: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Director’s remuneration 

Trusteeship fees 

Custodian fees 

Registrar’s fees 

Other expenses 

Total 

Gross Profit 

Depreciation 

Net profit before tax 

Years 

(Rs.) 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

  

___________________ 

_____________________ 

Page 71 of 120 

Tax 

Profit after tax 

Dividends 

Retained earnings 

(B) Assets and liabilities 

  

  

Assets: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fixed Assets 

Gross 

Depreciation 

Net value 

Current assets 

Investments* 

Others (please specify) 

Cash and bank balances 

Less: 

 

 

 

Current liabilities and 

Provisions 

Net worth 

Represented by : 

 

Years 

(Rs.) 

1  2 

3 

4 

5 

  

______________________ 

_______________________ 

 

 

 

 

Issued and paid up capital 

Free reserves 

(excluding revaluation reserves) 

Total 

_______________________ 

*Provide full particulars of investments. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

FORM B 

[Regulation 9] 

Certificate of registration 

 

I.  In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  section  30  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), read with the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 made thereunder the Board hereby grants 
a certificate of registration to .................... as a Mutual Fund. 

  II.  Registration Code for the Mutual Fund is MF/ / /. 

Date.................... 

 

Page 72 of 120 

 

By order  
Sd/- 
For and on behalf of the  
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

  

 

FORM C 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

[Regulation 16(1)(d)] 

Trusteeship of the mutual fund 

 (1)  If the trusteeship of the mutual fund is with a trust company, then please furnish the 

following particulars  

 (a)  the draft articles and Memorandum of Association for approval 

 (b)  Objects of the trust company 

  (c)  Board of Directors of the trustee company with age, experience and qualification  

 (d)  Key personnel 

  (e)  Systems and procedures, record maintenance, etc. 

  (f)  Names of auditors and bankers 

 (2)  If  the  trusteeship  of  the  mutual  fund  is  with  a  debenture  trustee,  bank,  or  financial 

institution then please furnish the following particulars 

 (a)  Name of the Institution  

 (b)  Address/telephone/telex/fax Nos. 

  (c)  Name of the contact person 

 (d)  Background information i.e. (number of companies, trusts for which it has or has 
been  acting  as  trustees,  names  of  those  companies,  trusts,  number  of  years  of 
experience as trustees, total volume of business, trusteeship fee record for last 
three years, organisational infrastructure to handle trusteeship function including 
record maintenance, computer facilities, in case of debenture trustees also furnish 
the number of defaulting companies, number of cases of default in payment of 
interest and principal and action taken by the debenture trustees) 

 (3)  If the trusteeship of the mutual fund is with a board of individual trustees then please 

furnish the following particulars 
 (a)  Names of the members of the Board of trustees 
 (b)  Age, experience, qualification and profession 
  (c)  Relationship  of  the  members  of  the  Board  of  trustees  with  sponsor  or  any 

associate of the sponsor 

 (4)  Draft trust deed 
 

  The draft trust deed should inter alia provide for 

 (a)  Responsibilities, obligations and rights of the trustees for the protection of the 

fund’s assets. 

Page 73 of 120 

 

 (b)  A  statement  that  investments  should  be  of  the  permitted  kind  and  within  set 

limits. 

  (c)  Responsibilities,  obligations  and  rights  of  the  fund  manager,  i.e.,  the  asset 

management company. 

 (d)  Policies  for  investments,  creation,  issue  and  cancellation  of  units,  pricing  and 
redemption of units, listing of units in case of close-ended schemes, expenses of 
the  fund  including  payment  of  fees  and  distribution  of  income  and  gains  and 
accounting. 

  (e)  Policies for disclosures of scheme objectives and investment objectives in offer 
reporting 

documents  and  advertisements  and  annual  and  half-yearly 
requirements to the investors of various schemes of the fund. 

  (f)  Right  of  the  trustees  to  obtain  necessary  information  from  asset  management 
company  besides  obtaining  a  quarterly  report  from  the  asset  management 
company. 

 (g)  Right to make spot checks on the asset management company regarding pricing 
of  units  and  payment  into  and  out  of  the  fund  and  proper  accounting  of  the 
income  of  the  fund  and  charging  of  expenses  as  permitted,  distribution  as 
permitted. 

 (h)  Public availability of the trust deed. 

 (5)  Instructions for filling up the form. 
 

  (See Form A) 

FORM D 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

[Regulation 19(1)] 

Asset management company 

  Telephone Nos. 
  Telex Nos. 
  Fax Nos. 

  1.  Name of the Asset Management Company 
  2.  Proposed registered office/correspondence address  
 
 
 
  3.  Name of the contact person 
  4.  Proposed objects of the asset management company 
 
 
 
  5.   (a)  Proposed capital structure 
 
 
  6.  Proposed  systems  and  procedures  for  the  asset  management  company  (furnish 
description of systems and procedures proposed in the company and essential internal 
controls in order to carry on the business of the company) 

  (enclose copy of the draft Articles and Memorandum of Association for approval)  
  Main objects 
  Ancillary objects 

   (b)  The net worth of the company to be represented by 
   

  (necessary auditors certificate to be furnished) 

  7.  Names  of  the  associate  organisations/group  companies/subsidiaries,  etc.  of  asset 

management company 

Page 74 of 120 

 

  8.  Management of the asset management company 
 

  Board  of  the  company  with  names  of  the  Directors,  experience,  qualification  and 

profession 

 
 
 
 

  Names of key personnel 
  Proposed organisational structure  
  Board of Directors of associate organisations, companies and subsidiaries 
  In case asset management company is an existing company 

  (enclose a copy of certificate of incorporation) 

  Telephone Nos. 
  Telex Nos. 
  Fax Nos. 

  1.  Name of the asset management company 
  2.  Address of the registered office/correspondence address 
 
 
 
  3.  Name of the contact person 
  4.  Date and place of incorporation of the asset management company  
 
  5.  Objects of the asset management company 
 
 
 
 

  (enclose copy of the Memorandum and Articles of Association) 
  Main objects 
  Ancillary objects 
  (the Memorandum and Articles of Association would need the approval of SEBI 
and  necessary  amendments  shall  have  to  be  incorporated  in  the  existing 
Memorandum and Articles of Association) 
  6.  Capital structure and shareholding pattern 
 
 
 
 
  7.  Present line(s) of business activities 
 
  8.  Condensed financial information 
 
  9.  Accounting policies 
 
 10.  Systems and procedures 
 

  (as of the latest date) 
  Net worth of the company 
  (as of the latest date) 
  To be represented by 

  (furnish  description  of  systems  and  procedures  in  the  company  and  essential 

internal controls in order to carry on the business of the company) 

 11.  Names of the associate organisations/group companies/subsidiaries, etc. 
 12.  Management of the asset management company 
 

  Board of the asset management company with names, experience, qualification, 

profession of the Directors. 

 
 
 

  Names of key personnel 
  Organisational structure 
  Board of Directors of associate organisations, companies and subsidiaries 

Page 75 of 120 

  Number of years in that line 

  (enclose balance sheets and profit and loss account for three years) 

  (furnish description of significant accounting policies) 

 

 13.  Names and addresses of the Bankers of the asset management company 
 14.  Names and addresses of the auditors of the asset management company 
 15.  Court cases/litigations in which the asset management company may have been 

involved in the last three years 

 16.  Instruction for filling up the form 
 

  (See Form A) 

 

CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

(A) Income statement 

  

Years 

(Rs.) 

  

Income: 

 

 

 

 

 

Dividend 

Trading 

Management Fee 

Other income 

Total 

Expenses: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Director’s remuneration 

Trusteeship fees 

Custodian fees 

Registrar’s fees 

Other expenses 

Total 

Gross Profit 

Depreciation 

Net Profit before tax 

Tax 

Profit after tax 

Dividends 

Retained earnings 

(B) Assets and liabilities  

  

  

Assets: 

 

 

 

 

Fixed Assets 

Gross 

Depreciation 

Net value 

1  2 

3 

4 

5 

  

_______________________ 

  

________________________ 

Years 

(Rs.) 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

  

_______________________ 

Page 76 of 120 

 

 

 

 

 

Less: 

 

 

 

Current assets 

Investments* 

Others (please specify) 

Cash and bank balances 

Current liabilities and 

Provisions 

Net worth 

Represented by : 

_______________________ 

 

 

 

 

Issued and paid up capital 

Free reserves 

(excluding revaluation reserves) 

Total 

________________________ 

*Provide full particulars of investments. 

 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 77 of 120 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

SECOND SCHEDULE 

[Regulations 4, 9, 12, 28(2)] 

FEES 

  I.   A.  Application fees payable by mutual funds  Rupees 213[214[five] lakh] 
 
 

   B.  Registration fees payable by mutual funds   Rupees 215[twenty five lakhs] 
  216[C. Annual fees payable by mutual funds 

Average Assets under Management (AAUM) as on 

Annual Fee 

AAUM up to ` 10,000 crore  

31st March 

Part of AAUM above ` 10, 000 crore 

0.0015 per cent of the 

AAUM 

0.0010 per cent of the 
portion of AAUM in 
excess of ten thousand 

crore rupees 

 

subject to a minimum of ` 2,50,000 and a Maximum of ` 1,00, 00, 000.]  
 

 

                                                 
213 Substituted for “twenty five thousand” by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendments) Regulations, 
2006 w.e.f. 3-8-2006. 
214 Substituted for “one” by SEBI (Payment of fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 23-05-2014 
215 Substituted for “fifty lakhs” by the SEBI (Payment of fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f.01-04-
2008.    Earlier  substituted  for  “twenty  five  lakhs”  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Third  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2006 w.e.f.3-8-2006 
216 Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 23-05-2014. Prior to 
its substitution, sub-paragraph C, as amended by SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2006 w.e.f. 3-8-2006, read as under:  
"C. 

Annual fees payable by mutual funds 
Net Assets as on 31st March 
Up to Rs.500 crores. 
Above Rs.500 crores and up to Rs.1,000 
crores. 
Above Rs.1,000 crores and up to Rs.3,000 
crores. 
Above Rs.3,000 crores and up to Rs.5,000 
crores. 
Above Rs.5,000 crores and up to Rs.10,000 
crores. 
Above Rs.10,000 crores. 

Service fee payable 
Rs.2.50 lakhs 
Rs.3.50 lakhs 

Rs.4.50 lakhs 

Rs.5.50 lakhs 

Rs.6.50 lakhs 

Rs.7.50 lakhs 

The above revised service fee structure shall be effective from the Financial year 2003-2004." 
 

Page 78 of 120 

 

219[220 [0.005]]] per cent of the amount raised 
in the new fund offer 221[or by way of private 
placement,  as  the  case  may  be],  subject  to  a 
minimum  of  rupees  222[two  lakh]  and  a 
maximum of rupees fifty lakhs.] 

 217[  D.Filing  fees  for  offer 
218[and 
documents 
placement memoranda] 

 

 

 
 

  II.  The fees referred to in clause I above, shall be paid 223[by way of direct credit in the 
bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by 
means  of  a  bank  draft  payable  to  ‘the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India’  at 
Mumbai. 

 

 

                                                 
217 Substituted by the SEBI(Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 1-4-2008. Prior to its 
substitution, item D as amended by SEBI(Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2007, w.e.f 28-5-2007 
and SEBI(Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2006, we.f. 3-8-2006, read as under: 
D.  Filing fees for offer documents   
218 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 
219 Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f.01-04-2008. Prior to 
substitution, item D read as under; 
[0.03 per cent of the amount raised in the new fund offer, subject to a minimum of rupees one  lakh and a 
maximum of rupees one crore]*. 
*  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2007,  w.e.f.28-05-2007.  Prior  to 
substitution, it read as under; 
[0.03 percent of the amount raised in the new fund offer, subject to a minimum of rupees one lakh] substituted 
by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2006 w.e.f.3-8-2006 for “rupees twenty five 
thousand”.  
220 Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 23-05-2014, for the 
figure “0.0020”. Earlier substituted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 
01-07-2009, for the figure “.005”. 
221 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-4-2013. 
222 Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 23-05-2014, for the 
words “one lakh”. 
223 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f.   
6-3-2017. 

Page 79 of 120 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

THIRD SCHEDULE 

[Regulation 15(1)] 

CONTENTS OF THE TRUST DEED 

The Trust Deed shall contain the following clauses namely :— 

  1.    (i)  A trustee in carrying out his responsibilities as a member of the board of trustees 
or  of  trustee  company,  shall  maintain  arms’  length  relationship  with  other 
companies, or institutions or financial intermediaries or any body corporate with 
which he may be associated. 

 

 

   (ii)  No  trustee  shall  participate  in  the  meetings  of  the  board  of  trustees  or  trustee 
company when any decisions for investments in which he may be interested are 
taken. 

  (iii)  All  the  trustees  shall  furnish  to  the  board  of  trustees  or  trustee  company 
particulars of interest which he may have in any other company, or institution or 
financial intermediary or any corporate body by virtue of his position as director, 
partner or with which he may be associated in any other capacity. 

  2.  Minimum number of trustees must be mentioned in the Trust Deed. 
  3.  The Trust Deed must provide that the trustees shall take into their custody, or under 
their control all the property of the schemes of the mutual fund and hold it in trust for 
the unitholders. 

  4.  The  Trust  Deed  must  specifically  provide  that  unitholders  would  have  beneficial 
interest in the trust property to the extent of individual holding in respective schemes 
only. 

  5.  The Trust  Deed shall provide that it would be the duty of the trustees to  act  in  the 

interest of the unitholders. 

  6.  The  Trust  Deed  shall  provide  that  it  is  the  duty  of  trustees  to  provide  or  cause  to 

provide information to unitholders and board as may be specified by the board. 

  7.  The  Trust  Deed  shall  provide  that  the  trustees  shall  appoint  an  asset  management 
company approved by the board, to float schemes for the mutual fund after approval 
by the trustees and Board, and manage the funds mobilised under various schemes, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Trust Deed and Regulations. The trustees shall 
enter  into  an  Investment  Management  Agreement  with  the  asset  management 
company for this purpose, and shall enclose the same with the Trust Deed. 

  8.  The  Trust  Deed  shall  provide  for  the  duty  of  the  trustee  to  take  reasonable  care  to 
ensure  that  the  funds  under  the  schemes  floated  by  and  managed  by  the  asset 
management company are in accordance with the Trust Deed and Regulations. 

  9.  The  Trust  Deed  must  provide  for  the  power  of  the  trustees  to  dismiss  the  asset 
management company under the specific events only with the approval of Board in 
accordance with the Regulations. 

 10.  The Trust Deed shall provide that the trustees shall appoint a custodian and shall be 
responsible for the supervision of its activities in relation to the mutual fund and shall 
enter into a custodian Agreement with the custodian for this purpose. 

 11.  The Trust Deed shall provide that the auditor for the mutual fund shall be different 

from the Auditor of the asset management company. 

Page 80 of 120 

 

 12.  The  Trust  Deed  shall  provide  for  the  responsibility  of  the  trustees  to  supervise  the 
collection of any income due to be paid to the scheme and for claiming any repayment 
of tax and holding any income received in trust for the holders in accordance with the 
Trust Deed, Regulations. 

 13.  Broad  policies  regarding  allocation  of  payments  to  capital  or  income  must  be 

indicated in the Trust Deed. 

 14.  The Trust Deed shall also explicitly forbid the acquisition of any asset out of the trust 
property which involves the assumption of any liability which is unlimited or shall 
not result in encumbrance of the trust property in any way. 

 15.  The Trust Deed shall forbid the mutual fund 224[***], to make or guarantee loans or 

take up any activity not in contravention of the Regulations. 

 16.  Trusteeship fee, if any, payable to trustees shall be provided in the Trust Deed. 
 17.  The Trust Deed shall provide that no amendment to the Trust Deed shall be carried 

out without the prior approval of the board and unitholders is obtained : 

 

  Provided however that in case a Board of trustees is converted into a trustee company 

subsequently such conversion shall not require the approval of unitholders. 

 18.  The removal of the trustee in all cases would require the prior approval of the Board. 
 19.  The Trust Deed shall lay down the procedure for seeking approval of the unitholders 

under such circumstances as are specified in the Regulations. 

225[226[20. 

The Trust Deed shall state that a meeting of the trustees shall be held at least 
once  in  every  two  calendar  months  and  at  least  six  such  meetings  shall  be  held  in 
every year.] 

 21.  The trust deed shall specify the quorum for a meeting of the trustees : 
 

  Provided that the quorum for a meeting of the trustees shall not be constituted unless 

one independent trustee or director is present at the meeting. 

 22.  The trust deed shall state that the minimum number of trustees shall be four.] 
 

 

                                                 
224  Words  ‘and  the  asset  management  company’  omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 1998 w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
225 Clause 20 to 22 inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999 w.e.f. 8-12-1999. 
226 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 30-7-2002. Prior 
to its substitution clause (20) read as under; 
“20. The trust deed shall state that a meeting of the trustees shall be held at least once in every three months 
and at least four such meetings shall be held in every year.” 

Page 81 of 120 

 

FOURTH SCHEDULE 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

[Regulation 18(2)] 

CONTENTS OF THE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT 

The  Investment  Management  Agreement  shall  contain  the  following  provisions  for  the 
duties and responsibilities of the asset management company, namely :— 

  (i)  the asset management company appointed by the trustees with the prior approval of 
the Board shall be responsible for floating schemes for the mutual fund after approval 
of the same by the trustees and managing the funds mobilised under various schemes, 
in accordance with the provisions of the Trust Deed and Regulations; 

 (ii)  the asset management company shall not undertake any other business activity other 
than  activities  specified  under  227[sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  24]  and 
management  of  mutual  funds  and  such  other  activities  as  financial  services, 
consultancy, exchange of research and analysis on commercial basis as long as these 
are not in conflict with the fund management activity itself without the prior approval 
of the trustees and Board; 

(iii)  the asset management company shall invest the funds raised under various schemes 

in accordance with the provisions of the Trust Deed and the regulations; 

 (iv)  the asset management company shall not acquire any of the assets out of the scheme 
property which involves the assumption of any liability which is unlimited or which 
may result in encumbrance of the scheme property in any way; 

 

(v)  the  asset  management  company  shall  not  228[***]  take  up  any  activity  in 

contravention of the Regulations; 

  (vi)  no  loss  or  damage  or  expenses  incurred  by  the  asset  management  company  or 
Officers  of  the  asset  management  company  or  any  person  delegated  by  the  asset 
management company, shall be met out of the trust property; 

  (vii)  the asset management company shall ensure that no 229[offer document of a scheme, 
key information  memorandum,  abridged half-yearly results and annual  results] is 
issued or published without the trustees’ prior approval in writing, and contains any 
statement  or  matter  extraneous  to  the  Trust  Deed  or  Offer  Document  scheme 
particulars approved by the trustees and Board; 

230[(viia)  the  asset  management  company  shall  provide  an  option  of  nomination  to  the 

unitholders in terms of regulation 29A, in the form prescribed hereunder;] 

 (viii)  the asset management company shall disclose the basis of calculating the repurchase 
price and NAV of the various schemes of the fund in  the scheme particulars and 

                                                 
227 Substituted for “regulation 23” by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998 w.e.f. 12-
1-1998. 
228 Words ‘give or guarantee loans or’ omitted” by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998 
w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
229  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  1998  w.e.f.  12-1-1998,  for  the 
words,“application  forms,  or  sales  literature  or  other  printed  matters  issued  to  prospective  buyers,  or 
advertisement, or report and or announcement (other than an announcement of prices or yields) addressed to 
the general body of unitholders, or to the public, or to the press or other communication media” 
230 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 11-6-2002. 

Page 82 of 120 

 

disclose  the  same  to  the  investors  at  such  intervals  as  may  be  specified  by  the 
trustees and Board; 

  (ix)  the trustees shall have the right to obtain from the asset management company all 
information concerning the operations of the various schemes of the mutual fund 
managed by the asset management company at such intervals and in such a manner 
as  required  by  the  trustees  to  ensure  that  the  asset  management  company  is 
complying with the provisions of the Trust Deed and Regulations; 

 

(x)  the asset management company shall submit quarterly report on the functioning of 
the schemes of the mutual fund to the trustees or at such intervals as may be required 
by the trustees or Board; 

  (xi)  the trustee shall have the power to dismiss the asset management company under 
the  specific  events  only  with  the  approval  of  the  Board  in  accordance  with  the 
Regulations. 

231[FORM FOR NOMINATION/CANCELLATION OF NOMINATION 

(to be filled in by individual(s) applying singly or jointly) 

I/We.................................and.................................................*do  hereby  nominate 
the 
person more particularly described hereunder/and/cancel the nomination made by me/us 
on  the.................................day  of............................in  respect  of  units  bearing  No. 
..................................... 
(*strike out which is not applicable) 
Name and Address of Nominee 
Name: ...............................………………………………………….. 
Address: .............................................…………………………… 
Date of Birth: .....................................................………………… 
(to be furnished in case the Nominee is a minor) 
*The Nominee is a minor whose guardian is: ...........................................…………… 

Address of the Guardian........................................................................................… 

..................................................................................................................……… 

..................................................................................................................……… 

Signature of the guardian: 
.......................................................................................................................... 

(* to be deleted if not applicable) 

Unitholder(s) 

(1)  Signature : ................................................. 
Name : ................................…………………………… 

 
 
 
....................................................…………… 
 

(2)  Signature 

  Address : .............................................……………. 
  Date : ...................................................…………… 

: 

  Name : ................................................................…… 

                                                 
231 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 11-6-2002. 
 

Page 83 of 120 

  Address : ................................................................… 
  Date : ................................................................…… 

 

 
 

  

Instructions 

1. The nomination can be made only by individuals applying for/holding units on their own 
behalf  singly  or  jointly.  Non-individuals  including  society,  trust,  body  corporate, 
partnership  firm,  karta  of  Hindu  undivided  family,  holder  of  Power  of  Attorney  cannot 
nominate. If the units are held jointly, all joint holders will sign the nomination form. Space 
is  provided as a specimen, if there are more joint holders more sheets  can be added for 
signatures of holders of units and witnesses. 

2. A minor can be nominated and in that event, the name and address of the guardian of the 
minor nominee shall be provided by the unitholder. 
232[Nomination can also be in favour of the Central Government, State Government, a local 
authority, any person designated by virtue of his office or a religious or charitable trust.] 
3. The Nominee shall not be a trust, 233[other than a religious or charitable trust,] society, 
body corporate, partnership firm, karta of Hindu undivided family or a Power of Attorney 
holder. A non-resident Indian can be a Nominee subject to the exchange controls in force, 
from time to time. 

4. Nomination in respect of the units stands rescinded upon the transfer of units. 

5.  Transfer  of  units  in  favour  of  a  Nominee  shall  be  valid  discharge  by  the  asset 
management company against the legal heir. 

6. The cancellation of nomination can be made only by those individuals who hold units 
on their own behalf singly or jointly and who made the original nomination. 

7. On cancellation of the nomination, the nomination shall stand rescinded and the asset 
management company shall not be under any obligation to transfer the units in favour of 
the Nominee.] 

 

 

 

                                                 
232 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004 w.e.f. 12-1-2004. 
233 Inserted ibid. 

Page 84 of 120 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

FIFTH SCHEDULE 

[Regulations 18(22), 25(16), 68(h)] 

CODE OF CONDUCT 

  1.  Mutual funds schemes should not be organised, operated, managed or the portfolio of 
securities  selected,  in  the  interest  of  sponsors,  directors  of  asset  management 
companies, members of Board of trustees or directors of trustee company, associated 
persons 234[as] in the interest of special class of unitholders other than in the interest 
of all classes of unitholders of the scheme. 

  2.  Trustees  and  asset  management  companies  must  ensure  the  dissemination  to  all 
unitholders of adequate, accurate, explicit and timely information fairly presented in 
a  simple  language  about  the  investment  policies,  investment  objectives,  financial 
position and general affairs of the scheme. 

  3.  Trustees and asset management companies should avoid excessive concentration of 
business with broking firms, affiliates and also excessive holding of units in a scheme 
among a few investors. 

  4.  Trustees  and  asset  management  companies  must  avoid  conflicts  of  interest  in 
managing the affairs of the schemes and keep the interest of all unitholders paramount 
in all matters. 

  5.  Trustees and asset management companies must ensure schemewise segregation of 

235[bank accounts] and securities accounts. 

  6.  Trustees and asset management companies shall carry out the business and invest in 
accordance  with  the  investment  objectives  stated  in  the  offer  documents  and  take 
investment decision solely in the interest of unitholders. 

  7.  Trustees and asset management companies must not use any unethical means to sell, 

market or induce any investor to buy their schemes. 

236[8.  Trustees  and  the  asset  management  company  shall  maintain  high  standards  of 

integrity and fairness in all their dealings and in the conduct of their business. 

  9.  Trustees and the asset management company shall render at all times high standards 
of  service,  exercise  due  diligence,  ensure  proper  care  and  exercise  independent 
professional judgment. 

 10.  The asset management company shall not make any exaggerated statement, whether 
oral  or  written,  either  about  their  qualifications  or  capability  to  render  investment 
management services or their achievements.] 

237[11.  (a) The sponsor of the mutual fund, the trustees or the asset management company 
or any of their employees shall not render, directly or indirectly any investment advice 
about  any  security  in  the  publicly  accessible  media,  whether  real-time  or  non-real-

                                                 
234 Substituted for ‘or’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998 w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
235 Substituted for ‘cash’ ibid.. 
236 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999 w.e.f. 8-12-1999. 
237 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advice by Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2001,w.e.f. 29-
5-2001. 

Page 85 of 120 

 

time, unless a disclosure of his  interest including long  or short position in  the said 
security has been made, while rendering such advice. 

  (b) In case an employee of the sponsor, the trustees or the asset management company 
is rendering such advice, he shall also disclose the interest of his dependent family 
members and the employer including their long or short position in the said security, 
while rendering such advice.] 

 

 

 

 

Page 86 of 120 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

238[SIXTH SCHEDULE 

 

[Regulation 30] 

ADVERTISEMENT CODE 

(a)  Advertisements shall be accurate, true, fair, clear, complete, unambiguous and concise. 
(b) Advertisements  shall  not  contain  statements  which  are  false,  misleading,  biased  or 
deceptive, based on assumption/projections and shall not contain any testimonials or 
any ranking based on any criteria. 

(c)  Advertisements  shall  not  be  so  designed  as  likely  to  be  misunderstood  or  likely  to 
disguise the significance of any statement. Advertisements shall not contain statements 
which directly or by implication or by omission may mislead the investor. 

(d) Advertisements shall not carry any slogan that is exaggerated or unwarranted or slogan 
that  is  inconsistent  with  or  unrelated  to  the  nature  and  risk  and  return  profile  of  the 
product. 

(e)  No celebrities shall form part of the advertisement. 
(f)  Advertisements shall not be so framed as to exploit the lack of experience or knowledge 
of the investors. Extensive use of technical or legal terminology or complex language 
and  the  inclusion  of  excessive  details  which  may  detract  the  investors  should  be 
avoided. 

(g) Advertisements  shall  contain  information  which  is  timely  and  consistent  with  the 
disclosures  made  in  the  Scheme  Information  Document,  Statement  of  Additional 
Information and the Key Information Memorandum. 

(h) No  advertisement  shall  directly  or  indirectly  discredit  other  advertisements  or  make 

unfair comparisons. 

(i)  Advertisements  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  standard  warning  in  legible  fonts  which 
states ‘Mutual  Fund investments  are subject  to  market  risks, read all scheme related 
documents carefully.’ No addition or deletion of words shall be made to the standard 
warning.  

(j)  In  audio-visual  media  based  advertisements,  the  standard  warning  in  visual  and 
accompanying  voice  over  reiteration  shall  be  audible  in  a  clear  and  understandable 
manner. For example, in standard warning both the visual and the voice over reiteration 
containing  14  words  running  for  at  least  5  seconds  may  be  considered  as  clear  and 
understandable.] 

 

 

                                                 
238  Sixth  Schedule  substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f.  21-2-
2012.  Earlier  Sixth  Schedule  as  amended  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  1999, 
w.e.f. 8-12-1999 and SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998.  
 

   

Page 87 of 120 

 

SEVENTH SCHEDULE 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds)  

Regulations, 1996 

[Regulation 44(1)] 

RESTRICTIONS ON INVESTMENTS 

239[1.  A  mutual  fund  scheme  shall  not  invest  more  than  10%  of  its  NAV  in  debt 
instruments  and  non-money  market 
instruments  comprising  money  market 
instruments issued by a single issuer which are rated not below investment grade by 
a  credit  rating  agency  authorised  to  carry  out  such  activity  under  the  Act.  Such 
investment limit may be extended to 12% of the NAV of the scheme with the prior 
approval of the Board of Trustees and Board of Directors of the asset management 
company: 
Provided  that  such  limit  shall  not  be  applicable  for  investments  in  Government 
Securities, treasury bills and collateralized borrowing and lending obligations: 
Provided further that investments within such limit can be made in mortgaged backed 
securitised debt which are rated not below investment grade by a credit rating agency 
registered with the Board: 
Provided further that the schemes already in existence shall with an appropriate time 
and in the manner, as may be specified by the Board, conform to such limits.] 

240[1A. A mutual fund scheme shall not invest more than 10% of its NAV in unrated debt 
instruments issued by a single issuer and the total investment in such instruments shall 
not exceed 25% of the NAV of the scheme. All such investments shall be made with 
the  prior  approval  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  and  the  Board  of  asset  management 
company.] 

241[1B. ***] 
  2.  No  mutual  fund  under  all  its  schemes  should  own  more  than  ten  per  cent  of  any 

company’s paid up capital carrying voting rights. 

242[     Provided, investment in the asset management company or the trustee company of 
a mutual fund shall be governed by clause (a), of sub-regulation (1), of regulation 7B.] 
  3.  Transfers of investments from one scheme to another scheme in the same mutual fund 

shall be allowed only if,— 
 (a)  such transfers are done at the prevailing market price for quoted instruments on 

spot basis. 

                                                 
239 Substituted for clause 1 by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 12-02-2016. 
240 Inserted by SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999 w.e.f 18-12-1999. 
241  Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  12-2-2016.  Prior  to  this 
Clause 1B read as under; 
“1B.  No  mutual  fund  scheme  shall  invest  more  than  thirty  percent  of  its  net  assets  in  money  market 
instruments of an issuer: 
Provided that such limit shall not be applicable for investments in Government securities, treasury bills and 
collateralized borrowing and lending obligations.” 
242 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. 13-3-2018. 

Page 88 of 120 

 

 

  243[Explanation.—“Spot basis” shall have same meaning as specified by stock 
exchange for spot transactions;] 

 (b)  the securities so transferred shall be in conformity with the investment objective 

of the scheme to which such transfer has been made. 

  4.  A scheme may invest in another scheme under the same asset management company 
or any other mutual  fund without charging any  fees, provided that  aggregate inter-
scheme investment made by all schemes under the same management or in schemes 
under the management of any other asset management company shall not exceed 5% 
of the net asset value of the mutual fund : 
  244[Provided that this clause shall not apply to any fund of funds scheme.] 

 
  5.  245[***] 
2466. Every mutual fund shall buy and sell securities on the basis of deliveries and shall in 
all  cases  of  purchases,  take  delivery  of  relevant  securities  and  in  all  cases  of  sale, 
deliver the securities: 
Provided that a mutual fund may engage in short selling of securities in accordance 
with  the  framework  relating  to  short  selling  and  securities  lending  and  borrowing 
specified by the Board: 

 

  247[Provided further that a mutual fund may enter into derivatives transactions in a 
recognized stock exchange, subject to the framework specified by the Board.] 
248[Provided  further  that  sale  of  government  security  already  contracted  for 
purchase shall be permitted in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India in this regard.] 

                                                 
243 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998 w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
244 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003 w.e.f. 29-5-2003. 
245 Omitted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. Prior to this, 
clause 5 read as under; 

“The initial issue expenses in respect of any scheme may not exceed six per cent of the funds raised 

under that scheme.” 
246  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2007,  w.e.f.  31-10-2007. 
Prior to substitution, clause 6 read as under; 
“6. Every mutual fund shall buy and sell securities on the basis of deliveries and shall in all cases of purchases, 
take delivery of relative securities and in all cases of sale, deliver the securities and shall in no case put itself 
in a position whereby it has to make short sale or carry forward transactions or engage in badla finance: 
Provided that a Mutual Fund may enter into derivatives transactions in a recognized stock exchange, subject 
to such guidelines as may be specified by the Board” 
247Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2007, w.e.f. 31-10-2007. Prior 
to substitution, it read as under; 
[Provided that a mutual fund may enter into derivatives transactions in a recognised stock exchange, subject 
to such Guidelines as may be specified by the Board] 
[this  proviso  had  been  substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2006 
w.e.f. 22-5-2006] for,  
“Provided that mutual funds shall enter into derivative transactions in a recognised stock exchange for the 
purpose of hedging and portfolio balancing, in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Board.” 
[this Proviso had been inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) Amendments Regulations, 1999] 
248 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f. 22-5-2008. 

Page 89 of 120 

 

  7.  Every mutual fund shall get the securities purchased or transferred in the name of the 
mutual fund on account of the concerned scheme, wherever investments are intended 
to be of long-term nature. 

2498. Pending deployment of funds of a scheme in terms of investment objectives of the 
scheme, a mutual fund may invest them in short term deposits of schedule commercial 
banks, subject to such Guidelines as may be specified by the Board. 

250[9.  No mutual fund [scheme] shall make any investment in,— 

 (a)  any unlisted security of an associate or group company of the sponsor; or 
 (b)  any  security  issued  by  way  of  private  placement  by  an  associate  or  group 

company of the sponsor; or 

  (c)  the listed securities of group companies of the sponsor which is in excess of 25 

per cent of the net assets.251[***]]  

252[9A. No  scheme  of  a  mutual  fund  shall  make  any  investment  in  any  fund  of  funds 

scheme.] 

253[10.  No mutual fund scheme shall invest more than 10 per cent of its NAV in the equity 

shares or equity related instruments of any company: 

 

  Provided  that,  the  limit  of  10  per  cent  shall  not  be  applicable  for  investments  in 
254[case of] index fund or sector or industry specific scheme. 

255[11.  A mutual fund scheme shall not invest more than 5% of its NAV in the unlisted 
equity shares or equity related instruments in case of open ended scheme and 10% of 
its NAV in case of close ended scheme.] 

256[12.  A fund of funds scheme shall be subject to the following investment restrictions: 

 (a)  A fund of funds scheme shall not invest in any other fund of funds scheme; 
 (b)  A fund of funds scheme shall not invest its assets other than in schemes of mutual 
funds,  except  to  the  extent  of  funds  required  for  meeting  the  liquidity 
requirements for the purpose of repurchases or redemptions, as disclosed in the 
offer document of fund of funds scheme.] 

257[13.  A mutual fund may invest in the units of REITs and InvITs subject to the following:  

                                                 
249  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2007,  w.e.f.28-05-2007.  Prior  to 
substitution, clause 8 read as under; 
“8. Pending deployment of funds of a scheme in securities in terms of investment objectives of the scheme a 
mutual fund can invest the funds of the scheme in short term deposits of scheduled commercial banks.” 
250  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  1998  w.e.f.  12-1-1998.  This  was 
corrected by  w.e.f. 6-2-1998  
251  Words  ‘of  all  the  schemes  of  a  mutual  fund’  omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 1999 w.e.f. 8-12-1999. 
252 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003 w.e.f. 29-5-2003. 
253 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999 w.e.f. 8-12-1999. 
254 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2000 w.e.f. 14-3-2000. SEBI (Mutual 
Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2000 w.e.f. 14-3-2000. 
255 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2000 w.e.f. 22-5-2000.Earlier clause 
11 was amended by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2000, w.e.f. 14-3-2000..] 
256 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003 w.e.f. 29-5-2003. 
257 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017 w.e.f. 15-02-2017 

Page 90 of 120 

 

(a)  No mutual fund under all its schemes shall own more than 10% of units issued 

by a single issuer of REIT and InvIT; and 
(b) A mutual fund scheme shall not invest –  

i. 

ii. 

more than 10% of its NAV in the units of REIT and InvIT; and 

more than 5% of its NAV in the units of REIT and InvIT issued 

by a single issuer. 

 

Provided that the limits mentioned in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) above 
shall  not  be  applicable  for  investments  in  case  of  index  fund  or 
sector or industry specific scheme pertaining to REIT and InvIT.] 

 

 

Page 91 of 120 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

EIGHTH SCHEDULE 

258[[Regulation 25(19), 47]] 

INVESTMENT VALUATION NORMS 

259[***]  
Principles of Fair Valuation  

Mutual  fund  shall  value  its  investments  in  accordance  with  the  following  overarching 
principles so as to ensure fair treatment to all investors including existing investors as well 
as investors seeking to purchase or redeem units of mutual funds in all schemes at all points 
of time: 

(a)  The valuation of investments shall be based on the principles of fair valuation i.e. 
valuation  shall  be  reflective  of  the  realizable  value  of  the  securities/assets.  The 
valuation  shall  be  done  in  good  faith  and  in  true  and  fair  manner  through 
appropriate valuation policies and procedures. 

(b) The  policies  and  procedures  approved  by  the  Board  of  the  asset  management 
company shall identify the methodologies that will be used for valuing each type 
of  securities/assets  held  by  the  mutual  fund  schemes.  Investment  in  new  type  of 
securities/assets by the mutual fund scheme shall be made only after establishment 
of the valuation methodologies for such securities with the approval of the Board 
of the asset management company.  

(c)  The assets held by the mutual funds shall be consistently valued according to the 
policies and procedures. The policies and procedures shall describe the process to 
deal with exceptional events where market quotations are no longer reliable for a 
particular security. 

(d) The  asset  management  company  shall  provide  for  the  periodic  review  of  the 
valuation polices and procedures to ensure the appropriateness and accuracy of the 
methodologies  used  and 
the 
securities/assets.    The  Board  of  Trustee  and  the  Board  of  asset  management 
company  shall  be  updated  of  these  developments  at  appropriate  intervals.  The 
valuation  policies  and  procedures  shall  be  regularly  reviewed  (at  least  once  in  a 
Financial  Year)  by  an  independent  auditor  to  seek  to  ensure  their  continued 
appropriateness. 

implementation 

its  effective 

in  valuing 

(e)  The valuation policies and procedures approved by the Board of asset management 

company should seek to address conflict of interest. 

(f)  Disclosure of the valuation policy and procedures (with regard to valuation of each 
category  of  securities/assets  where  the  scheme  will  invest,  situation  where  these 
methods will be used, process and methodology and impact of implementation of 
these methods, if any) approved by the Board of the asset management company 
shall be made in Statement of Additional Information, on the website of the asset 

                                                 
258  Substituted  for  the  word  and  number  “regulation  47”  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012 w.e.f. 21-2-2012. 
259 Words “Mutual fund shall value its investments according to the following valuation norms” omitted by 
the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012 w.e.f. 21-2-2012.  

Page 92 of 120 

 

management company /mutual fund and at any other place where the Board may 
specify  to  ensure  transparency  of  valuation  norms  to  be  adopted  by  asset 
management company.  

(g) The responsibility of true and fairness of valuation and correct NAV shall be of the 
asset management company, irrespective of disclosure of the approved valuation 
policies and procedures i.e. if the established policies and procedures of valuation 
do not  result in fair/ appropriate valuation,  the asset  management company  shall 
deviate from the established policies and procedures in order to value the assets/ 
securities at fair value:  

Provided  that  any  deviation  from  the  disclosed  valuation  policy  and 
procedures may be allowed with appropriate reporting to Board of Trustees and the 
Board of the asset management company and appropriate disclosures to investors. 

(h) The asset management company shall have policies and procedures to detect and 

prevent incorrect valuation. 

(i)  Documentation of rationale for valuation including inter scheme transfers shall be 
maintained and preserved by the asset management company as per regulation 50 
of these regulations to enable audit trail. 

(j)  In order to have fairness in the valuation of debt and money market securities, the 
asset management company shall take in to consideration prices of trades of same 
security or similar security reported at all available public platform. 

In  addition  to  the  above,  a  mutual  fund  may  value  its  investments  according  to  the 
following  Valuation  Guidelines.  In  case  of  any  conflict  between  the  Principles  of  Fair 
Valuation as detailed above and Valuation Guidelines issued by the Board hereunder or 
elsewhere, the Principles of Fair Valuation detailed above shall prevail. 

 

Valuation Guidelines 

NAV of a scheme as determined by dividing the net assets of the scheme by the number of 
outstanding units on the valuation date. 

  1.  Traded Securities: 

  (i)  The  securities  shall  be  valued  at  the  last  quoted  closing  price  on  the  stock 

exchange. 

 (ii)  When the securities are traded on more than one recognised stock exchange, the 
securities shall be valued at the last quoted closing price on the stock exchange 
where the security is principally traded. It would be left to the asset management 
company  to  select  the  appropriate  stock  exchange,  but  the  reasons  for  the 
selection should be recorded in writing. There should, however, be no objection 
for all scrips being valued at the prices quoted on the stock exchange where a 
majority in value of the investments are principally traded. 

(iii)  Once a stock exchange has been selected for valuation of a particular security, 
reasons  for  change  of  the  exchange  shall  be  recorded  in  writing  by  the  asset 
management company. 

 (iv)  When on a particular valuation day, a security has not been traded on the selected 
stock exchange, the value at which it is traded on another stock exchange may 
be used. 

Page 93 of 120 

 

  (v)  When a security is not traded on any stock exchange on a particular valuation 
day, the value at which it was traded on the selected stock exchange or any other 
stock exchange, as the case may be, on the earliest previous day may be used 
provided such date is not more than 1[thirty] days prior to the valuation date. 

  2.  ‘Non-traded Securities’ : 

  (i)  When a security is not traded on any stock exchange for a period of  260[thirty] 
days prior to the valuation date, the scrip must be treated as a ‘non-traded’ scrip. 
 (ii)  Non-traded securities shall be valued “in-good faith” by the asset management 
company on the basis of appropriate valuation methods based on the principles 
approved by the Board of the asset management company. 261[For example, non 
traded  debt  and  money  market  securities  of  short  term  maturities,  as  may  be 
specified by the Board from time to time, may be valued on amortization basis 
provided that such valuation shall be reflective of the fair value of the securities 
and  all  investors  are  treated  fairly.]  Such  decision  of  the  Board  must  be 
documented  in  the  Board  minutes  and  the  supporting  data  in  respect  of  each 
security so valued must be preserved. The methods used to arrive at values “in-
good faith” shall be periodically reviewed by the trustees and reported upon by 
the auditors as “fair and reasonable” in their report on the annual accounts of the 
fund.  For  the  purpose  of  valuation  of  non-traded  securities,  the  following 
principles should be adopted:— 
 (a)  equity instruments shall generally be valued on the basis of capitalization 
of earnings solely or in combination with the net asset value, using for the 
purposes of capitalization, the price or earning ratios of comparable traded 
securities and with an appropriate discount for lower liquidity; 

 (b)  debt instruments shall generally be valued on a yield to maturity basis, the 
capitalization factor being determined for comparable traded securities and 
with an appropriate discount for lower liquidity; 

262[(c)  while  investments  in  call  money,  bills  purchased  under  rediscounting 
scheme  and  short-term  deposits  with  banks  shall  be  valued  at  cost  plus 
accrual;  other  money  market  instruments  shall  be  valued  at  the  yield  at 
which they are currently traded. For this purpose, non-traded instruments 
that is instruments not traded for a period of seven days will be valued at 
cost plus interest accrued till the beginning of the day  plus the difference 
between the redemption value and cost spread uniformly over the remaining 
maturity period of the instruments; 

(cc)  Government  securities  will  be  valued  at  yield  to  maturity  based  on  the 

prevailing market rate;] 

 (d)  in  respect  of  convertible  debentures  and  bonds,  the  non-convertible  and 
convertible  components  shall  be  valued  separately.  The  non-convertible 
component should be valued on the same basis as would be applicable to a 

                                                 
260 Substituted for ‘sixty’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2001 w.e.f. 23-1-2001. 
261 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 21-2-2012. 
262  Item  (c)  and  (cc)  substituted  for  the  existing  item  (c)  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 1998 w.e.f. 12-1-1998..”  
 

Page 94 of 120 

 

debt instrument. The convertible component should be valued on the same 
basis as would be applicable to an equity instrument. If, after conversion the 
resultant  equity  instrument  would  be  traded  pari  passu  with  an  existing 
instrument which is traded, the value of the latter instrument can be adopted 
after an appropriate discount of the non-tradability of the instrument during 
the period preceding the conversion while valuing such instruments, the fact 
whether the conversion is optional should also be factored in; 

  (e)  in respect of warrants to subscribe for shares attached to instruments, the 
warrants can be valued at the value of the share which would be obtained 
on  exercise  of  the  warrant  as  reduced  by  the  amount  which  would  be 
payable on exercise of the warrant. A discount similar to the discount to be 
determined  in  respect  of  convertible  debentures  [as  referred  to  in  sub-
paragraph (d) above] must be deducted to account for the period which must 
elapse before the warrant can be exercised; 

  (f)  where instruments have been bought on ‘repo’ basis, the instrument must 
be valued at the resale price after deduction of applicable interest upto date 
of resale. Where an instrument has been sold on a ‘repo’ basis, adjustment 
must  be  made  for  the  difference  between  the  repurchase  price  (after 
deduction of applicable interest upto date of repurchase) and the value of 
the instrument. If the repurchase price exceeds the value, the depreciation 
must be provided for and if the repurchase price is  lower than the value, 
credit must be taken for the appreciation. 

  3.  Until they are traded, the value of the “rights” shares should be calculated as: 

Vr = n/m x (Pex - Pof)

 

Where 
Vr  
n   
m  
Pex 
Pof 
 

= Value of rights 
= No. of rights offered 
= No. of original shares held 
= Ex-rights price 
= Rights Offer Price 

 

  Where  the  rights  are  not  treated  pari  passu  with  the  existing  shares,  suitable 
adjustment should be made to the value of rights. Where it is decided not to subscribe 
for the rights but to renounce them and renunciations are being traded, the rights can 
be valued at the renunciation value. 

263[3A.Value of Gold: (1) the gold held by a gold exchange traded fund scheme shall be 
valued at the AM fixing price of London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) in US 
dollars per troy ounce for gold having a fineness of 995.0 parts per thousand, subject 
to the following: 

(a)adjustment for conversion to metric measure as per standard conversion rates; 

                                                 
263 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2006 w.e.f. 20-12-2006. 

Page 95 of 120 

 

(b)adjustment for conversion  of US dollars into Indian rupees as per the RBI reference 
rate declared by the  Foreign Exchange Dealers Association of India (FEDAI); and 

(c) Addition of- 
  (i) transportation and other charges that may be normally incurred in bringing such 
gold from London to the place where it is actually stored on behalf of the mutual fund; 
and 

(ii) notional customs duty and other applicable taxes and levies that may be normally 
incurred to bring the gold from the London to the place where it is actually stored on 
behalf of the mutual fund; 

        Provided that the adjustment under clause (c) above may be made on the basis of a 
notional premium that is usually charged for delivery of gold to the place where it is 
stored on behalf of the mutual fund; 

        Provided further that where the gold held by a gold exchange traded fund scheme has 
a  greater  fineness,  the  relevant  LBMA  prices  of  AM  fixing  shall  be  taken  as  the 
reference price under this sub-paragraph. 

(2)  If the gold acquired by the gold exchange traded fund scheme is not in the form of 
standard bars, it shall be assayed and converted into standard bars which comply with 
the good delivery norms of the LBMA and thereafter valued in terms of sub-paragraph 
(1).]” 

  4.  All  expenses  and  incomes  accrued  upto  the  valuation  date  shall  be  considered  for 
computation  of  net  asset  value.  For  this  purpose,  while  major  expenses  like 
management  fees  and  other  periodic  expenses  should  be  accrued  on  a  day-to-day 
basis, other minor expenses and income need not be so accrued, provided the non-
accrual does not affect the NAV calculations by more than 1%. 

  5.  Any changes in securities and in the number of units be recorded in the books not 
later  than  the  first  valuation  date  following  the  date  of  transaction.  If  this  is  not 
possible given the frequency of the Net Asset Value disclosure, the recording may be 
delayed upto a period of seven days following the date of the transaction, provided 
that as a result of the non-recording, the Net Asset Value calculations shall not be 
affected by more than 264[1%]. 

265[266[6. In case the Net Asset Value of a scheme differs by more than 1%, due to non-
recording of the transactions, the investors or scheme/s as the case may be, shall be 
paid the difference in amount as follows :— 
  (i)  If the investors are allotted units at a price higher than Net Asset Value or are 
given a price lower than Net Asset Value at the time of sale of their units, they 
shall be paid the difference in amount by the scheme. 

 (ii)  If  the  investors  are  charged  lower  Net  Asset  Value  at  the  time  of  purchase  of 
their units or are given higher Net Asset Value at the time of sale of their units, 

                                                 
264 Substituted for ‘2%’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 30-7-2002. 
265 Substituted  by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 30-7-2002, for, 
“Thinly  traded  securities  as  clarified  in  the  guidelines  shall  be  valued  in  the  manner  as  specified  in  the 
guidelines issued by the Board.” 
266 Clause (6) and (7) inserted by the (SEBI) (MF) Amendment Regulations, 2001. 

Page 96 of 120 

 

asset management company shall pay the difference in amount to the scheme. 
The asset management company may recover the difference from the investors.] 
267[7.]  Thinly traded securities as defined in the guidelines shall be valued in the manner 

as specified in the guidelines issued by the Board. 

268[8.]  The  aggregate  value  of  illiquid  securities  as  defined  in  the  guidelines  shall  not 
exceed 15 per cent of the total assets of the scheme and any illiquid securities held 
above 15 per cent of the total assets shall be valued in the manner as specified in the 
guidelines issued by Board.] 

 

 

                                                 
267 Clause (6) and (7) renumbered as clause (7) and (8) by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 9-9-2002. 
268 Clause (6) and (7) renumbered as clause (7) and (8) by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 9-9-2002. 

Page 97 of 120 

 

NINTH SCHEDULE 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

269[[Regulations 49F(1) and (2), 50(3),55(4)(iii)]] 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND STANDARDS 

270[Part A: For Investment in Securities] 
  a.  For the purposes of the financial statements, mutual funds shall mark all investments 
to market and carry investments in the balance sheet at market value. However, since 
the unrealised gain arising out of appreciation on investments cannot be distributed, 
provision  has  to  be  made  for  exclusion  of  this  item  when  arriving  at  distributable 
income. 

  b.  Dividend  income  earned  by  a  scheme  should  be  recognised,  not  on  the  date  the 
dividend is declared, but on the date the share is quoted on an ex-dividend basis. For 
investments which are not quoted on the stock exchange, dividend income must be 
recognised on the date of declaration. 

  c.  In respect of all interest-bearing investments, income must be accrued on a day to day 
basis as it is earned. Therefore, when such investments are purchased, interest paid 
for the period from the last interest due date upto the date of purchase must not be 
treated as  a  cost  of purchase but  must be debited to  Interest  Recoverable Account. 
Similarly interest received at the time of sale for the period from the last interest due 
date upto the date of sale must not be treated as an addition to sale value but must be 
credited to Interest Recoverable Account. 

  d.  In  determining  the  holding  cost  of  investments  and  the  gains  or  loss  on  sale  of 

investments, the “average cost” method must be followed. 

  e.  Transactions for purchase or sale of investments should be recognised as of the trade 
date and not as of the settlement date, so that the effect of all investments traded during 
a financial  year are recorded and reflected in the financial statements for that year. 
Where  investment  transactions  take  place  outside  the  stock  market,  for  example, 
acquisitions through private placement or purchases or sales through private treaty, 
the transaction should be recorded in the event of a purchase, as of the date on which 
the scheme obtains in enforceable obligation to pay the price or, in the event of a sale, 
when  the  scheme  obtains  an  enforceable  right  to  collect  the  proceeds  of  sale  or  an 
enforceable obligation to deliver the instruments sold. 

 

f.  Bonus shares to which the scheme becomes entitled should be recognised only when 
the  original  shares  on  which  the  bonus  entitlement  accrues  are  traded  on  the  stock 
exchange on an ex-bonus basis. Similarly, rights entitlements should be recognised 
only when the original shares on which the right entitlement accrues are traded on the 
stock exchange on an ex-rights basis. 

271[(g)  Where income receivable on investments has accrued but has not been  received 
for the period specified in the guidelines issued by the Board, provision shall be made 

                                                 
269 Substituted for ‘[Regulations 50(3), 55(4)(iii)]’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2008 w.e.f. 16-4-2008. 
270 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. 
271 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2001 w.e.f. 23-1-2001. 

Page 98 of 120 

 

by debiting to the revenue account the income so accrued in the manner specified by 
guidelines issued by the Board.] 

  h.  When in the case of an open-ended scheme units are sold, the difference between the 
sale price and the face value of the unit, if positive, should be credited to reserves and 
if negative be debited to reserves, the face value being credited to Capital Account. 
Similarly,  when  in  respect  of  such  a  scheme,  units  are  repurchased,  the  difference 
between the purchase price and face value of the unit, if positive should be debited to 
reserves and, if negative, should be credited to reserves, the face value being debited 
to the capital account. 

 

 

i.  In the case of an open-ended scheme, when units are sold and appropriate part of the 
sale  proceeds  should  be  credited  to  an  Equalisation  Account  and  when  units  are 
repurchased an appropriate amount should be debited to Equalisation Account. The 
net balance on this account should be credited or debited to the Revenue Account. The 
balance  on  the  Equalisation  Account  debited  or  credited  to  the  Revenue  Account 
should not decrease or increase the net income of the fund but is only an adjustment 
to the distributable surplus. It should, therefore, be reflected in the Revenue Account 
only after the net income of the fund is determined. 

j.  In  a close-ended scheme  272[launched prior to  the commencement of the Securities 
and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009] 
which provide to  the unit holders the option for  an early redemption  or repurchase 
their own units, the par value of the unit has to be 273[debited] to Capital Account and 
the  difference  between  the  purchase  price  and  the  par  value,  if  positive,  should  be 
274[credited]  to  reserves  and,  if  negative,  should  be  275[debited]  to  reserves.  A 
proportionate part of the unamortized initial issue expenses should also be transferred 
to the reserves so that the balance carried forward on that account is proportional to 
the number of units remaining outstanding. 

  k.  The  cost  of  investments  acquired  or  purchased  should  include  brokerage,  stamp 
charges and any charge customarily included in the broker’s brought note. In respect 
of privately placed debt instruments any front-end discount offered should be reduced 
from the cost of the investment. 

 

l.  Underwriting  commission  should  be  recognised  as  revenue  only  when  there  is  no 
devolvement  on  the  scheme.  Where  there  is  devolvement  on  the  scheme,  the  full 
underwriting  commission  received  and  not  merely  the  portion  applicable  to  the 
devolvement should be reduced from the cost of the investment. 

276[m. In case of real estate mutual fund scheme, investments in unlisted equity shares 

shall be valued as per the norms specified in this regard. 

 

 

                                                 
272 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 8-4-2009. 
273 Substituted for ‘credited’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998 w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
274 Substituted for ‘debited’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998 w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
275 Substituted for ‘credited’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998 w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
276 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. 

Page 99 of 120 

 

277[Part B: For direct investment in real estate asset 
Definitions 
1. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires-: 

(a)  ‘fair  value’  means  the  amount  for  which  an  asset  could  be  exchanged  between 
knowledgeable  parties  in  an  arm’s  length  transaction  and  certified  by  the  real  estate 
valuer; 
(b) ‘knowledgeable’ means that both the buyer and the seller are reasonably informed 
about the nature and characteristics of the real estate asset, its actual and potential uses, 
and market conditions at the balance sheet date; 

 
2. A real estate asset that is held by a real estate mutual fund scheme shall be valued at fair 
value. 
 
3. Where a portion of the real estate asset is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation 
and if the portions can be sold or leased separately, the real estate mutual fund scheme shall 
account for the portions separately. 
 
Initial Recognition 
4. A real estate mutual fund scheme shall recognise a real estate asset if:  

(a) it is probable that the future economic benefits that are associated with the real estate 
asset will flow to the real estate mutual fund scheme; and 
(b) the cost of the asset can be measured reliably.  

 
5. A real estate mutual fund scheme shall evaluate all its real estate asset costs including 
those incurred initially to acquire a real estate asset and those incurred subsequently to add 
to, replace part of, or service a real estate asset, at the time they are incurred: 
Provided that a real estate mutual fund scheme shall not recognise in the carrying amount 
of a real estate asset the costs of the day-to-day servicing of such an asset and such costs 
shall be recognised in the revenue account as incurred. 
 
6.  A  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  may  acquire  parts  of  real  estate  assets  through 
replacement. For example, the interior walls may be replacements of original walls. Under 
the recognition principle, an real estate mutual fund scheme shall recognise in the carrying 
amount of a real estate asset, the cost of replacing part of an existing real estate asset at the 
time that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met. The carrying amount of those 
parts  that  are  replaced  shall  be  derecognised  in  accordance  with  the  derecognition 
provisions given in later paragraphs. 
7.  The  real  estate  asset  shall  be  recognized  on  the  date  of  completion  of  the  process  of 
transfer of ownership i.e. the date on which the real estate mutual fund scheme obtains an 
enforceable right including all significant risks and rewards of ownership. 
 
                                                 
277 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. 
 

Page 100 of 120 

 

Measurement at initial recognition 
8. A real estate asset shall be measured initially at cost. Such cost shall comprise purchase 
price  and  any  other  directly  attributable  expenditure  such  as  professional  fees  for  legal 
services, registration expenses and asset transfer taxes. 
 
9. If the payment for a real estate asset is deferred, its cost is the cash price equivalent. A 
real estate mutual fund scheme shall recognise the difference between this amount and the 
total payments as interest expense over the period of credit. 
 
10.  A  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  may  acquire  one  or  more  real  estate  assets  in 
exchange  for  a  non-monetary  asset  or  assets,  or  a  combination  of  monetary  and  non-
monetary assets. The cost of such a real estate asset shall be measured at fair value unless 
(a) the exchange transaction lacks commercial substance or (b) the fair value of neither the 
asset received nor the asset given up is reliably measurable. The acquired real estate asset 
shall  be  measured  in  this  manner  even  if  an  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  cannot 
immediately  derecognize  the  asset  given  up.  If  the  acquired  real  estate  asset  cannot  be 
measured at fair value, its cost shall be measured at the carrying amount of the asset given 
up. 
 
11.  A  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  determines  whether  an  exchange  transaction  has 
commercial substance by considering the extent to which its future cash flows are expected 
to change as a result of the transaction 
Explanation: An exchange transaction has commercial substance if: 

(a) the configuration (risk, timing and amount) of the cash flows of the asset received 
differs from the configuration of the cash flows of the asset transferred, or 
(b)  the  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme-specific  value  of  the  portion  of  the  real  estate 
mutual fund scheme’s operations affected by the transaction changes as a result of the 
exchange, and 
(c)  the  difference  in  (a)  or  (b)  is  significant  relative  to  the  fair  value  of  the  assets 
exchanged.  

For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  exchange  transaction  has  commercial 
substance, the real estate mutual fund scheme-specific value of the portion of the real estate 
mutual fund scheme’s operations affected by the transaction should reflect post-tax cash 
flows. The result of these analyses may be clear without an real estate mutual fund scheme 
having to perform detailed calculations. 
 
12.  The  fair  value  of  an  asset  for  which  comparable  market  transactions  do  not  exist  is 
reliably measurable if (a) the variability in the range of reasonable fair value estimates is 
not significant for that asset or (b) the probabilities of the various estimates within the range 
can be reasonably assessed and used in estimating fair value. If the real estate mutual fund 
scheme is able to determine reliably the fair value of either the asset received or the asset 
given up, then the fair value of the asset given up is used to measure cost unless the fair 
value of the asset received is more clearly evident. 
 

Page 101 of 120 

 

 
Subsequent Measurement 
13. After initial recognition, a real estate asset held by a real estate mutual fund scheme 
shall be measured at its fair value. 
 
14. A gain or loss arising from a change in the fair value of the real estate asset shall be 
recognised in the Revenue Account for the period in which it arises. The gain that arises 
from  the appreciation  in  the value of real  estate  asset is  an unrealised  gain  and thus  the 
same cannot be distributed. 
Explanations 
i. Fair value specifically excludes an estimated price inflated or deflated by special terms 
or  circumstances  such  as  atypical  financing,  sale  and  leaseback  arrangement,  special 
considerations or concessions granted by anyone associated with the sale. 
ii. The fair value of real estate asset shall reflect market conditions at the balance sheet date 
iii.  The  fair  value  of  real  estate  asset  reflects,  among  other  things,  rental  income  from 
current  leases  and  reasonable  and  supportable  assumptions  that  represent  what 
knowledgeable, willing parties would assume about rental income from future leases in the 
light  of  current  conditions.  It  also  reflects  any  cash  outflows  that  could  be  expected  in 
respect of the asset. 
iv. The best evidence of fair value is given by current prices in an active market for similar 
real estate asset in the same location and condition and subject to similar lease and other 
contracts. Care shall be taken to identify any differences in the nature, location or condition 
of the asset, or in the contractual terms of the leases and other contracts relating to the asset. 
v. In the absence of current prices in an active market, information from a variety of sources 
shall be considered, including: 

(a)  current  prices  in  an  active  market  for  properties  of  different  nature,  condition  or 
location  (or  subject  to  different  lease  or  other  contracts),  adjusted  to  reflect  those 
differences; 
(b) recent prices of similar properties on less active markets, with adjustments to reflect 
any changes in economic conditions  since the date of the transactions that occurred at 
those prices; and 
(c)  discounted  cash  flow  projections  based  on  reliable  estimates  of  future  cash  flows, 
supported by the terms of any existing lease and other contracts and (when possible) by 
external evidence such as current market rents for similar properties in the same location 
and  condition,  and  using  discount  rates  that  reflect  current  market  assessments  of  the 
uncertainty in the amount and timing of the cash flows. 

vi. In some cases, the various sources listed in the previous paragraph may suggest different 
conclusions about  the fair value of a  real  estate  asset. The reasons  for those differences 
shall be considered, in order to arrive at the most reliable estimate of fair value within a 
range of reasonable fair value estimates. 
vii. (a)Where the fair value of the asset is not reliably determinable on a continuing basis, 
a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  shall  measure  that  real  estate  asset  at  cost  as  per 
Accounting Standard (AS) 10, Accounting for Fixed Assets. The residual value of the 

Page 102 of 120 

 

real estate asset shall be assumed to be zero. The real estate mutual fund scheme shall 
apply AS 10 until disposal of the investment asset. 
(b)  The  fair  value  of  the  asset  will  be  considered  to  not  reliably  determinable  on  a 
continuing basis if the variability in the range of reasonable fair value estimates is large,  
and the probabilities of the various outcomes difficult to assess, such that the usefulness 
of a single estimate of fair value is negated. This may be due to infrequent comparable 
market transactions and alternative reliable estimates of fair value (for example, based 
on discounted cash flow projections) being not available. 

viii. In determining the fair value of the real estate asset, it shall be ensured that there is no 
double-counting of assets or liabilities. 
Explanation: 

(a) equipment such as lifts or air-conditioning is often an integral part of a building and 
is  generally  included  in  the  fair  value  of  the  real  estate  asset,  rather  than  recognised 
separately as asset, plant and equipment. 
(b) if an office is leased on a furnished basis, the fair value of the office generally includes 
the fair value of the furniture, because the rental income relates to the furnished office. 
When furniture is included in the fair value of real estate asset, an real estate mutual fund 
scheme shall not recognise that furniture as a separate asset. 
(c)  the  fair  value  of  real  estate  asset  shall  exclude  prepaid  or  accrued  operating  lease 
income,  because  the  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  would  recognise  it  as  a  separate 
liability or asset. 
(d)  The  fair  value  of  real  estate  asset  held  under  a  lease  reflects  expected  cash  flows 
(including  contingent  rent  that  is  expected  to  become  payable).  Accordingly,  if  a 
valuation  obtained  for  aN asset is  net  of all payments expected to  be made, it will be 
necessary to add back any recognised lease liability, to arrive at the fair value of the real 
estate asset for accounting purposes. 

ix. The fair value of real estate asset does not reflect future capital expenditure that will 
improve or enhance the asset and does not reflect the related future benefits from this future 
expenditure. 
x. Where a real estate mutual fund scheme expects that the present value of its payments 
relating to  a real estate asset (other than payments relating to recognised liabilities) will 
exceed the present  value of the related cash receipts  it shall apply Accounting Standard 
(AS) 29, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets to determine whether to 
recognise a liability and, if so, how to measure it. 
15.  To  determine  the  fair  value  of  a  real  estate  asset  in  accordance  with  the  above-
mentioned paragraphs, a real estate mutual fund scheme is required to use the services of 
two  independent  and  approved  valuers  having  recent  experience  in  category  of  the  real 
estate asset being valued and use the lower of the two valuations. 
 
16. For accounting for rental income on real estate asset, Accounting Standard (AS) 19, 
Leases, shall be followed. Such income shall be accrued on a daily basis, till the currency 
of the lease agreements. 
 

Page 103 of 120 

 

17. Where the rental income receivable by a real estate mutual fund scheme in respect of 
real  estate  asset,  has  accrued  but  has  not  been  received  for  the  period  specified  by  the 
Board. Further, provision shall be made by debiting to the revenue account the income so 
accrued in the manner as may be specified by the Board. 
 
Derecognition of Real Estate Asset 
18. A real estate mutual fund scheme shall derecognise a real estate asset on disposal or 
when the asset is permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits are 
expected from its disposal. 
 
19. In determining the date of disposal for real  estate asset by way of sale, a real estate 
mutual  fund  scheme  shall  apply  the  criteria  in  Accounting  Standard  (AS)  9,  Revenue 
Recognition,  for  recognising  revenue  from  the  sale  of  goods  and  considers  the  related 
guidance in the Appendix to AS 9. 
 
20.  Gains  or  losses  arising  from  the  disposal  or  retirement  of  real  estate  asset  shall  be 
determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of 
the real estate asset and shall be recognised in the Revenue Account in the period of the 
disposal or retirement. 
 
21.  The  consideration  receivable  on  disposal  of  a  real  estate  asset  is  to  be  recognised 
initially  at  fair  value.  In  particular,  if  payment  for  a  real  estate  asset  is  deferred,  the 
consideration received is recognized initially at the cash price equivalent. The difference 
between the nominal amount of the consideration and the cash price equivalent should be 
recognised as interest revenue over the period of credit.] 
 

 

Page 104 of 120 

 

TENTH SCHEDULE 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

278[[Regulation 49(3B)(b)]] 

279[Amortisation of Initial Issue Expenses for close ended schemes] 

Accounting treatment with regard to initial issue expenses :— 
 (a)  Asset management companies 280[, trustee company or sponsor] may launch schemes 
either on a “load” or “no-load basis”, or on a mixed basis with two classes of units in 
the  same  scheme  -  one  with  load  and  the  other  without  load,  provided  that  the 
implications  of  such  load  on  the  NAV  for  the  investors  shall  be  clearly  explained 
through a worked-out example in the offer document. Asset Management Company 
281[, trustee company or sponsor] may also launch “partial load” schemes in which a 
part  of  the  load  would  be  borne  by  the  asset  management  companies  282[,  trustee 
company or sponsor] and the balance by the scheme. However such schemes will not 
qualify to be “no load” schemes and would be treated in the same manner as “load” 
schemes. In the case of a no-load scheme, the initial issue expenditure shall be borne 
by the Asset Management Company 283[, trustee company or sponsor]. 

 (b)  284[For a close-ended scheme floated on a ‘load’ basis prior to commencement of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2008, the initial issue expenses shall be amortised on a weekly basis over the period 
of the scheme: 

 

  Provided that in case such schemes provide for partial redemption during the life of 
the scheme, the amortisation shall take into account the number of outstanding units 
and the aggregate amount during the relevant periods.] 

  (c)  285[***] 

                                                 
278 Substituted for ‘*[Regulation 52(4) (a)]’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 
w.e.f. 16-4-2008. 
[*Substituted for ‘Regulation 52(5)’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006 
w.e.f. 22-5-2006.] 
279 substituted for ‘Initial Expenses’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006 
w.e.f. 22-5-2006. 
280 Inserted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998 w.e.f. 12-1-1998. 
281 Inserted ibid. 
282 Inserted ibid.. 
283 Inserted ibid. 
284 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. Prior to its 
substitution, clause (b) read as under; 
“(b) For a closed-ended scheme floated on a ‘load’ basis, the initial issue expenses shall be amortised on a 
weekly basis over the period of the scheme: 
Provided  that  in  case  the  schemes  provide  for  partial  redemption  during  the  life  of  the  scheme,  the 
amortisation shall take into account the number of outstanding units and the aggregate amount during the 
relevant periods.” 
285  Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2006  w.e.f.  22-5-2006.  prior  to  its 
omission clause (c) read as under; 

Page 105 of 120 

 

(d) 286[In case of close-ended schemes floated on a ‘load’ basis prior to  commencement 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2008, the unamortised portion of the expenses shall be included in the 
calculation of the NAV. However, such portion shall not be included in the NAV for 
the  purposes  of  determining  the  asset  management  company’s  investment 
management and advisory fees or for determining the limitation of expenses under 
regulation 52 of these regulations.] 

  (e)  287[***] 
  (f)  All subsequent distribution charges must in the case of load schemes shall be borne 
by the scheme and in  the case of no-load schemes borne by the asset  management 
company. 

 

 

 

                                                 
“(c) For open ended scheme  floated on a  ‘load’ basis, the  initial issue expenses  may be amortised over a 
period not exceeding five years. Issue expenses incurred during the life of an open ended schemes shall not 
be amortised.” 
286 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 16-4-2008. Prior to its 
substitution, clause (d) read as under; 
“ (d) In case of closed-ended *[***] floated on a ‘load’ basis, the unamortised portion of the expenses shall 
be included in the calculation of the NAV. However, such portion shall not be included in the NAV for the 
purposes of determining the asset management company’s investment management and advisory fees or for 
determining the limitation of expenses under regulation 51 of these regulations.” 
[*Words ‘and open ended schemes’ omitted’ by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006 
w.e.f. 22-5-2006] 
287  Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f.  29-7-2010.  Prior  to  its 
omission, clause (e) read as under: 
“(e)    For  schemes  floated  on  a  ‘no-load’  basis,  the  asset  management  company  may  levy  an  additional 
management fee not exceeding 1% of the NAV. The asset management company may be entitled to levy a 
contingent deferred sales charge for redemption during the first four years after purchase, not exceeding 4% 
of the redemption proceeds in the first year, 3% in the second year, 2% in the third year and 1% in the fourth 
year.” 

Page 106 of 120 

 

 

288[ELEVENTH SCHEDULE 

ANNUAL REPORT 

1. Annual Report 
The annual report shall contain— 

(i)  Report of the Board of Trustees on the operations of the various schemes of the 

fund and the fund as a whole during the year and the future outlook of the fund; 

(ii) Balance  Sheet  and  Revenue  Account  in  accordance  with  paras  2,  3  and  4, 

respectively of this Schedule; 

(iii)Auditor’s Report in accordance with paragraph 5 of this Schedule; 
(iv) Brief statement of the Board of Trustees on the following aspects, namely:- 

(a) Liabilities and responsibilities of the Trustees and the Settlor;  
(b) Investment objective of each scheme; 
(c) Basis and policy of investment underlying the scheme; 
(d)  If  the  scheme  permits  investment  partly  or  wholly  in  shares,  bonds, 
debentures, real estate asset and other scrips or securities whose value can 
fluctuate, a statement on the following lines: 
“The price and redemption value of the units, and income from them, can 
go  up  as  well  as  down  with  the  fluctuations  in  the  market  value  of  its 
underlying investments in securities or fair value in underlying real estate 
asset, as the case may be;” 

(e)  Comments  of  the  Trustees  on  the  performance  of  the  scheme,  with  full 

justification. 

(v) Statement  giving  relevant  perspective  historical  ‘per  unit’  statistics in  accordance 

with paragraph 6 of this Schedule; 
(vi) Statement on the following lines: 

“On written request, present and prospective unitholder/investors can obtain copy 
of the trust deed, the annual report at a price and the text of the relevant scheme.” 

 
2. Accounting Policies 
(a)  For  investments  in  securities-  Following  accounting  policies  shall  be  followed  by  

Mutual Funds for investments in securities for the preparation of accounts: 

i.   The realised gains or losses on sale or redemption of investment, as well as unrealised 
appreciation  or  depreciation  shall  be  recognised  in  all  financial  statements.  For  the 
purpose  of  all  financial  statements,  all  investments  shall  be  marked  to  market  and 
investments  shall  be  carried  out  in  the  balance  sheet  at  market  value.  However,  till 
necessary guidance notes are issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
to their members, in the above matter, investments may be continued to be valued at 
cost, with the market value shown separately and the reconciliation statement for the 
changes in investments valued in the two different ways shall be provided.  

                                                 
288  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2008,  w.e.f.  16-4-2008.  Prior  to 
substitution, Eleventh Schedule was amended by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, 
w.e.f.  12-1-1998,  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2001,  w.e.f.  23-1-2001  and  SEBI 
(Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2000, w.e.f. 14-3-2000. 

Page 107 of 120 

 

Where the financial statements are prepared on a marked to market basis, there need 
not  be  a  separate  provision  for  depreciation.  Since  unrealised  gain  arising  out  of 
appreciation  on  investments  cannot  be  distributed,  provision  has  to  be  made  for  its 
exclusion and for calculating distributable income. 

ii.    Non-traded  investments  shall  be  valued  in  good  faith  in  accordance  with  the  norms 

specified in Seventh Schedule.  
 Provided that in the case of real estate mutual funds schemes, investments in unlisted 
equity shares shall be valued as per the norms specified by the Board in this regard. 

iii.   For quoted shares, the dividend income earned by the scheme shall be recognised, not 
on  the  date  the  dividend  is  declared,  but  on  the  date  the  share  is  quoted  on  an  ex-
dividend basis. For investments in shares which are not quoted on the stock exchanges, 
the dividend income must be recognised on the date of declaration. 

iv. In respect of all interest-bearing investments, income shall be accrued on a day to day 
basis as it is earned. Therefore when such investments are purchased, interest paid for 
the period from the last interest due date upto the date of purchase, shall not be treated 
as a cost of purchase, but shall be treated to Interest Recoverable Account. Similarly, 
interest received at the time of  sale for the period from the last interest due date upto 
the date of sale must not be treated as an addition to sale value but shall be credited to 
Interest Recoverable Account. 

v.    In  determining  the  holding  cost  of  investments  and  the  gains  or  loss  on  sale  of 

investments, the “average cost” method shall be followed.  

vi. Transactions for purchase or sale of investments shall be recognised as of the trade date 
and not as of the settlement date, so that the effect of all investments traded during a 
financial year are recorded and reflected in the financial statements for that year. Where 
investment transactions take place outside the stock market, for example, acquisitions 
through private placement or purchases or sales through private treaty, the transaction 
shall be recorded, in the event of a purchase, as of the date on which the scheme obtains 
in enforceable obligation to pay the price or, in the event of a sale, when the scheme 
obtains an enforceable right to collect the proceeds of sale or an enforceable obligation 
to deliver the instruments sold. 

vii. Bonus shares to which the scheme becomes entitled shall be recognized only when the 
original shares on which the bonus entitlement accrues are traded on the stock exchange 
on an ex-bonus basis. Similarly, rights entitlements shall be recognised only when the 
original shares on which the right entitlement accrues are traded on the stock exchange 
on an ex-rights basis. 

viii. Where income receivable on investments has been accrued and has not been received 
for a period of 12 months beyond the due date, provision shall be made by debit to the 
revenue account for the income so accrued and no further accrual of income should be 
made in respect of such investment.  

ix. When the units of an open-ended scheme are sold, the difference between the sale price 
and the face value of the unit, if positive, shall be credited to Reserves and if negative 
is debited to reserve, the face value being credited to Capital Account. Similarly, when 
units of an open-ended scheme are repurchased, the difference between the purchase 
price  and  face  value  of  the    unit,  if  positive  should  be  debited  to  reserves  and,  if 
negative,  should  be  credited  to  reserves,  the  face  value  being  debited  to  the  capital 
account. 

Page 108 of 120 

 

x. (a) In the case of an open-ended scheme, when units are sold an appropriate part of the 
sale  proceeds  shall  be  credited  to  an  Equalisation  Account  and  when  units  are  
repurchased an appropriate amount shall be debited to Equalisation Account. The net 
balance  on  this  Account  should  be  credited  or  debited  to  the  revenue  account.  The 
balance on equalization account debited or credited to the Revenue Account shall not 
decrease  or  increase  the  net  income  of  the  fund  but  is  only  an  adjustment  to  the 
distributable surplus. It shall, therefore, be reflected in the Revenue Account only after 
the net income of the fund is determined. 

(b) The Trustees of the Board of the Trustee Company may, if necessary, transfer a portion 
of the distributable profits to a dividend equalization reserve. Such a transfer would be 
independent  of  the  requirement  to  operate  an  Equalisation  Account  as  provided  in 
(x)(a).  

xi. In a close-ended scheme 289[launched prior to the commencement of the Securities and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009]  which 
provides to the unitholders the option for an early redemption or repurchase their own 
units, the par value of the unit shall be debited to Capital Account and the difference 
between the purchase price and the par value, if positive, should be debited to reserves 
and, if negative, should be credited to reserves. In case of such schemes launched prior 
to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2008 a  proportionate part of the unamortised initial issue 
expenses shall also be transferred to the reserves so that the balance carried forward on 
that account is proportional to the number of units remaining outstanding. 

xii.  The  cost  of  investments  acquired  or  purchased  shall,  inter  alia,  include  brokerage, 
stamp  charges  and  any  charge  customarily  included  in  the  broker’s  bought  note.  In 
respect  of  privately  placed  debt  instruments  any  front-end  discount  offered  shall  be 
reduced from the cost of the investment. 

xiii.  Underwriting  commission  shall  be  recognised  as  revenue  only  when  there  is  no 
devolvement  on  the  scheme.  Where  there  is  devolvement  on  the  scheme,  the  full 
underwriting  commission  received  and  not  merely  the  portion  applicable  to  the 
devolvement shall be reduced from the cost of the investment. 

(b) For investments in real estate assets- Following accounting policies shall be followed 

by real estate mutual fund schemes for the preparation of accounts: 

i.   The accounting policies given in paragraph 2(a) in respect of investment in securities; 
ii.   The accounting policies given in Part B of the Ninth Schedule in respect of real estate 

assets; and 

iii.  In a real estate mutual fund scheme which provides to the unit holders the option for 
an  early  redemption  or  repurchase  their  own  units  the  par  value  of  the  unit  shall  be 
debited to Capital Account and the difference between the purchase price and the par 
value, if positive, should be debited to reserves and,  if negative, shall be credited to 
reserves. 

 
3. Contents of Balance Sheet 
(i)  The Balance Sheet shall give scheme wise particulars of its assets and liabilities. These 
particulars shall contain  information  enumerated  in  Annexures 1A and 1B hereto.  It 

                                                 
289 Inserted by SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 08-04-09. 

Page 109 of 120 

 

shall also disclose, inter alia, accounting policies relating to valuation of investments 
including real estate investment asset and other important areas.  

(ii) If investments in securities are carried at costs or written down cost, their aggregate 
market value shall be stated separately in respect of each type of investment, such as 
equity  shares,  preference  shares,  convertible  debentures  listed  on  recognised  stock 
exchange, non-convertible debentures or bonds further differentiating between those 
listed on recognised stock exchange and those privately placed. 

(iii)(A) The balance-sheet shall disclose under each type of investment(s) in securities the 
aggregate  carrying  value  and  market  value  of  non-performing  investments.  An 
investment shall be regarded as non-performing if it has provided no returns in the form 
of dividend or interest for a period specified in the guidelines issued by the Board. 

(iii)(B)  The  balance-sheet  shall  disclose  under  each  category  of  real  estate  asset  the 
aggregate carrying amount of nonperforming investment properties. A real estate asset 
shall be regarded as non-performing if it has provided no returns in the form of rental 
income for a period specified by the Board. 

(iv) The Balance Sheet shall indicate the extent of provision made in the Revenue Account 
for  the  depreciation/loss  in  the  value  of  non-performing  investments  in  securities. 
However, if the investments in securities are valued at marked to market, provisions 
for depreciation shall not be necessary. 

(v) The Balance Sheet shall disclose the per-unit net asset value (NAV) as at the end of the 

accounting year.  

(vi)  As  in  case  of  companies,  the  Balance  Sheet  shall  give  against  each  item,  the 

corresponding figures as at the end of the preceding accounting year. 

(vii)(A) The notes to the balance sheet should disclose the following information regarding 

investments:— 

(a)  all  investments  shall  be  grouped  under  the  major  classification  given  in  the  balance 

sheet; 

(b) under each major classification, the total value of investments falling under each major 
industry group (which constitutes not less than 5% of the total investment in the major 
classification) shall be disclosed  together with the percentage thereof in relation to the 
total investment within the classification; 

(c) a full list of investments of the scheme shall be made available for inspection with the 

Asset Management Company; 

(d)  the  basis  on  which  management  fees  have  been  paid  to  the  Asset  Management 

Company and the computation thereof; 

(e) if brokerage, custodial fees or any other payment for services are paid to or payable to 
any entity in which the Asset Management Company or its major shareholders have a 
substantial interest (being not less than 10% of the equity capital), the amounts debited 
to  the  revenue  account  or  amounts  treated  as  cost  of  investments  in  respect  of  such 
services shall be separately disclosed together with details of the interest of the Asset 
Management Company or its major shareholders; 

(f) aggregate value of purchases and sales of investments during the year and expressed as 

a percentage of average weekly net asset value; 

(g) where the non-traded investments which have been valued “in good faith” exceed 5% 

of the NAV at the end of the year, the aggregate value of such investments; and 

(h) movement in unit capital should be stated. 

Page 110 of 120 

 

An example of the manner in which the movement in unit capital may be disclosed is 
given below : 

  

Balance as on 1st April, 1994 

Units sold during the year 

No. of units 

  

(Rs. in 
lakhs) 

12,50,00,000 

1,27,50,000 

  

  

12,500.00 

1,275.00 

Units repurchased during the year 
  
  
(i)  the name of the company including the amount of investment made in each company 
of the group by each scheme and the aggregate investments made by all schemes in the 
group companies of the sponsor; 

(15,40,000) 
13,62,10,000 

(154.00) 
13,621.00 

  
  

  

  

  

(j)  if the investments are marked to market, the total income of the scheme shall include 
unrealised depreciation or appreciation on investment. There should be disclosure and 
unrealised  appreciation  deducted  before  arriving  at  the  distributable  income  in  the 
following manner, e.g. 

  

Net income as per Revenue Account 

Add : Balance of undistributed income  

as at 1st April, 1994 

brought forward 

 

 

  

Less : Unrealised appreciation on investments 

As on 31st March, 1995 

As on 1st April, 1994 

 

 

  

Less : Distributed to unitholders 

Transfer to reserve 

 

  

Rs. in lakh 

Rs. in 
lakh 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

15 

  

80 

5 

  

100 

  

  

20 

120 

  

30 

(15) 

105 

  

(85) 

20 

(vii)(B) In respect of real estate asset, the following additional disclosures shall be made in 

the balance sheet: 

(a). a reconciliation between the carrying amounts of real estate investment properties at 

the beginning and end of the period, showing the following: 
1. Additions resulting from purchase during the period; 
2. Additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations; 
3. Deletions resulting from sales during the period; 
4. Deletions resulting from disposal through business combinations; 
5. Net gain or loss from fair value adjustments; 
6. Other changes. 

(b) the method and significant assumptions applied in determining the fair value of each 
real  estate  investment  asset  including  a  statement  whether  the  determination  of  fair 

Page 111 of 120 

 

value was supported by market evidence or was more heavily based on other factors 
(which the real estate mutual fund scheme should disclose) because of the nature of the 
asset and lack of comparable data. 

(c) the use of two approved valuers and the extent to which the fair value determined is 
based on the lower of the two valuations done by the approved valuers having recent 
experience in the category of the real estate asset being valued. 

(d) the existence and amounts of restrictions on the realisability of real estate asset or the 

remittance of income and proceeds of disposal. 

(e)  When  the  lower  valuation  obtained  from  the  two  approved  valuers  is  adjusted 
significantly for the purpose of the balance sheet, for example to avoid double-counting 
of assets or liabilities that are recognised as separate assets or liabilities, the real estate 
mutual fund scheme should disclose the reconciliation between the so selected lower 
valuation and the adjusted valuation shown in the balance sheet. 

(f) In case where a real estate mutual fund scheme measures a real estate asset using the 
cost  model  [as  mentioned  in  paragraph  (vii)  of    Explanation  in  Part  B  of  the  Ninth 
Schedule],  the  reconciliation  required  as  per  item  (a)  this  paragraph  shall  disclose 
amounts relating to that real estate asset separately from the amounts relating to other 
real estate assets. In addition, an real estate mutual fund scheme shall disclose: 
1. a description of the real estate asset; 
2.an explanation of why fair value cannot be determined reliably; 
3.if possible, the range of estimates within which fair value is highly likely to lie; and 
4.on disposal of investment of the real estate asset not carried at fair value: 
–  the  fact  that  the  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  has  disposed  of  the  real  estate 

investment asset not carried at fair value; 

– the carrying amount of that real estate investment asset at the time of sale; and 
– the amount of gain or loss recognised. 

(viii) Provisions for doubtful deposits,  doubtful debts  and for doubtful outstandings and 
accrued income shall not be included under provisions on the liability side of the balance 
sheet, but shall be shown as a deduction from the aggregate value of its relevant asset. 
(ix) Disclosure shall be made of all contingent liabilities showing separately underwriting 
commitments,  uncalled  liability  on  partly  paid  shares  and  other  commitments  with 
specifying details. 
 
4. Contents of Revenue Account 
(i) The Revenue Account shall give schemewise particulars of the income, expenditure and 
surplus of the mutual fund. These particulars shall contain information enumerated in 
Annexure 2 of this Schedule. 

(ii)  If  profit  on  sale  of  investments  including  real  estate  asset  shown  in  the  Revenue 
Account  includes  profit/loss  on  inter-scheme  transfer  of  investments  including  real 
estate  asset  within  the  same  mutual  fund  the  aggregate  of  such  profit  recognised  as 
realised, shall be disclosed separately without being clubbed with the profit/loss on sale 
of investments to third parties. 

(iii)  Unprovided  depreciation  in  value  of  investments  in  securities  representing  the 
difference  between  their  aggregate  market  value  and  their  carrying  cost  shall  be 
disclosed  by  way  of  a  note  forming  part  of  the  Revenue  Account.  Conversely, 
unrealised  profit  on  investment  representing  the  difference  between  their  aggregate 

Page 112 of 120 

 

market value and carrying cost, shall be disclosed by way of note to accounts. However, 
if investments are marked to market, depreciation may not be provided. 

(iv) The Revenue Account shall indicate the appropriation of surplus by way of transfer to 

reserves and dividend distributed. 

(v)(A) The following disclosures shall also be made in the revenue account: 

(a)  provision  for  aggregate  value  of  doubtful  deposits,  debts  and  outstanding  and 

accrued income; 

(b) profit or loss in sale and redemption of investment may be shown on a net basis; 
(c) custodian and registrar fees; 
(d)  total  income  and  expenditure  expressed  as  a  percentage  of  average  net  assets, 

calculated on a weekly basis. 

(v)(B) In respect of real estate asset, the following additional disclosures shall be made: 

(a) rental income from real estate asset; 
(b)  direct  operating  expense  (including  repairs  and  maintenance)  arising  from  real 

estate asset that generated rental income during the period; and 

(c)  direct  operating  expenses  (including  repairs  and  maintenance)  arising  from  real 

estate asset that did not generate rental income during the period. 

 
5. Auditor’s Report 
(i) All mutual funds shall be required to get their accounts audited in terms of a provision 
to that effect in their trust deeds. The Auditor’s Report shall form a part of the Annual 
Report. It should accompany the Abridged Balance Sheet and Revenue Account. The 
auditor shall report to the Board of Trustees and not to the unitholders. 

(ii) The auditor shall state whether: 

(1) he has obtained all information and explanations which, to the best of his knowledge 

and belief, were necessary for the purpose of his audit, 

(2) the Balance Sheet  and the Revenue Account  are in  agreement with  the books of 

account of the fund. 

(iii) The auditor shall give his opinion as to whether:  

1. the Balance Sheet gives a true and fair view of the schemewise state of affairs of the 

fund as at the balance sheet date, and 

2. the Revenue Account gives a true and fair view of the schemewise surplus/deficit of 

the fund for the year/period ended at the balance sheet date. 

 
6. Perspective historical per unit statistics 
(1) This statement shall disclose the following schemewise per unit statistics for the past 3 
years: 

(a) net assets value, per unit; 
(b) gross income per-unit broken up into the following components: 

(i) income other than profit on sale of investment, per unit; 
(ii) income from profit on inter-scheme sales/transfer of investment, per unit; 
(iii)income from profit on sale of investment to third party, per unit; 
(iv) transfer to revenue account from past year’s reserve, per unit. 

(c) aggregate of expenses, write off, amortisation and charges, per unit; 
(d) net income, per unit; 
(e) unrealised appreciation/depreciation in value of investments, per unit; 

Page 113 of 120 

 

(f) if the units are traded or repurchased/resold, the highest and the lowest prices per 

unit during the year and the price-earning ratio ; 

(g) per unit, ratio of expenses to average net assets by percentage; 
(h)  per  unit,  ratio  of  gross  income  to  average  net  assets  by  percentage  (excluding 
transfer  to  revenue  account  from  past  year’s  reserve  but  including  unrealised 
appreciation on investments) ; 

(i) per unit NAV. 

ANNEXURE 1A 

[Refer para 3] 

Contents of schemewise Balance Sheet 

ASSETS SIDE OF THE BALANCE SHEET: 
I. The assets of the balance sheet shall be grouped into the following categories: 

- Investments 
- Deposits 
- Other Current Assets 
- Fixed Assets 

II. INVESTMENTS: 
(a) The following types of investment in securities shall be separately disclosed: 

(i) Equity shares; 
(ii) Preference shares; 
(iii) Privately placed debentures/bonds; 
(iv) Debentures and Bonds listed/awaiting listing on the recognised stock exchange; 
(v) Calls paid in advance; 
(vi) Term Loans; 
(vii) Central and State Government Securities (including treasury bills); 
(viii) Commercial Paper; 
(ix) Others. 

(b) Real estate assets shall be separately classified into (1) major classes of residential and 
commercial  properties  and  (2)  sub-classified  on  the  basis  of  developers,  location  and 
project.  Particulars  shall  include  area,  cost,  fair  value,  basis  of  fair  value,  and  legal 
disputes, etc. 

-Accounting policy of valuation of investments shall be disclosed. 

III. DEPOSITS 

Distinguishing between : 
- Deposits with scheduled banks; 
- Deposits with Companies/Institutions; 
- Others. 

IV. OTHER CURRENT ASSETS 

Distinguishing between: 
- Balances with banks in current account; 
- Cash on hand; 
- Sundry Debtors; 
- Contracts for sale of investments in securities; 
- Outstanding and accrued income; 
- Advance, Deposits, etc.; 
- Bridge Finance; 

Page 114 of 120 

 

- Shares/debentures application money, pending allotment; 
- Others. 

V. FIXED ASSETS 

- Depreciated cost of the fixed assets as a whole or net block may be disclosed. 

ANNEXURE 1B 

[Refer para 3] 

Contents of schemewise balance sheet 

LIABILITIES SIDE OF THE BALANCE SHEET 
I. Liabilities side of the balance sheet be divided into the following groups : 

(i) Unit Capital; 
(ii) Reserves & Surplus; 
(iii) Loans; 
(iv) Current Liabilities and Provisions. 

II.  Unit Capital: 

Distinguishing between: 
- Initial capital; 
- Unit capital (including number of units and face value per unit). 

III. Reserves & surplus 

Distinguishing between: 
- Unit premium reserve; (optional) 
- General reserve; 
- Dividend equalisation reserve; (optional) (Equalisation Account, as per 2(x) of 
the Schedule); 
- Any other reserve (disclosing its nature); 
- Appropriation account; 
-  Opening  balance,  transfer  from/to  reserve,  closing  balance  shall  be  separately 
disclosed for each above type of reserve. 

IV. Loans 
Distinguishing between: 

- Loan from Reserve Bank of India; 
- From Settlor; 
- From Other Commercial Banks; 
- From others; 
- If the above loans are secured, the nature and extent of security should be disclosed; 
- Borrowings by the scheme with amount, rate of borrowings, rate of interest, source 
and other terms shown separately, source-wise. 

V. Current liabilities and provisions 

Distinguishing between the following current liabilities and provisions 
Current liabilities: 
- Sundry creditors; 
- Interest payable on loans; 
- Contract for purchase of investments in securities; 
- Bank account overdrawn as per books; 
- Unclaimed distributed income; 
- Others. 
Provisions: 

Page 115 of 120 

 

- Provisions for loss/depreciation in value of investments in securities (separately 
with reference to each type of investment in securities) (optional, if marked to 
market); 
- Provision for doubtful deposits; 
- Provision for outstanding any accrued income considered doubtful; 
- Provision for gratuity; 
- Provision for staff welfare fund; 
- Proposed income distributed on initial capital and unit-capital; 
- Other provisions. 

VI. Contingent liabilities 

- Disclosure should be made of all contingent liabilities, showing separately :— 
(i) Underwriting commitments; 
(ii) Uncalled liability on partly paid shares; 
(iii) Other commitments; and 
(iv) Others (specifying details). 

ANNEXURE 2 
[Refer para 4] 

Contents of revenue account 

- Dividend; 
- Interest; 
- Rental (lease) income 
-  Profit  on  sale/redemption  of  investments  in  securities  (other  than  inter-scheme 

transfer/sale); 

- Profit on sale of real estate assets (other than inter-scheme transfer/sale) 
- Profit on inter-scheme transfer/sale of investments; 
- Other income (indicating nature). 

Expenses and losses: 

- Provision for depreciation in value of investments in securities; 
- Provision for outstanding accrued income considered doubtful; 
- Provision for doubtful deposits and current assets; 
-  Loss  on  sale/redemption  of  investments  in  securities  (other  than  inter-scheme 

transfer/sale); 

-  Loss  on  sale  of  real  estate  investment  properties  (other  than  inter-scheme 

transfer/sale); 

- Loss on inter-scheme transfer/sale of investments; 
- Management fees; 
- Trusteeship fees; 
-  Staff  cost  including  salaries,  allowances,  contributions  to  provident  fund,  gratuity, 

etc.; 

- Office and administrative expenses; 
- Registration and local charges; 
- Commission to Agents; 
- Publicity expenses; 
- Audit fees; 
- Legal & Title Search Fee; 
- Insurance & security expenses; 

Page 116 of 120 

 

- Advisory fee in respect of real estate investment asset; 
- Other operating expenses; 
- Depreciation of fixed assets; 
- Custodian fees; 
- Registration fees; 
- Repairs and maintenance in case of real estate asset. 

Less: Amount recovered on sale of units on account of management expenses. 
Note: 

(i) Accounting policy in respect of recognition of revenue and income from investments 
(including dividend and interest in case of securities and rental income in case of real 
estate asset) shall be disclosed by way of a note. 
(ii)Unprovided  depreciation  and  unrealised  appreciation  in  value  of  investments  in 
securities  representing  the  difference  between  their  aggregate  market  value  and  their 
carrying cost shall be disclosed by way of note. 
(iii) Provision for doubtful deposits, debts and outstanding accrued income need not be 
separately shown but can be aggregated. 
(iv)Profit on sale/redemption of investments and loss on sale/redemption of investments 
need not be shown on a gross basis but only the net profit or loss need be shown. 
(v) The total  income  and expenditure expressed as  a percentage of  average net  assets, 
calculated on a weekly basis should be indicated. 
(vi)Appropriation of the surplus by way of transfer to reserves and dividends distributed 
shall be disclosed in the Abridged Revenue Account itself. 
(vii)  The  Balance  Sheet  and  the  Revenue  Account  shall  be  signed  by  the  schemewise 
fund  manager/s  and  the  Board  of  Trustees,  and  reported  upon  by  the  Auditors.  The 
financial  statements  of  the  scheme  should  be  approved  at  a  meeting  of  the  Board  of 
Directors of the Asset Management Company and also at a meeting of the trustees or in 
the case of a trustee company by the Board of Directors of the trustee company.] 

 

 

Page 117 of 120 

 

 

290[TWELFTH SCHEDULE 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

[Regulation 59] 

HALF-YEARLY FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR THE PERIOD 

ENDED................... 

Sl. No. 
1.1 

Particulars 
Unit Capital at the beginning of the half-year period 

  

1.2 

2. 

3.1 

  

3.2 

4.1 

4.2 

4.3 

5.1 

5.2 

5.3 

5.4 

[Rs. in crores] 

Unit Capital at the end of the period [Rs. in crores] 

Reserves & Surplus [Rs. in crores] 

Total Net Assets at the beginning of the half-year period 

[Rs. in crores] 

Total Net Assets at the end of the period [Rs. in crores] 

NAV at the beginning of the half-year period [Rs.] 

NAV at the end of the period [Rs.] 

Dividend paid per unit during the half-year [Rs.] 

Income 

Dividend [Rs. in crores] 

Interest [Rs. in crores] 

Profit/(loss) on sale/redemption of investments (other than inter-scheme 
transfer) [Rs. in crores] 

5.5 

Profit/(loss) on inter-scheme transfer/sale of investments [Rs. in crores] 

  

  

6.1 

6.2 

6.3 

6.4 

6.5 

Other income (indicating nature) [Rs. in crores] 

Total income (5.1 to 5.5) [Rs. in crores] 

Expenses 

Management fees [Rs. in crores] 

Trustee fees [Rs. in crores] 

Total recurring expenses (including 6.1 and 6.2) [Rs. in crores] 
Percentage of management fees to 291[daily] net assets [%] 

                                                 
290    Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2001,  w.e.f.  2001.  Prior  to  its 
substitution, the Twelfth Schedule  was amended by  the  SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 
1998, w.e.f. 12-1-1998.  
291 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 01-10-2012, for 
the words and symbols "daily/weekly average". 

Page 118 of 120 

 

  

7.1 

7.2 

  

  

  

  

8. 

9. 

10. 

Total recurring expenses as a percentage of 292[daily] net assets  

Returns during the half year *[(+) (-)] 

Compounded  annualised  yield  in  the  case  of  schemes  in  existence  for 
more than  

Last 1 year [%] 

Last 3 years [%] 

Last 5 years [%] 

Since launch of the scheme (date of launch to be given) [%] 

Provision for doubtful income/debts [Rs. in crores] 

Payments to associate/group companies (if applicable) [Rs. in crores] 

Investments  made in  associate/group companies  (if applicable) [Rs. in 
crores] 

Considering  movement  of  NAV  during  the  half-year  and  after  adjustment  of  dividend, 
bonus, etc. 

*For the calculation of compounded annualised yield, the procedure specified in standard 
offer  document  shall  be  followed.  All  performance  calculations  shall  be  based  only  on 
NAV and the payouts to the unitholders. The calculation of returns shall assume that all 
payouts  during  the  period  have  been  reinvested  in  the  units  of  the  scheme  at  the  then 
prevailing NAV. The type of plan/option of the scheme for which yield is given shall also 
be mentioned. 

Notes : 

  1.  Effect of changes in the accounting policies on the above items shall be disclosed by 

way of notes. 

  2.  Details of transactions with associates in terms of regulation 25(8), if applicable, shall 

be given by way of note. 

  3.  Details of investments made in companies which have invested more than 5 per cent 
of the NAV of a scheme in terms of regulation 25(11), if applicable, shall be given as 
a note. 

  4.  Details of large holdings (over 25 per cent of the NAV of the scheme), if applicable, 
including information about the number of such investors and total holdings by them 
in percentage terms, shall be given as a note.  

  5.  Any  bonus  declared  during  the  half-year  in  respect  of  any  of  the  schemes  to  be 

disclosed by way of a note. 

  6.  Details of deferred revenue expenditure, if any, shall be disclosed by giving a note. 

  7.  Borrowings, if any, above 10 per cent of the net assets of any scheme of a mutual fund 

shall be disclosed. 

  8.  Exposure, if any, of more than 10 per cent of the net assets of any scheme of a mutual 

fund investing in derivative products shall be disclosed. 

                                                 
292 Substituted by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 01-10-2012, for 
the words and symbols "daily/weekly average". 

Page 119 of 120 

 

 
 

******* 

 

Page 120 of 120 

