 

Clarifications on SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992. 

 
SEBI  has  amended  certain  provisions  of  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading) 
Regulations, 1992 vide notification dated November 19, 2008 for the purpose of 
better disclosures and prevention of insider trading. Subsequently we received a 
few queries from the companies seeking clarification mainly on the interpretation 
of amendments. The queries received and the clarifications given by us on the 
same are presented below for information of all the listed companies.  
 
We have received a few queries on the amended Clause 4.2 and existing Clause 
4.3 of Part A, Schedule I of the Regulations which read as follows: 
 
4.2 
“All directors /officers/designated employees who buy or sell any number 
of shares of the company shall not enter into an opposite transaction i.e. sell or 
buy  any  number  of  shares  during  the  next  six  months  following  the  prior 
transaction.  All  directors  /officers/designated  employees  shall  also  not  take 
positions in derivative transactions in the shares of the company at any time. 
 
In the case of subscription in the primary market (initial public offers), the above 
mentioned entities shall hold their investments for a minimum period of 30 days. 
The holding period would commence when the securities are actually allotted”. 
 
4.3    “In case the sale of securities is necessitated by personal emergency, the 
holding period may be waived by the compliance officer after recording in writing 
his / her reasons in this regard”. 
 
 

1.  Does the six month restriction under amended clause 4.2 also apply 

 

to the exercise of ESOPs and the sale of shares received?  

2.  If  an  employee  has  sold  shares  on  10th  February  2009,  can  he 

subscribe to ESOPs on 11th March 2009? 

Clarification  :  Restriction  in  Clause  4.2  is  intended  for  transactions  in  the 
secondary market and hence is not applicable for the exercise of ESOPs and 
sale of these shares. In the above example, the employee can subscribe to 
the  ESPOs  even  if  he  has  sold  shares  during  the  previous  six  months. 
However, it may be noted that once shares acquired through ESOPs are sold 
in the market, the restriction on buying would become applicable for next six 
months.  Also,  while  exercising  ESOPs,  the  code  of  conduct  framed  by  the 
company and the fundamental principles for prohibition of insider trading as 
specified in the Regulations must be complied with.  
 
3.  If an employee has purchased 100 shares on 1st February 2009 and 
then again purchased 400 shares on 15th March 2009, when will he be 

able  to  sell  the  shares  purchased  on  1st  February  2009?  Will  it  be 
after 1st August or 15th September?  

 
Clarification : The restriction of six months on sale of shares would apply from 
the date of the last purchase and not the first purchase. In the above example he 
can  sell  the  shares  after  15th  September.  The  same  is  true  in  case  of  sale  of 
shares  on  two  different  dates  i.e.  the  restriction  of  six  months  on  purchase  of 
shares would apply from the date of the last sale.  
 

4.  The  clause  4.2  stipulates  that,  no  opposite  transaction  can  be 
entered  into  for  a  period  of  6  months  from  the  date  of  prior 
transaction  by  a  designated  employee.  Whether  the  same  shall  be 
applicable  for  shares  held  on  the  date  of  the  notification.  For 
example,  a  designated  person  has  purchased  100  shares  on 
01.11.2008. Can he sell these shares on 22.12.2008?  

Clarification  :  As  the  shares  were  acquired  before  the  amendments  to  the 
Regulations  were  notified  ,  the  designated  person  may  be  allowed  to  sell  the 
shares if it is permitted under the code of conduct of the company 
 

5.  Clause  4.2  of  Part  A,  Schedule  I  of  the  Regulations,  provides  for 
holding period of 30 days in case of acquiring shares through IPO. 
Can the company apply the minimum holding period of 30 days as 
applicable to IPOs even for bonus issues, ESOPs, rights issues etc.?  

Clarification :  Under the existing Regulations, 30 day holding period restriction 
is applicable for IPOs. In case of issues as referred to above, the company may 
decide about the holding period as specified in its code of conduct. 
 
 

6.  Clause 4.3 of Part A, Schedule I of the Regulations provides that in 
case  the  sale  of  securities  is  necessitated  by  personal  emergency, 
the  holding  period  may  be  waived  by  the  compliance  officer  after 
recording  in  writing  his  /  her  reasons  in  this  regard.  Can  the 
Compliance Officer extend the waiver clause to the amended Clause 
4.2 i.e restrictions on opposite transactions? 

 
Clarification : Yes. The waiver clause in Clause 4.3 is applicable for the entire 
Clause  4.2  and  hence  it  may  be  applied  for  sale  of  shares  by  personal 
emergencies after recording the reasons in writing and ensuring that there is no 
element of insider trading. 
 

7.  Can  a  designated  employee  continue  to  deal  in  NIFTY  /  SENSEX 

 

 

index futures ? 

 

Clarification : There is no restriction under the Regulations for dealing in NIFTY 
/  SENSEX  index  futures  by  the  designated  employees  subject  to  their 
compliance of code of conduct. 
 

8.  For  a  designated  employee  already  holding  derivative  positions  in 
the  company’s  shares,  is  it  required  for  them  to  liquidate  the 
positions before maturity or it necessary to hold till maturity? 

 

Clarification : As the position in derivatives was taken before the notification of 
Regulations,  the  company  may  take  a  view  about  liquidating  the  derivative 
position or holding it till maturity.  
 
 

