Guidance Note on SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. 

 
[August 24th, 2015] 

 
SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  2015  ("the  Regulations")  were 
notified vide notification dated 15th January, 2015. The regulations came into effect from 
May  15th,  2015.  Subsequently  SEBI  received  certain  queries  from  the  market 
participants seeking guidance on the interpretation of some provisions of the Regulations. 
Under  regulation  11  of  the  Regulations,  SEBI  may  provide  guidance  to  the  market  to 
remove  any  difficulties  in  the  interpretation  or  application  of  the  provisions  of  these 
regulations.  The  queries  received  and  the  guidance  sought  is  detailed  below  for  the 
guidance of market participants:- 
 
ESOPS: 
 
1.  
Does the contra trade restriction (for a period not less than six months) under 
clause 10 of Schedule B of the Regulations also apply to the exercise of ESOPs and the 
sale of shares so acquired? 
 
Guidance:  Exercise  of  ESOPs  shall  not  be  considered  to  be  “trading”  except  for 
thepurposes  of  Chapter  III  of 
the  Regulations.  However,  other  provisions  of 
theRegulations shall apply to the sale of shares so acquired. 
 
For Example: 
 
(i)  If  a  designated  person  has  sold/  purchased  shares,  he  can  subscribe  and  exercise 
ESOPs at any time after such sale/purchase, without attracting contra trade restrictions.  
 
(ii)  Where  a  designated  person  acquires  shares  under  an  ESOP  and  subsequently 
sells/pledges those shares, such sale shall not be considered as contra trade, with respect 
to exercise of ESOPs. 
 
(iii)  Where  a  designated  person  purchases  some  shares  (say  on  August  01,  2015), 
acquires  shares  later  under  an  ESOP  (say  on  September  01,  2015)  and  subsequently 
sells/pledges (say on October 01, 2015) shares so acquired under ESOP, the sale will not 
be a contra trade but will be subject other provisions of the Regulations, however, he will 
not  be  able  to  sell  the  shares  purchased  on  August  01,  2015  during  the  period  of  six 
months from August 01, 2015.  
 
(iv)  Where  a  designated  person  sells  shares (say  on  August  01,  2015),  acquires  shares 
later under an ESOP (say on September 01, 2015) the acquisition under ESOP shall not 
be  a  contra  trade.  Further,  he  can  sell/pledge  shares  so  acquired  at  anytimethereafter 
without  attracting  contra  trade  restrictions.  He,  however,  will  not  be  able  to  purchase 

 Whether contra trade is allowed within the duration of the trading plan? 

further shares during the period of six months from August 01, 2015 whenhe had sold 
shares. 
 
CONTRA TRADE: 
 
2.  
In  case  an  employee  or  a  director  enters  into  Future  &  Option  contract  of 
Near/Mid/Far month contract, on expiry will it tantamount to contra trade? If the scrip 
of the company is part of any Index, does the exposure to that index of the employee or 
director also needs to be reported?  
 
Guidance: Any derivative contract that is cash settled on expiry shall be considered to be 
a contra trade. Trading in index futures or such other derivatives where the scrip is part of 
such derivatives, need not be reported.  
 
3. 
 
Guidance: Any trading opted by a person under Trading Plan can be done only to the 
extent and in the manner disclosed in the plan, save and except for pledging of securities 
(Refer question 6). 
 
4.   Whether the restriction on execution of contra trade in securities isapplicable in 
case of buy back offers, open offers, rights issues FPOs etc by listedcompanies? 
 
Guidance:Buy back offers, open offers, rights issues, FPOs, bonus, 1[exit offers]etc. of a 
listed company are available to designated persons also, and restriction of ‘contra-trade’ 
shall not apply in respect of such matters.  
 
5.   Whether restriction on execution of contra trade is applicable only todesignated 
persons of a listed company or whether it would also apply to thedesignated employees 
of  market  intermediaries  and  other  persons  who  are  requiredto  handle  UPSI  in  the 
course of business operations? 
 
Guidance: The code prescribed by the Regulations is same for listed companies, market 
intermediaries  and  other  persons  who  are  required  to  handle  UPSI  in  the  course  of 
business  operations.  Therefore,  restrictions  with  regard  to  contra  trade  forming  part  of 
clause 10 of code of conduct shall apply to all according to the Regulations. 
 
 

 

                                                            
1 Inserted by Press note No. 77/2016 dated 12.04.2016w.e.f. 17.02.2016. 

(a)  Whether  SEBI's  intent  is  to  prohibit  creation  of  pledge  or  invocation  of 

PLEDGE: 
 
6.  
pledge for enforcement of security while in possession of UPSI? 
(b)  Whether  creation  of  pledge  or  invocation  of  pledge  is  allowed  when  trading 
window is closed? 
 
Guidance:  Yes.  However,  the  pledgor  or  pledgee  may  demonstrate  that  the  creationof 
pledge or invocation of pledge was bona fide and prove their innocence underproviso to 
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4 of the Regulations. 
 
7.   What should be the value of the pledge / revoke transaction for the purpose of 
disclosure? Is it the market value on date of the pledge / revoke transaction or is it the 
value at which the transaction has been carried out between the pledgor and pledgee? 
For  instance,  if  the  pledgor  has  availed  a  loan  of  Rs  10  Lacs  against  which  he  has 
pledged shares worth Rs 15 Lacs, would the transaction value be Rs 10 Lacs or Rs 15 
Lacs. 
 
Guidance: For the purpose of calculation of threshold for disclosures relating topledge 
under  Chapter  III  of  the  Regulations,  the  market  value  on  the  date  ofpledge/revoke 
transaction should be considered. In the above illustration, the value oftransaction would 
be considered as fifteen lakh rupees. 
 
MISCELLANEOUS: 
 
8.   Who will be approving authority for trades done by the Compliance Officer or 
his immediate relatives, as Insiders?  
 
Guidance: The board of directors of the company shall be the approving authority insuch 
cases and may stipulate such procedures as are deemed necessary to ensurecompliance 
with these regulations. 
 
9.   Whether separate code of conduct can be adopted for listed company and each 
of intermediaries in a group? 
 
Guidance: In case of a group, separate code may be adopted for listed company andeach 
of intermediaries, as applicable to the concerned entity. 
 
10.   Whether  Chief  investor  relations  officer  will  also  be  responsible  along  with 
compliance officer for not disseminating information or non-disclosure of UPSI?  
 
Guidance:  Regulation  2  (c)  clearly  provides  the  functions  and  responsibilities  of 
thecompliance  officer.  Specific  responsibilities 
to  deal  with  dissemination  of 

information and disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information are given to Chief 
Investor Relations Officer (CIRO) under clause 3 of Schedule A.  

It is company’s discretion to designate two separate persons as CIRO and Compliance 
Officer, respectively for fulfilling specified responsibilities. In cases where both CIRO 
and  CO  have  been  designated  for  overlapping  functions,  they  shall  be  jointly  and 
severally responsible.  

11.  If a spouse is financially independent and does not consult an insider while taking 
trading decisions, is that spouse exempted from the definition of ‘immediate relative’?  

Guidance: A spouse is presumed to be an ‘immediate relative’, unless rebutted so. 

2[12.  Whether  the  requirement  to  maintain  Structured  Digital  Database  under 
Regulation 3(5) is applicable on intermediaries and fiduciaries 

Guidance : The requirement to maintain structured digital database under Regulation 
3(5), containing the names of such persons  or entities with whom  UPSI is shared, is 
applicable to listed companies, and intermediaries and fiduciaries who handle UPSI of 
a listed company in the course of business operations. 

Investment Company  

13. What is the scope of the term ‘investment company’ as mentioned in Regulation 
9(4) (iii)? 

Guidance  :  The  regulation  9  (4)  (iii)  intends  to  include  only  those  non-individual 
corporate promoters of intermediaries or fiduciaries as designated person, whose main 
object or principal activity, is investing in securities  of other companies. For e.g. if the 
promoter  of  a  broking  entity  is  a  Bank,  then  such  promoter  shall  not  be  specified  as 
designated person to be covered by the code of conduct of the intermediary. However, 
if the promoter of a broking entity is an investment company which holds investments 
in various companies, then such an entity shall be specified as designated person to be 
covered by the code of conduct of the intermediary.] 

 

********** 

                                                           
2 Inserted on 5th July, 2019. 

