 

FAQs on SEBI (PIT) Regulations 2015 

 
Question:  
Whether  requirement  of  pre-clearance  is  applicable  for  exercise  of  employee  stock 
options?  
Answer:  
Employee  stock  options  being  issued  under  SEBI  (Share  Based  Employee  Benefits) 
Regulations, 2014, the exercise of such stock options is covered under clause 4(3)(b) of 
Schedule B of the SEBI (PIT) Regulations, 2015. However, sale of shares by employees 
obtained after exercise of options shall not be covered under the aforesaid Clause. Thus, 
no pre-clearance is required for exercise of stock options. 

 
Question:  
Whether trading in ADRs and GDRs by employees of Indian companies who are foreign 
nationals is covered under provisions of PIT Regulations on code of conduct?  
Answer:  
Yes, trading in ADRs and GDRs of listed companies is covered under relevant provisions 
of PIT Regulations. Employees of such companies, including foreign nationals, who are 
designated persons, shall be required to follow the code of conduct for trading in ADRs 
and  GDRs.  For  such  disclosures  by  such  designated  persons,  a  unique  identifier 
analogous to PAN may be used. 

 
Question:  
What  information  should  a  listed  Company  maintain  in  its  structured  digital  database 
under Regulation 3(5), in case the designated person is a fiduciary or intermediary?  
Answer:  
1[The listed company should maintain structured digital database internally, which shall 
contain information including the following: 

                                                           
1 Substituted pursuant to amendment in SEBI PIT Regulations, 2015 dated July 17, 2020. (Erstwhile FAQ read as follows- The listed company 
should maintain the names of the fiduciary or intermediary with whom they have shared information along with the Permanent Account Number 
(PAN) or other unique identifier authorized by law, in case PAN is not available. The fiduciary / intermediary, shall at their end, be required to 
maintain details as required under the Schedule C in respect of persons having access to UPSI. For example: If the listed company has appointed 
a law firm or Merchant Banker in respect of fund raising activity, it should obtain the name of the entity, so appointed, along with the PAN or 
other identifier, in case PAN is not available. The law firm or the Merchant Banker would in turn maintain its list of persons along with PAN or 
other unique identifier (in case PAN is not available), in accordance with Regulation 9A(2)(d) and as required under Schedule C, with whom 
they have shared the unpublished price sensitive information.) 
 

  1 

 
 

(i).  Details of the Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (UPSI); 
(ii).  Details of persons with whom such UPSI is shared (along with their PANs/other 

unique identifier) and details of persons who have shared the information. 

Similarly, another structured digital database should be maintained internally by fiduciary 
or  intermediary,  capturing  information  as  mentioned  above  at  point  (i)  and  (ii),  in 
accordance with Regulation 9A (2)(d) and as required under Schedule C.  
 
For example: The listed company (X) has appointed a Law firm or Merchant Banker (Y) 
in respect of fund raising activity and (A) from listed company has shared the said UPSI 
with (B) of Law firm or Merchant Banker.  
The structured digital database of (X) should capture the nature of UPSI shared, details 
of (A), (Y) and (B), along with their PAN or other unique identifier (in case PAN is not 
available).  
The Law firm or the Merchant Banker (Y) shall in turn maintain another structured digital 
database internally capturing the nature of UPSI received/shared, details of (X), (A) and 
(B)  along  with  their  PAN  or  other  unique  identifier  (in  case  PAN  is  not  available),  in 
accordance with Regulation 9A(2)(d) and as required under Schedule C.]  
 
Question  
In  case  a  designated  person  resigns,  what  information  should  be  collected  by  the 
company/ intermediary/ fiduciary under PIT Regulations?  
Answer  
All  information  which  is  required  to  be  collected  from  designated  persons,  should  be 
collected till date of service of such employees with the company. Upon resignation from 
service  of  designated  person,  a  company/  intermediary/  fiduciary  should  maintain  the 
updated  address  and  contact  details  of  such  designated  person.  The 
company/intermediary/ fiduciary should make efforts to maintain updated address and 
contact details of such persons for one year after resignation from service. Such data 
should be preserved by the company/ intermediary/ fiduciary for a period of 5 years. 

 
 

 

********************* 

  2 

