SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(DEPOSITORIES AND PARTICIPANTS) 

REGULATIONS, 1996 

1. Short title and commencement. 
2. Definitions. 

 

CONTENTS 

 

CHAPTER I 

 

PRELIMINARY 

 

 

CHAPTER II 

 

REGISTRATION OF DEPOSITORY 

 

3. Application for grant of certificate of registration. 
4. Application to conform to the requirements. 
5. Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation. 
6. Consideration of application for grant of certificate of registration. 
6A. Criteria for fit and proper person. 
7. Grant of certificate of registration. 
8. Payment of annual fee. 
8A. Payment of annual charge. 
9. Procedure where certificate of registration is not granted. 
 

CHAPTER III 

 

CERTIFICATE OF COMMENCEMENT OF BUSINESS 

 
10. Application for grant of certificate of commencement of business. 
11. Application to conform to the requirements. 
12. Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation. 
13. Consideration of application for grant of certificate of commencement of business. 
14. Grant of certificate of commencement of business. 
15. Procedure where certificate of commencement of business is not granted. 
 

 

CHAPTER IV 

 

REGISTRATION OF PARTICIPANT 

 

16. Application for grant of certificate of initial registration. 
17. Application to conform to the requirements. 
18. Furnishing information, clarification and personal representation. 
19. Consideration of application for grant of certificate of initial registration.  
20. Grant of certificate of [initial] registration. 

 

 

1 

20A. Grant of certificate of permanent registration. 
20AA. Participants to abide by code of conduct. 
20AB. Acting as participant in more than one depository. 
21-23-Omittitted. 
24. Procedure where certificate of initial or permanent registration is not granted. 
25. Effect of refusal to grant certificate of permanent registration. 
 

CHAPTER V 

 

RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF DEPOSITORIES, PARTICIPANTS, ISSUERS, 

MANNER OF SURRENDER OF CERTIFICATE OF SECURITY AND CREATION OF 

PLEDGE OR HYPOTHECATION 

 

26. Rights and obligations of depositories, etc. 
27. Depository to declare specific securities eligible. 
28. Security eligible for dematerialization. 
29. Agreement between depository and issuer. 
30. Systems and procedures. 
31. Connectivity. 
32. Mechanism for investor protection. 
33. Withdrawal by participant. 
34. Internal monitoring, review and evaluation of systems and controls. 
35. External monitoring, review and evaluation of systems and controls. 
36. Insurance against risks. 
37. Manner of keeping records. 
38. Records to be maintained. 
39. Co-operation with other entities. 
40. Prohibition of assignment. 
41. Agreement by participant. 
42. Separate accounts. 
43. Statement of accounts. 
44. Transfer or withdrawal by beneficial owner. 
45. Connectivity. 
46. Monitoring, reviewing and evaluating internal systems and controls. 
47. Reconciliation. 
48. Returns. 
49. Record of services. 
50. Manner of keeping records. 
51. Records to be maintained depository-wise. 
52. Prohibition of assignment. 
53. Agreement by issuer. 
53A. Manner of handling share registry work. 
53B. Redressal of investor grievances. 
53C. Investor Protection Fund. 
54. Manner of surrender of certificate of security. 
55. Reconciliation. 

 

2 

55A. Audit. 
56. Connectivity. 
57. Information. 
58. Manner of creating pledge or hypothecation. 
58A. Investment advice. 
58B. Appointment of compliance officer. 
 

CHAPTER VI 

 

INSPECTION 

 
59. Board‘s right to inspect. 
60. Notice before inspection and investigation. 
61. Obligations on inspection by the Board. 
62. Submission of report to the Board. 
63. Action on inspection or investigation report. 
63A. Appointment of Auditor. 
63B.Board to recover the expenses. 
63C. Application of Chapter. 
 

CHAPTER VII 

 

PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 

 

64. Liability for action in case of default. 
65 to 69- Omitted. 
 
 

FIRST SCHEDULE 

FORM A - Application for grant of certificate of registration as depository 
FORM B - Certificate of registration as depository 
FORM C - Application for grant of certificate of commencement of business as depository 
FORM D - Certificate of commencement of business as depository 
FORM E - Application for Grant of Certificate of Initial/ Permanent Registration as Participant 
FORM-F - Certificate of Initial/ Permanent Registration as Participant 

 
SECOND SCHEDULE 

Part A- Application fees, registration fees and annual fees 

Part B- Manner of payment of application, registration and annual fees 

 

THIRD SCHEDULE 

Code of conduct for participants 

 

 

  

3 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(DEPOSITORIES AND PARTICIPANTS) 

REGULATIONS, 1996 

  

In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  section  30  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act, 
1992 (15 of 1992) read with section 25 of the Depositories Ordinance, 1996 (17 of 1996), the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India hereby makes the following regulations, namely:— 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title and commencement. 

1.  (1)  These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Depositories  and 
Participants) Regulations, 1996. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 

 

Definitions. 

2. (1) [In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used in these regulations shall 
bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly,-
]1 

  (a)  ―Act‖ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
  2[(aa) "associate" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of 
regulation 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 
Regulations, 2012 or any modification thereof;] 

3[4[(ab)] ―change in control‖ – 

           (i) in case of a body corporate – 

                     (A)    if  its  shares  are  listed  on  any  recognised  stock  exchange,  shall  be  construed  with 
reference to the definition of control in terms of regulations framed under clause (h) of 
sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act; 

                     (B)    in  any  other  case,  shall  be  construed  as  change  in  the  controlling  interest  in  the  body 

corporate; 

Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  para  (B)  of  this  sub-clause,  the  expression  ―controlling 
interest‖ means an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of at least fifty-one percent 
of voting rights in the body corporate; 

         (ii)    in  a  case  other  than  that  of  a  body  corporate,  shall  be  construed  as  any  change  in  its  legal 

formation or ownership.] 

                                                           
1  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f.  11-9-2012.  Prior  to 
substitution, it read as under: 
―In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,—‖ 
2 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 
3 Inserted by the SEBI (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 
19-4-2011. 
4 Renumbered by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012 

 

4 

 
5[(ac)  "control"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  under  clause  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of 
regulation 2 of the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 or any modification thereof;] 

6[(b)  ―Depositories Act‖ means the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996);] 
  (c)  7[***] 

  (d)  ―Form‖ means any of the forms specified in the First Schedule; 
8[(da) "governing board‖ means the board of directors of a depository;] 

  (e)  ―inspecting officer‖ means any person authorised by the Board under regulation 59; 

[(ea) "key  management personnel" means a person serving as head of any department or in such senior 
executive position that stands higher in hierarchy to the head(s) of department(s) in the depository or in 
any other position as declared so by such depository;  

(eb)  "persons  acting  in  concert"  in  the  context  of  acquisition  or  holding  of  shares  or  voting  rights  or 
control shall mutatis mutandis have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (q) of sub-regulation (1) 
of  regulation  2  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 or any modification thereof;  

(ec)  "public  interest  director"  means  an  independent  director,  representing  the  interests  of  investors  in 
securities market and who is not having any association, directly or indirectly, which in the opinion of the 
Board, is in conflict with his role;  

(ed)  "regulatory  department"  means  a  department  of  a  depository  which  is  entrusted  with  regulatory 
powers and duties and includes such department as may be specified by the Board;" 
  (f)  ―Schedule‖ means any of the Schedules annexed to these regulations;]9 
10(fa) "shareholder director" means a director who represents the interest of shareholders, and elected or 

nominated by such shareholders; 

  (g)  ―sponsor‖  means  any  person  or  persons  who,  acting  alone  or  in  combination  with  another  person 
proposes  to  establish  a  depository  and  undertakes  to  perform  the  obligations  of  a  sponsor  under 
these regulations. 

11[Explanation.—Any person who acting alone or in combination with others holds not less than 51 per 
cent  of  the  share  capital  of  the  depository  as  a  sponsor  and  undertakes  to  perform  the  obligation  under 
these regulations shall be deemed to be a sponsor for the purpose of these regulations.] 
12[(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act, the 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  the  Depositories  Act,  1996,  the  Companies  Act, 
1956  or  any  rules  or  regulations  made  thereunder  shall  have  the  same  meanings  respectively 
                                                           
5 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 
6 Substituted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997. 
7 Omitted by the SEBI(Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-
2002.  
8 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 
9 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 
10 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 
11 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2000, w.e.f. 26-12-2000. 
12  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f.  11-9-2012.  Prior  to 
substitution, it read as under: 
―(2)  Words  and  expressions  used  and  not  defined  in  these  regulations  but  defined  in  the  Act  or  in  the  Depositories  Ordinance 
shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act or the Depositories Ordinance.‖ 

 

5 

assigned  to  them  in  those  Acts,  rules  or  regulations  made  thereunder  or  any  statutory 
modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be.] 

 

CHAPTER II 

Application for grant of certificate of registration. 

REGISTRATION OF DEPOSITORY 

3.  (1)  An  application  for  the  grant  of  a  certificate  of  registration  as  a  depository  shall  be  made  to  the 
Board  by  the  sponsor  in  Form  A,  shall  be  accompanied  by  the  fee  specified  in  Part  A  of  the  Second 
Schedule and be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof. 

(2) The application shall be accompanied by draft bye-laws of the depository that is proposed to be set-up. 

 

Application to conform to the requirements. 

4. An application in Form A which is not complete in all respects and does not conform to the instructions 
specified therein shall be rejected: 

Provided that before rejecting any such application, the sponsor shall be given in writing an opportunity 
to remove, within thirty days of the date of communication in this regard, the objections indicated by the 
Board: 

Provided further that the Board may, on being satisfied that it is necessary to extend the period specified 
in the first proviso, extend such period by such further time as it thinks necessary in order to enable the 
applicant to remove the objections indicated by the Board. 

 

Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation. 

5.  (1)  The  Board  may  require  the  sponsor  to  furnish  such  further  information  or  clarification  regarding 
matters relevant to the activity of the depository for the purpose of consideration of the application. 

(2) The sponsor or his authorised representative shall, if so required, appear before the Board for personal 
representation, in connection with the grant of certificate of registration. 

 

Consideration of application for grant of certificate of registration. 
6.13(1) The Board shall not consider an application under regulation 3, unless the sponsor belongs to one 
of the following categories, namely :— 

  (i)  a public financial institution as defined in section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); 

  (ii)  a bank included for the time being in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 

of 1934); 

 (iii)  a foreign bank operating in India with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India; 

 (iv)  a recognised stock exchange within the meaning of clause (j) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts 

(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956); 

                                                           
13 Renumbered by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012 

 

6 

  (v)  a body corporate engaged in providing financial services where not less than seventy-five per cent of 
the  equity  capital  is  held  by  any  of  the  institutions  mentioned  in  sub-clause  (i),  (ii),  (iii)  or  (iv) 
jointly or severally; 

 (vi)  a  body  corporate  constituted  or  recognised  under  any  law  for  the  time  being  in  force  in  a  foreign 
country for providing custodial, clearing or settlement services in the securities market and approved 
by the Central Government; 

(vii)  an institution engaged in providing financial services established outside India and approved by the 

Central Government; or 

(viii) 14[.] 
15[(2) The Board shall not consider an application under regulation 3, unless the applicant/sponsor is a fit 

and proper person.] 

 
16[Requirement of fit and proper. 

6A. (1) Every depository, its sponsor, shareholder and participant shall satisfy the fit and proper criteria at 
all times.  

(2) For the purpose of determining whether an applicant, depository, its sponsor, shareholder, director and 
key management personnel or a participant, is a ‗fit and proper person‘ under these regulations, the Board 
may take into consideration the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.  

 (3) If any question arises as to whether a person is fit and proper, the Board‘s decision on such question 
shall be final] 

 
17[Eligibility for acquiring or holding shares in a depository. 

6B.  (1)  No  person  shall,  directly  or  indirectly,  acquire  or  hold  equity  shares  or  voting    rights  of  a 
depository unless he is a fit and proper person.  

 (2) Any person who, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, 
acquires equity shares such that his shareholding exceeds two percent. of the paid up equity share capital 
of a depository, shall seek approval of the Board  

within fifteen days of the acquisition.  

(3) Any person holding more than two per cent. of the paid up equity share capital of the depository on 
the date of commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) 

the applicant is a fit and proper person.‖ 

                                                           
14 Omitted, ibid. Prior to omission, clause as Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 
1998, w.e.f. 5-1-1998,. read as under: 
―(viii) 
15 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 
16Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f.  11-9-2012.  Prior  to 
substitution, Regulation 6A as inserted by the SEBI (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 26-05-2008, read as under: 
“Criteria for fit and proper person. 
6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the depository and participant is a fit and proper person the Board 
may  take  into  account  the  criteria  specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008.‖ 
17 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 

 

7 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2012, shall seek approval of the Board within a period of ninety days from the 
date of such commencement.  

(4) If approval under sub-regulation (2) or (3) is not granted by the Board to any person, such person shall 
forthwith divest his excess shareholding. 

(5) Any person holding more than two per cent. of the paid up equity share capital in a depository shall 
file  a  declaration  within  fifteen  days  from  the  end  of  every  financial  year  to  the  depository  that  he 
complies with the fit and proper criteria.  

(6) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, the shareholding or voting rights of any person in a 
depository shall not exceed the limits specified in these regulations at any point of time.  

(7) For determining the shareholding of any person in a depository as specified in these regulations, any 
instrument held, owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by him that entitles him the voting rights or 
provides  for  entitlement  to  voting  rights  or  equity  shares  or  any  other  rights  over  equity  shares  at  any 
future date, shall also be included.] 

 

Grant of certificate of registration. 

7.  After  considering  the  application  under  regulation 3,  with  reference  to  the  qualifications  specified in 
regulation  6,  if  the  Board  is  satisfied  that  the  company  established  by  the  sponsor  is  eligible  to  act  as 
depository, it may grant a certificate of registration in Form B to the depository subject to the following, 
namely :— 

  (a)  the  depository  shall  pay  the  registration  fee  specified  in  Part  A  of  the  Second  Schedule  in  the 

manner specified in Part B thereof, within fifteen days of receipt of intimation from the Board; 

  (b)  the depository shall comply with the provisions of the Act, the Depositories  18[Act], the bye-laws, 

agreements and these regulations ; 

  (c)  the  depository  shall  not  carry  on  any  activity  other  than  that  of  a  depository  unless  the  activity  is 

incidental to the activity of the depository: 

 

 
19[Provided that a depository may carry out such activity not incidental to its activities as a depository, as 
may  be  assigned  to  the  depository  by  the  Central  Government  or  by  a  regulator  in  the  financial 
sector,  through  the  establishment  of  Strategic  Business  Unit(s)  specific  to  each  activity  with  the 
prior  approval  of  the  Board  and  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the  Board, 
including transfer of such activity to a separate company within such time as may be specified by 
the Board, having regard to the matters which are relevant to the efficient and orderly function of the 
Depository as mentioned in regulation 13. 

 

Explanation:  For  the  purposes  of  this  clause,  a  Strategic  Business  Unit  shall  be  an  organizational 
unit  of  a  company  with  its  own  mission,  objectives  and  business  strategy  that  is  given  the 
responsibility  to  serve  the particular  demands  of  one business  area  with  appropriate technological, 
financial and other segregations.] 

                                                           
18 Substituted for ―Ordinance‖ by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997. 
19 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2007, w.e.f. 10-10-2007. 

 

8 

20[(cc) the depository complies with the shareholding and governance structure requirements specified in 

these regulations;] 

21[(d)    the  sponsor  shall,  at  all  times,  hold  at  least  fifty-one  per  cent  of  the  equity  share  capital  of  the 

depository:] 

 

22[Provided that a recognised stock exchange that is a sponsor of any depository shall not hold more than 
twenty four per cent. of the paid up equity share capital of that depository:  

Provided further that any such recognised stock exchange holding more than twenty four per cent. of the 
paid  up  equity  share  capital  in  a  depository  as  on  the  date  of  commencement  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, shall reduce its 
holding  in  the  depository  to  twenty  four  per  cent.  within  a  period  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  such 
commencement;] 

  (e)  no participant shall at any time, hold more than five per cent of the equity capital of the depository; 

  23[***] 

 
24[(ea)  no  person  other  than  a  sponsor,  whether  resident  in  India  or  not,  shall  at  any  time,  either 
individually or together with persons acting in concert, hold more than five per cent. of the equity 
share capital in the depository; 

Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, - 

(i) the expression ―person resident in India‖ shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (v) of 

section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999); 

(ii) the expression ―persons acting in concert‖ shall have the meaning derived from clause (e) of 
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997; 

(eb) 25[Subject to the limits as otherwise prescribed by the Central Government from time to time,] 
the  combined  holding  of  all  persons  resident  outside  India  in  the  equity  share  capital  of  the 
depository  shall  not  exceed,  at  any  time,  forty-nine  per  cent.  of  its  total  equity  share  capital26[:]
 

27[***]   

                                                           
20 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 
21  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2008,  w.e.f.  17-3-2008.  Prior  to 
substitution, it read as under: 
―(d) the sponsor shall, at all times, hold at least fifty-one per cent of the equity capital of the depository and the balance of the 
equity capital of the depository shall be held by its participants;‖ 
22 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 
23    Omitted,  ibid.  Prior  to  omission,  the  proviso  and  explanation  as  amended  by  the  SEBI(Depositories  and  Participants) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997, read as under: 
 ―Provided that for the purposes of clause (d) and clause (e) no foreign entity individually or collectively either as a sponsor or as 
a participant or as a sponsor and participant together shall hold more than 20 per cent of the equity capital of a depository. 
Explanation.—For the purpose of this regulation, a foreign entity shall mean a body corporate or an entity where more than 51 
per cent of its equity is held by persons who are not citizens of India;‖ 
24 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 17-3-2008. 
25Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 7-3-2016.  
26Substituted  for  ―,  subject  further  to  the  following:‖,  ibid.  Priorto  substitution,  sub-regulation  (eb)  as  inserted  by  the  SEBI 
(Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 17-3-2008, read as under: 
―(eb) the combined holding of all persons resident outside India in the equity share capital of the depository shall not exceed, at 
any time, forty-nine per cent. of its total equity share capital, subject further to the following:-‖ 
27Omitted, ibid. Priorto omission, sub-sub-regulations (i) to (iii) of sub-regulation (eb) as inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and 
Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 17-3-2008, read as under: 
―(i) the combined holdings of such persons acquired through the foreign direct investment route is not more than twenty six per 
cent. of the total equity share capital, at any time; 

 

9 

Provided that no foreign portfolio investor acquires shares of the depository otherwise than through 
the secondary market. 

(ec)  no  foreign  28[portfolio]investor  shall  have  any  representation  in  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the 

depository;] 

  (f)  if any information previously submitted by the depository or the sponsor to the Board is found to be 
false  or  misleading  in  any  material  particular,  or  if  there  is  any  change  in  such  information,  the 
depository shall forthwith inform the Board in writing; 

  (g)  the depository shall redress the grievances of the participants and the beneficial owners within thirty 
days of the date of receipt of any complaint from a participant or a beneficial owner and keep the 
Board informed about the number and the nature of redressals; 

  (h)  the depository shall make an application for commencement of business under regulation 14 within 

one year from the date of grant of certificate of registration under this regulation; and 

  (i)  the depository shall amend its bye-laws from time to time as may be directed by the Board; 

29[(j) any other condition as the Board may deem fit in the interest of securities market.] 

 

Payment of annual fee. 

8. A depository who has been granted a certificate of registration under regulation 7, shall pay annual fee 
specified in Part A of the Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof. 

 
30[ Payment of annual charge.  

8A. A depository shall pay to the Board, a percentage of the annual custody charges collected by it from 
the issuers as specified in Part A of Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof.] 

 

Procedure where certificate of registration is not granted. 

9. (1) Where an application for the grant of certificate of registration under regulation 3 does not satisfy 
the requirements specified in regulation 7, the Board shall reject the application after giving the applicant 
an opportunity of being heard. 

(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant in writing 
within thirty days of such decision, stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected. 

 

 

CHAPTER IIA 

GOVERNANCE OF DEPOSITORY 

Governing board, disclosures and corporate governance.  

9A(1) The governing board of every depository shall include:  
                                                                                                                                                                                           
(ii)  the  combined  holdings  of  foreign  institutional  investors  is  not  more  than  twenty  three  per  cent.  of  the  total  equity  share 
capital, at any time; 
(iii) no foreign institutional investor acquires shares of the depository otherwise than through the secondary market;‖ 
28

Substituted for ―portfolio‖, ibid. 

29 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 
30 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 23-5-2014. 

 

10 

(a) shareholder directors;  

(b) public interest directors; and,  

(c) managing director.  

(2) Subject to prior approval of the Board, the chairperson shall be elected by the governing board from 
amongst the public interest directors.  

(3) The number of public interest directors shall not be less than the number of shareholder directors in a 
depository.  

(4) The managing director shall be an ex-officio director on the governing board and shall not be included 
in either the category of public interest directors or shareholder directors.  

(5) Any employee of a depository may be appointed on the governing board in addition to the managing 
director, and such director shall be deemed to be a shareholder director.  

(6)  Atleast  one  public  interest  director  shall  be  present  in  the  meetings  of  the  governing  board  to 
constitute the quorum.  

(7) The disclosure requirements and corporate governance norms as specified for listed companies shall 
mutatis mutandis apply to a depository.   

(8) Every existing depository shall comply with this regulation within a period of three months from the 
date  of  commencement  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Depositories  and  Participants) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2012.  

 

Conditions of appointment of directors.  

9B. (1) The appointment and re-appointment of all shareholder directors on the governing board of every 
depository shall be with the prior approval of the Board.   

(2) The public interest directors on the governing board of a depository shall be nominated by the Board. 
6  

 (3) Public interest directors shall be nominated for a term of three years, or for such extended period, as 
may be approved by the Board:  

 Provided that such term shall be subject to retirement and reappointment.   

(4) If any issue arises as to whether an assignment or position of a public interest director is in conflict 
with his role, the Board‘s decision shall be final.   

(5) Upon completion of a term of three years as per sub-regulation (3), a public interest director may be 
renominated after a cooling-off period of one year or such period as the Board may deem fit in the interest 
of the securities market.  

 (6) Public interest directors shall be paid only sitting fees as specified in the Companies Act, 1956.  

 

Appointment of managing director.  

9C. (1) The appointment, renewal of appointment and termination of service of the managing director of a 
depository shall be subject to prior approval of the Board.   

(2) Every depository shall, subject to the guidelines issued by the Boar from time to time, determine the 
qualification,  manner  of  appointment,  terms  and  conditions  of  appointment  and  other  procedural 
formalities relating to the selection/ appointment of the managing director.  

 

11 

(3)  The  appointment  of  the  managing  director  shall  be  for  a  tenure  not  less  than  three  years  and  not 
exceeding five years.  

(4) The managing director of a depository shall not—  

(a) be a shareholder or an associate of a shareholder of a depository or shareholder of an associate of a 
depository;  

(b)  be  a  depository  participant,  or  his  associate  and  agent,  or  shareholder  of  a  depository  participant  or 
shareholder of an associate and agent of a depository participant; or  

(c) hold any position concurrently in the subsidiary of a depository or in any other entity associated with a 
depository:   

 Provided that the managing director of a depository may be appointed on  the governing board, but not as 
managing director, of the subsidiary or  associate of a depository.  

(5) The managing director shall be liable for removal or termination of services by the governing board of 
the depository with the prior approval of the Board for failure to give effect to the directions, guidelines 
and other orders issued by the Board, or the rules, instructions, the articles of association and bye-laws of 
the depository.  

(6) The Board may suomotu remove or terminate the appointment of the managing director if deemed fit 
in the interest of securities market:   

 Provided that no managing director shall be removed unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity 
of being heard.  

 

Code of Conduct for directors and key management personnel.  

9D.  (1)  Every  director  of  a  depository  shall  abide  by  the  Code  of  Conduct  specified  under  Part-A  of 
Fourth Schedule of these regulations.   

(2)  Every  director  and  key  management  personnel  of  a  depository  shall  abide  by  the  Code  of  Ethics 
specified under Part-B of Fourth Schedule of these regulations.  

(3) Every director and key management personnel of a depository shall satisfy the fit and proper person 
criteria at all times as per sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6A.   

(4) The Board may, for any failure by the directors to abide by these regulations or the Code of Conduct 
or  Code  of  Ethics  or  in  case  of  any  conflict  of  interest,  either  upon  a  reference  from  the  depository  or 
suomotu,  take  appropriate  action  including  removal  or  termination  of  the  appointment  of  any  director, 
after providing him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.  

 

Compensation and tenure of key management personnel.  

9E. (1) A depository shall constitute a compensation committee comprising a majority of public interest 
directors and chaired by a public interest director.   

(2)The compensation committee shall determine the compensation of key management personnel in terms 
of a compensation policy.  

(3) The compensation policy shall be in accordance with the norms specified by the Board.  

 

12 

(4) The compensation payable to the managing director shall be as approved by the Board and the terms 
and conditions of the compensation of the managing director shall not be changed without prior approval 
of the Board.  

(5)  The  compensation  given  to  the  key  management  personnel  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  Report  of  the 
depository under section 217 of the Companies Act, 1956.  

(6) The tenure of a key management personnel, other than a director, in a department, shall be for a fixed 
period, as may be decided by the compensation committee.  

 

Segregation of regulatory departments.  

9F. The depository shall segregate its regulatory departments from other departments  

in the manner specified in Fifth Schedule of these regulations.] 

 

 

CHAPTER III 

CERTIFICATE OF COMMENCEMENT OF BUSINESS 

 

Application for grant of certificate of commencement of business. 

10. A depository which has been granted a certificate of registration under regulation 7, shall within one 
year  from  the  date  of  issue  of  such  certificate  make  an  application  to  the  Board  for  commencement  of 
business in Form C. 

 

Application to conform to the requirements. 

11. Any application in Form C which is not complete in all respects and does not conform to instructions 
specified therein shall be rejected : 

Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given in writing an opportunity 
to remove within thirty days of the date of communication in this regard, the objections indicated by the 
Board : 

Provided further that the Board may, on being satisfied that it is necessary to extend the period specified 
in the first proviso, extend such period by such further time as it thinks necessary in order to enable the 
applicant to remove the objections indicated by the Board. 

 

Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation. 

12. (1) The Board may require the depository to furnish such further information or clarification regarding 
matters relevant for the grant of certificate of commencement of business. 

(2)  The  depository  or  its  authorised  representative,  if  so  required,  shall  appear  before  the  Board  for 
personal representation in connection with the grant of certificate of commencement of business. 

 

Consideration of application for grant of certificate of commencement of business. 

 

13 

13.  (1)  The  Board  shall  take  into  account  for  considering  grant  of  certificate  of  commencement  of 
business, all matters which are relevant to the efficient and orderly functioning of the depository and in 
particular, the following, namely, whether— 

  (a)  the depository has a net worth of not less than rupees one hundred crores; 

  (b)  the bye-laws of the depository have been approved by the Board; 

  (c)  the  automatic  data  processing  systems  of  the  depository  have  been  protected  against  unauthorised 

access, alteration, destruction, disclosure or dissemination of records and data; 

  (d)  the network through which continuous electronic means of communications are established between 
the  depository,  participants,  issuers  and  issuers‘  agents  is  secure  against  unauthorised  entry  or 
access; 

  (e)  the  depository  has  established  standard  transmission  and  encryption  formats  for  electronic 

communications of data between the depository, participants, issuers and issuers‘ agents; 

  (f)  the physical or electronic access to the premises, facilities, automatic data processing systems, data 
storage  sites  and  facilities  including  back  up  sites  and  facilities  and  to  the  electronic  data 
communication  network  connecting  the  depository,  participants,  issuers  and  issuers‘  agents  is 
controlled, monitored and recorded; 

  (g)  the depository has a detailed operations manual explaining all aspects of its functioning, including 
the  interface  and  method  of  transmission  of  information  between  the  depository,  issuers,  issuers‘ 
agents, participants and beneficial owners; 

  (h)  the  depository  has  established  adequate  procedures  and  facilities  to  ensure  that  its  records  are 
protected  against  loss  or  destruction  and  arrangements  have  been  made  for  maintaining  back  up 
facilities at a location different from that of the depository; 

  (i)  the depository has made adequate arrangements including insurance for indemnifying the beneficial 
owners for any loss that may be caused to such beneficial owners by the wrongful act, negligence or 
default of the depository or its participants or of any employee of the depository or participant; and 

  (j)  the grant of certificate of commencement of business is in the interest of investors in the securities 

market. 

(2) The Board shall, before granting a certificate of commencement of business under this Chapter make a 
physical verification of the infrastructure facilities and systems established by the depository. 

 
31[Networth certificate.  

13A.  (1)  Every  depository  shall  maintain  networth  as  specified  under  regulation  13  at    all  times  and 
submit an audited networth certificate from the statutory auditor on a yearly basis by the thirtieth day of 
September of every year for the preceding financial year.  

 Explanation. – For the purposes of this regulation, ‗networth of a depository‘ means the aggregate value 
of  paid  up  equity  share  capital  plus free  reserves (excluding  statutory  funds,  benefit  funds  and  reserves 
created  out  of  revaluation)  reduced  by  the  investments  in  businesses,  whether  related  or  unrelated, 
aggregate value of accumulated losses and deferred expenditure not written off, including miscellaneous 
expenses not written off.  

                                                           
31 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 

 

14 

 (2)  Every  depository  shall  within  one  month  of  the  date  of  the  holding  of  its  annual  general  meeting, 
furnish  to  the  Board  a  copy  of  its  audited  balance-sheet  and  profit  and  loss  account  for  the  preceding 
financial year.] 

 

Grant of certificate of commencement of business. 

14. After considering the application under regulation 13 with reference to the matters specified in sub-
regulation  (1)  of  regulation  13  and  making  physical  verification  under  sub-regulation  (2)  of  that 
regulation, if the Board is satisfied that the depository is eligible to commence business as a depository, 
shall grant a certificate of commencement of business in Form D. 

 
32[Depository to abide by the Code of Conduct.  

14A. The depository holding a certificate of commencement of business shall, at all times,  abide by the 
Code of Conduct as specified in the Sixth Schedule.] 

 

Procedure where certificate of commencement of business is not granted. 

15.  (1)  If  the  Board,  after  considering  the  matters  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  13  and 
making  physical  verification  under  sub-regulation  (2)  of  that  regulation,  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
depository shall not be granted a certificate of commencement of business, it may either— 

  (a)  direct the depository to conform to the matters specified in regulation 13; or 

  (b)  reject the application after giving the applicant an opportunity of being heard. 

(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the depository in writing 
within thirty days of such decision, stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected. 

 

CHAPTER IV 

REGISTRATION OF PARTICIPANT 

 
Application for grant of certificate of 33[initial] registration. 
16. (1) An application for the grant of a certificate of 34[initial] registration as a participant shall be made 
to the Board in Form E, through 35[the] depository in which the applicant proposes to act as a participant, 
shall be accompanied by the fee specified in Part A of the Second Schedule and be paid in the manner 
specified in Part B thereof. 

(2) The depository shall forward to the Board the application in Form E as early as possible, but not later 
than  thirty  days  along  with  its  recommendations  and  certifying  that  the  participant  complies  with  the 
eligibility criteria including adequate infrastructure as provided for in these regulations and the bye-laws 
of the depository. 

                                                           
32 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 
33 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011. 
34ibid. 
35 Substituted for "each" by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 24-12-2014. 

 

15 

 

Application to conform to the requirements. 

17.  An  application  in  Form  E,  which  is  not  complete  in  all  respects  and  does  not  conform  to  the 
instructions specified therein, shall be rejected: 

Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given in writing an opportunity 
to remove within thirty days of the date of communication in this regard, the objections indicated by the 
Board : 

Provided further that the Board may, on being satisfied that it is necessary to extend the period specified 
in the first proviso, extend such period by such further time as it thinks necessary in order to enable the 
applicant to remove the objections indicated by the Board. 

 

Furnishing information, clarification, and personal representation. 

18. (1) The Board may require the applicant, or the depository to which the applicant is to be admitted as 
a participant, to furnish such further information or clarification as may be considered necessary for the 
grant of a certificate of 36[initial] registration to the applicant. 

(2)  The  applicant  or  his  authorised  representative  shall,  if  so  required,  appear  before  the  Board  for 
personal representation in connection with the grant of a certificate of 37[initial] registration. 

 
Consideration of application for grant of certificate of 38[initial] registration. 
19. For the purpose of grant of certificate of  39[initial] registration, the Board shall take into account all 
matters  which  are relevant  to  or  relating  to  the  efficient  and  orderly  functioning  of  a  participant  and  in 
particular, whether the applicant complies with the following requirements, namely :— 

  (a)  the applicant belongs to one of the following categories,— 

  (i)  a public financial institution as defined in section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); 

  (ii)  a bank included for the time being in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 

1934 (2 of 1934); 

 (iii)  a foreign bank operating in India with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India; 

 (iv)  a  State  Financial  Corporation  established  under  the  provisions  of  section  3  of  the  State 

Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (63 of 1951); 

  (v)  an  institution  engaged  in  providing  financial  services,  promoted  by  any  of  the  institutions 

mentioned in sub-clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv), jointly or severally; 

 (vi)  a custodian of securities who has been granted a certificate of registration by the Board under 

sub-section (1A) of section 12 of the Act; 

(vii)  a clearing corporation 40[or a clearing house] of a stock exchange; 
(viii)  a  stock  broker  who  has  been  granted  a  certificate  of  registration  by  the  Board  under  sub-

section (1) of section 12 of the Act : 

                                                           
36ibid. 
37ibid. 
38ibid. 
39ibid. 
40 Inserted by the by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997. 

 

16 

 

 

 

  41[Provided that the stock broker shall have a minimum net worth of rupees 50 lakhs and the 
aggregate value of portfolio of securities of the beneficial owners held in dematerialised form 
in  a  depository  through  him,  shall  not  exceed  42[100  times  of  the  net  worth  of  the  stock 
broker]: 

  Provided  further  that  if  the  stock  broker  seeks  to  act  as  a  participant  in  more  than  one 
depository, he shall comply with the criteria specified in the first proviso separately for each 
such depository : 
  43[Provided further that where the stock broker has a minimum net worth of rupees ten crore, 
the limits on the aggregate value of the portfolio of securities of the beneficial owners held in 
dematerialized form in a depository through him shall not be applicable;] 

 (ix)  a non-banking finance company, having a net worth of not less than rupees fifty lakhs : 

 

 

  Provided that such company shall act as a participant only on behalf of itself and not on behalf 

of any other person : 
  44[Provided further that a non-banking finance company may act as a participant on behalf of 
any other person, if it has a net worth of Rs. 50 crore in addition to the net worth specified by 
any other authority;] 

45[(x) a  registrar  to an  issue or  share transfer  agent  who  has  a  minimum  net  worth  of  46[rupees ten 
crores] and who has been granted a certificate of registration by the Board under sub-section 
(1) of section 12 of the Act; 
  47[***]]  

 

  (b)  the applicant is eligible to be admitted as a participant of the depository through which it has made 

the application to the Board; 

  (c)  the applicant has adequate infrastructure, systems, safeguards and trained staff to carry on activity as 

a participant;  

48[(cc)   the applicant is a fit and proper person; and] 
  (d)  the  grant  of  49[initial]  certificate  of  registration  is  in  the  interests  of  investors  in  the  securities 

market. 

 

 
Grant of certificate of 50[initial] registration. 
20.  (1)  After  considering  the  application  under  regulation  16,  with  reference to  the  matters  specified in 
regulation  19,  if  the  Board  is  satisfied  that  the  applicant  is  eligible  for  grant  of  certificate  of  51[initial] 
registration, grant a certificate in Form F. 

                                                           
41 Substituted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999, w.e.f. 20-5-1999. 
42 Substituted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 1999, w.e.f. 21-9-1999. 
43 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 16-6-2003. 
44 Inserted by the by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997. 
45 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999, w.e.f. 20-5-1999. 
46 Substituted for ―50 lakhs‖ by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 16-6-2003. 
47 Proviso omitted by SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 1999, w.e.f. 21-9-1999. 
48 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 5-1-1998. 
49 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011. 
50ibid. 
51ibid. 

 

17 

(2) The grant of certificate of  52[initial] registration in Form F shall be subject to the following, namely 
:— 

  (a)  the  participant  shall  pay  the  registration  fee  specified  in  Part  A  of  the  Second  Schedule  in  the 

manner specified in Part B thereof, within fifteen days of the receipt of intimation from the Board; 

  (b)  the  participant  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Depositories  53[Act],  the  bye-laws, 

agreements and these regulations; 

  (c)  the depository through which an application for certificate of registration has been forwarded holds 

a certificate of commencement of business under regulation 14; 

54[(ca)  where  the  participant  proposes  change  in  control,  it  shall  obtain  prior  approval  of  the  Board  for 

continuing to act as such after the change;] 

  (d)  if  any  information  previously  submitted  by  the  participant  to  the  Board  is  found  to  be  false  or 
misleading in any material particular, or if there is any change in such information, the participant 
shall forthwith inform the Board in writing ; 

  (e)  the participant shall redress the grievances of beneficial owners within thirty days of the date of the 
receipt  of  the  complaint  and  keep  the  depository  informed  about  the  number  and  the  nature  of 
redressals; and 

  (f)  the  participant  shall  pay  annual  fees  specified  in  Part  A  of  the  Second  Schedule  in  the  manner 

specified in Part B thereof. 

55[(3) The certificate of initial registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid for a period of 

five years from the date of its issue to the applicant.] 

 
56[Grant of certificate of permanent registration. 
20A.(1) A participant who has been granted a certificate of initial registration may, three months before 
the  expiry  of  the  period  of  certificate  of  initial  registration,  make  an  application  for  grant  of  a 
certificate of permanent registration in Form E, through the depository in which it is a participant. 

(2)  The participant who has already been granted a certificate of registration or has obtained renewal of 
certificate of registration, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Depositories  and  Participants)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  may,  three  months  before  the 
expiry of validity of certificate of registration or before, make an application for grant of a certificate 
of permanent registration in Form E, through the depository in which it is a participant. 

(3)      The  application  under  sub-regulation  (1)  or  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be  accompanied  by  the 
application fees as specified in Part A of the Second Schedule and be paid in the manner specified in 
Part B thereof. 

(4)   The application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration shall be accompanied by details of 
the changes that have taken place in the information that was submitted to the Board while seeking 

                                                           
52ibid. 
53 Substituted for ―Ordinance‖ by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997. 
54 Inserted by the SEBI (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 
19-4-2011. 
55 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011. 
56  Substituted,  ibid.  Prior  to  substitution,  regulation  20A  as  amended  by  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 1-10-2003, read as under: 
―Participants to abide by Code of Conduct. 
20A.The participant holding a certificate shall, at all times, abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in the Third Schedule.‖ 

 

18 

initial  registration  or  renewal,  as  the  case  may  be,  and  a  declaration  stating  that  no  changes  other 
than those as mentioned in such details have taken place. 

(5)  The application for permanent registration made under subregulation (1) or (2) shall be dealt with in 

the same manner as if it were a fresh application for grant of a certificate of initial registration. 

(6)    The  Board,  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant  is  eligible,  shall  grant  a  certificate  of  permanent 

registration in Form F and shall send an intimation to the applicant. 

(7)      On  the  grant  of  a  certificate  of  permanent  registration  the  participant  shall  be  liable  to  pay 
registration fee as specified in the Second Schedule of these regulations, within a period of fifteen 
days of receipt of intimation from the Board. 

(8) The participant shall pay annual fee as specified in the Second Schedule of these regulations.] 
57[(9)  The participant, to keep the registration in force, shall pay registration fee as specified in Part A of 
the  Second  Schedule  for  every  five  years  from  the  sixth  year  of  the  date  of  grant  of  certificate  of 
permanent registration.  

(10) The fee specified in sub-regulation (9) shall be paid three months prior to the expiry of the block for 

which the fee has been paid.] 

 
58[Participants to abide by code of conduct. 
20AA. The participant holding a certificate of initial or permanent registration shall, at all times, abide by 
the Code of Conduct as specified in Third Schedule.] 

 
59[Acting as participant in more than one depository.  
20AB.  (1)  A  participant  who  has  been  granted  a  certificate  of  registration  may  act  as  a  participant  of 
another depository without obtaining separate certificate of registration subject to approval by such other 
depository.  

(2) Such a participant who desires to act as a participant of another depository shall apply to such other 
depository for approval in the manner as specified by the Board.  

(3) On receipt of an application under sub-regulation (2), the depository shall, on being satisfied with the 
compliance of the provisions of these regulations and other relevant eligibility requirements specified by 
the Board, grant approval to act as its participant subject to payment of registration fees specified in Part 
A of Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof, by the participant within 15 days of the 
receipt of intimation from the depository.  

(4) The depository shall inform the Board about the approval granted under subregulation (3).  

(5) A participant who has been granted approval under sub-regulation (3) shall pay annual fees specified 
in Part A of Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof, separately for each depository.  

(6) To keep the registration in force, a participant who has been granted approval under sub-regulation (3) 
shall  pay  registration  fees  specified  in  Part  A  of  Second  Schedule  in  the  manner  specified  in  Part  B 
thereof, for every five years from the sixth year of the date of grant of approval by the depository.] 

 
21   60[***] 

                                                           
57 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 17-5-2013. 
58 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.  
59 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 24-12-2014. 
60 Omitted, ibid. Prior to omission, it read as under: 

 

19 

 
22.  61[***] 
 
23   62[***] 
 

 
Procedure where certificate of 63[initial or permanent] registration is not granted. 
24. (1) Where an application for the grant of certificate of  64[initial registration under regulation 16 or of 
permanent registration under regulation 20A] does not satisfy the requirements specified in regulation 19, 
the Board shall reject the application after giving the applicant an opportunity of being heard. 

(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant in writing 
within thirty days of such decision, stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected. 

 
Effect of refusal to 65[grant certificate of permanent] registration. 
25. Any participant whose application for a certificate of  66[permanent registration] has been rejected by 
the Board under regulation 67[20A], shall from the date of expiry of the certificate of registration sought to 
be renewed, cease to carry on any activity as a participant : 

Provided that the Board may, in the interest of the investors in the securities market permit the participant 
to carry on activities undertaken prior to the receipt of the intimation of refusal subject to such condition 
as the Board may specify. 

 

CHAPTER V 

RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF DEPOSITORIES, PARTICIPANTS, ISSUERS,  

MANNER OF SURRENDER OF CERTIFICATE OF SECURITY AND  

CREATION OF PLEDGE OR HYPOTHECATION 

Rights and obligations of depositories, etc. 

 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
“Period of validity of the certificate of registration. 
21. The certificate of registration issued under regulation 20, or renewed under regulation 22 shall be valid for a period of five 
years from the date of its issue or renewal, as the case may be.‖ 
61 Omitted, ibid. Prior to omission, it read as under: 
“Renewal of certificate of registration. 
22. (1) Three months before the expiry of the period of validity of a certificate of registration, the participant shall, if it so desires, 
make an application for renewal in Form E through the depository in which it is a participant. 
(2) The application for renewal under sub-regulation (1) shall accompany the fee specified for issue of certificate of registration 
and shall be dealt with in the same manner as if it were a fresh application for grant of certificate of registration.‖ 
62 Omitted, ibid. Prior to omission, it read as under: 
“Conditions of renewal of certificate of registration. 
23. The Board may renew a certificate of registration granted to a participant subject to the conditions of certificate of registration 
specified in regulation 22.‖ 
63 Inserted, ibid. 
64 Substituted for the words and figures ―registration under regulation 16 or for its renewal under regulation 22‖, ibid. 
65 Substituted for the words ―renew a certificate of‖, ibid. 
66 Substituted for the words ―registration as a participant‖, ibid. 
67 Substituted for “24”, ibid. 

 

20 

26.  The  depositories,  participants,  issuers,  and  issuers‘  agents,  in  addition  to  the  rights  and  obligations 
laid down in the Depositories 68[Act] and the bye-laws shall have the rights and obligations arising from 
the agreements entered into by them. 

 

Depository to declare specific securities eligible. 

27. Every depository shall, in its bye-laws, state the specific securities which are eligible for being held in 
dematerialised form in the depository. 

 

Security eligible for dematerialisation. 

28. The following securities shall be eligible for being held in dematerialised form in a depository :— 
  (a)  shares,  scrips,  stocks,  bonds,  debentures,  debenture  stock69[,  Indian  Depository  Receipts]  or  other 

marketable securities of a like nature in or of any incorporated company or other body corporate; 

  (b)  units  of  mutual  funds,  rights  under  collective  investment  schemes  and  venture  capital  funds, 
instruments, 
commercial  paper,  certificates  of  deposit,  securitised  debt,  money  market 
70[Government  securities]  and  unlisted  securities  shall  also  be  similarly  eligible  for  being  held  in 
dematerialised form in a depository; 

71[(c) any other security as may be specified by the Board from time to time, by way of a notification in the 

Official Gazette and subject to such conditions as it may deem fit to impose.] 

 

Agreement between depository and issuer. 
29.72[(1)  Either  on  the  issuer  or  on  the  investor  exercising  an  option  to  hold  his  securities  with  a 
depository in dematerialised form, the issuer shall enter into an agreement with the depository to enable 
the investor to dematerialise the securities:] 
73[Provided that no agreement shall be required to be entered into where the depository itself is an issuer 
of securities :] 
74[Provided further  that  no  such  agreement  shall  be  required  to  be  entered  into where  the  State  or  the 
Central Government is the issuer of Government securities.] 

(2) Where the issuer has appointed a Registrar to the Issue or Share Transfer Agent, who has been granted 
certificate of registration by the Board under sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Act, the depository shall 
enter into a tripartite agreement with the issuer and the Registrar to the Issue or Share Transfer Agent, as 
the  case  may  be,  in  respect  of  the  securities  to  be  declared  by  the  depository  as  eligible  to  be  held  in 
dematerialised form. 

 

Systems and procedures. 

                                                           
68 Substituted for ―Ordinance‖ by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997. 
69 Inserted by the SEBI (Facilitation of Issuance of Indian Depository Receipts) (Amdt.) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 19-6-2009. 
70 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 21-1-1998. 
71 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, w.e.f. 10-6-2004. 
72 Substituted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997. 
73 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 5-9-1997. 
74 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 21-1-1998. 

 

21 

30. Every depository shall have systems and procedures which will enable it to co-ordinate with the issuer 
or its agent, and the participants, to reconcile the records of ownership of securities with the issuer or its 
agent, as the case may be, and with participants, on a daily basis. 

 

Connectivity. 

31.  Every  depository  shall  maintain  continuous  electronic  means  of  communication  with  all  its 
participants, issuers or issuers‘ agents, as the case may be, clearing houses and clearing corporations of 
the stock exchanges and with other depositories. 

 

 

 
75[Mechanism for investor protection. 

32. The depository shall satisfy the Board that it has a mechanism in place to ensure that the interests of 
the persons buying and selling securities held in the depository are adequately protected.] 

 

Withdrawal by participant. 

33.  Every  depository  shall  allow  any  participant  to  withdraw,  or  transfer  its  account,  if  the  request  for 
such  withdrawal  or  transfer  is  in  accordance  with  conditions  stipulated  therefor  in  the  bye-laws  of  the 
depository. 

 

Internal monitoring, review and evaluation of systems and controls. 

34.  Every  depository  shall  have  adequate  mechanisms  for  the  purposes  of  reviewing,  monitoring  and 
evaluating the depository‘s controls systems, procedures and safeguards. 

External monitoring, review and evaluation of systems and controls. 

35. Every depository shall cause an inspection of its controls, systems, procedures and safeguards to be 
carried out annually and forward a copy of the report to the Board. 

 
76[Business Continuity Plan.  

 35A.  A  depository  shall  have  adequate  Business  Continuity  Plan  for  data  and  electronic  records  to 
prevent, prepare for, and recover from any disaster.] 

 
77[Wind-down Plan. 

35B.  Every  depository  shall  devise  and  maintain  a  wind-down  plan  in  accordance  with  guidelines 
specified by the Board.  

                                                           
75  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2008,  w.e.f.  8-8-2008.  Prior  to 
substitution, it read as under: 
“Transfer to be effected only after payment. 
32. The depository shall satisfy the Board that it has a mechanism in place to ensure that the interest of the persons buying and 
selling securities held in the depository are  adequately protected and shall register the transfer of  a security in the name  of the 
transferee only after the depository is satisfied that payment for such transfer has been made.‖ 
76 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 
77Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. from 27-05-2016. 

 

22 

Explanation:-  For  the  purpose  of  this  regulation,  'wind-down  plan'  means  a  process  or  plan  of  action 
employed, for transfer of the beneficial owner accounts and other 2 operational powers of the depository 
to  an  alternative  institution  that  would  take  over  the  operations  of  the  depository  in  scenarios  such  as 
erosion  of  net-worth  of  the  depository  or  its  insolvency  or  its  inability  to  provide  critical  depository 
operations or services.] 

 

Insurance against risks. 

36.  Every  depository  shall  take  adequate  measures  including  insurance  to  protect  the  interests  of  the 
beneficial owners against risks likely to be incurred on account of its activities as a depository. 

 

Manner of keeping records. 

37.  Where  records  are  kept  electronically  by  the  depository,  it  shall  ensure  that  the  integrity  of  the 
automatic data processing systems is maintained at all times and take all precautions necessary to ensure 
that the records are not lost, destroyed or tampered with and in the event of loss or destruction, ensure that 
sufficient back up of records is available at all times at a different place. 

 

Records to be maintained. 

38. (1) Every depository shall maintain the following records and documents, namely :— 

  (a)  records of securities dematerialised and rematerialised; 

  (b)  the names of the transferor, transferee, and the dates of transfer of securities; 

  (c)  a register and an index of beneficial owners; 
78[(cc)  details of the holding of the securities of beneficial owners as at the end of each day;] 

  (d)  records of instructions received from and sent to participants, issuers, issuers‘ agents and beneficial 

owners; 

  (e)  records of approval, notice, entry and cancellation of pledge or hypothecation, as the case may be; 

  (f)  details of participants; 

  (g)  details of securities declared to be eligible for dematerialisation in the depository; and 

  (h)  such other records as may be specified by the Board for carrying on the activities as a depository. 

(2) Every depository shall intimate the Board the place where the records and documents are maintained. 

(3) Subject to the provisions of any other law the depository shall preserve records and documents for a 
minimum period of five years. 

 

Co-operation with other entities. 

39. Every depository shall extend all such co-operation to the beneficial owners, issuers, issuers‘ agents, 
custodians  of  securities,  other  depositories  and  clearing  organizations  as  is  necessary  for  the  effective, 
prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and conduct of business. 

 
79[Consolidated account statement.  

                                                           
78 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997. 

 

23 

39A. In order to enable generation of a consolidated account statement for the use of a beneficial 
owner  in  respect  of  all  demat  assets  held  by  him,  the  depository  shall  enter  into  necessary 
agreements for sharing of such information.] 

 

Prohibition of assignment. 

40. No depository shall assign or delegate to any other person its functions as a depository, without the 
prior approval of the Board. 

 

Agreement by participant. 

41. Every participant shall enter into an agreement with a beneficial owner before acting as a participant 
on his behalf, in a manner specified by the depository in its bye-laws. 

 

Separate accounts. 

42.  (1)  Separate  accounts  shall  be  opened  by  every  participant  in  the  name  of  each  of  the  beneficial 
owners and the securities of each beneficial owner shall be segregated, and shall not be mixed up with the 
securities of other beneficial owners or with the participant‘s own securities. 

(2) A participant shall register the transfer of securities to or from a beneficial owner‘s account only on 
receipt of instructions from the beneficial owner and thereafter confirm the same to the beneficial owner 
in a manner as specified by the depository in its bye-laws. 

(3)  Every  entry  in  the  beneficial  owner‘s  account  shall  be  supported  by  electronic  instructions  or  any 
other mode of instruction received from the beneficial owner in accordance with the agreement with the 
beneficial owner. 

 

 

Statement of accounts. 

43. Every participant shall provide statements of account to the beneficial owner in such form and in such 
manner and at such time as provided in the agreement with the beneficial owner. 

 

Transfer or withdrawal by beneficial owner. 

44.  Every  participant  shall  allow  a  beneficial  owner  to  withdraw  or  transfer  from  his  account  in  such 
manner as specified in the agreement with the beneficial owner. 

Connectivity. 

45. Every participant shall maintain continuous electronic means of communication with each depository 
in which it is a participant. 

 

Monitoring, reviewing and evaluating internal systems and controls. 

46.  Every  participant  shall  have  adequate  mechanism  for  the  purpose  of  reviewing,  monitoring  and 
evaluating the participant‘s internal accounting controls and systems. 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
79 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 17-5-2013. 

 

24 

 

Reconciliation. 

47.  Every  participant  shall  reconcile  his  records  with  every  depository  in  which  it  is  a  participant  on  a 
daily basis. 

 

Returns. 

48. Every participant shall submit periodic returns to the Board and to every depository in which it is a 
participant in the format specified by the Board or the bye-laws of the depository, as the case may be. 

 

Record of services. 

49. (1) Every participant shall maintain the following records and documents, namely :— 

  (a)  records of all the transactions entered into with a depository and with a beneficial owner; 

  (b)  details of securities dematerialised, rematerialised on behalf of beneficial owners with whom it has 

entered into an agreement; 

  (c)  records  of  instructions  received  from  beneficial  owners  and  statements  of  account  provided  to 

beneficial owners; and 

  (d)  records of approval, notice, entry and cancellation of pledge or hypothecation, as the case may be. 

(2) Every participant shall make available for the inspection of the depository in which it is a participant 
all records referred to in sub-regulation (1). 

(3) Every participant shall allow persons authorised by the depository in which it is a participant to enter 
its premises during normal office hours and inspect its records. 

(4) Every participant shall intimate the Board the place where the records and documents are maintained. 

(5) Subject to the provisions of any other law, the participant shall preserve records and documents for a 
minimum period of five years. 

 

Manner of keeping records. 

50.  Where records  are  kept  electronically  by  the  participant  it  shall  ensure that the integrity  of the  data 
processing systems is maintained at all times and take all precautions necessary to ensure that the records 
are not lost, destroyed or tampered with and in the event of loss or destruction, ensure that sufficient back 
up of records is available at all times at a different place. 

 

Records to be maintained depository-wise. 

51. If a participant enters into an agreement with more than one depository, it shall maintain the records 
specified in regulation 49 separately in respect of each depository. 

 

Prohibition of assignment. 

52.  No  participant  shall  assign  or  delegate  its  functions  as  participant  to  any  other  person,  without  the 
prior approval of the depository. 

 

 

25 

Agreement by issuer. 

53.  Every  issuer  whose  securities  have  been  declared  as  eligible  to  be  held  in  dematerialised  form  in  a 
depository  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the  depository  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
regulation 29: 
80[Provided that no agreement shall be required to be entered into in case,— 

  (i)  the depository is the issuer of securities; or 

  (ii)  the State or the Central Government is the issuer of Government securities.] 
 

81[Manner of handling share registry work. 

53A.  All  matters  relating  to  transfer  of  securities,  maintenance  of  records  of  holders  of  securities, 
handling  of  physical  securities  and  establishing  connectivity  with  the  depositories  shall  be  handled  and 
maintained at a single point i.e. either in-house by the issuer or by a Share Transfer Agent registered with 
the Board. 

 

Redressal of investor grievances. 

53B.  Every  issuer  or  its  agent  or  any  person  who  is  registered  as  an  intermediary  under  this  Act,  shall 
redress the grievances of beneficial owners within thirty days of the date of receipt of the complaint and 
keep the depository informed about the number and nature of grievances redressed by it and the number 
of grievances pending before it.] 

 
82[Investor Protection Fund.  

53C.(1)  Every  depository  shall  establish  and  maintain  an  Investor  Protection  Fund  for  the  protection of 
interest of beneficial owners:   

 Provided that this Fund shall not be used by the depository for the purpose of indemnifying the beneficial 
owner under section 16 of the Depositories Act, 1996.   
83[(2) Every depository shall credit five per cent or such percentage as may be specified by the Board, of 
its profits from depository operations every year to the Investor Protection Fund.] 

(3)  The  contribution  to  and  utilization  of  the  Investor  Protection  Fund  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the 
norms specified by the Board.] 

 

Manner of surrender of certificate of security. 

54.  (1)  Any  beneficial  owner,  who  has  entered  into  an  agreement  with  a  participant,  shall  inform  the 
participant  of the  details  of  the  certificate  of security which is to be  dematerialised,  and  shall  surrender 
such certificate to the participant : 

Provided that where a beneficial owner has appointed a custodian of securities, then he may surrender the 
certificates of security to the participant through his custodian of securities. 
                                                           
80 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 21-1-1998. 
81 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 2-9-2003. 
82 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 
83 Substituted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.r.e.f. 11-09-2012. Prior to its 
substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as under: 
"(2) Every depository shall credit twenty five per cent. of its profits every year to the Investor Protection Fund."   

 

26 

(2) The participant shall, on receipt of information under sub-regulation (1), forward such details of the 
certificate  of  security  to  the  depository  and  shall  confirm  to  the  depository  that  an  agreement  has  been 
entered into between the participant and the beneficial owner. 

(3)  The  participant  shall  maintain  records  indicating  the  names  of  beneficial  owners  of  the  securities 
surrendered, the number of securities and other details of the certificate of security received. 
84[(4) The participant shall, within seven days of the receipt of certificate of security referred to in sub-
regulation  (1)  furnish  to  the  issuer  details  specified  in  sub-regulation  (2)  along  with  the  certificate  of 
security. 

(5) Within 15 days of receipt of the certificate of security from the participant the issuer shall confirm to 
the depository that securities comprised in the said certificate have been listed on the stock exchange or 
exchanges where the earlier issued securities are listed and shall also after due verification immediately 
mutilate and cancel the certificate of security and substitute in its record the name of the depository as the 
registered owner and shall send a certificate to this effect to the depository and to every stock exchange 
where the security is listed : 

Provided  that  in  case  of  unlisted  companies  the  condition  of  listing  on  all  the  stock  exchanges  where 
earlier issued shares are listed, shall not be applicable.] 

(6) Immediately upon receipt of information from the issuer under sub-regulation (5), the depository shall 
enter in its records the name of the person who has surrendered the certificate of security as the beneficial 
owner, as well as the name of the participant from whom it has received intimation under sub-regulation 
(2), and shall send an intimation of the same to the participant. 

(7) The issuer shall maintain a record of certificates of securities which have been dematerialised. 

 

Reconciliation. 

55. The issuer  or  its  agent shall reconcile  the  records of  dematerialised  securities  with  all the  securities 
issued by the issuer, on a daily basis: 
85[Provided that  where  the State  or the  Central  Government  is  the  issuer  of  Government  securities,  the 
depository shall, on a daily basis, reconcile the records of the dematerialised securities.] 

 

 

 
86[Audit. 

55A. (1) Every issuer shall submit audit report on a quarterly basis, starting from September 30, 2003, to 
the  concerned  stock  exchanges  audited  by  a  qualified  Chartered  Accountant  or  a  practicing  Company 
Secretary, for the purposes of reconciliation of the total issued capital, listed capital and capital held by 
depositories in dematerialized form, the details of changes in share capital during the quarter and the in-
principle approval obtained by the issuer from all the stock exchanges where it is listed in respect of such 
further issued capital. 

(2) The audit report under sub-regulation (1) shall also give the updated status of the register of members 
of the issuer and confirm that securities have been dematerialized as per requests within 21 days from the 

                                                           
84 Substituted, supra 
85 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 21-1-1998. 
86 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 2-9-2003. 

 

27 

date of receipt of requests by the issuer and where the dematerialization has not been effected within the 
said stipulated period, the report shall disclose the reasons for such delay. 

(3)  The  issuer  shall  immediately  bring  to  the  notice  of  the  depositories  and  the  stock  exchanges,  any 
difference observed in its issued, listed, and the capital held by depositories in dematerialised form.] 

 

Connectivity. 

56.  Every  issuer  or  its  agent  shall  establish  continuous  electronic  means  of  communication  with  the 
depository with which it has entered into an agreement. 

 

Information. 

57. Every issuer whose securities have been declared as eligible for dematerialisation in a depository shall 
give information to the depository about book closures, record dates, dates for the payment of interest or 
dividend, dates for annual general meetings and other meetings, dates for redemption of debentures, dates 
for conversion of debentures and warrants, call money dates and such other information at the time and in 
the manner as may be specified by the depository in its bye-laws or agreement: 
87[Provided that no such information would be required to be given to the depository where the State or 
the Central Government is the issuer of Government securities.] 

 

Manner of creating pledge or hypothecation. 
58.88[(1)  If  a  beneficial  owner  intends  to  create  a  pledge  on  a  security  owned  by  him  he  shall  make  an 
application to the depository through the participant who has his account in respect of such securities. 

(2)  The  participant  after  satisfaction  that  the  securities  are  available  for  pledge  shall  make  a  note  in  its 
records of the notice of pledge and forward the application to the depository. 

(3) The depository after confirmation from the pledgee that the securities are available for pledge with the 
pledger shall within fifteen days of the receipt of the application create and record the pledge and send an 
intimation of the same to the participants of the pledger and the pledgee. 

(4)  On  receipt  of  the  intimation  under  sub-regulation  (3)  the  participants  of  both  the  pledger  and  the 
pledgee shall inform the pledger and the pledgee respectively of the entry of creation of the pledge. 

(5) If the depository does not create the pledge, it shall send along with the reasons an intimation to the 
participants of the pledger and the pledgee. 

(6) The entry of pledge made under sub-regulation (3) may be cancelled by the depository if pledger or 
the pledgee makes an application to the depository through its participant: 

Provided  that  no  entry  of pledge  shall  be  cancelled by  the  depository  without prior  concurrence  of the 
pledgee. 

(7) The depository on the cancellation of the entry of pledge shall inform the participant of the pledger. 

                                                           
87 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 21-1-1998. 
88  Sub-regulations  (1)  to  (11)  substituted  for  sub-regulations  (1)  to  (12)  by  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  (Second 
Amendment)  Regulations,  1997,  w.e.f.  5-9-1997.  Earlier  sub-regulation  (3)  was  amended  by  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and 
Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997. 
 

 

28 

(8)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  pledge  document,  the  pledgee  may  invoke  the  pledge  and  on  such 
invocation, the depository shall register the pledgee as beneficial owner of such securities and amend its 
records accordingly. 
(9)  After  amending  its  records  under  sub-regulation  (8)  the  depository  shall  immediately  inform  the 
participants  of  the  pledger  and  pledgee  of  the  change  who  in  turn  shall  make  the  necessary  changes  in 
their records and inform the pledger and pledgee respectively. 
(10)(a) If a beneficial owner intends to create a hypothecation on a security owned by him he may do so 
in accordance with the provisions of sub-regulations (1) to (9). 
(b)  The  provisions  of  sub-regulations  (1)  to  (9)  shall  mutatis  mutandis  apply  in  such  cases  of 
hypothecation: 

Provided  that  the  depository  before  registering  the  hypothecatee  as  a  beneficial  owner  shall  obtain  the 
prior concurrence of the hypothecator. 

(11) No transfer of security in respect of which a notice or entry of pledge or hypothecation is in force 
shall be effected by a participant without the concurrence of the pledgee or the hypothecatee, as the case 
may be.] 

 
89[Investment advice. 
58A. (1) A depository or a participant or any of their employees shall not render, directly or indirectly, 
any investment advice about any security in the publicly accessible media, whether real-time or non-real-
time, unless a disclosure of his interest including long or short position in the said security has been made, 
while rendering such advice. 

(2) In case an employee of the depository or the participant is rendering such advice, he shall also disclose 
the interest of his dependent family members and the employer including their long or short position in 
the said security, while rendering such advice. 

 

Appointment of compliance officer. 

58B.  A  depository  and  a  participant  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for 
monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations,  notifications,  guidelines,  instructions,  etc., 
issued by the Board or the Central Government and for redressal of investors‘ grievances. 

(2) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report to the Board any non-compliance 
observed by him.] 

 

 

 
90[Equal, fair and transparent access.  
58C. A depository shall ensure equal, unrestricted, transparent and fair access to all persons without  any 
bias towards its associates and related entities.] 

 

 

Listing.  

91[CHAPTER VA 

LISTING OF SECURITIES 

                                                           
89Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advice by Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2001, w.e.f. 29-5-2001. 
90 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 
91 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 

 

29 

58D. (1) Subject to the provisions of applicable laws in force, a depository may  apply  for listing of its 
securities on a recognised stock exchange if,─  

(a)  it  is  compliant  with  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  particularly  those  relating  to  ownership  and 
governance;  

(b)  it  has  completed  three years  of  continuous  depository  operations  immediately  preceding  the  date  of 
application of listing; and  

(c) it has obtained approval of the Board.  

(2)  The  Board  may  specify  such  conditions  as  it  may  deem  fit  in  the  interest  of  the  securities  market 
including those in relation to transfer of shares held by any person.  

(3)  A  depository  or  its  associates  shall  not  list  its  securities  on  a  recognized  stock  exchange  that  is  a 
sponsor or associate of the depository] 

CHAPTER VI 

INSPECTION 

Board’s right to inspect. 

59. The Board may appoint one or more persons as inspecting officer to undertake inspection of the books 
of account, records, documents and infrastructure, systems and procedures, or to investigate the affairs of 
a  depository,  a  participant,  a  beneficial  owner  an  issuer  or  its  agent  for  any  of  the  following  purposes, 
namely:— 

  (a)  to ensure that the books of account are being maintained by the depository, participant, issuer or its 

agent in the manner specified in these regulations; 

  (b)  to  look  into  the  complaints  received  from  the  depositories,  participants,  issuers,  issuers‘  agents, 

beneficial owners or any other person; 

  (c)  to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  the  Depositories  92[Act],  the  bye-laws,  agreements 
and  these  regulations  are  being  complied  with  by  the  depository,  participant,  beneficial  owner, 
issuer or its agent; 

  (d)  to  ascertain  whether  the  systems,  procedures  and  safeguards  being  followed  by  a  depository, 

participant, beneficial owner, issuer or its agent are adequate; 

  (e)  to suomotu ensure that the affairs of a depository, participant, beneficial owner, issuer or its agent, 

are being conducted in a manner which are in the interest of the investors or the securities market. 

 

Notice before inspection and investigation. 
60. (1) Before ordering an inspection or investigation under regulation 59, the Board shall give not less 
than 10 days notice to the depository, participant, beneficial owner, issuer or its agent, as the case may be. 
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  where  the  Board  is  satisfied  that  in  the 
interest  of  the  investors  no  such  notice  should  be  given,  it  may,  by  an  order  in writing  direct  that  such 
inspection be taken up without such notice. 
(3) During the course of an inspection or investigation, the depository, a participant, a beneficial owner, 
an issuer or its agent against whom the inspection or investigation is being carried out shall be bound to 
discharge his obligation as provided in regulation 61. 

 
Obligations on inspection by the Board. 

                                                           
92 Substituted for ―Ordinance‖ by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997. 

 

30 

61. (1) It shall be the duty of the depository, a participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent whose 
affairs are being inspected or investigated, and of every director, officer and employee thereof, to produce 
to the inspecting officer such books,  securities, accounts, records and other documents in its custody or 
control and furnish him with such statements and information relating to his activities as a depository, a 
participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent, as the inspecting officer may require, within such 
reasonable period as the inspecting officer may specify. 
(2)  The  depository,  a  participant,  a  beneficial  owner,  an  issuer  or  its  agent  also  allow  the  inspecting 
officer to have reasonable access to the premises occupied by him or by any other person on his behalf 
and also extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records, documents and computer data in the 
possession of the depository, a participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent or such other person 
and also provide copies of documents or other materials which, in the opinion of the inspecting officer are 
relevant for the purposes of the inspection. 
(3) The inspecting officer, in the course of inspection or investigation, shall be entitled to examine or to 
record  the  statements  of  any  director,  officer  or  employee  of  the  depository,  a  participant,  a  beneficial 
owner, an issuer or its agent. 

(4) It shall be the duty of every director, officer or employee of the depository, a participant, a beneficial 
owner,  an  issuer  or  its  agent  to  give  to  the  inspecting  officer  all  assistance  in  connection  with  the 
inspection, which the inspecting officer may reasonably require. 

 

Submission of report to the Board. 
62. The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection or investigation as 
the case may be, submit a report to the Board: 

Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit interim reports. 

 

 
93[Action on inspection or investigation report. 
63.  The  Board  or  the  Chairman  shall  after  consideration  of  inspection  or  investigation  report  take  such 
action as the Board or Chairman may deem fit and appropriate including action under 94[Chapter V of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.]] 

 
95[Appointment of Auditor. 
63A.  The  Board  shall  have  the  power  to  appoint  an  auditor  to  inspect  or  investigate,  into  the  books  of 
account,  records,  documents,  infrastructures,  systems  and  procedures  or  affairs  of  a  depository,  a 
participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent : 

Provided  that  the  auditor  so  appointed  shall  have  the  same  powers  of  the  inspecting  or  investigating 
officer  as  stated  in  regulations  59  and  60,  and  the  obligation  of  the  depository,  participant,  beneficial 
owner, issuer  or its  agent and  their respective  directors,  officers and employees,  as the case  may  be,  as 
stated in regulation 61, shall be applicable to the inspection or investigation under this regulation. 

 

Board to recover the expenses. 
63B. The Board shall be entitled to recover from the depository, participant, beneficial owner, issuer or its 
agent, as the case may be, such expenses including fees paid to the auditors as may be incurred by it for 

                                                           
93 Substituted by the SEBI(Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 
27-9-2002. Earlier it was amended by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997. 
94 Substituted for  ―the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing 
Penalty) Regulations, 2002‖ by the SEBI(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 26-5-2008. 
95 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 1999, w.e.f. 7-7-1999. 

 

31 

the  purposes  of  inspecting  or  investigating  the  books  of  account,  records,  documents,  infrastructures, 
system and procedures of the depository, participant, beneficial owner, issuer or its agent, as the case may 
be.] 
96[Application of Chapter. 
63C. Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be applicable to the State or the Central Government where 
it is the issuer of the Government securities.] 

 

CHAPTER VII 

PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 

 

97[Liability for action in case of default. 
64. A depository or a participant who— 
  (a)  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  the  Depositories  Act,  the  bye-laws,  agreements  and 

these regulations; 

  (b)  fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as a depository or participant as required under 

these regulations; 

  (c)  does  not  furnish  the  information  called  for  by  the  Board  under  clause  (a)  of  sub-section  (1)  of 
section  18  of  the  Depositories  Act  or  furnishes  information  which  is  false  or  misleading  in  any 
material particular; 

  (d)  does not co-operate in any inspection or investigation or enquiry conducted by the Board; 
  (e)  fails to comply with any direction of the Board issued under section 18 of the Depositories Act; 
  (f)  fails to pay the annual fee referred to in regulation 8, 
shall be dealt with in the manner provided under  98[ Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.]] 

 

 
99[Liability for action in case of default by issuer or its agent. 
64A. (1) If an issuer or its agent - 
(a) contravenes any of the provisions of the Depositories Act, the byelaws,agreements, these regulations 

and directions issued thereunder; ( 

b) fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as an issuer as required under these regulations;  
(c) does not furnish the information called for by the Board under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 
18  of  the  Depositories  Act  or  furnishes  information  which  is  false  or  misleading  in  any  material 
particular;  

(d) does not co-operate in any inspection or investigation or enquiry conducted by the Board;  
(e) fails to comply with any direction of the Board issued under section 18 of the Depositories Act,  

                                                           
96 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 21-1-1998. Prior to 7-7-
1999, Regulation 63C was numbered as regulations 63A. 
97 Substituted by the SEBI(Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 
27-9-2002. Earlier it was amended by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997. 
98 Substituted for  ―the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing 
Penalty) Regulations, 2002‖ by the SEBI(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 26-5-2008. 
99 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 17-5-2013. 

 

32 

the  Board  may,  without  prejudice to  any  other action  which it  may  take  under  the  Act, take  any  action 
against such issuer or its agent under the Depositories Act.  
 
(2) The depository shall conduct inspection of the records of the issuers or agents, as the case may be to 
ensure  that  the  records  of  dematerialised  securities  are  reconciled  with  all  the  securities  issued  by  the 
issuer and submit its report to the Board if there is failure by the issuers or agents in such reconciliation of 
records.] 
65 to 69.100[***] 
 

101[CHAPTER VIIA 
MISCELLANEOUS 

 

Power to call for information.  
70. The Board may from time to time call for any information, documents or records from the depository 
or its governing board or any shareholder or sponsor thereof and from depository participant.  
 

Directions by the Board.  
71. Without prejudice to exercise of its powers under the provisions of the Act, Depositories Act, 1996 
and  rules  and  regulations  made  thereunder,  the  Board  may,  either  suomotu  or  on  receipt  of  any 
information  or  during  pendency  of any  inspection,  inquiry  or  investigation  or  on  completion thereof, in 
the interest of public or trade or investors or the securities market, issue such directions as it deems fit, 
including but not limited to any or all of the following:─  
(a) directing a person holding equity shares or rights over equity shares in a depository in contravention of 
these regulations to divest his holding, in 10 such manner as may be specified in the direction;  
(b) directing transfer of any proceeds or securities to the Investor Protection Fund of a depository;  
(c)  debarring  any  depository,  any  shareholder  of  such  depository,  or  any  associate  and  agent  of  such 
shareholder,  or  any  transferee  of  shares  from  such  shareholder,  or  sponsor(s),  director(s)  and  key 
management  personnel(s)  of  the  depository  from  accessing  the  securities  market  and/or  dealing  in 
securities for such period as may be determined by the Board.  
 

Power to remove difficulties.  
72.  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  interpretation  or  application  of  the  provisions  of  these 
regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes or circulars.  
 

Power to specify procedures, etc. and issue clarifications.  
73. For the purposes of implementation of these regulations and matters incidental thereto, the Board may 
specify norms, procedures, processes, manners or guidelines as specified in these regulations, by way of 
circulars. 
 

 

 

                                                           
100 Omitted by the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-
9-2002. 
101 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 

 

33 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FIRST SCHEDULE 

FORMS 

FORM A 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and 

Participants) Regulations, 1996 

[See regulation 3] 

Application for grant of certificate of registration as depository 

Securities and Exchange Board of India, Mittal Court, ‗B‘ Wing, 1st Floor 

Nariman Point, Mumbai 400021 - India 

INSTRUCTIONS 

 

 

i.  This form is meant for use by each person acting as the sponsor of a depository. 

ii.  The applicant should complete this form, and submit it, along with all supporting documents to the 

Board at its head office at Mumbai. 

  iii.  This application form should be filled in accordance with the regulations. 

  iv.  Application  for  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  as  depository,  will  be  considered  provided  it  is 

complete in all respects. 

  v.  All answers must be typed. 

  vi.  Information  which  needs  to  be  supplied  in  more  detail  may  be  given  on  separate  sheets  which 

should be attached to the application form. 

  vii.  The application must be signed and all signatures must be original. 

 viii.  The application must be accompanied by an application fee as specified in the Second Schedule to 

these regulations and by the draft bye-laws. 

 

34 

  ix.  Every page of the form and every additional sheet must be initialled by the authorised signatory of 

the applicant. 

  x.  All copies of documents should be attested as true by an authorised notary. 

Items 1-6 pertain to an applicant acting as sponsor 

1.  Name,  address  of  the  registered  office,  address  for  correspondence,  telephone  number(s),  fax 
number(s), telex number(s) and the name of the contact person of the sponsor. 

2. Please indicate the name of the depository which is to be sponsored by the applicant. 

3. Please indicate the names of other depositories, if any, which have been sponsored by the applicant, or 
in which the applicant is acting as participant. 

4. Please indicate the category to which the sponsor belongs as per regulation 6. 

5. Please provide the following details of each person acting as sponsor : 

  (a)  Date  of  incorporation  or  establishment,  and  the  statute,  if  any,  under  which  established  (enclose 
certificate of incorporation, memorandum and articles of association or statutory provisions, if any). 

  (b)  Objects of the applicant. 

  (c)  Details of the nature of activities carried on by the applicant. 

  (d)  Details of affiliates and subsidiaries, and activities carried on by them. 

  (e)  Details of registration with the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the Reserve Bank of India 
or  with  any  foreign  regulatory  authority  of the  applicant, its  affiliates  and its  subsidiaries  (enclose 
documents supporting such registration). 

  (f)  Net worth of the applicant (enclose a copy of the latest audited financial statements). 

  (g)  Percentage and amount of the paid up capital of the proposed depository which the applicant is to 

hold. 

6. Declaration statement (to be given as below) by each person acting as sponsor. 

We  hereby  agree  and  declare  that  the  information  supplied  in  the  application,  including  the  attachment 
sheets, is complete and true. 

And we further agree that we will notify Securities and Exchange Board of India immediately any change 
in the information provided in the application. 

We further agree that we shall comply with, and be bound by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992, and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996, 
and such other guidelines/instructions which may be announced by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India from time to time. 

We  further  agree 
that  as  a  condition  of  registration,  we  shall  abide  by  such  operational 
instructions/directives as may be issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time. 

For and on behalf of............................................. 

  

  

Authorised signatory.................. 

(Name) 

Date: 

Place: 

  

  

(Name of the applicant) 

.......................... 

(Signature) 

Items 7-14 pertain to the depository, and should be filled in accordingly 

7.  Name,  address  of  the  registered  office,  address  for  correspondence,  telephone  number(s),  fax 
number(s), telex number(s) and the name of the contact person of the applicant. 

 

35 

8.  Date  of  incorporation  of  the  depository  (enclose  certificate  of  incorporation  and  memorandum  and 
articles of association) 

  (a)  Objects (main and ancillary) of the depository. 

  (b)  Authorised, issued, subscribed and paid-up capital of the depository. 

  (c)  Proposed net worth of the depository. 

  (d)  Details of proposed shareholding of each person acting as sponsor. 

9. The following details may be given for each director of the depository, and for its principal officer. 

  (a)  Name, age, nationality. 

  (b)  Details of educational and other qualifications. 

  (c)  Details of experience. 

  (d)  Details of other directorships held. 

  (e)  Details of any litigation connected with the securities market which has an adverse bearing on the 
business of the depository, involving the director or principal officer, and details of any conviction 
of the director or principal officer for a crime involving moral turpitude or of any economic offence 
for which the director or principal officer has been found guilty. 

10.  Please  indicate  the  details  of  staff  and  organisation  structure  that  is  proposed  to  be  set-  up  prior  to 
commencement of business. 

11. Details of infrastructure such as premises and automatic data processing, storage and back up systems 
and  procedures,  communication  systems  that  are  proposed  to  be  set-up  prior  to  commencement  of 
business. 

12. Internal evaluation and monitoring systems that are proposed to be set-up prior to the commencement 
of business. 

13. Arrangements for indemnification of beneficial owners that are proposed to be put in place, including 
details of insurance cover proposed to be taken prior to the commencement of business. 

14. Declaration statement (to be given as below). 

We  hereby  agree  and  declare  that  the  information  supplied  in  the  application  including  the  attachment 
sheets, is complete and true. 

And  we  further  agree  that,  we  will  notify  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  immediately  any 
change in the information provided in the application. 

We further agree that we shall comply with, and be bound by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992, and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996, 
and such other guidelines/instructions which may be announced by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India from time to time. 

We  further  agree 
that  as  a  condition  of  registration,  we  shall  abide  by  such  operational 
instructions/directives as may be issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time. 

  

For 
of............................................................................................................................................ 

and 

on 

behalf 

(Name of the applicant) 

36 

 

Authorised signatory.......................... 

(Name) 

Date: 

Place: 

  

  

 

 

FORM B 

............................... 

(Signature) 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories  

and Participants) Regulations, 1996 

[See regulation 7] 

Certificate of registration as depository 

 

I.  In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  sub-section  (1A)  of  section  12  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) read with the regulations made thereunder and with 
the Depositories 102[Act], 1996 (103[22] of 1996) the Board hereby grants a certificate of registration 
to................................as a Depository subject to the conditions specified in the Act, the Depositories 
104[Act] and the regulations made thereunder. 

  II.  Registration Number for the Depository is IN/SD/// 

Date : 

Place : Mumbai 

For and on behalf of the  
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Sd/- 

 

FORM C 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories  

and Participants) Regulations, 1996 

[See regulation 10] 

Application for grant of certificate of commencement of business as depository 

Securities and Exchange Board of India, Mittal Court, ‗B‘ Wing, 1st Floor  

Nariman Point, Mumbai 400021 - India 

INSTRUCTIONS 

 

 

i.  This form is meant for use by a depository granted a certificate of registration by the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India. 

ii.  The applicant should complete this form, and submit it, along with all supporting documents to the 

Board at its head office at Mumbai. 

  iii.  This application form should be filled in accordance with the regulations. 

                                                           
102 Substituted for ―Ordinance‖ by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997.  
103 Substituted for ―17‖, ibid. 
104 Substituted for ―Ordinance‖, ibid. 

 

37 

  iv.  Application for grant of certificate of commencement of business will be considered provided it is 

complete in all respects. 

  v.  All answers must be typed. 

  vi.  Information  which  needs  to  be  supplied  in  more  detail  may  be  given  on  separate  sheets  which 

should be attached to the application form. 

  vii.  The application must be signed and all signatures must be original. 

 viii.  Every page of the form and every additional sheet  must be initialledby the authorised signatory of 

the applicant. 

  ix.  All copies of documents should be attested as true by an authorised notary. 

  1.  Name and registration number of the applicant. 

  2.  Date of grant of certificate of registration to the applicant. 

  3.  Please indicate whether bye-laws have been approved by SEBI. 

  4.  Please indicate the details of staff and organisation structure that has been set-up. 

  5.  Please indicate the background and experience of key personnel. 

  6.  Internal  evaluation  and  monitoring  systems  including  details  of  background  and  experience  of 
personnel  involved  that  have  been  set-up  (enclose  copies  of  risk  management  and  operations 
manuals). 

  7.  Please provide the following details of the automatic data processing and communications systems : 

  (a)  details  of  hardware,  software  and  communications  systems,  their  capability,  function  and 

location; 

  (b)  details of data storage and back up procedures and sites, their capability, function and location; 

  (c)  details of disaster recovery systems and procedures. 

  8.  Please  indicate  whether  premises  and  automatic  data  processing  and  communications  systems  are 

owned, leased or rented (enclose copies of title lease or rental agreements). 

  9.  Please indicate arrangements that have been put in place in order to indemnify beneficial owners. 

  10.  Please enclose copy of insurance cover that has been taken. 

  11.  Please enclose a copy of the participation agreement to be entered into with different categories of 

participants. 

  12.  Please enclose a copy of the agreement to be entered into with the issuer, or with the issuer and his 

registrar. 

  13.  Please  enclose  a  copy  of  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the  participant,  as  the 

depository‘s agent, and the beneficial owners. 

  14.  Declaration statement (to be given as below) : 

We  hereby  agree  and  declare  that  the  information  supplied  in  the  application,  including  the  attachment 
sheets, is complete and true. 

And we further agree that, we will notify the Securities and Exchange Board of India immediately of any 
change in the information provided in the application. 

We further agree that we shall comply with, and be bound by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992, and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 
1996,  and  such  other  guidelines/instructions  which  may  be  announced  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India from time to time. 

 

38 

that  as  a  condition  of  registration,  we  shall  abide  by  such  operational 
We  further  agree 
instructions/directives as may be issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time. 

For 
of............................................................................................................................................ 

and 

on 

behalf 

Authorised signatory.......................... 

(Name) 

Date: 

Place: 

(Name of the applicant) 

  

  

FORM D 

............................... 

(Signature) 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories  

and Participants) Regulations, 1996 

[See regulation 14] 

Certificate of commencement of business as depository 

the  regulations, 

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Depositories 105[Act], 1996 ( 106[22] of 1996) read 
with 
the  Board  hereby  grants  a  certificate  of  commencement  of  business 
to..............................................................as a depository subject to the conditions specified in the Act, the 
Depositories 107[Act] and the regulations made thereunder. 

 

Date: 

Place :  Mumbai 

By order 

Sd/- 

For and on behalf of the  
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

FORM E 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories  

and Participants) Regulations, 1996 

[See108[Regulation 16/ Regulation 20A]] 

109[Application for Grant of Certificate of Initial/ 

Permanent Registration as Participant]  

Securities and Exchange Board of India, Mittal Court, ‗B‘ Wing,  

1st Floor Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 - India 

                                                           
105 Substituted for ―Ordinance‖ by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997. 
106 Substituted for ―17‖, ibid. 
107 Substituted for ―Ordinance‖, ibid. 
108 Substituted for ―regulation 16‖ by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.  
109 Substituted for the words ―Application for grant of certificate of registration as participant‖, ibid. 

 

39 

INSTRUCTIONS 

 

 

 

i.  This form is meant for use by an applicant for grant of registration as participant. 

ii.  The form should be filled in by the applicant and submitted to the depository in which it is acting as 
participant, who shall forward it, along with all supporting documents to the Board at its head office 
at Mumbai. 

  iii.  This application form should be filled in accordance with the regulations. 
  iv.  Application for grant of  110[certificate of initial or permanent] registration, as the case may be, will 

be considered provided it is complete in all respects. 

  v.  All answers must be typed. 

  vi.  Information  which  needs  to  be  supplied  in  more  detail  may  be  given  on  separate  sheets  which 

should be attached to the application form. 

  vii.  The application must be signed and all signatures must be original. 

 viii.  The application must be accompanied by an application fee as specified in the Second Schedule to 

these regulations. 

  ix.  Every page of the form and every additional sheet must be initialled by the authorised signatory of 

the applicant. 

  x.  All copies of documents should be attested as true by an authorised notary. 

  1.  Name,  address  of  the  registered  office,  address  for  correspondence,  telephone  number(s),  fax 

number(s), telex number(s) of the applicant and the name of the contact person. 

  2.  Please  indicate  to  which  of  the  categories  under  sub-regulation  (a)  of  regulation  19,  the  applicant 

belongs. 

  3. 

(a) Date  and  place  of  incorporation  or  establishment  and  date  of  commencement  of  business 
(enclose  certificate  of  incorporation,  memorandum  and  articles  of  association  or  statutory 
provisions, if any). 

  (b)  Details of the activities carried on by the applicant, in India or overseas. 

  (c)  Details of affiliates and subsidiaries of the applicant operating in  India, and activities carried 

on by them. 

  (d)  Details of registration with the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the Reserve Bank of 
India  or  with  any  regulatory  authority  overseas  of  the  applicant,  and  of  its  affiliates  and 
subsidiaries operating in India. 

  (e)  Date of commencement of business in India and overseas (please enclose copies of the Reserve 
Bank of India‘s permission, and if applicable copies of approvals from the Central Government 
to carry on activities mentioned above). 

  (f)  Type  and  number  of  beneficial  owners  on  whose  behalf  the  applicant  proposes  to  act  as 
participant  (Financial  Institutions,  Mutual  Funds,  Foreign  111[Portfolio]Investors,  Portfolio 
Managers,  Non-Banking  Finance  Companies,  Stock  Brokers,  Corporates,  Individuals,  or  for 
own account). 

                                                           
110 Substituted for the words ―registration as participant or renewal of such‖, ibid. 
 
111

Substituted for ―Institutional‖ by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 7-

3-2016. 

 

40 

  4.  Please give the name and SEBI registration number of the depository in which the applicant is to act 

as participant. 

  5.  112[ *** ] 

  6.  Please  state  whether  the  applicant,  his  partner,  director  or  principal  officer  is  involved  in  any 
litigation connected with the securities market which has an adverse bearing on the business of the 
applicant; or has at any time been convicted for any moral turpitude or at any time has been found 
guilty of any economic offence. 

  7.  Please also state whether there has been any instance of violation or non-adherence to the securities 
laws, code of ethics/conduct, code of business rules, for which the applicant or its parent or holding 
company  or  affiliate  may  have  been  subject  to  economic,  or  criminal  liability,  or  suspended  from 
carrying out its operations, or the registration revoked temporarily. 

  8.  Please indicate the net worth and paid-up capital in rupees crore as per the latest audited financial 

statements of the applicant. 

  9.  Please indicate services that the applicant is already providing to beneficial owners on whose behalf 
the  applicant  proposes  to  act  as  participant,  and  services  proposed  to  be  provided  to  beneficial 
owners. 

  10.  Please provide the following details regarding staff involved in activities as participant: 

  (i)  organisation structure; 

  (ii)  experience and background of key personnel. 

  11.  Please provide the following details regarding safekeeping and security systems and procedures : 

  (i)  risk control and operations manuals; 

  (ii)  give details of independent internal control mechanisms for monitoring evaluation and review 

of accounting, and reporting systems and procedures. 

  12.  Please  provide  the  following  details  regarding  automatic  data  processing  systems  and  record 

keeping : 

  (i)  details  of  hardware,  software  and  communications  systems,  their  capability,  function  and 

location; 

  (ii)  details of data storage and back up procedures and sites, their capability, function and location; 

 (iii)  details of disaster recovery systems and procedures. 

  13.  Details of insurance cover to be taken up. 

  14.  Please  indicate  the  applicant‘s shareholding  for  each depository  in  which  it  has such  shareholding 
and  whether  any  shareholding  is  proposed  to  be  acquired  in  the  depository  through  which  this 
application is being made. 

  15.  Please  enclose  a  copy  of  an  undertaking  from  the  depository  in  which  the  applicant  is  to  act  as 

participant that : 

  (a)  the applicant is eligible to act as participant in the depository through which this application is 
being  submitted  to  SEBI,  and  meets  with  the  eligibility  criteria  for  participants  specified  in 
these regulations and in the depository‘s bye-laws; 

                                                           
112 Omitted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations 2014 w.e.f 24.12.2014.  Prior to omission, it 
read as under: 
―5.  Please  indicate  the  names  and  SEBI  registration  numbers  of  all  other  depositories  in  which  the  applicant  is  acting  as 
participant and the applicant‘s SEBI registration number as participants in such depositories.‖  

 

41 

  (b)  the  applicant  has  adequate  automatic  data  processing  systems,  adequate  and  competent  staff, 
risk management systems, procedures and manuals, disaster recovery procedures, secure data 
storage and off site back up facilities, adequate communications links and insurance; to enable 
the applicant to fulfil its obligations as participants to the satisfaction of the depository; and 

  (c)  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the  participant  and  beneficial  owners  has  been 

submitted to the depository is in accordance with the depository‘s bye-laws. 

  16.  Declaration statement (to be given as below). 

We  hereby  agree  and  declare  that  the  information  supplied  in  the  application,  including  the  attachment 
sheets, is complete and true. 

And  we  further  agree  that,  we  will  notify  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  immediately  any 
change in the information provided in the application. 

We further agree that we shall comply with, and be bound by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act,  1992  and  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations, 
1996,  and  such  other  guidelines/instructions  which  may  be  announced  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India from time to time. 

We  further  agree 
that  as  a  condition  of  registration,  we  shall  abide  by  such  operational 
instructions/directives as may be issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time. 

For 
of............................................................................................................................................ 

and 

on 

behalf 

Authorised signatory.......................... 

(Name) 

Date: 

Place: 

(Name of the applicant) 

............................... 

(Signature) 

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

FORM F 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories  

and Participants) Regulations, 1996 

[See113[Regulation 20/ Regulation 20A]] 

114[Certificate of Initial/ 

Permanent Registration as Participant] 

 

 

I.  In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  sub-section  (1A)  of  section  12  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) read with the regulations made thereunder and with 

                                                           
113 Substituted for ―regulation 20‖ by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.  
114 Substituted for ―Certificate of Registration as participant‖, ibid. 

 

42 

the Depositories 115[Act], 1996 (116[22] of 1996) the Board hereby grants a certificate of registration 
to.................................................... 
...........................................  as  a  participant  subject  to  the 
conditions specified in the Act, the Depositories 117[Act] and the regulations made thereunder. 

  II.  Registration Number for the participant is IN/DP/ / / 
118[III.  This  certificate  of  registration  shall  be  valid  from  …..  to  ….  /  for  permanent,  unless 

suspended or cancelled by the Board.]  

 
Date : 

Place:  Mumbai 

By order  

Sd/- 

For and on behalf of the  
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

SECOND SCHEDULE 

119[see regulations 3, 7, 8, 8A 16, 20, 20A]  

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories  

and Participants) Regulations, 1996 

PART A 

Application fees payable by participant 

Registration fees payable by depository 

Application fees payable by sponsor 

APPLICATION FEES, REGISTRATION FEES, 120[ANNUAL CHARGE] AND ANNUAL FEES 
(Rs.)121[5,00,000] 
(Rs.) 122[15,000] 
(Rs.)123[1,00,00,000] 
(Rs.)124[2,00,000]  
(Rs.)125[50,00,000] 
(Rs.) 1,000 

Registration fees payable by participant 

Annual fees payable by depository 

Annual fees payable by participant 
126[Annual charges payable by depository            

2% of annual custody charges collected by depositories 
from issuers] 

                                                           
115 Substituted for ―Ordinance‖ by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 7-2-1997. 
116 Substituted for ―17‖, ibid. 
117 Substituted for ―Ordinance‖, ibid. 
118  Substituted  for  ―III.  Unless  renewed,  the  certificate  of  registration  is  valid  from......to.....‖  by  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and 
Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.  
119 Substituted for ―[See regulations 3, 7, 8, 16, 20]‖, ibid. 
120 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 23-5-2014. 
121 Substituted for "50,000" by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 23-5-2014. 
122 Substituted for "5,000" by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 23-5-2014. 
123 Substituted for "25,00,000" by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 23-5-2014. 
124 Substituted for "1,00,000" by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 23-5-2014. 
125 Substituted for "10,00,000" by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 23-5-2014. 
126 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 23-5-2014. 

 

43 

 

MANNER OF PAYMENT OF APPLICATION, REGISTRATION, 127[ANNUAL CHARGE] AND 

PART B 

Fees to be paid by 

Sponsor or depository 

Participant 

ANNUAL FEES 

Manner of payment 

A demand draft or bankers cheque payable to the ―Securities and Exchange 
Board of India‖ at Mumbai. 

Fees  to  be  paid  to  the  depository  in  which  the  payer  is  a  Participant.  The 
Depository shall forward the fees collected from participants to the Board, 
with  a  demand  draft  or  bankers  cheque  payable  to  the  ―Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India‖ at Mumbai. 

 

 

128[THIRD SCHEDULE 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories  

and Participants) Regulations, 1996 

[Regulation 129[20AA]] 

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PARTICIPANTS 

1. A participant shall make all efforts to protect the interests of investors. 

2. A participant shall always endeavour to— 

  (a)  render the best possible advice to the clients having regard to the clients needs and the environments 

and his own professional skills; 

  (b)  ensure that all professional dealings are effected in a prompt, effective and efficient manner; 

  (c)  inquiries from investors are adequately dealt with; 

  (d)  grievances of investors are redressed without any delay. 

3.  A  participant  shall  maintain  high  standards  of  integrity  in  all  its  dealings  with  its  clients  and  other 
intermediaries, in the conduct of its business. 

4.  A  participant  shall  be  prompt  and  diligent  in  opening  of  a  beneficial  owner  account,  dispatch  of  the 
dematerialisation request form, rematerialisation request form and execution of debit instruction slip and 
in all the other activities undertaken by him on behalf of the beneficial owners. 

5.  A  participant  shall  endeavour  to  resolve  all  the  complaints  against  it  or  in  respect  of  the  activities 
carried out by it as quickly as possible, and not later than one month of receipt. 

6. A participant shall not increase charges/fees for the services rendered without proper advance notice to 
the beneficial owners. 

                                                           
127 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 23-5-2014. 
128 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 1-10-2003. 
129 Substituted for ―20A‖ by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011. 

 

44 

7. A participant shall not indulge in any unfair competition, which is likely to harm the interests of other 
participants or investors or is likely to place such other participants in a disadvantageous position while 
competing for or executing any assignment. 

8.  A  participant  shall  not  make  any  exaggerated  statement  whether  oral  or  written  to  the  clients  either 
about  its  qualifications  or  capability  to  render  certain  services  or  about  its  achievements  in  regard  to 
services rendered to other clients. 

9.  A  participant  shall  not  divulge  to  other  clients,  press  or  any  other  person  any  information  about  its 
clients which has come to its knowledge except with the approval/authorisation of the clients or when it is 
required to disclose the information under the requirements of any Act, Rules or Regulations. 

10. A participant shall co-operate with the Board as and when required. 

11.  A  participant  shall  maintain  the  required  level  of  knowledge  and  competency  and  abide  by  the 
provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations and circulars and directions issued by the Board. The participant 
shall also comply with the award of the Ombudsman passed under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003. 

12.  A  participant  shall  not  make  any  untrue  statement  or  suppress  any  material  fact  in  any  documents, 
reports, papers or information furnished to the Board. 

13. A participant shall not neglect or fail or refuse to submit to the Board or other agencies with which it 
is  registered,  such  books,  documents,  correspondence,  and  papers  or  any  part  thereof  as  may  be 
demanded/requested from time to time. 

14.  A  participant  shall  ensure  that the  Board is  promptly  informed  about  any  action,  legal  proceedings, 
etc.,  initiated  against  it  in  respect  of  material  breach  or  non-compliance  by  it,  of  any  law,  Rules, 
regulations, directions of the Board or of any other regulatory body. 

15. A participant shall maintain proper inward system for all types of mail received in all forms. 

16. A participant shall follow the maker—Checker concept in all of its activities to ensure the accuracy of 
the data and as a mechanism to check unauthorised transaction. 

17.  A  participant  shall  take  adequate  and  necessary  steps  to  ensure  that  continuity  in  data  and  record 
keeping is maintained and that the data or records are not lost or destroyed. It shall also ensure that for 
electronic records and data, up-to-date back up is always available with it. 

18.  A  participant  shall  provide  adequate freedom  and  powers to  its  compliance officer  for  the  effective 
discharge of his duties. 

19.  A  participant  shall  ensure  that  it  has  satisfactory  internal  control  procedures  in  place  as  well  as 
adequate  financial  and  operational  capabilities  which  can  be  reasonably  expected  to  take  care  of  any 
losses arising due to theft, fraud and other dishonest acts, professional misconduct or omissions. 

20. A participant shall be responsible for the acts or omissions of its employees and agents in respect of 
the conduct of its business. 

21. A participant shall ensure that the senior management, particularly decision makers have access to all 
relevant information about the business on a timely basis. 

22. A participant shall ensure that good corporate policies and corporate governance are in place.] 

 

130[FOURTH SCHEDULE 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (DEPOSITORIES 

AND PARTICIPANTS) REGULATIONS, 1996 

[See regulation 9D] 

                                                           
130 Inserted by the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 11-9-2012. 

 

45 

 

 

 

Part-A 

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR DIRECTORS 

i. Meetings and minutes.  

 

Every director of the depository shall:  

 

a) not participate in discussions on any subject matter in which any conflict of interest  exists or arises, 
whether  pecuniary  or  otherwise,  and  in  such  cases  the  same  shall  be    disclosed  and  recorded  in  the 
minutes of the meeting;  

b) not encourage the circulation of agenda papers during the meeting, unless circumstances so require;  

c)  offer  their  comments  on  the  draft  minutes  and  ensure  that  the  same  are  incorporated  in  the  final 
minutes;  

d) insist on the minutes of the previous meeting being placed for approval in subsequent meeting;  

e) endeavour to have the date of next meeting fixed at each governing board meeting in consultation with 
other members of the governing board; 

f) endeavour that in case all the items of the agenda of a meeting were not covered for want of time, the 
next meeting is held within fifteen days for considering the remaining items.  

 

ii. Code of Conduct for the public interest directors.  

 

a) In addition to the conditions stated in Para (i) above, public interest directors of the depository shall, 
endeavour  to  attend  all  the  governing  board  meetings  and  they  shall  be  liable  to  vacate  office  if  they 
remain  absent  for  three  consecutive  meetings  of  the  governing  board  or  do  not  attend  seventy  five  per 
cent. of the total meetings of the governing board in a calendar year.  

 

b) Public interest directors shall meet separately, at least once in six months to exchange views on critical 
issues.  

 

iii. Strategic planning.  

 

Every director of the depository shall:   

a)  participate  in  the  formulation  and  execution  of  strategies  in  the  best  interest  of  the  depository  and 
contribute towards pro-active decision making at the governing board level;  

b)  give  benefit  of  their  experience  and  expertise  to  the  depository  and  provide  assistance  in  strategic 
planning and execution of decisions.  

 

iv. Regulatory compliances.  

 

Every director of the depository shall:  

 

46 

 a)  endeavour  to  ensure  that  the  depository  abides  by  all  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  Depositories  Act,  1996,  rules  and  regulations  framed  thereunder  and  the 
circulars, directions issued by the Board from time to time;  

b) endeavour compliance at all levels so that the regulatory system does not suffer any breaches;  

c) endeavour to ensure that the depository takes commensurate steps to honour the time limit prescribed 
by Board for corrective action;  

d) not support any decision in the meeting of the governing board which may adversely affect the interest 
of investors and shall report forthwith any such decision to the Board.  

 

v. General responsibility.  

Every director of the depository shall:  

a) place priority for redressing investor grievances; 

b)  endeavour  to  analyze  and  administer  the  depository  issues  with  professional  competence,  fairness, 
impartiality, efficiency and effectiveness;  

c)  submit  the  necessary  disclosures/statement  of  holdings/dealings  in  securities  as  required  by  the 
depository from time to time as per their bye-laws or Articles of Association;  

d)  unless  otherwise  required  by  law,  maintain  confidentiality  and  shall  not  divulge/disclose  any 
information  obtained  in  the  discharge  of  their  duty  and  no  such  information  shall  be  used  for  personal 
gains;  

e) maintain the highest standards of personal integrity, truthfulness, honesty and fortitude in discharge of 
their  duties  in  order  to  inspire  public  confidence  and  shall  not  engage  in  acts  discreditable  to  their 
responsibilities;  

f)  perform  their  duties  in  an  independent  and  objective  manner  and  avoid  activities  that  may  impair,  or 
may appear to impair, their independence or objectivity or official duties;  

g) perform their duties with a positive attitude and constructively support open communication, creativity, 
dedication, and compassion;  

h) not engage in any act involving moral turpitude, dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation or any 
other act prejudicial to the administration of the depository.  
 

CODE OF ETHICS FOR DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL 

Part-B 

 

The ‗Code of Ethics‘ for directors and key management personnel of the depository, is aimed at  

improving the professional and ethical standards in the functioning of depository thereby  creating better 
investor confidence in the integrity of the market.  

 

i. Objectives and underlying principles.  

The  Code  of  Ethics  for  directors  and  key  management  personnel  of  the  depository  seeks  to  establish  a 
minimum  level  of  business/  professional  ethics  to  be  followed  by  these  directors  and  key  management 
personnel,  towards  establishing  a  fair  and  transparent  marketplace.  The  Code  of  Ethics  is  based  on  the 
following fundamental principles:  

 

 

  Fairness and transparency in dealing with matters relating to the depository and the investors.  
  Compliance with all laws/rules/regulations laid down by regulatory agencies/depositories.  
  Exercising due diligence in the performance of duties.  

47 

  Avoidance  of  conflict  of  interest  between  self  interest  of  directors/  key  management  personnel 

and interests of depository and investors.  

 

ii. Ethics committee.  

For overseeing implementation of this Code, an ethics committee shall be constituted by  

every depository under the governing board. 

 

iii. General standards.  

a)  Directors  and  key  management  personnel  shall  endeavour  to  promote  greater  awareness  and 
understanding of ethical responsibilities.  

b) Directors and key management personnel, in the conduct of their business shall observe high standards 
of commercial honour and just and equitable principles of trade.  

c) The conduct of directors and key management personnel in business life should be exemplary.  

d)  Directors  and  key  management  personnel  shall  not  use  their  position  to  give/get  favours  to/from  the 
executive  or  administrative  staff  of  the  depository,  suppliers  of  the  depository,  or  any  issuer  company 
admitted to the depository.  

e) Directors and key management personnel shall not commit any act which will put the reputation of the 
depository, in jeopardy.  

f) Directors, committee members and key management personnel of the depository, should comply with 
all rules and regulations applicable to the securities market.   

 

iv. Disclosure of dealings in securities by key management personnel of the depository.  

a) Key  management personnel of the depository shall disclose on a periodic basis as determined by the 
depository  (which  could  be  monthly),  all  their  dealings  in  securities,  directly  or  indirectly,  to  the 
governing board/ethics committee/ Compliance Officer.  

b)  The  dealings  in  securities  shall  also  be  subject  to  trading  restrictions  for  securities  about  which  key 
management personnel in the depository may have non-public price sensitive information. Requirement 
laid  down  under  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India(Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations, 
1992 may be referred in this regard.  

c) All transactions must be of an investment nature and not speculative in nature. Towards this end, all 
securities  purchased  must  be  held  for  a  minimum  period  of  60  days  before  they  are  sold.  However,  in 
specific/exceptional  circumstances,  sale  can  be  effected  anytime  by  obtaining  pre-clearance  from  the 
Compliance Officer to waive this condition after recording in writing his satisfaction in this regard.  

Explanation. -‗securities‘ for the purpose of this Code shall not include units of mutual fund.  

 

v. Disclosure of dealings in securities by directors of the depository.  

a) All transactions in securities by the directors and their family shall be disclosed to the governing board 
of the depository.  

b)  All  directors  shall  also disclose  the trading  conducted  by  firms/corporate  entities  in  which they  hold 
twenty per cent. or more beneficial interest or hold a controlling interest, to the Ethics Committee. 

c) Directors who are Govt. of India nominees or nominees of Govt. of India statutory bodies or financial 
institutions and are governed by their own codes shall be exempt from this requirement. 

 

vi. Avoidance of conflict of interest.  

 

48 

a) No director of the governing board or member of any committee of the depository  shall participate in 
any decision making/adjudication in respect of any person /matter  in which he is in any way, directly or 
indirectly, concerned or interested.   

b) Whether there is any conflict of interest or not in a matter, should be decided by the governing board.  

 

 

 

vii. Disclosures of beneficial interest.  

All directors and key management personnel shall disclose to the governing board, upon assuming office 
and during their tenure in office, whenever the following arises:-  

a) any fiduciary relationship of self and family members and directorship/partnership of self and family 
members in any depository participant or registrar and transfer agent;  

b)  shareholding,  in  cases where the shareholding  of the  director,  directly  or  through  his  family  exceeds 
five per cent. in any listed company or in other entities related to the securities markets;  

c) any other business interests.  

 

viii. Role of the Chairman and directors in the day to day functioning of the depository.  

a) The Chairman and directors shall not interfere in the day to day functioning of the depository and shall 
limit their role to decision making on policy issues and to issues as the governing board may decide.  

b)  The  Chairman  and  directors  shall  abstain  from  influencing  the  employees  of  the  depository  in 
conducting their day to day activities.  

c)  The  Chairman  and  directors  shall  not  be  directly  involved  in  the  function  of  appointment  and 
promotion of employees unless specifically so decided by the governing board.  

 

ix. Access to information.  

a) Directors shall call for information only as part of specific committees or as may be authorised by the 
governing board.  

b)  There  shall  be  prescribed  channels  through  which  information  shall  move  and  further  there  shall  be 
audit trail of the same. Any retrieval of confidential documents/ information shall be properly recorded.  

c) All such information, especially which is non-public and price sensitive, shall be kept confidential and 
not be used for any personal consideration/ gain.  

d)  Any  information  relating  to  the  business/operations  of  the  depository,  which  may  come  to  the 
knowledge  of  directors/  key  management  personnel  during  performance  of  their  duties  shall  be  held  in 
strict confidence, shall not be divulged to any third party and shall not be used in any manner except for 
the performance of their duties. 

 

x. Misuse of position.  

Directors/committee members shall not use their position to obtain business or any  pecuniary benefit in 
the organization for themselves or family members.  

 

xi. Ethics committee to lay down procedures.  

a)  The  ethics  committee  shall  lay  down  procedures  for  the  implementation  of  the  Code    and  prescribe 
reporting formats for the disclosures required under the Code.  

b) The Compliance Officer shall execute the requirements laid down by the ethics committee.  

 

49 

 

While the objective of this Code is to enhance the level of market integrity and investor confidence, it is 
emphasized  that  a  written  Code  of  ethics  may  not  completely  guarantee  adherence  to  high  ethical 
standards. This  can  be  accomplished  only  if  directors  and  key  management  personnel of the depository 
commit themselves to the task of enhancing the fairness and integrity of the system in letter and spirit.  
 

FIFTH SCHEDULE 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (DEPOSITORIES 

AND PARTICIPANTS) REGULATIONS, 1996 

[See regulation 9F] 

 

 

MEASUSRES TO ENSURE AUTONOMY OF REGULATORY DEPARTMENTS 

 

In  order  to  ensure  the  segregation  of  regulatory  departments,  every  depository  shall  adopt  a    "Chinese 
Wall"  policy  which  separates  the  regulatory  departments  of  the  depository  from  the  other  departments. 
The  employees  in  the  regulatory  departments  shall  not  communicate  any  information  concerning 
regulatory activity to any one in other departments. The employees in regulatory areas may be physically 
segregated from employees in other departments including with respect to access controls. In exceptional 
circumstances  employees  from  other  departments  may  be  given  confidential  information  on  "need  to 
know" basis, under intimation to the Compliance Officer.  

 

For the purposes of the above, "regulatory areas" shall mean those departments of a depository which are 
mandated  by  law  or  those  entrusted  with  regulatory  powers  and  duties,  and  may  include  departments 
performing the following functions:  

(i) risk management;  

(ii) surveillance;  

(iii) participant registration; 

(iv) Issuer/ securities admission;  

(v) compliance;  

(vi) inspection;  

(vii) enforcement;  

(viii) arbitration;  

(ix) investor protection;  

(x) investor services.  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

50 

 

 

SIXTH SCHEDULE 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (DEPOSITORIES 

AND PARTICIPANTS) REGULATIONS, 1996 

[See regulation 14A] 

 

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR DEPOSITORIES 

 

 

1.  A  depository  shall  always  abide  by  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Depositories  Act,  1996,  Rules, 
Regulations, circulars, guidelines and any other directions issued by the Board.  

 

2. A depository shall take appropriate measures towards investor protection and education of investors.  

 

3. A depository shall treat all its applicants/participants in a fair and transparent manner.  

 

4. A depository shall promptly inform the Board of violations of the provisions of the Act, Depositories 
Act,  the  rules,  the  regulations,  circulars,  guidelines  or  any  other  directions  by  any  of  its  participants, 
issuer or issuer‘s agent.  

 

5.  A  depository  shall  take  a  proactive  and  responsible  attitude  towards  safeguarding  the  interests  of 
investors, integrity of the depository system and the securities market.  

 

6.  A  depository  shall  make  endeavors  for  introduction  of  best  business  practices  amongst  itself  and  its 
participants.  

 

7.  A  depository  shall  act  in  utmost  good  faith  and  shall  avoid  conflict  of  interest  in  the  conduct  of  its 
functions.  

 

8. A depository shall not indulge in unfair competition, which is likely to harm the interests of any other 
depository,  participants  or  investors  or  is  likely  to  place  them  in  a  disadvantageous  position  while 
competing for or executing any assignment. 

 

9. A depository shall be responsible for the acts or omissions of its employees in respect of the  

conduct of its business.  

 

10. A depository shall monitor the compliance of the rules and regulations by the participants  

and shall further ensure that their conduct is in a manner that will safeguard the interest of  

investors and the securities market.] 

 

 

51 

