THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART – III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

NEW DELHI,  JANUARY 15, 2015 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 15th January, 2015 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(PROHIBITION OF INSIDER TRADING) REGULATIONS, 2015 

No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/21/85.- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 read with 
clause (g) of sub-section (2) of section 11 and clause (d) and clause (e) of section 12A of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board hereby makes the 
following regulations, to put in place a framework for prohibition of insider trading in securities 
and to strengthen the legal framework thereof, namely:— 
 

CHAPTER – I 

PRELIMINARY 

 

 

(1) 

Short title and commencement. 
1. 
Regulations, 2015. 
 
(2) 
date of its publication in the Official Gazette. 
 

These  regulations  may  be  called  the  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading) 

These regulations shall come into force on the one hundred and twentieth day from the 

Definitions. 
2. 
expressions and derivations therefrom shall have the meanings assigned to them as under:–  

In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words, 

(1) 

“Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India; 

“Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 

 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 “compliance officer” means any senior officer, designated so and reporting to the 
board  of  directors  or  head  of  the  organization  in  case  board  is  not  there,  who  is 
financially literate and is capable of appreciating requirements for legal and regulatory 
compliance  under  these  regulations  and  who  shall  be  responsible  for  compliance  of 
policies, procedures, maintenance of records, monitoring adherence to the rules for the 
preservation  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information,  monitoring  of  trades  and  the 
implementation of the codes specified in these regulations under the overall supervision 
of the board of directors of the listed company or the head of an organization, as the case 
may be; 
 
(d) "connected person" means,- 

(i) any person who is or has during the six months prior to the concerned act been 
associated  with  a  company,  directly  or  indirectly,  in  any  capacity  including  by 
reason of frequent communication with its officers or by being in any contractual, 
fiduciary  or  employment  relationship  or  by  being  a  director,  officer  or  an 
employee  of  the  company  or  holds  any  position  including  a  professional  or 
business  relationship  between  himself  and  the  company whether  temporary  or 
permanent, that allows such person, directly or indirectly, access to unpublished 
price sensitive information or is reasonably expected to allow such access.  

(ii) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the persons falling within 
the  following  categories  shall  be  deemed  to  be  connected  persons  unless  the 
contrary is established, -  

 

(a). 
(b). 
(c). 

(d). 

(e). 
(f). 

(g). 

(h). 

(i). 
(j). 

an immediate relative of connected persons specified in clause (i); or  
a holding company or associate company or subsidiary company; or 
an intermediary as specified in section 12 of the Act or an employee or 
director thereof; or  
an investment company, trustee company, asset management company or 
an employee or director thereof; or  
an official of a stock exchange or of clearing house or corporation; or 
a member of board of trustees of a mutual fund or a member of the board 
of directors of the asset management company of a mutual fund or is an 
employee thereof; or  
a member of the board of directors or an employee, of a public financial 
institution as defined in section 2 (72) of the Companies Act, 2013; or 
an official or an employee of a self-regulatory organization recognised or 
authorized by the Board; or 
a banker of the company; or 
a concern, firm, trust, Hindu undivided family, company or association of 
persons  wherein  a  director  of  a  company  or  his  immediate  relative  or 
banker  of  the  company,  has  more  than  ten  per  cent.  of  the  holding  or 
interest; 

 
NOTE:  It  is  intended  that  a  connected  person  is  one  who  has  a  connection  with  the  company  that  is 
expected to put him in possession of unpublished price sensitive information. Immediate relatives and other 
categories of persons specified above are also presumed to be connected persons but such a presumption is 
a deeming legal fiction and is rebuttable. This definition is also intended to bring into its ambit persons 
who may not seemingly occupy any position in a company but are in regular touch with the company and 
its officers and are involved in the know of  the company’s operations. It is intended to bring within its 
ambit those who would have access to or could access unpublished price sensitive information about any 
company  or  class  of  companies  by  virtue  of  any  connection  that  would  put  them  in  possession  of 
unpublished price sensitive information.  
 
(e) 
public on a non-discriminatory basis; 
 

"generally  available  information"  means  information  that  is  accessible  to  the 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  to  define  what  constitutes  generally  available  information  so  that  it  is  easier  to 
crystallize and appreciate what unpublished price sensitive information is.  Information published on the 
website of a stock exchange, would ordinarily be considered generally available.   
 
(f)  
“immediate relative” means a spouse of a person, and includes parent, sibling, and 
child of such person or of the spouse, any of whom is either dependent financially on 
such person, or consults such person in taking decisions relating to trading in securities; 
 
NOTE:   It is intended that the immediate relatives of a “connected person” too become connected persons 
for purposes of these regulations. Indeed, this is a rebuttable presumption. 
 
(g) 

a connected person; or  

"insider" means any person who is: 
 
i)  
 
ii)  
information;  

in  possession  of or  having  access 

to  unpublished  price  sensitive 

 
NOTE:  Since “generally available information” is defined, it is intended that anyone in possession of or 
having access to unpublished price sensitive information should be considered an “insider” regardless of 
how one came in possession of or had access to such information. Various circumstances are provided for 
such  a  person  to  demonstrate  that  he  has  not  indulged  in  insider  trading.  Therefore,  this  definition  is 
intended  to  bring  within  its  reach  any  person  who  is  in  receipt  of  or  has  access  to  unpublished  price 
sensitive  information.  The onus  of  showing  that a  certain person  was in  possession of  or  had access  to 
unpublished price sensitive information at the time of trading would, therefore, be on the person leveling 
the charge after which the person who has traded when in possession of or having access to unpublished 
price sensitive information may demonstrate that he was not in such possession or that he has not traded or 
or he could not access or that his trading when in possession of such information was squarely covered by 
the exonerating circumstances.   

(h) 
"promoter"  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  under  the  Securities  and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 
2009 or any modification thereof; 
 

 

"specified" means specified by the Board in writing; 

"trading" means and includes subscribing, buying, selling, dealing, or agreeing to 

(i) 
"securities" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or any modification thereof except units of a mutual 
fund;  
 
(j) 
 
(k) 
“takeover  regulations”  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011  and  any 
amendments thereto; 
 
(l) 
subscribe, buy, sell, deal in any securities, and "trade" shall be construed accordingly ; 
 
NOTE:  Under the parliamentary mandate, since the Section 12A (e) and Section 15G of the Act employs 
the term 'dealing in securities', it is intended to widely define the term “trading” to include dealing. Such a 
construction is intended to curb the activities based on unpublished price sensitive information which are 
strictly not buying, selling or subscribing, such as pledging etc when in possession of unpublished price 
sensitive information.   
 
(m) 
trading; 
 
"unpublished  price  sensitive  information"  means  any  information,  relating  to  a 
(n) 
company or its securities, directly or indirectly, that is not generally available which upon 
becoming generally available, is likely to materially affect the price of the securities and 
shall, ordinarily including but not restricted to, information relating to the following: – 
 
(i) 
 
(ii) 
 
(iii) 

“trading day” means a day on which the recognized stock exchanges are open for 

financial results; 

dividends; 

change in capital structure;  

 
(iv)  mergers, de-mergers, acquisitions, delistings, disposals and expansion of business 

and such other transactions;  

changes in key managerial personnel; and 

 
(v) 
 
(vi)   material events in accordance with the listing agreement.  
 
NOTE:  It is intended that information relating to a company or securities, that is not generally available 
would be unpublished price sensitive information if it is likely to materially affect the price upon coming 
into the public domain. The types of matters that would ordinarily give rise to unpublished price sensitive 
information have been listed above to give illustrative guidance of unpublished price sensitive information.  
 

(2)  Words  and  expressions  used  and  not  defined  in  these  regulations  but  defined  in  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992),  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996) or the Companies 
Act,  2013  (18  of  2013)  and  rules  and  regulations  made  thereunder  shall  have  the  meanings 
respectively assigned to them in those legislation. 
 

CHAPTER – II  

 

RESTRICTIONS ON COMMUNICATION AND TRADING BY INSIDERS 

(1) 

 
Communication or procurement of unpublished price sensitive information. 
3. 
No insider shall communicate, provide, or allow access to any unpublished price 
sensitive information, relating to a company or securities listed or proposed to be listed, to any 
person including other insiders except where such communication is in furtherance of legitimate 
purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations.  
 
NOTE:  This provision is intended to cast an obligation on all insiders who are essentially persons in possession of 
unpublished price sensitive information to handle such information with care and to deal with the information with 
them when transacting their business strictly on a need-to-know basis.  It is also intended to lead to organisations 
developing practices based on need-to-know principles for treatment of information in their possession. 

 
(2) 
No person shall procure from or cause the communication by any insider of unpublished 
price sensitive information, relating to a company or securities listed or proposed to be listed, 
except  in  furtherance  of  legitimate  purposes,  performance  of  duties  or  discharge  of  legal 
obligations. 
 
NOTE:  This provision is intended to impose a prohibition on unlawfully procuring possession of unpublished price 
sensitive information.  Inducement and procurement of unpublished price sensitive information not in furtherance of 
one’s legitimate duties and discharge of obligations would be illegal under this provision. 
  
Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  regulation,  an  unpublished  price  sensitive 
(3) 
information may be communicated, provided, allowed access to or procured, in connection with 
a transaction that would:– 

 
(i) 
entail an obligation to make an open offer under the takeover regulations where 
the  board  of  directors  of  the  company  is  of  informed  opinion  that  the  proposed 
transaction is in the best interests of the company; 
 
NOTE:  It is intended to acknowledge the necessity of communicating, providing, allowing access to or 
procuring UPSI for substantial transactions such as takeovers, mergers and acquisitions involving trading 
in securities and change of control to assess a potential investment.  In an open offer under the takeover 
regulations, not only would the same price be made available to all shareholders of the company but also 
all  information  necessary  to  enable  an  informed  divestment  or  retention  decision  by  the  public 
shareholders  is  required  to  be  made  available  to  all  shareholders  in  the  letter  of  offer  under  those 
regulations.   
 
(ii) 
not attract the obligation to make an open offer under the takeover regulations but 
where  the  board  of  directors  of  the  company  is  of  informed  opinion  that  the  proposed 
transaction  is  in  the  best  interests  of  the  company  and  the  information  that  constitute 
unpublished price sensitive information is disseminated to be made generally available at 
least two trading days prior to the proposed transaction being effected in such form as the 
board of directors may determine. 
 

NOTE:  It is intended to permit communicating, providing, allowing access to or procuring UPSI also in 
transactions that do not entail an open offer obligation under the takeover regulations if it is in the best 
interests  of  the  company.  The  board  of  directors,  however,  would  cause  public  disclosures  of  such  
unpublished price sensitive information well before the proposed transaction to rule out any information  
asymmetry in the market. 

 
(4) 
For  purposes  of  sub-regulation  (3),  the  board  of  directors  shall  require  the  parties  to 
execute agreements to contract confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations on the part of such 
parties and such parties shall keep information so received confidential, except for the purpose of 
sub-regulation (3), and shall not otherwise trade in securities of the company when in possession 
of unpublished price sensitive information. 
 
Trading when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information. 
4. 
stock exchange when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information: 
 
including the following : – 
 

Provided that the insider may prove his innocence by demonstrating the circumstances 

(1) 

No  insider  shall  trade  in  securities  that  are  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed  on  a 

(i)  the  transaction  is  an  off-market  inter-se  transfer  between  promoters  who  were  in 
possession of the same unpublished price sensitive information without being in breach 
of regulation 3 and both parties had made a conscious and informed trade decision; 
 
(ii) 

in the case of non-individual insiders: –  
 
(a)  
the individuals who were in possession of such unpublished price sensitive 
information were different from the individuals taking trading decisions and such 
decision-making  individuals  were  not  in  possession  of  such  unpublished  price 
sensitive information when they took the decision to trade; and 
 
(b) 
appropriate and adequate arrangements were in place to ensure that these 
regulations are not violated and no unpublished price sensitive information was 
communicated  by  the  individuals  possessing  the  information  to  the  individuals 

taking  trading  decisions  and  there  is  no  evidence  of  such  arrangements  having 
been breached; 

the trades were pursuant to a trading plan set up in accordance with regulation 5. 

 
(iii) 
 
NOTE: When a person who has traded in securities has been in possession of unpublished price sensitive 
information, his trades would be presumed to have been motivated by the knowledge and awareness of such 
information in his possession. The reasons for which he trades or the purposes to which he applies the 
proceeds of the transactions are not intended to be relevant for determining whether a person has violated 
the regulation. He traded when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information is what would need 
to be demonstrated at the outset to bring a charge. Once this is established, it would be open to the insider 
to  prove  his  innocence  by  demonstrating  the  circumstances  mentioned  in  the  proviso,  failing  which  he 
would have violated the prohibition. 
 
(2)  
In the case of connected persons the onus of establishing, that they were not in possession 
of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information,  shall  be  on  such  connected  persons  and  in  other 
cases, the onus would be on the Board.  
 
(3) 
deem necessary for the purpose of these regulations. 
 

The Board may specify such standards and requirements, from time to time, as it may 

Trading Plans. 

(1) 

5. 
An  insider  shall  be  entitled  to  formulate  a  trading  plan  and  present  it  to  the 
compliance officer for approval and public disclosure pursuant to which trades may be carried 
out on his behalf in accordance with such plan.  
 
NOTE:  This provision intends to give an option to persons who may be perpetually in possession of unpublished 
price sensitive information and enabling them to trade in securities in a compliant manner.  This provision would 
enable the formulation of a trading plan by an insider to enable him to plan for trades to be executed in future.  By 
doing so, the possession of unpublished price sensitive information when a trade under a trading plan is actually 
executed would not prohibit the execution of such trades that he had pre-decided even before the unpublished price 
sensitive information came into being.  
 

(2) 

not  entail  commencement  of  trading  on  behalf  of  the  insider  earlier  than  six 

Such trading plan shall:–  
 
(i) 
months from the public disclosure of the plan; 
 
NOTE:  It is intended that to get the benefit of a trading plan, a cool-off period of six months is necessary. 
Such  a  period  is  considered  reasonably  long  for  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  that  is  in 
possession  of  the  insider  when  formulating  the  trading  plan,  to  become  generally  available.    It  is  also 
considered to be a reasonable period for a time lag in which new unpublished price sensitive information 
may come into being without adversely affecting the trading plan formulated earlier. In any case, it should 
be remembered that this is only a statutory cool-off period and would not grant immunity from action if the 
insider were to be in possession of the same unpublished price sensitive information both at the time of 
formulation of the plan and implementation of the same.  
  
(ii) 
not entail trading for the period between the twentieth trading day prior to the last 
day of any financial period for which results are required to be announced by the issuer of 
the securities and the second trading day after the disclosure of such financial results; 
 
NOTE:  Since the trading plan is envisaged to be an exception to the general rule prohibiting trading by 
insiders when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, it is important that the trading plan 
does not entail trading for a reasonable period around the declaration of financial results as that would 
generate unpublished price sensitive information.  
 
(iii) 
 
NOTE:  It is intended that it would be undesirable to have frequent announcements of trading plans for 
short periods of time rendering meaningless the defence of a reasonable time gap between the decision to 
trade and the actual trade.  Hence it is felt that a reasonable time would be twelve months.  
 
(iv) 
existence;  
 
NOTE:  It  is  intended  that  it  would  be  undesirable  to  have  multiple  trading  plans  operating  during  the 
same time period.  Since it would be possible for an insider to time the publication of the unpublished price 

entail trading for a period of not less than twelve months; 

not  entail  overlap  of  any  period  for  which  another  trading  plan  is  already  in 

sensitive information to make it generally available instead of timing the trades, it is important not to have 
the ability to initiate more than one plan covering the same time period.  
 
(v) 
set out either the value of trades to be effected or the number of securities to be 
traded  along  with  the  nature  of  the  trade  and  the  intervals  at,  or  dates  on  which  such 
trades shall be effected; and  
 
NOTE:  It is intended that while regulations should not be too prescriptive and rigid about what a trading 
plan should entail, they should stipulate certain basic parameters that a trading plan should conform to 
and within which, the plan may be formulated with full flexibility.  The nature of the trades entailed in the 
trading  plan  i.e.  acquisition  or  disposal  should  be  set  out.  The  trading  plan  may  set  out  the  value  of 
securities or the number of securities to be invested or divested.  Specific dates or specific time intervals 
may be set out in the plan.  
 
(vi)  
 
NOTE:  Trading  on  the  basis  of  such  a  trading  plan  would  not  grant  absolute  immunity  from  bringing 
proceedings  for  market  abuse.  For  instance,  in  the  event  of  manipulative  timing  of  the  release  of 
unpublished price sensitive information to ensure that trading under a trading plan becomes lucrative in 
circumvention of regulation 4 being detected, it would be open to initiate proceedings for alleged breach of 
SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  Relating  to  the  Securities  Market) 
Regulations, 2003. 

not entail trading in securities for market abuse. 

  
(3) 
The compliance officer shall review the trading plan to assess whether the plan would 
have any potential for violation of these regulations and shall be entitled to seek such express 
undertakings  as  may  be  necessary  to  enable  such  assessment  and  to  approve  and  monitor  the 
implementation of the plan.     
 
NOTE:  It is intended that the compliance officer would have to review and approve the plan.  For doing so, he may 
need the insider to declare that he is not in possession of unpublished price sensitive information or that he would 
ensure  that  any  unpublished price  sensitive  information  in  his possession becomes generally  available before  he 
commences executing his trades.  Once satisfied, he may approve the trading plan, which would then have to be 
implemented in accordance with these regulations.  
 

(4) 
The  trading  plan  once  approved  shall  be  irrevocable  and  the  insider  shall  mandatorily 
have to implement the plan, without being entitled to either deviate from it or to execute any 
trade in the securities outside the scope of the trading plan.  
 
Provided that the implementation of the trading plan shall not be commenced if any unpublished 
price sensitive information in possession of the insider at the time of formulation of the plan has 
not become generally available at the time of the commencement of implementation and in such 
event  the  compliance  officer  shall  confirm  that  the  commencement  ought  to  be  deferred  until 
such unpublished price sensitive information becomes generally available information so as to 
avoid a violation of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4. 
 
NOTE:  It is intended that since the trading plan is an exception to the general rule that an insider should not trade 
when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, changing the plan or trading outside the same would 
negate the intent behind the exception.  Other investors in the market, too, would factor the impact of the trading 
plan  on  their  own  trading  decisions  and  in  price  discovery.    Therefore,  it  is  not  fair  or  desirable  to  permit  the 
insider  to  deviate  from  the  trading  plan  based  on  which  others  in  the  market  have  assessed  their  views  on  the 
securities.  
 
The  proviso  is  intended  to  address  the  prospect  that  despite  the  six-month  gap  between  the  formulation  of  the 
trading plan and its commencement, the unpublished price sensitive information in possession of the insider is still 
not generally available.  In such a situation, commencement of the plan would conflict with the over-riding principle 
that  trades  should  not  be  executed  when  in  possession  of  such  information.  If  the  very  same  unpublished  price 
sensitive information is still in the insider’s possession, the commencement of execution of the trading plan ought to 
be deferred.  
 
(5) 
stock exchanges on which the securities are listed.     
 
NOTE:  It is intended that given the material exception to the prohibitory rule in regulation 4, a trading plan is 
required to be publicly disseminated.  Investors in the market at large would also factor the potential pointers in the 
trading  plan  in  their  own  assessment  of  the  securities  and  price  discovery  for  them  on  the  premise  of  how  the 
insiders perceive the prospects or approach the securities in their trading plan.  
 

Upon  approval  of  the  trading  plan,  the  compliance  officer  shall  notify  the  plan  to  the 

 
 

CHAPTER – III 

 

DISCLOSURES OF TRADING BY INSIDERS 

Every public disclosure under this Chapter shall be made in such form as may be 

 
General provisions. 
6. 
(1) 
specified. 
 
The disclosures to be made by any person under this Chapter shall include those relating 
(2) 
to trading by such person’s immediate relatives, and by any other person for whom such person 
takes trading decisions. 
 
NOTE:  It is intended that disclosure of trades would need to be of not only those executed by the person concerned 
but also by the immediate relatives and of other persons for whom the person concerned takes trading decisions.  
These  regulations  are  primarily  aimed  at  preventing  abuse  by  trading  when  in  possession  of  unpublished  price 
sensitive information and therefore, what matters is whether the person who takes trading decisions is in possession 
of such information rather than whether the person who has title to the trades is in such possession. 
 
(3) 
The  disclosures  of  trading  in  securities  shall  also  include  trading  in  derivatives  of 
securities and the traded value of the derivatives shall be taken into account for purposes of this 
Chapter: 
 
being in force.  
 
(4) 
minimum period of five years, in such form as may be specified.  
 
Disclosures by certain persons. 
7. (1)  Initial Disclosures.  

Provided  that  trading  in  derivatives  of  securities  is  permitted  by  any  law  for  the  time 

The  disclosures  made  under  this  Chapter  shall  be  maintained  by  the  company,  for  a 

(a).  Every  promoter,  key  managerial  personnel  and  director  of  every  company  whose 
securities are listed on any recognised stock exchange shall disclose his holding of 
securities  of  the  company  as  on  the  date  of  these  regulations  taking  effect,  to  the 
company within thirty days of these regulations taking effect; 

 

(b).  Every  person  on  appointment  as  a  key  managerial  personnel  or  a  director  of  the 
company or upon becoming a promoter shall disclose his holding of securities of the 
company  as  on  the  date  of  appointment  or  becoming  a  promoter,  to  the  company 
within seven days of such appointment or becoming a promoter. 
 

 (2) Continual Disclosures.  

(a). 

Every  promoter,  employee  and  director  of  every  company  shall  disclose  to  the 
company the number of such securities acquired or disposed of within two trading 
days  of  such  transaction  if  the  value  of  the  securities  traded,  whether  in  one 
transaction  or  a  series  of  transactions  over  any  calendar  quarter,  aggregates  to  a 
traded value in excess of ten lakh rupees or such other value as may be specified; 

 

(b). 

Every company shall notify the particulars of such trading to the stock exchange on 
which the securities are listed within two trading days of receipt of the disclosure or 
from becoming aware of such information. 
Explanation. — It is clarified for the avoidance of doubts that the disclosure of the 
incremental transactions after any disclosure under this sub-regulation, shall be made 
when the transactions effected after the prior disclosure cross the threshold specified 
in clause (a) of sub-regulation (2).  

 
Disclosures by other connected persons. 
(3) 
Any  company  whose  securities  are  listed  on  a  stock  exchange  may,  at  its  discretion 
require any other connected person or class of connected persons to make disclosures of holdings 
and  trading  in  securities  of  the  company  in  such  form  and  at  such  frequency  as  may  be 
determined by the company in order to monitor compliance with these regulations. 
 
NOTE: This is an enabling provision for listed companies to seek information from those to whom it has to provide 
unpublished price sensitive information. This provision confers discretion on any company to seek such information. 
For example, a listed company may ask that a management consultant who would advise it on corporate strategy 
and  would  need  to  review  unpublished  price  sensitive  information,  should  make  disclosures  of  his  trades  to  the 
company.  

 

CHAPTER – IV 

 

CODES OF FAIR DISCLOSURE AND CONDUCT 

(1) 

 
Code of Fair Disclosure.  
The board of directors of every company, whose securities are listed on a stock 
8. 
exchange, shall formulate and publish on its official website, a code of practices and procedures 
for  fair  disclosure  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  that  it  would  follow  in  order  to 
adhere to each of the principles set out in Schedule A to these regulations, without diluting the 
provisions of these regulations in any manner. 
 
NOTE:  This  provision  intends  to  require  every  company  whose  securities  are  listed  on  stock  exchanges  to 
formulate  a  stated  framework  and  policy  for  fair  disclosure  of  events  and  occurrences  that  could  impact  price 
discovery  in  the  market  for  its  securities.  Principles  such  as,  equality  of  access  to  information,  publication  of 
policies  such  as  those  on  dividend,  inorganic  growth  pursuits,  calls  and  meetings  with  analysts,  publication  of 
transcripts of such calls and meetings, and the like are set out in the schedule. 
 
(2) 
Every  such  code  of  practices  and  procedures  for  fair  disclosure  of  unpublished  price 
sensitive  information  and  every  amendment  thereto  shall  be  promptly  intimated  to  the  stock 
exchanges where the securities are listed.  
 
NOTE:  This provision is aimed at requiring transparent disclosure of the policy formulated in sub-regulation (1). 
 
Code of Conduct. 
9. 
The  board  of  directors  of  every  listed  company  and  market  intermediary  shall 
formulate a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by its employees and other 
connected persons towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum 
standards  set  out  in  Schedule  B  to  these  regulations,  without  diluting  the  provisions  of  these 
regulations in any manner. 
 
NOTE:  It  is  intended  that  every  company  whose  securities  are  listed  on  stock  exchanges  and  every  market 
intermediary registered with SEBI is mandatorily required to formulate a code of conduct governing trading by its 
employees.  The standards set out in the schedule are required to be addressed by such code of conduct. 

(1) 

 
(2) 
Every other person who is required to handle unpublished price sensitive information in 
the  course  of  business  operations  shall  formulate  a  code  of  conduct  to  regulate,  monitor  and 
report  trading  by  employees  and  other  connected  persons  towards  achieving  compliance  with 
these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in Schedule B to these regulations, 
without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner. 
 
NOTE: This provision is intended to mandate persons other than listed companies and market intermediaries that 
are required to handle unpublished price sensitive information to formulate a code of conduct governing trading in 
securities  by  their  employees.  These  entities  include  professional  firms  such  as  auditors,  accountancy  firms,  law 
firms,  analysts,  consultants  etc.,  assisting  or  advising  listed  companies,  market  intermediaries  and  other  capital 
market participants. Even entities that normally operate outside the capital market may handle unpublished price 
sensitive information. This provision would mandate all of them to formulate a code of conduct.   
 
(3) 
Every  listed  company,  market  intermediary  and  other  persons  formulating  a  code  of 
conduct shall identify and designate a compliance officer to administer the code of conduct and 
other requirements under these regulations. 
 
NOTE: This provision is intended to designate a senior officer as the compliance officer with the responsibility to 
administer the code of conduct and monitor compliance with these regulations. 
 

CHAPTER – V 

 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Any contravention of these regulations shall be dealt with by the Board in accordance 

 
Sanction for violations. 
10. 
with the Act. 
 
Power to remove difficulties. 
11. 
In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of 
these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes or 
circulars:                                               

The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading) 

 
Provided that where any direction is issued by the Board in a specific case relating to 
interpretation  or  application  of  any  provision  of  these  regulations,  it  shall  be  done  only  after 
affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the concerned persons and after recording 
reasons for the direction. 
 
Repeal and Savings. 
12. 
Regulations, 1992 are hereby repealed. 
 
(2)   Notwithstanding such repeal,— 
 
(a)  
the  previous  operation  of  the  repealed  regulations  or  anything  duly  done  or  suffered 
thereunder,  any  right,  privilege,  obligation  or  liability  acquired,  accrued  or  incurred  under  the 
repealed  regulations,  any  penalty,  forfeiture  or  punishment  incurred  in  respect  of  any  offence 
committed against the repealed regulations, or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in 
respect  of  any  such  right,  privilege,  obligation,  liability,  penalty,  forfeiture  or  punishment  as 
aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the repealed regulations had never been repealed; and  
 
(b) 
anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including any 
adjudication,  enquiry  or  investigation  commenced  or  show-cause  notice  issued  under  the 
repealed regulations prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the 
corresponding provisions of these regulations; 
 
(3)   After  the  repeal  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 1992, any reference thereto in any other regulations made, guidelines or 
circulars issued thereunder by the Board shall be deemed to be a reference to the corresponding 
provisions of these regulations. 
 

(1) 

 
 
 
 
 

SCHEDULE A 

[See sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8] 

Principles of Fair Disclosure for purposes of Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair 

Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information 

Uniform  and  universal  dissemination  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  unpublished  price 

Designation  of  a  senior  officer  as  a  chief  investor  relations  officer  to  deal  with 

Prompt  dissemination  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  that  gets  disclosed 

Prompt  public  disclosure  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  that  would  impact 
1. 
price discovery no sooner than credible and concrete information comes into being in order to 
make such information generally available. 
 
2. 
sensitive information to avoid selective disclosure. 
 
3. 
dissemination of information and disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information. 
 
4. 
selectively, inadvertently or otherwise to make such information generally available.  
 
5. 
market rumours by regulatory authorities. 
 
6. 
price sensitive information. 
 
Developing best practices to make transcripts or records of proceedings of meetings with 
7. 
analysts  and  other  investor  relations  conferences  on  the  official  website  to  ensure  official 
confirmation and documentation of disclosures made. 
 
8. 
 

Appropriate and fair response to queries on news reports and requests for verification of 

Ensuring that information shared with analysts and research personnel is not unpublished 

Handling of all unpublished price sensitive information on a need-to-know basis. 

 

 

 

 
 

SCHEDULE B 

 

[See sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9] 

 

Minimum Standards for Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor and Report Trading 

by Insiders 

 
The  compliance  officer  shall  report  to  the  board  of  directors  and  in  particular,  shall 
1. 
provide reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, if any, or to the Chairman of the board 
of directors at such frequency as may be stipulated by the board of directors. 
 
2. 
All information shall be handled within the organisation on a need-to-know basis and no 
unpublished  price  sensitive  information  shall  be  communicated  to  any  person  except  in 
furtherance of the insider’s legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of his legal 
obligations. The code of conduct shall contain norms for appropriate Chinese Walls procedures, 
and processes for permitting any designated person to “cross the wall”. 
 
3. 
Employees  and  connected  persons  designated  on  the  basis  of  their  functional  role 
(“designated  persons”)  in  the  organisation  shall  be  governed  by  an  internal  code  of  conduct 
governing dealing in securities.  The board of directors shall in consultation with the compliance 
officer specify the designated persons to be covered by such code on the basis of their role and 
function in the organisation. Due regard shall be had to the access that such role and function 
would  provide  to  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  in  addition  to  seniority  and 
professional designation. 
 
4. 
Designated  persons  may  execute  trades  subject  to  compliance  with  these  regulations.  
Towards this end, a notional trading window shall be used as an instrument of monitoring trading 
by  the  designated  persons.  The  trading  window  shall  be  closed  when  the  compliance  officer 
determines that a designated person or class of designated persons can reasonably be expected to 
have  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information.  Such  closure  shall  be  imposed  in 
relation  to  such  securities  to  which  such  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  relates.  
Designated persons and their immediate relatives shall not trade in securities when the trading 
window is closed.   

 
5. 
The timing for re-opening of the trading window shall be determined by the compliance 
officer taking into account various factors including the unpublished price sensitive information 
in question becoming generally available and being capable of assimilation by the market, which 
in any event shall not be earlier than forty-eight hours after the information becomes generally 
available.  The  trading  window  shall  also  be  applicable  to  any  person  having  contractual  or 
fiduciary  relation  with  the  company,  such  as  auditors,  accountancy  firms,  law  firms,  analysts, 
consultants etc., assisting or advising the company.   
 
 When the trading window is open, trading by designated persons shall be subject to pre-
6. 
clearance by the compliance officer, if the value of the proposed trades is above such thresholds 
as the board of directors may stipulate.  No designated person shall apply for pre-clearance of 
any  proposed  trade  if  such  designated  person  is  in  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive 
information even if the trading window is not closed.   
 
7. 
The  compliance  officer  shall  confidentially  maintain  a  list  of  such  securities  as  a 
“restricted list” which shall be used as the basis for approving or rejecting applications for pre-
clearance of trades. 
 
Prior to approving any trades, the compliance officer shall be entitled to seek declarations 
8. 
to the effect that the applicant for pre-clearance is not in possession of any unpublished price 
sensitive information. He shall also have regard to whether any such declaration is reasonably 
capable of being rendered inaccurate. 
 
The code of conduct shall specify any reasonable timeframe, which in any event shall not 
9. 
be  more  than  seven  trading  days,  within  which  trades  that  have  been  pre-cleared  have  to  be 
executed by the designated person, failing which fresh pre-clearance would be needed for the 
trades to be executed. 
 
10. 
The code of conduct shall specify the period, which in any event shall not be less than six 
months, within which a designated person who is permitted to trade shall not execute a contra 

trade.  The compliance officer may be empowered to grant relaxation from strict application of 
such  restriction  for  reasons  to  be  recorded  in  writing  provided  that  such  relaxation  does  not 
violate  these  regulations.  Should  a  contra  trade  be  executed,  inadvertently  or  otherwise,  in 
violation  of  such  a  restriction,  the  profits  from  such  trade  shall  be  liable  to  be  disgorged  for 
remittance to the Board for credit to the Investor Protection and Education Fund administered by 
the Board under the Act. 
 
The  code  of  conduct  shall  stipulate  such  formats  as  the  board  of  directors  deems 
11. 
necessary for making applications for pre-clearance, reporting of trades executed, reporting of 
decisions not to trade after securing pre-clearance, recording of reasons for such decisions and 
for  reporting  level  of  holdings  in  securities  at  such  intervals  as  may  be  determined  as  being 
necessary to monitor compliance with these regulations.  
 
12.   Without  prejudice  to  the  power  of  the  Board  under  the  Act,  the  code  of  conduct  shall 
stipulate the sanctions and disciplinary actions, including wage freeze, suspension etc., that may 
be imposed, by the persons required to formulate a code of conduct under sub-regulation (1) and 
sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9, for the contravention of the code of conduct. 
 
13. 
The code of conduct shall specify that in case it is observed by the persons required to 
formulate a code of conduct under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9, that 
there has been a violation of these regulations, they shall inform the Board promptly.  
 
 
 

U. K. SINHA 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

 
 

