SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(1 [PROHIBITION OF] INSIDER TRADING) 

REGULATIONS, 1992 

  
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board with the previous approval of the Central Government, hereby 
makes the following regulations, namely :— 

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (2[Prohibition of] 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992. 
(2) These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 3Gazette. 
 
Definitions. 
2. In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires :— 
  (a)  “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
 (b)  “body corporate” means a body corporate as defined in section 2 of the Companies Act, 1956 

(1 of 1956) ; 

  (c)  “connected person” means any person who— 

  (i)  is  a  director,  as  defined  in  clause  (13)  of  section  2  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of 
1956), of a company, or is deemed to be a director of that company by virtue of sub-clause 
(10) of section 307 of that Act or 

 (ii)  occupies  the  position  as  an  officer  or  an  employee  of  the  company  or  holds  a  position 
involving  a  professional  or  business  relationship  between  himself  and  the  company 
4[whether  temporary  or  permanent]  and  who  may  reasonably  be  expected  to  have  an 
access to unpublished price sensitive information in relation to that company: 
  5[Explanation  :—For  the  purpose  of  clause  (c),  the  words  “connected  person”  shall 
6[mean]  any  person  who  is  a  connected  person  six  months  prior  to  an  act  of  insider 
trading;] 

 

 (d)  “dealing  in  securities”  means  an  act  of  7[subscribing,]  buying,  selling  or  agreeing  to 

8[subscribe,] buy, sell or deal in any securities by any person either as principal or agent; 

                                                 
1 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002,w.e.f. 20-02-2002.  
2 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002,w.e.f. 20-02-2002.  
3 19-11-1992. 
4 Inserted by the SEBI (Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002,w.e.f. 20-02-2002. 
5 Inserted by  the SEBI (Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-02-2002.  
6 Substituted for “include” by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 29-11-2002. 
7 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-2-2002. 
8 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-2-2002.  

Page 1 of 22 

 

9[(e) “insider” means any person who,  
 

  (i)    is  or  was  connected  with  the  company  or  is  deemed  to  have  been  connected  with  the 
company  and  is  reasonably  expected  to  have  access  10[***]  to  unpublished  price  sensitive 
information in respect of securities of 11[a] company, or  

       (ii) has received or has had access to such unpublished price sensitive information ;] 
  (f)  “investigating authority” means any officer of the Board or any other person, not being a firm, 
body corporate or an association of persons, having experience in dealing with the problems 
relating to the securities market and who is authorised by the Board under Chapter III ; 

 (g)  “officer  of  a  company”  means  any  person  as  defined  in  clause  (30)  of  section  2  of  the 

Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) including an auditor of the company; 

 (h)  “person is deemed to be a connected person”, if such person— 

  (i)  is a company under the same management or group, or any subsidiary company thereof 
within the meaning of sub-section (1B) of section 370, or sub-section (11) of section 372, 
of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or sub-clause (g) of section 2 of the Monopolies 
and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969) as the case may be; or 

12 [(ii) is an intermediary as specified in section 12 of the Act, Investment company, Trustee 
Company, Asset Management Company or an employee or director thereof or an official 
of a stock exchange or of clearing house or corporation;] 

(iii)  is a merchant banker, share transfer agent, registrar to an issue, debenture trustee, broker, 
portfolio manager, Investment Advisor, sub-broker, Investment Company or an employee 
thereof, or is member of the Board of Trustees of a mutual fund or a member of the Board 
of  Directors  of  the  Asset  Management  Company  of  a  mutual  fund  or  is  an  employee 
thereof who have a fiduciary relationship with the company;  

 (iv)  is a Member of the Board of Directors or an employee of a public financial institution as 

defined in section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956; or 

 (v)  is an official or an employee of a Self-regulatory Organisation recognised or authorised by 

the Board of a regulatory body; or 

 (vi)  is a relative of any of the aforementioned persons; 
(vii) is a banker of the company. 
13 [(viii) relatives of the connected person; or 
14 [(ix) is a concern, firm, trust, Hindu undivided family, company or association of persons 
wherein  any  of  the  connected  persons  mentioned in  sub-clause  (i)  of clause  (c),  of  this 

                                                 
9 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f. 19-11-2008. 
10 The words “by virtue of such connection,” omitted by the SEBI Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, 
w.e.f. 20-2-2002.   
 
11 Substituted for the word “the” by the Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-2-2002.  
  
12 Substituted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-2-2002.  Prior to its substitution, 
sub-clause (ii) read as under:- 
“is an official or a member of a stock exchange or of a clearing house of that stock exchange, or a dealer in securities 
within the meaning of clause (c) of section 2 , and section 17 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 
1956), respectively, or any employee or such member or dealer of a stock exchange.” 
 
13 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-2-2002.  

Page 2 of 22 

 

regulation or any of the persons mentioned in sub-clause (vi), (vii) or (viii) of this clause 
have more than 10 per cent of the holding or interest;]] 

 

15 [(ha) “price sensitive information” means any information which relates directly or indirectly 
to a company and which if published is likely to materially affect the price of securities of 
company. 
  Explanation.—The following shall be deemed to be price sensitive information :— 
  (i)  periodical financial results of the company; 
 (ii)  intended declaration of dividends (both interim and final); 
(iii)  issue of securities or buy-back of securities; 
 (iv)  any major expansion plans or execution of new projects. 
 (v)  amalgamation, mergers or takeovers; 
 (vi)  disposal of the whole or substantial part of the undertaking;  
(vii) and significant changes in policies, plans or operations of the company;]  

  (i)  “relative” means a person, as defined in section 6 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); 
  (j)  “stock exchange” means a stock exchange which is recognised by the Central Government 
16[or  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India]  under  section  4  of  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956); 

17 [(k) “unpublished” means information which is not published by the company or its agents 

and is not specific in nature. 
  Explanation.—Speculative reports in print or electronic media shall not be considered as 
published information.] 

 

 
18[(l) “working day” shall mean the working day when the regular trading is permitted on the 

concerned stock exchange where the securities of the company are listed] 

                                                                                                                                                                   
14 Substituted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 29-11-2002. Earlier it 
was inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-02-2002. Prior to its substitution, 
sub-clause (ix) read as under:- 
“a concern, firm, trust, Hindu undivided family, company, association of persons wherein the relatives of persons 
mentioned in sub-clauses (vi) , (vii) and (viii) has more than 10 per cent of the holding or interest. ” 
15 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-2-2002.  
16 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-2-2002.  
17 Substituted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-2-2002. Prior to its substitution, 
clause (k) read as under:- 
“(k) Unpublished price sensitive information   means any information which related to the following matters or is of 
concern, directly or indirectly, to a company, and is not generally known or published by such company” for general 
information , but which if published or known, is likely to materially affect the price of securities of that company in the 
market – 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
(vi) 
(vii) 

financial results (both half-yearly and annual) of the company; 
intended declaration of dividend (both interim/final); 
issue of shares by way of public rights, bonus etc.; 
any major expansion plans or execution of new projects; 
amalgamations, mergers and takeovers; 
disposal of the whole or substantially the whole of the undertaking; 
such other information as may affect the earnings of the company. 

18 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f. 19-11-2008. 

Page 3 of 22 

 

  

CHAPTER II 

PROHIBITION ON DEALING, COMMUNICATING OR COUNSELLING 

 
Prohibition on dealing, communicating or counselling on matters relating to insider trading. 
3. No insider shall— 
  (i)  either on his own behalf or on behalf of any other person, deal in securities of a company listed 
on any stock exchange 19[when in possession of] any unpublished price sensitive information; 
or 

20 [(ii)  communicate 21[or] counsel or procure directly or indirectly any unpublished price sensitive 
information  to  any  person  who  while  in  possession  of  such  unpublished  price  sensitive 
information shall not deal in securities : 
  Provided that nothing contained above shall be applicable to any communication required in 
the ordinary course of business 22[or profession or employment] or under any law.] 

 

23 [***] 
24  [3A.  No  company  shall  deal  in  the  securities  of  another  company  or  associate  of  that  other 

company while in possession of any unpublished price sensitive information.] 

 
 
 
25 [Regulation 3A not to apply in certain cases. 
3B. (1) In a proceeding against a company in respect of regulation 3A, it shall be a defence to prove 
that it entered into a transaction in the securities of a listed company when the unpublished price 
sensitive information was in the possession of an officer or employee of the company, if : 
 (a)  the decision to enter into the transaction or agreement was taken on its behalf by a person or 

persons other than that officer or employee; and 

 (b)  such company has put in place such systems and procedures which demarcate the activities of 
the company in such a way that the person who enters into transaction in securities on behalf of 
the  company  cannot  have  access  to  information  which  is  in  possession  of  other  officer  or 
employee of the company; and 

                                                 
19 Substituted for “on the basis of” by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-02-2002. 
20 Substituted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-02-2002. Prior to its substitution 
clause (ii) read as under:- 
“(ii) communicate any unpublished price sensitive information to any person, with or without his request for such 
information, except as required in the ordinary course of business or under any law; or” 
21 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f. 19-11-2008. 
22 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 29-11-2002. 
23 Omitted by t the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 20-2-2002. Prior to its omission 
clause (iii) read as under:- 
“(iii) counsel or procure any other person to deal in securities of any company on the basis of unpublished price 
sensitive information.” 
24 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002. 
25 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 29-11-2002. 

Page 4 of 22 

 

  (c)  it had in operation at that time, arrangements that could reasonably be expected to ensure that 
the information was not communicated to the person or persons who made the decision and 
that no advice with respect to the transactions or agreement was given to that person or any of 
those persons by that officer or employee; and 

 (d)  the information was not so communicated and no such advice was so given. 
(2)  In  a  proceeding  against  a  company  in  respect  of  regulation  3A  which  is  in  possession  of 
unpublished price sensitive information, it shall be defence to prove that acquisition of shares of a 
listed company was as per the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of 
Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997.] 
 
Violation of provisions relating to insider trading. 
4. Any insider who deals in securities 26[***] in contravention of the provisions of regulation 3 27[or 
3A] shall be guilty of insider trading. 

  

CHAPTER III 

INVESTIGATION 

28 [Power to make inquiries and inspection. 
4A. (1) If the Board suspects that any person has violated any provision of these regulations, it may 
make inquiries with such persons or any other person as mentioned in clause (i) of sub-section (2) of 
section 11 as deemed fit, to form a prima facie opinion as to whether there is any violation of these 
regulations. 
(2) The Board may appoint one or more officers to inspect the books and records of insider(s) or any 
other  persons  as  mentioned  in  clause  (i)  of  sub-section  (2)  of  section  11  for  the  purpose  of  sub-
regulation (1).] 
 
Board’s right to investigate. 
5. (1) Where the Board, 29[is of prima facie opinion] that it is necessary to investigate and inspect 
the books of account, either records and documents of an insider 30[or any other person mentioned in 
clause  (i)  of  sub-section  (1)  of  section  11  of  the  Act]  for  any  of  the  purposes  specified  in  sub-
regulation (2), it may appoint an investigating authority for the said purpose. 
(2) The purpose referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be as follows: 
 (a)  to investigate into the complaints received from investors, intermediaries or any other person 

on any matter having a bearing on the allegations of insider trading; and 

 (b)  to investigate suo-motu upon its own knowledge or information in its possession to protect the 

interest of investors in securities against breach of these regulations. 

 
                                                 
26 The words “or communicates any information or counsels any person dealing in securities” omitted by the SEBI 
(Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002. 
27 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002. 
28 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002.  
29 Substituted for “on the basis of written information in its possession, is of the opinion” by the SEBI (Insider Trading) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002.  
30 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002.  

Page 5 of 22 

 

Procedure for investigation. 
6. (1) Before undertaking any investigation under regulation 5, the Board shall give a reasonable 
notice to insider for that purpose. 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the 
interest  of  investors  or  in  public  interest  no  such  notice  should  be  given,  it  may  by  an  order  in 
writing direct that the investigation be taken up without such notice. 
(3) On being empowered by the Board, the investigation authority shall undertake the investigation 
and inspection of books of account and the insider against whom an investigation is being carried 
out 31[an insider or any other person mentioned in clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 11 of the 
Act] shall be bound to discharge his obligations as provided in regulation 7. 
 
Obligations of insider on investigation by the Board. 
7.  (1)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  insider,  who  is  being  investigated  32[or  any  other  person 
mentioned in clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 11 of the Act], to produce to the investigating 
authority  such  books,  accounts  and  other  documents  in  his  custody  or  control  and  furnish  the 
authority with the statements and information relating to the transactions in securities market within 
such time as the said authority may require. 
(2) The insider 33[or any other person mentioned 34[in] clause (i) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of 
the Act] shall allow the investigating authority to have reasonable access to the premises occupied 
by such insider and also extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records, documents and 
computer data in the possession of the stock-broker or any other person and also provide copies of 
documents or other materials which in the opinion of the investigating authority are relevant. 
(3) The investigating authority, in the course of investigation, shall be entitled to examine or record 
statements of any member, director, partner, proprietor and employee of the insider 35[or any other 
person mentioned in clause (i) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act]. 
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer and employee of the insider to 
give  to  the  investigating  authority  all  assistance  in  connection  with  the  investigation,  which  the 
insider  36[or any other person mentioned in clause (i) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act] 
may be reasonably expected to give. 
 
Submission of Report to the Board. 
8. The investigating authority shall, within 37[reasonable time] of the conclusion of the investigation, 
submit an investigation report to the Board. 
 
Communications of findings, etc. 

                                                 
31 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002.  
32 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002.  
33 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002.  
34 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 29-11-2002.  
35 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002. 
36 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002.   
37 Substituted for the words “one month” by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-
2002.  

Page 6 of 22 

 

9. 38[(1) The Board shall, after consideration of the investigation report communicate the findings to 
the person suspected to be involved in insider trading or violation of these regulations. 
(2) The person to whom such findings has been communicated shall reply to the same within 21 
days; and 
(3) On receipt of such a reply or explanation, if any, from such person, the Board may take such 
measures as it deems fit to protect the interests of the investors and in the interests of the securities 
market and for the due compliance of the 39[provisions] of the Act, the regulations made thereunder 
including the issue of directions under regulation 11.] 
 
 
 
Appointment of Auditor. 
10.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  40[regulation  4A  and]  regulation  5,  the  Board  may 
appoint a qualified auditor to investigate into the books of account or the affairs of the insider 41[or 
any other person mentioned in clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 11 of the Act] : 
Provided that, the auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting authority as 
stated in regulation 5 and the insider shall have the obligations specified in regulation 7. 
 
42 [Directions by the Board. 
11. The Board may without prejudice to its right to initiate criminal prosecution under section 24 or 
any action under Chapter VIA of the Act, to protect the interests of investor and in the interests of 
the  securities  market  and  for  due  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  regulation  made 
thereunder issue any or all of the following order, namely : 

                                                 
38 Substituted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002. Prior to their 
substitution, sub-regulations (1) and (2) read as under:- 
   “(1) The Board shall after consideration of the investigation report communicate the findings to the insider and he 
shall be given an opportunity of being heard before any action is taken by the Board on the findings of the investigating 
authority. 
    (2) On receipt of the explanation, if any, from the insider, the Board may call upon the insider to take such measures 
as the Board may deem fit to protect the interest of the securities market and for due compliance with the provisions of 
the Ac, rules made thereunder and these regulations.” 
 
39 Substituted for “province” by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, 
w.e.f. 29-11-2002. 
40 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002. 
41 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002. 
42 Substituted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002. Prior to its substitution 
regulation 11 read as under:- 
“11. Directions by the Board – On receipt of the explanation, if any, from the insider under sub-regulation (2) of 
regulation (9) , the Board may without prejudice to its right to initiate criminal prosecution under section 24 of the Act, 
give such directions to protect the interest of investors and in the interest of the securities market and for due compliance 
with the provisions of the Act, rules made thereunder and these regulations, as it deems fit for all or any of the following 
purposes, namely:-  

(a)  directing the insider not to deal in securities in any particular manner; 
(b)  prohibiting the insider from disposing of any of the securities acquired in violation of these regulations; 
(c)  restraining the insider to communicate or counsel any person to deal in securities.”  
(d)   

 

Page 7 of 22 

 (a)  directing the insider or such person as mentioned in clause (i) of sub-section (2) of section 11 

of the Act not to deal in securities in any particular manner; 

 (b)  prohibiting the insider or such person as mentioned in clause (i) of sub-section (2) of section 11 

of the Act from disposing of any of the securities acquired in violation of these regulations; 

  (c)  restraining the insider to communicate or counsel any person to deal in securities; 
 (d)  declaring the transaction(s) in securities as null and void; 
  (e)  directing the person who acquired the securities in violation of these regulations to deliver the 

securities back to the seller : 
  Provided that in case the buyer is not in a position to deliver such securities, the market price 
prevailing at the time of issuing of such directions or at the time of transactions whichever is 
higher, shall be paid to the seller; 

 

(f)  directing the person who has dealt in securities in violation of these regulations to transfer an 
amount  or  proceeds  equivalent  to  the  cost  price  or  market  price  of  securities,  whichever  is 
higher to the investor protection fund of a recognised stock exchange.] 

 
 
43 [Manner of service of summons and notice issued by the Board. 
11A. A summons or notice issued by the Board under these regulations may be served in the manner 
provided in regulation 22 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding 
Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002.] 

 
  

44 [CHAPTER IV 

POLICY ON DISCLOSURES AND INTERNAL PROCEDURE  

FOR PREVENTION OF INSIDER TRADING 

  

Code of internal procedures and conduct for listed companies and other entities. 
12. (1) All listed companies and organisations associated with securities markets including : 
 (a)  the  intermediaries  as  mentioned  in  section  12  of  the  Act,  asset  management  company  and 

trustees of mutual funds ; 

 (b)  the self-regulatory organisations recognised or authorised by the Board; 
  (c)  the recognised stock exchanges and clearing house or corporations; 
 (d)  the public financial institutions as defined in section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956; and 
(e)  the  professional  firms  such  as  auditors,  accountancy  firms,  law  firms,  analysts,  consultants, 

etc., assisting or advising listed companies, 

                                                 
43 Inserted by the SEBI (Manner of Service of Summons and Notices by the Board) (Amendment) Regulations, 2007, w.e.f. 23-
04-2007.  
44 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002. 
 

Page 8 of 22 

 

shall frame a code of internal procedures and conduct as near thereto the Model Code specified in 
Schedule I of these Regulations 45[without diluting it in any manner and ensure compliance of the 
same]. 
(2) The entities mentioned in sub-regulation (1), shall abide by the code of Corporate Disclosure 
Practices as specified in Schedule II of these Regulations. 
(3) All entities mentioned in sub-regulation (1), shall adopt appropriate mechanisms and procedures 
to enforce the codes specified under sub-regulations (1) and (2). 
(4) Action taken by the entities mentioned in sub-regulation (1) against any person for violation of 
the  code  under  sub-regulation  (3)  shall  not  preclude  the  Board  from  initiating  proceedings  for 
violation of these Regulations. 
 
Disclosure of interest or holding by directors and officers and substantial shareholders in a 
listed companies - Initial Disclosure. 
13. (1) Any person who holds more than 5% shares or voting rights in any listed company shall 
disclose to the company 46[in Form A], the number of shares or voting rights held by such person, 
on becoming such holder, within 47[2 working days] of :— 
 (a)  the receipt of intimation of allotment of shares; or 
 (b)  the acquisition of shares or voting rights, as the case may be. 
(2) 48[Any person who is a director or officer of a listed company shall disclose to the company in 
Form B the number of shares or voting rights held and positions taken in derivatives by such person 
and his dependents (as defined by the company), within two working days of becoming a director or 
officer of the company.]  
Continual disclosure. 
(3)  Any  person  who  holds  more  than  5%  shares  for  voting  rights  in  any  listed  company  shall 
disclose to the company  49[in Form C] the number of shares or voting rights held and change in 
shareholding or voting rights, even if such change results in shareholding falling below 5%, if there 
has been change in such holdings from the last disclosure made under sub-regulation (1) or under 
this  sub-regulation;  and  such  change  exceeds  2%  of  total  shareholding  or  voting  rights  in  the 
company. 
50[(4)  Any  person  who  is  a  director  or  officer  of  a  listed  company,  shall  disclose  to  the 

                                                 
45 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f. 19-11-2008.  
46 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003 w.e.f. 11-07-2003. 
47 Substituted for the figure and words “4 working days” by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2008 w.e.f. 19-11-2008.  
48 Substituted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f. 19-11-2008. Prior to 
substitution sub-regulation (2) read as under:- 
“(2) Any person who is a director or officer of a listed company, shall disclose to the company in Form B, the number of 
shares or voting rights held by such person, within 4 working days of becoming a director or officer of the company.” 
49 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003 w.e.f. 11-07-2003.  
50 Substituted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f. 19-11-2008. Prior to 
its substitution sub-regulation (4) read as under:- 
“(4) Any person who is a director or officer of a listed company, shall disclose to the company in Form D, the total 
number of shares or voting rights held and change in shareholding or voting rights, if there has been a change in such 
holdings from the last disclosure made under sub-regulation (2) or under this sub-regulation, and the change exceeds Rs. 
5 lakh in value or 25,000 shares or 1% of total shareholding or voting rights, whichever is lower.” 

 

Page 9 of 22 

company  and  the  stock  exchange  where  the  securities    are    listed    in    Form    D,    the    total  
number  of  shares  or voting rights held and change in shareholding  or voting rights, if there 
has  been  a  change  in  such  holdings  of  such  person  and  his  dependents  (as  defined  by  the 
company)  from  the  last  disclosure  made  under  sub-regulation    (2)  or  under  this  sub-
regulation,    and  the  change  exceeds  Rs.  5  lakh  in  value  or  25,000  shares  or  1%  of  total 
shareholding or voting rights, whichever is lower.] 
 (5) The disclosure mentioned in sub-regulations (3) and (4) shall be made within 51[two] working 
days of : 
 (a)  the receipts of intimation of allotment of shares, or 
 (b)  the acquisition or sale of shares or voting rights, as the case may be. 
Disclosure by company to stock exchanges. 
(6)  Every  listed  company,  52[within  two  working  days]  of  receipt,  shall  disclose  to  all  stock 
exchanges on which the company is listed, the information received under sub-regulations (1), (2), 
(3) and (4) 53[in the respective formats specified in Schedule III.] 
54[E-filing. 
(7)  The  disclosures  required  under  this  regulation  may  also  be made  through  electronic  
filing  in  accordance  with  the  system devised by the stock exchange.] 
 
55[Action in case of default. 
14.  Without  prejudice  to  the  directions  under  regulation  11,  if  any person violates provisions 
of these  regulations,  he shall  be liable  for appropriate   action   under  Sections   11,  11B,  11D,  
Chapter  VIA  and Section 24 of the Act.] 
 
56 [Appeal to the 57[Securities Appellate Tribunal]. 
58 [15.] Any person aggrieved by an order of the Board under these regulations may prefer an appeal 
to the Securities Appellate Tribunal.] 
                                                 
51 Substituted for the number “4” by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f. 
19-11-2008.  
52 Substituted for the words “within five days” by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2008 w.e.f. 19-11-2008.  
53 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-07-2003. 
54 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f. 19-11-2008.  
55 Substituted by the . Prior to its substitution regulation 14 read as under:- 
“Violation of provision relating to disclosure. 
14.  (1)  A  person  who  violates  provisions  of  regulation  12  shall  be  liable  for  action  under  section  11  or  11B  and/or 
section 24 of the Act. 
(2) A person who violates provisions of regulation 13 shall be liable for action as specified in regulation 11 or sections 
11, 11B or action under Chapter VIA or section 24 of the Act.” 
 
56 Substituted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002. Prior to its substitution 
it was substituted by the SEBI (Appeal to the Securities Appellate Tribunal ) (Amendment) Regulations, 2000, w.e.f. 28-
03-2000, which read as under:- 
“12. Appeal to the Central Government - Any person aggrieved by an order of the Board made on and after the 
commencement of the Securities Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1999,(i.e., after 16th December, 1999), under these 
regulations may prefer an appeal to a Securities Appellate Tribunal having jurisdiction in the matter.” 
57 Substituted for “Central Government” by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 
w.e.f. 19-11-2008.  

Page 10 of 22 

 

 

59 [SCHEDULE I 

[Under regulation 12(1)] 

  

PART A 

MODEL CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PREVENTION OF  

INSIDER TRADING FOR LISTED COMPANIES 

1.0 Compliance Officer 
1.1 The listed company has appointed a Compliance Officer senior level employee who shall report 
to the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer. 
1.2  The  compliance  officer  shall  be  responsible  for setting  forth  policies,  procedures,  monitoring 
adherence  to  the  rules  for  the  preservation  of  “Price  Sensitive  Information”,  pre-clearing;  of 
designated employees’ and their dependents’ trades (directly or through respective department heads 
as decided by the company), monitoring of trades and the implementation of the code of conduct 
under the overall supervision of the Board of the listed company. 
Explanation : For the purpose of this Schedule, the term ‘designated employee’ shall include :— 
  (i)  officers comprising the top three tiers of the company management 60[***]; 
 (ii)  the  employees  designated  by  the  company  to  whom  these  trading  restrictions  shall  be 

applicable, keeping in mind the objectives of this code of conduct. 

1.3 The compliance officer shall maintain a record of the designated employees and any changes 
made in the list of designated employees. 
1.4 The compliance officer shall assist all the employees in addressing any clarifications regarding 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 and 
the company’s code of conduct. 
2.0 Preservation of “Price Sensitive Information” 
2.1  Employees/directors  shall  maintain  the  confidentiality  of  all  Price  Sensitive  Information. 
Employees/Directors shall 61[not] pass on such information to any person directly or indirectly by 
way of making a recommendation for the purchase or sale of securities. 
2.2 Need to know 
2.2-1 Price Sensitive Information is to be handled on a “need to know” basis, i.e., Price Sensitive 
Information  should  be  disclosed  only  to  those  within  the  company  who  need  the  information  to 
discharge their duty. 
2.3 Limited access to confidential information 
2.3.1  Files  containing  confidential  information  shall  be  kept  secure.  Computer  files  must  have 
adequate security of login and password etc. 
                                                                                                                                                                   
58 Regulation 12 renumbered as regulation 15 by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-
02-2002. 
59 Inserted by the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f. 20-02-2002.  
60 The words “and all employees in the finance department” omitted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 29-11-2002. 
61 Substituted for “no” by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 29-
11-2002. 

Page 11 of 22 

 

3.0 Prevention of misuse of “Price Sensitive Information” 
3.1  All  directors/officers  and  designated  employees  of  the  company  shall  be  subject  to  trading 
restrictions as enumerated below. 
3.2 Trading window 
3.2.1 The company shall specify a trading period, to be called “trading window”, for trading in the 
company’s securities. The trading window shall be closed during the time the information referred 
to in para 3.2.3 is unpublished. 
3.2.2 When the trading window is closed, the employees/directors shall not trade in the company’s 
securities in such period. 
3.2.3 The trading window shall be, inter alia, closed at the time :— 
 (a)  Declaration of financial results (quarterly, half-yearly and annually). 
 (b)  Declaration of dividends (interim and final). 
  (c)  Issue of securities by way of public/rights/bonus etc. 
 (d)  Any major expansion plans or execution of new projects. 
  (e)  Amalgamation, mergers, takeovers and buy-back. 
  (f)  Disposal of whole or substantially whole of the undertaking. 
 (g)  Any changes in policies, plans or operations of the company. 
62  [3.2.3A  The  time  for  commencement  of  closing  of  trading  window  shall  be  decided  by  the 
company.] 
3.2-4 The trading window shall be opened 24 hours after the information referred to in para 3.2.3 is 
made public. 
3.2-5 All directors/officers/designated employees of the company shall conduct all their dealings in 
the securities of the Company only in a valid trading window and shall not deal in any transaction 
involving the purchase or sale of the company’s securities during the periods when trading window 
is closed, as referred to in para 3.2.3 or during any other period as may be specified by the Company 
from time to time. 
3.2-6 In case of ESOPs, exercise of option may be allowed in the period when the trading window is 
closed. However, sale of shares allotted on exercise of ESOPs shall 63[not] be allowed when trading 
window is closed. 
3.3 Pre-clearance of trades 
3.3.1 All directors/officers/designated employees of the company 64[and their dependents as defined 
by the company] who intend to deal in the securities of the company (above a minimum threshold 
limit  to  be  decided  by  the  company)  should  pre-clear  the  transaction  as  per  the  pre-dealing 
procedure as described hereunder. 
3.3.2 An application may be made in such form as the company may notify in this regard, to the 
Compliance  Officer 
the  designated 
employee/officer/director  intends  to  deal  in,  the  details  as  to  the  depository  with  which  he  has  a 
security account, the details as to the securities in such depository mode and such other details as 
may be required by any rule made by the company in this behalf. 
                                                 
62 Insider by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 29-11-2002. 
63 Substituted for “no” by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 29-11-2002. 
64 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f. 19-11-2008.  

the  estimated  number  of  securities 

Page 12 of 22 

indicating 

that 

 

3.3.3  An  undertaking  shall  be  executed  in  favour  of  the  company  by  such  designated 
employee/director/officer incorporating, inter alia, the following clauses, as may be applicable : 
 (a)  That  the  employee/director/officer  does  not  have  any  access  or  has  not  received  “Price 

Sensitive Information” upto the time of signing the undertaking. 

 (b)  That  in  case  the  employee/director/officer  has  access  to  or  receives  “Price  Sensitive 
Information” after the signing of the undertaking but before the execution of the transaction 
he/she shall inform the Compliance Officer of the change in his position and that he/she would 
completely refrain from dealing in the securities of the company till the time such information 
becomes public. 

  (c)  That  he/she  has  not  contravened  the  code  of  conduct  for  prevention  of  insider  trading  as 

notified by the company from time to time. 

 (d)  That he/she has made a full and true disclosure in the matter. 
4.0 Other restrictions 
4.1  All  directors/officers/designated  employees  65[and  their  dependents  (as  defined  by  the 
company)] shall execute their order in respect of securities of the company within one week after the 
approval of pre-clearance is given. If the order is not executed within one week after the approval is 
given, the employee/director must pre-clear the transaction again. 
66[4.2 All  directors/  officers/  designated  employees  who  buy  or sell any number of shares of the 
company shall not enter into an opposite transaction i.e. sell or  buy  any  number  of  shares during 
the next six months  following  the prior transaction.  All directors/  officers/  designated  employees 
shall also not take positions   in   derivative   transactions   in   the   shares   of   the company at any 
time. 
In the case of subscription in the primary market (initial public offers),  
 
period would commence   when t h e  s e c u r i t i e s    are a c t u a l l y  allotted.] 
4.3 In case the sale of securities is necessitated by personal emergency, the holding period may be 
waived by the compliance officer after recording in writing his/her reasons in this regard. 
5.0 Reporting Requirements for transactions in securities 
5.1 All directors/officers/designated employees of the listed company shall be required to forward 
following  details  of  their  securities  transactions  including  the  statement  of  dependent  family 
members (as defined by the company) to the Compliance Officer: 
 (a)  all  holdings  in  securities  of  that  company  by  directors/officers/designated  employees  at  the 

above  mentioned 
their  investments  for  a  minimum  period  of  30  days.    The  holding 

entities  shall   hold  

the  

time of joining the company; 

 (b)  periodic statement of any transactions in securities (the periodicity of reporting may be defined 
by the company. The company may also be free to decide whether reporting is required for 
trades where pre-clearance is also required); and 

                                                 
65 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f. 19-11-2008. 
66 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f. 19-11-2008. Prior to its 
substitution clause 4.2 read as under:- 
 
“4.2. All directors/officers/designated employees shall hold their investments in securities for a minimum period of 30 
days in order to be considered as being held for investment purposes. The holding period shall also apply to subscription 
in the primary market (IPOs). In the case of IPOs, the holding period would commence when the securities are actually 
allotted.” 

Page 13 of 22 

 

  (c)  annual statement of all holdings in securities. 
5.2 The Compliance Officer shall maintain records of all the declarations in the appropriate form 
given by the directors/officers/designated employees for a minimum period of three years. 
5.3 The Compliance Officer shall place before the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer or a 
committee  specified  by  the  company,  on  a  monthly  basis  all  the  details  of  the  dealing  in  the 
securities by employees/director/officer of the company and the accompanying documents that such 
persons had executed under the pre-dealing procedure as envisaged in this code. 
6.0 Penalty for contravention of code of conduct 
6.1  Any  employee/officer/director  who  trades  in  securities  or  communicates  any  information  for 
trading in securities in contravention of the code of conduct may be penalised and appropriate action 
may be taken by the company. 
6.2  Employees/officers/directors  of  the  company  who  violate  the  code  of  conduct  shall  also  be 
subject  to  disciplinary  action  by  the  company,  which  may  include  wage  freeze,  suspension, 
67[ineligible] for future participation in employee stock option 68[plans], etc. 
6.3 The action by the company shall not preclude SEBI from taking any action in case of violation 
of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992. 
7.0  Information  to  SEBI  in  case  of  violation  of  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading) 
Regulations, 1992 
7.1  In  case  it  is  observed  by  the  company/Compliance  Officer  that  there  has  been  a  violation  of 
SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992. SEBI shall be informed by the company. 

  

PART B 

MODEL CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PREVENTION OF  

INSIDER TRADING FOR OTHER ENTITIES 

1.0 Compliance Officer 
1.1  The  organisation/firm  has  a  Compliance  Officer  (senior  level  employee)  reporting  to  the 
Managing Partner/Chief Executive Officer. 
1.2  The  Compliance  Officer  shall  be  responsible  for  setting  forth  policies  and  procedures  and 
monitoring adherence to the rules for the preservation of “Price Sensitive Information”, pre-clearing 
of all designated employees and their dependents trades (directly or through respective department 
heads as decided by the organisation/firm), monitoring of trades and the implementation of the code 
of conduct under the overall supervision of the partners/proprietors. 
1.3 The Compliance Officer shall also assist all the employees/directors/partners in addressing any 
clarifications  regarding  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  1992  and  the 
organisation/firm’s code of conduct. 
1.4 The Compliance Officer shall maintain a record of the designated employees and any changes 
made in the list of designated employees. 
2.0 Preservation of “Price Sensitive Information” 
                                                 
67 Substituted for “intelligibility” by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, 
w.e.f. 29-11-2002. 
68 Substituted for “plants” by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 
29-11-2002. 

Page 14 of 22 

 

information,  considered  “inside  areas”  from 

2.1 Employees/directors/partners shall maintain the confidentiality of all Price Sensitive Information 
69[.] Employees/directors/partners must not pass on such information directly or indirectly by way of 
making a recommendation for the purchase 70[or] sale of securities. 
2.2 Need to know 
2.2.1 Price Sensitive Information is to be handled on a “need to know” basis, i.e., Price Sensitive 
Information should be disclosed only to those within the organisation/firm who need the information 
to discharge their duty and whose possession of such information will not give rise to a conflict of 
interest or appearance of misuse of the information. 
2.3 Limited access to confidential information 
2.3-1  Files  containing  confidential  information  shall  be  kept  secure.  Computer  files  must  have 
adequate security of login and password etc. 
2.4 Chinese Wall 
2.4.1 To prevent the misuse of confidential information the organisation/firm shall adopt a “Chinese 
Wall” policy which separates those areas of the organisation/firm which routinely have access to 
confidential 
those  areas  which  deal  with 
sale/marketing/investment  advise  or  other  departments  providing  support  services,  considered 
“public areas”. 
2.4.2 The employees in the inside area shall not communicate any Price Sensitive Information to 
any one in public area. 
2.4.3 The employees in inside area may be physically segregated from employees in public area. 
2.4.4  Demarcation  of  the  various  departments  as  inside  area  may  be  implemented  by  the 
organisation/firm. 
2.4.5 In exceptional circumstances employees from the public areas may be brought “over the wall” 
and given confidential information on the basis of “need to know” criteria, under intimation to the 
compliance officer. 
3.0 Prevention of misuse of Price Sensitive Information 
3.1 Employees/directors/partners shall not use Price Sensitive Information to buy or sell securities of 
any sort, whether for their own account, their relative’s account, organisation/firm’s account or a 
client’s account. The following trading restrictions shall apply for trading in securities. 
3.2 Pre-clearance of trades 
3.2.1 All directors/officers/designated employees of the organisation/firm who intend to deal in the 
securities  of  the  client  company  (above  a  minimum  threshold  limit  to  be  determined  by  the 
organisation/firm)  shall  pre-clear  the  transactions  as  per  the  pre-dealing  procedure  as  described 
hereunder. 
3.2.2  An  application  may  be  made  in  such  form  as  the  organisation/firm  may  specify  in  71[this] 
regard, to the Compliance Officer indicating the name and estimated number of securities that the 
designated employees/director/partner intends to deal in, the details as to the depository with which 

                                                 
69 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 29-11-2002. 
70 Substituted for “of” by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 29-
11-2002.  
 
71 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 29-11-2002.  

Page 15 of 22 

 

he  has  a  security  account the  details  as  to  the  securities  in such  depository  mode  and  such  other 
details as may be required by any rule made by the organisation/firm in this behalf. 
3.2.3  An  undertaking  shall  be  executed  in  favour  of  the  organisation/firm  by  such  designated 
employee/partners/directors incorporating, inter alia, the following clauses, as may be applicable: 
  (i)  That the designated employee/director/partner does not have any access or has not received any 

“Price Sensitive Information” upto the time of signing the undertaking. 

 (ii)  That in case the designated employee/director/partner has access to or receives “Price Sensitive 
Information” after the signing of the undertaking but before the execution of the transaction 
he/she shall inform the Compliance Officer of the change in his position and that he/she would 
completely  refrain  from  dealing  in  the  securities  of  the  client  company  till  the  time  such 
information becomes public. 

(iii)  That  he/she  has  not  contravened  the  code  of  conduct  for  prevention  of  insider  trading  as 

specified by the organisation/firm from time to time. 

 (iv)  That he/she has made a full and true disclosure in the matter. 
4.0 Restricted/Grey list  
4.1  In  order  to  monitor  chinese  wall  procedures  and  trading  in  client  securities  based  on  inside 
information, the organisation/firm shall restrict trading in certain securities and designate such list as 
restricted/grey list. 
4.2 Security of a listed company shall be put on the restricted/grey list if the organisation/firm is 
handling any assignment for the listed company or is preparing appraisal report or is handling credit 
rating assignment and is privy to Price Sensitive Information. 
4.3 Any security which is being purchased or sold or is being considered for purchase or sale by the 
organisation/firm  on  behalf  of  its  clients/schemes  of  mutual  funds,  etc.  shall  be  put  on  the 
restricted/grey list. 
4.4  As  the  restricted  list  itself  is  a  highly  confidential  information  it  shall  not  be  communicated 
directly,  or  indirectly  to  anyone  outside  the  organisation/firm.  The  Restricted  List  shall  be 
maintained by Compliance Officer. 
4.5  When  any  securities  are  on  the  Restricted  List-trading  in  these  securities  by  designated 
employees/directors/partners may 72[be] blocked or may be disallowed at the time of pre-clearance. 
5.0 Other restrictions  
5.1 All directors/designated employees/partners shall execute their order within one week after the 
approval of pre-clearance is given. If the order is not executed within one week after approval is 
given the employee/director/partners must 73[pre] clear the transaction again. 
5.2 All directors/officers/designated employees/partners shall hold their investments for a minimum 
period of 30 days in order to be considered as being held for investment purposes. 
5.3 The holding period shall also apply to purchases in the primary market (IPOs). In the case of 
IPOs, the holding period would commence when the securities are actually allotted. 
5.4 In case the sale of securities is necessitated by personal emergency, the holding period may be 
waived by the Compliance Officer after recording in writing his/her reasons in this regard. 

                                                 
72 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 29-11-2002. 
73 Substituted for “are” by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 29-
11-2002.  

Page 16 of 22 

 

5.5  Analysts,  if  any,  employed  with  the  organisation/firm  while  preparing  research  reports  of  a 
client company(s) shall disclose their shareholdings/interest in such company(s) to the Compliance 
Officer. 
5.6 Analysts who prepare research report of a listed company shall not trade in securities of that 
company for thirty days from preparation of such report. 
6.0 Reporting Requirements for transactions in securities  
6.1 All directors/designated employees/partners of the organisation/firm shall be required to forward 
following  details  of  their  securities  transactions  including  the  statement  of  dependent  family 
members (as defined by the organisation/firm) to the Compliance Officer:— 
 (a)  all  holdings  in  securities  by  directors/officers/designated  employees/partners  at  the  time  of 

joining the organisation; 

 (b)  periodic statement of any transactions in securities (the periodicity of reporting may be defined 
by the firm or organisation. The organisation/firm may also be free to decide whether reporting 
is required for trades where pre-clearance is also required; 

  (c)  annual statement of all holdings in securities. 
6.2  The  Compliance  Officer  shall  maintain  records  of  all  the  declarations  given  by  the 
directors/designated  employees/partners  in  the  appropriate  form  for  a  minimum  period  of  three 
years. 
6.3 The Compliance Officer shall place before the Chief Executive Officer/Partner or a committee 
notified by the organisation/firm, on a monthly basis all the details of the dealing in the securities by 
designated employees/directors/partners of the organisation/firm and the accompanying documents 
that such persons had executed under the pre-dealing procedure as envisaged in this code. 
7.0 Penalty for contravention of code of conduct  
7.1  Any  employee/partner/director  who  trades  in  securities  or  communicates  any  information  or 
counsels any person trading in securities, in contravention of the code of conduct may be penalised 
and appropriate action may be taken by the organisation/firm. 
7.2 Employees/partners/directors of the organisation/firm who violate the code of conduct may also 
be subject to disciplinary action by the company, which may include wage freeze, suspension, etc. 
7.3 The action by the organisation/firm shall not preclude SEBI from taking any action in case of 
violation of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992. 
8.0  Information  to  SEBI  in  case  of  violation  of  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading) 
Regulations  
8.1 In case it is observed by the organisation/firm/compliance officer that there has been a violation 
of these Regulations, SEBI shall be informed by the organisation/firm. 
9.0 Listed intermediaries to comply with both Parts A and B of Schedule I 
9.1  The  intermediaries  such  as  credit  rating  agencies,  Asset  Management  Companies,  or  broking 
companies etc. whose securities are listed in recognised stock exchange shall comply with both Part 
A and Part B of this Schedule in respect of its own securities and client’s securities. 

  

SCHEDULE II 

[See under regulation 12(2)] 

CODE OF CORPORATE DISCLOSURE PRACTICES FOR  

Page 17 of 22 

 

PREVENTION OF INSIDER TRADING 

1.0 Corporate Disclosure Policy  
1.1 To ensure timely and adequate disclosure of price sensitive information, the following norms 
shall be followed by listed companies:— 
2.0 Prompt disclosure of price sensitive information 
2.1  Price  sensitive  information  shall  be  given  by  listed  companies  to  stock  exchanges  and 
disseminated on a continuous and immediate basis. 
2.2  Listed  companies  may  also  consider  ways  of  supplementing  information  released  to  stock 
exchanges by improving Investor access to their public announcements. 
3.0 Overseeing and co-ordinating disclosure 
3.1  Listed  companies  shall  designate  a  senior  official  (such  as  compliance  officer)  to  oversee 
corporate disclosure. 
3.2  This  official  shall  be  responsible  for  ensuring  that  the  company  complies  with  continuous 
disclosure requirements. Overseeing and co-ordinating disclosure of price sensitive information to 
stock  exchanges,  analysts,  shareholders  and  media  and  educating  staff  on  disclosure  policies  and 
procedure. 
3.3  Information  disclosure/dissemination  may  normally  be  approved  in  advance  by  the  official 
designated for the purpose. 
3.4  If  information  is  accidentally  disclosed  without  prior  approval,  the  person  responsible  may 
inform the designated officer immediately, even if the information is not considered price sensitive. 
4.0 Responding to market rumours 
4.1  Listed  companies  shall  have  clearly  laid  down  procedures  for  responding  to  any  queries  or 
requests for verification of market rumours by exchanges. 
4.2  The  official  designated  for  corporate  disclosure  shall  be  responsible  for  deciding  whether  a 
public announcement is necessary for verifying or denying rumours and then making the disclosure. 
5.0 Timely Reporting of shareholdings/ownership and changes in ownership 
5.1  Disclosure  of  shareholdings/ownership  by  major  shareholders  and  disclosure  of  changes  in 
ownership as provided under any Regulations made under the Act and the listing agreement shall be 
made in a timely and adequate manner. 
Disclosure/dissemination  of  Price  Sensitive  Information  with  special  reference  to  Analysts, 
Institutional Investors 
6.0 Listed companies should follow the guidelines given hereunder while dealing with analysts and 
institutional investors:— 
  (i)  Only  Public  information  to  be  provided  -  Listed  companies  shall  provide  only  public 
information to the analyst/research persons/large investors like institutions  74[.] Alternatively, 
the information given to the analyst should be simultaneously made public at the earliest. 

 (ii)  Recording of discussion - In order to avoid misquoting or misrepresentation, it is desirable that 
at  least  two  company  representative  be  present  at  meetings  with  Analysts,  brokers  or 
Institutional Investors and discussion should preferably be recorded. 

                                                 
74 Inserted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 29-11-2002.  

Page 18 of 22 

 

(iii)  Handling of unanticipated questions - A listed company should be careful when dealing with 
analysts’  questions  that  raise  issues  outside  the  intended  scope  of  discussion.  Unanticipated 
questions may be taken on notice and a considered response given later. If the answer includes 
price sensitive information, a public announcement should be made before responding. 

 (iv)  Simultaneous release of Information - When a company organises meetings with analysts, the 
company shall make a press release or post relevant information on its website after every such 
meet. The company may also consider live webcasting of analyst meets. 

7.0 Medium of disclosure/dissemination 
  (i)  Disclosure/dissemination of information may be done through various media so as to achieve 

maximum reach and quick dissemination. 

 (ii)  Corporates shall ensure that disclosure to stock exchanges is made promptly. 
(iii)  Corporates may also facilitate disclosure through the use of their dedicated Internet website. 
 (iv)  Company websites may provide a means of giving investors a direct access to analyst briefing 

material, significant background information and questions and answers. 

  (v)  The information filed by corporates with exchanges under continuous disclosure requirement 

may be made available on the company website. 

8.0 Dissemination by stock exchanges 
  (i)  The disclosures made to stock exchanges may be disseminated by the exchanges to investors in 
a  quick  and  efficient  manner  through  the  stock  exchange  network  as  well  as  through  stock 
exchange websites. 

 (ii)  Information furnished by the companies under continuous disclosure requirements, should be 

published on the website of the exchange instantly. 

(iii)  Stock exchanges should make immediate arrangement for display of the information furnished 

by the companies instantly on the stock exchange website. 

 
 
  

75 [SCHEDULE III 

FORMS  

FORM A 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 

[Regulation 13(1) and (6)] 

Regulation 13(1) - Details of acquisition of 5% or more shares in a listed company 

 

                                                 
75 Substituted by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f. 19-11-2008.  

Page 19 of 22 

 

Name, PAN 
No.  & 
address of 
shareholder 
with 
telephone 
number 

Sharehold- 
ing prior 
to 
acquisition 

Date of 
intimati- 
on to 
Company

No. and 
percent- 
age of 
shares/ 
voting 
rights 
acquired 

Date of 
receipt of 
allotment/ 
advice. 
Date of 
acquisition
(specify) 

Sharehold-
ing 
subsequent
to acquisi- 
tion 

Mode of 
acquisition 
(market 
purchase/ 
public/rights/
preferential 
offer etc.) 

Buy 
value 

Buy 
quan-
tity 

Exchange 
on which 
the trade 
was 
executed 

Trading
member 
through 
whom 
the 
trade 
was 
executed
with 
SEBI 
Regis- 
tration 
No. of 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

the TM 
 

 

 
 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 

[Regulation 13(2) and (6)] 

FORM B 

Note: The above table shall be applicable with suitable modifications to disclosures for position taken 
in derivatives also. 

FORM C 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 

[Regulation 13(3) and (6)] 

Regulation 13(3) — Details of change in shareholding in respect of persons holding more than 
5% shares in a listed company 

Page 20 of 22 

Regulation 13(2)—Details of shares held or positions taken in derivatives by Director or Officer 
of a listed company and his dependents 
Date of 
intimation 
to 
company 

Buy 
quantity 

Buy value 

Name, PAN No. & 
Address of Director/ 
Officer 

Exchange 
on which 
the trade 
was 
executed 

Date of 
assuming 
office of 
Director/ 
Officer 

No. & % of 
shares/voting 
rights held at 
the time of 
becoming 
Director/ 
Officer 

Mode of 
acquisition 
(market 
purchase/ 
public/ 
rights/ 
preferential 
offer etc.) 

Trading 
member 
through 
whom  the 
trade  was 
executed 
with SEBI 
Registration 
No. of the 
TM 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Buy 
quantity 

Buy 
value 

Sell 
quantity

Sell 
value

Exch-
ange 
on 
which 
the 
trade 
was 
exec- 
uted 

Trading
member 
through 
whom 
the 
trade 
was 
executed
with 
SEBI 
Regis- 
tration 
No.  of 
the TM 

 

Name, 
PAN 
No.  & 
address 
of 
share- 
holders 

Share- 
holding 
prior to 
acquisition/ 
sale 

No. & % 
of shares/ 
voting 
rights 
acquired/ 
sold 

Receipt of 
allotment 
advice/ 
acquisition 
of shares/ 
sale of 
shares 
specify 

Date 
of 
intim- 
ation 
to 
comp-
any 

Mode of 
acquisition 
(market 
purchase/ 
public/ 
rights/ 
preferential 
offer etc.) 

No. & % of
shares/ 
voting 
rights post-
acquisition/
sale 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 21 of 22 

FORM D 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

Regulations, 1992 

[Regulation 
13(4) and (6)] 

Regulation 13(4) — Details of change in shareholding by Director or Officer of a 
listed company and his dependents 

Name, PAN 
No.  & 
Address of 
Director/ 
Officer 

No. & %
of shares/ 
voting 
rights 
held by 
the 
Director/ 
Officer 

Date of 
receipt of 
allotment 
advice/ 
acquisition/ 
sale of 
shares/ 
voting 
rights 

Date 
of 
intima-
tion to 
comp- 
any 

Mode of 
acquisition 
(market 
purchase/ 
public/rights/ 
preferential 
offer etc.) 

No. & % of
shares/ post 
acquisition/ 
voting 
rights sale 

 

 

 

 

 

” 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Trading 
member 
through 
whom 
the trade 
was 
executed 
with 
SEBI 
Registra-
tion No. 
of the 
TM 
 

Buy 
quan- 
tity 

Buy 
value 

Sell 
quan-
tity 

Sell 
value 

Exch- 
ange 
on 
which 
the 
trade 
was 
execu- 
ted 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

C. B. BHAVE  
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

Page 22 of 22 

