CHAPTER II
INVESTOR PROTECTION AND EDUCATION FUND
Establishment of Fund.
3. (1) There shall be a Fund to be called the Investor Protection and Education Fund.
(2) The Fund shall be deemed to have been established on 23rd day of July, 2007, by the
ordermade by the Board under section 11 of the Act.
Amounts to be credited to the Fund.
4. 1[(1)] The following amounts shall be credited to the Fund:-
(a) contribution as may be made by the Board to the Fund;
1  Existing  regulation  re‐numbered  as  sub‐regulation  (1)  by  the  SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees  and  Mode  of  Payment)
(Amendment) Regulations, w.e.f. 6‐3‐2017.
(b) grants and donations given to the Fund by the Central Government, State Government
orany other entity approved by the Board for this purpose;
2[(c) proceeds in accordance with the sub-clause (ii) of clause(e) of sub-regulation (10) of
regulation  17  and  sub-regulation  (3)  of  regulation  21  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Board ofIndia (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011];
(d) security deposits, if any, held by stock exchanges in respect of public issues and rights
issues, in the event of de-recognition of such stock exchanges;
(e)  amounts  in  the  Investor  Protection  Fund  and  Investor  Services  Fund  of  a  stock
exchange,in the event of de-recognition of such stock exchange;
3[(f) amounts forfeited for non-fulfilment of obligations specified in regulation 15B of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 1998;
(g)  monies  transferred  in  accordance  with  sub-regulation  (9)  of  regulation  45  of  the
Securities andExchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2009;
(h)  amounts  disgorged  under  section  11B  of  the  Act  or  section  12A  of  the  Securities
Contracts(Regulation) Act, 1956 or section 19 of the Depositories Act, 1996;]
4[(f)] interest or other income received out of any investments made from the Fund;
5[(g)] such other amount as the Board may specify in the interest of investors.
6[(2)  For  the  purposes  of  sub-regulation  (1)  above,  the  amounts  shall  be  credited  to  the  Fund
through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or by way of a demand draft in
favour of the Board payable in Mumbai.]
Utilisation of Fund.
5. (1) The Fund shall be utilised for the purpose of protection of investors and promotion
ofinvestor education and awareness in accordance with these regulations.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the object in sub-regulation (1), the Fund may
be
used for the following purposes, namely:-
(a)  educational  activities  including  seminars,  training,  research  and  publications,
aimed atinvestors;
2Substituted by the SEBI(Investor Protection and Education Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e f. 09‐01‐
2014. Prior to substitution, it read as under:
"(c) proceeds in accordance with the sub‐clause (ii) of clause(e) of sub‐regulation (12) and the sub‐ regulation (13)of
regulation  28  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)
Regulations, 1997".
3 Inserted ibid.
4Renumbered by the SEBI (Investor Protection and Education Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e f. 09‐01‐
2014.
5 Ibid.
6Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 6‐3‐2017.
(b) awareness programmes including through media - print, electronic, aimed at
investors;
(c) funding investor education and awareness activities of Investors’ Associations
recognizedby the Board;
(d)  aiding  investors’  associations  recognized  by  the  Board  to  undertake  legal
proceedings inthe interest of investors in securities that are listed or proposed to be
listed;
(e)  refund  of  the  security  deposits  which  are  held  by  stock  exchanges  and
transferred  to  theFund  consequent  on  de-recognition  of  the  stock  exchange  as
mentioned in clause (d) ofregulation 4, in case the concerned companies apply to
the Board and fulfill the conditions forrelease of the deposit;
(f) expenses on travel of members of the Committee, who are not officials of the
Board, andspecial invitees to the meetings of the Committee, in connection with
the work of theCommittee;
(g) salary, allowances and other expenses of office of Ombudsman; and
(h) such other purposes as may be specified by the Board.
7[(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulations (1) and (2), amounts disgorged
andcredited to the Fund in accordance with clause (h) of regulation 4 of these regulations
and  theinterest  accrued  thereon  shall,  in  cases  where  the  Board  deems  fit  to  make
restitution  to  eligibleand  identifiable  investors who have suffered losses  resulting  from
violation of securities laws, beutilised only for the purposes of such restitution:
Provided  that  monies  left  in  the  Fund  after  earmarking  the  amount  for  the  process  of
restitution  toeligible  and  identifiable  investors  may  be  utilised  for  the  purposes  of  the
Fund specified in sub-regulations(1) and (2):
Provided further that no claim for restitution from the disgorged amounts in a specific
case shallbe admissible after a period of seven years from the date of invitation of claims
for disgorgementin the said case by the Board.]
6. Conditions for Aid.
The aid to investors’ associations, as referred to in clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of
regulation 5, shall be given by the Board in accordance with the guidelines made by it
and
subject to the following conditions:-
(a) that the aid shall not exceed seventy five per cent. of the total expenditure on legal
proceedings;
7Inserted by SEBI(Investor Protection and Education Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e f. 09‐01‐ 2014.
(b) such aid shall not be considered for more than one legal proceeding in a particular
matter;
(c) if more than one investors’ association applies for seeking legal aid, the investors’
association whose application is received first, shall be considered for such aid.
CHAPTER III
ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR THE FUND
Constitution of the Committee.
7.  (1)  The  Board  shall  constitute  an  advisory  committee  for  recommending  investor
educationand  protection  activities  that  may  be  undertaken  directly  by  the  Board  or
through  any  otheragency,  for  utilisation  of  the  Fund  for  the  purposes  referred  to  in
regulation 5.
(2) The Committee shall consist of the following members, namely:-
(a) the Executive Director of the Board in charge of Office of Investor Assistance and
Education who shall be the convener of the Committee;
(b) two other officials of the Board;
(c) five other members who have expertise about the securities market and experience in
matters of investor grievance redressal or investor education.
(3) (a) The term of office of members referred in clause (c) of sub-regulation (2) of
regulation 7 shall be two years, which may be extended for a further period of two years.
(b) Any vacancy arising out of resignation, retirement or death of a member or for any
other  reason  shall  be  filled  by  the  Board  for  the  remaining period  of  the  term  of  such
member.
(4) The Board may dissolve and reconstitute the Committee if, at any time, the Board is
of the opinion that the Committee is unable to discharge the functions and duties imposed
on it by or under these regulations.
Functions of the Committee.
8. The Committee shall consider investor education and protection activities keeping in
view  the  purposes  mentioned  in  regulation  5  and  the  regulation  6  and  submit  its
recommendations thereon to the Board.
Meetings of the Committee.
9. (1) Meetings of the Committee shall be convened at least once in three months by the
convener or in his absence, by any member nominated by the convener, on his behalf.
(2)  Four  members  of  the  Committee  shall  constitute  the  quorum  for  the  transaction  of
business at a meeting of the Committee.
(3) Every member, who is directly or indirectly interested in any matter coming up for
consideration at a meeting of the Committee, shall disclose the nature of his interest at
such meeting and such disclosure shall be recorded in the proceedings of the meeting of
the Committee and such member shall not take part in any deliberation of the Committee
with respect to that matter.
Expenses of the Committee.
10.  (1)  The  expenses  including  travel  and  other  allowances  of  members  of  the
Committee, who are officials of the Board, and invitees who are officials of the Board,
shall be borne by the Board in accordance with their entitlements.
(2) The expenses including travel and other allowances of members of the Committee,
who are not officials of the Board, and invitees who are not officials of the Board, may be
borne by the Fund.
CHAPTER IV
INVESTMENT, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
Investment, maintenance of accounts and audit of accounts.
11. (1) The Board shall ensure maintenance of proper and separate accounts and other
relevant records in relation to the Fund giving therein the details of all receipts to, and,
expenditure from, the Fund and other relevant particulars in accordance with the SEBI
(Form of Annual Statement of Accounts and Records) Rules, 1994 as far as such rules
apply.
(2) The accounts referred to in sub regulation (1) shall be prepared and audited before the
expiry of six months from the end of each financial year.
(3) The investment of the Fund may be in the manner of investments of other funds of the
Board.
(4) The accounts of the Fund may be audited in the manner of audit of other accounts of
the Board.
CHAPTER V
MISCELLANEOUS
Power to relax regulations.
SCHEDULE
Regulations, 2009
[See regulation 14]
12. If in the opinion of the Board, strict enforcement of any regulation needs to be relaxed
to  achieve  the  purpose  of  investor  protection  and  education,  the  Board  may  relax  the
same.
Delegation of powers.
13. The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall also be exercisable
by any member or officer of the Board to whom such powers are delegated by the Board
by means of an order made under section 19 of the Act.
Amendments to other Regulation.
14. The regulation mentioned in the Schedule shall be amended in the manner and to the
extent specified therein.
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund)
Amendments to other regulation Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997.
1. In regulation 28,
(a) in sub-regulation (12) , for clause (e) , the following shall be substituted, namely:- “(e)
the entire amount to the merchant banker, in the event of forfeiture for nonfulfillment of
any  of  the  obligations  under  the  Regulations,  for  distribution  in  the  following  manner,
after deduction of expenses, if any, of the merchant banker and the registrars to the offer,
-
(i) one third of the amount to the target company;
(ii) one third of the amount to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established by
the Board;
(iii) one third of the amount to be distributed pro-rata among the shareholders who have
accepted the offer.”
(b) in sub-regulation (13) , for the words “to the regional stock exchange of the target
company,  for  the  credit  of  the  Investor  Protection  Fund  or  any  other  similar  fund”
appearing after the words “ proceeds thereof” the words “to the Investor Protection and
Education Fund established by the Board” shall be substituted.
**************