Securities and exchange board of India (Procedure for Board Meetings) Regulations, 2001
Contents
Chapter I: Preliminary
1.  Short title and commencement
2.  Definitions
Chapter II: Meetings of the Board
1.  Convening of Meetings
2.  Presiding over meetings
3.  Place and time of meetings
4.  Notice
5.  Quorum
6.  Leave of absence
7.  Minutes of the meeting
Chapter III: Obligations of the members
1.  Member not to participate in meetings in certain cases
2.  Obligation of a member to give information of disqualification
3.  Declaration of fidelity
Chapter IV: Miscellaneous
1.  Officer to be nominated for keeping custody of the minutes book, common seal etc.
2.  Manner and form in which contracts may be executed
3.  Accounts and documents by whom to be signed
4.  Affixation of Common Seal
Schedule: Declaration of Fidelity and Secrecy
Securities and exchange board of India (Procedure for Board Meetings) Regulations, 2001
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992
(15 of 1992), the Securities and Exchange Board of India hereby makes the following regulations, namely
:—
Chapter I
Preliminary
1. Short title and commencement
(1)      These regulations may be called Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Board
Meetings) Regulations, 2001.
(2)     These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2. Definitions
(1)   In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires :—
(a)   “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
(b)    “Board” means the members of the Board as constituted under section 4 of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
(c)    “Chairman” means the Chairman of the Board;
(d)   “Member” means a member of the Board and includes the Chairman, whole-time member and
part-time member;
(e)    “Schedule” means schedule attached to these regulations;
(2)   Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act shall have
the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.
Chapter II
Meetings of the Board
3. Convening of Meetings
(1)    Meetings of the Board shall be convened at least once in each quarter of the year by the Chairman
or in his absence, by any member nominated by the Chairman, in this behalf.
(2)     Any two members may require the Chairman to convene a meeting of the Board at any time and
the Chairman shall convene the meeting of the Board accordingly:
Provided  that  if  the  Chairman  is  not  available,  any  two  members  may  require  the  Secretary  to
convene the meeting of the Board.
3. Presiding over meetings
(1)     The Chairman or if he is unable to attend the meeting of the Board, for any reason, any other
member chosen by the members present at the meeting, shall preside over the meeting.
4. Place and time of meetings
Meetings of the Board shall be held at such times and places in India as may be specified in the
notice convening the meeting.
5. Notice
(1)     Not less than ten days notice shall ordinarily be given of each meeting of the Board and such
notice along with agenda papers shall be sent to every member ten working days in advance at his
usual address in India as furnished by him to the Board:
Provided that if an emergency meeting of the Board is required to be convened, ten days notice
may not be required. However, sufficient notice shall be given to the member to enable him to
attend the meeting:
Provided further that a resolution may be passed or a decision taken by circulation of an agenda
to the members.
(2)     No business other than that for which the meeting was convened shall be discussed at a meeting
of the Board, except with the consent of the Chairman or the member presiding at the meeting and
a majority of the members present.
6. Quorum
(1)       Three members of the Board shall constitute the Quorum for the transaction of business at a
meeting of the Board.
(2)      All questions which come up before any meeting of the Board shall be decided by a majority vote
of the members present and voting and in the event of any equality of votes, the Chairman, or in
his absence, the member presiding, shall have a second or casting vote.
7. Leave of absence
The Board may grant leave of absence to a member not present in the meeting and such leave of absence
shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
8. Minutes of the meeting
(1)      The Board shall cause the minutes of all the proceedings to be maintained in the books kept for
the purpose which may be in the form of binders containing loose leaves, duly numbered.
(2)     A copy of the proceedings of each meeting of the Board shall be circulated as soon as possible for
confirmation  by  the  members.  The  confirmed  minutes  shall  be  signed  by  the  Chairman  or  the
member presiding at the succeeding meeting, and taken on record thereafter.
Chapter III
Obligations of the members
9. Member not to participate in meetings in certain cases
Every  member,  who  is  directly  or  indirectly  concerned  or  interested  in  any  matter  coming  up  for
consideration at a meeting of the Board, shall, as soon as possible, after the relevant circumstances have
come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at such meeting and such disclosure shall be
recorded in the proceedings of the Board and the member shall not take any part in any deliberation or
decision of the Board with respect to that matter.
or  interest  of  a  member  either  by  himself  or  through  his  relatives  within  the  meaning  of  definition  of
section 6 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or by reason of being a partner, director of that concern.
10. Obligation of a member to give information of disqualification
(1)     A  member,  as  soon  as  may  be,  inform  the  Board  if  he  becomes  subject  to  any  of  the
disqualifications specified in section 6 of the Act.
(2)     The Board shall inform the Central Government, if it comes to the notice of the Board that any
member has attracted the disqualifications referred to in sub-regulation (1).
11. Declaration of fidelity
Every member, before entering upon his duties, shall sign a declaration of fidelity and secrecy in the form
set out in the Schedule pledging himself to observe strict secrecy in relation to all transactions of the Board
and  all  matters  relating  thereto  and  shall  be  by  declaration  pledge  himself  not  to  reveal  any  of  the
matters/information which may come to his knowledge in the discharge of his duties except when required
or authorised to do so by the Board or by Law.
Miscellaneous
Chapter IV
12. Officer to be nominated for keeping custody of the minutes book, common seal etc.
(1)    Chairman shall nominate any officer of the Board not below the rank of Grade ‘D’ as Secretary to
keep  custody  of  common  seal,  register  of  attendance  of  the  meetings,  minutes  book,  and  other
documents/records etc. pertaining to the meetings of the Board.
(2)     The Secretary shall arrange meetings, record minutes and generally ensure that these regulations
are followed.
13. Manner and form in which contracts may be executed
(1)     Any contract which, if made between private persons would by law be required to be in writing,
signed  by  the  parties  to  be  charged  therewith,  may  be  made  on  behalf  of  the  Board  in  writing
signed by any member, officer of the Board or any other person acting under its authority, express
or implied and may in the same manner be varied or discharged.
(2)    Any document connected with any contract may be signed and verified on behalf of the Board by
any officer authorised by Chairman to sign such document for and on behalf of the Board.
(3)    All contracts made according to the provisions of this regulation shall be valid and binding on the
Board.
14. Accounts and documents by whom to be signed
(1)    The Chairman, the whole time members, or any officer as may be nominated by the Chairman by
designation or otherwise are hereby severally authorised for and on behalf of the Board to endorse
and  transfer  negotiable  instruments,  stock-receipts,  stock,  debentures,  shares,  securities,  and
documents of title to movable and immovable properties standing in the name of or held by the
Board, and to draw, accept and endorse bills of exchange and other instruments in the current and
authorised business of the Board and to sign all other accounts, receipts and documents connected
with such business.
(2)     Plaints, written statements, complaints, affidavits, petitions and all other documents connected
with  legal  proceedings  may  be  signed  and  verified  on  behalf  of  the  Board  by  any  officer
authorised by the Chairman to sign such documents for and on behalf of the Board.
15. Affixation of Common Seal
The Common Seal of the Board shall not be affixed to any instrument except in pursuance of a resolution
of the Board and in the presence of at least one member who shall sign on such instrument in token of his
presence and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any person who may sign the instrument
as a witness.
Schedule
Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Procedure for Board Meetings) Regulations, 2001
[See regulation 11]
DECLARATION OF FIDELITY AND SECRECY
I, _____________________________ do hereby solemnly and sincerely declare that I will faithfully, truly
and to the best of my skill and ability execute and perform the duties required of me as a member of the
Board and which properly relate to the office or position held by me in or in relation to the said Board.
I  further  declare  that  I  shall  not  communicate  or  allow  to  be  communicated  to  any  person  not  legally
entitled thereto, any information relating to the affairs of the Securities and Exchange Board of India or to
the affairs of any person having any dealings with the said Board, nor shall I allow any such person to
inspect or to have access to any books or documents belonging to or in the possession of the said Board
and relating to the business of the said Board or the business of any person having any dealing with the
said Board.
Date :
Place :                                                                                                         (Signature)
Signed before me