CHAPTER II: REGISTRATION OF UNDERWRITERS
Registration as underwriter.
Capital adequacy requirement.
Grant of certificate of initial registration.
Furnishing of further information, clarification, etc.
Application to conform to the requirements.
Consideration of application.
3.
3A.  Application for grant of certificate of initial registration.
4.
5.
6.
6A.   Criteria for fit and proper person.
7.
8.
8A.   Grant of certificate of permanent registration.
9.
9A.  Conditions of registration.
10.   Procedure where registration is not granted.
11.   Effect of refusal to grant certificate of permanent registration.
12.   Payment of fees, and the consequences of failure to pay fees.
CHAPTER III: GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
13.    To abide by the code of conduct.
14.     Agreement with clients.
15.     General responsibilities of an underwriter.
16.     To maintain proper books of account and records, etc.
17.     Period of maintenance of books of account, records and other documents.
17A.   Appointment of compliance officer.
18.   Power to call for information.
CHAPTER IV: INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS
19.   Board’s right to inspect.
20.   Procedure for inspection.
21.   Obligations of underwriter on inspection by the board.
22.   Submission of report to the board.
23.   Action on inspection or investigation report.
24.   Appointment of auditor.
CHAPTER V: PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT
25.   Liability for action in case of default.
Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002.
SCHEDULE I: FORMS
FORM A: APPLICATION FOR GRANT OF INITIAL/PERMANENT
REGISTRATION
FORM B: CERTIFICATE OF INITIAL PERMANENT REGISTRATION
SCHEDULE II: FEES
SCHEDULE III: CODE OF CONDUCT FOR UNDERWRITERS
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY
PART II - SECTION 3 - SUB-SECTION (ii)
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
NOTIFICATION
THE 8TH DAY OF OCTOBER 1993
BOMBAY
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA
(UNDERWRITERS) REGULATIONS, 1993
No.LE/10/93.- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board with the previous
approval  of  the  Central  Government,  hereby  makes  the  following  regulations,
namely:—
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
Short title and commencement.
1.  (1)  These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of
India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993.
(2)  They  shall  come  into  force  on  the  date  of  their  publication  in  the  Official
Gazette.
Definitions.
2. In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires—
1[(a) “Act”  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of
1992);
(aa) “body corporate” shall have the meaning assigned to it in or under clause (7)
of section 2 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);
(ab) “certificate” means a certificate of 2[***] registration issued by the Board;
(ac) 3[***]
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.
Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 19-4-2011. Prior to omission, it read as under:
4[(ad) “(ad) “change in control” –
(i) in case of a body corporate –
(A)    if  its  shares  are  listed  on  any  recognised  stock  exchange,  shall  be
construed  with  reference  to  the  definition  of  control  in  terms  of
regulations framed  under  clause  (h)  of  sub-section  (2)  of  section  11
of the Act;
(B)      in  any  other  case,  shall  be  construed  as  change  in  the  controlling
interest in the body corporate;
“controlling interest” means an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of
at least fifty-one percent of voting rights in the body corporate;
(ii)  in  a  case  other  than  that  of  a  body  corporate,  shall  be  construed  as  any
change in its legal formation or ownership.]
5[(ca)  ‘issue’  means  an  offer  of  sale  of  securities  by  any  body  corporate  or  by
any other person or group of persons on its or his or their behalf, as the case
may be, to the public, or, the holders of securities of such body corporate or
person or group of persons;]
(i)
(A)
(iii)
in case of a partnership firm any change in partners not amounting to dissolution of the
(B)
(C)
(ii)
“change  of  status  or  constitution”  in  relation  to  an  underwriter  means  any  change  in  its  status  or
constitution of whatsoever nature and includes—
in case of a body corporate—
amalgamation,  demerger,  consolidation  or  any  other  kind  of  corporate  restructuring
falling  within  the  scope  of  section  391  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of  1956)  or  the  corresponding
provision of any other law for the time being in force;
change in its managing director or whole-time director; and
any change in control over the body corporate;
any  change  between  the  following  legal  forms  -  individual,  partnership  firm,  Hindu
undivided family, private company, public company, unlimited company or statutory corporation and other
similar changes;
firm;
4  Substituted  by  the  SEBI(Change in Conditions  of Registration  of  Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)
Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 19-4-2011. Prior to substitution, it read as under:
“change in control”, in relation to an underwriter being a body corporate, means :—
if  its  shares  are  listed  on  any  recognised  stock  exchange,  change  in  control  within  the
meaning of regulation 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares
and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997;
in any other case, change in the controlling interest in the body corporate.
means an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of at least fifty-one per cent of voting rights in
the body corporate;]
powers conferred under Chapter IV;
“form” means a form specified in Schedule I;
“inspecting  authority”  means  one  or  more  person  appointed  by  the  Board  to  exercise
(i)
(ii)
(b)
(c)
(d)  “principal officer” means,—
(i)  in relation to a proprietary concern, the proprietor himself;
(ii)  in  relation  to  a  firm  or  an  association  of  persons  or  any  body  of
individuals or a body corporate, a secretary, treasurer, partner, manager
or director of the firm, association or body corporate;
(iii)  any  person  connected  with  the  management  or  administration  of  the
firm,  association  or  the  body  corporate  upon  whom  the  Board  has
served  a  notice  of  its  intention  of  treating  him  as  the  principal  officer
thereof;
(e)  “regulations”  means
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of
India
(Underwriters) Regulations, 1993;
6[(f) “underwriter” means a person who engages in the business of underwriting
of an issue of securities of a body corporate;
(fa)  “underwriting”  means  an  agreement  with  or  without  conditions  to  subscribe
to the securities of a body corporate when the existing shareholders of such
body  corporate  or  the  public  do  not  subscribe  to  the  securities  offered  to
them;]
(g)  all  other  words  and  expressions  used  in  these  regulations  but  not  defined,
and  defined  in  the  Act  7[***]  shall  have  the  same  meanings  respectively
assigned to them in the Act 8[***].
CHAPTER II
REGISTRATION OF UNDERWRITERS
9[Registration as underwriter.
3. (1) No person shall act as underwriter unless he holds a certificate granted by
the Board under these regulations.
(2)  Notwithstanding anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  every stock broker
or merchant banker holding a valid certificate of registration under section 12 of
the  Act,  shall  be  entitled  to  act  as  an  underwriter  without  obtaining  a  separate
certificate under these regulations.
(3)  A  stock  broker  or  merchant  banker  acting  as  an  underwriter  under  sub-
regulation (2) shall be governed by these regulations in other respects.]
Application for grant of certificate 10[of 11[***] registration].
6 Substituted, ibid.  Prior to substitution, it read as under:
“(f)  “rules”  means Securities and Exchange Board of  India(Underwriters) Rules. 1993”
7-9-2006.
8 Words “or the rules, as the case may be” were omitted, ibid.
12[3A.]  (1)  An  application  by  an  underwriter  for  grant  of  a  certificate  13[of  14[***]
registration] shall be made to the Board in Form A.
15[(1A)  An  application  for  registration  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be
accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in Schedule II.]
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  any  application
made  by  an  underwriter  prior  to  the  coming  into  force  of  these  regulations
containing  such  particulars  or  as  near  thereto  as  mentioned  in  Form  A  shall  be
treated as an application made in pursuance of sub-regulation (1) and dealt with
accordingly.
Furnishing of further information, clarification, etc.
4.  (1)  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish  further  information  or
clarification regarding matters relevant to underwriting to consider the application
for grant of a certificate.
16[(2)  If  the  Board,  on  receipt  of  further  information,  is  of  the  opinion  that  the
information so furnished is not sufficient to decide on the application and seeking
further  information  through  correspondence  is  likely  to  delay  the  matter,  it  may
require the applicant or its principal officer to appear before the Board in order to
give an opportunity to the applicant to give further clarifications on the application
made under 17[regulation 3A].]
Application to conform to the requirements.
5.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  18[sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  3A],  any
application,  which  is  not  complete  in  all  respects  and  does  not  conform  to  the
instructions specified in the form, shall be rejected:
Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given
an  opportunity  to  remove  within  19[one  month]  such  objections  as  may  be
indicated by the Board :
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
12 Regulation ‘3’ renumbered as ‘3A’, ibid.
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
16  Substituted  by  SEBI  (Underwriters)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  1997,  w.e.f.  17-01-1997.  Prior  to
substitution, it read as under:
“The  applicant  or, its  principal officer  shall,  if  so  required, appear  before  the Board  for personal
representation.”
7-9-2006.
Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 7-9-2006.
1997, w.e.f. 17-01-1997.
20[Provided  further  that  the  Board  may,  on  sufficient  reasons  being  shown,
extend the time by another one month in order to enable the applicant to comply
with the requirements of the Board.]
Consideration of application.
6. The Board shall take into account for considering the grant of a certificate, all
matters  which  are  relevant  to  or  relating  to  underwriting  and  in  particular  the
following, namely, whether the applicant—
(a)  has  the  necessary  infrastructure,  like  adequate  office  space,  equipments
and manpower to effectively discharge his activities;
(b)  has  any  past  experience  in  the  underwriting  or  has  in  his  employment
minimum two persons who had the experience in underwriting;
(c)  or  any  person,  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with  the  applicant  has  not
been granted registration by the Board under the Act.
account whether a previous application for a certificate of any person directly
or indirectly connected with the applicant has been rejected by the Board or
any disciplinary action has been taken against such person under the Act or
any of the rules or any of the regulations made under the Act;]
(d)  fulfils the capital adequacy requirements specified in regulation 7;
(e)  or  any  of  its  director,  partner  or  principal  officer  is  or  has  at  any  time  been
convicted for any offence involving moral turpitude or has been found guilty
of any economic offence;
22[(f) is a fit and proper person.]
23[Criteria for fit and proper person.
6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the underwriter is a
fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  criteria  specified  in
Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)
Regulations, 2008.]
Capital adequacy requirement.
20 Inserted, ibid.
21 Inserted, ibid.
23  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008,  w.e.f.    26-05-2008.  Prior  to  substitution,
2004, read as under:
“6A.  Applicability  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Criteria  for  Fit  and  Proper  Person)
Regulations,  2004.-  The  Provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Criteria  for  Fit  and
Proper Person) Regulations, 2004 shall, as far as may be, apply to all applicants or underwriters under these
regulations.”
7.  (1)  The  capital  adequacy  requirement  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (d)  of
regulation 6 shall not be less than the net worth of rupees twenty lakhs.
24[(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  every  stock-
broker, who acts as an underwriter shall fulfil the capital adequacy requirements
specified by the stock exchange of which he is a member.]
(a)  in  the  case  of  an  applicant  being  a  proprietary  concern  or  a  firm  or  an
association  of  persons  or  any  body  of  individuals,  the  value  of  capital
contributed  to  such  business  by  the  applicant  and  the  free  reserves  of  any
kind belonging to the business of the applicant; and
(b)  in the case of a body corporate, the value of the paid-up capital and the free
reserves as disclosed in the books of account of the applicant at the time of
making the application under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 3.
25[ 8. Grant of certificate of 26[***] registration.
(1)  The  Board,  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant  is  eligible,  shall  send  an
intimation to the applicant, within one month of such satisfaction, mentioning that
it has been found eligible for grant of certificate of  27[***] registration and grant a
certificate in Form B.
(2) 28[The certificate of registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid
unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.]
(3) 29[The underwriter who has already been granted certificate of registration by
the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of
India
Intermediaries)
in  Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain
(Change
25  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Underwriters)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f.  5-7-2011.  Prior  to
substitution, it read as under:
“Procedure for registration.
8. The Board on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall send an intimation within one month of
the such satisfaction to the applicant mentioning that he has been found eligible for the grant of certificate
and grant a certificate in Form B subject to payment of fees as specified in regulation 12.”
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
28  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of
Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  substitution  sub-
regulation (2) read as under:
“(2) The certificate of initial registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid for a period of five
years from the date of its issue to the applicant.”
29  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of
Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  substitution  sub-
regulation (3) read as under:
“(3)  The  underwriter  who  has already  been  granted  a certificate  of  registration  by the Board,  prior  to  the
commencement  of  the  Securities and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Underwriters)  (Amendment)  Regulations
2011, and has not completed a period of three years, shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of
initial  registration  for  a  period  of  five  years  from  the  date  of  its  certificate  of  registration,  subject  to
payment of fee for the remaining period of two years, as prescribed under Schedule II of these regulations.”
(Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  granted  a
certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).]
(4)  The  grant  of  certificate  of  30[***]  registration  shall  be  subject  to  payment  of
fees specified in regulation 12.]
8A. 31[***]
9. 32[***]
33[Conditions of registration.
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission regulation 8
“8A. Grant of certificate of permanent registration.
(1)  The  underwriter  who  has  been  granted  or  deemed  to  have  been  granted  a  certificate  of  initial
registration under  regulation  8,  may,  three  months  before  the  expiry of  the  period  of certificate  of initial
registration, make an application for grant of certificate of permanent registration in Form A.
(2)  The  underwriter  who  has  already  been  granted  a  certificate  of  registration  by  the  Board  and  has
completed a period of five years, on the date of commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Underwriters)  (Amendment) Regulations,  2011, may,  three  months  before  the expiry  of  validity  of
certificate of registration or before, make an application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration
in Form A.
(3) An application under sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation (2) shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
application fee as specified in Schedule II of these regulations.
(4) The  application  for  grant  of  a certificate  of  permanent  registration  shall be accompanied  by  details  of
the changes that have taken place in the information that was submitted to the Board while seeking initial
registration  or  renewal,  as  the case may  be, and  a  declaration  stating that  no changes other than  those  as
mentioned in such details have taken place.
(5) The  application  for  permanent  registration made  under  sub  regulation  (1)  or  (2)  shall  be dealt  with in
the same manner as if it were a fresh application for grant of a certificate of initial registration.
(6)  The  Board,  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant  is  eligible,  shall  grant  a  certificate  of  permanent
registration in Form B and shall send an intimation to the applicant.
(7)  The  grant  of  certificate  of  permanent  registration  shall  be  subject  to  payment  of  fee  specified  in
Schedule II of these regulations.”
it read as under:
Renewal of certificate.
9. (1) An underwriter may, if he so desires, make an application in Form A for renewal of certificate before
three months of the expiry of the period of certificate.
(1A) An application for renewal made under sub-regulation (1) shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
application fee as specified in Schedule II.
(2)  The  application  for  renewal  of  certificate  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  dealt  with  in  the  same
manner as if it were an application for grant of a certificate made under regulation 3.
9A.  (1)  34[Registration  granted  under  regulation  8]  shall  be  subject  to  the
following conditions, namely:—
(a)  where  the  underwriter  proposes  35[change  in  control],  it  shall  obtain  prior
approval of the Board for continuing to act as such after the change;
(b)  it shall enter into a valid agreement with the body corporate on whose behalf
it is acting as underwriter;
(c)  36[it  shall  pay  the  fees  for  registration,  in  the  manner  provided  in  these
regulations;]
(d)  it shall maintain capital adequacy requirements specified in regulation 7 at all
times during the period of the 37[***];
(e)  it  shall  abide  by  the  regulations  made  under  the  Act  in  respect  of  the
activities carried on by it as underwriter;
38[(f)  (f)  it  shall  immediately  intimate  the  Board,  details  of  changes  that  have
that  was  submitted,  while  seeking
information
taken  place
registration.]
in
the
(2) Nothing contained in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) shall affect the obligation
to  obtain  a  fresh  registration  under  section  12  of  the  Act  in  cases  where  it  is
applicable.
9B  39[***]
registration  granted  under  regulation  8A”  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
(Underwriters) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.
Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 19-4-2011.
36  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to this clause (c) read as
under:
“(c)  it  shall  pay  the  fees  for  36[initial  registration  or  permanent  registration],  as  the  case  may  be,  in  the
manner provided in these regulations;”
““registration or renewal” by the SEBI (Underwriters) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.”
In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of  Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-
thereof” by the SEBI (Underwriters) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
as under:
“Period of validity of certificate.
9B.  The  certificate  of  registration  granted  under  regulation  8  and  its  renewal  granted  under  regulation  9,
shall be valid for a period of three years from the date of its issue to the applicant.”
Procedure where registration is not granted.
10.  40[  (1)  Where  an  application  for  grant  of  a  certificate  of  registration  under
regulation  3A  does  not  fulfil  the  requirements  set  out  in  regulation  6,  the  Board
shall reject the application after giving an opportunity of being heard.]
41[(2) The decision shall be communicated by the Board within thirty days of such
decision stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected.]
(3) Any applicant may, being aggrieved by the decision of the Board under sub-
regulation (2), apply within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of such
intimation, to the Board for reconsideration of its decision.
(4) On receipt  of  the  application made  under  sub-regulation (3),  the  Board  shall
reconsider its decision and communicate its findings thereon as soon as possible
in writing to the applicant.
11. 42[***]
Payment of fees, and the consequences of failure to pay fees.
40  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of
Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  substitution  sub-
regulation (1) read as under:
“(1)  Where  an  application  for  grant  of  a  certificate  40[of  initial  registration  under  regulation  3A  or  of
permanent  registration  under  regulation  8A]  does  not  fulfil  the  requirements  set  out  in  regulation  6,  the
Board may reject the application, after giving an opportunity of being heard.”
Prior  to  this  the  words  “of  initial  registration  under  regulation  3A  or  of  permanent  registration  under
regulation 9” by the SEBI (Underwriters) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.
41  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Underwriters)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  1997,  w.e.f.  17-1-1997.  Prior  to
substitution, it read as under:
“The refusal to grant or  renew the certificate shall be communicated by the Board within 30 days of such
refusal to the applicant stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected.”
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission, regulation 11
“Effect of refusal to grant certificate of permanent registration.
11. The underwriter whose application for grant of certificate of permanent registration has been refused by
the  Board,  on  and  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  communication,  shall  not  carry  on  any  activity  as  an
underwriter:
Provided that  the  Board  may, in the  interest  of  the investors  of the  securities market, permit to carry  on
activities undertaken prior to the receipt of the intimation of refusal subject to such condition as the Board
may specify.”
Earlier regulation 11 as  amended by the SEBI (Underwriters) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997, w.e.f. 17-
01-1997, read as under:
Effect of refusal to grant or renew certificate.
11. Any underwriter whose application for grant or renewal of a certificate has been refused by  the Board
shall  on  and  from  the  date  of  the  receipt  of  the communication  under  sub-regulation (2) of  regulation  10
cease to act as an underwriter:
Provided that if the Board is satisfied that it is in the interest of the investors, it may permit the underwriter
to  undertake  the  underwriting  commitments  already  entered  into  by  him during the  validity  period  of  the
certificate.
12.  43[“(1)  Every  applicant  eligible  for  grant  of  registration,  shall  pay  the  fees  in
such manner and within the period specified in Schedule II:]
44[***]
Provided  45[***]  that  a  stock  broker  46[***],  who  has  been  granted  a  certificate
under  section  12  of  the  Act  and  pays  fees  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Board  of  India  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers)  Regulations,  1992  47[***],  shall
not be required to pay fees under sub-regulation (1).
(2) Where an underwriter fails to pay the fees as provided in sub-regulation (1),
the Board may suspend the certificate, whereupon the underwriter shall forthwith
cease to act as an underwriter.
CHAPTER III
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
To abide by the Code of Conduct.
13. Every underwriter shall at all times abide by the Code of Conduct as specified
in Schedule III.
Agreement with clients.
14. Every underwriter shall enter into an agreement referred to in 48[clause (b) of
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 9A] with each body corporate on whose behalf he
is  acting  as  underwriter  and  the  said  agreement  shall,  amongst  other  things,
provide for the following, namely :—
(i)  the period for which the agreement shall be in force;
43  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of
Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  substitution,  sub-
regulation (1) read as under:
“(1) Every applicant eligible for grant 43[of initial or permanent registration, as the case may be,] shall pay
fees in such manner and within the period specified in Schedule II:”
words “or  renewal of a certificate”, by the SEBI (Underwriters) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-
7-2011
omission, it read as under:
“ Provided that the Board may on sufficient cause being shown permit the underwriter to pay such fees at
any time before the expiry of six months from the date on which such fees become due.”
45 Word ‘further’ omitted, ibid.
46  Words “or a  merchant  banker”  omitted    by the  SEBI (Underwriters)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 2002,
w.e.f. 10-12-2002.
47 Words “or the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992” omitted,
ibid.
(Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 7-09-2006.
49[(ia)  the  allocation  of  duties  and  responsibilities  between  the  underwriter  and
the client;]
(ii)  the amount of underwriting obligations;
(iii)  the  period,  within  which  the  underwriter  has  to  subscribe  to  the  issue  after
being intimated by or on behalf of such body corporate;
(iv)  the amount of commission or brokerage payable to the underwriter;
(v)  details  of  arrangements,  if  any,  made  by  the  underwriter  for  fulfilling  the
underwriting obligations.
General responsibilities of an underwriter.
15.  (1)  The  underwriter  shall  not  derive  any  direct  or  indirect  benefit  from
underwriting the issue other than the commission or brokerage payable under an
agreement for underwriting.
(2)  The  total  underwriting  obligations  under  all  the  agreements  referred  to  in
clause  (b)  of  rule  4  shall  not  exceed  twenty  times  the  net  worth  referred  to  in
regulation 7.
(3) Every underwriter, in the event of being called upon to subscribe for securities
of a body corporate pursuant to an agreement referred to in  50[clause (b) of sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 9A] shall subscribe to such securities within 45 days
of the receipt of such intimation from such body corporate.
To maintain proper books of account and records, etc.
16.  (1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  any  other  law,  every  underwriter  shall  keep
and maintain the following books of account and documents, namely:—
(a)  in relation to underwriter being a body corporate—
(i)  a copy of the balance sheet and profit and loss account as specified in
sections 211 and 212 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);
(ii)  a  copy  of  the  auditor’s  report  referred  to  in  section  227  of  the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);
(b)  in relation to an underwriter not being a body corporate—
(i)  records in respect of all sums of money received and expended by them
and  the  matters  in  respect  of  which  the  receipt  and  expenditure  take
place; and
(ii)  their assets and liabilities.
(2) Without prejudice to sub-regulation (1), every underwriter shall, after the close
of each financial year as soon as possible but not later than six months from the
close of the said period furnish to the Board, if so required, copies of the balance
sheet,  profit  and  loss  account,  statement  of  capital  adequacy  requirement  and
such other documents as may be required by the Board under regulation 16.
(3) Every underwriter shall also maintain the following records with respect to—
49 Inserted, ibid.
(Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f., 7-09-2006.
(i)  details  of  all  agreements referred  to  in  51[clause  (b)  of  sub-regulation (1) of
regulation 9A] ;
(ii)  total amount of securities of each body corporate subscribed to in pursuance
of an agreement referred to in 52[clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation
9A];
(iii)  statement of capital adequacy requirements as specified in regulation 7;
(iv)  such other records as may be specified by the Board for underwriting.
(4)  Every  underwriter  shall  intimate  to  the  Board,  the  place  where  the  books  of
account, records and documents are maintained.
Period of maintenance of books of account, records and other documents.
17. Every underwriter shall preserve the books of account and other records and
documents mentioned under this chapter for a minimum period of five years.
53[Appointment of compliance officer.
17A.  (1)  Every  underwriter  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be
responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations,
notifications,  guidelines,  instructions,  etc.,  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central
Government and for redressal of investors’ grievances.
(2)  The  compliance  officer  shall  immediately  and  independently  report  to  the
Board any non-compliance observed by him.]
Power to call for information.
18.  (1)  The  Board  may  at  any  time  call  for  any  information  from  an  underwriter
with respect to any matter relating to underwriting business.
(2)  Where  any  information  is  called  for  under  sub-regulation  (1)  it  shall  be  the
duty of the underwriter to furnish such information.
CHAPTER IV
INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS
Board’s right to inspect.
19.  (1)  Where  it  appears  to  the  Board  so  to  do,  it  may  appoint  one  or  more
persons  as  inspecting  authority  to  undertake  the  inspection  of  the  books  of
account, other records and documents of the underwriter for any of the purposes
specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be as follows, namely :—
52 ibid.
05-2001.
(a)  to  ensure  that  the  books  of  account  and  other  records  and  documents  are
being maintained in the manner required;
(b)  that the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations are being complied with;
(c)  to investigate into the complaints received from investors, other underwriters
or  any  other  person  or  any  matter  having  a  bearing  on  the  activities  of  the
underwriter; and
(d)  to  investigate  suo  motu  in  the  interest  of  securities  business  or  investors’
interest into the affairs of the underwriter.
Procedure for inspection.
20.  (1)  Before  undertaking  an  inspection  under  regulation  19,  the  Board  shall
give a reasonable notice to the underwriter, for that purpose.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is
satisfied  that  in  the  interest  of  the  investors  or  in  the  public  interest  no  such
notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection of
the affairs of the underwriter be taken up without such notice.
(3)  On  being empowered  by  the  Board,  the  inspecting  authority  shall  undertake
the  inspection  and  the  underwriter  against  whom  an  inspection  is  being  carried
out shall be bound to discharge his obligations as provided under regulation 21.
Obligations of underwriter on inspection by the Board.
21.  (1)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  director,  proprietor,  partner,  officer  and
employee of the underwriter who is being inspected to produce to the inspecting
authority  such  books,  accounts  and  other  documents  in  his  custody  or  control
and  furnish  him  with  the  statements  and  information  relating  to  an  underwriter
within such time as the inspecting authority may require.
(2)  The  underwriter  shall  allow  the  inspecting  authority  to  have  a  reasonable
access to the premises occupied by such underwriter or by any other person, on
his behalf and also extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records,
documents and computer data in the possession of the underwriter or any such
other  person  on  their  behalf  and  also  provide  copies  of  documents  or  other
materials  which  in  the  opinion  of  the  inspecting  authority  are  relevant  for  the
purposes of the inspection.
(3)  The  inspecting  authority  shall  in  the  course  of  inspection,  be  entitled  to
examine or record statements of any principal officer, director, partner, proprietor
and employee.
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer or employee of
the  underwriter  to  give  to  the  inspecting  authority  all  assistance  in  connection
with the inspection which the underwriter may reasonably be expected to give.
Submission of report to the Board.
22.  The  inspecting  authority  shall,  as  soon  as  may  be  possible,  submit  an
inspection report to the Board.
54[Action on inspection or investigation report.
23.  The  Board  or  the  Chairman  shall  after  consideration  of  inspection  or
investigation report take such action as the Board or Chairman may deem fit and
appropriate  including  action under  55[Chapter V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.]]
Appointment of Auditor.
24. Notwithstanding anything contained above the Board may appoint a qualified
auditor to investigate into the books of account or the affairs of the underwriter:
Provided  that  the  auditor  so  appointed  shall  have  the  same  powers  of  the
inspecting  authority  as  stated  in  regulation  19  and  the  obligation  of  the
underwriter  and  his  employees  in  regulation  21  shall  be  applicable  to  the
investigation under this regulation.
auditor”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  given  to  it  in  section  226  of  the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).
CHAPTER V
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT
56[Liability for action in case of default.
25.  An  underwriter  who  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Rules  or
Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall be  liable  for  one  or  more  actions  specified
therein  including  the  action  under  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.]
54  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)
Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. Prior to substitution, it read as under:
“Communication  of  findings  etc.  to  underwriter.-(1)  The  Board  shall  after  consideration  of  the
inspection  report communicate the  findings  to the  underwriter  to  give  him an opportunity  of being heard
before any  action is taken  by  the  Board  on  the  findings  of the  inspecting authority.  (2)  On receipt  of  the
explanation, if any, from the underwriter, the Board may call upon the underwriter to take such measures as
the  Board  may  deem  fit  in  the  interest  of  the  securities  market  and  for  the  due  compliance  with  the
provisions of the Act, rules and regulations.”
by  Enquiry  Officer and  Imposing  Penalty)  Regulations,  2002”  by  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,
2008, w.e.f. 26-05-2008.
56  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008,  w.e.f.  26-05-2008.  Prior  to  substitution,
Penalty)  Regulations,  2002,  w.e.f.  27-9-2002  and  amended  by  SEBI(Underwrites)  Amendment)
Regulations, 1997, w.e.f.17-1-1997 read as under:
“Liability  for  action in  case  of  default-An underwriter  or  a stock  broker  or a  merchant  banker entitled  to
carry on business of underwriting who-
(a)  fails to comply with any conditions subject to which certificate has been granted;
(b)  contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, rules or regulations,
shall be dealt with in the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of India(Procedure for
Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002.”
26. to 32. 57[***]
58[CHAPTER VI
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
33.  (1)  The  Board  may,  exempt  any  person  or  class  of  persons  from  the
operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may
be  specified  but  not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in
technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new  products,  processes,  services,
business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities
markets.
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject
to  the  applicant  satisfying  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board
including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
means  a  live  testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,
business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for
a  specified  period  of  time,  for  furthering  innovation  in  the  securities  market,
subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.]
SCHEDULE I
FORMS
FORM A
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993
60[ Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration]
59[Regulation 3A]
Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. Prior to omission, regulations 29 and 32 were amended by the SEBI
(Underwriters)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  1997,  w.e.f.17-1-1997  and  SEBI(Appeals  to  Securities
Appellate Tribunal) Regulations, 2000, w.e.f.28-3-2000 respectively.
In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of  Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-
by the SEBI (Underwriters) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.
Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment)
Regulations,  2016  w.e.f. 08-12-2016.  Prior  to  this  the  words  “Application  for  Grant  of  Initial/  Permanent
Registration”  shall  be  substituted  with  the  words”  substituted  the  words  “Application  for  registration  as
underwriter”, by the SEBI (Underwriters) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.
Name of Applicant and its Status
(Whether proprietary concern/firm/association of persons/
body of persons/body corporate)
Name and designation of Principal Officer
Designation
Telephone No.
Instructions:
1.  Applicants  must  submit  a  completed  application
:
:
:
:
:
form
together  with
supporting documents to the Securities and Exchange Board of India.
2.  All  columns  of  the  application  should  be  filled  in.  In  case  a  column  is  not
relevant then ‘Not applicable’ should be specified.
3.  Information  which  needs  to  be  supplied  in  more  details  may  be  written  on
separate sheets which should be attached to the application form.
4.  Original copy of form duly signed should be submitted for registration.
GENERAL INFORMATION
1. Applicant’s details :
1.1 Name of the Applicant
1.2Address of the Applicant
Pin Code: ................
Telephone No. : ......
Telex No. : ..............
: ............
PART I
Fax No.
the
applicant
for
1.3 Address
of
correspondence
Pin Code: ................  Telephone
No. : ......
Telex No. : ..............  Fax  No.
:
............
1.4  Address  of  Branch  Offices  (in  India)
of the Applicant, if any
1.5  Whether  any  other  application  under
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
Act,  1992  has  been  made  for  grant  of
Certificate, if so, details thereof
2. Organisation structure :
2.1  Objects  of  the  organisation  of  the
applicant.
(Attach extracts from relevant documents
like,
Partnership
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
proprietary,
limited
Particulars
of
the
the
all
Date
and
of
persons,
place
of
body
company
of
deed/Charter/Memorandum
Association/Articles  of  Association,  etc.)
in support of objects of the organization
2.2
Incorporation/Establishment
organization of the applicant
the  applicant  (specify
2.3  Status  of
partnership,
whether
of
association
individuals,
-
public/private,  others.  If  listed,  name  the
stock  exchange  and  latest  share  price  :
high and low)
2.4  Organisation  Chart  stating
functional responsibility at various levels
2.5
of
Proprietors/Partners/Managers/
Officers/Directors
[Name, Qualification, Experience, Date of
Appointment,  Other  directorship,  (Name
and  Date  of  Appointment),  Previous
positions held].
2.6 Number of employees
2.7  Name  and  activities  of  associate
companies/concerns
Name,  Address/Phone  number/Type  of
activity/Ownership  details/Nature  and
Quantum of Financial Trading.
2.8  In  case  the  applicant  is  a  body
corporate,  please  give
list  of  major
shareholders  (holding  5%  or  more  voting
rights)
3. Details of infrastructural facilities :
3.1  Office  space  (mention  the  extent  of
area and ownership details available)
3.2 Office equipment (mention the details
of
equipment,
typewriters,
telecommunication
equipment,  furniture  and  fixtures,  other
communication facilities, etc.)
4. Business plan (for three years) :
4.1  History,  major  achievements  and
present activity
5. Financial information :
electronic
office
Day   Month
Year   Place
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
5.1 Capital structure (Rs. in lakh)
:Cur-
rent
year
Last
year
Previ-
ous
year
Second
year
Third
year
(a)  Paid-up capital
(b)  Free  reserves  (excluding  revaluation
reserves)
(c)  Total (a) + (b)
(d)  Loans (details)
(e)  Net profit:
(i)  General
(ii)  Specific
:
In  case  of  partnership  or
indicate
Note
proprietary  concerns,  please
capital minus drawings.
5.2 Deployment of resources :
(a)  Fixed assets
(b)  Plant  and  machinery  and  office
equipment
(c)  Investments  (details  should be given
separately)
(d)  Others
5.3  Major  source  of estimated  profit  from
various sources
(Rs. in lakhs)
5.4 Please enclose three years of audited
annual  accounts  and  where  unaudited
reports are submitted, give reasons
5.5  Name  and  address  of  the  principal
bankers
5.6  Name  and  address  of  the  auditors
(internal,  external  and  tax  auditor,  if  any,
as applicable)
6. Other information :
6.1  Indicate  involvement  in  any  offence
relating
turpitude/economic
offences in the last three years
6.2  Any  other
relevant
rendered by the company
information  considered
the  nature  of  services
to  moral
to
Last
year
Previ-
ous
year
Second
year
Third
year
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
Cur-
rent
year
:
:
:
:
:
PART II
:
:
:
7. Business information :
7.1  Indicate  marketing  capability  for  capital  issues
7.2  Indicate  how  decision  on  underwriting  is  usually
taken
7.3  Indicate  various  research  and  database  facilities
available
7.4 Enclose a copy of typical contract entered into with
the issuer for underwriting activity
8. Experience :
8.1 Experience in underwriting activities
(Indicate  name  of  the  company,  particulars  of  the
issue,  amount  of  underwriting  done  in  the  last  three
years)
8.2  Experience  in  other  financial  services  rendered
(period area and date of commencement of activity)
8.3  Details
development/disputes regarding underwriting
unsettled
pending
of
all
and
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
Nature
of
dispute
Name
of the
party
Pending/
settled
8.4  Indicate underwriting  defaulted  with any company
and reasons for the same
Declaration
THIS DECLARATION MUST BE SIGNED BY THE PRINCIPAL OFFICER/S:
I/We  hereby  apply  for  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  by  the  Board.  I/We
warrant  that  I/we  will  carry  out  my/our  duties  in  accordance  with  the  Act,  Rules
and Regulations.
I/We  warrant  that  I/we  have  truthfully  and  fully  answered  the  questions  above
and  provided  all  the  information  which might reasonably  be  considered  relevant
for  the  purposes  of  my/our  grant  of  certificate  for  registration  and  I/we  will
promptly notify the Board of any changes in the information during the period that
my/our  registration  is  being  considered  and  if  my/our  registration  is  accepted,
thereafter.
I/We understand that misleading or attempting to mislead the Board shall render
the applicant liable to disciplinary proceedings.
I/We certify that the above information and information supplied in the application
form is true, complete and correct.
For and on behalf of
............................................................
(Name of the Applicant)
Place :
Date :
........................................................
(Name of the Applicant)
Place :
Date :
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993
FORM B
61[Regulation 8 62[***]]
63[Certificate of Registration]
I.
In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  sub-section  (1)  of  section  12  of  the
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  the  rules  and
regulations  made  thereunder  for  the  underwriters,  the  Board  hereby  grant  a
certificate  of  registration  to..................................as  an  underwriter  subject  to
the conditions in the rules and in accordance with the regulations.
II.  Registration Code for the underwriter is...................
64[III.  This  certificate  of  registration  shall  be  valid  unless  it  is  suspended  or
cancelled by the Board.]
Place :
Date :
By
Order
For and on behalf of
the Securities and Exchange Board of India
Authorised signatory
SCHEDULE II
2011.
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of  Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)
Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior this  the  words “Certificate  of  Initial/  Permanent  Registration”
Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.
64  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution Paragraph
III  as  substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Underwriters)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f.  5-7-2011  read  as
under:
“III. This  certificate  shall be  valid  from  …..  to …. /  for  permanent,  unless  suspended or  cancelled  by  the
Board.”
Prior substitution by the SEBI (Underwriters) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011 paragraph
III read as under:
“III. Unless renewed, the certificate of registration is valid from........to...........”, ibid.
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993
[Regulation 12]
FEES
65[1.  Every  underwriter  shall  pay  fee  of  thirteen  lakh  thirty  three  thousand  and
three hundred rupees at the time of grant of certificate of 66[***] registration.
1A. 67[***]
2. 68[An underwriter who has been granted a certificate of registration, to keep its
registration in force, shall pay fee of five lakh  rupees every three years from the
sixth  year  from  the  date  of  grant  of  certificate  of registration  or  from  the date of
grant of certificate of initial registration granted prior to the commencement of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, as the case may be.]
69[2A.  The  fee  specified  in  paragraph  2,  shall  be  paid  three  months  prior  to  the
expiry of the period for which the fees has been paid.]
70[3. (a)
The fee referred to in paragraph 1 shall be paid by the underwriter
within fifteen days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board under
regulation 8.
71[(aa)  The  fee  referred  to  in  paragraph  1A  shall  be  paid  by  the  underwriter
within  a  period  of  three  months  before  completion  of  the  period  of  three
65  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Underwriters)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f.  5-7-2011.  Prior  to
substitution, paragraph 1 and 2 amended by SEBI (Underwriters) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999, w.e.f.
30-09-1999  and  by  SEBI(Payment  of  Fees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  1995,  w.e.f.  28-11-1995
respectively, read as under:
“1.  Every  underwriter  shall  pay  a  sum  of  ten  lakh  rupees  as  registration  fees  at  the  time  of  the  grant  of
certificate by the Board.
2. Every underwriter to keep registration in force shall pay renewal fee of five lakh rupees every three years
from the fourth year from the date of initial registration.”
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission paragraph 1A
read as under:
“1A.  An  underwriter  referred  to  under  sub-regulation  (3)  of  regulation  8  shall  pay  fee  for  the  remaining
period of two years on pro rata basis to the fee prescribed under paragraph 2.”
68  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution paragraph
2 read as under:
“2. An underwriter who has been granted a certificate of registration, to keep its registration in force, shall
pay  fee  of  five  lakh  rupees  every  three  years  from  the  sixth  year  from  the  date  of  grant  of  certificate  of
registration or from the date of grant of certificate of initial registration granted prior to the commencement
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  in  Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, as the case may be.”
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
years  from  the  date  of  grant  of  certificate  of  72[***]  registration,  or  within  a
period of three months from the date of notification of these regulations, as
the case may be.]
73[(b)***]
74[3A.  The  non-refundable  fee  payable  along  with  an  application  for registration
under sub-regulation (1A) of regulation 3A shall be a sum of twenty-five thousand
rupees.]
75[4. The fees specified in  76[paragraphs  77[1,  78[***] 2 and 3A]] shall be payable
by  the  Underwriter  79[by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account  through
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or  any  other  mode  allowed  by  RBI  or]  by  a  demand  draft  in
favour of ‘Securities and  Exchange Board of India’ payable at Mumbai or at the
respective regional office.]
“(b)
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission paragraph (b)
“(b)  The fee referred to in paragraph 2 shall be paid by the underwriter, at the time of grant of permanent
registration, within fifteen days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board under sub-regulation
(6) of regulation 8A and thereafter the fee shall be paid three months before expiry of the block for which
fee has been paid.”
Prior to substitution by the SEBI (Underwriters) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011., it read
as under:
The fee referred to in paragraph 2 shall be paid by the underwriter within fifteen days of
receipt of intimation from the Board disposing of the application for renewal made under sub-regulation (1)
of regulation 9.”
74  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution, paragraph
“3A. The non-refundable fee payable along with an application for registration under sub-regulation (1A)
of regulation 3A or an application for  74[permanent registration under sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation
(2) of regulation 8A] shall be a sum of twenty-five thousand rupees.”
Also,  the  words  “permanent  registration  under  sub-regulation  (1)  or  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation 8A”
9” by the SEBI (Underwriters) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.
75  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Underwriters)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  1999,  w.e.f.  30-9-1999.  Earlier
7-9-2006.
2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
3-2017
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993
80[SCHEDULE III
[Regulation 13]
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR UNDERWRITERS
1. An underwriter shall make all efforts to protect the interests of its clients.
2. An underwriter shall maintain high standards of integrity, dignity and fairness in
the conduct of its business.
3.  An  underwriter  shall  ensure  that  it  and  its  personnel  will  act  in  an  ethical
manner  in  all  its  dealings  with  a  body  corporate  making  an  issue  of  securities
(hereinafter referred to in the Schedule as “the issuer”).
4. An underwriter shall endeavour to ensure all professional dealings are effected
in a prompt, efficient and effective manner.
5.  An  underwriter  shall,  at  all  times,  render  high  standards  of  service,  exercise
due  diligence,  ensure  proper  care  and  exercise  independent  professional
judgment.
6.  An  underwriter  shall  not  make  any  statement,  either  oral  or  written,  which
would misrepresent—
(a)  the services that the underwriter is capable of performing for its client, or has
rendered to any other issuer company;
(b)  his underwriting commitment.
7. An underwriter shall avoid conflict of interest and make adequate disclosure of
his interest.
8.  An  underwriter  shall  put  in  place  a  mechanism  to  resolve  any  conflict  of
interest  situation  that  may  arise  in  the  conduct  of  its  business  or  where  any
conflict of interest arises, shall take reasonable steps to resolve the same in an
equitable manner.
9.  An  underwriter  shall  make  appropriate  disclosure  to  the  client  of  its  possible
source  or  potential  areas  of  conflict  of  duties  and  interest  while  acting  as
underwriter  which  would  impair  its  ability  to  render  fair,  objective  and  unbiased
services.
10.  An  underwriter  shall  not  divulge  to  other  issuer,  press  or  any  party  any
confidential  information  about  its  issuer  company,  which  has  come  to  its
knowledge  and  deal  in  securities  of  any  issuer  company  without  making
disclosure to the Board as required under the Regulations and also to the Board
of directors of the issuer company.
11. An underwriter shall not discriminate amongst its clients, save and except on
ethical and commercial considerations.
12. An underwriter shall ensure that any change in registration status/any penal
action taken by board or any material change in financials which may adversely
affect the interests of clients/investors is promptly informed to the clients and any
amended  by  the  SEBI(Investment  Advice  by  Intermediaries)(Amendment)Regulations,  2001,  w.e.f.  29-5-
2001.
business  remaining  outstanding  is  transferred  to  another  registered  person  in
accordance with any instructions of the affected clients/investors.
13.  An  underwriter  shall  maintain  an  appropriate  level  of  knowledge  and
competency and abide by the provisions of the Act, regulations and circulars and
guidelines issued by the Board. The underwriter shall also comply with the award
of  the  Ombudsman  passed  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003.
14.  An  underwriter  shall  ensure  that  the  board  is  promptly  informed  about  any
action,  legal  proceedings,  etc.  initiated  against  it  in  respect  of  any  material
breach  or  non-compliance  by  it,  of  any  law,  rules,  regulations,  directions  of  the
board or of any other regulatory body.
15. An underwriter shall not make any untrue statement or suppress any material
fact in any documents, reports, papers or information furnished to the Board.
16.  (a)  An  underwriter  or  any  of  his  employees  shall  not  render,  directly  or
indirectly  any  investment  advice  about  any  security  in  the  publicly  accessible
media,  whether  real-time  or  non-real-time,  unless  a  disclosure  of  his  interest
including  its  long  or  short  position  in  the  said  security  has  been  made,  while
rendering such advice.
(b)  In  case,  an  employee  of  an  underwriter  is  rendering  such  advice,  the
underwriter  shall  ensure  that  he  shall  disclose  his  interest,  the  interest  of  his
dependent family members and that of the employer including their long or short
position in the said security, while rendering such advice.
17.  An  underwriter  or  any  of  its  directors,  partners  or  manager  having  the
management  of  the  whole  or  substantially  the  whole  of  affairs  of  the  business,
shall  not  either  through  its  account  or  their  respective  accounts  or  through  their
associates or family members, relatives or friends indulge in any insider trading.
18. An underwriter shall not indulge in any unfair competition, which is likely to be
harmful  to  the  interest  of  other  underwriters  carrying  on  the  business  of
underwriting  or  likely  to  place  such  other  underwriters  in  a  dis-advantageous
position  in  relation  to  the  underwriter  while  competing  for,  or  carrying  out  any
assignment.
19.  An  underwriter  shall  have  internal  control  procedures  and  financial  and
operational  capabilities  which  can  be  reasonably  expected  to  protect  its
operations, its clients and other registered entities from financial loss arising from
theft, fraud, and other dishonest acts, professional misconduct or omissions.
20. An underwriter shall provide adequate freedom and powers to its compliance
officer for the effective discharge of his duties.
21. An underwriter shall develop its own internal code of conduct for governing its
internal  operations  and  laying  down  its  standards  of  appropriate  conduct  for  its
employees  and  officers  in  the  carrying  out  of  their  duties.  Such  a  code  may
extend  to  the  maintenance  of  professional  excellence  and  standards,  integrity,
confidentiality,  objectivity,  avoidance  of  conflict  of  interests,  disclosure  of
shareholdings and interests, etc.
22.  An  underwriter  shall  ensure  that  good  corporate  policies  and  corporate
governance is in place.
23. An underwriter shall ensure that any person it employs or appoints to conduct
business  is  fit  and  proper  and  otherwise  qualified  to  act  in  the  capacity  so
employed  or  appointed  (including  having  relevant  professional  training  or
experience).
24.  An  underwriter  shall  ensure  that  it  has  adequate  resources  to  supervise
diligently  and  does  supervise  diligently  persons  employed  or  appointed  by  it  to
conduct business on its behalf.
25. An underwriter shall be responsible for the acts or omissions of its employees
and agents in respect to the conduct of its business.
26. An underwriter shall ensure that the senior management, particularly decision
makers  have  access  to  all  relevant  information  about  the  business  on  a  timely
basis.
27. An underwriter shall not be party to or instrumental for—
(a)  creation of false market;
(b)  price rigging or manipulation; or
(c)  passing  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  in  respect  of  securities
which  are  listed  and  proposed  to  be  listed  in  any  stock  exchange  to  any
person or intermediary.]