CHAPTER II: REGISTRATION OF STOCK BROKERS
3. Application for registration of Stock Brokers
4. Furnishing of information, clarification
5. Consideration of application for grant of registration
6. Procedure for registration
7. Procedure when registration is not granted
8. Payment of fees
9. Conditions for registration
10. Approval for operation in segments of stock exchange
CHAPTER IIA: REGISTRATION OF CLEARING MEMBERS
10A. Application for registration
10B. Applicability of Chapter II
10C. Payment of fees
10D. Approval for operation in segments of clearing corporation
CHAPTER III- REGISTRATION OF SUB-BROKERS
11. Registration as sub-broker
11A. Application for registration as sub broker
12. Procedure for registration
12A. Conditions of registration
13. Procedure when registration is not granted
14. Effect of refusal
15. General obligations and inspection
15A. Director not to act as sub-broker
16. Application of Chapters IV, V & VI
CHAPTER IV- GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
17. To maintain proper books of account, records, etc.
18. Maintenance of books of account and records
18A. Appointment of Compliance officer
18B. Stock Broker not to deal with unregistered Sub-broker
CHAPTER V PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION
19. Board’s right to inspect
20. Procedure for Inspection
21. Obligations of stock-broker on inspection by the Board
22. Submission of report to the Board
23. Action on inspection or investigation report
24. Appointment of Auditor
CHAPTER VI-PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT
25. Liability for contravention of the Act, rules or the regulations
26. Liability for monetary penalty
27. Liability for action under the Enquiry Proceeding Regulations
28. Liability for prosecution
CHAPTER VII- MISCELLEANOUS
29. Power to remove difficulties
30. Power to specify procedures, etc. and issue clarifications
SCHEDULE I –FORMS
FORM  A:  Application  Form  for  Registration  as  Stock  Broker  with  Securities  and
Exchange Board of India
FORM  AA:  Application  form  for  registration  as  a  trading  and/or  a  clearing  member
and/or a self-clearing member] with the Securities and Exchange Board of India
FORM AD: Application Form for Registration as Clearing Member with Securities and
Exchange Board of India
FORM  B:  Application  Form  for  Registration  as  a  Sub-broker  with  Securities  and
Exchange Board of India
FORM  C:  Recommendation  Letter  to  be  given  by  the  Member  with  whom  the  Sub-
broker is affiliated
FORM CA: Recognition letter to be issued by the Stock Exchange
FORM D: Certificate of Registration [Regulations 6 and 10b]
Form E: Certificate of Registration [Regulation 12]
SCHEDULE II-CODE OF CONDUCT FOR STOCK BROKERS
SCHEDULE III: FEES TO BE PAID BY THE STOCK BROKERS
SCHEDULE  V:  PAYMENT  OF  FEES  BY  STOCK  BROKERS/  CLEARING
MEMBERS/ SELF-CLEARING MEMBERS
SCHEDULE  VI:  NET  WORTH  AND  DEPOSIT  REQUIREMENTS  FOR  STOCK
BROKERS/ CLEARING MEMBERS/ SELF-CLEARING MEMBERS
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY
PART II - SECTION 3 - SUB-SECTION (ii)
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
NOTIFICATION
THE 23rd DAY OF OCTOBER 1992
NEW DELHI
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (STOCK
BROKERS 1[***]) REGULATIONS, 1992
S.O.780  (E):-  In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  section  30  of  the  Securities  and
Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992),  the  Board  hereby  2[***]  makes  the
following regulations, namely: -
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
Short title and commencement.
1.  (1)  These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Stock
Brokers 3[***]) Regulations, 1992.
(2)  These  regulations  shall  come  into  force  on  the  date  of  their  publication  in  the  Official
Gazette.
Definitions.
4[2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires]:—
5[(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
(aa) “certificate” means a certificate of registration issued by the Board;
(ab) 6[***]
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
brokers) (Third Amdt.) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 16-12-1998.
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
4  Renumbered as 2(1) by the SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub-brokers) (Second Amdt.) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f.
27.09.2013
2006.
[7[(ac) “change in control” –
(i) in case of a body corporate –
(A)  if  its  shares  are  listed  on  any  recognised  stock  exchange,  shall  be  construed  with
reference  to  the  definition  of  control  in  terms  of regulations  framed  under  clause  (h)  of
sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act;
(B) in any other case, shall be construed as change in the controlling interest in the body
corporate;
“controlling  interest”  means  an  interest,  whether  direct  or  indirect,  to  the  extent  of  at  least
fifty-one percent of voting rights in the body corporate;
(ii) in a case other than that of a body corporate, shall be construed as any change in its legal
formation or ownership.]
8[(ad) "clearing corporation" shall mean a clearing corporation as defined in clause (d) of sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and
Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012;]
Regulations,2011, w.e.f. 19-04-2011. Prior to omission, clause (ab) read as under:
“change  of  status  or  constitution”  in  relation  to  a  stock  broker  or  a  sub-broker  means  any  change  in  its
status  or
constitution  of  whatsoever  nature
includes— (i)
corporate—
(A)                    amalgamation,  demerger,  consolidation  or  any  other  kind  of  corporate  restructuring
falling  within  the  scope  of  section  391  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of  1956)  or  the  corresponding
provision of any other law for
the time being in force;
and
in  case  of  a  body
(B)                    change  in  its  managing  director,  whole-time  director  or  director  appointed  in
compliance  with clause (v) of sub-rule (4A) of rule 8 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957;
and
(C)           any change in control over the body corporate;
(ii)           any  change  between  the  following  legal  forms  -  individual,  partnership  firm,  Hindu
undivided  family,  private  company,  public company, unlimited company  or  statutory  corporation  and  other
similar changes;
(iii)          in case of a partnership firm any change in partners not amounting to dissolution of the
firm
7  Substituted
of  Certain
Intermediaries)(Amendment)  Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 19-04-2011. Prior to substitution, clause  (ac) read as
under:
of  Registration
in  Conditions
SEBI
(Change
by
t h e
“change in control”, in relation to a stock broker or a sub-broker being a body means-
(i)             if  its  shares  are  listed  on  any  recognised  stock  exchange,  change  in  control  within  the
meaning  of  regulation    12    of    the    Securities    and    Exchange    Board    of    India    (Substantial
Acquisition  of  Shares  and
Takeovers) Regulations, 1997;
(ii)           in any other case, change in the controlling interest in the body corporate;
interest,  whether  direct  or  indirect,  to  the  extent  of  at  least  fifty-one  per  cent  of  voting  rights  in  the  body
corporate;”
Prior to     substitution clause (ad) read as:
9[(ae)  "clearing  member"means  a  person  having  clearing  and  settlement  rights  in  any
recognised clearing  corporation and shall include any person having clearing and settlement
rights on a commodity derivatives exchange:
Provided that such a clearing member in commodity derivatives exchange shall be required to
become a member of a recognised clearing corporation from such date as may be specified by
the Board.]
(aaa)10[***]
(b)  “form” means a form specified in Schedule I;
(c)  “inspecting  authority”  means  one  or  more  persons  appointed  by  the  Board  to
exercise powers conferred under Chapter V of these regulations;
11[(ca) "proprietary trading member” means a stock broker who trades in the debt segment of
the  recognised  stock  exchange,  exclusively  on  its  own  account  or  as  permitted  by  its
sectoral regulator;]
(d)  “regulations”  means  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Stock  Brokers 12[***]  )
Regulations, 1992;
(e) 13[***]
(f)  “Securities  Contract  (Regulation)  Act”  means  Securities  Contract  (Regulation)  Act,  1956
(42 of 1956)
14[(fa)  “self-clearing  member”  means  a  member  of  a  clearing  corporation  who  is  also  a  stock
broker and clears and settles trades on its own  account or on account of its clients only and
“clearing corporation or clearing house” means the clearing corporation or clearing house of a recognised stock
exchange to clear and settle trades in securities;
2013.w.e.f 27-09-2013. Prior to the substitution, clause (ae) read as:
“clearing member” shall mean a clearing member as defined in clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of
the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012;
Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-09-2002.
11  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers)  (Second  Amdt.)  Regulations,2013  w.e.f  27-09-
2013. Prior to substitution clause (ca) read as:
“(ca) proprietary trading member” means a member of debt segment of a stock exchange which trades
only on its own account or as permitted by its sectorial regulator;"
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
Prior to omission, it read as under:
‘(e) “rules” means Securities and Exchange Board of India(Stock Brokers and Sub-brokers) Rules, 1992;
includes  any  person  having  clearing  and  settlement  rights  on  a  commodity  derivatives
exchange:
Provided  that  such  person  who  clears  and  settles  trades  in  commodity  derivatives,  shall  be
required to  become a member of a recognised clearing  corporation, from  such date as may
be specified by the Board.]
(g) “small investor” means any investor buying or selling securities on a cash transaction  for
a  market  value  not  exceeding  rupees  fifty  thousand  in aggregate on any day as shown in
a contract note issued by the stock broker;
15[(ga)“stock exchange” means a stock exchange which is for the time being recognised by the
Central Government or by the Board under section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation)
Act, 1956 (42 of 1956);]
16[(gb)"stock broker" means a person having trading rights in any recognised stock exchange
and includes a trading member;]
(gc)  17[***]]
(gd) 18[***]
(h) 19[***]
20[(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act,
the Companies Act, 1956, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories
Act,  1996  or  any  rules  or  regulations  made  thereunder  shall  have  the  same  meanings
respectively  assigned  to  them  in  those  Acts,  rules  or  regulations  made  thereunder  or  any
statutory modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be.]
2013.w.e.f 27.09.2013. Prior to the substitution, clause (fa) read as:
2006.
16  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers)  (Second  Amdt.)  Regulations,  2013  w.e.f.  27-09-
2013. Prior to     substitution clause (gb) read as:
"(fa) “self-clearing member” means a member of a clearing corporation who is also a stock broker and
clears and settles trades on its own account or on account of its clients only;"
(gb)  “stock broker” means a member of a stock exchange;
Prior to its omission, clause (gc) read as follows,-
““sub-broker”  means  any  person  not  being  a  member  of  stock  exchange  who  acts  on  behalf  of  a
stock broker as an agent or otherwise for assisting the investors in buying, selling or dealing in securities
through such stock brokers;”
21[CHAPTER II
REGISTRATION OF STOCK BROKERS
Application for registration.
3. (1) 22[ No person shall act as a stock broker, unless he obtains a certificate of registration
from the Board:
Provided that no separate registration shall be required for a clearing member registered with
the Board to act as a stock broker in a stock exchange of which  he is admitted as a member,
subject to grant of approval by the concerned stock exchange.
registration shall be required for a stock broker registered with the Board to  operate in more
than one stock exchange, of which he is admitted as a member, subject to grant of approval
by the concerned stock exchange.]
(2)  An  application  for  grant  of  a  certificate  of  registration  as  a  stock  broker  shall  be
submitted to the Board in Form A of Schedule I through the stock exchange23[*]of which he
is admitted as a member.
(3)  The  stock  exchange  24[*]  shall  forward  the  application  form  to  the  Board  as  early  as
possible, but not later than thirty days from the date of its receipt.
Furnishing of information, clarification.
4.  (1)  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant,  or  the  concerned  stock  exchange,  to  furnish
further information or clarifications, regarding the trading, settling or dealing in securities and
matter connected thereto, to consider the application for grant of a certificate.
(2)  The  applicant  or,  its  principal  officer  shall,  if  so  required,  appear  before  the  Board  for
personal representation.
27-09-2013
22  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014  w.e.f.  08-10-
2014. Prior to the substitution, the sub-regulation read as follows:
‘No person shall act as a stock broker, unless he seeks a certificate of registration from the Board for
each stock exchange in which he seeks to operate:
Provided that no separate registration shall be required for a clearing member registered with the Board
to operate as a stock broker in the stock exchange which has promoted the clearing corporation of which
he is a clearing member.’
2014
2014
Consideration of application for grant of registration.
5.  The  Board  shall  take  into  account  for  considering  the  grant  of  a  certificate,  all  matters
relating  to  trading,  settling  or  dealing  in  securities  and  in  particular  the  following,  namely,
whether the applicant,-
(a) is eligible to be admitted as a member of a stock exchange;
(b) has the necessary infrastructure like adequate office space, equipment and man power to
effectively discharge his activities;
(c) has any past experience in the business of trading or dealing in securities, as the case may
be;
(d)  has  been  subjected  to  disciplinary  proceedings  under  the  rules,  and  bye-laws  of  a  stock
exchange, or enforcement action under securities laws, with respect to his business as a stock-
broker involving either himself or any of his partners, directors or employees;
(e) is a fit  and proper person based on the criteria specified in  Schedule II of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;
(f)  has  any  financial  liability  which  is  due  and  payable  in  terms  of  the  Act,  the  Securities
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or rules and regulations thereunder;
(g)  has  obtained  certification  in  terms  of  SEBI  (Certification  of  Associated  Persons  in  the
Securities Markets) Regulations, 2007 or as may be specified by the Board;
(h) satisfies the minimum networth and deposit requirements as specified in Schedule VI, for
the segment for which membership or approval is sought.
Procedure for registration.
6.  The  Board  may,  after  consideration  of  the  application  under  regulation  3  and  on  being
satisfied that the applicant has complied with the conditions laid down in regulation 5 grant a
certificate of registration in Form D to the stock-broker, and send intimation to that effect to
the stock exchange(s) of which it is a member.
Procedure where registration is not granted.
7.(1) Where an application under regulation 3, does not fulfill the requirements mentioned in
regulation  5,  the  Board  may  reject  the  application  after  giving  a  reasonable  opportunity  of
being heard.
(2) The refusal to grant the registration certificate shall be communicated by the Board within
thirty  days  of  such  refusal  to  the  applicant  and  to  the  concerned  stock  exchange  stating
therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected.
(3) An applicant whose application has been rejected by the Board under sub-regulation (2),
may  apply  within  a  period  of  thirty  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  such  intimation,  to  the
board for reconsideration of its decision.
(4)  The  Board  shall  reconsider  an  application  made  under  sub-regulation  (3)  and
communicate its decision as soon as possible in writing to the applicant and to the concerned
stock exchange.
Payment of fees.
8. Every applicant eligible for grant of a certificate of registration as a stock broker shall pay
such fees and in such manner as specified in Schedule III or Schedule V as the case maybe:
Provided that the Board may on sufficient cause being shown permit the stock-broker
to pay such fees at any time before the expiry of six months from the date on which such fees
become due.
Conditions of registration.
9. Any registration granted by the Board under regulation 6 shall be subject to the following
conditions, namely,-
(a) the stock broker holds the membership of any stock exchange;
(b)  he  shall  abide  by  the  rules,  regulations  and  bye-laws  of  the  stock  exchange  which  are
applicable to him;
(c) where the stock broker proposes change in  control, he shall obtain prior approval  of the
Board for continuing to act as such after the change;
(d) he shall pay fees charged by the Board in the manner provided in these regulations;
(e) he shall take adequate steps for redressal of grievances, of the investors within one month
of  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  complaint  and  inform  the  Board  as  and  when  required  by  the
Board;
(f) he shall at all times abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in Schedule II; and
(g) he shall at all times maintain the minimum networth as specified in Schedule VI.
25[Approval for operation in other stock exchange(s) or segment(s) of stock exchange.
Prior to substitution the Regulation read as follows: ‘Approval for operation in segments of stock exchange.
10.  (1)  Approval  for  operating  in  segments  of  a  stock  exchange  shall  be  granted  by  the  concerned  stock
exchange.
10. (1)  A  stock  broker  registered  with  the  Board,  who  desires to  operate  in  any  other  stock
exchange  or  any  other  segment(s)  of  the  stock  exchange  of  which  it  holds  a  membership,
shall apply to the concerned stock exchange, in the manner specified by the Board.
(2)  A  clearing  member  registered  with  the  Board,  who  desires  to  operate  in  any  stock
exchange  or  any  segment(s)  of  the  stock  exchange,  shall  apply  to  the  concerned  stock
exchange in the manner specified by the Board.
(3)  On  receipt  of  an  application  under  sub-regulation  (1)  or  sub-regulation  (2),  the  stock
exchange  shall,  on  being  satisfied  with  the  compliance  of  provisions  of  the  regulations  and
other  relevant  eligibility  requirements  specified  by  the  Board,  grant  approval  to  operate  in
that  stock  exchange  or  segment(s)  thereof  and  shall  inform  the  Board  about  such  grant  of
approval.]
26[CHAPTER II-A
REGISTRATION OF CLEARING MEMBERS
Application for registration.
10A.  27[(1)  No  person  shall  act  as  a  clearing  member,  unless  he  obtains  a  certificate  of
registration from the Board:
Provided that no separate registration shall be required for a stock broker registered with the
Board  to  act  as  a  clearing  member  in  a  clearing  corporation  of  which  he  is  admitted  as  a
member, subject to grant of approval by the concerned clearing corporation.
(2) A stock broker registered with the Board, who desires to operate in any segment(s) of the stock exchange of
which  it  holds  a  membership,  shall  apply  to  the  concerned  stock  exchange,  in  the  manner  specified  by  the
Board.
(3)  A  clearing  member  registered  with  the  Board,  who  desires  to  operate  in  any  segment(s)  of  the  stock
exchange which has promoted the clearing corporation, of which he is a member, shall apply to the concerned
stock exchange in the manner specified by the Board.
(4)  On  receipt  of  an  application  under  sub-regulation  (2)  or  sub-regulation  (3),  the  stock  exchange  shall,  on
being  satisfied  with  the  compliance  of  provision  of  the  regulations  and  other  relevant  eligibility  requirements
specified  by  the  Board,  grant approval  for  operation in  any  segment(s) and  shall inform  the  Board about  such
grant of approval.’
27.09.2013
27  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014  w.e.f.
8.10.2014.Prior to substitution the sub-regulation read as follows:
‘ (1) Any person who desires to act as a clearing member, shall seek a certificate of registration from the Board
for each clearing corporation in which he seeks to operate:
Provided that no separate registration shall be required for a stock broker registered with the Board to operate as
a  clearing  member  in  the  clearing  corporation  which  is  promoted  by  the  stock  exchange  of  which  he  is  a
member.’
registration  shall  be required for  a  clearing  member  registered  with  the  Board to  operate in
more than one clearing corporation, of which he is admitted as a member, subject to grant of
approval by the concerned clearing corporation.]
(2)  An  application  for  grant  of  a  certificate  of  registration  as  clearing  member  shall  be
submitted  to  the  Board  in  Form  AD  of  Schedule  I  through  the  clearing  corporation28[*]  of
which he is admitted as a member.
(3) The Clearing Corporation29[*] shall forward the application form to the Board as early as
possible, but not later than thirty days from the date of its receipt.
Applicability of Chapter II.
10B.  The  provisions  of  Chapter  II  shall  be  applicable  mutatis  mutandis  to  registration  of  a
clearing member, except as otherwise provided."
Payment of fees.
10C.  Every  applicant  eligible for  grant  of  a  certificate  of  registration  as  a  clearing  member
shall pay such fees and in such manner as specified in Schedule III or Schedule V as the case
maybe:
Provided that the Board may on sufficient cause being shown permit the clearing member to
pay such fees at any time before the expiry of six  months from the date on which such fees
become due.
30[ Approval for operation in other clearing corporation(s) or segment(s) of   clearing
corporation.
08.10.2014
08.10.2014
30Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014  w.e.f.
08.10.2014.Prior to substitution the regulation read as follows:
‘Approval for operation in segments of clearing corporation.
10D.  (1)  Approval  for  operating in  any  segments  of a clearing  corporation  shall be  granted  by  the  concerned
clearing corporation.
(2)  A  clearing  member  registered  with  the  Board,  who  desires  to  operate  in  any  segment(s)  of  the  clearing
corporation  of  which  it  holds  a  membership,  shall  apply  to  the  concerned  clearing  corporation  in  the  manner
specified by the Board.
(3)  A  stock  broker  registered  with  the  Board,  who  desires  to  operate  in  any  segment(s)  of  the  clearing
corporation  promoted  by  the  stock  exchange  of  which  he  is  a  member,  shall  apply  to  the  concerned  clearing
corporation in the manner specified by the Board.
10D.  (1)  A  clearing  member  registered  with  the Board,  who  desires  to  operate  in  any  other
clearing  corporation or any other segment(s) of the clearing  corporation of which it holds a
membership, shall apply to the concerned clearing corporation in the manner specified by the
Board.
(2)  A  stock  broker  registered  with  the  Board,  who  desires  to  operate  in  any  clearing
corporation  or  any  segment(s)  of  the  clearing  corporation,  shall  apply  to  the  concerned
clearing corporation in the manner specified by the Board.
(3)  On receipt  of  an  application  under  sub-regulation  (1)  or  sub-regulation  (2), the  clearing
corporation shall, on being satisfied with the compliance of provisions of the regulations and
other  relevant  eligibility  requirements  specified  by  the  Board,  grant  approval  to  operate  in
that clearing corporation or segment(s) thereof, and shall inform the Board about such grant
of approval.]
31[ Clearing Corporation for commodity derivatives.
10E.  For  the  purpose  of  this  Chapter  and  in  respect  of  clearing  and  settlement  of  trades  in
commodity derivatives, the word “clearing corporation” wherever appearing, shall refer to a
commodity derivatives exchange till such time a separate clearing corporation is established
to undertake the activity of clearing and settlement of trades in commodity derivatives.
Application of Chapters IV, V & VI
10F. The provisions of Chapters IV, V and VI of these regulations shall mutatis mutandis
apply to a clearing member and self-clearing member.]
Chapter III 32[***]
Chapter IIIA 33[***]
Chapter III B 34[***]
Chapter IIIC 35[***]
(4) On receipt of an application under sub-regulation (2) or sub-regulation (3) , the clearing corporation shall, on
being  satisfied  with  the  compliance  of  provision  of  the  regulations  and  other  relevant  eligibility  requirements
specified by the Board, grant approval for operation in any segment(s), and shall inform the Board about such
grant of approval.’
04-2019.
CHAPTER IV
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
To maintain proper books of account, records, etc.
17. (1) Every Stock Broker shall keep and maintain the following books of account, records
and documents, namely:—
(a) Register of transactions (Sauda Book);
(b) Clients ledger;
(c) General ledger;
(d) Journals;
(e) Cash book;
(f) Bank pass book;
36[(g)  Documents  register  containing,  inter  alia,  particulars  of  securities  received  and
delivered in physical form and the statement of account and other records relating to receipt
and delivery of securities provided by the depository participants in respect of dematerialized
securities;]
(h) Member’s contract books showing details of all contracts entered into by him with other
members of the same exchange or counterfoils or duplicates of memos of confirmation issued
to such other members;
(i) Counterfoils or duplicates of contract notes issued to clients;
(j) Written consent of clients in respect of contracts entered into as principals;
(k) Margin deposit book;
(l) 37[****]
(m) 38[****]
39[(n) Client account opening form in the format as may be specified by the Board.]
36  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2003,  w.e.f.  23-09-
2003. Prior to substitution, it read as under:
“Documents register should include particulars of shares and securities received and delivered”
Prior to its omission, clause (l) read as follows,-
“(l) Registers of accounts of sub-brokers;”
Prior to its omission, clause (m) read as follows,-
“(m)  An  agreement  with  a  sub-broker  specifying  the  scope  of  authority,  and  responsibilities  of  the
Stock Broker and such Sub-broker;”
39  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers) (Second  Amdt.)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f.  17-08-
2011.
Prior to the substation, it read as under:
(2)  Every  stock  broker  shall  intimate  to  the  Board  the  place  where  the  books  of  account,
records and documents are maintained.
(3) Without prejudice to sub-regulation  (1), every stock broker shall, after the close of each
accounting period furnish to the Board if so required as soon as possible but not later than six
months from the close of the said  period a copy of the audited balance sheet  and profit and
loss account as at the end of the said accounting period:
Provided that, if it is not possible to furnish the above documents within the time specified,
the Stock Broker shall keep the Board informed of the same together with the reasons for the
delay and the period of time by which such documents would be furnished.
Maintenance of books of account and records.
18.  Every  stock  broker  shall  preserve  the  books  of  account  and  other  records  maintained
under regulation 17 for a minimum period of five years.
40[Appointment of compliance officer.
18A.  (1)Every  stock  broker  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for
monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations,  notifications,  guidelines,
instructions,  etc.,  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central  Government  and  for  redressal  of
investors’ grievances.
(2)The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report to the Board any non-
compliance observed by him.]
41[***]
42[************]
“An agreement with the sub-broker and with the client of the sub-broker to establish privity of contract between
the stock broker and the client of the sub-broker.”
2001.
Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 23-09-2003 read as follows,-
“Stock Broker not to deal with unregistered Sub-broker.
18B.The  stock  broker  shall  not  deal  with  any  person  as  a  sub-broker  unless  such  person  has  been
granted certificate of registration by the Board under sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 12.”
2015, w.e.f. 28-09-2015, read as follows:
“Restriction on activities.
CHAPTER V
PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION
Board’s right to inspect.
19.  (1)  Where  it  appears  to  the  Board  so  to  do,  it  may  appoint  one  or  more  persons  as
inspecting  authority  to  undertake  inspection  of  the  books  of  account,  other  records  and
documents of the stock brokers for any of the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be as follows, namely :—
(a) to ensure that the books of account  and other books are being  maintained in the  manner
required;
(b)  that  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  rules,  regulations  and  the  provisions  of  the  Securities
Contracts (Regulation) Act, and the rules made thereunder are being complied with;
Procedure for inspection.
20.  (1)  Before  undertaking  any  inspection  under  regulation  19,  the  Board  shall  give  a
reasonable notice to the stock broker for that purpose.
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  where  the  Board  is  satisfied
that in the interest of the investors or in public interest no such notice should be given, it may
by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the stock broker be taken up
without such notice.
(3) On being empowered by the Board, the inspecting authority shall undertake the inspection
and  the  stock-broker  against  whom  an  inspection  is  being  carried  out  shall  be  bound  to
discharge his obligations as provided under regulation 21.
Obligations of stock-broker on inspection by the Board.
18C. (1) A stock broker carrying on the activity of buying, selling or dealing in securities, other than commodity
derivatives,  shall  not  undertake  the  activity  of  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in  commodity  derivatives,  unless
permitted by the Board.
(2)  A  stock  broker  carrying  on  the  activity  of  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in  commodity  derivatives,  shall  not
undertake  the  activity  of  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in  securities  other  than  commodity  derivatives,  unless
permitted by the Board”.
21. (1) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer and employee of the
stock-broker,  who  is  being  inspected,  to  produce  to  the  inspecting  authority  such  books,
accounts and other documents in his custody  or control and furnish him with the statements
and information relating to the transactions in securities market within such time as the said
officer may require.
(2)  The  stock-broker  shall  allow  the  inspecting  authority  to  have  reasonable  access  to  the
premises occupied by such stock-broker or by any other person on his behalf and also extend
reasonable  facility  for  examining  any  books,  records,  documents  and  computer  data  in  the
possession  of the stock-broker or any other person and  also provide copies of documents or
other materials which, in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant.
(3)  The  inspecting  authority,  in  the  course  of  inspection,  shall  be  entitled  to  examine  or
record  statements  of  any  member,  director,  partner,  proprietor  and  employee  of  the  stock-
broker.
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer and employee of the stock
broker  to  give  to  the  inspecting  authority  all  assistance  in  connection  with  the  inspection,
which the stock broker may reasonably be expected to give.
Submission of report to the Board.
22. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as may be possible, submit an inspection report to
the Board.
Action on inspection or investigation report.
23.  43[The  Board  shall  after  consideration  of  inspection  or  investigation  report  take  such
action  as  it  may  deem  fit  and  appropriate  including  action  under  44[  Chapter  V  of  the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008], Chapter VIA of
the Act or section 24 of the Act.]
Appointment of auditor.
24. Notwithstanding anything contained above, the Board may appoint a qualified auditor to
investigate into the books of account or the affairs of the stock-broker:
43  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers) (Second  Amdt.)  Regulations,  2003,  w.e.f.  20-11-
Penalty) Regulations, 2002. w.e.f 27-09-2002.
Provided  that,  the  auditor  so  appointed  shall  have  the  same  powers  of  the  inspecting
authority as mentioned in  regulation  19 and the obligations of the stockbroker in  regulation
21 shall be applicable to the investigation under this regulation.
CHAPTER VI
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT
45[Liability for contravention of the Act, rules or the regulations.
25.  A  stock  broker  46[***]  who  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  rules  or
regulations framed thereunder shall be liable for any one or more of the following actions—
(i) Monetary penalty under Chapter VIA of the Act.
(ii) Penalties as specified under  47[Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008]  including  suspension  or  cancellation  of  certificate  of
registration as a stock broker 48[***],
(iii) Prosecution under section 24 of the Act.
Liability for monetary penalty.
26.  A  stock  broker  49[***]    shall  be  liable for  monetary  penalty  in  respect  of  the  following
violations, namely—
(i) Failure to file any return or report with the Board.
(ii) Failure to furnish any information, books or other documents within 15 days of issue of
notice by the Board.
(iii)  Failure  to  maintain  books  of  account  or  records  as  per  the  Act,  rules  or  regulations
framed thereunder.
(iv) Failure to redress the grievances of investors within 30 days of receipts of notice from the
Board.
(v) Failure to issue contract notes in the form and manner specified by the Stock Exchange of
which such broker is a member.
(Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 20-11-2003.
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
(vi) Failure to deliver any security or make payment of the amount due to the investor within
48 hours of the settlement of trade unless the client has agreed in writing otherwise.
(vii) Charging of brokerage which is in excess of brokerage specified in the regulations or the
bye-laws of the stock exchange.
(viii)  Dealing  in  securities  of  a  body  corporate  listed  on  any  stock  exchange  on  his  own
behalf  or  on  behalf  of  any  other  person  on  the  basis  of  any  unpublished  price  sensitive
information.
(ix)  Procuring  or  communicating  any  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  except  as
required in the ordinary course of business or under any law.
(x)  Counselling  any  person  to  deal  in  securities  of  any  body  corporate  on  the  basis  of
unpublished price sensitive information.
(xi) Indulging in fraudulent and unfair trade practices relating to securities.
50[(xii) Failure to maintain client account opening form.]
(xiii) Failure to segregate his own funds or securities from the client’s funds or securities or
using  the  securities  or  funds  of  the  client  for  his  own  purpose  or  for  purpose  of  any  other
client.
(xiv) 51[***]
(xv) Failure to  comply with  directions issued by the Board under the Act  or the regulations
framed thereunder.
(xvi) Failure to exercise due skill, care and diligence.
52[(xvii) Failure to obtain prior approval of the Board in case of change in control of the stock
broker.]
(xviii)  Failure  to  satisfy  the  net  worth  or  capital  adequacy  norms,  if  any,  specified  by  the
Board.
(xix) Extending use of trading terminal to any unauthorized person or place.
(xx) Violations for which no separate penalty has been provided under these regulations.
50  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers) (Second  Amdt.)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f.  17-08-
2011.
Prior to the substation, it read as under:
“(xii)  Execution  of  trade  without  entering  into  agreement  with  the  client  under  the  Act,  rules  or  regulations
framed  there  under  or  failure  to  maintain  client  registration  form  or  commission  of  any  irregularities  in
maintaining the client agreement.”
Prior to its omission, clause (xiv) read as follows,-
“Acting as an unregistered sub-broker or dealing with unregistered sub-brokers.”
52  Substituted  by  the  SEBI(Change  in  Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain  Intermediaries)(Amendment)
Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 19-04-2011. Prior to substitution, it read as under:
“Failure to seek prior permission of the Board in case of any change in its status and constitution.”
Liability for action under the Enquiry Proceeding Regulations.
27.  A  stock  broker  53[***]  shall  be  liable  for  any  action  as  specified  in  54[Chapter  V  of  the
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008]  including
suspension or cancellation of his certificate of registration as a stock broker 55[***] 56[***], if
he—
(i) ceases to be a member of a stock exchange; or
(ii) has been declared defaulter by a stock exchange and not re-admitted as a member within a
period of six months; or
(iii) surrenders his certificate of registration to the Board; or
(iv) has been found to  be not  a fit and proper person by the Board under these or  any other
regulations; or
(v)  has  been  declared  insolvent  or  order  for  winding  up  has  been  passed  in  the  case  of  a
broker 57[***] being a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956; or
(vi) or any of the partners or any whole-time director in case a broker  58[***]  is a company
registered  under  the  Companies  Act,  1956  has  been  convicted  by  a  court  of  competent
jurisdiction for an offence involving moral turpitude; or
(vii) fails to pay fee as per Schedule III of these regulations; or
(viii) fails to comply with the rules, regulations and bye-laws of the stock exchange of which
he is a member; or
(ix) fails to co-operate with the inspecting or investigating authority; or
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
2002” by the SEBI (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 26-05-2008.
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
Amdt.) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
(x)  fails  to  abide  by  any  award  of  the  Ombudsman  or  decision  of  the  Board  under  the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003; or
(xi) fails to pay the penalty imposed by the Adjudicating Officer; or
(xii) indulges in market manipulation of securities or index; or
(xiii)  indulges  in  insider  trading  in  violation  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992; or
(xiv) violates Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair
Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003; or
(xv) commits violation of any of the provisions for which monetary penalty or other penalties
could be imposed; or
(xvi) fails to comply with the circulars issued by the Board; or
(xvii) commits violations specified in regulation 26 which in the opinion of the Board are of a
grievous nature.
Liability for prosecution.
28. A stock broker 59[***] shall be liable for prosecution under section 24 of the Act for any
of the following violations, namely :—
(i) Dealing in securities without obtaining certificate of registration from the Board as a stock
broker 60[***].
(ii)  Dealing  in  securities  or  providing  trading  floor  or  assisting  in  trading  outside  the
recognized stock exchange in violation of provisions of the Securities Contracts
(Regulation) Act, 1956 or rules made or notifications issued thereunder.
(iii) Market manipulation of securities or index.
(iv)  Indulging  in  insider  trading  in  violation  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992.
(v) Violating the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent
and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003.
(vi) Failure without reasonable cause—
(a)  to  produce  to  the  investigating  authority  or  any  person  authorized  by  him  in  this
behalf, any books, registers,
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
(b)  to  appear  before  the  investigating  authority  personally  or  to  answer  any  question
which is put to him by the investigating authority; or
(c) to sign the notes of any examination taken down by the investigating authority.
(vii) Failure to pay penalty imposed by the adjudicating officer or failure to comply
with any of his directions or orders.]
61[***]
62[CHAPTER VI-A
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
28A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or
any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding
twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new
products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox
in the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to
be complied with on a continuous basis.
testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  may  be
deployed on a limited set  of eligible customers for a specified period of time,  for furthering
innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the
Board.]
63[CHAPTER VII
MISCELLANEOUS
Power to remove difficulties
Imposing  Penalty)  Regulations,  2002,  w.e.f.  27-09-2002.  Earlier  regulations  27  to  29  were  amended  by  the
SEBI(Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers)(Amendment)  Regulations,  1999,  w.e.f.  06-07-1999  and  regulations  32
was  amended  by  the  SEBI(Appeal  to  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal)  (Amendment)Regulations,  w.e.f.  28-03-
2000.
27.09.2013
29. In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of
these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes
or circulars.
Power to specify procedures, etc. and issue clarifications
30.  For  the  purposes  of  implementation  of  these  regulations  and  matters  incidental  thereto,
the  Board  may  specify  norms,  procedures,  processes,  manners  or  guidelines  as  specified  in
these  regulations,  by  way  of  circulars  to  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  and  recognised
clearing corporation(s).]
SCHEDULE I
FORMS
64[FORM A
[Regulation 3]
Application Form for Registration as Stock Broker with Securities and Exchange
Table 1:
Board of India
Sl. No.
Particulars
Details
Name of Member with Code No.
Trade name of Member
Name  of  the  Stock  Exchange/  segment  of  which  the
applicant is the member
Date of admission to exchange/ segment
Address of Member
Fax   Number(s),   Phone   Number(s)   of   office   and
residence and email address
Form       of       Organization—Sole       proprietorship,
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
partnership, corporate body, financial
8
institution65[,others (please specify)]
Net worth along with supporting document
66[9
PAN of the applicant]
Table 2: Details of proprietor/ partners/ directors
Sl.
Names
Age
PAN  Educational
Experience  in  derivatives  trading
Qualifications
or       securities       market,       as
applicable
No.
67[*]
Table  4:  Details  of  sales  personnel  or  approved  user  who  has  passed  any
certification programme
Sl. No.  Name
Date of test
Percentage
Certificate No.
Other details:
1.      Please  furnish  a  copy  of  the  memorandum  and  articles  of  association  or  the
partnership deed, as the case may be.
2. 68[*]
08.10.2014.
3.   If  the  applicant  intends  to  clear  and  settle  his  trades  through  a  clearing  member,
the applicant is required to furnish the name and details of the clearing member along
with a copy of MoU/ agreement/ contract with them for the same.
4.   Whether  the  application  is  accompanied  by  a  requisite  fee  as  per  Schedule  V  of
the Regulations as applicable to the applicant.
Undertaking:
5.      Whether  the  applicant  or  its  director  or  partners,  any  time  convicted  of  any
economic offence? If so, furnish the details.
6.      Whether  the  applicant  or  its  directors  or  partners,  declared  insolvent  or  declared
defaulter by any exchange? If so, furnish details.
7.      Whether  the  applicant  or  its  directors  or  partners  at  any  time  subjected  to  any
proceedings or penalty by the Board under SEBI Act or any of the regulations framed
under the SEBI Act? If so, furnish the details.
8.   Whether any disciplinary action has been initiated/ taken or penalty has been imposed
by SEBI/ stock exchange(s)/ clearing corporation(s) or any other regulatory authority?
If yes, furnish details. Also provide the details of corrective steps taken thereon
Declaration:
I  declare  that  the  information  given  in  this  form  is  true  and  in  the  event  of  any
information  furnished  is  false,  misleading  or  suppression  of  facts,  my  certificate  of
registration  is  liable  to  be  cancelled  by  SEBI  without  assigning  any  reasons
whatsoever.
Dated.....................                                                                                          Signature
RECOMMENDATION OF THE STOCK
EXCHANGE
This  is  to  certify  that  ………………………….  is  a member  of this  Stock
Exchange and is recommended for registration with the Securities and Exchange
Board of India.
Signature :
Name   :
Designation :]
FORM AA 69[***]
FORM AB 70[***]
FORM AC 71[***]
72[FORM AD
[Regulation 10A]
Application Form for Registration as Clearing Member with Securities and Exchange
Board of India
Table 1:
Sl. No.
Particulars
Details
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Name of Member with Code
Trade name of Member
Name of the Clearing Corporation of which
the applicant is the
member
Date of admission to Clearing Corporation
Address of Member
27.09.2013
6.
7.
Fax Number(s), Phone Number(s) of office
and residence and email
address
Form of Organization—Sole proprietorship,
partnership, corporate
body, financial institution73[,others (please
specify)]
8.
Net worth along with supporting document
74[9.
PAN of the applicant]
Table 2: Details of proprietor/ partners/ directors
Sl.No
Names
Age
PAN  Educational
Experience in derivatives
Qualifications
trading
or securities market, as
applicable
75[***]
Other details:
1.  Please  furnish  a  copy  of  the  memorandum  and  articles  of  association  or  the  partnership
deed, as the case may be.
2.  Whether  the  application  is  accompanied  by  a  requisite  fee  as  per  Schedule  V  of  the
Regulations as applicable to the applicant.
Undertakings:
08.10.2014
3.  Whether  the  applicant  or  its  director  or  partners,  any  time  convicted  of  any  economic
offence? If so, furnish the details.
4. Whether the applicant or its directors or partners, declared insolvent or declared defaulter
by any exchange? If so, furnish details.
5. Whether the applicant or its directors or partners at any time subjected to any proceedings
or penalty by the Board under SEBI Act or any of the regulations framed under the SEBI
Act? If so, furnish the details.
6. Whether any disciplinary action has been initiated/ taken or penalty has been imposed by
SEBI/  stock  exchange(s)/  clearing  corporation(s)  or  any  other  regulatory  authority?  If  yes,
furnish details. Also provide the details of corrective steps taken thereon.
Declaration:
I declare that the information given in this form is true and in the event of any information
furnished is false, misleading or suppression of facts, my certificate of registration is liable to
be cancelled by SEBI without assigning any reasons whatsoever.
Dated..................... Signature
RECOMMENDATION OF THE CLEARING CORPORATION
This is to certify that …………………………. is a member of this Clearing Corporation and
is recommended for registration with the Securities and Exchange Board of India.
FORM B 76[***]
FORM C 77[***]
Signature:
Name:
Designation:]
FORM CA 78[***]
79[FORM D
[Regulations 6 and 10B]
CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION
In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  sub-section  (1)  of  section  12  of  the  Securities  and
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the rules and regulations made thereunder, the
Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to......................................................................
as a stock broker/ proprietary trading member/ clearing member for carrying on the activities
of buying, selling  or dealing in securities/  clearing and settlement of trades and for carrying
on such other activities as are permitted by stock exchange(s)/ clearing corporation(s), subject
to the conditions specified therefor, from time to time, by the Board.
Registration number allotted is as under: ....................................................................
This  certificate  shall  be  valid  till  it  is  suspended  or  cancelled  in  accordance  with  the
Regulations.
Date : ................................
For and on behalf of Securities and Exchange Board of India]
By order
FORM DA 80[***]
FORM DB 81[***]
FORM DC 82[***]
FORM E
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock Brokers 83[***])
01-04-2019.
Regulations, 1992
[Regulation 12]
Certificate of Registration
In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  sub-section  (1)  of  section  12  of  the  Securities  and
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the rules and regulations made thereunder, the
Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to...................as a Sub-broker subject  to  the
rules and in accordance with the regulations.
Registration number allotted is as under:
......................................................................................................................................
.................................................
This  certificate  shall  be  valid  till  it  is  suspended  or  cancelled  in  accordance  with  the
regulations.
For and on behalf of Securities and Exchange Board of India
Date:............... By Order
SCHEDULE II
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock Brokers 84[***])
Regulations, 1992
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR STOCK BROKERS
[Regulation 9]
A. General.
(1)  Integrity:  A  stock-broker,  shall  maintain  high  standards  of  integrity,  promptitude  and
fairness in the conduct of all his business.
(2) Exercise of due skill and care : A stock-broker shall act with due skill, care and diligence
in the conduct of all his business.
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
(3) Manipulation : A stock-broker shall not indulge in manipulative, fraudulent or deceptive
transactions  or  schemes  or  spread  rumours  with  a  view  to  distorting  market  equilibrium  or
making personal gains.
(4) Malpractices: A stock-broker shall not create false market either singly or in concert with
others or indulge in any act detrimental to the investors interest or which leads to interference
with the fair and smooth functioning of the market. A stockbroker shall not involve himself in
excessive  speculative  business  in  the  market  beyond  reasonable  levels  not  commensurate
with his financial soundness.
(5) Compliance with statutory requirements: A stock-broker shall abide by all the provisions
of  the  Act  and  the  rules,  regulations  issued  by  the  Government,  the  Board  and  the  Stock
Exchange from time to time as may be applicable to him.
B. Duty to the Investor
(1)  Execution  of  Orders:  A  stock-broker,  in  his  dealings  with  the  clients  and  the  general
investing public, shall faithfully execute the orders for buying and selling of securities at the
best available market price and not refuse to deal with a Small Investor merely on the ground
of the volume of business involved. A stock-broker shall promptly inform his client about the
execution  or  non-execution  of  an  order,  and  make  prompt  payment  in  respect  of  securities
sold and arrange for prompt delivery of securities purchased by clients.
(2) Issue of Contract Note: A stock-broker shall issue without delay to his client  85[or client
of the sub-broker, as the case may be] a contract note for all transactions in the form specified
by the stock exchange.
(3)  Breach  of  Trust:  A  stock-broker  shall  not  disclose  or  discuss  with  any  other  person  or
make  improper  use  of  the  details  of  personal  investments  and  other  information  of  a
confidential nature of the client which he comes to know in his business relationship.
(4) Business and Commission:
(a) A stock-broker shall not encourage sales or purchases of securities with the sole object of
generating brokerage or commission.
(b) A stock-broker shall not furnish false or misleading quotations or give any other false or
misleading advice or information to the clients with a view of inducing him to do business in
particular securities and enabling himself to earn brokerage or commission thereby.
(5)  Business  of  Defaulting  Clients:  A  stock-broker  shall  not  deal  or  transact  business
knowingly, directly or indirectly or execute an order for a client who has failed to  carry out
his commitments in relation to securities with another stock-broker.
(6) Fairness to Clients: A stock-broker, when dealing with a client, shall disclose whether he
is  acting  as  a  principal  or  as  an  agent  and  shall  ensure  at  the  same  time,that  no  conflict  of
interest  arises  between  him  and  the  client.  In  the  event  of  a  conflict  of  interest,  he  shall
inform the client accordingly and shall not seek to gain a direct or indirect personal advantage
from the situation and shall not consider clients’ interest inferior to his own.
(7) Investment  Advice:  A stock-broker shall not  make a recommendation to  any  client who
might  be  expected  to rely  thereon  to  acquire,  dispose  of,  retain  any  securities  unless  he  has
reasonable grounds for believing  that the recommendation is suitable for such a client  upon
the basis of the facts, if disclosed by such a client as to his own security holdings, financial
situation and objectives of such investment.
The  stock-broker  should  seek  such  information  from  clients,  whenever  he  feels  it  is
appropriate to do so.
86[(7A) Investment advice in publicly accessible media—
(a)  A  stock  broker  or  any  of  his  employees  shall  not  render,  directly  or  indirectly,  any
investment  advice  about  any  security in  the  publicly  accessible  media,  whether real-time  or
non-real-time, unless a disclosure of his interest including the interest of his dependent family
members and the employer including their long or short position in the said security has been
made, while rendering such advice.
(b) In case an employee of the stock broker is rendering  such advice, he shall also  disclose
the interest of his dependent family members and the employer including their long or short
position in the said security, while rendering such advice.]
(8)  Competence  of  Stock-Broker:  A  stock-broker  should  have  adequately  trained  staff  and
arrangements to render fair, prompt and competence services to his clients.
C. Stock-Brokers vis-a-vis Other Stock-Brokers
(1) Conduct of Dealings: A stock-broker shall co-operate with the other contracting party in
comparing  unmatched transactions. A stock-broker shall not  knowingly  and  wilfully  deliver
documents which constitute bad delivery and shall co-operate with other contracting party for
prompt replacement of documents which are declared as bad delivery.
2001.
(2)  Protection  of  Clients  Interests:  A  stock-broker  shall  extend  fullest  co-operation  to  other
stock-brokers  in  protecting  the  interests  of  his  clients  regarding  their  rights  to  dividends,
bonus shares, right shares and any other right related to such securities.
(3)  Transactions  with  Stock-Brokers:  A  stock-broker  shall  carry  out  his  transactions  with
other  stock-brokers  and  shall  comply  with  his  obligations  in  completing  the  settlement  of
transactions with them.
(4)  Advertisement  and  Publicity:  A  stock-broker  shall  not  advertise  his  business  publicly
unless permitted by the stock exchange.
(5) Inducement of Clients: A stock-broker shall not resort to unfair means of inducing clients
from other stock-brokers.
(6) False or Misleading  Returns: A stock-broker shall not neglect  or fail or refuse to  submit
the required returns and not make any false or misleading statement on any returns required
to be submitted to the Board and the stock exchange.
D 87[****]
88[***]
SCHEDULE III
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock Brokers 89[***])
Regulations, 1992
[Regulation 10]
I. Fees to be paid by the Stock Broker.
1.  Every  stock  broker  shall  subject  to  paragraphs  2  and  3  of  this  Schedule  pay  registration
fees in the manner set out below:
(a) where the annual turnover does not exceed rupees one crore during any financial year, a
sum of rupees five thousand for each financial year;
Prior to the omission, it read as under:
“D. (1) A stock broker, shall enter into an agreement as specified by the Board with his client.
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
2018 w.e.f 01-04-2019.
(b)  where  the  annual  turnover  of  the  stock-broker  exceeds  rupees  one  crore  during  any
financial  year,  a  sum  of  rupees  five  thousand  plus  one  hundredth  of  one  per  cent  of  the
turnover in excess of rupees one crore for each financial year;
90[(bb)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  clause  (b)  it  is  clarified  that  the  fee  shall  be
recoverable as computed as under :
(i)  in  respect  of  jobbing  transactions  that  is  to  say  all  transactions  which  are  squared  off
during the same day which have not been undertaken by the broker on behalf of clients, the
fees shall be computed at the rate of one two hundredth of one per cent in respect of the sale
side of such transactions;
(ii) in respect of transactions in Government securities, the bonds issued by any Public Sector
Undertaking  and  the  units  traded  in  a  similar  manner,  the  fee  payable  shall  be  computed  at
the rate of one thousandth of one per cent of the turnover;
(iii) in case of carry forward, renewal or badla transactions the fees shall be computed at the
rate of one hundredth of one per cent of the turnover and the reverse off setting transactions
shall not be counted as part of the turnover;
(iv) if brokers are carrying  out transactions in  securities without reporting them to the stock
exchange, those transactions shall be taken into account  for the purpose of turnover and the
fees shall be computed at the rate of one hundredth of one per cent of the turnover;
(v) the  trade  put  through  on  other  stock  exchanges  shall  be  included  in  the  turnover  of  that
exchange if market for that security does not exist on the exchange of which he is a member
and the fees shall be computed at the rate of one hundredth of one per cent of the turnover;
(vi)  activity  such  as  underwriting  and  collection of  deposits  shall  not  be  taken  into  account
for the purpose of calculating the turnover;]
(c)  after  the  expiry  of  five  financial  years  from  the  date  of  initial  registration  as  a  stock-
broker, he shall pay a sum of rupees five thousand for  91[every] block of five financial years
commencing from the sixth financial year after the date of grant of initial registration to keep
his registration in force.
2. Fees referred to in clauses (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 above shall be paid—
(a) in respect of the financial year 1992-93 within one month of the commencement of these
regulations ;
02-2002.
(b) in respect of the financial year beginning on the 1st day of April, 1993 and the following
financial  years,  on  or  before  the  first  day  of  October  of  the  financial  year  to  which  such
payment  relates,  and  such  fees  shall  be  computed  with  reference  to  the  annual  turnover
relating to the preceding financial year.
3.  Every  remittance  of  fees  referred  to  in  clauses  (a)  and  (b)  of  paragraph  1,  shall  be
accompanied by a certificate as to the authenticity of turnover on the basis of which fees have
been computed duly signed by the stock exchange of which the stock broker is a member or
by a qualified auditor or as defined in section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956.
aggregate  of the  sale  and  purchase  prices  of  securities  received  and  receivable  by  the  stock
broker on his own account as well as on account of his clients in respect of sale and purchase
or dealing in securities during any financial year.
92[4.  Where  a  corporate  entity  has  been  formed  by  converting  the  individual  or  partnership
membership card of the exchange, such corporate entity shall be exempted from payment of
fee for the period for which the erstwhile individual or partnership member, as the case may
be, has already paid the fees subject  to the condition  that the erstwhile individual or partner
shall be the whole-time director of the corporate member so converted and such director will
continue  to  hold  a  minimum  of  40  per  cent  shares  of  the  paid-up  equity  capital  of  the
corporate entity for a period of at least three years from the date of such conversion.]
card  of  the  exchange  into  corporate  entity  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in  continuation  of  the  old
entity  and no fee shall be collected again from the converted corporate entity  for the period
for which the erstwhile entity has paid the fee as per the regulations.]
94[4A. Where a stock exchange has formed a subsidiary company, which has become a stock
broker of another stock exchange, then the turnover of the stock broker who is buying, selling
or  dealing  in  securities,  through  the  subsidiary  company  as  a  sub-broker,  shall  be  excluded
from  the  turnover  of  the  subsidiary  company,  only  if  the  stock  broker  has  paid  five  years
turnover based fees plus  fee for a block of five years in  accordance with the regulations, on
the concerned stock exchange which has formed the subsidiary company.]
95[5. If a stock broker fails to remit fees in accordance with  Paragraphs 1 and 2, he shall be
liable to pay interest at 15% per annum for each month of delay or part thereof :
Provided that the liability to pay interest as aforesaid may be in addition to any other action
which  the  Board  may  take  as  deemed  fit  against  the  stock  broker  under  the  Act,  or  the
Regulations :
Provided further  that  if  the liability  of  the  stock  broker  on  account  of  payment  of  interest
works  out  to  be  Rs.  100  or  less  the  same  may  be  waived  off  by  the  Board  taking  into
consideration the administrative cost involved in recovering the said amount.]
II. 96[***]
III. Manner of Fees to be paid.
97[The  fees  specified  above  shall  be  paid  on  or  before  the  1st  day  of  October  each  year
payable  98[by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account  through  NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or  any
other mode allowed by RBI or] by draft in favour of “The Securities and Exchange Board of
India” at 99[Mumbai], or at the respective regional office.]
100[IV. Non-applicability to stock brokers governed by Schedule V.
The provisions of this Schedule shall not apply to stock brokers to whom Schedule V applies,
from the time when it becomes so applicable.]
SCHEDULE IIIA101
SCHEDULED IV102
96  Clause  II,  previously  substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers)  (Third  Amdt.)  Regulations,
w.e.f 01-04-2019.
2017
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 6-3-2017
100  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers)  (Second  Amdt.)  Regulations,2013  w.e.f
27.09.2013. Prior to substitution Clause IV read as-
IV. Non-applicability to stock brokers governed by Schedule IIIA.
The provisions of this Schedule shall not apply to stock brokers to whom Schedule III-A applies, from the time
when it becomes so applicable.]
SCHEDULE IVA103
SCHEDULE IVB104
105[SCHEDULE V
PAYMENT OF FEES BY STOCK BROKERS/ CLEARING MEMBERS/ SELF-
CLEARING MEMBERS
[Regulation 10(1)]
PART A
APPLICABILITY
1. This  Schedule  shall  apply  to  stock  brokers  in cash  segment  from  the  following  points  of
time:
(a) All stock brokers who are granted registration by the Board on or after the first day of
October, 2006 — upon grant of such registration;
(b) All stock brokers who were granted registration by the Board on or after the first day of
April, 2006, but before the first day of October, 2006 — from the first day of October, 2006;
(c) All  stock brokers who have not  completed five financial years from the date of grant of
registration by the Board, as on the thirty first day of March, 2006 — upon completion of ten
financial years from the date of grant of registration by the Board;
(d)  All  stock  brokers  who  have  completed  five  financial  years  from  the  date  of  grant  of
registration by the Board, as on the thirty first day of March, 2006 — upon completion of the
current block of five financial years, within the meaning of item I(1)(c) of Schedule III;
(e) All stock brokers falling under sub-clause (c) or (d), who opt in accordance with clause 2
of this Schedule — from such date as may be specified by the Board.
106[1A. This Schedule shall apply to every stock broker who deals in commodity  derivatives
and every clearing member/ self-clearing member who clears and settles trades in commodity
derivatives, from the date of grant of registration:
Provided  that  for  a  person  dealing  in  commodity  derivatives  as  a  commodity  derivatives
broker,  clearing  and  settling  trades  as  a  commodity  derivatives  clearing  member  or  self-
clearing  member,  immediately  before  the  transfer  and  vesting  of  rights  and  assets  of  the
Forward  Markets  Commission  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  this
27.09.2013.
Schedule shall apply, upon grant  of registration by the Board, the computation of fee being
with  effect  from  the  date  of  notification  of  transfer  and  vesting  of  rights  and  assets  of  the
Forward Markets Commission with the Securities and Exchange Board of India.]
2.  Stock  brokers  falling  under  sub-clause  (c)  or  (d)  of  clause  1  may  opt  to  pay  fees  in
accordance  with  this  Schedule  before  completion  of  the  relevant  time  periods  mentioned in
those  sub-clauses,  by  exercising  an  option  in  writing  to  that  effect  and  communicating  it  to
the Board, in such manner and within such time as may be specified by the Board.
PART B
CHARGE OF FEES
3.  (1)  On  and  from  the  applicability  of  this  Schedule,  every  stock  broker/  clearing
member/self  clearing  member  shall  pay  to  the  Board  in  accordance  with  Part  C,  a  fee  in
respect of the securities transactions including off-market transactions undertaken by them, at
the rates mentioned below:
107[Table
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 01-04-2017, read as follows:
Segment
Remarks
Clearing
member
*
Self-clearing
member
*
and
sale
purchase
All
transactions in securities other
than debt securities.
50,000/-
50,000/-
50,000/-
50,000/-
The
expression
‘turnover’  shall
include the value of the trades
executed  by  the  stock  broker
on  the  concerned  segment  of
the
stock
exchange  and  of  the  trades
recognized
Rate / Amount (in `)
Stock Broker
Cash
Equity
derivatives
Currency
derivatives
0.00015 per cent of the
the
price  at  which
securities
are
purchased or sold (` 15
per crore)
0.00015 per cent of his
turnover
(`  15  per
crore)
0.00015 per cent of his
turnover
(`  15  per
crore)
Interest
derivatives
rate
0.00005 per cent
of his turnover (` 5 per
crore)
50,000/-
50,000/-
Commodity
derivatives
0.00015 per cent of his
turnover
(`  15  per
crore)
50,000/-
50,000/-
50,000/-
50,000/-
0.00002 per cent
of his turnover (` 2 per
crore)
For  the purpose  of this
clause,  the  expression
‘turnover’ shall include
the  aggregate  value  of
the
trades  executed,
including both sale and
transactions,
purchase
the  stock  broker
by
the
including
proprietary
trading
member  on  the  debts
the
segment
recognized
stock
exchange.
of
Debt
it
shall
(A)
settled
on
settled on the expiration of the
contracts.
In  case  of  options
(B)
contracts,  ‘turnover’  shall  be
computed  on  the  basis  of
premium traded for the option
contracts  and  in  case  where
the  option  is  exercised  or
assigned,
be
additionally  computed  on  the
basis  of  notional  value  of
option  contracts  exercised  or
assigned.
The
‘turnover’  shall
expression
include the value of the trades
executed  by  the  stock  broker
on  the  concerned  recognized
stock  exchange  and  of  the
trades
the
expiration of the contracts.
(B)
In  case  of  options
contracts,  ‘turnover’  shall  be
computed  on  the  basis  of
premium traded for the option
contracts  and  in  case  where
the  option  is  exercised  or
assigned,
be
additionally  computed  on  the
basis  of  notional  value  of
option  contracts  exercised  or
assigned.
not
be
The
fee
clearing
applicable
self-clearing
member
member
the  said
clearing  member  or  self-
clearing  member  is  already  a
clearing  member  or  self-
clearing member  in  any  other
segment  and is  paying  fee,  as
specified in this Part, for such
segment.
shall
for
in  case
it
shall
or
Segment
Rate / Amount (in  )
Remarks
Stock Broker
Clearing
Self-
member
clearing
member
Cash
0.00010  per  cent
*
*
All  sale  and  purchase
of  his
turnover
(  10 per crore)
transactions
in
securities  other
than
debt securities.
Equity
0.00010 per cent
50,000/-
50,000/-
derivatives
of his turnover
(  10 per crore)
The
expression
‘turnover’
shall
include  the  value  of
Currency
0.00010 per cent
50,000/-
50,000/-
the  trades  executed  by
derivatives
of his turnover
(  10 per crore)
the stock broker on the
concerned  segment  of
Interest  rate
0.00005 per cent
50,000/-
50,000/-
the  recognized  stock
derivatives
of his turnover
(  5 per crore)
exchange  and  of  the
trades  settled  on  the
expiration
of
the
contracts.
(B)  In  case  of  options
contracts,
‘turnover’
shall  be  computed  on
the  basis  of  premium
traded  for  the  option
contracts  and  in  case
where  the  option  is
exercised  or  assigned,
it  shall  be  additionally
computed  on  the  basis
of  notional  value  of
Commodity
0.00010 per cent
50,000/-
50,000/-
(A)
option
contracts
exercised or assigned.
derivatives
of his turnover
(  10 per crore)
Agricultural
0.00001 per cent
commodity
of his turnover
derivatives
(  1 per crore)
The
expression
‘turnover’
shall
include  the  value  of
the  trades  executed  by
the stock broker on the
concerned  recognized
stock  exchange  and  of
the  trades  settled  on
the  expiration  of  the
contracts.
(B) In case of options
contracts,
‘turnover’
shall  be  computed  on
the  basis  of  premium
traded  for  the  option
contracts  and  in  case
where  the  option  is
exercised  or  assigned,
it  shall  be  additionally
computed  on  the  basis
of  notional  value  of
option
contracts
exercised or assigned.
Debt
0.00002 per cent
50,000/-
50,000/-
The  fee  shall  not  be
of his turnover
(  2 per crore)
applicable  for  clearing
member or self-clearing
member in case the said
clearing  member  or
self-clearing  member  is
already
a
clearing
member or self-clearing
member  in  any  other
segment  and  is  paying
fee,  as  specified  in  this
Part, for such segment.
]
For  the  purpose  of
this
clause,
the
expression
‘turnover’
shall
include
the
aggregate  value  of
the
trades
executed,
including both sale
and
purchase
transactions,
by
the  stock  broker
including
the
proprietary  trading
member  on
the
debts  segment  of
the
recognized
stock exchange.
(2)  A  clearing  member/  self-clearing  member  shall  pay  a  fee  of  `50,000  every  year
till his registration is in force, in the manner specified below:-
(a) for the first financial year along with the application for registration;
(b) for the subsequent financial years before 1st June of that financial year.
4.  Nothing  in  clause  3  shall  affect  the  liability  of  any  stock  broker  to  pay  fees  under
Schedule  III,  which  accrued  before  this  Schedule  became  applicable  to  him  and  such  fees
shall be paid as  per  the  relevant  provisions  of  Schedule  III  as  if  they  had  not  ceased  to  be
applicable  to him.
108[4A. The non-refundable fee payable along with an application for registration under sub-
regulation (4) of regulation 3 or sub-regulation (4) of regulation 10A shall be a sum of fifty
thousand rupees:
Provided that the non-refundable fee payable along with an application for registration, by a
person  dealing,  clearing  and  settling  trades,  on  a national  commodity  derivatives  exchange
or regional commodity derivatives exchange, immediately before the transfer and vesting of
rights  and  assets  of  the  Forward  Markets  Commission  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Board  of  India,  shall  be  a  sum  of  twenty-five  thousand  rupees  or  five  thousand  rupees,
respectively.]
109[4B. The fee specified in clause 4A shall be payable by the applicant  110[by way of direct
credit  in  the  bank  account  through  NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or  any  other  mode  allowed  by  RBI
or]  by  means  of  a  demand  draft  in  favour  of  "Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India"
payable at Mumbai.]
PART C
MANNER OF PAYMENT AND
RECOVERY
5.  (1)  Every   recognized   stock   exchange    shall    collect   from    every    stock    broker   in
cash segment, the fee payable under clause 3 in respect of—
(a) securities transactions entered into  by him in  that  stock exchange;
and
(b)  off-market  transactions  entered  into  by  him  which  are  reported  to  that  stock
exchange,—
in accordance with the provisions of its bye-laws.
Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 23-5-2014, read as under :
"4A.  The  non-refundable  fee  payable  along  with  an  application  for  registration  under  sub-  regulation  (4)  of
regulation 3 or sub-regulation (4) of regulation 10A shall be a sum of fifty thousand rupees."
2017.
stock  brokers  who  report  the  same  transactions  to  different  stock  exchanges  in  which  they
are members, under clause (b).
(2) Every recognized stock exchange shall  collect from  every stock  broker in any segment
other than cash segment, the fee payable under clause 3 in respect of turnover in the relevant
segment of that stock exchange in accordance with the provisions of its bye-laws.
111[(2a)  Every  commodity  derivatives  exchange  shall  collect
from  every  stock
broker/clearing  member/self-clearing  member,  dealing/clearing  and  settling  trades  in
commodity derivatives,  the fee payable under sub-clause (1) of clause 3 in accordance with
the provisions of its bye-laws.]
(3)  The  fee  collected  by  a  recognized  stock  exchange  under  112[ sub-clauses  (1),  (2)  or
(2a)]  of  this  clause  during  a  calendar  month  shall  be  paid  by  the  stock  exchange  to  the
Board by the fifth working day of the following calendar month.
(4) All recognized stock exchanges shall maintain such registers and furnish such returns or
information  to  the  Board  in  respect  of  the  fee  collected  under  this  Schedule,  as  may  be
specified by the Board.
(5) Without prejudice to sub-clause (4), a recognized stock exchange shall also be liable to
furnish  such  information  or  explanations  to  the  Board  as  may  be  required  by  it  in  respect
of fee collected or liable to be collected under this Schedule.
6.  A  stock  broker  who  also  acts  as  a  clearing  member/  self-clearing  member  shall  pay  the
annual fee separately, as applicable to each category as specified in clause 3 above.
7.  (1)  Nothing  contained  in  clause  5  shall  affect  the  primary  liability  of  a  stock
broker/  clearing  member/  self-clearing  member  to  pay  the  fees  under  clause  3  or  shall
preclude  the  Board  from  recovering  any  such  fee  remaining  unpaid  by  any  stock  broker/
clearing member/ self-clearing member directly from him.
(2) Where due to the stock broker’s/ clearing member’s/ self-clearing member’s default any
fee  which  was  liable  to  be  paid  on  his  behalf  under  clause  5  remains  unpaid  or  is  paid
belatedly,  he  shall,  without  prejudice  to  any  other  action  that  may  be  taken  under  the
Act, rules or regulations, pay an interest of 15 per cent per annum for every month of delay
or part thereof to the Board.
112  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers)(Amendment) Regulations,  2015  for  the  words "
sub-clause (1) or (2)" w.e.f. 28-09-2015.
(3)  Every  stock  broker/  clearing  member/  self-clearing  member  shall  be  liable  to  furnish
such information or explanations to the Board as may be required by it in respect of fee paid
or payable under this Schedule.
8.  The  financial  year  shall  mean  the  year  commencing  from  1
st
April  and  ending  on
st
March of the following year.
31
9. For the purposes of this Part, the obligations cast on recognised stock exchanges and stock
brokers  shall,  mutatis  mutandis,  apply  to  recognised  clearing  corporations  and  clearing
members/self-clearing members also.]
113[SCHEDULE VI
NETWORTH AND DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS FOR STOCK
BROKERS/ CLEARING MEMBERS/ SELF- CLEARING MEMBERS
[Regulation 5(h), 9(g)]
APPLICABILITY, MANNER OF PAYMENT AND RECOVERY
1.   The stock broker shall have a net-worth and shall deposit with the stock exchange
a  sum as may be specified by the Board/ Stock Exchange for the relevant segment
from time to time.
2.   The clearing member/ self-clearing member shall have the minimum networth and
shall  deposit  the  minimum  sum  specified  hereunder  or  a  higher  amount  with  the
clearing  corporation  promoted  by  the  respective  stock  exchange  in  the  manner
specified from time to time.
114[3. The quantum of networth and deposit to be maintained by-
(a)  the  stock  broker/  clearing  member,  dealing  /clearing  and  settling  trades  in
securities,  other  than  commodity  derivatives,  shall  be  as  specified  in  Table  1  of  this
Schedule;
27-09-2013.
Prior to  substitution clause 3 read as:
"3.  The  quantum  of  networth  and  deposit  to  be  maintained  by  the  stock  broker/clearing  member  shall  be  as
specified in the Table provided in this Schedule "
“clearing corporation or clearing house” means the clearing corporation or clearing house of a recognised stock
exchange to clear and settle trades in securities;
(b)  the  stock  broker/  clearing  member,  dealing/  clearing  and  settling  trades  in
commodity derivatives, shall be as specified in Table 2 of this Schedule:
Provided  that  a  person  dealing  in  commodity  derivatives  as  a  commodity  derivatives
broker, clearing and settling trades as a commodity derivatives clearing member or self-
clearing member, immediately before the transfer and vesting of rights and assets of the
Forward  Markets  Commission  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  shall
maintain the networth and deposit as specified by the commodity derivatives exchange,
of  which  it  holds  membership: Provided further  that  within  a  period  of  one  year from
the date of transfer and vesting of rights and assets of the Forward Markets Commission
with the Securities and Exchange Board of India, such persons shall satisfy the networth
and deposit as specified in Table 2 of this Schedule.
4.   The quantum of deposit to be maintained by the stock broker/clearing member
shall be separately calculated segment wise.
5.   The  quantum  of  networth  to  be  maintained  by  the  stock  broker/clearing  member
shall  be  collectively  reckoned  for  all  segments.  It  therefore  means  that  if  a  stock
broker/clearing  member  has  a  networth  which  is  higher,  then  he  may  not  be
required  to  maintain  separate  networth  for  the  other  segments  requiring  lower
networth.
115[ TABLE 1
NETWORTH AND DEPOSIT FOR MEMBERS DEALING IN SECURITIES, OTHER
THAN COMMODITY DERIVATIVES]
Segment
Stock Broker
Clearing member
Self clearing member
Networth  Deposit  Networth  Deposit  Networth
Deposit
(in `)
(in `)
(in `)
Cash
Equity
Derivatives
Currency
Derivatives
*
*
1 crore
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
3 crore
50 lakh
1 crore
50 lakh
10 crore
50 lakh
5 crore
50 lakh
Prior to  substitution the heading for the table read as:
" TABLE ON NETWORTH AND DEPOSIT"
Debt
50 Lakh
*
3 crore
*
1 crore
*
(including
for
proprietary
* As may be specified by the Board from time to time
trading
member)
116[TABLE 2
NETWORTH AND DEPOSIT FOR MEMBERS DEALING IN COMMODITY
DERIVATIVES
Type of
Networth (Amount in Rs.)
Deposit (Amount in Rs.)
member
For the members of
For the members of
National
Regional
National
Regional
Commodity
Commodity
Commodity
Commodity
Derivatives
Derivatives
Derivatives
Derivatives
Exchanges
Exchanges
Exchanges
Exchanges
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Stock
broker/
Trading
member
Self-
1 crore
*
50 lakhs
*
clearing
member
Clearing
3 crore
*
50 lakhs
*
member
* As may be specified by the Board from time to time]
reserves and other securities approved by the Board from time to time but shall not include
fixed assets, pledged securities, value of member’s card, non-allowable securities (unlisted
securities),  bad  deliveries,  doubtful  debts  and  advances  (debts  or  advances  overdue  for
more than  three  months  or  debts  or  advances  given  to  the  associate  persons  of  the
member),  prepaid  expenses,  losses,  intangible  assets  and  30%  value  of  marketable
securities:
Provided  that  the  deposit  requirement  specified  for  the  debt  segment  shall  not  be
applicable  when  a  clearing  member  clears  and  settles  all  the  trades  only  on  gross  basis
for both securities and funds, without using settlement or trade guarantee fund:
Provided    further    that    where    the    stock    broker,    clearing    member    or    self-
clearing member  in  the  debt  segment,  is  also  regulated  by  a  sectoral  regulator  other  than
the  Board,  the  networth  shall  be  computed  in  the  manner  as  specified  by  such  sectoral
regulators.]