CHAPTER II
DELISTING OF EQUITY SHARES
Applicability
3. (1) These regulations shall apply to delisting of equity shares of a company from
all or any of the recognised stock exchanges where such shares are listed 9[:]
10[Provided  that  these  regulations  shall  not  apply  to  securities  listed  without
making  a  public  issue,  on  the  institutional  trading  platform  of  a  recognised
stock exchange.]
14.11.2018.
6 Words “acquirer and public shareholding” omitted ibid.
and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  1997"  by  the  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity  shares)  (Amendment)
Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015.
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
Platform) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 08-10-2013
3
include equity shares having superior voting rights.]
(2)  Nothing  in  these  regulations  shall  apply  to  any  delisting  made  pursuant  to  a
scheme  sanctioned  by  the  Board  for  Industrial  and  Financial  Reconstruction  under
the  Sick  Industrial  Companies  (Special  Provisions)  Act,  1985  or  by  the  National
Company  Law  Tribunal  under  section  424D  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  if  such
scheme –
(a) lays down any specific procedure to complete the delisting; or
(b) provides an exit option to the existing public shareholders at a specified rate.
12[(3)  Nothing  in  these  regulations  shall  apply  to  any  delisting  of  equity  shares of  a
listed  entity  made  pursuant  to  a  resolution  plan  approved  under  section  31  of  the
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 [No. 31 of 2016], if such plan, –
(a) lays down any specific procedure to complete the delisting of such share; or
(b) provides an exit option to the existing public shareholders at a price specified
in the resolution plan:
Provided  that,  exit  to  the  shareholders  should  be  at a  price  which  shall not  be  less
than  the  liquidation  value  as  determined  under  regulation  35  of  the  Insolvency  and
Bankruptcy  Board  of  India  (Insolvency  Resolution  Process  for  Corporate  Persons)
Regulations,  2016  after  paying  off  dues  in  the  order  of  priority  as  defined  under
section 53 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016[No. 31 of 2016]:
Provided  further  that,  if  the  existing  promoters  or  any  other  shareholders  are
proposed  to  be  provided  an  opportunity  to  exit  under  the  resolution  plan  at  a  price
higher  than  the  price  determined  in  terms  of  the  above  proviso,  the  existing  public
shareholders shall also be provided an exit opportunity at a price which shall not be
08-2015. Prior to its substitution, the proviso to sub-regulation (1) read as under:
“Provided that these regulations shall not apply to securities listed on the institutional trading platform
of a recognised stock exchange.”
2019.
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f 3.05.2018.
4
less  than  the  price,  by  whatever  name  called,  at  which  such  promoters  or  other
shareholders, directly or indirectly, are provided exit:
Provided also that, the details of delisting of such shares along with the justification
for  exit  price  in  respect  of  delisting  proposed  shall  be  disclosed  to  the  recognized
stock exchanges within one day of resolution plan being approved under section 31
of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (No. 31 of 2016)]
Delisting not permissible in certain circumstances and conditions for delisting
4.  (1)  No  company  shall  apply  for  and  no  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  permit
delisting of equity shares of a company,-
(a) pursuant to a buyback of equity shares by the company; or
(b) pursuant to a preferential allotment made by the company; or
(c) unless a period of three years has elapsed since the listing of that class of equity
shares on any recognised stock exchange; or
(d)  if  any  instruments  issued  by  the  company,  which  are  convertible  into  the  same
class of equity shares that are sought to be delisted, are outstanding.
13[(1A) No promoter or promoter group  shall propose delisting of equity shares of a
company, if any entity belonging to the promoter or promoter group has sold equity
shares of  the  company  during a  period  of  six  months  prior  to  the  date of  the  board
meeting in which the delisting proposal was approved in terms of sub-regulation (1B)
of regulation 8.]
(2) For  the  removal  of  doubts,  it  is  clarified  that  no  company  shall  apply  for  and no
recognised stock exchange shall permit delisting of convertible securities.
(3)  Nothing  contained  in  clauses  (c)  and  (d)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  apply  to  a
delisting of equity shares falling under clause (a) of regulation 6.
(4)  No  promoter  shall  directly  or  indirectly  employ  the  funds  of  the  company  to
finance  an  exit  opportunity  provided  under  Chapter  IV  or  an  acquisition  of  shares
made pursuant to sub regulation (3) of regulation 23.
(5)  No  14[acquirer    or    promoter        or    promoter    group    15[or  persons  acting  in
concert] or  their  related entities] shall –
(Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015.
5
(a)  employ  any  device,  scheme  or  artifice  to  defraud  any  shareholder  or  other
person; or
(b) engage in any transaction or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any
shareholder or other person; or
(c) engage in any act or practice that is fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative –
in connection with any delisting sought or permitted or exit opportunity given or other
acquisition of shares made under these regulations.
CHAPTER III
VOLUNTARY DELISTING
Delisting from all recognised stock exchanges
5.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  these  regulations,  a  company  may  delist  its  equity
shares  from  all  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  where  they  are  listed  or  from  the
only  recognised  stock  exchange  where  they  are  listed:  Provided  that  all  public
shareholders holding equity shares of the class which are sought to be delisted are
given an exit opportunity in accordance with Chapter IV.
Delisting from only some of the recognised stock exchanges
6.  A  company  may  delist  its  equity  shares  from  one  or  more  recognised  stock
exchanges  where  they  are  listed  and  continue  their  listing  on  one  or  more  other
recognised  stock  exchanges,  subject  to  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  and
subject to the following –
(a) if after the proposed delisting from any one or more recognised stock exchanges,
the equity shares would remain listed on any recognised stock exchange which has
nationwide  trading  terminals,  no  exit  opportunity  needs  to  be  given  to  the  public
shareholders; and,
(b)  if  after  the  proposed  delisting,  the  equity  shares  16[do]  not  remain  listed  on  any
recognised  stock  exchange  having  nationwide  trading  terminals,  exit  opportunity
shall  be given  to  all  the public  shareholders holding  the  equity  shares  sought  to  be
delisted in accordance with Chapter IV.
14.11.2018.
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
6
nationwide  trading  terminals’  means  the  Bombay  Stock  Exchange  Limited,  the
National  Stock  Exchange  of  India  Limited  or  any  other  recognised  stock  exchange
which may be specified by the Board in this regard.
Procedure for delisting where no exit opportunity is required
7. (1) In a case falling under clause (a) of regulation 6 –
(a) the proposed delisting shall be approved by a resolution of the board of directors
of the company in its meeting;
(b)  the  company  shall  give  a  public  notice  of  the  proposed  delisting  in  at  least  one
English  national  daily  with  wide  circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  with  wide
circulation and one regional language newspaper of the region where the concerned
recognised stock exchanges are located;
(c)  the  company  shall  make  an  application  to  the  concerned    recognised  stock
exchange for delisting its equity shares; and
(d)  the  fact  of  delisting  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  first  annual  report  of  the  company
prepared after the delisting.
(2) The  public  notice  made  under  clause  (b) of  sub-regulation (1)  shall mention  the
names  of  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  from  which  the  equity  shares  of  the
company  are  intended  to  be  delisted,  the  reasons  for  such  delisting  and  the  fact  of
continuation  of  listing  of  equity  shares  on  recognised  stock  exchange  having
nationwide trading terminals.
(3)  An  application  for  delisting  made under  clause  (c)  of  sub  regulation  (1)  shall be
disposed  of  by  the  recognised  stock  exchange  within  a  period  not  exceeding  thirty
working days from the date of receipt of such application complete in all respects.
Conditions and procedure for delisting where exit opportunity is required
8.  (1)  Any  company  desirous  of  delisting  its  equity  shares  under  the  provisions  of
Chapter III shall, except in a case falling under clause (a) of regulation 6, -
(a) obtain the prior approval of the board of directors of the company in its meeting;
(b)  obtain  the  prior  approval  of  shareholders  of  the  company  by  special  resolution
passed through postal ballot, after disclosure of all material facts in the explanatory
statement sent to the shareholders in relation to such resolution:
7
Provided that the special resolution shall be acted upon  17[***] only if the votes cast
by  public  shareholders  in  favour  of  the  proposal  amount  to  at  least  two  times  the
number of votes cast by public shareholders against it.
(c) make an application to the concerned recognised stock exchange for in-principle
approval  of  the  proposed  delisting  in  the  form  specified  by  the  recognised  stock
exchange; and
(d) within one year of passing the special resolution, make the final application to the
concerned recognised stock exchange in the form specified by the recognised stock
exchange:  Provided  that  in  pursuance  of  special  resolution  as  referred  to  in  clause
(b), passed before the commencement of these regulations, final application shall be
made within a period of one year from the date of passing of special resolution or six
months from the commencement of these regulations, whichever is later. 18
[(1A)     Prior to granting approval under clause (a) of sub-regulation (1), the board of
directors of the company shall,-
(i) make a disclosure to the recognized stock exchanges on which the equity shares
of  the  company  are  listed  that  the  promoters/acquirers  have  proposed  to  delist  the
company;
(ii)  appoint    a    merchant    banker    to    carry    out    due-diligence    and    make    a
disclosure  to  this  effect  to  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  on  which  the  equity
shares of the company are listed;
(iii) obtain details of trading in shares of the company for a period of two years prior
to  the  date of  board  meeting  by  top  twenty  five  shareholders  as  on  the  date  of  the
board  meeting  convened  to  consider  the  proposal  for  delisting,  from  the  stock
exchanges and details of off-market transactions of such shareholders for a period of
two  years  and  furnish  the  information  to  the  merchant  banker  for  carrying  out  due-
diligence;
(iv)  obtain  further  details  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (1D)  of  regulation  8  and  furnish
the information to the merchant banker.
(1B)  The  board  of  directors  of  the  company  while  approving  the  proposal  for
delisting shall certify that :
2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
8
(i)  the    company   is    in    compliance   with    the    applicable    provisions   of  securities
laws;
(ii)  the  acquirer  or  promoter    or  promoter  group  or  their  related  entities,  are  in
compliance with sub-regulation (5) of regulation 4;
(iii)  the delisting is in the interest of the shareholders.
(1C)  For  certification    in  respect  of  matters  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1B),  the
board of directors of the company shall take into account the report of the merchant
banker as specified in sub-regulation (1E) of regulation 8.
(1D) The merchant banker appointed by the board of directors of the company under
clause (ii) of sub-regulation (1A) shall carry out due-diligence upon obtaining details
from the board  of  directors  of  the  company  in  terms  of  clause  (iii) of  sub-regulation
(1A) of regulation 8
Provided  that  if  the  merchant  banker  is  of  the  opinion  that  details  referred  to  in
clause (iii) of sub-regulation (1A) of regulation 8 are not sufficient for certification in
terms  of  sub-regulation    (1E) of  regulation  8,  he  shall  obtain  additional  details  from
the board of directors of the company for such longer period as he may deem fit.
(1E) Upon carrying out due-diligence as specified in terms of sub-regulation (1D) of
regulation 8,  the merchant  banker  shall  submit  a  report  to  the  board  of directors  of
the company certifying the following:
(a)  the  trading  carried  out  by  19[any  of  the  acquirer  or  promoter  or  promoter  group
entity] or   their   related   entities   was   in compliance or not, with the applicable
provisions of the securities laws; and
20[(b)  any  of  the  acquirer  or  promoter  or  promoter  group  entity  or persons  acting  in
concert or their related entities have carried out or not any transaction to facilitate the
success  of  the  delisting  offer  which  is  in  contravention  of  the  provisions  of  sub-
regulation (5) of regulation 4.]]
(2) An application seeking in-principle approval for delisting under clause (c) of sub-
regulation (1) shall be accompanied by an audit report as required under regulation
SEBI (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
20  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity  Shares)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2018,
w.e.f. 14.11.2018. Prior to the same, the clause read as follows:
“(b) entities belonging to acquirer or promoter or promoter group or their related entities have carried
out or not, any transaction to facilitate the success of the delisting offer which is not in compliance with
the provisions of sub-regulation (5) of regulation 4.”
9
55A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Depositories  and  Participants)
Regulations, 1996  in  respect  of  the  equity  shares  sought  to  be delisted,  covering  a
period of six months prior to the date of the application.
(3) An application seeking in-principle approval for delisting shall be disposed of by
the  recognised  stock  exchange  within  a  period  not  exceeding  21[five]  working  days
from the date of receipt of such application complete in all respects.
(4)  While  considering  an  application  seeking  in-principle  approval  for  delisting,  the
recognised  stock  exchange  shall  not  unfairly  withhold  such  application,  but  may
require the company to satisfy it as to -
(a) compliance with clause (b) of sub-regulation (1);
(b) the resolution of investor grievances by the company;
(c) payment of listing fees to that recognised stock exchange;
(d)  the  compliance  with  any  condition  of  the  22[Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015] with that
recognised  stock  exchange  having  a  material  bearing  on  the  interests  of  its  equity
shareholders;
(e) any litigation or action pending against the company pertaining to its activities in
the securities market or any other matter having a material bearing on the interests
of its equity shareholders;
(f)  any  other  relevant  matter  as  the  recognised  stock  exchange  may  deem  fit  to
verify.
(5) A final application for delisting made under clause  (d) of sub regulation  (1) shall
be accompanied with such proof of having given the exit opportunity in accordance
with the provisions of Chapter IV, as the recognised stock exchange may require.
CHAPTER IV
EXIT OPPORTUNITY
Applicability of Chapter IV
9.  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  apply  to  any  delisting  sought  to  be  made
under regulation 5 or under clause (b) of regulation 6.
2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015.
Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018
10
Public announcement
10. (1) The 23[acquirers or] promoters of the company shall 24[within one working day
from  the  date  of]  receipt  of  in  principle  approval  for  delisting  from  the  recognised
stock exchange, make a public announcement in at least one English national daily
with wide circulation, one Hindi national daily with wide circulation and one regional
language newspaper of the region where the concerned recognised stock exchange
is located.
(2)  The  public  announcement  shall  contain  all  material  information  including  the
information  specified  in  Schedule  I  and  shall  not  contain  any  false  or  misleading
statement.
(3)  The  public  announcement  shall  also  specify  a  date,  being  a  day  not  later  than
25[one  working  day]  from  the  date  of  the  public  announcement,  which  shall  be  the
‘specified date’ for determining the names of shareholders to whom the letter of offer
shall be sent.
(4)  Before  making  the  public  announcement,  the  26[acquirer  or]  promoter  shall
appoint a merchant banker registered with the Board and such other intermediaries
as are considered necessary.
company may also act as the manager to the delisting offer.]
(5) It shall be the responsibility of the 28[acquirer/promoter] and the merchant banker
to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
(6)  No  29[acquirer/promoter]  shall  appoint  any  person  as  a  merchant  banker  under
sub-regulation (4) if such a person is an associate of the 30[acquirer/promoter].
31[(7)  No  entity  belonging  to  the  acquirer,  promoter  and  promoter  group  of  the
company  shall  sell  shares  of  the  company  during  the  period  from  the  date  of  the
2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015.
Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018
2015.
14.11.2018.
2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015.
29 Ibid
30 Ibid
11
board meeting in which the delisting proposal was approved till the completion of the
delisting process.]
Escrow account
11. (1) Before making the public announcement under regulation 10, the  32[acquirer
or]  promoter  shall  open  an  escrow  account  and  deposit  therein  the  total  estimated
amount of consideration calculated on the basis of floor price and number of equity
shares outstanding with public shareholders.
(2)  On  determination  of  final  price  and  making  of  public  announcement  under
regulation  18  accepting  the  final  price,  the  33[acquirer  or]  promoter  shall  forthwith
deposit in the escrow account such additional sum as may be sufficient to make up
the  entire  sum  due  and  payable  as  consideration  in  respect  of  equity  shares
outstanding with public shareholders.
(3)  The  escrow  account  shall  consist  of  either  cash  deposited  with  a  scheduled
commercial  bank,  or  a  bank  guarantee  in  favour  of  the  merchant  banker,  or  a
combination of both.
an  interest  bearing  account,  provided  that  the  merchant  banker  ensures  that  the
funds are available at the time of making payment to shareholders.]
(4)  Where  the  escrow  account  consists  of  deposit  with  a  scheduled  commercial
bank, the promoter shall, while opening the account, empower the merchant banker
to instruct the bank to issue banker’s cheques or demand drafts for the amount lying
to the credit of the escrow account, for the purposes mentioned in these regulations,
and the amount in such deposit, if any, remaining after full payment of consideration
for equity shares tendered in the offer and
those  tendered  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  21  shall  be  released  to  the
promoter.
(5) Where the escrow account consists of a bank guarantee, such bank guarantee
shall  be  valid  till  payments  are  made  in  respect  of  all  shares  tendered  under  sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 21.
2015.
32 Ibid
33 Ibid
14.11.2018.
12
Letter of offer
12.  (1)  The  35[acquirer  or]  promoter  shall  despatch  the  letter  of  offer  to  the  public
shareholders  of  equity  shares,  not  later  than  36[two]  working  days  from  the  date  of
the public announcement 37[***].
(2) The letter of offer shall be sent to all public shareholders holding equity shares of
the class sought to be delisted whose names appear on the register of the company
or  depository  as  on  the  date  specified  in  the  public  announcement  under  sub-
regulation (3) of regulation 10.
(3)  The  letter  of  offer  shall  contain  all  the  disclosures  made  in  the  public
announcement  and  such  other  disclosures  as  may  be  necessary
for
the
shareholders to take an informed decision.
(4)  The  letter  of  offer  shall  be  accompanied  with  a  bidding  form  for  use  of  public
shareholders  and  a  form  to  be  used  by  them  for  tendering  shares  under  sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 21.
and make bids even if he does not receive the bidding form or the tender offer /offer
form and such shareholder may tender shares in the manner specified by the Board
in this regard.]
Bidding period
13. (1) The date of opening of the offer shall not be later than 39[seven] working days
from the date of the public announcement.
40[(1A)  The  acquirer  or  promoter  shall  facilitate  tendering  of  shares  by  the
shareholders  and  settlement  of  the  same,  through  the  stock  exchange  mechanism
as specified by the Board.]
35 Ibid
Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015.
2015. Prior to omission it read as "so as to reach them at least five working days before the opening
of the bidding period"
14.11.2018.
Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015
13
(2) The offer shall remain open for a 41[***] period of five working days, during which
the public shareholders may tender their bids.
Right of shareholders to participate in the book building process
14.  (1)  All  public  shareholders of  the  equity shares  which  are  sought to  be  delisted
shall be entitled to participate in the book building process in the manner specified in
Schedule II.
(2)  42[An  acquirer  or  promoter]  or  a  person  acting  in  concert  with  any  of  the
promoters  shall  not  make  a  bid  in  the  offer  and  the  merchant  banker  shall  take
necessary steps to ensure compliance with this sub-regulation.
(3)  Any  holder  of  depository  receipts  issued on  the basis  of  underlying  shares held
by a custodian and any such custodian shall not be entitled to participate in the offer:
43[Provided that any holder of depository receipts shall be allowed to participate in
the book building process under sub-regulation (1) after exchanging such depository
receipts with the shares of the class that are proposed to be delisted.]
44[***]
Offer price
15.  (1)  The  offer  price  shall  be  determined  through  book  building  in  the  manner
specified  in  Schedule  II,  after  fixation  of  floor  price  under  sub-regulation  (2)  and
disclosure of the same in the public announcement and the letter of offer.
45[(2)  The  floor  price  shall  be  determined  in  terms  of  regulation  8  of  Securities  and
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)
Regulations, 2011, as may be applicable.]
2015.
2015.Prior to omission it read as "minimum period of three working days and a maximum"
Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015
14.11.2018.
44 Omitted ibid. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as follows:
“(4) Nothing contained in sub-regulation (3) shall affect the right of any holder of depository receipts to
participate  in  the  book  building  process  under  sub-regulation  (1)  if  the  holder  of  depository  receipts
exchanges such depository receipts with shares of the class that are proposed to be delisted.”
2015.
14
which  the  recognized  stock  exchange/s  were  required  to  be  notified  of  the  board
meeting in which the delisting proposal would be considered.]
(3) 47[***]
48[Right of the promoter to either make a counter offer or reject the offer]
16. (1) The 49[acquirer or] promoter shall not be bound to accept the equity shares at
the offer price determined by the book building process.
50[(1A)  If  the  price  discovered  in  terms  of  regulation  15  is  not  acceptable  to  the
acquirer or the promoter, the acquirer or the promoter may make a counter offer to
the  public  shareholders  within  two  working  days  of  the  price  discovered  under
regulation 15, in the manner specified by the Board from time to time:
Provided  that  the  counter  offer  price  shall  not  be  less  than  the  book  value  of  the
company as certified by the merchant banker.]
(2)  Where  the  51[acquirer  or]  promoter  decides  not  to  accept  the  offer  price  so
determined,-
(a) the 52[acquirer or] promoter shall not acquire any equity shares tendered pursuant
to the offer and the equity shares deposited or pledged by a shareholder pursuant to
53[clauses]  7  or  9  of  Schedule  II  shall  be  returned  or  released  to  him  within  ten
working days of closure of the bidding period;
(b) the company shall not make the final application to the exchange for delisting of
the equity shares;
(c)  the  54[acquirer  or]  promoter  may  close  the  escrow  account  opened  under
regulation 11; and,
(d)55[***]
14.11.2018.
2015.
(Delisting of Equity Shares) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
2015.
14.11.2018.
51 Ibid.
52 Ibid.
Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
54 Ibid.
15
(3) 56[***]
Minimum number of equity shares to be acquired
57[17.58[(1)]59[**]60[If a counter offer has not been made by the acquirer or promoter in
accordance with regulation 16(1A), an] offer made under chapter III shall be deemed
to be successful only if,-
(a)  the  post  offer  promoter  shareholding  (along  with  the  persons  acting  in  concert
with  the  promoter)  taken  together  with  the  shares  accepted  through  eligible bids  at
the  final  price  determined  as  per  Schedule  II,  reaches  ninety  per  cent.  of  the  total
issued shares of that class excluding the shares which are held by a custodian and
against which depository receipts have been issued overseas; and
(b)  at  least  twenty  five  per  cent  of  the  public  shareholders  holding  shares  in  the
demat mode as on date of the board meeting referred to  in  sub-regulation (1B) of
regulation 8  had participated in the Book Building Process:
Provided that  61[the requirement under clause (b) of sub-regulation (1)] shall not be
applicable to cases where the acquirer and the merchant banker demonstrate to the
stock  exchanges  that  they  have  delivered  the  letter  of  offer  to  all  the  public
shareholders either through registered post or speed post or courier or hand delivery
with proof of delivery or through email  as  a  text  or  as  an  attachment  to  email  or
as  a  notification  providing electronic link  or Uniform Resource Locator including a
read receipt.
201.5
56 Ibid.
57Substituted  by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity shares) (Amendment) Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-
2015.
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
60 Inserted ibid.
Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
14.11.2018.
16
a.
If  the  acquirer  or  the  merchant  banker  send  the  letters  of  offer  to  all  the
shareholders  by  registered  post  or  speed  post  through  India  Post  and  is  able  to
provide  a  detailed  account  regarding  the  status  of  delivery  of  the  letters  of  offer
(whether delivered or not) sent through India Post, the same would be considered as
a deemed compliance with the proviso.
b.
If the acquirer or the merchant banker is unable to deliver the letter of offer to
certain  shareholders  by  modes  other  than  speed  post  or  registered  post  of  India
Post, efforts should be made to deliver the letters of offer to them by speed post or
registered  post  through  India  Post.    In  that  case,  a  detailed  account  regarding  the
status of delivery of letter of offer (whether delivered or not) provided from India Post
would also be considered as deemed compliance with the proviso.]
5A of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and
Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011,  the  threshold  limit  of  ninety  per  cent.  for  successful
delisting  offer  shall  be  calculated  taking  into account  the  post  offer  shareholding  of
the  acquirer  taken  together  with  the  existing  shareholding,  shares  to  be  acquired
which attracted the obligation to make an open offer and  shares accepted through
eligible bids at the final price determined as per Schedule II.]
64[(2)  If  a  counter  offer  has  been  made  by  the  acquirer  or  promoter  in  accordance
with  regulation  16(1A),  an  offer  made  under  chapter  III  shall  be  deemed  to  be
successful only if the post offer promoter shareholding (along with the persons acting
in concert with the promoter) taken together with the shares accepted at the counter
offer price reaches ninety per cent. of the total issued shares of that class excluding
the shares which are held by a custodian and against which depository receipts have
been issued overseas.]
Procedure after closure of offer
63 Numbered ibid.
14.11.2018.
17
18.  Within
65[five]  working  days  of
66[the]  closure  of
the  offer,
the
67[promoter/acquirer] and the merchant banker shall make a public announcement in
the same newspapers in which the public announcement under sub - regulation  (1)
of regulation 10 was made regarding:-
(i)  the  success  of  the  offer  in  terms  of  regulation  17  Along  with  the  final  price
accepted by the acquirer; or
(ii) the failure of the offer in terms of regulation 19; or
68[***]
Failure of offer
19.  (1)  Where  the  offer  is  rejected  under  regulation  16  or  is  not  successful  as  per
regulation 17, the offer shall be deemed to have failed and no equity shares shall be
acquired pursuant to such offer.
(2) Where the offer fails –
(a) the equity shares deposited or pledged by a shareholder under paragraphs 7 or 9
of Schedule II shall be returned or released to him within ten working days from the
end of the bidding period;
69[Provided that the acquirer shall not be required to return the shares if the offer is
made  pursuant  to  regulation  5A  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.]
(b)  no  final  application  shall  be  made  to  the  exchange  for  delisting  of  the  equity
shares; and
(c) the escrow account opened under regulation 11 shall be closed.
Payment of consideration and return of equity shares
20. (1) The promoter shall immediately  70[upon] success of the offer, open a special
account with a banker to an issue registered with the Board and transfer thereto, the
2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015
14.11.2018.
Regulations 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015
14.11.2018. Prior to the omission, the clause read as follows:
“(iii) rejection under regulation 16 of the final price discovered under Schedule II, by the promoters.”
2015.
18
entire amount due and payable as consideration in respect of equity shares tendered
in the offer, from the escrow account.
(2) All the shareholders whose equity shares are verified to be genuine shall be paid
the  final  price  stated  in the public  announcement   within  ten  working days  from  the
closure of the offer.
(3) The equity shares deposited or pledged by a shareholder pursuant to paragraphs
7  or  9  of  Schedule  II  shall  be  returned  or  released  to  him,  within  ten  working  days
from  the  closure  of  the  offer,  in  cases  where  the  bids  pertaining  thereto  have  not
been accepted.
Right of remaining shareholders to tender equity shares
21.  (1)  Where, pursuant  to acceptance  of  equity  shares  tendered  in  terms  of  these
regulations, the equity shares are delisted, any remaining public shareholder holding
such  equity  shares  may  tender  his  shares  to  the  promoter  upto  a  period  of
71[minimum]  one  year  from  the  date  of  delisting  and,  in  such  a  case,  the  promoter
shall  accept  the  shares  tendered  at  the  same  final  price  at  which  the  earlier
acceptance of shares was made.
(2) The payment of consideration for shares accepted under sub-regulation (1) shall
be made out of the balance amount lying in the escrow account.
(3) The amount in the escrow account or the bank guarantee shall not be released to
the promoter unless all payments are made in respect of shares tendered under sub-
regulation (1).
CHAPTER V
COMPULSORY DELISTING
Compulsory delisting by a stock exchange
22.  (1)  A  recognised  stock  exchange  may,  by  order,  delist  any  equity  shares  of  a
company  on  any  ground  prescribed  in  the  rules  made  under  section  21A  of  the
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  (42  of  1956):  Provided  that  no  order
Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
71 Substituted ibid for the words “atleast”.
19
shall  be  made  under  this  sub  regulation  unless  the  company  concerned  has  been
given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2)  The  decision  regarding  compulsory  delisting  shall  be  taken  by  a  panel  to  be
constituted by the recognised stock exchange consisting of – (a) two directors of the
recognised stock exchange (one of whom shall be a public representative);
(b) one representative of the investors;
(c) one representative of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or Registrar of Companies;
and
(d) the Executive Director or Secretary of the recognised stock exchange.
(3)  Before  72[passing]  an  order  under  sub-regulation  (1),  the  recognised  stock
exchange  shall  give a  notice  in  one  English national  daily  with  wide  circulation  and
one  regional  language  newspaper  of  the  region  where  the  concerned  recognised
stock exchange is located, of the proposed delisting, giving a time period of not less
than fifteen working days from the notice, within which representations may be made
to  the  recognised  stock  exchange  by  any  person  who  may  be  aggrieved  by  the
proposed  delisting  and  shall  also  display  such  notice  on  its  trading  systems  and
website.
(4)  The  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  while  passing  any  order  under  sub-
regulation  (1),  consider  the  representations,  if  any,  made  by  the  company  as  also
any representations received in response to the notice given under sub regulation (3)
and shall comply with the criteria specified in Schedule III.
(5)  The  provisions  of  Chapter  IV  shall  not  be  applicable  to  a  compulsory  delisting
made by a recognised stock exchange under this Chapter.
(6) Where the recognised stock exchange passes an order under sub-regulation (1),
it shall, -
(a)  forthwith  publish  a  notice  in  one  English national  daily  with  wide  circulation  and
one  regional  language  newspaper  of  the  region  where  the  concerned  recognised
stock exchange is located, of the fact of such delisting, disclosing therein the name
and address of the company, the fair value of the delisted equity shares determined
under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  23  and  the  names  and  addresses  of  the
promoters of the company who would be liable under sub-regulation (3) of regulation
23; and
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
20
(b)  inform  all  other  stock  exchanges  where  the  equity  shares  of  the  company  are
listed, about such delisting 73[***].
Rights of public shareholders in case of a compulsory delisting
23.  74[(1)] The recognised stock exchange shall form a panel of expert valuers from
whom the valuer or valuers shall be appointed for purposes of 75[sub-regulation (2)].
76[2] Where equity shares of a company are delisted by a recognised stock exchange
under  this  Chapter,  the  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  appoint  an  independent
valuer or valuers who shall determine the fair value of the delisted equity shares.
(3)The promoter of the company shall acquire delisted equity shares from the public
shareholders  by  paying  them  the  value  determined  by  the  valuer  77[within  three
months of the date of delisting from the recognised stock exchange], subject to their
(a) ‘valuer’ means a chartered accountant within the meaning of clause (b) of section
2  of  the  Chartered  Accountants  Act,  1949  (38  of  1949),  who  has  undergone  peer
review  as  specified  by  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  constituted
under  that  Act,  or  a  merchant  banker  appointed  to  determine  the  value  of  the
delisted equity shares;
(b)  value  of  the  delisted  equity  shares  shall  be  determined  by  the  valuer  having
regard to the factors mentioned in regulation 15.
Consequences of compulsory delisting
24.  78[(1)]Where a company has been compulsorily delisted under this Chapter, the
company,  its  whole  time  directors,  its  promoters  and  the  companies  which  are
promoted by any of them shall not directly or indirectly access the securities market
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
74 Renumbered ibid.
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
76 Renumbered ibid.
14.11.2018.
78 Numbered by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f.
14.11.2018.
21
or seek listing for any equity shares for a period of ten years from the date of such
delisting.
79[(2)   In case of such companies whose fair value is positive -
(a)
such a company and the depositories shall not effect transfer, by way of sale,
pledge, etc., of any of the equity shares held by the promoters/ promoter group and
the  corporate  benefits  like  dividend,  rights,  bonus  shares,  split,  etc.  shall  be  frozen
for all the equity shares held by the promoters/ promoter group, till the promoters of
such  company  provide  an exit  option  to  the public  shareholders  in  compliance  with
sub-regulation  (3)  of  regulation  23,  as  certified  by  the  concerned  recognized  stock
exchange;
(b)
the promoters and whole-time directors of the compulsorily delisted company
shall also not be eligible to become directors of any listed company till the exit option
as stated in clause (a) above is provided.]
CHAPTER VI
POWERS OF THE BOARD
Power of the Board to issue clarifications
25.  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of  these
regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines 80[from time to time].
81[Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations.
25A.  (1) The  Board  may  for  reasons  recorded  in  writing,  grant  relaxation  from
strict  enforcement  of  any  of  the  requirements  of  these  regulations,  if  the  Board  is
satisfied  that  the  relaxation  is  in  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  the
securities market.
(2) For seeking exemption under sub-regulation (1), the promoter or the acquirer
or the company shall file an application with the Board, supported by  a  duly  sworn
79 Inserted ibid.
Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
2015.
22
affidavit,  giving  details  for  seeking  such  exemption  and  the  grounds  on  which  the
exemption has been sought.
(3) The  promoter  or  the  acquirer  or  the  company,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall along
with the application referred to under 82[sub-regulation (2)] pay a non- refundable fee
of  rupees  fifty  thousand,  83[by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account  through
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or  any  other  mode  allowed  by  RBI  or]  by  way  of  a  banker’s
cheque or demand draft payable in Mumbai in favour of the Board.
(4)  The  Board  may  after  affording  reasonable  opportunity  of  being  heard  to  the
applicant      and      after      considering      all  the  relevant  facts      and  circumstances,
pass a reasoned order either granting or rejecting the exemption or relaxation sought
as expeditiously as possible.]
Directions by the Board
26. Without prejudice to provisions of the Act and those of the Securities Contracts
(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the Board may in case of any violation of these
regulations and in the interests of the investors and the securities market give such
directions as it deems fit.
84[***]
CHAPTER VII
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SMALL COMPANIES AND DELISTING BY
OPERATION OF LAW
Special provisions in case of small companies
27.  85[(1)  Equity    shares    of    a    company    may    be    delisted    from    all    the
recognised stock exchanges where they are listed, without following the procedure in
Chapter IV, if,-
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
w.e.f.            6-3-2017.
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018:
“Provided  that  the  Board  shall,  either  before  or  after  passing  such  orders,  give  an  opportunity  of
hearing to the concerned person.”
2015.
23
a)   the company has a paid up capital not exceeding ten crore rupees and net worth
not  exceeding  twenty  five  crore  rupees  as  on  the  last  date  of  preceding  financial
year;
b)  86[the number of equity shares of the company traded on each such recognised
stock exchange during the twelve calendar months immediately preceding the date
of  board  meeting  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1B)  of  regulation  8  is  less  than  ten
per cent of the total number of shares of such company:
Provided  that  where  the  share  capital  of  a  particular  class  of  shares  of  the
company  is  not  identical  throughout  such  period,  the  weighted  average  of  the
shares  of  such  class  shall  represent  the  total  number  of  shares  of  such  class  of
shares of the company; and]
c)  the company has not been suspended by any of the recognised stock exchanges
having  nation-wide  trading  terminals  for  any  non-compliance in the  preceding one
year; ]
(2) 87[***]
(3) A delisting of equity shares may be made under sub regulation (1)  88[***] only if,
in  addition  to  fulfilment  of  the requirements  of  regulation  8,  the  following  conditions
are fulfilled:-
(a)  the  promoter  appoints  a  merchant  banker  and  decides  an  exit  price  in
consultation with him;
(b) 89[the exit price offered to the public shareholders shall not be less than the floor
price determined in terms of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 15 of these regulations
read  with  clause  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  8  of  the  Securities  and
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)
Regulations, 2011;[
86  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity  Shares)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016,  w.e.f  12-1-2016.  Prior  to  the
substitution, clause b) read as follows:
“the equity shares of the company were not traded in any recognised stock exchange for a period of
one  year  immediately  preceding  the  date  of  board  meeting  referred  to  in    sub-regulation  (1B)  of
regulation 8; and”
2015.
88  Omitted  the  words  "or  sub-regulation  (2)"  by  the  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity  shares)  (Amendment)
Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015.
89  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity  Shares) (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016,  w.e.f  12-1-
2016. Prior to such substitution, clause b) read as follows:
“the  exit  price  offered  to  the  public  shareholders  shall  not  be  less  than  the  price  arrived  at  in
consultation with the merchant banker;”
24
(c)  the  promoter  writes  individually  to  all  public  shareholders  in  the  company
informing  them  of  his  intention  to  get  the  equity  shares  delisted,  indicating  the  exit
price  together  with  then  justification  therefore  and  seeking  their  consent  for  the
proposal for delisting;
(d) 90[the public shareholders, irrespective of their numbers, holding ninety percent or
more  of  the  public  shareholding  give  their  consent]  in  writing  to  the  proposal  for
delisting, and have consented either to sell their equity shares at the price offered by
the promoter or to remain holders of the equity shares even if they are delisted;
(e)  the  promoter  completes  the  process  of  inviting  the  positive  consent  and
finalisation  of  the  proposal  for  delisting  of  equity  shares  within  seventy  five  working
days of the first communication made under clause (c);
(f) the promoter makes payment of consideration in cash within fifteen working days
from the date of expiry of seventy five working days stipulated in clause (e).
(4)  The  communication  made  to  the  public  shareholders  under  clause  (c)  of  sub-
regulation (3) shall contain justification for the offer price with particular reference to
the  applicable  parameters  mentioned  in  regulation  15  and  specifically  mention  that
consent  for  the  proposal  would  include  consent  for  dispensing  with  the  exit  price
discovery through book building method.
(5)  The  concerned  recognised  stock  exchange  may  delist  such  equity  shares  upon
satisfying itself of compliance with this regulation.
Delisting in case of winding up, derecognition, etc
28.  (1)  In  case  of  winding  up  proceedings  of  a  company  whose  equity  shares  are
listed on a recognised stock exchange, the rights, if any, of the shareholders of such
company shall be in accordance with the laws applicable to those proceedings.
(2)  Where  the  Board  withdraws recognition  granted  to  a  stock  exchange  or  refuses
renewal  of  recognition  to  it,  the  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors  pass
appropriate order in respect of the status of equity shares of the companies listed on
that exchange.
consent”  by  the  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity  Shares)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2018,  w.e.f.
14.11.2018.
25
91[CHAPTER VII-A
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
28A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation
of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified
but  not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects
relating  to  testing  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live
environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to
the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including
conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
live testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models,
etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of
time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as
may be specified by the Board.]
CHAPTER VIII
MISCELLANEOUS
Recognised stock exchanges to monitor compliance
29.  The  respective  recognised  stock  exchanges  shall  comply  with  and  monitor
compliance with the provisions of these regulations and shall report to the Board any
instance of non-compliance which comes to their notice.
Listing of delisted equity shares
30. (1) No application for listing shall be made in respect of any equity shares,
(a)  which  have  been  delisted  under  Chapter  III  or  under  Chapter  VII  (except
regulation 27), for a period of five years from the delisting;
(b)  which  have  been  delisted  under  Chapter  V,  for  a  period  of  ten  years  from  the
delisting.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), an application for listing
of delisted equity shares may be made where a recommendation in this regard has
26
been made by the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction under the Sick
Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985.
92[(2A)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  an  application  for
listing  of  delisted  equity  shares  may  be  made  in  respect  of  a  company  which  has
undergone  corporate  insolvency  resolution  process  under  the  Insolvency  and
Bankruptcy Code, 201([No. 31 of 2016)]
(3) While considering an application for listing of any equity shares which had been
delisted  the  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  have  due  regard  to  facts  and
circumstances under which delisting was made.
(4)  An  application  for  listing  made  in  respect  of  delisted  equity  shares  shall  be
deemed  to  be  an  application  for  fresh  listing  of  such  equity  shares  and  shall  be
subject to provisions of law relating to listing of equity shares of unlisted companies.
93[Repeal and Savings]
31.  (1)  Anything  done  or  omitted  to  be  done  or  any  right,  privilege,  obligation  or
liability  acquired  or  accrued  or  incurred  under  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of
India (Delisting of Securities) Guidelines, 2003 prior to the commencement of these
regulations shall be governed by said guidelines.
94[(2)  Any  proposal  for  delisting  made  by  company  or  any  promoter  or  acquirer
who  wanted    to    delist    securities   of   the    company,   prior    to    commencement   of
these regulations  and  where  the  offer  price  has  not  been  determined  in  terms  of
sub- regulation  (1)  of  regulation  15  as  on  the  date  of  such  commencement,  shall
be proceeded  with  under  the  95[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of
Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009, as amended from time to time].
(3) The remaining procedures in respect of an exit opportunity already completed or
an  exit  opportunity  initiated  but  not  completed  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Board  of  India (Delisting  of  Securities)  Guidelines,  2003  prior  to  commencement  of
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f 3.05.2018.
Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
2015.
amended  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Delisting  of  Equity  Shares)  Amendment)
Regulations, 2015” by the SEBI (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018,
w.e.f. 14.11.2018.
27
these regulations, shall be completed and the application for delisting made pursuant
thereto shall be dealt under the said guidelines.
SCHEDULE I
[See regulation 10(2)]
CONTENTS OF THE PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT
1. The floor price and the offer price and how they were arrived at.
2. The dates of opening and closing of the offer.
3. The name of the exchange from which the equity shares are sought to be delisted.
4. The manner in which the offer can be accepted by the shareholders.
5. Disclosure regarding the minimum acceptance condition for success of the offer.
6.  The  names  of  the  merchant  banker  and  other  intermediaries  together  with  the
helpline number for the shareholders.
7. The specified date fixed as per sub-regulation (3) of regulation 10.
8. The object of the proposed delisting.
9. The proposed time table from opening of the offer till the payment of consideration
or return of equity shares.
10. Details of the escrow account and the amount deposited therein.
11. Listing details and stock market data:
(a) high, low and average market prices of the equity shares of the company during
the preceding three years;
(b) monthly  high  and  low  prices  for  the  six  months  preceding  the  date  of  the public
announcement; and,
(c)  the  volume  of  equity  shares  traded  in  each  month  during  the  six  months
preceding the date of public announcement.
12. Present capital structure and shareholding pattern.
13. The likely post-delisting shareholding pattern.
14.  The  aggregate  shareholding  of  the  promoter  together  with  persons  acting  in
concert and of the directors of the promoter where the promoter is a company and of
persons who are in control of the company.
15.  A  statement,  certified  to  be  true  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the  company,
disclosing material deviation, if any, in utilisation of proceeds of issues of securities
made during the five years immediately preceding the date of public announcement,
from the stated object of the issue.
28
16. A statement by the board of directors of the company confirming that all material
information  which  is  required  to  be  disclosed  under  the  provisions  of  continuous
listing requirement have been disclosed to the stock exchanges.
96[16A: A statement by the board of directors of the company certifying that:-
(a) the company is in compliance with the applicable provisions of securities laws;
(b)  the  acquirer  or  promoter  or  promoter  group  or  their  related  entities  have  not
carried out any transaction during the aforesaid period to facilitate the success of the
delisting offer which is not in compliance  with the provisions of sub-regulation (5) of
regulation 4;
(c) the delisting is in the interest of the shareholders.]
17. Name of compliance officer of the company.
18.  It  should  be  signed  and  dated  by  the  promoter.  Where  the  promoter  is  a
company, the public announcement shall be dated and signed on behalf of the board
of directors of the company by its manager or secretary, if any, and by not less than
two directors of the company, one of whom shall be a managing director where there
is one.
SCHEDULE II
[See regulation 15(1)]
THE BOOK BUILDING PROCESS
1.  The  book  building  process  shall  be  made  through  an  electronically  linked
transparent  facility  and  the  promoter  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  a  stock
exchange for the purpose.
2.  The  public  announcement  and  letter  of  offer  shall  be  filed  without  delay  with  the
stock  exchange mentioned  in  paragraph  1  and  such  stock exchange  shall  forthwith
post the same in its website.
3. The minimum number of bidding centres shall be:
(a) the four metropolitan centres situated at Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai;
(b) such cities in the region in which the registered office of the company is situated,
as are specified by the stock exchange mentioned in paragraph 1.
4.  There  shall  be  at  least  one  electronically  linked  computer  terminal  at  all  bidding
centres.
2015.
29
5.  The  shareholders  may  withdraw  or  revise  their  bids  upwards  not  later  than  one
day before the closure of the bidding period. Downward revision of bids shall not be
permitted.
6.  The  promoter  shall  appoint  ‘trading  members’  at  the  bidding  centres,  whom  the
public shareholders may approach for placing bids on the on-line electronic system.
7.  The  shareholders  holding  dematerialised  shares  desirous  of  availing  the  exit
opportunity  may  deposit  the  equity  shares  in  respect  of  which  bids  are  made,  with
the  special  depositories  account  opened  by  the  merchant  banker  for  the  purpose
prior  to placement  of  orders  or,  alternately, may  mark  a  pledge  for  the  same  to  the
merchant banker in favour of the said account.
8.  The  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  equity  shares  in  the  said  special
depositories  account  are  not  transferred  to  the  account  of  the  promoter  unless  the
bids in respect thereof are accepted and payments made.
9.  The  holders  of  physical  equity  shares may  send  their  bidding  form  together  with
the  share  certificate  and  transfer  deed  to  the  trading  member  appointed  for  the
purpose, who shall immediately after entering their bids on the system send them to
the  company  or  the  share  transfer  agent  for  confirming  their  genuineness.  The
company or the share transfer agent shall deliver the certificates which are found to
be  genuine  to  the merchant  banker,  who  shall  not  make  it over  to promoter unless
the bids in respect thereof are accepted and payment made. The bids in respect of
the certificates which are found to be not genuine shall be deleted from the system.
10. The verification of physical certificates shall be completed in time for making the
public announcement under regulation 18.
11.  The  bids  placed  in  the  system  shall  have  an  audit  trail  which  includes  stock
broker identification details, time stamp and unique order number.
97[11A. Para 1 to 11 shall not be applicable in respect of the book building process
where  settlement  is  carried  out through  stock  exchange mechanism  as  specified  in
sub-regulation (1A) of regulation 13 of these regulations.]
98[12. The final offer price shall be determined as the price at which shares accepted
through  eligible  bids,  that  takes  the  shareholding  of  the  promoter  or  the  acquirer
(along  with  the  persons  acting  in  concert)  to  ninety  per  cent.  of  the  total  issued
2015.
98 ibid.
30
shares of that class excluding the shares which are held by a custodian and against
which depository receipts have been issued. If the final price is accepted, then, the
promoter shall accept all shares tendered where the corresponding bids placed are
at the final price or at a price which is lesser than the final price. The promoter may,
if he deems fit, fix a higher final price.
An illustration for arriving at the final offer price is given in the table below:
Bid
Number
Demand
Cumulative
price
of
(Number of
demand
(Rs.)
investors
shares)
(Number of
550
565
575
585
595
600
605
610
615
620
5
8
10
4
6
5
3
3
3
1
shares)
2,50,000
2,50,000
4,00,000
6,50,000
2,00,000
8,50,000
4,00,000
12,50,000
1,20,000
13,70,000
1,30,000
15,00,000
2,10,000
17,10,000
1,40,000
18,50,000
1,50,000
20,00,000
5,00,000
25,00,000
48
25,00,000
Final Offer Price
Assuming floor price of Rs.550/- per share, promoter/ acquirer shareholding at 75%
and number of shares required for successful delisting as 15,00,000, the final price
would be the price at which the promoter reaches the threshold of 90%, i.e., it would
be Rs.600/- per share.]
SCHEDULE III
[See regulation 22(4)]
CRITERIA FOR COMPULSORY DELISTING
1.  The  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  take  all  reasonable  steps  to  trace  the
promoters  of  a  company  whose  equity  shares  are  proposed  to  be  delisted,  with  a
view to ensuring compliance with sub-regulation (3) of regulation 23.
31
2.  The  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  consider  the  nature  and  extent  of  the
alleged  non-compliance  of  the  company  and  the  number  and  percentage  of
shareholders who may be affected by such non-compliance.
3. The recognised stock exchange shall take reasonable efforts to verify the status of
compliance of the company with the office of the concerned Registrar of Companies.
4.  The  names  of  the  companies  whose  equity  shares  are  proposed  to  be  delisted
and  their  promoters  shall  be  displayed  in  a  separate  section  on  the  website  of  the
recognised stock exchange for a brief period of time. If delisted, the names shall be
shifted to another separate section on the website.
5. The recognised stock exchange shall in appropriate cases file prosecutions under
relevant  provisions  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  or  any  other
law  for  the  time  being  in  force  against  identifiable  promoters  and  directors  of  the
company for the alleged non-compliances.
6.  The  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  in  appropriate  cases  file  a  petition  for
winding up the company under section 433 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)
or  make  a  request  to  the  Registrar  of  Companies  to  strike  off  the  name  of  the
company from the register under section 560 of the said Act.
K. M. ABRAHAM
WHOLE TIME MEMBER
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA
32