THE GAZETTE OF INDIA
EXTRAORDINARY
PART III - SECTION 4
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
NOTIFICATION
THE 29TH DAY OF DECEMBER, 1993
BOMBAY
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA
(DEBENTURE TRUSTEES) REGULATIONS, 1993
SEBI/LE/12/93.  In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  section  30  of  the
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board with
the previous approval of the Central Government hereby makes the following
regulations, namely: -
Chapter I
PRELIMINARY
Short title and commencement.
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993.
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
Definitions.
2. In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,—
1[(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992)]
2[(aa) “associate” shall mean any entity which is an associate under sub-section (6)
of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 or under the applicable accounting standards
and shall include a person whose director, is also a director, of the debenture trustee
or the body corporate, as the case may be.]
3[(ab) “body corporate” shall have the meaning assigned to it in or under sub-section
(11) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 and for the purpose of these regulations,
includes a public financial institution as defined under sub-section (72) of section 2 of
the Companies Act, 2013, a non-banking financial company, public sector undertaking
established under any Central or State enactment which has its debt securities listed
8-2000, read as follows:
“associate” in relation to a debenture trustee, or body corporate shall include a person,—
(i)  who, directly or indirectly, by himself, or in combination with relatives, exercises control over the
debenture trustee or the body corporate, as the case may be, or
(ii)  in  respect  of  whom  the  debenture  trustee  or  the  body  corporate,  as  the  case  may  be,  directly  or
indirectly, by itself, or in combination with other persons, exercises control, or
(iii)  whose director, is also a director, of the debenture trustee or the body corporate, as the case may be.
defined  under  clause  (c)  of  Regulation  2  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997;]
Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 7-9-2006, read as follows:
“(ab)
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).”
“body  corporate”  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  in  or  under  clause  (7)  of  section  2  of  the
or which seeks to list its debt securities on a recognized stock exchange  in accordance
with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)
Regulations,  2008,  or  any  other  issuer  of  debt  securities  in  accordance  with  any
Regulations issued by the Board.]
(ac)“certificate” means a certificate of 4[5[***] registration granted] by the Board under
these regulations;
(ad)
(ae)“change in control”, in relation to a debenture trustee, means :—
6[***]
7[(i)  if its shares are listed on any recognised stock exchange, change in
control as  per  the  provisions  of  regulation  4  of  the Securities  and
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;]
(ii)  in  any  other  case,  change  in  the  controlling  interest  in  the  body
corporate;
“controlling interest” means an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the
extent of at least fifty one per cent of voting rights in the body corporate;]
8 [(b) “Companies Act” means the Companies Act, 2013 (Act 18 of 2013);]
9[(ba)  “debenture”  means  a  debenture  within  the  meaning  of  sub-section  (30)  of
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;]
10[(bb)  “debenture  trustee”  means  a  trustee  appointed  in  respect  of  any  issue  of
debentures of a body corporate;]
"registration granted or renewed".
Conditions of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. from 13-4-2011. Prior to omission, this clause read as under:
“change of status or constitution” in relation to a debenture trustee—
means any change in its status or constitution of whatsoever nature; and
without prejudice to generality of sub-clause (i), includes—
amalgamation,  demerger,  consolidation  or  any  other  kind  of  corporate  restructuring  falling
within the scope of section 391 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or the corresponding provision of any
other law for the time being in force;
(i)
(ii)
(A)
(B)
(C)
change in its managing director or whole-time director; and
any change in control over the body corporate;
same, clause (i) read as follows:
“if  its  shares  are  listed  on  any  recognised  stock  exchange,  change  in  control  within  the  meaning  of
regulation  12  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and
Takeovers) Regulations, 1997;”
same, clause (b) read as follows:
““Companies Act” means the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);”
same, clause (ba) read as follows:
““debenture” means a debenture within the meaning of sub-section (12) of section 2 of the Companies
Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);”
same, clause (bb) read as follows:
11 [***]
(c)  “Form” means Forms specified in Schedule I;
(d)  “Inspecting  authority”  means  one  or  more  persons  appointed  by  the  Board  to
exercise powers conferred under Chapter IV;
12[(e) “insurance company” has the same meaning assigned to it under sub-section
(7A) of section 2 of the Insurance Act, 1938;]
13[(ea) “issue” means an offer of debentures by a body corporate, to the public, or
the holders of securities of such body corporate and includes a private placement
of debentures made by a body corporate, which seeks to list its debt securities on
a recognized stock exchange;]
14[(ee)  “networth”  means  aggregate  of  value  of  the  paid-up  equity  capital  and  free
reserves  (excluding  reserves  created  out  of  revaluation)  reduced  by  the
aggregate value of accumulated losses and deferred expenditure not written off
(including  miscellaneous  expenses  not  written  off)  as  per  the  latest  audited
balance sheet;]
15[(f) “principal officer” means,—
a key managerial personnel as defined under sub section (51) of section 2 of the
Companies  Act,  2013,  and  shall  include  any  person  connected  with  the
management or administration of the body corporate upon whom the Board has
served notice of its intention of treating him as the principal officer thereof;]
(g)  “regulations”  means  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Debenture
Trustees) Regulations, 1993;
(h)16[***]
(i) “scheduled bank” means a scheduled bank as defined in clause (e) of section 2 of
the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934);
17[(ia)  “trust  deed”  means  a  deed  executed  by  the  body  corporate  in  favour  of  the
trustees named therein for the benefit of the debenture holders;]
““debenture  trustee”  means  a  trustee  of  a  trust  deed  for  securing  any  issue  of  debentures  of  a  body
corporate;”
2002, w.e.f. 27-09-2006.
same, clause (e) read as follows:
“insurance company” means a company as defined in clause (21) of section 2 of the Companies Act;”
Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 7-9-2006, read as follows:
““issue” means an offer of sale of securities by any body corporate or by any other person or group of
persons on its or their behalf, as the case may be, to the public, or the holders of securities of such body
corporate or person or group of persons and includes a private placement of debentures made by a listed
company, which are proposed to be listed;”
same, clause (f) read as follows:
““principal officer” means,—
(i)
(ii)
a secretary, manager or director of the body corporate; or
any person connected with the management or administration of the body corporate
upon whom the Board has served notice of its intention of treating him as the principal
officer thereof;
omission, clause (h) read as under:-
“(h) “rules” means Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Rules, 1993;”
18[(ib) “recognised stock exchange” shall have the same meaning assigned to it under
sub-section (f) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956.]
(j)  all  other  words  and  expressions  used  in  these  regulations  but  not  defined,  and
defined in the Act 19[***] shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in
the Act 20[***].
21[Power of the Board to issue clarifications.
2A. In order to remove any difficulties in respect of the application or interpretation of
these  regulations,  the  Board  may  issue  clarifications  or  guidelines  in  the  form  of
circulars.]
REGISTRATION OF DEBENTURE TRUSTEES
Chapter II
Application for grant of certificate 22[of 23[***] registration].
3.  (1)  An  application  by  a  debenture  trustee  for  grant  of  a  certificate  24[of  25[***]
registration] shall be made to the Board in Form A.
26[(1A)  An  application  for  registration  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be
accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in Schedule II.]
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), any application made by
a  debenture  trustee  prior  to  coming  into  force  of  these  regulations  containing  such
particulars as near thereto as mentioned in Form A shall be treated as an application
made in pursuance of sub-regulation (1) and dealt with accordingly.
Furnishing of further information, clarification, etc.
4. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish further information or clarification
regarding matters which are relevant to a debenture trustee to consider the application
for a grant of a certificate.
(2) The applicant or, its principal officer shall, if so required, appear before the Board
for personal representation.
Application to conform to the requirements.
5. Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3, any application, which
is not complete in all respects and does not conform to the instructions specified in the
form, shall be rejected:
2006, respectively.
2006, w.e.f. 7-9-2006, respectively.
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given an
opportunity to remove within the time specified such objections as may be indicated
by the Board.
Consideration of application.
6.  The  Board  shall  take  into  account  for  considering  the  grant  of  a  certificate,  all
matters  which  are  relevant  to  a  debenture  trustee  and  in  particular  the  following,
namely, whether the applicant,—
(a)  has  the  necessary  infrastructure  like  adequate  office  space,  equipments,  and
manpower to effectively discharge his activities;
(b)  has  any  past  experience  as  a  debenture  trustee  or  has  in  his  employment
minimum two persons who had the experience in matters which are relevant to a
debenture trustee;
(c)  or  any  person,  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with  the  applicant  has  not  been
granted registration by the Board under the Act;
27[(d)  has  in  his  employment  at  least  one  person  who  possesses  the  professional
qualification in law from an institution recognised by the Government;]
(e)or any of its director or principal officer is or has at any time been convicted for any
offence  involving  moral  turpitude  or  has  been  found  guilty  of  any  economic
offence ;
28[(f) is a fit and proper person;]
29 [(g)  fulfills the capital adequacy requirements specified in regulation 7A.]
30[ Criteria for fit and proper person
6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the debenture trustee is a
fit and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule
II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.]
31[Eligibility for being debenture trustee.
7.  No person shall be entitled to act as a debenture trustee unless it is :—
(a)
(b)
a scheduled bank carrying on commercial activity; or
a public financial institution as defined sub-section (72) of section 2 of
the Companies Act, 2013; or
substitution clause (d) read as under :
“(d) has in its employment at least one  person who possesses the professional qualification from an institution
recognized by the Government in finance, accountancy, law or business management. ”
2008. Prior to its substitution regulation 6A read as under:
“Applicability  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
Proper Person) Regulations, 2004.
(Criteria
for  Fit  and
same, regulation 7 read as follows:
“Eligibility for being debenture trustee.
7. No person shall be entitled to act as a debenture trustee unless he is either—
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
a scheduled bank carrying on commercial activity; or
a public financial institution within the meaning of section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956; or
an insurance company; or
body corporate.”
(c)
(d)
an insurance company; or
body  corporate  as  defined  under  sub-section  (11)  of  section  2  of  the
Companies Act, 2013.]
32[Capital Adequacy Requirement.
7A. The capital adequacy requirement referred to in clause (g) of regulation 6 shall not
be less than the net worth of 33[ten] crore rupees:
34[Provided  that  a  debenture  trustee  holding  certificate  of registration  as  on  the
date  of  commencement  of  the Securities and Exchange  Board of India  (Debenture
Trustees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 shall fulfil the net worth requirements within
three years from the date of such commencement.]
35[***]
36[8. Grant of certificate of 37[***] registration.
(1) The Board on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall send an intimation
to the applicant, within one month of such satisfaction, that it has been found eligible
for grant of certificate of 38[***] registration and grant a certificate in Form B.
39[(2)  The  certificate  of  registration  granted  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  valid
unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.]
2003, it read as under:
"Capital Adequacy Requirement.
7A. The capital adequacy requirement referred to in clause (g) of regulation 6 shall not be less than the networth
of one crore rupees:
Provided  that  a  debenture  trustee  holding  certificate  of  registration  as  on  the  date  of  commencement  of  the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003 shall fulfill the
networth requirements within two years from the date of such commencement."
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. May 07, 2019.
w.e.f. May 07, 2019.
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission the proviso read as
under:
“Provided that a debenture trustee, who was granted a certificate of initial or permanent registration, as the case
may  be,  under  these  regulations  prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Debenture Trustees) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2011, shall raise its networth to the said minimum within
a period of two years from such commencement.]”
36  Substituted  by  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f.  5-7-2011.Prior  to
substitution, it read as under:
"Procedure for registration.
8. The Board on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall send an intimation to the applicant mentioning
that he has been found eligible for the grant of certificate and grant a certificate in Form B, subject to the payment
of fees as specified in regulation 12."
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution sub-regulation (2) read
as under:
“(2) The certificate of initial registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid for a period of five years
from the date of its issue to the applicant.”
40[(3) The debenture trustee who has already been granted certificate of registration
by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration,
in terms of sub-regulation (1).]
(4) The grant of a certificate of  41[***] registration shall be subject to payment of the
registration fee as specified in Schedule II of these regulations.
8A. 42[***]
9. 43[***]
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution sub-regulation (2) read
as under:
“(3) The debenture trustee who has already been granted a certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the
commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) (Amendment) Regulations,
2011, and has not completed a period of three years, shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of initial
registration for a period of five years from the date of its certificate of registration, subject to payment of fee for
the remaining period of two years, as specified in Schedule II of these regulations.”
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission regulation 8A read as under:
“Grant of certificate of permanent registration.
(1) The debenture trustee who has been granted or deemed to have been granted a certificate of initial registration
under regulation 8, may, three months before the expiry of the period of initial registration, make an application
for grant of a certificate of permanent registration in Form A.
(2) The debenture trustee who has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board and has completed
a period of five years, on the date of commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture
Trustees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  may,  three  months  before  the  expiry  of  validity  of  certificate  of
registration or before, make an application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration in Form A.
(3)  An  application  under  sub-regulation  (1)  or  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be  accompanied  by  non-refundable
application fee as specified in Schedule II of these regulations.
(4)  The  application  for  grant  of  a  certificate  of  permanent  registration  shall  be  accompanied  by  details  of  the
changes that have taken place in the information that was submitted to the Board while seeking initial registration
or renewal, as the case may be, and a declaration stating that no changes other than those as mentioned in such
details have taken place.
(5) The application for permanent registration made under sub-regulation (1) or (2) shall be dealt with in the same
manner as if it were a fresh application for grant of a certificate of initial registration and the Board shall take a
decision within three months from the date of receipt of all information.
(6) The Board, on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall grant a certificate of permanent registration
in Form B and shall send an intimation to the applicant.
(7) The grant of a certificate of permanent registration shall be subject to payment of fees specified in Schedule
II of these regulations.”
omission, it read as under:
"Renewal of certificate.
9(1) A debenture trustee may, if he so desires, make an application in Form A for renewal of certificate before
three months of the expiry of the period of certificate.
43[(1A)  An  application  for  renewal  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  non-refundable
application fee as specified in Schedule II.]
(2) The application for renewal of certificate under sub-regulation (1) shall be dealt with in the same manner as if
it were an application for grant of a certificate made under regulation 3."
44[Conditions of registration.
9A.(1)  45[Registration  granted  under  regulation  8]  shall  be  subject  to  the  following
conditions, namely :—
(a)where debenture trustee proposes  46[change in control], it shall obtain prior
approval of the Board for continuing to act as such after the change;
47[(b)  it  shall  pay  the  fees  for  registration,  in  the  manner  provided  in  these
regulations;]
(c)it shall take adequate steps for redressal of grievances of the investors within
one  month  of  the  date  of  the  receipt  of  the  complaint  and  keep  the  Board
informed  about  the  number,  nature  and  other  particulars  of  the  complaints
received and the manner in which such complaints have been redressed;
(d)
7A at all times during the period of the 48[***];
(e)it shall abide by the regulations made under the Act in respect of the activities
carried on by it as a debenture trustee.
49[(f) it shall immediately intimate the Board, details of changes that have taken
place in the information that was submitted, while seeking registration.]
it  shall  maintain  capital  adequacy  requirements  specified  in  regulation
(2) Nothing contained in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) shall affect the obligation to
obtain a fresh registration under section 12 of the Act in cases where it is applicable.
9B. 50[***]
Procedure where registration is not granted.
granted  under  regulation  8A]”  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
Prior  to  substitution  the  words  “initial  registration”  and  “permanent  registration  granted  under  regulation  8A”
substituted the words "registration" and "renewal granted under regulation 9" respectively by the SEBI (Debenture
Trustees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.
46  Substituted  by  SEBI  (Change  in  Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)
Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 13-4-2011 for the words "to change its status or constitution".
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution, clause (b) read as under:
it shall pay the fees for 47[initial registration or permanent registration], as the case may be, in the manner
“(b)
provided in these regulations;”
or renewal"by the SEBI (Debenture Trustees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011
(Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-
renewal thereof" by the SEBI (Debenture Trustees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
it read as under:
"9B. Time period for disposal of application and period of validity of certificate.
(1) The Board shall within three months of receipt of all information for considering the application for grant of
registration made under regulation 8, or for its renewal made under regulation 9, take a decision thereon and send
intimation to the applicant.
(2) The certificate of registration granted under regulation 8 and its renewal granted under regulation 9, shall be
valid for a period of three years from the date of its issue."
10. 51[(1) Where an application for grant of a certificate of registration under regulation
3  does  not  fulfil  the  requirements  set  out  in  regulation  6,  the  Board  shall  reject  the
application after giving an opportunity of being heard.]
52[(2) The refusal to grant registration shall be communicated by the Board within thirty
days  of  such  refusal  to  the  applicant  stating  therein  the  grounds  on  which  the
application has been rejected.]
(3)  Any  applicant  may,  being  aggrieved  by  the  decision  of  the  Board  under  sub-
regulation  (2),  apply  within  a  period  of  thirty  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  such
intimation, to the Board for, reconsideration of its decision.
(4)  On  receipt  of  the  application  made  under  sub-regulation  (3),  the  Board  shall
reconsider its decision and communicate its findings thereon as soon as possible in
writing to the applicant.
53[11. ***]
Payment of fees, and the consequences of failure to pay fees.
12.  54[(1) Every applicant eligible for grant of registration, shall pay the fees in such
manner and within the period specified in Schedule II:]
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution sub-regulation (1) read
as under:
“(1) Where an application for grant of a certificate  51[of initial registration under regulation 3 or of permanent
registration under regulation 8A] does not fulfil the requirements set out in regulation 6, the Board may reject the
application, after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard.”
Prior to this the words “of initial registration under regulation 3 or of permanent registration under regulation 8A”
were  substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f.  5-7-2011  for  the
words "under regulation 3 or of renewal under regulation 9".
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission regulation 11 read as under:
“11. Effect of refusal to grant certificate of permanent registration.
The debenture trustee whose application for grant of certificate of permanent registration has been refused by the
Board, on and from the date of the receipt of the communication, shall cease to carry on any activity as debenture
trustee:
Provided that the Board may, in the interest of the investors of the securities market, permit to carry on activities
undertaken prior to the receipt of the intimation of refusal, subject to such condition as the Board may specify.”
Of  Registration  Of  Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to
substitution sub-regulation (2) read as under:“The 52[refusal to grant initial or permanent registration, as the case
may be] shall be communicated by the Board within thirty days of such refusal to the applicant stating therein the
grounds on which the application has been rejected.”
the SEBI (Debenture Trustees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011 for the words "refusal to grant
or renew the certificate".
53  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f.  5-7-2011.  Prior  to
substitution, it read as:
"Effect of refusal to grant certificate or renew certificate.
11. Any debenture trustee whose application for grant or renewal of a certificate has been refused by the Board
shall on and from the date of the receipt of the communication under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 10 cease to
act as a debenture trustee."
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution sub-regulation (1) read
as under:
Provided  that  Board  may,  on  sufficient  cause  being  shown,  permit  the  debenture
trustee to pay such fees at any time before the expiry of six months from the date on
which such fees become due.
(2) Where the debenture trustee fails to pay the fees as provided in sub-regulation (1),
the  Board  may  suspend  the  certificate,  whereupon  the  debenture  trustee  shall
forthwith cease to act as a debenture trustee.
Chapter III
RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF DEBENTURE TRUSTEES
Obligation before appointment as debenture trustees.
13. No debenture trustee who has been granted a certificate under regulation 8 shall
act as such in respect of each issue of debenture unless—
55 [(a) he enters into a written agreement with the body corporate before the opening
of the subscription list for issue of debentures;
(b) the agreement under clause (a) shall inter alia contain:
56[(i)  an  undertaking  by  the  body  corporate  to  comply  with  all  regulations  /
provisions of Companies Act, 2013, guidelines of other regulatory authorities
in respect of allotment of debentures till redemption;
(ii) the time limit within which the security for the debentures shall be created or
the  agreement  shall  be  executed  in  accordance  with  the  Companies  Act,
2013 or provisions as prescribed by any regulatory authority as applicable.]]
Debenture Trustee not to act for an associate.
57[13A. 58[A person shall not be appointed as a debenture trustee, in case-
“(1) Every applicant eligible for grant 54[of initial or permanent registration, as the case may be] shall pay the fees
in such manner and within the period specified in Schedule II:”
(Debenture Trustees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011 for the words "or renewal of a certificate".
Regulations, 2000, w.e.f 8-8-2000 :
“(a)  he  gives  consent  in  writing  to  a  body  corporate  to  act  as  debenture  trustee  under  trust  deed  for  securing
any issue of debentures by each such body corporate ;
(b) consent under clause (a) is given before the issue of debentures for subscription.”
same, clauses (i) and (ii) read as follows:
“(i) that the debenture trustee has agreed to act as such under the trust deed for securing an issue of
debentures for the body corporate;
(ii) the time limit within which the security for the debentures shall be created.”
57  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2003,  w.e.f.  4-7-2003.  Earlier
8-8-2000. Prior to its substitution, regulation 13 A read as under :
“13 A. Debenture Trustee not to act for an associate – No debenture trustee shall act as such for any issue of
debentures in case-
(a) it is an associate of the body corporate, or
(b) it has lent or is proposing to lend money to the body corporate :
Provided that in respect of debentures issued prior to the commencement of these regulations, the debenture trustee
for  such  issue  shall  also  comply  with  this  regulation  within  two  years  from  the  commencement  of  these
Regulations.”
58  Regulation  13A  and  clause  (a)  thereunder  substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustees)  (Amendment)
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f., 13-7-2017. Prior to such substitution, the provisions read as follows:
“No debenture trustee shall act as such for any issue of debentures in case—
the debenture trustee,-
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
is an associate of the body corporate;
beneficially holds shares in the company;
is a promoter, director or key managerial personnel or any other officer
or an employee of the company or its holding, subsidiary or associate
company;
is beneficially entitled to moneys which are to be paid by the company
otherwise than as remuneration payable to the debenture trustee;
is indebted to the company, or its subsidiary or its holding or associate
company or a subsidiary of such holding company;
has furnished any guarantee in respect of the principal debts secured by
the debentures or interest thereon;
has  any  pecuniary  relationship  with  the  company  amounting  to  2%  or
more  of  its  gross  turnover  or  total  income  or  ₹50  lakh  or  such  higher
amount  as  may  be  prescribed,  whichever  is  lower,  during  the  two
immediately  preceding  financial  years  or  during  the  current  financial
year;
is relative of any promoter or any person who is in the employment of
the company as a director or key managerial personnel;
is likely to have conflict of interest in any other manner:
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
(vii)
(viii)
(ix)
(a)
Provided  that  this  requirement  shall  not  be  applicable  in  respect  of
debentures issued:
(i) wherever there is guarantee by the state / central government for the
debentures issued.]
(b)  it has lent and the loan is not yet fully repaid or is proposing to lend money to the
body corporate:
Provided that this requirement shall not be applicable in respect of debentures
issued  prior  to  the  commencement  of the  Companies  (Amendment)  Act,  2000,
where—
(i)  recovery proceedings in respect of the assets charged against security has
been initiated, or
(ii)  the body corporate has been referred to Board for Industrial and Financial
Reconstruction under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act,
1985, prior to commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Debenture Trustees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003.]
Obligation of the debenture trustees.
14.  59[Every  debenture  trustee  shall  amongst  other  matters,  accept  the  trust  deeds
which shall contain the matters as specified in section 71 of Companies Act, 2013  and
(a)
it is an associate of the body corporate, or”
the same, regulation 14 read as follows:
“Every debenture trustee shall amongst other matters, accept the trust deeds which shall contain the matters as specified in
section 71  of  Companies  Act, 2013 and   Form  No.  SH.12  specified  under  the  Companies  (Share Capital and  Debentures)
Rules, 2014.”
Form  No.  SH.12  specified  under  the  Companies  (Share  Capital  and  Debentures)
Rules, 2014.  Such trust deed shall consist of two parts:
a. Part A containing statutory/standard information pertaining to the debt issue;
b. Part B containing details specific to the particular debt issue.]
Duties of the debenture trustees.
15. 60[(1) It shall be the duty of every debenture trustee to-
(a)  satisfy  itself  that  the  prospectus  or  letter  of  offer  does  not  contain  any
matter which is inconsistent with the terms of the issue of debentures or
with the trust deed;
(b)  satisfy itself that the covenants in the trust deed are not prejudicial to the
interest of the debenture holders;
(c)  call  for  periodical  status/  performance  reports  from  the  issuer  company
within  7  days  of  the  relevant  board  meeting  or  within  45  days  of  the
respective quarter whichever is earlier;
(d)  communicate  promptly  to  the  debenture  holders  defaults,  if  any,  with
regard  to  payment  of  interest  or  redemption  of  debentures  and  action
taken by the trustee therefor;
60 Substituted ibid. Prior to the same, the provision read as follows:
“(1) It shall be the duty of every debenture trustee to—
(a)  call for periodical reports from the body corporate;
(b)  [***]
(c)  take possession of trust property in accordance with the provisions of the trust deed;
(ca) supervise the implementation of the conditions regarding creation of security
for the debentures and debenture redemption reserve, wherever applicable;
(d)enforce security in the interest of the debenture holders;
(e)do such acts as are necessary in the event the security becomes enforceable;
(f) carry out such acts as are necessary for the protection of the debenture holders and to do all things necessary
in order to resolve the grievances of the debenture holders;
(g)ascertain and satisfy itself  that the—
(i)in  case  where  the  allotment  letter  has  been  issued  and  debenture  certificate  is  to  be  issued  after
registration of charge, the debenture certificates have been despatched by the body corporate to the
debenture holders within 30 days of the registration of the charge with the Registrar of Companies;]
(ii)  debenture  certificates  have  been  despatched  to  the  debenture  holders  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the Companies Act;
(iii)  interest warrants for interest due on the debentures have been despatched to the debenture holders
on or before the due dates;
(iv)  debenture holders have been paid the monies due to them on the date of redemption of the debentures;
(h)ensure on a continuous basis that the property charged to the debentures is available and adequate at all times
to discharge the interest and principal amount payable in respect of the debentures and that such property
is free from any other encumbrances save and except those which are specifically agreed to by the debenture
trustee;]
(i)  exercise due diligence to ensure compliance by the body corporate, with the provisions of the Companies
Act, the listing agreement of the stock exchange or the trust deed;
(j)  to take appropriate measures for protecting the interest of the debenture holders as soon as any breach of
the trust deed or law comes to his notice;
(k)  to ascertain that the debentures have been converted or redeemed in accordance with the provisions and
conditions under which they are offered to the debenture holders;
(l) inform the Board immediately of any breach of trust deed or provision of any law;
(m)  appoint a nominee director on the Board of the body corporate in the event of:
(i)  two consecutive defaults in payment of interest to the debenture holders; or
(ii)  default in creation of security for debentures; or
(iii)  default in redemption of debentures;
(n)
communicate to the debenture holders on half yearly basis the compliance of the terms of the issue by
the body corporate, defaults, if any, in payment of interest or redemption of debentures and action taken therefor.”
(e)  appoint a nominee director on the Board of the company in the event of:
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
two  consecutive  defaults  in  payment  of  interest  to  the
debenture holders; or
default in creation of security for debentures; or
default in redemption of debentures.
(g)
(f)  ensure that the company does not commit any breach of the terms of issue
of debentures or covenants of the trust deed and take such reasonable
steps as may be necessary to remedy any such breach;
inform the debenture holders immediately of any breach of the terms of
issue of debentures or covenants of the trust deed;
61[ensure  the  implementation  of  the  conditions  regarding  creation  of
security  for  the  debentures,  if  any,  debenture  redemption  reserve  and
recovery expense fund];
(h)
(i)  ensure  that  the  assets  of  the  company  issuing  debentures  and  of  the
guarantors,  if  any,  are  sufficient  to  discharge  the  interest  and  principal
amount  at  all  times  and  that  such  assets  are  free  from  any  other
encumbrances  except  those  which  are  specifically  agreed  to  by  the
debenture holders;
(j)  do  such  acts  as  are  necessary  in  the  event  the  security  becomes
enforceable;
(k)  call for reports on the utilization of funds raised by the issue of debentures;
take steps to convene a meeting of the holders of debentures as and when
(l)
such meeting is required to be held;
(m)  ensure  that  the  debentures  have  been  converted  or  redeemed  in
accordance with the terms of the issue of debentures;
(o)
(n)  perform such acts as are necessary for the protection of the interest of the
debenture  holders  and  do  all  other  acts  as  are  necessary  in  order  to
resolve the grievances of the debenture holders;
take possession of trust property in accordance with the provisions of the
trust deed;
to take appropriate measures for protecting the interest of the debenture
holders as soon as any breach of the trust deed or law comes to his notice;
(p)
(q)  ascertain and satisfy itself that,-
(i)
(ii)
in  case  where  the  allotment  letter  has  been  issued  and
debenture certificate is to be issued after registration of charge,
the  debenture  certificates  have  been  dispatched  by  the  body
corporate  to  the  debenture  holders  within  30  days  of  the
registration of the charge with the Registrar of Companies;
debenture  certificates have  been  dispatched  to  the debenture
holders  or  debentures  have  been  credited  in  the  demat
accounts  of  the  debenture  holders  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Debenture  Trustee)  Regulations  1993,  Securities  and
Exchange Board of India  (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)
Regulations  2008,  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
the same, clause (h) read as follows:
“ensure  the  implementation  of  the  conditions  regarding  creation  of  security  for  the  debentures,  if  any,  and
debenture redemption reserve;”
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations
2015 and any other regulations issued by the Board;
interest warrants for interest due on the debentures have been
dispatched to the debenture holders on or before the due dates;
debenture holders have been paid the monies due to them on
the date of redemption of the debentures;
(iii)
(iv)
(r)
inform the Board immediately of any breach of trust deed or provision of
any law, which comes to the knowledge of the trustee.
debenture  trustee  as  mentioned  in  these  regulations  may  be  made  by
electronic media, press-release and placing notice on its website;
(s)  exercise due diligence to ensure compliance by the body corporate, with
the provisions of the Companies Act, Securities and Exchange Board of
India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirement),  Regulations,
2015, the listing agreement of the stock exchange or the trust deed or any
other regulations issued by the Board pertaining to debt issue;
62[In case where listed debt securities are secured by way of receivables/
book debts it shall, -
(t)
(i)
on a Quarterly basis-
(a)  carry out the necessary due diligence and monitor
the asset cover in the manner as may be specified
by the Board from time to time.
(ii)
on a Half-Yearly basis-
(a)
obtain a certificate from the statutory auditor of the
issuer  giving  the  value  of  receivables/book  debts
including  compliance  with  the  covenants  of  the
Offer  Document/Information  Memorandum  in  the
manner  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board  from
time to time.]
63[(1A) The debenture trustee shall:
(a) obtain reports from the lead bank regarding progress of the project;
(b) monitor utilisation of funds raised in the issue;
64[(c) obtain a certificate from the issuer's Statutory Auditor:
(i)  in  respect  of  utilisation  of  funds  during  the  implementation  period  of  the
project; and
the same, clause (t) read as follows:
“In case where listed debt securities are secured by way of receivables/ book debts it shall obtain the following,-
(i) On Quarterly basis-
(a) Certificate from the Director / Managing Director of the issuer company certifying the value of the
book debts / receivables;
(b) Certificate from an independent chartered accountant giving the value of book debts / receivables.
(ii) On Yearly basis-
(a) Certificate from the statutory auditor giving the value of book debts / receivables.”
SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 w.e.f. 26-08-2009.
same, clause (c) read as follows:
“obtain a certificate from the issuer's auditors:
(i) in respect of utilisation of funds during the implementation period of the project; and
(ii) in the case of debentures issued for financing working capital, at the end of each accounting
year.”
(ii) in the case of debentures issued for financing working capital, at the end of
each accounting year.]]
(2) A debenture trustee shall call or cause to be called by the body corporate a meeting
of all the debenture holders on—
(a)   a  requisition  in  writing  signed by  at  least  one-tenth of the  debenture  holders  in
value for the time being outstanding;
(b)   the happening of any event, which constitutes a default 65[or breach of covenants
(as specified in the Offer Document/Information Memorandum and/or debenture
trust deed)] or which in the opinion of the debenture trustees affects the interest
of the debenture holders:
66[Provided that a debenture trustee may seek the consent of debenture holders
through e-voting, wherever applicable;
Provided  further  that  the  requirement  to  convene  a  meeting  of  all  debenture
holders  in  case  of  a  default  in  payment  obligation  by  the  issuer,  shall  not  be
applicable in case of debentures issued by way of public issue.]
67[(3)  No  debenture  trustee  shall  relinquish  its  assignments  as  debenture  trustee  in
respect  of  the  debenture  issue  of  any  body  corporate,  unless  and  until  another
debenture trustee is appointed in its place by the body corporate.
(4) A debenture trustee shall maintain the networth requirements as specified in these
regulations on a continuous basis and shall inform the Board immediately in respect
of any shortfall in the networth and in such a case it shall not be entitled to undertake
new  assignments  until  it  restores  the  networth  to  the  level  of  specified  requirement
within the time specified by the Board.
(5) A debenture trustee may inspect books of account, records, registers of the body
corporate and the trust property to the extent necessary for discharging its obligations.]
68[(6)  Before  creating  a  charge  on  the  security  for  the  debentures,  the  debenture
trustee shall exercise independent due diligence to ensure that such security is free
from  any  encumbrance  or  that  it  has  obtained  the  necessary  consent  from  other
charge-holders  if  the  security  has  an  existing  charge,  in  the  manner  as  may  be
specified by the Board from time to time.
(7)  Subject  to  the  approval  of  the  debenture  holders  and  the  conditions  as  may  be
specified  by  the  Board  from  time  to  time,  the  debenture  trustee,  on  behalf  of  the
debenture  holders,  may  enter  into  inter-creditor  agreements  provided  under  the
framework specified by the Reserve Bank of India.]
Code of Conduct.
16.  Every  debenture  trustee  shall  abide  by  the  Code  of  Conduct  as  specified  in
Schedule III.
Maintenance of books of account, records, documents, etc.
17. 69[(1) Subject to the provisions of any law every debenture trustee shall keep and
maintain proper books of account, records and documents, relating to the trusteeship
w.e.f. May 07, 2019
same, sub-regulation (1) read as follows:
functions for a period of not less than five financial years from the date of redemption
of debentures.]
(2) Every debenture trustee shall intimate to the Board, the place where the books of
account, records and documents are maintained.
70[Appointment of compliance officer.
17A.  (1)  Every  debenture  trustee  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be
responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations,
notifications,  guidelines,  instructions,  etc.,  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central
Government and for redressal of investors’ grievances.
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately  and independently report to the Board
any non-compliance observed by him.]
71[(3)  The  compliance  officer  shall  report  any  non-compliance,  of  the  requirements
specified  in  the  listing  agreement  with  respect  to  debenture  issues  and  debenture
holders, by the body corporate to the Board.]
72[(4) The Compliance Officer so appointed shall obtain certification in terms of the
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Certification  of  Associated  Persons  in  the
Securities Markets) Regulations, 2007 or as may be specified by the Board.]
Information to the Board.
18. (1) Every debenture trustee shall as and when required by the Board submit the
following information and documents, namely:—
(a)  the number and nature of the grievances of the debenture holders received and
resolved;
(b)  copies of the trust deed;
(c)  non-payment  or  delayed  payment  of  interest  to  debenture  holders,  if  any,  in
respect of each issue of debentures of a body corporate;
(d)  details of despatch and transfer of debenture certificates giving therein the dates,
mode, etc.;
(e)  any other particular or document which is relevant to debenture trustee.
(2) Where any information is called for under sub-regulation (1) it shall be the duty of
the debenture trustees to furnish such information.
Chapter IV
INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS
Board’s right to inspect.
19. (1) Where it appears to the Board so to do, it may appoint one or more persons as
inspecting authority to undertake the inspection of the books of account, other records
and  documents  of  the  debenture  trustee  for  any  of  the  purposes  specified  in  sub-
regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be as follows, namely:—
“(1) Subject to the provisions of any law every debenture trustee shall keep and maintain proper books of account,
records  and  documents,  relating  to  the  trusteeship  functions  for  a  period  of  not  less  than  five  financial  years
preceding the current financial year.”
2001
(a)  to  ensure  that  the  records  and  documents  which  are  relevant  to  debenture
trustees are being maintained in the manner required by the Board;
73[“(b) that the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Circulars, rules and regulations
are being complied with;]
(c)  to ascertain as to whether there exist any circumstances which would render the
debenture trustee ineligible for grant of registration or continuance thereof;
(d)  to  investigate  into  the  complaints  received  from  investors,  other  debenture
trustees or any other person on any matter having a bearing on the activities of
the debenture trustee; and
(e)  to investigate suo moto in the interest of securities business or investors interest
into the affairs of the debenture trustee.
Procedure for inspection.
20. (1) Before undertaking an inspection under regulation 19, the Board shall give a
reasonable notice to the debenture trustee for that purpose.
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  where  the  Board  is
satisfied that in the interest of the investors or in public interest no such notice should
be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the
debenture trustee be taken up without such notice.
(3)  On  being  empowered  by  the  Board  the  inspecting  authority  shall  undertake
inspection and the debenture trustee against whom an inspection is being carried out
shall be bound to discharge his obligations as provided under regulation 21.
Obligations of debenture trustee on inspection by the Board.
21.  (1) It  shall  be  the duty  of every  director,  officer and  employee of  the debenture
trustee who is being inspected, to produce to the inspecting authority such books and
other  documents  in  his  custody  or  control  and  furnish  him  with  the  statements  and
information  relating  to  the  debenture  trustee  within  such  time  as  the  inspecting
authority may require.
(2)  The  debenture  trustee  shall  allow  the  inspecting  authority  to have  a  reasonable
access to the premises occupied by the debenture trustee or by any other person, on
his  behalf  and  also  extend  reasonable  facility  for  examining  any  books,  records,
documents and computer data in the possession of the debenture trustee or any such
other person on their behalf and also provide copies of documents or other materials
which in the opinion of the inspecting authority, are relevant for the purposes of the
inspection.
(3) The inspecting authority shall in the course of inspection, be entitled to examine or
record statements of any officer, director or employee of the debenture trustee.
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, officer or employee of the debenture trustee
to  give  to  the  inspecting  authority  all  assistance  in  connection  with  the  inspection,
which the debenture trustee may reasonably be expected to give.
Submission of report to the Board.
22. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as may be possible, submit an inspection
report to the Board.
same, clause (b) read as follows:
“(b)  that the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956, rules and regulations are being complied with;”
74[Action on inspection or investigation report.
23. The Board or the Chairman shall after consideration of inspection or investigation
report  take  such  action  as  the  Board  or  Chairman  may  deem  fit  and  appropriate
including  action  under  75[Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008].]
Appointment of Auditor.
24.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  above  the  Board  may  appoint  a  qualified
auditor to investigate into the records of, or the affairs of, the debenture trustee:
Provided that the auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting
authority as mentioned in regulation 19 and the obligation of the debenture trustee in
regulation 21 shall be applicable to the investigation under this regulation.
have the same meaning as given to it in section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
1956).
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT
Chapter V
76[77[Liability for action in case of default.
25. (1) A Debenture Trustee which-
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
fails to comply with any conditions subject to which certificate has been
granted;
contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations;
contravenes the provisions of the Companies Act or the rules made there
under;
fails  to  furnish  any  information  relating  to  its  activity  as  a  Debenture
Trustee as required by the Board;
furnishes  to  the  Board  information  which  is  false  or  misleading  in  any
material particular;
does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board;
does  not  co-operate  in  any  enquiry,  inspection  or  investigation
conducted by the Board;
fails to resolve the complaints of investors or fails to give a satisfactory
reply to the Board in this behalf;
shall be dealt with in the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
74  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)
Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002.
2008  for  the  words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry
Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002.”
76    Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)
Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002.
same, regulation 25 read as follows:
“25. A debenture trustee who—
(a) fails to comply with any conditions subject to which certificate has been granted;
(b) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, rules or regulations;
(c) contravenes the provisions of the Companies Act or the rules made thereunder, shall be dealt with in
the manner provided under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries)
Regulations, 2008.”
(2) Nothing contained in sub-regulation (1) shall prejudice the powers of the Board to
issue directions or measures under sections 11, 11B, 11D, sub-section (3) of section
12 or section 24 or Chapter VIA of the Act or under any other law for the time being in
force.]]
26. to 32. 78[***]
79[CHAPTER VI
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
33. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of
all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but
not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects
relating  to  testing  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live
environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to
the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including
conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
live testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models,
etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of
time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as
may be specified by the Board.]
Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. Earlier regulation 32 was amended by SEBI (Appeal to
Securities Appellate Tribunal)(Amendment) Regulations, 2000, w.e.f. 28-3-2000. Prior to its omission, regulation
32 read as under :
“32. Any person aggrieved by an order of the Board made, on and after the commencement of the Securities Laws
(Second Amendment) Act, 1999, (i.e., after 16th December 1999), under these regulations may prefer an appeal
to Securities Appellate Tribunal having jurisdiction in the matter.”
Schedule I
Forms
80[FORM A
Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993
[81[Regulation 3]]
82[Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration as
Debenture Trustee]
Name of Applicant and its status ....................................................................................
(For status see regulation 7)
Name and Designation of Principal Officer …………………………………….
Designation....................................................................
Telephone No. ..............................................................
E-
mail................................................................................
Instructions:—
1.  Applicants  must  submit  a  completed  application
3.  Information  which  needs
to  be  supplied  in  more
form  together  with  supporting  documents  to  the
detail  may  be  written  on
Securities and Exchange Board of India.
separate  sheets  which
should be attached to the
application form.
2.  All columns of the application should be filled in. In
case a column is not relevant then “not applicable”
should be specified.
4.  Original copy of form duly
be
signed
submitted for registration.
should
PART I
General Information
1. Applicant’s details
1.1 Name of the applicant:
1.2 Address of the applicant:
Pin code:
Telex No.:
E-mail:
1.3 Address of the applicant for correspondence:
Pin code:
Telex No:
E-mail:
Telephone No.:
Fax No.:
Telephone No.:
Fax No.:
(Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-
(Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011 for the word and figure "Regulation 3".
Trustee”  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of  Certain
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.  Prior to this the words “Application for Grant
Trustees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f.  5-7-2011  for  the  words  "Application  for  Registration  as
Debenture Trustee".
Name of the Compliance Officer:
Designation:
1.4 Address of branch offices (in India) of the applicant, if any:
1.5 Whether any other application under the Securities and Exchange Board of India
Telephone:
Act, 1992, has been made for grant of certificate, if so, details thereof:
1.5(a) Whether the applicant or its Director/s or partner/s is a partner or proprietor or
promoter/s  or  director/s  in  any  of  its  associate/group  company/concern  or  any
company/concern which is also registered with SEBI under any of its Regulations,
and if so, details thereof:
Name  of  the  company/
concern
given/penal
action
Category
registered
SEBI Regn. No.
warning
Any
taken/investigation/enquiry
initiated/pending
Year
Place
Month
from
relevant  documents
like,  charter/memorandum  of
1.6 In case the applicant is a Bank or an NBFC, any warning/action taken by RBI.
2. Organisation structure:
2.1 Objects of the organisation of the applicant.
(Attach  extracts
association/articles of association, etc.) in support of objects of the organisation.
2.2 Date and place of incorporation/establishment of the organisation of the applicant.
Day
2.3 Organisation chart stating the functional responsibilities at various levels.
2.4 Particulars of all directors.
[Name,  qualification,  experience,  date  of  appointment,  other  directorship,  (Name  &
date of appointment), previous positions held.]
2.5  Number  of  employees  (mention  separately  the  employees  in  the  debenture
trusteeship activity).
2.6 Name and activities of associate companies/concerns.
Name/Address/Phone Nos./Type of activity/Ownership details/Nature and quantum of
financial trading.
2.7 List of major shareholders (holding 5% or more voting rights) and percentage of
their shareholdings.
3. Details of infrastructural facilities:
3.1 Office space (mention the extent of area and ownership details available).
3.2 Office equipment (mention the details of electronic office equipment, typewriters,
telecommunication equipment, furniture  and  fixtures, other  communication facilities,
etc.)
(For point Nos. 3.1 and 3.2, please mention the infrastructure for debenture trustee
activity separately)
4. Business plan (for three years)
(a)  History, major achievements and present activity
5. Financial information:
5.1 Capital structure
Year  prior  to  the  Preceding
year of current year
Current year (Rs. in lakhs)
preceding year
(a)  Paid-up capital
(b)  Free reserves (excluding revaluation reserves)
(c)  Total (a) + (b)
(d)  Loans (details)
(e)  Net profit:
(i)General
(ii)Specific
5.2 Deployment of resources
(a)  Fixed assets
(b)  Plant and machinery and office equipment
(c)  Investments (Details should be given separately)
(d)  Others
6. Other information:
6.1 Name and address of the principal bankers
6.2 Name and Address of the auditors (internal, external and tax auditor, if any, as
applicable).
6.3 Indicate involvement in any offence relating to economic offences (including those
concerned with the securities market) in the last three years, if any.
6.4 Any significant awards or recognition, collective grievances against the services
rendered by the applicant.
6.5 Any other information considered relevant to the nature of services rendered by
the applicant.
PART II
7. Business information
7.1 Describe proposed activity.
7.2 Details of key legal personnel:
a.  Name of the person b. Responsibility c. Experience
7.3 Existing/proposed facilities for redressal of investor grievances.
(Furnish  number  and  type  of  complaints  received,  follow-up  with  the  companies,
average  time  taken  in  resolving  the  complaints  and  overall  system  of  handling
complaints).
7.4 Details of any personnel experience in the activity of debenture trusteeship.
8. Experience
8.1 Experience as debenture trustee
(Name of the body corporate, on whose behalf the applicant has acted as debenture
trustee,  particulars  of  debenture  issue,  size  of  debenture  issue,  when  trust  deed  is
signed, remuneration/fee received.)
8.2  Details  where  applicant  has  resigned  as  debenture  trustee  or  have  discharged
therefrom, give full details and reasons therefor.
8.3 In case of resignation or discharge as the case may be whether the applicant has
vacated the office before the appointment of successor. If so, give reasons and full
details.
8.4 Whether the applicant has ensured that security has been created in the stipulated
time in respect of debentures it acted as debenture trustee.
8.5 Whether the applicant has taken steps like appointment of nominee directors in
case of the debenture issue of any company.
Declaration
This declaration must be signed by principal officer/s
I/We hereby apply for grant of certificate of registration by the Board. I/We warrant that
I/we will carry out my/our duties in accordance with the Act, Rules and Regulations.
I/We  state  that  I/we  have  truthfully  and  fully  answered  the  questions  above  and
provided  all  the  information  which  might  reasonably  be  considered  relevant  for  the
purposes of my/our grant of certificate for registration and I/we will promptly notify the
Board of any changes in the information during the period that my/our registration is
being considered and if my/our registration is accepted, thereafter.
I/We understand that misleading or attempting to mislead the Board shall render the
applicant liable to disciplinary proceedings.
I/We certify that the above information and information supplied in the application form
is true, complete and correct.
“We hereby declare and undertake that—
(a)  the applicant-company, its directors or Principal Officers is/or has not at any
time been convicted for any offence involving moral turpitude or been found
guilty of any economic offence (including those concerned with the securities
market),
(b)  no  person  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with  the  applicant  has  applied  or
been granted registration by the Securities and Exchange Board of India to
act as Debenture Trustee.”
For and on behalf of
.......................................
Name of applicant
Place:
Date:
83 [***]
........................................
Name of applicant
Place:
Date:
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
“Additional information sheet: (in case of application for 83[permanent] registration)
1.  Whether the applicant has complied with the terms and conditions mentioned in the registration letter?
2.  Whether  the  applicant  has  complied  with  the  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustees)  Rules  and  Regulations  and  the
guidelines issued by SEBI from time to time.
3. Whether any associate/group company of the applicant is also registered with SEBI under any Regulations,
and if so the following details are to be furnished:
Name of the company/ concern
SEBI Regn No.
warning
Any
taken/investigation/enquiry initiated/pending
given/penal
action
4-5.  Whether any investigation/enquiry has been initiated/is pending against the applicant.
6.  Whether the applicant has submitted all the quarterly reports.
7.  Any warning given/penal action taken against the applicant.
8.  Whether the applicant has paid the fees due to SEBI in the last 3 years. Give details of payment.
9.  Details of public/rights issue for which the applicant acted as trustees in the last 3 years.
10.  In  case  of  any  defaults,  specifically  state  the  action  the  applicant  has  taken  to  protect  the  interest  of  the
debenture holders and whether penal interest has been paid to the debenture holders.
(a)  List  of  debenture  issues  for  which  the  applicant  was  acting  as  debenture  trustees  under  earlier
registration where defaults by the issuers in terms of delays/non-payment of interest/principal have
occurred.
Company
11.  Whether the applicant has obtained auditors certificate for end-use of funds for all public/rights issues.
debenture trustees.”
Investor  grievances  relating  to  the  debentures  of  companies  for  which  the  applicant  acted  as
Details of defaults
Details of issue
12.
FORM B
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees)
Regulations, 1993
[84[Regulation 8]]
85[Certificate of Registration]
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the Rules and Regulations made
thereunder  for  the  debenture  trustee,  the  Board  hereby  grants  a  certificate  of
registration to......as a debenture trustee, subject to the conditions in the Rules and in
accordance with the Regulations.
II. Registration Code for the debenture trustee is........
86[III. This certificate of registration shall be valid unless it is suspended or cancelled
by the Board.]
Place
Date
For and on behalf of
Securities and Exchange Board of India.
Authorised Signatory.
By Order
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees)
SCHEDULE II
Regulations, 1993
[Regulation 12]
FEES
w.e.f. 5-7-2011 for the words "renewal of".
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior
2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011 for the word and figure "Regulation 8"
Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016
w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
w.e.f. 5-7-2011 for the words "Certificate of Registration".
Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  substitution  paragraph  III  read  as
under:
“III. This certificate of registration shall be valid from ….. to …. / for permanent, unless suspended or cancelled
by the Board.”
w.e.f. 5-7-2011 for the words and symbols "Unless renewed, the certificate of registration is valid from....to...."
87[1.  Every  debenture  trustee  shall  pay  fees  of  88[twenty  lakh]  rupees at  the  time  of
grant of certificate of 89[***] registration.
1.A 90[***]
2. 91[A debenture trustee who has been granted a certificate of registration, to keep its
registration in force, shall pay fee of nine lakh rupees every three years from the sixth
year, from the date of grant of certificate of registration or from the date of grant of
certificate of initial registration granted prior to the commencement of the Securities
and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  in  Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, as the case may be.]
3. (a) The fee referred to in paragraph 1 shall be paid by the debenture trustees within
fifteen days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board under regulation 8.
(aa) 92[***]
93[(b) The fee referred to in paragraph 2 shall be paid by the Debenture Trustee three
months before expiry of the block for which fee has been paid.]
87  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f.  5-7-2011.Prior  to
substitution it read as under:
"1.  Every  debenture  trustee  shall  pay  a  sum  of  ten  lakh  rupees  as  registration  fees  at  the  time  of  the  grant  of
certificate by the Board.
2. Every debenture trustee to keep registration in force shall pay renewal fee of five lakh rupees every three years
from the fourth year from the date of initial registration."
"thirteen lakh thirty three thousand and three hundred".
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission paragraph 1A read as under:
“1A.  A debenture trustee referred to under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 8, shall pay fees for the remaining
period of two years on pro rata basis to the fee prescribed under paragraph 2.”
Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  substitution  paragraph  2  read  as
under:
“2. A debenture trustee who has been granted a certificate of permanent registration, to keep its registration in
force, shall pay fees of 91[nine] lakh rupees every three years from the sixth year from the date of grant of certificate
of initial registration, or from completion of the period of renewed certificate of registration, as the case may be.”
Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  omission  paragraph  3(aa)  read  as
under:
“(aa) The fees referred to in paragraph 1A shall be paid by the debenture trustee within a period of three months
before completion of the period of three years from the date of grant of certificate of initial registration, or within
a period of three months from the date of notification of these regulations, as the case may be.”
2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.
Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  substitution  paragraph  3(b)  as
“(b) The fee referred to in paragraph 2 shall be paid by the debenture trustee, at the time of grant of permanent
registration, within fifteen days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board under sub-regulation (6) of
regulation 8A and thereafter the fee shall be paid three months before expiry of the block for which fee has been
paid.”
94[3A. The non-refundable fee payable along with an application for registration under
sub-regulation (1A) of regulation 3 shall be a sum of fifty thousand rupees.]
4.  The  fees  specified  in  paragraphs  95[1,  96[***]  2  and  3A]  shall  be  payable  by  the
Debenture  Trustees  97[by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account  through
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by a demand draft in favour
of  “The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India”  payable  at  Mumbai  or  at  the
respective regional office.]
98[SCHEDULE III
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees)
Regulations, 1993
[Regulation 16]
CODE OF CONDUCT
1.  A  Debenture  Trustee  shall  make  all  efforts  to  protect  the  interest  of  debenture
holders.
2. A Debenture Trustee shall maintain high standards of integrity, dignity and fairness
in the conduct of its business.
3. A Debenture Trustee shall fulfill its obligations in a prompt, ethical and professional
manner.
4. A Debenture Trustee shall at all times exercise due diligence, ensure proper care
and exercise independent professional judgment.
5. A Debenture Trustee shall take all reasonable steps to establish the true and full
identity of each of its clients, and of each client’s financial situation and maintain record
of the same.
2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011.Prior to substitution it read as under:
"(b) The fee referred to in paragraph 2 shall be paid by the debenture trustee  within  fifteen days of receipt of
intimation from the Board disposing of the application for renewal made under sub-regulation (1) of regulation
9."
Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016. Prior  to  substitution  paragraph  3A  read  as
under:
“3A.  The  non-refundable  fee  payable  along  with  an  application  for  registration  under  sub-regulation  (1A)  of
regulation  3  or  an  application  for  94[permanent  registration  under  sub-regulation  (1)  or  sub-regulation  (2)  of
regulation 8A] shall be a sum of 94[fifty] thousand rupees.”
w.e.f. 7-9-2006.
Also, the  words “permanent registration under sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation (2) of regulation 8A”  were
figures "renewal of registration under sub-regulation (1A) of regulation 9"; and the words “fifty” were substituted
by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 23-5-2014 for the words "twenty five"
and  figures  "1,  2  and  3A"  which  was  earlier  substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustees)  (Amendment)
Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 7-9-2006.
Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
3-2017.
was amended by the SEBI (Investment Advice by Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2001, w.e.f. 29-5-
2001.
6. A Debenture Trustee shall ensure that any change in registration status/any penal
action taken by Board or any material change in financial position which may adversely
affect the interests of clients/debenture holders is promptly informed to the clients and
any business remaining outstanding is transferred to another registered intermediary
in accordance with any instructions of the affected clients.
7. A Debenture Trustee shall avoid conflict of interest and make adequate disclosure
of its interest.
8. A Debenture Trustee shall not divulge to anybody either orally or in writing, directly
or  indirectly,  any  confidential  information  about  its  clients  which  has  come  to  its
knowledge,  without  taking  prior  permission  of  its  clients,  except  where  such
disclosures are required to be made in compliance with any law for the time being in
force.
9.  A  Debenture  Trustee  shall  put  in  place  a  mechanism  to  resolve  any  conflict  of
interest situation that may arise in the conduct of its business or where any conflict of
interest  arises,  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to  resolve  the  same  in  an  equitable
manner.
10. A Debenture Trustee shall make appropriate disclosure to the client of its possible
source or potential areas of conflict of duties and interest while acting as debenture
trustee which would impair its ability to render fair, objective and unbiased services.
11. A Debenture Trustee shall not indulge in any unfair competition, which is likely to
harm the interests of other trustees or debenture holders or is likely to place such other
debenture  trustees  in  a  disadvantageous  position  while  competing  for  or  executing
any assignment nor shall it wean away the clients of another trustee on assurance of
lower fees.
12. A Debenture Trustee shall not discriminate among its clients, except and save on
ethical and commercial considerations.
13.  A  Debenture  Trustee  shall  share  information  available  with  it  regarding  client
companies, with registered credit rating agencies.
14. A Debenture Trustee shall provide clients and debenture holders with adequate
and  appropriate  information  about  its  business,  including  contact  details,  services
available to clients, and the identity and status of employees and others acting on its
behalf with whom the client may have to contact.
15.  A  Debenture  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  adequate  disclosures  are  made  to  the
debenture holders, in a comprehensible and timely manner so as to enable them to
make a balanced and informed decision.
16. A Debenture Trustee shall endeavour to ensure that—
(a)  inquiries from debenture holders are adequately dealt with;
(b)  grievances  of  debenture  holders  are  redressed  in  a  timely  and  appropriate
manner;
(c)  where a complaint is not remedied promptly, the debenture holder is advised of
any  further  steps  which  may  be  available  to  the  debenture  holder  under  the
regulatory system.
17. A Debenture Trustee shall make reasonable efforts to avoid misrepresentation and
ensure that the information provided to the debenture holders is not misleading.
18. A Debenture Trustee shall maintain required level of knowledge and competency
and abide by the provisions of the Act, regulations and circulars and guidelines. The
debenture trustee shall also comply with the award of the Ombudsman passed under
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003.
19. A Debenture Trustee shall not make untrue statement or suppress any material
fact in any documents, reports, papers or information furnished to the Board.
20.  A  Debenture  Trustee  or  any  of  its  directors,  partners  or  manager  having  the
management of the whole or substantially the whole of affairs of the business, shall
not either through its account or their respective accounts or through their associates
or family members, relatives or friends indulge in any insider trading.
21. A Debenture Trustee shall ensure that the Board is promptly informed about any
action, legal proceeding, etc., initiated against it in respect of any material breach or
non-compliance by it, of any law, rules, regulations, directions of the Board or of any
other regulatory body.
22.  (a)  A  Debenture  Trustee  or  any  of  his  employees  shall  not  render,  directly  or
indirectly, any investment advice about any security in the publicly accessible media,
whether real-time or non-real-time unless a disclosure of his interest including long or
short position in the said security has been made, while rendering such advice.
(b)  In  case,  an  employee  of  the  Debenture  Trustee  is  rendering  such  advice,  the
debenture  trustee  shall  ensure  that  he  discloses  his  interest,  the  interest  of  his
dependent  family  members  and  that  of  the  employer,  including  their  long  or  short
position in the said security, while rendering such advice.
23.  A  Debenture  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  any  person  it  employs  or  appoints  to
conduct  business  is  fit  and  proper  and  otherwise  qualified  to  act  in  the  capacity  so
employed or appointed (including having relevant professional training or experience).
24.  A  Debenture  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  it  has  adequate  resources  to  supervise
diligently and does supervise diligently persons employed or appointed by it to conduct
business on its behalf.
25.  A  Debenture  Trustee  shall  have  internal  control  procedures  and  financial  and
operational capabilities which can be reasonably expected to protect its operations, its
clients, debenture holders and other registered entities from financial loss arising from
theft, fraud, and other dishonest acts, professional misconduct or omissions.
26.  A  Debenture  Trustee  shall  be  responsible  for  the  acts  or  omissions  of  its
employees and agents in respect to the conduct of its business.
27. A Debenture Trustee shall provide adequate freedom and powers to its compliance
officer for the effective discharge of its duties.
28.  A  Debenture  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  senior  management,  particularly
decision makers have access to all relevant information about the business on a timely
basis.
29.  A  Debenture  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  good  corporate  policies  and  corporate
governance is in place.
30. A Debenture Trustee shall develop its own internal code of conduct for governing
its  internal  operations  and  laying  down  its  standards  of  appropriate  conduct  for  its
employees and officers in the carrying out of their duties. Such a code may extend to
the  maintenance  of  professional  excellence  and  standards,  integrity,  confidentiality,
objectivity, avoidance of conflict of interests, disclosure of shareholdings and interests,
etc.
31. A Debenture Trustee shall not be party to—
(i)  creation of false market;
(ii)  price rigging or manipulation;
(iii)  passing of unpublished price sensitive information in respect of securities which
are  listed  and  proposed  to  be  listed  in  any  stock  exchange  to  any  person  or
intermediary.]
99[100[Schedule IV]
Prior to its omission, the Schedule read as follows:
Schedule IV
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993
[Regulation 14]
CONTENTS OF TRUST DEED
Every debenture trustee shall ensure that the trust deed executed between a body corporate and debenture trustee
shall amongst other things provide for the following matters namely: —
Preamble
1. This section shall inter alia state the rights of the debenture holders and the manner in which these rights are
vested in the trustee.
Description of instruments
2.  This  section  shall  inter  alia  state  the  purpose  of  raising  finance  through  debenture  issue,  description  of
debentures  as  regards  amount,  tenure,  interest/coupon  rate,  periodicity  of  payment,  period  for  redemption,
options available, terms of conversion/redemption of the debentures in terms of the issue to the debenture holders,
debt equity ratio and debt service coverage ratio, if applicable.
Details of Charged Securities (Existing or future)
3. This section shall inter alia state the details regarding the following:
iii.  Charging of future assets.
i.  Nature of charge, examination of title.
ii.  Rank of charge of assets viz. first, second, pari passu, residual etc.
iv.  Time limit within which the future security for the issue of debentures shall be created as specified in SEBI
(Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000.
v.  Enforceability of securities, events under which security becomes enforceable.
vi.  Obligation  of  company  not  to  create  further  charge  or  encumbrance  of  the  trust  property  without  prior
approval of the trustee.
ix.  Circumstances when the security will become enforceable.
vii.  Minimum security cover required.
viii.  Provision for subsequent valuation.
x.  Method and mode of preservation of assets charged as security for debenture holders.
xi.  Circumstances specifying when the security may be disposed of or leased out with the approval of trustees.
xii.  Procedure for allowing inspection of charged assets, books of account, by debenture trustee or any person
or persons authorised by it.
Events of defaults
4. This section shall clearly define the event of default which if occurs shall invite the actions by debenture trustee.
This section shall also contain the steps which shall be taken by debenture trustee in the event of defaults.
Rights of debenture trustees
5. This section shall inter alia provide that:
Obligations of body corporates
6. This section shall inter alia state the following with respect to company’s duties:
1.  to maintain Register of debenture holders with addresses with record of subsequent transfers and changes
i.  Debenture trustee is entitled to inspect the registers of the company and to take copies and extracts thereof;
ii.  Debenture trustee has a right to appoint a nominee director.
of ownership.
2.  to keep proper books of account open for inspection by debenture trustee.
3.  to furnish whatever required information to debenture trustee including copies of reports, balance sheets,
profit and loss accounts etc.
4.  to keep charged property/security adequately insured and in proper condition.
5.  to permit debenture trustee to enter and inspect the state and condition of charged assets.
6.  to pay all taxes, cesses, insurance premia with respect to charged property/security, on time.
7.  to inform debenture trustee before declaring or distributing dividend.
8.  to  comply  with  all  guidelines/directions  issued  by  any  Regulatory  authority,  with  respect  to  the  instant
debenture issue.
9.  to create debenture redemption reserve as per the SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines,
2000 and the provisions of Companies Act and submit an auditor’s certificate to the trustee.
to  convert
10.
the  debentures
applicable.
11.  to inform debenture trustee about any change in nature and conduct of business by company before such
in  accordance  with
into  equity
terms  of
the
the
issue,
if
change.
12.  to keep the debenture trustee informed of all orders, directions, notices, of court/Tribunal affecting or likely
to affect the charged assets.
13.  to inform debenture trustee of any major change in composition of its Board of Directors, which may amount
to  change  in  control  as  defined  in  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,
1997.
14.  to submit any such information, as required by the debenture trustee.
15.  fee or commission of debenture trustees.
16.  obligation  to  inform  debenture  trustee  about any  change  in  nature  and  conduct  of  business  by  the  body
corporate before such change.
17.  obligation of the body corporate to forward a quarterly report to debenture trustees containing the following
particulars:
(i)  updated list of the names and addresses of the debenture holders;
(ii)  details of interest due but unpaid and reasons thereof;
(iii)  the  number  and  nature  of  grievances  received  from  debenture  holders  and  resolved  by  the  body
corporate;
(iv)  a statement that the assets of the body corporate which are available by way of security are sufficient
to discharge the claims of the debenture holders as and when they become due.
7. Miscellaneous
a.  Procedure for appointment and removal of trustee including appointment of new trustees.
b.  Provision  that  the  debenture  trustee  shall  not  relinquish  from  its  assignment  unless  another  debenture
trustee has been appointed.
c.  Procedure to remove debenture trustee by debenture holders providing for removal on a resolution passed
by at least 75% of the total debenture holders of a body corporate.
d.  Provisions for redressal of grievances of debenture holders.
Note: The debenture trustee may incorporate additional clauses, provided that the additional clauses do not dilute
or contravene the provisions of the above clauses.”
was amended by the SEBI (Debenture Trustees) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2000, w.e.f. 8-8-2000.