CHAPTER II
REGISTRATION OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS
Registration of real estate investment trusts.
3.  (1)  No  person  shall  act  as  a  REIT  unless  it  is  registered  with  the  Board  under  these
regulations.
(2) An application for grant of certificate of registration as REIT shall be made, by the sponsor
41[on behalf of the trust] in Form A as specified in the Schedule I to these regulations and shall
be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee of such amount and shall be payable in
the manner as specified in Schedule II to these regulations.
(3) The Board may, in order to protect the interests of investors, appoint any person to take
charge of records, documents of the  42[REIT] and for this purpose, also determine the terms
and conditions of such an appointment.
(4)  The  Board  shall  take  into  account  requirements  as  specified  in  these  regulations  for  the
purpose of considering grant of registration.
Eligibility criteria.
“"value of the REIT" means value  of the REIT as certified by the auditor based on the value of REIT assets
held directly or through the SPV excluding any debt or liabilities thereof;”
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
11
4. (1) For the purpose of the grant of certificate to  43[the trust], the Board shall consider all
matters relevant to the activities as a REIT.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the Board shall consider the
following, namely, -
(a)  the applicant is 44[the sponsor on behalf of] trust and the instrument of trust is in the
form of a deed duly registered in India under the provisions of the Registration Act,
1908;
(b) the trust deed has its main objective as undertaking activity of REIT in accordance with
these  regulations  and  includes  responsibilities  of  the  Trustee  in  accordance  with
regulation 9;
(c)  persons  have  been  designated  as  sponsor(s),  manager  and  trustee  under  these
regulations and all such persons are separate entities;
(d) with regard to sponsor(s),-
(i)  45[each sponsor shall hold or propose] to hold not less than five per cent. of the
number of units of the REIT on post-initial offer basis;
46[(ia)  each  sponsor  and  sponsor  group  shall  be  clearly  identified  in  the
application of registration to the Board and in the offer document/placement
memorandum, as applicable:
Provided  that,  for  each  sponsor  group  not  less  than  one  person  shall  be
identified as a sponsor;]
47[Provided further that, of the entities categorized as sponsor group, only the
following entities may be considered:
a)  a person or entity who is directly or indirectly holding an interest
or shareholding in any of the assets or SPVs or holdcos proposed
to be transferred to the REIT.
43 Substituted ibid for “an applicant”.
30.11.2016
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
12
b)  a person or entity who is directly or indirectly holding units of
the REIT on post-issue basis.
c)  a  person  or  entity  whose  experience  is  being  utilized  by  the
sponsor  for  meeting  with  the  eligibility  conditions  required
under  sub-clause  (iii)  of  clause  (d)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of
regulation 4 of these regulations.]
(ii) the  sponsor(s),  on  a  collective  basis,  have  a  net  worth  of  not  less  than    one
hundred crore rupees:
Provided that each sponsor has a net worth of not less than twenty crore rupees;
and
(iii) the  sponsor  or  its  associate(s)  has  not  less  than  five  years  experience  in
development of real estate or fund management in the real estate industry:
Provided  that  where  the  sponsor  is  a  developer,  at  least  two  projects  of  the
sponsor have been completed;
(e)  with regard to the manager,-
(i)  the manager has a net worth of not less than ten crore rupees if the manager is
a body corporate or a company or net tangible assets of value not less than ten
crore rupees in case the manager is a LLP;
(ii) the  manager  or  its  associate  has  not  less  than  five  years  experience  in  fund
management  or  advisory  services  or  property  management  in  the  real  estate
industry or in development of real estate;
(iii)the manager has not less than two key personnel who each have not less than
five  years  experience  in  fund  management  or  advisory  services  or  property
management in the real estate industry or in development of real estate;
(iv) the manager has not less than half, of its directors in the case of a company or
of members of the governing Board in case of an LLP, as independent and not
directors  or  members  of  the  governing  Board  48[of  the  manager]  of  another
REIT; and
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
13
(v) the manager has entered into an investment management agreement with the
trustee  which  provides  for  the  responsibilities  of  the  manager  in  accordance
with regulation 10;
(f)  with regard to the trustee,-
(i)  the  trustee  is  registered  with  the  Board  under  SEBI(Debenture  Trustees)
Regulations, 1993 and is not an associate of the sponsor(s) or manager; and
(ii) the trustee has such wherewithal with respect to infrastructure, personnel, etc.
to the satisfaction of the Board and in accordance with circulars or guidelines
as may be specified by the Board;
(g)  no unit holder of the REIT enjoys 49[superior] voting or any other rights over another
unit holder 50[and there are no multiple classes of units of REIT:]
51[Notwithstanding the above, subordinate units may be issued only to  the  sponsors
and its associates, where such subordinate units shall carry only inferior voting or any
other rights compared to other units;]
(h)  52[***]
(i)
the applicant has clearly described at the time of application for registration, details
pertaining to proposed activities of the REIT;
(j)
the 53[REIT] and parties to the REIT are fit and proper persons based on the criteria as
specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries)
Regulations, 2008;
(k)  whether any previous application for grant of certificate by the 54[REIT or the parties
to the REIT or their directors/members of governing board] has been rejected by the
Board;
w.e.f. 30.11.2016
30.11.2016
52 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
Prior to its omission, clause (h) read as under :
“there are no multiple classes of units of REIT;”
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
(Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017.
14
(l)  whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory
authority against the 55[REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/members of
governing  board]  under  any  Act  or  the  regulations  or  circulars  or  guidelines  made
thereunder.
Furnishing of further information, clarification and personal representation.
5. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish any such information or clarification as
may be required by it for the purpose of processing of the application.
(2) The Board, if it so desires, may require the applicant or any authorized representative to
appear before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of certificate.
Procedure for grant of certificate.
6.  (1)  The  Board  on  being  satisfied  that  the  56[trust]  fulfils,  the  requirements  specified  in
regulation 4 shall send intimation to the [trust] and on receipt of the payment of registration
fees as specified in Schedule II, grant certificate of registration in Form B under Schedule I.
(2) The registration may be granted with such conditions as may be deemed appropriate by the
Board.
Conditions of certificate.
7.  The  certificate  granted  under  regulation  6  shall,  inter-alia,  be  subject  to  the  following
conditions, namely,-
(a)  the REIT shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations;
(b) the REIT shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or particulars
previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading in any material
particular or if there is any material change in the information already submitted;
(c)  the REIT and parties to the REIT shall satisfy with the conditions specified in regulation
4 at all times;
55 Substituted ibid.
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
15
(d) the REIT and parties to the REIT shall comply, at all times, with the Code of conduct
as specified in the Schedule VI, wherever applicable.
57[De-classification of the status of sponsor
7A (1) De-classification of the status of a sponsor(s) of a REIT whose units have been listed
on  the  stock  exchanges  for  a  period  of  three  years  shall  be  permitted  upon  receipt  of  an
application from the REIT and subject to compliance with the following conditions:
(a)  the unit holding of such sponsor and its associates taken together does not exceed 10%
of the outstanding units of the REIT;
(b) the manager of the REIT is not an entity controlled by such sponsor or its associates;
(c)  the sponsor or its associates are not fugitive economic offender;
(d) approval  of  unit  holders  has  been  obtained  in  accordance  with  sub-regulation  5  of
Regulation 22.]
Procedure where registration is refused.
8. (1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion
that a certificate should not be granted to the 58[trust], it may reject the application after giving
the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant
within thirty days of such decision.
CHAPTER III
RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARTIES TO THE REIT, VALUER AND
Rights and responsibilities of trustee.
AUDITOR
16.06.2020.
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
16
9.  (1)  The  trustee  shall  hold  the  REIT  assets  in  trust  for  the  benefit  of  the  unit  holders  in
accordance with the trust deed and these regulations.
(2) The Trustee shall enter into an investment  management agreement  with  the manager on
behalf of the REIT.
(3) The trustee shall oversee activities of the manager in the interest of the unit holders, ensure
that the manager complies with regulation 10 and shall obtain compliance certificate from the
manager in the form as may be specified on a quarterly basis.
(4)  The  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  manager  complies  with  the  reporting  and  disclosures
requirements in these regulations and in case of any delay or discrepancy, require the manager
to rectify the same on an urgent basis.
(5) The trustee shall review the transactions carried out between the manager and its associates
and  where  the  manager  has  advised  that  there  may  be  a  conflict  of  interest,  shall  obtain
confirmation  from  a  practising  chartered  accountant  59[or  a  valuer,  as  applicable,]  that  such
transaction is on arm's length basis.
(6)  The  trustee  shall  periodically  review  the  status  of  unit  holders'  complaints  and  their
redressal undertaken by the manager.
(7) The trustee shall make distributions in accordance with sub-regulation (16) of regulation
18 and ensure that the manager makes timely declaration of distributions to the unit holders.
(8) The trustee may require the manager to set up such systems and submit such reports to the
trustees, as may be necessary for effective monitoring of the performance and functioning of
the REIT.
(9) The trustee shall ensure that subscription amount is kept in a separate bank account in name
of the REIT and is only utilized for adjustment against allotment of units or refund of money
to the applicants till the time such units are listed.
(10) The trustee shall ensure that the remuneration of the valuer is not linked to or based on the
value of the asset being valued.
(11)  The  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  manager  convenes  meetings  of  the  unit  holders  in
accordance with these regulations and oversee the voting by unitholders and declare outcome
of the voting.
17
(12) The trustee may take up with the Board or with the designated stock exchange, any matter
which has been approved in an annual meeting or special meeting, if the matter requires such
action.
(13) In case of any change in manager due to removal or otherwise,-
(a)  prior  to  such  change,  the  trustee  shall  obtain  approval  from  unit  holders  in
accordance with regulation 22 and approval from the Board;
(b) the  trustee  shall  appoint  the  new  manager  within  three  months  from  the  date  of
termination of the earlier investment management agreement;
(c)  the previous manager shall continue to act as such at the discretion of trustee till
such time as new manager is appointed;
(d) the trustee shall ensure that the new manager shall stand substituted as a party in
all the documents to which the earlier manager was a party;
(e)  the trustee shall ensure that the earlier manager continues to be liable for all its acts
of omissions and commissions notwithstanding such termination.
(14) The trustee shall obtain prior approval from the unit holders in accordance with regulation
22 and from the Board in case of change in control of the manager.
(15) The trustee  60[of the REIT” shall be substituted] shall not invest in units of the REIT in
which it is designated as the trustee.
(16) The trustee shall ensure that the activity of the REIT is being operated in accordance with
the provisions of the trust deed, these regulations, the offer document and if any discrepancy is
noticed, shall inform the same to the Board immediately in writing.
(17)  The  trustee  shall  provide  to  the  Board  and  to  the  designated  stock  exchange  such
information as may be sought by the Board or by the designated stock exchange pertaining to
the activity of the REIT.
(18) The trustee shall immediately inform to the Board in case any act which is detrimental to
the interest of the unit holders is noted.
2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
18
Rights and responsibilities of manager.
10. (1) The manager shall make the investment decisions with respect to the underlying assets
of the REIT including any further investment or divestment of the assets.
(2) The manager shall ensure that the real estate assets of the REIT or 61[holdco and/or] SPV
have proper legal and marketable titles and that all the material contracts including rental or
lease agreements entered into on behalf of REITs or  62[holdco and/or] SPV are legal, valid,
binding and enforceable by and on behalf of the REIT or 63[holdco and/or] SPV.
(3) The manager shall ensure that the investments made by the REIT are in accordance with
the  investment  conditions  specified  in  regulation  18  and  in  accordance  with  the  investment
strategy of the REIT.
(4) The manager shall undertake management of the REIT assets including lease management,
maintenance of the assets, regular structural audits, regular safety audits, etc. either directly or
through the appointment and supervision of appropriate agents.
(5) The manager, in consultation with trustee, shall appoint the valuer(s), auditor, registrar and
transfer agent, merchant banker, custodian and any other intermediary or service provider or
agent  for  managing  the  assets  of  the  REIT  or  for  offer  and  listing  of  its  units  or  any  other
activity pertaining to the REIT in a timely manner and in accordance with these regulations.
(6) The manager shall appoint an auditor for a period of not more than five consecutive years:
Provided that the auditor, not being an individual, may be reappointed for a period of another
five consecutive years, subject to approval of unit-holders in the annual meeting.
(7) The manager shall arrange for adequate insurance coverage for the real estate assets of the
REIT:
Provided that in case of assets held by  64[holdco and/or] SPV, the manager shall ensure that
real estate assets are adequately insured.
(8) If the REIT invests in under-construction properties as per these regulations, the manager-
(a)  may  undertake  the  development  of  the  properties,  either  directly  or  through  the
SPV, or appoint any other person for development of such properties; and
19
(b) shall oversee the progress of development, approval status and other aspects of the
properties upto its completion.
(9) The manager shall ensure that it has adequate infrastructure and sufficient key personnel
with adequate experience and qualification to undertake management of the REIT at all times.
(10) The manager 65[and the merchant banker(s) shall] shall be responsible for,-
(a)  filing  66[***] offer document with the Board and the  designated stock exchange
within the specified time period;
(b) obtaining in-principle approval 67[and final listing and trading approvals] from the
designated stock exchange;
(c)  dealing  with  all  matters  relating  to  issue  and  listing  of  the  units  of  the  REIT  as
specified in Chapter IV.
(11)  The  manager  68[and  the  merchant  banker(s),]  shall  ensure  that  disclosures  made  in  the
offer document or any other document as may be specified by the Board contain material, true,
correct and adequate disclosures and are in accordance with these regulations and guidelines
or circulars issued thereunder.
(12) The manager shall declare distributions to the unit holders in accordance with the sub-
regulation (16) of regulation 18.
(13)  The  manager  shall  ensure  adequate  and  timely  redressal  of  all  unit  holders'  grievances
pertaining to activities of the REIT.
(14)  The    manager  shall  ensure  that  the  disclosures  to  the  unit  holders,  Board,  trustees  and
designated stock exchange are adequate, timely and in accordance with these regulations and
guidelines or circulars issued thereunder.
(15) The manager shall provide to the Board and to the designated stock exchanges any such
information as may be sought by the Board or the designated stock exchange pertaining to the
activities of the REIT.
66 Omitted “the draft and final”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016,
w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
20
(16) The manager shall ensure that adequate controls are in place to ensure segregation of its
activity as manager of the REIT from its other activities.
(17)  The  manager  or  its  associates  shall  not  obtain  any  commission  or  rebate  or  any  other
remuneration, by whatever name called, arising out of transactions pertaining to the REIT other
than as specified in the offer document or any other document as may be specified by the Board
for the purpose of issue of units.
(18) The manager shall submit to the trustee,-
(a)  quarterly  reports  on  the  activities  of  the  REIT  including  receipts  for  all  funds
received  by  it  and  for  all  payments  made,  position  on  compliance  with  these
regulations,  specifically  including  compliance  with  regulations  18,19  and  20,
performance report, status of development of under-construction properties, within
thirty days of end of such quarter;
(b) valuation  reports  as  required  under  these  regulations  within  fifteen  days  of  the
receipt of the valuation report from the valuer;
(c)  decision to acquire or sell or develop any property or expand existing completed
properties along with rationale for the same;
(d) details  of  any  action  which  requires  approval  from  the  unit  holders  as  required
under the regulations;
(e)  details  of  any  other  material  fact  including  change  of  its  directors,  any  legal
proceedings that may have a significant bearing on the activity of the REIT within
seven working days of such action.
(19) In case the manager fails to timely submit to the trustee information or reports as specified
under sub-regulation (18) of this regulation or sub-regulation (8) of regulation 9, the trustee
shall intimate the same to the Board and the Board may take action, as it deems fit.
(20) The manager shall coordinate with trustee, as may be necessary, with respect to operations
of the REIT.
(21) The manager shall ensure that the valuation of the REIT assets is done by the valuer(s) in
accordance with regulation 21.
21
(22) The manager shall ensure that computation of NAV of the REIT is based on the valuation
done by the valuer and is declared no later than fifteen days from the date of valuation  69[ to
the  stock  exchange(s)]  and  such  computation  shall  be  done  and  declared  not  less  than  once
every six months.
(23) The manager shall ensure that the audit of accounts of the REIT by the auditor is done not
less  than  70[  once  in  a  year]  and  such  report  is  submitted  to  the  designated  stock  exchange
within 71[sixty] days of end of such financial year ending March 31st 72[***].
(24) The manager may appoint a custodian in order to provide such custodial services as may
be authorised by the trustees and oversee activities of such custodian.
(25)  The  manager  shall  place,  before  its  board  of  directors  in  the  case  of  a  company  or  the
governing board in case of an LLP, a report on activity and performance of the REIT every
three months.
(26)  The  manager  shall  designate  an  employee  or  director  as  the  compliance  officer  for
monitoring of compliance with these regulations and circulars issued thereunder and intimating
the Board in case of any violation.
(27) The manager shall convene meetings of the unit holders in accordance with regulation 22
and maintain records pertaining to the meetings in accordance with regulation 26.
(28) The manager shall ensure the compliance with laws, as may be applicable, of the State or
the local body with respect to the activity of the REIT including local building laws.
(29)  The  manager  shall  ensure  that  all  activities  of  management  of  assets  of  the  REIT  and
activities of the intermediaries or agents or service providers appointed by the manager are in
accordance with these regulations and circulars issued thereunder.
2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
w.e.f. 30.11.2016
72 Omitted “and half-year ending on September 30th”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
22
Rights and responsibilities of sponsor(s)73[and sponsor group(s)].
11. (1) The sponsor(s) 74[and sponsor group(s)] shall set up the REIT and appoint the trustee
of the REIT.
(2) The sponsor(s) 75[and sponsor group(s)] shall transfer or undertake to transfer, subject to a
binding agreement and adequate disclosures in  the  initial  offer  76[document],  77[their] entire
shareholding or interest 78[and rights] in the 79[holdco and/or] SPV or entire ownership of the
real estate assets to the REIT prior to allotment of units of the REIT to the applicants:
Provided that this shall not apply to the extent of any mandatory holding of shares or interest
80[and  rights]  in  the  81[holdco  and/or]  SPV  by  the  sponsor(s)  82[and  sponsor  group(s)]  as
required 83[under] any Act or regulations or circulars or guidelines of government or regulatory
authority as specified from time to time.
(3) With respect to holding of units in the REIT, 84[***]-
(a) 85[the sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s) shall collectively] hold a minimum of twenty
five percent. of the total units of the REIT after initial offer on a post-issue basis:
Provided that the minimum sponsor86[(s) and sponsor group(s)] holding specified
in  this  clause  shall  be  held  for  a  period  of  atleast  three  years  from  the  date  of
listing of such units:
76 Word ‘focument’ corrected to read as ‘document’ by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
30.11.2016
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
83 Inserted ibid.
84 Omitted“the sponsor(s) shall,”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016,
w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
23
Provided  further  that  any  holding  of  the  sponsor  87[(s)  and  sponsor  group(s)]
exceeding  the  minimum  holding  as  specified  in  this  clause,  shall  be  held  for  a
period of atleast one year from the date of listing of such units;
(b) 88[***];
(c) 89[***].
(4) 90[***]
(5) 91[***]
Rights and responsibilities of the valuer.
12. The valuer(s) shall comply with the following conditions at all times-
(a)  The valuer(s) shall ensure that the valuation of the REIT assets is impartial, true and
fair and is in accordance with regulation 21;
(b) The  valuer(s)    shall  ensure  adequate  and  robust  internal  controls  to  ensure  the
integrity of its valuation reports;
16.06.2020. Prior to its omission, the clause read as under :
“(b) [the sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s)] together hold not less than fifteen per cent. of the outstanding units of
the listed REIT at all times;”
16.06.2020. Prior to its omission, the clause read as under :
“ (c) [each of the sponsor] individually  [***]  [shall] hold not less than five per cent. of the outstanding units of
the listed REIT at all times;”
16.06.2020. Prior to its omission, the sub-regulation read as under :
“(4) If the sponsor(s)  [and sponsor group(s)] propose(s) to sell its units below the limit specified in clauses (b) or
(c) of sub-regulation (3) of this regulation-
such units shall be sold only after a period of three years from the date of listing of the units;
(a)
prior to sale of such units, the sponsor(s)  [ and sponsor group(s)] shall arrange for another person(s) or
(b)
entity(ies) to act as the re-designated sponsor(s) where the re-designated sponsor  shall satisfy the eligibility norms
for the sponsor as specified under  [regulation 4]:
Provided that such units may also be sold to an existing sponsor;
(c) The  [***]proposed redesignated sponsor shall obtain approval from the unit holders or  provide option to exit
to the unit holders in accordance with guidelines as may be specified:
Provided that this clause shall not apply where the units are proposed to be sold to an existing sponsor [or member
of sponsor group].”
16.06.2020. Prior to its omission, the sub-regulation read as under :
“(5)  If  re-designated  sponsor(s)  propose(s)  to  sell  its  units  to  any  another  person,  conditions  specified  under
clauses (b), and (c) of sub-regulation (4) shall be complied with.”
24
(c)  The  valuer(s)    shall  ensure  that  it  has  sufficient  key  personnel  with  adequate
experience and qualification to perform property valuations at all times;
(d) The valuer(s) shall ensure that it has sufficient financial resources to  enable it to
conduct its business effectively and meet its liabilities;
(e)  The valuer(s) and any of its employees involved in valuing of the assets of the REIT,
shall not,-
(i)  invest in units of the REIT or in the assets being valued; and
(ii) sell the assets or units of REITs held prior to being appointed as the valuer,
till the time such person is designated as valuer of such REIT and not less than six
months after ceasing to be valuer of the REIT;
(f)  The valuer(s)  shall conduct the valuation of the REIT assets with transparency and
fairness  and  shall  render,  at  all  times,  high  standards  of  service,  exercise  due
diligence, ensure proper care and exercise independent professional judgment;
(g) The  valuer(s)    shall  act  with  independence,  objectivity  and  impartiality  in
performing the valuation;
(h) The  valuer(s)  shall  discharge  its  duties  towards  the  REIT  in  an  efficient  and
competent manner, utilizing his knowledge, skills and experience in best possible
way to complete given assignment;
(i)  The valuer(s) shall not accept remuneration, in any form, for performing a valuation
of  the  REIT  assets  from  any  person  other  than  the  REIT  or  its  authorized
representative;
(j)  The valuer(s) shall before accepting any assignment,  92[from any related party to
the REIT, shall] disclose to the REIT any direct or indirect consideration which the
valuer may have in respect of such assignment;
(k) The valuer shall disclose to the trustee, any pending business transactions, contracts
under  negotiation  and  other  arrangements  with  the  manager  or  any  other  party
whom the REIT is contracting with and any other factors that may interfere with
the  valuer’s  ability  to  give  an  independent  and  professional  valuation  of  the
property;
25
(l)  The  valuer(s)  shall  not  make  false,  misleading  or  exaggerated  claims  in  order  to
secure assignments;
(m) The valuer(s) shall not provide misleading valuation, either by providing incorrect
information or by withholding relevant information;
(n) The valuer(s) shall not accept an assignment that includes reporting of the outcome
based on predetermined opinions and conclusions required by the REIT;
(o) The valuer(s) shall, prior to performing a valuation, acquaint itself  with all laws or
regulations relevant to such valuation.
Rights and responsibilities of the auditor.
13. (1) The auditor shall conduct audit of the accounts of the REIT and prepare the audit report
based on the accounts examined by him and after taking into account the relevant accounting
and auditing standards, as may be specified by the Board.
(2) The auditor shall, to the best of his information and knowledge, ensure that the accounts
and financial statements, including profit or loss and cash flow for the period and such other
matters as may be specified, give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs.
(3) The auditor shall have a right of access at all times to the books of accounts and vouchers
pertaining to activities of the REIT.
(4)  The  auditor  shall  have  a  right  to  require  such  information  and  explanation  pertaining  to
activities of the REIT as he may consider necessary for the performance of his duties as auditor
from the employees of REIT or parties to the REIT or  93[holdco or] SPV or any other person
in possession of such information.
CHAPTER IV
ISSUE AND LISTING OF UNITS
Issue and allotment of units.
14. (1) A REIT shall make an initial offer of its units by way of public issue only.
26
(2) No initial offer of units by the REIT shall be made unless,-
(a)  the REIT is registered with the Board under these regulations;
(b) the value of 94[the REIT assets] is not less than five hundred crore rupees;
of REIT in the underlying assets or 95[] SPVs;
96[(ba)  the  minimum  number  of  unit  holders  other  than  sponsor(s),  its  related
parties and its associates  forming part of public shall be not less than two hundred;]
97[(bb) maximum subscription from any investor other than sponsor(s), its related
parties  and  its  associates  shall  not  be  more  than  25  percent  of  the  total  unit
capital;]
(c)  98[***]
(d) the offer size is not less than two hundred and fifty crore rupees:
Provided that the requirement of ownership of assets under clause (b) and size of REIT
under  clause  (d)  may  be  complied  99[at  any  point  of  time  before  allotment  of  units  in
accordance with offer document/placement memorandum] subject to a binding agreement
with the relevant party(ies) that 100[such] requirements shall be fulfilled prior to 101[such]
allotment  of  units102[and],  a  declaration  to  the  Board  and  103[to]  the  designated  stock
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
16.06.2020.
98 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
Prior to its omission, sub- clause (c) read as under :
“the units proposed to be offered to the public is not less than twenty five per cent. of the total of the
outstanding units of the REIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document:
Provided that for initial offer of value greater than five hundred crore rupees, if prior to the initial offer units of
the REIT are held by the public, the units proposed to be offered to the public shall be calculated after reducing
such existing units for satisfying the aforesaid percentage requirement;”
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
30.11.2016
27
exchanges  to  that  effect  and  adequate  disclosures  in  this  regard  in  the  104[***]  offer
document.
105[(2A) For an REIT raising funds through an initial offer, the units proposed to be offered to
the public through such initial offer
(a) shall be not less than twenty five per cent. of the total of the outstanding units
of the REIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document, if the post
issue capital of the REIT calculated at offer price is less than rupees one thousand
six hundred crore:
Provided  that  the  requirement  at  sub-clause  (a)  shall  be  complied  along  with  the
requirement under Regulation 14 (2)(d) of the REIT Regulations.
(b) shall be of the value of at least Rs 400 crore, if the post issue capital of the REIT
calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees one thousand six hundred
crore and less than rupees four thousand crore;
(c) shall be not less than ten per cent. of the total of the outstanding units of the
REIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document, if the post issue
capital of the REIT calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees four
thousand crore:
Provided that any units offered to sponsor or the manager or their related parties or their
associates shall not be counted towards units offered to the public:
Provided further that any listed REIT which has public holding below twenty five per cent
on account of sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) above, such REIT shall increase its public holding
to  at  least  twenty  five  per  cent,  within  a  period  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  listing
pursuant to initial offer.]
(3) Any subsequent issue of units by the REIT may be by way of follow-on offer, preferential
allotment, qualified institutional placement, rights issue, bonus issue, offer for sale or any other
mechanism and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.
104 Omitted “initial” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f.
30.11.2016
28
(4) REIT, through the 106[merchant banker], shall file a draft offer document 107[along with the
fee as specified in Schedule II,] with the designated stock exchange(s) and the Board, not less
than  108[thirty]  working  days  before  filing  the    109[***]  offer  document  with  the  designated
stock exchange 110[and the Board].
(5) The draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public, for comments, if any,
111[***] by hosting it on the websites of the Board, designated stock exchanges and merchant
bankers associated with the issue 112[, for a period of not less than twenty one days].
(6)  The  113[draft  offer  document  and/  or  offer  document]  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  due
diligence certificate signed by the 114[***] lead merchant banker.
(7) The Board may communicate its comments to the lead merchant banker and, in the interest
of investors, may require the lead merchant banker to carry out such modifications in the draft
offer document as it deems fit.
(8) The lead merchant banker shall ensure that all comments received from the Board on the
draft offer document are suitably taken into account prior to the filing of the offer document
with the designated stock exchanges.
(9) In case no  115[observations] are  116[issued] by the Board  117[on] the draft offer document
within twenty one  working days from the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead
w.e.f. 30.11.2016
w.e.f. 30.11.2016
109 Omitted “final” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f.
30.11.2016
111 Omitted “to be submitted to the Board, within a period of at least ten days,” by the SEBI (Real Estate
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
114 Omitted “Manager and” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f.
30.11.2016
2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
w.e.f. 30.11.2016
30.11.2016
29
merchant bankers or manager, the REIT may 118[file] the 119[***] offer document or follow-on
offer document 120[with the Board and the exchange(s)]:
121[***]
(10) The 122[***] offer document shall be filed with the designated stock exchanges and the
Board not less than five working days before opening of the offer 123[***].
(11) The initial offer or follow-on offer 124[or rights issue] shall be made by the REIT within a
period of not more than 125[one year] from the date of 126[***] issuance of observations by the
Board 127[***]:
Provided that if the initial offer or follow-on offer  128[or rights issue] is not made within the
specified time period, a fresh 129[draft] offer document shall be filed.
130[Provided further that the REIT shall not be required to file draft offer  document  with  the
Board  in  case  of  a  fast  track  rights  issue, subject to the fulfillment of the conditions as
specified by the Board from time to time.]
(12) The REIT may invite for subscriptions and allot units to any person, whether resident or
foreign:
Provided that in case of foreign investors, such investment shall be subject to guidelines as may
be specified by Reserve Bank of India and the government from time to time.
30.11.2016
119 Omitted “final” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f.
30.11.2016
w.e.f. 30.11.2016
121 Omitted “Provided that prior to issue of such final offer document, it shall be filed with the designated stock
exchanges and with the Board.” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016,
w.e.f. 30.11.2016
122 Omitted “final” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f.
30.11.2016
123 Omitted “and such filing with the Board shall be accompanied by filing fees as specified under Schedule II”
by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
w.e.f. 30.11.2016
126 Omitted “last” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f.
30.11.2016
127 Omitted “, if any or if no observations have been issued by the Board, within a period of not more than six
months from the date of filing of offer document with the designated stock exchanges” by the SEBI (Real Estate
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
30
(13)  The  application  for  subscription  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  statement  containing  the
abridged version of the offer document, detailing the risk factors and summary of the terms of
issue.
131[(14)  The  minimum  subscription  from  any  investor  in  initial  and/or  public  offer  shall  be
rupees fifty thousand.]
(15) Initial offer and follow-on offer shall not be open for subscription for a period of more
than thirty days.
(16) In case of over-subscriptions, the REIT shall allot units to the applicants on a proportionate
basis rounded off to the nearest integer subject to minimum subscription amount per subscriber
as specified in sub-regulation (14).
(17) The REIT shall allot units or refund application money, as the case may be, within twelve
working days from the date of closing of the issue.
(18) The REIT shall issue units only in dematerialized form to all the applicants.
(19) The price of REIT units issued by way of public  issue shall be determined through the
book building process or any other process in accordance with the circulars or guidelines issued
by the Board and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.
(20) The REIT shall refund money, -
(a)  to  all  applicants  in  case  it  fails  to  collect  subscription  amount  of  exceeding
132[ninety]  per  cent.  of  the  133[fresh]  issue  size  as  specified  in  the  134[***]  offer
document 135[***];
131  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts)  (Amendment)
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation 14 read as follows:
“(14) Under both the initial offer and follow-on public offer, the REIT shall not accept subscription of an amount
less than two lakh rupees from an applicant.”
w.e.f. 30.11.2016
134 Omitted “initial” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f.
30.11.2016
135 Omitted “or follow-on offer document” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
31
(b) to  applicants  to  the extent  of oversubscription in case  the moneys received is  in
excess  of  the  extent  of  over-subscription  as  specified  in  the  136[***]  offer
document:
Provided that right to retain such over subscription cannot exceed twenty five per
cent. of the issue size;
137[Provided  further,  that  the  offer  document  shall  contain  adequate  disclosures
towards the utilisation of such oversubscription proceeds, if any, and such proceeds
retained  on  account  of  oversubscription  shall  not  be  utilised  towards  general
purposes.]
(c)  to all applicants in case the number of subscribers to the initial offer forming part
of the public is less than two hundred.
(21) If the manager fails to allot, or list the units, or refund the money within the specified time,
then the manager shall pay interest to the unit holders at fifteen per cent. per annum, till such
allotment/  listing/refund  and  such  interest  shall  not  be  recovered  in  the  form  of  fees  or  any
other form payable to the manager by the REIT.
(22) Units may be offered for sale to public,-
(a) if such units have been held by the existing unitholders for a period of at least one
year prior to the filing of draft offer document with the Board:
Provided that the holding period for the equity shares 138[, compulsorily convertible
securities (from the date such securities are fully paid-up)] or partnership interest
in the 139[holdco and/or] SPV against which such units have been received shall be
considered for the purpose of calculation of one year period referred in this sub-
regulation:
140[Provided  further  that  the  compulsorily  convertible  securities,  whose  holding
period has been included for the purpose of calculation for offer for sale, shall be
converted to equity shares of the holdco or SPV, prior to filing of offer document.]
136 Omitted “initial offer document or follow-on” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
32
(b) subject to other circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this
regard.
141[(22A) The amount for general purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft
offer document filed with the Board, shall not exceed Ten per cent of the amount raised by the
REIT by issuance of units.]
(23) If the REIT fails to make its initial offer within three years from the date of registration
with the Board, it shall surrender its certificate of registration to the Board and cease to operate
as a REIT:
Provided that the Board, if it deems fit, may extend the period by another one year:
Provided further that the REIT may later re-apply for registration, if it so desires.
(24) The Board may specify by issue of guidelines or circulars any other requirements, as it
deems fit, pertaining to issue and allotment of units by a REIT.
Offer document and advertisements.
15.  (1)  The  Offer  document  of  the  REIT  shall  contain  material,  true,  correct  and  adequate
disclosures to enable the investors to make an informed decision.
(2)  Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the offer document shall-
(a)  include all information as specified in  Schedule III to these regulations or as specified
in any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board in this regard;
(b) not be misleading and not contain any untrue statements or mis-statements;
(c)  not provide for any guaranteed returns to the investors;
(d) include such other disclosures as may be specified by the Board.
(3)
Any  advertisement  material  relating  to  any  issue  of  units  of  the  REIT  shall  not  be
misleading and shall not contain anything extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(4)
If an advertisement contains positive highlights, it shall also contain risk factors with
equal importance in all aspects including print size.
33
(5)
The advertisements shall be in accordance with the offer document and any circulars or
guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this regard.
Listing and trading of units.
16.  (1)  After  the  initial  offer  it  shall  be  mandatory  for  all  units  of  REITs  to  be  listed  on  a
recognized  stock  exchange  having  nationwide  trading  terminals  within  a  period  of  twelve
working days from the date of closure of the offer.
(2) The listing of the units of the REIT shall be in accordance with the listing agreement entered
into between the REIT and the designated stock exchange.
142[(2A)  In  the  event  of  non-receipt  of  listing  permission  from  the  stock  exchange(s)  or
withdrawal of Observation Letter issued by the Board, wherever applicable, the units shall not
be eligible for listing and the REIT shall be liable to refund the subscription monies, if any, to
the respective allottees immediately alongwith interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum
from the date of allotment.]
(3) The units of the REIT listed in  recognized stock exchanges shall be traded,  cleared  and
settled in accordance with the bye-laws of concerned stock exchanges and such conditions as
may be specified by the Board.
(4) Trading lot for the purpose of trading of units of the REIT shall 143[consist of 100 units].
(5)  The REIT shall redeem units only by way of a buy-back or at the time of delisting of units.
(6) The units of REIT shall be remain listed on the designated stock exchange unless delisted
under regulation 17.
(7) The minimum public holding for the units of the listed REIT shall be  144[ in accordance
with the sub-regulation (2A) of Regulation 14], failing which action may be taken as may be
specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchange including delisting of units under
regulation 17:
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019.
unit holders of the REIT forming part of the public shall be two hundred at all times” by the SEBI (Real Estate
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
34
Provided that in case of breach of the conditions specified in this sub-regulation, the trustee
may  provide  a  period  of  six  months  to  the  manager  to  rectify  the  same,  failing  which  the
manager shall apply for delisting under Regulation 17.
(8)  Any person other than the sponsor(s) holding units of the REIT prior to initial offer shall
hold the units for a period of not less than one year from the date of listing of the units subject
to circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board.
(9)  The Board and designated stock exchanges may specify any other requirements pertaining
to listing and trading of units of the REIT by issuance of guidelines or circulars.
Delisting of units.
17.  (1)  The  manager  shall  apply  for  delisting  of  units  of  the  REIT  to  the  Board  and  the
designated stock exchanges if,-
(a)  the public holding falls below the specified limit under sub-regulation (7) of regulation
16;
(b) 145[***]
(c)  if there are no projects or assets  remaining under the REIT for a period exceeding six
months and REIT does not propose to invest in any project in future:
Provided that, the period may be extended by further six months, with the approval of
unit holders in the manner as specified in regulation 22;
(d) the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting for violation of the
listing agreement or these regulations or the Act;
(e)  the sponsor(s) or trustee requests such delisting and such request has been approved by
unit holders in accordance with sub-regulation (6) of regulation 22;
(f)  unit holders apply for such delisting in accordance with regulation 22;
(g) the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting for violation of the
listing agreement, these regulations or the Act or in the interest of the unit holders.
145 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
Prior to its omission, sub- clause (b) read as under :
“the number of unit holders of the REIT forming part of the public falls below two hundred;”
35
(2)  The Board and the designated stock exchanges may consider such application for approval
or rejection as may be appropriate in the interest of the unit holders.
(3)    The  Board,  instead  of  requiring  delisting  of  the  units,  if  it  deems  fit,    may  provide
additional time to the REIT or parties to the REIT to comply with regulations.
(4)  The Board may reject the application for delisting and take any other action, as it deems
fit, under these regulations or the Act for violation of the listing agreement or these regulations
or the Act.
(5)  The procedure for delisting of units of REIT including provision of exit option to the unit
holders shall be in accordance with the listing agreement and in accordance with procedure as
may be specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchanges from time to time.
(6)  The Board may require the REIT to wind up and sell its assets in order to redeem units of
the unit holders for the purpose of delisting of units and the Board may through circulars or
guidelines specify the manner of such winding up or sale.
(7)  After delisting of its units, the REIT shall surrender its certificate of  registration to  the
Board and shall no longer undertake activity of a REIT:
Provided that the REIT and parties to the REIT shall continue to be liable for all their acts of
omissions  and  commissions  with  respect  to  activities  of  the  REIT  notwithstanding  such
surrender.
CHAPTER V
INVESTMENT CONDITIONS, RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS,
BORROWING AND VALUATION OF ASSETS
Investment conditions and distribution policy.
18. (1) The Investment  by a REIT shall only be in  146[holdco and/or] SPVs or properties or
securities  or  TDR  in  India  in  accordance  with  these  regulations  and  in  accordance  with  the
investment strategy as detailed in the offer document as may be amended subsequently.
(2)  The  REIT  shall  not  invest  in  vacant  land  or  agricultural  land  or  mortgages  other  than
mortgage backed securities:
36
Provided that this shall not apply to any land which is contiguous and extension of an existing
project being implemented in stages.
(3) The REIT may invest in properties through SPVs subject to the following,-
(a)  no  other  shareholder  or  partner  of  the  SPV  shall  147[exercise]  any  rights  that
prevents the REIT from complying with the provisions of these regulations 148[and
an agreement 149[has been] entered into with such shareholders or partners to that
effect prior to investment in the SPV]:
150[Provided  that  the  shareholders’  agreement  or  partnership  agreement  shall
provide for an  appropriate  mechanism  for  resolution  of  disputes  between  the
REIT  and  the other shareholders or partners in the SPV:
Provided  further  that  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  shall  prevail  in  case  of
inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations cast upon a REIT
under these regulations.]
151[(b)  the  manager,  in  consultation  with  the  trustee,  shall  appoint  atleast  such
number of nominees on the board of directors or the governing board of such SPVs,
as applicable, which are in proportion to the shareholding or holding interest of the
REIT in the SPV;]
(c)  the manager shall ensure that in every meeting including annual general meeting
of the SPV, the voting of the REIT is exercised 152[***].
153[(3A) The REIT may invest in properties through holdco subject 154[to] the following,-
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
151  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts)  (Amendment)
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as:
“(b) the manager, in consultation with the trustee, shall appoint the majority of the Board of directors or governing
board of such SPVs[, as applicable;”
152 Omitted “subject to provisions of Companies Act, 2013” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
37
(a) the ultimate holding interest of the REIT in the underlying SPV(s) is not less
than twenty six per cent;
(b) no other shareholder or partner of the holdco or the SPV(s) shall 155[exercise]
any rights that prevent the REIT, the holdco or the SPV(s) from complying with
the provisions of these regulations and an agreement 156[has been] entered into with
such shareholders or partners to that effect prior to investment in the holdco and/or
SPVs:
157[Provided  that  the  shareholders’  agreement  or  partnership  agreement  shall
provide for an  appropriate  mechanism  for  resolution  of  disputes  between  the
REIT  and  the other shareholders or partners in the holdco and/or SPV;
Provided  further  that  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  shall  prevail  in  case  of
inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations cast upon a REIT
under these regulations.]
158[(c)    the  manager,  in  consultation  with  the  Trustee,  shall  appoint  atleast  such
number of nominees on the board of directors or the governing board of the holdco
and/or the SPV, which are in proportion to the shareholding or holding interest of
the REIT/holdco in the SPV;]
(d)  the  manager  shall  ensure  that  in  every  meeting  including  annual  general
meeting of the holdco and/or SPV(s), the voting of the REIT is exercised;]
(4)  Not  less  than  eighty  per  cent.  of  value  of  the  REIT  assets  shall  be  invested  159[***]  in
completed and rent 160[and/or income] generating properties subject to the following,-
(a)  if the investment has been made through a 161[holdco and/or] SPV, whether by way
of  equity  or  debt  or  equity  linked  instruments  or  partnership  interest,  only  the
portion of direct investments in properties by such 162[ holdco and/or] SPVs shall
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
156 Substituted ibid for the words “shall be”.
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
158 Substituted ibid. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as:
“(c)  the  manager,  in  consultation  with  the  Trustee,  shall  appoints  the  majority  of  the  Board  of  directors  or
governing board of the holdco and/or SPV(s);”
159 Omitted “proportionate to the holding of the REITs” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
38
be considered under this sub-regulation and the remaining portion shall be included
under sub-regulation (5);
(b) if any project is implemented in stages, the part of the project which is completed
and  163[rent  and/or  income  generating]  shall  be  considered  under  this  sub-
regulation  and the remaining portion including any contiguous land as specified
under  proviso  to  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be  included  under  clause  (a)  of    sub-
regulation (5).
(5) Not more than twenty per cent. of value of the REIT assets shall be invested  164[***] in
assets other than as provided in sub-regulation (4) and such other investment shall only be in,-
(a)  properties, 165[whether directly or through a company or LLP,] 166[***] which
are:
(i)  under-construction properties which shall be held by the REIT for not
less than three years after completion;
(ii)  under-construction  properties  which  are  a  part  of  the  existing  income
generating properties owned by the REIT which shall be held by the REIT
for not less than three years after completion;
(iii)  completed and not rent generating properties  which shall be held by the
REIT for not less than three years from date of purchase;
(b) listed or unlisted debt of companies or body corporate in real estate sector:
Provided  that  this  shall  not  include  any  investment  made  in  debt  of  the
167[holdco and/or SPVs];
(c)  mortgage backed securities;
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
164 Omitted “proportionate to the holding of the REITs” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
166 Omitted “in which not more than ten per cent. of value of the REIT assets shall be invested,” by the SEBI
(Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
30.11.2016
39
(d) equity shares of companies 168[which are] listed on a recognized stock exchange
in  India  which  derive  not  less  than  seventy  five  per  cent.  of  their  operating
income  from  real  estate  activity  as  per  the  audited  accounts  of  the  previous
financial year;
169[(da) unlisted equity shares of companies which derive not less than seventy five
per  cent.  of  their  operating  income  from  real  estate  activity  as  per  the  audited
accounts of the previous financial year:
Provided  that  the  investments,  made  through  unlisted  equity  shares  of  a
company,  in  under  construction  properties  and/or  completed  and  not  rent
generating  properties,  shall  be  in  compliance  with  clause  (a)  of  this  sub-
regulation.]
(e)  government securities;
(f)  unutilized FSI of a project where it has already made investment;
(g) TDR acquired for the purpose of utilization with respect to a project where it
has already made investment;
(h) money market instruments or cash equivalents.
170[(5A) The investment conditions as specified at sub-regulation (4) and (5) of regulation 18
shall be complied at the time of Offer document and thereafter.]
(6)  Not  less  than  171[fifty  one]  per  cent.  of  the  172[consolidated]  revenues  of  the  REIT  173[,
holdco] and the SPV, other than gains arising from disposal of properties, shall be, at all times,
from rental, leasing and letting real estate assets or any other income incidental to the leasing
of such assets.
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
w.e.f. 30.11.2016
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
40
174[***]
175[***]
(9) Conditions specified in sub-regulations (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8) shall  be monitored on a
half-yearly basis and at the time of acquisition of an asset:
Provided that if such conditions are breached on account of market movements of the price of
the underlying assets or securities or change in tenants or  expiry of lease or sale of properties,
the manager shall inform the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions as specified in
this regulation are satisfied within six months of such breach:
Provided further that the period may be extended by another six months subject to approval
from investors in accordance with regulation 22.
(10) A REIT shall hold any completed and rent generating property, whether directly or through
176[holdco or] SPV, for a period of not less than three years from the date of purchase of such
property by the REIT or 177[holdco or] SPV.
(11) For any sale of property, whether by the REIT or  178[holdco or] the SPV or for sale of
shares or interest in the SPV by the 179[holdco or] REIT exceeding ten per cent. of the value of
REIT  assets  in  a  financial  year,  the  manager  shall  obtain  approval  from  the  unit  holders  in
accordance with regulation 22.
(12) A REIT shall not invest in units of other REITs.
(13)  A  REIT  shall  not  undertake  lending  to  any  person  180[other  than  the  holding
company/special purpose vehicle(s) in which the REIT has invested in, subject to disclosures
specified in Schedule IV]:
Provided that investment in debt securities shall not be considered as lending.
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. Prior to omission, the clause read as:
“(7) Not less than seventy five per cent. of value of the REIT assets proportionately on a consolidated basis shall
be rent generating.”
to the omission, the sub-regulation read as follows:
“(8) A REIT shall hold at least two projects, directly or through 175[holdco and/or] SPV, with not more than sixty
per cent. of the value of the assets, proportionately on a consolidated basis, in one project.”
41
(14)  With  respect  to  investment  in  leasehold  properties,  the  manager  shall  consider  the
remaining term of the lease, the objectives of the REIT, the lease profile of the REIT’s existing
real estate assets and any other factors as may be relevant, prior to making such investment.
(15) In case of any co-investment with any person(s) in any transaction,-
(a)  the  investment  by  the  other  person(s)  shall  not  be  at  terms  more  favourable  than
those to the REIT;
(b) the investment shall not provide any rights to the person(s) which shall prevent the
REIT from complying with the provisions of these regulations;
(c)  the  agreement  with  such  person(s)  shall  include  the  minimum  percentage  of
distributable  cash  flows  that  will  be  distributed  and  entitlement  of  the  REIT  to
receive not less than pro rata distributions and mode for resolution of any disputes
between the REIT and the other person(s).
(16) With respect to distributions made by the REIT and the 181[holdco and/or] SPV,-
(a)  not  less  than  ninety  per  cent.  of  net  distributable  cash  flows  of  the  SPV  shall  be
distributed to the REIT 182[/holdco] in proportion of its holding in the SPV subject
to  applicable  provisions  in  the  Companies  Act,  2013  or  the  Limited  Liability
Partnership Act, 2008;
183[(aa) with regard to distribution of net distributable cash flows by the holdco to
the REIT, subject to applicable provisions in the Companies Act, 2013 or the Limited
Liability Partnership Act, 2008, the following shall be complied:
(i) with respect to the cash flows received by the holdco from underlying SPVs,
100% of such cash flows received by the holdco shall be distributed to the REIT;
and
(ii) with respect to the cash flows generated by the holdco on its own, not less
than 90% of such net distributable cash flows shall be distributed by the holdco
to the REIT;]
(b) not  less than  ninety per  cent. of net  distributable cash flows of the REIT shall be
distributed to the unit holders;
42
(c)  such distributions shall be declared and made not less than once every six months in
every financial year and shall be made not later than fifteen days from the date of
such declaration;
(d) if any property is sold by the REIT or 184[holdco or SPV or if the equity shares or
interest in the holdco/SPV are sold by the REIT, then],-
(i)
if  the  REIT  proposes  to  reinvest  sale  proceeds,  if  any,  into  another
property,  it  shall  not  be  required  to  distribute  any  sale  proceeds  from
such sale to the unit holders; 185[***]
(ii)  if the REIT 186[***] proposes not to invest the sales proceeds made into
any  other  property,  187[within  a  period  of  1  year,]  it  shall  be  required  to
distribute not less than ninety per cent. of the sales proceeds in accordance
with clauses (a) 188[, (b), (c) and (d) of sub-regulation 16];
(e)  if the distributions are not made within fifteen days of declaration, then the manager
shall be liable to  pay interest to the unit holders at the rate of fifteen per cent. per
annum  till the distribution is  made and such interest  shall not  be recovered in  the
form of fees or any other form payable to the manager by the REIT.
(17) No schemes shall be launched under the REIT.
(18) The Board may specify any additional conditions for investments by the REIT as it deems
fit.
Related party transactions.
19. (1) All related party transactions shall be on an arms-length basis, in the best interest of the
unit holders, consistent with the strategy and investment objectives of the REIT and shall be
30.11.2016
185 Omitted “and if the SPV proposes to reinvest sale proceeds, if any, into another property, it shall not be
required to distribute any sale proceeds from such sale to the REIT;” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
186 Omitted “or SPV” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f.
30.11.2016
w.e.f. 30.11.2016
43
disclosed to the designated stock exchange and unit holders periodically in accordance with
the listing agreement and these regulations.
(2) A REIT, subject to the conditions specified hereunder, may,-
(a)   acquire assets from related parties;
(b) sell assets or securities to related parties;
(c)  lease assets to related parties;
(d) lease assets from related parties;
(e)  invest in securities issued by related parties;
(f)  borrow from related parties.
(3) With respect to purchase or sale of properties 189[***] after initial offer,-
(a)  two valuation reports from two different valuers, independent of each other, shall
be obtained;
(b) such valuers shall undertake a full valuation of the assets proposed to be purchased
or sold as specified under regulation 21;
(c)  Transactions for purchase of such assets shall be at a price not greater than, and
transactions  for  sale  of  such  assets  shall  be  at  a  price  not  lesser  than,  190[one
hundred  ten  percent  and  ninety  percent  of  the]  average  of  the  two  independent
valuations 191[, respectively].
(4) In case of any related party transactions entered into prior to making the initial offer,-
(a)  adequate disclosures to that effect shall be made in the initial offer document
including a consolidated full valuation report of all such assets 192[***];
(b) the REIT shall enter into proper and valid agreements with such related parties
at  the  price  or    interest  rate  or  rental  value  mentioned  in  the  initial  offer
document;
189 Omitted “both prior to and” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016,
w.e.f. 30.11.2016
192 Words, figures and symbols “in accordance with clause (a) of sub-regulation (3), as may be applicable” omitted
by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
44
(c)  If the transactions are conditional upon the REIT receiving a minimum amount
of subscription, adequate disclosures shall be made in the offer document and
the agreements to that effect.
(5) In case of any related party transactions entered into after the initial offer,-
(a)  adequate disclosures shall be made to the unit holders and to the designated
stock exchanges;
(b) in case,-
(i)
the total  value of all the related party transactions, in  a financial  year,
pertaining  to  acquisition  or  sale  of  properties  193[,  whether  directly  or
through holdco and/or SPVs,] or investments into securities exceeds ten
per cent. of the value of REIT; or
(ii)  the value of the funds borrowed from related parties, in a financial year,
exceeds  ten  per  cent.  of  the  total  consolidated  borrowings  of  the  REIT
194[, holdco and/or SPVs];
approval  from  the unit holders shall be obtained  prior to  entering into any  such
subsequent transaction with any related party;
(c)  for the purpose of obtaining approval for such transactions, the manager shall
obtain  approval  from  unit  holders  in  accordance  with  regulation  22  and
request for such approval shall be accompanied by a transaction document.
(6) The disclosures in the offer document and transaction document shall include the following,
as may be applicable,-
(a)  identity  of  the  related  parties  and  their  relationship  with  the  REIT  or
parties to the REIT;
(b) nature  and  details  of  the  transactions  entered  into  or  proposed  to  be
entered into with such related parties including description and location
of assets;
45
(c)  the price or value of the assets or securities bought or sold or leased or
proposed to be bought or sold or leased and if leased or proposed to be
leased, value of the lease;
(d) ready reckoner rate of the real estate asset being bought or sold:
Provided that where such ready reckoner rate are not available, property
tax assessment value  or similar published rates by Government authorities
shall be disclosed;
(e)  summary of the valuation report(s);
(f)  the current and expected rental yield;
(g) if  the  transactions  are  conditional  upon  the  REIT  receiving  a  stated
amount of subscriptions, the minimum amount of such subscriptions  to
be received;
(h) amount of borrowing and rate of interest in case of borrowing from any
related party;
(i)  any other information that is required for the investor to take an informed
decision.
(7) With respect to any properties leased to related parties to the REIT, both before and after
initial offer, if,-
(a)  such lease area exceeds twenty per cent. of the total area of the underlying
assets;
(b)  value of assets under such lease exceeds twenty per cent of the value of the
total underlying assets;
(c)  rental income obtained from such leased assets exceeds twenty per cent of
the value of the rental income of all underlying assets,
a  fairness  opinion  from  an  independent  valuer  shall  be  obtained  by  the  manager  and
submitted to the trustee and approval of unitholders in accordance with regulation 22 shall
be obtained.
(8) For any related party transaction requiring approval of the unit holders or proposed to be
undertaken immediately after the initial offer, the agreement shall be entered into within six
46
months from date of close of initial offer or from date of approval of the unit holders, as the
case may be:
Provided that in case of the agreement is not entered into within such period, approval from
the  unit  holders  may  be  sought  for  extension  for  another  six  months  in  accordance  with
regulation 22 with the updated valuation report(s).
(9) Adequate disclosures of all related party transactions that have been entered into prior to
the follow-on offer shall be made in the follow-on offer document.
(10) Transaction between two or more of the REITs with a common manager or sponsor shall
be  deemed  to  be  related  party  transactions  for  each  of  the  REITs  and  provisions  of  this
regulation shall apply:
Provided that this sub-regulation shall also apply if the managers or sponsors of the REITs are
different entities but are associates.
(11) With respect to any related party transaction, details of any fees or commissions received
or to be received by  195[such] related party196[(ies)] shall be adequately disclosed to the unit
holders and to the designated stock exchanges.
(12) No related party shall retain cash or other rebates from any property agent in consideration
for referring transactions in REIT assets to the property agent.
(13) Where any of the related parties has an interest in a business which competes or is likely
to compete, either directly or indirectly, with the activities of the REIT, the following details
shall be disclosed in the offer document,-
(a)
details of the such business including an explanation as to how such business
shall compete with the REIT;
(b)
a declaration that the related party shall perform its duty in relation to the REIT
independent of its related business;
(c)
declaration  as  to  whether  any  acquisition  of  such  business  by  the  REIT  is
intended and if so, details of the same thereof.
195 Substituted “any person or entity which is an associate of the” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
47
(14) Any arrangement or transaction or contract with any related party other than as included
in this regulation shall be disclosed to the unit holders and to the designated stock exchanges.
Borrowings and deferred payments.
20.  197[(1)  A  REIT,  whose  units  are  listed  on  a  recognized  stock  exchange,  may  issue  debt
securities in the manner specified by the Board:
Provided that such debt securities shall be listed on recognized stock exchange(s).]
198[(2)] The aggregate consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of the REIT 199[, holdco
and/or the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents shall never exceed forty nine per cent. of
the value of the REIT assets:
Provided that such borrowings and deferred payments shall not include any refundable security
deposits to tenants.
200[(3)]  If  the  aggregate  consolidated  borrowings  and  deferred  payments  of  the  REIT  201[,
holdco and/or the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents exceed twenty five per cent. of the
value of the REIT assets, for any further borrowing,-
(a)  credit  rating  shall  be  obtained  from  a  credit  rating  agency  registered  with  the
Board; and
(b) approval of unit holders shall be obtained in the manner as specified in regulation
22.
202[(4)] If the conditions specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2) are breached on account of
market movements of the price of the underlying assets or securities, the manager shall inform
the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions as specified in this regulation are satisfied
within six months of such breach.
Valuation of assets.
198 Re-numbered by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
200 Re-numbered by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
202 Re-numbered by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
48
21. (1) The valuer shall not be an associate of the sponsor(s) or manager or trustee and shall
have not less than five years of experience in valuation of real estate.
(2) Full valuation includes a detailed valuation of all assets by the valuer including physical
inspection of every property by the valuer.
(3)  Full  valuation  report  shall  include  the  mandatory  minimum  disclosures  as  specified  in
Schedule V to these regulations.
(4) A full valuation shall be conducted by the valuer atleast once in every financial year:
Provided  that  such  full  valuation  shall  be  conducted  at  the  end  of  the  financial  year  ending
March 31st within three months from the end of such year.
(5) A half yearly valuation of the REIT assets shall be conducted by the valuer for the half-year
ending on September 30 for incorporating any key changes in the previous six months and such
half  yearly valuation report shall be  prepared  within forty five days from  the date of end of
such half year.
(6)  Valuation  reports  received  by  the  manager  shall  be  submitted  to  the  designated  stock
exchange and unit holders within fifteen days from the receipt of such valuation reports.
(7) Prior to any issue of units to the public and any other issue of units as may be specified by
the  Board,  the  valuer  shall  undertake  full  valuation  of  all  the  REIT  assets  and  include  a
summary of the report in the offer document:
Provided that such valuation report shall not be more than six months old at the time of such
offer:
Provided further that this shall not apply in cases where full valuation has been undertaken not
more than six months prior to such issue and no material changes have occurred thereafter.
(8) For any transaction of purchase or sale of properties,203[ whether directly or through holdco
and/or SPVs,]-
(a)  if  the  transaction  is  a  related  party  transaction,  the  valuation  shall  be  in  accordance
with regulation 19;
(b) if the transaction is not a related party transaction,-
(i)  a full valuation of the specific property shall be undertaken by the valuer;
49
(ii)
if ,-
(1) in  case  of  a  purchase  transaction,  the  property  is  proposed  to  be
purchased at  a value greater than one hundred and ten per cent. of the
value of the property as assessed by the valuer;
(2) in case of a sale transaction, the property is proposed to be sold at  a
value less than ninety per cent. of the value of the property as assessed
by the valuer,
approval of the unit holders shall be obtained in accordance with regulation 22.
(9)  No  valuer  shall  undertake  valuation  of  the  same  property  for  more  than  four  years
consecutively:
Provided that the valuer may be reappointed after a period of not less than two years from the
date it ceases to be the valuer of the REIT.
204[***]
(11) In case of any material development that may have an impact on the valuation of the REIT
assets, then manager shall require the valuer to undertake full valuation of the property under
consideration within not more than two months from the date of such event and disclose the
same to the trustee, investors and the Designated Stock Exchanges within fifteen days of such
valuation.
(12)  The  valuer  shall  not  value  any  assets  in  which  it  has  either  been  involved  with  the
acquisition or disposal within the last twelve months other than such cases where valuer was
engaged by the REIT for such acquisition or disposal.
CHAPTER VI
RIGHTS OF UNIT HOLDERS, GENERAL OBLIGATIONS, DISCLOSURES AND
REPORTING
Prior to its omission, the sub-regulation read as follows:
“(10) Any valuation undertaken by any valuer shall abide by international valuation standards and valuation
standards as may be specified by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) for valuation of real estate
assets:
Provided that in case of any conflict, standards specified by ICAI shall prevail.”
50
Rights and meetings of unit holders.
22. (1) The unit holder shall have the rights to receive income or distributions as provided for
in the Offer document or trust deed.
(2) With respect to any matter requiring approval of the unit holders,-
(a)  a resolution shall be considered as passed when the votes cast by unit holders, so
entitled  and  voting,  in  favour  of  the  resolution  exceed  a  certain  percentage,  as
specified in this regulation, of the votes cast against;
(b) the voting may also be done by postal ballot or electronic mode;
(c)  a notice of not  less than  twenty one days either  in  writing or through  electronic
mode shall be provided to the unit holders;
(d) voting by any person who is a related party in such transaction as well as associates
of such person(s) shall not be considered on the specific issue;
(e)  manager  shall  be  responsible  for  all  the  activities  pertaining  to  conducting  of
meeting of the unit holders, subject to overseeing by the trustee:
Provided  that  in  respect  of  issues  pertaining  to  the  manager  such  as  change  in
manager including removal of the manager or change in control of the manager,
Trustee  shall  convene  and  handle  all  activities  pertaining  to  conduct  of  the
meetings:
Provided further that in respect of issues pertaining to the trustee such as change in
the trustee, the trustee shall not be involved in any manner in the conduct of the
meeting.
(3) An annual meeting of all unit holders shall be held not less than once a year within  one
hundred and twenty days from the end of financial year and the time between two meetings
shall not exceed fifteen months.
(4) With respect to the annual meeting of unit holders,-
(a)  any information that is required to be disclosed to the unit holders and any issue
that, in the ordinary course of business, may require approval of the unit holders
may be taken up in the meeting including,-
(i)
latest annual accounts and performance of the REIT;
51
(ii)
approval of auditor and fees of such auditor, as may be required;
(iii)
latest valuation reports;
(iv)
(v)
appointment of valuer, as may be required;
any  other  issue  including  special  issues  as  specified  under  sub-
regulation (6);
(b) for  any  issue  taken  up  in  such  meetings  which  require  approval  from  the  unit
holders, votes cast in favour of the resolution shall 205[be more than] the votes cast
against the resolution.
(5) In case of,-
(a)  any approval from unit holders required under regulation 18, 19 and 21;
(b) any transaction, other than any borrowing, value of which is equal to or greater
than twenty five per cent. of the REIT assets;
(c)  any borrowing in excess of specified limit as required under sub-regulation (2)
of regulation 20;
(d) any issue of units after initial offer by the REIT, in whatever form, other than
any  issue  of  units  which  may  be  considered  by  the  Board  under  sub-
regulation(6);
(e)  increasing  period  for  compliance  with  investment  conditions  to  one  year  in
accordance with proviso to sub-regulation (9) of regulation 18;
(f)  any  issue,  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business,  which  in  the  opinion  of  the
sponsor(s) or trustee or manager, is material and requires approval of the unit
holders, if any;
206[(fa) de-classification of the status of sponsor;]
(g) any  issue  for  which  the  Board  or  the  designated  stock  exchange  requires
approval under this sub-regulation,
205 Substituted “not be less than  one and a half times” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
16.06.2020
52
approval from unitholders shall be required where the votes cast in favour of the resolution
shall be 207[more than] the votes cast against the resolution.
(6) In case of ,-
(a)  any  change  in  manager  including  removal  of  the  manager  or  change  in
control of the manager;
(b) any material change in investment strategy or any change in the management
fees of the REIT;
(c)  the sponsor(s) or manager proposing to seek delisting of units of the REIT;
(d) 208[***]
(e)  any issue, not in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion of the
sponsor(s) or manager or trustee requires approval of the unit holders;
(f)  any  issue  for  which  the  Board  or  the  designated  stock  exchanges  requires
approval under this sub-regulation;
(g) any issue taken up on request of the unit holders including:
(i)
removal of the manager and appointment of another manager to the
REIT;
(ii)
removal  of  the  auditor  and  appointment  of  another  auditor  to  the
REIT;
(iii)
removal  of  the  valuer  and  appointment  of  another  valuer  to  the
REIT;
(iv)  delisting  of  the  REIT  if  the  unit  holders  have  sufficient  reason  to
believe  that  such  delisting  would  act  in  the  interest  of  the  unit
holders;
(v)
any issue which the unit holders have sufficient  reason to  believe
that acts detrimental to the interest of the unit holders;
207  Substituted  “not  less  than  one  and  half  times”  by  the  SEBI  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts)  (Amendment)
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
16.06.2020. Prior to the omission, the clause read as follows:
“ (d) the value of the units held by a person along with its associates other than the sponsor(s) and its associates
exceeding fifty per cent. of the value of outstanding REIT units, prior to acquiring any further units;”
53
(vi)  change  in  the  trustee  if  the  unit  holders  have  sufficient  reason  to
believe that acts of such trustee is detrimental to the interest of the
unit holders,
approval  from  unit  holders  shall  be  required  where  the  votes  cast  in  favour  of  the
resolution  shall  be  not  less  than  209[one  and  half]  times  the  votes  cast  against  the
resolution.
210[***]
211[(6A) No person, other than sponsor(s), its related parties and its associates, shall acquire units
of a REIT which taken together with units held by him and by persons acting in concert
with  him in  such REIT,  exceeds twenty-five per  cent  of the value of outstanding REIT
units unless approval from seventy five per cent. of the unit holders by value excluding the
value of units held by parties related to the transaction, is obtained:
Provided that if the required approval is not received, the person acquiring the units shall
provide an exit option to the dissenting unit holders to the extent and in the manner as may
be specified by the Board]
(7) With respect to the right(s) of the unit holders under clause (g) of sub-regulation (6),-
(a)  not less than twenty five per cent. of the unit holders by value, other than
any  party  related  to  the  transactions  and  its  associates,  shall  apply,  in
writing, to the trustee for the purpose;
(b) on receipt of such application, the Trustee shall  require the manager  to
place the issue for voting in the manner as specified in these regulations;
(c)  with respect to sub-clause (vi) of clause (g) of sub-regulation (6) , not less
than sixty per cent. of the unit holders by value shall apply, in writing, to
the manager for the purpose.
209  Substituted  “three”by  the  SEBI  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016,  w.e.f.
30.11.2016
16.06.2020. Prior to the omission, the proviso read as follows:
“Provided that in case of clause (d), if approval is  not obtained, the person shall provide an exit option to the
unitholders to the extent and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.”
16.06.2020.
54
(8) In case of any change in sponsor or 212[inducted] sponsor or change in control of sponsor
or 213[inducted] sponsor,-
(a)  214[prior to such changes, approval from seventy-five per cent of the unit
holders by value excluding the value of units held by parties related to the
transaction shall be obtained;]
(b)  if such change does not receive the required approval,-
(i)
in  case  of  change  of  sponsor  or  215[inducted]  sponsor,  the
proposed  216[inducted]  sponsor  217[***]  shall  provide  the
dissenting  unit  holders  an  option  to  exit  by  buying  their  units
218[in the manner specified by the Board];
219[(ii)
in case of change in control of the sponsor or inducted sponsor,
the said sponsor or inducted sponsor shall provide the dissenting
unit holders an option to exit by buying their units in the manner
as specified by the Board;
any change due to entry of a new sponsor with or without exit of
an existing sponsor.]
(c)  if on account of such sale, the number of unit holders forming part of the
public falls below 220[as required under sub-regulation (2A) of Regulation
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 16.06.2020.
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 16.06.2020.
214  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2020,  w.e.f.
16.06.2020. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as follows:
“(a) prior to such changes, approval shall be obtained from the unit holders wherein votes cast in favour of the
resolution shall not be less than three times the votes cast against the resolution;”
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 16.06.2020.
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 16.06.2020.
Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 16.06.2020.
16.06.2020
219  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2020,  w.e.f.
16.06.2020. Prior to the substitution, the sub-clause read as follows:
“(ii) in case of change in control of the sponsor or re-designated sponsor, the sponsor or re-designated sponsor
shall provide the dissenting unit holders an option to exit by buying their units;”
55
14] two hundred or below 221[ the trustee may provide a period of one year
to the manager to rectify the same, failing which], the 222[manager] shall
apply for delisting of the units of the REIT in accordance with regulation
17.
Disclosures.
23. (1) The manager shall ensure that the disclosures in the offer document are in accordance
with the Schedule III to these regulations and any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board
in this regard.
(2) The manager shall submit an annual report to all unit holders of the REIT with respect to
activities of the REIT, within three months from the end of the financial year.
(3) The manager shall submit a half-yearly report to all unit holders of the REIT with respect
to  activities  of  the  REIT  within  forty  five  days  from  the  end  of  the  half  year  ending  on
September 30th.
(4) Such annual and half yearly reports shall contain disclosures as specified under Schedule
IV to these regulations.
(5)  The  manager  shall  disclose  to  the  designated  stock  exchanges  any  information  having
bearing  on  the  operation  or  performance  of  the  REIT  as  well  as  price  sensitive  information
which includes but is not restricted to the following,-
(a)  acquisition or disposal of any properties, value of which exceeds five per cent. of
value of the REIT assets;
(b) additional borrowing, at level of 223[holdco or] SPV or the REIT, resulting in such
borrowing exceeding five per cent. of the value of the REIT assets during the year;
(c)  additional issue of units by the REIT;
(d) details of any credit rating obtained by the REIT and any change in such rating;
(e)  any issue which requires approval of the unit holders;
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
failing which
56
(f)  any legal proceedings which may have significant bearing on the functioning of
the REIT;
(g) notices and results of meetings of unit holders;
(h) any  instance  of  non-compliance  with  these  regulations  including  any  breach  of
limits specified under these regulations;
(i)  any material issue that in the opinion of the manager or trustee needs to be disclosed
to the unit holders.
(6)  The  manager  shall  submit  such  information  to  the  designated  stock  exchanges  and  unit
holders on a periodical basis as may be required under the listing agreement.
(7) The manager shall disclose to the designated stock exchanges, unit holders and the Board
such information and in the manner as may be specified by the Board..
Submission of reports to the Board.
24. The Board may at any time call upon the REIT or parties to the REIT to file such reports,
as the Board may desire, with respect to the activities relating to the REIT.
Power to call for information.
25. (1) The Board may at any time call for any information from the REIT or  224[holdco or
SPV(s) or] parties to the REIT or any unit holder or any other person with respect to any matter
relating to activity of the REIT.
(2) Where any information is called for under sub-regulation (1), it shall be furnished within
the time specified by the Board.
Maintenance of records.
26. (1) The manager shall maintain records pertaining to the activity of the REIT including,
225[for a period of not less than seven years,]-
57
(a)  decisions  of  the  manager  with  respect  to  investments  or  divestments  and
documents supporting the same;
(b) details of investments made by the REIT and documents supporting the same;
(c)  agreements entered into by the REIT or on behalf of the REIT;
(d) documents relating to appointment of persons as specified in sub-regulation (5) of
regulation 10;
(e)  insurance policies for real estate assets;
(f)  investment management agreement;
(g) documents pertaining to issue and listing of units including initial offer document
or follow-on offer document(s) or other offer document(s), in-principle approval
by  designated  stock  exchanges,  listing  agreement  with  the  designated  stock
exchanges, details of subscriptions, allotment of units, etc.;
(h) distributions declared and made to the unit holders;
(i)  disclosures and periodical reporting made to the trustee, Board, unit holders and
designated stock exchanges including annual reports, half yearly reports, etc.;
(j)  valuation reports including methodology of valuation;
(k) books of accounts and financial statements;
(l)  audit reports;
(m) reports relating to activities of the REIT placed before the Board of Directors of
the manager;
(n) unit  holders'  grievances  and  actions
taken  thereon
including  copies  of
correspondences made with the unit holders and the Board, if any;
(o) any other material documents.
(2) The trustee shall maintain records pertaining to,-
(a)  certificate of registration granted by the Board;
(b) registered trust deed;
(c)  documents pertaining to application made to the Board for registration as a REIT;
(d) titles of the real estate assets:
58
Provided that where the original title documents are deposited with the lender in
respect of any loan / debt, the trustee shall maintain copies of such title documents;
(e)  notices and agenda send to unit holders for meetings held;
(f)  minutes of meetings and resolutions passed therein;
(g) periodical reports and disclosures received by the trustee from the manager;
(h) disclosures, periodically or otherwise, made to the Board, unit holders and to the
designated stock exchanges;
(i)  any other material documents.
(3) The records specified in  sub-regulation (2) may be maintained in physical or electronic
form:
Provided  that  where  records  are  required  to  be  duly  signed  and  are  maintained  in  the
electronic form, such records shall be digitally signed.
CHAPTER VII
INSPECTION
Boards right to inspect.
27. The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more
persons as inspecting officers to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records and
documents relating to activity of the REIT 226[ or holdco or SPVs or parties to the REIT] for
any of the following reasons, namely,-
(a)  to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the
REIT or parties to the REIT in the manner specified in these regulations;
(b) to inspect into complaints received from unit holders, clients or any other person, on any
matter having a bearing on the activities of the REIT;
(c)  to  ascertain  whether the  provisions of the Act  and these regulations  are being complied
with by the REIT and parties to the REIT;
59
(d) to inspect suo motu into the affairs of the REIT, in the interest of the securities market or
in the interest of investors.
Notice before inspection.
28. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 27, the Board shall give not less  than
ten days notice to the trustee of the REIT.
(2)  Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that
in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may, by an order in writing,
direct that the inspection of the affairs of the REIT be taken up without such notice.
(3)  During the course of an inspection, the REIT against whom the inspection is being carried
out  and  parties  to  the  REIT  shall  be  bound  to  discharge  their  obligations  as  provided  in
regulation 29.
Obligation of REIT, parties to the REIT and any other associate persons on inspection.
29. (1) It shall be the duty of every REIT in respect of whom an inspection has been ordered
under the regulation 27, parties to the REIT and any other associate person who is in possession
of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such REIT, including representative
of REIT, if any, to produce to the inspecting officer such books, accounts and other documents
in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information as the inspecting
officer may require for the purposes of inspection.
(2) It shall be the duty of every REIT, parties to the REIT and any other associate person who
is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of the REIT to give
to  the  Inspecting  Officer  all  such  assistance  and  to  extend  all  such  co-operation  as  may  be
required in connection with the inspection and to furnish such information as may be sought
by the inspecting officer in connection with the inspection.
(3) The inspecting officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on oath
and record the statement of any employees and directors of the REIT or parties to the REIT or
60
227[ holdco or SPV(s) or] any person responsible for or connected with the activities of REIT
or any other associated person having relevant information pertaining to such REIT.
(4)  The  inspecting  officer  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  inspection,  have  power  to  obtain
authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of REIT, from any person having control
or custody of such documents, books or accounts.
Submission of report to the Board.
30. The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit
an inspection report to the Board:
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report.
Communication of findings etc. to the REIT.
31.  The  Board  may  after  consideration  of  the  inspection  report  and  after  giving  reasonable
opportunity of hearing to the REITs or parties to the REIT or its representatives or any such
person, issue such directions as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or the investors
in the nature of,-
(a)  requiring the REIT to delist its units from the designated stock exchanges and surrender
its certificate of registration;
(b) requiring the REIT to sell its assets;
(c)  requiring the REIT or parties to the REIT to take such action as may be in the interest
of the investors;
(d) prohibiting  the  REIT  or  parties  to  the  REIT  from  operating  in  the  capital  market  or
from accessing the capital market for a specified period.
CHAPTER VIII
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT
Liability for action in case of default.
61
32. A REIT or parties to the REIT or any other person involved in the activity of the REIT who
contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act  or  these  regulations,  notifications,  guidelines,
circulars or instructions issued thereunder by the Board shall be liable for one or more actions
specified therein including any action provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS
228[CHAPTER VIII-A
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
32A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or
any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding
twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new
products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox
in the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to
be complied with on a continuous basis.
testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  may  be
deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering
innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the
Board.]
CHAPTER IX
MISCELLANEOUS
Power of the Board to issue clarifications.
33. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations,
the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the manner as may be appropriate.
62
229[Power to relax strict enforcement of Regulations
(33A)  The  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors  or  for  the  development  of  the  securities
market,  relax the strict enforcement  of any  requirement of these regulations, if the Board is
satisfied that
(a) requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or
(b) the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; or
(c) the disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular industry or class of listed
entities; or
(d) the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the issuer; or
(e) such relaxation will be in the interest of securities market230[; or]
231[(f)] any provision of Act(s), Rule(s), regulation(s) under which the listed entity is
established or is governed by, is required to be given precedence to]
Amendments to other regulations.
34. The regulations specified in the Schedule VII to these regulations shall be amended in the
manner and to the extent stated therein.
SCHEDULE I
FORMS
FORM A
Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014
231 Clause number inserted ibid
63
Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration as Real Estate Investment Trust
[See Regulation 3(2)]
Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, C4-A, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai 400051 - India
INSTRUCTIONS
1.  This form is meant for use by the applicant for grant of certificate of registration as a Real
Estate Investment Trust.
2.  The  applicant  should  complete  this  form,  and  submit  it,  along  with  all  supporting
documents to the Board.
3.  This application form should be filled in accordance with these regulations.
4.  The application shall be considered by the Board provided it is complete in all respects.
5.  All answers must be legible and all the pages must be numbered with signature/ stamp on
each page of the form.
6.  Information  which  needs  to  be  supplied  in  more detail  may  be  given  on  separate  sheets
which should be attached to the application form and appropriately numbered.
7.  The application must be signed and all signatures must be original.
8.  The  application  must  be  accompanied  by  an  application  fee  as  specified  in  the  Second
Schedule to these regulations.
1.  GENERAL INFORMATION
(a)  Name, address, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the REIT
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s)
64
(c)  Whether  the  232[trust]  233[/]  sponsor(s)/234[***]  manager  235[  or  their  associates or
sponsor group(s)/ trustee] is/ are registered with SEBI, RBI or any other regulatory
authority in any capacity along with the details of its registration
(d) Details of infrastructure for conducting activities as an Real Estate Investment Trust
2.  236[DETAILS OF TRUST]
(a)  Write-up on the activities of the 237[trust]
(b) Whether the Trust Deed is registered under the provisions of the Registration Act,
1908
(c)  Whether the Trust Deed has its main objective as undertaking activity of REIT and
includes  responsibilities  of  the  Trustee  in  accordance  with  Regulation  9  of  these
Regulations (Enclose relevant extract of the Registered Trust Deed)
(d) Whether any unit holder of the REIT enjoys preferential voting or any other rights
over another unit holder
(e)  Whether there are multiple classes of units of REIT
3.  DETAILS OF TRUSTEE
(a)  Name, address of registered office, address for correspondence and principal place
of business, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the Trustee.
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s)
(c)  Brief write up on the activities of the trustee
(d) Details of registration as a Debenture Trustee
(e)  238[***]
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
233 Substituted “or its associates or its”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations,
2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
234 Omitted “trustee/” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f.
30.11.2016
236 Substititted for the heading “DETAILS OF APPLICANT” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real
Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
237 Substituted ibid.
238 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
Prior to its omission, sub paragraph (e) read as under : “List of associates of the trustee”
65
(f)  Details  of  infrastructure,  personnel,  etc.  relevant  to  the  activity  as  trustee  of  the
REIT
(g) Identity and Address proof of the trustee and its directors
(h) Whether the Trustee Company is registered with any regulatory authority other than
SEBI in any capacity along with the details of its registration
239[(i) Copy of the executed Trust Deed]
4.  DETAILS OF SPONSOR(S)  (Provide details for every sponsor separately)
(a)  Name, address of registered office, address for correspondence and principal place
of business, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the sponsor(s)
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s)
(c)  Legal status of the sponsor, date and place of incorporation/ establishment, wherever
applicable
(d) In  case  of  sponsor  being  individual(s),  provide  a  brief  profile  of  the  sponsor
including  professional  qualification.  In  case  of  sponsor(s)  being  other  than
individual, write up on holding pattern and profile of the directors/partners including
their professional qualification
(e)  Identity proof and address proof of the sponsor (if sponsor is an individual)/ directors
of Sponsor (s)(if sponsor is a company)/ partners of the Sponsor(s) (if sponsor is an
LLP)
(f)  Write up on the activities of the sponsor/its associates including past experience in
development of real estate or fund management in the real estate industry
(g) Whether the Sponsor has floated any REITs previously, which are registered with
SEBI. If yes, details of the same
(h) Proposed holding of the sponsor in the REIT on post-issue basis
(i)  Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year
(j)  Net-worth  certificate  of  sponsor(s)  by  a  Chartered  Accountant,  not  more  than  six
months old
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
66
5.  DETAILS OF MANAGER
(a)  Name,  address  of  the  registered  office  address  for  correspondence,  telephone
number(s), fax number(s), of the Manager
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s)
(c)  Legal status, date and place of incorporation/ establishment, wherever applicable
(d) Copy of 240[executed] Investment Management agreement
(e)  Write up on the activities of the Manager/ its associates including past experience in
fund management/ advisory services/property management in the real estate industry
or in development of real estate
(f)  List of Directors/ Members of Governing Board
(g) Identity proof and address proof of the manager, its directors or partners
(h) Shareholding/partnership interests and profile of the directors /partners
(i)  Details of the key personnel including experience and professional qualification
(j)  Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year
(k) Net-worth  certificate  of  manager  by  a  Chartered  Accountant,  not  more  than  six
months old
(l)  Whether  the  Manager  has  acted  as  manager  to  any  REIT  previously,  which  are
registered with SEBI. If yes, details of the same
6.  DETAILS OF BUSINESS PLAN AND INVESTMENT STRATEGY
(a)  Investment objective and investment style
(b) Details of proposed initial offer 241[***].
(c)  Brief details of the assets proposed to be held under REIT
(d) Details  of  leverage  at  242[holdco  and  /or  SPV(s)]  and  REIT  level  (current  and
proposed)
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
241 Omitted “including copy of the draft initial offer document” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
242 Substituted “SPV” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f.
30.11.2016
67
(e)  Fee structure
7.  DETAILS OF REGULATORY ACTION TAKEN IN THE PAST, IF ANY
(a)  Whether  the  243[  REIT  or  the  parties  to  the  REIT  or  their  directors/  members  of
governing board] are / were involved in any litigation connected with the securities
market which may have an adverse bearing on the business of the 244[REIT] or any
order  has/  had  been  passed  against  them  for  violation  of  securities  laws.  (If  Yes,
provide details. If No, enclose a declaration to that effect)
(b) Whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory
authority against the 245[ REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/ members
of governing board] under any Act or the Regulations/guidelines made thereunder
(If Yes, provide details. If No, enclose a declaration to that effect)
(c)  Whether 246[REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/ members of governing
board] has/ have been refused a certificate by the Board or its/ their certificate has
been suspended at any time prior to this application. (If Yes, provide details. If No,
enclose a declaration to that effect)
8.  OTHER INFORMATION/DECLARATIONS
(a)  Declaration that the sponsor(s) shall individually hold not less than 5% of the units
of the REIT on post initial offer basis
(b) Declaration  that  the  247[REIT  and  parties  to  the  REIT]  are  fit  and  proper  persons
based  on  the  criteria  specified  in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008
DECLARATION STATEMENT (TO BE GIVEN AS BELOW)
243 Substituted “applicant or any of its related party(ies)” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
245 Substituted “applicant or any of its related party(ies)” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
246 Substituted “applicant or any of its related party(ies)” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
(Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
68
We hereby  agree and declare that the information supplied in  the application, including the
attachment sheets, is complete and true.
AND  we  further  agree  that,  we  shall  notify  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
immediately any change in the information provided in the application.
We  further  agree  that  we  shall  comply  with,  and  be  bound  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  and  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Real  Estate
Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, and any other regulations, guidelines or circulars as may
be notified or issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time.
We  further  agree  that  as  a  condition  of  registration,  we  shall  abide  by  such  operational
instructions/directives as may be issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from
time to time.
For and on behalf of____________________________________________________
(Name of the applicant)
Authorized signatory
(Signature)
FORM B
Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014
[See regulation 6(1)]
Certificate of registration as a Real Estate Investment Trust
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), read with the regulations made there under,
the Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to
_______________________________________________________________
69
as  a  Real  Estate  Investment  Trust  subject  to  the  conditions  specified  in  the  Act  and  in  the
regulations made thereunder.
II. The Registration Number of the Real Estate Investment Trust is:
_____________.
Date :
Place :
By Order
Sd/-
For and on behalf of
Securities and Exchange Board of India
70
SCHEDULE II
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts)
Regulations, 2014
[See Regulation 3(2), 6(1) and 14(10)]
FEES TO BE PAID WITH RESPECT TO REGISTRATION AS A REIT
1.  Every applicant shall pay non-refundable application fees of one lakh rupees along
with the application for grant of certificate of registration.
2.  Every  applicant  shall  pay  as  non-refundable  registration  fees  a  sum  of  ten  lakh
rupees within fifteen days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board.
3.  REIT shall pay non-refundable filing fees of:
(a)  0.1% in case of initial and follow-on offer; and
(b) 0.05% in case of rights issue,
of the total issue size including intended retention of oversubscription at the time
of filing of draft Offer document with the Board
4.  If  the  issue  size  estimated  by  the  REIT  differs  from  eventual  issue  size  and
thereby:–
(a)  the fees paid by the REIT is found to be deficient, the balance fee shall be
paid by the issuer 248[alongwith] filing 249[of the final offer document] with
the recognised stock exchanges, as the case may be; and
(b) if  any  excess  fee  is  found  to  have  been  paid,  it  shall  be  refunded  by  the
Board to the REIT.
5.  Such application, registration and filing fees shall be paid by the applicant/REIT
250[by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any
other  mode  allowed  by  RBI  or]  by  a  demand  draft  in  favour  of  'Securities  and
248 Substituted “within seven days of registering the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies or” by the SEBI
(Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
249 Substituted “the letter of offer” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations,
2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
6.3.2017.
71
Exchange  Board  of  India'  payable  at  Mumbai  or  at  respective  regional  or  local
office, as may be required.
72
SCHEDULE III
[See Regulations 15 and 23]
MANDATORY  DISCLOSURES  IN  INITIAL  OFFER  DOCUMENT/FOLLOW  ON
OFFER DOCUMENT
1.  Introduction
a.  Name, registered office address,  correspondence  address,  contact  person (s),
contact details and email id of the REIT
b.  Place and date of creation of the REIT
c.  Registration number and date of registration of the REIT with SEBI
2.  Details of parties to the REIT
a.  Sponsor
i.  Name,  registered  office  address,  correspondence  addresses,  Contact
person (s), contact details, email id
ii.  Background of the sponsor including activities being undertaken by the
sponsor with respect to real estate
b.  Manager
i.  Background  of
the  manager
including  past  experience
in
management/advisory services in real estate
ii.  Brief functions, duties and responsibilities of the manager
iii.  Brief profiles of the directors of the manager and units held by them in
the REIT, if any
c.  Trustee
i.  Background of the trustee including details of registration with SEBI
ii.  Names and profiles of the Directors
iii.  Functions, duties and responsibilities of the Trustee
d.  Valuer
i.  Background of the valuer including past experience in valuation in real
estate, especially in valuation of similar assets by nature and location
ii.  Policy of appointment and removal
73
3.  Brief background of the REIT
a.  Glossary of terms/abbreviations
b.  Structure and description of the REIT
c.  Details  of  Property  Management  /  Lease  Management  and  any  other
arrangements pertaining to underlying REIT assets, entered into with various
parties prior to the issue
d.  Holding structure of the REIT prior to the issue including breakup of the units
held by the sponsor, manager, any other party to the REIT and any other unit
holder holding greater than 5% of the units of the REIT
e.  Proposed holding structure by the aforesaid parties post-issue
f.  Fee and expenses charged/chargeable to the REIT by various parties including
fees charged by the manager, valuer, auditor, trustees and any other third party
and shall also include any set-up costs
4.  Terms of the issue
a.  Terms of the offer including number of units, price, issue opening date, issue
closing  date,  terms  and  conditions  and  any  other  information  as  may  be
required for the investor to make an informed decision
b.  Policy of distribution including method of  calculation  and the frequency for
distribution
c.  Listing of units
i.  Names of the Designated Stock Exchanges where units are proposed to
be listed
ii.  Timelines for listing
iii.  Declaration that prior in-principle approval has been obtained from the
Designated Stock Exchanges
251[d. Commitment received from strategic investors, if any.]
5.  Market overview
6.  Description of the assets under the REIT
a.  Breakup/proposed breakup of REIT assets in terms of Regulation 18
74
b.  Description of real  estate assets of the REIT including the  general  character
and competitive conditions of all the properties held or intended to be acquired
by the REIT and pictures of the properties.
c.  Key statistics of the properties (area, occupancy, location, etc.)
d.  Special features of the properties, if any
e.  Details  of  the  252[holdco  and/or]  SPVs  through  which  the  properties  are
held/proposed  to  be  held  including  holding  pattern,  holding  of  REIT  in  the
253[holdco and/or] SPV, rights of REIT in the 254[holdco and/or] SPV, etc.
f.  In case the properties are held directly by the REIT, details of holding of all
the owners of the properties including percentage of ownership, rights of REIT
vis-à-vis other owners, etc.
g.  Confirmation of adequate Insurance by the Trustee
h.  For leased out properties (property-wise), the following additional disclosures
shall be made:
i.  Total number of tenants
ii.  Rental income as a percentage of total gross income in aggregate for
the top 10 tenants
iii.  Lease-maturity profile, in terms of the percentage of total gross rental
income, for each of the next five years
iv.  a summary of the terms of any sub-leases or  tenancies, including repair
obligation, granted to the tenants of the property
v.  the existing monthly rental income before tax from the property which
is wholly or partly let, together with the amount and a description of
any outgoings or disbursements from the rent
vi.  the  estimated  current  monthly  market  rental  obtainable,  on  the  basis
that the property was available to let on the effective date as at which
the property was valued
vii.  a summary of any rent review provisions
viii.  Level of furnishing of the properties including whether the properties
are cold-shell properties or fully furnished
75
ix.  Whether  any  clauses  exist  in  rental  agreements  providing  high  grace
period in lieu of higher rental values. If yes, details shall be provided
i.  For  under-construction  properties  (property-wise),  the  following  additional
disclosures shall be made:
i.  Stage of construction along with % of completed construction as at the
end of the year
ii.  Progress of construction
iii.  Expected completion
iv.  Status  of  approval/assessment  from  various  authorities  including
statutory  assessment  &  environment  considerations  with  respect  to
development regulations and planning norms
7.  Business Details and Strategy
a.  Investment strategy
  Description  of  investment  strategy  including  category,  type,  location,
allocation to each type, co-investment in properties, etc.
  Description of ROFR with respect to any properties
  Capital and risk management strategy
b.  Use of proceeds:
  purpose of the issue

Issue Expenses
c.  255[***]
8.  Leverage
a.  Capital  structure  of  the  REIT  assets  including  any  borrowings/deferred
payments  with  respect  to  the  REIT  assets  prior  to  the  issue  and  post-issue
(Standalone and consolidated)
b.  Borrowing policy
9.  Conflict of interest and Related party transactions
a.  Procedure for dealing with related party transactions and Conflict of Interest
Prior to its omission, sub paragraph (c) read as follows:
“Projections of income of the REIT over next three years beginning the current financial year certified by the
manager with respect to calculation and assumptions and certified by the auditor with respect to arithmetical
accuracy”
76
b.  Details of any related party transactions  256[which are] undertaken 257[ in last
three financial years and current financial year] as well as any such transactions
proposed in the future
10. Valuation
a.  Summary of valuation as per the full valuation report
b.  Valuation methodology
c.  Frequency of valuation and declaration of NAV
11. Financials
a.  Total rental income from the properties (property-wise) under the REIT for the
previous 3 years
b.  Summary  of  the  financial  statements  of  the  REIT  258[***],  manager  and
sponsor for the previous 3 years, as  applicable
c.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of factors affecting financial condition
and results of operations by the Manager
259[(d)  Projections  of  income  of  the  REIT  over  next  three  years  beginning  the
current  financial  year  certified  by  the  manager  and  the  auditor  with  respect  to
calculation and assumptions
(e) Contingent liabilities as on the date of the financial information disclosed
in the offer document/placement memorandum]
12. Rights of Unit Holders
a.  Rights of unit holders
b.  Proposed  disclosures  to  the  unit  holders  either  directly  or  by  public
dissemination on the Designated Stock Exchanges website
c.  Frequency and manner of meetings of unit holders
13. Title disclosures, litigations and regulatory actions
257 Substitued “prior to the offer” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016,
w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
258 Omitted “(consolidated and stand alone)” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
77
a.  Title disclosure of the properties including any material litigations pertaining
to the properties
b.  Brief  description  of  the  material  litigations  and  regulatory  actions  260[which
are] pending, against the REIT, sponsor261[(s)], manager,  262[ or any of their
associates and sponsor group(s), the trustee and valuer,] if any 263[***]
14. Risk factors
15. Brief details on taxation and regulatory aspects to enable the investors to make
an informed decision
16. Other general information
a.  Key  terms  of  material  agreements  relating  to  the  REIT  including  but  not
limited to the investment management agreement
b.  Policy of appointment of auditor and auditing standards to be followed
c.  Policy and timelines for redressal of complaints by the investors
17. Supporting Documents
a.  264[***]
b.  Auditors Report
c.  Any other such report
18. Such other information as is material and appropriate to enable the investors to
make an informed decision
19. Declarations  265[(to  be  signed  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the  manager  and
sponsor)]
266[20. The documents to be provided to the Board,-
a.  Full valuation report, alongwith offer document
260 Substituted “, whether completed or” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
262 Substituted “trustee, valuer or any of their associates,” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
Prior to its omission, sub paragraph (a) read as follows:
“Full Valuation Report”
78
b.  Due diligence certificate alongwith draft offer document and  offer document
c.  In principle approval from the exchange(s)]
79
SCHEDULE IV
[See Regulation 23(4)]
MANDATORY DISCLOSURES
Mandatory Disclosures in the Annual Report
1.  Manager's brief report of activities of the REIT and summary of the audited stand alone
and consolidated financial statements for the year of the REIT
2.  Management discussion and analysis by the directors of the manager on activities of the
REIT during the year, forecasts and future course of action
3.  Brief details of all the assets of the REIT including a break-up of real estate assets and other
assets, location of the properties, area of the properties, current tenants (not less than top
10  tenants  as  per  value  of  lease),  lease  maturity  profile,  details  of  under-construction
properties, if any, etc.
4.  Brief summary of the full valuation report as at the end of the year
5.  Details of changes during the year pertaining to:
a.  Addition  and  divestment  of  assets  including  the  identity  of  the  buyers  or  sellers,
purchase/sale prices and brief details of valuation for such transactions
b.  Valuation of assets (as per the full valuation reports) and NAV
c.  Letting of assets, occupancy, lease maturity, key tenants, etc.
d.  Borrowings/ repayment of borrowings(standalone and consolidated)
e.  Sponsor, manager, trustee, valuer, directors of the Trustee/manager/sponsor, etc.
f.  Clauses  in  trust  deed,  investment  management  agreement  or  any  other  agreement
entered into pertaining to activities of REIT
g.  Any other material change during the year
6.  Update on development of under-construction properties, if any
7.  Details  of  outstanding  borrowings  and  deferred  payments  of  REIT  including  any  credit
rating(s), debt maturity profile, gearing ratios of the REIT on a consolidated and standalone
basis as at the end of the year
80
8.  Debt maturity profile over each of the next 5 years and debt covenants, if any;
9.  The total operating expenses of the REIT, including all fees and charges paid to the manager
and any other parties, if any during the year
10. Past performance of the REIT with respect to unit price, distributions and yield for the last
5 years, as applicable
11. Unit  price  quoted  on  the  Designated  Stock  Exchanges  at  the  beginning  and  end  of  the
financial year, the highest and lowest unit price and the average daily volume traded during
the financial year
12. 267[1]Details of all related party  transactions during the year 268[, value of which exceeds
five per cent of value of the REIT assets]
269[2.  Details  regarding  the  monies  lent  by  REIT  to  the  holding  company  or  the  special
purpose vehicle in which it has investment in.]
13. Details of fund raising during the year, if any
14. 270[***]
271[14A. Brief details of material and price sensitive information]
15. Brief details of material litigations and regulatory actions 272[which are] pending, against
the REIT, 273[ sponsor(s), manager or any of their associates and sponsor group(s) and the
trustee], if any, as at the end of the year
16. Risk factors
17. Information of the contact person of the REIT
Mandatory annexure to the annual report
1.  Summary of full valuation report capturing key aspects of the report
w.e.f. 15.12.2017
Prior to its omission, paragraph 14 read as follows:
“Brief report on corporate governance”
272 Substituted “, whether completed or” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
273 Substituted “parties to the REIT or any of their associates” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
81
2.  Auditor's report
Mandatory disclosures in the Half-yearly report
1.  All details as provided above (other than clause (2) and mandatory annexures) for annual
report for the previous half-year or as at the end of the half-year as applicable
2.  Financial statements for the half year; (Standalone and consolidated). If audited statements
are not available, unaudited statements may be provided subject to disclosure to that effect
3.  Updated  valuation  report  by  the  valuer  taking  into  account  any  material  developments
during the previous half-year
4.  Any other material events during the half-year
82
SCHEDULE V
[See Regulation 21(3)]
MANDATORY MINIMUM DISCLOSURES IN FULL VALUATION REPORT
The full valuation report shall include the following:
a.  Name and brief details of the valuer
b.  all material details in relation to the basis of valuation
c.  Description  and  explanation  of  the  valuation  methodologies  adopted  including  key
assumptions  used,  justification  of  the  assumptions,  explanation  of  the  rationale  for
choosing the particular valuation method if more than one method is or could have been
adopted, etc.
d.  overall structure and condition of the relevant market including an analysis of the supply-
demand situation, the market trend and investment activities
e.  For every property, the following details 274[, to the extent applicable,] shall be
mentioned:
i.  Address  of  the  property,  ownership  and  title  details  including  whether  the
transaction is a related party transaction  (Valuer may rely on the title disclosures
provided by the manager for the purpose)
ii.  Location of the property (include latest pictures), formal site identification, physical
features  (e.g.  size,  configuration,  frontage,  topography)  site  services,  town
planning, etc.
iii.  If  the  property  is  completed  and  revenue  generating,  the  following  shall  be
mentioned:
1.  the existing use of the property
2.  a brief description of the property including age of the building, the site area,
275[developable area, leasable area, completed area, occupied area] etc.
3.  occupancy rate
India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
83
iv.  In case of under-construction properties, the following shall be mentioned:
1.  Stage of completion of the property
2.  Statutory approvals received and pending as on date of valuation
3.  Approved use of the property as per approved construction plans
v.  the options or rights of pre-emption and other encumbrances concerning or affecting
the property
vi.  the nature of the interest the REIT holds/proposes to hold in the property whether
freehold or leasehold, percentage of interest of the REIT in the property, remainder
of the term in case of leasehold property
vii.  Date of inspection and date of valuation
viii.  Qualifications and assumptions
ix.  Method used for valuation
x.  Valuation standards adopted for valuation of real estate assets
xi.  Extent of valuer's investigations and nature and source of data to be relied upon
xii.  Purchase price of the property by the REIT(for existing properties of the REIT)
xiii.  Valuation  of  the  property  in  the  previous  3  years;  (for  existing  properties  of  the
REIT)
xiv.  Detailed valuation of the property as calculated by the valuer
xv.  Latest ready reckoner rate (as published by the state government)
276[xvi. List of one-time sanctions/approvals which are obtained or pending
xvii. List of up to date/overdue periodic clearances
xviii. Statement of assets included
xix.  Estimates  of  already  carried  as  well  as  proposed  major  repairs  and
improvements along with estimated time of completion
xx. Revenue pendencies including local authority taxes associated with REIT asset
and compounding charges, if any
84
xxi. On-going 277[***] material litigations including tax disputes in relation to the
assets, if any
xxii. Vulnerability to natural or induced hazards that may not have been covered in
town planning/ building control]
f.  any matters which may affect the property or its value
g.  a declaration by the valuer that:
i.  the valuer is competent to undertake the valuation
ii.  the valuer is independent and has prepared the report on a fair and unbiased basis
iii.  the valuer has valued the properties based on the valuation standards as specified
under sub-regulation 10 of 278[regulation 21] of these Regulations
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
w.e.f. 15.12.2017
85
SCHEDULE VI
[See Regulation 7(d)]
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR REIT AND PARTIES TO THE REIT
1.  REIT and parties to the REIT shall conduct all affairs of the REIT in the interest of all
the unit-holders of the REIT.
2.  REIT  and  parties  to  the  REIT  shall  make  adequate,  accurate,  explicit  and  timely
disclosure  of  relevant  material  information  to  all  unit  holders,  Designated  Stock
Exchanges  and  the  Board  in  accordance  with  these  Regulations  and  as  may  be
specified by the Designated Stock Exchanges from time to time.
3.  REIT and parties to the REIT shall try to avoid conflicts of interest, as far as possible,
in managing the affairs of the REIT and keep the interest of all unit holders paramount
in  all  matters.  In  case  such  events  cannot  be  avoided,  it  shall  be  ensured  that
appropriate disclosures are made to the unit-holders and they are fairly treated.
4.  The  REIT  and  parties  to  the  REIT  shall  ensure  that  the  fees  charged  by  them  with
respect to activity of the REIT shall be fair and reasonable.
5.  Manager shall carry out the business of the REIT and invest in accordance with the
investment  objectives  stated  in  the  Offer  document  and  take  investment  decisions
solely in the interest of unit holders.
6.  REIT, parties to the REIT and any third party appointed by the manager shall not use
any unethical means to sell, market or induce any person to buy units of the REIT and
where a third party appointed by the manager fails to comply with this condition, the
manager shall be held liable for the same.
7.  REIT and parties to the REIT shall maintain high standards of integrity and fairness in
all their dealings and in the conduct of their business,
8.  REIT  and  parties  to  the  REIT  shall  render  at  all  times  high  standards  of  service,
exercise  due  diligence,  ensure  proper  care  and  exercise  independent  professional
judgment.
9.  REIT and parties to the REIT shall not make any exaggerated statement, whether oral
or written, about their qualifications/capabilities/experience/ achievements.
10. REIT  and  parties  to  the  REIT  shall  be  liable  to  the  unit  holders  for  their  acts  of
commission  or  omissions,  notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  any  contract  or
agreement.
86
SCHEDULE VII
[See Regulation 34]
Amendment to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds)
Regulations, 2012
In regulation 2, in sub-regulation (1), in clause (o), after the words “or body corporate” and
before  the  words  “in  which  an  Alternative  Investment  Fund”,  the  words  “or  real  estate
investment trust or infrastructure investment trust” shall be inserted.
U.K. SINHA
CHAIRMAN
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA
87