CHAPTER II
REGISTRATION OF ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUNDS
Registration of Alternative Investment Funds.
3.  (1)  On and from the commencement of these regulations, no entity or person shall act as an
Alternative Investment Fund unless it has obtained a certificate of registration from the
Board:
Provided  that  an  existing  fund  falling  within  the  definition  of  Alternative  Investment
Fund which is not registered with the Board may continue to operate for a period of six
months  from  commencement  of  these  regulations  or  if  it  has  made  an  application  for
registration under sub-regulation (5) within the said period of six months, till the disposal
of such application:
to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”.
Provided  further  that  the  Board  may,  in  special  cases,  extend  the  said  period  up  to  a
maximum of twelve months from the date of such commencement:
Provided further that existing schemes will be allowed to complete their agreed tenure,
such  funds  shall  not  raise  any  fresh  monies  other  than  commitments  already  made  till
registration is granted under regulation 6:
11[Provided  further that such existing funds, which do not  propose  to  accept  any fresh
commitments  after  commencement  of  these  regulations  shall  not  be  required  to  obtain
registration under these regulations subject to submission of information on their activities
to the Board in the manner as may be specified]
Provided  further  that  if  such  existing  funds  are  not  able  to  comply  with  conditions
specified under these regulations, they may apply for exemption to the Board from strict
compliance  with  these  regulations  and  the  Board  upon  examination  may  provide  such
exemptions or issue such instructions as may be deemed appropriate.
(2)  The funds registered as venture capital fund under Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  shall  continue  to  be  regulated  by  the  said
regulations till the existing fund or scheme managed by the fund is wound up  and such
funds shall not launch any new scheme after notification of these regulations:
Provided that the existing fund or scheme shall not increase the targeted corpus of the
fund or scheme after notification of these regulations.
Provided  further  that  venture  capital  funds  may  seek  re-registration  under  these
regulations  subject  to  approval  of  two-thirds  of  their  investors  by  value  of  their
investment.
(3)  Any entity referred to in sub-regulation (1) who fails to make an application for grant of
a certificate within the period specified therein shall cease to carry on any activity as an
Alternative Investment Fund.
(4)  Alternative Investment  Funds shall seek registration in one of the categories mentioned
hereunder  and  in  case  of  Category  I  Alternative  Investment  Fund,  in  one  of  the  sub-
categories thereof:
(a)   “Category I Alternative  Investment Fund” which invests in start-up or early stage
ventures or social ventures or SMEs or infrastructure or other sectors or areas which
the  government  or  regulators  consider  as  socially  or  economically  desirable  and
shall include venture capital funds, SME Funds, social venture funds, infrastructure
funds and such other Alternative  Investment Funds as may be specified;
are generally perceived to have positive spillover effects on economy and for which
the  Board  or  Government  of  India  or  other  regulators  in  India  might  consider
providing  incentives  or  concessions  shall  be  included  and  such  funds  which  are
formed as trusts or companies shall be construed as “venture capital company” or
“venture capital fund” as specified under sub-section (23FB) of Section 10 of the
Income Tax Act, 1961.
(b) “Category II Alternative  Investment Fund” which does not fall in Category I and
III and which does not undertake leverage or borrowing other than to meet day-to-
day operational requirements and as permitted in these regulations;
as private equity funds or debt funds for which no specific incentives or concessions
are given by the government or any other Regulator shall be included.
(c)  “Category  III  Alternative    Investment  Fund”  which  employs  diverse  or  complex
trading strategies and may employ leverage including through investment in listed
or unlisted derivatives.
as hedge funds or funds which trade with a view to make short term returns or such
other  funds  which  are  open  ended  and  for  which  no  specific  incentives  or
concessions are given by the government or any other Regulator shall be included.
(5)  An application for grant of certificate shall be made for any of the categories as specified
in sub-regulation (4) in Form A as specified in the First Schedule to these regulations and
shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in  Part A of the
Second Schedule to these regulations to be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof.
(6)  The Board shall take into account requirements as specified in these regulations for the
purpose of considering grant of registration.
(7)  Without  prejudice  to  the  powers  of  the  Board  to  take  any  action  under  the  Act  or
regulations  made  there  under,  the  certificate  of  registration  shall  be  valid  till  the
Alternative Investment Fund is wound up.
(8)  The Board may, in the interest of the investors, issue directions with regard to the transfer
of records, documents or securities or disposal of investments relating to its activities as
an Alternative Investment Fund.
(9)  The Board may, in order to protect the interests of investors, appoint any person to take
charge of records, documents, securities and for this purpose, also  determine the terms
and conditions of such an appointment.
Eligibility Criteria.
4.
For  the  purpose  of  the  grant  of  certificate  to  an  applicant,  the  Board  shall  consider  the
following conditions for eligibility, namely, —
(a)
the memorandum of association in case of a company; or the Trust Deed in case of
a Trust; or the Partnership deed in case of a limited liability partnership permits it
to carry on the activity of an Alternative Investment Fund;
(b)
the applicant is prohibited by its memorandum and articles of association or trust
deed or partnership deed from making an invitation to the public to subscribe to its
securities;
(c)
in case the applicant is a Trust, the instrument of trust is in the form of a deed and
has been duly registered under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908;
(d)
in  case  the  applicant  is  a  limited  liability  partnership,  the  partnership  is  duly
incorporated and the partnership deed has been duly filed with the Registrar under
the provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008;
(e)
in case the applicant is a body corporate, it is set up or established under the laws
of the Central or State Legislature and is permitted to carry on the activities of an
Alternative Investment Fund;
(f)
the applicant, Sponsor and Manager are fit and proper persons based on the criteria
specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;
(g)
12[The key investment team of the Manager of Alternative Investment Fund has -
(i)
adequate experience, with at least one key personnel having not less
than five years of experience in advising or managing pools of capital
or  in  fund  or  asset  or  wealth  or  portfolio  management  or  in  the
business of buying, selling and dealing of securities or other financial
assets; and
(ii)  at least one key personnel with professional qualification in finance,
accountancy,  business  management,  commerce,  economics,  capital
market or banking from  a university or an institution recognized by
the  Central  Government  or  any  State  Government  or  a  foreign
university,  or  a  CFA  charter  from  the  CFA  institute  or  any  other
qualification as may be specified by the Board:
Provided  that  the  requirements  of  experience  and  professional
qualification as specified in regulation 4(g)(i) and 4(g)(ii) may also be
fulfilled by the same key personnel.]
2020 w.e.f 19-10-2020. Prior to its substitution, clause (g) read as follows;
“(g) the key investment team of the Manager of Alternative Investment Fund has adequate experience, with at least
one key personnel having not less than five years experience in advising or managing pools of capital or in fund or
asset or wealth or portfolio management or in the business of buying, selling and dealing of securities or other financial
assets and has relevant professional qualification;”
(h)
the  Manager  or  Sponsor  has  the  necessary  infrastructure  and  manpower  to
effectively discharge its activities;
(i)
the  applicant  has  clearly  described  at  the  time  of  registration  the  investment
objective, the targeted investors,  proposed corpus, investment style or strategy and
proposed tenure of the fund or scheme;
(j)  whether  the  applicant  or  any  entity  established  by  the  Sponsor  or  Manager  has
earlier been refused registration by the Board.
Furnishing of Information.
5.  (1)  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish  any  such  further  information  or
clarification regarding the Sponsor or Manager or nature of the fund or fund management
activities or any such matter connected thereto to consider the application for grant of a
certificate or after registration thereon.
(2)  If  required  by  the  Board,  the  applicant  or  Sponsor  or  Manager  shall  appear  before  the
Board for personal representation.
Procedure for grant of Certificate.
6.  (1)  The  Board  may  grant  certificate  under  any  specific  category  of  Alternative  Investment
Fund,  if  it  is  satisfied  that  the  applicant  fulfills  the  requirements  as  specified  in  these
regulations.
(2)  The Board shall, on receipt of the registration fee as specified in the Second Schedule,
grant a certificate of registration in Form B.
(3)  The registration may be granted with such conditions as may be deemed appropriate by
the Board.
13[(4) The Board may, on being satisfied that the applicant complies with the provisions of
regulation 4 except those of clause (c) or clause (d) thereof, as the case may be, grant an in-
principle approval to the applicant:
Provided that the applicant shall comply with clause (c) or clause (d) of regulation 4, as
the case may be, within six months from the date of grant of in-principle approval and upon
compliance  with  the  same,  the  Board  may  grant  a  certificate  of  registration  under  sub-
regulation (2).
(5) An Alternative Investment Fund that has been  granted in-principle approval may accept
commitments from investors but shall not accept any monies till it is granted registration under
sub-regulation (2) of this regulation.]
Conditions of certificate.
7.  (1)  The  certificate  granted  under  regulation  6  shall,  inter-alia,  be  subject  to  the  following
conditions:-
(a)
the Alternative Investment Fund shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these
regulations;
(b)
the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  not  carry  on  any  other  activity  other  than
permitted activities;
(c)
the Alternative Investment Fund shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any
information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false
or misleading  in  any material particular or if there is  any material  change in  the
information already submitted.
(2) An  Alternative  Investment  Fund  which  has  been  granted  registration  under  a  particular
category cannot change its category subsequent to registration, except with the approval of
the Board.
Procedure where registration is refused.
8.  (1)  After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion
that  a  certificate  should  not  be  granted,  it  may  reject  the  application  after  giving  the
applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2)  The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant
within thirty days.
(3)  Where an application for a certificate is rejected by the Board, the applicant shall cease to
carry on any activity as an Alternative Investment Fund:
Provided  that  nothing  contained  in  these  regulations  shall  affect  the  liability  of  the
applicant towards its existing investors under law or agreement.
CHAPTER III
INVESTMENT CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
Investment Strategy.
9.  (1)  All Alternative Investment Funds shall state investment strategy, investment purpose and
its investment methodology in its placement memorandum to the investors.
(2)  Any material alteration to the fund strategy shall be made with the consent of atleast two-
thirds of unit holders by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund.
Investment in Alternative Investment Fund.
10. Investment in all categories of Alternative Investment Funds shall be subject to the following
conditions:-
(a)  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  may  raise  funds  from  any  investor  whether  Indian,
foreign or non-resident Indians by way of issue of units;
(b)  each scheme of the Alternative  Investment Fund shall have corpus of atleast twenty crore
rupees;
(c)  the Alternative Investment Fund shall not accept from an investor, an investment of value
less than one crore rupees:
Provided  that  in  case  of  investors  who  are  employees  or  directors  of  the  Alternative
Investment  Fund  or  employees  or  directors  of  the  Manager,  the  minimum  value  of
investment shall be twenty five lakh rupees.
(d)  the  Manager  or  Sponsor  shall  have  a  continuing  interest  in  the  Alternative  Investment
Fund of not less than two and half percent of the corpus or five crore rupees, whichever is
lower, in  the form  of investment in  the Alternative  Investment  Fund and such interest
shall not be through the waiver of management fees:
Provided that for Category III Alternative Investment Fund, the continuing interest shall
be not less than five percent of the corpus or ten crore rupees, whichever is lower.
(e)  the  Manager  or  Sponsor  shall  disclose  their  investment  in  the  Alternative    Investment
Fund to the investors of the Alternative  Investment Fund;
(f)  no  scheme  of  the  Alternative    Investment  Fund  shall  have  more  than  one  thousand
investors14[:]
15[Provided  that  the  provisions  of  the  16[Companies  Act,  2013]  shall  apply  to  the
Alternative Investment Fund, if it is formed as a company.]
(g)  the fund shall not solicit or collect funds except by way of private placement.
Placement Memorandum.
11. (1)Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  raise  funds  through  private  placement  by  issue  of
information memorandum or placement memorandum, by whatever name called.
(2) Such  information  or  placement  memorandum  as  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall
contain all material information about the Alternative  Investment Fund and the Manager,
background of key investment team of the Manager, targeted investors, fees and all other
expenses proposed to be charged, tenure of the Alternative  Investment Fund or scheme,
conditions  or  limits  on  redemption,  investment  strategy,  risk  management  tools  and
parameters employed, key service providers, conflict of interest and procedures to identify
and  address  them,  disciplinary  history,  the  terms  and  conditions  on  which  the  Manager
offers investment services, its affiliations with other intermediaries, manner of winding up
of the Alternative  Investment Fund or the scheme and such other information as may be
necessary  for  the  investor  to  take  an  informed  decision  on  whether  to  invest  in  the
Alternative  Investment Fund.
symbol “;”
to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956”.
Schemes.
12. (1) The  Alternative  Investment  Fund  may  launch  schemes  subject  to  filing  of  placement
memorandum with the Board.
(2) Such  placement  memorandum  shall  be  filed  with  the  Board  atleast  thirty  days  prior  to
launch of scheme along with the fees as specified in the Second Schedule:
Provided that payment of scheme fees shall not apply in case of launch of first scheme by
the Alternative Investment Fund.
(3) The Board may communicate its comments, if any, to the applicant prior to launch of the
scheme and  the applicant shall incorporate the comments in placement memorandum prior
to launch of scheme.
Tenure.
13. (1) Category I Alternative Investment Fund and Category II Alternative Investment Fund shall
be  close  ended  and  the  tenure  of  fund  or  scheme  shall  be  determined  at  the  time  of
application subject to sub-regulation (2) of this regulation.
(2) Category I and II Alternative Investment Fund or schemes launched by such funds shall
have a minimum tenure of three years.
(3) Category III Alternative Investment Fund may be open ended or close ended.
(4) Extension of the tenure of the close ended Alternative Investment Fund may be permitted
up  to  two  years  subject  to  approval  of  two-thirds  of  the  unit  holders  by  value  of  their
investment in the Alternative Investment Fund.
(5) In  the  absence  of  consent  of  unit  holders,  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  fully
liquidate within one year following expiration of the fund tenure or extended tenure.
Listing.
14. (1) Units of close ended Alternative Investment Fund may be listed on stock exchange subject
to a minimum tradable lot of one crore rupees.
(2) Listing of Alternative Investment Fund units shall be permitted only after final close of the
fund or scheme.
General Investment Conditions.
15. (1) Investments  by  all  categories  of  Alternative  Investment  Funds  shall  be  subject  to  the
following conditions:-
(a)  Alternative  Investment  Fund  may  invest  in  securities  of  companies  incorporated
outside India subject to such conditions or guidelines that may be stipulated or issued
by the Reserve Bank of India and the Board from time to time;
(b) Co-investment in an investee company by a Manager or Sponsor shall not be on terms
more favourable than those offered to the Alternative  Investment Fund;
(c)  Category I and II Alternative Investment Funds shall invest not more than twenty five
percent of the 17[investable funds] in one Investee Company;
(d) Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall invest not more than ten percent of the
18[investable funds] in one Investee Company
(e)  Alternative Investment Fund shall not invest in associates except with the approval of
seventy  five  percent  of  investors  by  value  of  their  investment  in  the  Alternative
Investment Fund;
(f)  Un-invested portion of the 19[investable funds] may be invested in liquid mutual funds
or bank deposits or other liquid assets of higher quality such as Treasury bills, CBLOs,
Commercial Papers, Certificates of Deposits, etc. till deployment of funds as per the
investment objective;
(g) Alternative Investment Fund may act as Nominated Investor as specified in clause (b)
of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 106N of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.
20[(h)  Investment  by  Category  I  and  Category  II  Alternative  Investment  Funds  in  the
shares  of  entities  listed  on  institutional  trading  platform  after  the  commencement  of
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
word “corpus”
18 Ibid
19 Ibid
(Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015  shall  be  deemed  to  be  investment  in  ‘unlisted
securities’ for the purpose of these regulations.]
(2) Notwithstanding the conditions as specified in sub-regulation (1), the Board may specify
additional  requirements  or  criteria  for  Alternative  Investment  Funds  or  for  a  specific
category thereof.
Conditions for Category I Alternative Investment Funds.
16. (1) The following investment conditions shall apply to all Category I Alternative  Investment
Funds:-
(a)  Category I Alternative Investment Fund shall invest in investee companies or venture
capital undertaking or in special purpose vehicles or in limited liability partnerships
or in units of other Alternative Investment Funds as specified in these regulations;
(b) Fund of Category I Alternative  Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I
Alternative  Investment Funds of same sub-category:
Provided that they shall only invest in such units and shall not invest in units of other
Fund of Funds:
Provided  further that the investment  conditions  as specified in  sub-regulations (2),
(3), (4) or (5) shall not be applicable to investments by such funds.
(c)  Category I Alternative  Investment Funds shall not borrow funds directly or indirectly
or engage in any leverage except for meeting temporary funding requirements for not
more than thirty days, on not more than four occasions in a year and not more than ten
percent of the 21[investable funds].
(2) The  following  investment  conditions  shall  apply  to  venture  capital  funds  in  addition  to
conditions laid down in sub-regulation (1):-
word “corpus”
(a)  at least two-thirds of the 22[investable funds] shall be invested in unlisted equity shares
or equity linked instruments of a venture capital undertaking or in companies listed or
proposed to be listed on a SME exchange or SME segment of an exchange;
(b) not more than one-third  of the 23[investable funds] shall be invested in:
(i)
subscription to initial public offer of a venture capital undertaking whose shares
are proposed to be listed;
(ii)
debt or debt instrument of a venture capital undertaking in which the fund has
already  made  an  investment  by  way  of  equity  or  contribution  towards
partnership interest;
(iii)  preferential  allotment,  including  through  qualified  institutional  placement,  of
equity shares or equity linked instruments of a listed company subject to lock
in period of one year;
(iv)
the equity shares or equity linked instruments of a financially weak company or
a sick industrial company whose shares are listed.
company” means a company, which has at the end of the previous financial year
accumulated losses, which has resulted in erosion of more than fifty percent but
less than hundred percent of its net worth as at the beginning of the previous
financial year.
(v)
special  purpose  vehicles  which  are  created  by  the  fund  for  the  purpose  of
facilitating or promoting investment in accordance with these regulations:
Provided that the investment conditions and restrictions stipulated in clause (a) and
clause  (b)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be  achieved  by  the  fund  by  the  end  of  its  life
cycle.
(c)  such  funds  may  enter  into  an  agreement  with  merchant  banker  to  subscribe  to  the
unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver securities in the process of
22 Ibid.
word “corpus”
market  making  under  Chapter  XB  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 and the provisions
of clause (a) and clause (b) of sub-regulation (2) shall not apply in case of acquisition
or sale of securities pursuant to such subscription or market making.
(d) such  funds  shall  be  exempt  from  regulation  3  and  3A  of  Securities  and  Exchange
Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  1992  in  respect  of
investment in companies listed on SME Exchange or SME segment of an exchange
pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:
(i)
the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pursuant to such
due-diligence, within two working days of such acquisition or dealing, to the
stock exchanges where the investee company is listed;
(ii)
such  investment  shall  be  locked  in  for  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  of
investment.
(3) The following conditions shall apply to SME Funds in addition to conditions laid down in
sub-regulation (1):-
(a)  atleast  seventy  five  percent  of  the  24[investable  funds]  shall  be  invested  in  unlisted
securities or partnership interest of venture capital undertakings or investee companies
which are SMEs or in companies listed or proposed to be listed on SME exchange or
SME segment of an exchange;
(b) such  funds  may  enter  into  an  agreement  with  merchant  banker  to  subscribe  to  the
unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver securities in the process of
market  making  under  Chapter  XB  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009;
(c)  such  funds  shall  be  exempt  from  regulation  3  and  3A  of  Securities  and  Exchange
Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  1992  in  respect  of
investment in companies listed on SME Exchange or SME segment of an exchange
pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:
word “corpus”
(i)
the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pursuant to such
due-diligence, within two working days of such acquisition or dealing, to the
stock exchanges where the investee company is listed;
(ii)
such  investment  shall  be  locked  in  for  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  of
investment.
(4) The following conditions shall apply to social venture funds in addition to the conditions
laid down in sub-regulation (1):-
(a)  atleast  seventy  five  percent  of  the  25[investable  funds]  shall  be  invested  in  unlisted
securities or partnership interest of social ventures.
(b) such funds may accept grants, provided that such utilization of such  grants shall be
restricted to clause (a)26[:]
27[Provided that the amount of grant that may be accepted by the fund from any
person shall not be less than twenty-five lakh rupees:
Provided further that no profits or gains shall accrue to the provider of such
grants.]
(c)  such funds may give grants to social ventures, provided that appropriate disclosure is
made in the placement memorandum.
(d) such funds may accept muted returns for their investors  i.e. they may accept returns
on  their  investments  which  may  be  lower  than  prevailing  returns  for  similar
investments.
(5) The following conditions shall apply to Infrastructure  Funds in addition to conditions laid
down in sub-regulation (1):-
(a)  atleast  seventy  five  percent  of  the  28[investable  funds]  shall  be  invested  in  unlisted
securities  or  units  or  partnership  interest  of  venture  capital  undertaking  or  investee
word “corpus”
symbol “.”.
word “corpus”
companies or special purpose vehicles, which are engaged in or formed for the purpose
of operating, developing or holding infrastructure projects;
(b) notwithstanding clause (a) of sub-regulation (5), such funds may also invest in listed
securitized debt instruments or listed debt securities of investee companies or special
purpose  vehicles,  which  are  engaged  in  or  formed  for  the  purpose  of  operating,
developing or holding infrastructure projects.
Conditions for Category II Alternative Investment Funds.
17. The following investment conditions shall apply to Category II Alternative  Investment Funds:-
(a)  Category  II  Alternative    Investment  Funds  shall  invest  primarily  in  unlisted  investee
companies or in  units of other Alternative  Investment  Funds as may be specified in  the
placement memorandum;
(b) Fund of Category  II Alternative  Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I or
Category II Alternative  Investment Funds:
Provided that they shall only invest in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund
of Funds.
(c)  Category II Alternative Investment Funds may not borrow funds directly or indirectly and
shall not engage in leverage except for meeting temporary funding requirements for not
more than  thirty days, not more than four occasions in a year and not more than ten percent
of the 29[investable funds];
(d) Notwithstanding  clause    (c),  Category  II  Alternative  Investment  Funds  may  engage  in
hedging, subject to guidelines as specified by the Board from time to time;
(e)  Category  II  Alternative  Investment  Funds  may  enter  into  an  agreement  with  merchant
banker  to  subscribe  to  the  unsubscribed  portion  of  the  issue  or  to  receive  or  deliver
securities  in  the  process  of  market  making  under  Chapter  XB  of  the  Securities  and
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,
2009.
word “corpus”
(f)  Category  II  Alternative  Investment  Funds  shall  be  exempt from  regulation  3  and  3A  of
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992
in  respect  of  investment  in  companies  listed  on  SME  Exchange  or  SME  segment  of  an
exchange pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:
(i)  the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pursuant to such due-
diligence,  within  two  working  days  of  such  acquisition  or  dealing,  to  the  stock
exchanges where the investee company is listed;
(ii) such investment shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of investment.
Conditions for Category III Alternative Investment Funds.
18. The  following  investment  conditions  shall  apply  to  Category  III  Alternative    Investment
Funds:-
(a)  Category III Alternative  Investment Funds may invest in securities of listed or unlisted
investee companies or derivatives or complex or structured products;
30[(aa) Category III Alternative Investment Funds may deal in goods received in delivery against
physical settlement of commodity derivatives;]
(b) 31[Fund of Category III] Alternative  Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I
or Category II Alternative  Investment Funds:
Provided that they invest solely in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund of
Funds.
(c)  Category III Alternative  Investment Funds may engage in leverage or borrow subject to
consent from the investors in the fund and subject to a maximum limit, as may be specified
by the Board:
Provided that such funds shall disclose information regarding the overall level of leverage
employed, the level of leverage arising from borrowing of cash, the level of leverage arising
from position held in derivatives or in any complex product and the main source of leverage
words and symbol “Fund of Category II”
in  their  fund  to  the  investors  and  to  the  Board  periodically,  as  may  be  specified  by  the
Board.
(d) Category III Alternative Investment Funds shall be regulated through issuance of directions
regarding  areas  such  as  operational  standards,  conduct  of  business  rules,  prudential
requirements, restrictions on redemption and conflict of interest as may be specified by the
Board.
Other Alternative Investment Fund.
19. The Board may lay down framework for Alternative Investment Funds other than the Funds
falling in the categories specified in these regulations.
32[CHAPTER III -A
ANGEL FUNDS
Definitions.
19A. For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context  otherwise requires, the terms  defined
herein  shall  bear  the  meanings  assigned  to  them  below,  and  their  cognate  expressions  and
variations shall be construed accordingly,-
(1)  “angel  fund”  means  a  sub-category  of  Venture  Capital  Fund  under  Category  I-  Alternative
Investment  Fund  that  raises  funds  from  angel  investors  and  invests  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of this Chapter.
(2) "angel investor" means any person who proposes to invest in an angel fund and satisfies one
of the following conditions, namely,
(a) an individual investor who has net tangible assets of at least two crore rupees excluding value
of his principal residence, and who:
(i) has early stage investment experience, or
(ii) has experience as a serial entrepreneur, or
(iii) is a senior management professional with at least ten years of experience;
mean  prior  experience  in  investing  in  start-up  or  emerging  or  early-stage  ventures  and
'serial entrepreneur' shall mean a person who has promoted or co-promoted more than one
start-up venture.
(b) a body corporate with a net worth of at least ten crore rupees; or
(c) an Alternative Investment Fund registered under these regulations or a Venture Capital Fund
registered under the SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996.
(3) "company with family connection" means:
a. if the angel investor is an individual,
i. any company which is promoted by such an individual or his relative; or
ii. any company where the individual or his relative is a director; or
iii.  any  company where  the person or his  relative has control, or shares  or voting rights
which entitle them to fifteen percent or more of the shares or voting rights in the company.
33[ sub-section 77 of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013].
assigned to it under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.
b. if the angel investor is a body corporate,
i. any company which is a subsidiary or a holding company of the investor;
or
ii. any company  which is  part of the same  group or under the same management of the
investor; or
to the substitution, it read as “section 6 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”.
management"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  under  regulation  23  of  the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2009.
iii. any company where the body corporate or its directors/partners have control, or shares
or voting rights which entitle them to fifteen percent or more of the shares or voting rights
in the company.
assigned to it under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.
Applicability.
19B. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to angel funds and schemes launched by such
angel funds.
(2) All other provisions of these regulations, except clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (f) of regulation
10,  regulation  12,  regulation  14,  clauses  (a),  (c)  and  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  15,
clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 16 and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 16, and the
guidelines and circulars issued under these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires or
repugnant to the provisions of this Chapter, shall apply to angel funds, their sponsors and managers
and angel investors.
Registration of angel funds.
19C. (1) An applicant may apply for registration as an angel fund in accordance with the provisions
of Chapter II of these Regulations.
(2) An Alternative Investment Fund already registered under these regulations, which has not
made any investments, may apply for conversion of its category into an angel fund under the
provisions of this Chapter and the provisions of Chapter II shall apply as they apply to a fresh
registration.
Investment in angel funds.
19D. (1) Angel funds shall only raise funds by way of issue of units to angel investors.
(2) An angel fund shall have a corpus of at least 34[five] crore rupees.
(3) Angel funds shall accept, up to a maximum period of 35[five] years, an investment of not less
than twenty five lakh rupees from an angel investor.
(4) Angel fund shall raise funds through private placement by issue of information memorandum
or placement memorandum, by whatever name called.
36[Provided that the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 shall apply to the Angel Fund, if
it is formed as a company.]
Schemes.
19E. 37[(1) The angel fund may launch schemes subject to filing of a term sheet with the Board,
containing material information regarding the scheme, in the format and time period as may be
specified by the Board.]
38[***]
39[***]
to the substitution, it read as “ten”.
to the substitution, it read as “three”.
to the substitution, it read as “The angel fund may launch schemes subject to filing of a scheme memorandum at
least ten working days prior to launch of the scheme with the Board:
Provided that payment of scheme fees shall not apply to schemes launched by angel funds.”.
the omission, it read as “(2) Such scheme memorandum shall contain all material information about the investments
proposed under such scheme.”
the omission, it read as “(3) The Board may communicate its comments, if any, to the applicant prior to launch of
the Scheme and the applicant shall incorporate the comments in the scheme memorandum prior to launch of the
scheme.”
40[(2)] No scheme of the angel fund shall have more than 41[two hundred] angel investors.
42[Provided that the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 shall apply to the Angel Fund, if
it is formed as a company.]
Investment by Angel Funds.
19F. (1) Angel funds shall invest 43[***] in venture capital undertakings which:
(a)  44[complies  with
the  criteria  regarding
the  age  of
the  venture  capital
undertaking/startup issued by the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion under
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India vide notification no. G.S.R.
180(E) dated February 17, 2016 or such other policy made in this regard which may be in
force;]
(b) have a turnover of less than twenty five crore rupees;
(c) are not promoted or sponsored by or related to an industrial group whose group turnover
exceeds three hundred crore rupees; and
body corporates with the same promoter(s)/promoter group, a parent company and its
subsidiaries, a group of body corporates in which the same person/ group of persons
exercise
control,
and
a
group
of
body
corporates
comprised
of
associates/subsidiaries/holding companies.
revenue of the industrial group.
to the substitution, it read as “(4)”
w.e.f. 04-01-2017.
04-01-2017.
investment;” by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 04-01-2017.
(d)  are  not  companies  with  family  connection  with  any  of  the  angel  investors  who  are
investing in the company.
(2) Investment by an angel fund in any venture capital undertaking shall not be less than 45[twenty
five] lakh rupees and shall not exceed 46[ten crores] rupees.
(3) Investment by an angel fund in the venture capital undertaking shall be locked-in for a
period of 47[one year].
(4) Angel funds shall not invest in associates.
(5) Angel funds shall not invest more than twenty-five per cent of the total investments under
all its schemes in one venture capital undertaking:
Provided that the compliance to this sub-regulation shall be ensured by the Angel Fund at
the end of its tenure.
48[(6)  An  angel  fund  may  also  invest  in  the  securities  of  companies  incorporated  outside  India
subject to such conditions or guidelines that may be stipulated or issued by the Reserve Bank of
India and the Board from time to time.]
Obligations of Sponsors and Managers of Angel Fund.
19G. (1) The sponsor shall ensure that the angel investors satisfy the conditions specified in sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 19A.
(2) The manager or sponsor shall have a continuing interest in the angel fund of not less than two
and half percent of the corpus or fifty lakh rupees, whichever is lesser, and such interest shall not
be through the waiver of management fees.
w.e.f. 04-01-2017.
to its substitution, it read as “five crores”.
2016, w.e.f. 04-01-2017.
(3) The manager of the angel fund shall obtain an undertaking from every angel investor proposing
to  make  investment  in  a  venture  capital  undertaking,  confirming  his  approval  for  such  an
investment, prior to making such an investment.
Prohibition of Listing.
19H. Units of angel funds shall not be listed on any recognised stock exchange.]
CHAPTER IV
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES AND TRANSPERANCY
General Obligations.
20. (1) All  Alternative  Investment  Funds  shall  review  policies  and  procedures,  and  their
implementation, on a regular basis, or as a result of business developments, to ensure their
continued appropriateness.
(2) The  Sponsor  or  Manager  of  Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  appoint  a  custodian
registered  with  the  Board  for  safekeeping  of  securities  if  the  corpus  of  the  Alternative
Investment Fund is more than five hundred crore rupees:
Provided that the Sponsor or Manager of a Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall
appoint  such  custodian  irrespective  of  the  size  of  corpus  of  the  Alternative  Investment
Fund.
49[Provided  further  that  the  custodian  appointed  by  Category  III  Alternative  Investment
Fund  shall  keep  custody  of  securities  and  goods  received  in  delivery  against  physical
settlement of commodity derivatives.]
(3) All  Alternative  Investment  Funds  shall  inform  the  Board  in  case  of  any  change  in  the
Sponsor, Manager or designated partners or any other material change from the information
provided by the Alternative Investment Fund at the time of application for registration.
(4) In case of change in control of the Alternative Investment Fund, Sponsor or Manager, prior
approval from the Board shall be taken by the Alternative Investment Fund.
(5) The books of accounts of the Alternative Investment Fund shall be audited annually by a
qualified auditor.
50[(6) The Manager shall be responsible for investment decisions of the Alternative Investment
Fund:
Provided that the Manager may constitute an Investment Committee (by whatever name it
may  be  called),  to  approve  investment  decisions  of  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund,
subject to the following:
(i)  The members of Investment Committee shall be equally responsible as the
Manager for investment decisions of the Alternative Investment Fund.
(ii)  The Manager and members of the Investment Committee shall jointly and
severally ensure that the investments of the Alternative Investment Fund are
in  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  these  regulations,  the  terms  of  the
placement memorandum, agreement made with the investor, any other fund
documents and any other applicable law.
(iii)  External  members  whose  names  are  not  disclosed  in  the  placement
memorandum  or  agreement  made  with  the  investor  or  any  other  fund
documents at the time of on-boarding investors, shall be appointed to the
Investment Committee only with the consent of at least seventy five percent
of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment
Fund or scheme.
(iv)  Any other conditions as specified by the Board from time to time.]
Conflict of Interest.
21. (1) The  Sponsor  and  Manager  of  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  act  in  a  fiduciary
capacity towards its investors and shall disclose to the investors, all conflicts of interests
as and when they arise or seem likely to arise.
(2) Manager shall establish and implement written policies and procedures to identify, monitor
and appropriately mitigate conflicts of interest throughout the scope of business.
(3) Managers and Sponsors of Alternative Investment Fund shall abide by high level principles
on avoidance of conflicts of interest with associated persons, as may be specified by the
Board from time to time.
Transparency.
22.    All Alternative Investment Funds shall ensure transparency and disclosure of information to
investors on the following:
(a)  financial, risk management, operational, portfolio, and transactional information regarding
fund investments shall be disclosed periodically to the investors;
(b)  any  fees  ascribed  to  the  Manager  or  Sponsor;  and  any  fees  charged  to  the  Alternative
Investment Fund or any investee company by an associate of the Manager or Sponsor shall
be disclosed periodically to the investors;
(c)any inquiries/ legal actions by legal or regulatory bodies in any jurisdiction, as and when
occurred;
(d)  any  material  liability  arising  during  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund’s  tenure  shall  be
disclosed, as and when occurred;
(e)  any  breach  of  a  provision  of  the  placement  memorandum  or  agreement  made  with  the
investor or any other fund documents, if any, as and when occurred;
(f)  change in control of the Sponsor or Manager or Investee Company.
(g) Alternative Investment Fund shall provide at least on an annual basis, within 180 days from
the year end, reports to investors including the following information, as may be applicable
to the Alternative Investment Fund:-
A.  financial information of investee companies.
B.  material risks and how they are managed which may include:
(i)  concentration risk at fund level;
(ii) foreign exchange risk at fund level;
(iii)leverage risk at fund and investee company levels;
(iv) realization  risk  (i.e.  change  in  exit  environment)  at  fund  and  investee  company
levels;
(v) strategy  risk  (i.e.  change  in  or  divergence  from  business  strategy)  at  investee
company level;
(vi) reputation risk at investee company level;
(vii)  extra-financial risks, including environmental, social and corporate governance
risks, at fund and investee company level.
(h) Category  III  Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  provide  quarterly  reports  to  investors  in
respect of clause (g) within 60 days of end of the quarter;
(i)  any significant change in the key investment team shall be intimated to all investors;
(j)  alternative Investment Funds shall provide, when required by the Board, information for
systemic risk purposes (including the identification, analysis and mitigation of systemic
risks).
Valuation.
23. (1) The Alternative Investment Fund shall provide to its investors, a description of its valuation
procedure and of the methodology for valuing assets.
(2) Category I and Category II Alternative Investment Funds shall undertake valuation of their
investments, atleast once in every six months, by an independent valuer appointed by the
Alternative Investment Fund:
Provided that such period may be enhanced to one year on approval of atleast seventy-five
percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund.
(3) Category III Alternative  Investment  Funds shall ensure that calculation of the net asset
value  (NAV)  is  independent  from  the  fund  management  function  of  the  Alternative
Investment Fund and such NAV shall be disclosed to the investors at intervals not longer
than a quarter for close ended Funds and at intervals not longer than a month for  open
ended funds.
Obligation of Manager.
24. The Manager shall be obliged to:
(a)  address all investor complaints;
(b) provide to the Board any information sought by Board;
(c)  maintain all records as may be specified by the Board;
(d) take all steps to address conflict of interest as specified in these regulations;
(e)  ensure transparency and disclosure as specified in the regulations.
Dispute Resolution.
25. An Alternative Investment Fund, by itself or through the Manager or Sponsor, shall lay down
procedure  for  resolution  of  disputes  between  the  investors,  Alternative  Investment  Fund,
Manager or Sponsor through arbitration or any such mechanism as mutually decided between
the investors and the Alternative Investment Fund.
Power to call for information.
26. (1) The Board may at any time call for any information from an Alternative Investment Fund
or its Manager or Sponsor or trustee or investor with respect to any matter relating to its
activity  as  an  Alternative  Investment  Fund  or  for  the  assessment  of  systemic  risk  or
prevention of fraud.
(2) Where any information is called for under sub-regulation (1) it shall be furnished within
the time specified by the Board.
Maintenance of Records.
27. (1) The Manager or Sponsor shall be required to maintain following records describing:
(a)  the assets under the scheme/fund;
(b)  valuation policies and practices;
(c)  investment strategies;
(d)  particulars of investors and their contribution;
(e)  rationale for investments made.
(2) The records under sub-regulation (1) shall be maintained for a period of five years after the
winding up of the fund.
Submission of reports to the Board.
28. The Board may at any time call upon the Alternative Investment Fund to file such reports, as
the Board may desire, with respect to the activities carried on by the Alternative Investment
Fund.
Winding up.
29. (1) An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a trust shall be wound up:
(a)  when the tenure of the Alternative  Investment Fund or all schemes launched by the
Alternative  Investment Fund, as mentioned in the placement memorandum is over;
or
(b)  if it is the opinion of the trustees or the trustee company, as the case may be, that the
Alternative  Investment Fund be wound up in the interests of investors in the units; or
(c)  if seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative
Investment  Fund  pass  a  resolution  at  a  meeting  of  unitholders  that  the  Alternative
Investment Fund be wound up; or
(d)  if the Board so directs in the interests of investors.
(2) An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a limited liability partnership shall be wound up
in accordance with the provisions of The Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008:
(a)  when the tenure of the Alternative  Investment Fund or all schemes launched by the
Alternative  Investment Fund, as mentioned in the placement memorandum is over;
or
(b)  if seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative
Investment  Fund  pass  a  resolution  at  a  meeting  of  unitholders  that  the  Alternative
Investment Fund be wound up; or
(c)  if the Board so directs in the interests of investors.
(3) An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a company shall be wound up in accordance with
the provisions of the 51[Companies Act, 2013].
(4) An  Alternative  Investment  Fund  set  up  as  a  body  corporate  shall  be  wound  up  in
accordance with the provisions of the statute under which it is constituted.
(5) The trustees or trustee company or the  Board of Directors or designated  partners of the
Alternative Investment Fund, as the case maybe, shall intimate the Board and investors of
the circumstances leading to the winding up of the Alternative Investment Fund.
(6) On and from the date of intimation under sub-regulation (5) of regulation 29, no further
investments shall be made on behalf of the Alternative Investment Fund so wound up.
(7) Within one year from the date of intimation under sub-regulation (5) of regulation 29, the
assets  shall  be  liquidated,  and  the  proceeds  accruing  to  investors  in  the  Alternative
Investment Fund shall be distributed to them after satisfying all liabilities.
(8) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (7) and subject to the conditions, if
any, contained in the placement memorandum or contribution agreement or subscription
agreement, as the case may be, in specie distribution of assets of the Alternative  Investment
Fund, shall be made by the Alternative Investment Fund at any time, including on winding
up of the Alternative Investment Fund, as per the preference of investors, after obtaining
approval of at least seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the
Alternative  Investment Fund.
(9) Upon winding up of the Alternative Investment Fund, the certificate of registration shall
be surrendered to the Board.
CHAPTER V
INSPECTION
Board’s right to inspect.
30. The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more
persons as Inspecting Authority to undertake inspection of the books of account, records and
to its substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”.
documents  relating  to  an  Alternative  Investment  Fund  for  any  of  the  following  reasons,
namely, —
(a)  to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the
Alternative Investment Fund in the manner specified in these regulations;
(b) to inspect complaints received from investors, clients or any other person, on any matter
having a bearing on the activities of the Alternative Investment Fund;
(c)  to  ascertain  whether the  provisions of the Act  and these regulations  are being  complied
with by the Alternative Investment Fund;
(d) to  inspect  suo motu the  affairs of  an Alternative  Investment Fund, in  the  interest  of the
securities market or in the interest of investors.
Notice before inspection.
31. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 30, the Board shall give not less than ten
days notice to the Alternative Investment Fund.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1) where the Board is satisfied that
in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing
direct  that  the  inspection  of  the  affairs  of  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  be  taken  up
without such notice.
(3) During  the  course  of  an  inspection,  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  against  whom  the
inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided in
regulation 32.
Obligation of Alternative Investment Fund on inspection.
32. (1) It shall be the duty of every officer of the Alternative Investment Fund in respect of whom
an inspection has been ordered under regulation 30 and any other associated person who is
in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such Alternative
Investment Fund including Manager, if any, to produce to the Inspecting Authority such
books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with such
statements  and  information  as  the  said  Authority  may  require  for  the  purposes  of  the
inspection.
(2) It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  officer  of  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  and  any  other
associated person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and
affairs of the Alternative Investment Fund including the manager to give to the Inspecting
Authority all such assistance and shall extend all such co-operation as may be required in
connection  with  the  inspection  and  shall  furnish  such  information  as  sought  by  the
Inspecting Authority in connection with the inspection.
(3) The Inspecting Authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on
oath  and  record  the  statement  of  any  employees,  directors  or  person  responsible  for  or
connected with the activities of Alternative Investment Fund or any other associated person
having relevant information pertaining to such Alternative Investment Fund.
(4) The  Inspecting  Authority  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  inspection,  have  power  to  obtain
authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of Alternative Investment Fund, from
any person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts.
Submission of report to the Board.
33. The Inspecting Authority shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit an
inspection report to the Board:
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report.
Communication of findings, etc. to the Alternative Investment Fund.
34. The  Board  may  after  consideration  of  the  inspection  report  and  after  giving  reasonable
opportunity of hearing to the Alternative Investment Fund or its trustees, directors or manager
issue such direction as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or the investors including
directions in the nature of :—
(a)  requiring an Alternative Investment Fund not to launch new schemes or raise money from
investors for a particular period;
(b) prohibiting the person concerned  from  disposing  of any of the properties of the fund or
scheme acquired in violation of these regulations;
(c)  requiring the person connected to dispose of the assets of the fund or scheme in a manner
as may be specified in the directions;
(d) requiring the person concerned to refund any money or the assets to the concerned investors
along with the requisite interest or otherwise, collected under the scheme;
(e)  prohibiting the person concerned from operating in the capital market or from accessing
the capital market for a specified period.
CHAPTER VI
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT
Liability for action in case of default.
35. (1) An Alternative Investment Fund which—
(a)  contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations;
(b)  fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as an Alternative Investment
Fund as required by the Board;
(c)  furnishes  to  the  Board  information  which  is  false  or  misleading  in  any  material
particular;
(d)  does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board;
(e)  does  not  co-operate  in  any  enquiry,  inspection  or  investigation  conducted  by  the
Board;
(f)  fails to resolve the complaints of investors or fails to give a satisfactory reply to the
Board in this behalf,
shall be dealt with  in  the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange  Board of
India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
(2) Sub-regulation  (1)  shall  not  prejudice  the  powers  of  the  Board  to  issue  directions  or
measures under regulation 34 or under sections 11, 11B, 11D, sub-section (3) of section 12
or section 24 or Chapter VIA of the Act or under any other law for the time being in force.
52[CHAPTER VI-A
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
35A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or
any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding
twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new
products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox
in the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to
be complied with on a continuous basis.]
CHAPTER VII
MISCELLANEOUS
Power of the Board to issue clarifications.
36. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the
Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars or issue separate circular
or guidelines or framework for each category of Alternative Investment Funds.
Delegation of powers.
37. The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall also be exercisable by any
officer of the Board to whom such powers are delegated by the Board by means of an order
made under section 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.
Amendments to other Regulations.
38. The regulations specified in the Third Schedule to these regulations shall be amended in the
manner and to the extent stated therein.
2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
Repeal and Saving.
39. (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996
hereby shall stand repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal:
(a)  Anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken, including
suspension or cancellation of certificate of registration, any inquiry or investigation
commenced  or  show  cause  notice  issued  under  the  repealed  regulations,  shall  be
deemed  to  have  been  done  or  taken  under  the  corresponding  provisions  of    these
regulations;
(b)  All venture capital funds or schemes launched by such venture capital funds prior to
date of notification of these regulations shall continue to be governed by provisions
of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulations,
1996 till the fund or Scheme is wound up:
Provided that such funds shall not launch any new Scheme after notification of these
regulations;
(c)  Any application made to the Board under the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996 and pending before it shall be deemed to
have  been  made  under  the  corresponding  provisions  of  Securities  and  Exchange
Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012.
(3) After  the  repeal  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Venture  Capital  Funds)
Regulations,  1996,  any  reference  thereto  in  any  other  regulations  made,  guidelines  or
circulars  issued  thereunder  by  the  Board  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  reference  to  the
corresponding provisions of these regulations.
FIRST SCHEDULE-FORM
FORM A
Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012
See regulation 3
Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration as Alternative Investment Fund
Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, C4-A, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai 400051 - India
INSTRUCTIONS
1.  This  form  is  meant  for  use  by  the  applicant  for  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  as  an
Alternative Investment Fund.
2.  The applicant should complete this form, and submit it, along with all supporting documents
to the Board at its head office at Mumbai.
3.  This application form should be filled in accordance with these regulations.
4.  The application shall be considered by the Board provided it is complete in all respects.
5.  All answers must be legible and all the pages must be numbered with signature/ stamp on each
page of the form.
6.  Information which needs to be supplied in more detail may be given on separate sheets which
should be attached to the application form and appropriately numbered.
7.  The application must be signed and all signatures must be original.
8.  The application must be accompanied by an application fee as specified in the Second Schedule
to these regulations.
1.  GENERAL INFORMATION
(a)  Name, address of the registered office, address for correspondence and principal place
of business, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the applicant.
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s).
(c)  Legal  structure  of  applicant  -  Whether  the  applicant  is  a  company  or  trust  or  limited
liability partnership or a body corporate.
(d) Date and place of incorporation/ establishment.
(e)  Category under which the application is made –
1.  Category I Alternative Investment Fund- Venture Capital Fund
2.  Category I Alternative Investment Fund- Social Venture Fund
3.  Category I Alternative Investment Fund- SME Fund
4.  Category I Alternative Investment Fund- Infrastructure Fund
5.  Category I Alternative Investment Fund- Other
6.  Category II Alternative Investment Fund
7.  Category III Alternative Investment Fund
(f)  In case the applicant proposes to register as a Category III Alternative Investment Fund,
whether the fund shall be open ended or close ended.
(g) Whether  the  applicant  or  its  associates  or  its  sponsor(s)  or  its  manager(s)  is/  are
registered with the Board, Reserve Bank of India or any other regulatory authority in
any capacity along with the details of its registration.
(h) Details of infrastructure for conducting activities as an Alternative Investment Fund
(i)  Copy of the draft placement memorandum.
2.  DETAILS OF APPLICANT
I. In case applicant is a Trust:
1.  Write-up on the activities of the applicant
2.  Whether the Trust  Deed is  registered under the  provisions of the Registration
Act, 1908. (Enclose relevant extract of the Registered Trust Deed)
3.  Whether the Trust Deed permits the carrying on of the activity of an Alternative
Investment Fund
4.  Whether the applicant is prohibited by its trust deed from making an invitation
to the public to subscribe to its units;
5.  Provide details of Trustees/ Trustee Company as below:
a.  Whether Trustee is an individual or a Trustee company.
b.  Name, registered office address, telephone number(s) and fax number(s)
of the Trustees/ Trustee Company.
c.  Name,  direct  line  number,  mobile  number  and  e-mail  of  the  contact
person(s).
d.  Identity  and  Address  proof  of  Trustees/  Directors  of  the  Trustee
Company
e.  Whether the Trustee Company is registered with Board, Reserve Bank
of India or any other regulatory authority in any capacity along with the
details of its registration.
f.  Brief  write  up  on  the  activities  of  the  Trustee  Company/  Profile  of
Trustees.
II. In case applicant is a Company:
1.  Write-up on the activities of the applicant
2.  Shareholding  pattern  and  profile  of  the  directors  (Enclose  Identity  proof  and
address proof of the directors)
3.  Whether the Memorandum of Association permits carrying on of the activity of
an Alternative Investment Fund  (Enclose relevant extract of the Memorandum
of Association)
4.  Whether  the  applicant  is  prohibited  by  its  memorandum  and  articles  of
association from making an invitation to the public to subscribe to its securities;
III. In case applicant is a limited liability partnership:
1.  Write-up on the activities of the applicant
2.  Beneficial ownership pattern and profile of the partners (Enclose Identity proof
and address proof of the partners)
3.  Whether the partnership deed is 53[duly filed] under the provisions of the Limited
Liability  Partnership  Act,  2008  and  permits  carrying  on  of  the  activity  of  an
Alternative Investment Fund (Enclose relevant extract of the Partnership Deed)
4.  Whether  the  applicant  is  prohibited  by  its  partnership  deed  from  making  an
invitation to the public to subscribe to its securities;
IV. In case applicant is a Body Corporate
1.  Write-up on the activities of the applicant
2.  Shareholding  pattern  and  profile  of  the  directors  (Enclose  Identity  proof  and
address proof of the directors)
3.  Whether the applicant is set up or established under the laws of the Central or
State Legislature
4.  Whether the applicant is permitted carrying on of the activity of an Alternative
Investment Fund  (Enclose relevant extract of the relevant Statute/Act)
5.  Whether  the  applicant  is  prohibited  by  its  memorandum  and  articles  of
association from making an invitation to the public to subscribe to its securities;
3.   DETAILS  OF  SPONSOR(S)  (Sponsor  shall  be  as  defined  in  54[clause  (w)  of  sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 2]),
(a)  Name, address of registered office, address for correspondence and principal place of
business, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the sponsor.
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s).
words “duly registered”.
words, symbols and number “sub-regulation (w) of regulation 2”
(c)  Legal  status  of  the  sponsor  (whether  sponsor(s)  is/are  individual/company/limited
liability partnership/body corporate) and date and place of incorporation/ establishment,
wherever applicable.
(d) In case of Sponsor being individual(s), provide a brief profile of the Sponsor including
professional qualification. In case of Sponsor(s) being other than individual, write up on
shareholding pattern/ Partnership interests and profile of the directors/partners including
their professional qualification.
(e)  Identity proof and address proof of the Sponsor (if sponsor is an individual)/ directors
of Sponsor(is sponsor is a company)/ partners of the Sponsor (if sponsor is an limited
liability partnership).
(f)  Whether the Sponsor or its director(s)/ partner(s) is/are registered with the Board.
(g) Details of past experience of the Sponsor(s) in advising or managing pools of capital or
in fund or asset or wealth or portfolio management or in the business of buying, selling
and dealing of securities or other financial assets.
(h) Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year
(i)  Whether, the Sponsor has floated any Alternative  Investment  Funds/ Venture Capital
Funds previously, which are registered with the Board. If yes, details of the same.
4.  DETAILS OF MANAGER
(a)  Name, address of the registered office address for correspondence, telephone number(s),
fax number(s), of the Manager(s).
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s).
(c)  Legal  status  of  the  Manager  (whether  Manager(s)  is/are  individual/company/limited
liability partnership/body corporate) and date and place of incorporation/ establishment,
wherever applicable.
(d) Write  up  on  the  activities  of  the  Manager  including  past  experience  in  advising  or
managing pools of capital or in fund or asset or wealth or portfolio management or in
the business of buying, selling & dealing of securities or other financial assets.
(e)  Identity proof and address proof of the Manager (if manager is an individual)/ directors
of Manager (if manager is a company)/ partners of the Manager (if manager is an limited
liability partnership).
(f)  In  case  of  Manager  being  a  company  or  limited  liability  partnership,  shareholding
pattern /Partnership interests and profile of the directors /Partners
(g) Brief  profile  of  Key  Investment  Team  including  experience  and  professional
qualification
(h) Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year
(i)  Whether, the Manager has managed/advised any Alternative Investment Funds/ Venture
Capital  Funds  previously,  which  are  registered  with  the  Board.  If  yes,  details  of  the
same.
5.  DETAILS OF BUSINESS PLAN AND INVESTMENT STRATEGY
(a)  Investment objective and investment style/ strategy of the fund.
(b) The target investors
(c)  The target industries/ sectors, if any
(d) Proposed corpus
(e)  Proposed fees to the Sponsor and Manager
(f)  Tenure of the fund or scheme
(g) Details of proposed use of leverage in case of Category III Alternative Investment Fund
6.  DETAILS OF REGULATORY ACTION TAKEN IN THE PAST, IF ANY
(a)  Whether the applicant or Sponsor or its directors/ partners or Manager or its Directors/
Partners  or  Trustees/  Trustee  Company  or  its  directors  are/  were  involved  in  any
litigation  connected  with  the  securities  market  and  any  order  has/  had  been  passed
against them for violation of securities laws. (If Yes, provide details. If No, enclose a
declaration to that effect).
(b) Whether  the  applicant/  Sponsor/  Trustee/  Manager  or  its  directors  or  Partners  or
employees  are  /  have  been  involved  in  any  litigation  connected  with  the  securities
market which may have an adverse bearing on the business of the applicant or any order
has/  had  been  passed  against  them  for  violation  of  securities  laws.  (If  Yes,  provide
details. If No, enclose a declaration to that effect).
(c)  Whether applicant/ Sponsor/ Trustee/ Manager or its directors or Partners has/ have been
refused a certificate by the Board or its/ their certificate has been suspended at any time
prior  to  this  application.  (If  Yes,  provide  details.  If  No,  enclose  a  declaration  to  that
effect).
7.  OTHER INFORMATION/DECLARATIONS
(a)  Amount contributed/ proposed to be contributed by the Sponsor(s)/Manager(s) as per
clause  (d)  of  regulation  10  along  with  details  of  the  same.  (Provide  copies  of
commitment letters from the sponsor(s)/manager(s)).
(b) Whether the applicant, Sponsor and Manager are fit and proper persons based on the
criteria  specified  in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)
Regulations, 2008; (Enclose a declaration to that effect).
(c)  Declaration  that the  applicant  shall comply with  the provisions of  regulation  10 with
respect to investment in the Alternative Investment Fund.
(d) Declaration that the applicant shall comply with the provisions of regulation 15 and 16
with respect to general investment conditions and conditions for the applicable category.
DECLARATION STATEMENT (TO BE GIVEN AS BELOW)
We  hereby  agree  and  declare  that  the  information  supplied  in  the  application,  including  the
attachment sheets, is complete and true.
AND  we  further  agree  that,  we  shall  notify  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
immediately any change in the information provided in the application.
We further agree that we shall comply with, and be bound by the Securities and Exchange Board
of India Act, 1992, and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds)
Regulations, 2012, and Government of India guidelines/instructions as may be announced by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time.
We  further  agree  that  as  a  condition  of  registration,  we  shall  abide  by  such  operational
instructions/directives as may be issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time
to time.
For and on behalf of____________________________________________________
(Name of the applicant)
Authorized signatory
(Signature)
FORM B
Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012
See regulation 6
Certificate of registration as Alternative Investment Fund
I.
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Securities and
Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992),  read  with  the  regulations  made
thereunder,
to
_______________________________________________________________
the  Board
certificate
of
registration
hereby
grants
a
as an Alternative Investment Fund subject to the conditions specified in the Act and in the
regulations made thereunder.
II.  The Category of the Alternative Investment Fund shall be -
__________________________________________.
III.  The Registration Number of the Alternative Investment Fund is
IN/AIF/Category__/_____________.
Date :
Place : MUMBAI
By Order
Sd/-
For and on behalf of
Securities and Exchange Board of India
______________________________________________________________________
SECOND SCHEDULE
Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012
See sub-regulations (2) and (5) of regulation 3, sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6 and sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 12
FEES
55[PART A
AMOUNT TO BE PAID AS FEES
Application fee
Registration fee for Category I Alternative
Investment Funds other than Angel Funds
`1,00,000
` 5,00,000
Registration fee for Category II Alternative
Investment Funds other than Angel Funds
`10,00,000
Registration fee for Category III Alternative
Investment Funds other than Angel Funds
`15,00,000
Scheme Fee for Alternative Investment
Funds other than Angel Funds
Re-registration Fee
Registration Fee for Angel Funds
`1,00,000
`1,00,000
` 2,00,000
]
55  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  (w.e.f    23.05.2014).  Prior  to  its
substitution,  the Second Schedule, Part A as amended by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013, read as under:
"PART A
AMOUNT TO BE PAID AS FEES
Application fee
Registration  fee  for  Alternative  Investment  Funds
other than Angel Funds
Registration fees for Angel Funds
Scheme  Fee  for  Alternative  Investment  Funds  other
than Angel Funds
Re-registration Fee
`` 1,00,000
` ` 5,00,000
` 2,00,000
` 1,00,000
` 1,00,000
PART B
The fees specified above shall be payable 56[by way of direct credit in the bank account through
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by bank draft in favour of “The
Securities and Exchange Board of India” at Mumbai.
______________________________________________________________________
Third Schedule
[see regulation 38]
1.  Amendment  to  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and
Disclosure) Regulations, 2009.
(i)  In  regulation  2,  in  sub-regulation  (1),  in  clause  (zd),in  sub-clause  (i)  after  the  words
“venture capital fund” and before the words “and”, the words “, Alternative Investment
Fund” shall be inserted;
(ii)  In  regulation  37,  in  the  proviso,  clause  (b)  shall  be  substituted  with  the  following
namely, —
“(b)    equity  shares  held  by  a  venture  capital  fund  or  alternative  investment  fund  of
category I or a foreign venture capital investor:
Provided that such equity shares shall be locked in for a period of at least one year
from the date of purchase by the venture capital fund or alternative investment fund or
foreign venture capital investor.”
2.  Amendment  to  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Foreign  Venture  Capital
Investors) Regulations, 2000, -
(i)
In regulation 2,
(a)  clause (l) shall be substituted with the following namely, —
“(l) “Venture Capital Fund” means a fund registered with the Board under the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations,
1996  or  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative
Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 in the sub-category of “Venture Capital
Fund’ under Category I Alternative Investment Fund.”
(b)  clause (m) shall be substituted with the following namely, —
“(m)  “Venture  Capital  undertaking”  means  a  venture  capital  undertaking  as
defined under clause(aa) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities
and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulations,
2012.”
In sub-regulation (2), after the words “Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulations,  1996”  the  words  and  numbers  “or
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative  Investment  Funds)
Regulation, 2012” shall be inserted.
(c)
(ii)
In regulation 4, in sub-regulation  (1), clause (e) after the words “venture capital fund”
the words “or Alternative Investment Fund” shall be inserted:
(iii)  In  regulation  11,  in  clause  (b),  after  the  words  “venture  capital  fund”,  the  words  “or
alternative investment fund” shall be inserted;
(iv)  In  regulation  11,  in  clause  (c),  the  words  “venture  capital  undertaking”  wherever
occurring  shall  be  replaced  with  the  words  “venture  capital  undertaking  or  investee
company as defined in clause (o) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulation, 2012”.
3.  Amendments to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisitions of
Shares and Takeover) Regulations, 2011.
(i)
In regulation 2, in sub-regulation (1), in clause (q),in sub-clause (2) after item (viii) the
following new item shall be inserted namely, —
“(viiia) an alternative investment fund and its sponsor, trustees, trustee company and
manager;”
(ii)
In regulation 10, in sub-regulation (4), in clause (f) the words “venture capital fund”
wherever occurring shall be replaced with the words “venture capital fund or Category
I Alternative Investment Fund”.
U.K. SINHA
CHAIRMAN
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA