CHAPTER – II
RESTRICTIONS ON COMMUNICATION AND TRADING BY INSIDERS
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as follows:
“(vi) material events in accordance with the listing agreement”
Communication or procurement of unpublished price sensitive information.
3.
(1)
No insider shall communicate, provide, or allow access to any unpublished price
sensitive information, relating to a company or securities listed or proposed to be listed, to any
person including other insiders except where such communication is in furtherance of legitimate
purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations.
This provision is intended to cast an obligation on all insiders who are essentially
persons in possession of unpublished price sensitive information to handle such information with
care  and  to  deal  with  the  information  with  them  when  transacting  their  business  strictly  on  a
need-to-know basis.   It is also intended to lead to organisations developing practices based on
need-to-know principles for treatment of information in their possession.
(2)
No person shall procure from or cause the communication by any insider of unpublished
price  sensitive  information,  relating  to  a  company  or  securities  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed,
except  in  furtherance  of  legitimate  purposes,  performance  of  duties  or  discharge  of  legal
obligations.
This  provision  is  intended  to  impose  a  prohibition  on  unlawfully  procuring
possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information.    Inducement  and  procurement  of
unpublished  price  sensitive  information  not  in  furtherance  of  one’s  legitimate  duties  and
discharge of obligations would be illegal under this provision.
7[(2A)  The  board  of  directors  of  a  listed  company  shall  make  a  policy  for  determination  of
“legitimate  purposes”  as  a  part  of  “Codes  of  Fair  Disclosure  and  Conduct”  formulated  under
regulation 8.
of unpublished price sensitive information in the ordinary course of business by an insider with
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019).
partners, collaborators, lenders, customers, suppliers, merchant bankers, legal advisors, auditors,
insolvency professionals or other advisors or consultants, provided that such sharing has not been
carried out to evade or circumvent the prohibitions of these regulations.]
8[(2B)  Any person in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information pursuant to a “legitimate
purpose” shall be considered an “insider” for purposes of these regulations and due notice shall
be  given  to  such  persons  to  maintain  confidentiality  of  such  unpublished  price  sensitive
information in compliance with these regulations.]
(3)
Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  regulation,  an  unpublished  price  sensitive
information may be communicated, provided, allowed access to or procured, in connection with
a transaction that would:–
(i)
entail  an  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  under  the  takeover  regulations  where
the board of directors of the  9[listed]  company is  of informed opinion that  10[sharing of
such information] is in the best interests of the company;
It  is  intended  to  acknowledge  the  necessity  of  communicating,  providing,
allowing  access  to  or  procuring  UPSI  for  substantial  transactions  such  as  takeovers,
mergers and acquisitions involving trading in securities and change of control to assess a
potential investment.  In an open offer under the takeover regulations, not only would the
same price be made available to all shareholders of the company but also all information
necessary  to  enable  an  informed  divestment  or  retention  decision  by  the  public
shareholders  is  required  to  be  made  available  to  all  shareholders  in  the  letter  of  offer
under those regulations.
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019).
(ii)
not attract the obligation to make an open offer under the takeover regulations but
where  the  board  of  directors  of  the  11[listed]  company  is  of  informed  opinion  12[that
sharing of such information] is in the best interests of the company and the information
that  constitute  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  is  disseminated  to  be  made
generally  available  at  least  two  trading  days  prior  to  the  proposed  transaction  being
effected in such form as the board of directors may determine  13[to be adequate and fair
to cover all relevant and material facts].
It  is  intended  to  permit  communicating,  providing,  allowing  access  to  or
procuring UPSI also in transactions that do not entail an open offer obligation under the
takeover  regulations  14[when  authorised  by  the  board  of  directors  if  sharing  of  such
information]  is  in  the  best  interests  of  the  company.  The  board  of  directors,  however,
would  cause  public  disclosures  of  such  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  well
before the proposed transaction to rule out any information  asymmetry in the market.
(4)
For  purposes  of  sub-regulation  (3),  the  board  of  directors  shall  require  the  parties  to
execute agreements to contract confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations on the part of such
parties and such parties shall keep information so received confidential, except for the purpose of
sub-regulation (3), and shall not otherwise trade in securities of the company when in possession
of unpublished price sensitive information.
15[(5)  The  board  of  directors  or  head(s)  of  the  organisation  of  every  person  required  to  handle
unpublished  price  sensitive  information  shall  ensure  that  a  structured  digital  database  is
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
15  Substituted  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  (Amendment)
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020). Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation 5 read as follows: -
“The board of directors shall ensure that a structured digital database is maintained containing the names of
such  persons  or  entities  as  the  case  may  be  with  whom  information  is  shared  under  this  regulation  along
with the Permanent Account Number or any other identifier authorized by law where Permanent Account
maintained  containing  the  nature  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  and  the  names  of
such persons who have  shared the information  and also  the names of such persons with  whom
information  is  shared  under  this  regulation  along  with  the  Permanent  Account  Number  or  any
other  identifier  authorized  by  law  where  Permanent  Account  Number  is  not  available.  Such
database  shall  not  be  outsourced  and  shall  be  maintained  internally  with  adequate  internal
controls  and  checks  such  as  time  stamping  and  audit  trails  to  ensure  non-tampering  of  the
database.]
16[(6)  The  board  of  directors  or  head(s)  of  the  organisation  of  every  person  required  to  handle
unpublished  price  sensitive  information  shall  ensure  that  the  structured  digital  database  is
preserved for a period of  not  less than eight  years after completion of the relevant  transactions
and  in  the  event  of  receipt  of  any  information  from  the  Board  regarding  any  investigation  or
enforcement  proceedings,  the  relevant  information  in  the  structured  digital  database  shall  be
preserved till the completion of such proceedings.]
Trading when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information.
4.
(1)
No  insider  shall  trade  in  securities  that  are  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed  on  a
stock exchange when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information:
unpublished  price  sensitive  information,  his  trades  would  be  presumed  to  have  been  motivated
by the knowledge and awareness of such information in his possession.]
Provided  that  the  insider  may  prove  his  innocence  by  demonstrating  the  circumstances
including the following: –
Number  is  not  available.  Such  databases  shall  be  maintained  with  adequate  internal  controls  and  checks
such as time stamping and audit trails to ensure non-tampering of the database.”
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019).
2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020).
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
(i)  the  transaction  is  an  off-market  inter-se  transfer  between  18[insiders]  who  were  in
possession  of the same  unpublished price sensitive information  without being  in  breach
of regulation 3 and both parties had made a conscious and informed trade decision.
19[Provided  that  such  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  was  not  obtained  under
sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3 of these regulations.
Provided  further  that  such  off-market  trades  shall  be  reported  by  the  insiders  to  the
company  within  two  working  days.  Every  company  shall  notify  the  particulars  of  such
trades  to  the  stock  exchange  on  which  the  securities  are  listed  within  two  trading  days
from receipt of the disclosure or from becoming aware of such information.];
20[(ii) the transaction was carried out through the block deal window mechanism between
persons  who  were  in  possession  of  the  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  without
being in breach of regulation 3 and both parties had made a conscious and informed trade
decision;
Provided  that  such  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  was  not  obtained  by  either
person under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3 of these regulations.
(iii)  the  transaction  in  question  was  carried  out  pursuant  to  a  statutory  or  regulatory
obligation to carry out a bona fide transaction.
(iv) the transaction in question was undertaken pursuant to the exercise of stock options
in respect of which the exercise price was pre-determined in compliance with applicable
regulations.]
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
(v)
in the case of non-individual insiders: –
(a)
the individuals who were in possession of such unpublished price sensitive
information were different from the individuals taking trading decisions and such
decision-making  individuals  were  not  in  possession  of  such  unpublished  price
sensitive information when they took the decision to trade; and
(b)
appropriate and adequate arrangements were in place to ensure that these
regulations  are  not  violated  and  no  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  was
communicated  by  the  individuals  possessing  the  information  to  the  individuals
taking  trading  decisions  and  there  is  no  evidence  of  such  arrangements  having
been breached;
(vi)
the trades were pursuant to a trading plan set up in accordance with regulation 5.
unpublished  price  sensitive  information,  his  trades  would  be  presumed  to  have  been
motivated  by  the  knowledge  and  awareness  of  such  information  in  his  possession.  The
reasons  for  which  he  trades  or  the  purposes  to  which  he  applies  the  proceeds  of  the
transactions  are  not  intended  to  be  relevant  for  determining  whether  a  person  has
violated  the  regulation.  He  traded  when  in  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive
information is what would need to be demonstrated at the outset to bring a charge. Once
this  is  established,  it  would  be  open  to  the  insider  to  prove  his  innocence  by
demonstrating the circumstances mentioned in the proviso, failing which he would have
violated the prohibition.
(2)
In the case of connected persons the onus of establishing, that they were not in possession
of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information,  shall  be  on  such  connected  persons  and  in  other
cases, the onus would be on the Board.
(3)
The  Board  may  specify  such  standards  and  requirements,  from  time  to  time,  as  it  may
deem necessary for the purpose of these regulations.
Trading Plans.
5.
(1)
An  insider  shall  be  entitled  to  formulate  a  trading  plan  and  present  it  to  the
compliance  officer  for  approval  and  public  disclosure  pursuant  to  which  trades  may  be  carried
out on his behalf in accordance with such plan.
This  provision  intends  to  give  an  option  to  persons  who  may  be  perpetually  in
possession of unpublished price sensitive information and enabling them to trade in securities in
a  compliant  manner.    This  provision  would  enable  the  formulation  of  a  trading  plan  by  an
insider to enable him to plan for trades to be executed in future.  By doing so, the possession of
unpublished price sensitive information when a trade under a  trading plan is actually executed
would  not  prohibit  the  execution  of  such  trades  that  he  had  pre-decided  even  before  the
unpublished price sensitive information came into being.
(2)
Such trading plan shall:–
(i)
not  entail  commencement  of  trading  on  behalf  of  the  insider  earlier  than  six
months from the public disclosure of the plan;
It is intended that to get the benefit of a trading plan, a cool-off period of
six  months  is  necessary.  Such  a  period  is  considered  reasonably  long  for  unpublished
price  sensitive  information  that  is  in  possession  of  the  insider  when  formulating  the
trading  plan,  to  become  generally  available.    It  is  also  considered  to  be  a  reasonable
period for a time lag in which new unpublished price sensitive information may come into
being  without  adversely  affecting  the  trading  plan  formulated  earlier.  In  any  case,  it
should  be  remembered  that  this  is  only  a  statutory  cool-off  period  and would  not  grant
immunity  from  action  if  the  insider  were  to  be  in  possession  of  the  same  unpublished
price sensitive information both at the time of formulation of the plan and implementation
of the same.
(ii)
not entail trading for the period between the twentieth trading day prior to the last
day of any financial period for which results are required to be announced by the issuer of
the securities and the second trading day after the disclosure of such financial results;
Since the trading plan is envisaged to be an exception to the general rule
prohibiting  trading  by  insiders  when  in  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive
information, it is important that the trading plan does not entail trading for a reasonable
period  around  the  declaration  of  financial  results  as  that  would  generate  unpublished
price sensitive information.
(iii)
entail trading for a period of not less than twelve months;
It is intended that it would be undesirable to have frequent announcements
of  trading  plans  for  short  periods  of  time  rendering  meaningless  the  defence  of  a
reasonable time gap between the decision to trade and the actual trade.  Hence it is felt
that a reasonable time would be twelve months.
(iv)
not  entail  overlap  of  any  period  for  which  another  trading  plan  is  already  in
existence;
It is intended that it would be undesirable to  have multiple trading plans
operating during the same time period.  Since it would be possible for an insider to time
the  publication  of  the  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  to  make  it  generally
available  instead  of  timing  the  trades,  it  is  important  not  to  have  the  ability  to  initiate
more than one plan covering the same time period.
(v)
set out either the value of trades to be effected or the number of securities to be
traded  along  with  the  nature  of  the  trade  and  the  intervals  at,  or  dates  on  which  such
trades shall be effected; and
It  is  intended  that  while  regulations  should  not  be  too  prescriptive  and
rigid  about  what  a  trading  plan  should  entail,  they  should  stipulate  certain  basic
parameters  that  a  trading  plan  should  conform  to  and  within  which,  the  plan  may  be
formulated with full flexibility.  The nature of the trades entailed in the trading plan i.e.
acquisition  or  disposal  should  be  set  out.  The  trading  plan  may  set  out  the  value  of
securities or the number of securities to be invested or divested.  Specific dates or specific
time intervals may be set out in the plan.
(vi)
not entail trading in securities for market abuse.
from bringing proceedings  for  market abuse. For instance, in  the event of manipulative
timing  of  the  release  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  to  ensure  that  trading
under a trading plan becomes lucrative in circumvention of regulation 4 being detected,
it  would  be  open  to  initiate  proceedings  for  alleged  breach  of  SEBI  (Prohibition  of
Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  Relating  to  the  Securities  Market)  Regulations,
2003.
(3)
The  compliance  officer  shall  review  the  trading  plan  to  assess  whether  the  plan  would
have  any  potential  for  violation  of  these  regulations  and  shall  be  entitled  to  seek  such  express
undertakings  as  may  be  necessary  to  enable  such  assessment  and  to  approve  and  monitor  the
implementation of the plan.
21[Provided  that  pre-clearance  of  trades  shall  not  be  required  for  a  trade  executed  as  per  an
approved trading plan.
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
Provided  further  that  trading  window  norms  and  restrictions  on  contra  trade  shall  not  be
applicable for trades carried out in accordance with an approved trading plan.]
It  is  intended  that  the  compliance  officer  would  have  to  review  and  approve  the
plan.    For  doing  so,  he  may  need  the  insider  to  declare  that  he  is  not  in  possession  of
unpublished  price  sensitive  information  or  that  he  would  ensure  that  any  unpublished  price
sensitive  information  in  his  possession  becomes  generally  available  before  he  commences
executing his trades.  Once satisfied, he may approve the trading plan, which would then have to
be implemented in accordance with these regulations.
(4)
The  trading  plan  once  approved  shall  be  irrevocable  and  the  insider  shall  mandatorily
have  to  implement  the  plan,  without  being  entitled  to  either  deviate  from  it  or  to  execute  any
trade in the securities outside the scope of the trading plan.
Provided that the implementation of the trading plan shall not be commenced if any unpublished
price sensitive information in possession of the insider at the time of formulation of the plan has
not become generally available at the time of the commencement of implementation and in such
event  the  compliance  officer  shall  confirm  that  the  commencement  ought  to  be  deferred  until
such  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  becomes  generally  available  information  so  as  to
avoid a violation of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4.
It is intended that since the trading plan is an exception to the general rule that an
insider should not trade when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, changing
the  plan  or  trading  outside  the  same  would  negate  the  intent  behind  the  exception.    Other
investors  in  the  market,  too,  would  factor  the  impact  of  the  trading  plan  on  their  own  trading
decisions  and  in  price  discovery.    Therefore,  it  is  not  fair  or  desirable  to permit  the  insider  to
deviate from the trading plan based on which others in the market have assessed their views on
the securities.
The  proviso  is  intended  to  address  the  prospect  that  despite  the  six-month  gap  between  the
formulation  of  the  trading  plan  and  its  commencement,  the  unpublished  price  sensitive
information  in  possession  of  the  insider  is  still  not  generally  available.    In  such  a  situation,
commencement of the plan would conflict with the over-riding principle that trades should not be
executed  when  in  possession  of  such  information.  If  the  very  same  unpublished  price  sensitive
information  is  still  in  the  insider’s  possession,  the  commencement  of  execution  of  the  trading
plan ought to be deferred.
(5)
Upon  approval  of  the  trading  plan,  the  compliance  officer  shall  notify  the  plan  to  the
stock exchanges on which the securities are listed.
It  is  intended  that  given  the  material  exception  to  the  prohibitory  rule  in
regulation 4, a trading plan is required to be publicly disseminated.  Investors in the market at
large would also factor the potential pointers in the trading plan in their own assessment of the
securities and price discovery for them on the premise of how the insiders perceive the prospects
or approach the securities in their trading plan.
CHAPTER – III
DISCLOSURES OF TRADING BY INSIDERS
General provisions.
6.
(1)
Every public disclosure under this Chapter shall be made in such form as may be
specified.
(2)
The disclosures to be made by any person under this Chapter shall include those relating
to trading by such person’s immediate relatives, and by any other person for whom such person
takes trading decisions.
It is intended that disclosure of trades would need to be of not only those executed
by the person concerned but also by the immediate relatives and of other persons for whom the
person concerned takes trading decisions.  These regulations are primarily aimed at preventing
abuse  by  trading  when  in  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  and  therefore,
what  matters  is  whether  the  person  who  takes  trading  decisions  is  in  possession  of  such
information rather than whether the person who has title to the trades is in such possession.
(3)
The  disclosures  of  trading  in  securities  shall  also  include  trading  in  derivatives  of
securities and the traded value of the derivatives shall be taken into account for purposes of this
Chapter:
Provided  that  trading  in  derivatives  of  securities  is  permitted  by  any  law  for  the  time
being in force.
(4)
The  disclosures  made  under  this  Chapter  shall  be  maintained  by  the  company,  for  a
minimum period of five years, in such form as may be specified.
Disclosures by certain persons.
7. (1)  Initial Disclosures.
(a).  Every promoter  22[, member of the promoter group] , key managerial personnel and
director  of  every  company  whose  securities  are  listed  on  any  recognised  stock
exchange  shall  disclose  his  holding  of  securities  of  the  company  as  on  the  date  of
these regulations taking effect, to the company within thirty days of these regulations
taking effect;
(b).  Every  person  on  appointment  as  a  key  managerial  personnel  or  a  director  of  the
company  or  upon  becoming  a  23[promoter  or  member  of  the  promoter  group]  shall
2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019)
disclose  his  holding  of  securities  of  the  company  as  on  the  date  of  appointment  or
becoming  a  promoter,  to  the  company  within  seven  days  of  such  appointment  or
becoming a promoter.
(2) Continual Disclosures.
(a).  Every  promoter  24[,  member  of  the  promoter  group],  25[designated  person]  and
director  of  every  company  shall  disclose  to  the  company  the  number  of  such
securities acquired or disposed of within two trading days of such transaction if the
value  of  the  securities  traded,  whether  in  one  transaction  or  a  series  of  transactions
over any calendar quarter, aggregates to a traded value in excess of ten lakh rupees or
such other value as may be specified;
(b).  Every company shall notify the particulars of such trading to the stock exchange on
which the securities are listed within two trading days of receipt of the disclosure or
from becoming aware of such information.
incremental transactions after any disclosure under this sub-regulation, shall be made
when the transactions effected after the prior disclosure cross the threshold specified
in clause (a) of sub-regulation (2).
26[(c)      The  above  disclosures  shall  be  made  in  such  form  and  such  manner  as  may  be
specified by the Board from time to time.]
Disclosures by other connected persons.
(3)
Any  company  whose  securities  are  listed  on  a  stock  exchange  may,  at  its  discretion
require any other connected person or class of connected persons to make disclosures of holdings
2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020).
and  trading  in  securities  of  the  company  in  such  form  and  at  such  frequency  as  may  be
determined by the company in order to monitor compliance with these regulations.
whom it has to provide unpublished price sensitive information. This provision confers discretion
on  any  company  to  seek  such  information.  For  example,  a  listed  company  may  ask  that  a
management  consultant  who  would  advise  it  on  corporate  strategy  and  would  need  to  review
unpublished price sensitive information, should make disclosures of his trades to the company.
27[CHAPTER – IIIA
Definitions.
7A. (1) In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)  ‘Investor Protection and Education Fund’ means the Investor Protection and Education
Fund created by the Board under section 11 of the Act;
(b) ‘Informant’ means  an individual(s), who voluntarily  submits  to  the  Board  a Voluntary
Information Disclosure Form relating to an alleged violation of insider trading laws that
has occurred, is occurring or has a reasonable belief that it is about to occur, in a manner
provided under these regulations, regardless  of whether  such individual(s) satisfies the
requirements, procedures and conditions to qualify for a reward;
(c)  ‘Informant  Incentive  Committee’  means  the  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee
constituted by the Board in the manner as may be  specified under regulation 11 of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018.
(d) ‘insider trading laws’ means the following provisions of securities laws,-
i.
Section 15G of the Act;
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019)
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
regulation 3 of these regulations;
regulation 4 of these regulations;
regulation 5 of these regulations; and
regulation  9  or  regulation  9A  of  these  regulations,  in  so  far  as  they  pertain  to
trading or communication of unpublished price sensitive information.
(e)  ‘irrelevant,  vexatious  and  frivolous  information’  includes,  reporting  of  information
which in the opinion of the Board, -
(i)  Does not constitute a violation of insider trading laws; or
(ii)
Is rendered solely for the purposes of malicious prosecution; or
(iii)  Is rendered intentionally in an effort to waste the time and resource of the Board.
(f)  ‘Legal  Representative’  means  a  duly  authorised  individual  who  is  admitted  to  the
practice of law in India;
(g) ‘Monetary Sanctions’ shall mean any non-monetary settlement terms or any direction of
the  Board,  in  the  nature  of  disgorgement  under  securities  laws  aggregating  to  at  least
Rupees  one  crore  arising  from  the  same  operative  facts  contained  in  the  original
information.
(h) ‘Original  Information’  means  any  relevant  information  submitted  in  accordance  with
these regulations pertaining to any violation of insider trading laws that is:-
(i)
derived from the independent knowledge and analysis of the Informant;
(ii)  not known to the Board from any other source, except where the Informant is the
original source of the information;
(iii)
is sufficiently specific, credible and timely to  - (1) commence an examination or
inquiry  or  audit,  (2)  assist  in  an  ongoing  examination  or  investigation  or  inquiry  or
audit,  (3)  open  or  re-open  an  investigation  or  inquiry,  or  (4)  inquire  into  a  different
conduct as part of an ongoing examination or investigation or inquiry or audit directed
by the Board
receipt of the duly completed Voluntary Information Disclosure Form by the Board, a
period  of  not  more  than  three  years  has  elapsed  since  the  date  on  which  the  first
alleged trade constituting violation of insider trading laws was executed];
(iv)  not  exclusively  derived  from  an  allegation  made  in  a  judicial  or  administrative
hearing,  in  a  Governmental  report,  hearing,  audit,  or  investigation,  or  from  the  news
media, except where the Informant is the original source of the information; and
(v)
not irrelevant or frivolous or vexatious.
information already possessed by the Board is not original information.
(i) ‘own analysis’ means the examination and evaluation of the relevant information  by the
Informant that may be publicly available, but which reveals  analysis that is not known
to SEBI:
Provided
that  such  analysis
is  not  derived  from  professional  or  confidential
communication protected under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872);
(j) ‘own  knowledge’  means  relevant  information  in  the  possession  of  the  Informant  not
derived from publicly available sources:
Provided  that  such  knowledge  is  not  derived  from  professional  or  confidential
communications protected under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872);
(k) ‘Reward’  means  any  gratuitous  monetary  amount  for  which  an  Informant  is  declared
eligible as per the provisions of these regulations;
(l) ‘securities  laws’  means  the  Act,  the  Securities  Contract  (Regulations)  Act,  1956  (42  of
1956), the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996), the relevant provisions of any other law
to the extent it is administered by the Board and the relevant rules and regulations made
thereunder;
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. October 29, 2020).
(m) ‘voluntarily providing information’ means providing the Board with information before
receiving  any  request,  inquiry,  or  demand  from  the  Board,  any  other  Central  or  State
authorities  or  other  statutory  authority  about  a  matter,  to  which  the  information  is
relevant;
(2)  Words  and  expressions  used  but  not  defined  in  these  regulations  but  defined  in  securities
laws, shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in those laws or any statutory
modification or re-enactment thereto.
Submission of Original Information to the Board
7B. (1) An Informant shall submit Original Information by furnishing the Voluntary Information
Disclosure Form to the Office of Informant Protection of the Board in the format and manner set
out  in  Schedule  D.  The  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form  may  be  submitted  through
informant’s legal representative:
Provided that where the Informant does not submit the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form
through  a  legal  representative,  the  Board  may  require  such  Informant  to  appear  in  person  to
ascertain his/her identity and the veracity of the information so provided.
received  in  a  manner  not  in  accordance  with  the  manner  provided  under  these  regulations,  the
Board  may  require  such  information  to  be  filed  with  it  in  accordance  with  these  regulations  or
reject the same.
(2) The legal representative shall,-
i. Verify the identity and contact details of the Informant;
ii. Unless  otherwise  required  by  the  Board,  maintain  confidentiality  of  the  identity  and
existence  of  the  Informant,  including  the  original  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure
Form;
iii.  Undertake and certify that he/she,-
(a)  Has reviewed the completed and signed Voluntary Information Disclosure Form for
completeness and accuracy and that the information contained therein is true, correct
and complete to the best of his/her knowledge;
(b)  Has obtained a irrevocable consent from the Informant to provide to the Board with
original  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form  whenever  required  by  the  Board;
and
(c)  Agrees  to  be  legally  obligated  to  provide  the  original  Voluntary  Information
Disclosure Form within seven (7) calendar days of receiving such requests from the
Board.
iv. Submits  to  the  Board,  the  copy  of  the  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form  in  the
manner provided in Schedule D of these regulations along with a signed certificate as
required under clause (iii) of this sub-regulation (2).
(3)  An  Informant  shall  while  submitting  the  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form  shall
expunge  such  information  from  the  content  of  the  information  which  could  reasonably  be
expected  to  reveal  his  or  her  identity  and  in  case  where  such  information  cannot  be  expunged,
the Informant may identify such part of information or any document that the Informant believes
could reasonably be expected to reveal his or her identity.
Receipt of Original Information by the Board
7C. (1) The Board may designate a division to function as the independent Office of Informant
Protection.
(2) The Office of Informant Protection shall perform such functions as may be specified by the
Board, including,-
i.  Receiving and registering the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form;
ii.  Making all necessary communications with the Informant;
iii.  Maintaining a hotline for the benefit of potential Informant;
iv.  Maintaining  confidentiality  of  the  legal  representative  of  the  Informant  and  act  as  an
interface between the Informant and the officers of the Board;
v.
Interacting with the Informant Incentive Committee;
vi.
vii.
Issuing press releases and rewards relating to Informant; and
Submitting  an  annual  report  to  the  Board  relating  to  the  functioning  of  the  Office  of
Informant Protection.
(3) On receipt of the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form, the Office of Informant Protection
shall  communicate  the  substance  of  the  information  along  with  the  evidence  submitted  by  the
informant to  the relevant department  or division  of the  Board  for  examination and initiation of
necessary action, if any.
(4) The Board shall not be required to send any intimation or acknowledgement to the Informant
or  any  other  person,  of  the  examination  or  action  initiated  by  the  Board,  if  any,  pursuant  to
receipt  of  the  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form  or  information  under  these  regulations,
including rejection thereof.
Informant Reward.
7D. (1) Upon collection or substantial recovery of the monetary sanctions amounting to at least
twice the Reward, the Board may at its sole discretion, declare an Informant eligible for Reward
and intimate the Informant or his or her legal representative to file an application in the format
provided in Schedule-E for claiming such Reward:
Provided that the amount of Reward shall be ten percent of the monetary sanctions collected or
recovered  and  shall  not  exceed  Rupees  One  crore  or  such  higher  amount  as  the  Board  may
specify from time to time:
Provided  further  that  the  Board  may  if  deemed  fit,  out  of  the  total  Reward  payable,  grant  an
interim reward not exceeding Rupees Ten lacs or such higher amount as the Board may specify
from  time  to  time,  on  the  issue  of  final  order  by  the  Board  against  the  person  directed  to
disgorge.
(2) In case of more than one  Informant jointly providing the Original Information, the Reward,
as specified in the intimation under sub-regulation (1), shall be divided equally amongst the total
number of Informants.
(3) The Reward under these regulations shall be paid from the Investor Protection and Education
Fund.
Determination of amount of Reward.
7E. (1) The amount of the Reward, if payable, shall be determined by the Board.
(2)  While  determining  the  amount  of  Reward  under  sub-regulation  (1),  the  Board  may  specify
the factors that may be taken into consideration by the Informant Incentive Committee.
(3)  An  Informant  may  be  eligible  for  a  Reward  whether  or  not  he  reported  the  matter  to  his
organization  as  per  its  internal  legal  and  compliance  procedures  and  irrespective  of  such
organization’s compliance officer subsequently providing the same Information to the Board.
Application for Reward.
7F.  (1)  Informants  who  are  considered  tentatively  eligible  for  a  Reward,  shall  submit  the
Informant Reward Claim Form set out in Schedule E to the Board within the period specified in
the intimation sent by the Board.
(2)  Prior  to  the  payment  of  a  Reward,  an  Informant  shall  directly  or  through  his  or  her  legal
representative, disclose his or her identity and provide such other information as the Board may
require.
Rejection of claim for Reward.
7G. No Reward shall be made to an Informant:-
(1) who does not submit original information;
(2) who has acquired the Original Information, through or as a member, officer, or an employee
of:-
(i)
any regulatory agency constituted by or under any law in India or outside India, including
the Board;
(ii)
any self-regulatory organization;
(iii)      the surveillance or investigation wings of any recognised stock exchange or clearing
corporation; or
(iv)
any law enforcement organization including the police or any central or state revenue
authorities.
(3) against whom the Board may initiate or has initiated criminal proceedings under securities laws;
(4) who  wilfully  refused  to  cooperate  with  the  Board  during  its  course  of  investigation,  inquiry,
audit, examination or other proceedings under securities laws;
(5) who:
(i)
knowingly makes any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or
(ii)
uses  any  false  writing  or  document  knowing  that  the  writing  or  document  contains  any
false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry; or
(iii)
fails  to  furnish  the  complete  information  available  with  him  or  accessible  by  him  in
relation to the alleged violation.
(6) who is obligated, under any law or otherwise, to report such Original Information to the Board,
including a compliance officer under securities laws.
Provided  that  the  Board  may  if  deemed  fit,  at  its  sole  discretion,  exempt a  person  from  any  of
these disqualifications.
Informant confidentiality.
7H. (1) Any information including Original Information may, at the discretion of the Board, be
made available:
(a)  when  it  is  required  to  be  disclosed  in  connection  with  any  legal  proceedings  in
furtherance of the Board’s legal position;
(b) as permitted by these regulations; or
(c)  as may be otherwise required or permitted by law.
(2) Original Information may, at the discretion of the Board, be made available to -
(i) any regulatory agency constituted by or under any law in India or outside India;
(ii) any self-regulatory organization;
(iii) the surveillance or investigation wings of any recognised stock exchange or clearing
corporation; or
(iv) any law enforcement organization including the police or any central or state revenue
authorities; or
(v) a public prosecutor in connection with any criminal proceedings.
Provided  that  sharing  of  information  shall  be  in  accordance  with  such  assurances  of
confidentiality as the Board determines appropriate.
ability  of  the  public  prosecutor  to  share  such  evidence  with  potential  witnesses  or  accused  in
connection with any criminal proceedings.
(3) The Original Information and identity provided by an Informant shall be held in confidence
and  exempted  from  disclosure  under  clauses  (g)  and  (h)  of  sub-section  (1)  of  section  8  of  the
Right to Information Act, 2005 (No. 22 of 2005).
(4) Subject to the law of evidence for the time being in force, nothing in these regulations shall
prejudice the right of the Board to use or to rely on information received otherwise.
(5) No person shall have the right to compel disclosure of the identity, existence of an Informant
or the information provided by an Informant, except to the extent relied upon in any proceeding
initiated against such person by the Board.
shall be maintained throughout the process of investigation, inquiry and examination as well as
during  any  proceedings  before  the  Board  and  save  where  the  evidence  of  the  Informant  is
required  during  such  proceedings,  advance  notice  of  such  evidence  may  be  provided  to  the
noticee at least seven (7) working days prior to the date of the scheduled hearing for evidence.
request  maintenance  of  confidentiality  of  the  identity  and  existence  of  an  Informant  in  such
proceeding.
Protection against retaliation and victimisation
7I. (1) Every person required to have a Code of Conduct under these regulations shall ensure that
such  a  Code  of  Conduct  provides  for  suitable  protection  against  any  discharge,  termination,
demotion,  suspension,  threats,  harassment,  directly  or  indirectly  or  discrimination  against  any
employee  who  files  a  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form,  irrespective  of  whether  the
information  is  considered  or  rejected  by  the  Board  or  he  or  she  is  eligible  for  a  Reward  under
these regulations, by reason of:
(i)
(ii)
filing a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form under these regulations;
testifying  in,  participating  in,  or  otherwise  assisting  or  aiding  the  Board  in  any
investigation, inquiry, audit, examination or proceeding instituted or about to be instituted
for an alleged violation of insider trading laws or in any manner aiding the enforcement
action taken by the Board; or
(iii)  breaching  any  confidentiality  agreement  or  provisions  of  any  terms  and  conditions  of
employment  or  engagement  solely  to  prevent  any  employee  from  cooperating  with  the
Board in any manner.
employment  may  become  privy  to  information  relating  to  violation  of  insider  trading  laws  and
files a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form under these regulations and is a director, partner,
regular or contractual employee, but does not include an advocate.
(i) the Board has taken up any enforcement action in furtherance of information provided by
such person; or
(ii)  the  information  provided  fulfils  the  criteria  of  being  considered  as  an  Original
Information under these regulations.
(2)  Nothing  in  these  regulations  shall  prohibit  any  Informant  who  believes  that  he  or  she  has
been  subject  to  retaliation  or  victimisation  by  his  or  her  employer,  from  approaching  the
competent court or tribunal for appropriate relief.
(3)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (2),  any  employer  who  violates  this
Chapter  may  be  liable  for  penalty,  debarment,  suspension,  and/or  criminal  prosecution  by  the
Board, as the case may be:
Provided  that  nothing  in  these  regulations  will  require  the  Board  to  direct  re-instatement  or
compensation by an employer.
(4) Nothing in these regulations shall diminish the rights and privileges of or remedies available
to any Informant under any other law in force.
Void Agreements
7J.  (1)  Any  term  in  an  agreement  (oral  or  written)  or  Code  of  Conduct,  is  void  in  so  far  as  it
purports  to  preclude  any  person,  other  than  an  advocate,  from  submitting  to  the  Board
information relating to the violation of the securities laws that has occurred, is occurring or has a
reasonable belief that it would occur.
(2) No person shall by way of any threat or act impede an individual from communicating with
the Board, including enforcing or threatening to enforce, a confidentiality agreement (other than
agreements  related  to  legal  representations  of  a  client  and  communications  there  under)  with
respect to such communications.
Information  Disclosure  Form filed with  the  Board or to  seek its prior permission  or consent  or
guidance of any person engaged by the employer before or after such filing.
No Amnesty
7K. (1) Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to provide any amnesty or immunity to an
Informant for violation of securities law.
(2) Where an action against an Informant is deemed appropriate the Board may take into account
the  co-operation  rendered  in  the  final  determination  of  any  penalty,  sanction,  direction  or
settlement thereof, as the case may be.
(3)  Where  an  action  against  an  Informant  is  deemed  appropriate,  the  Board  while  determining
the  value  of  monetary  sanctions  shall  not  take  into  account  the  monetary  sanctions  that  the
Informant  is  ordered  to  pay  or  that  which  any  other  person  is  ordered  to  pay  if  the  liability  of
such other person is based substantially on the conduct that the Informant directed, planned, or
initiated.
(4)  An  Informant  who  may  be  liable  for  enforcement  action  by  the  Board  based  on  his  or  her
conduct  in  connection  with  securities  laws  violations  reported  in  the  Voluntary  Information
Disclosure  Form  filed  with  the  Board,  may  simultaneously  or  at  any  time  thereafter  file  an
application  seeking  settlement  with  confidentiality  under  Chapter  IX  of  the  Securities  and
Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018.
(5)  Notwithstanding  any  action  taken  by  the  Board  against  an  Informant,  the  Informant  may,
after payment of any monetary amounts be eligible for a Reward.
Functions of Informant Incentive Committee
7L.  (1)  The  Informant  Incentive  Committee  shall  be  assisted  by  the  Office  of  Informant
Protection.
(2)  The  Informant  Incentive  Committee  shall  give  its  recommendations  to  the  Board  on  the
following matters,-
i.  Eligibility of Informant for reward;
ii.  Determination under regulations 7E and 7G; and
iii.  Such other issues relating to Informant as the Board may require from time to time.
(3) The Informant Incentive Committee shall conduct its meetings in the manner specified by the
Board in this regard.
Public dissemination and incentivisation of Informant.
7M. (1) The Board shall upload on its website the following,-
i.  Annual report of the Office of Informant Protection;
ii.  Press release informing the public that an intimation to the Informant has been issued
under Regulation 7D;
iii.  Press  release  informing  the  public  that  a  Reward  has  been  paid  under  these
regulations  and  the  amount  of  Monetary  Sanctions  recovered  pursuant  to  the
information provided by the Informant;
iv.  The Order issuing the Reward;
that could identify the Informant or the information provided by the Informant.]
CHAPTER – IV
CODES OF FAIR DISCLOSURE AND CONDUCT
Code of Fair Disclosure.
8.
(1)
The  board  of  directors  of  every  company,  whose  securities  are  listed  on  a  stock
exchange, shall formulate and publish on its official website, a code of practices and procedures
for  fair  disclosure  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  that  it  would  follow  in  order  to
adhere to each of the principles set out in Schedule A to these regulations, without diluting the
provisions of these regulations in any manner.
This  provision  intends  to  require  every  company  whose  securities  are  listed  on
stock  exchanges  to  formulate  a  stated  framework  and  policy  for  fair  disclosure  of  events  and
occurrences that could impact price discovery in the market for its securities. Principles such as,
equality  of  access  to  information,  publication  of  policies  such  as  those  on  dividend,  inorganic
growth  pursuits,  calls  and  meetings  with  analysts,  publication  of  transcripts  of  such  calls  and
meetings, and the like are set out in the schedule.
(2)
Every  such  code  of  practices  and  procedures  for  fair  disclosure  of  unpublished  price
sensitive  information  and  every  amendment  thereto  shall  be  promptly  intimated  to  the  stock
exchanges where the securities are listed.
This  provision  is  aimed  at  requiring  transparent  disclosure  of  the  policy
formulated in sub-regulation (1).
Code of Conduct.
9.
(1)
The  board  of  directors  of  every  listed  company  and  29[the  board  of  directors  or
head(s) of the organisation of every intermediary shall ensure that the chief executive officer or
managing director] shall formulate a code of conduct 30[with their approval] to regulate, monitor
and  report  trading  by  its  31[designated  persons  and  immediate  relatives  of  designated  persons]
towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in
Schedule B 32[(in case of a listed company) and Schedule C (in case of an intermediary)] to these
regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner.
would be required to formulate a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by their
designated  persons,  by  adopting  the  minimum  standards  set  out  in  Schedule  B  with  respect  to
trading in their own securities and in Schedule C with respect to trading in other securities.]
It is intended that every company whose securities are listed on stock exchanges
and every  34[intermediary] registered with SEBI is mandatorily required to formulate a code of
conduct  governing  trading  by  35[designated  persons  and  their  immediate  relatives].    The
standards set out in the 36[schedules] are required to be addressed by such code of conduct.
Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
(2)
37[The  board  of  directors  or  head(s)  of  the  organisation,  of  every  other  person  who  is
required to  handle unpublished price sensitive information  in  the  course  of business  operations
shall  formulate  a  code  of  conduct  to  regulate,  monitor  and  report  trading  by  their  designated
persons and immediate relative of designated persons towards achieving compliance with these
regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in Schedule C to these regulations, without
diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner.
insolvency  professional  entities,  consultants,  banks  etc.,  assisting  or  advising  listed  companies
shall be collectively referred to as fiduciaries for the purpose of these regulations.]
intermediaries that are required to handle unpublished price sensitive information to formulate a
code  of  conduct  governing  trading  in  securities  by  their  designated  persons.  These  entities
include  professional  firms  such  as  auditors,  accountancy  firms,  law  firms,  analysts,  insolvency
professional entities, consultants, banks etc., assisting or advising listed companies. Even entities
that  normally  operate  outside  the  capital  market  may  handle  unpublished  price  sensitive
information. This provision would mandate all of them to formulate a code of conduct.]
37  Substituted  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  (Amendment)
Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019). Prior to substitution Sub-regulation (2) read as under:
“Every  other  person  who  is  required  to  handle  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  in  the  course  of  business
operations  shall  formulate  a  code  of  conduct  to  regulate,  monitor  and  report  trading  by  employees  and  other
connected persons towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in
Schedule B to these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner.”
38  Substituted  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  (Amendment)
Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019). Prior to substitution the Note read as under:
“This  provision  is  intended  to  mandate  persons  other  than  listed  companies  and  market  intermediaries  that  are
required  to  handle  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  to  formulate  a  code  of  conduct  governing  trading  in
securities  by  their  employees.  These  entities  include  professional  firms  such  as  auditors,  accountancy  firms,  law
firms,  analysts,  consultants  etc.,  assisting  or  advising  listed  companies,  market  intermediaries  and  other  capital
market  participants.  Even  entities  that  normally  operate  outside  the  capital  market  may handle unpublished price
sensitive information. This provision would mandate all of them to formulate a code of conduct.”
(3)
Every listed company,  39[intermediary] and other persons formulating a code of conduct
shall  identify  and  designate  a  compliance  officer  to  administer  the  code  of  conduct  and  other
requirements under these regulations.
responsibility to administer the code of conduct and monitor compliance with these regulations.
40[(4)  For  the  purpose  of  sub  regulation  (1)  and  (2),  the  board  of  directors  or  such  other
analogous  authority  shall  in  consultation  with  the  compliance  officer  specify  the  designated
persons  to  be  covered  by  the  code  of  conduct  on  the  basis  of  their  role  and  function  in  the
organisation  and  the  access  that  such  role  and  function  would  provide  to  unpublished  price
sensitive information in addition to seniority and professional designation and shall include:-
(i) Employees of such listed company, intermediary or fiduciary designated on the basis
of  their  functional  role  or  access  to  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  in  the
organization by their board of directors or analogous body;
(ii) Employees of material subsidiaries of such listed companies designated on the basis
of  their  functional  role  or  access  to  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  in  the
organization by their board of directors;
(iii) All promoters of listed companies and promoters who are individuals or investment
companies for intermediaries or fiduciaries;
(iv)  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  employees  upto  two  levels  below  Chief  Executive
Officer  of  such  listed  company,  intermediary,  fiduciary  and  its  material  subsidiaries
irrespective  of  their  functional  role  in  the  company  or  ability  to  have  access  to
unpublished price sensitive information;
Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
(v)  Any  support  staff  of  listed  company,  intermediary  or  fiduciary  such  as  IT  staff  or
secretarial staff who have access to unpublished price sensitive information.]
41[Institutional Mechanism for Prevention of Insider trading.
9A.    (1)  The  Chief  Executive  Officer,  Managing  Director  or  such  other  analogous  person  of  a
listed  company,  intermediary  or  fiduciary  shall  put  in  place  adequate  and  effective  system  of
internal  controls  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  requirements  given  in  these  regulations  to
prevent insider trading.
(2) The internal controls shall include the following:
(a).
all  employees  who  have  access  to  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  are
identified as designated 42[person];
(b).
all  the  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  shall  be  identified  and  its
confidentiality shall be maintained as per the requirements of these regulations;
(c).
adequate  restrictions  shall  be  placed  on  communication  or  procurement  of
unpublished price sensitive information as required by these regulations;
(d).
lists  of  all  employees  and  other  persons  with  whom  unpublished  price  sensitive
information  is  shared  shall  be  maintained  and  confidentiality  agreements  shall  be
signed or notice shall be served to all such employees and persons;
(e).
all  other  relevant  requirements  specified  under  these  regulations  shall  be  complied
with;
(f).
periodic process review to evaluate effectiveness of such internal controls.
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
(3) The board of directors of every listed company and the board of directors or head(s) of the
organisation of intermediaries and fiduciaries shall ensure that the Chief Executive Officer or the
Managing  Director  or  such  other  analogous  person  ensures  compliance  with  regulation  9  and
sub-regulations (1) and (2) of this regulation.
(4)  The  Audit  Committee  of  a  listed  company  or  other  analogous  body  for  intermediary  or
fiduciary  shall  review  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  at  least  once  in  a
financial year and shall verify that the systems for internal control are adequate and are operating
effectively.
(5) Every listed company shall formulate written policies and procedures for inquiry in case  of
leak of unpublished price sensitive information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive
information,  which  shall  be  approved  by  board  of  directors  of  the  company  and  accordingly
initiate  appropriate  inquiries  on  becoming  aware  of  leak  of  unpublished  price  sensitive
information  or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information  and inform  the Board
promptly of such leaks, inquiries and results of such inquiries.
(6) The listed company  shall have a whistle-blower policy  and make employees aware of such
policy to enable employees to report instances of leak of unpublished price sensitive information.
(7)  If  an  inquiry  has  been  initiated  by  a  listed  company  in  case  of  leak  of  unpublished  price
sensitive information  or  suspected leak of  unpublished price sensitive information, the relevant
intermediaries and fiduciaries shall co-operate with the listed company in connection with such
inquiry conducted by listed company.]
CHAPTER – V
MISCELLANEOUS
Sanction for violations.
10.
Any  contravention  of  these  regulations  shall  be  dealt  with  by  the  Board  in  accordance
with the Act.
Power to remove difficulties.
43[11.  (1)  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  interpretation  or  application  of  the
provisions  of  these  regulations,  the  Board  shall  have  the  power  to  issue  directions  through
guidance notes or circulars:
Provided  that  where  any  direction  is  issued  by  the  Board  in  a  specific  case  relating  to
interpretation  or  application  of  any  provision  of  these  regulations,  it  shall  be  done  only  after
affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the concerned persons and after recording
reasons for the direction.]
44[(2) For the purpose of Chapter IIIA, the Board may,-
i.
by  circular,  specify  procedures  and  processes  for  carrying  out  the  purposes  of  these
regulations;
ii.
remove  any  difficulty  in  the  interpretation  or  application  or  implementation  of  the
provisions  of  these  regulations,  by  issuing  clarifications  and  specifying  procedures
through circulars or guidelines.]
Repeal and Savings.
12.
(1)
The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)
Regulations, 1992 are hereby repealed.
(2)   Notwithstanding such repeal,—
43  Renumbered  as  11  (1)  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019)
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019)
(a)
the  previous  operation  of  the  repealed  regulations  or  anything  duly  done  or  suffered
thereunder,  any  right,  privilege,  obligation  or  liability  acquired,  accrued  or  incurred  under  the
repealed  regulations,  any  penalty,  forfeiture  or  punishment  incurred  in  respect  of  any  offence
committed against the repealed regulations, or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in
respect  of  any  such  right,  privilege,  obligation,  liability,  penalty,  forfeiture  or  punishment  as
aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the repealed regulations had never been repealed; and
(b)
anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including any
adjudication,  enquiry  or  investigation  commenced  or  show-cause  notice  issued  under  the
repealed regulations prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the
corresponding provisions of these regulations;
(3)   After  the  repeal  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider
Trading)  Regulations,  1992,  any  reference  thereto  in  any  other  regulations  made,  guidelines  or
circulars issued thereunder by the Board shall be deemed to be a reference to the corresponding
provisions of these regulations.
SCHEDULE A
[See sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8]
Principles of Fair Disclosure for purposes of Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair
Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information
1.
Prompt  public  disclosure  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  that  would  impact
price  discovery  no  sooner  than  credible  and  concrete  information  comes  into  being  in  order  to
make such information generally available.
2.
Uniform  and  universal  dissemination  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  unpublished  price
sensitive information to avoid selective disclosure.
3.
Designation  of  a  senior  officer  as  a  chief  investor  relations  officer  to  deal  with
dissemination of information and disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information.
4.
Prompt  dissemination  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  that  gets  disclosed
selectively, inadvertently or otherwise to make such information generally available.
5.
Appropriate and fair response to queries on news reports and requests for verification of
market rumours by regulatory authorities.
6.
Ensuring that information shared with analysts and research personnel is not unpublished
price sensitive information.
7.
Developing best practices to make transcripts or records of proceedings of meetings with
analysts  and  other  investor  relations  conferences  on  the  official  website  to  ensure  official
confirmation and documentation of disclosures made.
Handling of all unpublished price sensitive information on a need-to-know basis.
8.
SCHEDULE B
[See sub-regulation (1) 45[***] of regulation 9]
Minimum Standards for Code of Conduct 46[for Listed Companies] to Regulate,
Monitor and Report Trading by 47[Designated Persons]
1.
The  compliance  officer  shall  report  to  the  board  of  directors  and  in  particular,  shall
provide reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, if any, or to the Chairman of the board
of directors at such frequency as may be stipulated by the board of directors, 48[but not less than
once in a year].
2.
All information shall be handled within the organisation on a need-to-know basis and no
unpublished  price  sensitive  information  shall  be  communicated  to  any  person  except  in
furtherance  of  49[***]  legitimate  purposes,  performance  of  duties  or  discharge  of  50[***]  legal
obligations. The code of conduct shall contain norms for appropriate Chinese Walls procedures,
and processes for permitting any designated person to “cross the wall”.
3.
51[Designated Persons and immediate relatives of designated persons] in the organisation
shall be governed by an internal code of conduct governing dealing in securities.  52[***]
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “and sub-regulation (2)”.
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “the insider’s”.
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “his”.
(“designated persons”)” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as below:
“The  board  of  directors  shall  in  consultation  with  the  compliance  officer  specify  the  designated  persons  to  be
covered  by  such  code  on  the  basis  of  their  role  and  function  in  the  organisation.  Due  regard  shall  be  had  to  the
53[4.
(1) Designated persons may execute trades subject to compliance with these regulations.
Towards this end, a notional trading window shall be used as an instrument of monitoring trading
by  the  designated  persons.  The  trading  window  shall  be  closed  when  the  compliance  officer
determines that a designated person or class of designated persons can reasonably be expected to
have  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information.  Such  closure  shall  be  imposed  in
relation  to  such  securities  to  which  such  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  relates.
Designated  persons  and  their  immediate  relatives  shall  not  trade  in  securities  when  the  trading
window is closed.
(2) 54[Trading restriction period 55[shall] be made applicable from the end of every quarter till 48
hours after the declaration of financial results. The  gap between clearance of accounts by audit
committee and board meeting should be as narrow as possible and preferably on the same day to
avoid leakage of material information.]
56[(3) The trading window restrictions mentioned in sub-clause (1) shall not apply in respect of –
(a)  transactions  specified  in  clauses  (i)  to  (iv)  and  (vi)  of  the  proviso  to  sub-regulation  (1)  of
regulation 4 and in respect of a pledge of shares for a bonafide purpose such as raising of funds,
subject  to  pre-clearance  by  the  compliance  officer  and  compliance  with  the  respective
regulations made by the Board;
(b)  transactions  which  are  undertaken  in  accordance  with  respective  regulations  made  by  the
Board  such  as  acquisition  by  conversion  of  warrants  or  debentures,  subscribing  to  rights  issue,
further public issue, preferential allotment or tendering of shares in a buy-back offer, open offer,
delisting offer] 57[or transactions which are undertaken through such other mechanism as may be
specified by the Board from time to time].
access that such role and function would provide to unpublished price sensitive information in addition to seniority
and professional designation.”
53 First paragraph numbered as sub-clause (1) and second and third paragraph combined and numbered as sub-clause
(2) by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations,
2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020).
5.
The timing for re-opening of the trading window shall be determined by the compliance
officer taking into account various factors including the unpublished price sensitive information
in question becoming generally available and being capable of assimilation by the market, which
in  any event  shall not  be earlier than forty-eight  hours after the information becomes  generally
available. 58[***]
6.
When the trading window is open, trading by designated persons shall be subject to pre-
clearance by the compliance officer, if the value of the proposed trades is above such thresholds
as the board of directors may stipulate.  59[***]
7.
8.
60[***]
Prior to approving any trades, the compliance officer shall be entitled to seek declarations
to  the  effect  that  the  applicant  for  pre-clearance  is  not  in  possession  of  any  unpublished  price
sensitive  information.  He  shall  also  have  regard  to  whether  any  such  declaration  is  reasonably
capable of being rendered inaccurate.
9.
The code of conduct shall specify any reasonable timeframe, which in any event shall not
be  more  than  seven  trading  days,  within  which  trades  that  have  been  pre-cleared  have  to  be
executed  by  the  designated  person,  failing  which  fresh  pre-clearance  would  be  needed  for  the
trades to be executed.
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as below:
“The  trading  window  shall  also  be  applicable  to  any  person  having  contractual  or  fiduciary  relation  with  the
company,  such  as  auditors,  accountancy  firms,  law  firms,  analysts,  consultants  etc.,  assisting  or  advising  the
company.”
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as below:
“No designated person shall apply for pre-clearance of any proposed trade if such designated person is in possession
of unpublished price sensitive information even if the trading window is not closed.”
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as below:
“The  compliance  officer  shall  confidentially  maintain  a  list  of  such  securities  as  a  “restricted  list”  which  shall  be
used as the basis for approving or rejecting applications for preclearance of trades.”
10.
The code of conduct shall specify the period, which in any event shall not be less than six
months,  within  which  a  designated  person  who  is  permitted  to  trade  shall  not  execute  a  contra
trade.  The compliance officer may be empowered to grant relaxation from strict application of
such  restriction  for  reasons  to  be  recorded  in  writing  provided  that  such  relaxation  does  not
violate  these  regulations.  Should  a  contra  trade  be  executed,  inadvertently  or  otherwise,  in
violation  of  such  a  restriction,  the  profits  from  such  trade  shall  be  liable  to  be  disgorged  for
remittance to the Board for credit to the Investor Protection and Education Fund administered by
the Board under the Act.
61[Provided that this shall not be applicable for trades pursuant to exercise of stock options.]
11.
The  code  of  conduct  shall  stipulate  such  formats  as  the  board  of  directors  deems
necessary  for  making  applications  for  pre-clearance,  reporting  of  trades  executed,  reporting  of
decisions not to trade after securing pre-clearance  62[***] and for reporting level of holdings in
securities at such intervals as may be determined as being necessary to monitor compliance with
these regulations.
12.
63[Without prejudice to the power of the Board under the Act, the code of conduct shall
stipulate the sanctions and disciplinary actions, including wage freeze, suspension, recovery, etc.,
that may be imposed, by the listed company required to formulate a code of conduct under sub-
regulation  (1)  of  regulation  9,  for  the  contravention  of  the  code  of  conduct.  Any  amount
collected under this clause shall be remitted to the Board for credit to the Investor Protection and
Education Fund administered by the Board under the Act.]
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “recording of reasons for such decisions”.
63  Substituted  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  (Amendment)
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020). Prior to the substitution, clause 12 read as follows: -
“Without  prejudice  to  the  power  of  the  Board  under  the  Act,  the  code  of  conduct  shall  stipulate  the
sanctions and disciplinary actions, including wage freeze, suspension, recovery, clawback etc., that may be
imposed,  by  the  listed  company  required  to  formulate  a  code  of  conduct  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of
regulation 9, for the contravention of the code of conduct”.
13.
The  code  of  conduct  shall  specify  that  in  case  it  is  observed  by  the  64[listed  company]
required  to  formulate  a  code  of  conduct  under  sub-regulation  (1)  65[***]of  regulation  9,  that
there  has  been  a  violation  of  these  regulations,  66[it]  shall  67[promptly  inform  the  stock
exchange(s) where the concerned securities are traded, in such form and such manner as may be
specified by the Board from time to time].
68[14.   Designated persons shall be required to disclose names and Permanent Account Number
or any other identifier authorized by law of the following persons to the company on an annual
basis and as and when the information changes:
a)
b)
immediate relatives
persons  with  whom  such  designated  person(s)  shares  a  material  financial
relationship
c)
Phone, mobile and cell numbers which are used by them
In addition, the names of educational institutions from which designated persons have graduated
and names of their past employers shall also be disclosed on a one time basis.
person is a recipient of any kind of payment such as by way of a loan or gift 69[from a designated
person]  during  the  immediately  preceding  twelve  months,  equivalent  to  at  least  25%  70[of  the
annual income of such designated person] but shall exclude relationships in which the payment is
based on arm’s length transactions.]
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “and sub-regulation (2)”
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020).
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
71[15.  Listed  entities  shall  have  a  process  for  how  and  when  people  are  brought  ‘inside’  on
sensitive  transactions.  Individuals  should  be  made  aware  of  the  duties  and  responsibilities
attached  to  the  receipt  of  Inside  Information,  and  the  liability  that  attaches  to  misuse  or
unwarranted use of such information.]
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
72[SCHEDULE C
[See sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9]
Minimum Standards for Code of Conduct for Intermediaries and Fiduciaries to Regulate,
Monitor and Report Trading by Designated Persons
1. The compliance officer shall report to the board of directors or head(s) of the organisation (or
committee constituted in this regard) and in particular, shall provide reports to the Chairman of
the  Audit  Committee  or  other  analogous  body,  if  any,  or  to  the  Chairman  of  the  board  of
directors or head(s) of the organisation  at  such frequency  as may be stipulated by the board of
directors or head(s) of the organization but not less than once in a year.
2.  All  information  shall  be  handled  within  the  organisation  on  a  need-to-know  basis  and  no
unpublished  price  sensitive  information  shall  be  communicated  to  any  person  except  in
furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations. The
code of conduct shall contain norms for appropriate Chinese Wall procedures, and processes for
permitting any designated person to “cross the wall”.
3. Designated persons and immediate relatives of designated persons in the organisation shall be
governed by an internal code of conduct governing dealing in securities.
4. Designated persons may execute trades subject to compliance with these regulations. Trading
by designated persons shall be subject to pre- clearance by the compliance officer(s), if the value
of  the  proposed  trades  is  above  such  thresholds  as  the  board  of  directors  or  head(s)  of  the
organisation may stipulate.
5.  The  compliance  officer  shall  confidentially  maintain  a  list  of  such  securities  as  a  “restricted
list” which shall be used as the basis for approving or rejecting applications for pre-clearance of
trades.
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
6. Prior to approving any trades, the compliance officer shall seek declarations to the effect that
the  applicant  for  pre-clearance  is  not  in  possession  of  any  unpublished  price  sensitive
information. He shall also have regard to whether any such declaration is reasonably capable of
being rendered inaccurate.
7. The code of conduct shall specify any reasonable timeframe, which in any event shall not be
more  than  seven  trading  days,  within  which  trades  that  have  been  pre-cleared  have  to  be
executed  by  the  designated  person,  failing  which  fresh  pre-clearance  would  be  needed  for  the
trades to be executed.
8.  The  code  of  conduct  shall  specify  the  period,  which  in  any  event  shall  not  be  less  than  six
months, within which a designated person who is a connected person of the listed company and
is  permitted  to  trade  in  the  securities  of  such  listed  company,  shall  not  execute  a  contra  trade.
The  compliance  officer  may  be  empowered  to  grant  relaxation  from  strict  application  of  such
restriction  for  reasons  to  be  recorded  in  writing  provided  that  such  relaxation  does  not  violate
these regulations. Should a contra trade be executed, inadvertently or otherwise, in violation of
such a restriction, the profits from such trade shall be liable to be disgorged for remittance to the
Board for credit to the Investor Protection and Education Fund administered by the Board under
the Act.
Provided that this shall not be applicable for trades pursuant to exercise of stock options.
9.  The  code  of  conduct  shall  stipulate  such  formats  as  the  board  of  directors  or  head(s)  of  the
organisation  (or committee constituted in  this regard) deems  necessary for making  applications
for pre-clearance, reporting of trades executed, reporting of decisions not to trade after securing
pre-clearance,  and  for  reporting  level  of  holdings  in  securities  at  such  intervals  as  may  be
determined as being necessary to monitor compliance with these regulations.
10.  73[Without  prejudice  to  the  power  of  the  Board  under  the  Act,  the  code  of  conduct  shall
stipulate the sanctions and disciplinary actions, including wage freeze, suspension, recovery, etc.,
that may be imposed, by the intermediary or  fiduciary required to  formulate a code of conduct
under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9, for the contravention of the code
of conduct.  Any amount collected under this clause shall be remitted to the Board for credit to
the Investor Protection and Education Fund administered by the Board under the Act.]
11. The code of conduct shall specify that in case it is observed by the intermediary or fiduciary
required  to  formulate  a  code  of  conduct  under  sub-regulation  (1)  or  sub-regulation  (2)  of
regulation 9, respectively, that there has been a violation of these regulations, such intermediary
or  fiduciary  shall  74[promptly  inform  the  stock  exchange(s)  where  the  concerned  securities  are
traded, in such form and such manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time].
12. All designated persons shall be required to disclose name and Permanent Account Number or
any  other  identifier  authorized  by  law  of  the  following  to  the  intermediary  or  fiduciary  on  an
annual basis and as and when the information changes:
a) immediate relatives
b) persons with whom such designated person(s) shares a material financial relationship
c) Phone,  mobile, and cell numbers which are used by them
In  addition,  names  of  75[educational]  institutions  from  which  designated  persons  have
76[graduated] and names of their past employers shall also be disclosed on a one time basis.
person is a recipient of any kind of payment such as by way of a loan or gift 77[from a designated
73  Substituted  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  (Amendment)
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020). Prior to the substitution, clause 10 read as follows: -
“Without  prejudice  to  the  power  of  the  Board  under  the  Act,  the  code  of  conduct  shall  stipulate  the
sanctions and disciplinary actions, including wage freeze, suspension, recovery, clawback etc., that may be
imposed, by the intermediary or fiduciary required to formulate a code of conduct under sub-regulation (1)
and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9, for the contravention of the code of conduct.”
Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020).
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
person]  during  the  immediately  preceding  twelve  months,  equivalent  to  at  least  25%  78[of  the
annual income of such designated person] but shall exclude relationships in which the payment is
based on arm’s length transactions.
13.  Intermediaries  and  fiduciaries  shall  have  a  process  for  how  and  when  people  are  brought
‘inside’  on  sensitive  transactions.  Individuals  should  be  made  aware  of  the  duties  and
responsibilities  attached  to  the  receipt  of  Inside  Information,  and  the  liability  that  attaches  to
misuse or unwarranted use of such information.]
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
79[SCHEDULE D
[See regulation 7B]
Form for Informant’s Voluntary Information Disclosure to be submitted to the Board.
Note: For submission of information through a legal representative, the redacted copy of
the  Form  expunging  information  that  may  identify  the  Informant  shall  be  submitted  by
the  legal  representative  without  expunging  any  information  relating  to  the  legal
representative and the details relating to the violation of 80[insider trading laws].
*Indicates that the required field is non-mandatorily, remaining fields are mandatory
I. PERSONAL INFORMATION OF THE INFORMANT
A.INDIVIDUAL 1:
Last
First
Title:………………
Name:…………………
Name:…………………
Address:
City / State:
PIN:
Telephone (with State
Mobile:
E-Mail address:
Code):
Employment Details*:
Permanent Account Number, if
II. LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE (where applicable)
available:
Last
First
Title:………………
Name:………………
Name:……………………
Firm Name (if not self-employed):
Contact address :
City / State:
Residence address:
City / State:
PIN:
PIN:
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019)
80  Substituted  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  (Second  Amendment)
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. October 29, 2020). Prior to the amendment it read as “securities laws”.
Telephone (with State
Mobile:
E-Mail address:
Code):
Bar Council Enrolment
Number:
III SUBMISSION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION
1.  Is it a violation of 81[insider trading laws]? Yes / No
2.  If yes to question (1), please describe the type of violation:
3.  Has the violation: Occurred / Occurring / Potential to occur in future
4.  If the violation has occurred, date of occurrence: dd/mm/yy
(in case exact date is not known, an approximate period may be entered)
5.  Have the individual(s) or their representatives had any prior
communication(s) or representations with the Board concerning this matter?
Yes (Details thereof) /  No
6.  Does this violation relate to an entity of which the individual is or was an
officer, director, counsel, employee, consultant or contractor? Yes (Details
thereof)  /  No
7.  If yes to question (6), was the original information submitted first to your
Head or internal legal and compliance office? Yes / No
8.  If yes question (7), then please provide,
Date of submission of original information: dd/mm/yy
9.  82[Please  describe  in  detail  how  the  information  submitted  by  you
constitutes  a  violation  of  insider  trading  laws.  The  details  must  include
specific information with respect to:
(i)
(ii)
details of the securities in which insider trading is alleged;
the  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  based  on  which  insider
trading is alleged;
(iii)  date on which the unpublished price sensitive information was made
81  Substituted  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  (Second  Amendment)
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. October 29, 2020). Prior to the amendment it read as “securities laws”.
82  Substituted  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  (Second  Amendment)
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. October 29, 2020). Prior to the amendment it read as “Please describe in detail why you
think the information submitted is a violation?”.
public;
(iv)  details  of  circumstances/evidence
leading
to  possession  of
unpublished price sensitive information by the alleged violator(s);
(v)  details  of  insiders/suspects  and  their  trades  (i.e.  purchase/sale  and
quantity purchased/sold) along with dates/period of trades.]
10. What facts or supporting material is your allegation based on?
83[Please include self-certified copies of all the relevant documents.]
Please attach any additional documents to this form, if necessary.
11. Identify any documents or other information in your submission that you
believe could reasonably be expected to reveal your identity and explain the
basis for your belief that your identity would be revealed if the documents
were disclosed to a third party.
12. Provide details of connection amongst the Informant, the company whose
securities are involved and the person against whom information is being
provided:
IV. DECLARATION
I/we hereby declare that,-
A.  I/we have read and understood the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
B.  I/we  accept  that  mere  furnishing  of  information  by  me/us  does  not
by itself confer on me/us right to get reward and that I/we may not
get any Reward at all. I/we would be bound by the decisions that the
authority competent to grant reward may take;
C.  I/we accept that the Securities and Exchange Board of India is under
no  obligation  to  enter  into  any  correspondence  regarding  action  or
inaction taken as a result of my/our information.
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. October 29, 2020).
D.  I/we  accept  that  the  reward  would  be  an  ex-gratia  payment  which,
subject to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of
Insider Trading)  Regulations,  2015,  shall  be  granted  at  the  absolute
discretion of the competent  authority. The  decision of the authority
shall  be  acceptable  to  me/us  and  I/we  shall  not  challenge  it  in  any
litigation, appeal, adjudication, etc.
E.  In the event  of my/our death  before the  reward us paid  to  me/us, it
may be paid to …………. (Details of nominee)
F.  I/we  declare  that  the  information  contained  herein  is  true,  correct
and  complete  to  the  best  of  my/our  knowledge  and  belief  and  not
obtained  from  the  categories  of  persons  indicated  in  sub-regulation
(2)  and  sub-regulation  (6)  of  regulation  7G  of  the  Securities  and
Exchange  Board  of
India
(Prohibition  of
Insider  Trading)
Regulations, 2015 and agree to indemnify the Board in case it is not
so  found.  I/we  fully  understand  that  I/we  may  be  subject  to  action
under  securities  laws  as  well  as  Section  182  of  the  Indian  Penal
Code,  1860  (45  of  1860)  and  ineligible  for  Reward  if,  in  my/our
submission  of information  or in any other  dealings with  the  Board,
I/we knowingly and wilfully make any false, fictitious, or fraudulent
statements or representations,  or use any  false writing or document
knowing that the writing or document contains any false, fictitious,
or fraudulent statement.
Signature:…………………………….                                  Date: dd/mm/yy
Place:
V. CERTIFICATE BY LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE (where the
information is submitted through legal representative)
I hereby certify as follows,-
(a)  I  have  reviewed  the  completed  and  signed  Voluntary
Information Disclosure Form for completeness and accuracy
and  the  information  contained  therein  is  true,  correct  and
complete to the best of my knowledge;
(b) I have irrevocable consent from the Declarant, to provide to
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  the  original
Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form  in  the  event  of  a
request  for  it  from  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of
India  due  to  concerns  that  the  Informant  has  not  complied
with these regulations or where the Securities and Exchange
Board of India requires the said information for the purpose
of  verification  for  declaring  any  gratuitous  reward  to  the
Informant  or  where  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of
India determines that it is necessary to seek such information
to  accomplish  the  purpose  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Board of India Act including for the protection of investors,
sharing  with  foreign  securities  regulators  and  foreign  and
Indian law enforcement agencies, etc.;
(c)  I am and shall continue to be legally obligated to provide the
original  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form  without
demur  within  seven  (7)  calendar  days  of  receiving  such
request from the Securities and Exchange Board of India.
Signature:…………………………….                                  Date: dd/mm/yy
Place:
]
84[SCHEDULE E
[See regulations 7D and 7E]
Form  for  Informant’s  Reward  Claim  to  be  submitted  to  the  Board  within  the  time
specified in the intimation of prima facie eligibility to receive an Informant Reward.
All fields are mandatory
I. PERSONAL INFORMATION
A. Informant:
Last name:---------------------
First Name:------------------------
Title:-----------------
Address:
City / State:
PIN:
Telephone (with State code):  Mobile:
E-Mail Address:
Employment Details:
Permanent Account Number:
II ORIGINAL INFORMATION SUBMITTED
Online Acknowledgment Receipt Number:
(Annex Original Form for Voluntary Information Disclosure, if not yet submitted to
Securities and Exchange Board of India)
Subject matter of submission:
Date of submission: dd/mm/20
Case Name:
SEBI Order No.:
Date: dd/mm/20
III CONSIDERATION FOR REWARD
Provide  any  material  information  that  may  be  relevant  in  light  of  the  criteria  for
determining the amount of Reward or denial thereof. Include any supporting documents
if necessary.
IV DECLARATION BY INFORMANT
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019)
I/we hereby declare that,-
A.  I/we  have  read  and  understood  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
B.  I/we  accept  that  mere  furnishing  of  information  by  me/us  does  not  by
itself confer on me/us right to get reward and that I/we may not get any
Reward at  all.  I/we would be bound by the decisions that the authority
competent to grant reward may take;
C.  I/we accept that the Securities and Exchange Board of India is under no
obligation to pay any reward or enter into any correspondence regarding
action or inaction taken as a result of this communication.
D.  I/we  accept  that  the  reward  would  be  an  ex-gratia  payment  which,
subject  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Prohibition  of
Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  2015,  shall  be  granted  at  the  absolute
discretion of the competent authority. The decision of the authority shall
be acceptable to me/us and I/we shall not challenge it in any litigation,
appeal, adjudication, etc.
E.  In the event of my/our death before the reward is paid to me/us, it may
be paid to …………. (Details of nominee)
F.  I/we  declare  that  the  information  contained  herein  is  true,  correct  and
complete  to  the  best  of  my/our  knowledge  and  belief  and  not  obtained
from  the  categories  of  persons  indicated  in  sub-regulation  (2)  and  sub-
regulation (6) of regulation 7G of the Securities and Exchange Board of
India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  2015  and  agree  to
indemnify the Board in case it is not so found. I/we fully understand that
I/we  may  be  subject  to  action  under  securities  laws  as  well  as  Section
182  of  the  Indian  Penal  Code,  1860  (45  of  1860)  and  ineligible  for  an
Informant  Reward  if,  in  my/our  submission  of  information  or  in  any
other  dealings  with  the  Board,  I/we  knowingly  and  wilfully  make  any
false,  fictitious,  or  fraudulent  statements  or  representations,  or  use  any
false  writing  or  document  knowing  that  the  writing  or  document
contains any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement.
Signature:…………………………….                                  Date: dd/mm/yy
Place:
V CERTIFICATE BY LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE (where applicable)
I hereby certify as follows,-
(a)  I  have  reviewed  the  completed  and  signed  claim  form  for
completeness  and  accuracy  and  the  information  contained
therein  is  true,  correct  and  complete  to  the  best  of  my
knowledge; and
(b) The  declarant  is  the  person  who  signed  the  original  Voluntary
Information Disclosure Form.
Signature:…………………………….                                  Date: dd/mm/yy
Place:
]
Sd/-
U. K. SINHA
CHAIRMAN
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA