
 
Nov 06, 2013

PR No.:  
104/2013


Shri Rajeev Kumar Agarwal, Whole Time Member, SEBI, passed an ad interim ex -parte order dated November 05, 2013 restraining Rajesh Mangilal Ranka, SMS Techsoft (India) Limited, its 3 promoters, viz. V Jagdish, Akash Jagdish Vital, Anitha V Jagdish, 3 independent directors, viz. Dashrathkumar Khatri, Dilipbhai Gajjar and Devraj Pera Naidu, and 28 other entities, from accessing securities market and prohibiting them from buying, selling or dealing in securities in any manner whatsoever, till further directions in the matter of dealing in the scrip of SMS Techsoft (India) Limited (SMS Techsoft).
SEBI had, suo moto, carried out an examination in the scrip of SMS Techsoft in view of various SMSs circulating in the market mentioning therein buy recommendation for the scrip of SMS Techsoft.
During examination of the said scrip, it was observed that;
a)    The company issued 3,00,00,000 equity shares to 31 entities including 3 promoters of the company, who are related to  Shri Rajesh Mangilal Ranka, who was restrained from buying, selling or dealing in securities market in any manner whatsoever for a period of 2 years vide SEBI order No. WTM/PS/28/IVD/ID-06/JULY/10 dated July 28, 2010.
b)    The preferential allotment was designed merely as a book entry wherein Shri Rajesh Ranka circulated `1,99,50,000/- back and forth between the company, other allottees in the purported preferential allotment by the company. The scheme/plan was a camouflage to give misleading impression that many people had subscribed to the shares of SMS Tech by paying the consideration to the company. In fact, the entire allotment money funded by Sri Rajesh Ranka had been returned to him in the whole plan without the company getting the proceeds of preferential allotment. Effectively, 3,00,00,000 new equity shares have been issued in the names of 31 allottees without receipt of any consideration for the shares allotted in the purported preferential allotment.
c)    The company had misrepresented annual reports for the financial years 2011-12 and 2012-13 that the proceeds of the purported preferential allotment has been utilised to purchase land worth ` 30,00,00,000/-.
d)    Once the lock in period for the shares allotted under purported preferential allotment expired on March 12, 2013, the entities related to Shri Rajesh Ranka started creating artificial volume in the scrip by trading amongst themselves and, thereafter,  offloading these shares to common investors.
The above examination, prima facie, shows that the promoters/directors of the company were acting in concert with Shri Rajesh Ranka by issuing new equity shares of the company through preferential allotment to the aforesaid connected entities without receipt of full consideration. These connected entities offloading these shares by indulging in trading in an artificial, manipulative and unfair manner.   Thus, the aforesaid entities have, prima facie, violated section 12A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and regulations 3 and 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of the Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003.
 
 The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

