
 
Aug 27, 2014

PR No.:  
104/2014


Shri Rajeev Kumar Agarwal, Whole Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), has passed an order dated August 27, 2014 in the matter of Wasankar Wealth Management Limited, SEBI Stock Broker/Sub-Broker and Investment Adviser, Wasankar Investments, SEBI Sub-Broker, Mr. Prashant Wasankar, Mr. Vinay Wasankar, Ms. Mithila Wasankar, Mr. Abhijit Wasankar and Ms. Bhagyashree Wasankar inter-alia  directed 
i)-to cease and desist from undertaking the portfolio management activities or any unregistered activity in the securities market, directly or indirectly, in any manner whatsoever; and also prohibited from mobilizing or pooling funds from its clients, other general investors or public and from offering any portfolio management activities or any other unregistered activity, in whatever form;
ii)- to immediately withdraw and remove all advertisements, representations, literatures, brochures, materials, publications, documents, websites, etc. in relation to the portfolio management activities or any unregistered activity in the securities market;
 iii)-  to refund the monies so collected from their clients and other investors in its various schemes alongwith income, profits or returns promised to them under such schemes or interest at the rate of 10% per annum, whichever is higher, from the date of investment till the date of refund, within a period of seven days from the date of this order (i.e., by September 03, 2014) and submit a repayment report to SEBI. 
iv)-prohibited Wasankar Wealth Management Limited, Wasankar Investments, Mr. Prashant Wasankar, Mr. Vinay Wasankar, Ms. Mithila Wasankar, Mr. Abhijit Wasankar and Ms. Bhagyashree Wasankar from transferring the funds/deposits mobilised from the clients or other investors or from disposing of or alienating any asset that has been created from the funds/deposits received from their clients or other investors for purposes other than refund as directed hereinabove;
 v)-restrained captioned entities (1- Wasankar Wealth Management Ltd., 2- Mr. Prashant Wasankar (Wasankar Investments), 3- Mr. Vinay Wasankar, 4- Ms. Mithila Wasankar, 5- Mr. Abhijeet J. Chaudhari, 6- Ms. Bhagyashree Wasankar)  from buying, selling or dealing in the securities market, either directly or indirectly, in any manner whatsoever, till further directions. 
 The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

