
 
Jan 12, 2006

PR No.:  
20/2006 


PRESS RELEASE
PR No.20/2006

Order against M/s. Malar Share Shoppe Ltd.
 
Shri Madhukar, Whole Time Member, SEBI, has passed an order on December 30, 2005 against M/s. Malar Share Shoppe Ltd., Sub-Broker to  M/s. Rajratan R. Mohta, Member, The Stock Exchange, Mumbai, under Regulation 13(4) and 13(6) of SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002 in the matter of M/s. Kreb Biochemicals Ltd. (KBL) directing that no action be taken against M/s. Malar Share Shoppe Ltd. and the sub-broker to remain cautious and careful in future in the conduct of its business. 
 
SEBI had conducted an investigation into the dealings of KBL during 1998. It was brought out that the price of the scrip went up from Rs. 81/- per share in March 1998 to a high of Rs. 304/- per share on 02.06.98. Investigations revealed that three entities CDP Fincap, Damayanti Finvest and Rituja Finvest had enrolled as common clients to some members of BSE and NSE and had traded in the scrip of KBL acting in concert with one another. The said three entities were related with each other. M/s. Malar Share Shoppe Ltd. had transacted in the scrip of KBL for Rituja Finvest and the enquiry proceedings were initiated.
 
On receipt of the report from Enquiry Officer, Show Cause Notice was issued to M/s. Malar Share Shoppe Ltd. Reply was received from the sub-broker stating that the view of the enquiry officer should be taken into account and his recommendation should be implemented. After considering the submissions and findings brought out by the Enquiry Officer that M/s. Malar Share Shoppe Ltd. had not violated the provisions of Clause A2 of the Code of Conduct for Stock Brokers as mentioned under schedule II in SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub-brokers) Regulations, 1992, it has been directed that no action be taken against M/s. Malar Share Shoppe Ltd.  The sub-broker is also directed to remain cautious and careful in future in the conduct of its business.
 
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in
 
 
Mumbai
January 12, 2006


