
 
Feb 18, 2011

Press Releases 













PR No.32/2011



SEBI hosts 2nd XBRL Asian workshop and National Conference on XBRL
 
SEBI, jointly with XBRL India and Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, hosted the 2nd XBRL Asian workshop followed by a National Conference on XBRL on February 17th and 18th, 2011. 
The closed door workshop with over 50 participants from Japan, Singapore, Poland, Iran, USA and Europe, also had representatives from the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Reserve Bank of India, Insurance and Regulatory Authority of India. Mr. Tony Fragnito, CEO, XBRL International and Mr. Olivier Servais, Director, XBRL Activities, IFRS Foundation also participated. 
The workshop served as a platform to share experiences of financial sector regulators. In the workshop the participants showcased how XBRL enhances ‘Data Accuracy’, ‘Efficiency of Reporting Process’ and `Information Democracy’. The participants also stressed on the importance of participation and involvement of stakeholders in taxonomy building. The other uses of XBRL filings for banks, tax authorities and corporate action and the ability to translate and display data in various languages were also highlighted. At the end of the workshop, need for further cooperation amongst Asian jurisdictions in areas such as spreading awareness about XBRL and developing expertise in the subject through certification programmes was identified. 
The National Conference on XBRL was well attended with over 300 participants. The welcome address by CA. Jaydeep Narendra Shah, Vice President, ICAI and Director XBRL India, was followed by a key note address by Shri Mohandas Pai, Director, Infosys Technologies Limited, and Member, SEBI Board and IASB Foundation. 
The Conference had sessions on topics ranging from `introduction to the concept of XBRL’ to `experiences of a filer and regulators’, `XBRL solutions’ and `plans of Indian regulators for XBRL implementation’. The Conference also recognised the potential of XBRL to achieve single point reporting across multiple government agencies which would greatly reduce the burden on corporate and resultant economic savings. 
The Conference ended on a positive note that XBRL has arrived in India and is here to stay.
 
 
Mumbai
February 18, 2011

