
 
Jan 27, 2011

Press Releases 










PR No.22/2011
Investor Education and Awareness through 
SEBI Empanelled Resource Persons
As part of its statutory mandate, SEBI has been undertaking a variety of activities through different modes to promote investor education and awareness. In addition to the existing activities and modes, it has decided to impart investor education and awareness through workshops of the following target groups:

Investment Planning for Retirement
Investment Planning for Executives
Investment Planning for Home Makers
Financial Planning for Young Investors
Financial Education for Middle Income Group
Financial Education for School Children, and
Financial Literacy for Self Help Groups.

SEBI has trained and certified 40 Resource Persons (RPs) to act as faculty / speakers in the workshops of target groups in Western India. The details of these RPs are available on SEBI website http://investor.sebi.gov.in/resource.html. It is in the process of developing RPs for other regions, which would also be available on SEBI web site soon. Any eligible person interested to act as RP may apply online at the website of National Institute of Securities Markets (NISM) at http://www.nism.ac.in/
Any of the aforementioned target groups in Western India interested in investor education and awareness workshops may approach:
a        The nearest RP at his contact address, or
b        Regional Manager, SEBI, Western Regional Office, Unit No: 002, Ground Floor, SAKAR I, Near Gandhigram Railway Station, Opp. Nehru Bridge Ashram Road, Ahmedabad - 380 009, Tel : +91-79-26583633-35, E-mail: sebiwro@sebi.gov.in, or
c        Mr. B. K. Gupta, Deputy General Manager, SEBI, Plot No. C4-A, “G” Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400051, Tel: 26449218,             e-mail feprogram@sebi.gov.in or bhartendrakg@sebi.gov.in.
These workshops are free of cost and all expenses relating to the RP and literature / study material are borne by SEBI. It is desirable that the target groups provide venue for the workshop.
The guidelines on investor education and awareness through SEBI empanelled RPs is available at http://investor.sebi.gov.in/guidelines.pdf.
Mumbai
January 27, 2011

