PR No.202/2008 
 

 

SEBI Board Meeting 

The SEBI Board met today and took the following decisions:  
 
A. SME Exchange 
 
In  recognition  of  the  need  for  making  finance  available  to  needy  small  and 
medium  enterprises,  the  Board  decided  to  encourage  promotion  of  dedicated 
exchanges and/or dedicated platforms of the exchanges for listing and trading of 
securities  issued  by  SMEs.  Multiple  exchanges  or  platforms  would  provide  the 
necessary  competition  in  this  space.  SEBI  will  come  out  with  a  suitable 
framework  for  recognition  and  supervision  of  such  exchanges/platforms.  The 
enterprises with a post issue paid up capital of upto Rs. 25 crore would be listed 
on such exchanges / platforms and trading lot would be Rs. 1 lakh.   
 
B. Shareholding in Stock Exchanges 
 
Currently a person, along with persons acting in concert, can hold up to 5% of 
shares in a recognized stock exchange. In order to encourage competition in the 
exchange  space,  the  Board  decided  to  enhance  this  limit  from  5%  to  15%  in 
respect  of  six  categories  of  shareholders,  namely,  public  financial  institutions, 
stock  exchanges,  depositories,  clearing  corporations,  banks  and  insurance 
companies.   
 
C. FII Regime 
 
The  Board  felt  that  the  framework  governing  the  participation  of  foreign 
institutional  investors  in  Indian  securities  markets  needs  a  comprehensive 
review. Accordingly, it decided to put out a detailed consultative paper on this for 
comments  from  the  public.  However,  it  undertook  a  limited  review  of  the  FII 
regime in respect of overseas derivative instruments, popularly  known  as  PNs. 
This  review  was  due  in  terms  of  the  decision  that  was  taken  along  with  the 
decision taken in October 2007. It decided to do away with restrictions on issue 
of PNs by FIIs against securities, including derivatives, as underlying. The Board 
also reviewed the position with regard to registration of FIIs and sub-accounts in 
the last one year; 397 FIIs and 1160 sub-accounts have been registered since 
31st October 2007. 
 
Mumbai 
October 06, 2008 

