PR-92/2004
23.04.2004

A High level task force chaired by Dr P J Nayak, Chairman and MD of UTI Bank has been constituted
by SEBI to carry out a thorough ‘health check’  on the Securities markets infrastructure encompassing
all  segments  of  the  markets  (viz.  equities,  debt,  derivatives,  fund  products)  and  covering  all  market
participants such as exchanges, trading platforms, clearing and settlement systems, payment systems,
depositories, issue houses (registrars) and other intermediaries.

The mandate of the task force named Securities Markets Infrastructure Leveraging Expert Task Force
(SMILE Task Force) is as follows:

1)  To  review  the  present  infrastructure;  diagnose  the  deficiencies  and    inadequacies  and
recommend cutting-edge solutions to upgrade infrastructure, standards of processes and skills
considering  the  potentially  high  growth  rates  for  the  Indian  economy  in  general  and  the
anticipated high rise in the  volumes in securities markets transactions, multiplicity of products
and growing number of participants from within India and from outside.

2)  To  recommend  best  practices  in  setting  up,  maintaining  and  upgrading  securities  markets

infrastructure – hardware and software including business continuity plans;

3)  To recommend solutions for scalability of infrastructure and skills to embrace diversification

into products like commodities, foreign exchange etc.

4)  To  recommend  improvised  solutions  for  seamless  and  secure    technological  interfaces  for

transaction processing in the securities markets;

5)  To recommend appropriate delineation of role and obligations of the market participants in the

light of the above.

The members of the task force are:

1)  Dr. P J Nayak, Chairman and Managing Director, UTI Bank Ltd.- Chairman of the Task force
2)  Prof. Sarda, IIT Mumbai
3)  Mr. C B Bhave, Managing Director, National Securities Depository Ltd.
4)  Mr. Nachiket Mor, Executive Director, ICICI Bank Ltd.
5)  Mr. Ravi Narain, Managing Director and CEO National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
6)  Dr. Manoj Vaish, Executive Director and CEO, The Stock Exchange, Mumbai
7)  Mr Sanjay Nayar, CEO,  Citi Bank
8)  Mr. M R Ramesh, Managing Director, Clearing Corporation of India Ltd
9)  Mr.  Cyril  S  Shroff,  Amarchand  Mangaldas  and  Suresh  a  Shroff  &  Co.,  Advocates  and

Solicitors

10)  Mr. Indrajit Gupta, Managing Director SBI Capital Markets Ltd.
11)  Dr. Vidyasagar, Executive Vice President Tata Consultancy Services Hyderabad
12)  Mr. Alok Vajpeyi, President,  DSPMerril Lynch Fund Managers

Mr. Pratip Kar, Executive Director, SEBI will be the Member Secretary of the Task force.

