
 
May 13, 2010

PR No.:  
120/2010 










PR No.120/2010
CORE COMMITTEE
The “Committee on Review of Eligibility Norms” (CORE) was constituted by SEBI to re-visit the eligibility norms and other functional aspects prescribed for various intermediaries. It comprised of 18 members - representatives of Stock Exchanges, Depositories, Credit Rating Agencies, Broking industry, other market participants and legal experts and academicians. 
 
The CORE, in turn, sub divided itself into four Sub-Groups comprising of domain experts as under:
 
a. Sub-Group I: Debenture Trustees, Credit Rating Agencies and Asset Management Companies.
 
b. Sub-Group II: Merchant Bankers, Underwriters, Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent and Bankers to the Issue.
 
c. Sub-Group III: Brokers, Sub-brokers, Depository Participants, Portfolio Managers and Custodians.
 
d. Sub-Group IV: Functional issues relating to various market intermediaries.
 
The Sub-Groups have since submitted their recommendations on the eligibility requirements for various market intermediaries.  The recommendations are available on SEBI’s websitewww.sebi.gov.in under the heading “Reports for Public Comments”.
 
It is observed that different Sub-Groups have recommended different net-worth requirements for the same intermediary. For example, Sub-Group - II and Sub-Group - IV have recommended a net worth of Rs.10 crore and Rs.5 crore respectively for merchant bankers.
 
Written comments are invited on the recommendations, including suggestions on appropriate net worth for various intermediaries. The comments may quote the relevant section / paragraph to which they pertain and be mailed at the following respective e-mail addresses by June 14, 2010:
 




On recommendations related to


Comments may be mailed at




Asset Management Companies


yogeshe@sebi.gov.in




Broker and Sub brokers


amitk@sebi.gov.in




Portfolio Managers


sksingh@sebi.gov.in




Custodians


mandeeps@sebi.gov.in




Other Intermediaries


sanjayg@sebi.gov.in




Mumbai
May 13, 2010
 

