              

     

 

 

PR No. 56/2017 
 

Acquisition of ‘control’ under the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 

Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 

Ascertaining  acquisition  of  ‘control’  under  the  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 
Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011  (“Takeover  Regulations”)  requires  consideration  of  facts  and 
circumstances of each case. This results in a multitude of opinions. In view of the same, it was 
decided by the Board, in its meeting held on March 12, 2016, to explore adoption of bright-line 
tests for acquisition of ‘control’ under the Takeover Regulations.  

In this regard, a discussion paper was issued on March 14, 2016 seeking public comments on 
certain proposals contained therein.  

A  number  of  comments  from  various  stakeholders  including  industry  bodies,  intermediaries, 
advocates  and  investors  were  received.  A  mixed  response  has  been  received  wherein  no 
particular option has garnered overwhelming support amongst the stakeholders. SEBI also had 
the benefit of the views of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and the Reserve Bank of India in this 
regard. 

The  Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs  and  few  other  stakeholders  have  opined  that  changing  the 
current definition of ‘control’ may reduce the regulatory scope and may be prone to abuse and 
that the current definition of ‘control’ may not be changed and it would be more appropriate to 
take decisions on a case-to-case basis.  

It is also noted that the Justice Bhagwati Committee which was constituted in the year 1995 to 
review  the  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  1994,  had 
recommended a broad definition of control and opined that it should be left to SEBI to decide 
whether there has been an acquisition of control on the basis of facts of each case. The Takeover 
Regulations  Advisory  Committee  (TRAC),  in  its  report  dated  July  19,  2010  also  reiterated  the 
view of Justice Bhagwati Committee. 

It  is  felt  that  any  change  or  dilution  in  the  definition  of  control  would  have  far  reaching 
consequences since a similar definition of 'control' is used in the Companies Act, 2013 and other 
laws. 

The  relevant  issues  have  been  examined  intensively  and  in  view  of  the  aforesaid  comments 
received  and  considering  the  current  regulatory  environment,  it  has  been  decided  to  continue 
with the practice of ascertaining acquisition of ‘control’ as per the extant definition in the Takeover 
Regulations. 
  
 
Mumbai 
September 08, 2017 

