              

     

 

 

PR No. 41/2017 
 

SEBI to initiate action against non -compliant companies which are exclusively listed 

 

on Dissemination Board 

SEBI  has  decided  to  initiate  action  against  the  non  -compliant  “Exclusively  Listed 

Companies  (ELCs)  on  Dissemination  Board  (DB)",  and  its  directors/promoters.  These 

companies were earlier listed on non-operational/ derecognised stock exchanges and were 

required to be placed on DB. The ELCs were required to comply with the directions issued 

by SEBI vide circular dated October 10, 2016. 

SEBI vide circular dated October 10, 2016 provided three months to ELCs on DB to submit 

a plan of action to the designated stock exchanges (“DSEs”) either to list or to provide exit to 

its  shareholders.  Further  it  was  also  stipulated  that  failure  to  comply  with  the  above  would 

attract actions as enumerated below: 

 

The  company,  its  directors,  its  promoters  and  the  companies  which  are  promoted 

by any of them shall not directly or indirectly associate with the securities market or 

seek listing for any equity shares for a period of ten years from exit from the DB.  

 

 

Freezing of shares of the promoters/directors.  

List  of  the  directors,  promoters  etc.  of  all  non-compliant  companies  as  available 

from  the  details  of  the  company  with  nationwide  stock  exchanges  shall  be 

disseminated on SEBI website and shall also be shared with other agencies.  

 

Attachment of bank accounts/other assets of promoters/directors of the companies 

so as to compensate the investors.  

 

The time to submit the plan of action was subsequently extended till June 30, 2017.  

The status of ELCs as on June 30, 2017 is as follows: 

Description 

No. of ELCs 

ELCs on Dissemination Board as on October 10, 2016 

ELCs  which  have  obtained  listing  on  the  Main  Board  of  the 

Exchanges 

Companies Exited/ Removed from Dissemination Board 

Companies on the Dissemination Board as on June 30, 2017 

Companies which have submitted the plan of action  

Companies which are not traceable  

Companies which are traceable and not submitted plan of action 

2,253 

189 

64 

2,000 

376 

1,088 

536 

 

Out  of  536  ELCs,  there  are  few  ELCs  which  have  made  representation  to  SEBI/Stock 

Exchanges and their representations are under examination. SEBI has extended the time to 

submit  plan  of  action  by  such  ELCs  till  September  30,  2017.  In  line  with  its  circular,  SEBI 

shall now initiate action against the non-compliant companies and its directors/promoters.  

With respect to the 1088 companies, which are not traceable, a process has been initiated 

for their inclusion in the list of companies identified as 'Vanishing' (maintained by Ministry of 

Corporate Affairs). Once a company is declared as vanishing, SEBI debars the directors and 

promoters of such companies from accessing the capital market, in addition to actions that 

may  be  taken  by  Registrar  of  Companies,  Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs,  including 

prosecution against promoters and directors of such companies. 

 
This is issued in the interest of investors in the securities market. 

  

Mumbai 
July 07, 2017 

