 

 
PR No. 48/2017 
 
SEBI meets Market Infrastructure Institutions to discuss Cyber Security and Technology 

SEBI convened a meeting on July 28, 2017 with Stock exchanges, Clearing Corporations and 

Depositories  (Market  Infrastructure  Institutions-MIIs)  operating  in  the  domestic  market  and 

GIFT  IFSC  in  order  to  assess  their  preparedness  on  areas  related  to  Cyber  Security, 

Technology and Systems upgradations as well as Business Continuity Plans. The meeting was 

chaired by SEBI Chairman and attended by MD & CEO of MIIs and their CTOs/CISOs. In light 

of  recent  technical  glitch,  NSE  also  confirmed  that  based  on  internal  assessment,  processes 

are being strengthened to further reduce the response time for recovery and also adoption of 

automated processes.  

During the meeting, MIIs confirmed that the comprehensive framework for cyber security and 

system  audit  prescribed  by  SEBI  is  modelled  on  international  best  practices  and  are  being 

followed. 

SEBI stressed the importance of the need for sharing information on instances of technology 

related disruptions,    cyber  threats  and  attacks  among  MIIs  so  as to  enhance  their  situational 

awareness. SEBI advised the MIIs to have constant vigil on the cyber threat landscape around 

the  world  and  take  lessons  from  such  incidents.  SEBI  also  emphasised  that  the  MIIs  should 

have  well  laid  out  change  management  procedures  and  standard  operating  procedures  that 

should encompass all areas related to technology and operations. MIIs were advised to have a 

collaborative approach in dealing with technological challenges including cyber threats. 

SEBI shall also undertake a comprehensive review of the technology and systems deployed at 

MIIs through its Technical Advisory Committee. 

It was emphasised that there should be prompt and diligent reporting of any technical issues 

including cyber attacks to relevant agencies including CERT-In and SEBI.   

 
Mumbai 
July 28, 2017 

