              

     

 

PR No. 43/2017 

 

Interim Order in the matter of M/s Aspen Industries Limited 

 

 

Shri  G.  Mahalingam,  Whole  Time  Member,  SEBI  has  passed  an  interim  order  on  July  06, 

2017 in the matter of M/s Aspen Industries Limited (AIL), under Sections 11, 11(4), 11A and 

11B of the SEBI Act read with Regulation 28 of the SEBI (Issue of Listing of Debt Securities) 

Regulations,  2008  and  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustees)  Regulations,  1993,  with  the  following 

directions: 

 

1. 

The company, AIL and its directors, viz. Mr. Bhaskar Saha, Mr. Abhijit Dasgupta, Mr. 

Ujjal Kumar Roy and Debenture Trustee M/s Aspen Debenture Trust (acting through 

Mr. Raju Sarkar) 

 

i. 

shall  cease  to  mobilize  fresh  funds  through  offer  and  issuance  of  NCDs  or 

through  offer  and  issuance  of  any  other  securities,  to  the  public  and/or  invite 

subscription, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly. 

ii. 

shall  not  buy,  sell  or  otherwise  deal  in  the  securities  market,  either  directly  or 

indirectly, or associate themselves with any listed company or company intending 

to raise money from the public; 

iii. 

shall not dispose of or alienate or encumber any of its/their assets or properties 

nor  divert  any  fund  raised  from  the  public  through  offer  and  allotment  of  NCDs 

without prior permission from SEBI. 

iv. 

shall  co-operate  with  SEBI  and  shall  furnish  all  information/documents  in 

connection  with  the  offer  and  issuance  of  securities,  including  the  documents 

sought earlier. 

v.  M/s Aspen Debenture Trust and Shri Raju Sarkar are prohibited from continuing 

with their present assignment as debenture trustees in respect of the issuance of 

NCDs of AIL and also from taking up any new assignment or involvement in any 

new issue of debentures, etc. in a similar capacity. 

vi.  M/s Aspen Debenture Trust and Shri Raju Sarkar shall not buy, sell or otherwise 

deal in the securities market, either directly or indirectly or associate themselves 

with any listed company or company intending to raise money from the public. 

 

2.  AIL and its directors are also directed to provide an inventory of their assets. 

The above directions shall take effect immediately and shall be in force until further orders. 

The company was engaged in fund mobilizing activity through issuance of Non- Convertible 

Debentures, to more than 49 persons, without complying with the relevant provisions of the 

Companies  Act,  1956  and  the  provisions  of  SEBI  (Issue  of  Listing  of  Debt  Securities) 

Regulations, 2008 and SEBI (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993.  

 

The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in 

 
Mumbai 
July 07, 2017 

