              

     

 

 
PR No. 49/2017 

SEBI constitutes “Committee on Fair Market Conduct” 

A fair and efficient securities market stands on investor confidence. The same can be instilled by 

keeping  the  market  free  from  manipulative  practices.  Regulatory  intervention  in  this  regard  has 

been made in the areas of market manipulation and insider trading in the form of Regulations such 

as SEBI( Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 replaced by SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 

Trading)  Regulations,  2015.  Similarly  in  order  to  curb  the  practice  of  market  manipulation,  SEBI 

has  framed  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities 

Markets)  Regulations,  2003.  An  efficacious  surveillance  mechanism  is  a  prerequisite  for  early 

detection of market infractions leading to effective and preventative enforcement measures. 

 

It  is  noted  that  the  securities  market  environment  being  dynamic,  periodic  review  of  Regulations 

and  surveillance  mechanisms  is  of  utmost  importance  in  order  to  effectively  discharge  the 

objectives of SEBI. 

 

In this regard, SEBI has setup a committee under the chairmanship of Shri T.K. Viswanathan, Ex-

Secretary General, Lok Sabha  and Ex Law Secretary. The other members of the committee are 

the representatives of law firms, mutual funds, retail brokers, institutional brokers, forensic auditing 

firms, Foreign Portfolio Investors, stock exchanges, chambers of commerce, data analytics firms 

and SEBI. 

 

Terms  of  Reference  of  the  committee  includes  identification  of  opportunities  for  improvement  in 

SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and SEBI ( Prohibition of Fraudulent and 

Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities  Markets)  Regulations,  2003  more  particularly  with 

respect  to  Trading  plans,  handling  of  UPSI  during  Takeovers  and  align  Insider  Trading 

Regulations  to Companies Act provisions. 

The  committee  will  suggest  short  term  and  medium  term  measures  for  improved  surveillance  of 

the markets as well as issues of High Frequency Trades, harnessing of technology and analytics 

in surveillance. The committee will also suggest evidentiary issues in antifraud enforcement. 

The committee is expected to submit the report within a period of four months. 

Mumbai 
August 01, 2017 

