              

     

 

 PUBLIC NOTICE IN THE MATTER OF PACL LTD. 

PR No. 55/2017 

 

 
It is brought to the notice of the General Public that in compliance of the order dated February 
02,  2016  passed  by  the  Hon'ble  Supreme  Court  of  India  in  Civil  Appeal  No.13394/2015  titled 
as PACL  Ltd.   Vs  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India and  other  connected  matters,  a 
Committee  has  been  constituted  by  SEBI  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Justice  (Retd.)  R.  M. 
Lodha, Former Chief Justice of India for disposing of the properties of the Company viz. PACL 
Ltd., so that the sale proceeds can be paid to the investors. 
 
In  compliance  of  the  above  mentioned  order,  the  Committee  vide  public  notices  dated 
27/08/2016  &  30/09/2016  invited  Expression  of  Interest  (EOI)  from  the  public  at  large  on  the 
properties of PACL Ltd. and subsequently auctions have been conducted for the same. In this 
regard,  the  Committee  has  also  filed  its  2nd  status  report  dated  April  11,  2017  before  the 
Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  of  India,  which  can  be  viewed  at  www.auctionpacl.com  and 
http://www.sebi.gov.in/PACL.html.  
 
It  is  also  brought  to  the  notice  of  public  at  large  that  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  of  India  has 
passed  an  order  dated  August,  04,  2017,  which  can  be  viewed  at  www.auctionpacl.com  and 
http://www.sebi.gov.in/PACL.html.  
 
It  has  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  Committee  that  certain  individuals/entities  are  trying  to 
deal/transact in properties wherein PACL Ltd has an interest, directly or indirectly, by claiming 
these properties as their own. The Committee has also received complaints, whereby it is learnt 
that  certain 
investors  by 
misrepresenting that such persons have authorisation from the Committee. 
 
In this respect, the Public at large is again  made aware that in terms of the above mentioned 
order  dated  February  02,  2016  passed  by  the  Hon'ble  Supreme  Court  of  India,  only  the 
Committee  is  authorised  to  sell  the  properties  of  PACL  Ltd.  or  properties  wherein  PACL  Ltd. 
has  interest/rights  therein  directly  or  indirectly.  In  view  of  the  same,  the  Public  is  once  again 
cautioned  against  buying/dealing  with  any  properties  wherein  PACL  Ltd.  or  any  of  its 
associates/subsidiaries  have  any  interest/rights,  directly  or  indirectly,  including  the  properties 
listed on the website: www.auctionpacl.com. Dealing with such properties by any person other 
than the Committee is treated as unauthorised. 
 
It has also  been observed that investors have been forwarding their claims to the Committee, 
despite  repeated  notices  and  press  releases  informing  investors  that  claims  may  be  filed  only 
upon specific intimation from the Committee. The investors are once again requested to retain 
their original documents with themselves and not to part with them for any reason whatsoever 
to any person or association. 
Mumbai 
September 06, 2017 

individuals/associations  are  collecting  money/cheques 

from 

