              

     

 

SEBI constitutes ‘Committee on Financial and Regulatory Technologies (CFRT)’ 

 
PR No. 51/2017 
 

Application  of  technology  in  financial  markets  is  changing  the  way  financial  markets  traditionally 
have  functioned.  Technology  is  affecting  financial  markets  through  various  channels  be  it 
technology driven financial market platforms for fund raising (such as peer to peer lending, crowd 
funding),  online  access  to  investment  products  (e-KYC,  online  mart  investment  products,  Robo-
advisory,  and  online  portfolio  management),  post-trade  market  for  securities  (through  new 
database technologies such as blockchain  and other distributed ledger technology), product and 
process innovation (such as algorithmic trading, algorithmic driven synthetic investment products, 
virtual currencies, digital payment gateways), etc.  
 
With technology driven revolution in the financial markets, regulators are faced with the challenges 
as  well  as  opportunities  to  evolve  their  functioning  more  effectively  through  adoption  of  new 
technology solutions. 
 
In  order  to  reap  the  opportunities  provided  by  FinTech  as  also  to  deal  with  relevant  risk  and 
challenges,  SEBI  has  setup  a  committee  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri  T.V.  Mohandas  Pai, 
Chairman,  Manipal  Global  Education.  The  other  members  of  the  committee  are  experts  from 
various  areas  such  as  digital  payments,  e-brokerage, 
investment  platform, 
Products/Process Reengineering, Data analytics, eCommerce etc. 
 
The Committee would examine, deliberate and advise SEBI on an ongoing basis on the following:  
i.  Recent  and  medium  term  trends  (within  next  5  years)  in  FinTech  developments  in 

financing 

/ 

securities market worldwide 

ii.  Opportunities  and  challenges  from  new  FinTech  solutions  and  its  impact  on  Indian 

Securities Market.  

iii.  FinTech solutions for further widening and deepening of Indian securities market.   
iv.  Approach  and  framework  for  regulatory  sandbox  in  Indian  market  conditions  to  facilitate 

adoption of FinTech and promote financial innovations  

v.  Preparing  Indian  securities  market  and  regulatory  framework  to  adopt  to  new  FinTech 
solutions  while  promoting  market  integrity,  market  development,  consumer  protection  and 
managing change, business models and market disruptions   

vi.  Assessing  technological  solutions  for  regulatory  functions  of  SEBI  viz.  information 
management  and  data  mining,  risk  management  including  cyber  security,  intermediary 
supervision,  consumer  protection,  etc.  through  application  of  new  technological  solutions 
like  application  of  distributed  ledger  technology,  big  data,  data  analytics,  artificial 
intelligence, machine Learning etc. 

vii.  Technology capacity building by Indian securities market in general and SEBI in particular.  

Mumbai 
August 03, 2017 

