              

     

 

 

PR No. 54/2017 
  

Curbing misuse of bulk SMS in the Securities Market 

It  had  come  to  the  notice  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (SEBI)  that  there 

are  increasing  instances  of  bulk  SMSs  being  sent  to  investors  and  the  general  public 

inducing  them  to  invest  in  or  purchase  the  stocks  of  certain  listed  companies,  indicating 

target  prices  and  giving  fraudulent  misleading/false  information.  SEBI  regulation  requires 

that investment advice and stock tips can only be given by Investment Advisors and certain 

other  entities  that  are  duly  registered  with  SEBI.  However,  the  main  challenge  faced  by 

SEBI in this context, was the lack of reliable information on the identity of senders of such 

SMSs  which  created  road  blocks  for  SEBI  in  taking  necessary  enforcement  action  against 

them. 

In  view  of  the  detrimental  effect  of  fraudulent  bulk  SMSs  on  the  integrity  of  markets  and 

confidence of investors, SEBI sought the attention of Telecom Regulatory Authority of India 

(TRAI) which has been entrusted with regulation of the telecommunication services so as to 

protect the interest of the consumers of telecommunications service and the public at large. 

TRAI and SEBI collaborated closely to review the existing regulatory framework and industry 

practices  to  help  in  reducing  the  vulnerability  of  securities  market  to  manipulation  through 

misuse  of  mass  communication  device  like  bulk  SMS.    TRAI  vide  its  notification  no.  F. 

No.311-3/2015-QoS  dated  August  10,  2017 

(link:  http://www.trai.gov.in/release-

publication/directions) issued directions to all Access Providers to follow certain operational 

guidelines  for  SMSs  relating  to  investment  advice/stock  tips  using  the  bulk  SMS  channel. 

SEBI believes that these directions will go a long way to curb the dissemination of fraudulent 

and misleading information through the bulk SMS channel.  

Mumbai 
August 18, 2017 

