 

PR No. 09/2018 

 

 

SEBI Board Meeting 

The SEBI Board met in Mumbai today and took the following decisions: 

 

1.  Decision on the Recommendations of Kotak Committee on Corporate Governance 
 

1.1. The  Board  considered  the  Kotak  Committee  recommendations  and  the  public 

comments thereon. 

 

1.2. The Board decided to accept several recommendations of the Committee without any 

modifications including the following: 

I.  Reduction in the maximum number of listed entity directorships from 10 to 8 by April 

01, 2019 and to 7 by April 1, 2020  

II.  Expanding the eligibility criteria for independent directors 

III.  Enhanced role of the Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee 

and Risk Management Committee 

IV.  Disclosure of utilization of funds from QIP/preferential issue  

V.  Disclosures of auditor credentials, audit fee, reasons for resignation of auditors, etc. 

VI.  Disclosure of expertise/skills of directors 

VII.  Enhanced disclosure of related party transactions (RPTs) and related parties to be 

permitted to vote against RPTs 

VIII.  Mandatory disclosure of consolidated quarterly results with effect from FY 2019-20 

IX.  Enhanced obligations on the listed entities with respect to subsidiaries 

X.  Secretarial  Audit  to  be  mandatory  for  listed  entities  and  their  material  unlisted 

subsidiaries under SEBI LODR Regulations. 

 

1.3. The  Board  decided  to  accept  several  recommendations  with  modifications  which 

included the following: 

i.  Minimum 6 directors in the top 1000 listed entities by market capitalization by April 

1, 2019 and in the top 2000 listed entities, by April 1, 2020  

 

Page 1 of 8 

ii.  At  least one woman independent director in the top 500 listed entities by market 

capitalization by April 1, 2019 and in the top 1000 listed entities, by April 1, 2020 

iii.  Separation of CEO/MD and Chairperson (to be initially made applicable to the top 

500 listed entities by market capitalization w.e.f. April 1, 2020)  

iv.  Quorum for Board meetings (1/3rd of the size of the Board or 3 members, whichever 

is higher) in the top 1000 listed entities by market capitalization by April 1, 2019 and 

in the top 2000 listed entities, by April 1, 2020 

v. 

Top 100 entities to hold AGMs within 5 months after the end of FY 2018-19 i.e. by 

August 31, 2019 

vi.  Webcast of AGMs will be compulsory for top 100 entities by market capitalization 

w.e.f. FY 2018-19 

vii.  Shareholder approval (majority of minority) for Royalty/brand payments to related 

party exceeding 2% of consolidated turnover (instead of the proposed 5%). 

 

1.4. The  Board  decided  to  refer  certain  recommendations  to  various  agencies  (i.e. 

government, other regulators, professional bodies, etc.), considering that the matters 

involved relate to them. Such recommendations, inter-alia, include strengthening the 

role of ICAI, internal financial controls, adoption of Ind-AS, treasury stock, governance 

aspects of PSEs, etc. 

 

SEBI had constituted the Committee in June 2017, under the Chairmanship of Shri Uday 

Kotak to make recommendations to SEBI for improving standards of corporate governance 

of  listed  entities  in  India.  The  Committee  was  represented  by  different  stakeholders 

including  the  Government,  industry,  stock  exchanges,  academicians,  proxy  advisors, 

professional  bodies,  lawyers,  etc.  The  Committee  submitted  its  report  detailing  several 

recommendations on October 5, 2017.  

 

The  report  of  the  Committee  was  placed  on  the  SEBI  website  for  public  comments. 

Comments were received from a variety of stakeholders including industry, government, 

global associations, institutional investors, lawyers, etc. 

 

2.  Measures for Strengthening Algorithmic Trading Framework 

The  agenda  on  Measures  for  Strengthening  Algorithmic  Trading  Framework  was 

discussed. The Board, after deliberation, approved the following proposals: 

I.  Stock Exchanges to introduce Shared Colocation Services, in order to reduce the 

cost for trading members wishing to operate from the colocation facility. 

 

Page 2 of 8 

II.  Stock  Exchanges  to  provide  Tick-by-Tick  Data  feed  (TBT  Feed)  to  all  the  trading 

members,  free  of  charge,    subject  to  trading  members  creating  the  necessary 

infrastructure for receiving and processing it. Stock Exchanges to increase the depth 

of snapshot of 5 best bid and ask quotes, in consultation with trading members. 

III.  Under  the  penalty  framework  for  Order  to  Trade  Ratio  (OTR),  penalty  would  be 

levied on Algo orders placed beyond ±0.75%.of Last Traded price (LTP) from the 

current level of ±1% of LTP. Further, the OTR framework would also be extended to 

orders  placed  in  the  equity  cash  segment  and  orders  placed  under  the  Liquidity 

enhancement Scheme (LES).  

IV.  Stock Exchanges to allot a unique identifier to each algorithm approved and each 

order  generated  by  the  algorithm  to  carry  the  unique  identifier  with  it,  in  order  to 

establish an audit trail and to ensure better surveillance of Algo trading. 

V. 

In  addition  to  the  current  disclosure  of  latencies,  Stock  Exchanges  to  publish 

minimum, maximum and mean latencies and latencies at 50th and 99th percentile, 

observed within the exchange trading infrastructure to ensure greater transparency. 

Further, exchanges to also publish a reference latency between a reference rack in 

the co-located facility and the core router of the Exchange. 

VI.  Stock Exchanges to provide a simulated market environment for testing of software 

including algorithms. Stock Exchanges to provide such facility over and beyond the 

current framework of mock trading. 

3.  Rationalizing and Strengthening the framework of Equity Derivatives Market 

SEBI  Board  took  note  of  discussion  papers  titled  ‘Growth  and  Development  of  Equity 

Derivatives Market in India’ and ‘Physical settlement in stock derivatives’, public comments 

received thereon and also recommendations of the Secondary Market Advisory Committee 

(SMAC). Proposals approved by the Board to rationalize and strengthen the framework of 

the equity derivatives market, inter-alia, include the following: 

I. 

To  facilitate  greater  alignment  of  the  cash  and  derivative  market,  physical 

settlement  for  all  stock  derivatives  shall  be  carried  out  in  a  phased  and 

calibrated manner. 

 

Page 3 of 8 

II. 

To update and strengthen the existing entry criteria for introduction of stocks 

into the derivative segment in line with the increase in market capitalization 

since the last revision of the criteria in 2012. Accordingly, existing criteria like 

market  wide  position  limit  and  median  quarter-sigma  order  size  shall  be 

revised  upward  from  current  level  of  INR  300  crore  and  INR  10  lakh 

respectively  to  INR  500  crore  and  INR  25  lakh  respectively.  An  additional 

criterion,  of  average  daily  ‘deliverable’  value  in  the  cash  market  of  INR  10 

Crore, has also been prescribed. The enhanced criteria are to be met for a 

continuous period of six months. 

III. 

To begin with, stocks which are currently in derivatives but fail to meet any of 

the enhanced criteria, would be physically settled. Such stocks would exit the 

derivative segment if they fail to meet any of the enhanced criteria within a 

period of one year from the specified date or fail to meet any of the current 

existing criteria for a continuous period of three months.  

IV.  Stocks which are currently in derivatives and meet the enhanced criteria shall 

be  cash  settled.  Such  stocks  if  they  fail  to  meet  any  one  of  the  enhanced 

criteria  for  a  continuous  period  of  three  months  shall  move  from  cash 

settlement to physical settlement. After moving to physical settlement if such 

stock does not meet any of the current existing criteria for a continuous period 

of  three months,  then it  would  exit  out  of  derivatives.  After  a  period  of  one 

year  from  the  specified  date,  only  those  stocks  which  meet  the  enhanced 

criteria would remain in derivatives. 

V. 

To  reflect  global  initiatives  on  product  suitability,  a  framework  has  been 

approved. Individual investors may freely take exposure in the market (cash 

and derivatives) upto a computed exposure based on their disclosed income 

as  per  their  Income  Tax  Return(ITR)  over  a  period  of  time.  For  exposure 

beyond  the  computed  exposure,  the  intermediary  would  be  required  to 

undertake rigorous due diligence and take appropriate documentation from 

the investor. 

 

4.  Proposal  for  amendment  of  the  regulatory  provision  permitting  charging  of 

additional expenses of up to 0.20% of the daily net assets of MF Schemes 

 

Page 4 of 8 

Presently, mutual funds are permitted to charge additional expenses of up to 0.20% of the 

daily  net  assets  of mutual fund  schemes  in  lieu  of the exit  load  credited  to the  scheme. 

Based on data and the recommendations of Mutual Fund Advisory Committee (MFAC), the 

Board approved the proposal to reduce the maximum additional expense permitted to be 

charged to a mutual fund scheme from 20 bps to 5 bps. 

 
5.  Go Green initiative in Mutual Funds 

With  electronic  mode  of  communication  being  the  preferred  mode  of  communication 

besides  being  environment  friendly,  the  Board  approved  certain  proposals,  inter-alia,  to 

dispense  with  the  requirement  of  publication  of  daily  NAV,  sale  /  repurchase  prices  in 

newspapers  and  of  sending  (i)  physical  copies  of  scheme  annual  reports  or  abridged 

summary to all the investors whose email addresses are not available and (ii) statement of 

scheme portfolios to unit holders on half-yearly basis. Instead, the aforesaid details will be 

placed on the websites of AMFI and Mutual Funds. Further, Mutual Funds shall publish an 

advertisement  informing  about  hosting  of  the  annual  report  and  statement  of  scheme 

portfolios  on  the  websites  and  shall  provide  the  relevant  information  to  investors  upon 

request. 

 

6.  Amendments  to  the  SEBI  (Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012 

regarding Angel Funds 

SEBI formed a working group comprising of various angel networks, consultants and start-

ups, to look into the aspect of simplifying certain provisions of SEBI (Alternative Investment 

Funds) Regulations, 2012 to provide ease of doing business for angel funds. 

Based  on  the  recommendations  of  the  working  group,  the  SEBI  Board  has  approved 

following  amendments  to  SEBI  (Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012  with 

respect to ‘Angel Funds’: 

I. 

Increase  in  maximum  investment  amount  in  venture  capital  undertakings  by  an 

angel fund in any venture capital undertaking from five crore rupees to ten crore 

rupees. 

II.  The  requirement  of  minimum  corpus  of  an  angel  fund  reduced  from  ten  crore 

rupees to five crore rupees. 

III. 

Increase in maximum period for accepting funds from angel investors from three 

years to five years. 

 

Page 5 of 8 

IV.  The requirement of filing of scheme memorandum to SEBI by angel funds replaced 

with  the  requirement  of  filing  term  sheet  containing  material  information,  as 

specified by SEBI, within ten days of launching scheme.  

V.  The provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 shall apply to the Angel fund, if it is 

formed as a company. 

 

7.  Revised Framework for non-compliance of the Listing Regulations 
 

The Board has decided to revise the existing enforcement framework for non-compliance 

of the listing regulations by listed companies.  

 

 

The revised framework has the following distinct features: 

I. 

It is more comprehensive and covers a wide gamut of listing regulations such as the 

requirements  pertaining  to  composition  of  the  listed  company’s  Board  and  its 

committees, submission of corporate governance compliance report, financial results 

and voting results, etc. Non-compliance of these regulations will lead to imposition of 

fines by stock exchanges. 

 

II. 

It also empowers the stock exchanges to freeze the shareholding of the promoter and 

promoter  group  in  such  non-compliant  entity  as  well  as  their  shareholding  in  other 

securities. 

III. 

 

 

If non-compliance persists, it will lead to suspension. 

The  revised  framework  is  expected  to  promote  a  better  compliance  culture  apart  from 

putting in place an appropriate system for effective enforcement of continuous compliance 

of requirements by listed companies and their promoter/ promoter group. 

 

8.  Distribution of cash benefits by listed companies through Depositories 

 
Board decided to include the option of distribution of cash benefits like dividends through 

Depositories,  in  addition  to  the  present  system  of  distribution  directly  by  the  listed 

companies or through their Registrar to an issue and/or Share Transfer Agents.  

The option will widen the choice for investors with its benefits such as shorter turnaround 

time for receiving benefits, ability to get consolidated statements of all such benefits and to 

receive alerts (SMS / E-mails), etc. 

Page 6 of 8 

 

 

9.  Amendment  to  Regulation  40  of  SEBI  (LODR)  Regulations,  2015  for  mandating 

transfer of securities only in demat form 

The Board revised the provisions relating to transfer of listed securities and decided that 

requests  for  effecting  transfer  of  listed  securities  shall  not  be  processed  unless  the 

securities are held in the dematerialized form with a depository. The measure is aimed at 

curbing  fraud  and  manipulation  risk  in  physical  transfer  of  securities  by  unscrupulous 

entities. Transfer of securities only in demat form will improve ease, convenience and safety 

of transactions for investors. Date of this amendment will be notified later.  

 

10. Public Consultation Process for laying down a framework of compliance with SEBI 
Regulations by listed entities subject to Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process 
under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 

 

The Board, on the basis of the discussion paper placed before it, approved the proposal of 

undertaking  a  public  consultation  process  as  a  part  of  reviewing  the  requirements  of 

compliance with various SEBI Regulations by listed entities which are subject to Corporate 

Insolvency Resolution Process (“CIRP”) under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 

(“IBC”).  Various  issues  flagged  in  the  discussion  paper  include  aspects  relating  to 

disclosures,  trading  in  stock  exchanges,  material  related  party  transactions,  re-

classification of promoters, compliance with minimum public shareholding requirement and 

delisting pursuant to resolution plan/ liquidation.  

 

11. Public  Consultation  Process  for  Review  of  SEBI  (Buy-back  of  Securities) 
Regulations,  1998  and  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011 
 
The Board, on the basis of the discussion paper placed before it, approved the proposal of 

undertaking a public consultation process for reviewing the SEBI (Buy-back of Securities) 

Regulations,  1998  and  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 

Regulations,  2011  with  an  objective  of  simplifying  the  language,  removing  redundant 

provisions and inconsistencies, updating the references to the Companies Act, 2013/ other 

new SEBI Regulations, and incorporating the relevant circulars, FAQs, informal guidance 

in the regulations, wherever possible. 

 

 

Page 7 of 8 

Based on a review on these lines, as stated in the discussion paper, it is proposed to re-

frame an entirely new set of Buy-back Regulations, 2018 in lieu of the extant 1998 version 

of  the  Regulations.  In  respect  of  the  Takeover  Regulations,  amendments  have  been 

proposed in the existing set of Regulations. An important amendment proposed in Takeover 

Regulations is granting of additional time for upward revision of open offer price.   

 

12. Budget estimates for the Financial Year (FY) 2018-19 

The SEBI Budget for the financial year 2018-19 was considered and approved by the 

Board. 

Mumbai 

March 28, 2018 

************* 

 

Page 8 of 8 

