 

SEBI Board Meeting 

PR No.20/2018 

 

 

The SEBI Board met in Mumbai today and took the following decisions: 

 

I.  Review  of  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 

Regulations, 2011 

 

 

The Board has approved certain amendments to SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of 

Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. As part of the amendments, it has been 

decided  to  grant  additional  time  for  upward  revision  of  open  offer  price  till  one 

working day before the commencement of the tendering period.  

 

SEBI  earlier  had  issued  a  discussion  paper  on  March  28,  2018  soliciting  public 

comments  for  reviewing  the  SEBI  Takeover  Regulations.  The  amendments  are 

mainly  aimed  at  simplifying  the  language,  removing  redundant  provisions  and 

inconsistencies, updating the references to the Companies Act, 2013 / other new 

SEBI  Regulations,  and  incorporating  the  relevant  circulars,  FAQs,  informal 

guidance in the regulations.  

II.  Replacing  SEBI  (Buy-back  of  Securities)  Regulations,  1998  with  new  SEBI 

(Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018 

 

 

The  Board  has  approved  reframing  a  new  set  of  SEBI  (Buy-back  of  Securities) 

Regulations,  2018  (“new  Buyback  Regulations”)  in  lieu  of  the  extant  Buyback 

Regulations, 1998. Relevant provisions outlined under Sections 68 and 70 of the 

Companies Act, 2013 have been incorporated in the new Buyback Regulations to 

make it self-contained.  

 

Page 1 of 9 

Under the new Regulations, the buy back period has been defined as the period 

between  board  of  directors  resolution/date  of  declaration  of  results  for  special 

resolution  authorizing  the  buyback  of  shares  and  the  date  on  which  payment 

consideration is made to the shareholders.   

 

SEBI  earlier  had  issued  a  discussion  paper  on  March  28,  2018  soliciting  public 

comments  for  reviewing  SEBI  (Buy-back  of  Securities)  Regulations,  1998 

(“Buyback  Regulations  1998).  The  review  was  carried  out  with  an  objective  to 

simplify the language, remove redundant provisions and inconsistencies, update 

the  references  to  the  Companies  Act,  2013/  other  new  SEBI  Regulations,  and 

incorporate the relevant circulars, FAQs, informal guidance in the regulations. 

 

III.  Review of SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  

2009 

 

1.  The  Board  approved  the  proposed  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, (“ICDR Regulations”) 2018.  

 

2.  The  Board,  while  approving  the  ICDR  Regulations,  2018,  considered  the 

recommendations of the Primary Market Advisory Committee (PMAC) and the 

public comments on the Consultation Paper. 

 

3.  Some of the key proposals approved by the Board are as follows:  

 

3.1 The  requirement  of  announcing  price  band  five  working  days  before 

opening of the issue would be reduced to two working days before opening 

of the issue. 

 

3.2 Financial Disclosures in case of public issues/ rights issues: 

a)  Financial  disclosures  to  be  made  for  3  years  as  against  the  present 

duration of 5 years. 

b)  Restated and audited financial disclosures in the offer document to be 

made on consolidated basis only. Audited standalone financials of the 

issuer and material subsidiaries to be disclosed on the website of the 

issuer company. 

Page 2 of 9 

 

c)  Incorporation  of 

the  principles  governing  disclosures  of 

Indian 

Accounting Standards (IndAS) on Indian GAAP (IGAAP) Financials. 

 

3.3 Threshold  for  submission  of  draft  letter  of  offer  to  SEBI  in  case  of  rights 

issues to be increased to Rs. 10 Crores as against the earlier prescribed 

Rs. 50 Lakhs.  

 

 

3.4 Shortfall of up to 10% in minimum promoters’ contribution may be met by 

institutional  investors  such  as  by  foreign  venture  capital  investors, 

scheduled  commercial  banks,  public  financial  institutions  and  insurance 

companies  registered  with 

Insurance  Regulatory  and  Development 

Authority of India, in addition to Alternative Investment Funds, without being 

identified as “Promoters”. 

3.5 For a company to be eligible to make a fast track rights issue, it should not 

have any audit qualifications or adverse opinion.  

 

3.6 It has been decided to delete: 

a)  Chapter on Institutional Placement Programme 

b)  Provisions pertaining to Safety net and IPO grading 

 

3.7 SME-IPO  

Minimum Anchor investor size to be reduced to Rs. 2 Crore from the existing 

Rs. 10 Crore.  

 

3.8 Promoter group 

a)  Concept of immediate relative to be retained as against the proposed 

concept of ‘relative’. 

b)  The  shareholding  threshold  for  identifying  promoter  group  has  been 

revised from 10 percent to 20 percent. Now in case the promoter is a 

body corporate, any body corporate in which the promoter holds twenty 

percent or more or which holds twenty percent or more of the promoter 

would be classified as being part of the same promoter group. 

c)  Also, in case the promoter is a body corporate, any body corporate in 

which  a  group  of  individuals  or  companies  or  combinations  thereof, 

 

Page 3 of 9 

which holds twenty per cent or more of the equity share capital in that 

body  corporate,  also  holds  20  percent  or  more  of  the  issuer,  can  be 

classified as promoter group only if they are acting in concert. 

 

3.9  Disclosures of group companies 

Definition of group companies has been  made more specific by clarifying 

that  group  company/ies,  shall  include  such  companies  (other  than 

promoter(s)  and  subsidiary  (ies))  with  which  there  were  related  party 

transactions, during the period for which financial information is disclosed 

(3 years), as covered under the applicable accounting standards and also 

other companies as considered material by the board of the issuer. 

 

3.10 Addition to Anchor Investor Category 

Insurance Companies and Foreign Portfolio Investors except for Category 

III, promoted by entities related to the lead manager permitted to participate 

in  the  Anchor  Investor  category,  in  addition  to  mutual funds promoted by 

lead managers.  

 

3.11 Main Board – IPO - Underwriting provisions to be aligned to requirements 

of minimum subscription  

If  90  per  cent  of  the  fresh  issue  is  subscribed  in  a  main  board  IPO, 

underwriting  will  be  restricted  to  that  portion  only  and  accordingly  the 

requirement to underwrite 100% of the issue without regard to the minimum 

subscription requirements has been deleted. 

 

4.  The contents of the new Regulations have been streamlined as follows: 

a)  All the chapters have been categorized on the basis of the type of offering 

so  that  all  relevant  information  pertaining  to  regulations  relating  to  a 

particular type of offering are available at one place. 

b)  The procedural requirements have been specified through Schedules to the 

draft regulations. 

c)  The provisions have been rearranged based on their sequence in the public 

issue process and relevance. 

d)  The    provisions    of    Companies    Act,    1956    (wherever    applicable),  

Companies    Act,  2013,    SEBI    (Substantial    Acquisition  of  Shares  and 

 

Page 4 of 9 

Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011, SEBI  (Share  Based  Employee  Benefits)  

Regulations, 2014  have  been  suitably incorporated. 

e)  Various  informal  guidance  /  interpretative  letters  /  frequently  asked 

questions  /  Circulars  regarding  interpretation  of  various  provisions  of  the 

regulations  issued  by  SEBI  from  time  to  time  have  been  suitably 

incorporated. 

 

IV.  Decision  on  review of  regulation  and  relevant  circulars  pertaining  to  Stock 

Exchanges,  Clearing  Corporations  and  Depositories  (‘Market  Infrastructure 

Institutions’) 

 

 

 

The Board took note of the recommendations of the Gandhi Committee constituted 

by SEBI for ‘Review of regulation and relevant circulars pertaining to MIIs’ and the 

proposals  thereon.  The  Board,  after  deliberation,  approved  the  following 

proposals: 

1.  In order to bring parity across MIIs, the shareholding limits, which can be held 

by  both  eligible  domestic  and  foreign  entities  in  a  Market  Infrastructure 

Institution (‘MII’), have been harmonized across MIIs. 

-  Eligible domestic and foreign entities, may be permitted to hold upto 15% 

shareholding in case of Depository and Clearing Corporation, as is the case 

for  Stock  Exchanges;  Additionally,  multilateral  and  bilateral  financial 

institutions, as notified by the Government, have also been recommended 

to hold upto 15% in an MII.  

-  Concept of Sponsor has been removed in case of Depository, with existing 

sponsor  entities  being  allowed  upto  5  years  to  reduce  their  respective 

shareholding.  They can hold upto 15%. 

2.  Given the special role of Public Interest Directors (PIDs) and Managing Director 

(MD) in the governance of a MII, norms relating to their tenure and directorships 

at MIIs have been modified. 

-  A person may serve as a PID across MIIs, for a maximum of three terms of 

three years each, or upto seventy five years of age, whichever is  earlier, 

with not more than two terms in one MII. 

 

Page 5 of 9 

-  The  first  term  in  an  MII  may  be  extendable  by  another  term,  subject  to 

satisfactory performance review. 

-  A cooling-off period of one year shall be applicable prior to nomination as 

PID in another MII. 

-  A cooling-off period of three years shall be applicable for a PID to become 

a shareholder director in the same MII or a director in the subsidiary of the 

said MII. 

-  A PID shall not act simultaneously as a director on the board of subsidiary 

of an MII, any other MII or their subsidiary, or relevant / linked participants 

i.e.  Trading  Member,  Clearing  Member,  Depository  Participant,  as 

applicable. 

-  A PID on the Board of a Stock Exchange, shall keep the Governing Board 

of the Stock Exchange apprised of any conflict of interest which may arise 

as  a  result  of  a  PID  providing  services  to  or  being  associated  with  any 

company listed on that Stock Exchange. 

-  A person may serve as Managing Director of a MII, for a for a maximum of 

two terms of upto 5 years each or upto 65 years of age, whichever is earlier. 

The said requirement would also be applicable to existing MDs of MIIs. 

-  After the first term, the appointment process for MD should be conducted 

afresh. 

 

 

3.  The  composition  of  the  Governing  Board  and  regulatory  committees  of  MIIs 

has been modified with an aim to balance between the number of PIDs, who 

serve the interest of public at large and the number of shareholder directors. 

-  The number of PIDs, on the Governing Board and the committees of the 

MIIs,  should  be  at  least  equal  to  the  number  of  shareholder  directors 

(including the Managing Director) and in case of an equality of votes, the 

Chairperson of the Board/Committee (who is a PID), shall have a second 

or casting vote. 

-  The above composition shall also be applicable to the quorum for voting of 

the Governing Board and the committees.  

4.  In order to enhance the transparency in the utilization of resources, a MII should 

disclose  the  resources  committed  towards  regulatory  functions  and  towards 

ensuring regulatory compliance, backed by activity based accounting. Also, the 

 

Page 6 of 9 

charges  and  fees  levied  by  an  MII  shall  be  placed  for  review  before  the 

Oversight Committee of the MII. 

 

 

  

 

5.  To  avoid  the  requirement  of  repetitive  regulatory  approvals  and  to  provide 

adequate flexibility to the MIIs in deciding their day to day investments, it has 

been decided that activities in the nature of treasury investment may be as per 

the  investment  policy  approved  by  the  Governing  Board  of  a  MII.  Any  other 

activity whether involving deployment of funds or otherwise would need prior 

permission of the regulator. 

6.  Considering 

the 

fundamental 

importance  of 

the  role  played  by  Key 

Management Personnel (KMP), the definition and norms relating to disclosure 

of their compensation have been modified. 

-  The definition is modified to include, any person who directly reports to CEO 

or director of the Governing Board of the MII, or any person upto two levels 

below  MD/CEO,  or  as  identified  by  the  Nomination  and  Remuneration 

Committee. 

-  MIIs shall disclose the ratio of compensation paid to them vis-a-vis median 

of compensation paid to all employees of the MIIs. 

7.  Considering that the scope of work of some of the existing committees of MIIs 

is  inter-related  and  overlapping,  the  various  committees  of  MIIs  have  been 

merged / restructured, reducing the number of committee from existing 15 to 7. 

-  Functional  Committees,  comprising  of  three  committees,  viz.  Member 

Selection  Committee,  Investor  Grievance  Redressal  Committee  and 

Nomination and Remuneration Committee; and  

-  Oversight  Committees,  comprising  of  four  committees,  viz.  Standing 

Committee  on  Technology,  Advisory  Committee,  Regulatory  Oversight 

Committee and Risk Management Committee.  

8.  In order to adequately capture the risks faced by a Clearing Corporation, it has 

been  decided  to  adopt  a  risk  based  approach  towards  computation  of  Net-

worth of a Clearing Corporation. Instead of a higher minimum net worth of INR 

300 crores, the Clearing Corporations may be required to maintain a net worth 

at all times of either INR 100 crores or such other amount to cover the various 

risks (operational, market, credit, etc.) as notified by SEBI from time to time. 

Page 7 of 9 

 

V.  Role of Sub-broker vis-a-vis Authorized Person 

The Board considered and approved the proposal to discontinue the category of 

Sub-Brokers as Market Intermediaries.  No fresh registration shall be granted as 

Sub-Brokers.  Registered  Sub-Brokers  shall  migrate  to  Authorised  Persons  or 

Trading  Members  as  the  case may  be  and  Sub-Brokers,  who  do  not  choose to 

migrate,  shall  be  deemed  to  have  surrendered  their  registration  as  Sub-Broker.  

Suitable time shall be permitted to facilitate this transition. 

 

VI.  Consultation  Paper  for  the  Amendment  of  various  SEBI  Regulations  in 

respect of entities undertaking third party assignment under securities laws. 

 

1.  Investor confidence is fundamental to the successful operation of the securities 

market and it stems largely from credible and reliable reporting of disclosure, 

financial  information,  compliance  with  securities  regulations.  In  this  regard, 

fiduciaries in the securities markets have a very significant role to play.  The 

absence of credible and reliable reporting of such information has the potential 

to  adversely  impact  confidence  in  the  securities  markets  and  the  financial 

system. 

2.  While  some  fiduciaries  such  as  Merchant  Bankers,  Credit  Rating  Agencies, 

Custodian, Debenture Trustees, Registrar to an Issue, etc. are registered with 

SEBI  under  specific  Regulations  notified  for  the  purpose,  certain  other 

fiduciaries  such  as  practicing  Chartered  Accountants,  practicing  Company 

Secretaries,  Cost  Accountants,  Valuers,  Monitoring  Agencies,  etc.  who 

undertake  third  party  fiduciary  duty/assignment/engagement  from  Issuers  or 

Intermediaries as required under various SEBI Regulations, are not registered 

with SEBI.  

3.  The Board approved the proposal to issue consultation paper to amend various 

regulations  in  respect  of  entities  who  undertake  third  party  fiduciary 

duty/assignment/engagement  under  the  securities  laws,  in  respect  of  any 

Issuer,  Pooled  Investment  Vehicle,  Intermediaries,  Market  Infrastructure 

Entities. 

 

 

 

Page 8 of 9 

VII.  Establishment of National Centre for Financial Education (NCFE) as Section 

8 Company - subscription to its Share Capital  

The Board approved the establishment of National Centre for Financial Education 

(NCFE)  as  a  Company  under  Section  8  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  limited  by 

shares. The Board also approved subscription to 30% of the paid up capital of the 

company amounting to Rs.30 crores, by SEBI. 

NCFE is co-promoted by SEBI, Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Insurance Regulatory 

and  Development  Authority  of  India  (IRDAI)  and  Pension  Fund  Regulatory  and 

Development  Authority  (PFRDA).  NCFE  is  mandated  to  undertake  financial 

education  activities  in  terms  of  the  National  Strategy  for  Financial  Education 

(NSFE) as approved by the Sub-Committee of Financial Stability and Development 

Council (FSDC-SC). 

 

VIII.  SEBI Annual Report 2017-18 

The  Board  considered  and  approved  the  SEBI  Annual  Report  2017-18.  In 

compliance  with  Section  18(2)  of  SEBI  Act,  1992,  the  Annual  Report  would  be 

submitted to the Central Government. 

Mumbai 

June 21, 2018 

 

Page 9 of 9 

