 

PR No.41/2018 

 

 

SEBI Board Meeting 

 

The SEBI Board met in Mumbai today and took the following decisions: 

 

I.  KYC requirement for FPIs 

 

The proposed KYC requirements and eligibility conditions for FPIs were discussed by 

the Board, in the light of the circular dated April 10, 2018 and the recommendations of 

the Khan Working Group.  The proposed draft circular and proposed amendments in 

SEBI (FPI) Regulations, 2014 were discussed by the Board and broadly agreed upon.  

The revised circular, in this regard, will be soon issued separately. 

 

II.  Review of Total Expense Ratio (TER) of Mutual Fund Schemes 

 

The  Assets  Under  Management  (AUM)  of  mutual  fund  industry  in  India  has  grown 

manifold over the years. As on August 31, 2018, the AUM of the industry has crossed 

INR 25 lakh crore. While the AUM has grown multiple times, the benefit of economies 

of scale has not been fully shared with the investors. Further, the slab wise limits of TER 

introduced  in  1996  under  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  have  not  been 

changed  since  then.  It  is  also  observed  that  over  a  period  of  time,  there  have  been 

varying practices in the industry with respect to charging of expenses and payment of 

commissions. 

 

SEBI  undertook  an  internal  study  to  review  the  TER.  The  analysis  along  with 

observations  of  the  study  was  placed  in  a  meeting  of  the  Mutual  Fund  Advisory 

Committee (MFAC). The working group constituted by MFAC deliberated on the issues 

and submitted a report to MFAC. Upon deliberation on the findings of working group, 

MFAC made several recommendations on transparency in expenses, TER for various 

 

Page 1 of 15 

types  of  mutual  fund  schemes,  investments  through  SIPs,  limiting  the  additional 

incentives for B-30 cities based on inflows from retail investors, performance disclosure 

of Mutual Fund schemes, etc.  

 

The Board took note of the benefits of the proposal with respect to sharing of economies 

of  scale,  lowering  the  cost  for  mutual  fund  investors,  bringing  in  transparency  in 

appropriation  of  expenses,  and  reducing  mis-selling  and  churning.  Accordingly,  the 

Board approved the following proposals: 

 

1.  Transparency in Expenses: 

All commission and expenses, etc. shall necessarily be paid from the scheme only 

and not from the AMC/Associate/Sponsor/Trustee, or any other route. Further, the 

mutual fund industry must adopt the full trail model of commission in all schemes 

without payment of any upfront commission or upfronting of any trail commission. A 

carve  out  has  been  provided  for  upfronting  of  trail  commission  in  case  of  SIPs 

subject to fulfilment of certain conditions.  

 

2.  TER for open ended schemes shall be as follows:  

AUM Slab     

TER for equity oriented 

TER for other schemes 

(INR crore) 

schemes 

(excl. Index, ETFs and 

Fund of Funds) 

0 - 500 

500 - 750 

750 - 2,000 

2,000-5,000 

2.25% 

2.00% 

1.75% 

1.60% 

5,000 - 10,000 

1.50% 

2.00% 

1.75% 

1.50% 

1.35% 

1.25% 

10,000 - 50,000 

TER reduction of 0.05% for 

TER reduction of 0.05% for 

every  increase  of  5,000 

every  increase  of  5,000 

crore  AUM or part thereof 

crore  AUM or part thereof 

>50,000 

1.05% 

0.80% 

 

 

Existing  TER  is  mentioned  under  Regulation  52(6)  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds) 

Regulations, 1996. 

 

Page 2 of 15 

3.  TER for Close Ended and Interval Schemes: 

TER for equity oriented schemes shall be a maximum of 1.25% and for other than 

equity oriented schemes shall be a maximum of 1%. 

 

4.  TER for Index schemes, Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) and Fund of Funds: 

a)  Index Funds and ETFs: The TER shall be a maximum of 1.00%. 

b)  Fund of Funds (FoFs): The TER of FoF scheme, shall be a maximum of twice 

the TER of the underlying funds. 

i) 

FoFs  investing  primarily  in  Liquid,  Index  and  ETF  schemes:  Total  TER 

(including the TER of underlying schemes) shall be maximum of 1.00% 

ii) 

FoFs  investing  primarily  in  active  underlying  schemes:  Total  TER 

(including  the  TER  of  the  underlying  schemes),  shall  be  maximum  of 

2.25% for equity oriented schemes, and maximum of 2% for other than 

equity oriented schemes. 

 

5.  Additional expenses of 30 bps for penetration in B-30 cities: 

The additional expense permitted for penetration in B-30 cities, shall be based on 

inflows from retail investors. The definition of ‘retail investors’ shall be determined in 

consultation  with  the  industry.  Pending  such  clarification,  the  additional  incentive 

shall be permitted for inflows from individual investors only and not on inflows from 

corporates and institutions. Further, the B-30 incentive shall be paid as trail only. 

 

6.  Performance Disclosure: 

Adequate disclosure of all schemes’ returns (category wise) vis-à-vis its benchmark 

(total returns) shall be made available on the website of AMFI. 

 

Upon  implementation  of  the  above  decisions,  the  Trustees  and  AMC  Boards  shall 

monitor  the  implementation  by  the  respective  AMCs  and  shall  report  to  SEBI 

periodically.  

 

III.  Reducing the time period for listing of issues 

  

The Board has, in principle, approved the proposal of revisiting the public issue process 

by way of introducing the use of Unified Payment Interface (UPI) with facility of blocking 

 

Page 3 of 15 

the funds (ASBA facility), as a new payment mechanism for retail investor applications 

submitted through intermediaries.  

 

This is a significant process reform aimed at reducing the time period for listing of issues 

from  T+6  days  to  T+3  days.  The  compression  in  post-issue  timelines  and  the 

consequent  early  listing  and  trading  of  shares  will  benefit  both  issuers  as  well  as 

investors. Issuers will have faster access to the capital raised thereby enhancing the 

ease of doing business and the investors will have early liquidity.  

 

Under the new process, there will be no physical movement of retail investor application 

forms from intermediaries to Self-Certified Syndicate Banks (SCSBs).  The modalities 

for implementation will be worked out in consultation with the stakeholders.  The process 

will be implemented in a phased manner. 

 

IV.  Amendment of Regulations relating to Re-classification of promoter / public 

 

The  Board  decided 

to  revise 

the  provisions  relating 

to  re-classification  of 

Promoter/Public  in  a  listed  company.  The  amendments  in  Regulation  31A  of  SEBI 

(Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  are  aimed  at 

liberalizing, streamlining and bringing greater clarity in the framework.  

The revised provisions enable one of Promoters and persons related to such promoters 

to  seek  reclassification  as  Public  shareholder  subject  to  certain  conditions  and 

processes to be followed. 

 

The promoter(s) seeking re-classification and persons related to them should not: 

  hold more than 10% of the total voting power or exercise control over the listed entity 

or have special rights in the company 

  be represented on the board of the listed entity or act as key managerial persons for 

a period of 3 years from such re-classification 

  be willful defaulters  

 

The  revised  process  provides  for  application  for  reclassification  by  the  promoter 

seeking, review by the company’s Board and approval by the shareholders, with exiting 

promoters and related persons not allowed to vote.   

 

 

Page 4 of 15 

The provisions have been reviewed in light of the recommendations of Kotak Committee 

on  corporate  governance,  feedback  from  stock  exchanges  and  representations 

received.  The  revised  framework  also  factors  in  the  recommendations  made  by  the 

Primary Market Advisory Committee and the public comments subsequently received 

in response to a consultative paper issued by SEBI on July 24, 2018.  

 

V.  Amendments to SEBI (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009   

The  Board  has  approved  the  following  amendments  to  the  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity 

Shares) Regulations, 2009 (“Delisting Regulations”): 

 

1.  In  case  of  voluntary  delisting,  if  the  price  discovered  through  the  reverse  book 

building process is not accepted by the promoters, a counter offer can be given by 

the promoters. However, the price through the counter offer should not be less than 

the book value and delisting will be successful only if such counter offer is accepted 

by  such  number  of  public  shareholders  that  the  post  offer  promoter  shareholding 

reaches at least 90%.  

 

 

The amendment was earlier discussed and recommended by the Primary Advisory 

Committee  of  SEBI.  Subsequently  SEBI  also  received  comments  from  public  in 

response to a consultation paper issued in this regard, which have been considered.  

2.  As  per  the  existing  Delisting  regulations,  promoters  of  compulsorily  delisted 

companies  have  to  provide  exit  to  the  public  shareholders.  However  the  existing 

regulations do not provide for any timeline for providing this exit option. It has been 

decided to amend the regulations to provide that promoters will have to give the exit 

to public shareholders within 3 months of delisting from recognized stock exchange.  

 

3.  Further,  the  Board  has  also  approved  certain  amendments,  pursuant  to  a  review 

carried  out  by  an  external  expert,  Sh  P.K.  Malhotra,  former  member  Securities 

Appellate Tribunal and former Secretary, Ministry of Law and Justice. The review 

was aimed at simplifying the language, updating the references to the Companies 

Act, 2013/ other new SEBI Regulations, and incorporating the relevant circular(s), 

FAQs in the Delisting Regulations, without making any substantive policy change. 

 

 

Page 5 of 15 

VI.  Review  of  requirement  of  1%  security  deposit-Public  issues  of  debt  securities, 

non-convertible  redeemable  preference  shares  (NCRPS)  and  securitised  debt 

instruments (SDI) 

 

Currently,  1%  of  the  amount  offered  for  subscription  to  the  public  is  required  to  be 

deposited with the stock exchanges so that complaints relating to refund of application 

money, allotment of securities and dispatch of certificates etc. are resolved speedily.  

 

As the requirement of 1% security deposit imposes cost on the issuer in case of public 

issue of debt securities and Application Supported by Blocked Amount (ASBA) has been 

made mandatory  mode  of  payment for  application  in  case  of  such  issues, the  Board 

considered  and  approved  the  proposal  contained  in  the  agenda  for  deleting  the 

requirement of 1% security deposit from the following SEBI Regulations: 

 

1.  SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008  

2.  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Non-Convertible  Redeemable  Preference  Shares) 

Regulations, 2013 and  

3.  SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008 

 

VII. 

Framework for Enhanced Market Borrowings by Large Corporates 

 

The Board considered and approved the following framework for operationalizing the 

budget announcement as proposed in the agenda: 

 

1.  The instant framework shall come into effect from April 01, 2019. 

  

 

 

2.  Any  large  corporate,  covered  under  the  framework  shall  intimate  to  the  stock 

exchange that they are covered under the framework and shall raise 25% of their 

incremental borrowings for that year through bond market; 

3.  Any corporate, other than scheduled commercial bank, which has listed its specified 

securities or debt securities or non-convertible redeemable preference shares, and 

fulfills following criteria, as on March 31st of a financial year, shall be categorized as 

large corporate under the instant framework: 

 

Page 6 of 15 

a)  outstanding borrowing of Rs 100 Crores or above; and 

b)  credit rating of "AA and above”; and 

c)  intends to finance itself with long-term borrowings (i.e. borrowings above 1 year). 

4.  The  term  "borrowings"  wherever  appearing  in  the  framework  shall  mean  the 

borrowings  which  have  original  maturity  period  of more  than  1  year  i.e.  only  long 

term  borrowings.  Further,  such  borrowings  shall  exclude  external  commercial 

borrowings, inter-corporate borrowings between a parent and subsidiaries; 

5.  For  initial  two  years  of  implementation  of  the  framework  i.e.  FY  2019-20  and  FY 

2020-21, a “comply or explain” approach shall be applicable. Thus, in event of non-

compliance,  the  reasons  shall  be  disclosed  as  part  of  the  “continuous  disclosure 

requirements” to Stock Exchanges; 

6.  From  third  year  of  implementation  i.e.  F.Y.  2021-22,  the  requirement  of  25%  of 

incremental borrowing through bond market shall be tested for contiguous block of 

two years; 

 

  

 

 

7.  At the end of two year block, if there is any deficiency in the requisite bond borrowing, 

a monetary penalty/fine of 0.2% of the shortfall shall be levied. 

 

VIII.  Reduction  in  payment  of  regulatory  fee  by  stock  exchanges  on  turnover  from 

agricultural commodity derivatives segment 

 

Government,  SEBI  and  Exchanges  are  taking  various  steps  to  promote  agricultural 

commodity derivative segment so that the benefits of agricultural commodity derivative 

are passed on to the farmers and Farmers Producer Organization (FPOs). Keeping in 

line  with  these  efforts,  Board  approved  that  instead  of  levying  regulatory  fee  at  the 

prescribed  turn-over  based  slab  rates,  a  nominal  regulatory  fee  at  a  flat  rate  of  INR 

1,00,000 per exchange, would be levied on turnover arising from agricultural commodity 

derivatives.  

 

In order to pass on the desired benefits from reduction of regulatory fees, it is proposed 

that exchanges dealing with agricultural commodities derivatives shall create a separate 

fund earmarked for the benefit of farmers/FPOs in which the regulatory fee forgone by 

 

Page 7 of 15 

SEBI shall be deposited and utilized exclusively for the benefit of and easy participation 

by Farmers and FPOs in the agri-derivatives market. Necessary guidelines for utilization 

of the proposed fund shall be issued in due course. 

 

IX.  Draft framework for participation of Eligible Foreign Entities (EFEs), having actual 

exposure to Indian commodity markets, in the commodity derivatives market 

 

As  a  first  step  for  opening  up  the  commodity  derivatives  markets  to  the  foreign 

participants,  the  Board  has  approved  the  regulatory  framework  for  permitting  foreign 

entities  having  actual  exposure  to  Indian  commodity  markets,  to  participate  in  the 

domestic commodity derivatives markets. Such entities would be classified as “Eligible 

Foreign Entities” (EFEs). Key features of the regulatory framework are as under- 

 

 

“Eligible Foreign Entities” (EFEs) are the “Person resident outside India” as defined 

in  Foreign  Exchange  Management  Act,  1999,  and  are  having  actual  exposure  to 

Indian physical commodity markets.  

 

  Minimum net worth requirement for such EFEs is US$500,000. 

 

  EFEs  would  allowed  to  trade  in  all  commodity  derivatives  traded  on  Indian 

Exchanges  except  those  contracts  having  underlying  commodity  defined  as 

‘Sensitive Commodity’ in terms of SEBI circular dated July 25, 2017 or by any other 

stipulation  by  SEBI  which  are  disclosed  on  exchange  websites  will  be  eligible  for 

participation. 

 

  The EFEs desirous of taking hedge positions in Indian commodity derivatives market 

shall approach Authorized Stock Brokers (ASBs), from amongst the Brokers which 

are  registered  under  SEBI  (Stock  brokers  and  sub-brokers)  Regulations,  1992 

having minimum net-worth of INR 25 Crores and are authorized by the commodity 

derivatives exchanges for opening of such accounts, as per prescribed norms. 

 

  The tenor of the hedge should not be greater than the tenor of underlying exposure. 

This may be reviewed based on experience of EFE participation. 

 

 

Page 8 of 15 

The  key  benefits  in  enabling  such  international  participants  to  trade  on  Indian 

commodity derivative market are expected to be as under: 

 

  The discovery of current global benchmark prices for some of the key commodities 

which  are  traded  only  in  Indian  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  would  get 

strengthened by  participation  by  foreign  entities  who  have  import/export  business 

with India. 

 

  Participation by such entities could make Indian commodity derivative markets more 

liquid  and  efficient.  It  may  also  add  to  the  depth  and  liquidity  in  the  far-month 

contracts. 

 

  More liquidity of contracts in Indian commodity derivatives exchanges, may attract 

more domestic firms to trade on Indian exchanges conveniently and the necessity 

for accessing overseas exchanges for hedging their price risks may diminish over a 

period of time. 

 

 

Increased liquidity in commodity derivatives market may give better price signal to 

the market which may be helpful for farmers as well. 

X. 

Interoperability  among  Clearing  Corporations  -  Amendments  to  Securities 

Contracts 

(Regulation) 

(Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations) 

Regulations, 2012 

 

1.  The  Board  approved  the  amendments  to  the  SECC  Regulations,  2012  to  enable 

interoperability  among 

clearing 

corporations 

(CCPs),  based  on 

the 

recommendations of the Secondary Market Advisory Committee. 

 

2.  Interoperability among clearing corporations provides for linking of multiple CCPs. It 

allows participants to consolidate their clearing and settlement functions at a single 

CCP,  irrespective  of  the  stock  exchange  on  which  the  trade  is  executed.  It  is 

envisaged that the interoperability would lead to efficient allocation of capital for the 

market participants, thereby saving on cost as well as provide better execution of 

trades.  

 

Page 9 of 15 

 

 

3.  Some of the key proposals approved by the Board are as follows: 

 

 

 

a)  Peer-to-peer  model  of  interoperability  has  been  adopted  as  it  ensures  that  all 

recognised CCPs are on an equal footing with each other with regard to flow of 

collateral, margins and general risk management. In this model, a CCP maintains 

special  arrangement  with  another  CCP  and  is  not  subject  to  the  normal 

participant (membership) rules. 

b)  All the products available for trading on the stock exchanges (except commodity 

derivatives)  would  be  made  available  under  the  interoperability  framework. 

Based on experience gained, interoperability will be considered for commodity 

derivatives in the next phase. 

4.  SEBI shall carry out necessary amendments to the SECC Regulations, 2012 and 

issue  necessary  circular/guidelines,  inter-alia,  including  Inter-CCP  Margins,  Inter-

CCP Settlement, Inter-CCP Collateral, default handling process, dispute resolution 

mechanism, technology related issues, etc. 

XI.  Proposed  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  Proceedings) 

Regulations, 2018 

1.  SEBI constituted a High Level Committee under the Chairmanship of Justice A. R. 

Dave (retd.) to inter alia review the existing Settlement Mechanism in SEBI. Public 

comments were sought on the report submitted by the Committee. 

 

2.  After due consideration of the public comments and suggestions received, the Board 

approved  the  framing  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement 

Proceedings)  Regulations,  2018,  which  inter  alia  provide  for  settlement  of 

proceedings  under  the  securities  laws  by  issuing  a  settlement  order  which  shall 

include monetary terms and may also include non-monetary terms.  

 

3.  The salient features of the regulations are as follows: 

a)  The Board may not settle any proceeding if it is of the opinion that the alleged 

default has market wide impact, loss to investors or  affects the integrity of the 

market. 

Page 10 of 15 

 

 

 

b)  The Board may not settle any proceeding where the applicant is a wilful defaulter, 

a  fugitive  economic  offender  or  has  defaulted  in  payment  of  any  fees  due  or 

penalty imposed under securities laws. 

c)  A new provision dealing with “settlement with confidentiality” to any person that 

provides  material  assistance  to  the  Board  in  its  fact-finding  process  and 

proceedings has been specified. 

d)  The Board shall not consider an application for settlement, if an earlier application 

for the same alleged default has been rejected, or if the audit or investigation or 

inspection  or  inquiry  is  not  complete  (except  in  case  of  applications  for 

confidentiality) or if recovery proceedings have been initiated.  

e)  Compounding  applications  shall  be  processed  along  the  lines  of  settlement 

applications. 

f)  The Board may provide for issuance of a notice of settlement prior to issuance 

of  a  show  cause  notice  for  other  defaults  (other  than  in  case  of  summary 

settlement). 

g)  In the event of a settlement order being revoked on account of non-compliance 

with the terms of the order or not making full and true disclosures, the settlement 

amount paid shall not be refunded to the applicant.  

h)  Procedure has been specified for the quorum of the meeting of the High Powered 

Advisory Committee.  

i) 

In  case  the  recommendations  of  the  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee  are 

rejected, the panel of Whole Time Members shall record reasons for rejection of 

the recommendations.   

 

4.  The Committee also suggested that the Central Government may be requested to 

amend the Income Tax Act, 1961, for removing the deduction as a business expense 

available for monies paid in pursuance of a composition or a settlement under the 

securities laws. 

 

XII.  Amendments  to  SEBI  (PFUTP)  Regulations  and  SEBI  (PIT)  Regulations  to 

implement recommendations of the Committee on Fair Market Conduct  

The Board considered the recommendations of the Committee on Fair Market Conduct 

and the public comments received thereon. The Board approved amendments to SEBI 

(Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities  Markets) 

Regulations,  2003  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  PFUTP  Regulations)  and  SEBI 

 

Page 11 of 15 

(Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  2015  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  PIT 

Regulations) based on the recommendations of the Committee on Fair Market Conduct.  

 

The amendments to the PFUTP Regulations relate to definition of ‘dealing in securities’ 

expanding  the  scope  of  the  regulations  to  include  employees  and  agents  of 

intermediaries    and  strengthening  of  the  deeming  provisions  for  fraud  to  include 

activities  such  as  misleading  information  on  digital  media,  front  running  by  non-

intermediaries, mis-selling of securities and services related to securities, mis-utilisation 

of  client  account  and  diversion  of  client  funds,  manipulating  bench  mark  price  of 

securities, etc.  

 

On  the  issue  of  use  of  front  entities  or  “mule  accounts”  for  engaging  in  fraudulent 

transactions  and  related  recommendations  on  affordability  index,  it  was  decided  to 

discuss this matter further with stakeholders.  

 

Amendments  to  the  PIT  Regulations  include  amendments  to  include  bringing  further 

clarity on sharing of unpublished price sensitive information (UPSI) for due diligence or 

legitimate  purposes,  creation  of  database  of  persons  with  whom  UPSI  is  shared, 

additional  defences  when  trading  in  possession  of  UPSI,  additional  disclosures  for 

aiding SEBI in investigations and introduction of framework for institutional responsibility 

to ensure that the institution takes responsibility to formulate a code of conduct and put 

in place an effective system of internal controls to ensure compliance with the various 

requirements specified in the PIT Regulation to prevent insider trading. 

 

On the issue of additional disclosures, considering  public comments, the proposal for 

disclosure of name and PAN number or equivalent identification of persons residing at 

the same address as the designated persons for a consecutive period of more than one 

year and disclosure of phone / mobile /cell numbers whose billing address is residence 

address of the designated person was dropped. 

 

With regard to applicability of code of conduct to designated persons as proposed to be 

defined, it was agreed that employees/ CEO of associate companies may be excluded 

from the applicability of the code of conduct. 

 

 

Page 12 of 15 

On  the  recommendation  that  SEBI  may  seek  direct  power  to  intercept  calls  and 

electronic communication under the Telegraph Act, it was decided that the matter may 

be referred to the Government to take an appropriate view.   

 

The  Committee  on  Fair  Market  Conduct  was  set  up  in  August,  2017  under  the 

Chairmanship of Shri T.K. Viswanathan, Ex-Secretary General, Lok Sabha and Ex- Law 

Secretary.  

 

The committee submitted its report to SEBI on August 08, 2018, which was placed on 

the SEBI website for public comments on Aug 09, 2018. 

 

XIII.  Common Application Form for Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) 

 

Hon'ble Union Finance Minister, while presenting the union budget for 2017-18 inter-

alia had announced Common Application form (CAF) for FPIs. 

  

Accordingly,  SEBI  in  consultation  with  Department  of  Economic  Affairs,  Ministry  of 

Finance, Government of India, Reserve Bank of India and Central Board of Direct Taxes 

has  finalized  a  common  application  form  for  obtaining  FPI  Registration  with  SEBI, 

Permanent Account Number (PAN) and KYC for opening of bank and demat accounts 

by FPIs. 

  

Necessary amendments to SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014 will be 

made.   

 

XIV.  Restrictions on Fugitive Economic Offenders 

 

Board was informed of the following restrictions imposed by SEBI on fugitive economic 

offenders  (FEOs)  in  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  &  Disclosure  Requirements) 

Regulations,  2018  and  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  &  Takeovers) 

Regulations, 2011:   

1.  Restrictions  on  raising  capital  through  initial  public  offers  (IPOs)  on  main  board, 

rights 

issue, 

further  public  offers,  preferential 

issue,  Qualified 

Institutional 

Placement, IPO of Indian Depository Receipts (IDRs), Rights issue of IDRs and IPO 

Page 13 of 15 

 

 

by Small & Medium Enterprises, if any of the promoter or director of the issuer is a 

fugitive economic offender. 

2.  Restrictions on listing on ITPs and issue of bonus shares if any of the promoter or 

director of the issuer is a fugitive economic offender. 

3.  Prohibition from making an open offer, counter offer or acquiring any shares or voting 

rights or control in a target company. 

 

XV. 

Information Technology (IT) Roadmap of SEBI 

An  information memorandum  regarding  the Information Technology  (IT)  Roadmap  of 

SEBI was placed before the Board. SEBI’s IT Roadmap has the following four central 

themes: 

1.  Consolidation of IT Infrastructure, Processes & Cyber Security 

2.  Market Protection Initiatives 

3.  Market Supervision & Development Initiatives 

4.  Market Evolution Initiatives 

The Board noted that the IT roadmap will facilitate SEBI to deploy its IT resources and 

funds  in  a  well-planned  manner.  The  consolidation  of  IT  infrastructure  will  usher  in 

synergy  between  various  IT  assets  within  the  organization.  The  various  market 

protection  and  supervision  initiatives  will  allow  SEBI  to  regulate  the  market  more 

effectively.  Market  Evolution  initiatives  such  as  FinTech/RegTech  will  provide 

opportunities for financial and technical innovations in the securities market. 

 

XVI.  Extending disclosure requirements pertaining to Sexual Harassment of Women 

to all listed companies 

In  order  to  strengthen  disclosures  relating  to  safety  of  women  at  corporate  sector 

workplaces,  amendments  to  Schedule  V  of  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, 2015 have been approved to insert the following disclosure 

requirement  with  respect  to  complaints  under  the  Sexual  Harassment  of  Women  at 

Workplace  (Prevention,  Prohibition  and  Redressal)  Act,  2013  in  the  corporate 

governance report as part of Annual reports of listed entities: 

1.  No. of complaints filed during the financial year  

2.  No. of complaints disposed off during the financial year  

3.  No. of complaints pending as at end of the financial year. 

 

 

Page 14 of 15 

Presently the Business Responsibility Report requires similar disclosures from top 500 

listed  companies.  The  amendment  approved  by  the  Board  today  will  extend  this 

requirement to all listed companies.    

 

Mumbai 

September 18, 2018 

 

Page 15 of 15 

