 

PR No.51/2018 

 

 

SEBI Board Meeting 

 

The SEBI Board met in Mumbai today and took the following decisions: 

 

I.  Creation of Segregated Portfolio by  Mutual Funds  

The Board noted the proposal to allow Mutual Funds to  create Segregated Portfolios 

with respect to debt and money market instruments subject to various safeguards. This 

facility will be available to Mutual Funds based on credit events. Creating Segregated 

Portfolio  may  be  optional  for  mutual  funds,  but  approval  of  trustees  is  necessary  for 

activating such a portfolio. 

 
In  this  context,  the  Board  noted  the  recommendations  of  Mutual  Fund  Advisory 

Committee. 

 
Creation of Segregated Portfolio is a mechanism to separate distressed, illiquid assets 

from other more liquid assets in a mutual fund portfolio to deal with a situation arising 

due to a credit event. With a Segregated Portfolio, investors who may take the hit when 

the credit event happens shall get the upside of future recovery, if any. 

 
The Board also took note of the proposal to review the valuation norms applicable to 

mutual fund schemes investing in debt and money market instruments. 

 

II.  Review of framework for Institutional Trading Platform 

The Board has, in principle, approved the proposals for amendments to the Regulations 

pertaining  to  Institutional  Trading  Platform  (“ITP”)  in  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and 

Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018  (“ICDR Regulations”) . 

 
The  Board,  while  approving  the  proposals,  considered  the  recommendations  of  the 

Primary  Market  Advisory  Committee  (PMAC)  and  the  public  comments  on  the 

Consultation Paper. 

 

 

Page 1 of 5 

 
The key proposals approved by the Board are as follows:  

 

1.  Platform to be renamed as Innovators Growth Platform (“IGP”). 

 

2.  In order to be eligible for listing on the IGP, the issuer shall be a company which is  

intensive  in  the  use  of  technology,  information  technology,  intellectual property,  

data  analytics,  bio-technology  or  nano-technology  to  provide  products,  services  

or business platforms with substantial value. 

 
3.  25% of the pre-issue capital, of  the Issuer Company for at least a period of 2 years, 

should have been held by: 

a.  Qualified Institutional Buyers; 

b.  Family trust with net-worth of more than five hundred crore rupees; 

c.  Category III Foreign Portfolio Investor; 

d.  A pooled investment fund with minimum assets under management of USD 150 

million and registered with a financial sector regulator in the jurisdictions where 

it is resident. The fund should be a resident of a country whose securities market 

regulator  is  a  signatory  to  IOSCO’s  MMOU  (Appendix  A  Signatories)  or  a 

signatory to bilateral MOU with SEBI and not a resident in a country identified in 

the  public  statement  of  Financial  Action  Task  Force  as  deficient  in  AML  and 

combating financing of terrorism. 

e.  Accredited Investors (AIs) for the purpose of IGP, to include:  

(i)  Any individual with total gross income of Rs. 50 lakhs annually and who has 

minimum liquid net worth of Rs. 5 crores  or 

(ii)  Any body corporate with net worth of Rs. 25 crores  

 

4.  Not more than 10% of the pre-issue capital may be held by Accredited Investors. 

 

5.  The  existing  requirement  of  cap  on  holding  not  more  than  25%  of  the  post  issue 

capital by any person individually or collectively with persons acting in concert to be 

deleted. 

 
6.  The minimum application size and minimum trading lot to be INR Rs. 2 Lakhs and 

in multiples of INR Rs. 2 Lakhs thereof. 

 
7.  There would not be any requirement of minimum reservation of allocation to specific 

category of investors. 

Page 2 of 5 

 

8.  Minimum number of allottees to be 50. 

 
9.  Minimum  net  offer  to  public  should  be  in  compliance  with  Minimum  Public 

Shareholding (MPS) norms and minimum offer size to be INR 10 crores. 

 

10. IGP to be designated as a platform for start-ups with an option to trade under regular 

category after completion of one year of listing subject to compliance with exchange 

requirements. 

 

III.  Clubbing of investment limits for Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) 

SEBI in its press release dated September 21, 2018 had, inter-alia, stated that a circular 

on the issue of clubbing of investment limit of FPIs will be issued separately.  

 

After considering the recommendations of SEBI working group under the Chairmanship 

of Shri Harun R. Khan and comments received from public, SEBI Board has decided 

that the clubbing of investment limit for FPIs should not be done on the basis of same 

set  of  beneficial  owners  as  per  Prevention  of  Money-laundering  (Maintenance  of 

Records) Rules, 2005.  

 
The proposal that clubbing of investment limit for FPIs will be on the basis of common 

ownership of more than 50% or common control was approved.  However, in the case 

of appropriately regulated public retail funds, investment limits will not be clubbed on 

the basis of common control. 

 
Accordingly,  SEBI  shall  carry  out  necessary  amendments  to  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio 

Investors) Regulations, 2014 and issue necessary circular/guidelines to implement the 

aforesaid changes. 

 

IV.  Amendment to SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 

2018  

Under the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018, in 

case of any increase or decrease in estimated issue size by more than twenty percent, 

fresh  filing  of  the  offer  document  with  the  Board  is  required.  At  present,  such 

requirement is for both fresh issues and offer for sale.  

 

 

Page 3 of 5 

In case of an Offer For Sale (excluding fresh issue component), the Board has approved 

that fresh filing of offer document with the board will be required, when there is a change 

in either the number of shares offered for sale or the estimated issue size, by more than 

fifty per cent.  

 

V.  Amendment in Regulation 29(4) of Takeover Regulations, 2011 

Under  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011 

(“Takeover  Regulations”),  shares  taken  by  way  of  encumbrance  are  treated  as  an 

acquisition and shares given upon release of encumbrance are treated as a disposal. 

Such acquisition and disposal are required to be disclosed. At present, such disclosure 

requirement is not applied to a scheduled commercial bank or public financial institution 

as  pledgee  in  connection  with  a  pledge  of  shares  for  securing  indebtedness  in  the 

ordinary course of business. 

 
The  Board  has,  in  principle,  approved  that  the  aforesaid  exception  to  the  disclosure 

requirement will also apply to i) deposit taking Housing Finance Companies (HFCs) or 

HFCs with asset size of Rs.500 cr or more, registered with National Housing Bank and 

ii) systemically important Non-banking Financial Companies (NBFCs). Pursuant to the 

amendment,  shares  taken  by  way  of  encumbrance  (or  shares  given  upon  release of 

encumbrance)  by  the  said  HFCs  and  NBFCs  shall  not  be  treated  as  acquisition  (or 

disposal) for the purpose of disclosure requirements under Regulation 29 of Takeover 

Regulations.  

 

VI.  Review of framework for Offer for Sale (OFS) of shares through Stock Exchange 

mechanism 

In order to expand the universe of companies to whom OFS mechanism is available, 

presently being top 200 companies by market capitalization, and to bring clarity relating 

to the conditions laid down for cancellation of OFS, the Board approved the following 

modifications to the existing OFS mechanism:  

1.  Expanding the list of eligible companies 

OFS  mechanism  shall  be  available  for  shareholders  of  companies  with  market 

capitalization  of  Rs.1000  crores  and  above,  with  the  threshold  of  market 

capitalization  computed  as  the  average  daily  market  capitalization  for  six  months 

prior to the month in which the OFS opens. 

 
 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 

2.  Cancellation of Offer 

If the seller fails to get sufficient demand from non-retail investors at or above the 

floor price on T day, then the seller may choose to cancel the offer, post bidding, in 

full (both retail and non-retail) on T day and not proceed with offer to retail investors 

on T+1 day. 

  

VII.  Role  of  Custodians  in  Commodity  Derivatives  Market  to  enable  institutional 

participation  

The Board discussed the proposal for allowing custodial services in goods underlying 

commodity derivative contracts in order to enable participation of institutional investors 

in  commodity  derivatives  market.  In  this  regard,  the  Board  approved  the  proposed 

amendments to the SEBI (Custodian of Securities) Regulations, 1996. 

 

VIII.  Consultation Paper on Uniform Valuation Methodology for Pricing of Corporate 

Bonds 

The Board approved following in the matter: 

i)  SEBI  not  to  pursue  the  exercise  for  determining  a  uniform  bond  valuation 

methodology to be followed by all regulated entities across the financial sector. The, 

Department  of Economic  Affairs,  Ministry  of  Finance,  however,  will  undertake  the 

exercise of bringing uniformity in the valuation process for corporate bonds for all 

regulated entities across the financial sector.  

ii)  SEBI to prescribe guidelines for pricing of corporate bonds, which shall be followed 

uniformly across all the mutual funds.  

iii)  SEBI to evolve a supervisory and regulatory framework for pricing agencies, which 

would provide services related to pricing of corporate bonds to Mutual Funds. 

 

Mumbai 

December 12, 2018 

 

Page 5 of 5 

