 

PR No.9/2019 

 

  

SEBI Board Meeting 

 

The SEBI Board met in New Delhi today and took the following decisions: 

 

I.  Amendments  to  SEBI  (Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2014 

and the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 

The  Board  considered  and  approved  the  following  Amendments  to  SEBI 

(Infrastructure  Investment Trusts)  Regulations,  2014  and  the  SEBI  (Real  Estate 

Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014: 

1.  The  minimum  allotment  and  trading  lot  for  publicly  issued  InvITs  and  REITs 

shall be in following manner: 

a.  Allotment  by  REIT/InvIT  shall  be  made  in  the  multiples  of  a  lot,  each 

consisting of 100 units. 

b.  Value of such allotment lot for InvITs shall be Rs one lakh  and for REITs 

shall be Rs fifty thousand.  

c.  After listing trading will be in multiple of one lot.  

2.  The  leverage  limit  for  InvITs  increased  from  existing  49%  to  70%  of  InvIT 

assets. The enhanced limit shall be subject to certain additional disclosure and 

compliance requirements, such as, 

a.  The consolidated debt of the InvIT and the project debt, have a credit rating 

of AAA or equivalent from a rating agency registered with the Board; 

b.  The  InvIT  has  a  minimum  track  record  of  6  distributions  on  a  continuous 

basis, post listing, in the years just preceding to the Financial Year in which 

the enhanced borrowings are proposed to be made. 

3.  A  separate  framework  for  privately  placed  unlisted  InvITs,  which  provide 

sufficient  flexibility  to  both  issuers  and  investors  shall  be  created.  These 

include, inter alia the following: 

 

Page 1 of 5 

a.  The  minimum  number  of  investors  shall  be  as  determined  by  the  issuer 

including the maximum holding of units by a single investor;  

b.  Leverage  shall  be  as  determined  by  the  issuer  after  consultation  with 

investor(s);  

c.  The underlying assets can  be completed, under construction or both; 

d.  The minimum investment by an investor shall not be less than Rs 1 crore. 

 

II.  Framework for Innovators Growth Platform  

The Board, in its last meeting held on December 12, 2018, approved, in principle 

the proposals for the amendments to the Regulations pertaining to the Institutional 

Trading Platform (“ITP”) in the SEBI (Issue of Capital & Disclosure Requirements) 

Regulations, 2018 (“ICDR Regulations”). One of the aforesaid proposals pertains 

to Accredited Investors (“AIs”) for the purpose of the Innovators Growth Platform 

(“IGP”).  

 

The  Board has  now  approved  the framework  for  the  process  of  accreditation of 

investors  for  the  purpose  of  IGP.  Under  the  framework,  the  investor,  having  a 

demat  account  with  a  Depository,  will  make  an  application  to  the  Stock 

Exchanges/Depositories in the manner prescribed by them for recognition as an 

AI.  The  Exchanges/  Depositories  will  grant  accreditation  to  investors  subject  to 

their eligibility, which shall be valid for a period of three years. 

 

III.  Corporate Debt Restructuring  

The  Board  approved  that,  in  the  context  of  corporate  debt  restructuring, 

exemptions from applicability of conditions for preferential issue provided in SEBI 

(Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2018  (“ICDR 

Regulations)  and  from  the  obligation  of  making  an  open  offer  provided  in  SEBI 

(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 (“Takeover 

Regulations”)  will  be  restricted  to  all  scheduled  commercial  banks  (excluding 

Regional Rural Banks) and all India Financial Institutions for acquisitions in their 

ordinary course of business.  Such exemptions will not be available for acquisition 

of shares by persons other than aforesaid lenders by way of allotment by the target 

company or purchase from lenders. The Board also noted that relevant exemptions 

including  open  offer  obligations  are  available  under  the  aforesaid  SEBI 

 

Page 2 of 5 

Regulations  for  acquisition  pursuant  to  a  resolution  plan  approved  under 

Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code.   

 

Further,  Takeover  Regulations  provide  for  exemption  from  open  offer  for  any 

acquisition pursuant to a scheme of arrangement / reconstruction pursuant to an 

order of a court or a tribunal or a competent authority under any law or regulation, 

Indian  or  foreign.  The  Board  has  approved  that  the  reference  to  approval  by 

“Competent Authority” in the Takeover Regulations shall be deleted. 

 

IV.  Valuation of money market and debt securities by Mutual Funds 

1.  The Board after deliberation approved, inter-alia, the following proposals to make 

the  existing  valuation practices  more  reflective  of  the  realizable  value  of  money 

market and debt securities with residual maturity upto 60 days:  

a.  The  residual maturity  limit for amortization based  valuation  by  Mutual  Funds 

shall be reduced from existing 60 days to 30 days.  

b.  The threshold maintained between reference price and valuation price shall be 

±0.025%. Further, reference price shall be taken as security level price given 

by the valuation agencies.  

2.  Further,  the  Board  also  approved  inter-alia  the  following  proposals  to  bring 

uniformity and consistency across the Mutual Fund industry on valuation of money 

market and debt securities rated below investment grade: 

a.  The  valuation  agencies  appointed  by  Association  of  Mutual  Funds  in  India 

(AMFI) may provide valuation of money market and debt securities rated below 

investment grade.  

b.  As Asset Management Companies are responsible for fair valuation, they may 

deviate  from  the  valuation  provided  by  the  valuation  agencies  subject  to 

recording of detailed rationale for such deviations, appropriate reporting to the 

Board of AMC and Trustees and appropriate disclosures to investors. 

 

V.  Participation of Institutional Investors in Commodity Derivatives Markets in 

India 

The Board deliberated and approved the proposal contained in the memorandum 

to  enable  participation  by  Mutual  Funds  and  Portfolio  Managers  in  Exchange 

Traded  Commodity  Derivatives  in  India  subject  to  certain  safeguards.  Further, 

 

Page 3 of 5 

Category  –  III  Alternative  Investment  Funds  which  are  already  permitted  to 

participate in Commodity derivatives, have now been permitted to deal with goods 

received in delivery against physical settlement of such contracts, if any. 

 

VI.  Amendments  to  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustee)  Regulations,  1993,  SEBI  (Issue 

and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities)  Regulations,  2008  and  SEBI  (Listing 

Obligations and Disclosure Requirements), 2015 

In order to secure the interests of the debenture holders and to enable Debenture 

Trustees (DTs) to perform their duties effectively and promptly, SEBI Board has 

approved  amendments  to  the  regulatory  framework  for  DTs,  which,  inter-alia, 

include the following:  

1.  The minimum net worth requirement of a DT shall be increased from existing 

Rs. 2 crore to Rs. 10 crore.  

2.  The requirement of calling for a meeting of debenture holders in the event of 

default in payment obligation by issuer in case of public issue of debt securities 

shall not be obligatory. 

3.  E – Voting shall be a valid option for DTs to obtain consent of the debenture 

holders wherever applicable.  

4.  In case of delay in creation of charge in favour of DT within the specified period, 

the  issuer  shall  pay  additional  interest  as  specified  in  the  Trust  Deed  and 

disclosed in the Offer Document to the debenture holders for the period of delay 

in creation of charge.  

5.  In case of issuers having both listed equity and debt securities, the certificate 

from the DT as per the requirement of Reg.52 (5) of LODR shall be submitted 

to the stock exchange(s) by the issuer within 7 working days from the date of 

submission of financial results to the stock exchange(s). 

 

VII.  Permitting permanent registration to Custodians 

The  Board  approved  the  proposal  to  amend  the  SEBI  (Custodian)  Regulations, 

1996 to grant permanent registration to custodians instead of periodical renewal 

every three years. This will facilitate ease of doing business for the custodians. 

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 5 

VIII.  Revision of SEBI’s fee structure 

SEBI  has  been  following  the  practice  of  calibrating  the  fees  either  upwards  or 

downwards from time to time so as to keep a balance between the transaction cost 

on  Securities  market  and  the  financial  resources  required  to  ensure  regulatory 

efficiency.  Keeping  this  objective  in  mind  and  taking  into  consideration  the 

projected income and expenditure of SEBI for the next 3 financial years, the Board 

has decided to revise the fee structure w.e.f. April 01, 2019, in respect of certain 

market participants, which are as under:- 

1.  The fees payable by brokers has been reduced by 33.33%, i.e. from Rs.15/- 

per crore of transactions to Rs.10/- per crore of transactions.  

2.  The fees payable by brokers for Agri-Commodity derivatives transactions has 

been reduced by 93.33%, i.e. from Rs.15/- per crore of transactions to Rs.1/- 

per crore of transactions.  

3.  It has been decided to reduce the fees payable by the issuers for one refiling 

of offer documents by 50% from the current levels, if the refiling is done within 

one year of validity of observation letter. 

4.  In order to rationalise the regulatory fee rate payable by the stock exchanges, 

it has been decided to reduce this fee rate by 80% from the current Rs. 1 cr 

plus Rs. 6/- per crore for the turnover in excess of Rs. 10 Lac crore to Rs. 1 cr. 

Plus Rs. 1.20/- per crore for the turnover in excess of Rs. 10 Lac crore without 

any upper ceiling.  

 

New Delhi 

March 01, 2019 

 
   

 

Page 5 of 5 

