 

PR No.16/2019 

 

  

SEBI Board Meeting 

 

The SEBI Board met in Mumbai today and took the following decisions: 

 

I.  Framework for Issuance of Differential Voting Rights (DVR) Shares 

  There  is  an  increasing  debate  about  the  need  to  enable  issuance  and  listing  of 

shares  with  differential  voting  rights,  commonly  known  as  DVRs  in  India.  Such 

shares have rights disproportionate to their economic ownership.  

The Board approved a framework for issuance of differential voting rights shares 

along  with  amendments  to  the  relevant  SEBI  Regulations  to  give  effect  to  the 

framework.  

The key proposals approved are as follows:  

1.  Eligibility: A company having superior voting rights shares (SR shares) would be 

permitted to do an initial public offering (IPO) of only ordinary shares to be listed 

on  the  Main  Board,  subject  to  fulfillment  of  eligibility  requirements  of  the 

SEBI(Issue of  Capital and  Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations,  2018  and the 

following conditions: 

i)  The  issuer  company  is  a  tech  company  (as  per  the  definition  in  Innovators 

Growth Platform) i.e. intensive in the use of technology, information technology, 

intellectual  property,  data  analytics,  bio-technology  or  nano-technology  to 

provide  products,  services  or  business  platforms  with  substantial  value 

addition.  

ii)  The SR shareholder should be a part of the promoter group whose collective 

net worth does not exceed Rs 500 Crores. While determining the collective net 

worth, the investment of SR shareholders in the shares of the issuer company 

shall not be considered.  

iii)  The SR shares have been issued only to the promoters/ founders who hold an 

executive position in the company. 

Page 1 of 7 

 

iv)  The  issue  of  these  SR  shares  has  been  authorized  by  a  special  resolution 

passed at a general meeting of the shareholders.  

v)  SR shares have been held for a period of at least 6 months prior to the filing of 

Red Herring Prospectus (RHP). 

vi)  SR  shares  have  voting  rights  in  the  ratio  of  minimum  2:1  to  maximum  10:1 

compared to ordinary shares.  

 

2.  Listing and Lock-in: SR shares shall also be listed on Stock Exchanges after the 

issuer company makes a public issue. However, SR shares shall be under lock-in 

after  the  IPO  until  their  conversion  to  ordinary  shares.  Transfer  of  SR  shares 

among promoters shall not be permitted. No pledge/ lien shall be allowed on SR 

shares.  

 

3.  Rights  of  SR  shares: SR  shares  shall  be  treated  at  par  with  the  ordinary  equity 

shares  in  every  respect,  including  dividends,  except  in  the  case  of  voting  on 

resolutions. The total voting rights of SR shareholders (including ordinary shares), 

post listing, shall not exceed 74%. 

 

4.  Enhanced  corporate  governance:  Companies  having  SR  shareholders  shall  be 

subject to enhanced corporate governance as follows: 

i)  Atleast ½ of the Board and 2/3rd of the Committees (excluding Audit Committee) 

as  prescribed  under  SEBI  (LODR)  Regulations,  2015  shall  comprise  of 

Independent Directors. 

ii)  Audit Committee shall comprise of only Independent Directors. 

 

5.  Coat-tail Provisions: Post-IPO, the SR Equity Shares shall be treated as ordinary 

equity shares in terms of voting rights (i.e. one SR share shall have only one vote) 

in the following circumstances: 

i)  Appointment or removal of independent directors and/or auditor; 

ii)  In case where promoter is willingly transferring control to another entity 

iii)  Related Party Transactions in terms of SEBI(LODR) Regulations involving SR 

shareholder 

iv)  Voluntary winding up of the company; 

 

Page 2 of 7 

v)  Changes in the company’s Article of Association or Memorandum - except any 

changes affecting the SR instrument  

vi)  Initiation of a voluntary resolution plan under IBC; 

vii) Utilization of funds for purposes other than business 

viii)Substantial  value  transaction  based  on  materiality  threshold  as  prescribed 

under LODR;  

ix)  passing of special resolution in respect of delisting or buy-back of shares; and 

x)  Any other provisions notified by SEBI in this regard from time to time. 

 

6.  Sunset  Clauses:  SR  shares  shall  be  converted  into  ordinary  shares  in following 

circumstances/ events: 

i)  Time Based: The SR shares shall be converted to Ordinary Shares on the 5th 

anniversary of listing. The validity can be extended once by 5 years through a 

resolution. SR shareholder would not be permitted to vote on such resolutions. 

ii)  Event Based: SR shares shall compulsorily get converted into ordinary shares 

on  occurrence  of  certain  events  such  as  demise,  resignation  of  SR 

shareholders, merger or acquisition where the control would be no longer with 

SR shareholder, etc.   

 

7.  Fractional Rights Shares: Henceforth, issue of fractional rights shares by existing 

listed  companies  shall  not  be  allowed.  The  need  for  allowing  issue  of  fractional 

rights shares by listed companies may however be reviewed after gaining enough 

experience with the use of SR shares. 

 

The Board, while approving the amendments, considered the recommendations of 

the Primary Market Advisory Committee (PMAC) and the public comments on the 

Consultation Paper. 

 

 

II.  Amendments  to  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 

Regulations, 2015 - payment relating to royalty and brand usage 

1.  SEBI    (Listing    Obligations    and    Disclosure  Requirements)    Regulations  had 

prescribed that  payments  made  to  related  parties  towards   brand usage  or 

royalty are to be considered material if the transaction(s) exceed 2% of the annual 

consolidated  turnover  of  the  listed  entity  during  a  financial  year.  This  required 

Page 3 of 7 

approval of the shareholders, with no related party having a vote to approve such 

resolutions. This provision was to come into effect from April 1, 2019. In view of 

the representations received on the subject and with a view to analyse them, the 

Board had decided to defer the implementation of this provision for three months 

i.e. till June 30, 2019. 

2.  The  Board  has  now,  after  considering  the  representations,  decided  that 

payments   made  to   related  parties  towards  brand usage  or royalty may  be 

considered  material  if  the  transaction(s)  exceed  5%  of  the  annual  consolidated 

turnover  of 

the 

listed  entity  during  a 

financial  year  and  would 

require  approval  of  the  shareholders, with  no  related  party  having  a  vote  to 

approve such resolutions.  

 

III.  Disclosure of Encumbrances 

The Board has approved the following proposals: 

1.  The term “encumbrance” as defined in the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares 

and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 shall henceforth include, - 

i)  any restriction on the free and marketable title to shares, by  whatever name 

called, whether executed directly or indirectly; 

ii)  pledge, lien, negative lien, non-disposal undertaking; 

iii)  any  covenant,  transaction,  condition  or  arrangement  in  the  nature  of 

encumbrance,  by  whatever  name  called,  whether  executed  directly  or 

indirectly. 

2.  Promoters  shall  be  required  to  disclose  separately  detailed  reasons  for 

encumbrance  whenever  the  combined  encumbrance  by  the  promoters  and 

persons  acting  in  concert  (PACs)  crosses  20%  of  the  total  share  capital  in  the 

company or 50% of their shareholding in the company.  The stock exchanges will 

maintain the details of such encumbrance along with purpose of encumbrance, on 

their websites. 

3.  The promoters shall be required to declare to the audit committee of the company 

and to the stock exchanges on a yearly basis, that they along with PACs, have not 

made any encumbrance directly or indirectly, other than already disclosed, during 

the financial year.  

The Board has taken the above measures in the context of recent concerns w.r.t. 

promoter/ companies raising funds from Mutual Funds/ NBFCs through structured 

 

Page 4 of 7 

obligations,  pledge  of  shares,  non-disposal  undertakings,  corporate/  promoter 

guarantees and various other complex structures. 

 

IV.  Review of Risk Management Framework of Liquid Funds, Investment Norms 

and Valuation of Money Market and Debt Securities by Mutual Fund 

In  light  of  a few  credit  events  in  the  fixed  income  market  that  led  to  increase  in 

liquidity risk of Mutual Funds, a need was felt to review the regulatory framework 

and take necessary steps to safeguard the interest of investors and maintain the 

orderliness and robustness of Mutual Funds.  

 

In this context, SEBI had constituted working groups representing AMCs, industry 

and  academia  to  review  the  risk  management  framework  with  respect  to  liquid 

schemes and to review the existing practices on valuation of money market and 

debt securities. Further, an internal working group within SEBI was constituted to 

inter-alia review norms for Mutual Funds for investment in various debt and money 

market securities. 

 

The analysis along with recommendations of the working groups were placed in a 

meeting of Mutual Fund Advisory Committee (MFAC). In this regard, MFAC made 

several recommendations.  

 

The Board after deliberations, inter-alia, approved the following proposals: 

Risk  Management  Framework  of  Liquid  Funds  and  prudential  norms 

governing investments in debt and money market instruments 

1.  Liquid Schemes shall be mandated to hold at least 20% in liquid assets such as 

Cash, Government Securities, T-bills and Repo on Government Securities. 

2.  The cap on sectoral limit of 25% shall be reduced to 20%. The additional exposure 

of  15%  to  HFCs  shall  be  restructured  to  10%  in  HFCs  and  5%  exposure  in 

securitized  debt  based  on  retail  housing  loan  and  affordable  housing  loan 

portfolios. 

3.  The valuation of debt and money market instruments based on amortization shall 

be dispensed with completely and shall be based on mark to market. 

Page 5 of 7 

 

 

4.  Liquid  and  overnight  schemes  shall  not  be  permitted  to  invest  in  Short  Term 

Deposits,  debt  and  money  market  instruments  having  structured  obligations  or 

credit enhancements. 

5.  A  graded  exit  load  shall  be  levied  on  investors  of  liquid  schemes  who  exit  the 

scheme upto a period of 7 days. 

6.  Mutual  Fund  schemes  shall  be  mandated  to  invest  only  in  listed  NCDs  and  the 

same  would  be  implemented  in  a  phased  manner.  All  fresh  investments  in 

Commercial Papers (CPs) shall be made only in listed CPs pursuant to issuance 

of guidelines by SEBI in this regard. 

7.  All fresh investments in equity shares by Mutual Fund schemes shall only be made 

in listed or to be listed equity shares. 

8.  Prudential limits on total investment by a Mutual Fund scheme in debt and money 

market  instruments  having  credit  enhancements  and  on  investment  by  Mutual 

Fund scheme in such debt securities of a particular group, as percentage of debt 

portfolio  of  the  respective  scheme  have  been  prescribed  at  10%  and  5% 

respectively.   

9.  There  should  be  adequate  security  cover  of  at  least  4  times  for  investment  by 

Mutual Fund schemes in debt securities having credit enhancements backed by 

equities directly or indirectly. 

Valuation of Money Market and Debt Securities by Mutual Funds 

1.  In  order  to  make  existing  provisions  on  valuation  of  money  market  and  debt 

securities  more  reflective  of  best  practices,  various  proposals  for  amending  the 

extant provisions were approved.  

2.  Further, in order to bring uniformity and consistency in valuation, various proposals 

on  the  waterfall  approach  for  valuation  of  non-traded  money  market  and  debt 

securities  by  Mutual  Funds  were  approved,  along  with  acknowledging  that 

valuation agencies may need a certain degree of flexibility in order to ensure fair 

pricing  of  securities.  Nevertheless,  in  terms  of  the  Principles  of  Fair  Valuation, 

AMCs are responsible for ensuring fairness of valuation and they may deviate from 

the valuation guidelines, subject to appropriate documentation and disclosure. 

3.  In  order  to  increase  the  robustness  of  valuation  and  address  possible  mis-use, 

various  proposals  related  to  valuation  of  Inter-scheme  Transfers  (ISTs), 

disallowing the use of own trades for valuation etc., were approved. 

Page 6 of 7 

 

 

 

Suitable  grandfathering  wherever  applicable  and  adequate  time  period  shall  be 

provided for implementation of the above proposals. 

  

V.  Amendments to SEBI (PIT) Regulations 

The  Board  considered  representations  received  from  the  market  on  certain 

aspects relating to Code of Conduct prescribed in the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 

Trading) Regulations, 2015 (PIT Regulations). 

Upon  consideration,  the  Board  approved  amendments  clarifying  that  trading 

window closure for listed companies shall be applicable from end of every quarter 

till 48 hours after declaration of financial results.  The amendments clarify that such 

closure shall not be applicable in respect of transactions such as off-market inter-

se transfer between insiders, transaction through block deal window mechanism 

between insiders, transaction due to statutory or regulatory obligations, exercising 

of  stock  options,  pledging  of  shares  for  bona  fide  transaction  such  as  raising  of 

funds and transactions for acquiring shares under further public issue, right issue 

and preferential issue, exercising conversion of warrants / debentures, tendering 

shares under buy-back, open offer and delisting etc. under respective regulations, 

subject to conditions specified.  The Board also approved amendments clarifying 

material financial relationships. 

 

VI.  SEBI Annual Report: 2018-19 

The  Board  considered  and  approved  the  SEBI  Annual  Report:  2018-19.  In 

compliance  with  Section  18(2)  of  SEBI  Act,  1992,  the  Annual  Report  would  be 

submitted to the Central Government. 

 

 

Mumbai 

June 27, 2019 

 

Page 7 of 7 

