 

PR No.20/2019 

 

  

SEBI Board Meeting 

 

The SEBI Board met in Mumbai today and took the following decisions: 

 

I. 

Review of SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations  

The Board considered the recommendations of the working group constituted for 

reviewing the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014 and approved 

the proposed new set of Regulations.  

The key focus of the proposed Regulations is to simplify and rationalize the existing 

regulatory framework for foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) in terms of easing the 

operational constraints and compliance requirements. 57 circulars and 183 FAQs 

pertaining to FPIs issued over the years have been merged into new regulations 

and a single circular. 

Some of the key aspects of revised regulations include:  

1.  To simplify and expedite the registration process and to bring about ease in 

compliance  requirements  for  FPIs,  the  broad  based  eligibility  criteria  for 

institutional foreign investors has been done away with.  

2.  On reviewing the risk profiling of the FPIs, it is decided that the FPIs may be 

re-categorized into two categories - Category I and II, instead of the present 

requirement of three categories.  

3.  Registration  for  multiple  investment  manager  (MIM)  structures  has  been 

simplified.  

4.  Considering that the central banks are relatively long term, low risk investors 

directly/ indirectly managed by the Government, the central banks that are not 

the members of BIS (Bank for International Settlement) shall also be eligible 

for FPI registration.  

5.  The entities established in the international financial services center (IFSC) be 

deemed to have met the jurisdiction criteria for FPIs. 

 

Page 1 of 7 

6.  Documentation requirements for KYC have been simplified.  

7.  FPIs shall be permitted for off-market transfer of securities which are unlisted, 

suspended or illiquid, to a domestic or foreign investor.  

8.  Offshore funds floated by Indian Mutual Funds shall now be permitted to invest 

in India after obtaining registration as FPI.  

9.  The  requirements  for  issuance  and  subscription  of  Offshore  Derivative 

Instruments (ODIs) have been rationalized. 

 

II. 

Norms  for  permitting  companies listed  on  the  Innovators  Growth  Platform 

with an option to trade under regular category 

The Board approved the norms for migration of companies listed on the Innovators 

Growth  Platform  (IGP)  to  regular  trade  category  of  the  main  board.    The  key 

proposals approved by the Board are as follows:  

1.  The Company should have been listed on the Innovators Growth Platform for 

a minimum period of one year. 

2.  At the time of making the application for trading under regular category of main 

board, the number of shareholders should be minimum 200. 

3.  The  company  should  have  profitability/  net  worth  track  record  of  3  years  or 

have  75%  of  its  capital  as  on  the  date  of  application  for  migration  held  by 

Qualified Institutional Buyers in accordance with Regulation 6(1) and 6(2) of 

the ICDR Regulations for main board listings. 

4.  Minimum promoters contribution shall be 20% which shall be locked in for 3 

years. Period of earlier lock-in of 6 months served at the time of listing on IGP 

shall be deducted from the stipulated lock-in requirement of 3 years. 

 

III. 

Review of Buy-backs  

The Board approved the following proposals regarding buy-back of securities:   

1.  SEBI shall continue with the current approach of allowing buybacks if post buy-

back debt to equity ratio is not more than 2:1 (except for companies for which 

higher debt to equity has been notified under the Companies Act, 2013) based 

on both standalone and consolidated basis.  

2.  Further, if post buy-back debt to equity ratio is not more than 2:1 on standalone 

basis and exceeding 2:1 on consolidated basis, in such cases, buy-back would 

be permitted if: 

 

Page 2 of 7 

i.  Post  buyback  debt  to  equity  ratio  is  not  more  than  2:1  on  consolidated 

basis  after  excluding  the  subsidiaries  that  are  non-banking  financial 

companies and housing finance companies and are regulated by RBI or 

National Housing Bank; and 

ii.  All such excluded subsidiaries have debt to equity ratio of not more than 

6:1 on standalone basis. 

3.  Further,  the  financial  statements  will  continue  to  be  considered  on  both 

standalone  and  consolidated  basis  for  calculating  the  maximum  permissible 

buy-back size and other related requirements relating to buy-back size. 

 

IV. 

Amendments to SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt securities by Municipalities) 

Regulations, 2015 

The  Board  considered  and  approved  the  following  Amendments  to  SEBI  (Issue 

and Listing of Debt securities by Municipalities) Regulations, 2015: 

1.  The definition of issuer has been widened to include entities/bodies such as 

urban  development  authorities,  city  planning  agencies,  Pooled  finance 

development funds etc. that perform functions, such as planning and execution 

of  urban  development  projects/schemes,  which  are  akin  to  those  being 

performed by a municipality.  

2.  Considering  the  expansion  of  definition  of  issuer,  the  provision  regarding 

preparation of accounts has also been widened. 

3. 

In order to enable municipalities/issuers, who are audited by CAG to submit 

their  audited  accounts  to  the  stock  exchange/debenture  trustee/regulatory 

bodies, within the specified timelines and in line with the provisions applicable 

to listed public sector undertakings, it is proposed to adopt a two-step process 

for audit of accounts. Further, the timelines for submission of annual and half 

yearly financial results have been revised. 

4.  Different types of escrow accounts such as No Lien Escrow account, Interest 

Payment  Account,  Sinking  fund  account,  etc.  have  been  mandated  for 

enhancing the investor protection.  

5.  Deletion of certain requirements of multiple intermediaries 

i.  Requirement of appointing a monitoring agency. 

ii.  Requirement of obtaining Viability certificate or Detailed Project Appraisal 

Report (DPAR) before filing of offer document in case of public issue.  

 

Page 3 of 7 

iii.  Requirement  of  establishing  a  separate  project  implementation  cell  for 

monitoring of projects.  

iv.  Requirement  of  maintenance  of  100%  asset  cover  and  specification  of 

resources in whose favour charge can be created by the issuer.  

v.  Requirement of backing of State or Central Government. 

6.  Other Changes 

i.  Requirement  for  in-principle  approval  of  stock  exchange  has  been 

mandated also for issuance of debt securities on private placement basis 

which are proposed to be listed. 

ii.  The requirement for trading lot has been removed. 

iii.  The limit of two hundred persons to offer debt securities through private 

placement basis has been mandated per financial year. 

 

V. 

Amendment to SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999  

In order to enable CRAs to have timely information on the default of an entity, SEBI 

(CRA)  Regulations  were  amended  to  incorporate  an  enabling  provision  in  the 

rating  agreement  between  the  CRA  and  the  issuer/  client,  providing  explicit 

consent to the CRA to obtain details of the existing and/ or future borrowing of the 

issuer, its repayment and any delay or default in servicing of such borrowing, either 

from the lender or any other statutory/ non-statutory organisation maintaining any 

such information.  

 

VI. 

Proposed  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider 

Trading) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019 

1.  SEBI issued a consultative paper seeking comments on the ‘Discussion Paper 

issued for amendment to the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 

2015. 

2.  After  consideration  of  the  public  comments  and  suggestions  received,  the 

Board approved the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 

Regulations, 2019, salient features of which are as follows: - 

A. 

Informant:  An  informant  means  a  person  voluntarily  submitting  a  form 

detailing credible, complete and original information relating to an act of 

insider trading.  

 

 

Page 4 of 7 

 

 

 

B.  Disclosure of source of information: The informant would be mandated 

to disclose the source of original information and to provide an undertaking 

that  such  information  was  not  sourced  from  any  person  employed  with 

SEBI or any related regulator. 

C.  Office  of Informant  Protection  (‘OIP’):  An  independent office  separate 

from  the  investigation  and  inspection  wings  or  any  of  the  operational 

departments shall be established by SEBI to devise the policy relating to 

receipt  and  registration  of  the  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form 

(‘VIDF’) and serve as a medium of exchange between the informant/legal 

representative and the Board. 

D.  Manner  of  submission  of  information:  The  identity  of  the  informant 

would be required to be revealed at the time of submission of the VIDF or 

in case information is submitted anonymously, the VIDF would be required 

to be submitted through a representative who is a practising advocate.  

E.  Confidentiality of Informant: The confidentiality regarding the identity of 

the informant and information provided would be protected through the OIP 

and maintained throughout as well as during any proceeding initiated by 

SEBI except where the evidence of the informant is required during such 

proceedings.  

F.  Obligations of legal representative: The legal representative would be 

required to inter alia verify the identity and contact details of the informant 

and ensure that the identity of the informant along with the original VIDF is 

kept confidential.  

G.  Processing of Information: The original Information would be processed 

by  the  OIP  after  establishing  the  materiality  of  the  information  and 

transferred to the operational department.  

H.  Reporting:  OIP  would  be  required  to  submit  a  Report  regarding  its 

functioning and working of the informant mechanism on an annual basis 

to the Board, which shall also be released to the public. 

I.  Hotline: A hotline would be maintained by the OIP to guide persons to file 

information  as  per  the  regulations  but  not  to  register  any  complaint  or 

information.  

Page 5 of 7 

 

 

 

 

J.  Reward: Reward would be given in case the information provided leads to 

a  disgorgement  of  at  least  Rupees  one  (1)  crore.  The  total  amount  of 

monetary  reward  shall  be  10  %  of  the  monies  collected  but  shall  not 

exceed Rs one (1) crore. An interim reward not exceeding Rs. 10 lacs may 

be given at the stage of issuance of the final order by the SEBI against the 

person directed to disgorge.  

K. 

Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund  (‘IPEF’):  IPEF  shall  be  the 

designated fund from which the reward would be paid.  

L.  Sharing of Information: The original information may be shared with an 

appropriate agency or law enforcement authority within or outside India or 

a  self-  regulatory  organisation,  subject  to  confidentiality  of  the  informant 

being maintained. 

M.  Exemption  under  RTI:  Information  provided  for  the  purpose  of  law 

enforcement is exempted from disclosure under section 8(1)(g) and 8(1)(h) 

of the Right to Information Act, 2005. Accordingly, the original information 

provided by the informant shall be exempted from disclosure. 

N.  Protection against victimization: Market participants dealing with UPSI 

would  be  required  to  incorporate  in  their  Code  of  Conduct,  suitable 

provisions  to  ensure  that  no  employee  who  files  a  VIDF  is  discharged, 

terminated, demoted, suspended, threatened, harassed, or discriminated 

against. 

O.  Vexatious or frivolous complaints: In case the OIP determines that the 

information  submitted  is  frivolous  or  vexatious,  SEBI  may  initiate 

appropriate action against the informant under the securities laws and any 

other applicable law. 

P.  Amnesty:  While  bringing  an  action  against  an  informant,  SEBI  may 

consider the cooperation rendered in determining any enforcement action 

or settlement application while granting of reward to such informant. 

 

 

 

Page 6 of 7 

VII. 

Amendments to SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

The  Board  approved  the  proposal  for  amendments  to  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds) 

Regulations, 1996 with respect to prudential norms for Investment and Valuation 

of Debt and Money Market instruments by Mutual Funds as detailed in the Press 

Release of the Board meeting held on June 27, 2019 subject to the following: 

The  Board  decided  to  give  flexibility  to  mutual  funds  to  invest  in  unlisted  non-

convertible debentures (NCDs) up to a maximum of 10% of the debt portfolio of 

the scheme subject to such investments in unlisted NCDs having simple structures 

as  may  be  notified  from  time  to  time,  being  rated,  secured  and  with  monthly 

coupons. This shall be implemented in a phased manner by June 2020. 

 

 

Mumbai 

August 21, 2019 

 

Page 7 of 7 

