 

 

 

PR No.24/2019 

 

  

SEBI Board Meeting 

 

The SEBI Board met in Mumbai today and took the following decisions: 

 

I. 

Issuance of SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2019 

 

SEBI  had  constituted a Working Group to review the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) 

Regulations,  1993  to  suggest  steps  to  be  taken  to  safeguard  the  interest  of 

investors and development of the investment product.  

 

Public  comments  were  invited  on  the  recommendations  of  the  Working  Group 

through a consultative paper. The Board, after considering the recommendations 

of the Working Group, public comments received and proposals made thereon for 

amendment  to  the  extant  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  Regulations,  approved 

issuance of SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2019. 

 

The salient features of the proposed SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2019 

are: 

1.  To  enhance  the  eligibility  criteria  and  to  define  the  role  of  Principal  Officer 

clearly. The enhanced eligibility criteria to be applicable to any employee with 

decision making authority relating to management of the clients’ portfolios. 

2.  A Portfolio Manager to mandatorily employ minimum one person with defined 

eligibility criteria in addition to Principal Officer and Compliance Officer.  

3.  Net-worth  requirement  of  Portfolio  Managers  to  be  enhanced  from  INR  2 

Crores  to  INR  5  Crores.  Existing  Portfolio  Managers  to  meet  the  enhanced 

requirement within 36 months.   

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

4.  Minimum investment by clients of Portfolio Managers to be increased from INR 

25 lakhs to INR 50 lakhs. Existing investments of clients may continue as such 

till end date of the PMS Agreement or as specified by the Board. 

5.  Discretionary  Portfolio  Managers  to  invest  only  in  listed  securities,  money 

market  instruments,  units  of  Mutual  Funds  and  such  other  securities/ 

instruments as specified by SEBI from time to time. 

6.  Non-discretionary/ Advisory Portfolio Managers to invest not more than 25% 

of their AUM in unlisted securities. 

7.  To  make  the  appointment  of  custodian  mandatory  for  all  the  Portfolio 

Managers except for those providing only advisory services to clients. 

8.  To restrict off market transfers from/to clients’ accounts with certain exceptions 

to facilitate operational convenience.   

 

II. 

Review of Rights Issue process 

 

The Board has approved the proposals with respect to Rights Issue process and 

consequential  amendments  to  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 

Requirements)  Regulations,  2018  (“ICDR  Regulations”)  and  SEBI  (Listing 

Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015 

(“LODR 

Regulations”)  with  an  objective  to  significantly  reduce  the  timeline  for  the 

completion  of  the  Rights  Issue,  as  well  as  introduce  the  dematerialization  and 

trading of rights entitlements (REs). 

 

The key proposals approved by the Board are as follows:  

1.  Reduction in the timeline for completion of the Rights Issue from the current 

~T+55 days to ~T+31 days. 

2. 

Introduction  of  dematerialized  REs  and  trading  of  REs  on  stock  exchange 

platform. 

3.  Shareholders holding shares in physical form will be required to provide details 

of demat account for credit of REs. 

4.  ASBA facility made mandatory for all investors applying to Rights Issue. 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

III. 

Extension  of  Business  responsibility  reporting  to  top  one  thousand  listed 

entities by market capitalization 

The  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015 

(“LODR  Regulations”)  require  that  the  top  five  hundred  listed  entities  based  on 

market capitalization, as on March 31 of every financial year shall include Business 

Responsibility Reporting (BRR) as part of their annual reports. 

The Board upon deliberations, approved a proposal to extend the applicability of 

Business Responsibility Reporting (BRR) to top one thousand listed entities. 

 

IV. 

Disclosure by listed entities of defaults on payment of interest / repayment 

of principal amount on loans from banks / financial institutions 

In order to address the gaps in availability of information with respect to defaults, 

the  Board  has,  inter-alia,  decided  that  in  case  of  any  default  in  repayment  of 

principal or interest on loans from banks or financial institutions which continues 

beyond 30 days from the pre-agreed payment date, listed entities shall, promptly, 

but not later than 24 hours from the 30th day, disclose the fact of such default.  

These provisions shall be applicable from January 01, 2020. 

 

 

Mumbai 

November 20, 2019 

 

Page 3 of 3 

