 

 

 

 

 

  

PR No.25/2019 

 

Financial Action Task Force (FATF) Public Statement dated October 18, 2019 

The  Financial  Action  Task  Force  (FATF)  has  called  on  its  members  and  other 
jurisdictions to apply counter-measures to protect the international financial system from 
the  ongoing  and  substantial  money  laundering  and  terrorist  financing  (ML/FT)  risks 
emanating  from  the  jurisdiction  of  Democratic  People's  Republic  of  Korea  (DPRK). 
Jurisdiction of Iran is subject to a FATF call on its members and other jurisdictions to 
apply in line with Recommendation 19: 

1.  Increased  supervisory  examination  for  branches  and  subsidiaries  of  financial   

institutions based in Iran;  

2.  Enhanced  relevant  reporting  mechanisms  or  systematic  reporting  of  financial 

transactions; and  

3.  Increased external audit requirements for financial groups with respect to any of 

their branches and subsidiaries located in Iran.  
 

Specific attention is brought to extract from Public Statement on Iran as follows: 
 
"The FATF decided in June 2019 to call upon its members and urge all jurisdictions to 
require  increased  supervisory  examination  for  branches  and  subsidiaries  of  financial 
institutions based in Iran.  In line with the June 2019 Public Statement, the FATF decided 
this  week  to  call  upon  its  members  and  urge  all  jurisdictions  to  introduce  enhanced 
relevant  reporting  mechanisms  or  systematic  reporting  of  financial  transactions;  and 
require increased external audit requirements for financial groups with respect to any of 
their branches and subsidiaries located in Iran. 
 
If  before  February  2020,  Iran  does  not  enact  the  Palermo  and  Terrorist  Financing 
Conventions in line with the FATF Standards, then the FATF will fully lift the suspension 
of counter-measures and call on its members and urge all jurisdictions to apply effective 
counter-measures, in line with recommendation 19. 
 
The  FATF,  therefore,  calls  on  its  members  and  urges  all  jurisdictions  to  continue  to 
advise  their  financial  institutions  to  apply  enhanced  due  diligence  with  respect  to 
business  relationships  and  transactions  with  natural  and  legal  persons  from  Iran, 
consistent with FATF Recommendation 19, including: (1) obtaining information on the 
reasons for intended transactions; and (2) conducting enhanced monitoring of business 
relationships,  by  increasing  the  number  and  timing  of  controls  applied,  and  selecting 
patterns of transactions that need further examination." 

 

 

 

 

Similarly on DPRK, the FATF Public Statement states that: 
 
" FATF has serious concerns with the threat posed by the DPRK’s illicit activities related 
to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) and its financing. 
 
The FATF reaffirms its 25 February 2011 call on its members and urges all jurisdictions 
to advise their financial institutions to give special attention to business relationships and 
transactions with the DPRK, including DPRK companies, financial institutions, and those 
acting on their behalf.   In addition to enhanced scrutiny, the FATF further calls on its 
members and urges all jurisdictions to apply effective counter-measures, and targeted 
financial  sanctions  in  accordance  with  applicable  United  Nations  Security  Council 
Resolutions,  to  protect  their  financial  sectors  from  money  laundering,  financing  of 
terrorism and WMD proliferation financing (ML/FT/PF) risks emanating from the DPRK. 
Jurisdictions should take necessary measures to close existing branches, subsidiaries 
and  representative  offices  of  DPRK  banks  within  their  territories  and  terminate 
correspondent  relationships  with  DPRK  banks,  where  required  by  relevant  UNSC 
resolutions." 
 
Further, FATF has identified the following jurisdictions as having strategic deficiencies 
which  have  developed  an  action  plan  with  the  FATF  to  deal  with  them.  These 
jurisdictions  are:  The  Bahamas,  Botswana,  Cambodia,  Ghana,  Iceland,  Mongolia, 
Pakistan, Panama, Syria, Trinidad and Tobago, Yemen and Zimbabwe. FATF has also 
identified Ethiopia, Sri Lanka and Tunisia as jurisdictions which are no longer subject to 
monitoring.  
 
The information is available in the updated public statement and document released by 
FATF  on  October  18,  2019.  The  statement  and  document  can  be  accessed  at  the 
following URL:  

1)  http://www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/high-risk-and-other-monitored-

jurisdictions/documents/public-statement-october-2019.html  

and 

2)  http://www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/high-risk-and-other-monitored-

jurisdictions/documents/fatf-compliance-october-2019.html 

FATF  plenary  releases  a  public  statement  and  a  document  titled  ‘Improving  Global 
AML/CFT  Compliance:  On-going  Process’  with  respect  to  jurisdictions  that  have 
strategic AML/CFT deficiencies as a part of the ongoing efforts to identify and work with 
jurisdictions  with  strategic  Anti-Money  Laundering  (AML)/Combating  of  Financing  of 
Terrorism  (CFT)  deficiencies.  The  statement  and  the  document  are  available  on  the 
website of FATF. Such advice does not preclude the regulated entities from legitimate 
trade and business transactions with the countries and jurisdictions mentioned there. 

 

 

 

 

About FATF  

The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) is an inter-governmental body established in 
1989 by the Ministers of its Member jurisdictions. The objectives of the FATF are to set 
standards  and  promote  effective  implementation  of  legal,  regulatory  and  operational 
measures for combating money laundering, terrorist financing and other related threats 
to the integrity of the international financial system. The FATF monitors the progress of 
its  members  in  implementing  necessary  measures,  reviews  money  laundering  and 
terrorist  financing  techniques  and  counter-measures, and  promotes  the  adoption  and 
implementation  of appropriate measures  globally.  The  FATF's  decision  making  body, 
the FATF Plenary, meets three times a year and updates these statements, which may 
be noted.  India became Observer at FATF in the year 2006 and became 34th member 
country of FATF on 25th June 2010.  

Mumbai 

November 21, 2019 

 

 

 

