 

 

  

PR No.26/2019 

 

SEBI HOSTS OECD - ASIAN ROUNDTABLE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 

 

The OECD - Asian Roundtable on Corporate Governance is an annual event. This year, 
the conference was co-hosted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
and  the  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development  (OECD)  on 
November 27th and 28th, 2019.  
 
The  Conference  was  attended  by  nearly  200  delegates  from  over  20  countries. 
Participants  in  the  Conference  included  high-level  officials  and  experts  from  various 
securities  market  regulators,  proxy  advisory  firms,  institutional  investors,  market 
infrastructure institutions, the private sector, media and the academic community. 
 
In the inaugural address, Shri Ajay Tyagi, Chairman, SEBI stated that OECD and SEBI 
have  had  a  long  history  of  co-operation  in  the  area  of  corporate  governance.  While 
speaking about the importance of Corporate Governance, the Chairman also said that 
investors around the world reward the corporates with better track record of governance 
in which they repose faith and trust.  
 
On  the  challenges  and  concerns  around  Corporate  Governance,  Shri.  Tyagi  spoke 
about the following: 

1.  The letter vs spirit debate; 
2.  The independence of independent directors; 
3.  Striking the right balance between controlling and minority shareholders 
4.  The responsibility of companies and their Boards to take a proper and prudent 

call on material events; 

5.  Related party transactions and group governance. 

 

Shri.  Tyagi,  while  concluding  his  speech,  emphasized  that  monitoring  and  effective 
enforcement of corporate governance norms is as important as laying down the norms 
and this is an area where there is always scope for improvement. 
 
The  entire  text  of  the  speech  by  the  Chairman  is  available  at  the  following  link: 
https://www.sebi.gov.in/media/speeches/nov-2019/chairman-s-speech-dated-
november-27-2019-at-the-2019-oecd-asia-corporate-governance-roundtable-at-
mumbai_45085.html 
 

 

 
The Conference had sessions on topics such as “Board duties and responsibilities in 
governing  company  groups”,  “evolving  ownership  patterns  and  implications  for 
policymakers”, “differential voting rights”, among others.  Further, there were sessions 
on recent developments on Corporate Governance in India and in Southeast Asia.  
 
The  OECD  Equity  Market  Review  of  Asia  2019  was  also  released  during  the 
conference. As per the findings of the review, Asian non-financial companies raised an 
annual  average  of  USD  67  billion  during  the  last  decade,  surpassing  the  combined 
amount of equity raised by companies from Europe and the United States. The review 
also found that publicly traded equity as an asset class, with a global value of around 
USD 85 trillion, dwarfs all other markets based investment opportunities that are readily 
available  to  the  general  public  which  means  that  ordinary  households  directly  or 
indirectly heavily rely on public equity markets to make investments. The press release 
by  OECD 
link: 
http://www.oecd.org/corporate/ca/stock-markets-are-changing-investors-companies-
and-regulators-must-be-prepared.htm 
 
The Conference served as a platform for various jurisdictions to share experiences on 
Corporate  Governance  developments  in  their  countries  as  well  as  globally.  The 
discussions during the conference were the genesis for debates around good corporate 
conduct and examining market incentives for business decision-making. 
 
The Conference concluded with a reiteration that SEBI and OECD remain committed 
to enhancing the standards of Corporate Governance.  
 

this  can  be  accessed  at 

respect  of 

in 

the 

following 

 

Mumbai 

November 29, 2019 

 

