 

 

 

 

 

PR No.31/2019 
 

Submission of Information to the Office of Informant Protection 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015 (PIT Regulations) was amended, vide notification dated September 17, 2019, by 
inserting a new chapter (IIIA) dealing with informant policy in relation to insider trading 
laws.  The  amendments  introduced  therein  will  come  into  force  with  effect  from 
December 26, 2019.  
 
 
The salient features of the informant policy are as follows: 

1.  Office of Informant Protection (‘OIP’): OIP has been established by SEBI as an 
independent office for receiving and processing Voluntarily Information Disclosure 
Form(s) (VID Form). 

2.  Submission  of  information:  An  informant  may  voluntarily  submit  original 
information pertaining to any violation of insider trading laws to the OIP, through 
a VID Form. The information may be submitted by the informant directly in which 
case his identity would be required to be revealed at the time of submission of the 
VID Form. In case, the information is submitted through a legal representative, the 
identity of the informant is not required to be revealed at the time of submission of 
VID Form. However, the identity of the informant would be required to be revealed 
prior to payment of Reward, if any. 

3.  Reward:  Reward  would  be  given  in  case  the  information  provided  leads  to  a 
disgorgement  of  at  least  Rupees  one  crore,  in  accordance  with  the  PIT 
Regulations.  

4.  Confidentiality  of  Informant:  The  confidentiality  regarding  the  identity  of  the 

informant would be protected through the OIP. 

5.  Protection  against  victimization:  Every  person  required  to  have  a  Code  of 
Conduct under PIT regulations shall ensure that such a Code of Conduct provides 
for suitable protection against any discharge, termination, demotion, suspension, 
threats, harassment, directly or indirectly or discrimination against any employee 
who files a VID Form. 
 
 
VID  Forms  will  be  available  for  downloading  on  the  website  of  SEBI 
(www.sebi.gov.in)  from  December  26,  2019  under  the  ‘Office  of  Informant 

Protection’  link.  The  filled  up  VID  Form(s)  may  be  submitted  to  OIP  on  the 
address  displayed  on  the  download  page  in  a  sealed  envelope.  An  online 
mechanism to submit VID Forms may be operational in due course.  
 
 
OIP also maintains a helpline no. 022 26449580 for providing information relating 
to submission of VID Forms. 

 

 

 

Mumbai 
December 24, 2019 

 

