 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PR No.7/2020 

 

  

SEBI Board Meeting 

 

The SEBI Board met in Mumbai today and took the following decisions: 

I. 

Regulatory Sandbox Framework 

“Regulatory  Sandbox”  refers  to  a  live  testing  environment  where  new  products, 

processes,  services  and  business  models  can  be  deployed,  on  a  limited  set  of 

eligible  customers,  for  a  specified  period  of  time,  with  certain  relaxations  in  the 

extant SEBI regulations and guidelines. 

To begin with, all entities registered with SEBI under Section 12 of the SEBI Act 

1992,  shall  be  eligible  for  testing  within  the  Regulatory  Sandbox.  An  entity  can 

participate on its own or use the services of a FinTech firm. The registered entity 

shall be treated as the principal applicant, even if it uses the services of a FinTech 

firm, and shall be solely responsible for testing of the solution in the sandbox. 

SEBI has considered the cross domain approach for Regulatory Sandbox, wherein 

a regulated entity shall be permitted to test solutions for activities for which it is not 

registered. 

The  Board  deliberated  the  proposal  of  regulatory  framework  to  facilitate  and 

operationalize  the  Regulatory  Sandbox  (‘sandbox’)  framework  by  inserting  a 

common chapter in respective regulations of SEBI for granting limited certificate of 

registration  to  the  entity  interested  in  applying  for  testing  in  the  Regulatory 

Sandbox. This concept of limited registration shall facilitate the entities to operate 

in  a  Regulatory  Sandbox  without  being  subjected  to  the  entire  set  of  regulatory 

requirements to carry out that activity. 

Page 1 of 4 

 

 

 

 

II. 

SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013  

SEBI  had  issued  a  Consultation  Paper  on  Review  of  Regulatory  Framework  for 

Investment Advisers in January 2020 seeking comments from  the  public  on  the 

proposals    that    were   intended    to    strengthen    the    regulatory    framework    for  

Investment Advisers. 

 
The Board, after considering the issues in all four consultation papers and public 

comments, approved the proposals on regulatory changes including amendments 

to SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013. 

 
The major regulatory changes are as under:  

1. Segregation of Advisory & Distribution Activities at client level to avoid conflict of 

interest.  Further,  Individual  Investment  Adviser  shall  not  provide  distribution 

services.  

2. Implementation  services  (Execution)  through  direct  schemes/  products  in  the 

securities market shall be allowed to Investment Advisers for the convenience of 

the investors. 

3.  To  mandate  an  agreement  between  Investment  Adviser  and  the  client 

incorporating  the  key  terms  and  conditions  regarding  Investment  Advisory 

Services for greater transparency. 

4. Bringing  clarity  in  payment  of  fees  and  introduction  of  upper  limit  on  the  fees 

charged to Investors. 

5. Enhanced eligibility criteria for registration as an Investment Adviser including net 

worth,  qualification  and  experience  requirements  while  grandfathering  existing 

Individual  Investment  Advisers  from  complying  with  the  enhanced  qualification 

and experience as specified by the Board. 

6. Person  dealing  in  distribution  of  securities  shall  not  use  the  nomenclature 

“Independent  Financial  Adviser  (IFA)”  or  “Wealth  Adviser”  or  any  other  similar 

name, unless registered with SEBI as Investment Adviser.  

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 
III. 

Amendments  to  SEBI  (Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2014 

and the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 

 
The  Board  considered  and  approved  the  following  amendments  to  SEBI 

(Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2014  and  SEBI  (Real  Estate 

Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014: 

1. Provisions for fast track rights issue of units by REITs and InvITs to be provided 

for in the respective regulations. 

 
The  Board  considered  and  approved  the  following  amendment  to  SEBI 

(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014: 

1. As an alternative to the requirement of 5 years’ experience in infrastructure sector 

for investment manager of an InvIT, the combined relevant experience of not less 

than  30  years  of  the  directors/partners/employees  of  the  investment  manager 

shall also be considered. 

 
 
Amendments to SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 pertaining to:  

IV. 

 

A. Custodian for gold or gold related instruments  

In  order  to  reduce  concentration  of  custodial  services  for  gold  or  gold  related 

instruments, the Board approved the proposal to amend the SEBI (Mutual Funds) 

Regulations, 1996 providing for non-bank custodians in addition to bank-custodian 

to offer custodian services for gold or gold related instruments of Gold ETFs. 

  

B. Investment by the Sponsor or Asset Management Company in Close Ended 

Schemes 

Currently,  the  investment  by  the  Sponsor  or  Asset  Management  Company  is 

mandatory in all schemes except close ended schemes. In order to bring uniformity 

across schemes, the Board has decided that Sponsor or AMC shall invest in close 

ended schemes also. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 3 of 4 

 
V. 

 

Amendment  to  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations,  2018  to 

enable re-pledge of securities pledged in dematerialized form   

The Board approved insertion of a suitable Explanation to Regulation 79 (Manner of 

creating  pledge 

in  Depository)  under  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants) 

Regulations,  2018,  that  the  word  “pledge”  shall  include  re-pledge  of  securities  for 

margin and / or settlement obligations of the client or such other purposes as specified 

by the Board from time to time. 

 
Budget Estimates for the Financial Year (FY) 2020-21 

VI. 

 
The SEBI Budget for the financial year 2020-21 was considered and approved by 

the Board. 

 

 

Mumbai 

February 17, 2020 

 

Page 4 of 4 

