 

 

 

PR No.14/2020 

 

SEBI launches mobile application for lodging investor grievances 

 

In  its  efforts  to  improve  the  ease  of  doing  business,  SEBI  today  launched  a  Mobile 
Application  for  the  convenience  of  investors  to  lodge  their  grievances  in  SEBI 
Complaints Redress System (SCORES). 
 
Launching  the  mobile  app,  “SEBI  SCORES”,  Shri  Ajay  Tyagi,  Chairman,  SEBI  said 
“SCORES  mobile app  will  make  it easier for  investors  to  lodge  their  grievances  with 
SEBI, as they can now access SCORES at their convenience of a smart phone. The 
Mobile App, I am sure, will encourage investors to lodge their complaints on SCORES 
rather than sending letters to SEBI in physical mode”.  “This is another effort of SEBI in 
improving  digitalization  in  securities  market”,  he  added.  Whole  Time  Members, 
Executive Directors and other officials from SEBI were also present on the occasion. 
  
The  App  has  all  the  features  of  SCORES  which  is  presently  available  electronically 
where  investors  have  to  lodge  their  complaints  by  using  internet  medium.  After 
mandatory  registration  on  the  App,  for  each  grievance  lodged,  investors  will  get  an 
acknowledgement via SMS and e-mail on their registered mobile numbers and e-mail 
ID respectively. Investors can, not only file their grievances but also track the status of 
their  complaint  redressal.  Investors  can  also  key  in  reminders  for  their  pending 
grievances.  Tools  like  FAQs  on  SCORES  for  better  understanding  of  the  complaint 
handling  process  can also  be  accessed.  Connectivity  to  the  SEBI  Toll  Free  Helpline 
number has been provided from the App for any clarifications/help that investors may 
require. 
 
SCORES is a platform designed to help investors to lodge their complaints online with 
SEBI,  pertaining  to  securities  market,  against  listed  companies,  SEBI  registered 
intermediaries and SEBI recognized Market Infrastructure Institutions. Since its launch 
in June 2011, SEBI on an average has received about 40,000 complaints every year. 
A total of 3,57,000 complaints has been resolved using SCORES platform, so far. As 
per SEBI norms, entities  against whom complaints are lodged  are required to file an 
Action Taken Report with SEBI within 30 days of receipt of complaints. 
 
The Mobile App “SEBI SCORES” is available on both iOS and Android platforms.  
  
 

Mumbai 

March 05, 2020     

 

