 

 

 

 

 

 

PR No.18/2020 

 

Regulatory measures taken by SEBI in view of ongoing market volatility 

1.  In the recent past, world over, the stock markets have been quite volatile owing to 

concerns  relating  to  COVID-19  pandemic  and  the  resultant  fear  of  economic 

slowdown. The movement in the Indian stock market has been broadly in tandem 

with the other global markets. 

  

2.  On account of our existing robust risk management framework, despite significant 

movements in the market, there has not been any disruption in the settlement cycles 

of the Stock Exchanges / Clearing Corporations.  

 

3.  Taking note of the continued abnormally high volatility in the market, SEBI discussed 

with  the  Stock  Exchanges,  Clearing  Corporations  and  Depositories  appropriate 

measures that may be taken in the existing circumstances.  

 

4.  Pursuant  to  the  said  discussions  and  keeping  in  view  the  objective  of  ensuring 

orderly  trading  and  settlement,  effective  risk  management,  price  discovery  and 

maintenance of market integrity, measures as per Annexure A have been taken.  

 

5.  These measures will kick-in w.e.f. the beginning of trading on March 23, 2020 and 

will be in effect for a period of one month. The position would be reviewed thereafter 

and appropriate view taken thereupon.  

 

6.  The stock exchanges / clearing corporations will be issuing necessary instructions 

to the market participants in this regard.  

 

 

 

7.  SEBI and Stock Exchanges will continuously monitor the market developments and 

review the position and take any further suitable actions as may be required. 

 

 

 

Annexure-A 

1.  Stocks in derivatives segment (F&O stocks) 

 

(i)  Revision of Market Wide Position Limit (MWPL) 

For stocks in F&O segment meeting the following criteria, MWPL may be revised 
to 50% of the existing levels: 

a)  Average  Daily  Price  High  Low  variation  percentage  (during  last  5 

trading days) should be more than or equal to 15%,  

OR 

b)  Average  MWPL  utilization  percentage  (during  last  5  trading  days) 

should be more than or equal to 40% 

The aforesaid revised MWPL shall be for the purpose of introducing ban period 
on  fresh  positions  and  not  for  determining  the  enhanced  eligibility  criteria  for 
the 
derivatives 
circular 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2018/67 dated 11 April, 2018.   

mentioned 

SEBI 

stocks 

as 

in 

End-of-day  positions,  as  on  the  date  of  issuance  of  the  circulars  by  the  stock 
exchanges / clearing corporations in this regard, would not be impacted. 

In  the  event  MWPL  utilization  in  a  security  crosses  95%,  derivative  contracts 
enter  into a  ban period,  wherein,  all  clients /  trading members are  required  to 
trade in the derivative  contracts of said scrips only to decrease their positions 
through  offsetting  positions.  Any  increase  in  open  positions  would  attract 
appropriate  penal  and/or  disciplinary  action  of  the  stock  exchanges  /  clearing 
corporations. 

Accordingly, stock exchanges / clearing corporations shall put in place effective 
mechanism to monitor whether the market wide open interest for scrips meeting 
the aforesaid criteria exceeds 95% of the reduced market wide position limit as 
arrived  at  above.  Further,  the  stock  exchanges  /  clearing  corporations  shall 
check on an intra-day basis (monitoring of Peak intraday OI or periodic intraday 
monitoring  of  OI)  whether  any  member  or  client  has  exceeded  his  existing 
positions or has created a new position in the scrips in the new ban period. 

 

 

In  addition,  the  current  penalty  structure  adopted  by  the  stock  exchanges  / 
clearing corporations may be enhanced to 10 times of the minimum and 5 times 
of  the  maximum  penalties  specified  by  the  stock  exchanges  /  clearing 
corporations, to function as an effective deterrent in the current market context. 

The above framework may be applicable w.e.f. March 23, 2020 for a period of 1 
month. 

(ii) Increase in margin for stocks meeting the aforesaid criteria (as mentioned 

at Sr. No. 1(i)) 

  For such stocks, margin rate in Cash Market shall be increased to minimum 

40% in a phased manner as follows: 

o  Minimum 20% to be effective from March 23, 2020 

o  Minimum 30% to be effective from March 26, 2020 

o  Minimum 40% to be effective from March 30, 2020 

  Proposed margins  would  only  be  applied  in Cash  Market  (i.e.,  derivatives 
contracts  on  these  stocks  will  continue  to  be  charged  margins  as  per  the 
extant framework). 

  Proposed margins rate may be applicable for a period of 1 month. 

 

2.  Increase in margin for Non-F&O Stocks in Cash Market 

(i)  For stocks with price band of 20% and witnessing an  intraday (high-low) price 
movement of more than 10% for 3 or more days in last 1 month, minimum margin 
rate shall be increased in a phased manner as follows: 

 

 

 

30% to be effective from March 23, 2020 

40% to be effective from March 26, 2020 

40% or Max intraday high-low variation (during last 1 month), whichever is 
higher, to be effective from March 30, 2020 

(ii) The above margin rates may be applicable for a period of 1 month. 

3.  Index Derivatives 

Revised position limits in equity index derivatives (futures and options) 

(i)  Mutual  Funds  /  FPIs  /  Trading  Members  (Proprietary)  /  Clients  may  take 

exposure in equity index derivatives subject to the following limits: 

 

 

a.  Short positions in index derivatives (short futures, short calls and long 
puts) shall not exceed (in  notional value) the Mutual Funds’ / FPIs’ / 
Trading Members’ (Proprietary) / Clients’ holding of stocks. 

b.  Long positions in index derivatives (long futures, long calls and short 
puts)  shall  not  exceed  (in  notional  value)  the  Mutual  Funds’  /  FPIs’ 
holding of cash, government securities, T-Bills and similar instruments. 

 

(ii)  Further to 3(i) above, additional position limits mentioned hereunder shall be 

available to Trading Members (Proprietary) / FPIs / Mutual Funds / Clients: 

a.  Equity Index Futures Contracts: Rs. 500 Crores. 

b.  Equity Index Options Contracts: Rs. 500 Crores. 

 

(iii) If any of the aforesaid entities exceed the respective limits prescribed at 3(i)  
and 3(ii) above, an additional deposit shall be payable by the entity equivalent 
to double the amount of margin chargeable on excess position beyond the 
limits prescribed at 3(i)  and 3(ii) above and the same shall be retained by 
stock exchanges / clearing corporations for a period of 3 months. 

 

(iv) The existing positions as on the date of issuance of the circulars by the stock 
exchanges / clearing corporations would not be impacted (i.e., the positions 
shall  be  permitted  to  be  held  till  expiry  or  close-out,  whichever  is  earlier). 
However, if a fresh position is taken, then the entire positions (including the 
grandfathered positions) shall be subject to limits mentioned above. 

 

(v) The above framework may be applicable for a period of 1 month, w.e.f. March 
23, 2020 for institutions and trading members (proprietary).  For others, the 
applicability will begin w.e.f. March 27, 2020. 

4.  Flexing of dynamic price bands for F&O stocks 

(i)  Currently, stocks in the F&O segment are subject to dynamic price bands. The 
bands are relaxed in the event of market trends in either direction. One of the 
conditions  followed  by  stock  exchanges  for  relaxing  the  price  band  is  that  a 
minimum of 25 trades should be executed with 5 different UCCs on each side of 
the trade at or above 9.90% and so on.  

(ii)  In addition to the existing requirements, the dynamic price bands may be flexed 
only after a cooling-off period of 15 minutes from the time of meeting the existing 
criteria specified by stock exchanges for flexing. 

 

 

