 

 

 

 

PR No.23/2020 
 

Measures to further facilitate fund raising from capital markets in the backdrop 

of COVID-19 pandemic 

In the wake of challenges for the Indian economy arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic 
and  with  a  view  to  improving  access  to  funding  to  the  corporates  through  capital 
markets, SEBI has decided to grant certain temporary relaxations from the regulatory 
provisions related to rights/ public issuances by listed entities.  
 
A.  Rights Issues 

 
1.  Fast track Rights issuances 

Towards expanding the universe of listed entities for the purpose of fast track rights 
issuances, SEBI has relaxed the following conditions: 
 

  The  eligibility  requirement  of  average  market  capitalisation  of  public 

shareholding of INR 250 crores has been reduced to INR 100 crores.   

  The requirement related to period of listing of equity shares of the issuer for 

at least three years has been reduced to listing for eighteen months only.   

  The condition related to no audit qualifications on issuer’s audited accounts 
has  been  replaced  with  the  requirement  to  disclose  the  impact  of  audit 
qualifications on issuer’s financials.     

  Certain other eligibility conditions with respect to period of compliance with 
the  provisions  of  the  listing  regulations,  ongoing  action  initiated  by  SEBI 
against  the  issuer  /  promoters  /  directors  and  settlement  of  violation  of 
securities laws have also been relaxed. 

2.  Minimum Subscription  

 
  To  provide  greater  flexibility  in  fund  raising,  the  threshold  for  minimum 
subscription requirements for a rights issue has been reduced from existing 
90% to 75% of the offer size, subject to certain conditions.  

3.  Threshold for not filing draft letter of offer with SEBI 

  To  reduce  the  time  involved  in  fund  raising  and  ease  compliance 
requirements, listed entities raising funds upto INR 25 crores in a rights issue 

 

 

 

 

 

will not be required to file draft offer document. The existing threshold in this 
regard is INR 10 crores.  

These relaxations are applicable to right issues that open on or before March 31, 2021. 
It may be recalled that last year SEBI had amended ICDR regulations to significantly 
reduce the timeline for the completion of the Rights Issue from T+ 55 days to T+ 31 
days  as  well  as  introduced  the  dematerialization  and  trading  of  rights  entitlements.  
These measures would make the rights issue framework more effective and efficient.  
 
B.  Flexibility on Issue size 

An issuer, whose offer document is pending receipt of SEBI observation, shall be 
permitted to increase or decrease the fresh issue size by up to 50% of the estimated 
issue size (instead of the present limit of 20%) without requiring to file fresh draft 
offer  document  with  the  Board.  The  relaxation  shall  be  applicable  for  all  offer 
documents pending receipt of SEBI observations upto December 31, 2020. 
 

C.  Validity of SEBI observations 

 

Considering the prevailing economic scenario and based on requests from various 
industry bodies, it has been decided to extend the validity of SEBI observations on 
all  public  issues/  rights  issues  by  six  months  from  the  date  of  expiry  for  issuers 
whose  observation  has  expired/  shall  expire  between  March  01,  2020  and 
September 30, 2020.  

 
To summarize, these measures are aimed at expanding the universe of listed entities 
that are eligible for raising funds through fast track rights issuances, reducing the time 
involved and providing greater flexibility in fund raising apart from easing compliance 
requirements. 
 
 
Circulars issued by SEBI in regard to aforesaid measure are available on SEBI website 
at www.sebi.gov.in under the category - 'Legal - Circulars'. 

 
 
 

Mumbai 
April 21, 2020 

 

