 

 

 

PR No.26/2020 

May 7, 2020 

 

SEBI advises Franklin Templeton mutual fund to focus on returning money to 

investors 

 
SEBI has advised Franklin Templeton mutual fund (FT) to focus on returning money to 
investors, in the context of their winding up six of their debt schemes.  
  
SEBI has also noted that a section of the media has reported quoting FT that tightening 
of norms for investment in unlisted debt by SEBI was one of the factors that added to 
pressure on their debt schemes which resulted in winding up of their schemes.  
 
In this context, it may be noted that in light of credit events since September 2018, that 
led to challenges in the corporate bond market, a need was felt to review the regulatory 
framework  for  Mutual  Funds  and  take  necessary  steps  to  safeguard  the  interest  of 
investors and maintain the orderliness and robustness of their investments.  
 
It was observed that unlisted debt securities, particularly bespoke securities in which 
only a single investor invested, suffered from both forms of opaqueness: opaqueness 
of structure and true nature of risk on the one hand and lack of ongoing disclosure in 
respect of financials of the issuer on the other. 
 
In  order  to  address  these  issues  and  improve  transparency  and  disclosure  of 
investments in debt securities made by mutual funds with money entrusted to them by 
investors, SEBI had constituted various working groups. Working groups representing 
AMCs, industry and academia were set up to review the risk management framework 
with  respect  to  liquid  schemes  and  to  review  the  existing  practices  on  valuation  of 
money market and debt securities. Further, an internal working group was constituted 
to, inter-alia, review prudential norms for Mutual Funds for investment in various debt 
and  money  market  instruments.  The  analysis  along  with  recommendations  of  the 
working groups were placed in a meeting of Mutual Fund Advisory Committee (MFAC) 
held in June, 2019. ( Annex A lists the members of MFAC during that period ). 
 

 

 

MFAC had made several recommendations for prudential norms for Investment in Debt 
and  Money  Market  instruments  by  Mutual  Funds  including  investments  only  in  listed 
NCDs  and  Commercial  Papers  (CPs)  in  the  interest  of  greater  transparency  and 
accountability. 
 
SEBI Board after deliberations in its meetings held in 2019, and taking into account the 
recommendations  of  MFAC,  inter-alia,  approved  the  following  prudential  norms  for 
investment in listed debt securities:  
 

“Mutual  Fund  schemes  shall  be  mandated  to  invest  only  in  listed non-convertible 
debentures (NCDs) and the same would be implemented in a phased manner. All 
fresh  investments  in  Commercial  Papers  (CPs)  shall  be  made  only  in  listed  CPs 
pursuant to issuance of guidelines by SEBI in this regard.  

 

However,  the  mutual  funds  to  have  flexibility  to  invest  in  unlisted  NCDs  up  to  a 
maximum of 10% of the debt portfolio of the scheme subject to such investments in 
unlisted NCDs having simple structures as may be specified from time to time, being 
rated, secured and with monthly coupon payments. This shall be implemented in a 
phased manner by June 2020.” 
 
The details of the Board Memorandum and minutes are available on the website of 
SEBI. 

 
SEBI  vide  circular  dated  October  01,  2019,  provided  a  timeline  to  comply  with  the 
investment limits for unlisted NCDs as 15% and 10% of the debt portfolio of the scheme 
as on March 31, 2020 and June 30, 2020 respectively (over a year from the date of 
recommendations by MFAC). In addition, it permitted mutual funds to grandfather the 
existing  investments  in  unlisted  debt  instruments  (as  on  the  date  of  the  circular)  till 
maturity  of  such  instruments,  so  as  to  not  disrupt  the  market.  These  dates  were 
subsequently  extended  to  Sept 30th, 2020 and  Dec  31st  2020  respectively  in  view  of 
Covid related disruptions. 
 
Despite the regulations being clear, some mutual fund schemes seem to have chosen 
to  have  high  concentrations  of  high  risk,  unlisted,  opaque,  bespoke,  structured  debt 
securities  with  low  credit  ratings  and  seem  to  have  chosen  not  to  rebalance  their 
portfolios even during the almost 12 months available to them so far. 
 
In  the  current  scenario,  Franklin  Templeton  should  focus  on  returning  the  money  of 
investors as soon as possible. 
 
 
  
Mumbai 
May 07, 2020 
 
Encl: Annexure A 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Details of Mutual Fund Advisory Committee Members 

Annexure A 

Sr. 
No.  

Members Details  

1.    Ms. Arundhati Bhattacharya  

Former Chairman, State Bank of India 

2.    Mr. Ananth Narayan  

Associate Professor, Finance, SPJIMR  

3.    Mr. Brij Gopal Daga  

Independent Trustee Director, Motilal Oswal Mutual Fund 

4.    Shri. Deepak Ranjan  

Deputy Director, Ministry of Finance 

5.    Mr. Dhirendra Kumar  

CEO, Value Research India Pvt. Ltd 

6.    Mr. Kailash Kulkarni  

CEO, L&T Investment Management Ltd 

7.    Mr. K. N. Vaidyanathan  

Chief Risk Officer, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd  

8.    Ms. Monika Halan  
Editor, Mint Money  

9.    Dr. M. S. Kamath  

General Secretary, Consumer Guidance Society of India 

10.   Mr. Nilesh Shah  

Managing  Director,  Kotak  Mahindra  Asset  Management 
Company Ltd  

11.   Mr. Nilesh Vikamsey 

Partner, Khimji Kunverji & Co.  

12.   Mr. Nitin Vyakaranam  

CEO, ArthaYantra  

13.   Mr. N. S. Venkatesh  

Chief Executive, Association of Mutual Funds in India  

14.   Mr. Rajnish Narula  

CEO, Canara Robeco Asset Management Company Ltd  

15.   Mr. Sandeep Parekh  

Managing Partner, Finsec Law Advisors  

16.   Mr. Sanjay Sapre  

 Capacity 

Chairperson 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member  

Member  

Member  

President, Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) 
Pvt. Ltd.  

Member  

17.   Mr. Saurabh Mukherjea  

CEO, Marcellus Investment Managers Ltd  

18.   Mr. S V Muralidhar Rao  

Executive Director, SEBI  

Member  

Member  

