 

 

 

 

 

Clarification on a news item 

PR No.29/2020 

With a view to curbing the misuse of power of attorney (POA) given by the clients to the 

trading member (TM) / clearing member (CM), SEBI, vide circular dated February 25, 

2020 prescribed that margin obligations to be given in form of securities by client shall 

be by way of pledge / re-pledge in the Depository System and title transfer of securities 

to the client collateral demat account of the TM/ CM for margin purposes shall not be 

permitted. In cases  where a client has given a POA in favour of a TM / CM, such holding 

of POA shall not be considered as equivalent to the collection of margin by the TM / CM 

in  respect  of  securities  held  in  the  demat  account  of  the  client  with  effect  from  June 

1,2020.  

 

In a news item in today’s Business Line it has been reported that SEBI has discontinued 

the use of POA between a client and broker in the equity markets. This is not correct – 

there is no restriction imposed on use of POA by broker.   

 

The news item also quotes a statement from one Shri Vijay Bhusan that “several POA 

arrangements will have to be reversed and entire process of margin placement of share 

to  broker  will  have  to  be  re-done.”  The  apprehensions  raised  are  ill  founded.    Even 

today,  systems  are  in  place  where  broker  using  POA  transfers  client  securities  as 

margin into his client’s collateral account and then place these securities with Clearing 

Corporation (CC) by way of Transfer or creation of pledge towards margin. There is no 

change caused in conditions of POA. Even after June 1,2020, broker using POA may 

continue to transfer client securities to his client collateral account towards margin.  The 

 

 

only difference would be that now the Broker would not be able to report all securities 

lying in the demat account of the client as margin collected. In order to post securities 

as margin, these securities even today are required  to be moved out of client demat 

account  to collateral account of CM/CC. Securities lying in the client Demat account of 

client are not counted as margin by CM/CC and no exposure is permitted.  

 

It is further envisaged that effective August 1, 2020, by operationalising the pledge and 

re-pledge  mechanism  stated  in  aforesaid  Sebi  circular,  the  securities  of  client  will 

remain in that client's demat account and entire trail of the securities utilised for margin 

purposes shall be available. In this mechanism, the TM / CM will not be able to misuse 

securities  of  client  A 

towards  margin  of  client  B  and 

for  also 

for 

its 

own proprietary trades. 

 
 
 
Mumbai 
May 26, 2020 

 

