 

 

PR No.31/2020 

Report submitted by the Working Group on Social Stock Exchange 

 

 

 

 

Hon’ble Finance Minister as part of the budget speech for the FY 2019-20 had proposed 

to initiate steps towards creating a social stock exchange, under the regulatory ambit of 

SEBI, for listing social enterprise and voluntary organizations.  

 

SEBI formed a Working Group on Social Stock  Exchange (SSE) in September 2019 

under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri  Ishaat  Hussain  consisting  of  representatives  of  the 

stakeholders  active 

in 

the  space  of  social  welfare,  social  impact 

investing, 

representatives from Ministry of Finance, the stock exchanges and NGOs.  

 

Social Stock Exchange is a novel concept in India.  The working group had a series of 

consultation  with  various  stakeholders  including  voluntary  organizations,  social 

enterprises and philanthropic organizations in order to assess the difficulties faced by 

them  in  raising  funds/  donating  funds.  Some  of  the  key  recommendations  are  as 

follows:- 

  Non-profit organizations can directly list on SSE through issuance of bonds.  

  A range of funding mechanisms have been recommended including some of the 

existing mechanisms such as Social Venture Funds (SVFs) under the Alternative 

Investment Funds.  

  A new minimum reporting standard has been proposed for organizations which 

would raise funds under SSE.  

 

 

  For-profit  social  enterprises  can  also  list  on  SSE  with  enhanced  reporting 

requirements. 

  To  encourage  “giving”  culture,  some 

tax 

incentives  have  also  been 

recommended. 

 

Further details on the recommendations are available in the report which can be found 

at the following link: 

 

https://www.sebi.gov.in/reports-and-statistics/reports/jun-2020/report-of-the-
working-group-on-social-stock-exchange_46751.html 
 

Comments are sought from the public on the aforesaid report in the following format: 

Name of entity / person :  
Contact Number & Email Address : 
Sr. No.  Recommendation in the report 
to which the comment pertains 
 

 

Suggestion/ 
Comments 
 

 

Rationale 

 

The  comments  may  be  sent  by  email 

to  Smt.  Yogita  Jadhav,  DGM  at 

(yogitag@sebi.gov.in) and Shri Abhishek Rozatkar, AGM (abhishekr@sebi.gov.in) no 

later  than  June  30,  2020.  While  sending  email,  kindly  mention  the  subject  as 

"Comments on SSE Report".  

 

 

Mumbai 

June 01, 2020 

 

