 

 

 

 

PR No.35/2020 

Relaxations for Listed Companies having stressed assets 

 

SEBI  has  decided  to  relax  the  pricing  methodology  for  preferential  issues  by  listed 
companies  having  stressed  assets  and  exempt  allottees  of  preferential  issues  from 
open offer obligations in such cases, with immediate effect.   
 
1.  Relaxations  

 
i. 

ii. 

 

Eligible  listed  companies  having  stressed  assets  will  be  able  to  determine 
pricing  of  their  preferential  allotments  at  not  less  than  the  average  of  the 
weekly  high  and  low  of  the  volume  weighted  average prices  of  the  related 
equity shares during the two weeks preceding the relevant date. 
 
Allottees  of  preferential  issue  in  such  eligible  companies  will  be  exempted 
from  making  an  open  offer  if  the  acquisition  is  beyond  the  prescribed 
threshold or if the open offer is warranted due to change in control, in terms 
of Takeover Regulations. 

2.  Eligibility  

 
A  listed  entity  satisfying  any  two  out  of  the  following  three  conditions  shall  be 
considered as stressed and therefore be eligible for aforesaid relaxations: 
 

(i) 

(ii) 

Any listed company that has made disclosure of defaults on payment of 
interest/ repayment of principal amount on loans from banks / financial 
institutions/  Systemically  Important  Non-Deposit  taking  Non-banking 
financial  companies/  Deposit  taking  Non-banking  financial  companies 
and /or listed or unlisted debt securities in terms of SEBI Circular dated 
November 21, 2019, and such default is continuing for a period of at least 
90 calendar days after occurrence of such default. 
 
Existence of Inter-creditor agreement in terms of Reserve Bank of India 
(Prudential  Framework  for  Resolution  of  Stressed  Assets)  Directions 
2019 dated June 07, 2019. 

 

 

 

(iii)  Downgrading  of  credit  rating  of  the  financial  instruments  (listed  or 
unlisted), credit instruments / borrowings (listed or unlisted) of the listed 
company to “D”. 

 
3.  Other Conditions 

 
Eligible  listed  companies  shall  also  be  required  to  comply  with  the  following 
conditions to avail the relaxations: 
 

(i)  The preferential issue will be made to persons/entities that are not part of the 
promoter  or  promoter  group.  Further,  certain  other  persons  including  an 
Undischarged  insolvent,  Wilful  defaulter,  Fugitive  economic  offender,  those 
Disqualified to act as director, prohibited by SEBI from trading in securities and 
accessing the securities market will also be ineligible.  
  

(ii)  The resolution for the preferential issue at the aforesaid pricing and exemption 

from open offer shall be passed by majority of minority. 

(iii)  Proposed end-use of proceeds of such preferential issue will be disclosed. The 
proceeds should not be used for any repayment of loans taken from promoters/ 
promoter group/ group companies.  

(iv)  Monitoring agency will be appointed for monitoring end-use of the proceeds of 
such a preferential issue. The monitoring agency shall not be an associate to 
the company. The Audit Committee shall also monitor the proceeds of such a 
preferential issue. 

(v)  The  shares  issued  to the  investors  in  such an  issue  shall  be  locked  in for  a 
period of three years from the latest date of trading approval granted by all the 
stock exchanges where the specified securities are listed. 

(vi)  The statutory auditor and the Audit Committee shall certify that eligibility norms 
as mentioned at point 2 above and conditions at point 3 (i) to (iii) have been 
met at the time of dispatch of notice for general meeting proposed for passing 
the special resolution and also at the time of allotment. 

 

 

  

 

 

 

The  above  framework  is  aimed  at  helping  stressed  companies  raise  capital  through 
timely financial intervention, at the same time protecting the interest of shareholders.  
 
 
To  give  effect  to  these  relaxations,  SEBI  ICDR  Regulations  and  SEBI  Takeover 
Regulations have been amended.    The relaxations introduced vide notifications dated 
June  22,  2020,  are  expected  to  make  fund  raising  through  preferential  allotments 
relatively easier for stressed companies.  
 
 
Mumbai 
 
June 23, 2020 

         

 

 

