 

 

 

 

 

PR No.37/2020 

SEBI notifies Amendments to SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 

SEBI  has  notified  amendments  to  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers)  Regulations,  2013. 
These amendments are intended to strengthen the regulatory framework for investment 
advisers. 
 
Some of the key regulatory changes include: 
 

A.  Segregation of Advisory & Distribution Activities 

 
•  Segregation of Advisory & Distribution Activities at client level to avoid conflict of 

interest. 

•  An  individual  shall  have  the  option  to  register  as  an  Investment  Adviser  or 

provide distribution services as a distributor.  

•  A non-individual investment adviser shall have client level segregation at group 
level  for  investment  advisory  and  distribution  services  and  maintain  an  arm’s 
length relationship between its activities by providing advisory services through 
a separately identifiable department or division. 
 

B.  Implementation services 

 
• 

Investment Advisers are allowed to provide implementation services (Execution) 
through  direct  schemes/  products  in  the  securities  market.  However,  no 
consideration can be received directly or indirectly, at investment adviser’s group 
or family level for these services.  
 

C.  Agreement between Investment Adviser and client 

 

•  Mandatory agreement to be entered between Investment Adviser and the client 

for ensuring greater transparency with reference to advisory activities.  

 

 

 

D.  Fees 

 
•  The fee charged by the Investment Adviser for providing Investment Advice from 

a client shall be in the manner as specified by SEBI.   
 

E.  Eligibility Criteria for IAs 

 
•  Enhanced  eligibility  criteria  for  registration as  an  Investment  Adviser  including 

• 

• 

net worth of Rs.50 lakhs for non-individuals and Rs. 5 lakhs for individuals. 
Individual investment adviser or a principal officer of a non-individual investment 
adviser to have enhanced professional or post-graduate qualification in relevant 
subjects  and  relevant  experience  of  five  years  while  grandfathering  existing 
Individual Investment Advisers from complying with the  enhanced qualification 
and experience as specified by SEBI. 
Individuals registered as investment advisers whose number of clients exceed 
150 in total, shall apply for registration with SEBI as non-individual investment 
adviser. 

               

SEBI  had  issued  a  Consultation  Paper,  in  January  2020,  on  Review  of  Regulatory 
Framework  for  Investment  Advisers  and  sought  comments  from  the  public  on  the 
proposals. 

 

After  considering  the  public  comments  received,  the  SEBI  Board  had  approved  the 
proposals on regulatory changes including amendments to SEBI (Investment Advisers) 
Regulations,  2013.  To  give  effect  to  these  proposals  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India  (Investment  Advisers)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2020  have  been 
notified.  
 
The  guidelines  dealing  with  various  other  issues  like  key  terms  and  conditions  of 
Investment Advisory Services agreement, modes of charging fee, periodicity etc. will be 
separately specified through a Circular.  
 
These  amendments  shall  come  into  force on  the ninetieth  day  from  the  date  of  their 
publication in the Official Gazette. 
          
 
Mumbai 
 
July 03, 2020 

 

