 

PR No.36/2020 

 

  

SEBI Board Meeting 

 

The SEBI Board met in Mumbai today. The out of station Members joined the meeting 

through video conferencing. The Board, inter-alia, took the following decisions: 

 

I. 

Pricing of preferential issues – Temporary relaxation due to COVID 19 

Due to serious challenges faced by the corporate sector in the wake of developments 

related to COVID-19, SEBI has been receiving numerous representations from various 

stakeholders  for  temporarily  liberalizing  regulations  relating  to  raising  of  capital  from 

securities market.  

 

The  Board  has  decided  to  provide  an  additional  option  to  the  existing  pricing 

methodology for preferential issuance as under:  

 

i. 

In case of frequently traded shares, the price of the equity shares to be allotted 

pursuant to the preferential issue shall be not less than higher of the following:  

a.  the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average 

price  of  the  related  equity  shares  quoted  on  the  recognised  stock 

exchange during the twelve weeks preceding the relevant date; or  

 

b.  the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average 

prices of the related equity shares quoted on a recognised stock exchange 

during the two weeks preceding the relevant date.  

 

ii. 

The specified securities allotted on preferential basis using the above pricing 

formula shall be locked-in for a period of three years. 

 

The  existing  pricing  guideline  for  preferential  issue,  for  frequently  traded  shares,  as 

prescribed  under  Regulation  164(1)  of  the  ICDR  Regulations  shall  also  continue  to 

remain in force. The issuer may choose any one of the formula. 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

The said option in pricing shall be available for the preferential issues made between 

July 1, 2020 or date of notification of amendment to the Regulations, whichever is later 

and December 31, 2020. 

 

II. 

Amendments  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial 

Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 

The  Board  approved  the  following  amendments  to  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of 

Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 (“Takeover Regulations”): 

 

 

 

 

i.  Acquisition through stock exchange settlement process through bulk and/or block 

deals shall be permitted during the open offer, subject to conditions mentioned in 

regulation 22(2A) of Takeover Regulations. 

ii. 

In case of indirect acquisitions where public announcement of an open offer has 

been made, an amount equivalent to 100% of the consideration payable under 

the open offer must be deposited 2 working days before the date of detailed public 

statement.  The  escrow  account  shall  be  in  the  form  of  cash  and/  or  bank 

guarantee. 

iii. 

In  case  of  delays  in  making  open  offer  attributable  to  the  acts  of  omission  or 

commission  of  the  acquirer,  a  simple  interest  of  10%  shall  be  paid  to  all  the 

shareholders who have tendered the shares in the open offer. 

III. 

Amendments to SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 

The  Board  considered  and  approved  amendments  to  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider 

Trading) Regulations, 2015. The amendments include maintaining a structured digital 

database containing nature of unpublished price sensitive information and the names of 

persons who have shared the information; automation of process of filing disclosures to 

stock  exchanges,  restriction  on  trading  window  not  to  be  made  applicable  for 

transactions  as  prescribed  by  SEBI,  entities  to  file  the  non-compliances  of  Code  of 

Conduct  with  the  stock  exchanges  and  amounts  if  any  collected  for  such  non 

compliances  shall  be credited  to  Investor  Protection  Education  Fund  administered  by 

Board under the SEBI Act. 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

IV. 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  Proceedings)  (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2020 

 

The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  Proceedings)  Regulations, 

2018 (Settlement Regulations) which came into force with effect from January 1, 2019 

provides  for  the  settlement  of  the  proceedings  initiated  or  to  be  initiated  for  the 

contravention of the securities laws. The experience gained in handling the settlement 

matters during the past one year has necessitated the need to amend certain provisions 

of the Regulations in order to streamline the settlement procedures. 

 

 After  due  consideration,  the  Board  approved  some  amendments  to  the  Settlement 

Regulations including - Promoters to be included along with the Principal Officer for the 

purpose  of  calculation  of  the  base  amount  in  terms  of  Table  X  of  Schedule  II;  Base 

Amount for alleged defaults relating to open offer violations, where the making of the 

open offer has become infructuous, to be rationalised and benchmark for certain Base 

Amount in Schedule II to be suitably amended; In order to save time, instead of issuing 

settlement notice under Regulation 18, a paragraph shall be included in the show cause 

notice, informing the noticee about the option to file a settlement application; etc. 

 

V. 

Annual Report: 2019-20 

 

The Board considered and approved the SEBI Annual Report: 2019-20. In compliance 

with Section 18(2) of SEBI Act, 1992, the same Annual  Report would be submitted to 

the Central Government. 

 

 

Mumbai 

June 25, 2020 

 

Page 3 of 3 

