 

 

  

PR No.51/2020 

Rationalization of Eligibility criteria and  Disclosure requirements for Rights 

Issues  

SEBI  has  decided  to  amend  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 

Regulations, 2018 to rationalise eligibility criteria and disclosure requirements for Rights 

Issues’ with an objective to make the fund raising through this route, easier, faster and 

cost effective. 

The key amendments include: 

1.  Issuer shall be eligible to make truncated disclosures in terms of Part B : 

i.  where  it  has  been  filing  periodic  reports/  statements/  information  in 

compliance with Listing Regulations as applicable, for last one year instead 

of last three years as required earlier.  

ii.  where three years have passed after change in management pursuant to 

acquisition of control or Listing consequent to a scheme of arrangement.  

2.  All other issuers not satisfying Part B eligibility conditions shall make disclosures 

in terms of new set of proposed disclosures i.e. Part B-1. Part B-1 disclosures 

would be more detailed than Part B, but truncated compared to Part A, which is 

meant for IPO/FPO offer document. 

3.  Disclosure requirements under Part B have been rationalized to avoid duplication 

of  information  in  letter  of  offer,  especially  the  information  which  is  already 

available in public domain and is disclosed by the companies in compliance with 

the disclosure requirements under SEBI Listing regulations. 

4.  Threshold increased from Rs. 10 crores to Rs 50 crores, for filing requirement of 

Rights issue draft letter of offer with the Board for its observations.  

5.  Mandatory  90%  minimum  subscription  criteria  for  Rights  Issue  shall  not  be 

applicable to those issuers where object of the issue involves financing other than 

financing  of  capital  expenditure  for  a  project,  provided  that  the  promoters  and 

 

Page 1 of 2 

promoter group of the issuer undertake to subscribe fully to their portion of rights 

entitlement.  

6.  Issuer shall be eligible to make Fast Track Rights Issue, in case of pending show-

cause  notices  in  respect  to  adjudication,  prosecution  proceedings  and  audit 

qualification,  provided  that  necessary  disclosures  along  with  potential  adverse 

impact on the issuer are made in the letter of offer. 

 

The amendments will be effective from the date it is notified in the Gazette. 

Mumbai 
September 23, 2020 

 
 

 

Page 2 of 2 

