 

 

  
 

PR No.50/2020 

SEBI constitutes Technical group on Social Stock Exchange 

 

The Working Group (WG) on Social Stock Exchange (SSE), chaired by Shri Ishaat Hussain 

submitted its report1 on June 01, 2020. The WG has outlined its vision and made high level 

recommendations which include participation of Non-profit organizations (NPOs) and For-

profit enterprises (FPEs) on SSE subject to committing to minimum reporting requirements. 

Additionally,  the  WG  has  also  recommended  standardisation  of  financial  reporting  by 

NPOs on SSE. 

 

In terms of the recommendations of the WG, there is a need to develop the framework for 

onboarding  NPOs  and  FPEs  on  the  SSE  including  defining  for  profit  social  investing  / 

enterprises,  prescribe  disclosure  requirements  relating 

to  financials,  governance, 

performance etc. and dwell upon aspects related to social impact, social audit, information 

repositories etc. 

 

To  develop  and  make  recommendations  on  these  aspects,  SEBI  has  constituted  a 

Technical  group  under  the  chairmanship  of  Dr.  Harsh  Kumar  Bhanwala  (Ex-Chairman- 

NABARD). The other members of the Technical Group are: 

i.  Ms. Roopa Kudva, MD, Omidyar Network India (Social Impact Investor; part of 

Omidyar Group) 

ii.  Shri Shaji Krishnan V, Deputy Managing Director, NABARD 

iii.  Dr.  Sanjeev  Singhal  (Chairman,  Sustainability  Reporting  Standards  Board, 

ICAI) 

                                                 
1 Working Group Report on Social Stock Exchange  
 

Page 1 of 2 

 

iv.  Ms. 

Ingrid  Srinath,  Founder  Director,  Centre 

for  Social 

Impact  and 

Philanthropy, Ashoka University 

v.  Ms. Pushpa Aman Singh, CEO, Guidestar 

vi.  Shri Santhosh Jayaram, Partner and Head- Sustainability and CSR Advisory, 

KPMG 

vii.  Shri Ved Arya (Founder, Srijan and RCRC) 

viii.  Shri Matthew Cherian (Global Ambassador and Ex-Chief Executive, HelpAge 

India) 

ix.  BSE Representative 

x.  NSE Representative 

xi.  Shri Amarjeet Singh, Executive Director (SEBI)  

xii.  Shri Jeevan Sonparote, CGM (SEBI) - Convener 

The Technical group may, if it so desires, seek consultation from other experts as special 

invitees.  

Mumbai 
September 21, 2020 

 
 
 

 

Page 2 of 2 

