 

 

 

PR No.46/2020 
 
 

Clarification pursuant to Circular dated September 11, 2020 - Regarding Asset 

Allocation of Multi Cap Schemes of Mutual Funds 

 

SEBI’s 2017 circular on scheme categorization sought to achieve two objectives:  
 

-  True to Label schemes: The portfolio should reflect the name of the scheme and the 

name of the scheme should correctly reflect the nature of the portfolio. 

-  Comparison with an appropriate benchmark: The scheme performance should be 

disclosed to the investors vis a vis an appropriate benchmark. 

For example, Large Cap schemes could have a benchmark of Sensex or Nifty 50 and at 
least 80% of the portfolio should be invested in Large Cap stocks. 
 
Multi Cap schemes had flexibility in terms of allocation to Large, Mid and Small Cap stocks. 
However,  it  has  recently  been  observed  that  some  Multi  Cap  Schemes  have  skewed 
portfolios, with over 80% of investment in large cap stocks akin to Large Cap schemes, 
and some Multi Cap schemes have near zero or insignificant asset allocation to small cap 
companies.  
 
Considering the above, in order to achieve the objectives of True to Label and Appropriate 
Benchmark, a need was felt to review the scheme characteristics of Multi Cap schemes 
and take necessary steps to clearly distinguish Multi Cap schemes from other category of 
schemes. 
 
In this context, SEBI has issued a circular dated September 11,2020 on Multi Cap schemes 
of Mutual Funds, requiring them to invest a minimum of 25% each in Large, Mid and Small 
Cap stocks, with the balance 25% giving flexibility to the fund manager. 
 
Some  sections  of  media  have  reported  various  views  on  the  circular  and  various 
conclusions in respect of the same are being drawn. SEBI would like to clarify that Mutual 
Funds  have  many  options  to  meet  with  the  requirements  of  the  circular,  based  on  the 
preference  of  their  unitholders.  Apart  from  rebalancing  their  portfolio  in  the  Multi  Cap 

 

 
schemes, they could inter-alia facilitate switch to other schemes by unitholders, merge their 
Multi  Cap  scheme  with  their  Large  Cap  scheme  or  convert  their  Multi  Cap  scheme  to 
another scheme category, for instance Large cum Mid Cap scheme. 
 
SEBI is conscious of market stability and therefore has given time to the Mutual Funds till 
January 31, 2021 to achieve compliance with the circular, through its preferred route of 
which rebalancing of the portfolio is only one such route. 
 
It  is  reiterated  that  to  achieve  the  desired  objective  of  True  to  Label  and  Appropriate 
Benchmarking, SEBI will examine proposals of the industry, if any, received in this regard. 
 
 
Mumbai 
 
September 13, 2020 

 

