 

PR No.52/2020 

 

  

SEBI Board Meeting 

 

The SEBI Board met in Mumbai today. The out of station Members joined the meeting 

through video conferencing. The Board, inter-alia, took the following decisions: 

 

I. 

Amendments  to  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustee)  Regulations,  1993,  SEBI  (Issue  and 

Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 and SEBI (Listing Obligations and 

Disclosure Requirements), 2015 

 

The    Board  approved  the  proposal  of  strengthening  the  role  of  Debenture  Trustees 

(DT(s))  so  as  to  protect  the  interest  of  debenture  holders.  The  DT(s)  shall  exercise 

independent due diligence of the assets on which charge is being created. The DT(s) 

shall  take  required  action  by  convening  the  meeting  of  debenture  holders  for 

enforcement  of  security,  joining  the  inter-creditor  agreement  (under  the  framework 

specified by RBI), etc.  

 

DT(s) shall also carry out continuous monitoring of the asset cover including obtaining 

mandatory certificate from the statutory auditor on half yearly basis. Further, the issuer 

company shall create recovery expense fund at the time of issuance of debt securities 

that may be utilised by DT(s) in the event of default, for taking appropriate legal action 

to enforce the security.  

 

II. 

Amendments  to  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Delisting  of  Equity 

Shares) Regulations, 2009 

The  Board  has  decided  to  grant  exemption  from  the  Reverse  Book  Building  process 

(“RBB”) for delisting of listed subsidiary, where it becomes the wholly owned subsidiary 

of the listed parent pursuant to a scheme of arrangement.  

 

Page 1 of 4 

To be eligible to take this  route, the listed holding company and the listed subsidiary 

should be in the same line of business.  Both the companies should be compliant with 

the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015, 

specifically, the regulations (no. 11, 37 and 94) pertaining to processing of the schemes 

of arrangement. 

To protect the interests of investors in the listed subsidiary, it has been stipulated that 

the votes cast by public shareholders of the listed subsidiary in favour of the proposal 

will be atleast 2 times the number of votes cast against it in terms of the present delisting 

regulations 

It  is  further  stipulated  that  the  shares  of  the  parent  listed  company  and  the  listed 

subsidiary entity should be listed for atleast 3 years, should not  be suspended at the 

time of taking this route, and the subsidiary should have been a listed subsidiary of the 

listed holding entity for atleast three preceding years. 

 

III. 

Setting up of a Limited Purpose Repo Clearing Corporation 

The  Board  approved  the  proposal  to  facilitate  setting  up  of  a  Limited  Purpose  Repo 

Clearing Corporation.   

 

 

 

 IV.  

    Amendments to SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

 

1. Introduction of Code of Conduct for Fund Managers and Dealers  

 

Currently, the SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations,  1996  (“MF Regulations”) provide for 

Asset Management Companies (AMCs) and Trustees to follow a Code of Conduct.  Also 

under current MF Regulations, CEO is entrusted with several responsibilities. The Board 

after deliberation, approved the amendment of MF Regulations to introduce a Code of 

Conduct for Fund Managers including Chief Investment Officers and Dealers of AMCs. 

Further,  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  will  be  responsible  to  ensure  that  the  Code  of 

Conduct is followed by all such officers.  

 

 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 

  2. AMCs permitted to become self-clearing member 

 
The  Board  approved  amendment  to  MF  Regulations  to  enable  Asset  Management 

Companies to become a self-clearing member of the recognised Clearing Corporations 

to clear and settle trades in the debt segment of recognised stock exchanges, on behalf 

of its mutual fund schemes. 

 

 

V.  

     Amendment to SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 

 

The Board approved amendment to SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 

2012 which includes definition of ‘relevant professional qualification’ and provides that 

the  qualification  and  experience  criteria  of  the  investment  team,  may  be  fulfilled 

individually or collectively by personnel of key investment team of the Manager. 

 

Further, the regulatory amendment, inter-alia, covers the constitution of an Investment 

Committee  by  the  Manager  for  approving  investment  decisions,  responsibilities  of 

Manager  and  members  of  such  Investment  Committee  of  an  Alternative  Investment 

Fund.  

 

 

VI.        Disclosure of information related to forensic audit of listed entities 

 

 

In  order  to  address  the  gaps  in  availability  of  information  on  forensic  audit  of  listed 

entities,  the  Board  has  decided  that  in  case  of  initiation  of  such  audits,  listed  entities 

shall  make  the  following  disclosures  to  stock  exchanges,  without  any  application  of 

materiality: 

 

i. 

 The fact of initiation of forensic audit (by whatever name called) along-with name  

     of entity initiating the forensic audit and reasons for the same, if available; 

 

ii. 

  Final forensic audit report (other than for forensic audit initiated by regulatory /  

enforcement agencies), on receipt by the listed entity, along with comments of the  

  management, if any. 

Page 3 of 4 

 

 

VII.      Amendments   to   the   Securities   and   Exchange   Board   of   India  (Prohibition   

          of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 

 

The  Board  considered  and  approved  amendments  to  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider 

Trading) Regulations, 2015 (“the PIT Regulations”) with respect to the information to be 

submitted by informants under the informant mechanism. 

 

 The amendments include the following: 

 

I. 

a  time  period  of  up  to  3  years  has  been  prescribed  for  reporting  violations 

under the insider trading laws through the informant mechanism and  

 

II. 

changes in Schedule D to the PIT Regulations have been made to require 

informants to include specific information (such as details of securities, trades 

by  suspect  and  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  based  on  which 

insider trading is alleged) with respect to the alleged violations.   

 

Mumbai 

September 29, 2020 

 

 

Page 4 of 4 

