 

 

 

PR No.47/2020 
 
 

SEBI to empanel Securities Market Trainers (SMARTs) for enhancing 

Investor Education activities 

 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  has  invited  applications  from  eligible 
candidates to be empanelled as Securities Market Trainers (SMARTs) for enhancing the 
Investor Education activities of SEBI. 
  
This is an important initiative of SEBI considering the  recent  increase of interest among 
investors in the securities market. An educated investor is a protected investor. There is a 
need  to  increase  the  outreach  of  investor  education  programmes  so  that  the  investors 
understand the securities market better and make informed investment decisions.  
 
SMARTs  are  expected  to  conduct  Investor  Awareness  Programs  for  existing  and 
prospective investors in the securities markets. In these programs, topics related to Basics 
of securities markets, rights and responsibilities of investors, understanding the risks and 
rewards involved while investing in the market, grievance redressal mechanism, etc. are 
expected  to  be  covered.  These  programs  would  be  conducted  in  various  regional 
languages, in addition to English and Hindi. 
 
Individual SMARTs are expected to conduct programmes in their respective districts, so 
that investors in Tier II and Tier III cities are also benefitted. This will help to do investor 
education programmes across the country. 
 
Applicants may be either an individual or organization working in the field related to law, 
commerce,  management,  economics  and  financial  markets  education.  The  organisation 
could be a Trust/Society/Company or Partnership registered under the relevant Acts.  
 
In  case  of  an  individual  applicant,  the  applicant  must  have  a  graduate  degree  from  a 
recognized  university  with  50%  marks  and  at  least  five  years  of  experience  of  either 
working or teaching in the areas of law, commerce, management, economics or financial 
markets education.  
 
In case where an organisation is the applicant, at least one member of the governing body 
must have a graduate degree from a recognized university with 50% marks and at least 
five  years  of  experience  of  either  working  or  teaching  in  the  areas  of  law,  commerce, 
management, economics or financial markets education. 

 

SEBI 

website: 

https://www.sebi.gov.in/, 

 
 
The  SMARTs  would  be  provided  reimbursement  for  the  expenses  incurred  by  them, 
subject  to  prescribed  limits,  for  conducting  Investor  Awareness  Programs  on  securities 
markets throughout the country. 
 
The details regarding selection criteria, application form, guidelines, etc. are available on 
the 
website: 
https://investor.sebi.gov.in  and  NISM  website:  https://nism.ac.in.  The  last  date  for 
application is October 16, 2020. 
 
SEBI  has  been  undertaking  various 
including 
seminars/webinars with stock exchanges, depositories, multi media campaign, dedicated 
investor website etc. All the investor awareness programs undertaken by SEBI are free of 
cost  for  the  participants  and  the  cost  for  these  programs  is  met  from  SEBI’s  Investor 
Protection and Education Fund. 
 
 
 
Mumbai 
 
September 18, 2020 

investor  awareness  activities 

SEBI 

Investor 

 

