 

 
 

PR No.55/2020 

 

SEBI steps up efforts for ‘Data Culture’ through “Data Democratization” in the 

Indian securities market; Constitutes “Market Data Advisory Committee” 

 

SEBI has constituted a Market Data Advisory Committee (MDAC) – a Standing Committee 
- to, inter-alia, recommend appropriate policy for access to securities market data, identify 
segment wise data perimeters, data needs and gaps, recommend data privacy and  data 
access regulations applicable to market data, etc. The Committee chaired by Ms. Madhabi 
Puri Buch, Whole Time Member, SEBI has CEOs of stock exchanges and depositories, 
representatives of various stakeholders and senior officials of SEBI as members.  
 
Financial markets are traditionally data rich and data driven. With ever growing financial 
markets, the volume and variety of data have also increased many fold over the years and 
will  continue  to  do  so.  With  increasing  size  and  complexity  of  financial  markets,  the 
importance  of  data  for  research,  decision  making,  and  innovations  in  financial  markets 
cannot be overemphasized.   
 
Given this, SEBI recognizes that non-private data is a “Public Good’ and that access to 
high  quality  standardized  data  on  various  securities  market  activities  is  essential  for 
fostering market transparency, operational efficiency and innovations in Indian securities 
market. SEBI’s endeavor is to foster a “Data Culture” in the Indian Securities Market i.e. 
‘Data for Transparency’, ‘Data for Efficiency’ and ‘Data for Innovation’ along with ‘Respect 
for Data Privacy’  
 
Thus, MDAC is part of SEBI’s initiatives to make shareable data on the Indian securities 
market, available for researchers, policy makers, general public alike and to enhance the 
quality of such data. Some of the other initiatives taken by SEBI, through its Department 
of Economic and Policy Analysis (DEPA), include: 
 
SEBI Data Sharing Policy  

 

The Data Sharing Policy intends to facilitate access to Data from SEBI to meet a variety of 
requirements,  viz.  to  undertake  Analytics  projects,  Research  activities,  etc.  by  various 
educational/research  institutions  and  other  regulators.  Data  Sharing  Policy  is  aimed  at 
streamlining the process of Data sharing and formalization of Data protection measures to 
prevent Data from misuse and unauthorized access. Further details are at:  
https://www.sebi.gov.in/Guidelines_for_Data_Sharing.html 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 
“Curated Links for Securities Market Data” on SEBI website 
 
To facilitate easy access to markets data and to encourage data backed research in Indian 
securities market, SEBI on its website, has provided at one place, curated links of publicly 
available data on various segments of the Indian securities market. This “Curated Links for 
Securities Market Data” is available at:  
https://www.sebi.gov.in/Curation_Links_for_Securities_Market_Data.html 

 

Enriching Data Provision by Market Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs) 

 

In order to further enhance the quantum, granularity, uniformity, ease of accessibility and 
usability  of  public  data  provided  by  MIIs  (Stock  and  Commodity  Exchanges,  Clearing 
Corporations  and  Depositories),  SEBI  and  MIIs  have  worked  together  during  recent 
months. The outcome of this exercise enables provision of data by MIIs in consolidated, 
common, downloadable and merge-able data formats, including for non-sensitive granular 
data. Pursuant to the same, MIIs have already started uploading data on their respective 
websites on a monthly basis for the period starting from Financial Year 2015-16 onwards. 
The data uploaded by MIIs as part of this exercise covers trading, clearing and settlement 
data  on  equity,  equity  derivatives,  currency  derivatives  and  interest  rate  derivatives, 
commodity  derivatives  segments  by  Stock  and  Commodity  Exchanges;  and  data  on 
issuers,  aggregate beneficial owners,  etc. by  Depositories.  Further  details  on  the  actual 
data made available by MIIs can be accessed on their respective websites or from SEBI 
website at:   
https://www.sebi.gov.in/Curation_Links_for_Securities_Market_Data.html 

 

Reorganization of Data Resources on SEBI website 
 
In  order  to  enhance  the  experience  of  accessing  market  statistics  and  other  related 
resources  viz.  research,  publications,  statistics,  reports  etc.  on  SEBI  website,  these 
resources  have  been  consolidated  and  made  available  at  one  place  in  “Reports  & 
Statistics” tab on SEBI Website Home Page.  
  
 
SEBI will continue to work  with MIIs and other market participants in furtherance of this 
“Data Culture” in the Indian Securities Market.  
 

 

Mumbai 

October 19, 2020 

 

Page 2 of 2 

