 

 

PR No.57/2020 
 

 

SEBI  Chairman  interacts  with  investors  and  other  stakeholders  from  USA; 
Participants  emphasize  need  for  early  finalization  of  direct  listing  scheme, 
development of Corporate Bond market and further reforms in IPO regulations 
  
Shri Ajay Tyagi, Chairman, SEBI along with other SEBI officials had an e-interaction on 
October 27 with various stakeholders including industry and investor associations from 
United States of America (USA). The interaction was organized by US India Strategic 
Partnership Forum (USISPF).  
  
Commenting  on  the  discussion,  Shri  Ajay  Tyagi  said,  “We  interacted  with  various 
stakeholders including the investors in the Indian capital markets from USA. We briefed 
them about the key developments of the Indian economy as well as the recent trends in 
the securities market, especially in this COVID era. The achievements of Indian primary 
markets, secondary markets and specific products such REITs and InvITs were brought 
out  in  the  interactions.  The  attractiveness  of  the  Indian  markets  despite  the  COVID 
impact and the recent surge in foreign investment into India through the FPI route was 
also emphasized.  
 
The increasing number of registrations of FPIs every year and increasing inflows of FPI 
investment  in  the  Indian  equity  market  signify  the  sustained  interest  of  the  foreign 
investors in the Indian capital markets. Considering that the largest number of FPIs & 
about one third of the total assets under custody of FPIs are from USA, the importance 
of US investments into India was emphasized especially taking into account the growing 
partnership between the two countries. “ 
 
The  participants  appreciated  the  various  initiatives  taken  by  SEBI,  especially  with 
respect  to  direct  listing  proposal  and  creation  of  new  products  like  REITs  and  InvITs 
which have the potential to attract more foreign investment while benefitting domestic 
economy  given  its  multiplier  effect.  The  initiatives  taken  by  SEBI  towards  ease  of 
participation by FPIs such as simplified registration process, common application form, 
onboarding  during  COVID  through  digital  scanning  of  KYC  documents  were  also 
appreciated.  
 
 
 
 

 

P a g e  1 of  2 

 
The  participants  emphasized  the  need  for  early  finalization  of  direct  listing  proposal; 
development of the corporate bond market; reforms in the IPO regulations; digitization 
of  processes;  and  showed  interest  in  participating  in  innovative  ideas  under  SEBI’s 
regulatory sandbox framework. Various queries raised during the meetings on multiple 
issues were clarified by the SEBI team.  

 

 

 

Mumbai 
October 28, 2020 

 

P a g e  2 of  2 

