 

 

PR No.59/2020 
 

Review of regulatory measures introduced vide SEBI Press Release dated 

March 20, 2020 

1.  SEBI  vide  Press  Release  dated  March  20,  2020  had  introduced  certain  regulatory 
measures as per Annexure A of the said Press Release, in view of the then ongoing 
market  volatility  and  keeping  in  view  the  objective  of  ensuring  orderly  trading  and 
settlement,  effective  risk  management,  price  discovery  and  maintenance  of  market 
integrity.  The same is in force till November 26, 2020.  

2.  Based  on  market  feedback  and  changed  market  environment,  the  above  regulatory 

measures have been reviewed and the same shall stand revised as under: 

2.1.  Stocks in derivatives segment (F&O stocks) 

The regulatory measures mentioned at S. No. 1.(i) and 1.(ii) of Annexure A to 
SEBI Press Release dated March 20, 2020 shall stand withdrawn w.e.f. close of 
business on November 26, 2020, subject to the continuation of the following till 
further directions: 

With regard to S. No. 1.(i), in the event MWPL utilization in a security crosses 95%, 
derivative contracts enter into a ban period, wherein, all clients / trading members are 
required  to  trade  in  the  derivative  contracts  of  said  scrips  only  to  decrease  their 
positions  through  offsetting  positions.  Any  increase  in  open  positions  would  attract 
appropriate  penal  and/or  disciplinary  action  of  the  stock  exchanges  /  clearing 
corporations.  

Accordingly,  stock  exchanges  /  clearing  corporations  shall  put  in  place  effective 
mechanism to  monitor whether the market wide open interest for scrips meeting the 
aforesaid criteria exceeds 95% of the reduced market wide position limit as arrived at 
above. Further, the stock exchanges / clearing corporations shall check on an intra-day 
basis (monitoring of Peak intraday OI or Periodic intraday monitoring of OI) whether 
any member or client has exceeded his existing positions or has created a new position 
in the scrips in the new ban period. 

2.2. 

Increase in margin for Non-F&O Stocks in Cash Market  

This shall stand withdrawn w.e.f. close of business on November 26, 2020.  

 
 

P a g e  1 of  2 

2.3. 

Index Derivatives  

The regulatory measures mentioned at S. No. 3 of Annexure A to SEBI Press 
Release  dated  March  20,  2020  shall  continue  to  remain  in  force  till  further 
directions, subject to revised S. No. 3.(iii) which shall now read as under: 

If any of the aforesaid entities exceed the respective limits prescribed at 3(i) and 3(ii) 
above, an additional deposit shall be payable by the entity equivalent to the amount of 
margin  chargeable  on  excess  position  beyond  the  limits  prescribed  at  3(i)  and  3(ii) 
above and the same shall be retained by stock exchanges / clearing corporations for a 
period of one month. 

2.4.  Flexing of dynamic price bands for F&O stocks  

The regulatory measures mentioned at S. No. 4 of Annexure A to SEBI Press 
Release  dated  March  20,  2020  shall  continue  to  remain  in  force  till  further 
directions. 

3.  Stock exchanges and clearing corporations will be issuing necessary instructions to the 

market participants in this regard.  

 

 
 
Mumbai 
 
November 25, 2020 

 
 

P a g e  2 of  2 

