 

 

PR No.58/2020 
 

SEBI Chairman launches Securities Market Trainers (SMARTs) Program – a new 

SEBI initiative for enhancing Investor Education activities 

 
Shri  Ajay  Tyagi,  Chairman,  SEBI  launched  the  Securities  Market  Trainers  (SMARTs) 
progamme  in  Mumbai  today.  The  SMARTs  programme  is  a  new  initiative  of  SEBI  for 
enhancing  the  Investor  Education  activities.  Shri  G.  Mahalingam,  Whole  Time  Member, 
Executive  Directors  and  other  officials  of  SEBI  attended  the  launch  function.  The 
individuals who have been empanelled under the SMARTs program attended the launch 
via web conferencing.  
 
Complimenting the trainers who have been empanelled as SMARTs, Shri Tyagi highlighted 
the need of hand holding the retail investors since there has been a surge of new investors 
in  the  securities  markets  in  the  last  few  months.  He  recounted  SEBI’s  efforts  towards 
financial education through SEBI empanelled Resource Persons and investor education in 
association with Exchanges, Depositories and SEBI recognized Investors Associations.  
 
“In  the  present  scenario  of  uncertainty  in  economic  growth  and  extra  ordinarily  buoyant 
market,  there  is  a  dire  need  to  further  ramp  up  the  investor  education  and  awareness 
efforts.  In  that  sense  there  couldn’t  have  been  any  better  time  to  launch  SMARTs  –  an 
initiative of SEBI to strengthen the existing investor education framework”, Shri Tyagi said. 
 
Chairman  also  raised  the  concern  relating  to  convoluted  distribution  of  active  investors 
throughout the country and said that SMARTs program would aim to address this concern 
by increasing investor outreach in far flung areas. He exhorted SMARTs to keep abreast 
of developments in the securities market and also expressed his confidence that SMARTs 
would take investor education to all parts of the country.   “It is noteworthy that SMARTs 
programme has been launched when World Investor Week is being celebrated across the 
country”, he added. 
 
SMARTs  is  a  new  initiative  of  SEBI  to  enhance  its  investor  education  and  awareness 
activities. The First batch of SMARTs empaneled by SEBI includes 40 individuals across 
16 States and Union Territories covering 31 Districts on a Pan-India basis, who have also 
undergone  four  days  training  in  National  Institute  of  Securities  Market  (NISM).  The 
SMARTs  will  conduct  investor  education  programmes  in  their  respective  geographical 

 
 

P a g e  1 of  2 

areas. Though SEBI has been conducting investor awareness programme in association 
with stock exchanges, depositories, etc. the SMARTs program is unique.  
 
Under the SMARTs program, the trainers are empanelled for the district they belong to, 
subject to fulfilling the required eligibility criteria. In addition to individuals, organizations 
engaged  in  similar  activity  can  also  get  enrolled  as  SMARTs.  They  undergo  training  in 
NISM and then they are eligible to conduct programmes. The programmes are conducted 
under the aegis of SEBI and are monitored by SEBI directly. These programmes will also 
be conducted in the local language. SMARTs programme is, therefore, likely to be a game 
changer  as  investor  education  programmes  are  taken  directly  to  the  investors.  The 
education programs to be conducted by SMARTs will be free of cost to investors, while the 
cost  of  conducting  the  programme  would  be  met  from  SEBI’s  Investor  Protection  and 
Education Fund. 
 
SEBI will be empanelling more trainers pan India level under the SMARTs programme. 

 

 
 
Mumbai 
 
November 25, 2020 

 
 

P a g e  2 of  2 

