 

 

PR No.60/2020 
 

Consultation paper on Compliance Standards for Index Providers 

 

1.  To create an overarching framework of Principles for Benchmarks used in financial 
markets, the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) published 
in July 2013 a framework of standards for financial benchmarks (or indices) based on 
international best practices.  IOSCO adherents are expected to either comply with the 
IOSCO  principles  or  explain  any  non-compliance.  In  addition,  several  foreign 
jurisdictions have articulated their own framework tailored to the requirements in their 
respective jurisdiction. 

 

2.  To  prescribe  a  set  of  compliance  standards  for  index  providers  in  order  to  ensure 
quality and integrity of the indices administered, maintained or calculated by the index 
providers, a consultation paper has been issued by SEBI inviting public comments. 

 

3.  Index  Methodology:  Considering  that  the broad market  indices  are  constructed  to 
represent the performances of large universe of companies traded on an exchange, 
the paper provides a high level summary of the process and stock selection criteria 
adopted by index providers in India and internationally. Additionally, in respect of some 
of the indices (Nifty 50, S&P BSE SENSEX 30, FTSE 100, S&P 500, Nasdaq 100), 
the paper also delves in to Index methodology, in terms of calculation of the index, 
stock selection criteria, frequency of review of index, etc.  

 

4.  Benchmark Indices – a representative of market: The paper states the attributes 
of Benchmark Indices in India vis-à-vis all listed stocks and notes that both (Nifty 50 
and  Sensex  30)  indices  represent  largest  &  most  liquid  companies  and  represents 
majority of average free float market capitalization, average total market capitalization 
and average daily turnover of all stocks traded. Accordingly, it has been brought out 
that Benchmark indices are broadly in line with that of universe of all stocks listed on 
exchanges in India.  

 

5.  Trends in Sector exposure of Benchmark Indices vis-à-vis all listed stocks: On 
this aspect, the paper notes that at a broad level, selection of stocks is primarily based 
upon market capitalization and liquidity. Across different geographies, prominence of 
one or two sectors is generally observed. Any change in the weightage of a sector 
amongst the listed space gets reflected in the corresponding benchmark index also. 
Accordingly, over a period of time, sectoral representation of stocks in the indices tend 
to undergo a change in line with overall share of various sectors in the listed universe.  

 
 
 
 

 
 

P a g e  1 of  3 

6.  Norms for benchmarks/benchmark administrators 

 

The paper also notes the varied practices internationally in respect of benchmarks / 
benchmark administrators from the regulatory perspective. It is observed that in most 
jurisdictions,  the  framework  is  similar  to  the  IOSCO  principles,  however,  in  some 
jurisdictions, the requirements for benchmarks / benchmark administrators are binding 
in nature while in others, the requirements are limited to those benchmarks designated 
as significant.  
 

7.  Based  on  IOSCO  principles,  practices  observed  internationally  and  suitability  for 
domestic markets, the paper provides a suggestive framework for Index Providers in 
India, under three heads: 

 

7.1. In respect of Indices based on which any product including derivatives, Exchange 
Traded Funds (ETFs), Market Linked Debentures (MLDs) are available/ traded on 
Indian stock exchanges. 

7.2. In respect of Indices which are constructed based on data provided by Indian stock 

exchange(s). 

7.3. In respect of Indices provided by the index providers that are used by Mutual Funds 

for benchmarking of funds performances or issuance of Index Funds. 
 

8.  For each of the abovementioned heads, the suggested framework casts responsibility 
on  Indian  Stock  Exchanges  and  Asset  Management  Companies,  as  applicable,  to 
ensure that the Index provider is in compliance with IOSCO Principles on a continuous 
basis. In respect of 7.1 and 7.2 above, in addition to ensuring compliance by the Index 
provider  with  the  IOSCO  principles,  the  stock  exchange  is  also  required  to  assess 
impact of any product based on such indices on trading in Indian market. 
 

9.  In order  to  take  into  consideration  views  of  various  stakeholders,  the consultation 
paper has sought public comments on the above proposal with the following queries:  

  

 

 

 

  Whether  the  above  Compliance  Standards  for  Index  Providers  would 
provide  for  greater  level  of  disclosure  and  transparency,  promote  the 
reliability  of  benchmark  determinations,  and  address  benchmark 
governance and accountability mechanisms?  

  Whether above Compliance Standards for Index Providers are sufficient to 
provide broad framework for Index Providers while  managing/maintaining 
Indices including provisions for licensing indices in foreign jurisdictions?  

  Whether  there  is  need  for  a  formal  regulatory  framework  for  Index 

Providers?  

  Whether  SEBI  should specify  certain  indices  as  significant  and  apply  the 
regulatory framework to only those indices as is done in some international 
jurisdictions as mentioned above?  

 

 
 

P a g e  2 of  3 

A copy of the consultation paper is placed on the SEBI website www.sebi.gov.in. under 
the  link  Reports  &  Statistics>Reports>Reports  for  public  comments.  Comments 
have been sought by January 07, 2021. 
 
 
 
Mumbai 
December 11, 2020 

 
 

P a g e  3 of  3 

