
 
Nov 20, 2015

PR No.:  
269/2015


Shri S Raman, Whole Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), has passed an order dated November 10, 2015 in the matter of Vasundhara Realcon Limited (VRL), inter-alia directing that the company shall not mobilize funds from investors. Further, the company, and its directors, viz., Mr. Sandip Parui , Mr. Ashis Sarkar, Mr. Sahab Uddin Khan and Mr. Gauranga Roy  are prohibited from issuing prospectus or any offer document or issue advertisement for soliciting money from the public for the issue of securities, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly, till further orders.
The company and its above mentioned directors are restrained from accessing the securities market and further prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in the securities market, either directly or indirectly, till further directions.
The company and its above mentioned directors have further been directed not to dispose of any of the properties or alienate or encumber any of the assets of the company without prior permission from SEBI and not to divert any funds raised from public at large through the offer of Non-convertible secured redeemable debentures (NCDs) which are kept in bank account(s) and/or in the custody of the company.
Also, Debenture Trustee, viz. Vasundhara Realcon Debenture Trust, represented by trustees, Mr.Chinmoy Ghatak and Priyabrata Roy, are prohibited from continuing with its assignment as debenture trustee in respect of the Offer of NCDs of VRL and also from taking up any new assignment or involvement in any new issue of debentures, etc. in a similar capacity, from the date of this Order till further directions.
The company was engaged in fund mobilizing activity through issue of Non-convertible secured redeemable debentures (NCDs) to more than 49 persons without complying with the SEBI (ILDS) Regulations, 2008 and relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

