
 
Jan 28, 2008

PR No.:  
21/2008


PR No. 21/2008
 
Report for public comments -
Report on the Sub-Committee on Integrated Disclosures 
The Sub-Committee on Integrated Disclosures (SCID) has submitted its final report to the SEBI Committee on Disclosures and Accounting Standards (SCODA) at its meeting held on January 21, 2008.  The SCID was formed in 2005 with the objective of standardizing and streamlining the corporate disclosures by integrating initial disclosures made under an offer document with the continuing disclosure requirements after a company gets listed made under various regulations and guidelines.
 
The report contains various recommendations pertaining to extant disclosures required to be made by listed companies on a continuous basis. The recommendations have been made on various areas of disclosures including details of the history of the company, capital structure, business strategy, promoters etc. The disclosures relate to company information excluding financial and accounting disclosures. The SCID report which is being put up on the SEBI website is self explanatory as to the approach and contents and the contents of the report are not being repeated here for the sake of brevity.
 
Public comments are invited and sought on the SCID’s report on Integrated Disclosures along with the Annexures to the report which have been arrived at after extensive work and discussion at both the sub-committee and the committee level.  In order to invite comments/suggestions/views of the public, the report of the Sub-Committee on Integrated Disclosures has been put up today on the SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the heading “Sub-Committee on Integrated Disclosures” in the section on “Reports for public comments”. While addressing comments, it is requested that comments may be made stating reference to specific Annexures or to the report itself.  
 
Comments on the same may be sent to Mr. M.K. Srikanth, Manager at srikanth@sebi.gov.in or Ms. Rohini Rao, Legal Officer at rohinir@sebi.gov.in on or before March 15, 2008. Comments can also be sent by hard copy addressed to : Mr. M. K. Srikanth,  Manager, Corporation Finance Department, Securities and Exchange Board of India, SEBI Bhavan, 3rd Floor, C-4A, G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai – 400051
MumbaiJanuary 28, 2008

