
 
Jul 25, 2018

PR No.:  
26/2018


  Meeting between Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) and Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI)On 24 July 2018, SEBI and MAS held discussions on various issues of cooperation, including the amicable resolution of the NSE and SGX issue. Both regulators agreed that the collaboration between both authorities would be further strengthened so as to derive benefits for capital markets of both the countries. Both regulators also agreed that NSE and SGX would carry out necessary discussions to come up with a solution that is acceptable to both the parties.    *****About the Monetary Authority of SingaporeThe Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) is Singapore’s central bank and integrated financial regulator.  As central bank, MAS promotes sustained,non-inflationary economic growth through the conduct of monetary policy and close macroeconomic surveillance and analysis. It manages Singapore’s exchange rate, official foreign reserves, and liquidity in the banking sector. As an integrated financial supervisor, MAS fosters a sound financial services sector through its prudential oversight of all financial institutions in Singapore –banks, insurers, capital market intermediaries, financial advisors, and stock exchanges. It is also responsible for well-functioning financial markets, sound conduct, and investor education. MAS also works with the financial industry to promote Singapore as a dynamic international financial centre. It facilitates the development of infrastructure, adoption of technology, and upgrading of skills in the financial industry. About the Securities and Exchange Board of IndiaThe Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) is the regulator for securities market in India. The main objective of SEBI is to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.The function of SEBI, inter alia, includes monitoring of the activities of stock exchanges, mutual funds and other intermediaries relating to the functioning of securities market. *****For media enquiries, please contact:Monetary Authority of SingaporeDenise Gan Deputy Director (Communications)Monetary Authority of SingaporeTel: +65 6229 9425Email: denise_gan@mas.gov.sgCandy HoAssistant Director (Communications)Monetary Authority of SingaporeTel: +65 6229 8712Email: candy_ho@mas.gov.sg

