
 
May 01, 2013

Press Releases 


Asia-Pacific Regional Committee of IOSCO meets in New Delhi
Member regulators of the Asia-Pacific Regional Committee (APRC) of International Organization of Securities Commission (IOSCO) met in New Delhi, India during April 29 – May 01, 2013. The meeting was held under the Chairmanship of Mr. U. K. Sinha, Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India.

 
 The three day APRC meeting aimed at further enhancing mutual cooperation, exchange of information and highlighting common issues of concern amongst the securities market regulators of the Asia-Pacific region, one of the fastest growing regions of the world.
 Enforcement Directors’ Meeting:
The event began with an Enforcement Directors’ (ED) Meeting, chaired by Mr. R. K. Padmanabhan, Executive Director, Investigations Department, SEBI on April 29, 2013. The ED meeting, an initiative of the APRC Secretariat, has been well received by the APRC members and acts as a platform for the regulators to share the insights on the recent enforcement trends, innovative investigative techniques and the need for enhanced cooperation amongst the regulators to strengthen the enforcement network in the region. The meeting was attended by senior Enforcement officers of 18 jurisdictions of the Asia-Pacific region.
In his key note address, Mr. Rajeev K. Agarwal, Whole Time Member, SEBI shared valuable insights on the investigation and enforcement practices followed by SEBI and emphasized on the need for the regulators to have more coordination amongst one other.
The ED meeting was organized into two themes: Insider Trading Regulatory Framework” and “Recent enforcement trends & innovative tools and techniques”. The regulators shared their insights and shared information on the use of new techniques and technology to deal with investigation and enforcement. The ED meeting also stressed the need to further enhance the information sharing mechanism in the region.
APRC Meeting:
The APRC meeting held on April 30, 2013 was chaired by Mr. U. K. Sinha, Chairman, SEBI. The meeting underscored the potential strong growth of securities markets in the future and the importance of securities regulators engaging with one another both at the global and at the regional level.
The meeting was preceded by a Roundtable on ‘“Regulatory inconsistencies in Asia/Pacific Region-Scope and Extent? What needs to be done from policy perspective?”. The Roundtable highlighted the importance of having consistency in their regulatory policies and their implementation with a view to reduce the possible regulatory arbitrage across the jurisdictions in the region.
During the APRC meeting, securities regulators from Chinese Taipei, Hong Kong, Japan, New Zealand and Singapore shared their country experience in ‘Investor Protection’ and tackling mis-selling of capital market products. The discussion emphasized upon the important issue of marketing of products and the different possible ways to protect the interests of investors from mis-selling of the products.
It was also informed in the meeting that a Central Enforcement Database, which is meant to have a common place for all the APRC members to share their enforcement actions, has been developed by the APRC Secretariat with the help of the IOSCO Secretariat. This initiative would enhance the information sharing on enforcement in this region.
The meeting also highlighted the strengths of APRC and IOSCO as a forum for discussing and developing regulatory approaches to common issues.
While relinquishing the charge as APRC chairman, Mr. Sinha summarized the initiatives taken by the APRC Secretariat under his leadership to increase cooperation amongst regulators of the region. Such initiatives include Industry roundtable to deliberate issues of common interests, quarterly issuance of APRC Digest, Creation of central Enforcement Database, Public Seminars, revival of Enforcement Directors’ meeting amongst others.
Mr. Ashley Alder, CEO, SFC, Hong Kong and incoming chair of the APRC, Mr. David Wright, Secretary General, IOSCO and Mr. Greg Medcraft, Chairman ASIC and Chair of IOSCO Board complimented Mr. Sinha for bringing dynamism into the functioning of APRC and its role in furthering the regional regulatory agenda on a global platform.
Public Seminar:
The IOSCO APRC Public Seminar was held on May 01, 2013where regulators and market participants met to share their perspectives on the capital market and the role of regulators in the development of the markets. 
Mr. Montek Singh Ahluwalia, Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission of India, delivered the key note address to the participants and highlighted the role of Asia-Pacific region in the growth of the financial markets and the India’s economic outlook and the growth story. Mr. Ahluwalia also highlighted the important role of capital markets in the growth and facilitating capital raising. He also underscored the importance of continuing the reform agenda to meet the ever evolving challenges. He also underscored that the Indian securities market is closely aligned to the global standards. He also mentioned that the global standard setters like IOSCO, FSB should factor in the realities of the developing countries in their standard setting work.
The Seminar had the following two public panels:

 IPOs in Asia: Role of regulators in ensuring fairness and alignment of interests of various stakeholders; and 
Regulation and Innovation: Striking a balance from securities market perspective;

The first panel discussion on “IPOs in Asia: Role of regulators in ensuring fairness and alignment of interests of various stakeholders” comprised Mr. Ashley Alder, CEO of the Securities and Futures Commission, Hong Kong, Mr. T. V. Mohandas Pai, Chairman, Manipal Global Education Services Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Prashant Saran, Whole Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India, and Mr. Vallabh Bhansali, Chairman, Enam Securities Pvt. Ltd. The panelists discussed and shared with the audience, the important issue of pricing of IPOs, the recent trends observed in the region and their respective regulatory framework, policies and experiences.
The second panel on “Regulation and Innovation: Striking a balance from securities market perspective” comprised  Mr. Greg Medcraft, Chairman, Australian Securities and Investments Commission & Chairman of IOSCO Board, Mr. Ranjit Ajit Singh, Chairman, Securities Commission, Malaysia, Mr. Ravi Narain, Non-executive Vice Chairman, NSE Limited. The panel was moderated by Ms. Menaka Doshi, Corporate Editor, CNBC TV-18. The panel discussion focused on the role of innovation in the financial markets and the need for regulators to identify the risks emerging out of such innovations. The panel discussed the challenges for the regulators to bring out the balance between regulation and innovation in securities markets.
Mr. David Wright in his closing remarks highlighted the increasingly important role being played by the regulators of the Asia Pacific region in shaping up the global financial policies and facilitating growth of the markets.
Note for Editors:
1. IOSCO is the leading international policy forum for securities regulators and is recognized as the global standard setter for securities regulation. The organization's membership regulates more than 95% of the world's securities markets in 115 jurisdictions and it continues to expand.
2. APRC is one of four regional committees constituted by the IOSCO to focus on regional issues relating to securities regulation. The APRC comprises 25 members representing securities regulators from the Asia-Pacific jurisdictions.

