
 
Nov 27, 2003

Press Releases 


PRESS RELEASE
November 27, 2003 PR No.288/2003

CENTRAL LISTING AUTHORITY
The SEBI (Central Listing Authority) Regulations, 2003 (“the regulations”) were notified on August 21, 2003 and subsequently amended vide CLA (Amendment) Regulations, 2003 issued on October 14, 2003 vide notification no.949 in the  Gazette of India.
In terms of the amended Regulation 4(2) of the regulations, the President, Vice-President and the Members shall be appointed by SEBI from amongst eminent persons of demonstrated integrity and outstanding technical and professional ability and drawn from the judiciary, legal profession, the academia, investor associations, exchanges and experts in securities market or finance, provided that not more than three members shall be representatives of exchanges, depositories, clearing corporations and other institutions related with the securities market.
Shri.Manjit Singh, who was Executive Director of Ludhiana Stock Exchange (LSE) and member of CLA, resigned from LSE and by virtue of such resignation, also resigned from the membership of CLA on 6th September 2003. In terms of the amended Regulation 4(2) of the said regulations, Shri.C B Bhave, Managing Director, National Securities Depository Ltd. (NSDL) has been appointed as member of CLA with effect from 6th November 2003. He is appointed for a term of three years with effect from that date and will be eligible for reappointment on retirement.
The Authority currently comprises of the following members:
Shri. M N Venkatachaliah, Retd. Chief Justice of India - President
Dr. S A Dave, Former Chairman, SEBI & UTI
Shri. Rajendra Chitale, Chartered Accountant
Shri. Prithvi Haldea, Managing Director, Prime Database
Prof R S Nigam, Professor, Delhi University
Shri. Amit Mitra, Secretary General, FICCI
Shri. G P Muniappan, Former Deputy Governor, RBI
Shri. Ravi Narain, Managing Director, NSE
Dr. Manoj Vaish, ED & CEO, BSE
Shri. C B Bhave, Managing Director, NSDL and
CEO (to be appointed)


