
 
Mar 10, 2011

Press Releases 













PR No.38/2011



Order against CFL Securities Limited in respect of its dealings in the shares of Ceat Limited and VXL Instruments Limited and Order against Tropical Securities and Investments Private Limited in respect of its dealings in the shares of VXL Instruments Limited 
 
Dr. K. M. Abraham, Whole Time Member, SEBI has passed an order dated      February 21, 2011 in the matter of Ceat Limited, suspending the certificate of registration of the stock broker, CFL Securities Limited for a period of two weeks. As the Securities and Exchange Board of India had already suspended the certificate of registration of the aforesaid stock broker for a period of three weeks vide an Order dated January 17, 2011 in respect of its dealings in the shares of DCM Shriram Consolidated Limited, the penalty imposed as mentioned above would run concurrently and shall come into force with immediate effect. 
Dr. K. M. Abraham, Whole Time Member, SEBI has passed another order dated February 21, 2011 in the matter of VXL Instruments Limited, suspending the certificate of registration of the stock broker, CFL Securities Limited for a period of two weeks. As the Securities and Exchange Board of India had already suspended the certificate of registration of the aforesaid stock broker for a period of three weeks vide an Order dated January 17, 2011 (in respect of its dealings in the shares of DCM Shriram Consolidated Limited)  and for a period of two weeks vide an Order dated February 21, 2011 ((in respect of its dealings in the shares of Ceat Limited), the penalty imposed as mentioned above would run concurrently and shall come into force with immediate effect. 
Dr. K. M. Abraham, Whole Time Member, SEBI has passed another order dated March 8, 2011 in the matter of VXL Instruments Limited, suspending the certificate of registration of the stock broker, Tropical Securities and Investments Private Limited for a period of two weeks. As the Securities and Exchange Board of India had already suspended the certificate of registration of the aforesaid stock broker vide an Order dated December 7, 2009 till the time it pays outstanding fees to Securities and Exchange Board of India, the penalty imposed as mentioned above would run concurrently with immediate effect. 
The full text of the orders is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in 
 
Mumbai
March 10, 2011

