
 
Jun 19, 2015

PR No.:  
162/2015


Shri S Raman, Whole Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), has prima-facie found that Eris Energy Limited ("Company") having its registered office at H No. 3077, Near Kishan Hotel, UFT Road, Ranjhi, Jabalpur–482005, Madhya Pradesh, India has been illegally raising money from public and accordingly passed an interim order dated June 18, 2015 against the company and its directors Shri Devid Haslaf, Shri Kedar Chandra Bera, Shri. Miarul Sekh, Shri Subhrajit Banik, Smt. Uma Shankar Shaw, Shri Debdulal Banik Chowdhury, Shri Avjit Choudhury, Shri Roy Sougata, Shri Arjun Saha, Subrata Das, Smt. Sumita Das, Shri Sekhar Chandra Koley, Shri. Himdari Bag alongwith its Debenture Trustees, viz. Shri Rabin Kundu, Shri Pallab Pandit and Shri Bijay Sarkar.
The Order, inter-alia directs as under:

The company shall forthwith cease to mobilize any fresh funds from investors through the Offer of Non–Convertible Redeemable Debentures ("NCDs") or through the issuance of equity shares or any other securities, to the public and/or invite subscription, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly till further directions.
The company and its past and present directors are prohibited from issuing prospectus or any offer document or issue advertisement for soliciting money from the public for the issue of securities, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly till further orders.
The company and its past and present directors, are restrained from accessing the securities market and further prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in the securities market, either directly or indirectly.
The company and its directors shall not dispose off any of the properties or alienate or encumber any of the assets owned/acquired by the company through the offer of Non-Convertible Debentures ("NCDs") without prior permission from SEBI.
The company and its present/past directors shall not divert any funds raised from public at large through the Offer of NCDs, which are kept in bank account(s) and/or in the custody of the company.
The Debenture Trustees, viz. Shri Bijay Sarkar, Shri Rabin Kundu and Shri Pallab Pandit, are prohibited from involvement in any new issue of debentures, etc. in a capacity similar to their assignment as debenture trustees in respect of the Offer of NCDs of the company, from the date of this order till further directions.

The company was engaged in fund mobilizing activity from the public through Offer of NCDs without complying with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and provisions of the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008.
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

