
 
Mar 26, 2015

PR No.:  
86/2015


Shri Prashant Saran, Whole Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), has passed an order dated March 17, 2015 in the matter of M/s. Astha Green Energy Ventures India Ltd., inter-alia directing as follows :-

The company namely M/s. Astha Green Energy Ventures India Ltd. and its promoters/directors viz., Mr. Keshav Reddy Mereddy, Mr. Arjun Reddy Mereddy, Mr. Jayanth Reddy Mereddy, Mr. Kunduru Raghuveer, Mr. K. Jayaveer, Mr. N. Ram Bhupal Reddy and Mr. N. Jayapal Reddy are restrained from mobilizing funds through the issue of equity shares or through any other form of securities, to the public and/ or invite subscription, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly till further directions.
The company and its promoters/directors are prohibited from issuing prospectus or any offer document or issue advertisement for soliciting money from the public for the issue of securities, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly, till further orders.
The company and its promoters/directors shall not dispose of any of the properties or alienate the assets of the company or dispose of any of their properties or alienate their assets.
The company and its promoters/directors shall not divert any funds raised from public at large through the issuance of the impugned equity shares, kept in its bank accounts and/ or in the custody of the Company without prior permission of SEBI until further orders.
The company and its promoters/directors are restrained from accessing the securities market and are further prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in securities in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly, till further directions.
The company and its promoters/directors shall co-operate with SEBI and shall furnish all the documents.
The company and its promoters/directors to provide a full inventory of all their assets and properties and details of all their bank accounts, demat accounts and holdings of shares/ securities, if held in physical form.

The company was engaged in fund mobilizing activity through issue of equity shares to public without complying with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956, provisions of SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 and the provisions of the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

