
 
Jul 20, 2015

PR No.:  
186/2015


Shri S Raman, Whole Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), has passed an order dated July 15, 2015 in the matter of Aspen Nirman India Limited (ANIL) having its registered office at U.G. 24, Upper Ground Floor of Orbit, Plot No. 305-306, Scheme No. 54, P.U. 4 Commercial, Indore- 452010 (M.P.). The order inter-alia directs the company and its directors viz. Mr. Abhijit Dasgupta, Mr. Bhaskar Saha, Mr.Ashim Maitra, Mr. Ujjal Kumar Roy, Mr. Avijit Kumar Ganguly, Mr. Debopam Sur and Mr. Goutam Sarkar as under : 

ANIL shall forthwith cease to mobilize any fresh funds from investors through the Offer of NCDs or through the issuance of equity shares or any other securities, to the public and/or invite subscription, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly till further directions; 
ANIL and its abovementioned Directors,  are prohibited from issuing prospectus or any offer document or issue advertisement for soliciting money from the public for the issue of securities, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly, till further orders; 
ANIL and its abovementioned Directors, are restrained from accessing the securities market and further prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in the securities market, either directly or indirectly, till further directions; 
ANIL and its abovementioned Directors shall not dispose of any of the properties or alienate or encumber any of the assets owned/acquired by that company without prior permission from SEBI; 
ANIL and its abovementioned present Directors shall not divert any funds raised from public at large through the Offer of NCDs, which are kept in bank account(s) and/or in the custody of ANIL; The Debenture Trustee, viz. Aspen Debenture Trust (represented by trustee Mr.  Raju Sarkar), is prohibited from continuing the present assignment as a debenture trustee in respect of the Offer of NCDs of ANIL and also from taking up any new assignment or involvement in any new issue of debentures, etc. in a similar capacity, from the date of this order till further directions. 

ANIL was engaged in fund mobilizing activity through issue of NCDs to more than 49 persons without complying with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities), Regulations,2008.
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

