
 
Feb 22, 2007

Press Releases 



PR No.64/2007
Order in the matter of M/s. Atlanta Ltd.
 
Shri G.Anantharaman, Whole Time Member, SEBI vide order dated February 22, 2007, has passed following directions, by way of ad interim, ex-parte order that: 
1.            The following promoters and entities connected with M/s. Atlanta Ltd. / its Directors/Company Secretary of the Company are directed not to buy, sell or deal in securities of M/s. Atlanta Ltd. directly or indirectly, till further directions in this regard:
1.      Rajhoo Bbarot, 
2.      Rikin R Bbarot, 
3.      Bhavana R Bbarot, 
4.      Ridhima M Doshi, 
5.      Rajendra A Bbarot,(HUF) 
6.      Ambalal P Barot (HUF), 
7.      Mitul M Doshi, 
8.      Shri Mukund Doshi, the company connected person
9.      Ms Smita Doshi, the company connected person
10. Shri Sachin Jain, Company Secretary , 
11. Shri Kishore Thakural, partner in Atlanta Thakural Constructions
12. Jay Thakural, partner in Atlanta Thakural Constructions
13. Shri Shadilal Chopra, director of associate company 
14. Kuber Capital Services Pvt. Ltd.
15. Vikram Kumar Jain
16. Pine Tree Consultants Pvt. Ltd.
 
2.      Further, M/s. Atlanta Ltd, is directed that it shall not issue any equity shares or any other instruments convertible into equity shares, in any manner, or shall not give effect to any alteration in its capital structure in any manner till further directions in this regard. 
3.      Manish Marwah, Dilip Nabera and following entities connected with them are directed not to buy, sell or deal in securities of M/s. Atlanta Ltd., directly or indirectly, till further directions in this regard:
 
1.                  Sadhana Dilip Nabera 
2.                  Adhunik Finance Private Ltd 
3.                  Emerging Capital Advisors Limited
4.                  Hem Kanak Mercantile Private Ltd
5.                  Mayrose Capfin Private Limited
6.                  Samradha Finstock Private Limited
7.                  Strategic Research Intelligence Limited
8.                  Sparkline Mercantile Co. Private Ltd
9.                  Neol Equity Research Private Limited
10.             Eden Realty Private Limited
11.             Him Realty Private Limited
12.             Ellis Equity Advisors Private Limited
13.             Spot Light Securities Private Limited
14.             Winstar E-Com Private Limited
4.      Further, the exchanges are directed to, not approve the listing of convertible warrants and listing of shares issued on conversion till further directions.
5.      Further, the depositories are directed not to dematerialize the convertible warrants and shares issued upon conversion and not to give effect to the stock split, till further directions. 
6.      The Depositories shall not give effect to any transfer of shares of M/s.Atlanta Ltd. lying in the beneficial owner accounts of the entities mentioned above at para  no.1 and 3.
All the above directions shall take effect immediately and shall be in force until further orders.
The above order is passed in view of preliminary analysis in the scrip of M/s. Atlanta Ltd. that the company, its promoters and entities connected with them have abused the Stock Exchange mechanism, the listing agreement, and regulations related to preferential issue of securities to unfairly maximize their wealth at the cost of the lay investor. The above prima facie findings shows that company, its promoters and entities connected with them seems to have violated Regulation 2(1)(c)(9), Regulation 3 and Regulation 4 of SEBI (Prohibition of Unfair Trade Practices) Regulations, 2003 and SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000. Based on the above findings of preliminary analysis, SEBI has initiated formal investigations in the above matter. 
The full text of the Order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in
 
Mumbai
February 22, 2007


