
 
Oct 29, 2015

PR No.:  
252/2015


Shri Prashant Saran, Whole Time Member, SEBI has passed an order dated October 13, 2015 under section 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with sections 11(1), 11(4), 11A and 11B against the company viz. M/s. Just-Reliable Projects India Limited  and its Directors viz. Mr. Swarup Dutta, Mr. Sumanta Gorai, Mr. Susanta Ghosh, Mr. Sukanta Dutta, Mr. Koushik Bej, Mr. Najib Seikh, Mr. Anjan Jana, Mr. Kanwal Prakash Singh, Mr. Gajender Pal Singh, Mr. Sandip Dutta, Mr. Virender Kumar and Mr. Niladri Chakraborty. The Order inter-alia directs as under:

The Company, Just-Reliable Projects      India Limited and its Directors, namely, Mr. Swarup Dutta, Mr. Sumanta      Gorai, Mr. Susanta Ghosh, Mr. Sukanta Dutta, Mr. Koushik Bej, Mr. Najib      Seikh, Mr. Anjan Jana, Mr. Kanwal Prakash Singh, Mr. Gajender Pal      Singh,  Mr. Sandip Dutta, Mr.      Virender Kumar and Mr. Niladri Chakraborty, jointly and severally, shall forthwith      refund the money collected by the Company through the issuance of      Redeemable Preference Shares to the investors including the money      collected from investors, till date, pending allotment of securities, if any,      with an interest of 15% per annum compounded at half yearly intervals,      from the date when the repayments became due to the investors till the      date of actual payment.   

 

The Company/its present management are      permitted to sell the assets of the Company only for the sole purpose of      making the refunds as directed above and deposit the proceeds in an Escrow      Account opened with a nationalised Bank.  

 

The Company, its directors and other      persons named above, shall issue public notice, in all editions of two      National Dailies (one English and one Hindi) and in one local daily (in      Bengali) with wide circulation, detailing the modalities for refund,      including details of contact persons including names, addresses and      contact details, within fifteen days of this Order coming into effect. 

 

After completing the aforesaid      repayments, the Company shall file a certificate of such completion with      SEBI, within a period of three months from the date of this Order, from      two independent peer reviewed Chartered Accountants who are in the panel      of any public authority or public institution. For the purpose of this      Order, a peer reviewed Chartered Accountant shall mean a Chartered      Accountant, who has been categorized so by the Institute of Chartered      Accountants of India ("ICAI").

 

The Company, its directors and former      directors are also directed to provide a full inventory of all their      assets and properties and details of all their bank accounts, demat      accounts and holdings of shares/securities, if held in physical form.

 

Just-Reliable Projects India Limited is directed not to, directly      or indirectly, access the capital market by issuing prospectus, offer      document or advertisement soliciting money from the public and are      further restrained and prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise      dealing in the securities market, directly or indirectly in whatsoever      manner, from the date of this Order till the expiry of 4 years from the      date of completion of refunds to investors as directed above. 

 

The directors including former directors,      namely, Mr. Swarup Dutta, Mr. Sumanta Gorai, Mr. Susanta Ghosh, Mr.      Sukanta Dutta, Mr. Koushik Bej, Mr. Najib Seikh, Mr. Anjan Jana, Mr.      Kanwal Prakash Singh, Mr. Gajender Pal Singh , Mr. Sandip Dutta, Mr.      Virender Kumar and Mr. Niladri Chakraborty are restrained from accessing the securities market      and further prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in the      securities market, directly or indirectly in whatsoever manner, with      immediate effect. They are also restrained from issuing prospectus, offer      document or advertisement soliciting money from the public and associating      themselves with any listed public company and any public company which      intends to raise money from the public, or any intermediary registered      with SEBI.  The above directions      shall come into force with immediate effect and shall continue to be in      force from the date of this Order till the expiry of 4 years from the date      of completion of refunds to investors, as directed above.     

 

The above directions shall come into      force with immediate effect. 

 
It is observed that the company was engaged in fund mobilizing activity through issue of Redeemable Preference Shares to more than 49 persons without complying with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.
 
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in
 

