
 
Jan 27, 2006

PR No.:  
49/2006 


PRESS RELEASE
PR No.49/2006

Order in the matter of Minal Engineering Ltd.
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) vide order dated September 28, 2005 has issued the following directions on the captioned matter:
(a)    the following promoters and directors of Minal Engineering Ltd. viz.  J B Parikh, Shrikant J Parikh, J V Joshi, Amul J Patel, Vikram J Parikh, Malay Karbhari and Kamlesh Khandhor shall not buy, sell or deal in securities of Minal Engineering Ltd., directly or indirectly; 
(b)    the Depositories shall not give effect to any transfer of shares of Minal Engineering Ltd. lying in the beneficial owner accounts of said promoters and directors;
(c)    Minal Engineering Ltd. shall not reissue its forfeited shares nor shall issue any bonus shares. If such reissue or issue is already made, the allottees shall not further transfer the shares and the company and the depositories shall not give effect to any such transfer, if attempted to be made. 
Pursuant to the interim order passed on September 28, 2005, the above entities were requested to submit their responses. As requested by the entities and in adherence to the principles of natural justice, personal hearing was granted to the above entities on November 18, 2005. After considering the oral submissions during the course of hearing and written submissions, the following order has been passed by Shri G Anantharaman, Whole Time Member, SEBI on January 25, 2006. 
The directions to the following promoters and directors of Minal Engineering Ltd. viz., J B Parikh, Shrikant J Parikh, J V Joshi, Amul J Patel, Vikram J Parikh, Malay Karbhari and Kamlesh Khandhor shall not buy, sell or deal in securities of Minal Engineering Ltd., directly or indirectly, shall remain in force subject to following modifications in the directions mentioned therein, in the interest of the investors and safety and integrity of the securities market. 
(a)    Minal Engineering Ltd. may issue bonus shares provided the following promoters and directors of  Minal Engineering Ltd. viz.  J B Parikh, Shrikant J Parikh, J V Joshi, Amul J Patel, Vikram J Parikh, Malay Karbhari and Kamlesh Khandhor shall not further transfer the shares. The company and the depositories shall not give effect to any such transfer, if attempted to be made.
(b)    Minal Engineering Ltd. may reissue its forfeited shares provided that the allottees shall not further transfer the shares. The company and the depositories shall not give effect to any such transfer, if attempted to be made.  
All the above directions shall take effect immediately and shall be in force until further orders. 
The full text of the Order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in
 
Mumbai
January 27, 2006


