
 
Aug 25, 2015

PR No.:  
218/2015


Shri Prashant Saran, Whole Time Member, SEBI has passed an order on August 14, 2015, wherein M/s. Aspen Projects India Limited. and its promoters & directors, inter-alia have been directed to refund the money collected by the company through issuance of Secured Redeemable Debentures and Preference Shares, with interest at the rate of 15% per annum compounded at half yearly intervals and also not to access the capital market in any manner. They have also been restrained and prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in the securities market, from the date of this order till the expiry of four years from the date of completion of refunds to investors.
The directors are also restrained from associating themselves with any listed public company and any public company which intends to raise money from the public, or any intermediary registered with SEBI. The above directions shall come into force with immediate effect and shall continue to be in force from the date of this Order till the expiry of 4 years from the date of completion of refunds to investors as directed above.
The Debenture Trustees, viz. Mr. Ram Sunder Bhattacharya and Smt. Mita Roy shall not offer themselves to be engaged as debenture trustees or in any capacity as an intermediary in the securities market, without to undertake that obtaining a certificate of registration assignment as required under law. Further, Mr. Ram Sunder Bhattacharya and Smt. Mita Roy are restrained from accessing the securities market and are further restrained from buying, selling or dealing in securities, in any manner whatsoever, for a period of 4 years.
The company was engaged in fund mobilizing activity through issuance of Secured Redeemable Debentures and Preference Shares, to more than 49 persons, without complying with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and provisions of the SEBI (issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008.
The company and its promoters and directors shall issue public notice, in all editions of two National Dailies (one English and one Hindi) and in one local daily (in Bengali) with wide circulation, detailing the modalities for refund, including details of contact persons including names, addresses and contact details, within fifteen days of this Order coming into effect.
SEBI had passed an interim order on June 05, 2014 in the matter, whereby inter-alia, it directed the company and its promoters/directors not to collect any more money from investors through issuance of securities in any manner whatsoever.
The present order dated August 14, 2015 brings to conclusion the above said proceedings with the aforesaid directions. 
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

