
 
Apr 10, 2007

PR No.:  
131/2007 


PRESS RELEASE
PR No.131/2007 

 
SEBI signs bilateral Memoranda of Understanding with 
securities market regulators of Thailand and Nigeria 
 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has signed Memoranda of Understanding for regulatory cooperation, mutual assistance and sharing of information with securities markets regulatory authorities of two jurisdictions – The Securities and Exchange Commission of Thailand and the Securities and Exchange Commission of Nigeria. 
 
 
The Memorandum of Understanding with SEC, Thailand was signed by Mr. M. Damodaran, Chairman, SEBI and Mr. Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala, Secretary General, SEC, Thailand. 
 (Right to Left )Mr. M. Damodaran, Chairman,Securities and Exchange Board of India with Mr.Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala, Secretary General, Securities Exchange Commission, Thailand after signing a Memorandum of Understanding in Mumbai today
 
The Memorandum of Understanding with SEC, Nigeria was signed by   Mr. M. Damodaran, Chairman, SEBI and Mr. Musa Al-Faki, Director General, SEC, Nigeria.
 (Right to Left) Mr M Damodaran, Chairman, Securities and Exchange Board of India with Mr.Musa Al-Faki, Director General, Securities Exchange Commission, Nigeria after signing a Memorandum of Understanding in Mumbai today
 
The MoUs were signed on the occasion of the 32nd IOSCO Annual Conference being hosted by SEBI at Grand Hyatt, Mumbai, where regulatory authorities from across the world are meeting to deliberate on securities market regulations and to participate in various IOSCO Committee meetings. 
 
The MoUs have been signed to establish a general framework for co-operation and consultation between the regulatory authorities, in order to facilitate the fulfilling of their regulatory responsibilities. 
 
With the increasing internationalization and interdependence of securities markets and the need for closer co-operation between regulatory authorities, the MoUs will facilitate mutual assistance, the strengthening of cross-border co-operation and contribute towards efficient performance of the supervisory functions, and effective enforcement of the Laws and Regulations governing the markets.
 
Mumbai
April 10, 2007 

