
 
Jan 30, 2008

PR No.:  
24/2008


                                                                                       PR No.24/2008


SEBI Board Meeting
 


The SEBI Board at its meeting held in Mumbai today,  approved the following:
1) SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008
2) SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitized Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008
3) SEBI (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008
4) Amendment to SEBI (Mutual Fund) Regulations, 1996
(1) SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008
The regulations pertain to issue and listing of debt securities which are not convertible, either in whole or in part into equity instruments. They provide for a rationalized disclosure requirements and a reduction of certain onerous obligations erstwhile attached to an issue of debt securities. Regulations have been aimed at reducing time and unnecessary burden of issuance of these securities and according flexibility to issuers to structure their instruments, without diluting areas of regulatory concern. Key features of the Regulations are:

Due diligence, proper disclosures and credit rating, the key elements of corporate debt issuances will be ensured by SEBI mainly through due diligence exercise by the merchant bankers.
Where the equity of a company is listed, and such company wishes to issue debt instruments (whether by way of public offering or private placement), as large amount of company related information is already in public domain and material developments are available as per the equity listing agreement on a nearly continuous basis minimal incremental disclosures are sufficient.
Where the equity of the issuer is not listed, and such a company raises debt capital (whether by way of public offering or private placement) detailed disclosures, are required.
Offer to fifty or more persons shall require mandatory listing and specific disclosures in terms of the Regulations and a simplified listing agreement where the equity securities of such entity are listed.

(2) SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitized Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008
The SCRA was amended in 2007 enabling SEBI to provide for disclosure based regulation for public issue of or listing of securitized debt instruments on the recognized stock exchanges. Accordingly, SEBI has made regulations in this regard.
The regulations are principle based and have been made taking into account the market needs, cost of the transactions, competition policy, the professional expertise of credit rating agencies, disclosures and obligations of the parties involved in the transaction.
Salient features of the regulations are as follows:
(a) The special purpose distinct entity (the issuer) will be a trust and the.trustees thereof will require registration from SEBI. The instrument issued by the issuer to the investor shall acknowledge the beneficial interest of such investor in underlying debt or receivables assigned to the issuer. The issuer can undertake only the activities permitted by the regulations.
(b) The regulations permit securitization of both existing as well as future receivables.
(c) The regulations provide flexibility in terms of pay through / pass through structures.
(d) In case of public issuances listing will be mandatory. The instruments issued on private placement basis may also be listed subject to the compliance of simplified provisions of the regulations.
(e) Regulations require strict segregation of assets of each scheme.
(3) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries)
Regulations, 2008
In the present regime a dozen regulations govern different categories of intermediaries. The broad framework of such regulations is similar to one another. The new regulations seek to consolidate the common requirements and put in place a comprehensive framework which will apply to the intermediaries and prescribe the obligations, procedure, limitations etc. in so far as the common requirements are concerned. The new regulations seek to simplify procedures to make the registration/regulation process of intermediaries less burdensome and cost effective without diluting the regulatory oversight. The regulation is primarily principle based and some significant changes in the framework are given below­ :-
>
1.                  Permanent Registration
Subject to compliance with the SEBI Act, regulations, updation of relevant disclosures and payment of fees registration shall be permanent.
2. Registration for multiple activities
The process for registration for undertaking multiple activities by the same intermediary has been simplified.
3. Registration Form- information divided into two parts
Part 1 of the form will be disclosed and available to the public and Part II will contain such information which will be retained with the Board as regulatory filing.
4. Fit and Proper person requirements
The criteria to determine whether the intermediary is a Fit and Proper person have been revised and are now principle based.
5. Suspension/Cancellation of certificate of registration
The manner of suspension/cancellation of any certificate granted to any person has been provided in the regulations. Consequently the SEBI (Procedure for holding enquiry by enquiry officer and imposing penalty) Regulations, 2002 will be repealed. The procedure for suspension/cancellation has been simplified and the time taken in this regard is sought to be reduced.
4) Amendment to SEBI (Mutual Fund) Regulations, 1996 for removal of  initial issue expense in close-ended mutual fund schemes
The SEBI Board approved the proposal for removal of charging and amortization of initial issue expense in close-ended mutual fund schemes. Accordingly, henceforth, all mutual fund schemes shall meet the sales, marketing and other such expenses connected with sales and distribution of schemes from the entry load. Consequently, waiver of load for direct applicants will also be available in close-ended schemes.
This would bring in more transparency and better upfront disclosures to the investors in terms of the expenses charged in close-ended schemes.
 
Necessary amendments to the respective regulation are being issued.
Mumbai
January 30, 2008

