
 
Feb 07, 2008

Press Releases 



PR No.33/2008
 
SEBI and AMF (FRANCE) Announce Terms establishing the structure and agenda of cooperation between the two authorities
    
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF), France announced terms of cooperation and collaboration with a view to promoting fair, efficient and transparent capital markets in India and France. This announcement of Terms of a Regulatory Dialogue for cooperation with the AMF of France comes close on the heels of a similar arrangement that SEBI had entered into with the US SEC in early January. The Chairs of the AMF France and the US SEC are the Chairman and Vice Chairman respectively of the Technical Committee of the International Organisation of Securities Commissions  (IOSCO), while SEBI Chairman Mr. M.Damodaran is the Chairman of the Emerging Markets Committee.
SEBI Chairman Mr. M.Damodaran and AMF Chairman Mr. Michael Prada, elaborated the terms, establishing the structure and agenda of cooperation between the two authorities going forward, in Amsterdam on February 05, 2008: 
The collaboration between the two authorities would include, but not be restricted to, promoting mutual regulatory understanding and exchange of information as well as an annual cooperation program. Through the framework of promoting mutual regulatory understanding and exchange of information and the annual cooperation program, SEBI and the AMF acknowledge the need to establish a framework of close relationship between the two Authorities for the purpose of better understanding and knowledge of each other’s regulatory system.
The mutual exchange of information on each other’s regulatory systems and the annual cooperation Program are intended to take place within the framework of international cooperation, especially the Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding (MMoU) of the IOSCO which “sets forth the Authorities’ intent with regard to mutual assistance and the exchange of information for the purpose of enforcing and securing compliance with the respective Laws and Regulations of the jurisdictions of the Authorities.” It also aims at addressing the increasing cross-border business and the globalization of financial markets. 
 (a) Promoting mutual regulatory understanding and exchange of information 
 
The mutual regulatory understanding and exchange of information would be on the following lines:
§         Organisation of seminars in India and France: Experts from each of the Authorities shall be hosted by the other Authority to present specific technical themes on a regular basis. These seminars shall provide an in-depth presentation of the regulatory regime of each jurisdiction and its practical implementation and shall, where appropriate, include workshops and business cases.
§         Study Visits: Study visits to each other jurisdiction shall be organised with an objective of having greater understanding of regulatory challenges faced by hosting authority and creating close links between the experts of the two Authorities in order to enhance dialogue and mutual exchange of information.
§         Public Conferences: Public conferences, with the objective of having greater understanding of regulatory systems in each other jurisdiction, may be organised with partnership of industry and participation by industry representatives, experts and staff from each other jurisdiction.   
§         Visits of delegations: Delegations comprising industry representatives, experts and staff may visit to each other jurisdiction with the objective of having greater understanding of regulatory systems in each other jurisdiction on regular basis with partnership of industry.
§         Internships: With a view to having exhaustive and precise overview of the hosting authority’s day-to-day practice, staff members from each authority may join the other authority for internships on regular basis.
§         Improved cooperation in cross-border securities enforcement matters: SEBI and the AMF recognize that an increasingly important component of effective enforcement of domestic securities laws is the ability of securities regulators to both provide and receive timely and comprehensive assistance from their foreign counterparts. Accordingly, the SEBI and AMF will work to communicate quickly on such matters and to provide timely and thorough assistance to one another and will fully utilize the IOSCO Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding (MMoU) provisions for this purpose.
(b) Annual Cooperation Program
The activities under the above stated structure for promoting mutual regulatory understanding and exchange of information would form part of an Annual Cooperation Program to be decided by the two authorities. The program will include annual bilateral meetings between the  Chairmen of the two authorities to strengthen their mutual commitment in the long term as also to discuss any regulatory issues of common concern and reviewing all general and technical issues covered under the Terms of Reference for mutual cooperation and exchange of information.  
Speaking on the occasion, Chairman Mr. Prada said: “As we see a speeding up of cross border activities in securities markets, close and confident cooperation between securities regulators is a key component of market integrity and efficiency. By fostering their mutual commitment to promoting regulatory understanding and exchange of information through an Annual Cooperation Program, SEBI and AMF pave the way for the development of a fruitful relationship between the Indian and French markets.”
Chairman Mr. Damodaran stated: “The increased cooperation between the AMF and SEBI is significant in the context of the enhanced presence of the emerging markets in an increasingly globalised world. This would enable greater focus on investor protection in a disclosure based global regime as also enable greater cooperation of the industry in the two jurisdictions to promote capital formation. Improved cooperation in cross-border securities enforcement matters within the framework of the IOSCO MMoU would help in making securities markets in both jurisdictions safer.”
 
Mumbai
February 07, 2008
 


