
 
Apr 30, 2004

PR No.:  
95/2004 



 
PRESS RELEASE
April 29, 2004 PR No.95/2004

 


SEBI SIGNS MOU WITH COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION, UNITED STATES
 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) in Washington on April 28, 2004. The MOU was signed by Mr. G N Bajpai, Chairman, SEBI and Mr. James E. Newsome, Chairman, CFTC. The MOU aims to strengthen communication channels and establish a framework for assistance and mutual cooperation between the two organizations.
The MOU marks the beginning of greater collaboration between SEBI and CFTC to effectively regulate and develop futures markets, in view of greater cross-border trade and cross-market linkages brought about by the globalisation of financial markets. The two authorities intend to consult periodically about matters of mutual interest in order to promote cooperation and market integrity, and to further the protection of futures and options market participants. In furtherance of the objective of promoting the development of sound futures and options regulatory mechanisms, the CFTC would also provide technical assistance for development of futures markets in India.
On the occasion of signing of the MOU, Mr. Bajpai, said that cooperation is crucial for the exchange of information, know-how and skills amongst jurisdictions because of the integrated financial environment. Mr. Newsome, reiterated CFTC’s long tradition of developing cooperative arrangements with foreign financial authorities.
CFTC was created by the Congress in 1974 as an independent agency to regulate commodity futures and option markets in United States of America.
This is the sixth MOU that SEBI had signed with its international counterparts. SEBI had earlier signed MOUs with Securities and Exchange Commission, USA, Securities Commission, Malaysia, Financial Services Commission, Mauritius, Securities and Exchange Commission, Sri Lanka and the Monetary Authority of Singapore. As an active member of International Organisation of the Securities Commission (IOSCO), SEBI is committed to ensure fair and orderly development of the securities markets and co-operation with other global regulators.
 



 




 
Mr. James E.Newsome, Chairman, CFTC (Left) and Mr. G.N.Bajpai, Chairman, SEBI signing the MOU at the CFTC headquarters in Washington on April 28, 2004. 





 

