
 
Dec 03, 2012

PR No.:  
101/2012



Members at the Asia-Pacific Regional Committee at its meeting held at Bangkok, Thailand on November 29, 2012
 
Members of the Asia-Pacific Regional Committee (APRC) of International Organization of Securities Commission (IOSCO) met in Bangkok, Thailand during November 28-30, 2012. The current Chairman of the APRC is Mr. U.K. Sinha, Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India.
IOSCO is the leading international policy forum for securities regulators and is recognised as the global standard setter for securities regulation. The organization's membership regulates more than 95% of the world's securities markets in 115 jurisdictions and it continues to expand.
APRC is one of four regional committees constituted by the IOSCO to focus on regional issues relating to securities regulation. The APRC comprises 25 members representing securities regulators from the Asia-Pacific jurisdictions.
The three day APRC event aimed at further enhancing mutual cooperation and exchange of information among regulators of one of the fastest growing regions of the world. The event also highlighted the important role being played by the regulators of the region in shaping the global policy framework for securities markets and the need to continue the efforts in this direction.
Enforcement Directors’ Meeting:
The event began with an Enforcement Directors’ (ED) Meeting, chaired by Ms. Supa Thamthitivat, Director Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Thailand on November 28, 2012. This initiative of the APRC Secretariat to schedule the ED meeting, which was held after a gap of few years, was well received by the APRC members. Mr. David Wright, Secretary General, IOSCO also participated in the meeting. The meeting was attended by senior Enforcement officers of 15 jurisdictions of the Asia-Pacific region, who shared information and insights about their enforcement practices and experience. The meeting also underscored the need to further enhance mutual cooperation and information sharing on enforcement related issues within the region.
APRC Meeting:
The APRC meeting held on November 29, 2012 was chaired by Mr. U.K. Sinha, Chairman, SEBI. The meeting underscored the likely strong growth of securities markets in the future and the importance of securities regulators engaging with one another both at the global and at the regional level; with a view to continue their efforts in ensuring safety, integrity and transparency of securities markets and to develop a well-coordinated and forward-looking response to emerging and evolving developments. 
The meeting was preceded by a Roundtable on ‘identifying and addressing emerging risks in the securities market in the APRC region; particularly in the context of global development in the financial markets’. Apart from securities regulators of the region, the Roundtable was attended by four senior executives drawn from different parts of the private sector in the financial services industry of the Asia-Pacific region, who shared their perspectives. The Roundtable highlighted the importance of building, nurturing and strengthening investors’ trust and confidence by addressing the emerging risks in a consistent, prudent, timely and a well-nuanced manner.  It also underscored the importance of consistency and predictability in regulatory rule making and implementation across jurisdictions and regions. The importance of appropriate regulatory response in the face of possible risk of contagion for the Asia-Pacific region due to decline in growth rates world over was also highlighted.
The meeting also decided to further strengthen the existing mechanisms for information sharing on enforcement related issues, with a view to avoid regulatory arbitrage apart from information about important policy and regulatory developments. Chairman, Mr. Sinha said: “Effective Enforcement is one of the most important parameters for judging the efficacy of securities regulators. We would need to continue our efforts to further strengthen the existing mechanism for enforcement related cooperation both at the regional and at the global level.”
During the meeting, securities regulators from Australia, Hong Kong, Japan and India shared their country experience in regulating the area of Algorithmic/ High frequency Trading. The discussion emphasized upon the key challenges surrounding this rapidly evolving issue, commonly faced by the jurisdictions in the Asia-Pacific region and the potential solutions.
The meeting also highlighted the strengths of APRC and IOSCO as a forum for discussing and developing regulatory approaches to common issues.
Dr. Vorapol Socatiyanurak, Secretary General, Securities and Exchange Commission, Thailand  remarked: “I am so delighted that in the year marking our 20th anniversary, the SEC Thailand had the opportunity to host this very important meeting. Capital regulators in the APRC region came together to discuss our views on recent developments in supervisory approach to cope with the fast moving changes in global financial markets”.
Mr. David Wright, Secretary General, IOSCO added: “The APRC is the fastest growing area in the world and, pari passu, its securities markets are also developing rapidly. Strengthening IOSCO APRC’s regulatory and supervisory cooperation, identifying best practices, ensuring consistent enforcement with effective sanctions regimes and implementing the financial reforms agenda in convergent ways will help build economic and financial trust throughout the region.”
 “Hearing about the great work in the region on investor education (including impressive initiatives of the Thailand SEC) and algorithmic and high frequency trading flagged the need for IOSCO to develop tool boxes in these important areas. We will take these ideas to the next Board meeting as a regional initiative in Sydney next March” said ASIC Chairman and incoming IOSCO Board Chairman, Mr. Greg Medcraft.  “This will reinforce the strong single voice the APRC is developing in global policy forums” he added.
Public Panels:
IOSCO APRC Seminar on November 30, 2012 featured two panel discussions, where regulators and market practitioners met to share their perspectives on capital market development in order to play a more enhanced role in their respective jurisdiction’s economy.  
The Seminar had the following two public panels:

 Opportunities and challenges for SME financing through capital market
 Capitalizing on Regional Growth Prospects: Enlarging Opportunities for Asset Management Companies

The first panel discussion on “Opportunities and Challenges for SME Financing through Capital Market” comprised leading personalities namely Datuk Ranjit Ajit Singh, Chairman of the Securities Commission, Malaysia, Mr. Pyoung-ho Shin, Executive Director of Korea Exchange Inc., and Mr. Pongsak Lothongkom, CEO of SVI Plc. The panel was moderated by Mr. Pinit Puapan, Authorized Director and Managing Director of KT Zmico Securities Co., Ltd. The panellists discussed and shared with audience, the importance of SMEs as one of the key drivers of economy. Panellists shared their experiences on facilitating raising of funds for SMEs through capital market, including by organizing educational programs, revision of pertinent rules and regulations and establishing SMEs’ securities trading venue.
The second panel on “Capitalizing on Regional Growth Prospects: Enlarging Opportunities for Asset Management Companies” comprised  Mr. Ashley Alder, CEO of Securities and Futures Commission, Hong Kong, Mr. Jean-Marc Goy, Counsel for International Affairs Commission de Surveillance du Serteur Financier, Luxemburg, Ms. Corinne Cheok, Head of Distribution for Asia-Pacific, Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited and Dr. Somjin Sornpaisarn, Chairman of Association of Investment Management Companies. The panel was moderated by Mrs. Tipsuda Thavaramara, Senior Assistant Secretary-General, SEC Thailand. The panel discussion focused on opportunities and challenges for asset management industry amidst ever changing environment. The need for the asset management companies to play a more proactive role in light of the evolving developments was also highlighted.  The panel deliberated that regulatory framework across jurisdictions should be supportive of cross-border offering of financial products while at the same time, protection of interests of investors and investor education are matters of paramount importance.

