
 
Oct 05, 2013

PR No.:  
99/2013


The SEBI Board met in Mumbai today and took the following decisions: 
SEBI (FOREIGN PORTFOLIO INVESTORS) REGULATIONS, 2013
The Board considered and approved the draft SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2013.
The SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2013 have been framed keeping in view the provisions of SEBI (Foreign Institutional Investors) Regulations, 1995, Qualified Foreign Investors (QFIs) framework and the recommendations of the “Committee on Rationalization of Investment Routes and Monitoring of Foreign Portfolio Investments”.
The salient features of the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2013 are as under:
A. Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs):  
1.         Existing FIIs, Sub Accounts and Qualified Foreign Investors (QFIs) shall be  merged into a new investor class termed as “FPIs”. 
2.         SEBI approved Designated Depository Participants (DDPs) shall register FPIs on  behalf of SEBI subject to compliance with KYC requirements.  The Board also          took note of the fact that instructions regarding risk-based KYC for FPIs have   already been issued by SEBI on September 12, 2013.
3.         FPI shall be required to seek registration in any one of the following categories:
        (a)   "Category I Foreign Portfolio Investor" which shall include Government and  Government related foreign investors etc;
      (b)   "Category II Foreign Portfolio Investor" which shall include appropriately  regulated broad based funds,  appropriately regulated entities, broad based    funds whose investment manager is appropriately regulated, university funds,   university related endowments, pension funds etc;
      (c)   "Category III Foreign Portfolio Investor" which shall include all others not   eligible under Category I and II foreign portfolio investors.
4.         All existing FIIs and Sub Accounts may continue to buy, sell or otherwise deal in  securities under the FPI regime.
5.         All existing Qualified Foreign Investors (QFIs) may continue to buy, sell or  otherwise deal in securities till the period of one year from the date of notification of this regulation. In the meantime, they may obtain FPI registration through  DDPs.
6.         The registration granted to FPIs by the DDPs on behalf of SEBI shall be permanent unless suspended or cancelled by SEBI.
7.         FPIs shall be allowed to invest in all those securities, wherein Foreign  Institutional Investors (FIIs) are allowed to invest.
8.         Category I and Category II FPIs shall be allowed to issue, or otherwise deal in   offshore derivative instruments (ODIs), directly or indirectly. However, the FPI needs to be satisfied that such ODIs are issued only to persons who are regulated by an appropriate foreign regulatory authority after ensuring  compliance with ‘know your client’ norms.
B. Designated Depository Participants (DDPs):  
9.         DDP shall be an Authorized Dealer Category-1 bank authorized by Reserve   Bank of India, Depository Participant and Custodian of Securities registered with SEBI.
10.       Depository shall forward the application of DDP along with its recommendation to   SEBI for grant of approval.
11.       SEBI registered Custodian of Securities shall be deemed to be DDP subject to  payment of fees as prescribed in the regulations.
12.       SEBI approved Qualified Depository Participant not meeting the DDP eligibility  criteria may operate as DDP for a period of one year. 
13.       DDPs shall carry out necessary due diligence and obtain appropriate  declarations and undertakings before registering FPIs.

