
 
Nov 19, 2019

PR No.:  
23/2019


“Technology a key game changer in
Financial Services” -  Shri Ajay Tyagi“Technology is a key game
changer in financial services as it can not only provide fast and better
services to the consumer, it can also be a catalyst in improving the ease of
doing business”, said Shri Ajay Tyagi, Chairman, SEBI while participating in a
panel discussion on “Technology in Financial Services” at Singapore on November
16, 2019. The panel discussion was part of the 4th South Asian
Diaspora Convention organized by the Institute of South Asian Studies (ISAS) at
the National University of Singapore. The panel was chaired by Mr. Vinod Rai,
former Comptroller and Auditor General of India. Other panelists in the panel
were Mr. Sopnendu Mohanty, Chief Fintech Officer, Monetary Authority of
Singapore and Ms. Anne Lochoff, Senior Advisor, Global Centre for Technology,
Innovation and Sustainable Development, United Nations Development Programme,
Singapore.Giving the examples of
shifting of trading to screen based electronic trading from an open outcry
system, dematerialisation of securities, T+2 rolling settlement, Integrated
surveillance system, online complaint redress system of SEBI (SCORES), KYC
registration agencies (KRAs) and the recent introduction of inter-operability
of clearing corporations, Shri Tyagi said  
“the Indian securities market has always been at the forefront in
embracing technological advancement keeping pace with the developed securities
market in the world”. Elucidating further, Shri
Tyagi said that “newly emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence (AI)
machine learning (ML), deep learning, etc. are being used in Indian capital
markets in areas like Robo advisory services, surveillance through social media
analytics, IT security, etc. ““New technologies like
Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT), Robotic Process Automation (RPA), and
Natural Language Processing in various fields of securities markets like
clearing and settlement, risk management, surveillance, compliance automation
etc. are increasingly being considered and tested globally”, he added.“SEBI’s approach has been to
encourage and improve capacity building and innovation while being aware of the
possible associated risks and managing them. SEBI does not prescribe the type
of technology to be deployed by intermediaries for carrying out their
functions/providing their services, and its regulations are technology
agnostic”, Shri Tyagi said. “However, to safeguard against the associated risks
in newer technologies, robust cyber security framework based on IOSCO
principles has been specified for market infrastructure institutions and
intermediaries”, he added.  On challenges, Shri Tyagi
said, “there are broader challenges, including compliance requirements, not
restricted only to capital markets”. 
“Globally, many data localization and data privacy laws such as GDPR have
come into force. In India too, Personal Data Protection Bill, is being
introduced in the Parliament”. Shri Tyagi pointed out that,
“Due to advancement in technology, funds and securities can now flow across the
world in few microseconds. This enables setting up of complex global structures
which could be potentially misused for tax avoidance, money laundering, round
tripping, etc.” “Such transactions are now increasingly being structured at a
global level while the data available with regulators/governments is largely
local. The information exchange between global regulators/ governments is not
as easy & free-flowing as easy it is to structure such transactions. This
has created enforcement issues”, he added.Enumerating some of the steps
taken by SEBI to encourage and facilitate financial technology in securities
markets, Shri Tyagi said that “SEBI has (1) Set up a Committee on Financial and
Regulatory Technologies (CFRT) to advise SEBI on ways to reap the opportunities
provided by FinTech, while also dealing with the relevant risks and challenges
(2) Enabled an Innovation sandbox to facilitate development and adoption of
innovative FinTech solutions in securities market by entities not regulated by
SEBI. A framework to provide a testing environment for FinTech firms has also
been specified. (3) Proposed a Regulatory sandbox for facilitating SEBI
regulated entities to experiment with FinTech solutions in a live environment
and on real customers. A draft framework which was issued for public
consultation is being finalized.” 
Highlighting the use of
technology in SEBI’s functioning, Shri Tyagi said that “SEBI not only
encourages technological innovation in securities markets, it also uses and
regularly updates technology in its own functioning and plans to spend INR 5
billion on IT projects in the next 5 years “. “SEBI plans to have its own
private cloud to have a common IT infrastructure for all of
SEBI’s IT infra needs which is readily scalable as well as has systems with
open standards compatible with any technology”, he added. “A Network Operations
Centre (NOC) for continuous monitoring of the smooth functioning of the SEBI IT
network and Securities Operations Centre (SOC) to detect and mitigate
cyber-attacks on SEBI’s IT infrastructure in efficient and effective way, are
under implementation, and are expected to be in place by the end of this year”,
he said. “SEBI has also planned Data lake project to augment analytical
capability at SEBI with advance analytical tools as AI/ML, deep learning, big
data analytics, pattern recognition, processing of structured and unstructured
data, text mining and natural language processing ,etc., Shri Tyagi said. 

