
 
Oct 07, 2019

PR No.:  
22/2019


SEBI Chairman meets investors
and other stakeholders in USA Shri Ajay Tyagi, Chairman, SEBI
led a delegation of SEBI Officials to USA and met with various stakeholders in
the Indian securities markets including industry and investor associations. The
interactions were held in New York, Boston and Washington DC during the week
from September 30 to October 4, 2019. Commenting on the meetings,
Shri Ajay Tyagi said, “We met various stakeholders during the meetings. The
participants welcomed various initiatives taken by SEBI.  We found the interactive sessions quite
useful in terms of new ideas for further improving the ease of doing business. I had a separate meeting with Shri Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Indian Ambassador to the
USA and apprised him of the recent developments in capital markets in India as
also gist of the discussions in various meetings held in USA during the tour.
I thank the Embassy of India at Washington D.C. and the Indian Consulate at New
York who helped in facilitating the meetings. I also thank the US India
Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF), US India Business Council (USIBC) and the
Business Council for International Understanding
(BCIU), who coordinated the meetings.” Chairman, SEBI during the
meetings briefed the participants on the key
aspects, trends and recent developments in the India economy from a
broader perspective and on Indian capital markets, in particular. The achievements
of both Indian primary markets and secondary markets were brought out in the
meetings. The achievements which were emphasized included more than $120 bn
raised through equity and debt in each of the last two years, market
capitalization of Indian listed companies being in the top 10 global markets,
Indian stock exchanges ranked in top 10 in number of contracts in equity
derivatives, etc. Discussions were also held on
recent policy measures taken by SEBI relating to various areas such as FPIs, Primary
Market, Secondary Market, Mutual Funds, Corporate Bond Market, etc. The participants were keen on emerging areas such
as REITs and InvITs which have more than $10 bn asset size as on today.  Several participants also showed interest in
the Alternative Investment Fund space with its relaxed foreign investment norms
wherein the investments had multiplied by more than 15 times in the last 5 years.
 Investment opportunities for foreign investors in the aforesaid
areas as well as Infrastructure projects, stressed assets, CPSEs proposed for divestment
by Government, GIFT IFSC, etc.  were
brought out. There were also detailed discussions on upcoming regulatory measures relating to Frameworks for issuing Depository
Receipts, direct listing of Indian equities abroad, Regulatory Sandbox, etc. The increasing number of
registrations of FPIs every year signify the sustained interest of the foreign investors
in the Indian capital markets. Considering that about one third of the total
assets of around $450 bn under custody of FPIs in India are from USA based
FPIs, the importance of US investments into India was emphasized especially
taking into account the growing partnership between the two countries. 
The participants appreciated
the various initiatives taken by SEBI. The queries raised during the meetings
were clarified by the SEBI team. The participants were also encouraged to write
to SEBI on any specific suggestions they might have on different issues. 

