
 
Dec 17, 2015

PR No.:  
294/2015


Shri Prashant Saran, Whole Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), has passed an order dated December 15, 2015 in the matter of Moonlight Associates Limited whereby he has issued the following directions:

The Company namely Moonlight      Associates Limited and its promoters/ directors (present and past)      including Mr. Nityananda Nath, Mr. Abu Sadeque Ishtiaque Ahmed Choudhury,      Ms. Ferdousi Begum Choudhury, Mr. Samsul Islam, Mr. Nizam Uddin Ahmed, Mr.      Kanai Lal Nath, Mr. Abdul Jalil Choudhury and Mr. Md. Abdul Muktadir are      restrained from mobilizing funds through the issue of equity shares or      through any other form of securities, to the public and/ or invite      subscription, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly till      further directions.
Moonlight Associates Limited and      its promoters/ directors including the above named persons are prohibited      from issuing prospectus or any offer document or issue advertisement for      soliciting money from the public for the issue of securities, in any      manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly, till further orders.
Moonlight Associates Limited and      its promoters/ directors including the above named persons shall not      dispose off any of the properties or alienate the assets of the Company or      dispose off any of their properties or alienate their assets.
Moonlight Associates Limited and      its promoters/ directors including the above named persons shall not      divert any funds raised from public at large through the issuance of the      impugned equity shares, kept in its bank accounts and/ or in the custody      of the Company without prior permission of SEBI until further orders.
Moonlight Associates Limited and      its promoters/ directors including the above named persons are restrained      from accessing the securities market and are further prohibited from      buying, selling or otherwise dealing in securities in any manner      whatsoever, either directly or indirectly, till further directions. 
Moonlight Associates Limited and      its promoters/ directors including the above named persons shall      co-operate with SEBI and shall furnish all the documents that they have      been or shall be required to furnish.
Moonlight Associates Limited and      its promoters/ directors including the above named persons are also      directed to provide a full inventory of all their assets and properties      and details of all their bank accounts, demat accounts and holdings of      shares/ securities, if held in physical form. 

The company was engaged in fund mobilizing activity through issue of equity shares to more than 49 persons without complying with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.
The full text of the SEBI order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in 

