
 
Dec 09, 2010

Press Releases 











PR No.268/2010
Grant of exemption to Logos Holding Company Private Limited (acquirers) for the proposed acquisition of equity shares and voting rights in Religare Enterprises Limited (target company) 
 
1. Logos Holding Company Private Limited (acquirer/applicant), has filed an application dated March 31, 2010 under Regulation 4(2) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 (Takeover Regulations) read with Regulation 3(1)(l) thereof, with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) seeking exemption from the applicability of Regulation 10 of the Takeover Regulations in respect of its proposed acquisition of 2,49,61,860 equity shares constituting 19.53% of the paid up equity capital of Religare Enterprises Limited (target company), by way of transfer of shares by Mr. Gurinder Singh Dhillon, Mr. Gurpreet Singh Dhillon, Mrs. Nayantara Dhillon and Mr. Gurkirat Singh Dhillon, (transferors) at the prevailing market price.
 
2.      As per the said application, acquirer is a closely held company belonging to the “Dhillon family” consisting of aforesaid transferors and other family members and was formed with a view to organize and consolidate the holdings of the individual members of the Dhillon family scattered in various listed and unlisted companies into one company. 
3.      The said application seeking exemption from the provisions of the Takeover Regulations was forwarded by SEBI to the Takeover Panel. The Takeover Panel had rejected the exemption to the acquirers from making an open offer.
4.      Dr. K.M. Abraham, Whole Time Member, SEBI, has considered several facts and circumstances like there would be no change in the management or control in the target company, pursuant to the proposed transfer, the proposed transferors are public shareholders in the target company and the acquirer would also be shown as a public shareholder after the transfer, the total shareholding of the public in the target company would also not change, the acquirer is a private limited company wholly owned and managed by the transferors along with their family members, no outsider is a stakeholder in the acquirer other than the members of the Dhillon family and also considered the earlier Order dated  December 22, 2002 passed by SEBI in the similar facts and circumstances and finally vide order dated December 7, 2010, has granted exemption to the acquirer from the applicability of Regulation 10 of Takeover Regulations, in respect of aforesaid proposed acquisition of 2,49,61,860 equity shares constituting 19.53% of the paid up equity capital of the target company by way of transfer of shares by the aforesaid transferors at the prevailing market price.
 
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in 
 
Mumbai
December 09, 2010 


