
 
Jan 25, 2019

PR No.:  
5/2019


 Grant of Qualifying Central
Counterparty (QCCP) status to CCPs operating in GIFT IFSC
India International Clearing Corporation (IFSC) Limited and NSE IFSC
Clearing Corporation Limited are functioning as Central Counterparties (CCPs)
in the Gujarat International Finance Tec-City, an International Financial
Services Centre (GIFT-IFSC).
These clearing corporations have qualified as QCCPs in view of the fact
that these are regulated by Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) under
SEBI Act 1992, Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 (SCRA) and Rules,
Regulations and Guidelines made thereunder. These clearing corporations are
also subjected, on an on-going basis, to rules and regulations that are
consistent with the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMIs)
issued by the Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures (CPMI) and
International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO).
Background
Clearing Corporations in securities market are established under SCRA
and SEBI (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012, and
amendments thereto, to undertake the activity of clearing and settlement of
trades in securities or other instruments or products that are dealt with or
traded on the recognized stock exchanges.
Clearing Corporations are designated as Market Infrastructure
Institutions (MII) for oversight considering its systemic importance in
securities markets regulated by the SEBI. The “Principles for Financial Market
Infrastructure” (PFMIs) were issued by the CPMI and IOSCO in April 2012. These
were issued to enhance safety and efficiency in payment, clearing, settlement,
and recording arrangements, and more broadly, to limit systemic risk and foster
transparency and financial stability. The members of CPMI and IOSCO are
required to strive to adopt the PFMIs in their respective jurisdictions in line
with the G20 expectations. SEBI, as a member of Financial Stability Board (FSB)
and IOSCO, is committed to the adoption and implementation of the PFMIs.  In view of the above, India International
Clearing Corporation (IFSC) Limited and NSE IFSC Clearing Corporation Limited
are granted the status of QCCP.

