
 
Dec 17, 2003

Press Releases 


PRESS RELEASE
December 17, 2003PR No.306/2003
DIVISION OF CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING
IN THE MATTER OF PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF SHARES OF KSB PUMPS LTD.
KSB Aktiengesellschaft, (hereinafter referred to as "the Acquirer") made an application dated 15.10.03 under Regulation 4(2) of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997(hereinafter referred to as "the said Regulations") seeking exemption from complying with the provisions of regulations 10, 11 and 12 of the said Regulations.
The target company is stated to be a part of a worldwide group of business concerns known as the KSB Group. The Acquirer is stated to be the parent company of the KSB Group. 40.54% of the share capital of the target company is currently held by Canadian Kay Pump Ltd, another KSB Group Company which is a 100% subsidiary of PAB Pumpen (hereinafter referred to as PAB) which in turn is a subsidiary of the Acquirer. The shares of the target company are listed on BSE, NSE and Pune Stock Exchange.
The Acquirer submitted that 40.54% of the Target company presently held by its subsidiary Canadian Kay Pump Ltd will be transferred within the Group in two stages. In first stage, Canadian Kay Pump Ltd which is a 100% subsidiary of PAB will be transferred to the Acquirer. Accordingly, Canadian Kay Pump Ltd will become a 100% subsidiary of the Acquirer. Later, in second stage, Canadian Kay Pump Ltd will be voluntarily liquidated and wound up and all its assets including the said shareholding of 40.54% in the target company will be transferred to and shall vest in the Acquirer.
The Acquirer further submitted that the proposed transfer falls within the ambit of the exemption under Regulation 3(1)(e)(i) of the said Regulations and that pursuant to the said acquisition, there is no change in the control or management of the target company. Further, the categories / blocks of shareholders of the target company also remain the same before and after the proposed acquisition and the Acquirer is the parent company of the KSB Group of companies which include Canadian Kay Pump Ltd, PAB and the Target company.
The said application for exemption was forwarded to the Takeover Panel on 29.10.03 in terms of Reg. 4(4) of the said Regulations. The Takeover Panel vide its report dated 12.11.03 granted exemption as sought by the acquirer.
It was observed that the acquisition is by transfer of 40.54% equity shares of the target company inter se within the KSB Group to the Acquirer which is stated to the parent company of the group. Further, the modus operandi to be adopted for the acquisition of 40.54% shares of the target company by the Acquirer is to take place in aforesaid two stages and as a result of the proposed transfer, there appears to be no change in control of the target company.
Taking into consideration the above, SEBI vide order dated 12.12.03 granted exemption to the Acquirer from complying with the provisions of Regulation 10, 11 and 12 of the said Regulations with regard to the proposed acquisition by way of inter se transfer of 40.54% shares of the target company. The Acquirer was further directed to complete the acquisition within a period of one year from the date of the aforesaid order and to file a report under Reg. 3(4) read with Reg. 3(5) of the said Regulations on completion of the said acquisition.
 

