
 
Jan 19, 2018

PR No.:  
2/2018


India : Financial Sector Assessment Program 2017 - Detailed
Assessment Reports (DARs) The two main reports of the 2017 India
Financial Sector Assessment Programme (FSAP) – the Financial System Stability
Assessment (FSSA) and Financial Sector Assessment (FSA), were released by the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, respectively on their
websites on December 21, 2017. In continuation, the IMF and the World Bank
today released two Detailed Assessment Reports (DARs) relating to the 2017
India FSAP. The report providing ‘Detailed Assessment of Observance—Basel Core
Principles for Effective Banking Supervision’ has been released by the IMF
and the WorldBank and the report providing ‘Detailed Assessment of Observance of
Clearing Corporation of India Limited (CCIL) Central Counterparty (CCP) and
Trade Repository (TR)’, was released by the WorldBank. India welcomes these assessment reports by the
joint IMF-World Bank team conforming to the highest international standards. The DAR on the observance of Basel Core
Principles (BCP) commends the Reserve Bank for the remarkable progress in
strengthening banking supervision since the last FSAP. It notes that the
supervision and regulation by the Reserve Bank remain strong and have improved
in recent years. Most of the Basel III framework (and related guidance) has
been implemented and cooperation arrangements, both domestically and
cross-border, are now firmly in place. It states that the system-wide asset
quality review (AQR) and the strengthening of prudential regulations in 2015
testify to the authorities’ commitment to transparency and a more accurate
recognition of banking risks. A special mention is made of the implementation
of a risk-based supervisory approach, in particular the Supervisory Program for
Assessment of Risk and Capital (SPARC); as also the phasing-in of the Liquidity
Coverage Ratio (LCR) and large exposure limits and states that the recently
established Central Repository of Information on Large Credits (CRILC), will
provide RBI with a robust supervisory enforcement framework. It acknowledges
that banking reforms, including the Indradhanush Plan for revitalizing the PSBs
and the Bank Board Bureaus have helped usher in an era of transparency and
improved discipline and will go a long way in resolving the problem of bad
loans in India.  The DAR on the BCP was prepared before
the announcement of the recapitalization of Rs. 2.11 trillion (about US$32
billion) and the undercapitalization of PSBs mentioned in the Report has since
been effectively addressed by this Plan as has already been noted in the
‘Financial System Stability Assessment (FSSA) for India’ released on December
21, 2017.  The DAR relating to the assessment of
the CCIL on CCP system and TR systems’ benchmarking against the applicable
Principles of Financial Market Infrastructure (PFMI) concluded that the CCIL
systems have a high degree of observance of the principles. CCIL has a prudent
risk management framework and high operational reliability. CCIL is subjected
to off-site supervision as also on-site inspection by Reserve Bank. CCIL’s
bye-laws, rules, and regulations provide required legal basis on its various
material aspects such as netting, finality of settlement and default
procedures. In all the segments where CCIL offers CCP clearing service, a
process is in place to collect intra-day marked-to-market margin and volatility
margin and there is an established default handling waterfall in place. The
participants in each segment are also required to contribute to the Default
Fund. In addition, CCIL has established a Settlement Reserve Fund as its
skin-in-the-game.  
The recommendations made in
the assessment reports are mainly to bring about further improvements in the
structure and functioning of the financial system and many of the detailed
recommendations are in sync with the authorities’ own developmental plans. Overall, the two DARs
reflect a high degree of compliance with the BCP and with the PFMI,
respectively and the authorities are committed to make further improvements in
these areas. 

