
 
Feb 02, 2009

PR No.:  
73/2009










PR No.73/2009
SEBI Board Meeting
The SEBI Board meeting held in Mumbai today took the following decisions:
(i) Listed companies to declare dividend on per share basis only  
It has been decided to amend the listing agreement to provide that listed entities shall declare dividend on per-share basis only. At present, there is no uniformity in declaring dividend. Some companies declare dividend on per share basis and some as a percentage of face value of the shares. Declaration of dividend as a percentage of face value has the potential to mislead the investors in case face values of the shares of two companies are different.
(ii) Timelines for bonus issues reduced
It has been decided to reduce the period for completing a bonus issue to 15 days, where no shareholders’ approval is required as per articles of association of the company and to 60 days where shareholders’ approval is required as per Articles of Association of the company. At present, in terms of the DIP Guidelines, listed companies are required to complete a bonus issue within a maximum period of six months from the date of approval of the issue by the Board of the company.
(iii) Time frame for announcing the price band for Initial Public Offering    (IPO) shortened 
It has been decided to amend the DIP Guidelines to enable the issuer company making an IPO to declare the floor price/ price band at least two working days before the date of opening of IPO subject to wide dissemination of price band through newspaper advertisements, availability in websites etc. The issue advertisements shall also disclose the financial ratios calculated for both upper and lower end of the price band. At present, in terms of the DIP Guidelines, in case of an IPO, either the floor price or the price band is required to be disclosed in the Red Herring Prospectus (RHP) i.e. about two weeks before the date of opening of the IPO.  
(iv) Review of preferential allotment guidelines for warrants :
It has been decided to amend the DIP Guidelines to increase the upfront margin to be paid by allottees of warrants to 25%. At present, in terms of DIP Guidelines, the allottees of warrants are required to pay a margin of 10% as upfront payment at the time of allotment.
(v)  Relaxation of pricing norms - Satyam Computer Services Ltd.(Satyam) 
The SEBI Board examined the request of Satyam Computers Services Limited for exemption from certain provisions of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations 1997.
The Board recognized the special circumstances that have arisen in the affairs of the company and concluded that the issue needs to be dealt with in the general context.  Accordingly it was decided to appropriately amend the regulations / guidelines to enable a transparent process for arriving at the price for such acquisition.
The above measures will be effective from the date of amendment to   the Regulations / DIP Guidelines / Listing Agreement.
(vi) Investor Protection and Education Fund (IPEF):
The Board approved regulations for governance of IPEF.  The fund may be credited by:
i)  contribution as may be made by the Board to the Fund.
ii) Grants and donations given to the Fund by  the Central Government, State Government or any other entity approved by Board for this purpose;
iii) Proceeds of foreclosures of deposit/invocation of bank guarantee/sale of the securities kept in the escrow accounts by an acquirer in case of non fulfillment of its obligations under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SAST) Regulations, 1997.
vi.(a)  The Fund shall be used for investor protection and  promotion of investor awareness and education. The Fund would be utilized for the following purposes in particular:-
i) Educational activities– seminars, training, research and publications – aimed at investors;
ii) Awareness  programmes through media – print, electronic or otherwise – aimed at investors;
iii) Funding investor education and awareness activities of Investors’ Associations recognized by SEBI;
iv) Aiding SEBI recognized investor associations to undertake legal proceedings in the interest of investors in securities that are listed or proposed to be listed;
 
Mumbai                             
February 2, 2009

