
 
Dec 09, 2015

PR No.:  
285/2015


 
Shri Prashant Saran, Whole Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), has passed an order dated November 20, 2015 in the matters of Helios Corporation Limited and Helios Chemicals Limited whereby he has issued the following directions:
 

The Companies namely Helios Corporation Limited, Helios Chemical Limited  are restrained from mobilizing funds through the issue of optionally convertible debentures (Sun Bonds) or through any other form of securities, to the public and/ or invite subscription, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly till further directions.
The Companies and their respective promoters/ directors/ past directors including Mr. Sanjay Kumar Singh, Mr. Rajeev Kumar Sharma, Mr. Kaushal Kishor Singh, Mr. Basant Kumar Singh, Mr. Sanjeet Kumar Sharma, Mr. Anjani Kumar, Mr. Virendra Prasad Sinha, Mr. Govind Madhava Jha, Mr. Satyendra Singh, Ms. Prema Kumari, Mr. Devendra Prasad Singh, Mr. Rakesh Kumar, Ms. Manju Pathak, Mr. Surendra Nath Singh and Ms. Krishna Devi are prohibited from issuing prospectus or any offer document or issue advertisement for soliciting money from the public for the issue of securities, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly, till further orders..
The Companies and their respective promoters and directors/ past directors are prohibited from issuing prospectus or any offer document or issue advertisement for soliciting money from the public for the issue of securities, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly, till further orders.
The Companies and their respective promoters and directors/ past directors shall not dispose off any of the properties or alienate the assets of the Company or dispose off any of their properties or alienate their assets.
The Companies and their respective promoters and directors/ past directors shall not divert any funds raised from public at large through the issuance of the impugned equity shares, kept in its bank accounts and/ or in the custody of the Company without prior permission of SEBI until further orders.
The Companies and their respective promoters and directors/ past directors are restrained from accessing the securities market and are further prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in securities in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly, till further directions.
The Company and their respective promoters and directors/ past directors shall co-operate with SEBI and shall furnish all the documents that they have been or shall be required to furnish.
The Companies and their respective promoters and directors/ past directors are also directed to provide a full inventory of all their assets and properties and details of all their bank accounts, demat accounts and holdings of shares/ securities, if held in physical form.

 
The companies were engaged in fund mobilizing activity through issue of Optionally Convertible Debentures to more than 49 persons without complying with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.
 
The full text of the SEBI order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

