
 
Jan 07, 2016

PR No.:  
9/2016


Shri S Raman, Whole Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), has passed an interim order dated January 05, 2016  against Shri Priyansh Patodi, proprietor- MMF Solutions, under sections 11(1), 11B and 11D of SEBI Act, 1992. The order directed Shri Priyansh Patodi proprietor MMF Solutions to cease and desist from acting as Investment Adviser, Research Analyst and Portfolio Manager and cease to solicit or undertake such activities or any other unregistered activity in the security market directly or indirectly, in any manner whatsoever.
The order further directed Shri Priyansh Patodi and MMF Solutions to immediately withdraw and remove all advertisements, representations, literatures, brochures, materials, publications, documents, websites etc. in relation to the Investment Advisory, Research Analyst and Portfolio Management activities or any other unregistered activity in the securities market. 
Shri Priyansh Patodi, proprietor - MMF Solutions was engaged in providing investment advisory services, research analyst services and portfolio management services to public at large without obtaining requisite registration from SEBI for the same and as a result has violated provisions of Section 12(1) of the SEBI Act, 1992 and Regulation 3(1) of the SEBI (Investment Adviser) Regulations, 2013, and Regulation 3(1) of the SEBI (Research Analyst) Regulations, 2014 and Regulation 3 of SEBI (Portfolio Manager) Regulations, 1993. Shri Priyansh Patodi, proprietor - MMF Solutions has been operating from the office 14/1, Old Palasia, 601, Rukmani Plaza, 6th Floor, A. B. Road, Indore- 452001 and 307, Vidyapati Complex, Race Course Road, Janjeerwala Square, Indore, Madhya Pradesh. In addition the entity also stated to be providing its unauthorized services through its Singapore Office website and Malaysia Office website viz. http://www.mmfsolutions.sg/ and  http://www.mmfsolutions.sg/malaysian-intraday-stock-picks-klse/ respectively.
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

