
 
Jan 21, 2009

PR No.:  
57/2009










PR No.57/2009
Order against Shri Anirudh Sethi, Shri Kamal Dalal,
Shri Ajay Gupta  and M/s. Chehar  Securities Pvt.  Ltd. 
in the matter of M/s. Valuenotes.Com
Dr. T. C. Nair, Whole Time Member, SEBI, has passed an order dated January 14, 2009, in the matter of M/s. Valuenotes.com restraining:
I. Shri Anirudh Sethi from accessing the securities market either directly or indirectly and also prohibiting him from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in securities, in any manner whatsoever, for a period of three months. Shri Anirudh Sethi has further been directed to cease and desist from giving investment advice to clients including any company specific recommendations which may amount to violation of Regulation 4 (2) (a), (f) (k) and (r) of the SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003.
II. Shri Kamal Dalal from accessing the securities market either  directly or indirectly and also prohibiting him from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in securities, in any manner whatsoever, for a period of three months. Shri Kamal Dalal has further been directed to cease and desist from dealing in securities in such manner which may amount to violation of Regulation 3(a), (b) & (c) and 4(2)(a) & (b) of the SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003.
III. M/s Chehar Securities Pvt. Ltd.  from accessing the securities market either directly or indirectly and also prohibiting it from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in securities, in any manner whatsoever, for a period of   one month. M/s Chehar Securtiies Pvt. Ltd. has further been directed to cease and desist from dealing in securities in such manner which may amount to violation of Regulation 3(a), (b) & (c) and 4(2)(a) & (b) of the SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003
IV. Shri Ajay Gupta from accessing the securities market either directly or indirectly and also prohibiting him from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in securities, in any manner whatsoever, for a period of one month. Shri Ajay Gupta has further been directed to cease and desist from dealing in securities in such manner which may amount to violation of Regulation 3(a), (b) & (c) and 4(2)(a) & (b) of the SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003
The order shall come into force with immediate effect.
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in
 
Mumbai
January 21, 2009
 

