
 
Nov 14, 2013

PR No.:  
107/2013


The National Centre for Financial Education (NCFE) has invited all school students from classes VIII to X to participate in its National Financial Literacy Assessment Test (NCFE-NFLAT). To be conducted on January 12, 2014, the test would be of 60 minutes and would contain 75 questions. The test would be conducted in both, English and Hindi and it would include topics related to basic concepts of finance. Interested schools can register or know more about this test on: www.nism.ac.in  Apart from attractive prizes to be won for students and schools, all students appearing for the test will also receive a participation certificate. There is no fee to appear in the test.
The objective of NCFE is to further the cause of financial literacy and inclusion in India in a collaborative manner.  The National Financial Literacy Assessment Test (NCFE-NFLAT) is one such step in this direction. By conducting a national level test, NCFE plans to motivate school students (of classes VIII to X) to learn the concepts of finance and also measure their financial awareness so that they acquire the important life skill of managing finances at an early age leading to sound financial decisions later.
Registrations for the test have opened from November 1, 2013 and will be accepted only through schools. No individual registrations would be entertained. Before registrations open, the schools could enroll themselves by following the link on the NISM website- www.nism.ac.in 
Important details of NCFE-NFLAT are:
 




Particular


Date




Registration Opens


November 1, 2013




Registration Closes


November 29, 2013




Examination Date


National Youth Day, January 12, 2014 (Sunday)




Result Declaration


Netaji  Subhash Chandra Bose’s Birth Anniversary, January 23, 2014




 
For queries/concerns/ information kindly visit NISM’s website www.nism.ac.in 
or call 022- 66735100/01/02/03/04/05/06
 
National Centre for Financial Education (NCFE) has been set up by National Institute of Securities Markets (NISM) with the support of all the financial sector regulators in India, namely, Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA), Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) and Forward Markets Commission (FMC). It has been identified as the nodal agency for implementation of the National Strategy for Financial Education (NSFE). NISM is a public trust established by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the regulator for securities markets in India. NISM seeks to add to market quality through educational initiatives. 

