
 
Dec 21, 2017

PR No.:  
67/2017



India: Financial Sector Assessment
Program 2017 

The Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP), a joint program of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank (WB involved in developing countries and region only), undertakes a comprehensive and in-depth analysis of a country’s financial sector. Since September 2010, it is being undertaken in 25 jurisdictions (now 29), with systemically important financial sectors, including India, every five years. Last FSAP for India was conducted in 2011-12 and the report published by IMF on Jan 15, 2013. 

 
Second comprehensive FSAP has been
     successfully conducted for India in 2017. The FSAP scoping mission of the
     joint IMF-WB team visited India in December 2016 to outline the areas of
     financial sector to be covered in the exercise, followed by two more mission
     visits – in March and June-July 2017. The team met officials of various
     related Ministries/ Departments/ Agencies and all financial sector regulators
     i.e. RBI, SEBI, IRDAI and PFRDA and public and private sector
     participants. IMF and WB have released the Financial System Stability
     Assessment (FSSA) and Financial Sector Assessment (FSA) respectively in
     their websites on 21st Dec 2017. 
 
India welcomes assessment of the Indian
     financial system undertaken by the joint IMF-World Bank team conforming to
     the highest international standards. 
 
The FSAP assessment acknowledges that India
     has recorded strong growth in recent years in both economic activity and
     financial assets with size of the financial
     system remaining broadly stable in terms of GDP at about 136 per cent. Increased
     diversification, commercial orientation, and technology-driven inclusion
     have supported growth in the financial industry, backed up with improved
     legal, regulatory, and supervisory frameworks. The FSAP report
     acknowledges many efforts by Indian authorities like tackling
     Non-Performing Assets (NPAs), recent recapitalization measures for banks
     and introduction of special resolution regime, formalization of National Pension
     System (NPS) and making the pension sector regulator
     statutory, passing of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code and setting up of
     Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI), to name a few. It
     appreciates initiatives such as ‘no frills’ account (under Jan Dhan
     Yojana), promoting digitization, introduction of unique biometric
     identification number (AADHAR), currency exchange initiative etc. It also
     recognizes the improved inter-agency co-operation since the establishment
     of Financial Stability and Development Council (FSDC), supported by its
     Sub-Committee and four technical groups and progress in setting up of
     Financial Data Management Centre (FDMC).
 
FSAP assessment acknowledges that
     RBI has made substantial progress in strengthening banking supervision by
     introduction of risk-based supervision in 2013 through a comprehensive and
     forward-looking Supervisory Program for Assessment of Risk and Capital
     (SPARC), domestic and cross-border cooperation arrangements, Asset Quality
     Review (AQR) and the strengthening of regulations in 2015 leading to
     improved distressed asset recognition, to name a few. The Basel III
     framework and other international norms have been implemented or are being
     phased in, including stricter regulations on large exposures. It also
     notes RBI establishing a new Enforcement Department and revising the
     Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework that incorporates more prudent
     risk-tolerance thresholds. The Report notes that risks in shadow banking
     sector in India were limited and that risks in non-bank financial
     subsectors appear contained but continue to warrant close monitoring.
 
The stress tests conducted by IMF
     FSAP experts covered the 15 largest banks, including 12 public sector
     banks (PSBs) which account for 71 per cent of the banking sector assets.
     The FSSA and FSA note that the largest banks appear sufficiently
     capitalized and profitable to withstand a deterioration in economic
     conditions. However, some PSBs have vulnerabilities and would be requiring
     additional capital. These capital needs were assessed between 0.75-1.5 per
     cent of GDP for baseline and adverse scenarios. This estimate was made
     prior to the announcement of the plan for recapitalization by Government
     of India. The post-assessment supplement points out that the major
     recapitalization plan for PSBs announced on October 24, 2017 amounting to
     approximately $32 billion or 1.3 per cent of GDP is expected to largely
     address the PSBs’ recapitalization needs. The reports, however, note that the
     provision of public capital should be contingent upon meaningful restructuring
     of PSBs. The FSAP also recommends that governance and financial operations
     of PSBs could be improved by developing a strategic plan for their
     consolidation, divestment, and privatization. The supplement also notes
     that on November 1, the Government of India announced the establishment of
     an Alternative Mechanism panel, headed by India’s Finance Minister, to
     seek consolidation across state-owned banks.
 
In relation to securities market, the report
     acknowledges that SEBI has made significant changes to its regulatory
     programs that directly address many findings and recommendations contained
     in the detailed IOSCO (International Organization of Securities
     Commissions) assessment published in 2013. SEBI has significantly expanded
     its regulatory programs, expanded its on-site inspection program and
     developed a risk-based matrix. The Amendments to the SEBI Act have granted
     SEBI additional investigative powers, created a special court that handles
     criminal cases filed by SEBI, and gave SEBI full authority to regulate
     pooled investment schemes exceeding Rs. 1 billion. The report also
     appreciates the measures undertaken to quicken the pace of bond market
     development.
 
The reports note that India is
     moving towards a new state-of-the-art bankruptcy regime and the newly
     created regime on insolvency and bankruptcy is comprehensive and aims at
     restructuring companies within ambitious timelines.
 
On the financial market
     infrastructures (FMIs), the FSAP team assessed that the RBI designated
     qualified central counterparty (CCP) that plays a critical role in money,
     G-sec repo and secondary markets has a prudent risk management framework
     and high operational reliability.
 
On resolution regime for financial
     institutions, while recognizing the efforts of Indian authorities in
     developing a comprehensive resolution framework through the Financial
     Resolution and Deposit Insurance (FRDI) Bill (“Bill”), the assessment
     identifies some gaps, including further strengthening of deposit insurance
     framework and resolution tools, particularly the bail-in power
     (cancellation of liabilities) being limited to contractual write-down of
     securities with explicit conversion clauses (as opposed to broader
     statutory bail-in powers), some duplication of supervisory authority in
     the pre-resolution phase and the requirement to modify the clause on
     preferential treatment of domestic creditors over foreign creditors. The
     Bill attempts to revamp and strengthen the deposit insurance framework in
     India, by providing for faster and stricter timelines for payment, and
     shifting to a risk-based premium framework for charging premiums from
     banks. With regard to bail-in, as the Report rightly points out, India
     currently has no provision for the same, and believes that only a
     consensual, hybrid form with both statutory and contractual forms of
     bail-in may be suitable for the country. The Bill also distinguishes, to
     the extent possible, the roles and responsibilities of the regulators and
     the resolution authority. Any duplication in their function is both unavoidable,
     and necessary, for the effective monitoring of distressed financial firms.
     On the issue of cross border co-ordination, the Bill gives flexibility to
     recognise or adopt support measures of foreign resolution actions through
     bilateral agreements, in the absence of which, in line with the prudential
     regulations in place in India, the creditors of the branch office in
     India, of a parent body established outside India would have first charge
     on the assets of the specified service provider for the purpose of
     resolution or liquidation under the Bill. The FRDI Bill, 2017 is presently
     under the consideration by a Joint Parliamentary Committee.
 
On the need for modernising insurance solvency
     framework and further development of risk-based supervision, IRDAI is already
     taking steps by drawing a road map on the implementation of risk based
     capital (RBC) system in India and is in the process of formulating an
     overall strategy to develop an appropriate “Risk Based Supervisory
     Framework” for effective and efficient monitoring and evaluation of
     potential risks in the insurance sector. On 21 Sep 2017, IRDAI has already
     formed a ten-member steering committee to implement the Risk Based Capital
     (RBC) Regime in accordance with the recommendation of Risk Based Capital
     Committee Report. 
 
Government has also taken various steps to
     enhance investment in infrastructure sector including launching of
     innovative financial vehicles such as Infrastructure Debt Funds (IDFs),
     Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs)/Infrastructure Investment Trust
     (InvITs), National Infrastructure Investment Fund (NIIF), laying down a
     framework for municipal bonds, allowing complete pass through of income
     tax to securitization trusts including trusts of Asset Reconstruction
     Companies (ARCs), bringing in 5/25 Scheme to extend long tenor loans to
     infrastructure projects, take-out finance, flexible structuring etc.
 
Recognizing that cyber security is critical
     for safeguarding the integrity and stability of the financial sector,
     Government has decided to set up a Computer Emergency Response team for
     the Indian Financial Sector (CERT-Fin), which will work in close
     co-ordination with all financial sector regulators and other stakeholders
     and initiatives in this regard are already under way.
 
The recommendations in case of India FSAP are
     mainly to bring about further improvements in the structure and
     functioning of the financial system and many of the detailed
     recommendations are in sync with the authorities’ own developmental plans.
     
 
As a member of the FSB, BCBS, IOSCO, IAIS and
     IMF, India actively participates in post-crisis reforms of the
     international regulatory and supervisory framework under the aegis of the
     G20. India remains committed to adoption of international standards and
     best practices, in a phased manner, calibrated to domestic needs and
     economic conditions, wherever necessary.
 The FSSA released by IMF canbe accessed here
The FSA released by World Bank can be accessed here

