
 
May 10, 2013

PR No.:  
49/2013


Shri Rajeev Kumar Agarwal, Whole Time Member, SEBI, passed an ad interim ex -parte order dated May 10, 2013 against Jigar Praful Ghoghari, Kiran Bhiku Bhanaes, Jinal Apurva Rawal, Janak Chimanlal Dave, Dilipkumar Pukhraj Jain, Bhupesh Harishchandra Rathod, Kishan Balaram Shigvan, Kiran Madhusudan Sheth, Shree Shagun Financial Services, Oliwonders Financial Services Pvt Ltd and Neevan Capial Markets Private Limited (related/connected entities) prohibiting them from buying, selling or dealing in securities in any manner whatsoever, till further directions in the matter of dealing in the scrips of Polytex India Ltd.(PIL), KGN Enterprises Ltd.(KGN) and Gemstone Investments Ltd.(GEMSTONE).
SEBI had, suo moto, carried out an examination in the scrips of PIL, KGN and GEMSTONE in view of surveillance alerts regarding variation in price. 
During examination of the said scrip, it was observed that;

Jigar Praful Ghoghari, Kiran Bhiku Bhanaes, Jinal Apurva Rawal, Janak Chimanlal Dave, Dilipkumar Pukhraj Jain, Bhupesh Harishchandra Rathod, Kishan Balaram Shigvan, Kiran Madhusudan Sheth  have received funds from Pabari- Parikh Group entities who have been barred from accessing securities market by SEBI vide its order no. -WTM/KMA/ISD/353/02/2011 dated February 02, 2011. 

The aforesaid entities created artificial volumes in the scrips of PIL, GEMSTONE and KGN, substantially traded amongst themselves and placed orders at a price higher than the last traded price and thereby contributed to the rise in price from Rs. 136.5 to Rs. 252 in PIL and Rs. 9 to Rs.19.7 in GEMSTONE.

Thus, the aforesaid entities have, prima facie, violated regulations 3(a), (b), (c) and (d) and 4(1), 4(2)(a), (b), (e) and (g) of SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 ( PFUTP Regulations) read with section 12A(a), (b) and (c) of the SEBI Act.
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in.

