
 
Feb 02, 2006

PR No.:  
71/2006


PRESS RELEASE

  
PR-71/2006
 Order in the matter of M/s. Bellary Steels and Alloys Ltd.
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) vide order dated February 1, 2006 has issued the following directions in the matter of M/s. Bellary Steels and Alloys Ltd. (BASL):  
1.         M/s. Bellary Steels & Alloys Ltd.,  and its directors –  BSAL  are directed not to issue any further shares or alter its share capital in any manner till further directions. The company and its directors, namely Mr. S Madhav, Mrs. S Parvati, Mr. Ram Nain Pandey and Mr. G J Prasad are prohibited from accessing the capital market or dealing in securities, in any manner, directly or indirectly, till further orders in this regard by SEBI. 
2.         M/s. S N Finance Ltd., M/s. Kodiganti Investments Ltd., and its directors and     Mrs. K Meenakshi and M/s. Panchaloha Hotel P Ltd., and its Directors are prohibited from accessing capital market or dealing in securities, in any manner, directly or indirectly, till further orders in this regard by SEBI. 
3.         M/s. Karnataka State Financial Corporation, Bangalore (KSFC) is directed to retain all the original documents pertaining to the transaction including the share certificates and the debenture certificates in its possession, in a sealed and secure place. KSFC is directed not to tamper with or part with any of the aforesaid documents until further specific directions in writing in this regard by SEBI. 
4          M/s. Karvy Computershare Private Ltd. is directed that it should keep in a safe and secure location all the documents pertaining to the transaction including the original defaced certificate received by it for dematerialization from  M/s. Panchaloha Hotel P. Ltd., and all correspondence and documents received from the company regarding the allotment of shares to M/s S N Finance Ltd., M/s Kodiganti Investments Ltd., and Mrs. K Meenakshi. Karvy should not tamper with or part with any of the documents pertaining to the transaction until further specific directions in writing in this regard by SEBI. 
5          NSDL/CDSL is directed not to effect any transfer of shares from/to the beneficial account of M/s Panchaloha Hotel P   Ltd., until further orders.
 
All the above directions shall take effect immediately and shall be in force until further orders. 
SEBI received a complaint from M/s. Karnataka State Financial Corporation, Bangalore (KSFC) against M/s Bellary Steels and Alloys Ltd., Bangalore (BSAL).  In its complaint, KSFC, inter alia, stated that they had subscribed to Rs. 150.00 lakhs redeemable non-convertible debentures of BSAL during May 1996 which were secured by the 21,50,000 shares of BSAL held by the pledger entities/persons related to the company. BSAL failed to redeem the non-convertible debentures and pay interest and consequently, KSFC was unable to recover the dues to the tune of Rs. 5,64,38,971.00. It is stated by KSFC that they had approached M/s Karvy Computershare Private Ltd., which is the share transfer agent for transfer of shares and dematerialization of the same in favour of KSFC . KARVY informed KSFC that the pledged shares have already been transferred in favour of M/s Panchaloha Hotel P Ltd. (Transferee), and the same were dematerialized. It is prima facie seen that the pledger entities/persons in connivance with BSAL and the transferee fraudulently transferred the shares with a malafide intention to cheat KSFC. 
It is prima facie found that BSAL has issued fake certificates of around 21,50,000 shares in connivance with the pledger entities/persons and transferee. This renders the Company,  M/s. Bellary Steels & Alloys Ltd., its directors, the pledgers  viz., M/s. S N Finance Ltd.., and its Directors,  M/s. Kodiganti Investments Ltd., and its Directors, Mrs. K Meenakshi  and also the transferee M/s. Panchaloha Hotel P. Ltd., and its Directors in violation of Regulation 3 and Regulation 4(h) of SEBI (Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003. 
In view of the aforesaid and with a view to protect the interest of investors, Shri G. Anantharaman, Whole Time Member, SEBI has passed the above order. 
The full text of the Order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in
 
Mumbai
February 02, 2006 


