
 
Dec 30, 2005

Press Releases 


PRESS RELEASE 
 

 


PR-182/2005

 


 

SEBI meeting

 
 

The Securities and Exchange Board of India held its 101st meeting in Mumbai today. The following are some of the major policy decisions considered and approved by the Board:
 
 
Public issue refunds through Electronic Clearing Scheme (ECS) : Presently refunds in public issues are sent only through post/ registered post, which has time and cost implications for investors. Progressive use of technology in banking has enhanced the efficiency in clearing and transfer of funds, which is evidenced in use of ECS mechanism for corporate dividend payments and routine corporate transactions. It has now been decided to extend the facility of electronic transfer of funds, viz, ECS to public issue refunds also. This will ensure faster and hassle free refunds to investors. ECS as a mode of refunds will initially be available at 15 centers across India where clearing is done by RBI and may be extended to other centers over a period.
 
 
Introduction of optional grading of IPOs: SEBI Board has granted in principle approval for introduction of optional "grading" of public issues by unlisted companies (viz. IPOs) by credit rating agencies registered with SEBI. IPO grading would not be mandatory. It would be solely at the option of the issuer company. SEBI will not certify the assessment made by the grading agency. The grading is intended to be an independent and unbiased opinion of the concerned agency. The grading would be a one time exercise and would only focus on assisting the investor particularly Retail Individual investors, in taking an informed investment decision. The cost of IPO grading can be met by stock exchanges or out of the corpus of Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF). Necessary procedurals aspects would be finalized by SEBI in consultation with Stock Exchanges.
 
 
Rationalizing disclosure requirements for further public offers and rights issues: Presently all companies irrespective of whether they are listed in any stock exchange or are approaching the markets for the first time with IPOs have to make identical disclosures in the prospectus / offer document. In the context of further public offers (FPO) and Rights Issues, some disclosures in the document are repetitive, as the same have been periodically disclosed to the exchanges by the listed companies. It is now proposed to do away with the repetitive disclosures in case of rights issues and FPOs by companies which have a satisfactory track record of filing disclosures with the stock exchanges, of redressing investors’ grievances etc.
 
 
Common platform for electronic filing and dissemination of corporate information: In terms of the listing agreement, listed companies are required to disclose corporate information to the stock exchanges where they are listed and also on EDIFAR, a electronic filing platform currently maintained by SEBI. This results in multiple disclosures/filings for the companies that are listed on more than one exchange. SEBI, in consultation with NSE and BSE, is in the process of brining a common electronic platform maintained / run by Stock Exchanges. A listed company would be required to file only on this platform for the purpose of satisfying the requirements of listing agreement. The proposed platform would introduce single window filing and would also serve as a one stop shop for corporate information of listed companies.
 
 
 
Introduction of Gold Exchange Traded Funds in India: Hon’ble Union Finance Minister in his speech presenting the Budget 2005-06 had announced the introduction of Gold Exchange Traded Fund (GETF) in India and creation of a market for such units. Consequent upon the announcement by the Hon’ble Finance Minister, Chairman, SEBI constituted a committee to look into all aspects of facilitating the setting up of GETF in India. After considering various issues involved in the matter, the Committee recommended that the GETF may be implemented in India based on two models- (i) Mutual Fund Custodian Bank integrated model and (ii) Mutual Fund Warehouse Receipt Model. The two models are briefly as follows:-
 

  
 

Mutual Fund Custodian Bank integrated model- In this model, the physical gold is held by a custodian bank on behalf of the Mutual Fund. The Mutual Fund sells/buys units to/from a wholesale intermediary based on the value of the gold with the custodian bank and the wholesale intermediary in turn sells/buys the units to the retail investors on the Stock Exchange.

 
 
 
 

Mutual Fund Warehouse Receipt model- In this model, gold warehouse receipts are held by a custodian bank on behalf of the mutual fund. The Mutual Fund sells/buys units to/from a wholesale intermediary based on the value of the gold warehouse receipts with the custodian bank and the wholesale intermediary in turn sells/buys the units to the retail investors on the Stock Exchange.

 


 
 
Amendment to Takeover Regulations : SEBI Board in its meeting held today approved amendment to SEBI Takeover Regulation. The amendments would provide required flexibility to corporate restructuring. At the same time, to ensure the maintenance of minimum public shareholding for continuous listing it has been decided that if in the process of corporatre restructuring under Takeover Regulations the target company’s public shareholding falls below the prescribed minimum, the restoration of minimum public shareholding will take place through framework provided in the revised Clause 40A of Listing Agreement. 
Among other things, restrictions on market purchases, preferential allotments as in the Takeover Regulations have been removed. It has also been provided that the outgoing shareholder (promoter) can sell entire stake to incoming acquirer in case of takeover. Further, shareholders holding more than 55% would be able to make further acquisitions subject to making open offer. 
Amendment to SEBI (Delisting of Securities) Guidelines, 2003. : Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), in its Board meeting held today has approved amendment to SEBI (Delisting of Securities) Guidelines, 2003. The amendment seeks to simplify the existing framework by amending certain procedural anomalies that are prevailing in the provisions relating to Compulsory Delisting making it possible for stock exchanges to delist errant companies that are non-compliant with the provisions of listing agreement.
 
Clarifications on the revised Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement SEBI has been receiving a number of requests/suggestions to bring about certain clarifications on few issues pertaining to the revised Clause 49 of the Listing agreement on corporate governance, the compliance date of which has been extended till December 31, 2005. After examination of the suggestions received, it is now proposed to bring about the following clarifications in Clause 49:

 

The maximum time gap between two Board meetings has been increased from three months to four months. 

 


 

Sitting fees paid to non-executive directors as authorized by the Companies Act, 1956 would not require the approval of shareholders. 

 


 

Certification of internal controls and internal control systems by CEO/ CFO would be for the purpose for financial reporting.

 


Revision of trading member position limits for stock based derivatives

The current trading member position limit for stock based derivatives has been revised, based on the recommendations of the Secondary Market Advisory Committee. The new limits are as follows 

 

For stocks having applicable market-wide position limit of Rs. 500 crore or more, the combined futures and options position limit shall be 20% of applicable market-wide position limit or Rs. 300 crore, whichever is lower and within which stock futures position cannot exceed 10% of applicable market-wide position limit or Rs. 150 crore, whichever is lower. 

 
 

For stocks having applicable market-wide position limit less than Rs. 500 crore, the combined futures and options position limit would be 20% of applicable market-wide position limit and futures position cannot exceed 20% of applicable market-wide position limit or Rs. 50 crore which ever is lower.

 
 

The market-wide position limit and client level position limits however would remain the same as prescribed.

 

The enhanced limits will enable participants, to hedge their positions more effectively, especially for stocks with large market capitalization and higher liquidity. Separate position limits have been built in for stock options in order to provide an impetus for the options market. 

Unique Identification Number (UIN)

The Board decided to resume fresh registrations for obtaining Unique Identification Number (UIN) under SEBI (Central Database of Market Participants) Regulations, 2003 (MAPIN), after considering the recommendations of the Committee set up by SEBI to examine the issues related to MAPIN. 
The registration process will be resumed in a phased manner. To begin with, the cut off limit for obtaining UIN with biometric impressions for natural persons has been raised from the existing limit of trade order value of Rs.1.00 lakh to Rs.5.00 lakh or more. The limit will be reduced progressively. Agencies capable of providing such facilities in a cost effective manner will be assigned the responsibility of maintaining the databases. For trade order value of less than Rs.5.00 lakh, option will be available to investors to obtain either the Permanent Account Number of Income Tax Department or UIN obtained under MAPIN. Investors in mutual funds would be exempted from the requirement of obtaining UIN. The definition of promoter, which is a body corporate would be limited, to immediate holding company of the Indian entity and any of the subsidiaries, if located in India. Listed company or a company which intends to get its securities listed, along with their promoters, directors, officers and designated employees would be required to obtain UIN. These changes will be implemented after the necessary amendments are made to the MAPIN Regulations
Note : The aforesaid are policy announcements based on decisions of the Board and do not reflect change in the existing legal framework until the relevant amendments are effected through issue of circulars. 

Mumbai
December 30, 2005

Chronology of Events relating to Clause 49 of Listing Agreement on Corporate Governance
 




No.


Chronology of events


Date / Year



1 

Constitution of Kumar Mangalam Birla Committee
(Decision to set up the committee taken in the SEBI Board meeting dated March 19, 1999)


May 7, 1999



2 

Kumar Mangalam Birla Committee Report considered and adopted by SEBI Board


January 25, 2000



3 

Circular introducing Clause 49 based on Kumara Mangalam Birla Committee’s recommendations


February 21, 2000




(a)


Circular on Applicability of Clause 49 to Listed Companies and Body Corporates


March 09, 2000




(b)


Circular making Amendments to Clause 49 on Composition of Board and Committees


September 12, 2000




(c)


Circular Directing Stock Exchanges on Enforcement of Corporate Governance


January 22, 2001




(d)


Circular stating that Clause 49 is not applicable to Listed Mutual Funds


March 16, 2001




(e)


Amendments to Clause 49 on Composition of Board of Directors


December 31, 2001



4 

Constitution of Narayana Murthy Committee (Report does not disclose the date of constitution)


Later part of 2002



5 

Narayana Murthy Committee report dated February 8, 2003 adopted by SEBI Board on


June 27, 2003



6 

Circular issued on the basis of recommendations of Narayana Murthy Committee


August 26, 2003



7 

Additional Meeting of Narayana Murthy Committee to consider public comments


November 17, 2003



8 

Revised recommendations of Narayana Murthy Committee


December 10, 2003



9 

Press Release deferring implementation of Circular dated 26.08.2003


December 15, 2003



10 

SEBI Board Approved the revised Recommendation of Narayana Murthy Committee


April 16, 2004



11 

Circular revising Clause 49 on the basis of revised Narayana Murthy Committee recommendations


October 29, 2004



12 

Press Release extending time till December 31, 2005 for compliance with revised Clause 49


March 29, 2005





