
 
Sep 13, 2006

PR No.:  
203/2006


PRESS RELEASE
 
PR-203/2006
SEBI constitutes Committee on Disclosures and Accounting Standards
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has constituted a new Committee- "SEBI Committee on Disclosures and Accounting Standards" (SCODA), headed by Shri Y. H. Malegam. The other members of the committee are Shri Jitesh Khosla, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Company Affairs, Govt. of India; Smt. Chitra Ramakrishna, Dy. MD and CEO, National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE); Shri P.S. Reddy, Chief General Manager, Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd.(BSE); Shri T.N.Manoharan, President, Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI); Dr. Avinash Chander, Technical Director, ICAI; Shri T. V.Mohandas Pai, Director and Chief Financial Officer, Infosys; Shri Dolphi D'souza, Technical Director, Ernst & Young; Shri Sailesh Haribhakti, Haribhakti & Co, Chartered Accountants, Mumbai; Shri Sandeep Parekh, Partner, P.H.Parekh & Co, New Delhi; Smt Ashu Suyash, Country Head, Fidelity Fund Management Limited; Shri Raj Balakrishna, Compliance Officer, DSP Merrill Lynch Limited; Shri Bharat Doshi, Executive Director, Mahindra & Mahindra Limited; Shri S.R.Mehta, Representative of FICCI; Shri V.K.Chopra, Whole Time Member, SEBI; Shri R.K.Nair, Executive Director, SEBI, Smt. Usha Narayanan, Executive Director, SEBI and Shri Parag Basu, Dy. General Manager, SEBI.
SEBI had, earlier, constituted two committees both chaired by Shri Y.H.Malegam namely, the SEBI Committee on Disclosures and the Accounting Standards Committee. While the Committee on Disclosures was set up in order to advise SEBI on issues related to the disclosure requirements in the documents related to the offering of securities in primary market, the Accounting Standards Committee was set up to consider Accounting Standards in line with the Indian Laws and best international practices and also to consider and recommend uniform accounting norms for the capital market and its intermediaries in India. These two committees have now been merged to form SCODA in order to address the overlaps in the areas addressed by them.
The terms of reference of the Committee are:

To advise SEBI on issues related to the disclosure requirements in the Offer Documents/Application Forms/Advertisements and in any other mode of mass communication used by the issuer for protecting the interests of the investors improving the overall efficiency of the market. 

 
Page 1 of 2
 
PR-203/2006
ii. To advise SEBI on issues related to the continuous disclosure requirements pertaining to listing of equity or debt of an issuer.
iii. To advise SEBI on matters related to disclosure requirements of the intermediaries registered with SEBI.
iv. To review of continuous disclosure requirements of listed companies and for disclosures, valuation methods and standard norms for Intermediaries operating in the Capital Market.
v. To advise SEBI on issues for addressing the operational and systemic risks, if any, in the primary securities market.
vi. To ensure smooth implementation of accounting standards, statements, guidance notes and studies evolved by the ICAI to the extent that it pertains to disclosures in the Capital Market documents and for disclosures related to Intermediaries.

To suggest how best to coordinate between SEBI and ICAI, such as by constituting study teams for providing inputs to Accounting Standards Board (ASB) of ICAI and Making references to ICAI for consideration of ASB and Capital Markets Committee and for providing inputs to ICAI for evolving new accounting standards and reviewing the existing accounting standards. 

 
Mumbai
September 13, 2006 

