
 
May 27, 2005

Press Releases 


PRESS RELEASE
PR No.82/2005
 

ORDER IN THE MATTER OF PENTAMEDIA GRAPHICS LTD. 
 
 
SEBI received complaints from Oriental Bank of Commerce, Mylapore Branch (erstwhile Mylapore Branch of the Global Trust Bank Ltd.) [hereinafter referred to as “OBC”], against Cameo Corporate Services Ltd., Chennai, (hereinafter referred to as “Cameo”) Share Transfer Agents for Pentamedia Graphics Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “PGL”). 
 
The information so far collected by SEBI has raised doubts regarding the genuineness of the share certificates in question. In view of the grave emergency and to save the investors and the securities market from further fraudulent acts of the concerned entities, Whole Time Member, SEBI vide order dated May 27, 2005 has, by way of an ad interim ex-parte order directed as below:
 
1. Pentamedia Graphics Ltd. and its directors – PGL is directed not to issue any further shares or alter its share capital in any manner till further directions. The company and its directors, namely Mr. V Chandrasekaran, Dr. S Ramani, Mr. T V Krishnamurty, Ms. Usha Ganesarajah and Mr. S D Viswanathan are prohibited from accessing capital market or dealing in securities, in any manner, directly or indirectly, till further orders in this regard by SEBI.
 
2. Vijay Advertising P Ltd. (Preferential Allottee) – The sale proceeds accruing to VAPL is directed to be impounded and VAPL is further directed to retain the impounded sale proceeds in its account and the same should not be utilized in any manner for any purpose. VAPL and its directors namely Mr. M Vardharajan and Mrs. Bhuvaneswari should not deal in securities market in any manner directly or indirectly till further directions by SEBI in this regard.                                                               
 
Oriental Bank of Commerce, Mylapore branch  is directed to retain all the original documents pertaining to the transaction including the share certificates and the loan documents in its possession, in a sealed and secure place. OBC is directed not to tamper with or part with any of the aforesaid documents until further specific directions in writing in this regard by SEBI.
 
Cameo is directed that it should keep in a safe and secure location all the documents pertaining to the transaction including the original defaced certificate received by it for dematerialization and all correspondence and documents received from the company regarding the preferential allotment to Vijay Advertising P. Ltd. and Sathya Securities P. Ltd. Cameo should not tamper with or part with any of the documents pertaining to the transaction until further specific directions in writing in this regard by SEBI.
 
This order shall come into force with immediate effect. The full text of the above order is available in the website
 
Mumbai,
May 27, 2005


