
 
Feb 13, 2020

PR No.:  
5/2020


SEBI develops an online system for detecting misuse of
clients’ securities by brokersIn the recent past years, it
has been observed that some brokers have misused clients’ securities received
as collateral to meet their own settlement obligation or obligations of other
clients.  Some brokers have also misused
clients’ securities by pledging them with the banks and NBFCs to raise funds
for their own use. Though the Depositories Act provides for acceptance of client
securities as collateral by way of pledge, the collateral of securities is
accepted by way of title transfer of securities by brokers.  The client providing collateral in the form
of securities needs to transfer his securities in the name of the broker and
once the securities move out of the demat account of the client, it is not
possible for him to keep a track of use/ misuse of those securities by the
broker.A few brokers have been
declared defaulter by the Exchange not on account of failure to meet settlement
obligation but in failing to meet liabilities/ dues to the clients.  The available assets of the broker were found
short to meet the clients’ funds and securities obligations.  In order to prevent the misuse of clients’
securities by broker, SEBI has taken a number of policy measures including
laying down early warning mechanism to detect diversion of clients’ funds and securities,
restricting broker to pledge clients’ securities even with the consent of the
client, securities to be transferred to Client account or Client Unpaid
Securities Account (CUSA) within 24 hours of payout, mapping of Unique Client
Code with demat account of the client to detect diversion of payout of
securities.  SEBI has also directed
Clearing Corporations to share client level pay-in and pay-out obligations with
Depositories, and Depositories are required to check the corresponding debit or
credit in the demat account of client and report mismatches to the Exchanges.
This has detected the diversion of clients’ securities received in payout.SEBI has developed an in –
house online system by which it would be able to prepare client level
securities holding register of the brokers. SEBI collects the details of the clients’
securities submitted in weekly report filed by brokers with the Exchanges and
updates the same with trades conducted in the accounts of said clients using
the data available with SEBI in DWBIS as well as data provided by Exchanges,
Clearing Corporations and Depositories pertaining to auction trades, corporate actions,
SLBM transfers, off market trades etc. The securities holding balance computed
is matched with the actual clients’ securities holding in the demat account and
submission made by the broker for the next day. Any mismatch in data is flagged
as an alert for Exchanges.As such, SEBI has developed
the in – house capabilities to online track the movement of client securities collected
by broker as collateral and raise alerts with Exchanges if diversion of clients’
securities is noticed. These reports are being generated by SEBI on a weekly
basis and three such mismatch reports have already been forwarded to Exchanges
for reconciliation with members.  This
system is likely to timely detect the misuse of clients’ securities collected by
brokers as collateral or received in pay-out of securities.  

