
 
Aug 14, 2008

Press Releases 


Shri Ranganayakulu takes charge as Executive Director (Law)
Shri Jagarlamudi Ranganayakulu has taken charge as Executive Director in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) today.  Shri Ranganayakulu will be in charge of the Legal Department. Prior to this assignment, Shri Ranganayakulu was Legal Adviser in SEBI.
A postgraduate in Constitutional Law, Shri Ranganayakulu has also obtained a Master’s Degree in International Law and Economics from the World Trade Institute, Berne, Switzerland. He has also a post graduate degree in Political Science.
In his career as a law professional spanning more than two decades, Shri Ranganayakulu has worked in SEBI and HUDCO.
He joined SEBI in 1997 as Deputy Legal Adviser and was promoted later as Joint Legal Adviser. Shri Ranganayakulu has handled various significant cases in SEBI. He was involved in drafting various regulations, Memorandum of Understanding with Foreign Regulators for co-operation in investigation and enforcement. He was also an adjudicator in about 50 cases and has passed several quasi judicial orders. He has also handled various cases, on behalf of SEBI, in the Securities Appellate Tribunal, High Courts and Supreme Court.
Prior to his assignment in SEBI, Shri Ranganayakulu served as Law Officer in Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO), a Govt. of India enterprise. In HUDCO, Shri Ranganayakulu has examined a number of constitutional documents of borrower institutions for ascertaining their legal eligibility to raise loans for undertaking housing and infrastructure projects and completed legal documentation in approximately 1000 schemes.
Shri Ranganayakulu has presented several papers on issues relating to securities market in national as well as international forums. He was also a Member of the Indian delegation to UNIDROIT Convention on Substantive Rules regarding Intermediated Securities held at FAO, Rome, Italy.  
Widely travelled, Shri Ranganayakulu has visited United States of America, Japan, Singapore, Malaysia, Switzerland, Italy and  Thailand.
Mumbai
August 14, 2008

