
 
Sep 08, 2015

PR No.:  
227/2015


Shri Prashant Saran, Whole Time Member, SEBI, has passed an order on September 02, 2015 in the matter of Samruddha Jeevan Foods India Limited against the company and its directors under Sections 11(1), 11(4) and 11B of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 65 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999, and, Regulation 4(2) (t) of Securities And Exchange Board Of India (Prohibition Of Fraudulent And Unfair Trade Practices Relating To Securities Market) Regulations, 2003.
The Registered Office of the Company is situated at Office No. 1, 1st Floor, Sr. No. 63/2B/9, The Forum, Pune Satara Road, Parvati, Pune- 411009. The order directed the company and its Directors, Mr. Mahesh Kisan Motewar, Mrs. Vaishali Mahesh Motewar, Mr. Ghanshyam Jashbhai Patel and Mr. Rajendra Pandurang Bhandare to abstain from collecting any money from the investors or from launching or carrying out any Collective Investment Schemes including the scheme which have been identified as a Collective Investment Scheme in the order; to wind up the existing Collective Investment Schemes and refund the money collected by the said company under the schemes with returns which are due to its investors as per the terms of offer within a period of three months from the date of the Order; not to dispose of or alienate any of the assets of Samruddha Jeevan Foods India Limited except for the purpose of making refunds to its investors; to provide a full inventory of all their assets and properties and details of all their bank accounts, demat accounts and holdings of shares/securities, if held in physical form. The said order restrained the directors from accessing the securities market and prohibited them from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in securities market for a period of four (4) years.
The Company was engaged in fund mobilizing activity from public by floating/sponsoring/ launching Collective Investment Scheme (CIS) as defined in section 11AA of the SEBI Act, 1992.
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

