
 
Nov 04, 2009

PR No.:  
334/2009










PR No.334/2009
Ms. Usha Narayanan , ED SEBI, elected for 2010 Steering Committee of XBRL International Inc
Ms. Usha Narayanan, Executive Director, SEBI has been elected as one of the seven At-Large members of the 2010 Steering Committee of XBRL International Inc as per the election results announced by XBTL International Inc on October 29, 2009. The At-Large members are persons greatly influential in the field of XBRL development and adoption. 
Ms Usha Narayanan is heading Corporation Finance Department of the Securities Market Regulator of India. She has been actively involved in taking XBRL initiatives. Some of the significant developments which have since been taken place in Indian securities market with the encouragement of SEBI include setting up of a XBRL enabled platform for corporate reporting (www.corpfiling.co.in) by BSE and NSE,  advocating ICAI to get recognition as XBRL India provisional jurisdiction; keenly pushing development of official taxonomies etc.
 
About XBRL International, Inc. 
XBRL International is a not-for-profit consortium of approximately 600 companies and agencies worldwide working together to create a common interactive data solution based on XML i.e building the XBRL language and promoting and supporting its adoption. XBRL is getting prominence world over for being an efficient business reporting language.
The XBL International consortium members meet periodically in international conferences and conduct committee work regularly via conference calls. Elections to the International Steering Committee are held each year after October 15. The Steering Committee sets up goals for the consortium.
This collaborative effort began in 1998 and has produced a variety of specifications and taxonomies to support the goal of providing a standard, XML-based language for digitizing business reports in accordance with the rules of accounting in each country or with other reporting regimes such as banking regulation or performance benchmarking.
 
MumbaiNovember 4, 2009

