
 
Dec 29, 2009

PR No.:  
407/2009










PR No.407/2009
Justice D. P. Wadhwa Committee Report on reallocation in the matter of
IPO irregularities
 
1.      SEBI had investigated certain irregularities in Initial Public Offerings (IPO) from the year 2005 and  constituted a Committee under the chairmanship of Justice D P Wadhwa, Chairman (Former Judge, Supreme Court of India) and four other members (representing investor associations, Registrars to the issues, merchant bankers and SEBI) to advise/recommend the procedure of identification of persons who might have been deprived on account of such IPO irregularities and the manner in which reallocation of shares to such persons should take place.
 
2.      On December 12, 2007, Justice Wadhwa committee submitted its report to SEBI. The Committee enunciated three principles in its report, as under:
 
I.         Quantification of the amount of unjust enrichment: The number of shares allotted to afferent applicants shall be treated as unjust allotments / enrichment.
II.       Identification of “deprived” applicants: The totally unsuccessful applicants shall have the first call on the reallocation. These applicants will be considered for the amount which is the difference of closing price of shares on the first day of listing / trading at NSE and the IPO issue price.
III.      Basis for re-allocation amongst deprived applicants: The totally unsuccessful applicants shall be reallocated money value as computed above from recovered unjust gains, till they each receive the gains associated with minimum shares allotted to the lowest category in the IPO.
 
3.      SEBI had initiated proceedings against certain key operators and financiers involved in the IPO irregularities to penalize them and disgorge the ill-gotten gains these key operators had made. SEBI has been successful in disgorging a part of the gains that such entities have made.  It intends to continue its efforts to disgorge further sums in future on completing the legal/consent proceedings currently in progress.  In the interim, SEBI proposes to initiate administrative steps for reallocation of the amount it has collected.
 
In this context, the Justice Wadhwa Committee Report is placed in the public domain for information.
 
MumbaiDecember 29, 2009

