
 
Nov 30, 2005

Press Releases 



PR -153/05
Order in the matter of (1) Nageshwar Investment Ltd., (2) Adinath Bio-Labs Ltd., (3) Globe Stocks & Securities Ltd., (4) Goenka Business & Finance Ltd. and (5) Coronet Industries Ltd.
SEBI vide order dated November 30, 2005 has issued the following directions in the matter of (1) Nageshwar Investment Ltd., (2) Adinath Bio-Labs Ltd., (3) Globe Stocks & Securities Ltd., (4) Goenka Business & Finance Ltd. and (5) Coronet Industries Ltd. 
1.   The following twelve stock brokers of Calcutta Stock Exchange (CSE) shall not buy, sell or deal in securities, in any manner, either directly or indirectly, till further directions in this regard:
1.      Basant Periwal & Co.
2.      Binoy Poddar
3.      P K Agarwal & Co.
4.      Pramod K Kothari
5.      Purshottam Lal Kejdiwal
6.      Santosh K Kejriwal Securities (P) Ltd.
7.      Dinesh Kumar Lodha
8.      Ashish Stock Broking
9.      Sunil Kedia
10.  Murari Lal Goenka
11.  Shyam Lal Sultania
12.  Ahilya Commercial Pvt. Ltd.
 2. In respect of Shyam Lal Sultania and Ahilya Commercial Pvt. Ltd., brokers of CSE (mentioned at Sr. No. 11 & 12) against whom another order dated September 29, 2005 has been passed whereby they were directed not to buy, sell or deal in securities in any manner, either directly or indirectly, both the orders will run concurrently, till further directions in them.
3.   The trading in the following companies shall remain suspended till further directions issued in this regard.
1.      Nageshwar Investment Ltd.
2.      Adinath Bio-labs Ltd.
3.      Globe Stocks & Securities Ltd.
4.      Goenka Business & Finance Ltd.
5.      Coronet Industries Ltd.
The above directions shall take effect immediately and shall be in force until further orders.
The order has been passed by Shri G Anantharaman, Whole Time Member, SEBI in the following context:
It is evident from the findings of the preliminary investigation, that the five companies, all of which are listed in CSE, that the brokers have followed a common modus operandi of artificially inflating the price and creating false volumes through continuous self deals executed on the same terminal and cross deals amongst themselves, thereby not only enriching themselves but also aiding and abetting the process of legitimizing the gains. Besides the companies themselves have recorded poor or lack lustre financial performance and have not bothered to file up to date financial statements with CSE. Such acts by the brokers pose a serious risk to the stability and settlement system of the stock exchange besides raising the spectre that innocent investors may get drawn by the artificial trading volumes generated by these brokers and may in the process be beguiled into investing in the shares of these fundamentally weak companies at unjustifiable market prices, only to be left adrift.
Their dealings also establishes a prima facie case of violation of SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Markets) Regulations, 2003 and Regulation 7 of SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub-brokers) Regulations, 1992 read with code of conduct as specified in Scheduled II of the said Regulations.
 The full text of the Order is available on the website www.sebi.gov.in
Mumbai
November 30, 2005


