
 
Jun 05, 2009

PR No.:  
182/2009










PR No.182/2009
Interim Order against 26 entities in the matter of repeated dealings by connected clients
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) in the course of its routine market surveillance, received information regarding the execution of synchronized deals in certain scrips by entities namely, Maruti Securities Limited (MSL),  Kundan  Leasing and Finance Private Limited (KLFPL), Chandra Financial Services Private Limited (CFSPL), Jay Investrade Private Limited (JIPL) and HSM  Financial Services Private Limited (HSM). The information received by SEBI indicated that the said entities had executed synchronized deals in five scrips namely Cals Refineries Limited (Cals), Confidence Petroleum India Limited (Confidence), Bang Overseas Limited (Bang), Shree Precoated Steels Limited (now known as Ajmera Realty & Infra India Limited) (SPSL) and Temptation Foods Limited (TFL).
Examination of dealings by connected clients, prima facie shows that:
a) The connected clients had large trading concentration in terms of trading volume on BSE in the scrips of Cals, Confidence, Bang, SPSL and TFL during the relevant period.
b) The connected clients had dealt amongst themselves on market i.e. they were buying and selling shares amongst each other thereby creating market trading volume.
c)  Some of the inter se trades of connected clients were synchronized in nature.
d) Further, connected clients were found to be transferring shares amongst themselves through off-market transactions. Thus, it appears that they were executing synchronized deals and off market deals amongst themselves simultaneously.
e) In certain instances, it is seen that the delivery obligations of one connected client was fulfilled by off-market borrowing of shares from another connected client and subsequently the borrower  bought back the shares from the market and returned the same to the lender  through off-market transfer.
The above acts of connected clients are prima facie of such nature that it had caused increased market traded volume and such increased traded volume would have induced other genuine investors to deal in securities. Thus, prima facie, the acts of connected clients, are in violation of Section 12A(c) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulations 3(a) and 4(1) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003.
SEBI observed that atleast five of the connected clients appear to be related to  Mr. Shirish Maniar, who was implicated by CBI along with Mr. Ketan Parekh in the Madhavpura Mercantile Co-operative Bank case. Mr. Ketan Parekh along with the companies belonging to him is already debarred by SEBI from dealing in securities market. Therefore, it appears that he has conveniently used the connected clients at will as his front entities for executing trades desired by him in the securities market. This is possible because the connected clients, so far, can trade without any restraint as there is no debarment whatsoever by SEBI in their dealing in the securities market, as is being faced by Mr. Ketan Parekh and his group of companies. Further, the flow of funds originating from Mr. Ketan Parekh which were routed through the connected clients, when juxtaposed with securities market transactions of connected clients, as brought out by the instant SEBI examinations, leads to the possibility that the securities market transactions of the connected clients were executed as a part of a larger device for creating additional layers to obfuscate the funds trail and also to integrate the money originating from Mr. Ketan Parekh into the banking system.
Dr. K.M.Abraham, Whole Time Member, SEBI vide interim order dated June 4, 2009 has restrained the following persons/entities from accessing the securities market and further prohibited them from buying, selling or dealing in securities market, directly or indirectly, till further orders:





Sr. No.


Name of Entity/person


Permanent Account Number






 


Maruti Securities Limited


AABCM3651M




 


Chandra Financial Services Private Limited


AABCC5331Q or AABCL5331Q




 


HSM Financial Services Private  Limited


AAACH9218G




 


Kundan Leasing and Finance Private Limited


AAACK7448R




 


Jay Investrade Private Limited


AAACJ5150H




 


Shanti Financial Services Private Limited


AAFCS2399G




 


Acme Craft Private Limited


AAECA8833C




 


Eversight Tradecom Private Limited


AAACE7667E




 


Beejay Investment & Financial Consultants Private Limited


AABCB0832B




 


Alosha Vanijya Private Limited


AACCA5623N




 


Stupendors Traders Private Limited


AADCS7524F




 


Ms. Samata Jain


ACOPJ3258P




 


Ms. Surabhi Jain


AINPJ9654Q




 


Mr. Sudhir Jain


AEUPJ6167K




 


Venture Business Advisors Private Limited


AAACV7487P




 


Mr. Ravikant Chowdhary


AAEPR7102C




 


Mr. Shyam Sundar Shah


BGCPS4475G




 


Peanence Commercial Private Limited


AAACP3605P




 


VSB Investment Private Limited


AABCV7492B




 


Rakhi Trading Private Limited


AACCR6372B




 


Chimming Trading Company Limited


AADCC1382M




 


Mr. Ashok Kumar Jain


AAUPJ7016M




 


Amar Packagings Private Limited


AAACA5760G




 


Mr. Jay Shirish Maniar


AMKPM0946R




 


Mr. Harsh Shirish Maniar


AABPM3940R or AAMPM3940R




 


Mr. Rajendra Kumar Agarwal


ACKPA8794M





 
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in
 
Mumbai
June 05, 2009

