
 
Apr 04, 2007

PR No.:  
129/2007 


PRESS RELEASE
PR No.129/2007
 

 
Order against preferential allottees, their Directors and associates in the case of M/s. Padmini Technologies Ltd. 
 
Shri G. Anantharaman, Whole Time Member, SEBI has passed an order dated March 31, 2007 prohibiting following entities who had aided the process of preferential allotment by M/s. Padmini Technologies Ltd. by indulging in unusual financial accommodation with company and thereafter had facilitated off-loading of shares to Ketan Parekh entities for subsequent manipulation in violation of Regulation 3 & 6(a) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 1995 and section 16 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 :- 
 




Sl. No.


Name of entity


Name of Directors/ partners




1


M/s. VB Impex Pvt. Ltd.


Shri Vinod kumar and Shri Vinay Bansal




2


M/s. JP Promoters Pvt. Ltd.


Shri Anurag Gupta and Shri Pradeep Kumar Gupta,




3


M/s. Churuwala Exports Pvt. Ltd.


Smt. Kiran Devi Agarwal and Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta




4


M/s. DKG Buildcon Pvt. Ltd.


Shri DK Gupta, Shri Navneet Kumar And Ms. Indu Gupta




5


M/s. Mikona Impex Traders Pvt. Ltd.


Shri Vinod Kumar and Shri Sandeep Kumar,




6


M/s. Iris Infrastructurals Pvt. Ltd.


Shri Navneet Kumar and Shri Vinod Kumar,




7


Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta, 
Chartered Accountant


 




8


M/s. Cama Enterprises Pvt. Ltd.


Shri Arun Goenka, Shri Umesh Goenka and Shri Ashok Sood,




9


M/s. Hermonite Consultants Pvt. Ltd.


Shri Arun Goenka, Shri Umesh Goenka and Shri Himangshu Bhadra




10


M/s. Zinga Chemicals Pvt. Ltd.


Shri Arun Goenka and Shri Umesh Goenka and Shri P. Ratna Rao








11


M/s. Cherry Marketing Pvt. Ltd.


Shri Arun Goenka, Shri Umesh Goenka and Shri Ashok Sood,




12


M/s. Hermonite Surgicals Pvt. Ltd.


Shri Arun Goenka, Shri Umesh Goenka and Shri Shiv Prasad Agarwal,




13


M/s. H T Ferro Pvt. Ltd.


Shri Arun Goenka and Shri Umesh Goenka




14


Shri Kishen Goenka


 




15


Shri Prakash Kumar Damani


 




16


M/s. Prakash Kumar Damani (HUF)


 




17


Shri Sanjeev Beriwal


 




18


M/s. Royal Bengal Exports Pvt. Ltd.


Shri Jitendra Agarwal, Shri S Chaterjee 




19


M/s. Savara Tie-Up Pvt. Ltd.


Shri Jitendra Agarwal




20.


Shri Alok Khetan


 




21


Shri Pramod Kumar Kishorepuria


 




22


Shri Raj Kumar Kishorepuria


 




23


M/s. Bhagwandas Sagarmal


Shri Sajjan Kumar Kishorepuria, Shri Anil Kishorepuria




24


M/s. Jiwansagar Promoters Pvt. Ltd.


Shri Sajjan Kumar Kishorepuria, Shri Anil Kishorepuria, Shri Anil Kishorepuria




25


M/s. Bllumenfield Ltd.


Shri Anil Kishorepuria, Shri Sunil Kishorepuria




26


M/s Contessa Commercial Co. Pvt Ltd.


Shri Sajjan Kumar Kishorepuria, Shri Bijay Kumar Kishorepuria,




27


Shri Sunil Kumar Kishorepuria


 




28


M/s. All Seasons Hotels Pvt. Ltd.,


 




29


M/s. RN Dye Chem Pvt. Ltd.


 




30


M/s. Cross Country Export Pvt. Ltd.


 




31


M/s. Mudra Capital Services Pvt. Ltd.


 




 
These entities have been prohibited from associating with the capital market related activities including buying and selling and dealing in securities directly or indirectly and also from accessing the capital market in any capacity whatsoever and associating with any of the intermediary in the capital market for a period of five years. This order has been passed under section 11B of the SEBI Act, 1992 and Regulation 10 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003. 
 
The full text of the above order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in 
 
Mumbai
April 04, 2007
 


