
 
Nov 01, 2004

Press Releases 


PRESS RELEASE
PR No. 298/2004
  

Issuance of Listing Agreement for listing of Debentures

 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has released a Listing Agreement for listing of all debentures irrespective of mode of issuance i.e. whether issued on private placement basis or public / rights issue. It has been stipulated that all the debentures in the meaning of Section 2(12) of the Companies Act, 1956 and any other debt instruments, which are proposed to be listed on recognised Stock Exchanges shall now be listed by entering into the Listing Agreement for Debentures. This agreement is meant to list the debentures issued by all entities except supra national organizations like Asian Development Bank, World Bank etc. 
SEBI, vide its circulars dated September 30, 2003 and December 22, 2003, has stipulated the conditions to be complied in respect of private placement of debt securities. One of the conditions specified therein is that an entity desirous of listing its debt securities issued on private placement basis shall enter into a separate Listing Agreement with the Stock Exchanges. Pursuant to which this agreement has been stipulated. 
The Agreement has three parts. Part (I) contains clauses which would be complied by all issuers irrespective of mode of issuance, Part (II) contains clause needed to be complied with if the debentures are issued either through public or rights issue and Part (III) contains clauses which would be complied with in case the debentures are issued on private placement basis. 
In case of issuers whose equity shares are listed and who have already entered into a Listing Agreement for its equity shares, clauses of equity Listing Agreement shall have an overriding effect over the Debenture Listing Agreement, in case of inconsistency, if any. 
The aforesaid circular for model Listing Agreement for Debentures is available on our website at www.sebi.gov.in under the Section "Legal Framework - Circulars".
 
 
Mumbai
November 01, 2004


