
 
Mar 24, 2012

PR No.:  
36/2012


Shri Pranab Mukherjee, Hon'ble Union Minister of Finance, addressed the  Board and Executive Directors of SEBI today at New Delhi. The Hon'ble  Finance Minister highlighted the important issues relating to the  capital market apart from touching upon the state of the Indian economy  in the context of continuing weaknesses in global economy.  He stated that the Indian economy is expected to grow by 7.6% in 2012-13  which is still good by global standards. He was optimistic that the  measures outlined in this year's budget will revive private investment  and put the economy back on the higher growth path.  He further stated that in this year's budget, he has tried to provide an  impetus for growth in capital market by lowering transaction costs and  incentivising retail participation.  He further stated that investors are showing an increasing appetite for  market linked insurance, credit and investment products. He emphasized  the need for trustworthy regulated retail intermediation with common  minimum standards. For retail investors, he mentioned that there is a  case for bringing down the financial costs and increasing access to  mutual funds by new distribution channels. He particularly emphasized  the need for enhancing efforts towards financial literacy with effective  communication to address information asymmetry. He also indicated that  to address systemic risk posed by unregulated private pools of capital,  SEBI may consider expediting framing appropriate regulations for  alternative investment funds.  Earlier, Shri U.K. Sinha, Chairman, SEBI welcomed the Hon'ble Finance  Minister and apprised him of state of the securities market and  highlighted the important measures taken recently in the realm of  investor protection, market development and market regulation.  Besides Shri Sinha, the meeting was attended by members of the SEBI Board  viz. Shri Naved Masood, Shri Prashant Saran, Shri Rajeev Kumar Agarwal, Shri V.K.  Jairath and Shri Anand Sinha. The meeting was also attended by Shri R.  Gopalan, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance  and Shri Kaushik Basu, Chief Economic Adviser, Ministry of Finance.   Executive Directors of SEBI were also present.

