
 
Jul 29, 2009

PR No.:  
228/2009










PR No.228/2009
Order in the matter of Alka Securities Ltd.
Dr. K.M. Abraham, Whole Time Member, SEBI has passed an ex-parte ad-interim order dated July 28, 2009 in the matter of Alka Securities Ltd.
The Order states that the promoters of Alka Securities Ltd. used the off-market route to transfer shares of the company to 42 entities (1st level entities) and these entities have either dealt the said shares in market or transferred to 317 entities (2nd level entities) who in turn had dealt in the said shares at BSE. The trading activity by the promoter/company connected entities prima-facie suggests circular trading activity with an intention of creating the volume so as to give the market a false impression about the liquidity of the scrip. Further, the company, its promoters and directors, prima facie, appear to have failed to provide mandatory disclosures for change in their shareholdings on various occasions whereas the shareholding disclosures made to BSE were incorrect and apparently false.
The order has:

Directed that the promoters of Alka Securities Limited viz. Ms. Alka M Pandey, Mr. Ravi Pandey, Mr. Mahesh Natvarlal Kothari, Ms. Anjuben Kothari, Mr. Brijesh Kothari, Ms. Dimple Kothari, Mr. Mahendra Pandey and Mayuresh Esatate Agent are restrained from accessing the securities market and further prohibited from buying, selling, dealing in securities in any manner whatsoever, until further orders.;
Prohibited the stock brokers, Alka Securities Limited and Mahesh Kothari Shares & Stock Brokers Limited from buying, selling or dealing in any securities on their respective proprietary/ own account, until further orders;
Directed the stock brokers, Alka Securities Limited and Mahesh Kothari Shares & Stock Brokers Limited not to take fresh clients with immediate effect until further orders
Directed Alka Securities Limited not to issue any equity shares or any other instrument convertible into equity shares, in any manner, and shall not alter its capital structure in any manner, till further directions in this regard;
Directed all the 1st level entities and 2nd level entities (names provided in the order) not to buy, sell or deal in the securities of Alka Securities Limited in any manner, till further directions in this regard;
Directed the Bombay Stock Exchange Limited to carry out inspection of the stock brokers (listed in Table 2 in Paragraph 10 of the order) through whom the related entities (Promoters, 1st level entities and 2nd level entities) have traded in the shares of Alka Securities Limited, to ascertain the level of due diligence exercised by them while dealing with these entities and to ascertain whether their trading system had in any way facilitated such entities in manipulating the securities of Alka Securities Limited. Bombay Stock Exchange Limited is further directed to submit its detailed report in the matter within two months of the order.

The order has come into force with immediate effect.
 
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in
 





Mumbai
July 29, 2009






