
 
Mar 23, 2011

Press Releases 










PR No.46/2011
Advice to Intermediaries 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) is a regulatory body established by an Act of Parliament to protect the interests of investors in the securities market, to promote the development of, to regulate the securities market and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.  
The following Circular has been issued by SEBI in the interest of the Securities market:
SEBI has observed that unauthenticated news related to various scrips are circulated in blogs/chat forums/e-mail etc. by employees of Broking Houses/Other Intermediaries without adequate caution as mandated in the Code of Conduct for Stock Brokers. In various instances, it has been observed that the Intermediaries do not have proper internal controls and do not ensure that proper checks and balances are in place to govern the conduct of their employees. Further, due to lack of proper internal controls and poor training, employees of such intermediaries are sometimes not aware of the damage which can be caused by circulation of unauthenticated news or rumours. It is a well established fact that market rumours can do considerable damage to the normal functioning and behaviour of the market and distort the price discovery mechanisms.
In view of the above facts, it is directed to the market intermediaries that:
·        Proper internal code of conduct and controls should be put in place. 
·        Employees/temporary staff/voluntary workers etc. employed/working in the Offices of market intermediaries do not encourage or circulate rumours or unverified information obtained from client, industry, any trade or any other sources without verification.
·        Access to Blogs/Chat forums/Messenger sites etc. should either be restricted under supervision or access should not be allowed. 
·        Logs for any usage of such Blogs/Chat forums/Messenger sites (called by any nomenclature) shall be treated as records and the same should be maintained as specified by the respective Regulations which govern the concerned intermediary.
·        Employees should be directed that any market related news received by them either in their official mail/personal mail/blog or in any other manner, should be forwarded only after the same has been seen and approved by the concerned Intermediary’s Compliance Officer. If an employee fails to do so, he/she shall be deemed to have violated the various provisions contained in SEBI Act/Rules/Regulations etc. and shall be liable for action. The Compliance Officer shall also be held liable for breach of duty in this regard.
 
Mumbai
March 23, 2011 

