
 
Aug 23, 2004

Press Releases 


PRESS RELEASE
August 23, 2004 PR No.190/2004
 


Order passed against M/s.Hindustan Tools and Forgings Ltd. and its Directors –Shri Resh Goyal, Smt. Abha Goyal, Shri S R Sodhani, Shri Arvind Jain, Shri Manpreet Singh, Shri Pawan Kumar Sharma, Shri Avtar Singh and Dr. Mehar Singh Ahluwalia under section 11B of SEBI Act, 1992

 

M/s. Hindustan Tools and Forgings Ltd. made a public issue of 36,00,000 equity shares of Rs.10/- (Ten) each for a premium of Rs.6/- (Six) in April 1993. As per the information made available to SEBI by Ludhiana Stock Exchange, the company is not physically traceable at its registered office address i.e Dhakansu Road, Rajpura 140401 and is also not complying with the Listing Agreement. SEBI had issued show cause notices to the Company and the Directors. After due process, Whole Time Member , Shri T M Nagarajan, in exercise of powers conferred upon him under Section 11(1) & (4) and 11(B) read with section 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 has passed an Order dated August 6, 2004 against M/s. Hindustan Tools and Forgings Ltd. and its Directors –Shri Resh Goyal, Smt Abha Goyal, Shri S R Sodhani, Shri Arvind Jain, Shri Manpreet Singh, Shri Pawan Kumar Sharma, Shri Avtar Singh and Dr. Mehar Singh Ahluwalia restraining them from accessing the securities market and also prohibiting them from being associated with the securities market in any manner whatsoever to buy, sell or deal in securities for a period of five years from the date of order. Further, the public companies in which the above Directors hold controlling or substantial interest are also not allowed to raise funds from the capital market for a period of five years. 
These Directions are being issued without prejudice to the right of SEBI to take any other action as deemed fit, under provisions of law, against the companies and their Directors. 
Notice is also given hereby to public at large to enable the members of public to furnish any information in respect of the Companies, Promoters and Directors as mentioned above or any other companies which are not traceable at the registered office address and who have not complied with the listing provisions 
The full text of the order is available on our website: www.sebi.gov.in
 
Mumbai
August 23, 2004

