
 
Nov 20, 2014

PR No.:  
131/2014


 
Shri R K Agarwal, Whole Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), has passed an order dated November 10, 2014 in the matter of Regenix Drugs Ltd and  Mr. Ayyavu Ramamurthy, Mr. Vishwas Vasant Pathak, Mr. Raju Gunasekaran, Ms. Malathy Ramamurthy, Mr. Arvind Devanathan, Mr. Govindarajan Venkatakrishna and Mr. Natarajan Arun inter-alia directing as follows :-
a)    Regenix Drugs Limited and its directors, Mr. Ayyavu Ramamurthy, Mr. Vishwas Vasant Pathak, Mr. Raju Gunasekaran, Ms. Malathy Ramamurthy, Mr. Arvind Devanathan, Mr. Govindarajan Venkatakrishna and Mr. Natarajan Arun, shall within three months from the date of this order, jointly and severally refund the money collected pursuant to the allotment of shares on December 14, 2007, March 20, 2008, September 20, 2008, March 28, 2009 to the allottees with interest at the rate of 15% per annum from the date of receipt of money till the date of such refund. 
b)    Regenix Drugs Limited and its directors, Mr. Ayyavu Ramamurthy, Mr. Vishwas Vasant Pathak, Mr. Raju Gunasekaran, Ms. Malathy Ramamurthy, Mr. Arvind Devanathan, Mr. Govindarajan Venkatakrishna and Mr. Natarajan Arun, have been directed not to, directly or indirectly, access the capital market by issuing prospectus, any offer document or advertisement soliciting money from the public and are further restrained and prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in the securities market, directly or indirectly in whatsoever manner till the refund of the money is made to the allottees as directed in the order. 
c)     Mr. Ayyavu Ramamurthy, Mr. Vishwas Vasant Pathak, Mr. Raju Gunasekaran, Ms. Malathy Ramamurthy, Mr. Arvind Devanathan, Mr. Govindarajan Venkatakrishna and Mr. Natarajan Arun are further restrained from associating themselves, with any listed public company and any public company which intends to raise money from the public, till the refund of the money is made to the allottees as directed in the order. 
The order shall come into force with immediate effect. 
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

