
 
Aug 14, 2007

PR No.:  
235/2007



PR No.235/2007
Group on ‘Transmission of Shares’ to address issues relating to transmission of securities submits its Report
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI)  had constituted a Group to suggest suitable measures to address issues relating to difficulties faced by the investors while dealing with transmissions of securities in physical and dematerialised mode. The Group was headed by Shri R.K. Nair, Executive Director, SEBI with Shri A.P.Bakliwal, President, Bombay Shareholders Association, Shri S.V.M.D. Rao, General Manager, SEBI and Shri Ananta Barua, Legal Adviser, SEBI as Members and Shri Jeevan Sonparote, Deputy General Manager, SEBI as Member Secretary to the Group.
The terms of the reference of the Group were to:

examine various procedures followed by the listed companies and registrar and share transfer agents for transmission of physical shares,  

explore the implementation of the concept of either or survivor in depository system,  

suggest uniform norms and procedures relating to the transmission of physical shares, specifically with reference to documentation required for transmission. 

In the Report, the Group has discussed the problems faced by the investors while dealing with the issue of transmission and has recommended measures to alleviate the sufferings of investors. Some of the salient features of the Group’s recommendations are given below:
The Group has, inter alia, recommended a threshold limit upto which the Companies would require only an Affidavit, Deed of Indemnity and No Objection Certificate from other legal heirs. Standard format of these documents have also been recommended.
The Group recommends that Companies, Depositories, Recognised Investors’ Associations and SEBI shall embark on a special drive to urge shareholders to utilise nomination facility. Depository Beneficial Owner Accounts opened on or after October 01, 2007, shall mandate nomination at the account opening stage itself.
In relation to Beneficiary Owner Account in joint names, the Group has recommended that on the death of one of the account holders, a new account shall be opened automatically, subject to updation wherever applicable, based on existing documents.
The full report of the Group and its recommendations is available on the website,  www.sebi.gov.in under the section “Reports/ Documents” under the heading “Reports for Public Comments”.
 Comments/suggestions on the Report may be sent to Office of Investor  Assistance and Education, 1St Floor, SEBI Bhavan, Bandra Kurla Complex,  Bandra East, Mumbai 400051 or emailed at oiae-assistance@sebi.gov.in on or  before September 06, 2007.
Mumbai 
August 14, 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


