
 
Jun 02, 2015

PR No.:  
146/2015


Shri Prashant Saran, Whole Time Member, SEBI, has passed an order on May 27, 2015 in the matter of M/s. Alchemist Infra Realty Limited. The following directions have been passed:
a) The request made by M/s. Alchemist Infra Realty Limited for extension of time by further period of 24 months for making refunds to investors has been rejected.  As  the company, Alchemist Infra Realty Limited and its promoters/directors have not repaid its investors within the time allowed, SEBI shall as contemplated in its Order  dated June 21, 2013 which has been upheld with modification (of the period for making refunds) by Hon'ble SAT, initiate the following action:

Prosecution proceedings under section 24 and Adjudication proceedings under Chapter VI of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 against the Company and its directors for the violations as found in the SEBI Order dated June 21, 2013 (as upheld with modification by Hon'ble SAT) and their failure to refund the investors within the period allowed by the Hon'ble SAT;
Refer the case to the State Government/Local Police to register a civil/criminal case against the Company, its promoters/directors and its managers/persons in-charge of the business and its schemes for offences of fraud, cheating, criminal breach of trust and misappropriation of public funds
Refer the matter to the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India, with a request to initiate the process of winding up of the company, Alchemist Infra Realty Limited.

b) In view of the default committed in repaying investors within the period granted to the Company and its promoters/directors, SEBI shall also initiate attachment and  recovery proceedings under the SEBI Act and rules and regulations framed thereunder.
c) The Company and its promoters/directors including Mr. Brij Mohan Mahajan, Mr. Sunil Kanti Kar and Mr. Narayan Madhav Kumar are directed to provide a full inventory  of all their assets, properties and details of all their bank accounts, demat accounts and holdings of shares/securities, if held in physical form, within a period of 10  days.
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

