
 
Nov 25, 2003

Press Releases 


PRESS RELEASE
November 25, 2003 PR No.285/2003
 
 
SUBJECT: STRATEGIC ACTION PLAN FOR THE YEAR 2003-04 
   
ISSUED BY: OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 

 
SEBI had devised a Strategic Action Plan for the year 2003-04 in order to make the "Indian Securities market, a Benchmark for the Globe’. The Strategic Action Plan has been drawn with four broad segments: a) Investors b) Market c) Intermediaries and d) Regulator in mind. The Plan designed after analysing the inadequacies in the existing structure and practices and bearing the market ethos in mind addresses major issues segregated into: 

 


Structural Issues 
Systemic Issues 
Operational Issues  



During the period April 2003 to November 2003, a number of initiatives have been taken with a view to achieve the targets under the Plan. The following are the significant developments ; 

 


T+2 rolling settlement was introduced in the Indian markets with effect from April 1, 2003. This would reduce the risk and would be beneficial to the investors. India joins a select group of six nations viz. South Korea, Taiwan, Turkey, Israel, Chile and Mexico which are following a short settlement cycle. 
The Central Listing Authority (CLA) was constituted with Chief Justice of India (retd.) Shri. M. N. Venkatachaliah as the President. The Regulations have been notified and the CLA would become operational shortly.  
Trading in Interest Rate Derivatives was launched by the Hon’ble Minister of Finance and Department of Company Affairs. This instrument would provide a mechanism for banks and financial institutions to hedge their positions in a volatile interest rate regime.  
Mutual Funds were allowed to launch ‘ Fund of Funds’. This would provide an opportunity to a Mutual Fund to invest in the units of other Mutual Funds.
Guidelines for Mutual Funds for investments in overseas equity markets have been issued. 
The disclosure regime for the Mutual Funds was further strengthened and in order to ensure that all important disclosures are made to the investors of the concerned schemes and their interests are protected in cases of consolidation of schemes by Mutual Funds. 
The entry norms for IPOs were strengthened to ensure better quality of issuers, the issue process was revamped to facilitate faster allotment, and quick listing.  
The notice period for book closure/record date has been reduced to 15 days (for demat shares) to facilitate corporate decision making and reduce time required for making rights offers. 
The arbitration mechanism at the exchanges has been revamped in order to expedite the process and ensure transparency.  
SEBI (Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003 were notified for appointment of an Ombudsman to receive, consider and facilitate resolution of investor complaints s against market intermediaries.  
In order to strengthen supervision over functioning of subsidiaries of Stock exchanges directions were issued to the stock exchanges for making necessary provisions in rules, regulations and the byelaws as well as in the Memoranda/ Articles of Associations of the subsidiary companies. 
Investor protection has been enhanced through redefining the relationship between a broker and a sub-broker . 
Model Bye-Laws of the exchanges are being implemented across all the exchanges .  
The Code of conduct for regulated market intermediaries has been strengthened by incorporating global standards that would be relevant in the present market scenario.  
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Informal Guidance) Scheme, 2003 were notified to facilitate transparency and clarity on regulatory issues.


 
The search and seizure powers were used for the first time and a search and seizure operation was carried out at the premises a stock broker, and the residence of its promoters for carrying out illegal trading in securities, outside the recognized stock exchanges (dabba trading.) An FIR has been lodged against the broker .  
Stringent enforcement measures were taken during the year to ensure that market discipline and safety of the markets. Some of the measures taken were: 


  


 
201 orders and directions were passed by the Chairman/Members against intermediaries and individuals.
Governing Board of one exchange was superseded  
125 prosecutions were launched against 579 persons (cumulative prosecutions launched are 546 entities and 2595 persons).




 
SEBI became a signatory to IOSCO Multi Lateral MOU. The Multi-Lateral MOU pertains to co-operation amongst international regulators. SEBI also entered into Bilateral MOU with Monetary Authority of Singapore for information sharing. 
Time line benchmarks were publicly released by SEBI for all its activities involving public interface. This step is a further direction in ensuring accountability to the stakeholders.  



 

