
 
Apr 01, 2015

PR No.:  
100/2015


Shri S. Raman, Whole Time Member, SEBI, has passed an interim order dated March 30,2015 under sections 11, 11(4), 11A and 11B of SEBI Act, 1992 in the matter of Equinox Infratech Limited ("the company") having its registered office at  44, Kailash Vihar,13 City Centre, Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, India- 474011. The order inter-alia directs that the company shall forthwith  cease to mobilize any fresh funds from investors through the offer of Non-Convertible Redeemable Secured Debentures (NCRSDs) or through the issuance of equity shares or any other securities to the public and/or invite subscription, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly till further directions.
The company and its directors viz. Mr. Prabir Chakraborty, Mr. Prasanta Chakraborty, Mr Sandeep Chatterjee, Mr. Rahul Kumar Shahi and Mr. Nandalal Balti are prohibited from issuing prospectus or any offer document or issue advertisement for soliciting money from the public for the issue of securities, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly, till further orders and are restrained from accessing the securities market and prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in the securities market. The company shall provide a full inventory of all its assets and properties; the company and its directors are further directed to not to dispose of any of the properties or alienate or encumber any of the asses owned/acquired  by that company through the offer of NCRSDs without prior permission from SEBI; the company and its directors shall not divert any funds raised from public at large through the Offer of NCRSDs, which are kept in bank account(s) and/or in the custody of the company; the company shall furnish complete and relevant information within 21 days from the date of receipt of this Order.
The Debenture Trust namely Equinox Debenture Trust (represented by its trustee viz. Mrs. Arpita Chakraborty), is prohibited from continuing with his present assignment as a debenture trustee in respect of the Offer of NCRSDs of the company and also from taking up any new assignment or involvement in any new issue of debentures, etc. in a similar capacity, from the date of this order till further directions.
The company was found engaged in fund mobilizing activity through issue of NCRSDs  to more than 49 persons without complying with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008.
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

