
 
Sep 28, 2015

PR No.:  
236/2015


Shri Prashant Saran, Whole Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), has passed an order dated September 22, 2015  under Section 11 and 11B of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulations 65 and 73 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999 issuing the following directions in the matter of RDPL Infrastructure Ltd.
The company namely, RDPL Infrastructure Ltd and its directors including Mr. Praveen Kumar Rohilla, Mr. Lalit Kumar and Mr. Rakesh Kumar:
a)    Shall abstain from collecting any money from the investors or launch or carry out any Collective Investment Schemes including the schemes which have been identified as a Collective Investment Scheme in this Order.
b)    Are restrained from accessing the securities market and are prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in securities market and launching any scheme for mobilization of funds in any manner for a period of four (4) years.
c)    Shall wind up the existing Collective Investment Schemes and refund the money collected by the said company under the schemes with returns which are due to its investors as per the terms of offer within a period of three months from the date of this Order and thereafter within a period of fifteen days, submit a winding up and repayment report to SEBI in accordance with the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999, including the trail of funds claimed to be refunded, bank account statements indicating refund to the investors and receipt from the investors acknowledging such refunds.
d)    Shall not alienate or dispose- off or sell any of the assets of RDPL Infrastructure Limited except for the purpose of making refunds to its investors as directed above.
e)    Directed to provide a full inventory of all their assets and properties and details of all their bank accounts, demat accounts and holdings of shares/securities, if held in physical form.
RDPL Infrastructure Ltd was running a scheme/arrangement of selling plots of developed land through installments and mobilizing funds from investors/public under its schemes without being registered with SEBI and as a result the aforesaid activity has violated the provisions of SEBI Act,1992 and SEBI ( Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999.
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

