
 
Jan 12, 2006

PR No.:  
19/2006 



PRESS RELEASE
PR No.19/2006 

Order against M/s. Rajratan R. Mohta, Member, BSE
 
Shri Madhukar, Whole Time Member, SEBI, has passed an order on December 30, 2005 against M/s. Rajratan R. Mohta, Member, The Stock Exchange, Mumbai under Regulation 13(4) and 13(6) of SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002 in the matter of M/s. Kreb Biochemicals Ltd. (KBL) warning  and directing it to be careful in the future and not to carry on activities of the nature carried out in the scrip of Kreb Biochemicals Ltd.
 
SEBI had conducted an investigation into the dealings of KBL during 1998. It was brought out that the price of the scrip went up from Rs. 81/- per share in March 1998 to a high of Rs. 304/- per share on 02.06.98. Investigations revealed that three entities CDP Fincap, Damayanti Finvest and Rituja Finvest had enrolled as common clients to some members of BSE and NSE and had traded in the scrip of KBL acting in concert with one another. The said three entities were related with each other. M/s. Rajratan R. Mohta had traded in the scrip of KBL for CDP Fincap and the enquiry proceedings were initiated.
 
On receipt of the report from Enquiry Officer, Show Cause Notice was issued to M/s. Rajratan R. Mohta. Reply stating that the enquiry officer has found no violation on their part and proceedings against it be dropped was received from the member. After considering the submissions made by the broker and the findings brought out by the Enquiry Officer that M/s. Rajratan R. Mohta had infact violated the provisions of the Code of Conduct for Stock Brokers as mentioned under schedule II of Regulation 7 of SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub-brokers) Regulations, 1992, it has been directed that warning be issued against M/s. Rajratan R. Mohta and broker is also directed to be careful in the future and not to carry on activities of the nature carried out in the scrip of KBL.
 
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in
 
Mumbai
January 12, 2006


