
 
Mar 24, 2004

PR No.:  
66/2004 


 
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
March 24, 2004 PR No.66/2004

SEBI commemorates Foundation Day

People should have realistic expect﻿ations of
what regulators can and cannot﻿ achieve – Sir Howard Davies
* * * * *

 

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) commemorated its Foundation day by organising the Inaugural Foundation Day lecture  by Sir Howard Davies, Director, London School of Economics, in Mumbai today. The Governor of Maharashtra, His Excellency Shri Mohammed Fazal was the Chief Guest.  The distinguished invitees included market intermediaries, industrialists and others.
 
Delivering the lecture on "The Changing Face of Financial Regulation", Sir Howard Davies said "as we allow more freedom of competition, there will be more failures and more regulatory breaches. I do not think we should apologise for this change, since overall it will deliver a more competitive and dynamic marketplace, which offers better and more diverse opportunities for investors, and in due course promotes economic growth. But it is important for people to understand the nature of the change, and therefore to have realistic expectations of what regulators can and cannot achieve".
 
Investors should have realistic expectations of the regulator given the growth in significance of consumer protection regulation, Sir Davies said. "If consumers have an exaggerated view of the protections which regulators can offer to them, they may well be inclined to do less due diligence themselves, on the grounds that if things go wrong, the regulator will help them out, or even worse, that because there is a regulator, things cannot go wrong in the first place", he cautioned, adding that "investors should not take this view, and must take some responsibility for their own decisions". "Growth in consumer protection regulation must go hand in hand with an effort to enhance public understanding of the financial system", he opined.
 
Elaborating on the theme of integration of regulators Sir Davies wished that the Indian authorities will keep the position under review as markets evolve. Commenting on ‘risk-based regulation", Sir Davies cited the example of Financial Services Authority (FSA), UK, where "there is a single risk model in operation across the Authority, which uses the same model to assess the riskiness of different financial institutions, from the perspective of the regulator". "It is important to be clear that one is not talking about the risks to the institutions own shareholders, but the risks to the achievement of the regulator’s objectives – roughly, market confidence, consumer protection, public understanding of the financial system and the reduction of financial crime. So an institution might appear to be risky, but if it is well managed, and particularly if it is operating only in wholesale markets, then it may be one which attracts relatively less regulatory attention", he added.
 
 
"This is a key component in devising a regulatory system which is both effective in pursuit of its objectives, and also which wins the respect and perhaps even the approval of the regulated community", Sir Davies said. Skilled regulatory resources are scarce anywhere, and particularly in developing countries. It is therefore absolutely crucial that those resources are deployed where they can make most impact, and where the need is greatest. Stressing the need for international regulatory cooperation, Sir Davies said that "it is no longer adequate for a regulator in any country to focus on domestic standards only. Any regulator must ensure that its practices are compatible with internationally agreed codes."
 
The Governor of Maharashtra, His Excellency Shri Mohammed Fazal, said that "the role of SEBI is of prime importance to safeguard the interests of the common investor who is totally ignorant about the business environment and global trends and hence cannot assess the future of the industries". Appreciating the "metamorphosis from physical to electronic transactions", as a "welcome development", the Governor said that "this is a healthy step towards gaining the confidence of small investors for which SEBI needs to be congratulated".
 
Tracing the growth of the securities market in India in general and SEBI in particular, Chairman, SEBI, Shri G.N. Bajpai said that "we need regulations to correct for identified market imperfections which produce sub-optimal outcomes and to prevent market failures". Explaining further on the need for regulation, Shri Bajpai said "regulation is necessary to develop market and once the market develops, it needs to be regulated. That is why many of the reform initiatives combined the elements of regulation and development. ." On liberalization versus regulation, the Chairman said that " there is an apparent contradiction that the reforms aim at liberalization while regulations appear to restrict liberalization. Liberalization does not mean scrapping of all codes and statutes, as some market participants may wish. It rather means replacement of one set by another set of more liberal code / statute, which allow full freedom to economic agents, but influence or prescribe the way they should carry out their activities, so that the liberalized markets operate in an efficient and fair manner and the risks of systemic failure are minimized. It is, however, desirable to keep in mind the contradiction to ensure that we do not resort to excessive regulation and regulations are designed and implemented properly. Otherwise the costs of regulation would exceed the benefits from regulation. ".
 
"Reforms in true sense happened since early 1990s, that is, since the establishment of SEBI", Shri Bajpai said. "These reforms have been designed and implemented jointly by all stakeholders, including the government, the regulator, and the regulated", he added. Shri Bajpai also highlighted the reforms in the securities market in India viz. the repeal of the Capital Issues (Control) Act, 1947 in May 1992 and issuance of Disclosure and Investor Protection (DIP) guidelines by SEBI, thereby the market moved from merit based to disclosure based regulation, establishment of a statutory autonomous agency, called SEBI, to provide reassurance that it is safe to undertake transactions in securities and introduction of nation-wide on-line fully-automated screen based trading system (SBTS).
 
 
"A number of measures were taken to manage the risks in the market so that the participants are safe and market integrity is protected", Shri Bajpai said and gave examples of Reduction of Trading Cycle to T+2, dematerialization of stocks, introduction of derivatives, establishment of Settlement Guarantee Fund, setting up of the Central Listing Authority etc.
 
On the future initiatives of SEBI, Shri Bajpai spoke about the setting up of a national institute to build a cadre of professionals to man the specialized functions in the securities market, corporatisation and demutualization of exchanges, introduction if market wide straight through processing from trade initiation to settlement, migration to T+1 rolling settlement, continuous review and upgradation of accounting standards, disclosures, corporate governance practices in the interest of investors, continuous review and amendment of various regulations to bring them in tune with dynamics of market requirements and introduction of new products in the market to meet all kinds of needs of market participants.
 
Concluding his speech, Shri Bajpai said that "SEBI is working continuously and in close co-ordination with the regulated and the government, to improve market design to bring in further efficiency and transparency to market and make available newer and newer products to meet the varying needs of market participants, while protecting investors in securities. The aim is to make Indian securities market a model for other jurisdictions to follow and make SEBI the most dynamic and respected regulator globally."
 
 

