
 
May 26, 2005

Press Releases 


PRESS RELEASE
 
PR-80/2005
SEBI signs Letter of Intent with
Securities and Futures Commission, Hong Kong
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has signed a Letter of Intent (LOI) with the Securities and Futures Commission, Hong Kong (SFC) on the enhancement of regulatory co-operation between SEBI and SFC. The Letter of Intent was signed here today by Mr. Andrew Sheng, Chairman, SFC and Mr. M. Damodaran, Chairman, SEBI.
 
On the signing of LOI, Mr. Damodaran said: "SEBI, as a dynamic regulator with a global vision, has been constantly endeavoring to align Indian securities markets with international standards. A signal move in this direction has been to enter into Memorandum of Understandings (MOUs) with various jurisdictions which cover inter alia co-operation in information sharing and training. The Letter of Intent with SFC is the precursor for forging long term partnership with the underpinning of shared common objectives of harmonizing the cross border trading in a slew of investment products with the supportive regulatory framework. This Letter of Intent would go a long way to benefit the investing community of our two significant markets in a proper growth trajectory".
 
Mr. Sheng observed: "By entering into this Letter of Intent, we join hands with SEBI in looking at how we can achieve a level of regulatory equivalence between our regulatory regimes, firstly according to IOSCO standards, and secondly, a level that would be sufficient to enable us to develop more cross-border trading of mutually agreed financial products. This is the fourth Letter of Intent that the SFC has signed in the region: the others being the Indonesian Capital Market Agency, BAPEPAM, and the Securities and Exchange Commission of Thailand last year, and with the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka last month".
 
Under the Letter of Intent, both authorities agree to strengthen co-operation, particularly in matters relating to cross-border trading and the supervision of investment products.
 
Mumbai
May 26, 2005

