
 
Jun 01, 2015

PR No.:  
144/2015


Shri S Raman, Whole Time Member, SEBI, has passed an order dated May 29, 2015 in the matter of Cemendia Infrastructures Limited (“the company”), inter-alia issuing following directions –

The      company shall forthwith cease to mobilize any fresh funds from investors      through the Offer of NCDs or through the issuance of equity shares or any      other securities, to the public and/or invite subscription, in any manner      whatsoever, either directly or indirectly.
The      company and its directors are prohibited from issuing prospectus or any      offer document or issue advertisement for soliciting money from the public      for the issue of securities, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or      indirectly.
The      company and its directors, are restrained from accessing the securities      market and further prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in      the securities market, either directly or indirectly.
The      company shall provide full inventory of all their assets and properties.
The      company and its directors shall not dispose off any of the properties or      alienate or encumber any of the assets owned/acquired by the company      through the offer of Non Convertible Redeemable Secured Debentures ("NCDs").
The      company and its present/past directors shall not divert any funds raised      from public at large through the Offer of NCDs, which are kept in bank      account(s) and/or in the custody of the company.
The      company shall provided all information regarding repayments made to the      holders of NCD including name of the debenture holder, address, amount      mobilised, number of NCDs issued, promised maturity amount with date of      maturity, amount refunded and date thereof.
The      Debenture Trustee, viz. Cemendia Debenture Trust (represented by its      trustee viz. Mrs. Aparajita Dey) is prohibited from continuing with his      present assignment as debenture trustee in respect of the Offer of NCDs of      the company and also from taking up any new assignment or involvement in      any new issue of debentures, etc. in a similar capacity.

The company was engaged in fund mobilizing activity from the public through Offer of NCDs without complying with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and provisions of the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008.
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in.

