
 
Jul 25, 2011

PR No.:  
117/2011


Dr. K. M. Abraham, Whole Time Member, SEBI has passed three separate orders dated July 19, 2011, in the matter of Mr. Sanjay Dangi, his Associates and other entities in various scrips:
Dangi Group entities

The interim ex-parte directions issued vide Order dated December  02, 2010 against Mentor Capital Limited, Ivory Consultants Private Limited, Ashok Finstock Limited, Mr. Sanjay Dangi, Mrs. Alpana Dangi and Mr. Sunil Dangi are confirmed.

Active demat accounts standing in the names of Amit Business Limited, Goldflag Trading Company Private Limited, Supersun Trading Company Private Limited and Top City Mercantile Company Private Limited now merged with Pacific Corporate Services Limited (now known as Mentor Capital Limited), shall continue to be frozen.

 
Ashika Group entities

The directions issued vide the ad-interim ex-parte Order dated December 02, 2010 against Calcom Consultancy Services Private Limited, Cynosure Tie-Up Private Limited, Delight Tie-Up Private Limited, Forever Merchants Private Limited, Fountain Vanijya Private Limited, Micro Management Limited, PR Vyapaar Limited, Pushkar Banijya Limited, Rosewood Banijya Private Limited, Sarswati Vincom Limited, Splendor Vanijya Private Limited and Withal Commercial Private Limited are confirmed.
The directions issued vide ad-interim ex-parte Order dated December  02, 2010 against Winall Vinimay Private Limited and Hanurang Vinimay Private Limited are revoked.
The directions issued vide ad-interim ex-parte Order dated December 02, 2010 against the stock broker, Ashika Stock Broking Limited are revoked to the extent of taking fresh clients. However, the direction restraining it from buying, selling or dealing in the securities in its own/proprietary account in any manner, shall continue. 

Sanchay Fincom Limited and Sanchay Finvest Limited 
The ad-interim ex-parte directions issued vide Order dated December 02, 2010 against Sanchay Fincom Limited and Sanchay Finvest Limited are confirmed.
The full text of these orders is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

