
 
Jan 21, 2004

PR No.:  
10/2004 






 PRESS RELEASE




January 21, 2004 PR No.10/2004
 
Disclosure by Market Intermediaries is one of the corner stones for ensuring transparency and fair play in securities market and for empowering investors to take informed decisions regarding their dealings with such intermediaries. Such disclosures should include most of the relevant details about the back-ground, history, business practices and overall conduct of the intermediaries so that all the stakeholders in the securities market including investors, SROs and Regulators etc. have access to the real time source information for taking decisions.

 

Keeping the above objectives in view, SEBI proposes the following:
 
It is proposed to cover the information about all the intermediaries registered with SEBI in the database. The database can be accessed on-line by all users and will be updated at frequent intervals so that the information is available on almost real time basis. As a first step in this direction, aconcept paper outlining disclosures by stock brokers has been prepared and uploaded on the SEBI website www.sebi.gov.in.

Enhancement of scope of annual audit of Stock Brokers:

As per the SEBI Circular no. SMD/SED/0072/92 dated December 31, 1992 members of stock exchanges are required to get their annual accounts audited by Chartered Accountants within 6 months from the closing of books of accounts and submit a copy of the same to stock exchanges within 30 days of the receipt of the audit report. This requirement of conduct of annual audit of stock brokers emanates from GOI directive No. F.1/5/SE/83 dated May 31, 1984 which enjoins stock brokers to get their books of accounts audited by qualified Chartered Accountants.
As all the active members of stock exchanges are covered under the annual audit, standards of compliance of these members may be enhanced considerably if apart from financial aspects, the annual audits also cover certain key regulatory aspects relating to financials and member’s dealing with clients and major deficiencies/non conformance with regulatory requirements are reported in the form of Annexure to the report. A concept paper broadly outlining the areas which are to be covered by auditors during annual audit of stock brokers has also been prepared and uploaded on the SEBI website.
Public comments on the above documents may be sent to SEBI, Division of Policy and Supervision-1, Market Intermediaries Regulation and Supervision Department, Exchange Plaza, G Block, 4th Floor, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai 400 051 or emailed to ashishk@sebi.gov.in or faxed to 91-22-26598514/18 within 14 days.
 

