
 
Feb 23, 2016

PR No.:  
30/2016


Shri Prashant Saran, Whole Time Member, SEBI, has passed an order on February 11, 2016 in the matter of Blessing Agro Farm India Limited and its directors.
The order inter-alia directed the company, its directors viz., Mr. Innsaipillai Lurdpillai Joseph Jeyaraaj, Mrs. Prakasam Sagaya Packia Santhi, Mr. Irudayaraj Manickam Pillai Jeyabalan and Ex-Director Mr. Santhanapeter, to abstain from collecting any money from the investors or launch or carry out any Collective Investment Schemes including the scheme which have been identified as a Collective Investment Scheme.
It has also directed the Company and its Directors to wind up the existing Collective Investment Schemes and refund, through ‘Bank Demand Draft’ or ‘Pay Order’, the money collected by the said company under the schemes with returns, which are due to its investors as per the terms of offer within a period of three months from the date of the Order and thereafter within a period of fifteen days, submit a winding up and repayment report to SEBI in accordance with the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999, including the trail of funds claimed to be refunded, bank account statements indicating refund to the investors and receipt from the investors acknowledging such refunds;
The order further directed the company and its directors to not alienate or dispose off or sell any of the assets of Blessing Agro Farm India Limited except for the purpose of making refunds to its investors as directed above and they have also directed to provide a full inventory of all their assets and properties and details of all their bank accounts, demat accounts and holdings of shares/securities, if held in physical form. Further, the company and its directors are restrained from accessing the securities market and are prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in securities market for a period of 4 years.
After completing the aforesaid repayments, Blessing Agro Farm India Limited is directed to file a certificate of such completion with SEBI, within a period of 15 days, from two independent peer reviewed Chartered Accountants who are in the panel of any public authority or public institution.
Blessing Agro Farm India Limited, a company having its registered office at 1-E &,1-E, Kajiyar Complex, North gate, S.S. Colony, Madurai – 625010, was found collecting funds from the "customers/investors” for its land schemes, violating the provisions of the SEBI Act and SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999. SEBI had issued an Interim order in the matter on December 15, 2014. The present order dated February 11, 2016 brings to conclusion the above said proceedings with the aforesaid directions. 
The full text of the order is available on the website www.sebi.gov.in

