
 
Oct 01, 2007

PR No.:  
269/2007


PR No.269/2007
 
Order in the matter of M/s. Ballarpur Industries Ltd. (BILT)
 
Shri G. Anantharaman, Whole Time Member, SEBI, has passed an ad interim ex-parte order on October 1, 2007 and issued following directions under Section 11B, 11(4)(b) and 11D of the SEBI Act, in the matter of dealing in the shares of Ballarpur Industries Ltd (BILT):
Shri Raajeev Kasat and Shri Rajeev Shroff are hereby directed not to buy, sell or deal in any securities, directly or indirectly till further directions in this regard.
The ‘clients’ identified in the order for indulging in unfair trade practice are directed to deposit the profits made by them, as per the calculations shown in Table 3 of the said ad-interim order, with the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd (NSE) within 15 days from the date of issue of this order. NSE shall keep this amount in their custody till further directions from SEBI. Failure to deposit the amount by the identified clients within the prescribed time would result in further actions against these clients as may be deemed fit.
M/s. UTI Securities Limited and M/s Emkay Shares and Stock Brokers Pvt. Ltd. to conduct an internal enquiry into the above matter and initiate appropriate actions against their employees or agents named in this order and submit an action taken report within 30 days of this order to SEBI. Further, M/s UTI Securities Limited and M/s Emkay Shares and Stock Brokers Pvt. Ltd. are directed to take steps to ensure that their trading systems, client information and other facilities are not misused to the detriment of their clients or market integrity and that they fulfill their fiduciary obligations to their clients. They are also directed to exercise due diligence in supervising their dealers and other employees to the above end.
It is further advised that market intermediaries strengthen their existing systems and internal controls to avoid occurrence of any such violations by their employees, agents, etc.
Analysis of the trading pattern in the shares of M/s. Ballarpur Industries Ltd. (BILT) during the period November 01, 2006 to June 13, 2007, brought out that a set of clients, all of whom are registered with the broker M/s Emkay Shares and Stock Brokers Pvt. Ltd., as also a director of another broking firm, M/s Prayas Securities  Pvt. Ltd.  were  found  to  be  dealing in the shares of BILT around the
time of large sell orders by a foreign institutional investor (FII). The FII was observed to be selling its holdings in BILT, through M/s UTI Securities Ltd. on different dates within this period. On each of these dates a few from amongst these identified clients sold prior to the FII sale and bought an identical quantity after the sell order was placed on behalf of the FII. This trading strategy adopted by these clients appears to be in the nature of ‘customised front running’. 
Prima facie there appears to be a clear pattern in which Shri Raajeev Kasat, dealer of M/s UTI Securities Limited is seen to be passing information to Shri Manish Innani at Prayas Securities Pvt. Ltd. and Shri Rajeev Shroff at Emkay Shares and Stock Brokers Pvt. Ltd. Shri Rajeev Shroff in turn appeared to have passed on the information to a group of apparently set up clients, who indulged in ‘customised front running’. The pattern of order placement by the identified clients in order to benefit from the spread in prices at the time of short selling and short covering, indicates that the timing and quantity of orders of the FII was well within the knowledge of the identified clients who were observed to be ‘customised front running’.
Front running is an activity in which a trader takes a position  of unfair advantage in advance of a large buy or sell order that the trader knows will move the price of that equity in a predictable fashion.
The full text of the order is available on the website:  www.sebi.gov.in
 
 
Mumbai
October 01, 2007

