
 
Aug 10, 2015

PR No.:  
204/2015


Shri Prashant Saran, Whole Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), has passed an interim order cum Show Cause Notice dated August 05, 2015 in the matter of Togo Retail Marketing Limited, inter-alia directing as follows:
 

The Company and the persons mentioned in the table below are restrained from mobilizing funds through the issue of equity shares or through any other form of securities, to the public and/ or invite subscription, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly till further directions: 
 




1.     


Togo   Retail Marketing Limited




2.     


Mr.   Jasjeet Singh Sethi




3.     


Mr.   Rajesh Chakravarty




4.     


Mr.   Satish Kumar




5.     


Mr.   Vinod Kaul




6.     


Mr.   Mukesh Mishra




7.     


Mr.   Anil Kumar




8.     


Mr.   Uday Pratap Singh




9.     


Mr.   Giriraj Vashistha




10.     


Mr.   Rajit Ram Maurya




11.     


Mr.   Prithi Paul Singh Sethi




12.     


Mr.   Narayan Jay Tripathi




13.     


Mr.   Shree Kishan Chaudhary




14.     


Mr.   Amit Mishra




15.     


Mr. Shailendra Kumar Prajapati




16.     


Mr.   Prahlad Singh




17.     


Mr.   Munshi Lal Tiwari




18.     


Mr.   Shaukeen Pathak




19.     


Mr.   Manoj Joshi




20.     


Mr.   Sanjeev Kumar Jha




21.     


Mr.   Dilip Kumar Mishra




22.     


Mr.   Ramendra Prasad Sharma




23.     


Mr.   Gurbhej Singh Hora




24.     


Mr.   Rajesh Kumar Sharma




25.     


Mr.   Shiva Nand Mishra




26.     


Mr.   Kishan Pal Singh




27.     


Mr.   Deena Nath Maurya




28.     


Mr.   Chhote Lal Shukla




29.     


Mr.   Vishwa Bandhu Vashishta




30.     


Mr.   Mukesh Kumar Khare




 
Togo Retail Marketing Limited and its promoters/ directors including the above named persons are prohibited from issuing prospectus or any offer document or issue advertisement for soliciting money from the public for the issue of securities, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly, till further orders.
 
Togo Retail Marketing Limited and its promoters/ directors including the above named persons shall not dispose off any of the properties or alienate the assets of the Company or dispose off any of their properties or alienate their assets.
 
Togo Retail Marketing Limited and its promoters/ directors including the above named persons shall not divert any funds raised from public at large through the issuance of the impugned equity shares, kept in its bank accounts and/ or in the custody of the Company without prior permission of SEBI until further orders. 
 
Togo Retail Marketing Limited and its promoters/ directors including the above named persons are restrained from accessing the securities market and are further prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in securities in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly, till further directions. 
 
Togo Retail Marketing Limited and its promoters/ directors including the above named persons shall co-operate with SEBI and shall furnish all the documents.
 
Togo Retail Marketing Limited, its promoters/ directors including the above named persons are also directed to provide a full inventory of all their assets and properties and details of all their bank accounts, demat accounts and holdings of shares/ securities, if held in physical form. 

 
The company was engaged in fund mobilizing activity through issue of equity shares to more than 49 person without complying with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956, SEBI (DIP) Guidelines, 2000 and SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2009. 
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

