
 
May 08, 2006

PR No.:  
131/2006 


PRESS RELEASE
PR No.131/2006

 
SEBI SEEKS PUBLIC COMMENTS ON THE REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE TO STUDY THE FUTURE OF REGIONAL STOCK EXCHANGES (RSES) – POST DEMUTUALISATION

 
1.       SEBI has, today, released the Report of the Committee to study the future of RSEs - post demutualisation. This Report traces the historical background of the RSEs, discusses the present status of the RSEs, delineates the various regulatory initiatives taken from time to time for the revival of the RSEs along with the causes for their failure, details the meetings held with the representatives of the RSEs, BSE and NSE, outlines the various suggestions made by the representatives of the RSEs for their and their subsidiaries as well as the specific proposals submitted by BSE, NSE and ICSE to the Committee, summary of the deliberations of the Committee and  the recommendations of the Committee. It also discusses the issues involved in the divestment of shareholding of the stock exchanges and the recommendations of the Committee in this regard.
 
2.       The major recommendations of the Committee are as under :-
i.         It does not serve either the interest of trade or public interest, to forcibly keep alive the recognition of an exchange which does not have any potential for survival and is keen for an exit option or is posing to be regulatory burden.  The RSEs may be classified into three categories, viz., (a)  Such of the RSEs which do not want to continue as an exchange, should be given an exit option by withdrawing their recognition upon a specific request or application made by them; (b) recognition should be withdrawn compulsorily for  such of the RSEs which are notorious for their rank indiscipline besides giving rise to serious regulatory concerns and (c) the recognition of those RSEs which have the potential and the willingness to participate in any alternate trading platform may be continued. Sections 4 and 5 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (SCRA) sufficiently empower SEBI to withdraw recognition for both the category of exchanges whether an exchange is recognized permanently or from year to year.
ii.       Withdrawal of recognition to the above two categories of RSEs (a and b above) would help clean up the system, besides reducing the regulatory hazard to the investors, various regulators including tax authorities and the government. The issue of distribution of assets would become relevant in the eventuality of withdrawal of recognition for any reason. There is at present no provision for such distribution either under the SCRA or within the regulatory framework of SEBI. As distribution of assets would be an impending consequence of any withdrawal of recognition of a stock exchange, there is an urgent need to formulate a permanent and appropriate scheme. Suitable rules would require to be formed under section 30 of the SCRA, for distribution of assets of any stock exchange which ceases to be a recognised stock exchange. 
iii.      The corpus of any stock exchange is made up of (1) the contribution of the members, (2) the income of the exchange, and (3) the fiscal incentives which had helped the accumulation of reserves. In addition, it may include an adventitious factor by way of appreciation in the value of the assets over a period of time. The net worth of the exchange after revaluation of the assets and liabilities based on market value could be apportioned on the basis of the three components of the corpus mentioned above. The share relating to the members’ contribution should be made available to the members. The balance will be transferred to an escrow account and then to a fund earmarked for the purpose of investor protection managed by SEBI. This scheme will need a proper methodology for valuation of the assets and liabilities as well as for determining the proportion mentioned above and should be carried out by an independent entity. A Task Force may be constituted by SEBI comprising a chartered accountant, an approved valuer and a representative of SEBI for the purpose.
iv.     In the absence of any specific provision for distribution of assets, no RSE would seek a voluntary exit option and one would have to live with a situation in which RSEs would continue to exist nearly in perpetuity and continue to remain a burden on the investor and the regulatory system.
v.       The entity which remains after withdrawal of recognition must immediately change its name and style and cannot continue in any business as a stock exchange. In case a stock exchange whose recognition is withdrawn has a subsidiary, such an entity would also have to change its name and style to avoid any representation of any present or past affiliation with an exchange. It would be upto the subsidiary to carry on broking operations as any other broking entity registered with SEBI subject to the same rights and duties.
vi.     The impact, on account of withdrawal of recognition either on request or on compulsory direction, on the companies exclusively listed on the RSEs and their shareholders would also need to be suitably addressed. An analysis of the compliance status of these companies indicates that only about 500 companies are compliant with the continuous listing requirements. It is felt that such compliant companies, in an exchange which will no longer remain recognized, should be allowed to migrate to any other exchange with minimum procedure and hassle to the company. SEBI can prescribe that files of such compliant companies be moved inter-exchange with minimum burden on such companies.
vii.    Before seeking voluntary withdrawal of recognition, the RSEs would have to compulsorily delist all non-compliant companies.
viii.  In the event of some of the remaining RSEs which have already been corporatised and are unable to demutualise within the stipulated time such RSEs will also attract the consequences of withdrawal of recognition under sec. 5(2) of the SCRA and their recognition will be compulsorily withdrawn and accordingly, they would have recourse to the same mechanism of asset distribution as recommended supra.
ix.     All the RSEs whose recognition has not been withdrawn either voluntarily or compulsorily must collectively choose (in order for it to succeed) either the BSE model or in the alternative, the Inter-Connected Stock Exchange (ICSE) model. The Federation of Indian Stock Exchanges (FISE) will have to take the initiative of evolving a consensus amongst the RSEs. In order that the Public Representative (PR) Directors are able to discharge their responsibilities, it is important that they are conversant with the governance of the RSEs, have a reasonable knowledge of the securities market and are aware of their own functions as PR Directors.  SEBI should work out an appropriate training programme for the PR Directors.  
x.       In case of both of these models (i.e. proposals of BSE and ICSE) fail for whatever reasons, there would be no merit in the continuation of the RSEs and the recognition of all the RSEs will, therefore, have to be compulsorily withdrawn. Once the RSEs have chosen a particular model, such of the RSEs which are unwilling to accept that model will have to face compulsory withdrawal of recognition in the future as they provide neither a trading platform nor serve any public interest.
xi.     The future of the subsidiaries is inter-linked with the survival of their parent RSEs. In case a stock exchange whose recognition is withdrawn has a subsidiary, such an entity would also have to change its name and style to avoid any representation of any present or past affiliation with an exchange. It would be upto the subsidiary to carry on broking operations as any other broking entity registered with SEBI. The subsidiaries’ demand of level playing field could then easily be recommended as they become brokers (or other registered financial intermediaries) simplicitor. This would necessitate the NSE to modify suitably its norms relating to dominant holdings in the case of these entities. SEBI should consider extending turnover fee continuity benefit to such entities.
xii.    In case of the subsidiaries of the RSEs whose recognition is not withdrawn, the RSEs should preferably cease to have any shareholding in the subsidiary within a period of three years. However, the RSEs may be allowed to retain less than 15% of the shareholding in the spun-off entity.
xiii.  Any entity other than exchange, multilateral agency, insurance company, bank, depository and clearing corporation can be allowed to hold less than 15% of the share capital and voting rights of the stock exchange either singly or collectively along with persons acting in concert. However, in case a strategic partner is an exchange, multilateral agency, insurance company, bank, depository or clearing corporation, it would be allowed to hold upto a maximum of 26% of the share capital and voting rights of the stock exchange either singly or collectively along with persons acting in concert. Any strategic partner must comply with SEBI (Criteria for Fit and Proper Person) Regulations, 2004. The holding by any foreign entity including FIIs would be subject to the overall policy of the Government on FDI. These recommendations would have to be incorporated suitably in the divestment regulations to be framed and notified by SEBI.
xiv.  Self-listing should be permitted, either through the IPO route or by way of listing with appropriate exemptions from Rule 19(2)(b) of Securities Contracts (Regulation)  Rules, 1957 (SCRR) in case a stock exchange does not make a public offer. The regulatory conflicts which are likely to arise will have to be dealt with by suitable provisions in the listing agreement of the stock exchanges and the stock exchanges will have to fully comply with the provisions of corporate governance incorporated in clause 49 of the listing agreement. Overseas listing will also be permitted after the exchange has been listed on the domestic exchange.
3.         The full text of the Report is available on SEBI’s website – www.sebi.gov.in. Comments, if any, on the aforesaid Report may be sent by email to rses@sebi.gov.in or by post so as to reach the following address by May 31, 2006:-
            Shri V.S. Sundaresan
            General Manager
            Securities and Exchange Board of India
            29th Floor, World Trade Centre – 1
            Cuffe Parade
            Mumbai – 400005
 
Mumbai
May 08, 2006

