
 
Oct 24, 2005

Press Releases 



 PRESS RELEASE 
PR No.141/2005
Order In The Matter Of Mega Corporation Ltd
 
SEBI vide order dated October 24, 2005 has issued the following directions in the matter of Mega Corporation Ltd:
a) that the promoters of the company viz, Crayons Global Finance Ltd., Himanshu Mehta, Vimi Investments and Finance Ltd., Kunal Lalani, Beena Mehta, R.N. Mehta, Hiten Mehta, Odyssey Corporation Ltd. Pooja Equisearch Pvt. Ltd. and directors of the company Kunal Lalani, Hemanshu Mehta, Surendra Chhalani, H M Lalani, N K Nayak, K S Venkataraman, S L Golchha and Sachin Mehra are hereby directed not to buy, sell or deal in securities of Mega Corporation Ltd, directly or indirectly, till further directions in this regard and Mega Corporation Ltd is further directed that it shall not issue any equity shares or any other instrument convertible into equity shares, in any manner, or shall not alter its capital structure in any manner, till further directions in this regard. 
b) That the clients viz. Ajit Suryavanshi, Ritedeal Trading Company Pvt Ltd, Vishal Kumar Textiles P Ltd, Amar Adhav, Dadasaheb Gavhane, Dattu Shitole , Rightstar Trading Company Pvt Ltd, Deepak Narvekar, Deepak Todkar, Fine Line Mercantile Co. (P) Ltd., Ganesh Raut, Haresh Posnak, Jagdish Parab, Jay Shah, Jaydeep Mane, Jayesh Waghela, Kiran Dhanavade, Lokesh Kapoor, Mahesh Kokate, Premkumar Singh, Stockholm Mercantile Co Pvt L., Rajkishore Singh, Ramdas Kshirsagar, Sharpline Trading Co Pvt Ltd, Topflag Exports Pvt Ltd, Ranjan Mandal, Sandeep Kadam, Santosh Jagtap, Santosh Narvekar, Santosh Pawar, Umesh Choukekar, Vijay Suryavanshi, Vivekanand Patankar, Nirmal Jain, Mahendra Gopal Gorivale, Laxmans Singh Saijari and Patric Xess are hereby directed not to buy, sell or deal in securities of Mega Corporation Ltd, directly or indirectly, till further directions in this regard. 
c) That the clients Vishal Kumar Textiles P Ltd, Amar Adhav, , Deepak Narvekar, Deepak Todkar, Ganesh Raut, Jay Shah, Jayesh Waghela, Stockholm Mercantile Co Pvt L., Rajkishore Singh, Sharpline Trading Co Pvt Ltd, Umesh Choukekar are hereby directed not to buy, sell or deal in any securities, directly or indirectly, till further directions in this regard.
d) That the Stock Brokers viz., India Bulls Securities Ltd., Fortis Securities Ltd., Ruchiraj Shares and Stock Brokers (P) Ltd., who contributed significant volume in the trading of shares of the company while dealing on behalf of the interconnected clients are hereby directed not to buy, sell or deal in securities of Mega Corporation Ltd. on behalf of the promoters, directors and clients mentioned at para No. (a), (b) and (c) hereinabove, directly or indirectly, till further directions in this regard.
e) And Further that the Depositories shall not give effect to any transfer of shares of Mega Corporation Ltd. lying in the beneficial owner accounts of the entities mentioned at paragraph a) and b) above 
f)  And Further that the Depositories shall not give effect to any transfer of any securities lying in the beneficial owner accounts of the entities mentioned at paragraph c) above.
All the above directions shall take effect immediately and shall be in force until further orders. 
The above order has been passed by Shri G Anantharaman, Whole Time Member, SEBI in the following context:
Spurt in price and trading volume of certain companies often referred to as “mid cap” or “small cap” companies, in a short period of time, have been engaging the attention of SEBI and the stock exchanges for some time. Such trading activity has been under the surveillance of SEBI and the stock exchanges to determine whether the trading volumes and price rise have been the result of unfair trade practices or market manipulation. One such company whose shares have shown a significant increase in price as well as trading volumes in a short period of time is Mega Corporation Ltd. (the Company), which was listed on BSE in February 1996. 
The trading history of the shares of the company (after the stock split w.e.f. September 26, 2002) showed that while there was limited trading in the shares till December 2004 the volume shot up dramatically from January 2005 onwards. After the stock split in August 2002, the shares of the company were traded in the range of Rs. 1.90 to Rs. 5.72 during the period September 2002 to December 2004, and the average monthly volume in the shares was around 15,720 shares during the period September 2002 to December 2004, accounting for only around 0.016% of the total equity capital. The very low turnover ratio clearly demonstrated lack of wide spread investor interest in this shares till that time. Subsequently, during the period from January 2005 to September 16, 2005 the price of the scrip moved sharply from Rs. 5.25 to Rs. 41.10 representing a rise of around 683% accompanied by a equally sudden spurt in average monthly volume thousand times over the previous period to around 1,56,22,538 shares. The marked increase in price and trading volume during the months from January 2005 to March 2005 was not accompanied by any positive corporate developments /announcements /actions.
The company had recorded a high income from investments and had shown a profit of around Rs. 10.08 crore which had resulted from the sale of shares of three companies, in one of which, namely M/s IFSL Ltd., action has been taken by SEBI. There was a web of off-market transactions between as many as 40 entities apparently interconnected with each other. There were subsequent dealings by these entities in the shares which helped to sustain a very high volume of trading for a period of five and a half months between April 2005 to September 2005. Besides 11 clients, namely, Vishal Kumar Textiles P Ltd, Amar Adhav, Deepak Narvekar, Deepak Todkar, Ganesh Raut, Jay Shah, Jayesh Waghela, Stockholm Mercantile Co Pvt L., Rajkishore Singh, Sharpline Trading Co Pvt Ltd, Umesh Choukekar who had dealt in a major way in the shares of Mega Corporation were also found to have dealt in the shares of M/s IFSl Ltd. and consequently debarred by SEBI vide an earlier order. The absence of wide spread investor interest in the share of the company since September 2002 to December 2004, coupled with the sudden increase in share price and volume since January 2005, the quantum jump in profit from the income generated from non-core business activity and from dealing in selected penny stocks by the company, together with a flurry of corporate announcements (such as entering in to the business of worldwide outbound packaged tour, forex service, etc., in which the company had no apparent track record) and also managing a web of off-market deals to transfer of large quantities of shares by the entities connected to the company to a group of interconnected clients, who in turn dealt heavily in the market and thereby contributed to the sudden rise in trading volumes and the corresponding price rise, clearly indicate a careful designing and orchestration of a plan by the promoters, to make personal gains at the expense of investors by enticing them to participate in the trading of the shares of the company and by possibly churning their own holdings.
The above developments in the share of the company warranted an immediate inquiry in to the dealings in the shares. While the inquiry is in progress, based on findings of the preliminary inquiry, SEBI has issued the above directions.
The full text of the Order is available on the website www.sebi.gov.in 
 
 
Mumbai
October 24, 2005
 



