
 
Nov 09, 2016

PR No.:  
155/2016


Shri R. K. Agarwal, Whole Time Member, SEBI has passed an order dated October 28, 2016 under section 11, 11(4), 11A and 11B of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 against the company M/s. KKDIL Nidhi Limited and its Promoters/Directors, viz. Mr. Baman Charana Das, Ms. Sujata Das, Mr. Bipin Chandra Das, Mr. Santosh Kumar Panda, Mrs. Kalyani Das, Mr. Lingaraj Panigrahy, Mr. Hara Prasad Das and Mr. Kailash Chandra Bishoi. The Order directs as under:
(i)        KKDIL Nidhi Limited and its promoters/ directors including Mr. Baman Charana Das, Ms. Sujata Das, Mr. Bipin Chandra Das, Mr. Santosh Kumar Panda and Mr. Hara Prasad Das shall within a period of three months from the date of this order, jointly and severally refund the money collected through the issue of equity shares to the subscribers/ allottees with interest at the rate of 15% per annum from the date of receipt of money till the date of such refund.
 
(ii)       Such refund shall be made only in cash through a Demand Draft or Pay Order. 
 
(iii)      KKDIL Nidhi Limited and its directors shall within fifteen days from the date of  this  Order  submit  to  SEBI  complete  details  of  their  assets  (along with  proofs thereof) certified by a peer reviewed Chartered Accountant.
 
(iv)      KKDIL Nidhi Limited and its directors are permitted to sell assets of the company and deposit the sale proceeds in an Escrow Account opened with a nationalized bank. Such proceeds shall be utilized for the sole purpose of making refund/ repayment to the allottees of equity shares till the full refund/ repayment as directed above is made.
 
(v)       KKDIL Nidhi Limited and its directors shall  issue  a  public  notice,  in  all  editions  of  one  English  national daily and one vernacular daily with wide circulation, detailing the modalities for refund, including  details  of  contact  persons  including  names,  addresses  and  contact  details, within fifteen days of this order.
 
(vi)      Within  seven  days  of  completion  of  refund/ repayment  as  directed  hereinabove,  KKDIL Nidhi Limited and its directors shall file a certificate of such completion with SEBI from two independent peer reviewed Chartered Accountants who are in the panel of any public authority or public institution. Such certificate shall be issued by the Chartered Accountants after verifying the relevant documents including bank accounts of the noticees and satisfying themselves that the refund has actually been made.
 
(vii)    For the purpose of this order, a peer reviewed Chartered Accountant shall mean a Chartered Accountant, who has been categorized so by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
 
(viii)   KKDIL Nidhi Limited, Mr. Baman Charana Das, Ms. Sujata Das, Mr. Bipin Chandra Das, Mr. Santosh Kumar Panda, Ms. Kalyani Das, Mr. Lingaraj Panigrahy, Mr. Hara Prasad Das and Mr. Kailash Chandra Bishoi are restrained from, directly or indirectly, accessing the capital market by issuing prospectus, any offer document or advertisement soliciting money from the public and are further prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in the securities market, directly or indirectly, in whatsoever manner for a period of four years or till the date of refund of money to the allottees, whichever is later.
 
(ix)      Mr. Baman Charana Das, Ms. Sujata Das, Mr. Bipin Chandra Das, Mr. Santosh Kumar Panda, Ms. Kalyani Das, Mr. Lingaraj Panigrahy, Mr. Hara Prasad Das and Mr. Kailash Chandra Bishoi are also restrained from associating themselves, with any listed public company and any public company which intends to raise money from the public, for a period of four years or till the date of refund of money to the allottees, whichever is later.
 
(x)       For the purposes of sub-paragraphs (viii) and (ix) above, the period of restraint shall be counted from the date of the interim order. 
 
This Order shall come into force with immediate effect.
 
It is observed that the company was engaged in fund mobilizing activity through issue of Equity Shares to more than 49 persons without complying with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.
 
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

