
 
Jul 01, 2015

PR No.:  
177/2015


Shri S Raman, Whole Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has prima-facie found that Vishwamitra International Infra Limited ("VIIL") having its registered office at Plot No-165, Gayatri Complex, 2nd Floor, MP Nagar, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 462011, India has been illegally raising money from public and accordingly passed an interim order dated June 30, 2015 against
1)    Vishwamitra International Infra Limited ("VIIL") and its directors Shri Manoj Kumar Chand, Smt Bandana Chand, Shri Manish Kumar Chand, Shri Pankaj Kumar Chand, Shri Hari Govind Singh
2)    Vishwamitra India Tour & Hotels Limited ("VITHL") and its directors Shri Manoj Kumar Chand, Smt Bandana Chand, Shri Manish Kumar Chand, Shri Pankaj Kumar Chand and Shri Hari Govind Singh
The Order, inter-alia directs as under:

VIIL and VITHL shall forthwith cease to mobilize any fresh funds from investors through the Offer of Non-Convertible Redeemable Debentures (‘NCDs’) or through the issuance of equity shares or any other securities, to the public and/or invite subscription, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly till further directions.
VIIL,  VITHL and their directors are prohibited from issuing prospectus or any offer document or issue advertisement for soliciting money from the public for the issue of securities, in any manner whatsoever, either directly or indirectly till further orders.
VIIL,  VITHL and their directors, are restrained from accessing the securities market and further prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing in the securities market, either directly or indirectly.
VIIL,  VITHL and their directors shall not dispose of any of the properties or alienate or encumber any of the assets owned/acquired by that company through the offer of NCDs without prior permission from SEBI.
VIIL,  VITHL and their directors shall not divert any funds raised from public at large through the Offer of NCDs, which are kept in bank account(s) and/or in the custody of the VIIL.
The Debenture Trustee, viz. Vishwamitra Debenture Trust (represented by its Trustee, viz. Shri Sanjay Kumar Pandit), is prohibited from continuing with their present assignment as debenture trustees in respect of the Offer of NCDs of VIIL and also from taking up any new assignment or involvement in any new issue of debentures, etc. in a similar capacity. 

VIIL was engaged in fund mobilizing activity from the public through Offer of NCDs without complying with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and provisions of the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008.
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in

