
 
Apr 08, 2015

PR No.:  
104/2015


Shri S. Raman, Whole Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), has prima-facie found that BNP India Developers and Infrastructure Limited ("the company") having its registered office at Flat No.204, MID Point Complex, Opp. Bharat Talkies, Shirdi ki Chhawani Lashkar, Gwalior (MP) – 474001 has been illegally raising money from public and accordingly passed an interim order dated March 31, 2015 against the company and its promoter/directors viz., Mr. Neelesh Singh Narwaria, Mr. Devendra Kumar Sahu, Mr. Som Datta, Mr. Kedar Nagar, Mr. Anil Kumar Pachhoriya,  Mr. Daya Nand, Mr. Raghvendra Singh Narwaria  and Ms. Genda Bai under the SEBI Act, 1992 read with SEBI (Collective Investment Scheme) Regulations, 1999 and SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market), 2003. 
The order directs the company and its directors/promoters not to collect any fresh money from investors under its existing schemes; not to launch any new schemes or plans or float any new companies to raise fresh moneys; to immediately submit the full inventory of the assets including land obtained through money raised by the company; not to dispose of any of the properties or alienate the assets including land obtained directly or indirectly through the money raised by the company; not to divert any funds raised from public at large, kept in bank account(s) and/or in the custody of the company. The order inter-alia directed the company and its directors to furnish all the information/details sought by SEBI vide letter dated July 17, 2014 within 15 days from the date of receipt of this order, including, details of amount mobilized and refunded till date, scheme wise list of investors and their contact numbers and addresses, the list of investors to whom land has been allotted and got registered, list of investors who have been repaid, audited accounts for the last three years, and PAN of the company and all its past and present directors.
The full text of the order is available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in.

