No.004/VGL/26 

Government of India 

Central Vigilance Commission 

 

***** Satarkta Bhawan, Block ‘A’, GPO 

Complex, INA, New Delhi- 110 
023 Dated the 17th May, 2004  

Office Order No. 33/5/2004  
Subject:-Govt. of India Resolution on Public Interest Disclosures & Protection of 

Informer.  

The  Government  of 

the  Central  Vigilance 
Commission  (CVC)  as  the  ‘Designated  Agency’  to  receive  written  complaints  for 
disclosure  on  any  allegation  of  corruption  or  misuse  of  office  and  recommend 
appropriate action.  

India  has  authorised 

2. A copy of the Public Notice issued by the Central Vigilance Commission with respect 
to the above mentioned Resolution is enclosed. All CVOs are further required to take the 
following actions with respect to the complaints forwarded by the Commission under this 
Resolution:  

(i) 

 
All the relevant papers/documents with respect to the matter raised in the 
complaint should be obtained by the CVO and investigation into the complaint should be 
commenced immediately. The investigation report should be submitted to the 
Commission within two weeks.  
 
The CVO is to ensure that no punitive action is taken by any concerned 
Administrative authority against any person on perceived reasons/ suspicion of being 
“whistle blower.”  
 

(ii) 

(iii) 

Subsequent  to  the  receipt  of  Commission’s  directions  to  undertake  any 
disciplinary  action  based  on  such  complaints,  the  CVO  has  to  follow  up 
and  confirm  compliance  of  further  action  by  the  DA  and  keep  the 
Commission informed of delay, if any.  

(iv)  Contents of this order may be brought to the notice of Secy./CEO/ CMD.  

 

All CVOs may note the above directions for compliance.  

Sd/(Sujit Banerjee) 

Secretary To  

All Chief Vigilance Officers  
 

Press Release:  

Central Vigilance Commission  

The Government of India has authorized the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) as the ‘Designated  

Agency’ to receive written complaints for disclosure on any allegation of corruption or misuse of office and  

recommend appropriate action.  

The jurisdiction of the Commission in this regard would be restricted to any employee of the Central 

1 
Government or of any corporation established by or under any Central Act, government companies, societies or local 
authorities owned or controlled by the Central Government. Personnel employed by the State Governments and 
activities of the State Governments or its Corporations etc. will not come under the purview of the 
Commission.  
2 
identity of the complainant secret. Hence, it is informed to the general public that any complaint, which is to be 
made under this resolution should comply with the following aspects.  
 

In this regard, the Commission, which will accept such complaints, has the responsibility of keeping the 

The complaint should be in a closed / secured envelope.  
The  envelope  should  be  addressed  to  Secretary,  Central  Vigilance  Commission  and  should  be 
superscribed “Complaint under The Public Interest Disclosure”. If the envelope is not superscribed and 
closed, it will not be possible for the Commission to protect the complainant under the above resolution 
and  the  complaint  will  be  dealt  with  as  per  the  normal  complaint  policy  of  the  Commission.  The 
complainant should give his/her name and address in the beginning or end of complaint or in an attached 
letter.  

iii) Commission will not entertain anonymous/pseudonymous complaints. iv) The text of the 
complaint should be carefully drafted so as not to give any details or clue as to his/her identity. 
However, the details of the complaint should be specific and verifiable.  

In order to protect identity of the person, the Commission will not issue any acknowledgement and the 
whistle-blowers are advised not to enter into any further correspondence with the Commission in their 
own interest. The Commission assures that, subject to the facts of the case being verifiable, it will take 
the necessary action, as provided under the Government of India Resolution mentioned above. If any 
further clarification is required, the Commission will get in touch with the complainant.  

i) 
ii) 

v) 

1 
this Resolution.  
2 
 

The Commission can also take action against complainants making motivated/vexatious complaints under 

A copy of detailed notification is available on the web-site of the Commission http://www.cvc.nic.in.  

Public Notices  

 

GOI Resolution on Public Interest Disclosure and Protection of Informer  

The Government of India has authorized the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) as  

the ‘Designated Agency’ to receive written complaints for disclosure on any allegation of  

corruption or misuse of office and recommend appropriate action.  

The jurisdiction of the Commission in this regard would be restricted to any employee of the 

1 
Central Government or of any corporation established by or under any Central Act, government 
companies, societies or local authorities owned or controlled by the Central Government. 
Personnel employed by the State Governments and activities of the State Governments or its 
Corporations etc. will not come under the purview of the Commission.  
2 
keeping the identity of the complainant secret. Hence, it is informed to the general public that 
any complaint, which is to be made under this resolution should comply with the following 
aspects.  
 

In this regard, the Commission, which will accept such complaints, has the responsibility of 

i)The complaint should be in a closed / secured envelope.  
ii)The envelope should be addressed to Secretary, Central Vigilance Commission and should be 
superscribed “Complaint under The Public Interest Disclosure”. If the envelope is 
not superscribed and closed, it will not be possible for the Commission to protect the 

complainant under the above resolution and the complaint will be dealt with as per the 
normal complaint policy of the Commission. The complainant should give his/her name 
and address in the beginning or end of complaint or in an attached letter.  

iii)Commission will not entertain anonymous/pseudonymous complaints.  
iv)The text of the complaint should be carefully drafted so as not to give any details or clue as 
to  his/her  identity.  However,  the  details  of  the  complaint  should  be  specific  and 
verifiable.  

v)In  order 

identity  of 

the  person, 

to  protect 

issue  any 
acknowledgement and the whistle-blowers are advised not to enter into any further 
correspondence with the Commission in their own interest. The Commission assures 
that, subject to the facts of the case being verifiable, it will take the necessary action, as 
provided  under  the  Government  of  India  Resolution  mentioned  above.  If  any  further 
clarification is required, the Commission will get in touch with the complainant.  

the  Commission  will  not 

The Commission can also take action against complainants making 

A copy of detailed notification is available on the web-site of the Commission 

1 
motivated/vexatious complaints under this Resolution.  
2 
http://www.cvc.nic.in.  
 
Issued  in  Public  Interest  by  the  Central  Vigilance  Commission,  INA,  Satarkta 
Bhawan, New Delhi.  

Sd/Secretary 
Central Vigilance 
Commission  

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

