SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  
(PORTFOLIO MANAGERS) REGULATIONS, 1993 

CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I: PRELIMINARY 

1. 
2.  

Short title and commencement  
Definitions  

CHAPTER II: REGISTRATION OF PORTFOLIO MANAGERS 

3. 
Registration as portfolio manager 
3A.  Application for grant of certificate 
4. 
5. 

Application to conform to the requirements  
Furnishing of further information, clarification, and personal 
representation  
Consideration of application  

Capital adequacy requirement  
Procedure for registration 
Renewal of certificate 

6.  
6A.   Criteria for fit and proper person 
7.  
8.  
9.  
9A.  Conditions of registration 
10.   Procedure where registration is not granted  
11.   Effect of refusal to grant certificate  
12.   Payment of fees, and the consequences of failure to pay fees  

CHAPTER III: GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 

13.  Code of Conduct  
14.  Contract with clients and disclosures 
15.  General responsibilities of a portfolio manager  
16. 

Investment of clients' moneys and management of clients’ 
portfolio of securities 

16A.  Foreign institutional investors and sub-accounts availing 

portfolio management services 

16B.  Appointment of custodian 
17.  Maintenance of books of accounts, records, etc. 
18.  Submission of half-yearly results  
19.  Maintenance  of  books  of  accounts,  records  and  other 

documents 

20.  Accounts and audit  
21.  Reports to be furnished to the client  
22.  Report on steps taken on Auditor's report  
23.  Disclosures to the Board  
23A.   Appointment of compliance officer  

Page 1 of 61 

        CHAPTER IV: INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS 

24.      Right of inspection by the Board  
25.      Notice before inspection  
26.      Obligations of Portfolio Manager on inspection  
27.      Submission of report to the Board  
28.      Action on inspection or investigation report  
29.      Appointment of Auditor  

CHAPTER V: PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 

30.      Liability for action in case of default  
[31.   Omitted  by  the  Securities  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by 

Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002] 

[32.   Omitted  by  the  Securities  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by 

Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002] 

[33.   Omitted  by  the  Securities  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by 

Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002] 

[34.   Omitted  by  the  Securities  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by 

Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002] 

[35.   Omitted  by  the  Securities  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by 

Enquiry 
Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002] 

[36.   Omitted  by  the  Securities  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by 

Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002] 

[38.   Omitted  by  the  Securities  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by 

Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002] 

 

CHAPTER VI: MISCELLANEOUS 

 

39.      Power of the Board to issue clarification 
 
SCHEDULE I:    Forms  

FORM A:   Application for Grant of Certificate/Renewal of   

Certificate  

FORM B:      Certificate of Registration  
FORM C:      Details of Portfolio Manager 

 

SCHEDULE II:   Fees  
 
SCHEDULE III:  Code of Conduct  
 
SCHEDULE IV:  Contents of Agreement between the Portfolio 

Manager and his Clients 

 
SCHEDULE V:   Disclosure Document 

Page 2 of 61 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART III - SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

 NOTIFICATION 

Bombay, the 7th January, 1993 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (PORTFOLIO 

MANAGERS) REGULATIONS, 1993 

SEBI/LE/92/III.─In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  section  30  of  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992),  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  hereby  makes  the  following 

regulations, namely:─ 

CHAPTER I  

PRELIMINARY 

1. Short title and commencement.─(1) These regulations may be called 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Portfolio  Managers) 

Regulations, 1993.  

(2)  They  shall  come  into  force  on  the  date1  of  their  publication  in  the 

Official Gazette. 

2.  Definitions.─  In  these  regulations,  unless  the  context  otherwise 

requires,─   

                                                 
1  7th January, 1993, vide S.O. No. SEBI/LE/92/III, dated 7-01-1993, Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 1993, 

Part III, section 4. 

Page 3 of 61 

1[(a) 

“Act”  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act, 

1992 (15 of 1992);] 

2[(aa)]   3[* * *] 

4[(aa)  “body  corporate”  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  in  or 

under clause (7) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 

1956); 

 

(ab)    “certificate”  means  a  certificate  of  registration  issued  by  the 

Board; 

 

(ac)    “change  of  status  or  constitution”  in  relation  to  a  portfolio 

manager─ 

(i)  means  any  change  in  its  status  or  constitution  of 

whatsoever nature; and  

(ii)  without prejudice to generality of sub-clause (i), includes–  

(A)  amalgamation,  demerger,  consolidation  or  any  other 

kind of corporate restructuring falling within the scope 

of section 391 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) 

or the corresponding provision of any other law for the 

time being in force;  

(B)  change 

in 

its  managing  director  or  whole-time 

director; and 

(C)  any change in control over the body corporate; 

 

                                                 
1  Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 7-9-2006. 
2   Clause (a) renumbered as (aa) by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 

11-10-2002. 

3  Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) 

Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. Prior to omission, clause (aa) read as under:  
“(aa) “Enquiry Officer" means any officer of the Board, or any other person, having experience in dealing 
with the problems relating to the securities market, who is authorized by the Board under Chapter V;” 

4   Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 07-09-2006. 

Page 4 of 61 

(ad)      “change  in  control”,  in  relation  to  a  portfolio  manager  being  a 

body corporate, means:─ 

(i) 

if its shares are listed on any recognized stock exchange, 

change  in  control  within  the  meaning  of  regulation  12  of 

the  Securities  and Exchange  Board of  India  (Substantial 

Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997;  

(ii) 

in any other case, change in the controlling interest in the 

body corporate; 

Explanation.─ For the purpose of sub-clause (ii), the expression 

“controlling  interest”  means  an  interest,  whether  direct  or 

indirect, to the extent of at least fifty one percent of voting rights 

in the body corporate;] 

1[(ae)] “chartered  accountant"  means  a  chartered  accountant  as 

defined  in  clause  (b)  of  sub-section  (1)  of  section  2  of  the 

Chartered  Accountants  Act,  1949  (38  of  1949)  and  who  has 

obtained a certificate of practice under sub-section (1) of section 

6 of that Act;] 

2[(af)  “discretionary portfolio manager” means a portfolio manager who 

exercises  or  may,  under  a  contract  relating 

to  portfolio 

management,  exercise  any  degree  of  discretion  as  to  the 

investments or management of the portfolio of securities or the 

funds of the client, as the case may be;] 

(b)      "form" means a form specified in Schedule I;  

(c)     "inspecting authority" means one or more persons appointed by 

the Board to exercise powers conferred under Chapter IV;  

                                                 
1  Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002, as clause 
(a) renumbered as clause (ae) by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, 
w.e.f. 07-09-2006. 

2   Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 07-09-2006. 

Page 5 of 61 

1[(ca)  “portfolio”  means  the  total  holdings  of  securities  belonging  to 

any person;  

 

(cb)     “portfolio  manager”  means  any  person  who  pursuant  to  a 

contract  or  arrangement  with  a  client,  advises  or  directs  or 

undertakes  on  behalf  of  the  client  (whether  as  a  discretionary 

portfolio  manager  or  otherwise) 

the  management  or 

administration  of  a  portfolio  of  securities  or  the  funds  of  the 

client, as the case may be;] 

2[(d)      “principal  officer”  means  an  employee  of  the  portfolio  manager 

who has been designated as such by the portfolio manager;] 

[(e)]    3[* * *] 

4[(ea)  “securities  lending”  means  the  securities  lending  as  per  the 

Securities Lending Scheme, 1997 specified by the Board;]  

 (f)     Words  and  expressions  used  and  not  defined 

these 
regulations  but  defined  in  the  Act  5[*  *  *]  shall  have  the 
meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act 6[* * *].  

in 

 

 

                                                 
1   Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 07-09-2006. 
2   Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 05-07-2006. Prior to 
substitution, clause (d) as substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, 
w.e.f. 11-10-2002 read as under:  

"(d) “principal officer" means a director of the portfolio manager, who is responsible for the activities 

of portfolio management and has been designated as principal officer by the portfolio manager;” 

3   Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2006  w.e.f.    07-09-2006. 

Prior to omission, clause (e) read as under: 

“(e) "rules" means Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Rules, 1992;” 

4   Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. 
5  The  words  “and  the  rules”  omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations, 

2006, w.e.f. 07-09-2006. 

6  The words “or the rules, as the case may be” omitted, ibid.  

Page 6 of 61 

CHAPTER II  

REGISTRATION OF PORTFOLIO MANAGERS 

1[3.  Registration  as  portfolio  manager.─  No  person  shall  act  as 

portfolio manager unless he holds a certificate granted by the Board under 

these regulations: 

 

Provided  that  a  merchant  banker  acting  as  a  portfolio  manager 

immediately before commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board 

of  India  (Portfolio  Managers)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2006 

may  continue 

to  do  so 

for  a  period  of  six  months 

from  such 

commencement  or,  if  he  has  made  an  application  for  registration  under 

these  regulations  within  the  said  period  of  six  months,  till  the  disposal  of 

such application.] 

 

2[3A.  Application  for  grant  of  certificate.─3[(1)  An  application  by  a 

portfolio manager for the grant of a certificate shall be made to the Board 

in Form A and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee, 

as specified in clause (1) of Schedule II, to be paid in the manner specified 

in Part B thereof.] 

(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  any 

application made by a portfolio manager prior to coming into force of these 

regulations containing such particulars or as near thereto as mentioned in 

Form  A  shall  be  treated  as  an  application  made  in  pursuance  of  sub-

regulation (1) and dealt with accordingly.] 

 

                                                 
1  Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 07-09-2006. 

2   Regulation „3‟ renumbered as „3A‟ by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 

2006, w.e.f. 07-09-2006. 

3   Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, w.e.f. 27-05-2004. Prior to 

substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as under: 
         “(1) An application by a portfolio manager for a grant of a certificate shall be made to the Board in 
Form A.” 

Page 7 of 61 

4.  Application  to  conform  to  the  requirements.─  Subject  to  the 

provisions  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  3,  any  application,  which  is 

not  complete  in  all  respects  and  does  not  conform  to  the  instructions 

specified in the form, shall be rejected:  

 

Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be 

given  an  opportunity  to  remove  within  the  time  specified  such  objections 

as may be indicated by the Board. 

 

5.  Furnishing  of  further  information,  clarification  and  personal 

representation.─(1)  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish 

further information or clarification regarding matters relevant to his activity 

of a portfolio manager for the purposes of disposal of the application.  

(2)  The  applicant  or,  its  principal  officer  shall,  if  so  required,  appear 

before the Board for personal representation. 

1[6.  Consideration  of  application.─(1)  For  considering  the  grant  of 

certificate of registration to the applicant, the Board shall take into account 

                                                 
1  Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. Prior to 

substitution, regulation 6 read as under: 

“6.  Consideration of application.─  The  Board  shall  take  into  account  for  considering  the  grant  of  a 
certificate,  all  matters  which  are  relevant  to  the  activities  relating  to  portfolio  manager  and  in  particular 
whether the applicant complies with the following requirements namely: -  

(a)  the  applicant  has  the  necessary  infrastructure  like  adequate  office  space,  equipments,  and 

(b) 

manpower to effectively discharge his activities;  
the  applicant  has  in  his  employment  minimum  of  two  persons  who  have  the  experience  to 
conduct the business of portfolio manager;  

(c)  a person, directly or indirectly connected with the applicant has not been granted registration by 

the Board in case of the applicant being a body corporate;  
Explanation.─ For the purposes of this clause the expression "directly or indirectly connected" 
means  any  person  being  an  associate,  subsidiary,  inter-connected  or  group  company  of  the 
applicant in case of the applicant being a body corporate;  

(d)  the applicant fulfils the capital adequacy requirements specified in regulation 7;  
(e) the applicant, his partner, director or principal officer is not involved in any litigation connected 

with the securities market and which has an adverse bearing on the business of the applicant;  

(f)  the applicant, his director, partner or principal officer has not at any time been convicted for any 

offence involving moral turpitude or has been found guilty of any economic offence;  

(g)  the  applicant  has  the  professional  qualification  from  an  institution  recognized  by  the 

Government in finance, law, accountancy or business management;  

gg) the applicant is a fit and proper person; [Clause (gg) inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Mangers) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 05-01-1998.] 

(h)   grant of certificate to the applicant is in the interest of investors. 

Page 8 of 61 

all  matters  which  it  deems  relevant  to  the  activities  relating  to  portfolio 

management.  

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, the 

Board shall consider whether-  

(a)   the applicant is a body corporate; 

(b)    the  applicant  has  the  necessary  infrastructure  like  adequate 

office  space,  equipments  and  the  manpower  to  effectively 

discharge the activities of a portfolio manager; 

1[(c)  the principal officer of the applicant has either– 

 

(i)  a professional qualification in finance, law, accountancy or 

business  management  from  a  university  or  an  institution 

recognized  by  the  Central  Government  or  any  State 

Government or a foreign university; or 

(ii)    an  experience  of  at  least  ten  years  in  related  activities  in 

the  securities  market  including  in  a  portfolio  manager, 

stock broker or as a fund manager.] 

(d) 

the  applicant  has  in  its  employment  minimum  of  two  persons 
who,  between  them,  have  at  least  five  years  experience  2[in 

related  activities  in  portfolio  management  or  stock  broking  or 

investment  management]  or  in  the  areas  related  to  fund 

management; 

                                                 
1   Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 05-07-2006. 

Prior to substitution, clause (c) read as under: 

“(c)  the  principal  officer  of  the  applicant  has  the  professional  qualifications  in  finance,  law, 

accountancy or business management from an institution recognized by the Government;” 

2   Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 11-08-2008 for the 

words “as portfolio manager or stock broker or investment manager.” 

Page 9 of 61 

(e)   any  previous  application  for  grant  of  certificate  made  by  any 

person  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with  the  applicant  has 

been rejected by the Board; 

(f)   any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board against a 

person directly or indirectly connected with the applicant under 

the Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder. 

Explanation.─ For the purposes of sub-clauses (e) and (f), the 

expression  "person  directly  or  indirectly  connected"  means 

any  person  being  an  associate,  subsidiary,  inter-connected 

company  or  a  company  under  the  same  management  within 

the meaning of section 370(1B) of the Companies Act,1956 or 

in the same group;  

(g)   the  applicant 

fulfills 

the  capital  adequacy  requirements 

specified in regulation 7;  

(h) 

the applicant, its director, principal officer or the employee as 

specified  in  clause  (d)  is  involved  in  any  litigation  connected 

with  the  securities  market  which  has  an  adverse  bearing  on 

the business of the applicant; 

(i)  

the applicant, its director, principal officer or the employee as 

specified in clause (d) has at any time been convicted for any 

offence  involving  moral  turpitude  or  has  been  found  guilty  of 

any economic offence;  

(j)    1[the applicant is a fit and proper person;]  

(k)   grant  of  certificate  to  the  applicant  is  in  the  interest  of 

investors.] 

                                                 
1 Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998, w.e.f. 05-01-1998. 

Page 10 of 61 

1[6A.  Criteria  for  fit  and  proper  person.─  For  the  purposes  of 

determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  portfolio  manager  is  a  fit  and 

proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  criteria  specified  in 

Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 

Regulations, 2008.] 

 

2[7.  Capital  Adequacy  Requirement.─The  capital  adequacy 

requirement referred to in clause (g) of regulation 6 shall not be less than 
the networth of 3[two crore rupees]: 

4[Provided  that  a  portfolio  manager,  who  was  granted  a  certificate 

under these regulations prior to the commencement of the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2008, shall raise its networth to not less than one crore rupees within six 

months from such commencement and to not less than two crore rupees 

within six months thereafter:                      

Provided further that the portfolio manager shall fulfill capital adequacy 

requirement  under  these  regulations,  separately  and  independently,  of 

                                                 
1  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008,  w.e.f.  25-05-2008.  Prior  to    substitution, 
Regulation 6A, inserted by the SEBI (Criteria for fit and proper person) Regulations, 2004, read as under:  

“6A.  Applicability  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Criteria  for  fit  and  proper  person) 
Regulations,  2004.─The  provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Criteria  for  fit  and 
proper person) Regulations, 2004 shall, as for as may be, apply to all applicants or the portfolio managers 
under these regulations.” 

2   Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. Prior to 

substitution, regulation 7 read as under: 

“7. Capital Adequacy requirement.─ The capital adequacy requirement referred to in sub-regulation 
(d)  of  regulation  6  shall  not  be  less  than  the  networth  of  Rupees  fifty  lacs  of  the  person  making  the 
application; 

    

Explanation.─For the purposes of this regulation, "networth" means in the case of an applicant which 
is a partnership firm or a body corporate, the value of a capital contributed to the business of such firm or 
the paid up equity capital of such body corporate and plus free reserves as the case may be at the time of 
making application under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 3.” 

3   Words “fifty lacs rupees” substituted for the words “two crore rupees” by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 11-08-2008.  

4   Inserted, ibid. 

Page 11 of 61 

capital  adequacy  requirements,  if  any,  for  each  activity  undertaken  by  it 

under the relevant regulations.] 

Explanation.─  For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation,  "networth"  means  the 

aggregate  value  of  paid  up  equity  capital  plus  free  reserves  (excluding 

reserves  created  out  of  revaluation)  reduced  by  the  aggregate  value  of 

accumulated  losses  and  deferred  expenditure  not  written  off,  including 

miscellaneous expenses not written off.] 

8. Procedure for registration.─ The Board on being satisfied that the 

applicant  fulfils  the  requirements  specified  in  regulation  6  shall  send  an 
intimation to the applicant and on receipt of the payment of  1[registration] 
fees as specified in 2[clause (1A) of] Schedule II then grant a certificate in 

Form B. 

9. Renewal of certificate.─(1)  A portfolio manager may, three months 

before  the  expiry  of  the  validity  of  the  certificate, make  an  application for 
renewal in Form A 3[along with fees specified in clause 1 of Schedule II.]  

(2)  The application for renewal, under sub-regulation (1) shall be dealt 

with  in  the  same  manner  as  if  it  were  an  application  for  grant  of  a 

certificate made under regulation 3.  

4[(3)  The  Board,  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant  fulfills  the 

requirements  specified  in  regulation  6,  shall  send  an  intimation  to  the 

applicant  and  on  receipt  of  payment  of  renewal  fees  as  specified  in 

paragraph 2 of Schedule II, grant a renewal of the certificate.] 

 
                                                 
1  The  word  "registration",  inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2004, 

w.e.f. 27-5-2004.  

2   The words "clause (1A) of" inserted, ibid. 
3   The  words  “along  with  fees  specified  in  clause  1  of  Schedule  II”  inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Portfolio 

Managers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 07-9-2006. 

4 Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 07-09-2006. 

Prior to substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as under: 
  
for renewal of certificate shall grant a certificate in Form B and send an intimation to the applicant.”  

“(3) The Board on being satisfied that the applicant fulfils the requirements specified in regulation 6 

Page 12 of 61 

1[9A.  Conditions  of  registration.─(1)  Any  registration  granted  under 

regulation 8 or any renewal granted under regulation 9 shall be subject to 

the following conditions, namely:- 

(a)  where the portfolio manager proposes to change its status or 

constitution,  it  shall  obtain  prior  approval  of  the  Board  for 

continuing to act as such after the change; 

(b) 

it  shall  pay  the  fees  for  registration  or  renewal,  as  the  case 

may be, in the manner provided in these regulations; 

(c) 

it shall take adequate steps for redressal of grievances of the 

investors  within  one  month  of  the  date  of  the  receipt  of  the 

complaint  and  keep  the  Board  informed  about  the  number, 

nature and other particulars of the complaints received; 

(d) 

it  shall  maintain  capital  adequacy  requirements  specified  in 

regulation  7  at  all  times  during  the  period  of  the  certificate  or 

renewal thereof; 

(e) 

it shall abide by the regulations made under the Act in respect 

of the activities carried on by it as portfolio manager. 

 

(2) Nothing contained in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) shall affect the 

obligation  to  obtain  a  fresh  registration  under  section  12  of  the  Act  in 

cases where it is applicable. 

 

9B.  Period  of  validity  of  certificate.─  The  certificate  of  registration 

granted  under  regulation  8  and  its  renewal  granted  under  regulation  9, 

shall be valid for a period of three years from the date of its issue to the 

applicant.] 

 

10.  Procedure  where  registration  is  not  granted.─(1)  Where  an 

application for grant of a certificate under regulation 3 or of renewal under 

                                                 
1   Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 07-09-2006. 
 
 

Page 13 of 61 

regulation 9 does not satisfy the requirements set out in regulation 6, the 

Board  may  reject  the  application,  after  giving  an  opportunity  of  being 

heard. 

(2)  The  refusal  to  grant  registration  shall  be  communicated  by  the 

Board within thirty days of such refusal to the applicant stating therein the 

grounds on which the application has been rejected.  

(3)  Any  applicant  may,  being  aggrieved  by  the  decision  of  the  Board 

under sub-regulation (1), apply within a period of thirty days from the date 

of  receipt  of  such  intimation,  to  the  Board  for  reconsideration  of  its 

decision.  

(4)  The  Board  shall  reconsider  an  application  made  under  sub-

regulation (3) and communicate its decision as soon as possible in writing 

to the applicant. 

11.  Effect  of  refusal  to  grant  certificate.─  Any  portfolio  manager 

whose application for a certificate has been refused by the Board shall on 

and  from  the  date  of  the  receipt  of  the  communication  under  sub-

regulation  (2)  of  regulation  10  cease  to  carry  on  any  activity  as  portfolio 

manager. 

12.  Payment  of  fees,  and  the  consequences  of  failure  to  pay 

fees.─(1) Every applicant eligible for grant of a certificate shall pay fees 

in such manner and within the period specified in Schedule II.  

(2)  Where  a  portfolio  manager  fails  to  pay  the  fees  as  provided  in 

Schedule  II,  the  Board  may  suspend  the  certificate,  whereupon  the 

portfolio  manager  shall  forthwith  cease  to  carry  on  the  activity  as  a 

portfolio manager for the period during which the suspension subsists. 

 

Page 14 of 61 

                               CHAPTER III 

GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 

13.  Code  of  Conduct.─  Every  portfolio  manager  shall  abide  by  the 

Code of Conduct as specified in Schedule III.  

 

1[14.  Contract  with  clients  and  disclosures.─  (1)  (a)  The  portfolio 

manager  shall,  before  taking  up  an  assignment  of  management  of  funds 

or  portfolio  of  securities  on  behalf  of  a  client,  enter  into  an  agreement  in 

writing with such client clearly defining the inter se relationship, and setting 

out their mutual rights, liabilities and obligations relating to management of 

funds  or  portfolio  of  securities  containing  the  details  as  specified  in 

Schedule IV.  

(b)  The agreement between the portfolio manager and the client 

shall, inter alia, contain:  

(i)  

the  investment  objectives  and  the  services  to  be 

provided; 

                                                 
1  Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. Prior to 

substitution, regulation 14 read as under: 

     

“14. Contract with clients.─(1) (a) Every portfolio manager shall before taking up an assignment of 
management of portfolio on behalf of a client, enter into an agreement with such client clearly defining the 
inter-se relationship, and setting out their mutual rights, liabilities and obligations relating to management 
of the portfolio of the client.  
(b)   The contract shall, inter alia, contain; - 
(i)    the investment objectives and the services to be provided;  
(ii)  areas  of  investment  and  restrictions,  if  any,  imposed  by  the  client  with  regard  to  investment  in  a 

particular company or industry;  

(iii)  attendant risks involved in the management of the portfolio;  
(iv)  period of the contract and provision of early termination, if any;  
(v)   amount to be invested;  
(vi) procedure of settling client's account including form of repayment on maturity or early termination of 

contract;  

(vii) fees payable to the portfolio manager;  
(viii)custody of securities. 

     

(2)  The  funds  of  all  clients  shall  be  placed  by  the  portfolio  manager  in  a  separate  account  to  be 

maintained by him in a scheduled commercial bank.           

Explanation.─For the purposes of this sub-regulation "scheduled bank"  means any bank included in 

the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934);  

(3)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  charge  an  agreed  fee  from  the  client  for  rendering  portfolio 
management services without guaranteeing or assuring, either directly or indirectly any return and such fee 
shall be independent of the return to the client and shall not be on a return sharing basis."  

Page 15 of 61 

(ii)    areas of investment and restrictions, if any, imposed by 

the  client  with  regard  to  the  investment  in  a  particular 

company or industry; 

(iii)   type of instruments and proportion of exposure; 

(iv)   tenure of portfolio investments;  

(v)    terms for early  withdrawal of funds or securities by the 

clients;  

(vi)    attendant  risks  involved  in  the  management  of  the 

portfolio;  

(vii)  period of the contract and provision of early termination, 

if any; 

(viii)  amount  to  be  invested  subject  to  the  restrictions 

provided under these regulations; 

(ix)   procedure  of  settling  client's  account  including  form  of 

repayment on maturity or early termination of contract; 

(x)    fees payable to the portfolio manager; 

(xi)   the  quantum and  manner  of fees  payable  by  the  client 

for  each  activity  for  which  service  is  rendered  by  the 

portfolio  manager  directly  or  indirectly  (where  such 

service is out sourced); 

(xii)  custody of securities;  

(xiii)  in case of a discretionary portfolio manager a condition 

that  the  liability  of  a  client  shall  not  exceed  his 

investment with the portfolio manager;  

Page 16 of 61 

(xiv)  the  terms  of  accounts  and  audit  and  furnishing  of  the 

reports  to  the  clients  as  per  the  provisions  of  these 

regulations; and 

(xv)  other  terms  of  portfolio  investment  subject  to  these 

regulations. 

(2)   (a)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  provide  to  the  client,  the 

Disclosure Document as specified in Schedule V, along with 

a  certificate  in  Form  C  as  specified  in  Schedule  I,  at  least 

two  days  prior  to  entering  into  an  agreement  with  the  client 

as referred to in sub-regulation (1). 

(b)   The  Disclosure  Document,  shall  inter  alia  contain  the 

following─ 

(i)  the quantum and manner of payment of fees payable by 

the  client  for  each  activity  for  which  service  is  rendered 

by the portfolio manager directly or indirectly (where such 

service is out sourced); 

(ii)  portfolio risks;  

(iii)  complete  disclosures  in  respect  of  transactions  with 

related parties as per the accounting standards specified 

by  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants of India  in  this 

regard;  

(iv) the performance of the portfolio manager: 

Provided  that  the  performance  of  a  discretionary 

portfolio  manager  shall  be  calculated  using  weighted 

average  method  taking  each  individual  category  of 

investments  for  the  immediately  preceding  three  years 

Page 17 of 61 

and  in  such  cases  performance  indicators  shall  also  be 

disclosed;  

(v) the audited financial statements of the portfolio manager 

for the immediately preceding three years.  

(c)   The contents of the Disclosure Document shall be certified by 

an independent chartered accountant.  

(d)  The portfolio manager shall file with the Board, a copy of the 

Disclosure Document before it is circulated or issued to any 

person  and  every  six  months  thereafter  or  whenever  any 

material  change  is  effected  therein  whichever  is  earlier, 

along with the certificate in Form C as specified in Schedule 

I. 

(3)   (a)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  charge  an  agreed  fee  from  the 

clients  for  rendering  portfolio  management  services  without 

guaranteeing  or  assuring,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  any 

return and the fee so charged may be a fixed fee or a return 

based fee or a combination of both. 

(b)   The portfolio manager may, subject to the disclosure in terms 

of the Disclosure Document and specific permission from the 

client,  charge  such  fees  from  the  client  for  each  activity  for 

which service is rendered by the portfolio manager directly or 

indirectly (where such service is out sourced).] 

15.  General  responsibilities  of  a  Portfolio  Manager.─(1)  The 

discretionary  portfolio  manager  shall  individually  and  independently 

manage the funds of each client in accordance with the needs of the client 

in a manner which does not partake character of a Mutual Fund, whereas 

Page 18 of 61 

the  non-discretionary  portfolio  manager  shall  manage  the  funds  in 

accordance with the directions of the client.  

1[(1A) The portfolio manager shall not accept from the client, funds or 

securities worth less than 2[twenty five lacs] rupees.] 

3[Provided  that  the  minimum  investment  amount  per  client  shall  be 

applicable for new clients and fresh investments by existing clients: 

Provided  further  that  existing  investments  of  clients,  as  on  date  of 

notification  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India  (Portfolio 

Managers)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  may  continue  as  such  till 

maturity of the investment.] 

      (2) The portfolio manager shall act in a fiduciary capacity  with regard 

to the client's funds. 

4[(2A)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  keep  the  funds  of  all  clients  in  a 

separate account to be maintained by it in a Scheduled Commercial Bank. 

Explanation.─  For  the  purposes of  this  sub-regulation,  the  expression 

„Scheduled  Commercial  Bank‟  means  any  bank  included  in  the  Second 

Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934).]  

(3)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  transact  in  securities  within  the 

limitation  placed  by  the  client  himself  with  regard  to  dealing  in  securities 

under the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934).  

(4) The portfolio manager shall not derive any direct or indirect benefit 

out of the client's funds or securities.  

                                                 
1  Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. 
2  Substituted by SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 10-2-2012. 
3  Inserted, ibid. 
4  Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. 

Page 19 of 61 

1[(4A)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  not  borrow  funds  or  securities  on 

behalf of the client.]  

2[(5)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  not  lend  securities  held  on  behalf  of 

clients to a third person except as provided under these regulations.] 

(6)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  ensure  proper  and  timely  handling  of 

complaints from his clients and take appropriate action immediately. 

3[16.  Investment  of  clients'  moneys  and  management  of  clients' 

portfolio of securities].─ 

  

(1)  4[(a)    The  money  or  securities  accepted  by  the  portfolio  manager 

shall  not  be  invested  or  managed  by  the  portfolio  manager 

except  in  terms  of  the  agreement  between  the  portfolio 

manager and the client.]  

(b)    Any renewal of portfolio fund on maturity of the initial period 

shall be deemed as a fresh placement 5[* * *]. 

6[(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  the  agreement  referred  to 

in regulation 14, the funds or securities can be withdrawn or taken back by 

                                                 
1  Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. 
2   Substituted, ibid. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation (5) read as under: 

“(5) The portfolio manager shall not pledge or give on loan securities held on behalf of clients to a third person 

without obtaining a written permission from his client.” 

3   Substituted  for  "Investment  of  clients‟  moneys‟",  by  the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. 

4   Substituted, ibid. Prior to substitution, clause (a) read as under: 

"(a) The portfolio manager shall not accept money or securities from his client for a period of less than one year:  
  Provided that in the case of placement of funds for portfolio management by the same client on more than one 

occasion or on a continual basis, each placement shall be for a minimum period of one year." 

5   The  words  “and  shall  be  for  a  minimum  period  of  one  year"  omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002.  

6   Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. Prior to 

substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as under: 

"(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the agreement between a portfolio manager and his client, referred to 
in  regulation  14  hereof,  the,  portfolio  funds  can  be  withdrawn  or  taken  back  by  portfolio  client  at  his  risk  before  the 
maturity date of the contract under the following circumstances, namely:-  

(a) Voluntary or compulsory, termination of Portfolio management services by the Portfolio manager;  
(b)   suspension or termination of registration of Portfolio manager by the Board;  
(c)   bankruptcy or liquidation in case the portfolio manager is a body corporate;  
(d)   permanent disability, lunacy or insolvency in case the portfolio manager is an individual;" 

Page 20 of 61 

the  client  before  the  maturity  of  the  contract  under  the  following 

circumstances, namely- 

(a)  voluntary or compulsory termination of portfolio management  

services by the portfolio manager or the client. 

(b)   suspension or cancellation of the certificate of registration of 

the portfolio manager by the Board. 

   (c)   bankruptcy or liquidation of the portfolio manager.]  

(3)    The  portfolio  manager  shall  invest  funds  of  his  clients  in  money 

market instruments 1[or derivatives] or as specified in the contract:  

2[Provided that leveraging of portfolio shall not be permitted in respect 

of investment in derivatives:]  

Provided  3[further]  that  the  portfolio  manager  shall  not  deploy  the 

clients'  funds  in  bill  discounting,  badla  financing  or  for  the  purpose  of 

lending or placement with corporate or non-corporate bodies.  

Explanation.─ For the purposes of this sub-regulation: "money market 

instruments" 

includes  commercial  paper, 

trade  bill, 

treasury  bills, 

certificate of deposit and usance bills. 

4[(4)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  not  while  dealing  with  clients‟  funds 

indulge  in  speculative  transactions  that  is,  he  shall  not  enter  into  any 

transaction  for  purchase  or  sale  of  any  security  which  is  periodically  or 
                                                 
1   Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. 
2   Inserted, ibid.  
3   Inserted, ibid. 
4   Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. Prior to 

substitution, sub regulation (4) read as under: 

    "(4)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  not  while  dealing  with  clients‟  funds  indulge  in  speculative 
transactions,  that  is, he  shall  not  enter  into  any  transaction  for  purchase  or  sale  of  any  security  in  which 
transaction  is  periodically  or  ultimately  settled  otherwise  than  by  actual  delivery  or  transfer  of  security. 
The portfolio manager may enter into transactions on behalf of client for the specific purpose of meeting 
margin requirements only if the contract so provides and the client is made aware of the attendant risks of 
such transactions. "  

Page 21 of 61 

ultimately  settled  otherwise  than  by  actual  delivery  or  transfer  of  security 

except the transactions in derivatives.]  

(5)  The  portfolio  manager  shall,  ordinarily  purchase  or  sell  securities 

separately  for  each  client.  However,  in  the  event  of  aggregation  of 

purchases or sales for economy of scale, inter se allocation shall be done 

on  a  pro  rata  basis  and  at  weighted  average  price  of  the  day's 

transactions.  The  portfolio  manager  shall  not  keep  any  open  position  in 

respect of allocation of sales or purchases effected in a day.  

(6)  Any  transaction  of  purchase  or  sale  including  that  between  the 

portfolio  manager's  own  accounts  and  client's  accounts  or  between  two 

clients' accounts shall be at the prevailing market price.  

(7)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  segregate  each  clients'  funds  and 

portfolio  of  securities  and  keep  them  separately  from  his  own  funds  and 

securities  and  be  responsible  for  safekeeping  of  clients'  funds  and 

securities.  

1[(8)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  not  hold  the  listed  securities  2[or 

unlisted securities], belonging to the portfolio account, in its own name on 

behalf of its clients either by virtue of contract with clients or otherwise:  

 

Provided  that  any  portfolio  manager  holding  the  listed  securities 

belonging to the portfolio account in its own name on behalf of its clients 

on  the  date  of  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India 

(Portfolio  Managers) 

(Amendment)  Regulations,  2008  shall 

                                                 
1   Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 11-08-2008. Prior to 

substitution, sub-regulation (8) read as follows: 

 “(8)  The  portfolio  manager  may  hold  the  securities  belonging  to  the  portfolio  account  in  [its]  own 
name  on  behalf  of  [its]  clients  only  if  the  contract  so  provided  and  in  such  an  event  the  record  of  the 
portfolio manager and [its] report to the client should clearly indicate that the securities are held by [it] on 
behalf of the portfolio account.”  

    [The  words  "his  and  "him"  were  substituted  by  "its"  and  "it"  respectively,  by  the  SEBI  (Portfolio 

Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002.] 

2  Inserted by SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 10-2-2012. 

Page 22 of 61 

segregate  each  clients‟  listed  securities  and  keep  them  separately  within 

six months from such commencement:  

 

Provided  further  that  the  Board  may  in  the  interest  of  investors  or  for 

the  development  of  securities  market,  on  an  application  made  in  this 

behalf  by  a  portfolio  manager  with  respect  to  any  specific  investment 

existing  on  the  date  of  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange 

Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, relax 

the strict enforcement of this regulation:] 

 

1[Provided further that the portfolio manager shall segregate each client‟s 

holding in unlisted securities in separate accounts in respect of investment 

by new clients and fresh investments by existing clients: 

                               

Provided further that existing investments in unlisted securities of clients, 

as  on  date  of  notification  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Portfolio  Managers)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012  may  continue  as 

such till maturity of investment.] 

2[(9) The portfolio manager may, subject to authorization by the client 

in writing, participate in securities lending.] 

3[16A.  Foreign  Institutional  Investor  and  sub-accounts  availing 
portfolio management services.─ 4[Foreign portfolio investors] may avail 

of the services of a portfolio manager.] 

                                                 
1   Inserted by SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 10-2-2012. 
2   Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. 
3  Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 30-11-2006. 
Prior  to  substitution,  regulation  16A  inserted  by  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2000, w.e,f. 22-02-2000 read as under:  
      “16A. That the portfolio manager may manage funds raised or collected or brought from outside India 
in accordance with Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Institutional Investors) Regulations, 
1995.” 

4  Substituted  for  "Foreign  institutional  investors  and  sub-accounts  registered  with  the  Board"  by  the  SEBI 
(Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 7-1-2014.  

Page 23 of 61 

1[16B.  Appointment of custodian.─(1) Every portfolio manager shall 

appoint a custodian in respect of securities managed or administered by it. 

(2)  Nothing  contained  in  this  regulation  shall  apply  to  a  portfolio 

manager– 

(a)   who  has  total  assets under  management of  value  less  than 

five hundred crore rupees; or 

(b)   who performs purely advisory functions.] 

17.  Maintenance  of  books  of  accounts,  records,  etc.─(1)  Every 

portfolio  manager  shall  keep  and  maintain  the  following  books  of 

accounts, records and documents namely:-  

(a)    a  copy  of  balance  sheet  at  the  end  of  each  accounting 

period;  

(b)   a  copy  of  the  profit  and  loss  account  for  each  accounting 

period;  

(c)   a  copy  of  the  auditors  report  on  the  accounts  for  each 

accounting period;  

(d)   a statement of financial position and;  

(e)  records 

in  support  of  every 

investment 

transaction  or 

recommendation  which  will  indicate  the  data,  facts  and 

opinion leading to that investment decision.  

(2) Every portfolio manager shall intimate to the Board the place where 

the books of accounts, records and documents are maintained.  

(3)  Without  prejudice  to  sub-regulation  (1),  every  portfolio  manager 

shall, after the end of each accounting period, furnish to the Board copies 

                                                 
1  Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 05-07-2006. 

Page 24 of 61 

of the balance sheet, profit and loss account and such other documents as 

are  mentioned  in  any  of  the  regulations  under  this  chapter  for  any  other 

preceding five accounting years when required by the Board. 

18.  Submission  of  half-yearly  results.─  Every  portfolio  manager 

shall  furnish  to  the  Board  half-yearly-unaudited  financial  results  when 

required by the Board  with a  view to monitor the capital adequacy of the 

portfolio manager. 

19.  Maintenance  of  books  of  accounts,  records  and  other 

documents.─ The portfolio manager shall preserve the books of account 

and  other  records  and  documents  mentioned  in  any  of  the  regulations 

mentioned under this chapter for a minimum period of five years. 

20. Accounts and audit.─ 

(1) (a)   The  portfolio  manager  shall  maintain  separate  client-wise 

accounts.  

(b)   The 

funds 

received 

from 

the  clients, 

investments  or 

disinvestments  and  all  the  credits  to  the  account  of  the  client 

like  interest,  dividend,  bonus,  or  any  other  beneficial  interest 

received  on  the  investment  and  debits,  for  expenses,  if  any, 

shall  be  properly  accounted  for  and  details  thereof  shall  be 

properly reflected in the client's account.  

(c)   The  tax  deducted  at  source  as  required  under  the  provisions 

of the Income-Tax Act, 1961, (43 of 1961) shall be recorded in 

the portfolio account.  

(2) The books of account will be audited yearly by qualified auditor to 

ensure that the portfolio manager has followed proper accounting methods 

and procedures and that the portfolio manager has performed his duties in 

Page 25 of 61 

accordance with the law. A certificate to this effect shall, if so specified, be 

submitted  to  the  Board  within  six  months  of  close  of  portfolio  manager's 

accounting period. 

1[(3)  The  portfolio  accounts  of  the  portfolio  manager  shall  be  audited 

annually  by  an  independent  chartered  accountant  and  a  copy  of  the 

certificate issued by the chartered accountant shall be given to the client. 

(4)  The  client  may  appoint  a  chartered  accountant  to  audit  the  books 

and accounts of the portfolio manager relating to his transactions and the 

portfolio  manager  shall  co-operate  with  such  chartered  accountant  in 

course of the audit.]  

21.  Reports  to  be  furnished  to  the  client.─(1)  The  portfolio  manager 

shall  furnish  periodically  a  report  to  the  client,  as  agreed  in  the  contract, 
but not exceeding a period of six months  2[and  as and when required by 

the client] and such report shall contain the following details, namely:-  

(a)   the composition and the value of the portfolio, description of 

security, number of securities, value of each security held in 

the  portfolio,  cash  balance  and  aggregate  value  of  the 

portfolio as on the date of report;  

(b) 

transactions undertaken during the period of report including 

date of transaction and details of purchases and sales;  

(c)   beneficial  interest  received  during  that  period  in  respect  of 

interest,  dividend,  bonus  shares, 

rights  shares  and 

debentures;  

(d)   expenses incurred in managing the portfolio of the client;  

                                                 
1   Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. 
2   Inserted, ibid. 

Page 26 of 61 

(e)   details of risk foreseen by the portfolio manager and the risk 

relating  to  the  securities  recommended  by  the  portfolio 

manager for investment or disinvestment.   

1[(1A)  The  report  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1)  may  be  made 

available on the website of the portfolio manager with restricted access to 

each client.] 

(2)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  2[in  terms  of  the  agreement  with  the 

client] also furnish to the client documents and information relating only to 

the management of a portfolio.  

(3)  On  termination  of  the  contract,  the  portfolio  manager  shall  give  a 

detailed statement of accounts to the client and settle the account with the 

client as agreed in the contract.  

3[(4) The client shall have the right to obtain details of his portfolio from 

the portfolio managers.] 

22.  Report  on  steps  taken  on  Auditor's  report.─Every  portfolio 

manager shall within two months from the date of the auditors report take 

steps to rectify the deficiencies, made out in the auditors report. 

23. Disclosures to the Board.─ A portfolio manager shall disclose to 

the Board as and when required the following information namely:- 

(i)    particulars regarding the management of a portfolio;  

                                                 
1   Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. 
2  Inserted, ibid. 
3   Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. Prior to 

substitution, sub regulation (4) read as under: 

“(4) In the event of any dispute between the portfolio manager and his clients, the client shall have the 

right to obtain details of his portfolio from the portfolio manager.” 

Page 27 of 61 

(ii)   any  change  in  the  information  or  particulars  previously 

furnished,  which  have  a  bearing  on  the  certificate  granted  to 

him;  

(iii)   the names of the clients whose portfolio he has managed;  

(iv)   particulars  relating  to  the  capital  adequacy  requirement  as 

specified in regulation 7. 

1[23A.  Appointment  of  compliance  officer.─(1)  Every  portfolio 

manager  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for 

monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, 

guidelines, 

instructions  etc., 

issued  by 

the  Board  or 

the  Central 

Government and for redressal of investors' grievances.  

(2) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report 

to the Board any non-compliance observed by him.] 

 

CHAPTER IV  

INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS 

 24.  Right  of  inspection  by  the  Board.─(1)  The  Board  may  appoint 

one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake the inspection of 

the books of account, records and documents of the portfolio manager for 

any of the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2).  

(2)  The  purposes  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1)  may  be  as  follows, 

namely:-  

                                                 
1 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advice by Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2001, w.e.f. 29-05-

2001. 

Page 28 of 61 

(a)   to ensure that the books of account are being maintained in 

the manner required;  

(b)   that the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations are being 

complied with;  

(c)   to  investigate  into  the  complaints  received  from  investors, 

other portfolio managers or any other person on any matter 

having  a  bearing  on  the  activities  of  the  portfolio  manager; 

and  

 (d)   to investigate suo motu in the interest of securities business 

or investors' interest into the affairs of the portfolio manager. 

25.  Notice  before  inspection.─(1)  Before  undertaking  an  inspection 

under  regulation  24,  the  Board  shall  give  a  reasonable  notice  to  the 

portfolio manager, for that purpose.  

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the 

Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should 

be  given,  it  may  by  an  order  in  writing  direct  that  the  inspection  of  the 

affairs of the portfolio manager be taken up without such notice.  

(3) During the course of inspection the portfolio manager against whom 

an  inspection  is  being  carried  out  shall  be  bound  to  discharge  his 

obligations as provided under regulation 26. 

26. Obligations of Portfolio Manager on inspection.─(1) It shall be 

the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer and employee of the 

portfolio  manager  who  is  being  inspected  to  produce  to  the  inspecting 

authority  such  books,  accounts  and  other  documents  in  his  custody  or 

control and furnish him with the statements and information relating to his 

Page 29 of 61 

activities  as  a  portfolio  manager  within  such  time  as  the  inspecting 

authority may require.  

(2) The portfolio manager shall allow the inspecting authority to have a 

reasonable access to the premises occupied by such portfolio manager or 

by any other person, on his behalf and also extend reasonable facility for 

examining  any  books,  records,  documents  and  computer  data  in  the 

possession  of  the  portfolio  manager  or  any  such  other  person  and  also 

provide copies of documents or other material which in the opinion of the 

inspecting authority are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.  

(3)  The  inspecting  authority  shall  in  the  course  of  inspection,  be 

entitled  to  examine or record  statements  of any  principal  officer, director, 

partner, proprietor and employee of the portfolio manager.  

(4)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  director,  proprietor,  partner,  officer  or 

employee  of  the  portfolio  manager  to  give  to  the  inspecting  authority  all 

assistance  in  connection  with  the  inspection  which  the  portfolio  manager 

may reasonably be expected to give. 

27.  Submission  of  report  to  the  Board.─  The  inspecting  authority 

shall,  as  soon  as  may  be  possible,  submit  an  inspection  report  to  the 

Board. 

1[28.  Action  on  inspection  or  investigation  report.─  The  Board  or 

the  Chairman  shall  after  consideration  of  the  inspection  or  investigation 

report  take  such  action  as  the  Board  or  Chairman  may  deem  fit  and 

                                                 
1   Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) 

Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-09-2002. Prior to substitution, regulation 28 read as under: 

“28.  Communication  of  findings  etc.  to  the  portfolio  manager.─(1)  The  Board  shall  after 
consideration  of  the  inspection  report  communicate  the  findings  to  the  portfolio  manager  to  give  him  an 
opportunity of being heard before any action is being taken by the Board on the findings of the inspecting 
authority. 

(2)  On  receipt  of  the  application,  if  any,  from  the  portfolio  manager,  the  Board  may  call  upon  the 
portfolio manager to take such measures as the Board may deem fit in the interest of the securities market 
and for due compliance with the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations.”  

Page 30 of 61 

appropriate  including  action  under  1[Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2002.]] 

29.  Appointment  of  Auditor.─  The  Board  may  appoint  a  qualified 

auditor  to  investigate  into  the  books  of  account  or  the  affairs  of  the 

portfolio manager:  

Provided that the auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of 

the  inspecting  authority  as  are  mentioned  in  regulation  24  and  the 

obligation  of  the  portfolio  manager  and  his  employees  in  regulation  26 

shall be applicable to the investigation under this regulation.  

Explanation.─  For  the  purposes  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  20 

and under this regulation, the expression "qualified auditor" shall have the 

same meaning as given to it in section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 

of 1956). 

CHAPTER V  

PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 

30.  2[Liability  for  action  in  case  of  default.─  A  portfolio  manager  who 

contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, Rules or Regulations framed 

thereunder  shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more  action  specified  therein 

including  the  action  under  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange 

Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.] 

                                                 
1  Substituted for “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry 
Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” by the SEBI (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 
26-05-2008. 

2   Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008,  w.e.f.  26-05-2008.  Prior  to  substitution, 
regulation 30 as substituted by the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing 
Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-09-2002, read as under: 

"30. Liability for action in case of default.─ (1) A portfolio manager who-  

(a) fails to comply with any conditions subject to which certificate has been granted;  
(b) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, rules or regulations;  
shall  be  dealt  with  in  the  manner  provided  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  the  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)  Regulations, 
2002. 

Page 31 of 61 

31. to 38. 1[* * *] 

                                                 
1   Omitted  by  the  Securities  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) 

Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27-09-2002. Prior to their omission, regulations 31 to 38 read as under: 

"31.  Suspension  of  registration.─(1)  A  penalty  of  suspension  of  registration  of  a  portfolio  manager  may  be 

imposed where -  

(i) the portfolio manager violates the provisions of the Act, rules or regulations;  
(ii) the portfolio manager -  

(a)   fails  to  furnish  any  information  relating  to  his  activity  as  portfolio  manager  as  required  by  the 

Board;  

(b) furnishes wrong or false information;  
(c) does not submit periodical returns as required by the Board;  
(d) does not co-operate in any enquiry conducted by the Board; 

(iii) the portfolio manager fails to resolve the complaints of the investors or fails to give a satisfactory reply 

to the Board in this behalf;  

(iv) the portfolio manager indulges in manipulating or price rigging or cornering activities;  
(v)  the  portfolio  manager  is  guilty  of  misconduct  or  improper  or  unbusinesslike  or  unprofessional  conduct 

which is not in accordance with the Code of Conduct specified in Schedule III;  

(vi)  the  portfolio  manager  fails  to  maintain  the  capital  adequacy  requirement  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of regulation 7;  

(vii) the portfolio manager fails to pay the fees;  
(viii) the portfolio manager violates the conditions of registration;  
(ix) the portfolio manager does not carry out his obligations as specified in the regulation. 

32. Cancellation of registration.─A penalty of cancellation of registration of a portfolio manager may be imposed 

where:-  

(i) the portfolio manager indulges in deliberate manipulation or price rigging or cornering activities affecting 

the securities market and the investors interest;  

(ii)  the  financial  position  of  the  portfolio  manager  deteriorates  to  such  an  extent  that  the  Board  is  of  the 

opinion that his continuance as portfolio manager is not in the interest of investors;  

(iii) the portfolio manager is guilty of fraud, or is convicted of a criminal offence;  
(iv)  the  portfolio  manager  is  guilty  of  repeated  defaults  of  the  nature  mentioned  in  regulation  31  provided 

that the Board furnishes the reasons for cancellation in writing. 

33. Manner of making order of suspension and cancellation.─No order of penalty of suspension or cancellation, as 
the  case  may  be,  shall  be  imposed  except  after  holding  an  enquiry  in  accordance  with  the  procedure  specified  in 
regulation 34.  

34.  Manner  of  holding  enquiry  before  suspension  or  cancellation.─(1)  For  the  purpose  of  holding  an  enquiry 

under regulation 33, the Board may appoint an enquiry officer.  

(2) The enquiry officer shall issue to the portfolio manager a notice at the registered office or the principal place of 

business of the portfolio manager.  

(3) The portfolio manager may, within thirty days from the date of receipt of such notice, furnish to the enquiry 
officer a reply together with copies of documentary or other evidence relied on by him or sought by the Board from the 
portfolio manager.  

(4) The enquiry officer shall, give a  reasonable opportunity of hearing to the portfolio manager to enable him to 

make submissions in support of his reply made under sub-regulation (3).  

(5)  Before  the  enquiry  officer,  the  portfolio  manager  may  either  appear  in  person  or  through  any  person  duly 

authorised by the portfolio manager:  

Provided that no lawyer or advocate shall be permitted to represent the portfolio manager at the enquiry:  
Provided further that where a lawyer or an advocate has been appointed by the Board as a presenting officer under 

sub- regulation (6), it shall be lawful for the portfolio manager to present its case through a lawyer or advocate.  

(6) If it is considered necessary, the enquiry officer may ask the Board to appoint a presenting officer to present its 

case.  

(7)  The  enquiry  officer  shall,  after  taking  into  account  all  relevant  facts  and  submissions  made  by  the  portfolio 
manager,  submit  a  report  to  the  Board  and  recommend the  penalty  to  be  imposed  as  also  the  grounds  on  the  basis  of 
which the proposed penalty is justified.  

35. Show-cause notice and order.─(1) On receipt of the report from the enquiry officer, the Board shall consider 
the same and issue a show-cause notice as to why the penalty as proposed by the enquiry officer should not be imposed.  
(2) The portfolio manager shall within twenty-one days of the date of the receipt of the show- cause notice send a 

reply to the Board.  

(3) The Board after considering the reply to the show-cause notice, if received, shall as soon as possible but not 

later than thirty days from the receipt of the reply, if any, pass such order as it deems fit.  

(4) Every order passed under sub-regulation (3) shall be self-contained and give reasons for the conclusions stated 

therein including justification of the penalty imposed by that order.  

(5) The Board shall send a copy of the order under sub- regulation (3) to the portfolio manager.  
36.  Effect  of  suspension  and  cancellation  of  registration  of  portfolio  manager.─(1)  On and  from the  date  of  the 
suspension of the portfolio manager he shall cease to carry on any activity as a portfolio manager during the period of 
suspension.  

Page 32 of 61 

1[CHAPTER VI 

MISCELLANEOUS 

39. Power of the Board to issue clarifications.─ In order to remove any 

difficulties 

in  respect  of 

the  application  or 

interpretation  of 

these 

regulations, the Board may issue clarifications or guidelines in the form of 

circulars.]    

 

SCHEDULE I  

FORMS 

FORM A 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 

1993  

 

Application for grant of certificate/renewal of certificate 

Name of Applicant: ___________________________________________ 

Name of Person to Contact: ____________________________________ 

Designation: ________________________________________________ 

Telephone No: _______________________________________________ 

                                                                                                                                     
(2) On and from the date of cancellation, the portfolio manager shall with immediate effect cease to carry on any 

activity as a portfolio manager.  

37. Publication of order of suspension.─ The order of suspension or cancellation of certificate passed under sub-

regulation (3) of regulation 35 shall be published in at least two daily newspapers by the Board.  

38. Appeal to the Securities Appellate Tribunal.─ Any person aggrieved  by an order of the Board made, on and 
after  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  Laws  (Second  Amendment)  Act,  1999,  (i.e.,  after  16th  December  1999), 
under these regulations may prefer an appeal to a Securities Appellate Tribunal having jurisdiction in the matter.  
[Regulation 38 was substituted by the SEBI (Appeal to Securities Appellate Tribunal) (Amendment) Regulations, 2000, 
w.e.f. 28-3-2000 for "Any person aggrieved by an order of the Board may prefer an appeal to the Government."] 

1   Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. 

Page 33 of 61 

 

Instruction: 

1.  Applicants  must  submit  a  completed  application  form  together  with 

appropriate supporting documents to the Board.  

2.  It is important that this application form should be filled in accordance 

with the regulations.  

3.  Application for registration will be considered provided it is complete in 

all respects.  

4.  Answers must be typed/ printed.  

5.  Information which needs to be supplied in more details may be given 

on separate sheets which should be attached to the application form.  

6.  All signatures must be original.  

PART: I GENERAL INFORMATION 

1.0  PARTICULARS OF THE APPLICANT  

1.1  Name of the Applicant:  

1.2  Address - Principal place of business/registered office:  

       Pin code: _____________________ Telephone No: ______________ 

       Telex No: _____________________ Fax No: ___________________ 

1.3  Address for Correspondence:  

       Pin code: ______________________ Telephone No: _____________ 

Page 34 of 61 

       Telex No: ______________________ Fax No: __________________ 

       Address of Branch Offices (in India & Abroad):  

1.4  Application to Board for any other intermediary activity: ___________   

2.0  ORGANISATION STRUCTURE  

(Organisation  Chart  separately  showing  functional  responsibilities  of 

portfolio management activities to be enclosed) 

2.1   Objectives: In brief.  

  (Memorandum and Articles of Association to be enclosed).  

2.2    Date and Place of Incorporation/Establishment:  

         Day         Month        Year         Place  

2.3   Status  of 

limited  company-Private/Public, 
unlimited  company,  1[***]  others.  If  listed,  names  of  the  stock 

the  Applicant:  (e.g. 

exchanges and latest share price: to be given.)  

2.4  Organisation Chart: General Organisation & specific Activity.  

(i.e. Applied for registration) also state the functional responsibility.  

2.5  Particulars of all Directors 2[***] and key management personnels:  

[Name;  Qualification;  Experience; 

(General 

and 

specific 

Intermediaries  activity);  Ownership  details;  (Date  of  Appointment) 

Other  directorship;  (Name  &  Date  of  Appointment);  Previous 

positions held.] 

                                                 
1   Words  and  commas  “partnership,  proprietary,”  omitted  by  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 11-08-2008. 

2   Words and marks “/partners/proprietor” omitted by SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2008, w.e.f. 11-08-2008. 

Page 35 of 61 

2.6   Number of employees  

(General and for Specific Intermediaries activity)  

2.7  Name and activities of associate companies/ concerns  

Name of 

Address/ 

Type of 

company 

phone 

activity 

/firm 

numbers 

handled 

Nature / 

Nature of 

Nature  of 

Ownership 

Quantum of 

interest of 

interest  of 

details 

financial 

promoter 

applicant 

dealing 

/director 

company  

2.8   List of major shareholders (holding 5% or more voting shares)  

  Name; Share holding pattern i.e., no of share to its % to total capital)  

3.0   DETAILS OF INFRASTRUCTURAL FACILITIES  

3.1  Office Space  

3.2  Office Equipment  

3.3  Furniture & Fixtures  

3.4  Communication Facilities  

3.5  Data Processing Capacity  

(a) In-house:  

(b) Others:  

3.6    Computer facility:  

(a) Hardware configuration  

(b) Software Environment  

Page 36 of 61 

4.0  BUSINESS PLAN (FOR THREE YEARS)  

(a) History, Major events and present activities  

(b) Proposed business plan & means of achieving the same.  

(c)  Projected Profitability (Next three years)  

(Physical targets, modus operandi to achieve targets, Resultant 

Income)   

5.0  FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

5.1 Capital Structure  

 

 

 

 

 

(Rs. in lakhs)  

  

preceding year of current 

Year prior to the 

year 

Preceding 

Current 

year 

year 

(a)  Paid-up capital 

  

(b)  Free reserves 

(excluding evaluation 

  

reserves) 

(c) Total (a) + (b) 

  

Note: 1[* * *} 

  

  

  

  

  

  

5.2  Deployment of Resources 

 

 

 

 

(Rs. in lakhs)  

  

Year prior to the 

Preceding  Current 

                                                 
1  Notes omitted by SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 11-08-2008. Prior to 

their omission, notes read as under: 

“1. In case of partnership or proprietary concerns, please indicate capital minus drawings. 
2.   In case of partnership or proprietary concerns, please indicate the financial position, means and” 

Page 37 of 61 

preceding year of 

year 

year 

current year 

(a) Fixed Assets 

(b) Plant & Machinery and 

office equipment 

(c) Investments (Details 

should be given 

separately) 

(d) Others 

 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  Major Sources of Income: 

 

 

 

 

(Rs. in lakhs)  

  

Year prior to the 

preceding year of 

current year 

Preceding 

year 

current year 

* Fees charged as % of issue  

5.4   Net Profit 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Rs. in lakhs) 

  

Year prior to the 

preceding year of 

current year 

Preceding 

year 

current year 

5.5   Name and Address of the Principal Bankers  

5.6   Name and Address of the Auditors  

Page 38 of 61 

6.0  OTHER INFORMATION  

6.1  Details of all settled and pending disputes:  

Nature of dispute     

Name of the party       

Pending/settle 

6.2   Indictment of involvement in any economic offences in the last three 

years.  

6.3 

Indicate  dealing/  trading  with  any  Intermediary  who  has  defaulted 

with  or  suspended  by  any  stock  exchange  authorities  or  any  other 

authorities.  

6.4   Any  other  information  considered  relevant  to  the  nature  of  services 

rendered by the company.  

6.5   Names  of  two  references  from  bankers  (For  applicants  other  than 

financial institutions & banking companies) 

PART II SPECIFIC INFORMATION 

7.0  BUSINESS INFORMATION  

7.1  Indicate type of activity carried on/ proposed to be carried on.  

7.2  Indicate the facilities for making decision on portfolio investment.   

7.3  1[* * *] 

 

                                                 
1  Omitted  by  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2008,  w.e.f.  11-08-2008.  Prior  to 

omission, clause 7.3 read as under: 

“7.3  Describe  portfolio  management  schemes  floated  during  last  years/  proposed  to  float  during  next  year. 

(Enclose a copy of typical contract entered with the client for Portfolio Management Services)” 

Page 39 of 61 

7.4    Enclose  a  copy  of  list  of  approved  share  brokers,  involved  for 
Portfolio Management 1[* * *] activities and state whether any of them 

were suspended/had defaulted with any Stock Exchange authority.] 

7.5  Describe  Accounting  system  followed/to  be  followed  for  Portfolio 

Management Services 2[* * *]. 

7.6   Indicate various research & database facilities provided.  

8.0   EXPERIENCE  

8.1   Experience in Portfolio management activities. Indicate period also.  

8.2   Experience  in  other  financial  services  rendered:  (Period,  Area  and 

Date of Commencement of Activity).  

8.3   Business handled during the last year:  

(a) Portfolio Management  

For 

(DISCRETIONARY NATURE) 

Resident/Non-

Resident 

Individual 

Corporate 

Client 

Client 

1.  Types of services offered 

2.  No. of portfolio clients 

3.  Total amount of funds 

managed 

4.  Average size of portfolio 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

                                                 
1   The word “scheme” omitted by SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 11-08-

2008. 

2  The words and brackets “(Clientwise and Schemewise)” omitted, ibid. 

Page 40 of 61 

5.  Average return to the client 

  

6.   1[* * *] 

 

  

 

  

 

 

(NON-DISCRETIONARY 

NATURE) 

FOR 

Resident/Non- 

Resident 

Individual 

Corporate 

Client: 

Client: 

1.  Types of services offered 

2.  Number of portfolio clients 

3.  Total amount of funds 

managed 

4.  Average size of portfolio 

  

  

  

  

5.  Average return to the client 

  

6.  2[* * *] 

 

  

  

  

  

  

 

  

  

  

  

  

 

(b) Only Portfolio Advisory Services  

(Indicate for both Resident/Non-resident clients)  

(c)  List of Clients (Corporate clients only) 

Name 

Amount of portfolio Fund managed 

 Services Rendered 

 

                                                 
1  The  words  “Average  period  of  Portfolio  Management  Schemes”  omitted  by  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 11-08-2008.  

2   The words “Average period of Portfolio Management Schemes” omitted, ibid.  

Page 41 of 61 

DECLARATION 

1[This declaration must be signed by two directors,] 

___________________________________________________________ 

I/We hereby, apply for Registration. I/We warrant that I/We have truthfully 

and  fully  answered  the  questions  above  and  provided  all  the  information 

which might reasonably be considered relevant for the purposes of my/our 

registration.  

For and on behalf of  

__________________________________________________________  

(Name of Applicant)  

 

_____________________________        __________________________ 

Director/ 2[* * *]                                               Director/ 3[* * *]  

  

____________________________        __________________________ 

Name in Block Letters                               Name in Block Letters  

Place:                                                        Place:  

Date:                                                         Date:   

 

                                                 
1  Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 11-08-2008. Prior to 

substitution, the it read as under: 

"This Declaration must be signed by two Directors, Two Partners or the Sole Proprietor, as the case 

may be”. 

2   The  words and  marks “/Partner or Sole Proprietor” omitted by  SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 11-08-2008. 

3   The words and marks “/Partner or Sole Proprietor” omitted, ibid. 
 

Page 42 of 61 

FORM B  

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 

1993  

[Regulation 8]  

Certificate of Registration 

I.    

In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 

of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with 

the regulations made thereunder for the portfolio managers the Board 

hereby  grants  a  certificate  of  registration  to  _____________  as  a 

portfolio  manager  subject  to  the  conditions  in  the  rules  and  in 

accordance with the regulations.  

II.     Registration Code for the portfolio manager is PM /  /  

III.    Unless renewed, the certificate of registration is valid from ________ 

to _________.  

Place:  

Date:                                                                                               By Order 

                                                                                      For and on behalf of  

                                                       Securities and Exchange Board of India  

                                                                                     Authorised signatory  

1[FORM C 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 

1993 

[Regulation 14] 

                                                 
1   Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002.   

Page 43 of 61 

_______________________________________________________ 

(Name of the Portfolio Manager) 

 (Address of the Portfolio Manager (including phone numbers, fax, email 

etc.) 

We confirm that: 

i)    the Disclosure Document forwarded to the Board is in accordance with 

the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  Regulations,  1993  and  the  guidelines 

and directives issued by the Board from time to time; 

ii)    the  disclosures  made  in  the  document  are  true,  fair  and  adequate  to 

enable  the  investors  to  make  a  well  informed  decision  regarding 

entrusting  the  management  of  the  portfolio  to  us  /  investment  in  the 
Portfolio Management 1[* * *]; 

iii)  the  Disclosure  Document  has  been  duly  certified  by  an  independent 

chartered  accountant  (Indicate  name,  address,  phone  number  and 

registration number of the chartered accountant) on ________ (date).  

     (Enclose  a  copy  of  the  chartered  accountants'  certificate  to  the  effect 

that the disclosures made in the document are true, fair and adequate 

to enable the investors to make a well informed decision) 

Date:                                                          Signature of the Principal Officer 

Place:                                       Name and address of the Principal Officer]  

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 

SCHEDULE II 

1993  

 

                                                 
1   The word “Scheme” omitted by SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 11-08-

2008. 

Page 44 of 61 

[Regulation 12]  

FEES 

 

1[1.   Every portfolio manager shall pay a non-refundable fee of one lakh 

rupees along with the application for grant or renewal of certificate 

of registration.] 

2[(1A)  Every  portfolio  manager  shall  pay  a  sum  of  3[ten  lakh  rupees]  as 

registration fees at the time of the grant of certificate by the Board.] 

4[2.   Every portfolio manager shall pay a renewal fee of five lakh rupees 

upon grant of renewal.] 

 

3. (a)  The  fee  referred  to  in  paragraph  (1)  shall  be  paid  by  the  portfolio 

manger  within  fifteen  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  intimation 

from the Board under regulation 8.  

                                                 
1  Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 7-09-2006. 
Prior  to  substitution, paragraph  1,  inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2004, w.e.f. 27-05-2004 read as under:  

“1.  Every  portfolio  manager  shall  pay  a  sum  of  Rs.  25,000/-  as  application  fees  along  with  the 

application for grant of certificate of registration.”  
Prior  to  such  substitution,  paragraph  1,  2,  3  and  4  were  substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 1999, w.e.f. 30-09-1999 for the following:  

"1.  Every  Portfolio  Manager  shall  subject  to  paragraphs  3  and  4  of  this  Schedule,  pay  a  sum  of  Rs 

2.50 lakhs every year for the first two years and thereafter a sum of Rs 1 lakh for the third year.  

2. Every Portfolio Manager shall to keep his registration in force, pay renewal fee of Rs.75, 000/- per 

annum from the fourth year from the date of initial registration.  

3. Fee specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) above shall be paid in the following manner –  

a)   First installment is to be paid within 15 days from the date of intimation from the Board under 

regulation 8.  

b)   Subsequent installments including the renewal fee to be paid on or before expiry of 12 months 

of each year of registration beginning from date of grant of such registration. 

4. The fees specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) above, shall be payable by [a cheque or] draft in favor 
of "Securities and Exchange Board of India" at Bombay [or at the respective regional office.] [The words 
“a  cheque  or”  omitted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Payment  of  Fees)  Amendment 
Regulations,  1995,  w.e.f.  28-11-95].  The  words  "or  at  the  respective  regional  office"  inserted  by  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees) Amendment Regulations, 1995 w.e.f. 28-11-95. 

2   Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, w.e.f. 27-05-2004. 
3  Substituted  for  “Rs.5  lakhs”  by  the  SEBI  (Portfolio Managers)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2006, 

w.e.f. 7-09-2006 

4  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2006,  w.e.f.  7-09-2006. 
Prior  to  substitution,  paragraph  2  inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
1999, w.e.f. 30-09-1999 read as under: 

    “Every portfolio manager to keep his registration in force shall pay renewal fee of Rs. 2.5 lakhs every three 

years from the fourth year from the date of initial registration.” 

Page 45 of 61 

 (b)   The  fee  referred  to  in  paragraph  (2),  shall  be  paid  by  the  portfolio 

manager  within  fifteen  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  intimation 
from the Board 1[under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 9.] 

4.  

The  fees  specified  in  paragraphs  (1)  and  (2)  above,  shall  be 

payable  by  the  portfolio  manager  by  a  demand  draft  in  favour  of 

"Securities and Exchange Board of India" payable at Mumbai or at 

the respective regional office.]  

  

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 

SCHEDULE III  

1993  

[Regulation 13]  

CODE OF CONDUCT- PORTFOLIO MANAGER 

1.   A portfolio manager shall, in the conduct of his business, observe high 

standards  of  integrity  and  fairness  in  all  his  dealings  with  his  clients 

and other portfolio managers.  

2.   The  money  received  by  a  portfolio  manager  from  a  client  for  an 

investment  purpose  should  be  deployed  by  the  portfolio  manager  as 

soon  as  possible  for  that  purpose  and  money  due  and  payable  to  a 

client should be paid forthwith.  

3.   A portfolio manager shall render at all times high standards of service, 

exercise  due  diligence,  ensure  proper  care  and  exercise  independent 

professional  judgment.  The  portfolio  manager  shall  either  avoid  any 

conflict of interest in his investment or disinvestment decision, or where 

                                                 
1  Substituted for “disposing of the application for renewal made under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 9”, by 

the SEBI (Portfolio Managers (Second Amendment) Regulations), 2006, w.e.f. 7-09-2006. 

Page 46 of 61 

any  conflict  of  interest  arises,  ensure  fair  treatment  to  all  his 

customers. He shall disclose to the clients, possible source of conflict 

of  duties  and  interests,  while  providing  unbiased  services.  A  portfolio 

manager shall not place his interest above those of his clients.  

4.   A portfolio manager shall not make any statement or become privy to 

any act, practice or unfair competition, which is likely to be harmful to 

the interests of other portfolio managers or is likely to place such other 

portfolio  managers  in  a  disadvantageous  position  in  relation  to  the 

portfolio  manager  himself,  while  competing  for  or  executing  any 

assignment.  

5.   A  portfolio  manager  shall  not  make  any  exaggerated  statement, 

whether oral or written, to the client either about the qualification or the 

capability  to  render  certain  services  or  his  achievements  in  regard  to 

services rendered to other clients.  

6.   At  the  time  of  entering  into  a  contract,  the  portfolio  manager  shall 

obtain in writing from the client, his interest in various corporate bodies 

which enables him to obtain unpublished price-sensitive information of 

the body corporate.  

7.   A  portfolio  manager  shall  not  disclose  to  any  clients,  or  press  any 

confidential  information  about  his  client,  which  has  come  to  his 

knowledge.  

8.   The portfolio manager shall where necessary and in the interest of the 

client take adequate steps for registration of the transfer of the clients' 

securities and for claiming and receiving dividends, interest payments 

and  other  rights  accruing  to  the  client.  He  shall  also  take  necessary 

action  for  conversion  of  securities  and  subscription/renunciation  of/or 

rights in accordance with the clients' instruction.  

Page 47 of 61 

9.   A portfolio manager shall endeavor to -  

(a) ensure  that  the  investors  are  provided  with  true  and  adequate 

information  without  making  any  misguiding  or  exaggerated  claims 

and  are  made  aware  of  attendant  risks  before  any  investment 

decision is taken by them;  

(b) render  the  best  possible  advice  to  the  client  having  regard  to  the 

client's needs and the environment, and his own professional skills;  

(c)  ensure  that  all  professional  dealings  are  effected  in  a  prompt, 

efficient and cost effective manner. 

10. (1) A portfolio manager shall not be a party to -  

(a) creation of false market in securities;  

(b) price rigging or manipulation of securities;  

(c)  passing  of  price  sensitive  information  to  brokers,  members  of 

the stock exchanges and any other intermediaries in the capital 

market  or  take  any  other  action  which  is  prejudicial  to  the 

interest of the investors. 

(2) No portfolio manager or any of its directors, partners or manager shall 

either on their respective accounts or through their associates or family 

members,  relatives  enter 

into  any 

transaction 

in  securities  of 

companies  on  the  basis  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information 

obtained by them during the course of any professional assignment.  

1[11.(a)  A  portfolio  manager  or  any  his  employees  shall  not  render, 

directly  or  indirectly  any  investment  advice  about  any  security  in 

the publicly accessible media, whether real-time or non-real-time, 

unless  a  disclosure  of  his  long  or  short  position  in  the  said 

security has been made, while rendering such advice.  

                                                 
1   Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advice by Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2001, w.e.f. 29-5-

2001. 

Page 48 of 61 

(b) In  case  an  employee  of  the  portfolio  manager  is  rendering  such 

advice, he shall also disclose the interest of his dependent family 

members and the employer including their long or short position in 

the said security, while rendering such advice.] 

1[12. (a) The  portfolio  manager  shall  abide  by  the  Act,  and  the  Rules, 

Regulations  made  thereunder  and  the  Guidelines  /  Schemes 

issued by the Board.  

(b) The  portfolio  manager  shall  comply  with  the  model  code  of 

conduct  specified  in  the  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading) 

Regulations, 1992. 

(c)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  not  use  his  status  as  any  other 

registered 

intermediary 

to  unduly 

influence 

the 

investment 

decision  of  the  clients  while  rendering  portfolio  management 

services.] 

 

 2[SCHEDULE IV 

CONTENTS OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PORTFOLIO MANAGER 

AND HIS CLIENTS 

[Regulation 14] 

The following shall be mentioned in the agreement - 

 1.    Appointment of portfolio manager.  

 2.    Scope of services to be provided by the portfolio manager subject to 

the activities permitted under SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 

                                                 
1  Inserted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 11-10-2002. 
2   ibid. 

Page 49 of 61 

1993,  viz,  advisory,  investment  management,  custody  of  securities, 

keeping  track  of  corporate  benefits  associated  with  the  securities. 

The  Portfolio  Manager  shall  act  in  a  fiduciary  capacity  and  as  a 

trustee and agent of the clients' account. 

 3.    Functions,  obligations,  duties  and  responsibilities  (as  discretionary 

and non discretionary to be given separately) with specific provisions 

regarding  instructions  for  non  discretionary  portfolio  manager,  inter 

alia - 

(i) 

terms  in  compliance  with  the  Act,  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers) 

Regulations,1993, rules, regulations, guidelines made under the 

Act and any other laws/rules/regulations / guidelines etc.; 

(ii)    providing reports to clients;  

(iii)   maintenance  of  client  wise  transaction  and  related  books  of 

accounts;  

(iv)   provisions  regarding  audit  of  accounts  as  required  under  the 

SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 1993;  

(v)   settlement  of  accounts  and  procedure  therefore  including  the 

provisions  for  payment  on  maturity  or  early  termination  of  the 

contract. 

4.     Investment objectives and guidelines - 

(i)   Types  of  securities  in  which  investment  would  be  made 

specifying restrictions, if any. 

(ii)  Particulars 

regarding  amount,  period  of  management, 

repayment or withdrawal. 

(iii)  Taxation aspects such as Tax Deducted at Source etc., if any. 

(iv)  Condition that the portfolio manager shall not lend the securities 

of the client unless authorized by him in writing. 

5.     Risk factors  

Page 50 of 61 

(i)   A  detailed  statement  of  risks  associated  with  each  type  of 

investment  including  the  standard  risks  associated  with  each 

type of investment.  

(ii)   1[* * *] 

6.     Period  of  agreement-  minimum  period  if  any,  and  provision  for 

renewal, if any. 

7.     Conditions,  under  which  agreement  may  be  altered,  terminated  and 

implications  thereof,  such  as  settlement  of  amounts  invested, 

repayment obligations etc. 

(i)  Voluntary/mandatory termination by the portfolio manager;             

(ii)  Voluntary/mandatory termination by the client; 

(iii) Suspension by the Board or other regulatory authority.  

8.     Maintenance of Accounts- Maintenance of accounts separately in the 

name  of  the  client  as  are  necessary  to  account  for  the  assets  and 

any  additions,  income,  receipts  and  disbursements  in  connection 

therewith, as provided under SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 

1993. 

9.      Change  in  the  quantum  of  funds  to  be  managed-  The  conditions 

under  which  the  client  may  withdraw  cash  or  securities  from  the 

portfolio account or bring in additional cash to be managed as per the 

terms  and  conditions  that  apply.  The  portfolio  manager  shall  not 

change  any  terms  of  the  agreement  without  prior  consent  of  the 

client.  

                                                 
1  Omitted  by  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2008,  w.e.f.  11-08-2008.  Prior  to 

omission, clause 7.3  read as under: 

“Risk  factor  specified  to  the  scheme  as  well  as  those  attendant  to  specific  investment  policies  and 

objective of the scheme”. 

Page 51 of 61 

10.   Access  to  information-  (Subject  to  the  provisions  of  SEBI  (Portfolio 

Managers)Regulations,1993)  -  Provisions  enabling  client  to  get  the 

books  of  accounts  of 

the  portfolio  manager  relating 

to  his 

transactions audited by a chartered accountant appointed by him and 

permitting the client an access to relevant and material documents of 

portfolio  manager,  provisions  listing  the  documents  for  inspection 

along  with  timings  for  such  inspection,  furnishing  of  reports  to  the 

client subject to furnishing at least once in six months and the reports 

to  be  made  available  on  the  web  site  of  the  portfolio  manager  with 

restricted  access  to  each  client  and  other  rights  of  clients  etc.  The 

provision  that  the  statements  /  documents  /  report  furnished  by  the 

portfolio  manager  to  the  client  present  a  true  and  fair  picture  of  the 

actual transactions. 

11.   Terms  of  Fees-  The  quantum  and  manner  of  payment  of  fees  and 

charges  for  each  activity  for  which  services  are  rendered  by  the 

portfolio  manager  directly  or  indirectly  (where  such  service  is 

outsourced)  such  as  investment  management,  advisory,  transfer, 

registration  and 

transaction  costs  with  specific  references 

to 

brokerage  costs,  custody  charges,  cost  related  to  furnishing  regular 

communication,  account  statement,  miscellaneous  expenses 

(individual expenses in excess of 5% to be indicated separately) etc. 

The  provision  that  the  portfolio  manager  shall  take  prior  permission 

from the client in this respect. 

12.   Billing- Periodicity of billing, whether payment to be made in advance, 

manner  of  payment  of  fees,  whether  setting  off  against  the  account 

etc., type of documents evidencing receipt of payment of fees.  

13.   Liability  of  portfolio  manager-  Liability  of  portfolio  manager  in 

connection with recommendations made, to cover errors of judgment, 

Page 52 of 61 

negligence,  willful  misfeasance  in  connection  with  discharge  of 

duties, acts of other intermediaries, brokers, custodians etc. 

14.   Liability  of  client-  restricting  the  liability  of  the  client  to  the  extent  of 

his investment.  

15.   Death  or  Disability-  providing  for  continuation/termination  of  the 

agreement 

in  event  of  client's  death/disability,  succession, 

nomination, representation etc. to be incorporated. 

16.   Assignment- Conditions for assignment of the agreement by client.  

17.   Governing  Law-  The  law/jurisdiction  of  country/state  which  governs 

the agreement to be stated. 

18.   Settlement  of  grievances/disputes  and  provision  for  arbitration- 

(Provisions  to  cover  protection  of  act  done  in  good  faith,  Risks  and 

losses,  redressal  of  grievances,  dispute  resolution  mechanism, 

reference  for  arbitration  and  the  situations  under  which  such  rights 

may arise, may be made).  

 

SCHEDULE V 

DISCLOSURE DOCUMENT 

[Regulation 14] 

General instructions  

1.   This Disclosure Document is to be given to the prospective client along 

with  the  account  opening  form  (as  per  Format  I)  at  least  two  days  in 

advance of signing of the agreement.  

Page 53 of 61 

2.   This  Disclosure  Document  is  to  be  filed  with  the  Board  before  it  is 

circulated  or  issued  to  any  person  and  every  six  month  thereafter  or 

whenever any material changes are effected therein.  

3.   This model Disclosure Document enumerates the minimum disclosure 

requirements to be contained in the disclosure document. The portfolio 

manager  may  make  any  other  disclosures,  which  in  its  opinion  are 

material for the investor, provided that such information is a statement 

of fact and is not presented in an incomplete, inaccurate or misleading 

manner.  It  should  also  be  ensured  that  inclusion  of  such  information 

does  not,  by  virtue  of  its  nature  or  manner  of  presentation,  hamper 

understanding of any information that is required to be included under 

the model disclosure document 

The  model  Disclosure  Document  specifies  only  the  nature  of  the 

disclosures  that  should  be  contained  under  various  heads  in  the 

disclosure  document,  and  is  not  intended  to  describe  the  layout  or 

language to be contained therein. 

 

 

MODEL DISCLOSURE DOCUMENT FOR PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT 

The minimum disclosures to be given in the Disclosure Document shall be 

as under and due care shall be taken to present the information in simple 

language and in a clear, concise and easily understandable manner –  

 

I. Front page 

Page 54 of 61 

(i)  The  Document  has  been  filed  with  the  Board  along  with  the 

certificate in the prescribed format in terms of Regulation 14 of the 

SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 1993. 

(ii)  The  purpose  of  the  Document  is  to  provide  essential  information 

about  the  portfolio  services  in  a  manner  to  assist  and  enable  the 

investors  in  making  informed  decision  for  engaging  a  portfolio 

manager.  

(iii)  The necessary information about the portfolio manager required by 

an investor before investing, and the investor may also be advised 

to retain the document for future reference.  

(iv)   1[* * *] 

(v)   The name, phone number, e-mail address of the principal officer so 

designated by the portfolio manager is………… (Give details). 

II.  Index page giving item number, contents and page number  

III. Contents of the Document 

1)  Disclaimer clause  

A  statement  to  the  effect  that  the  particulars  have  been  prepared  in 

accordance  with  the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  Regulations,1993 and 

filed  with  SEBI.  This  Document  has  neither  been  approved  or 

disapproved by SEBI nor has SEBI certified the accuracy or adequacy 

of the contents of the Document. 

2)  Definitions 

All  terms  used  in  the Disclosure  Document be  defined.  The  language 

and terminology used in the Disclosure Document shall be as provided 

                                                 
1   Omitted  by  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2008,  w.e.f.  11-08-2008.  Prior  to 

omission, sub-item (iv) read as under:     

“All  the  intermediaries  involved  in  the  scheme  are  registered  with  SEBI  as  on  the  date  of  the 

document”. 

Page 55 of 61 

in  the  Regulations.  Any  new  term  if  used  shall  be  clearly  defined.  All 

terms  shall  be  used  uniformly  throughout  the  text  of  the  Disclosure 

Document.  

3)  Description  

(i)  History, Present Business and Background of the portfolio manager  

(ii)  Promoters of the portfolio manager, directors and their background 

(iii)Top 10 Group companies/firms of the portfolio manager on turnover 

basis  (latest  audited  financial  statements  may  be  used  for  this 

purpose) 

(iv)Details of the services being offered: Discretionary/ Non 

discretionary / Advisory.  

 

4)  Penalties,  pending 

litigation  or  proceedings, 

findings  of 

inspection  or  investigations  for  which  action  may  have  been 

taken or initiated by any regulatory authority.  

(i)  All cases of penalties imposed by the Board or the directions issued 

by  the  Board  under  the  Act  or  Rules  or  Regulations  made 

thereunder.  

(ii)  The nature of the penalty/direction.  

(iii)  Penalties imposed for any economic offence and/ or for violation of 

any securities laws.  

(iv)  Any  pending  material 

litigation/legal  proceedings  against 

the 

portfolio manager/key personnel with separate disclosure regarding 

pending criminal cases, if any.  

(v)  Any  deficiency  in  the  systems  and  operations  of  the  portfolio 

manager observed by the Board or any regulatory agency.  

(vi)  Any  enquiry/  adjudication  proceedings  initiated  by  the  Board 

against  the  portfolio  manager  or  its  directors,  principal  officer  or 

employee  or  any  person  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with  the 

Page 56 of 61 

portfolio  manager  or  its  directors,  principal  officer  or  employee, 

under the Act or Rules or Regulations made thereunder..  

5)  Services Offered  

(i)  The  present  investment  objectives  and  policies  including  the  types 

of  securities  in  which  it  generally  invests  shall  be  clearly  and 

concisely  stated  in  the  document  for  easy  understanding  of  the 

potential investor.  

(ii)  The  policies for  investments  in  associates/group  companies of  the 

portfolio  manager  and 

the  maximum  percentage  of  such 

investments  therein  subject  to  the  applicable  laws/regulations/ 

guidelines. 

6)  Risk factors 

1[(i)  Statement  to  the  effect  that  securities  investments  are  subject  to 

market  risks  and  there  is  no  assurance  or  guarantee  that  the 

objective of the investments will be achieved.] 

2[(ii)  Statement  to  the  effect  that  past  performance  of  the  portfolio 

manager does not indicate its future performance.]  

(iii)   Risk arising from the investment objective, investment strategy and 

asset allocation. 

(iv)   Risk arising out of non diversification, if any.  
3[(v) If the portfolio manager has no previous experience/ track record a 

disclosure to that effect shall be made.] 

                                                 
1   Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 11-08-2008. Prior to 

substitution, clause (i) read as under: 

“Statement to the effect that securities investments are subject to market risk and there is no assurance 

or guarantee that the objectives of the scheme will be achieved.” 

2   Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 11-08-2008. Prior to 

substitution, clause (ii) read as under: 

“Statement  to  the  effect  that  past  performance  of  the  portfolio  manager  does  not  indicate  the  future 

performance of the same scheme in future or any other future schemes of the portfolio manager.” 

3 Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers ) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 11.08.2008 for the 

following: 

Page 57 of 61 

 

7)  Client Representation  

(i) 

Category of clients 

  

No. of 

clients 

Funds 

Discretionary/ 

managed (Rs. 

Non 

Cr.) 

Discretionary (if 

available) 

Associates /group 

companies  

Last 3 years  

Others (last 3 years ) 

Total  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

(ii)  Complete  disclosure  in  respect  of  transactions  with  related  parties  as 

per  the  standards  specified  by  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants 

of India.  

8)  The Financial Performance of the portfolio manager (based on audited 

financial statements)  

9)  Portfolio Management performance of the portfolio manager for the last 

three  years,  and  in  case  of  discretionary  portfolio  manager  disclosure 

of  performance  indicators  calculated  using  weighted  average  method 

in 

terms  of  Regulation  14  of 

the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers) 

Regulations, 1993. 

                                                                                                                                     
“If the portfolio manager has no previous experience/ track record, a disclosure to the effect that this 

is the first scheme being launched by the portfolio manager.” 

Page 58 of 61 

10) Nature of expenses 

(i)  Investment management and advisory fees  

(ii)  Custodian fee 

(iii) Registrar and transfer agent fee 

(iv) Brokerage and transaction cost 

A  brief  explanation  shall  be  given  to  assist  the  investor  in  understanding 

the various costs and expenses that an investor may have to bear directly 

or  indirectly.  Additionally,  appropriate  cross-references  may  be  given  to 

the relevant sections of the offer document for more complete description 

in this regard. 

11) Taxation 

Disclose  the  implications  of  investments  in  securities  and  the  tax 

provisions  on  Income/  Loss  or  Tax  Deduction  at  Source  on  various 

investors.  

12) Accounting policies  

Disclose  the  accounting  policy  followed  by  the  portfolio  manager  while 

accounting for the portfolio investments of the clients. 

13) Investors services 

(i) Name, address and telephone number of the investor relation officer 

who shall attend to the investor queries and complaints. 

(ii) Grievance redressal and dispute settlement mechanism. 

 

Page 59 of 61 

Date:                                                        1[Name and signature of at least 

two Directors of Portfolio 

Manger ]   

   Place:        

 

FORMAT I (Account Opening Form)  

Information about the Client 

1)   General information about the client  

(a) Name,  primary  mailing  address,  secondary  (back  up)  mailing 

address,  identity  information  such  as  photograph,  Permanent 

Account Number (PAN), driving license etc.  

(b) Occupation _________ 

(c) Introduced by_______________ (name and full address) 

(d) Annual incomes for the last 3 financial years and the networth as 

on the last date of the respective years. (optional) 

2)   Investment profile of the client  

(a) Investment experience regarding securities.  

(b) Indicative percentage of total investment portfolio proposed to be 

invested with the portfolio manager (optional). 

(c) Overall  investment  goals  such  as  capital  appreciation,  capital 

appreciation & regular income or regular income. 

(d) Risk tolerance i.e. low, medium or high.  

                                                 
1 Substituted by the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 10-2-2012. Prior to 
substitution, it read as under: 
                              “Name and Signature of all the  Directors of the Portfolio Manager.”  
 
 
 

Page 60 of 61 

(e) Time period for which investments are proposed to be made with 

the portfolio manager.  

(f)  Provisions  for  systematic  withdrawal  on  a  monthly,  quarterly, 

annual basis etc.  

3)   Detailed investment objectives of the client  

(a)    Equity: Nature of equities in which investments are desired, may 

be indicated. 

(b)    Balanced: Percentage of debt/equity. 

(c)    Debt: Government Bonds, corporate debt etc. 

(d)    Mutual funds, venture funds etc. 

(e)   Others. 

Date:  

Place: 

                                                                                  Signature of the client] 

 

 

Page 61 of 61 

