 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  section  30  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board hereby makes the following regulations, namely:- 
 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

 
Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
 
Definitions. 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: 

(a)  “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(b)  “advertisement”  includes  notices,  brochures,  pamphlets,  show  cards,  catalogues, 
hoardings,  placards,  posters,  insertions  in  newspaper,  cover  pages  of  offer  documents, 
pictures and films in any print media or electronic media, radio, television programme;  
(c)  “anchor investor" means a qualified institutional buyer  1[who makes] an application for a 
value of ten crore rupees or more in a public issue made through the book building process 
in accordance with these regulations;  

(d)  “Application  Supported  by  Blocked  Amount  (ASBA)”  means  an  application  for 
subscribing to a public issue or rights issue, along with an authorisation to Self Certified 
Syndicate Bank to block the application money in a bank account; 

(e)  “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 

of the Act; 

(f)  “book building” means a process undertaken to elicit demand and to assess the price for 
determination  of  the  quantum  or  value  of  specified  securities  or  Indian  Depository 
Receipts, as the case may be, in accordance with these regulations; 

(g)  “book runner” means a merchant banker appointed by the issuer to undertake the book 

building process; 

(h)  “composite  issue”  means  an  issue  of  specified  securities  by  a  listed  issuer  on  public-
cum-rights basis, wherein the allotment in both public issue and rights issue is proposed 
to be made simultaneously; 

(i)  “control”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  under  clause  (c)  of  sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisitions of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997; 

(j)  “convertible  debt  instrument”  means  an  instrument  which  creates  or  acknowledges 
indebtedness  and  is  convertible  into  equity  shares  of  the  issuer  at  a  later  date  at  or 
without the option of the holder of the instrument, whether constituting a charge on the 
assets of the issuer or not; 

(k)  2[“convertible security” means a security which is convertible into or exchangeable with 
equity shares of the issuer at a later date, with or without the option of the holder of the 
security and includes convertible debt instrument and convertible preference shares;]  

                                                           
1  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
13.04.2010. 
2  Substituted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009,  w.e.f. 
11.12.2009. Prior to its substitution, clause (k) read as under : 

Page 1 of 255 

 

(l)  “designated stock exchange” means a recognised stock exchange in which securities of 
an  issuer  are  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed  and  which  is  chosen  by  the  issuer  as  a 
designated  stock  exchange  for  the  purpose  of  a  particular  issue  of  specified  securities 
under these regulations:  
 Provided  that  where  one  or  more  of  such  stock  exchanges  have  nationwide  trading 
terminals, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange: 
 Provided  further  that  subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  clause,  the  issuer  may  choose  a 
different recognised stock exchange as a designated stock exchange for any subsequent 
issue of specified securities under these regulations; 

(m)  3[(m)  “employee”  means  a  permanent  and  full-time  employee,  working  in  India  or 
abroad,  of  the  issuer  or  of  the  holding  company  or  subsidiary  company  or  of  that 
material associate(s) of the issuer whose financial statements are consolidated with the 
issuer’s financial statements as per Accounting Standard 21, or a director of the issuer, 
whether  whole  time  or  part  time  and  does  not  include  promoters  and  an  immediate 
relative of the promoter (i.e., any spouse of that person, or any parent, brother, sister or 
child of that person or of the spouse);] 
 “further  public  offer”  means  an  offer  of  specified  securities  by  a  listed  issuer  to  the 
public for subscription and includes an offer for sale of specified securities to the public 
by any existing holders of such securities in a listed issuer;  

(n) 

4[(na)  “General  Corporate  Purposes”  include  such  identified  purposes  for  which  no  specific 
amount is  allocated or any amount so specified towards General  Corporate Purpose or 
any  such  purpose  by  whatever  name  called,  in  the  draft  offer  document  filed  with  the 
Board:  
 
Provided that any issue related expenses shall not be considered as a part of General 
Corporate  Purpose  merely  because  no  specific  amount  has  been  allocated  for  such 
expenses in the draft offer document filed with the Board.] 

(o)  “green  shoe  option”  means  an  option  of  allotting  equity  shares  in  excess  of  the  equity 

shares offered in the public issue as a post-listing price stabilizing mechanism; 

(p)  “initial  public offer” means an offer of specified securities by  an unlisted issuer to  the 
public for subscription and includes an offer for sale of specified securities to the public 
by any existing holders of such securities in an unlisted issuer; 

(q)  “issue size” includes offer through offer document and promoters’ contribution; 
(r)  “issuer” means any person making an offer of specified securities;  
(s)  “key management personnel” means the officers vested with executive powers and the 
officers at the level immediately below the board of directors of the issuer and includes 
any other person whom the issuer may declare as a key management personnel; 

(t)  “listed  issuer”  means  an  issuer  whose  equity  shares  are  listed  in  a  recognised  stock 

exchange; 

(u)  “net  offer  to  public”  means  an  offer  of  specified  securities  to  the  public  but  does  not 

include reservations; 

(v)  “net  worth”  means  the  aggregate  of  the  paid  up  share  capital,  share  premium  account, 
and reserves and surplus (excluding revaluation reserve) as reduced by the aggregate of  
miscellaneous  expenditure  (to  the  extent  not  adjusted  or  written  off)  and  the  debit 
balance of the profit and loss account; 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
‘(k) “convertible security” means a security which is convertible into or exchangeable with equity shares of the issuer at 
a later date with or without the option of the holder of the security and includes convertible debt instrument;’  
3  Substituted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
13.04.2010. Prior to its substitution, clause (m)  read as under:  
“(m) “employee” means a permanent and full-time employee of the issuer, working in India or abroad or a director of 
the issuer, whether whole time or part time and does not include promoters and an immediate relative of the promoter 
(i.e., any spouse of that person, or any parent, brother, sister or child of the person or of the spouse);” 
4  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 

Page 2 of 255 

 

(w)  “non institutional investor” means an investor other than a retail individual investor and 

qualified institutional buyer; 

(x)  “offer  document”  means  a  red  herring  prospectus,  prospectus  or  shelf  prospectus  and 
information memorandum in terms of section 60A of the Companies Act, 1956 in case 
of a public issue and letter of offer in case of a rights issue;         

(y)  "offer through offer document” means net offer to public and reservations; 
(z)  “preferential issue” means an issue of specified securities by a listed issuer to any select 
person or group of persons on a private placement basis and does not include an offer of 
specified  securities  made  through  a  public  issue,  rights  issue,  bonus  issue,  employee 
stock  option  scheme,  employee  stock  purchase  scheme  or  qualified  institutions 
placement or an issue of sweat equity shares or depository receipts issued in a country 
outside India or foreign securities; 

(za)  “promoter” includes:  

(i)  the person or persons who are in control of the issuer; 
(ii) the  person  or  persons  who  are  instrumental  in  the  formulation  of  a  plan  or 
programme pursuant to which specified securities are offered to public; 
(iii)the person or persons named in the offer document as promoters: 

Provided that a director or officer of the issuer or a person, if acting as such merely in 
his professional capacity, shall not be deemed as a promoter: 
Provided  further  that  a  financial  institution,  scheduled  bank,  5[foreign  portfolio 
investor other than Category III foreign portfolio investor] and mutual fund shall not be 
deemed to  be a promoter merely by virtue of the fact  that ten per cent.  or more of the 
equity share capital of the issuer is held by such person; 
Provided further that such financial institution, scheduled bank and  6[foreign portfolio 
investor other than Category III foreign portfolio investor] shall be treated as promoter 
for the subsidiaries or companies promoted by them or for the mutual fund sponsored by 
them; 

(zb)  “promoter group” includes: 

the promoter; 

(i) 
(ii)  an  immediate  relative  of  the  promoter  (i.e.,  any  spouse  of  that  person,  or  any 

parent, brother, sister or child of the person or of the spouse); and 

(iii)  in case promoter is a body corporate: 

(A)  a subsidiary or holding company of such body corporate; 
(B)  any body  corporate in  which the promoter holds ten per cent.  or more of  the 
equity  share  capital  or  which  holds  ten  per  cent.  or  more  of  the  equity  share 
capital of the promoter; 

(C)  any  body  corporate  in  which  a  group  of  individuals  or  companies  or 
combinations thereof which hold twenty per cent. or more of the equity share 
capital in that body corporate also holds twenty per cent. or more of the equity 
share capital of the issuer; and 

(iv)  in case the promoter is an individual: 

(A)  any body corporate in which ten per cent. or more of the equity share capital is 
held  by  the  promoter  or  an  immediate  relative  of  the  promoter  or  a  firm  or 
Hindu  Undivided  Family  in  which  the  promoter  or  any  one  or  more  of  his 
immediate relative is a member; 

(B)  any body corporate in which a body corporate as provided in (A) above holds 

ten per cent. or more, of the equity share capital; 

                                                           
5  Substituted  for  "foreign  institutional  investor"  by  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f. 
07.01.2014.  
6  Substituted  for  "foreign  institutional  investor"  by  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f. 
07.01.2014.  

Page 3 of 255 

 

(C)  any Hindu Undivided  Family or firm  in  which the aggregate shareholding of 
the promoter and his immediate relatives is equal to or more than ten per cent. 
of the total; and 

(v)  all persons  whose shareholding is  aggregated  for the purpose of disclosing in the 

prospectus under the heading "shareholding of the promoter group": 

Provided that a financial institution, scheduled bank,  7[foreign portfolio investor other 
than Category III foreign portfolio investor] and mutual fund shall not be deemed to be 
promoter group merely by virtue of the fact that ten per cent. or more of the equity share 
capital of the issuer is held by such person: 
Provided further that such financial institution, scheduled bank and  8[foreign portfolio 
investor other than Category III foreign portfolio investor] shall be treated as promoter 
group  for  the  subsidiaries  or  companies  promoted  by  them  or  for  the  mutual  fund 
sponsored by them; 

(zc)  “public issue” means an initial public offer or further public offer; 
(zd)  “qualified institutional buyer” means: 

(i)  a  mutual  fund,  venture  capital  fund[,  Alternative  Investment  Fund]9  and  foreign 

venture capital investor  registered with the Board;  

(ii)  a  10[foreign  portfolio  investor  other  than  Category  III  foreign  portfolio  investor], 

registered with the Board;  

(iii)  a public financial institution as defined in section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956; 
(iv)  a scheduled commercial bank;  
(v)  a multilateral and bilateral development financial institution;  
(vi)  a state industrial development corporation; 
(vii)  an insurance company registered with the Insurance Regulatory and Development 

Authority; 

(viii) a provident fund with minimum corpus of twenty five crore rupees; 
(ix)  a pension fund with minimum corpus of twenty five crore rupees; 
(x)  National  Investment  Fund  set  up  by  resolution  no.  F.  No.  2/3/2005-DDII  dated 

November 23, 2005 of the Government of India published in the Gazette of India; 

11[(xi)    insurance  funds  set  up  and  managed  by  army,  navy  or  air  force  of  the  Union  of 

India;] 

12[(xii) insurance funds set up and managed by the Department of Posts, India;] 
  13[(xiii) systemically important non-banking financial companies.] 

(ze)  “retail  individual  investor”  means  an  investor  who  applies  or  bids  for  specified 

securities for a value of not more than 14[two lakhs] rupees; 

(zf)  “retail individual shareholder” means a shareholder of a listed issuer, who:  

(i) 

15[***] 

                                                           
7Substituted  for  "foreign  institutional  investor"  by  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 07.01.2014. 
8Substituted  for  "foreign  institutional  investor"  by  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 07.01.2014.  
9 Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations 2012, w.e.f. 21.5.2012. 
10 Substituted for "foreign institutional investor and sub-account (other than a sub-account which is a foreign corporate 
or foreign individual)" by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 07.01.2014.  
11  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009,  w.e.f. 
11.12.2009.  
12  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
12.11.2010. 
13 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 
31.5.2017. 
14  Substituted  for  “one  lakh”,  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 12.11.2010.   

Page 4 of 255 

 

(ii)  applies  or  bids  for  specified  securities  for  a  value  of  not  more  than  16[two  lakhs] 

rupees; 

(zg)  “rights issue” means an offer of specified securities by a listed issuer to the shareholders 

of the issuer as on the record date fixed for the said purpose; 

(zh)  “Schedule” means schedule annexed to these regulations; 
(zi)  “Self Certified Syndicate Bank” means a banker to an issue registered with the Board, 

which offers the facility of Application Supported by Blocked Amount; 

(zj)  “specified securities" means equity shares and convertible securities; 
(zk)  “stabilising agent” means a merchant banker who is responsible for stabilising the price 

of equity shares under a green shoe option, in terms of these regulations;  

(zl)  “syndicate  member”  means  an  intermediary  registered  with  the  Board  and  who  is 

permitted to carry on the activity as an underwriter;  

17[(zla)  “systemically  important  non-banking  financial  company”  means  a  non-banking 
financial company registered with the Reserve Bank of India and having a net-worth of more 
than five hundred crore rupees as per the last audited financial statements.] 
(zm) “unlisted issuer” means an issuer which is not a listed issuer 18[;] 
(zn)  19[“wilful  defaulter”  means  an  issuer  who  is  categorized  as  a  wilful  defaulter  by  any 
bank or financial institution or consortium thereof, in accordance with the guidelines on 
wilful  defaulters  issued  by  the  Reserve  Bank    of  India  and  includes  an  issuer  whose 
director or promoter is categorized as such.] 

(2) All  other  words  and  expressions  used  but  not  defined  in  these  regulations,  but  defined  in  the 
Act or the Companies Act, 1956, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories 
Act,  1996  and/or  the  rules  and  regulations  made  thereunder  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as 
respectively assigned to them in such Acts or rules or regulations or any statutory modification or 
re-enactment thereto, as the case may be. 
 
Applicability of the regulations. 
3. Unless otherwise provided, these regulations shall apply to the following: 

(a)  a public issue; 
(b)  a  rights  issue,  where  the  aggregate  value  of  specified  securities  offered  is  fifty  lakh 

rupees or more; 

(c)  a preferential issue; 
(d)  an issue of bonus shares by a listed issuer; 
(e)  a qualified institutions placement by a listed issuer; 
(f)  an issue of Indian Depository Receipts 20[:]  

 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
15 Omitted, by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
12.11.2010.  Prior  to  its  omission,  sub-clause  (i)  as  amended  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010, read as under : 
“(i) as on the date fixed for the purpose of determining shareholders eligible for reservation in terms of regulation 42 of 
these regulations, is holding equity shares which, on the basis of the closing price of the equity shares on the recognized 
stock  exchange  in  which  highest  trading  volume  in  respect  of  the  equity  shares  of  the  issuer  was  recorded  as  on  the 
previous day, are worth up to one lakh rupees; and” 
16  Substituted  for  “one  lakh”,  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010. 
17 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 
31.5.2017.  
18  Substituted  for  "."  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f. 25.04.2016. 
19 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
25.04.2016. 
20 Substituted for the full stop by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 
23.09.2011. 

Page 5 of 255 

 

21[Provided  that  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  shall  not  apply  to  issue  of  securities  under   
clause  (b),  (d)  and  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  9  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.] 

 

CHAPTER II 

COMMON CONDITIONS FOR PUBLIC ISSUES AND RIGHTS ISSUES 

 
General conditions. 
4. (1) Any issuer offering specified securities through a public issue or rights issue shall satisfy the 
conditions of this Chapter at the time of filing draft offer document with the Board (unless stated 
otherwise in this Chapter) and at the time of registering or filing the final offer document with the 
Registrar of Companies or designated stock exchange, as the case may be. 
(2) No issuer shall make a public issue or rights issue of specified securities: 

(a) 

(b) 

if the issuer, any of its promoters, promoter group or directors or persons in control of the 
issuer are debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board; 
if  any  of  the  promoters,  directors  or  persons  in  control  of  the  issuer  was  or  also  is  a 
promoter,  director  or  person  in  control  of  any  other  company  which  is  debarred  from 
accessing the capital market under any order or directions made by the Board; 
22[***] 

(c) 
(d)  unless it has made an application to one or more recognised stock exchanges for listing of 
specified securities on such stock exchanges and has chosen one of them as the designated 
stock exchange: 
 Provided  that  in  case  of  an  initial  public  offer,  the  issuer  shall  make  an  application  for 
listing  of  the  specified  securities  in  at  least  one  recognised  stock  exchange  having 
nationwide trading terminals;   

(e)  unless it has entered into an agreement with a depository for dematerialisation of specified 

securities already issued or proposed to be issued;  

(f)  unless all existing partly paid-up equity shares of the issuer have either been fully paid up 

or forfeited; 

(g)  unless  firm  arrangements  of  finance  through  verifiable  means  towards  seventy  five  per 
cent.  of  the  stated  means  of  finance,  excluding  the  amount  to  be  raised  through  the 
proposed  public  issue  or  rights  issue  or  through  existing  identifiable  internal  accruals, 
have been made.     

23[(3) Warrants may be issued along with public issue or rights issue of specified securities subject 
to the following: 

(a)  the  tenure  of  such  warrants  shall  not  exceed  24[eighteen]  months  from  their  date  of 

allotment in the public/rights issue; 

(b) not more than one warrant shall be attached to one specified security 25[;] ] 
(c)  26[the price or conversion formula of the warrants shall be determined upfront and at least 

25% of the consideration amount shall also be received upfront; 

                                                           
21 Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011. 
22 Clause (c) omitted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 25.05.2016. Prior to its omission, clause (c) read as under: 
“(c)  if  the  issuer  of  convertible  debt  instruments  is  in  the  list  of  wilful  defaulters  published  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of 
India or it is in default of payment of interest or repayment of principal amount in respect of debt instruments issued by 
it to the public, if any, for a period of more than six months;” 
23  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
30.01.2012. 
24  Substituted  for  "twelve"  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2015, w.e.f. 24.03.2015.  
25  Substituted  for  "."  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 24-3-2015.  

Page 6 of 255 

 

(d) in case the warrant holder does not exercise the option to take equity shares against any of 
the  warrants  held  by  him,  the  consideration  paid  in  respect  of  such  warrant  shall  be 
forfeited by the issuer.] 

27[(4) The amount for general corporate purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft 
offer  document  filed  with  the  Board,  shall  not  exceed  twenty  five  per  cent  of  the  amount 
raised by the issuer by issuance of specified securities.] 

28[(5) No issuer shall make, 

(a)    a  public  issue  of  equity  securities,  if  the  issuer  or  any  of  its  promoters  or  directors  is  a 

wilful defaulter; or 

(b)   a public issue of convertible debt instruments if,  

(i)  the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter, or 
(ii) it is in default of payment of interest or repayment of principal amount in respect of 
debt  instruments  issued  by  it  to  the  public,  if  any,  for  a  period  of  more  than  six 
months. 

(6) An issuer making a rights issue of specified securities, shall make disclosures as specified in 
Part G of Schedule VIII, in the offer document and abridged letter of offer, if the issuer or any of 
its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter. 
(7)  In  case  of  a  rights  issue  of  specified  securities  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (6)  above,  the 
promoters  or  promoter  group  of  the  issuer,  shall  not  renounce  their  rights  except  to  the 
extent of renunciation within the promoter group.] 

 

                                                      

Appointment of merchant banker and other intermediaries. 
5. (1) The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, at least one of whom shall be a lead 
merchant banker and shall also appoint other intermediaries, in consultation with the lead merchant 
banker, to carry out the obligations relating to the issue.  
(2) The  issuer  shall,  in  consultation  with  the  lead  merchant  banker,  appoint  only  those 
intermediaries which are registered with the Board. 
(3) Where  the  issue  is  managed  by  more  than  one  merchant  banker,  the  rights,  obligations  and 
responsibilities, relating inter alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations, if 
any,  of  each  merchant  banker  shall  be  predetermined  and  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  as 
specified in Schedule I29[:] 
30[Provided  that  where  any  of  the  merchant  bankers  is  an  associate  of  the  issuer,  it  shall  declare 
itself as a marketing lead manager and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.] 
(4) The  lead  merchant  banker  shall,  only  after  independently  assessing  the  capability  of  other 
intermediaries to carry out their obligations, advise the issuer on their appointment. 
(5) The issuer shall enter into an agreement with the lead merchant banker in the format specified 
in Schedule II and with other intermediaries as required under the respective regulations applicable 
to the intermediary concerned: 
 Provided that such agreements may include such other clauses as the issuer and the intermediary 
may  deem  fit  without  diminishing  or  limiting  in  any  way  the  liabilities  and  obligations  of  the 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
26 Clauses (c) and (d) inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2015, w.e.f. 24-3-2015. 
27  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 
28  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2016,  w.e.f. 
25.05.2016. 
29 Substituted for “.” by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2012, 
w.e.f. 12.10.2012. 
30  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 

Page 7 of 255 

 

merchant bankers, other intermediaries and the issuer under the Act, the Companies Act, 1956, the 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  and  the  rules  and 
regulations made thereunder or any statutory modification or statutory enactment thereof: 
 Provided  further  that  in  case  of  ASBA  process,  the  issuer  shall  take  cognisance  of  the  deemed 
agreement of the issuer with Self Certified Syndicate Banks. 
(6) An issuer shall, in case of an issue made through the book building process, appoint syndicate 
members and in  the case of  any other issue, appoint bankers to  issue,  at  all mandatory  collection 
centres as specified in Schedule III and such other collection centres as it may deem fit. 
(7) The issuer shall appoint a registrar which has connectivity with all the depositories: 
 Provided  that  if  issuer  itself  is  a  registrar  to  an  issue  registered  with  the  Board,  then  another 
registrar to an issue shall be appointed as registrar to the issue: 
 Provided further that the lead merchant banker shall not act as a registrar to the issue in which it is 
also handling the post issue responsibilities. 
Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  this  regulation,  in  case  of  a  book  built  issue,  the  lead  merchant 
banker appointed by the issuer shall act as the lead book runner. 
 
Filing of offer document. 
6. (1) No issuer shall make, 

(a)  a public issue; or  
(b)  a rights issue, where the aggregate value of the specified securities offered is fifty lakh 

rupees or more,  

unless  a  draft  offer  document,  along  with  fees  as  specified  in  Schedule  IV,  has  been  filed 
with the Board through the lead merchant banker, at least thirty days prior to registering the 
prospectus,  red  herring  prospectus  or  shelf  prospectus  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  or 
filing the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange, as the case may be.  

(2) The  Board  may  specify  changes  or  issue  observations,  if  any,  on  the  draft  offer  document 
within thirty days from the later of the following dates:  

(a) 
(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

the date of receipt of the draft offer document under sub-regulation (1); or 
the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead merchant bankers, where the Board 
has sought any clarification or additional information from them; or  
the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where the 
Board has sought any clarification or  information from such regulator or agency; or 
the date of receipt of a copy of in-principle approval letter issued by the recognised stock 
exchanges. 

(3) If the Board specifies changes or issues observations on the draft offer document, the issuer and 
lead merchant banker shall carry out such changes in the draft offer document and comply with the 
observations issued by the Board before registering the prospectus, red-herring prospectus or shelf 
prospectus, as the case may be, with the Registrar of Companies or filing the letter of offer with the 
designated stock exchange. 
(4) The  issuer  shall,  simultaneously  while  registering  the  prospectus,  red  herring  prospectus  or 
shelf  prospectus  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  or  filing  the  letter  of  offer  with  the  designated 
stock exchange or before the opening of the issue, file a copy thereof with the Board through the 
lead merchant banker. 
(5) The lead merchant banker shall, while filing the offer document with the Board in terms of sub-
regulation  (1)  and  sub-regulation  (4),  file  a  copy  of  such  document  with  the  recognised  stock 
exchanges where the specified securities are proposed to be listed. 
(6) The  offer  document  filed  with  the  Board  under  this  regulation  shall  also  be  furnished  to  the 
Board in a soft copy in the manner specified in Schedule V.  
 

Page 8 of 255 

 

31[Security Deposit.  
7. (1) The issuer shall deposit, before the opening of subscription list, and keep deposited with the 
stock  exchange(s),  an  amount  calculated  at  the  rate  of  one  per  cent.  of  the  amount  of  securities 
offered for subscription to the public.   
(2)The amount specified in sub-regulation (1) shall be deposited in the manner specified by Board 
and/or stock exchange(s).  
(3)The  amount  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  refundable  or  forfeitable  in  the  manner 
specified by the Board.] 
 
Documents to be submitted before opening of the issue. 
8. (1) The lead merchant bankers shall submit the following to the Board along with the draft offer 
document: 

32[  (a)    a certificate, confirming that an agreement has been entered into between the issuer and   

the lead merchant bankers as per the format specified in Schedule II;] 

(b)  33[***]    

         (c)    a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule VI;  

(d)   in case of an issue of convertible debt instruments, a due diligence certificate from the 

debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule VI; 

34[  (e)    a  certificate  confirming  compliance  of  the  conditions  specified  in  Part  C  of  Schedule 

VIII.]  

(2) The lead merchant bankers shall submit the following documents to the Board after issuance of 
observations by the Board or after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 
6 if the Board has not issued observations: 

(a)  a  statement  certifying  that  all  changes,  suggestions  and  observations  made  by  the  Board 

have been incorporated in the offer document;  

(b)  a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  Form  C  of  Schedule  VI,  at  the  time  of  registering  the 

prospectus with the Registrar of Companies;  

                                                           
31  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015,  w.e.f.  01.12.2015. 
Prior to its substitution, said Regulation read as under : 
"7.  In-principle  approval  from  recognised  stock  exchanges.  —  The  issuer  shall  obtain  in-principle  approval  from 
recognised stock exchanges as follows : 
(a)  in  case  of  an  initial  public  offer,  from  all  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  in  which  the  issuer  proposes  to  get  its 
specified securities listed; and 
(b) in case of a further public offer and rights issue : 

(i)  where  the  specified  securities  are  listed  only  on  recognised  stock  exchanges  having  nationwide  trading 
terminals, from all such stock exchanges; 
(ii)  where  the  specified  securities  are  not  listed  on  any  recognised  stock  exchange  having  nationwide  trading 
terminals, from all the stock exchanges in which the specified securities of the issuer are proposed to be listed; 
(iii) where the specified securities are listed on recognised stock exchanges having nationwide trading terminals as 
well  as  on  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  not  having  nationwide  trading  terminals,  from  all  recognised  stock 
exchanges having nationwide trading terminals." 

32  Substituted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
30.01.2012. Prior to its substitution, clause (a) read as under: 
“(a) a copy of the agreement entered into between the issuer and the lead merchant bankers;”  
33 Clause (b) omitted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 
30.01.2012. Prior to its omission, clause (b) read as under: 
“(b) a copy of inter-se allocation of responsibilities of each merchant banker, in case the issue is managed by more than 
one merchant banker;” 
34 Substituted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 
23.09.2011.  Prior  to  its  substitution,  clause  (e)  as  amended  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
(Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f.  13.04.2010  and  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
(Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 12.11.2010, read as under: 
 “(e)  a  certificate  in  the  format  specified  in  Part  C  of  Schedule  VII,  confirming  compliance  of  the  conditions 
mentioned therein.” 

Page 9 of 255 

 

(c)  a  copy  of  the  resolution  passed  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the  issuer  for  allotting 
specified securities to promoters towards amount received against promoters’ contribution, 
before opening of the issue; 

(d)  a  certificate  from  a  Chartered  Accountant,  before  opening  of  the  issue,  certifying  that 
promoters’  contribution  has  been  received  in  accordance  with  these  regulations, 
accompanying therewith the names and addresses of the promoters who have contributed 
to  the  promoters’  contribution  and  the  amount  paid  by  each  of  them  towards  such 
contribution;  

(e)  a due diligence certificate as per Form D of Schedule VI, immediately before the opening 

of the issue, certifying that necessary corrective action, if any, has been taken;  

(f)  a due diligence certificate as per Form E of Schedule VI, after the issue has opened but 

before it closes for subscription. 

(3) The issuer shall, at the time of filing draft offer document with the recognised stock exchange 
where  the  specified  securities  are  proposed  to  be  listed,  submit  the  Permanent  Account  Number, 
bank account number and passport number of its promoters to such stock exchange. 
 
Draft offer document to be made public. 
9. (1) The draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public, for comments, if any, for 
a period of at least twenty one days from the date of such filing, by hosting it on the websites of the 
Board,  recognised  stock  exchanges  where  specified  securities  are  proposed  to  be  listed  and 
merchant bankers associated with the issue. 
(2) The lead merchant bankers shall, after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1), file 
with the Board a statement giving information of the comments received by them or the issuer on 
the draft offer document during that period and the consequential changes, if any, to be made in the 
draft offer document. 
35[(3) The issuer either on the date of filing the draft offer document with the Board or on the next 
day  shall  make  a  public  announcement  in  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide 
circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one  regional  language 
newspaper  with  wide  circulation  at  the  place  where  the  registered  office  of  the  issuer  is  situated, 
disclosing  to  the  public  the  fact  of  filing  of  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board  and  inviting  the 
public  to  give  their  comments  to  the  Board  in  respect  of  disclosures  made  in  the  draft  offer 
document.] 
 
Fast Track Issue.  
10. (1) Nothing contained in sub-regulations (1), (2) and (3) of regulation 6 and regulations 7 and 8 
shall apply to a public issue or rights issue if the issuer satisfies the following conditions: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the equity shares of the issuer have been listed on any recognised stock exchange having 
nationwide trading terminals for a period of at least three years immediately  preceding 
the reference date; 
the  average  market  capitalisation  of  public  shareholding  of  the  issuer  is  at  least  36[one 
thousand crore rupees in case of public issue and two hundred and fifty crore rupees in 
case of rights issue]; 
the  annualised  trading  turnover  of  the  equity  shares  of  the  issuer  during  six  calendar 
months immediately preceding the month of the reference date has been at least two per 

                                                           
35 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
12.11.2010. 
36Substituted  for  "three  thousand  crore  rupees"  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third 
Amendment)  Regulations,  2015,  w.e.f. 11.08.2015.  Earlier the  quoted  words  were  substituted  for  "five"  by  the  SEBI 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12-10-2012 and "five" 
was substituted for "ten" by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, 
w.e.f. 11-12-2009. 

Page 10 of 255 

 

cent.  of  the  weighted  average  number  of  equity  shares  listed  during  such  six  months’ 
period: 
37[Provided that for issuers, whose public shareholding is less than fifteen per cent. of its 
issued  equity  capital,  the  annualised  trading  turnover  of  its  equity  shares  has  been  at 
least  two  per  cent.  of  the  weighted  average  number  of  equity  shares  available  as  free 
float during such six months’ period;] 
the issuer has redressed at least ninety five per cent. of the complaints received from the 
investors  till  the  end  of  the  quarter  immediately  preceding  the  month  of  the  reference 
date; 
the  issuer  has  been  in  compliance  with  the  equity  listing  agreement  for  a  period  of  at 
least three years immediately preceding the reference date: 
 
38[Provided  that  if  the  issuer  has  not  complied  with  the  provision  of  the  equity  listing 
agreement relating to composition of board of directors, for any quarter during the last 
three  years  immediately  preceding  the  reference  date,  but  is  compliant  with  such 
provisions  at  the  time  of  filing  of  offer  document  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  or 
designated stock exchange, as the case may be, and adequate disclosures are made in the 
offer  document  about  such  non-compliances  during  the  three  years  immediately 
preceding the reference date, it shall be deemed as compliance with the condition] 39[:] 
 

40[Provided further that imposition of only monetary fines by stock exchanges on the 
issuer  shall  not  be  a  ground  for  ineligibility  for  undertaking  issuances  under  this 
regulation;] 
 
the  impact  of  auditors’  qualifications,  if  any,  on  the  audited  accounts  of  the  issuer  in 
respect  of  those  financial  years  for  which  such  accounts  are  disclosed  in  the  offer 
document does not exceed five per cent. of the net profit or loss after tax of the issuer 
for the respective years; 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g)  no  show-cause  notices  have  been  issued  or  prosecution  proceedings  initiated  41[by  the 
Board] or pending against the issuer or its promoters or whole time directors as on the 
reference date; 

42[(ga)    the  issuer  or  promoter  or  promoter  group  or  director  of  the  issuer  has  not  settled  any 
alleged  violation  of  securities  laws  through  the  consent  or  settlement  mechanism  with  the 
Board during three years immediately preceding the reference date;] 
(h) 

the  entire  shareholding  of  the  promoter  group  of  the  issuer  is  held  in  dematerialised 
form on the reference date 43[;] 

44[(i)   in  case of a  rights  issue, promoters and promoter  group shall mandatorily subscribe to 
their  rights  entitlement  and  shall  not  renounce  their  rights,  except  to  the  extent  of 
renunciation within the promoter group or for the purpose of complying with minimum 

                                                           
37 Inserted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009 w.e.f. 11.12.2009. 
38 Inserted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 11.12.2009. 
39  Substituted  for  symbol  “  ;  ”  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 11.08.2015. 
40  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 11.08.2015.  
41  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
13.04.2010. 
 
42  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 11.08.2015. 
43  Substituted  for  symbol  “;”  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 11.08.2015. 
44  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 11.08.2015. 

Page 11 of 255 

 

public  shareholding  norms  prescribed  under  Rule  19A  of  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation) Rules, 1957; 
the  equity  shares  of  the  issuer  have  not  been  suspended  from  trading  as  a  disciplinary 
measure during last three years immediately preceding the reference date;  
the annualized delivery-based trading turnover of the equity shares during six calendar 
months immediately preceding the month of the reference date has been at least ten per 
cent  of  the  weighted  average  number  of  equity  shares  listed  during  such  six  months’ 
period; 
there shall be no conflict of interest between the lead merchant banker(s) and the issuer 
or its group or associate company in accordance with applicable regulations.] 

(j) 

(k) 

(l) 

(2) The issuer shall file the offer document with the Board and the recognised stock exchanges in 
accordance with sub-regulations (4), (5) and (6) of regulation 6 and shall pay fees to the Board as 
specified in Schedule IV. 
(3) The lead merchant bankers shall submit to the Board, the following documents along with the 
offer document:  

(a)  a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  Form  A  of  Schedule  VI  including  additional 

(b) 

confirmations as specified in Form F of Schedule VI;  
in  case  of  a  fast  track  issue  of  convertible  debt  instruments,  a  due  diligence  certificate 
from the debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule VI. 

Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation: 
(I)  “reference date” means: 

(a) 

(b) 

in  case  of  a  public  issue  by  a  listed  issuer,  the  date  of  registering  the  red  herring 
prospectus  (in  case  of  a  book  built  issue)  or  prospectus  (in  case  of  a  fixed  price  issue) 
with the Registrar of Companies; and 
in  case  of  a  rights  issue  by  a  listed  issuer,  the  date  of  filing  the  letter  of  offer  with  the 
designated stock exchange. 

(II)  “average  market  capitalisation  of  public  shareholding”  means  the  sum  of  daily  market 
capitalisation  of  public  shareholding  for  a  period  of  one  year  up  to  the  end  of  the  quarter 
preceding  the  month  in  which  the  proposed  issue  was  approved  by  the  shareholders  or  the 
board of the issuer, as the case may be, divided by the number of trading days.  

(III)  “public  shareholding”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  in  the  equity  listing 

agreement. 

 
Opening of an issue. 
11. (1) Subject to the compliance with sub-section (4) of section 60 of the Companies Act, 1956, a 
public issue or rights issue may be opened:   

(a)  within twelve months from the date of issuance of the observations by the Board under 

regulation 6; or  

(b)  within  three  months  of  expiry  of  the  period  stipulated  in  sub-regulation  (2)  of 

regulation 6, if the Board has not issued observations:  

 Provided  that  in  case  of  a  fast  track  issue,  the  issue  shall  open  within  the  period 
stipulated in sub-section (4) of section 60 of the Companies Act, 1956. 

(2) In  case  of  shelf  prospectus,  the  first  issue  may  be  opened  within  three  months  of  issuance  of 
observations by the Board. 
(3) The issuer shall, before registering the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or 
prospectus  (in  case  of  a  fixed  price  issue)  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  or  filing  the  letter  of 
offer with the designated stock exchange, as the case may be, file with the Board through the lead 
merchant bankers, an updated offer document highlighting all changes made in the offer document. 
(4) Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  regulation,  if  there  are  changes  in  the  offer 
document in relation to the matters specified in Schedule VII, the updated offer document or new 
draft offer document, as the case may be, shall be filed with the Board along with fees specified in 
Schedule IV. 

Page 12 of 255 

 

45[(5) An issue shall be opened after at least three working days from the date of registering the red 
herring prospectus with the Registrar of Companies.] 
 
Dispatch of issue material.   
12. The lead merchant bankers shall dispatch the offer document and other issue material including 
forms  for  ASBA  to  the  designated  stock  exchange,  syndicate  members,  46[registrar  to  issue  and 
share  transfer  agents,  depository  participants,  stock  brokers,]  underwriters,  bankers  to  the  issue, 
investors’ associations and Self Certified Syndicate Banks in advance.  
 
Underwriting. 
13.  (1)  Where  the  issuer  making  a  public  issue  (other  than  through  the  book  building  process)  or 
rights issue, desires to have the issue underwritten, it shall appoint the underwriters in accordance 
with Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993. 
(2) Where  the  issuer  makes  a  public  issue  through  the  book  building  process,  such  issue  shall  be 
underwritten by book runners or syndicate members: 
47[Provided  that  atleast  48[seventy  five  per  cent]  of  the  net  offer  to  the  public  proposed  to  be 
compulsorily  allotted  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  for  the  purpose  of  compliance  of  the 
eligibility conditions  specified in  sub-regulation  (2) of regulation  26 and regulation 27, cannot  be 
underwritten.] 
(3) The issuer shall enter into underwriting agreement with the book runner, who in turn shall enter 
into  underwriting  agreement  with  syndicate  members,  indicating  therein  the  number  of  specified 
securities  which  they  shall  subscribe  to  at  the  predetermined  price  in  the  event  of  under-
subscription in the issue. 
(4) If  syndicate  members  fail  to  fulfil  their  underwriting  obligations,  the  lead  book  runner  shall 
fulfil the underwriting obligations.  
(5) The book runners and syndicate members shall not subscribe to the issue in any manner except 
for fulfilling their underwriting obligations. 
(6)  49[***] 
(7)  In  case  of  every  underwritten  issue,  the  lead  merchant  banker  or  the  lead  book  runner  shall 
undertake minimum underwriting obligations as specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992. 
(8) Where hundred per cent. of the offer through offer document is underwritten, the underwriting 
obligations shall be for the entire hundred per cent. of the offer through offer document and shall 
not be restricted upto the minimum subscription level. 
 
Minimum subscription. 
14. (1) The minimum subscription to be received in an issue shall not be less than ninety per cent. 
of the offer through offer document 50[:] 
                                                           
45  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 
46  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 01.01.2016. 
47 Substituted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 
23.09.2011.  Prior  to  its  substitution,  proviso  as  amended  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010., read as under: 
“Provided that fifty per cent. sixty per cent, if public issue is made with at least ten per cent. public offer under clause 
(b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 of the net offer to public proposed to 
be  compulsorily  allotted  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  for  the  purpose  of  compliance  of  the  eligibility  conditions 
specified in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 26 and regulation 27 cannot be underwritten.”  
48  Substituted  for  “fifty  per  cent”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. 
49  Sub-regulation  (6)  omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2012, w.e.f. 30.01.2012. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (6) read as under: 
“(6) A copy of the syndicate agreement shall be filed with the Board before the opening of bids.” 

Page 13 of 255 

 

51[Provided that in the case of an initial public offer, the minimum subscription to be received shall 
be subject to allotment of minimum number of specified securities, as prescribed in sub-clause (b) 
of clause (2) of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.] 
 
(2) In  the  event  of  non-receipt  of  minimum  subscription  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1),  all 
application moneys received shall be refunded to the applicants forthwith, but not later than: 

fifteen days of the closure of the issue, in case of a non-underwritten issue; and 

(a) 
(b)  seventy  days  of  the  closure  of  the  issue,  in  the  case  of  an  underwritten  issue  where 
minimum subscription including devolvement obligations paid by the underwriters is not 
received within sixty days of the closure of the issue.   

(3) The  offer  document  shall  contain  adequate  disclosures  regarding  minimum  subscription  as 
specified in Part A of Schedule VIII. 
52[(4)  Nothing  contained  in  this  regulation,  except  the  requirement  relating  to  allotment  of 
minimum number of specified securities, shall apply to offer for sale of specified securities.] 
Explanation: For the purpose of clause (b) of sub-regulation (4), the term “infrastructure company” 
means, an enterprise wholly engaged in the business of (i) developing or (ii) operating and maintaining 
or (iii) developing, operating and maintaining any infrastructure facility. 
 
Oversubscription. 
15. No allotment shall be made by the issuer in excess of the specified securities offered through the 
offer document: 
 Provided  that  in  case  of  oversubscription,  an  allotment  of  not  more  than  ten  per  cent.  of  the  net 
offer to public may be made for the purpose of making allotment in minimum lots. 
 
Monitoring agency. 
16. (1) If the issue size53[, excluding the size of offer for sale by selling shareholders,] exceeds 54[one 
hundred] crore rupees, the issuer shall make arrangements for the use of proceeds of the issue to be 
monitored by a public financial institution or by one of the scheduled commercial banks named in 
the offer document as bankers of the issuer:   
 Provided  that  nothing  contained  in  this  clause  shall  apply  to  55[ ]  an  issue  of  specified  securities 
made by a bank or public financial institution 56[or an insurance company]. 
57[(2)  The  monitoring  agency  shall  submit  its  report  to  the  issuer  in  the  format  specified  in 
Schedule  IX  on  a  quarterly  basis,  till  at  least  ninety  five  percent  of  the  proceeds  of  the  issue, 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
50  Substituted  for  “.”,  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations, 
2012, w.e.f. 24.8.2012. 
51 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 
24.8.2012. 
52  Substituted  for  the  existing  clause  (4)  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 24.8.2012. Prior to substitution clause (4) read as under: 
“(4)  Nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to: 

(a)  offer for sale of specified securities; 
(b)  public  issue  by  infrastructure  companies  if  the  disclosures  regarding  the  alternate  source  of  funding  of  the 

objects of the issue have been made in the offer document.” 

53 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 
31.5.2017.  
54 Substituted ibid. 
55 The words “an offer for sale or” omitted ibid. 
56 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
12.11.2010. 
57 Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2017, 
w.e.f. 31.5.2017. Prior to such substitution, the sub-regulation (2) read as:  

“(2)The monitoring agency shall submit its report to the issuer in the format specified in Schedule IX on a 
half yearly basis, till the proceeds of the issue have been fully utilised.” 

 

Page 14 of 255 

 

excluding the proceeds under offer for sale and amount raised for general corporate purposes, have 
been utilized.] 
 
58[(3) The Board of Directors and the management of the company shall provide their comments on 
the findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule IX. 
 
(4) The issuer shall, within forty five days from the end of each quarter, publically disseminate the 
report  of  the  monitoring  agency  by  uploading  the  same  on  its  website  as  well  as  submitting  the 
same to the stock exchange(s) on which its equity shares are listed.] 
 
Manner of calls. 
17.  If the issuer proposes to receive subscription monies in calls, it shall ensure that the outstanding 
subscription money is called within twelve months from the date of allotment in the issue and if any 
applicant fails to pay the call money within the said twelve months, the equity shares on which there 
are calls in arrear along with the subscription money already paid on such shares shall be forfeited: 
 Provided  that  it  shall  not  be  necessary  to  call  the  outstanding  subscription  money  within  twelve 
months, if the issuer has appointed a monitoring agency in terms of regulation 16. 
 
Allotment, refund and payment of interest. 
18.  (1)  The  issuer  and  merchant  bankers  shall  ensure  that  specified  securities  are  allotted  and/or 
application moneys are refunded within fifteen days from the date of closure of the issue. 
(2) Where specified securities are not allotted and/or application moneys are not refunded within the 
period  stipulated  in  sub-regulation  (1),  the  issuer  shall  undertake  to  pay  interest  at  such  rate  and 
within such time as disclosed in the offer document. 
 
Restriction on further capital issues. 
19.  No issuer shall make any further issue of specified securities in any manner whether  by way of 
public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, qualified institutions placement, issue of bonus shares or 
otherwise: 
(a) 

in case of a fast track issue, during the period between the date of registering the red herring 
prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) with the 
Registrar of Companies or filing the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange and the 
listing of the specified securities offered through the offer document or refund of application 
moneys; or 
in case of other issues, during the period between the date of filing the draft offer document with 
the Board and the listing of the specified securities offered through the offer document or refund 
of application moneys; 

(b) 

unless full disclosures regarding the total number of specified securities and amount proposed to be 
raised from such further issue are made in such draft offer document or offer document, as the case 
may be.  
 
Additional requirements for issue of convertible debt instruments. 
20. (1) In addition to other requirements laid down in these regulations, an issuer making a public 
issue or rights issue of convertible debt instruments shall comply with the following conditions:  

(a) 
(b) 

it  has obtained credit rating from one or more credit rating agencies; 
it has appointed one or  more debenture trustees  in  accordance with  the provisions of 
section 117B of the Companies Act, 1956 and Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993; 

                                                           
58 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 
31.5.2017. 

Page 15 of 255 

 

(c) 

(d) 

such assets are sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times; 

it  has  created  debenture  redemption  reserve  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
section 117C of the Companies Act, 1956; 
if the issuer proposes to create a charge or security on its assets in respect of secured 
convertible debt instruments, it shall ensure that: 
(i) 
(ii)  such assets are free from any encumbrance; 
(iii)  where security is already created on such assets in favour of financial institutions 
or banks or the issue of convertible debt instruments is proposed to be secured by 
creation of security on a leasehold land, the consent of such financial institution, 
bank or lessor for a second or pari passu charge has been obtained and submitted 
to the debenture trustee before the opening of the issue; 

(iv)  the security/asset cover shall be arrived at after reduction of the liabilities having 
a  first/prior  charge,  in  case  the  convertible  debt  instruments  are  secured  by  a 
second or subsequent charge. 

(2) The issuer shall redeem the convertible debt instruments in terms of the offer document. 
 
Roll over of non convertible portion of partly convertible debt instruments. 
21. (1) The non-convertible portion of partly convertible debt instruments issued by a listed issuer, 
the value of which exceeds fifty lakh rupees, may be rolled over without change in the interest rate, 
subject  to  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  section  121  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  and  the 
following conditions: 

(a)  seventy  five per cent.  of the holders of the convertible debt  instruments  of the issuer 

(b) 

(c) 

have, through a resolution, approved the rollover through postal ballot;  
the issuer has, along with the notice for passing the resolution, sent to all holders of the 
convertible debt instruments, an auditors’ certificate on the cash flow of the issuer and  
with comments on the liquidity position of the issuer;   
the  issuer  has  undertaken  to  redeem  the  non-convertible  portion  of  the  partly 
convertible debt instruments of all the holders of the convertible debt instruments who 
have not agreed to the resolution; 

(d)  credit  rating  has  been  obtained  from  at  least  one  credit  rating  agency  registered  with 
the  Board  within  a  period  of  six months  prior to  the  due  date  of  redemption  and  has 
been communicated to the holders of the convertible debt instruments, before the roll 
over; 

(2) The  creation  of  fresh  security  and  execution  of  fresh  trust  deed  shall  not  be  mandatory  if  the 
existing trust deed or the security documents provide for continuance of the security till redemption 
of secured convertible debt instruments; 
 Provided that whether the issuer is required to create fresh security and to execute fresh trust deed 
or not shall be decided by the debenture trustee.  
 
Conversion of optionally convertible debt instruments into equity share capital. 
22.  (1)  An  issuer  shall  not  convert  its  optionally  convertible  debt  instruments  into  equity  shares 
unless the holders of such convertible debt instruments have sent their positive consent to the issuer 
and non-receipt of reply to any notice sent by the issuer for this purpose shall not be construed as 
consent for conversion of any convertible debt instruments.  
(2) Where  the  value  of  the  convertible  portion  of  any  convertible  debt  instruments  issued  by  a 
listed  issuer  exceeds  fifty  lakh  rupees  and  the  issuer  has  not  determined  the  conversion  price  of 
such convertible debt instruments at the time of making the issue, the holders of such convertible 
debt  instruments  shall  be  given  the  option  of  not  converting  the  convertible  portion  into  equity 
shares: 
 Provided  that  where  the  upper  limit  on  the  price  of  such  convertible  debt  instruments  and 
justification thereon is determined and disclosed to the investors at the time of making the issue, it 

Page 16 of 255 

 

shall  not  be  necessary  to  give  such  option  to  the  holders  of  the  convertible  debt  instruments  for 
converting the convertible portion into equity share capital within the said upper limit.  
(3) Where  an  option  is  to  be  given  to  the  holders  of  the  convertible  debt  instruments  in  terms  of 
sub-regulation  (2)  and  if  one  or  more  of  such  holders  do  not  exercise  the  option  to  convert  the 
instruments  into  equity  share  capital  at  a  price  determined  in  the  general  meeting  of  the 
shareholders,  the  issuer  shall  redeem  that  part  of  the  instruments  within  one  month  from  the  last 
date by which option is to be exercised, at a price which shall not be less than its face value. 
(4) The  provision  of  sub-regulation  (3)  shall  not  apply  if  such  redemption  is  in  terms  of  the 
disclosures made in the offer document.  

 

Issue of convertible debt instruments for financing.  
23.  No  issuer  shall  issue  convertible  debt  instruments  for  financing  replenishment  of  funds  or  for 
providing loan to or for acquiring shares of any person who is part of the same group or who is under 
the same management:   
 Provided that an issuer may issue fully convertible debt instruments for these purposes if the period 
of conversion of such debt instruments is less than eighteen months from the date of issue of such debt 
instruments. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation: 
(I)  Two persons shall be deemed to be “part of the same group” if they belong to the group within 
the meaning of clause (ef) of section 2 of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 
1969 (54 of 1969) or if they own “inter connected undertakings within the meaning of clause 
(g) of section 2 of the said Act; 

(II)  The expression “under the same management” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it 

in sub-section (1B) of section 370 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). 

 
Alteration of rights of holders of specified securities. 
24. No issuer shall alter the terms (including the terms of issue) of specified securities which may 
adversely affect the interests of the holders of that specified securities, except with the consent in 
writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths of the specified securities of that class or with 
the sanction of a special resolution passed at a meeting of the holders of the specified securities of 
that class. 

 

CHAPTER III 

PROVISIONS AS TO PUBLIC ISSUE 

 

PART I - ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS 

 
Reference date. 
25.  Unless  otherwise  provided  in  this  Chapter,  an  issuer  making  a  public  issue  shall  satisfy  the 
conditions of this Chapter as on the date of filing draft offer document with the Board and also as 
on the date of registering the offer document with the Registrar of Companies.  
 
Conditions for initial public offer. 
26. (1) An issuer may make an initial public offer, if: 

(a) 

it  has  net  tangible  assets  of  at  least  three  crore  rupees  in  each  of  the  preceding  three 
full years (of twelve months each), of which not more than fifty per cent. are held in 
monetary assets:  
 Provided  that  if  more  than  fifty  per  cent.  of  the  net  tangible  assets  are  held  in 
monetary  assets,  the  issuer  has  made  firm  commitments  to  utilise  such  excess 
monetary assets in its business or project; 

Page 17 of 255 

 

59[Provided  further  that  the  limit  of  fifty  per  cent.  on  monetary  assets  shall  not  be 
applicable in case the public offer is made entirely through an offer for sale.] 

60[(b)    it has a minimum average pre-tax operating profit of rupees fifteen crore, calculated on 
a  restated  and  consolidated  basis,  during  the  three  most  profitable  years  out  of  the 
immediately preceding five years.] 
it  has a net worth of at least one crore rupees in each of the preceding three full years 
(of twelve months each);  
the aggregate of the proposed issue and all previous issues made in the same financial 
year in terms of issue size does not exceed five times its pre-issue net worth as per the 
audited balance sheet of the preceding financial year;  
if it has changed its name within the last one year, at least fifty per cent. of the revenue 
for the preceding one full year has been earned by it from the activity indicated by the 
new name. 

(d) 

(c) 

(e) 

61[(2)    An  issuer  not  satisfying  the  condition  stipulated  in  sub-regulation  (1)  may  make  an  initial 
public offer if the issue is made through the book-building process and the issuer undertakes 
to  allot,  at  least  seventy  five  percent  of  the  net  offer  to  public,  to  qualified  institutional 
buyers and to refund full subscription money if it fails to make the said minimum allotment 
to qualified institutional buyers.] 

(3) An  issuer  may  make  an  initial  public  offer  of  convertible  debt  instruments  without  making  a 
prior public issue of its equity shares and listing thereof. 
(4) An issuer shall not  make an allotment  pursuant  to  a public issue if  the number of prospective 
allottees is less than one thousand.  
62[(5) No issuer shall make an initial public offer if there are any outstanding convertible securities 
or any other right which would entitle any person with any option to receive equity shares:] 
Provided that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not apply to: 
(a)  a  public  issue  made  during  the  currency  of  convertible  debt  instruments  which  were  issued 
through  an  earlier  initial  public  offer,  if  the  conversion  price  of  such  convertible  debt 
instruments was determined and disclosed in the prospectus of the earlier issue of convertible 
debt instruments; 

                                                           
59  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f. 
23.09.2011. 
60 Substituted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. Prior to its substitution, clause (b) read as under: 
“(b)  it  has  a  track  record  of  distributable  profits  in  terms  of  section  205  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956, on  both  stand-
alone as well as consolidated basis for at least three out of the immediately preceding five years;] 
Provided that extraordinary items shall not be considered for calculating distributable profits; 
Provided further that an issuer who had subsidiary/ subsidiaries for a period lesser than five years, shall have net profits 
on a consolidated basis in atleast one year for which consolidated accounts are prepared.” 
61  Substituted  for  the  existing  sub-regulation  (2)  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as under: 
(2) “An issuer not satisfying any of the conditions stipulated in sub-regulation (1) may make an initial public offer if:  

(a)    (i)  

the issue is made through the book building process and the issuer undertakes to allot at least fifty per 
cent. of the net offer to public to qualified institutional buyers and to refund full subscription monies if 
it fails to make allotment to the qualified institutional buyers ; 

or 
(ii)            at least fifteen per cent. of the cost of the project is contributed by scheduled commercial banks or 
public financial institutions, of which not less than ten per cent. shall come from the appraisers and the 
issuer undertakes to allot at least ten per cent. of the net offer to public to qualified institutional buyers 
and  to  refund  full  subscription  monies  if  it  fails  to  make  the  allotment  to  the  qualified  institutional 
buyers; 

62  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010, 
w.e.f. 12.11.2010. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (5) as amended by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010, read as under : 
“(5)  No  issuer  shall  make  an  initial  public  offer  if  as  on  the  date  of  registering  the  prospectus  with  the  Registrar  of 
Companies  there  are  any  outstanding  convertible  securities  or  any  other  right  which  would  entitle  any  person  any 
option to receive equity shares after the initial public offer:” 

Page 18 of 255 

 

(b)  outstanding  options  granted  to  employees  pursuant  to  an  employee  stock  option  scheme 
framed in accordance with the relevant Guidance Note or Accounting Standards, if any, issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India in this regard. 

63[(c)    fully  paid-up  outstanding  convertible  securities  which  are  required  to  be  converted  on  or  
before  the  date  of  filing  of  the  red  herring  prospectus  (in  case  of  book-built  issues)  or  the 
prospectus (in case of fixed price issues), as the case may be.] 

(6) Subject to provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and these regulations, equity shares may be 
offered for sale to public if such equity shares have been held by the sellers for a period of at least 
one  year  prior  to  the  filing  of  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board  in  accordance  with  sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 6: 
 Provided  that  in  case  equity  shares  received  on  conversion  or  exchange  of  fully  paid-up 
compulsorily  convertible  securities  including  depository  receipts  are  being  offered  for  sale,  the 
holding period of such convertible securities as well as that of resultant equity shares together shall 
be considered for the purpose of calculation of one year period referred in this sub-regulation: 
 Provided  further  that  the  requirement  of  holding  equity  shares  for  a  period  of  one  year  shall  not 
apply:  
(a) 

in  case  of  an  offer  for  sale  of  specified  securities  of  a  government  company  or  statutory 
authority  or  corporation  or  any  special  purpose  vehicle  set  up  and  controlled  by  any  one  or 
more of them, which is engaged in infrastructure sector; 
if the specified securities offered for sale were acquired pursuant to any scheme approved by a 
High  Court  under  sections  391-394  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  in  lieu  of  business  and 
invested capital which had been in existence for a period of more than one year prior to such 
approval64[;] 

(b) 

65[(c) if the specified securities offered for sale were issued under a bonus issue on  securities held 
for  a  period  of  at  least  one  year  prior  to  the  filing  of  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board  and 
further subject to the following, - 

(i) such specified securities being issued out of free reserves and share 
premium existing in the books of account as at the end of the financial 
year preceding the financial year in which the draft offer document is 
filed with the Board ; and 
(ii) such specified securities not being issued by utilization of revaluation 
reserves or unrealized profits of the issuer.] 

66[(7) An issuer making an initial public offer may obtain grading for such offer from one or more 
credit rating agencies registered with the Board.] 
 
Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation: 
(I)  “net tangible assets” mean the sum of all net assets of the issuer, excluding intangible assets as 
defined in Accounting Standard 26 (AS 26) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India; 

(II)  “project” means the object for which monies are proposed to be raised to cover the objects of 

the issue; 

                                                           
63 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
13.04.2001.   
64 Substituted for “.” by the SEBI  (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2014, w.e.f 25.08.2014. 
65 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations 2014,  w.e.f. 
25.08.2014. 
66 Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 4-2-
2014. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (7) read as under : 
"(7)  No  issuer  shall  make  an  initial  public  offer,  unless  as  on  the  date  of  registering  prospectus  or  red  herring 
prospectus with the Registrar of Companies, the issuer has obtained grading for the initial public offer from at least one 
credit rating agency registered with the Board."  
 

Page 19 of 255 

 

(III)  In case of an issuer which had been a partnership firm, the track record of distributable profits 
of the partnership firm shall be considered only if the financial statements of the partnership 
business  for  the  period  during  which  the  issuer  was  a  partnership  firm,  conform  to  and  are 
revised  in  the  format  prescribed  for  companies  under  the  Companies  Act,  1956  and  also 
comply with the following: 
(a)  adequate disclosures are made in the financial statements as required to be made by the 

(b) 

issuer as per Schedule VI of the Companies Act, 1956; 
the financial statements are duly certified by a Chartered Accountant stating that: 
(i) 

the  accounts  and  the  disclosures  made  are  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule VI of the Companies Act, 1956;  
the  accounting  standards  of  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  have 
been followed; 

(ii) 

(iii)  the financial statements present a true and fair view of the firm’s accounts; 

(IV)  In  case  of  an  issuer  formed  out  of  a  division  of  an  existing  company,  the  track  record  of 
distributable  profits  of  the  division  spun-off  shall  be  considered  only  if  the  requirements 
regarding  financial  statements  as  provided  for  partnership  firms  in  Explanation  III  are 
complied with; 

(V)  “bid-ask spread” means the difference between quotations for sale and purchase; 
(VI)  The term “infrastructure sector” includes the facilities or services as specified in Schedule X. 
 
Conditions for further public offer.  
27. An issuer may make a further public offer if it satisfies the conditions specified in clauses (d) 
and  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  26  and  if  it  does  not  satisfy  those  conditions,  it  may 
make a further public offer if it satisfies the conditions specified in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 
26. 

PART II - PRICING IN PUBLIC ISSUE 

 

 
Pricing. 
28. (1) An issuer may determine the price of specified securities in consultation with the lead merchant 
banker or through the book building process.  
(2)  An issuer may determine the coupon rate and conversion price of convertible debt instruments in 
consultation with the lead merchant banker or through the book building process.  
(3)  The issuer shall undertake the book building process in a manner specified in Schedule XI. 
 
Differential pricing. 
29. An issuer may offer specified securities at different prices, subject to the following: 

(a) 

retail individual investors or retail individual shareholders  67[or  employees  68[***]  entitled 
for reservation made under regulation 42 making an application for specified securities of 
value  not  more  than  69[two  lakhs]  rupees,]  may  be  offered  specified  securities  at  a  price 
lower than the price at which net offer is made to other categories of applicants: 
 Provided  that  such  difference  shall  not  be  more  than  ten  per  cent.  of  the  price  at  which 
specified securities are offered to other categories of applicants; 

(b)  in case of a book built issue, the price of the specified securities offered to an anchor investor 

shall not be lower than the price offered to other applicants; 

                                                           
67  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009,  w.e.f. 
11.12.2009. 
68  The  words  “of  the  issuer”  omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010. 
69  Substituted  for  “one  lakh”  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 12.11.2010. 

Page 20 of 255 

 

(c)  in case of a composite issue, the price of the specified securities offered in the public issue 
may  be  different  from  the  price  offered  in  rights  issue  and  justification  for  such  price 
difference shall be given in the offer document. 

70[(d) In  case  the  issuer  opts  for  the  alternate  method  of  book  building  in  terms  of  Part  D  of 
Schedule  XI,  the  issuer  may  offer  specified  securities  to  its  employees  at  a  price  lower 
than the floor price: 
Provided  that  the  difference  between  the  floor  price  and  the  price  at  which  specified 

securities are offered to employees shall not be more than ten per cent. of the floor price.] 

 

 
Price and price band. 
30. (1) The issuer may mention a price or price band in the draft prospectus (in case of a fixed price 
issue) and floor price or price band in the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) and 
determine the price at a later date before registering the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies: 
 Provided that the prospectus registered with the Registrar of Companies shall contain only one price 
or the specific coupon rate, as the case may be. 
(2) 71[*  *  *]  The  issuer  shall  announce  the  floor  price  or  price  band  at  least  72[five  working  days] 
before the opening of the bid (in case of an initial public offer) and at least one working day before 
the opening of the bid (in case of a further public offer), in all the newspapers in which the pre issue 
advertisement was released. 
(3)  The  announcement  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  contain  relevant  financial  ratios 
computed for both upper and lower end of the price band and also a statement drawing attention of 
the investors to the section titled “basis of issue price” in the prospectus. 
73[(3A)    The  announcement  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  and  the  relevant  financial  ratios 
referred to in sub-regulation (3) shall be disclosed on the websites of those stock exchanges where 
the securities are proposed to be listed and shall also be pre-filled in the application forms available 
on the websites of the stock exchanges.] 
(4)  The cap on the price band shall be less than or equal to one hundred and twenty per cent. of the 
floor price. 
(5) The floor price or the final price shall not be less than the face value of the specified securities. 
Explanation: For the purposes of sub-regulation (4), the “cap on the price band” includes cap on the 
coupon rate in case of convertible debt instruments. 
 
Face value of equity shares. 
31.  (1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  the  Act  and  these  regulations,  an 
issuer  making  an  initial  public  offer  may  determine  the  face  value  of  the  equity  shares  in  the 
following manner: 

(a) 

(b) 

if the issue price per equity share is five hundred rupees or more, the issuer shall have 
the option to determine the face value at less than ten rupees per equity share: 
 Provided that the face value shall not be less than one rupee per equity share; 
if the issue price per equity share is less than five hundred rupees, the face value of the 
equity shares shall be ten rupees per equity share: 

                                                           
70  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
08.01.2010. 
71 The words “If the floor price or price band is not mentioned in the red herring prospectus,” omitted by SEBI (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012.  
72  Substituted  for  the  words  “two  working  days”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. 
73  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 

Page 21 of 255 

 

 Provided that nothing contained in this sub-regulation shall apply to initial public offer 
made  by  any  government  company,  statutory  authority  or  corporation  or  any  special 
purpose vehicle set up by any of them, which is engaged in infrastructure sector. 

(2) The  disclosure  about  the  face  value  of  equity  shares  (including  the  statement  about  the  issue 
price being “X” times of the face value) shall be made in the advertisements, offer documents and 
application forms in identical font size as that of issue price or price band. 
Explanation:  For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation,  the  term  “infrastructure  sector”  includes  the 
facilities or services as specified in Schedule X. 

PART III - PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION 

 
Minimum promoters’ contribution. 
32. (1) The promoters of the issuer shall contribute in the public issue as follows: 

 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

in  case  of  an  initial  public  offer,  not  less  than  twenty  per  cent.  of  the  post  issue 
capital74[:] 
75[Provided that in case the post issue shareholding of the promoters is less than twenty 
per cent.,  alternative investment  funds may  contribute for the purpose of meeting the 
shortfall in minimum contribution as specified for promoters, subject to a maximum of 
ten per cent of the post issue capital.] 
in case of a further public offer, either to the extent of twenty per cent. of the proposed 
issue size or to the extent of twenty per cent. of the post-issue capital; 
in  case  of  a  composite  issue,  either  to  the  extent  of  twenty  per  cent.  of  the  proposed 
issue  size  or  to  the  extent  of  twenty  per  cent.  of  the  post-issue  capital  excluding  the 
rights issue component. 

(2) In  case  of  a  public  issue  or  composite  issue  of  convertible  securities,  minimum  promoters’ 
contribution shall be as follows: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  promoters  shall  contribute  twenty  per  cent.  as  stipulated  in  clauses  (a),  (b)  or  (c)  of 
sub-regulation  (1),  as  the  case  may  be,  either  by  way  of  equity  shares  or  by  way  of 
subscription to the convertible securities:  
 Provided that if the price of the equity shares allotted pursuant to conversion is not pre-
determined and not disclosed in the offer document, the promoters shall contribute only by 
way of subscription to the convertible securities being issued in the public issue and shall 
undertake  in  writing  to  subscribe  to  the  equity  shares  pursuant  to  conversion  of  such 
securities.  
in  case  of  any  issue  of  convertible  securities  which  are  convertible  or  exchangeable  on 
different dates and if the promoters’ contribution is by way of equity shares (conversion 
price  being  pre-determined),    such  contribution  shall  not  be  at  a  price  lower  than  the 
weighted  average  price  of  the  equity  share  capital  arising  out  of  conversion  of  such 
securities.   
subject to the provisions of clause (a) and (b) above, in case of an initial public offer of 
convertible debt instruments without a prior public issue of equity shares, the promoters 
shall bring in a contribution of at least twenty per cent. of the project cost in the form of 
equity shares, subject to contributing at least twenty per cent. of the issue size from their 
own funds in the form of equity shares:  
 Provided  that  if  the  project  is  to  be  implemented  in  stages,  the  promoters’  contribution 
shall be with respect to total equity participation till the respective stage vis-à-vis the debt 
raised or proposed to be raised through the public issue. 

                                                           
74 Substituted for “;” by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2012, 
w.e.f. 12.10.2012. 
75  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 

Page 22 of 255 

 

(3) In case of a further public offer or composite issue where the promoters contribute more than 
the stipulated minimum promoters’ contribution, the allotment with respect to excess contribution 
shall be made at a price determined in terms of the provisions of regulation 76 or the issue price, 
whichever is higher.  
(4) The promoters shall satisfy the requirements of this regulation at least one day prior to the date 
of  opening  of  the  issue  and  the  amount  of  promoters’  contribution  shall  be  kept  in  an  escrow 
account with a scheduled commercial bank and shall be released to the issuer along with the release 
of the issue proceeds: 
 Provided  that  where  the  promoters’  contribution  has  already  been  brought  in  and  utilised,  the 
issuer shall give the cash flow statement disclosing the use of such funds in the offer document; 
 Provided further that where the minimum promoters’ contribution is more than one hundred crore 
rupees, the promoters shall bring in at least one hundred crore rupees before the date of opening of 
the issue and the remaining amount may be brought on pro-rata basis before the calls are made to 
public.  
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation: 
(I)  Promoters’ contribution shall be computed on the basis of the post-issue expanded capital: 

(a)  assuming full proposed conversion of convertible securities into equity shares; 
(b)  assuming  exercise  of  all  vested  options,  where  any  employee  stock  options  are 
outstanding at the time of initial public offer in terms of proviso (b) to sub-regulation (5) 
of regulation 26. 

(II)  For computation of “weighted average price”: 

(a)  “weights” means the number of equity shares arising out of conversion of such specified 

securities into equity shares at various stages;  

(b)  “price”  means  the  price  of  equity  shares  on  conversion  arrived  at  after  taking  into 

account predetermined conversion price at various stages. 

 
Securities ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution.  
33. (1) For the computation of minimum promoters’ contribution, the following specified securities 
shall not be eligible: 

(a)  specified securities acquired during the preceding three years, if they are:  

(i)  acquired  for  consideration  other  than  cash  and  revaluation  of  assets  or 

capitalisation of intangible assets is involved in such transaction; or 

(ii)  resulting  from  a  bonus  issue  by  utilisation  of  revaluation  reserves  or  unrealised 
profits of the issuer or from bonus issue against equity shares which are ineligible 
for minimum promoters’ contribution;  

(b)  specified securities acquired by promoters 76[ and alternative investment funds] during 
the preceding one year at a price lower than the price at which specified securities are 
being offered to public in the initial public offer: 
 Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply: 
(i) 

if promoters77[/alternative investment funds, as applicable] pay to the issuer, the 
difference between the price at which specified securities are offered in the initial 
public offer and the price at which the specified securities had been acquired;  
if  such  specified  securities  are  acquired  in  terms  of  the  scheme  under  sections 
391-394 of the Companies Act, 1956, as approved by a High Court, by promoters 
in lieu of business and invested capital that had been in existence for a period of 
more than one year prior to such approval; 

(ii) 

                                                           
76  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 
77  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 

Page 23 of 255 

 

(iii)  to  an  initial  public  offer  by  a  government  company,  statutory  authority  or 
corporation  or  any  special  purpose  vehicle  set  up  by  any  of  them,  which  is 
engaged in infrastructure sector;  

(c)  specified  securities  allotted  to  promoters  78[and  alternative  investment  funds]  during 
the preceding one year at a price less than the issue price, against funds brought in by 
them  during  that  period,  in  case  of  an  issuer  formed  by  conversion  of  one  or  more 
partnership  firms,  where  the  partners  of  the  erstwhile  partnership  firms  are  the 
promoters of the issuer and there is no change in the management:  
 Provided that specified securities, allotted to promoters against capital existing in such 
firms for a period of more than one year on a continuous basis, shall be eligible; 

(d)  specified securities pledged with any creditor. 

(2) Specified securities referred to in clauses (a) and (c) of sub-regulation (1) shall be eligible for 
the  computation  of  promoters’  contribution,  if  such  securities  are  acquired  pursuant  to  a  scheme 
which has been approved under sections 391-394 of the Companies Act, 1956. 
Explanation: For the purposes of clause (b) of sub-regulation (1), the term “infrastructure sector” 
includes the facilities or services as specified in Schedule X. 
 
Requirement of minimum promoters’ contribution not applicable in certain cases. 
34. The requirements of minimum promoters’ contribution shall not apply in case of:  

(a)  an issuer which does not have any identifiable promoter;  
(b)  a further public offer, where the equity shares  79[of the issuer] 80[***] are not infrequently 
traded in a recognised stock exchange for a period of at least three years and the issuer has 
a track record of dividend payment for at least immediately preceding three years:  
 Provided that where promoters propose to subscribe to the specified securities offered to 
the extent greater than higher of the two options available in clause (b) of sub-regulation 
(1) of regulation 32, the subscription in excess of such percentage shall be made at a price 
determined  in  terms  of  the  provisions  of  regulation  76  or  the  issue  price,  whichever  is 
higher. 
rights issues. 

(c) 

Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  clause  (b),  the  words  “infrequently  traded”  have  the  same 
meaning as assigned to them in Explanation to sub-regulation (5) of regulation 20 of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 
and the reference date for the purpose of computing the annualised trading turnover referred to in 
the said Explanation shall be the date of filing the draft offer document with the Board and in case 
of a fast track issue, the date of filing the offer document with the Registrar of Companies before 
opening of the issue. 

PART IV - RESTRICTION ON TRANSFERABILITY (LOCK-IN) OF PROMOTERS’ 

CONTRIBUTION, ETC. 

 
Date of commencement of lock in and inscription of non-transferability. 
35.  (1)  Save  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  Chapter,  specified  securities  held  by  promoters  and 
persons other than promoters shall not be transferable (hereinafter referred to as “lock-in’) from the 
date of allotment of the specified securities in the proposed public issue for the period stipulated in 
this Chapter .  

                                                           
78  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 
79  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
12.11.2010. 
80  Words  “of  the  same  class  which  are  proposed  to  be  allotted  pursuant  to  conversion  or  exchange  of  convertible 
securities offered through the offer or are proposed to be allotted in the offer have been listed and” omitted, by SEBI 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 12.11.2010. 

Page 24 of 255 

 

(2) The certificate of specified securities which are subject to lock-in shall contain the inscription 
“non transferable”  and the lock-in  period and in  case such specified securities are dematerialised, 
the issuer shall ensure that lock-in is recorded by the depository. 
(3) Where  the  specified  securities  which  are  subject  to  lock-in  are  partly  paid-up  and  the  amount 
called-up on such specified securities is less than the amount called-up on the specified securities 
issued to  the public, the “lock-in” shall end only  on the expiry of three  years after such specified 
securities have become pari-passu with the specified securities issued to the public. 
 
Lock-in of specified securities held by promoters. 
36.  In  a  public  issue,  the  specified  securities  held  by  promoters  shall  be  locked-in  for  the  period 
stipulated hereunder: 
(a)  minimum  promoters’  contribution  81[  including  contribution  made  by  alternative  investment 
funds,  referred  to  in  proviso  to  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  32,]  shall  be 
locked-in  for  a  period  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  commencement  of  commercial 
production or date of allotment in the public issue, whichever is later;  

(b)  promoters’  holding  in  excess  of  minimum  promoters’  contribution  shall  be  locked-in  for  a 

period of one year: 

 Provided that excess promoters’ contribution as provided in proviso to clause (b) of regulation 34 
shall not be subject to lock-in. 
Explanation:  For  the  purposes  of  this  clause,  the  expression  "date  of  commencement  of 
commercial  production"  means  the  last  date  of  the  month  in  which  commercial  production  in  a 
manufacturing company is expected to commence as stated in the offer document. 
 
Lock-in of specified securities held by persons other than promoters.  
37.  In  case  of  an  initial  public  offer,  the  entire  pre-issue  capital  held  by  persons  other  than 
promoters shall be locked-in for a period of one year: 
 Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to: 
(a)  equity  shares  allotted  to  employees  under  an  employee  stock  option  or  employee  stock 
purchase  scheme  of  the  issuer  prior  to  the  initial  public  offer,  if  the  issuer  has  made  full 
disclosures  with  respect  to  such  options  or  scheme  in  accordance  with  Part  A  of  Schedule 
VIII; 

82[(b)  equity shares held by a venture capital fund or alternative investment fund of category I [or 

category II]83 or a foreign venture capital investor: 
Provided that such equity shares shall be locked in for a period of at least one year from the 
date of purchase by the venture capital fund or alternative investment fund or foreign venture 
capital investor.] 
 

Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  clause  (b),  in  case  such  equity  shares  have  resulted  pursuant  to 
conversion  of  fully  paid-up  compulsorily  convertible  securities,  the  holding  period  of  such 
convertible securities as well as that of resultant equity shares together shall be considered for the 
purpose  of  calculation  of  one  year  period  and  convertible  securities  shall  be  deemed  to  be  fully 
paid-up,  if  the  entire  consideration  payable  thereon  has  been  paid  and  no  further  consideration  is 
payable at the time of their conversion. 
 

                                                           
81  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 
82 Substituted for the existing clause (b) by  SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations 2012, w.e.f. 21.5.2012. 
Prior to its substitution, this clause read as under: 
“(b) equity shares held by a venture capital fund or a foreign venture capital investor for a period of at least one year 
prior to the date of filing the draft prospectus with the Board:” 
83  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2017,  w.e.f. 
31.07.2017 for RHPs registered with the Registrar of Companies on or after 31.07.2017. 

Page 25 of 255 

 

Lock-in of specified securities lent to stabilising agent under green shoe option.  
38.  The  lock-in  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  not  apply  with  respect  to  the  specified  securities 
lent  to  stabilising  agent  for  the  purpose  of  green  shoe  option,  during  the  period  starting  from  the 
date of lending of such specified securities and ending on the date on which they are returned to the 
lender in terms of sub-regulation (5) or (6) of regulation 45:  
 Provided that the specified securities shall be locked-in for the remaining period from the date on 
which they are returned to the lender.   
 
Pledge of locked-in specified securities.  
39.  Specified  securities  held  by  promoters  and  locked-in  may  be  pledged  with  any  scheduled 
commercial bank or public financial institution as collateral security for loan granted by such bank 
or institution, subject to the following: 
(a) 

if  the  specified  securities  are  locked-in  in  terms  of  clause  (a)  of  regulation  36,  the  loan  has 
been  granted  by  such  bank  or  institution  for  the  purpose  of  financing  one  or  more  of  the 
objects  of  the  issue  and  pledge  of  specified  securities  is  one  of  the  terms  of  sanction  of  the 
loan; 
if the specified securities are locked-in in terms of clause (b) of regulation 36 and the pledge 
of specified securities is one of the terms of sanction of the loan. 

(b) 

 
Transferability of locked-in specified securities. 
40. Subject to the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of 
shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997, the specified securities held by promoters and locked-in 
as per regulation 36 may be transferred to  another  promoter or any person of the  promoter group 
or a new promoter or a person in control of the issuer and the specified securities held by persons 
other  than  promoters  and  locked-in  as  per  regulation  37  may  be  transferred  to  any  other  person 
holding  the  specified  securities  which  are    locked-in  along  with  the  securities  proposed  to  be 
transferred:  
 Provided that lock-in on such specified securities shall continue for the remaining period with the 
transferee and such transferee shall not be eligible to transfer them till the lock-in period stipulated 
in these regulations has expired. 

 

PART V - MINIMUM OFFER TO PUBLIC, RESERVATIONS, ETC. 

 
Minimum offer to public. 
41. 84[ The minimum net offer to the public shall be subject to the provisions of clause (b) of 
sub-rule (2) of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957.] 
 
Reservation on competitive basis. 
42. (1) In case of an issue made through the book building process, the issuer may make reservation on 
competitive  basis  out  of  the  issue  size  excluding  promoters’  contribution  and  net  offer  to  public  in 
favour of the following categories of persons: 

                                                           
84  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2014 
w.e.f. 25.08.2014.Prior to substitution, Regulation 41 read as under: 
Minimum offer to public. 
41.Subject to the provisions of sub-clause (b) of clause (2) of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957, 
the net offer to public: 

(a) 

(b) 

in case of an initial public offer, shall be at least ten per cent. or twenty five per cent. of the post-issue 
capital, as the case may be; and  
in case of a further public offer, shall be at least ten per cent. or twenty five per cent. of the issue size, as 
the case may be. 

(2)  84[* * *] 
 

Page 26 of 255 

 

(a) 

85[employees; and in case of a new issuer, persons who are in the permanent and full time 
employment  of  the  promoting  companies  excluding  the  promoters  and  an  immediate 
relative of the promoter of such companies;] 

(b)  shareholders (other than promoters) of:  

listed promoting companies, in case of a new issuer; and 
listed group companies, in case of an existing issuer: 

(i) 
(ii) 
 Provided  that  if  the  promoting  companies  are  designated  financial  institutions  or  state 
and central financial institutions, the shareholders of such promoting companies shall not 
be eligible for the reservation on competitive basis; 

(c)  persons  who,  as  on  the  date  of  filing  the  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board,  are 
associated  with  the  issuer  as  depositors,  bondholders  or  subscribers  to  services  of  the 
issuer making an initial public offer: 
 Provided  that  the  issuer  shall  not  make  the  reservation  to  the  issue  management  team, 
syndicate  members,  their  promoters,  directors  and  employees  and  for  the  group  or 
associate  companies  of  the  issue  management  team  and  syndicate  members  and  their 
promoters, directors and employees; 

(2)  In  case  of  an  issue  made  other  than  through  the  book  building  process,  the  issuer  may  make 
reservation on competitive basis out of the issue size excluding promoters’ contribution and net offer 
to public in favour of the following categories of persons: 

(a) 

86[employees; and in case of a new issuer, persons who are in the permanent and full time 
employment of the promoting companies excluding the promoters and an immediate relative 
of the promoter of such companies;]  

(b)  shareholders (other than promoters) of: 

(i) 
(ii) 

listed promoting companies, in the case of a new issuer; and  
listed group companies, in the case of an existing issuer: 
 Provided that if the promoting companies are designated financial institutions or state 
and  central  financial  institutions,  the  shareholders  of  such  promoting  companies  shall 
not be eligible for the reservation on competitive basis. 

(3)  In case of a further public offer (not being a composite issue), the issuer may make reservation on 
competitive  basis  out  of  the  issue  size  excluding  promoters’  contribution  and  net  offer  to  public  in 
favour of retail individual shareholders of the issuer. 
(4) The reservation on competitive basis shall be subject to following conditions: 

(a) 

(b) 
(c) 

the  aggregate  of  reservations  for  employees  shall  not  exceed  87[five  per  cent.  of  the  post 
issue capital of the issuer]; 
reservation for shareholders shall not exceed ten per cent. of the issue size; 
reservation for persons who as on the date of filing the draft offer document with the Board, 
have  business  association  as  depositors,  bondholders  and  subscribers  to  services  with  the 
issuer making an initial public offer shall not exceed five per cent. of the issue size; 

(d)  no further application for subscription in the net offer to public category shall be entertained 
from any person (except an employee and retail individual shareholder) in favour of whom 
reservation on competitive basis is made; 

(e)  any  unsubscribed  portion  in  any  reserved  category  may  be  added  to  any  other  reserved 
category  and  the  unsubscribed  portion,  if  any,  after  such  inter-se  adjustments  among  the 
reserved categories shall be added to the net offer to the public category; 

                                                           
85  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010, 
w.e.f. 13.04.2010. Prior to substitution, clause (a) read as under:  
“(a) employees of the issuer including employees of the promoting companies in case of a new issuer;” 
86 Substituted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
13.04.2010. Prior to substitution, clause (a) read as under:  
“(a) employees of the issuer including employees of the promoting companies in case of a new issuer;” 
87 Substituted for the  words “ten per cent. of the issue size” by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2009 w.e.f. 11.12.2009. 

Page 27 of 255 

 

(f) 

(g) 

in case of under-subscription in the net offer to the public category, spill-over to the extent 
of under-subscription shall be permitted from the reserved category to the net public offer 
category; 
88[value  of  allotment  to  any  employee  in  pursuance  of  reservation  made  under  sub-
regulations (1) or (2), as the case may be, shall not exceed 89[two lakhs] rupees.] 
  90[Provided that in the event of under-subscription in the employee reservation portion, 
the unsubscribed portion may be allotted on a proportionate basis, for a value in excess of 
two lakhs rupees, subject to the total allotment to an employee not exceeding five lakhs 
rupees.] 

(5)  In  the  case  of  reserved  categories,  a  single  applicant  in  the  reserved  category  may  make  an 
application for a number of specified securities which exceeds the reservation. 
Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation: 
(I)  The term "reservation on competitive basis” means reservation wherein specified securities are 
allotted in proportion of the number of specified securities applied for in respect of a particular 
reserved category to the number of specified securities reserved for that category; 

(II)  The term “new issuer” means an issuer which has not completed twelve months of commercial 

operation and its audited operative results are not available. 

 
Allocation in net offer to public. 
43.  (1)  No  person  shall  make  an  application  in  the  net  offer  to  public  category  for  that  number  of 
specified securities which exceeds the number of specified securities offered to public. 
91[(2) In an issue made through the book building process under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 26, 
the allocation in the net offer to public category shall be as follows: 

(a) not less than thirty five per cent to retail individual investors; 
(b) not less than fifteen per cent to non-institutional investors; 
(c) not more than fifty per cent to qualified institutional buyers, five per cent. of which shall be 
allocated to mutual funds: 

Provided that in addition to five per cent allocation available in terms of clause (c), mutual funds shall 
be eligible for allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional buyers.";]  
92[(2A) In an issue made through the book building process under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 26, 
the allocation in the net offer to public category shall be as follows:  

(a) not more than ten per cent to retail individual investors; 
(b) not more than fifteen per cent to non-institutional investors; 
(c)  not less than seventy  five  per  cent  to  qualified  institutional  buyers,  five  per  cent. of  which 
shall be allocated to mutual funds: 

                                                           
88 Inserted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009 w.e.f. 11.12.2009.   
89  Substituted  for  “one  lakh”  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 12.11.2010. 
90 Inserted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 
30.11.2016. 
91  Substituted  for  sub-regulation  (2)  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as under: 
“(2)  In an issue made through the book building process, the allocation in the net offer to public category shall be made as 
follows: 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 

not less than thirty five per cent. to retail individual investors;  
not less than fifteen per cent. to non-institutional investors;  
not more than fifty per cent. to qualified institutional buyers, five per cent. of which shall be allocated to mutual 
funds: 

Provided that in case of an issue made in terms of sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 26, at least 
fifty per cent. of the net offer to public shall be allotted to qualified institutional buyers: 
Provided further that in addition to five per cent. allocation available in terms of clause (c), mutual funds shall be eligible for 
allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional buyers.” 
92  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 

Page 28 of 255 

 

Provided that in addition to five per cent. allocation available in terms of clause (c), mutual funds shall 
be eligible for allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional buyers.] 
(3)  In an issue made through the book building process, the issuer may allocate upto 93[sixty] per cent. 
of  the  portion  available  for  allocation  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  to  an  anchor  investor  in 
accordance with the conditions specified in this regard in Schedule XI. 
(4)  In an issue made other than through the book building process, allocation in the net offer to public 
category shall be made as follows: 

(a)  minimum fifty per cent. to retail individual investors; and 
(b) 

remaining to: 
(i) 
(ii)  other investors including corporate bodies or institutions, irrespective of the number of 

individual applicants other than retail individual investors; and 

specified securities applied for; 

(c) 

the  unsubscribed  portion  in  either  of  the  categories  specified  in  clauses  (a)  or  (b)  may  be 
allocated to applicants in the other category. 

Explanation: For the purpose of sub-regulation (4), if the retail individual investor category is entitled 
to more than fifty per cent. on proportionate basis, the retail individual investors shall be allocated that 
higher percentage. 
 
Safety-net arrangement. 
44.  An  issuer  may  provide  for  a  safety-net  arrangement  for  the  specified  securities  offered  in  any 
public issue in consultation with the merchant banker after ascertaining the financial capacity of the 
person offering the safety-net arrangement, subject to disclosures specified in this regard in Part A of 
Schedule VIII: 
 Provided that any such arrangement shall provide for an offer to purchase up to a maximum of one 
thousand specified securities per original resident retail individual allottee at the issue price within 
a period of six months from the last date of despatch of security certificates or credit of demat account.  
Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  this  regulation,  the  term  “safety  net  arrangement”  means  an 
arrangement  provided  by  the  issuer  under  which  a  person  offers  to  purchase  specified  securities 
from the original resident retail individual allottees at the issue price. 
 
Price stabilisation through green shoe option. 
45.  (1)  An  issuer  making  a  public  issue  of  specified  securities  may  provide  green  shoe  option  for 
stabilising the post listing price of its specified securities, subject to the following: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

the  issuer  has  been  authorized,  by  a  resolution  passed  in  the  general  meeting  of 
shareholders  approving  the  public  issue,  to  allot  specified  securities  to  the  stabilising 
agent, if required, on the expiry of the stabilisation period;  
the  issuer  has  appointed  a    merchant  banker  or  book  runner,  as  the  case  may  be,  from 
amongst the merchant bankers appointed by the issuer as a stabilising agent, who shall be 
responsible for the price stabilisation process; 
prior to filing the draft offer document with the Board, the issuer and the stabilising agent 
have entered into an agreement, stating all the terms and conditions relating to the green 
shoe option including fees charged and expenses to be incurred by the stabilising agent for 
discharging his responsibilities; 
prior to filing the offer document with the Board, the stabilising agent has entered into an 
agreement  with  the  promoters  or  pre-issue  shareholders  or  both  for  borrowing  specified 
securities  from  them  in  accordance  with  clause  (g)  of  this  sub-regulation,  specifying 
therein the maximum number of specified securities that may be borrowed for the purpose 
of  allotment  or  allocation  of  specified  securities  in  excess  of  the  issue  size  (hereinafter 

                                                           
93  Substituted  for  “thirty”  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 25.08.2014. 
 

Page 29 of 255 

 

referred to as the “over- allotment”), which shall not be in excess of fifteen per cent. of the 
issue size; 
subject to clause (d), the lead merchant banker or lead book runner, in consultation with 
the stabilising agent, shall determine the amount of specified securities to be over-allotted 
in the public issue;  
the draft and final offer documents shall contain all material disclosures about the green 
shoe option specified in this regard in Part A of Schedule VIII; 
in  case  of  an  initial  public  offer  pre-issue  shareholders  and  promoters  and  in  case  of  a 
further  public  offer  pre-issue  shareholders  holding  more  than  five  per  cent.  specified 
securities and promoters, may lend specified securities to the extent of the proposed over-
allotment; 
the specified securities borrowed shall be in dematerialised form and allocation of these 
securities shall be made pro-rata to all successful applicants. 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(2)  For the purpose of stabilisation of post-listing price of the specified securities, the stabilising agent 
shall  determine  the  relevant  aspects  including  the  timing  of  buying  such  securities,  quantity  to  be 
bought and the price at which such securities are to be bought from the market.   
(3)  The stabilisation process shall be available for a period not exceeding thirty days from the date on 
which  trading  permission  is  given  by  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  in  respect  of  the  specified 
securities allotted in the public issue. 
(4)  The stabilising agent shall open a special account, distinct from the issue account, with a bank for 
crediting the monies received from the applicants against the over-allotment and a special account with 
a  depository  participant  for  crediting  specified  securities  to  be  bought  from  the  market  during  the 
stabilisation period out of the monies credited in the special bank account. 
(5)  The  specified  securities  bought  from  the  market  and  credited  in  the  special  account  with  the 
depository participant shall be returned to the promoters or pre-issue shareholders immediately, in any 
case not later than two working days after the end of the stabilization period.  
(6)  On  expiry  of  the  stabilisation  period,  if  the  stabilising  agent  has  not  been  able  to  buy  specified 
securities from the market to the extent of such securities over-allotted, the issuer shall allot specified 
securities at issue price in dematerialised form to the extent of the shortfall to the special account with 
the depository participant, within five days of the closure of the stabilisation period and such specified 
securities shall be returned to the promoters or pre-issue shareholders by the stabilising agent in lieu of 
the specified securities borrowed from them and the account with the depository participant shall be 
closed thereafter.    
(7)  The  issuer  shall  make  a  listing  application  in  respect  of  the  further  specified  securities  allotted 
under sub-regulation (6), to all the recognised stock exchanges where the specified securities allotted 
in  the  public  issue  are  listed  and  the  provisions  of  Chapter  VII  shall  not  be  applicable  to  such 
allotment.  
(8)  The stabilising agent shall remit the monies with respect to the specified securities allotted under 
sub-regulation (6) to the issuer from the special bank account.  
(9)  Any  monies  left  in the  special  bank  account  after  remittance  of  monies  to the  issuer  under  sub-
regulation (8) and deduction of expenses incurred by the stabilising agent for the stabilisation process 
shall  be transferred  to  the  Investor Protection  and  Education  Fund  established  by  the  Board  and the 
special bank account shall be closed soon thereafter. 
(10)  The  stabilising  agent  shall  submit  a  report  to  the  stock  exchange  on  a  daily  basis  during  the 
stabilisation period and a final report to the Board in the format specified in Schedule XII. 
(11)  The stabilising agent shall maintain a register for a period of at least three years from the date of 
the end of the stabilisation period and such register shall contain the following particulars: 

(a)  The  names  of    the  promoters  or  pre-issue  shareholders  from  whom the  specified  securities 

were borrowed and the number of specified securities borrowed from each of them;  

(b)  The  price,  date  and  time  in  respect  of  each  transaction  effected  in  the  course  of  the 

stabilisation process; and   

(c)  The details of allotment made by the issuer on expiry of the stabilisation process. 

Page 30 of 255 

 

 
Period of subscription. 
46. (1) 94[Except as otherwise provided in these regulations] a public issue shall be kept open for at 
least three working days but not more than ten working days including the days for which the issue is 
kept open in case of revision in price band.  
(2)  In  case  the  price  band  in  a  public  issue  made  through  the  book  building  process  is  revised,  the 
bidding (issue) period disclosed in the red herring prospectus shall be extended for a minimum period 
of three working days: 
 Provided that the total bidding period shall not exceed ten working days. 
 
Pre-issue advertisement for public issue. 
47. (1) Subject  to  the provisions of section 66 of the Companies Act,  1956, the issuer shall, after 
registering the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of fixed 
price  issue)  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies,  make  a  pre-issue  advertisement  in  one  English 
national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation,  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide 
circulation  and  one  regional  language  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  at  the  place  where  the 
registered office of the issuer is situated. 
(2) The pre-issue advertisement shall be in the format and shall contain the disclosures specified in 
Part A of Schedule XIII. 
 
Issue opening and issue closing advertisement for public issue. 
48. An issuer may issue advertisements for issue opening and issue closing advertisements, which 
shall be in the formats specified in Parts B and C of Schedule XIII. 
 
Minimum application value. 
49. (1) The issuer shall stipulate in  the offer document, the minimum  application size in  terms  of 
number  of  specified  securities  which  shall  fall  within  the  range  of  minimum  application  value  of 
95[ten thousand rupees to fifteen thousand rupees].  
(2)  The issuer shall invite applications in multiples of the minimum application value, an illustration 
whereof is given in Schedule XIV. 
(3)  The minimum sum payable on application shall not be less than twenty five per cent. of the issue 
price: 
 Provided that in case of an offer for sale, the issue price payable for each specified security shall be 
brought in at the time of application. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, “minimum application value” shall be with reference 
to  the  issue  price  of  the  specified  securities  and  not  with  reference  to  the  amount  payable  on 
application. 
 
Allotment procedure and basis of allotment. 
50.  (1)  The  allotment  of  specified  securities  to  applicants  other  than  96[retail  individual  investors 
and]  anchor  investors  shall  be  on  proportionate  basis  within  the  specified  investor  categories  and 
the  number  of  securities  allotted  shall  be  rounded  off  to  the  nearest  integer,  subject  to  minimum 
allotment being equal to the minimum application size as determined and disclosed by the issuer: 

                                                           
94  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
13.04.2010. 
95 Substituted for the words “five thousand rupees to seven thousand rupees” by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. 
96  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 

Page 31 of 255 

 

 97[Provided  that  value  of  specified  securities  allotted  to  any  person  in  pursuance  of  reservation 
made  under  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  or  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  42, 
shall not exceed 98[two lakhs] rupees.]  
99[(1A) The allotment of specified securities to each retail individual investor shall not be less than 
the minimum bid lot, subject to availability of shares in retail individual investor category, and the 
remaining available shares, if any, shall be allotted on a proportionate basis.] 
(2) The  executive  director  or  managing  director  of  the  designated  stock  exchange  along  with  the 
post issue lead merchant bankers and registrars to the issue shall ensure that the basis of allotment 
is finalised in a fair and proper manner in accordance with the allotment procedure as specified in 
Schedule XV.  
 
Utilisation of subscription money.   
51. The post-issue lead merchant banker shall ensure that moneys received in respect of the issue 
are  released  to  the  issuer  in  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  section  73  of  the  Companies  Act, 
1956. 
  
100[Annual Updation of Offer Document  
51A. The disclosures made in the red herring prospectus while making an initial public offer, shall 
be  updated  on  an  annual  basis  by  the  issuer  and  shall  be  made  publicly  accessible  in  the  manner 
specified by the Board.] 

 

CHAPTER IV 
RIGHTS ISSUE 

 
Record Date. 
52.  (1)  A  listed  issuer  making  a  rights  issue  shall  announce  a  record  date  for  the  purpose  of 
determining the shareholders eligible to apply for specified securities in the proposed rights issue.  
(2)  The issuer shall not withdraw rights issue after announcement of the record date. 
(3)  If  the  issuer  withdraws  the  rights  issue  after  announcing  the  record  date,  it  shall  not  make  an 
application for listing of any of its specified securities on any recognised stock exchange for a period 
of twelve months from the record date announced under sub-regulation (1): 
 Provided  that  the  issuer  may  seek  listing  of  its  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  conversion  or 
exchange  of  convertible  securities  issued  prior  to  the  announcement  of  the  record  date,  on  the 
recognised stock exchange where its securities are listed. 
 
Restriction on rights issue. 
53. (1) No issuer shall make a rights issue of equity shares  101[***]unless it has made reservation of 
equity  shares  of  the  same  class  in  favour  of  the  holders  of  102[***]  outstanding  103[compulsorily] 
convertible debt instruments 104[,if any,] in proportion to the convertible part thereof. 
                                                           
97  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009,  w.e.f. 
11.12.2009. 
98  Substituted  for  the  words  “one  lakh”  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 12.11.2010. 
99  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 
100  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 
101 The words and symbol “if it has outstanding fully or partly convertible debt instruments at the time of making rights 
issue,”  omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012, 
w.e.f. 07.02.2012. 
102  The  word  “such”  omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 07.02.2012. 
103  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
07.02.2012.  

Page 32 of 255 

 

(2) The  equity  shares  105[so]  reserved  for  the  holders  of  fully  or  partially  106[compulsorily] 
convertible  debt  instruments  shall  be  issued  at  the  time  of  conversion  of  such  convertible  debt 
instruments  on  the  same  terms  107[at]  which  the  equity  shares  offered  in  the  rights  issue  were 
issued. 
 
Letter of offer, abridged letter of offer, pricing and period of subscription.  
54.  (1)  The  abridged  letter  of  offer,  along  with  application  form,  shall  be  dispatched  through 
registered post or speed  post to  all the existing shareholders at  least  three days before the date of 
opening of the issue:  
 Provided that the letter of offer shall be given by the issuer or lead merchant banker to any existing 
shareholder who has made a request in this regard. 
(2) The shareholders who have not received the application form may apply in writing on a plain 
paper, along with the requisite application money. 
(3) The shareholders making application otherwise than on the application form shall not renounce 
their rights and shall not utilise the application form for any purpose including renunciation even if 
it is received subsequently. 
(4) Where  any  shareholder  makes  an  application  on  application  form  as  well as  on  plain  paper, the 
application is liable to be rejected. 
(5) The issue price shall be decided before determining the record date which shall be determined in 
consultation with the designated stock exchange. 
(6)  A  rights  issue  shall  be  open  for  subscription  for  a  minimum  period  of  fifteen  days  and  for  a 
maximum period of thirty days. 
108[(7) The issuer shall give only one payment option out of the following to all the investors— 
 
 
Provided that where the issuer has given the part payment option to investors, 109[the part payment on 
application shall  not  be  less  than 25%  of  the  issue  price  and] such issuer  shall obtain  the  necessary 
regulatory approvals to facilitate the same.] 
 
Pre-Issue Advertisement for rights issue. 
55. (1) The issuer shall issue an advertisement for rights issue disclosing the following: 

(a) part payment on application with balance money to be paid in calls; or 
(b) full payment on application: 

 

(a) 
(b) 

the date of completion of despatch of  abridged letter of offer and the application form; 
the  centres  other  than  registered  office  of  the  issuer  where  the  shareholders  or  the 
persons  entitled  to  receive  the  rights  entitlements  may  obtain  duplicate  copies  of  the 
application forms in case they do not receive the application form within a reasonable 
time after opening of the rights issue; 

(c)  a  statement  that  if  the  shareholders  entitled  to  receive  the  rights  entitlements  have 
neither received the original application forms nor they are in a position to obtain  the 
duplicate forms, they may make application in writing on a plain paper to subscribe to 
the rights issue; 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
104  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
07.02.2012.  
105  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
07.02.2012.  
106  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
07.02.2012.  
107  Substituted  for  the  word  “on”,  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 07.02.2012.  
108  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
12.11.2010. 
109  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2015,  w.e.f. 
24.03.2015. 

Page 33 of 255 

 

(d)  a format to enable the shareholders entitled to apply against their rights entitlements, to 
make the application on a plain paper specifying therein necessary particulars such as 
name, address,  ratio of rights  issue, issue price,  number of  equity shares held,  ledger 
folio  numbers,  depository  participant  ID,  client  ID,  number  of  equity  shares  entitled 
and applied for, additional shares if any, amount to be paid along with application, and 
particulars of cheque, etc. to be drawn in favour of the issuer’s account;  

(e)  a  statement  that  the  applications  can  be  directly  sent  by  the  shareholders  entitled  to 
apply against rights entitlements through registered post together with the application 
moneys to the issuer's designated official at the address given in the advertisement; 

(f)  a statement to the effect that if the shareholder makes an application on plain paper and 
also  on  application  form  both  his  applications  shall  be  liable  to  be  rejected  at  the 
option of the issuer.  

(2) The  advertisement  shall  be  made  in  at  least  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide 
circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one  regional  language 
daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where registered office of the issuer is situated, 
at least three days before the date of opening of the issue.  
 
110[Reservation for employees alongwith rights issue. 
55A.  Subject  to  other applicable provision  of these regulations  the issuer may make reservation 
for 111[***] employees alongwith rights issue subject to the condition that value of allotment to any 
employee shall not exceed 112[two lakhs] rupees.] 
 
Utilisation of funds raised in rights issue. 
56.  The  issuer  shall  utilise  funds  collected  in  rights  issues  after  the  finalisation  of  the  basis  of 
allotment.   
 

CHAPTER V 

MANNER OF DISCLOSURES IN THE OFFER DOCUMENTS 

 
Manner of disclosures in the offer document. 
57. (1) The offer document shall contain all material disclosures which are true and adequate so as 
to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.  
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1): 

(a) 

(b) 

the red-herring prospectus, shelf prospectus and prospectus shall contain:   
(i) 
(ii) 

the disclosures specified in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 1956; and 
the  disclosures  specified  in  Part  A  of  Schedule  VIII,  subject  to  the  provisions  of 
Parts B and C thereof. 

the letter of offer shall contain disclosures as specified in Part E of Schedule VIII113[:] 
114[Provided that in the case of a further public offer or a rights issue, the offer  document 
shall  be  deemed  to  be  in  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  this  regulation,  if  suitable 
references  are  made  to  the  updated  disclosures  in  the  offer  document  referred  to  in 
regulation 51A of these regulations.] 

 
                                                           
110  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009,  w.e.f. 
11.12.2009. 
111 The word “its” omitted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010. 
112  Substituted  for  “one  lakh”  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 12.11.2010. 
113 Substituted for “.” by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2012, 
w.e.f. 12.10.2012.  
114  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 

Page 34 of 255 

 

Abridged prospectus, abridged letter of offer and ASBA. 
58.  (1)  The  abridged  prospectus  shall  contain  the  disclosures  115[***]  as  specified  in  Part  D  of 

Schedule VIII. 

(2) The  abridged  letter  of  offer  shall  contain  the  disclosures  as  specified  in  Part  F  of  Schedule 
VIII. 
(3) The abridged prospectus and abridged letter of offer shall not contain any matter extraneous to 
the contents of the offer document.  
(4) Every application form  including ASBA form  distributed by the issuer or any other person in 
relation to an issue shall be accompanied by a copy of the abridged prospectus or abridged letter of 
offer, as the case may be. 
(5) 116[In all, - 

(i)  Public  issues,  the  issuer  shall  accept  bids  using  only  ASBA  facility  in  the  manner 

specified by the Board;  

(ii) Rights issues, where not more than one payment option is given, the issuer shall provide 
the facility of ASBA in accordance with the procedure and eligibility criteria specified by 
the Board: 

Provided that in case of qualified institutional buyers and non-institutional investors 

the issuer shall accept bids using ASBA facility only.] 

117[(6) ***] 
 

CHAPTER VI 

GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF ISSUER AND INTERMEDIARIES WITH RESPECT TO 

PUBLIC ISSUE AND RIGHTS ISSUE 

 
 
Prohibition on payment of incentives. 
59. No person connected with the issue shall offer any incentive, whether direct or indirect, in any 
manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise to any person for making an application 
for allotment of specified securities: 
                                                           
115  The  words,  symbols  and  numbers  "of  the  memorandum  prescribed  under  sub-section  (3)  of  section  56  of  the 
Companies    Act,  1956  and  additional  disclosures"  omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
(Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 1.12.2015. 
116  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 01.01.2016. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (5), as amended by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f.  01.01.2010,  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f.  29.04.2011  and  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 30.01.2012, read as under : 
"(5) In all public issues and rights issues, where not more than one payment option is given, the issuer shall provide the 
facility of ASBA in accordance with the procedure and eligibility criteria specified by the Board : 

Provided  that  in  case  of  qualified  institutional  buyers  and  non-institutional  investors  the  issuer  shall  accept 

bids using ASBA facility only." 
117  Omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
01.01.2010. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (6) read as under:  
“(6) An application through ASBA form may be made: 
     (a) 

is a resident retail individual investor; 
is bidding at cut-off, with single option as to the number of shares bid for; 
is applying through blocking of funds in a bank account with the self certified syndicate banks; 
has agreed not to revise his bid; 
is not bidding under any of the reserved categories; 

in a public issue, by an applicant who: 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
in a rights issue, by an applicant who:  
(i) 
entitlements and/or additional equity shares in dematerialised form;  
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 

has not renounced his entitlements in full or in part; 
is not a renouncee; 
who is applying through blocking of funds in a bank account with the Self Certified Syndicate Bank.” 

     (b) 

holds  the  shares  of  the  issuer  in  dematerialised  form  as  on  the  record  date  and  has  applied  for 

Page 35 of 255 

 

 Provided  that  nothing  contained  in  this  regulation  shall  apply  to  fees  or  commission  for  services 
rendered in relation to the issue. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, the expression “person connected with the issue” 
includes a person connected with the distribution of the issue. 
 
Public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports. 
60.  (1)  Any  public  communication  including  advertisement  and  publicity  material  issued  by  the 
issuer or research report  made by the issuer or any intermediary  concerned with  the issue or their 
associates  shall  contain  only  factual  information  and  shall  not  contain  projections,  estimates, 
conjectures, etc. or any matter extraneous to the contents of the offer document.   
(2) All public communications and publicity material issued or published in any media during the 
period commencing from the date of the meeting of the board of directors of the issuer in which the 
public issue or rights  issue is  approved till the date of filing draft offer document with  the Board 
shall be consistent with its past practices: 
 Provided  that  where  such  public  communication  or  publicity  material  is  not  consistent  with  the 
past  practices  of  the  issuer,  it  shall  be  prominently  displayed  or  announced  in  such  public 
communication or publicity material that the issuer is proposing to make a public or rights issue of 
specified securities in the near future and is in the process of filing a draft offer document with the 
Board. 
(3) All public communications and publicity material issued or published in any media during the 
period  commencing  from  the  date  of  filing  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board    till  the  date  of 
allotment of securities offered in the issue, shall prominently disclose that: 

(a) 

(b) 

the issuer is proposing to make a public issue or rights issue of the specified securities and 
has filed a draft offer document with the Board or has filed the red herring prospectus or 
prospectus with the Registrar of Companies or the letter of offer with the designated stock 
exchange, as the case may be. 
the draft offer document, red herring prospectus or final offer document, as the case may 
be, is available on the website of the Board, lead merchant bankers or lead book runners. 

118[Provided  that  requirements  of  this  sub-regulation  shall  not  be  applicable  in  case  of  product 

advertisements of the issuer.] 
(4) The issuer shall make prompt, true and fair disclosure of all material developments which take 
place  during  the  following  period  mentioned  in  this  sub-regulation,  relating  to  its  business  and 
securities and also relating to the business and securities of its subsidiaries, group companies, etc., 
which may have a material effect on the issuer, by issuing public notices in all the newspapers in 
which  the  issuer  had  issued  pre-issue  advertisement  under  regulation  47  or  regulation  55,  as  the 
case may be: 

(a) 

(b) 

in case of public issue, between the date of registering final prospectus or the red herring 
prospectus, as the case may be, with the Registrar of Companies, and the date of allotment 
of specified securities; 
in case of a rights issue, between the date of filing the letter of offer with the designated 
stock exchange and the date of allotment of the specified securities. 

(5) The issuer shall not, directly or indirectly, release, during any conference or at any other time, 
any material or information which is not contained in the offer document. 
(6) In respect of all public communications, issue advertisements and publicity materials, the issuer 
shall obtain approval from the lead merchant bankers responsible for marketing the issue and shall 
also make copies of all issue related materials available with the lead merchant bankers at least till 
the allotment is completed. 
(7)  Any  advertisement  or  research  report  issued  or  caused  to  be  issued  by  an  issuer,  any 
intermediary concerned with the issue or their associates shall comply with the following: 

                                                           
118  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 14.08.2015. 

Page 36 of 255 

 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 
(d) 

(e) 

it shall be truthful, fair and shall not  be manipulative or deceptive or distorted and it shall not 
contain any statement, promise or forecast which is untrue or misleading; 
if it reproduces or purports to reproduce any information contained in an offer document, it 
shall reproduce such information in full and disclose all relevant facts and not be restricted to 
select extracts relating to that information; 
it shall be set forth in a clear, concise and understandable language; 
it  shall  not  include  any  issue  slogans  or  brand  names  for  the  issue  except  the  normal 
commercial name of the issuer or commercial brand names of its products already in use; 
if it presents any financial data, data for the past three years shall also be included alongwith 
particulars relating to sales, gross profit, net profit, share capital, reserves, earnings per share, 
dividends and the book values; 

(f)  no advertisement shall use extensive technical, legal terminology or complex language and 

excessive details which may distract the investor; 

(g)  no issue advertisement shall contain statements which promise or guarantee rapid increase in 

profits;  

(h)  no  issue  advertisement  shall  display  models,  celebrities,  fictional  characters,  landmarks  or 

caricatures or the likes;  

(i)  no  issue  advertisement  shall  appear  in  the  form  of  crawlers  (the  advertisements  which  run 
simultaneously with the programme in a narrow strip at the bottom of the television screen) 
on television; 
in any issue advertisement on television screen, the risk factors shall not be scrolled on the 
television  screen  and  the  advertisement  shall  advise  the  viewers  to  refer  to  the  red  herring 
prospectus or other offer document for details; 

(j) 

(k)  no  issue  advertisement  shall  contain  slogans,  expletives  or  non-factual  and  unsubstantiated 

(l) 

titles; 
if  an  advertisement  or  research  report    contains  highlights,  it  shall  also  contain  risk  factors 
with equal importance in all respects including print size of not less than point seven size; 

(m)  an issue advertisement displayed on a billboard shall not contain information other than that 

specified in Parts A, B and C of Schedule XIII, as applicable; 

(n)  an  issue  advertisement  which  contains  highlights  or  information  other  than  the  details 
contained  in  the  format  as  specified  in  Parts  A  and  B  of  Schedule  XIII  shall  contain  risk 
factors. 

(8) No advertisement shall be issued giving any impression that the issue has been fully subscribed 
or oversubscribed during the period the issue is open for subscription. 
(9)  An announcement regarding closure of issue shall be made only after the lead merchant banker(s) 
is satisfied that at least ninety per cent. of the offer through offer document has been subscribed and a 
certificate has been obtained to that effect from the registrar to the issue: 
 Provided that such announcement shall not be made before the date on which the issue is to be closed.   
(10)  No  advertisement  or  distribution  material  with  respect  to  the  issue  shall  contain  any  offer  of 
incentives, whether direct or indirect, in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise. 
(11)  No product advertisement shall contain any reference, directly or indirectly, to the performance 
of the issuer during the period commencing from the date of the resolution of the board of directors of 
the  issuer  approving  the  public  issue  or  rights  issue  till  the  date  of  allotment  of  specified  securities 
offered in such issue.  
(12)  A research report may be prepared only on the basis of information, disclosed to the public by the 
issuer by updating the offer document or otherwise. 
(13)  No  selective  or  additional  information  or  information  which  is  extraneous  to  the  information 
disclosed to the public through the offer document or otherwise, shall be given by the issuer or any 
member of the issue management team or syndicate to any particular section of the investors or to any 
research analyst in any manner whatsoever, including at road shows, presentations, in research or sales 
reports or at bidding centres. 

Page 37 of 255 

 

119[(14) The merchant bankers shall submit a compliance certificate in the format specified in Part 
D  of  Schedule  XIII,  for  the  period  between  the  date  of  filing  the  draft  offer  document  with  the 
Board  and  the  date  of  closure  of  the  issue,  in  respect  of  news  reports  appearing  in  any  of  the 
following media: 
(a) newspapers mentioned in sub-regulation (3) of regulation 9; 
(b) major business magazines; 
(c) print and electronic media controlled by a media group where the media 
group has a private treaty/shareholders’ agreement with the issuer or 
promoters of the issuer.] 
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation: 
(I)  “public  communication  or  publicity  material”  includes  corporate,  product  and  issue 
advertisements of the issuer, interviews by its promoters, directors, duly authorized employees 
or  representatives  of  the  issuer,  documentaries  about  the  issuer  or  its  promoters,  periodical 
reports and press releases. 

(II)  An issue advertisement shall be considered to be misleading, if it contains: 

(a)  Statements  made  about  the  performance  or  activities  of  the  issuer  without  necessary 
explanatory  or  qualifying  statements,  which  may  give  an  exaggerated  picture  of  such 
performance or activities. 

(b)  An inaccurate portrayal of past performance or its portrayal in a manner which implies that 

past gains or income will be repeated in the future. 

 
 Copies of offer documents to be available to public. 
61.  (1)  The  issuer  and  lead  merchant  bankers  shall  ensure  that  the  contents  of  offer  documents 
hosted on the websites as required in these regulations are the same as that of their printed versions 
as filed with the Registrar of Companies, Board and the stock exchanges. 
(2) The lead merchant bankers and the recognised stock exchange shall provide copies of the draft 
offer document and final offer document to the public as and when requested. 
(3) The lead merchant bankers or the recognised stock exchange may charge a reasonable sum for 
providing the copy of the offer document. 
 
Redressal of investor grievances.  
62. The post-issue lead merchant bankers shall actively associate himself with post-issue activities 
such  as  allotment,  refund,  despatch  and  giving  instructions  to  syndicate  members,  Self  Certified 
Syndicate  Banks  and  other  intermediaries  and  shall  regularly  monitor  redressal  of  investor 
grievances arising therefrom. 
 
Appointment of Compliance Officer. 
63.  The  issuer  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the 
compliance of the securities laws and for redressal of investors’ grievances. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, the term “securities laws” means the Companies 
Act, 1956, the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories Act, 1996 and 
the rules and regulations made thereunder and the regulations, general or special orders, guidelines 
or circulars made or issued by the Board. 
 
Due diligence. 
64.  (1)  The  lead  merchant  bankers  shall  exercise  due  diligence  and  satisfy  himself  about  all  the 
aspects of the issue including the veracity and adequacy of disclosure in the offer documents.  

                                                           
119 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
12.11.2010. 

Page 38 of 255 

 

(2) The lead merchant bankers shall call upon the issuer, its promoters or directors or in case of an 
offer for sale, the selling shareholders, to  fulfil their obligations as disclosed by them in the offer 
document and as required in terms of these Regulations. 
(3) The post-issue merchant banker shall continue to be responsible for post-issue activities till the 
subscribers  have  received  the  securities  certificates,  credit  to  their  demat  account  or  refund  of 
application moneys and the listing agreement is entered into by the issuer with the stock exchange 
and listing/ trading permission is obtained. 
(4) The responsibility of the lead merchant banker shall continue even after the completion of issue 
process. 
 
Post- issue reports.  
65. 120[(1) In public issue, the lead merchant banker shall submit final post-issue report as specified 
in  Part  C  of  Schedule  XVI,  within  seven  days  of  the  date  of  finalization  of  basis  of  allotment  or 
within seven days of refund of money in case of failure of issue.  
  (2) In rights issue, the lead merchant banker shall submit post-issue reports as follows:- 

(a) 

initial  post  issue  report  as  specified  in  Part  B  of  Schedule  XVI,  within  three  days  of 
closure of the issue; 

(b)  final post issue report as specified in Part D of Schedule XVI, within fifteen days of the 
date of finalization of basis of allotment or within fifteen days of refund of money in case 
of failure of issue.] 

The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  submit  a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  the  format  specified  in 
Form G of Schedule VI, along with the final post issue report. 
 
Post-issue Advertisements. 
66.  (1)  The  post-issue  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  advertisement  giving  details  relating  to 
oversubscription,  basis  of  allotment,  number,  value  and  percentage  of  all  applications  including 
ASBA, number, value and percentage of successful allottees for all applications  including ASBA, 
date of completion of despatch of refund orders or instructions to Self Certified Syndicate Banks by 
the Registrar, date of despatch of certificates and date of filing of listing application, etc. is released 
within ten days from the date of completion of the various activities in at least one English national 
daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation 
and  one  regional  language  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  at  the  place  where  registered 
office of the issuer is situated. 
(2) The  post-issue  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  issuer,  advisors,  brokers  or  any  other  entity 
connected  with  the  issue  do  not  publish  any  advertisement  stating  that  issue  has  been 
oversubscribed  or  indicating  investors’  response  to  the  issue,  during  the  period  when  the  public 
issue is still open for subscription by the public.  
 
Co-ordination with Intermediaries.  
67. (1) The post-issue merchant banker shall maintain close co-ordination with the registrars to the 
issue and arrange to depute its officers to the offices of various intermediaries at regular intervals 
after  the  closure  of  the  issue  to  monitor  the  flow  of  applications  from  collecting  bank  branches 
and/or Self Certified Syndicate Banks, processing of the applications including application form for 

                                                           
120  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 01.01.2016. Prior to their substitution, sub-regulations (1) and (2) read as under : 
"(1) The lead merchant banker shall submit post-issue reports to the Board in accordance with sub-regulation (2). 
  (2) The post-issue reports shall be submitted as follows: 

(a) 

  initial post issue report as specified in Parts A and B of Schedule XVI, within three days of closure of the 

issue; 

(b) 

  final  post  issue  report  as  specified  in  Parts  C  and  D  of  Schedule  XVI,  within  fifteen  days  of  the  date  of 

finalisation of basis of allotment or within fifteen days of refund of money in case of failure of issue." 

 

Page 39 of 255 

 

ASBA and other matters till the basis of allotment is finalised, despatch of security certificates and 
refund orders are completed and securities are listed.  
(2) Any act of omission or commission on the part of any of the intermediaries noticed during such 
visits shall be duly reported to the Board.  
(3) In case there is a devolvement on underwriters, the merchant banker shall ensure that the notice 
for devolvement containing the obligation of the underwriters is issued within a period of ten days 
from the date of closure of the issue. 
(4) In case of undersubscribed issues, the merchant  banker shall furnish  information  in  respect  of 
underwriters  who  have  failed  to  meet  their  underwriting  devolvement  to  the  Board  in  the  format 
specified in Schedule XVII. 
(5) The post-issue merchant banker shall confirm  to the bankers to  the issue by way of  copies of 
listing and trading approvals that all formalities in connection with the issue have been completed 
and that the banker is free to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case 
of failure of the issue. 
 
Audited financial statements in the offer document. 
68.  The  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  information  contained  in  the  offer  document  and  the 
particulars as per audited financial statements in the offer document are not more than six months old 
from the issue opening date. 
 
Other responsibilities. 
69.  (1)  The  post-issue  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  despatch  of  refund  orders,  allotment 
letters and share certificates is done by way of registered post or certificate of posting, as may be 
applicable. 
(2) The post-issue merchant banker shall ensure payment of interest  to  the  applicants  for delayed 
dispatch of allotment letters, refund orders, etc. as per the disclosure made in the offer document. 
(3) In  case  of  absence  of  definite  information  about  subscription  figures,  the  issue  shall  be  kept 
open for the  required number of days to  avoid  any dispute, at  a later date, by the underwriters in 
respect of their liability. 
(4)  The issuer shall ensure that transactions in securities by the promoter and promoter group during 
the period between the date of registering the offer document with the Registrar of Companies or filing 
the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange, as the case may be and the date of closure of the 
issue shall be reported to the recognised stock exchanges where the specified securities of the issuer 
are listed, within twenty four hours of the transactions. 

 
 

121[CHAPTER VI-A 

CONDITIONS AND MANNER OF PROVIDING EXIT OPPORTUNITY TO  

DISSENTING SHAREHOLDERS 

 

 
 
Applicability. 
69A.  (1)  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  apply  to  an  exit  offer  made  by  the  promoters  or 
shareholders  in  control  of  an  issuer  to  the  dissenting  shareholders  in  terms  of  section  13(8)  and 
section 27(2) of the Companies Act, 2013, in case of change in objects or variation in the terms of 
contract referred to in the prospectus. 

                                                           
121  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2016,  w.e.f. 
17.02.2016. 

Page 40 of 255 

 

(2) The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply where there are neither identifiable promoters nor 
shareholders in control of the listed issuer. 
 
 
Definitions. 
69B. For the purpose of this Chapter: 

(a)  “dissenting  shareholders”  means  those  shareholders  who  have  voted  against  the 
resolution  for  change  in  objects  or  variation  in  terms  of  a  contract,  referred  to  in  the 
prospectus of the issuer; 

(b) “frequently  traded  shares”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  in  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. 

(c)  “relevant  date”  means  date  of  the  board  meeting  in  which  the  proposal  for  change  in 
objects  or  variation  in  terms  of  a  contract,  referred  to  in  the  prospectus  is  approved, 
before seeking shareholders’ approval.  

 

 
Conditions for exit offer. 
69C.  The  promoters  or  shareholders  in  control  shall  make  the  exit  offer  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of this Chapter, to the dissenting shareholders, if: 

(a)  the public issue has opened after April 1, 2014; and 
(b) the proposal for change in objects or variation in terms of a contract, referred to in the 
prospectus  is  dissented  by  at  least  ten  per  cent.  of  the  shareholders  who  voted  in  the 
general meeting; and 

(c)  the amount to be utilized for the objects for which the prospectus was issued is less than 
seventy five per cent. of the amount raised (including the amount earmarked for general 
corporate purposes as disclosed in the offer document). 

 
 
Eligibility of shareholders for availing the exit offer 
69D.  Only  those  dissenting  shareholders  of  the  issuer  who  are  holding  shares  as  on  the  relevant 
date shall be eligible to avail the exit offer made under this Chapter. 
 
 
Exit offer price. 
69E. The ‘exit price’ payable to the dissenting shareholders shall be the highest of the following: 

(a)  the  volume-weighted  average  price  paid  or  payable  for  acquisitions,  whether  by  the 
promoters  or  shareholders  having  control  or  by  any  person  acting  in  concert  with  them, 
during the fifty-two weeks immediately preceding the relevant date; 

(b) the  highest  price  paid  or  payable  for  any  acquisition,  whether  by  the  promoters  or 
shareholders  having  control  or  by  any  person  acting  in  concert  with  them,  during  the 
twenty-six weeks immediately preceding the relevant date; 

(c)  the volume-weighted average market price of such shares for a period of sixty trading days 
immediately preceding the relevant date as traded on the recognised stock exchange where 

Page 41 of 255 

 

the maximum volume of trading in the shares of the issuer are recorded during such period, 
provided such shares are frequently traded; 

(d) where  the  shares  are  not  frequently  traded,  the  price  determined  by  the  promoters  or 
shareholders  having  control  and  the  merchant  banker  taking  into  account  valuation 
parameters including book value, comparable trading multiples, and such other parameters 
as are customary for valuation of shares of such issuers. 

 

Manner of providing exit to dissenting shareholders. 
69F.  (1)  The  notice  proposing  the  passing  of    special  resolution  for  changing  the  objects  of  the 
issue and varying  the terms of contract, referred to in the prospectus shall also contain information 
about the exit offer to the dissenting shareholders. 
(2)  In  addition  to  the  disclosures  required  under  the  provisions  of  section 102  of  the  Companies 
Act,  2013  read  with  rule  32  of  the  Companies  (Incorporation)  Rules,  2014  and  rule  7  of  the 
Companies (Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014 and any other applicable law, a 
statement to the effect that the promoters or the shareholders having control shall provide an exit 
opportunity  to  the  dissenting  shareholders  shall  also  be  included  in  the  explanatory  statement  to 
the notice for passing special resolution. 
(3)  After  passing  of  the  special  resolution,  the  issuer  shall  submit  the  voting  results  to  the 
recognised stock exchange(s), in terms of the provisions of regulation 44(3) of the Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
(4) The issuer shall also  submit the list of dissenting shareholders, as certified by its compliance 
officer, to the recognised stock exchange(s). 
(5) The promoters or shareholders in control, shall appoint a merchant banker registered with the 
Board and finalize the exit offer price in accordance with these regulations. 
(6)  The  issuer  shall  intimate  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  about  the  exit  offer  to  dissenting 
shareholders and the price at which such offer is being given.  
(7) The recognised stock exchange(s) shall immediately on receipt of such intimation disseminate 
the same to public within one working day. 
(8) To ensure security for performance of their obligations, the promoters or shareholders having 
control, as  applicable, shall create  an escrow account  which may be interest  bearing and deposit 
the  aggregate  consideration  in  the  account  at  least  two  working  days  prior  to  opening  of  the 
tendering period. 
(9)  The  tendering  period  shall  start  not  later  than  seven  working  days  from  the  passing  of  the 
special resolution and shall remain open for ten working days. 
(10)  The  dissenting  shareholders  who  have  tendered  their  shares  in  acceptance  of  the  exit  offer 
shall have the option to withdraw such acceptance till the date of closure of the tendering period. 
(11)  The  promoters  or  shareholders  having  control  shall  facilitate  tendering  of  shares  by  the 
shareholders  and  settlement  of  the  same  through  the  recognised  stock  exchange  mechanism  as 
specified by SEBI for the purpose of takeover, buy-back and delisting.  
(12) The promoters or shareholders having control shall, within a period of ten working days from 
the last date of the tendering period, make payment of consideration to the dissenting shareholders 
who have accepted the exit offer. 
(13)  Within  a  period  of  two  working  days  from  the  payment  of  consideration,  the  issuer  shall 
furnish  to  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s),  disclosures  giving  details  of  aggregate  number  of 
shares tendered, accepted, payment of consideration and the post-offer shareholding pattern of the 

Page 42 of 255 

 

issuer  and  a  report  by  the  merchant  banker  that  the  payment  has  been  duly  made  to  all  the 
dissenting shareholders whose shares have been accepted in the exit offer. 

 

Offer not to exceed maximum permissible non-public shareholding. 
69G.  In  the  event,  the  shares  accepted  in  the  exit  offer  were  such  that  the  shareholding  of  the 
promoters  or  shareholders  in  control,  taken  together  with  persons  acting  in  concert  with  them 
pursuant  to  completion  of  the  exit  offer  results  in  their  shareholding  exceeding  the  maximum 
permissible non-public shareholding, the promoters or shareholders in control, as applicable, shall 
be required to bring down the non-public shareholding to the level specified and within the time 
permitted under Securities Contract (Regulation) Rules, 1957.” 

 
 

CHAPTER VII 

PREFERENTIAL ISSUE 

 
Chapter VII not to apply in certain cases. 
70. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply where the preferential issue of equity shares is 
made: 

(a)  pursuant to conversion of loan or option attached to convertible debt instruments in terms 
of sub-sections (3) and (4) of sections 81 of the Companies Act, 1956 122[or sub-section 
(3) and (4) of section 62 of the Companies Act, 2013, whichever applicable]; 

(b)  pursuant  to  a  scheme  approved  by  a  High  Court  under  section  391  to  394  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956 114[or a Tribunal under sections 230 to 234 of the Companies Act, 
2013, whichever applicable 
Provided that the pricing provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the issuance of shares 
under  schemes  mentioned  in  clause  (b)  in  case  of  allotment  of  shares  only  to  a  select 
group of shareholders or shareholders of unlisted companies pursuant to such schemes;] 
in terms of the rehabilitation scheme approved by the Board  of Industrial and Financial 
Reconstruction under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 114[or 
123[the  resolution  plan  approved  by]  the  Tribunal  under  the  Insolvency  and  Bankruptcy 
Code, 2016, whichever applicable]:  

(c) 

124[Provided  that  the  lock-in  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  apply  to  preferential  issue  of  equity 
shares mentioned in clause (c).] 
(2)  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter  relating  to  pricing  and  lock-in  shall  not  apply  to  equity  shares 
allotted  to  any  financial  institution  within  the  meaning  of  sub-clauses  (ia)  and  (ii)  of  clause  (h)  of 
section 2 of the Recovery of Debts due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of 1993). 
(3) The provisions of regulation 73 and regulation 76 shall not apply to a preferential issue of equity 
shares and compulsorily convertible debt instruments, whether fully or partly, where the Board has 
granted relaxation to the issuer in terms of regulation 29A of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997  125[or regulation 11 of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 
Regulations,  2011,  whichever  applicable],  if  adequate  disclosures  about  the  plan  and  process 

                                                           
122  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2017,  w.e.f. 
15.02.2017. 
123 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 
14.8.2017. 
124 Substituted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
13.04.2010.  Prior to its substitution, proviso read as under:  
“Provided that the lock-in provisions of this Chapter shall apply to such preferential issue of equity shares.” 
125  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2017,  w.e.f. 
15.02.2017.  

Page 43 of 255 

 

proposed  to  be  followed  for  identifying  the  allottees  are  given  in  the  explanatory  statement  to 
notice for the general meeting of shareholders. 
126[(4)  The  provisions  of sub-regulation  (2) of  regulation 72  and sub-regulation  (6)  of  regulation 78 
shall not apply to a preferential issue of specified securities where the proposed allottee is a Mutual 
Fund  registered  with  the  Board  or  Insurance  Company  registered  with  Insurance  Regulatory  and 
Development  Authority  127[of  India  or  a  Scheduled  Bank  listed  under  the  Second  Schedule  of  the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 or a Public Financial Institution as defined in clause 72 of section 2 
of the Companies Act, 2013].] 
128[(5) The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply where the preferential issue of specified securities 
is  made  to  the  lenders  pursuant  to  conversion  of  their  debt,  as  part  of  a  debt  restructuring  scheme 
implemented in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Reserve Bank of India, subject to the 
following conditions: 

(a)  the  guidelines  for  determining  the  conversion  price  have  been  specified  by  the  Reserve 
Bank  of  India  in  accordance  with  which  the  conversion  price  shall  be  determined  and 
which shall be in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013; 

(b)  the  conversion  price  shall  be  certified  by  two  independent  qualified  valuers,  and  for  this 
purpose ‘valuer’ shall be a person who is registered under section 247 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the relevant Rules framed thereunder: 
 
Provided that till such date on which section 247 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
relevant  Rules  come  into  force,  valuer  shall  mean  an  independent  merchant  banker 
registered  with  the  Board  or  an  independent  chartered  accountant  in  practice  having  a 
minimum experience of ten years;  

(c)  specified securities so allotted shall be locked-in for a period of one year from the date of 

their allotment: 
 
Provided that for the purpose of transferring the control, the lenders may transfer the 
specified  securities  allotted  to  them  before  completion  of  the  lock-in  period  subject  to 
continuation of the lock-in on such securities for the remaining period, with the transferee; 
(d)  the lock-in of equity shares allotted pursuant to conversion of convertible securities issued 
on preferential basis shall be reduced to the extent the convertible securities have already 
been locked-in; 

(e)  the  applicable  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  are  complied  with,  including  the 

requirement of special resolution.] 

                                                           
126  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
07.02.2012   
127  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2017, 
w.e.f., 31.5.2017.  
128  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2017, 
w.e.f.  14.8.2017.  Prior  to  the  substitution,  sub-regulation  (5),  inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 05.05.2015, read as follows:  

in  accordance  with 

the                   

“(5) Conversion of debt into equity under strategic debt restructuring scheme- The  provisions of this Chapter 
shall not apply where the preferential issue of equity shares is made to the consortium of banks and financial 
institutions  pursuant  to  conversion  of  their  debt,  as  part  of  the  strategic  debt  restructuring  scheme  in 
accordance with the guidelines specified by the Reserve Bank of India, subject to the following conditions: 
(a) 
the  guidelines  specified  by 

conversion  price  shall  be  determined 
Reserve  Bank  of  India  for  strategic  debt  restructuring  scheme,  which  shall  not  be  less  than  the  face 
value of the equity shares; 
conversion  price  shall  be  certified  by  two  independent  qualified  valuers,  and  for  this  purpose  'valuer' 
shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (r) of sub regulation (1) of regulation 2 of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2002;  
equity shares so allotted shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of trading approval: 

Provided  that  for  the  purposes  of  transferring  the  control,  the  consortium  of  banks  and  financial 
institutions may transfer their shareholding to an entity before completion of the lock in period subject 
to continuation of the lock in on such shares for the remaining period with the transferee;  
applicable provisions of Companies Act, 2013 are complied with, including the requirement of special 
resolution.” 

Page 44 of 255 

 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

129[(6)  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  not  apply  where  the  preferential  issue,  if  any,  of 
specified  securities  is  made  to  person(s)  at  the  time  of  lenders  selling  their  holding  of  specified 
securities  or  enforcing  change  in  ownership  in  favour  of  such  person(s)  pursuant  to  a  debt 
restructuring scheme implemented in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Reserve Bank 
of India, subject to the following conditions: 

(a)  the guidelines for determining the issue price have been specified by the Reserve Bank 
of India in accordance with which the issue price shall be determined and which shall be 
in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013;    

(b) the  issue  price  shall  be  certified  by  two  independent  qualified  valuers,  and  for  this 
purpose ‘valuer’ shall be a person who is registered under section 247 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the relevant Rules framed thereunder: 

Provided that till such date on  which section 247 of the Companies Act,  2013 and 
the relevant Rules come into force, valuer shall mean an independent merchant banker 
registered  with  the  Board  or  an  independent  chartered  accountant  in  practice  having  a 
minimum experience of ten years;  

(c)  the specified securities so allotted shall be locked-in for a period of at least three years 

from the date of their allotment;  

(d) the  lock-in  of  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  conversion  of  convertible  securities 
issued on preferential basis shall be reduced to the extent the convertible securities have 
already been locked-in; 

(e)  a special resolution has been passed by shareholders of the issuer before the preferential 

issue; 

(f)   the issuer shall, in addition to the disclosures required under the Companies Act, 2013 
or  any  other  applicable  law,  disclose  the  following  information  pertaining  to  the 
proposed  allottee(s)  in  the  explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  for  the  general  meeting 
proposed  for  passing  the  special  resolution  as  stipulated  at  clause  (e)  of  this  sub-
regulation:  

a.  the identity including that of the natural persons who are the ultimate beneficial 
owners of the shares proposed to be allotted and/ or who ultimately control the 
proposed allottee(s); 
b.  the business model; 
c.  a statement on growth of business over the period of time; 
d.  summary of audited financials of previous three financial years; 
e.  track record in turning around companies, if any; 
f. 

the proposed roadmap for effecting turnaround of the issuer. 

(g)  the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 are complied with.] 

 
Relevant date. 
71. For the purpose of this Chapter, "relevant date" means: 
(a) 

in case of preferential issue of equity shares, the date thirty days prior to the date on which the 
meeting of shareholders is held to consider the proposed preferential issue: 
 Provided that in case of preferential issue of equity shares pursuant to a scheme approved under 
the Corporate Debt Restructuring framework of Reserve Bank of India, the date of approval of 
the Corporate Debt Restructuring Package shall be the relevant date. 
in case of preferential issue of convertible securities, either the relevant date referred to in clause 
(a) of this regulation or a date thirty days prior to the date on which the holders of the convertible 
securities become entitled to apply for the equity shares. 

(b) 

                                                           
129  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2017, 
w.e.f. 14.8.2017. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (6), read as follows:  

“(6) The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply when any other secured lenders opt to join the strategic 
debt  restructuring  scheme  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines  specified  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  and 
convert their debt into equity share in accordance with sub regulation (5).” 

Page 45 of 255 

 

130[Explanation:  Where  the  relevant  date  falls  on  a  Weekend/Holiday,  the  day  preceding  the 
Weekend/Holiday will be reckoned to be the relevant date.] 
 
Frequently traded shares. 
131[71A.  For  the  purpose  of  this  Chapter,  “frequently  traded  shares”  means  shares  of  an  issuer,  in 
which  the  traded  turnover  on  any  stock  exchange  during  the  twelve  calendar  months  preceding  the 
relevant date, is at least ten per cent of the total number of shares of such class of shares of the issuer: 
 
Provided  that  where  the  share  capital  of  a  particular  class  of  shares  of  the  issuer  is  not  identical 
throughout such period, the weighted average number of total shares of such class of the issuer shall 
represent the total number of shares.] 
 
Conditions for preferential issue. 
72. (1) A listed issuer may make a preferential issue of specified securities, if: 

(a)  a special resolution has been passed by its shareholders; 
(b)  all  the  equity  shares,  if  any,  held  by  the  proposed  allottees  in  the  issuer  are  in 

dematerialised form; 
the issuer is in compliance with the conditions for continuous listing of equity shares as 
specified in the listing  agreement  with the  recognised  stock  exchange  where  the  equity 
shares of the issuer are listed; 
the issuer has obtained the Permanent Account Number of the proposed allottees. 

(c) 

(d) 

(2)  The issuer shall not make preferential issue of specified securities to any person who has sold any 
equity shares of the issuer during the six months preceding the relevant date: 
 Provided that in respect of the preferential issue of equity shares and compulsorily convertible debt 
instruments,  whether  fully  or  partly,  the  Board  may  grant  relaxation  from  the  requirements  of  this 
sub-regulation,  if  the  Board  has  granted  relaxation  in  terms  of  regulation  29A  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 to such 
preferential allotment. 
132[Explanation.—Where  any  person  belonging  to  promoter(s)  or  the  promoter  group  has  sold  his 
equity  shares  in  the  issuer  during  the  six  months  preceding  the  relevant  date,  the  promoter(s)  and 
promoter group shall be ineligible for allotment of specified securities on preferential basis. 
(3)  Where  any  person  belonging  to  promoter(s)  or  the  promoter  group  has  previously  subscribed to 
warrants of an issuer but failed to exercise the warrants, the promoter(s) and promoter group shall be 
ineligible for issue of specified securities of such issuer on preferential basis for a period of one year 
from: 

(a) the date of expiry of the tenure of the warrants due to non-exercise of the option to convert;    
or 
(b) the date of cancellation of the warrants, as the case may be.] 

 
Disclosures. 
73.  (1)  The issuer shall, in addition to the disclosures required under section 173 of the Companies 
Act,  1956  or  any  other  applicable    law,  disclose  the  following  in  the  explanatory  statement  to  the 
notice for the general  meeting proposed for passing special resolution:  

(a) 
(b) 

the objects of the preferential issue;  
the  proposal  of  the  promoters,  directors  or  key  management  personnel  of  the  issuer  to 
subscribe to the offer;  

                                                           
130  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
30.01.2012. 
131  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f. 
25.08.2012. 
132 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
12.11.2010. 

Page 46 of 255 

 

(c) 
(d) 
(e) 

the shareholding pattern of the issuer before and after the preferential issue; 
the time within which the preferential issue shall be completed;  
the identity of 133[the natural persons who are the ultimate beneficial owners of the shares 
proposed  to  be  allotted  and/or  who  ultimately  control]  the  proposed  allottees,  the 
percentage  of  post  preferential  issue  capital  that  may  be  held  by  them  and  change  in 
control, if any, in the issuer consequent to the preferential issue 134[:]  
      135[Provided that  if  there  is  any  listed  company,  mutual  fund,  bank  or  insurance 
company in the chain of ownership of the proposed allottee, no further disclosure will be 
necessary.] 

(f)  an  undertaking  that  the  issuer  shall  re-compute  the  price  of  the  specified  securities  in 

terms of the provision of these regulations where it is required to do so; 

(g)  an undertaking that if the amount payable on account of the re-computation of  price is 
not  paid  within  the  time  stipulated  in  these  regulations,  the  specified  securities  shall 
continue to be locked- in till the time such amount is paid by the allottees. 

136[(h)  disclosures, similar to disclosures specified in Part G of Schedule VIII, if the issuer or 

any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter.] 

(2)  The issuer shall place a copy of the certificate of its statutory auditor before the general meeting of 
the shareholders, considering the proposed preferential issue, certifying that the issue is being made in 
accordance with the requirements of these regulations. 
(3) Where  specified  securities  are  issued  on  a  preferential  basis  to  promoters,  their  relatives, 
associates  and  related  entities  for  consideration  other  than  cash,  the  valuation  of  the  assets  in 
consideration  for  which  the  equity  shares  are  issued  shall  be  done  by  an  independent  qualified 
valuer, which shall be submitted to the recognised stock exchanges where the  equity shares of the 
issuer are listed: 
 Provided  that  if  the  recognised  stock  exchange  is  not  satisfied  with  the  appropriateness  of  the 
valuation, it may get the valuation done by any other valuer and for this purpose it may obtain any 
information, as deemed necessary, from the issuer. 
(4)  The  special  resolution  shall  specify  the  relevant  date  on  the  basis  of  which  price  of  the  equity 
shares to be allotted on conversion or exchange of convertible securities shall be calculated. 
Explanation: For the purpose of sub-regulation (3), the term ‘valuer’ has the same meaning as is 
assigned to it under clause (r) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue of Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2002. 
 
Allotment pursuant to special resolution. 
74. (1) Allotment pursuant to the special resolution shall be completed within a period of fifteen days 
from the date of passing of such resolution: 
 Provided  that  where  any  application  for  exemption  from  the  applicability  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 or any 
approval  or  permission  by  any  regulatory  authority  or  the  Central  Government  for  allotment  is 
pending, the period of fifteen days shall be counted from the date of order on such application or the 
date of approval or permission, as the case may be: 
 Provided further that where the Board has granted relaxation to the issuer in terms of regulation 29A 
of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997, the preferential issue of 

                                                           
133 Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2013, 
w.e.f. 26-8-2013.  
134 Substituted for ";" by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2013, w.e.f. 26-08-2013.  
135  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2013, 
w.e.f. 26-08-2013.  
136  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2016, 
w.e.f. 25-05-2016. 

Page 47 of 255 

 

equity shares and compulsorily convertible debt instruments, whether fully or partly, shall be made 
by it within such time as may be specified by the Board in its order granting the relaxation: 
 Provided  further  that  requirement  of  allotment  within  fifteen  days  shall  not  apply  to  allotment  of 
specified securities on preferential basis pursuant to a scheme of corporate debt restructuring as per the 
corporate debt restructuring framework specified by the Reserve Bank of India. 
(2)  If the allotment of specified securities is not completed within fifteen days from the date of special 
resolution, a fresh special resolution shall be passed and the relevant date for determining the price of 
specified  securities  under  this  Chapter  will  be  taken  with  reference  to  the  date  of  latter  special 
resolution. 
137[(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, where a preferential allotment is made 
that attracts an obligation to make an open offer for shares of the issuer under Securities and Exchange 
Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares and  Takeovers)  Regulation,  2011,  and  there is  no 
offer made  under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 20 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011, the period of fifteen days shall be 
counted from the expiry of the period specified in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 20 or date of receipt 
of  all  statutory  approvals  required  for  the  completion  of  an  open  offer  under  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011: 
 

  
Provided that if an offer is made  under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 20 of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of  India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 
2011, the period of fifteen days shall be counted from the expiry of the offer period as defined 
in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 
Takeovers) Regulation, 2011: 

 

Provided further that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not apply  to an offer made 
under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  20  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011, pursuant to a preferential 
allotment.” ] 
 

 138[(4) Allotment shall only be made in dematerialised form. 

Explanation.-The requirement of allotment in dematerialised form shall also be applicable for the 
equity  shares  to  be  allotted  pursuant  to  exercise  of  option  attached  to  warrant  or  conversion  of 
convertible securities.] 

 
Tenure of convertible securities. 
75.  The  tenure  of the  convertible  securities  of  the  issuer  shall not  exceed  eighteen  months  from  the 
date of their allotment. 
 
Pricing of equity shares 139[- Frequently traded shares]. 
76. (1) If  the equity shares of the issuer have been listed on a recognised stock exchange for a period 
of  140[twenty six weeks] or more as on the relevant date, the equity shares shall be allotted at a price 
not less than higher of the following: 

                                                           
137  Inserted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011.  
138 Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2013, 
w.e.f. 26-8-2013.  
139  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f. 
25.08.2014. 
140  Substituted  for  the  words  “six  months”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 30.01.2012. 

Page 48 of 255 

 

(a)  The average of the weekly high and low of the 141[volume weighted average price] of the 
related equity shares quoted on the recognised stock exchange during the  142[twenty six 
weeks] preceding the relevant date; or  

(b)  The average of the weekly high and low of the  143[volume weighted average prices] of 
the  related  equity  shares  quoted  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange  during  the  two  weeks 
preceding the relevant date. 

(2)  If  the equity shares of the issuer have been listed on a recognised stock exchange for a period of 
less than 144[twenty six weeks] as on the relevant date, the equity shares shall be allotted  at a price not 
less than the higher of the following: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the price at which equity shares were issued by the issuer in its initial public offer or the value 
per share arrived at in a scheme of arrangement under sections 391 to 394 of the Companies 
Act, 1956, pursuant to which the equity shares of the issuer were listed, as the case may be; 
or 
the  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the  145[volume  weighted  average  prices]  of  the 
related equity shares quoted on the recognised stock exchange during the period shares have 
been listed preceding the relevant date; or  
the average of the weekly high and low of the  146[volume weighted average   prices] of the 
related equity shares quoted on a recognised stock exchange during the two weeks preceding 
the relevant date. 

(3) Where the price of the equity shares is determined in terms of sub-regulation (2), such price shall 
be  recomputed  by  the  issuer  on  completion  of  147[twenty  six  weeks]  from  the  date  of  listing  on  a 
recognised stock exchange with reference to the average of the weekly high and low of the 148[volume 
weighted average prices] of the related equity shares quoted on the recognised stock exchange during 
these 149[twenty six weeks] and if such recomputed price is higher than the price paid on allotment, the 
difference shall be paid by the allottees to the issuer. 
(4)  Any preferential issue of specified securities, to qualified institutional buyers not exceeding five in 
number,  shall  be  made  at  a  price  not  less  than  the  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the 
150[volume  weighted  average  prices]  of  the  related  equity  shares  quoted  on  a  recognised  stock 
exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, ‘stock exchange’  means any of the recognised stock 
exchanges in which the equity shares are listed and in which the highest trading volume in respect of 
the equity shares of the issuer has been recorded during the preceding  151[twenty six weeks] prior to 
the relevant date. 
                                                           
141 Substituted for “closing price” by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 25.08.2014. 
142  Substituted  for  the  words  “six  months”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 30.01.2012.  
143 Substituted for “closing prices” by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 25.08.2014. 
144  Substituted  for  the  words  “six  months”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 30.01.2012. 
145 Substituted for “closing prices” by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 25.08.2014. 
146 Substituted for “closing prices” by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure  Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 25.08.2014. 
147  Substituted  for  the  words  “six  months”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 30.01.2012. 
148 Substituted for “closing prices” by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 25.08.2014. 
149  Substituted  for  the  words  “six  months”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 30.01.2012. 
150 Substituted for “closing prices” by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 25.08.2014. 
151  Substituted  for  the  words  “six  months”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 30.01.2012. 

Page 49 of 255 

 

 
Pricing of equity shares – Infrequently traded shares. 
152[76A. Where the shares are not frequently traded, the price determined by the issuer shall take into 
account  valuation  parameters  including  book  value,  comparable  trading  multiples,  and  such  other 
parameters as are customary for valuation of shares of such companies: 
 
Provided that the issuer shall submit a certificate stating that the issuer is in 
compliance of this regulation, obtained from an independent merchant banker or an 
independent chartered accountant in practice having a minimum experience of ten years, to 
the stock exchange where the equity shares of the issuer are listed. 
 
Adjustments in pricing - Frequently or Infrequently traded shares 
76B. The price determined for preferential issue in accordance with regulation 76 or regulation 76A, 
shall be subject to appropriate adjustments, if the issuer : 
(a) makes an issue of equity shares by way of capitalization of profits or reserves, other than by way of 
a dividend on shares; 
(b) makes a rights issue of equity shares; 
(c) consolidates its outstanding equity shares into a smaller number of shares; 
(d) divides its outstanding equity shares including by way of stock split; 
(e) re-classifies any of its equity shares into other securities of the issuer; 
(f) is involved in such other similar events or circumstances, which in the opinion of 
the concerned stock exchange, requires adjustments.] 
 
Payment of consideration. 
77. (1) Full consideration of specified securities other than warrants issued under this Chapter shall be 
paid by the allottees at the time of allotment of such specified securities: 
 Provided that in case of a preferential issue of specified securities pursuant to a scheme of corporate 
debt restructuring as per the corporate debt restructuring framework specified by the Reserve Bank of 
India, the allottee may pay the consideration in terms of such scheme. 
(2)  An amount equivalent to at least twenty five per cent. of the consideration determined in terms of 
regulation 76  shall be paid against each warrant on the date of allotment of warrants. 
(3)  The  balance  seventy  five  per  cent.  of the  consideration shall  be  paid  at the  time of  allotment of 
equity shares pursuant to exercise of option against each such warrant by the warrant holder.  
(4)  In  case  the  warrant  holder  does  not  exercise  the  option  to  take  equity  shares  against  any  of  the 
warrants held by him, the consideration paid in respect of such warrant in terms of sub-regulation (2) 
shall be forfeited by the issuer. 
153[(5) The issuer shall ensure that the consideration of specified securities, if paid in cash, shall be 
received from respective allottee's bank account. 
(6)  The  issuer  shall  submit  a  certificate  of  the  statutory  auditor  to  the  stock  exchange  where  the 
equity  shares  of  the  issuer  are  listed  stating  that  the  issuer  is  in  compliance  of  sub-regulation  (5) 
and the relevant documents thereof are maintained by the issuer as on the date of certification. ] 
 
Lock-in of specified securities. 
78.  (1)  The specified securities allotted on preferential basis to promoter or promoter group and the 
equity shares allotted pursuant to exercise of options attached to warrants issued on preferential basis 
to promoter or promoter group, shall be locked-in for a period of three years from 154[date of trading 

                                                           
152  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 25.08.2014. 
153  Sub-regulations  (5)  and  (6)  inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-8-2013.   
154  Substituted  for  "date  of  allotment  of  the"  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-8-2013.  

Page 50 of 255 

 

approval granted for] the specified securities or equity shares allotted pursuant to exercise of the option 
attached to warrant, as the case may be:  
 Provided that not more than twenty per cent. of the total capital of the issuer shall be locked-in for 
three years from the date of 155[trading approval]: 
 Provided further that equity shares allotted in excess of the twenty per cent. shall be locked-in for one 
year  from  the  date  of  156[trading  approval]  pursuant  to  exercise  of  options  or  otherwise,  as  the  case 
may be. 
(2)  The specified securities allotted on preferential basis to persons other than promoter and promoter 
group  and  the  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  exercise  of  options  attached  to  warrants  issued  on 
preferential basis to such persons shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of 157[trading 
approval]. 
(3)  The  lock-in  of  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  conversion  of  convertible  securities  other  than 
warrants,  issued  on  preferential  basis  shall  be  reduced  to  the  extent  the  convertible  securities  have 
already been locked-in. 
(4)  The equity shares issued on preferential basis pursuant to a scheme of corporate debt restructuring 
as per the Corporate Debt Restructuring framework specified by the Reserve Bank of India shall be 
locked-in for a period of one year from the 158[trading approval] : 
 Provided  that  partly  paid  up  equity  shares,  if  any,  shall  be  locked-in  from  the  date  of  159[trading 
approval] and the lock-in shall end on the expiry of one year from the date when such equity shares 
become fully paid up. 
(5)  If the amount payable by the allottee, in case of re-calculation of price under sub-regulation (3) of 
regulation 76 is not paid till the expiry of lock-in period, the equity shares shall continue to be locked 
in till such amount is paid by the allottee.  
(6)  The entire pre-preferential allotment shareholding of the allottees, if any, shall be locked-in from 
the relevant date upto a period of six months from the date of 160[trading approval] .   
 
161[ Explanation 1 ] : For the purpose of this regulation: 
 
(I)  The expression “total capital of the issuer” means: 

(a)  equity  share  capital  issued  by  way  of  public  issue  or  rights  issue  including  equity  shares 

issued pursuant to conversion of specified securities which are convertible; and  
(b)  specified securities issued on a preferential basis to promoter or promoter group. 

 

(II)    (a)      For  the  computation  of  twenty  per  cent.  of  the  total  capital  of  the  issuer,  the  amount  of 
minimum promoters’ contribution held and locked-in, in the past in terms of Securities and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000  or  these 
regulations shall be taken into account. 

(b)   The  minimum  promoters’  contribution  shall  not  again  be  put  under  fresh  lock-in,  even 
though it is considered for computing the requirement of twenty per cent. of the total capital 

                                                           
155  Substituted  for  "allotment"  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-8-2013.  
156 Substituted for "their allotment" by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-8-2013.   
157 Substituted for "their allotment" by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-8-2013.   
158  Substituted  for  "allotment"  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f.26-8-2013.  
159  Substituted  for  "allotment"  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-8-2013. 
160  Substituted  for  "preferential  allotment"  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-8-2013.  
161  Explanation renumbered  as  "Explanation 1"  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-8-2013.  

Page 51 of 255 

 

of the issuer, in case the said minimum promoters’ contribution is free of lock-in at the time 
of the preferential issue. 

 
162[Explanation 2. — For the purposes of this regulation, the date of trading approval shall mean 
the latest date when trading approval has been granted by all the recognised stock exchanges where 
the equity shares of the issuer are listed, for specified securities allotted as per the provisions of this 
Chapter.] 
 
Transferability of locked-in specified securities and warrants issued on preferential basis. 
79.  163[(1)]  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial 
Acquisition of shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997, specified securities held by promoters and 
locked-in  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  78  may  be  transferred  among  promoters  or 
promoter group or to a new promoter or persons in control of the issuer: 
 Provided that lock-in on such specified securities shall continue for the remaining period with the 
transferee. 
164[(2) The specified securities allotted on preferential basis shall not be transferred by the allottee 
till trading approval is granted for such securities by all the recognised stock exchanges where the 
equity shares of the issuer are listed.] 
 

CHAPTER VIII 

QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS PLACEMENT 

 
Applicability.  
80.  The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to a qualified institutions placement made by a listed 
issuer. 
 
Definitions. 
81. For the purpose of this Chapter: 
(a)  “eligible securities” include equity shares, non-convertible debt instruments along with warrants 

and convertible securities other than warrants; 

(b)  “qualified  institutions  placement”  means  allotment  of  eligible  securities  by  a  listed  issuer  to 

qualified institutional buyers on private placement basis in terms of these regulations; 

(c)  "relevant date" means: 

(i) 

(ii) 

in case of allotment of equity shares, the date of the meeting in which the board of directors 
of the issuer or the committee of directors duly authorised by the board of directors of the 
issuer decides to open the proposed issue; 
in case of allotment of eligible convertible securities, either the date of the meeting in which 
the  board  of  directors  of  the  issuer  or  the  committee  of  directors  duly  authorised  by  the 
board of directors of the issuer decides to open the issue of such convertible securities or the 
date  on  which  the  holders  of  such  convertible  securities  become  entitled  to  apply  for  the 
equity shares. 

 
Conditions for qualified institutions placement. 
82. A listed issuer may make qualified institutions placement if it satisfies the following conditions: 
(a)  a  special  resolution  approving  the  qualified  institutions  placement  has  been  passed  by  its 

shareholders;  

                                                           
162  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2013, 
w.e.f. 26-8-2013.  
163  Regulation  79  renumbered  as  regulation  "79.  (1)"  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-8-2013.  
164  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2013, 
w.e.f. 26-8-2013.  

Page 52 of 255 

 

(b) 

the  equity  shares  of  the  same  class,  which  are  proposed  to  be  allotted  through  qualified 
institutions  placement  or  pursuant  to  conversion  or  exchange  of  eligible  securities  offered 
through qualified institutions placement, have been listed on a recognised stock exchange having 
nation  wide  trading  terminal  for  a  period  of  at  least  one  year  prior  to  the  date  of  issuance  of 
notice to its shareholders for convening the meeting to pass the special resolution: 
 Provided  that  where  an  issuer,  being  a  transferee  company  in  a  scheme  of  merger,  de-merger, 
amalgamation  or  arrangement  sanctioned  by  a  High  Court  under  sections  391  to  394  of  the 
Companies  Act,  1956,  makes  qualified  institutions  placement,  the  period  for  which  the  equity 
shares of the same class of the transferor company were listed on a stock exchange having nation 
wide trading terminals shall also be considered for the purpose of computation of the period of 
one year. 

165[166[***]] 

(d)   In the special resolution, it shall be, among other relevant matters, specified that the allotment is 
proposed to be made through qualified institutions placement and the relevant date referred to in 
sub-clause (ii) of clause (c) of regulation 81 shall also be specified. 

Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  clause  (b),  “equity  shares  of  the  same  class”  shall  have  the  same 
meaning  as  assigned  to  them  in  Explanation  to  sub-rule  (4)  of  rule  19  of  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation) Rules, 1957. 
 
Appointment of merchant banker. 
83. (1) A qualified institutions placement shall be managed by merchant banker(s) registered with 
the Board who shall exercise due diligence. 
(2) The  merchant  banker  shall,  while  seeking  in-principle  approval  for  listing  of  the  eligible 
securities  issued  under  qualified  institutions  placement,  furnish  to  each  stock  exchange  on  which 
the  same  class  of  equity  shares  of  the  issuer  are  listed,  a  due  diligence  certificate  stating  that  the 
eligible  securities  are  being  issued  under  qualified  institutions  placement  and  that  the  issuer 
complies with requirements of this Chapter. 
 
Placement Document: 
84. (1) The qualified institutions placement shall be made on the basis of a placement document which 
shall contain all material information, including those specified in Schedule XVIII 167[and disclosures 
similar to disclosures specified in Part G of Schedule VIII shall be made, if applicable]. 
(2)  The placement document shall be serially numbered and copies shall be circulated only to select 
investors.  
(3)  The issuer shall, while seeking in-principle approval from the recognised stock exchange, furnish a 
copy  of  the  placement  document,  a  certificate  confirming  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  this 
Chapter along with any other documents required by the stock exchange. 
(4)  The placement document shall also be placed on the website of the concerned stock exchange and 
of  the  issuer  with  a  disclaimer  to  the  effect  that  it  is  in  connection  with  a  qualified  institutions 
placement and that no offer is being made to the public or to any other category of investors.  
168[***] 

                                                           
165  Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2018,  w.e.f. 
12.02.2018. Prior to the omission, clause (c) read as follows: 
“(c)    it  is  in  compliance  with  the  requirement  of  minimum  public  shareholding    specified  in  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation) Rules, 1957;” 
166  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f. 
23.09.2011. 
167  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2016, 
w.e.f. 25.05.2016. 
168  Sub-regulation  (5)  omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2012, w.e.f. 30.01.2012. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (5) read as under: 
“(5) A copy of the placement document shall be filed with the Board for its record within thirty days of the allotment of 
eligible securities.” 

Page 53 of 255 

 

 
Pricing. 
85. (1) The qualified institutions placement shall be made at a price not less than the average of the 
weekly high and low of the closing prices of the equity shares of the same class quoted on the stock 
exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date169[:] 
170[Provided  that  the  issuer  may  offer  a  discount  of  not  more  than  five  per  cent.  on  the  price  so 
calculated for the qualified institutions placement, subject to approval of shareholders as specified in 
clause (a) of regulation 82 of   these regulations.] 
(2) Where eligible securities are convertible into or exchangeable with equity shares of the issuer, the 
issuer shall determine the price of such equity shares allotted pursuant to such conversion or exchange 
taking the relevant date as decided and disclosed by it while passing the special resolution. 
(3)  The issuer shall not allot partly paid up eligible securities: 

 Provided  that  in  case  of allotment  of  non  convertible  debt  instruments  along  with  warrants,  the 
allottees may pay the full consideration or part thereof payable with respect to warrants, at the time 
of allotment of such warrants: 
 Provided  further  that  on  allotment  of  equity  shares  on  exercise  of  options  attached  to  warrants, 
such equity shares shall be fully paid up.  

(4)  The  prices  determined  for  qualified  institutions  placement  shall  be  subject  to  appropriate 
adjustments if the issuer: 

(a)  makes an issue of equity shares by way of capitalization of profits or reserves, other than by 

way of a dividend on shares; 

(b)  makes a rights issue of equity shares; 
(c)  consolidates its outstanding equity shares into a smaller number of shares; 
(d)  divides its outstanding equity shares including by way of stock split; 
(e) 
re-classifies any of its equity shares into other securities of the issuer; 
(f) 
is  involved  in  such  other  similar  events  or  circumstances,  which  in  the  opinion  of  the 
concerned stock exchange, requires adjustments. 

Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  sub-regulation  (1),  the  term  “stock  exchange”  means  any  of  the 
recognised stock exchanges in which the equity shares of the same class of the issuer are listed and in 
which  the  highest  trading  volume  in  such  equity  shares  has  been  recorded  during  the  two  weeks 
immediately preceding the relevant date. 
 
Restrictions on allotment. 
86.  (1)  Allotment  under  the  qualified institutions  placement shall  be  made  subject to  the  following 
conditions:  

(a)  Minimum of ten per cent. of eligible securities shall be allotted to mutual funds: 

 Provided that if the mutual funds do not subscribe to  said minimum percentage or any 
part  thereof,  such  minimum  portion  or  part  thereof  may  be  allotted  to  other  qualified 
institutional buyers; 

(b)  No  allotment  shall  be  made,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  to  any  qualified  institutional 

buyer who is a promoter or any person related to promoters of the issuer: 
 Provided that a qualified institutional buyer who does not hold any shares in the issuer 
and who has acquired the said rights in the capacity of a lender shall not be deemed to 
be a person related to promoters.  

(2) In a qualified institutions placement of non-convertible debt instrument along with warrants, an 
investor can subscribe to the combined offering of non- convertible debt instruments with warrants 
or to the individual securities, that is, either non- convertible debt instruments or warrants. 

                                                           
169  Substituted  for  the  symbol  “.”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. 
170  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 

Page 54 of 255 

 

(3)  The applicants in qualified institutions placement shall not withdraw their bids after the closure of 
the issue. 
Explanation: For the purpose of clause (b) of sub-regulation (1), a qualified institutional buyer who 
has any of the following rights shall be deemed to be a person related to the promoters of the issuer: 
(a) 

 rights  under  a  shareholders’  agreement  or  voting  agreement  entered  into  with  promoters  or 
persons related to the promoters; 

right to appoint any nominee director on the board of the issuer. 

(b)  veto rights; or  
(c) 
 
Minimum number of allottees. 
87.  (1)  The  minimum  number  of  allottees  for  each  placement  of  eligible  securities  made  under 
qualified institutions placement shall not be less than: 

(a) 
(b) 

two, where the issue size is less than or equal to  two hundred and fifty crore rupees; 
five, where the issue size is greater than two hundred and fifty crore rupees: 
 Provided that no single allottee shall be allotted more than fifty per cent. of the issue size. 
(2)  The  qualified  institutional  buyers  belonging  to  the  same  group  or  who  are  under  same  control 

shall be deemed to be a single allottee. 

Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  sub-regulation  (2),  the  expression  “qualified  institutional  buyers 
belonging to the same group” shall have the same meaning as derived from sub-section (11) of section 
372 of the Companies Act, 1956; 
 
Validity of the special resolution.  
88. (1) Allotment pursuant to the special resolution referred to in clause (a) of regulation 82 shall be 
completed within a period of twelve months from the date of passing of the resolution. 
(2)  The issuer shall not make subsequent qualified institutions placement until expiry of six months 
from  the  date  of  the  prior  qualified  institutions  placement  made  pursuant  to  one  or  more  special 
resolutions.  
 
Restrictions on amount raised.   
89.  The  aggregate  of  the  proposed  qualified  institutions  placement  and  all  previous  qualified 
institutions placements made by the issuer in the same financial year shall not exceed five times the net 
worth of the issuer as per the audited balance sheet of the previous financial year. 
 
Tenure. 
90.  The  tenure  of  the  convertible  or  exchangeable  eligible  securities  issued  through  qualified 
institutions placement shall not exceed sixty months from the date of allotment. 
 
Transferability of eligible securities. 
91.  The  eligible  securities  allotted  under  qualified  institutions  placement  shall  not  be  sold  by  the 
allottee for a period of one year from the date of allotment, except on a recognised stock exchange.  
 

171[CHAPTER VIII-A 

INSTITUTIONAL PLACEMENT PROGRAMME 

 
Applicability. 
91A. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to issuance of fresh shares and or offer for sale of 
shares in a listed issuer for the purpose of achieving minimum public shareholding in terms of Rule 
19(2)(b) and 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. 
 

                                                           
171  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
30.01.2012.  

Page 55 of 255 

 

(2)  Unless  otherwise  specified,  no  provisions  of  these  regulations  shall  be  applicable  to  the 
institutional placement programme except for the following:-  

(a)  regulations 2, 5, 12, 18, 19, 47, 48, 51, 59, 60, 61, 64, 65, 66 and 68;  
(b)  clauses (a) and (b) of sub-regulation (2)  of regulation 4; 
(c)  clause (b) of regulation 7. 

 
Definitions. 
91B. For the purpose of this Chapter: 
(a)  “eligible  securities”  shall  mean  equity  shares  of  same  class  listed  and  traded  in  the  stock 
exchange(s); 
(b) “eligible seller” include listed issuer, promoter/promoter group of listed issuer; 
(c)  “institutional  placement  programme”  means  a  further  public  offer  of  eligible  securities  by  an 
eligible seller, in which the offer, allocation and allotment of such securities is made only to qualified 
institutional buyers in terms of this Chapter.  
 
Conditions for institutional placement programme. 
91C. (1) An institutional placement programme may be made only after a special resolution approving 
the institutional placement programme has been passed by the shareholders of the issuer in terms of 
section 81(1A) of the Companies Act, 1956. 
(2) No partly paid-up securities shall be offered. 
(3) The issuer shall obtain an in-principle approval from the stock exchange(s). 
 
Appointment of merchant banker. 
91D. An institutional placement programme shall be managed by merchant banker(s) registered with 
the Board who shall exercise due diligence. 
 
Offer Document. 
91E.  (1)  The  institutional  placement  programme  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of  the  offer  document 
which shall contain all material information, including those specified in Schedule XVIII. 
(2)  The  issuer  shall,  simultaneously  while  registering  the  offer  document  with  the  Registrar  of 
Companies,  file  a  copy  thereof  with  the  Board  and  with  the  stock  exchange(s)  through  the  lead 
merchant banker.  
(3) The issuer shall file the soft copy of the offer document with the Board as specified in Schedule V, 
along with the fee as specified in Schedule IV. 
(4) The offer document shall also be placed on the website of the concerned stock exchange and of the 
issuer clearly stating that it is in connection with institutional placement programme and that the offer 
is being made only to the qualified institutional buyers. 
(5)  The  merchant  banker  shall  submit  to  the  Board  a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  Form  A  of 
Schedule  VI,  stating  that  the  eligible  securities  are  being  issued  under  institutional  placement 
programme and that the issuer complies with requirements of this Chapter.  
 
Pricing and allocation/allotment. 
91F.  (1)  The  eligible  seller  shall  announce  a  floor  price  or  price  band  at  least  one  day  prior  to  the 
opening of institutional placement programme. 
(2) The eligible seller shall have the option to make allocation/allotment as per any of the following 
methods –  
 
 
 
(3) The method chosen shall be disclosed in the offer document.   
(4) Allocation/allotment shall be overseen by stock exchange before final allotment.                                                                                                           
 

(a) proportionate basis;  
(b) price priority basis; or  
(c) criteria as mentioned in the offer document. 

 
 
 

Page 56 of 255 

 

Restrictions. 
91G. 172[ (1) The promoter or promoter group shall not make institutional placement programme if the 
promoter or any person who is part of the promoter group has purchased or sold the eligible securities 
during the twelve weeks period prior to the date of the programme and they shall not purchase or sell 
the eligible securities during the twelve weeks period after the date of the programme:  
      Provided that such promoter or promoter group  may , within the period provided in sub-regulation 
(1), offer eligible securities held by them through institutional placement programme or offer for sale 
through stock exchange mechanism specified by the Board,  subject to the condition that  there shall be 
a gap of minimum two weeks between the two successive offer(s) and /or programme(s).] 
(2)  Allocation/allotment  under  the  institutional  placement  programme  shall  be  made  subject  to  the 
following conditions: 
(a)  Minimum  of  twenty  five  per  cent.  of  eligible  securities  shall  be  allotted  to  mutual  funds  and 
insurance companies: 
     Provided  that  if  the  mutual  funds  and  insurance  companies  do  not  subscribe  to  said  minimum 
percentage or any part thereof, such minimum portion or part thereof may be allotted to other qualified 
institutional buyers; 
(b)  No  allocation/allotment  shall  be  made,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  to  any  qualified  institutional 
buyer who is a promoter or any person related to promoters of the issuer: 
     Provided that a qualified institutional buyer who does not hold any shares in the issuer and who has 
acquired the rights in the capacity of a lender shall not be deemed to be a person related to promoters. 
 
(3) The issuer shall accept bids using ASBA facility only.  
  
(4)  The  bids  made  by  the  applicants  in  institutional  placement  programme  shall  not  be  revised 
downwards or withdrawn. 
 
Explanation: For the purpose of clause (b) of sub-regulation (2), a qualified institutional buyer who 
has any of the following rights shall be deemed to be a person related to the promoters of the issuer:- 
(a) rights under a shareholders’ agreement or voting agreement entered into with promoters or persons 
related to the promoters; 
(b) veto rights; or 
(c) right to appoint any nominee director on the board of the issuer. 
 
Minimum number of allottees. 
91H.  (1)  The  minimum  number  of  allottees  for  each  offer  of  eligible  securities  made  under 
institutional placement programme shall not be less than ten:  
   Provided that no single allottee shall be allotted more than twenty five per cent. of the offer size. 
 
(2) The qualified institutional buyers belonging to the same group or who are under same control shall 
be deemed to be a single allottee. 
Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  sub-regulation  (2),  the  expression  “qualified  institutional  buyers 
belonging to the same group” shall have the same meaning as derived from sub-section (11) of section 
372 of the Companies Act, 1956; 
 
Restrictions on size of the offer. 

                                                           
172 Substituted for sub-regulation (1) by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 24.8.2012. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as under: 
“(1) The promoter or promoter group who are offering their eligible securities should not have purchased and/ or sold 
the  eligible  securities  of  the  company  in  the  twelve  weeks  period  prior  to  the  offer  and  they  should  undertake  not  to 
purchase and / or sell eligible securities of the company in the twelve weeks period after the offer.” 
  

Page 57 of 255 

 

91-I. (1) The aggregate of all the tranches of institutional placement programme made by the eligible 
seller shall not result in increase in public shareholding by more than ten per cent. or such lesser per 
cent. as is required to reach minimum public shareholding. 
(2) Where the issue has been oversubscribed, an allotment of not more than ten per cent. of the offer 
size shall be made by the eligible seller.   
 
Period of Subscription and display of demand. 
91J. (1) The issue shall be kept open for a minimum of one day or maximum of two days. 
(2)  The  aggregate  demand  schedule  shall  be  displayed  by  stock  exchange(s)  without  disclosing  the 
price.   
 
Withdrawal of offer. 
91K. The eligible seller shall have the right to withdraw the offer in case it is not fully subscribed. 
 
Transferability of eligible securities. 
91L. The eligible securities allotted under institutional placement programme shall not be sold by the 
allottee  for  a  period  of one  year  from  the date  of allocation/allotment,  except  on  a  recognised  stock 
exchange.] 
 

CHAPTER IX 
BONUS ISSUE 

 
Conditions for bonus issue. 
92. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 or any other applicable law for the time 
being in force, a listed issuer may issue bonus shares to its members if: 
(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

it  is  authorised  by  its  articles  of  association  for  issue  of  bonus  shares,  capitalisation  of 
reserves, etc.: 
 Provided that if there is no such provision in the articles of association, the issuer shall pass a 
resolution  at  its  general  body  meeting  making  provisions  in  the  articles  of  associations  for 
capitalisation of reserve; 
it  has  not  defaulted  in  payment  of  interest  or  principal  in  respect  of  fixed  deposits  or  debt 
securities  issued by it;  
it  has  sufficient  reason  to  believe  that  it  has  not  defaulted  in  respect  of  the  payment  of 
statutory dues of the employees such as contribution to provident fund, gratuity and bonus; 
the partly paid shares, if any outstanding on the date of allotment, are made fully paid up 

(d) 
 
Restriction on bonus issue. 
93. (1) No issuer shall make a bonus issue of equity shares 173[***] unless it has made reservation of 
equity  shares  of  the  same  class  in  favour  of  the  holders  of  174[***]  outstanding  175[compulsorily] 
convertible debt instruments 176[,if any,] in proportion to the convertible part thereof. 
(2) The equity shares 177[so] reserved for the holders of fully or partly 178[compulsorily] convertible 
debt instruments shall be issued at the time of conversion of such convertible debt instruments on 
the same terms or same proportion 179[at] which the bonus shares were issued. 

                                                           
173 The words and symbol “if it has outstanding fully or partly convertible debt instruments at the time of making the 
bonus  issue,”  omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations, 
2012, w.e.f  07.02.2012.  
174  The  word  “such”  omitted,  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f  07.02.2012.  
175  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f  
07.02.2012.  
176  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f  
07.02.2012. 

Page 58 of 255 

 

 
Bonus shares only against reserves, etc. if capitalised in cash. 
94.  (1)  The  bonus  issue  shall  be  made  out  of  free  reserves  built  out  of  the  genuine  profits  or 
securities premium collected in cash only and reserves created by revaluation of fixed assets shall 
not be capitalised for the purpose of issuing bonus shares. 
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-regulation (1), the bonus share shall not be issued in 
lieu of dividend. 
 
Completion of bonus issue. 
95.  (1)  An  issuer,  announcing  a  bonus  issue  after  the  approval  of  its  board  of  directors  and  not 
requiring shareholders’ approval for capitalisation of profits or reserves for making the bonus issue, 
shall  implement  the  bonus  issue  within  fifteen  days  from  the  date  of  approval  of  the  issue  by  its 
board of directors: 
 Provided  that  where  the  issuer  is  required  to  seek  shareholders’  approval  for  capitalisation  of 
profits  or  reserves  for  making  the  bonus  issue,  the  bonus  issue  shall  be  implemented  within  two 
months from the date of the meeting of its board of directors wherein the decision to announce the 
bonus issue was taken subject to shareholders’ approval.  
(2) Once the decision to make a bonus issue is announced, the issue can not be withdrawn. 
 

ISSUE OF INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS 

CHAPTER X 

 
Applicability.  
96.  (1)  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  apply  to  an  issue  of  Indian  Depository  Receipts 
(hereinafter referred to as “IDR”) made in terms of section 605A of the Companies Act, 1956 and 
Companies (Issue of Indian Depository Receipts) Rules, 2004. 
(2) All provisions of these regulations shall be applicable in case of issue of IDR, except the disclosure 
requirements with respect to public issue and rights issue of specified securities as provided in these 
regulations and the following: 

(a)  clauses (a), (b), (c) and (f) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 4; 
(b)  sub-regulations (1), (2) and (3) of regulation 6,  
(c)  clauses (c),(d) and (e)  of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8; 
(d)  sub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 8; 
regulations 10,16,17,19, 20,21,22,23,24,26,27,31,41, 42,180[***] 45,47, 49 and 68;  
(e) 
(f) 
sub-regulation (2) of regulation 11; 
(g) 
 sub-regulation (2) of regulation 28; 
(h)  clauses (b) and (c) of regulation 29;  
(i)  Parts III and IV of Chapter III; 

  181[(ia) regulation 43, except sub-regulation (3) thereof;] 

(j)  Chapter IV;  
(k)  sub-regulation (3) of regulation 65; 
(l)  Chapters VII, VIII and IX.  

 
                                                                                                                                                                                                
177  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f  
07.02.2012. 
178  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f  
07.02.2012. 
179  Substituted  for  the  word  “on”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f  07.02.2012.  
180 Figure and mark “43,” omitted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2009, w.e.f. 11.12.2009. 
181  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009,  w.e.f. 
11.12.2009. 

Page 59 of 255 

 

(3) Further, the applicability of regulation 60 shall be as follows: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

the applicability of sub-regulations (1) and (7) and Explanation II shall be restricted to any 
issue advertisements made in India or any research report circulated in India, pertaining to 
the IDR issue of the issuing company; 
 the  applicability  of  sub-regulations  (2)  and  (3)  shall  be  restricted  to  any  public 
communications and publicity material issued or published in any media in India; 
 the  applicability  of  sub-regulations  (5)  and  (6)  shall  be  restricted  to  any  material  or 
information released in India and any issue advertisements and publicity materials issued 
or published in any media in India; 
 the applicability of sub-regulation (13) shall be restricted to any product advertisement of 
an issuing company issued or published in any media in India; 

(e)  all other provisions of regulation 60 shall be applicable. 

 
Eligibility. 
97.  An issuing company making an issue of IDR shall also satisfy the following: 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 

the issuing company is listed in its home country;  
the issuing company is not prohibited to issue securities by any regulatory body; 
the issuing company has track record of compliance with  securities market  regulations  in  its 
home country. 

Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, the term “home country” means the country where 
the issuing company is incorporated and listed. 
 
Conditions for issue of IDR. 
98. An issue of IDR shall be subject to the following conditions: 
(a) 
(b)  procedure  to  be  followed  by  each  class  of  applicant  for  applying  shall  be  mentioned  in  the 

issue size shall not be less than fifty crore rupees; 

prospectus; 

(c)  minimum application amount shall be twenty thousand rupees; 
(d)  at  least  fifty  per  cent.  of  the  IDR  issued  shall  be  allotted  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  on 

(e) 

proportionate basis as per illustration given in Part C of Schedule XI; 
the balance fifty per cent. may be allocated among the categories of non-institutional investors 
and  retail  individual  investors  including  employees  at  the  discretion  of  the  issuer  and  the 
manner  of  allocation  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  prospectus.  Allotment  to  investors  within  a 
category shall be on proportionate basis: 
182[ Provided that at least thirty per cent. of the IDRs being offered in the public issue shall be 
available for allocation to retail individual investors and  in case of under subscription in retail 
individual investor category, spillover to other categories to the extent of under subscription 
may be permitted. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, “employee” shall mean a person who,-  

(a)  is a resident of India, and 
(b) is a permanent and full-time employee or a director, whether whole time or 
part time, of the issuer or of the holding company or subsidiary company or 
of  the  material  associate(s)  of  the  issuer,  whose  financial  statements  are 
consolidated  with  the  issuer’s  financial  statements,  working  in  India  and 
does not  include promoters and  an immediate  relative of the promoter  (i.e., 

                                                           
182 Substituted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
13.04.2010.  Prior  to  its  substitution,  proviso  as  inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 11.12.2009, read as under:  
“Provided  that  atleast  thirty  per  cent.  of  the  said  fifty  per  cent.  IDR  issued  shall  be  allocated  to  retail  individual 
investors  and  in  case  of  under-subscription  in  retail  individual  investor  category,  spill  over  to  the  extent  of  under-
subscription shall be permitted to other categories.” 

Page 60 of 255 

 

any spouse of that person, or any parent, brother, sister or child of the person 
or of the spouse).] 

(f)  At any given time, there shall be only one denomination of IDR of the issuing company. 
(g)  183[the issuing company shall ensure that the underlying equity shares against which IDRs are 
issued  have  been  or  will  be  listed  in  its  home  country  before  listing  of  IDRs  in  stock 
exchange(s).  
the  issuing  company  shall  ensure  that  the  underlying  shares  of  IDRs  shall  rank  pari-passu 
with the existing shares of the same class.] 

(h) 

 
Minimum subscription.  
99. (1) For non-underwritten issues: 

(a) 

If the issuing company does not receive the minimum subscription of ninety per cent. 
of  the  offer  through  offer  document  on  the  date  of  closure  of  the  issue,  or  if  the 
subscription level falls below ninety per cent. after the  closure of issue on account of 
cheques  having  being  returned  unpaid  or  withdrawal  of  applications,  the  issuing 
company shall forthwith refund the entire subscription amount received.  

(b)  If  the  issuing  company  fails  to  refund  the  entire  subscription  amount  within  fifteen 
days  from  the  date  of  the  closure  of  the  issue,  it  is  liable  to  pay  the  amount  with 
interest  to  the  subscribers  at  the  rate  of  fifteen  per  cent.  per  annum  for  the  period  of 
delay. 

(2)  For underwritten issues: If the issuing company does not receive the minimum subscription of 
ninety per cent. of the offer through offer document including devolvement of underwriters within 
sixty  days  from  the  date  of  closure  of  the  issue,  the  issuing  company  shall  forthwith  refund  the 
entire subscription amount  received with  interest to  the subscribers  at  the rate of  fifteen per cent. 
per annum for the period of delay beyond sixty days.  
 
184[Fungibility. 
100. The Indian Depository Receipts shall be fungible into underlying equity shares of the issuing 
company in the manner specified by the Board and Reserve Bank of India, from time to time.] 
 
Filing of draft prospectus, due diligence certificates, payment of fees and issue advertisement 
for IDR. 
101. 185[(1) The issuing company shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, at least one of whom 
shall be a lead merchant banker and shall also appoint other intermediaries, in consultation with the 
lead merchant banker  and shall enter into  an  agreement with the merchant  banker on the lines of 
format of agreement as specified in Schedule II.] 
(2) Where  the  issue  is  managed  by  more  than  one  merchant  banker,  the  rights,  obligations  and 
responsibilities, relating inter-alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations, if 
any, of each merchant banker shall be predetermined and disclosed in the prospectus on the lines of 
format as specified in Schedule I. 
(3) The  issuing  company  shall  file  a  draft  prospectus  with  the  Board  through  a  merchant  banker 
along  with  the  requisite  fee,  as  prescribed  in  Companies  (Issue  of  Indian  Depository  Receipts) 
Rules, 2004. 
                                                           
183 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 
184  Substituted  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 27.02.2013. Prior to its substitution, it read as under:- 
"Fungibility. 
100.  The  Indian  depository  Receipts  shall  not  be  automatically  fungible  into  underlying  equity  shares  of  issuing 
company." 
185 Substituted by  the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 
Prior to its substitution, said sub-regulation read as under : 
"(1) The issuing company making an issue of IDR shall enter into an agreement with a merchant banker on the lines of 
format of agreement specified in Schedule II." 

Page 61 of 255 

 

(4) The prospectus filed with the Board under this regulation shall also be furnished to the Board in 
a soft copy on the lines specified in Schedule V. 
(5) The lead merchant bankers shall:  

(a)  submit a due diligence certificate as per format  given in Part C of Schedule XIX to the 

Board along with the draft prospectus. 

(b)  certify  that  all  amendments,  suggestions  or  observations  made  by  the  Board  have  been 

incorporated in the prospectus 

(c)  submit a fresh due diligence certificate as per format given in Part C of Schedule XIX, at 

the time of filing the prospectus with the Registrar of the Companies. 

(d)  furnish a certificate as per format given in Part C of Schedule XIX, immediately before 

(e) 

the opening of the issue, certifying that no corrective action is required on its part. 
furnish  a  certificate  as  per  format  given  in  Part  C  of  Schedule  XIX,  after  the  issue  has 
opened but before it closes for subscription.  

(6) The issuing company shall make arrangements for mandatory collection centres as specified in 
Schedule III. 
(7) The issuing company shall issue an advertisement in one English national daily newspaper with 
wide circulation and one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation, soon after receiving 
final observations, if any, on the publicly filed draft prospectus with the Board, which shall be on 
the lines of the format and contain the minimum disclosures as given in Part A of Schedule XIII. 
 
186[Agreements with other intermediaries and others. 
101A. (1) The issuing company shall appoint a registrar and transfer agent which has connectivity 
with all the depositories.    
 
(2)The issuing company shall enter into an agreement with overseas custodian bank and domestic 
depository.  
 
(3)  The lead merchant banker, after independently assessing the capability of other intermediaries 
and others to carry out their obligations, shall advise the issuing company on their appointment.] 
 
187[Display of bid data and issue of allotment letter.  
102. (1) The stock exchange(s) offering online bidding system for the book building   process shall 
display on their website, the data pertaining to book built IDR issue, in the format specified in Part 
B(2)  of  Schedule  XI,  from  the  date  of  opening  of  the  bids  till  at  least  three  days  after  closure  of 
bids.    
  (2)  The  issuing  company  shall  ensure  that  letter  of  allotment  for  the  IDRs  are  issued 
simultaneously to all allottees and that in the event of it being impossible to issue letters of regret at 
the same time, a notice to that effect be issued in the media so that it appears on the morning after 
the letters of allotment have been dispatched.] 
 
Disclosures in prospectus and abridged prospectus. 
103. (1) The prospectus shall contain all material disclosures which are true, correct and adequate 
so as to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.  
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the prospectus shall contain:   

(a) 

the disclosures specified in Schedule to Companies (Issue of Indian Depository Receipts) 
Rules, 2004; and 

                                                           
186 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 
187  substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015,  w.e.f.  01.12.2015. 
Prior to its substitution, said Regulation read as under : 
"102.  Display  of  bid  data.—The  stock  exchanges  offering  online  bidding  system  for  the  book  building  process  shall 
display on their website, the data pertaining to book built IDR issue, in the format specified in Part B(II) of Schedule 
XI, from the date of opening of the bids till at least three days after closure of bids." 

Page 62 of 255 

 

(b) 

the disclosures in the manner as specified in Part A of Schedule XIX. 

(3) The abridged prospectus for issue of Indian Depository Receipts shall contain the disclosures as 
specified in Part B of Schedule XIX. 
 
Post-issue reports.  
104. (1) The merchant banker shall submit post-issue reports to the Board in accordance with sub-
regulation (2). 
(2) The post-issue reports shall be submitted as follows:   

(a) 

initial post issue report on the lines of Parts A and B of Schedule XVI, within three days 
of closure of the issue; 

(b)  final post issue report on the lines of Parts C and D of Schedule XVI, within fifteen days 
of the date of finalisation of basis of allotment or within fifteen days of refund of money in 
case of failure of issue. 

 
Undersubscribed issue. 
105.  In  case  of  undersubscribed  issue  of  IDR,  the  merchant  banker  shall  furnish  information  in 
respect of underwriters who have failed to meet their underwriting devolvement to the Board on the 
lines of the format specified in Schedule XVII. 
 
Finalisation of basis of allotment. 
106.  The  executive  director  or  managing  director  of  the  stock  exchange,  where  the  IDR  are 
proposed  to  be  listed,  along  with  the  post  issue  lead  merchant  bankers  and  registrars  to  the  issue 
shall ensure that the basis of allotment is finalised in a fair and proper manner in accordance with 
the allotment procedure as specified in Schedule XV. 
 

RIGHTS ISSUE OF INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS  

188[CHAPTER XA 

 

 

Applicability.  
106A. (1) In addition to compliance with Chapter X, a listed issuer offering IDR through a rights 
issue shall satisfy the conditions specified in this Chapter at the time of filing the offer document: 
 Provided that the provisions  of the following regulations shall not be applicable in  case of rights 
issue of IDRs: 
 
 
 
 
(2)  Every  listed  issuer  offering  IDRs  through  a  rights  issue  shall  prepare  the  offer  document  in 
accordance with the home country requirements along with an addendum containing disclosures as 
specified in Part A of Schedule XXI and regulation 106F and file the same with the Board and the 
stock exchanges on which the IDRs of the issuer are listed. 

(a) clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of regulation 98; 
(b) regulation 102; and 
(c) regulation 103. 

 

Eligibility.  
106B. No issuer shall make a rights issue of IDRs: 

(a) if at the time of undertaking the rights issue, the issuer is in breach of ongoing material 
obligations  under  the  IDR  Listing  Agreement  as  may  be  applicable  to  such  issuer  or 
material  obligations  under  the  deposit  agreement  entered  into  between  the  domestic 
depository and the issuer at the time of initial offering of IDRs; and 

                                                           
188  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f. 
23.09.2011. 
 

Page 63 of 255 

 

(b) unless it has made an application to all the recognised stock exchanges in India, where 
its IDRs are already listed, for listing of the IDRs to be issued by way of rights and has 
chosen one of them as the designated stock exchange. 

the  rights 

to 

the  IDR  Holders/renouncees  or  arrange  for 

 
Renunciation by an IDR holder. 
106C. Unless the laws of the home jurisdiction of the issuer company otherwise provide, the rights 
offering  shall  be  deemed  to  include  a  right  exercisable  by  the  person  concerned  to  renounce  the 
IDRs  offered  to  the  IDR  holder  in  favour  of  any  other  person  subject  to  applicable  laws  and  the 
same shall be disclosed in the offer document. 
 
Depository. 
106D. The domestic depository shall, in accordance with the depository  agreement executed with 
the issuer at the time of initial offering of IDRs, take such steps as are necessary to enable the IDR 
holders  to  have  entitlements  under  the  rights  offering  and  issue  additional  IDRs  to  such  IDR 
holders,  distribute 
the  IDR 
holders/renouncees to subscribe for any additional rights which are available due to lack of take-up 
by other holders of underlying shares. 
 
Record Date. 
106E.  (1) A listed issuer making a rights issue of IDRs shall in accordance with provisions of the 
listing agreement, announce a record date for the purpose of determining the shareholders eligible 
to apply for IDRs in the proposed rights issue.  
(2) If the issuer withdraws the rights issue after announcing the record date, it shall notify the Board 
about  the  same  and  shall  notify  the  same  in  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide 
circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one  regional  language 
daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where principal office of the issuer is situated in 
India. If the issuer withdraws the rights issue after announcing the record date, it shall not make an 
application for offering of IDRs on a rights basis for a period of twelve months from the said record 
date. 
 
Disclosures in the offer document and the addendum for the rights offering. 
106F. (1) The offer document for the rights offering shall contain disclosures as required under the 
home country regulations of the issuer.  
(2) Apart from the disclosures as required under the home country regulations, an additional wrap 
(addendum  to  offer  document)  shall  be  attached  to  the  offer  document  to  be  circulated  in  India 
containing  information  as  specified  in  Part  A  of  Schedule  XXI  and  other  instructions  as  to  the 
procedures and process to be followed with respect to rights issue of IDRs in India.  
(3) Without  prejudice to the generality of sub-regulations  (1) and (2), the offer document  and the 
addendum  attached  with  it,  shall  contain  all  material  information,  which  are  true,  correct  and 
adequate, so as to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision. 
 
Filing of draft offer document and the addendum for rights offering. 
106G.  (1)The  issuer  shall  appoint  one  or  more  merchant  bankers,  one  of  whom  shall  be  a  lead 
merchant banker and shall also appoint other intermediaries, in consultation with the lead merchant 
banker, to carry out the obligations relating to the issue.  
(2)  The  issuer  shall,  through  the  lead  merchant  banker,  file  the  draft  offer  document  prepared  in 
accordance with the home country requirements along with an addendum containing disclosures as 
specified in Part A of Schedule XXI with the Board, as a confidential filing accompanied with fees 
as specified in Part A of Schedule IV.  
(3) The Board may specify changes or issue observations, if any, on the draft offer document and 
the addendum within thirty days or from the following dates, whichever is later: 

Page 64 of 255 

 

(a)  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  draft  offer  document  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  home 

country requirements along with an addendum under sub-regulation (2); or 

(b) the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead merchant bankers, where the Board 

has sought any clarification or additional information from them; or  

(c)  the  date  of  receipt  of  clarification  or  information  from  any  regulator  or  agency,  where 

the Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or agency; or 

(d)    the  date  of  receipt  of  a  copy  of  in-principle  approval  letter  issued  by  the  recognised 

stock exchanges. 

(4)  If  the  Board  specifies  changes  or  issues  observations  on  the  draft  offer  document  and  the 
addendum under sub-regulation(3), the issuer and the merchant banker shall  file the revised draft 
offer document and the  updated addendum  after  incorporating the changes suggested or specified 
by the Board.  
(5)  The  issuer  shall  also  submit  an  undertaking  from  the  Overseas  Custodian  and  Domestic 
Depository addressed to the issuer, to comply with their obligations with respect to the said rights 
issue under their respective agreements entered into between them, along with the offer document. 
(6) The issuer shall ensure that the Compliance Officer, in charge of ensuring compliance with the 
obligations under this Chapter, functions from within the territorial limits of India. 
 
Fast track issue. 
106H. (1) Nothing contained in sub-regulations (1), (2), (3) and (4) of regulation 106G shall apply, 
if the issuer satisfies the following conditions: 

(a)  the  issuer  is  in  compliance  in  all  material  respects  with  the  provisions  of  deposit 
agreement and the provisions of listing agreements (or listing conditions) applicable in 
all  the  jurisdictions  wherever  the  issuer  is  listed,  for  a  period  of  at  least  three  years 
immediately preceding the date of filing of the offer document, and a certification to this 
effect is provided by the issuer;  

(b) the  offer  document  for  the  rights  offering  of  the  securities  of  the  issuer  has  been  filed 

and reviewed by the securities regulator in the home country of the issuer;  

(c)  there are no pending show-cause notices or prosecution proceedings against the issuer or 
its  promoters,  where  applicable,  or  whole  time  directors  on  the  reference  date  by  the 
Board or the regulatory authorities in its home country restricting them from accessing 
the capital markets; and 

(d) the issuer has redressed at least ninety five per cent. of the complaints received from the 
IDR holders before the end of the three months period immediately preceding the month 
of date of filing the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange. 

(2) Where the conditions  in  sub-regulation  (1) are satisfied, the issuer may opt  for rights  issue of 
IDRs  by  filing  a  copy  of  the  offer  document  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  home  country 
requirements  along  with  an  addendum  containing  disclosures  as  specified  in  Part  A  of  Schedule 
XXI  with  the  Board  for  record  purposes,  before  filing  the  same  with  the  recognised  stock 
exchanges. 
 
Dispatch of abridged letter of offer and application form. 
106I.  (1)  The  abridged  letter  of  offer,  containing  disclosures  as  specified  in  Part  B  of  Schedule 
XXI, for a rights offering, along with application form, shall be dispatched through registered post 
or  speed  post  to  all  the  eligible  IDR  holders  at  least  three  days  before  the  date  of  opening  of  the 
issue and shall be made available on the website of the issuer with appropriate access restrictions at 
the same time it is made available to the holders of its equity shares.  
Provided that a hard copy of the offer document for a rights offering along with the addendum shall 
be made available at the principal office of the issuer or lead merchant banker to any existing IDR 
holder who has made a request in this regard.  

Page 65 of 255 

 

(2) The eligible IDR holders who have not received the application form may apply in writing on a 
plain paper to the domestic depository, along with the requisite application money within the time 
frame for acceptance. 
(3) The eligible IDR holders making an application otherwise than on the application form shall not 
renounce  their  rights  and  shall  not  utilise  the  application  form  for  any  purpose  including 
renunciation even if it is received subsequently. 
(4) Where any eligible IDR holder makes an application on an application form as well as on plain 
paper, such application is liable to be rejected. 
(5)  The  issue  price  and  the  ratio  shall  be  decided  simultaneously  with  record  date  in  accordance 
with the home country regulations.  
 
 
 
 
189[Period of subscription and issue of allotment letter. 
106J.  (1) A rights issue shall be open for subscription in India for a period as applicable under the 
laws of its home country but in no case less than  ten days. 
(2)  The issuing company shall ensure that it sends the allotment letter of rights to IDR Holders at 
the  time  they  are  sent  to  shareholders  of  the  issuing  company  as  per  the  requirement  of  its  home 
country or other jurisdictions where its securities are listed.] 
 
Pre-Issue Advertisement for rights issue. 
106K. (1) The issuer shall issue an advertisement for the rights issue disclosing the following: 

(a)  the  date  of  completion  of  despatch  of  the  abridged  letter  of  offer  and  the  application 

form; 

(b) the  centres  other  than  principal  office  of  the  issuer  in  India  where  the  eligible  IDR 
holders may obtain duplicate copies of the application forms in case they do not receive 
the application form within a reasonable time after opening of the rights issue; 

(c)  a statement that if the eligible IDR holders have neither received the original application 
forms  nor  they  are  in  a  position  to  obtain    the  duplicate  forms,  they  may  make 
application in writing on a plain paper to subscribe to the rights issue; 

(d) a  format  to  enable  the  eligible  IDR  holders,  to  make  the  application  on  a  plain  paper 
specifying  therein  necessary  particulars  such  as  name,  address,  ratio  of  rights  issue, 
issue price, number of IDRs held, ledger folio numbers, depository participant ID, client 
ID, number of IDRs entitled and applied for, amount to be paid along with application, 
and particulars of cheque, etc. to be drawn in favour of the issuer’s account;  

(e)  a statement that the applications can be directly sent by the eligible IDR holders through 
registered post together with the application moneys to the issuer's designated official at 
the address given in the advertisement; 

(f)  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  if  the  eligible  IDR  holder  makes  an  application  on  plain 
paper and also on application form both his applications shall be liable to be rejected at 
the option of the issuer.  

 

(2)  The  advertisement  shall  be  made  in  at  least  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide 
circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one  regional  language 
daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where principal office of the issuer is situated in 
India at least three days before the date of opening of the issue.  
 
                                                           
189 Substituted by  the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 
Prior to its substitution, said Regulation read as under : 
"106J. Period of subscription.— A rights issue shall be open for subscription in India for a period as applicable under 
the laws of its home country but in no case less than 10 days." 

Page 66 of 255 

 

Utilisation of funds raised in rights issue. 
106L. (1) The issuer shall utilise funds raised in relation to the IDRs pursuant to the rights offering 
only upon completion of the allotment process.] 
 

191[ISSUE OF SPECIFIED SECURITIES BY SMALL AND MEDIUM 

         190[ CHAPTER XB] 

 

ENTERPRISES] 

Applicability. 
192[106M.] (1) An issuer whose post-issue face value capital does not exceed ten crore rupees shall 
issue its specified securities in accordance with provisions of this Chapter. 
(2)  An  issuer,  whose  post  issue  face  value  capital  is  more  than  ten  crore  rupees  and  upto  twenty 
five crore rupees, may also issue specified securities in accordance with provisions of this Chapter.  
(3) The provisions of these regulations, in respect of the matters not specifically dealt or excluded 
under  this  Chapter,  shall  mutatis  mutandis  apply  to  any  issue  of  specified  securities  under  this 
Chapter:  
Provided that provisions of sub-regulations (1), (2) and (3) of regulation 6,  193[****], regulation 8, 
regulation  9,  regulation  10,  regulation  25,  regulation  26,  regulation  27  and  sub-regulation  (1)  of 
regulation 49 of these regulations shall not apply to an issue of specified securities made under this 
Chapter. 

 
Definitions. 
194[106N.] (1) In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, - 

 

(a)  “Main  Board”  means  a  recognized  stock  exchange  having  nationwide  trading 
terminals, other than SME exchange; 

(b)  “nominated  investor”  means  a  qualified  institutional  buyer  or  private  equity  fund, 
who    enters    into  an  agreement    with  the  merchant  banker  to  subscribe  to  the  issue  in 
case of under-subscription or to receive or deliver the specified securities in the  market-
making process;  

Explanation:  “private  equity  fund”  means  a  fund  registered  with  any  regulatory 
authority or a fund established by any person registered with any regulatory authority; 
 
(c)  “SME exchange” means a trading platform of a  recognised stock  exchange having 
nationwide  trading  terminals  permitted    by  the  Board  to  list  the  specified  securities 
issued  in  accordance  with  this  Chapter  and  includes  a  stock    exchange  granted 
recognition for this purpose but does not include the  Main Board; 

(2)  All  other  words  and  expression  used  in  this  Chapter  but  not  defined  under  sub-  
regulation (1) shall derive their meaning from regulation 2 of these regulations.   
 

       

  

Filing of offer document and due diligence certificate. 
                                                           
190  Substituted  for  “CHAPTER  XA”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011. 
191  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
30.01.2012. 
192 Substituted for “106A” by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011. 
193 Words "regulation 7," omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 
194 Substituted for “106B”, by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011. 

Page 67 of 255 

 

195[106O.]  (1)  The  issuer  making  a  public  issue  or  rights  issue  of  specified  securities  under  this 
Chapter shall not file the draft offer document with the Board: 
Provided that the issuer shall file a copy of the  offer document with the Board  through a merchant 
banker, simultaneously with the filing of the prospectus with the SME exchange and the Registrar 
of Companies or letter of offer with the SME Exchange: 
Provided further that the Board shall not issue any observation on the offer document.  
(2)    The  merchant  banker  shall  submit  a  due-diligence  certificate  as  per  Form  A  of  Schedule  VI 
including  additional  confirmations  as  provided  in  Form  H  of  Schedule  VI  alongwith  the  offer 
document to the Board.  
(3) The offer document shall be displayed from the date of filing in terms of sub-regulation (1) on 
the  websites  of  the  Board,  the  issuer,  the  merchant  banker  and  the  SME  exchange  where  the 
specified securities offered through the offer document are proposed to be listed.  

 

Underwriting by merchant bankers and underwriters. 
196[106P.] (1) The issue made under this Chapter shall be hundred per cent. underwritten. 
Explanation: The underwriting under this regulation shall be for the entire hundred percent of the 
offer through offer document and shall not be restricted upto the minimum subscription level.     
(2)  The  merchant  banker/s  shall  underwrite  at  least  fifteen  per  cent  of  the  issue  size  on  his/  their 
own account/s. 
(3) The issuer in consultation with merchant banker may appoint underwriters in accordance with 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993 and the merchant banker 
may  enter  into  an  agreement  with  nominated  investor  indicating  therein  the  number  of  specified 
securities which they agree to subscribe at issue price in case of under-subscription. 
(4)  If  other  underwriters  fail  to  fulfill  their  underwriting  obligations  or  other  nominated  investors 
fail  to  subscribe  to  unsubscribed  portion,  the  merchant  banker  shall  fulfill  the  underwriting 
obligations. 
(5)  The  underwriters  other  than  the  merchant  banker  and  the  nominated  investors,  who  have 
entered  into  an  agreement  for  subscribing  to  the  issue  in  case  of  under-subscription,  shall  not 
subscribe to the issue made under this Chapter in any manner except for fulfilling their obligations 
under their respective agreements with the merchant banker in this regard.  
(6)  All  the  underwriting  and  subscription  arrangements  made  by  the  merchant  banker  shall  be 
disclosed in the offer document.  
(7) The merchant banker shall file an undertaking to the Board that the issue has been hundred per 
cent. underwritten along with the list of underwriters and nominated investors indicating the extent 
of underwriting or subscription commitment made by them, one day before the opening of issue. 

 

Minimum Application Value. 
197[106Q.] The issuer shall stipulate in the offer document, the minimum application size in terms 
of number of specified securities which shall not be less than one lakh rupees per application.  

 

Minimum Number of Allottees. 
198[106R.] No allotment shall be made pursuant to any initial public offer made under this Chapter, 
if the number of prospective allottees is less than fifty.      
 

                                                           
195 Substituted for “106C”, by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011. 
196 Substituted for “106D” by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011. 
197 Substituted for “106E”, by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011. 
198 Substituted for “106F”, by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011  

Page 68 of 255 

 

Listing of specified securities.  
199[106S.]  (1)  Specified  securities  issued  in  accordance  with  this  Chapter  shall  be  listed  on  SME 
exchange. 
(2) Where any listed issuer issues specified securities in accordance with provisions of this Chapter 
it  shall  migrate  the  specified  securities  already  listed  on  any  recognized  stock  exchange/s  to  the 
SME exchange.  

 

Migration to SME exchange. 
200[106T.] A listed issuer whose post-issue face value capital is less than twenty five crore rupees 
may migrate its specified securities to SME exchange if its shareholders approve such migration by 
passing  a  special  resolution  through  postal  ballot  to  this  effect  and  if  such  issuer  fulfils  the 
eligibility criteria for listing laid down by the SME exchange: 
Provided that the special resolution shall be acted upon if and only if the votes cast by shareholders 
other than promoters in favour of the proposal amount to at least two times the number of votes cast 
by shareholders other than promoter shareholders against the proposal. 

 

Migration to Main Board. 
201[106U.] (1) An issuer, whose specified securities are listed on a SME Exchange and whose post 
issue  face  value  capital  is  more  than  ten  crore  rupees  and  upto  twenty  five  crore  rupees,  may 
migrate its specified securities to Main Board if its shareholders approve such migration by passing 
a  special  resolution  through  postal  ballot  to  this  effect  and  if  such  issuer  fulfils  the  eligibility 
criteria for listing laid down by the Main Board: 
Provided that the special resolution shall be acted upon if and only if the votes cast by shareholders 
other than promoters in favour of the proposal amount to at least two times the number of votes cast 
by shareholders other than promoter shareholders against the proposal. 
(2) Where the post issue face value capital of an issuer listed on SME exchange is likely to increase 
beyond  twenty  five  crore  rupees  by  virtue  of  any  further  issue  of  capital  by  the  issuer  by  way  of 
rights issue, preferential issue, bonus issue, etc. the issuer shall migrate its specified securities listed 
on SME exchange to Main Board and seek listing of specified securities proposed to be issued on 
the Main Board subject to the fulfilment of the eligibility criteria for listing of specified securities 
laid down by the Main Board:  
Provided that no further issue of capital by the issuer shall be made unless – 

(a)  the  shareholders  of  the  issuer  have  approved  the  migration  by  passing  a  special 
resolution  through  postal  ballot  wherein  the  votes  cast  by  shareholders  other  than 
promoters  in  favour  of  the  proposal  amount  to  at  least  two  times  the  number  of  votes 
cast by shareholders other than promoter shareholders against the proposal; 

(b) the  issuer  has  obtained    in-  principle  approval  from  the  Main  Board  for  listing  of  its 

entire specified securities on it. 

 

Market Making. 
202[106V.]  (1)  The  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  compulsory  market  making  through  the  stock 
brokers  of  SME  exchange  in  the  manner  specified  by  the  Board  for  a  minimum  period  of  three 

                                                           
199 Substituted for “106G”, by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011.  
200 Substituted for “106H”, by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011. 
201 Substituted for “106I”, by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011. 
202 Substituted for “106J”, by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011. 

Page 69 of 255 

 

years from the date of listing of specified securities issued under this Chapter on SME exchange or 
from the date of migration from Main Board in terms of regulation 203[106T], as the case may be. 
(2)  The  merchant  banker  may  enter  into  agreement  with  nominated  investors  for  receiving  or 
delivering the specified securities in the market  making subject to the prior approval by the SME 
exchange where the specified securities are proposed to be listed.  
(3) The issuer shall disclose the details of arrangement of market making in the offer document. 
(4)  The  specified  securities  being  bought  or  sold  in  the  process  of  market  making  may  be 
transferred to or from the nominated investor with whom the merchant banker has entered into an 
agreement for the market making: 
Provided  that  the  inventory  of  the  market  maker,  as  on  the  date  of  allotment  of  the  specified 
securities, shall be  at  least  five per  cent.  of the specified securities proposed to  be listed on SME 
exchange. 
(5)  The  market  maker  shall  buy  the  entire  shareholding  of  a  shareholder  of  the  issuer  in  one  lot, 
where value of such shareholding is less than the minimum contract size allowed for trading on the 
SME exchange: 
Provided that market  maker shall not  sell in  lots less than the minimum contract  size allowed for 
trading on the SME exchange.   
(6)  Market  maker  shall  not  buy  the  shares  from  the  promoters  or  persons  belonging  to  promoter 
group of the issuer or any person who has acquired shares from such promoter or person belonging 
to  promoter  group,  during  the  compulsory  market  making  period  laid  down  under  sub-regulation 
(1).  
(7) The promoters’ holding shall not be eligible for offering to the market maker under this Chapter 
during the period specified in sub-regulation (1): 
Provided that the promoters’ holding which is not locked-in as per these regulations can be traded 
with prior permission of the SME exchange, in the manner specified by the Board. 
(8) Subject to the agreement between the issuer and the merchant banker/s, the merchant banker/s 
who have the responsibility of market making may be represented on the board of the issuer.] 

 

204[CHAPTER XC 

LISTING ON INSTITUTIONAL TRADING PLATFORM 

Applicability. 
106W.    (1)  The  provisions  of  this  chapter  shall  apply  to  entities    which  seek  listing  of  their 
specified  securities  exclusively  on  the  institutional  trading  platform  either  pursuant  to  a  public 
issue or otherwise.  
(2) The provisions of these regulations, in respect of the matters not specifically dealt or excluded 
under  this  Chapter,  shall  apply  mutatis  mutandis  to  any  listing  of  specified  securities  under  this 
Chapter: 
Provided  that  the  provisions  of  sub-regulation  (4)  of  regulation  4,  sub-regulations  (1)  and  (2)  of 
regulation 26 of these regulations shall not apply to listing of specified securities made under this 
Chapter. 
(3) The  institutional  trading  platform  shall  be  accessible  to  institutional  investors  and    non-
institutional investors. 
 

Definitions. 
106X. (1) In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,- 

                                                           
203 Substituted for “106H”, by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011.  
204  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 14.08.2015. Prior  to  its  substitution,  Chapter  XC,  was  inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Listing  of  Specified  Securities  on 
Institutional Trading Platform) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 8-10-2013.  

Page 70 of 255 

 

(a) 
"institutional  trading  platform"  means  the  trading  platform  for  listing  and  trading  of 
specified  securities  of    entities  that  comply  with  the  eligibility  criteria  specified  in  regulation 
106Y;  
(b) 

“institutional investor” means: 
(i)  qualified institutional buyer; or 
(ii) family trust or systematically important NBFCs registered with Reserve Bank of India or 
intermediaries registered with the Board, all with net-worth of more than five hundred crore 
rupees, as per the last audited financial statements; 
“persons acting in concert” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under regulation 

(c) 
2(1)(q) of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. 
(3)  All other words and expressions used in this Chapter but not defined under sub-regulation (1) 
shall derive their meaning from regulation 2 of these regulations.  
 

Eligibility. 
106Y. (1) The following entities shall be eligible for listing on the institutional trading platform,-    
(a)  an  entity  which  is  intensive  in  the  use  of  technology,  information  technology,  intellectual 
property,  data  analytics,  bio-technology  or  nano-technology  to  provide  products,  services  or 
business platforms with substantial value addition and at least twenty five per cent of its pre-issue 
capital  is  held  by  qualified  institutional  buyer(s)  as  on  the  date  of  filing  of  draft  information 
document or draft offer document with the Board, as the case may be; or 
(b)    any  other  entity  in  which  at  least  fifty  per  cent  of  the  pre-issue  capital  is  held  by  qualified 
institutional buyers as on the date of filing of draft information document or draft offer document 
with the Board, as the case may be.  
(2) No person, individually or collectively  with  persons acting in  concert, shall hold  twenty five 
per cent or more of the post-issue share capital in an entity specified in sub-regulation (1). 
 
Listing without public issue.  
106Z. (1) An entity seeking listing of its specified securities without making a public issue shall 
file a draft information  document along with  necessary  documents with  the Board in  accordance 
with these regulations along with fee as specified in Schedule IV of these regulations. 
(2)  The  draft  information  document  shall  contain  the  disclosures  as  specified  for  draft  offer 
document in these regulations. 
(3) Regulations  relating  to  the following shall not  be applicable in  case of listing without  public 
issue: 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
(vi) 
(vii) 
(viii) 

allotment;  
issue opening / closing;  
advertisement;  
underwriting; 
sub-regulation (5) of regulation 26;  
pricing;  
dispatch of issue material;  
and other such provisions related to offer of specified securities to public.  

(4) The entity shall obtain in-principle approval from the recognised stock exchanges on which it 
proposes to get its specified securities listed.  
(5)  The  entity  shall  list  its  specified  securities  on  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s  within  thirty 
days:  

(a)  from the date of issuance of observations by the Board; or 
(b) from the expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6, if the Board 

has not issued any such observations. 

(6)  The  entity  which  has  received  in-principle  approval  from  the  recognised  stock  exchange  for 
listing  of  its  specified  securities  on  the  institutional  trading  platform,  without  making  a  public 
issue, shall be deemed to  have been waived by the Board under sub-rule (7) of rule 19 from  the 

Page 71 of 255 

 

requirement  of  clause  (b)  of  sub-rule  (2)  of  rule  19  of  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules, 
1957 for the limited purpose of listing on the institutional trading platform. 
(7)  Provisions  relating  to  minimum  public  shareholding  shall  not  apply  to  entities  listed  on 
institutional trading platform without making a public issue.  
(8)  The  draft  and  final  information  document  shall  be  approved  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the 
entity and shall be signed by all directors, the Chief Executive Officer, i.e., the Managing Director 
or Manager within the meaning of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Chief Financial Officer, i.e., 
the Whole-time Finance Director or any other person heading the finance function and discharging 
that function. 
(9) The signatories shall also certify that all disclosures made in the information document are true 
and correct. 
(10)    In  case  of  mis-statement  in  the  information  document  or  any  omission  therein,  any  person 
who  has  authorized  the  issue  of  information  document  shall  be  liable  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the SEBI Act, 1992 and regulations made thereunder. 
 
Listing pursuant to public issue. 
106ZA.  (1)  An  entity  seeking  issue  and  listing  of  its  specified  securities  shall  file  a  draft  offer 
document  along  with  necessary  documents  with  the  Board  in  accordance  with  these  regulations 
along with fees as specified in Schedule IV of these regulations. 
(2) The minimum application size shall be ten lakh rupees. 
(3) The number of allottees shall be more than two hundred.  
(4) The allocation in the net offer to public category shall be as follows: 

seventy-five per cent to institutional investors: 

(a) 
Provided that there shall be no separate allocation for Anchor Investors; 
(b) 

twenty-five per cent to non-institutional investors; 

 (5)  Any  under-subscription  in  the  non-institutional  investor  category  shall  be  available  for 
subscription under the institutional investors’ category.  
(6) The allotment to institutional investors may be on a discretionary basis whereas the allotment 
to non-institutional investors shall be on a proportionate basis.  
(7)  The  mode  of  allotment  to  institutional  investors,  i.e.,  whether  discretionary  or  proportionate, 
shall be disclosed prior to or at the time of filing of the Red Herring Prospectus. 
(8)  In  case  of  discretionary  allotment  to  institutional  investors,  no  institutional  investor  shall  be 
allotted more than ten per cent of the issue size.  
(9) The offer document  shall disclose the broad objects of the issue.   
(10)  The  basis  of  issue  price  may  include  disclosures,  except  projections,  as  deemed  fit  by  the 
issuers  in  order  to  enable  investors  to  take  informed  decisions  and  the  disclosures  shall  suitably 
caution the investors about basis of valuation. 
 
Lock-in.  
106ZB. (1) The entire pre-issue capital  of the shareholders shall be locked-in  for a period of six 
months from  the date of allotment  in  case of listing pursuant  to  public issue or date of listing in 
case of listing without public issue:  
Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to: 
(i) 
equity  shares  allotted  to  employees  under  an  employee  stock  option  or  employee  stock 
purchase scheme of the entity prior to the initial public offer, if the entity has made full disclosures 
with respect to such options or scheme in accordance with Part A of Schedule VIII; 
(ii) 
a foreign venture capital investor: 
Provided that such equity shares shall be locked in for a period of at least one year from the date of 
purchase  by  the  venture  capital  fund  or  alternative  investment  fund  or  foreign  venture  capital 
investor. 

equity shares held by a venture capital fund or alternative investment fund of Category I or 

Page 72 of 255 

 

 equity  shares  held  by  persons  other  than  promoters,  continuously  for  a  period  of  at  least 

(iii) 
one year prior to the date of listing in case of listing without public issue: 
Explanation.-  For  the  purpose  of  clause  (ii)  and  (iii),  in  case  such  equity  shares  have  resulted 
pursuant to conversion of fully paid-up compulsorily convertible securities, the holding period of 
such convertible securities as well as that of resultant equity shares together shall be considered for 
the purpose of calculation of one year period and the convertible securities shall be deemed to be 
fully  paid-up,  if  the  entire  consideration  payable  thereon  has  been  paid  at  the  time  of  their 
conversion. 
(2) The specified securities held by promoters and locked-in may be pledged with any scheduled 
commercial bank or public financial institution as collateral security for loan granted by such bank 
or institution if the pledge of specified securities is one of the terms of sanction of the loan. 
(3) The specified securities that are locked-in may be transferable in accordance with regulation 40 
of these regulations.  
(4) All specified securities allotted on a discretionary basis shall be locked-in in accordance with 
the  requirements  for  lock-in  by  Anchor  Investors  on  main  board  of  the  stock  exchange,  as 
specified under clause 10(j) in Part A of Schedule XI. 
 
Trading lot. 
106ZC. The minimum trading lot shall be ten lakh rupees.  
 
Exit of entities listed without making a public issue. 
106ZD.  (1)  An  entity  whose  specified  securities  are  listed  on  the  institutional  trading  platform 
without making a public issue may exit from that platform, if- 
(a) 
its  shareholders  approve  such  exit  by  passing  a  special  resolution  through  postal  ballot 
where ninety per cent of the total votes and the majority of non-promoter votes have been cast in 
favor of such proposal; and 
(b) 
(2)  The recognised stock exchange may delist the specified securities of an entity listed without 
making  a  public  issue  upon  non-compliance  of  the  conditions  of  listing  and  in  the  manner  as 
specified by the stock exchange. 
(3) No entity promoted by promoters and directors of an entity delisted under sub-regulation (2), 
shall be permitted to list on institutional trading platform for a period of five years from the date of 
such delisting: 
Provided  that  the  provisions  of  this  regulation  shall  not  apply  to  another  entity  promoted  by  the 
independent directors of such a delisted entity. 
 
Migration to main board. 
106ZE.  An  entity  that  has  listed  its  specified  securities  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange  in 
accordance with the provisions of  this Chapter may at its option migrate to the main board of that 
recognised  stock  exchange  after  expiry  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  listing  subject  to 
compliance with the eligibility requirements of the stock exchange.   
 
Repeal and saving. 
106ZF.    The  provisions  of  Chapter  XC  and  all  directions,  guidelines,  instructions  or  circulars, 
issued  by  the  Board  as  applicable  to  small  and  medium  enterprises  which  are  listed  on  the 
institutional  trading  platform,  as  on  the  date  of  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2015 shall continue to remain in force for the period such companies are listed on the institutional 
trading platform or till such time as specified by the Board, whichever is earlier, as if Chapter XC 
had not been repealed.  

the recognised stock exchange where its shares are listed approve of such an exit. 

Page 73 of 255 

 

Explanation.-  Under  this  Chapter,  the  phrases  ‘pre-issue’  and  ‘post-issue’,  wherever  they  occur 
shall be construed as ‘pre-listing’ and ‘post-listing’, respectively, in case of listing without public 
issue.] 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

LISTING OF SECURITIES ON STOCK EXCHANGES 

205[CHAPTER XI 

 

In-principle approval of recognized stock exchange(s). 
107. 
approval from recognised stock exchange as follows: 

(1) The issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall obtain in-principle  

(a)  in case of an initial public offer or an issue of Indian Depository Receipts (hereinafter 
referred to as ‘IDRs’) , from all the recognised stock exchange(s) on which the issuer or the 
issuing company, proposes to get its specified securities or IDRs, as the case may be, listed; 
and 

(b) in case of other issues, before issuance of further securities, as follows:   

(i)  where  the  securities  are  listed  only  on  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  having 
nationwide trading terminals, from all such stock exchange(s); 
(ii)  where  the  securities  are  not  listed  on  any  recognised  stock  exchange  having 
nationwide trading terminals, from all the stock exchange(s) on which the securities of 
the issuer are proposed to be listed; 
(iii) where the specified   are listed on recognised stock exchange(s) having nationwide 
trading  terminals  as  well  as  on  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  not  having 
nationwide 
terminals,  from  all  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  having 
nationwide trading terminals. 

trading 

(1) The issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall complete  the pre-

 
Application for Listing. 
108. 
listing formalities within the time lines specified by the Board from time to time. 
 
(2)  The  issuer  or  the  issuing  company,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall,  make  an  application  for 
listing,  within  twenty  days  from  the  date  of  allotment,  to  one  or  more  recognized  stock 
exchange(s) along with the documents specified by stock exchange(s) from time to time. 
 
(3)  In  case  of  delay  in  making  application  for  listing  beyond  twenty  days  from  the  date  of 
allotment, the issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall pay penal interest to 
allottees for each day of delay at the rate of atleast ten per cent. per annum from the expiry of 
thirty days from date of allotment till the listing of such securities to the allottees.  
 
(4) In the event of non-receipt of listing permission from the stock exchange(s) by the issuer 
or the issuing company, as the case may be, or withdrawal of Observation Letter issued by 

                                                           
205  Chapter  XI  (regulations  107  to  110)  inserted  by  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.12.2015 

Page 74 of 255 

 

the Board, wherever applicable, the securities shall not be eligible for listing and the issuer or 
the issuing company, as the case may be, shall be liable to refund the subscription monies, if 
any, to the respective allottees immediately alongwith interest at the rate of ten per cent. per 
annum from the date of allotment.  
 
Listing Agreement. 
109. (1) Every issuer or the issuing company desirous of listing its securities  on a recognised 
stock exchange shall execute a listing agreement with such stock exchange.  

(2) Every issuer or the issuing company which has previously entered into agreement(s) with 
a recognised stock exchange to list its  securities  shall execute a fresh listing agreement with 
such stock exchange within six months of the date of notification of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.  

Obligation of stock exchange(s). 
110.    The  stock  exchange(s)  shall  grant  in-principle  approval/list  the  securities  or  reject  the 
application for in-principle approval /listing by the issuer or issuing company, as the case maybe, 
within thirty days from the later of the following dates: 
(a)  the  date  of  receipt  of  application  for  in-principle  approval/listing  from  issuer  or  the  issuing 
company, as the case may be,; 
(b) the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the issuer or the issuing company, as the case may 
be, in cases where the stock exchange(s) has sought any clarification from them.] 

 

 

206[CHAPTER XII] 

MISCELLANEOUS 

 
Directions by the Board. 
207[111.]  Without  prejudice  to  the  power  under  sections  11,  11A,  11B,  11D,  sub-section  (3)  of 
section 12, Chapter VIA and section 24 of the Act or section 621 of the Companies Act, 1956, the 
Board  may  either  suo  motu  or  on  receipt  of  information  or  on  completion  or  pendency  of  any 
inspection, inquiry or investigation, in the interests of investors or the securities market, issue such 
directions or orders as it deems fit including any or all of the following:  
(a)  directing the persons concerned not to access the securities market for a specified period;  
(b)  directing the person concerned to sell or divest the securities;  
(c)  any other direction which Board may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case: 
 Provided  that  the  Board  shall,  either  before  or  after  issuing  such  direction  or  order,  give  a 
reasonable opportunity of being heard to the person concerned: 
 Provided further that if any interim direction or order is required to be issued, the Board may give 
post-decisional hearing to the person concerned. 
 
208[Liability for contravention of the Act, rules or the regulations. 
111A.  (1)  The  listed  entity  or  any  other  person  thereof  who  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of 
these regulations, shall, in addition to the liability for action in terms of the securities laws, be liable 
for  the  following  actions  by  the  respective  stock  exchange(s),  in  the  manner  specified  in  the 
circulars or guidelines issued by the Board: 

(a)  imposition of fines;  
(b)  suspension of trading;  

                                                           
206  Chapter  XI  renumbered  as  Chapter  XII by  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 
2015, w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 
207  Regulation  107  renumbered  as  Regulation  111  by  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 
208  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2017,  w.e.f. 
15.02.2017. 

Page 75 of 255 

 

(c)  freezing of promoter/promoter group holding of designated securities, as may be applicable, 
in coordination with depositories;  
(d)  any other action as may be specified by the Board from time to time.  

the requirement is procedural in nature; or 

 
(3)  The manner of revocation of actions specified in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-regulation (1), shall be 
as specified in the circulars or guidelines issued by the Board. 
 
Failure to pay fine.  
111B.  If  the  listed  entity  fails  to  pay  any  fine  imposed  upon  it  by  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s), 
within the period as specified from time to time, the stock exchange may initiate such other action in 
accordance with law, after giving a notice in writing.] 
 
Power to remove difficulty. 
209[112]. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, 
the  Board  may  issue  clarifications  through  guidance  notes  or  circulars  after  recording  reasons  in 
writing. 
 
Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations. 
210[113]. [(1)]211 The Board may, in the interest of investors or for the development of the securities 
market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these regulations, if the Board is satisfied 
that: 
(a) 
(b)  any disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular class of industry or issuer; or 
(c) 
 
212[(2)    For  seeking  relaxation  under  sub-regulation  (1),  an  application,  giving  details  and  the 
grounds on which such relaxation has been sought, shall be filed with the Board.  
 
(3)  The application referred to under sub-regulation (2) shall be accompanied by a non-refundable 
fee  of  rupees  one  lakh  payable  by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account  through 
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or by way of a demand draft in favour of 
the Board payable in Mumbai.]  
 
Amendments to other regulations. 
213[114].  On  and  from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  the  regulations  mentioned  in 
Schedule XX shall stand amended to the extent specified therein. 
 
Repeal and Savings. 
214[115].  (1)  On  and  from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 shall stand rescinded. 
(2) Notwithstanding such rescission: 

the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the issuer. 

                                                           
209  Regulation  108  renumbered  as  Regulation  112  by  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 
210  Regulation  109  renumbered  as  Regulation  113  by  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 
211  Existing  regulation  numbered  as  sub-regulation  (1)  by  the  SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees  and  Mode  of  Payment) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 6.3.2017.  
212 Inserted ibid.  
213  Regulation  110  renumbered  as  Regulation  114  by  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 
214  Regulation  111  renumbered  as  Regulation  115  by  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 

Page 76 of 255 

 

(a)  anything  done  or  any  action  taken  or  purported  to  have  been  done  or  taken  including 
observation  made  in  respect  of  any  draft  offer  document,  any  enquiry  or  investigation 
commenced or show cause notice issued in respect of the said Guidelines shall be deemed 
to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations; 

(b)  any  offer  document,  whether  draft  or  otherwise,  filed  or  application  made  to  the  Board 
under  the  said  Guidelines  and  pending  before  it  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  filed  or 
made under the corresponding provisions of these regulations.] 

 

Page 77 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE I 

[See regulation 5(3) and 101(2)] 

 

INTER-SE ALLOCATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES 

 
(1)  The lead merchant bankers shall make inter-se allocation of responsibilities pertaining to the 

activities or sub-activities to be carried out under these regulations. 

(2)  The lead merchant bankers shall delineate the activity-wise allocation of responsibilities and 
intimate the Board about the name of the lead merchant banker responsible for each set of the 
activities or sub-activities at the time of filing the draft offer document with the Board. This 
intimation must be signed by all the lead merchant bankers to the issue. 

(3)  Where  circumstances  warrant  joint  and  several  responsibility  of  the  lead  merchant  bankers 
for any particular activity, a co-ordinator designated from among the lead merchant bankers 
(hereinafter referred to as the “designated lead merchant banker”) shall furnish to the Board, 
when called for, information, report, comments, etc. on matters relating to such activity.  

(4)  The activities or sub-activities may be grouped on the following lines: 

(a)  Capital structuring with the relative components and formalities such as composition of 

debt and equity, type of instruments, etc. 

(b)  Drafting  and  design  of  the  offer  document  and  of  the  advertisement  or  publicity 
material including newspaper advertisement and brochure or memorandum containing 
salient features of the offer document. 

(c)  Selection  of  various  agencies  connected  with  issue,  such  as  registrars  to  the  issue, 

printers, advertising agencies, etc. 

(d)  Marketing of the issue, which shall cover, inter alia, formulating marketing strategies, 
preparation of publicity budget, arrangements for selection of (i) ad-media, (ii) centres 
for holding conferences of stock brokers, investors, etc., (iii) bankers to the issue, (iv) 
collection centres as per schedule III, (v) brokers to the issue, and (vi) underwriters and 
underwriting  arrangement,  distribution  of  publicity  and  issue  material  including 
application  form,  prospectus  and  brochure  and  deciding  upon  the  quantum  of  issue 
material. 

(e)  Post-issue activities, which shall involve essential follow-up steps including follow-up 
with bankers to the issue and Self Certified Syndicate Banks to get quick estimates of 
collection  and  advising  the  issuer  about  the  closure  of  the  issue,  based  on  correct 
figures,  finalisation  of  the  basis  of  allotment  or  weeding  out  of  multiple  applications, 
listing  of  instruments,  despatch  of  certificates  or  demat  credit  and  refunds  and  co-
ordination  with  various  agencies  connected  with  the  post-issue  activity  such  as 
registrars  to  the  issue,  bankers  to  the  issue,  Self  Certified  Syndicate  Banks,  etc. 
Ordinarily, one lead merchant banker shall be responsible for the post-issue activities. 

(5)  The designated lead merchant banker shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with these 
regulations and other requirements and formalities specified by the Registrar of Companies, 
the  Board  and  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  where  specified  securities  being  offered  are 
proposed to be listed. 

(6)  Even if many of the post-issue activities are handled by other intermediaries, the designated 
lead  merchant  banker  shall  be  responsible  for  ensuring  that  these  intermediaries  fulfil  their 
functions and enable him to discharge this responsibility through suitable agreements with the 
issuer. 
In  case  of  under-subscription  in  an  issue,  the  lead  merchant  banker  responsible  for 
underwriting  arrangements  shall  be  responsible  for  invoking  underwriting  obligations  and 

(7) 

Page 78 of 255 

 

ensuring  that  the  notice  for  devolvement  containing  the  obligations  of  the  underwriters  is 
issued in terms of these regulations. 

Page 79 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE II 

[See regulations 5(5) and 101(1)] 

 

FORMAT OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN LEAD MERCHANT BANKERS TO THE ISSUE 

AND ISSUER/ISSUING COMPANY 

 
This  Agreement  made  BETWEEN.......  (name  of  the  issuer),  having  its  registered  office  at  ......... 
(registered office address of the issuer) (hereinafter referred to as "the issuer") AND ............. (name 
of the lead merchant bankers), having their registered office at...................... with the branch office 
at ……. 
 
WHEREAS: 
 
(1)  The issuer is taking steps for the issue of ...................... (particulars of the issue) to the public/ 
existing shareholders of the issuer (the said issue of specified securities hereinafter referred to 
as "the issue"); AND 

(2)  The  issuer  has  approached  the  lead  merchant  bankers  to  manage  the  issue  and  the  lead 
merchant bankers have accepted the engagement inter-alia, subject to the issuer entering into 
an agreement for the purpose being these presents; 

 
NOW, THEREFORE, the issuer and the lead merchant bankers do hereby agree as follows: 
 
(1)  Besides  the  lead  merchant  bankers,  ..........,    ............,  and  .................  would  be  acting  as  the 

co-managers to the issue. 

(2)  The issuer hereby declares that it has complied with or agrees to comply with all the statutory 
formalities  under  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  and  other  conditions, 
instructions  and    advices  issued  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (hereinafter 
referred  to  as  "the  Board")  and  other  relevant  statutes  to  enable  it  to  make  the  issue  and  in 
particular in respect of the following matters: 
(Give  details  and  particulars  of  statutory  compliances  which  the  issuer  has  to  fulfil  before 
making the issue) 
Consent of the shareholders has been obtained vide ........... (details of the resolution) passed in 
the general meeting held on .............. (date of the meeting). 

(3)  The issuer undertakes and declares that any information made available to the lead merchant 
banker  or  any  statement  made  in  the  offer  document  shall  be  complete  in  all  respects  and 
shall  be  true  and  correct  and  that  under  no  circumstances  it  shall  give  or  withhold  any 
information or statement which is likely to mislead the investors. 

(4)  The  issuer  also  undertakes  to  furnish  complete  audited  annual  reports,  other  relevant 
documents,  papers,  information  relating  to  pending  litigations,  etc.  to  enable  the  lead 
merchant banker to corroborate the information and statements given in the offer document. 

(5)  The  issuer  shall,  if  so  required,  extend  such  facilities  as  may  be  called  for  by  the  lead 
merchant banker to enable them to visit the plant site, office of the issuer or such other places 
to  ascertain  for  themselves  the  state  of  affairs  of  the  issuer  including  the  progress  made  in 
respect of the project implementation, status and other facts relevant to the issue. 

(6)  The issuer shall extend all necessary facilities to the lead merchant banker to interact on any 
matter relevant to the issue with the solicitors / legal advisors, auditors, consultants, advisors 
to the issue, financial institutions, banks or any other organisation and any other intermediary 
associated with the issue in any capacity whatsoever. 

Page 80 of 255 

 

(7)  The  issuer  shall  ensure  that  all  advertisements  prepared  and  released  by  the  advertising 
agency  or  otherwise  in  connection  with  the  issue  conform  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  and  the 
instructions given by the lead merchant banker from time to time and that it shall not make 
any  misleading  or  incorrect  statement  in  any  public  communication  or  publicity  material 
including  corporate,  product  and  issue  advertisements  of  the  issuer,  interviews  by  its 
promoters,  directors,  duly  authorized  employees  or  representatives  of 
issuer, 
documentaries about  the issuer or its promoters, periodical  reports and press  releases  issued 
by the issuer or research report made by the issuer, any intermediary concerned with the issue 
or their associates or at any press, brokers’ or investors’ conferences. 

the 

(8)  The  issuer  shall  not,  without  the  prior  consent  of  the  lead  merchant  banker,  appoint  other 
intermediaries  (except  Self  Certified  Syndicate  Banks)  or  other  persons  associated  with  the 
issue such as advertising agencies, printers, etc. for printing the application forms, allotment 
advices, allotment letters, share certificates / debenture certificates, refund orders or any other 
instruments, circulars, or advices. 

(9)  The  issuer  shall,  whenever  required  and  wherever  applicable,  in  consultation  with  the  lead 
merchant  banker,  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the  intermediaries  associated  with  the  issue, 
clearly setting forth their mutual rights, responsibilities and obligations. A certified true copy 
of such agreements shall be furnished to the lead merchant banker. 

(10)  The  issuer  shall  take  such  steps  as  are  necessary  to  ensure  completion  of  allotment  and 
despatch  of  letters  of  allotment  and  refund  orders  to  the  applicants  including  non–resident 
Indians soon after the basis of allotment is approved by designated stock exchanges but not 
later  than  the  specified  time  limit  and  in  the  event  of  failure  to  do  so,  pay  interest  to  the 
applicants as provided under the Companies Act, 1956 as disclosed in the offer document. 

(11)  The  issuer  shall  take  steps  to  pay  the  underwriting  commission  and  brokerage  to  the 
underwriters,  stock  brokers,  etc.  within  the  time  specified  in  any  agreement  with  such 
underwriters, stock brokers, etc. or within a reasonable time. 

(12)  The issuer undertakes to furnish such information and particulars regarding the issue as may 
be  required  by  the  lead  merchant  banker  to  enable  them  to  file  a  report  with  the  Board  in 
respect of the issue. 

(13)  The issuer shall keep the lead merchant banker informed if it encounters any problems due to 
dislocation  of  communication  system  or  any  other  material  adverse  circumstance  which  is 
likely  to  prevent  or  which  has  prevented  the  issuer  from  complying  with  its  obligations, 
whether statutory or contractual, in respect of the matters pertaining to allotment, dispatch of 
refund orders, share certificates or debenture certificates, demat credit, etc. 

(14)  The issuer shall not resort to any legal proceedings in respect of any matter having a bearing 
on  the  issue  except  in  consultation  with  and  after  receipt  of  advice  from  the  lead  merchant 
banker. 

(15)  The  issuer  shall  not  access  the  moneys  raised  in  the  issue  till  finalisation  of  the  basis  of 

allotment or completion of issue formalities. 

(16)  The issuer shall refund the moneys raised in the issue to the applicants, if required to do so 
for any reason such as failing to get listing permission or under any direction or order of the 
Board. The issuer shall pay requisite interest amount if so required under the laws or direction 
or order of the Board. 

(17)  (Rights of lead merchant banker vis-à-vis the issuer )------------- (give details). 
(18)  (Consequences of breach) --------- (give details). 
 
In  Witness  whereof  the  parties  hereto  have  put  their  hands  on  this  -----------  (date)    day  of 
……(month) of ………… (year). 
 

Page 81 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE III 

[See regulation 5(6) and 101(7)] 

 

MANDATORY COLLECTION CENTRES 

 
(1)  The minimum number of collection centres shall be as follows: 

(a)  The four metropolitan centres situated at Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai. 
(b)  All  such  places  where  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  are  located  in  the  region  in 

which the registered office of the issuer is situated; 

(c)  The region-wise collection centres are as indicated hereunder: 

 

Sr. No. 

Name of the Recognised Stock Exchange 

(A)   

(B)   

(C)   

(D)   

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

(i) 
 
(ii) 
 
(iii) 
 
(iv) 
 
(v) 
 
(vi) 
 
(vii)   

NORTHERN REGION 
Ludhiana Stock Exchange Ltd. 
Delhi Stock Exchange Ltd. 
Jaipur Stock Exchange Ltd. 
U.P. Stock Exchange Ltd. 
SOUTHERN REGION 
Bangalore Stock Exchange Ltd. 
Cochin Stock Exchange Ltd. 
Madras Stock Exchange Ltd. 
EASTERN REGION 
Calcutta Stock Exchange Association Ltd. 
Gauhati Stock Exchange Ltd. 
Bhubaneswar Stock Exchange Ltd. 
WESTERN REGION 
Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd. 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 
OTC Exchange of India Ltd. 
Pune Stock Exchange Ltd. 
M P  Stock Exchange Ltd. 
Vadodara Stock Exchange Ltd. 
Ahmedabad Stock Exchange Ltd. 

City 

 

 
Ludhiana 
Delhi 
Jaipur 
Kanpur 
 
Bangalore 
Cochin 
Madras 
 
Kolkata 
Gauhati 
Bhubaneswar 
 
Mumbai 
Mumbai 
Mumbai 
Pune 
Indore 
Vadodara 
Ahmedabad 

 
(2) 

In  addition  to  the  collection  centres  specified  in  para  (1),  all  designated  branches  of  Self 
Certified Syndicate Banks, as displayed on the websites of such banks and of the Board, shall 
be deemed to be mandatory collection centres 

(3)  The  issuer  may  appoint  any  other  collection  centre/s  as  it  may  deem  fit  in  addition  to  the 

minimum collection centre specified in this Schedule.  

 
 

Page 82 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE IV 

[See regulations 6(1), 10(2) 215[, 11(4) and 216[, 91E(3), 106Z(1) and 106ZA(1)]]] 

 

FEES TO BE PAID ALONG WITH OFFER DOCUMENT 

 
(1)  There  shall  be  charged  in  respect  of  every  draft  offer  document,  every  offer  document  (in 
case of a fast track issue)  and in case of updation of any draft offer document, fees at the rate 
as specified in Part A and Part B of this Schedule. 

(2)  The  fees  shall  be  paid  217[by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account  through 
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or  any  other  mode  allowed  by  RBI  or]  by  means  of  a  demand  draft 
drawn in favour of ‘the Securities and Exchange Board of India’ payable at the place where 
the draft offer document or offer document or updated draft offer document, as the case may 
be, is filed with the Board. 

 

PART A 

 

FEES TO BE PAID ALONG WITH DRAFT OFFER DOCUMENT OR IN CASE OF A 

FAST TRACK ISSUE, ALONG WITH OFFER DOCUMENT 

 
(1)  There shall be charged in respect of every draft offer document or in case of a fast track issue, 
every  offer  document  filed  by  a  lead  merchant  banker  with  the  Board  in  terms  of  these 
regulations, a fee at the following rate: 
 
(a) 

218[ In case of a public issue: 
 

Size of the issue, including 

Amount / Rate of fees 

intended retention of 

oversubscription 

 

Less  than  or  equal  to  ten  crore  A flat  charge of one lakh rupees 

                                                           
215  Substituted  for  “and  11(4),”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2012, w.e.f. 30.01.2012 
216  Substituted  for  "and  91E(3)"  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 14.08.2015. 
217 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 6.3.2017.  
218  Sub-paragraph  (a)  substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f.  23-5-2014. 
Prior to its substitution, said sub-paragraph read as under : 
"(a) In case of a public issue:  

Size of the issue, including intended retention of 
oversubscription 
Less than or equal to ten crore rupees. 

More than ten crore rupees, but less than or equal to 
five thousand crore rupees. 
More than five thousand crore rupees, but less than 
or equal to twenty five thousand crore rupees. 

More than twenty five thousand crore rupees. 

 
 

Amount / Rate of fees 
 
A  flat  charge  of  twenty  five  thousand  rupees 
(Rs.25,000/-). 
0.025 per cent. of the issue size. 

five 

lakh 

crore 

twenty 

One 
rupees 
(Rs.1,25,00,000/-) plus 0.00625 per cent of the 
portion  of  the  issue  size  in  excess  of  five 
thousand crore rupees (Rs.5000,00,00,000/-). 
A 
(Rs.3,00,00,000/-). 

charge  of 

three 

crore 

rupees 

flat 

Page 83 of 255 

 

rupees. 
More than ten crore rupees, but less 
than or equal to five thousand crore 
rupees. 
More  than  five  thousand  crore 
rupees. 

( 1,00,000/-). 
0.1 per cent of the issue size. 

plus 

crore 

rupees                         
Five 
( 5,00,00,000/-) 
0.025 
percent  of  the  portion  of  the 
issue  size  in  excess  of  five 
thousand 
crore 
( 5000,00,00,000/-).] 

rupees                   

 

 

 

219[“(b) 
 

In case of a rights issue: 

Size of the issue, including 

Amount / Rate of fees 

intended retention of 

oversubscription 

 

Less  than  or  equal  to  ten  crore 
rupees. 
More than ten crore rupees  
 

A  flat  charge  of  fifty  thousand 
rupees ( 50,000/-). 
0.05 per cent. of the issue size.] 
 

220[(c) In case of listing without public issue: 

Paid up capital of the 

Amount / Rate of fees 

entity 

 

Less  than  or  equal  to  ten 
crore rupees. 
More  than  ten  crore  rupees, 
but less than or equal to five 
thousand crore rupees. 
More 
crore rupees. 

than  five 

thousand 

A flat charge of one lakh rupees  
( 1,00,000/-). 

0.1 per cent of the paid up capital 

Five  crore  rupees  ( 5,00,00,000/-)  plus 
0.025  percent  of  the  portion  of  the  paid  up 
capital  in  excess  of  five  thousand  crore 
rupees   ( 5000,00,00,000/-). 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
] 
 

                                                           
219  Sub-paragraph  (b)  substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f.  23-5-2014. 
Prior to its substitution, said sub-paragraph, as amended by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 13-4-2010, read as under : "(b) In case of a rights issue:  

Size  of  the  issue,  including  intended  retention  of 
oversubscription 
Less than or equal to ten  crore rupees. 

More than ten crore rupees and less than or equal to 
five hundred crore rupees. 

More than five hundred crore rupees. 

Amount / Rate of fees 
 
A  flat  charge  of  twenty  five  thousand  rupees 
(Rs.25,000/-). 
Twenty  five  thousand  rupees  (Rs.  25,000/-)  plus 
0.005 per cent. of the issue size in excess of ten crore 
rupees. 
A flat charge of five lakh rupees (Rs.5,00,000/-). 

 
220  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 14.08.2015. 

Page 84 of 255 

 

(2)  Where the issue size is not determined at the time of submission of the draft offer document 
or  the  offer  document  (in  case  of  a  fast  track  issue),  the  issuer  shall  pay  fees  mentioned  at 
para (1), based on the estimated issue size. 
If the issue size estimated by the issuer differs from eventual issue size and thereby:– 
(a) 

the fees paid by the issuer is found to be deficient, the balance fee shall be paid by the 
issuer within seven days of registering the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies 
or filing the letter of offer with the recognised stock exchanges, as the case may be; and  
if any  excess  fee is  found to  have been paid,  it shall be refunded by the  Board to  the 
issuer. 

(3) 

(b) 

 
 

PART B 

 

FEES TO BE PAID ALONG WITH UPDATED OFFER DOCUMENT 

 
Where updations or changes are made in any of the sections specified in 221[Para 2] of Schedule VII 
of these regulations, there shall be charged a fee of ten thousand rupees (Rs.10,000/-) for updations 
or changes per section, subject to total fee not exceeding one fourth (1/4th) of the filing fees paid at 
the time of filing the draft document with the Board or rupees fifty thousand, whichever is higher. 
  

 

                                                           
221 Substituted for “Para 3” by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010. 

Page 85 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE V 

[See regulations 6(6) 222[, 101(4) and 91E(3)]] 

 

MANNER OF SUBMISSION OF SOFT COPY OF DRAFT OFFER DOCUMENT AND 

OFFER DOCUMENT TO THE BOARD 

 
(1)  The soft copies of draft and final offer document shall be submitted in PDF format in a compact 

disk placed in a sealed envelope.  

(2)  One compact disk shall contain the draft or final offer document of only one issue and in single 

file. 

(3)  While  submitting  the  compact  disk,  the  lead  merchant  banker  shall,  inter  alia,  certify  to  the 
Board  that  the  information  contained  in  the  compact  disk  contains  all  text  and  data  in  a 
systematic order, matches exactly with the contents of the hard copy of the offer document and 
satisfies the requirements of this Schedule. 

(4)  The  compact  disk  containing  the  offer  document  shall  have  a  sticker  duly  pasted  giving  the 

following information: 
(a)  The name of the merchant banker; 
(b)  Name of the issuer;  
(c)  Type of the issue ; 
(d)  Signature of the person who has signed the due diligence certificate. 

(5)  The  sticker  on  the  compact  disk  containing  final  offer  document  shall  mention  all  the 

information as stated in clause (4) and the following additional information: 
(a)  Date  of  registering  red  herring  prospectus  or  the  prospectus  with  the  Registrar  of 

Companies or filing the letter of  offer with the designated stock exchanges 
Issue opening date. 

(b) 
If the requirements of this Schedule are not fulfilled, the offer document would be liable to be 
rejected.  

(6) 

(7)  The lead merchant bankers shall, within one day of the hosting of offer document on the website 
(if the next day is a holiday, on the first working day), confirm to the Board in writing that the 
contents of the offer document appearing on the website are in order. 

(8)  The following information shall also be submitted with soft copies of the offer documents: 
 

Sr. No. 

Particulars 

Comments 

(i) 

(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 

(vi) 
(vii) 

(viii) 

Soft copy submitted by: 

 

 

Content Title: 
 Whether the Documents are in PDF Format? 
 Whether the tabular data in the PDF format are in order? 
 Whether the Sr. Numbers of paragraph/points are in order and 
matches with the printed copy? 
 Whether the alignments of all paragraphs are in order? 
 Whether  all  relevant  image  files,  if  any  are  available  in  the 
compact disk? 
 Whether the contents of the PDF format and hard copy of the 
offer  document  have  been  compared  and  found  to  be  in 
order? 

 

 

YES/NO 

YES/NO/N.A. 
YES/NO/N.A. 

YES/NO 

YES/NO/N.A. 

YES/NO 

                                                           
222  Substituted  for  “and  101(4)”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2012, w.e.f. 30.01.2012. 

Page 86 of 255 

 

(ix) 

(x) 

 Whether  the  spacing  between  lines  and  paragraphs  is 
uniform? 
Remarks, if any 

 

 

YES/NO 

 

 
Prepared by:  
Date:   

                                  Verified by: 

 

Page 87 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE VI 

 

FORMATS OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATES 

 

FORM A 

          223[[See regulations 8(1)(c), 10(3)(a) 224[, 225[106O(2)] and 91E(5)]]] 

 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT BANKER 

ALONG WITH DRAFT OFFER DOCUMENT 

 
To, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub.:  Public/Rights Issue of ………………… by………………………. (Name of the Issuer) 
 
We,  the  lead  merchant  banker(s)  to  the  above  mentioned  forthcoming  issue,  state  and  confirm  as 
follows: 
 

 

(1)  We  have  examined  various  documents  including  those  relating  to  litigation  like  commercial 
disputes, patent disputes, disputes with collaborators, etc. and other material in connection with 
the  finalisation  of  the  draft  red  herring  prospectus  (in  case  of  a  book  built  issue)  /  draft 
prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) / letter of offer (in case of a rights issue) pertaining to 
the said issue; 

(2)  On  the  basis  of  such  examination  and  the  discussions  with  the  issuer,  its  directors  and  other 
officers, other agencies, and independent verification of the statements concerning the objects of 
the issue, price justification and the contents of the documents and other papers furnished by the 
issuer, WE CONFIRM that: 
(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the draft red herring prospectus/ draft prospectus/ draft letter of offer filed with  the Board 
is in conformity with the documents, materials and papers relevant to the issue; 
all  the  legal  requirements  relating  to  the  issue  as  also  the  regulations  guidelines, 
instructions,  etc.  framed/issued  by  the  Board,  the  Central  Government  and  any  other 
competent authority in this behalf have been duly complied with; and 
the  disclosures  made  in  the  draft  red  herring  prospectus/draft  prospectus/draft  letter  of 
offer are true, fair and adequate to enable the investors to make a well informed decision 
as to the investment in the proposed issue  and  such  disclosures  are  in  accordance  with 
the  requirements  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  and  other 
applicable legal requirements. 

                                                           
223 Substituted for “[See regulations 8(1)(c) and 10(3)(a)]” by  SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010. 
 
224 Substituted for “and 106O(2)” by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2012, w.e.f. 30.01.2012. 
 
225  Substituted  for  “106C(2)”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 01.11.2011. 

Page 88 of 255 

 

(3)  We  confirm  that  besides  ourselves,  all  the  intermediaries  named  in  the  draft  red  herring 
prospectus/ draft prospectus/ draft letter of offer are registered with the Board and that till date 
such registration is valid. 

(4)  We have satisfied ourselves about the capability of the underwriters to fulfil their underwriting 

commitments. 

(5)  We  certify  that  written  consent  from  promoters  has  been  obtained  for  inclusion  of  their 
specified  securities  as  part  of  promoters’  contribution  subject  to  lock-in  and  the  specified 
securities  proposed  to  form  part  of  promoters’  contribution  subject  to  lock-in  shall  not  be 
disposed / sold / transferred by the promoters during the period starting from the date of filing 
the draft red herring prospectus/draft prospectus with the Board till the date of commencement 
of lock-in period as stated in the draft red herring prospectus/draft prospectus. 

(6)  We  certify  that  regulation  33 of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009, which relates to specified securities ineligible 
for  computation  of  promoters  contribution,  has  been  duly  complied  with  and  appropriate 
disclosures  as to  compliance  with the  said  regulation  have  been  made in  the  draft  red  herring 
prospectus/draft prospectus. 

(7)  We undertake that sub-regulation (4) of regulation 32 and clause (c) and (d) of sub-regulation 
(2)  of  regulation  8  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  shall  be  complied  with.  We  confirm  that 
arrangements have been made to ensure that promoters’ contribution shall be received at least 
one day before the opening of the issue. We undertake that auditors’ certificate to this effect 
shall be duly submitted to the Board. We further confirm that arrangements have been made 
to  ensure  that  promoters’  contribution  shall  be  kept  in  an  escrow  account  with  a Scheduled 
Commercial  Bank  and  shall  be  released  to  the  issuer  along  with  the  proceeds  of  the  public 
issue. 

(8)  We certify that the proposed activities of the issuer for which the funds are being raised in the 
present issue fall within the ‘main objects’ listed in the object clause of the Memorandum of 
Association or other charter of the issuer and that the activities which have been carried out 
until now are valid in terms of the object clause of its Memorandum of Association. 

(9)  We confirm that necessary arrangements have been made to ensure that the moneys received 
pursuant to the issue are kept in a separate bank account as per the provisions of sub-section 
(3) of section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956 and that such moneys shall be released by the 
said  bank  only  after  permission  is  obtained  from  all  the  stock  exchanges  mentioned  in  the 
prospectus/  letter  of  offer.  We  further  confirm  that  the  agreement  entered  into  between  the 
bankers to the issue and the issuer specifically contains this condition. 

(10)  We certify that a disclosure has been made in the draft red herring prospectus/draft prospectus/ 
draft  letter  of  offer  that  the  investors  shall  be  given  an  option  to  get  the  shares  in  demat  or 
physical mode. 

(11)  We certify that all the applicable disclosures mandated in the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 have been made in 
addition  to  disclosures  which,  in  our  view,  are  fair  and  adequate  to  enable  the  investor  to 
make a well informed decision.  

(12)  We certify that the following disclosures have been made in the draft red herring prospectus/ 

draft prospectus/ draft letter of offer: 
(a)  An  undertaking  from  the  issuer  that  at  any  given  time,  there  shall  be  only  one 

denomination for the equity shares of the issuer and  

(b)  An undertaking from the issuer that it shall comply with such disclosure and accounting 

norms specified by the Board from time to time. 

(13)  We  undertake  to  comply  with  the  regulations  pertaining  to  advertisement  in  terms  of  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009 while making the issue. 

Page 89 of 255 

 

(14)  We enclose a note explaining how the process of due diligence has been exercised by us in view 
of  the  nature  of  current  business  background  or  the  issuer,  situation  at  which  the  proposed 
business stands, the risk factors, promoters experience, etc. 

(15)  We enclose a checklist confirming regulation-wise compliance with the applicable provisions 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009, containing details such as the regulation number, its text, 
the  status  of  compliance,  page  number  of  the  draft  red  herring  prospectus/  draft  prospectus/ 
draft letter of offer where the regulation has been complied with and our comments, if any. 

226[(16) We enclose statement on ‘Price  Information of Past  Issues handled by Merchant  Bankers  
(who  are  responsible  for  pricing  this  issue)’,  as  per  format  specified  by  the  Board  through 
Circular.] 

227[(17) We certify that profits from related party transactions have arisen from legitimate business 

transactions.] 

   228[(18) We certify that the entity is eligible under 106Y (1) (a) or (b) (as the case may be) to list on 

the institutional trading platform, under Chapter XC of these regulations. (if applicable)] 

 
 
 
Place:                             
Date:   
 
 
Note: 229[(i)] The requirements in items 5, 6 and 7 are not applicable in case of a rights issue. 

   Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue    
with Official Seal(s)               

 
 

 

 
 

 
               

 
230[(ii)     The requirements in clause 16 may be updated by the merchant bankers at the time of 
registering  offer  document  with  Registrar  of  Companies  and  should  be  submitted  to  Board. 
The same should also be updated in offer document.] 

 

 
 
 

 

                                                           
226  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f. 
01.11.2011. 
227  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 
228 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 
14.08.2015. 
229 Inserted, Inserted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2011, 
w.e.f. 01.11.2011.   
230 Inserted, Inserted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2011, 
w.e.f. 01.11.2011.  

Page 90 of 255 

 

FORM B 

[See regulations 8(1)(d) and 10(3)(b)] 

 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY DEBENTURE 

TRUSTEE ALONG WITH DRAFT OFFER DOCUMENT 

 

 
To, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub.: Public/Rights Issue of ……………………. by ……………………….. (Name of the Issuer) 
 
We, the debenture trustees to the above mentioned forthcoming issue, state as follows: 
 
(1)  We have examined the documents pertaining to the said issue. 
(2)  We have also examined the relevant documents pertaining to the security to be created. 
(3)  On  the  basis  of  such  examination  and  of  the  discussions  with  the  issuer,  its  directors  and 
other  officers,  other  agencies  and  of  independent  verification  of  the  various  relevant 
documents, WE CONFIRM that: 
(a)  The  issuer  has  made  adequate  provisions  for  and/or  has  taken  steps  to  provide  for 
adequate security/asset cover for the secured convertible debt instruments to be issued. 
(b)  The  issuer  has  obtained  the  permissions  /  consents  necessary  for  creating  security  on 

the property as second charge/pari passu charge (wherever applicable) 

(c)  The issuer has made all the relevant disclosures about the security/asset cover  
(d)  The issuer has made all the relevant disclosures about its continued obligations towards 

the holders of convertible debt instruments. 

(e)  All  disclosures  made  in  the  draft  prospectus/letter  of  offer  with  respect  to  the 
convertible debt instruments are true, fair and adequate to enable the investors to make 
a well informed decision as to the investment in the proposed issue. 

 

 

(4)  We have satisfied ourselves about the ability of the issuer to service the debt securities. 
 
 
Place:   
Date:                                   
 
 
Note:  With  respect  to  the  issue  of  unsecured  convertible  debt  instruments,  the  debenture  trustee 
shall not certify and confirm the requirements stated in item 2 and sub-item (a), (b) and (c) of item 
3 above.  
 

Debenture Trustee to the Issue 
 

with his Official Seal 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Page 91 of 255 

 

FORM C 

[See regulation 8(2)(b)] 

 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT 
BANKER AT THE TIME OF REGISTERING OFFER DOCUMENT WITH THE 

REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES / FILING LETTER OF OFFER WITH THE 

DESIGNATED STOCK EXCHANGE 

 
To, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub.: Public/Rights Issue of ……………….. by ……………………… (Name of the Issuer) 
 
(1)  This is to certify that the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) / prospectus (in 
case of a fixed price issue) registered with the Registrar of Companies / letter of offer filed with 
the  designated  stock  exchange  (in  case  of  a  rights  issue)  on  ….  (date)  was  suitably  updated 
under intimation to the Board and that the said  red herring prospectus/prospectus or letter of 
offer contains all the material disclosures in respect of the issuer as on the said date.  

(2)  We  confirm  that  the  registrations  of  all  the  intermediaries  named  in  the  red  herring 
prospectus/prospectus  or  letter  of  offer  are  valid  as  on  date  and  that  none  of  these 
intermediaries have been debarred from functioning by any regulatory authority. 

(3)  We  confirm  that  written  consent  from  promoters  has  been  obtained  for  inclusion  of  their 

securities as part of promoters’ contribution subject to lock-in. 

(4)  We  further  confirm  that  the  securities  proposed  to  form  part  of  promoters’  contribution  and 
subject to lock-in, have not been disposed / sold / transferred by the promoters during the period 
starting from the date of filing the draft prospectus with the Board till date. 

(5)  We  confirm  that  agreements  have  been  entered  into  with  both  the  depositories  for 

dematerialisation of the securities of the issuer.  

(6)  We certify that as per the requirements of first proviso to sub-regulation (4) of regulation 32 
of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations,  2009,  cash  flow  statement  has  been  prepared  and  disclosed  in  the  red  herring 
prospectus and/or prospectus. 

 

 
 

 
               

 
 
Place:                             
Date:   
 
 
 
Note: The requirements in items 3, 4 and 6 above are not applicable in case of a rights issue. 
 

   Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue    
with Official Seal(s)               

 
 

Page 92 of 255 

 

FORM D 

[See regulation 8(2)(e)] 

 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT 

BANKER IMMEDIATELY BEFORE OPENING OF THE ISSUE 

 
To, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub.: Public/Rights Issue of …………………….. by ……………………. (Name of the Issuer) 
 
(1)  This  is  to  certify  that  all  the  material  disclosures  in  respect  of  the  issuer  as  on  the  date  of 
opening of the issue have been made through the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built 
issue) / prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) registered with the Registrar of Companies / 
letter of offer filed with the designated stock exchange (in case of a rights issue) on    ….. (date) 
and  subsequent  amendments/  advertisements  (if  applicable)  dated  …......  (Details  of 
advertisements to be enclosed), We confirm:  
(a) 

the  registrations  of  all 

the 

in 

intermediaries  named 

the  red  herring 
that 
prospectus/prospectus  /letter  of  offer,  are  valid  as  on  date  and  that  none  of  these 
intermediaries have been debarred from functioning by any regulatory authority as on 
date. 
that  the securities proposed to form part of promoters’ contribution and subject to lock-
in,  have  not  been    disposed  /  sold  /  transferred  by  the  promoters  during  the  period 
starting from the date of filing the draft prospectus with the Board till date. 
that  the  abridged  prospectus/letter  of  offer  contains  all  the  disclosures  as  specified  in 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009. 

(b) 

(c) 

 
 
Place:                            
Date:     
 
 
Note: The requirements in item 231[1(b)] above are not applicable in case of a rights issue. 
 

   Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue  
 

with Official Seal(s) 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

                                                           
231  Substituted  for  “2(b)”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations, 
2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010. 
 

Page 93 of 255 

 

FORM E 

[See regulation 8(2)(f)] 

 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT 

BANKER AFTER OPENING OF THE ISSUE BUT BEFORE CLOSURE OF 

SUBSCRIPTION 

 
To, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub.: Public/Rights Issue of …………………… by …………………… (Name of the Issuer) 
 
(1)  This is to certify that all the material disclosures in respect of the issuer as on date have been 
made through the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) / prospectus (in case of a 
fixed  price  issue)  registered  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  /  letter  of  offer  filed  with  the 
recognised  stock  exchange  (in  case  of  a  rights  issue)  on  ………  (date)  and  subsequent 
amendments/  advertisements  (if  applicable)  dated ………..  (Details  of  advertisements  to  be 
enclosed). 

(2)  We  confirm  that  the  registrations  of  all  the  intermediaries  named  in  the  red  herring 
prospectus/prospectus/letter  of  offer,  are  valid  as  on  date  and  that  none  of  these 
intermediaries have been debarred from functioning by any regulatory authority as on date. 

 
(3)  We also confirm that the specified securities proposed to form part of promoters’ contribution 
and subject to lock-in, have not been disposed / sold / transferred by the promoters during the 
period starting from the date of filing the draft prospectus with the Board till date. 

 
 
Place:                            
Date:     
 
 
Note: The requirement in item 3 above is not applicable in case of a rights issue. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

   Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue  
 

with Official Seal(s) 

Page 94 of 255 

 

FORM F 

[See regulation 10(3)(a)] 

 

ADDITIONAL CONFIRMATIONS/ CERTIFICATION TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT 
BANKER IN DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN ALONG WITH OFFER 

DOCUMENT FOR FAST TRACK ISSUE 

 

(1)  We confirm that none of the intermediaries named in the red herring prospectus (in case of a 
book built issue) / prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) / letter of offer (in case of a rights 
issue) have been debarred from functioning by any regulatory authority. 

(2)  We confirm that the issuer is eligible to make fast track issue in terms of regulation 10 of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009. The fulfilment of the eligibility criteria as specified in that regulation, by the 
issuer,  has  also  been  disclosed  in  the  red  herring  prospectus  (in  case  of  a  book  built  issue)  / 
prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) / letter of offer (in case of a rights issue).   

(3)  We confirm that all the material disclosures in respect of the issuer have been made in the red 
herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) / prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) / 
letter of offer (in case of a rights issue) and certify that any material development in the issuer 
or  relating  to  the  issue  up  to  the  commencement  of  listing  and  trading  of  the  specified 
securities offered through this issue shall be informed through public notices/ advertisements 
in  all  those  newspapers  in  which  pre-issue  advertisement  and  advertisement  for  opening  or 
closure of the issue have been given.  

(4)  We confirm that the abridged prospectus / abridged letter of offer contains all the disclosures 
as  specified  in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009. 

(5)  We  confirm 

that  agreements  have  been  entered 
dematerialisation of the specified securities of the issuer.  

into  with 

the  depositories  for 

(6)  We certify that as per the requirements of first proviso to sub-regulation (4) of regulation 32 
of  Securities  and  Exchange  board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations,  2009,  cash  flow  statement  has  been  prepared  and  disclosed  in  the  red  herring 
prospectus and / or prospectus. 

 
Place:                            
Date:     
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue  
 

with Official Seal(s) 

 

Page 95 of 255 

 

FORM G 

[See regulation 65(3)] 

 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT 

BANKER ALONG WITH FINAL POST ISSUE REPORT 

 
To, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub.:   Public issue of …………………… by ……………………… (Name of Issuer) 
 
We, the under noted post issue lead merchant bankers to the abovementioned issue state as follows: 
 
(1)  We confirm that – 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  certificates  in  respect  of  locked-in  specified  securities  have  been  stamped  ‘not 
transferable’ indicating the period of non-transferability; 
if  the  specified  securities  offered  for  lock-in  are  in  dematerialised  form,  non 
transferability details have been informed to the depositories; 
details  of  lock-in  have  been  provided  to  all  the  stock  exchanges  on  which  specified 
securities are to be listed, before the listing of the specified securities. 

(2)  We  certify  that  specified  securities  included  as  minimum  promoters’  contribution  and  the 
specified  securities  in  excess  of  minimum  promoters’  contribution  have  been  locked-in  in 
terms  of  regulation  36  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.  

(3)  We certify that provisions regarding lock-in of specified securities held by persons other than 
promoters have been duly  complied with  in  accordance with  regulation  37 of the Securities 
and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 
2009.   

 

 
 
Place:                            
Date:     
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

   Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue  
 

with Official Seal(s) 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 96 of 255 

 

                                        [See regulation 233[106O(2)]] 

232[ FORM H 

ADDITIONAL CONFIRMATIONS/ CERTIFICATION TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT 

BANKER IN DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN ALONG WITH 

OFFER DOCUMENT REGARDING SME EXCHANGE 

 

(1)  We confirm that none of the intermediaries named in the red herring prospectus (in case of a 
book  built  issue)  /  prospectus  (in  case  of  a  fixed  price  issue)  /  letter  of  offer  (in  case  of  a 
rights issue) have been debarred from functioning by any regulatory authority. 

(2)  We confirm that all the material disclosures in respect of the issuer have been made in the red 
herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) / prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) / 
letter of offer (in case of a rights issue) and certify that any material development in the issuer 
or  relating  to  the  issue  up  to  the  commencement  of  listing  and  trading  of  the  specified 
securities offered through this issue shall be informed through public notices/ advertisements 
in  all  those  newspapers  in  which  pre-issue  advertisement  and  advertisement  for  opening  or 
closure of the issue have been given.  

(3)  We confirm that the abridged prospectus / abridged letter of offer contains all the disclosures 
as specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009. 

(4)  We  confirm 

that  agreements  have  been  entered 
dematerialisation of the specified securities of the issuer.  

into  with 

the  depositories  for 

(5)  We certify that as per the requirements of first proviso to sub-regulation (4) of regulation 32 
of  Securities  and  Exchange  board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations,  2009,  cash  flow  statement  has  been  prepared  and  disclosed  in  the  red  herring 
prospectus and / or prospectus. 

(6)  We  confirm  that  underwriting  and  market  making  arrangements  as  per  requirements  of 
regulation  234[106P]  and  235[106V]  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  board  of  India  (Issue  of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 have been made. 

(7)  We  confirm  that  the  issuer  has  redressed  at  least  ninety  five  per  cent.  of  the  complaints 
received from the investors till the end of the quarter immediately preceding the month of the 
filing of the red herring prospectus / prospectus with the Registrar of Companies or letter of 
offer with SME exchange. (Applicable only in case of Further public offer and rights issue) 

 
Place:                            
Date:     

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

          Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue  
 

with Official Seal(s)]

 

                                                           
232  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
13.04.2010. 
233  Substituted  for  “106C(2)”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011. 
234 Substituted for “106D”, by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011.  
235 Substituted for  “106J”, by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011.  

Page 97 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 
DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE VII 

[See regulation 11(4)] 

 

NATURE OF UPDATION/CHANGES IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT AND CONSEQUENT 

STEPS THEREIN REQUIRING FILING OF UPDATED OFFER DOCUMENT 

 
(1)  Changes  which  require  fresh  filing  of  the  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board,  along 
with fees: If changes are made in the offer document with respect to the following, the issuer 
shall file fresh draft offer document with the Board in terms of regulation 6, along with the 
fees as specified in Part A of Schedule IV: 
(a)  Change in promoter or persons in control of the issuer. 
(b)  Change in more than half of the board of directors of the issuer. 
(c)  Change in main object clause of the issuer. 
(d)  Any addition  236[* * *]to objects of the issue resulting in  237[an increase] in estimated 
issue  size  or  estimated  means  of  finance  by  more  than  238[twenty  per  cent]. 
239[However,  if  there  are  grounds  to  believe  that  there  is  an  exacerbation  of  risk  on 
account  of  deletion  of  an  object  resulting  in  a  decrease  in  issue  size  by  more  than 
twenty per cent.,  the Board may  require fresh filing of the offer document  along with 
fees.]  

(e)  Any increase or decrease in estimated issue size by more than 240[twenty per cent] 
(f)  Any  increase  241[*  *  *]  in estimated  deployment  in  any  of  the  objects  of  the  issue  by 

more than 242[twenty per cent].  

(g)  Changes which may result in non-compliance with the provisions of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2009 and the lead merchant banker intends to seek relaxation under regulation 109 of 
the said regulations.  

 

(2)  Changes which require filing of the updated offer document with the Board, along with 

fees:  
(a) 

If changes are made in the offer document with respect to the following, the issuer shall 
file an updated offer document with the Board, along with payment of fees as specified 
in Schedule IV of these regulations: 
(i) 

Section  1:  Risk  Factors:  Any  material  development  which  may  result  in 
potential risk and may require updation in this section.  

                                                           
236  The  words  “or  deletion”  omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012.  
237 Substituted for the words “a change” by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. 
238  Substituted  for  the  words  “ten  per  cent”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. 
239  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 
240  Substituted  for  the  words  “ten  per  cent”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. 
241  The  words  “or  decrease”  omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. 
242  Substituted  for  the  words  “ten  per  cent”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. 

Page 98 of 255 

 

(ii)  Section  2:  Capital  Structure:  An  aggregate  increase  of  5%  or  more  in  the 
shareholding of the promoter or promoter group or an aggregate increase of 5% 
or more in the shareholding of the top ten shareholders. 

(iii)  Section  3:  Issue  Size:  Any  addition  or  deletion  to  the  objects  of  the  issue 
resulting  in  a  change  in  the  estimated  issue  size  or  estimated  means  of  finance 
243[by more than 10% and not exceeding 20%.]    

(iv)  Section 4: Management: Appointment of any new director.  
(v)  Section  5:  Promoter  Group:  Any  addition  to  the  promoter  group  or  group 

companies. 

(vi)  Section 6: Financial Statements: Any variation in net profit after tax or net loss 
after  tax  and/  or  extraordinary  items  in  excess  of  10%  over  the  last  updated 
financials submitted to SEBI.  

(vii)  Section  7:  Legal  and  other  information:  Any  new  litigation  or  any 
development about a pending litigation which is material in view of the merchant 
bankers.  

 

(b)  After  filing  the  updated  offer  document  with  the  Board,  the  issuer  shall  proceed  with 

the issue after receiving a conformation to this effect from the Board.   

 
(3)  Changes  which require filing of updated offer document with the Board, without fees: 
All other changes/ updations in the offer document which are not covered under paras (1) and 
(2) above shall be carried out in the offer document and updated offer document shall be filed 
with the Board without fees. 

 

                                                           
243  Substituted  for  the  words  and  symbol  “by  not  more  than  10%.”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012.  

Page 99 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE VIII 

[See regulations 14(3), 37(a), 44, 45(1)(f), 57(2)(a), 57(2)(b), 58(1) and 58(2)] 

 

DISCLOSURES IN OFFER DOCUMENT, ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS AND ABRIDGED 

LETTER OF OFFER 

 
244[(i) The words "group companies", wherever they occur, shall include such companies as 
covered under the applicable accounting standards and also other companies as considered material 
by the board of the issuer.  
(ii) The policy on materiality shall be disclosed in the offer document.] 
 
 

[See regulations 14(3), 37(a), 44, 45(1)(f), 57(2)(a)) and 57(2)(b)] 

PART A 

 

DISCLOSURES IN RED HERRING PROSPECTUS, SHELF PROSPECTUS AND 

PROSPECTUS 

 

(1) 

Instructions: 
(a)  Only  relevant  and  updated  information  and  statistics  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  offer 
document.  Further,  the  source  and  basis  of  all  statements  or  claims  made  shall  be 
disclosed.  Terms  such  as  “market  leader”,  “leading  player”,  etc.  shall  not  be  used 
unless  they  can  be  substantiated  by  proper  source  of  information  which  shall  be 
disclosed.  

(b)  All  blank  spaces  in  the  draft  offer  document  shall  be  filled  up  with  appropriate  data 
before  registering  the  offer  document  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  or  filing  the 
same with the recognised stock exchanges. 

(c)  Simple  English  for  easy  understanding  of  the  contents  of  the  offer  document  may  be 
used. The technical terms used in explaining the business of the issuer may be clarified 
using simple terms to ensure better understanding by investors. 

(d)  Wherever it is mentioned in the offer document that details are given elsewhere in the 
document,  the  same  shall  be  adequately  cross-referenced  by  indicating  the  page  and 
paragraph numbers. 

(e)  The  offer  document  should  not  make  any  forward  looking  statements  that  cannot  be 

substantiated.   

(f)  Consistency may be ensured in the style of disclosures. If first person is used, the same 
may  be  used  through  out.  Sentences  that  contain  a  combination  of  first  and  third 
persons may be avoided. 

(g)  The issuer shall ensure that all material matters informed or reports circulated prior to 
the  issue  or  thereafter  by  the  issuer  or  any  person  on  its  behalf  or  attributed  or 
attributable to the issuer having a material bearing in taking an informed decision shall 
also  be  covered  in  the  offer  document,  except  to  the  extent  specifically  disallowed 
under the regulations. 

                                                           
244  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 14.08.2015. Prior to its substitution, it read as under : 
The  words  "group  companies",  wherever  they  occur,  shall  mean  companies,  firms,  ventures,  etc.  promoted  by  the 
promoters  of  the  issuer,  irrespective  of  whether  such  entities  are  covered  under  section  370(1)(B)  of  the  Companies 
Act, 1956 or not. 

Page 100 of 255 

 

245[(h)    The  issuer  shall  ensure  that  in  the  document  of  the  Red  Herring  Prospectus,  the 
document shall only be referred to as ‘Red Herring Prospectus’ or ‘RHP’.]     

 

 
(2)  An issuer making a public issue of specified securities shall make the following disclosures in 
the offer document. However, an issuer making a fast track issue of specified securities may 
not make the disclosures specified in Part B of this Schedule in the offer document. Further, 
an issuer making a further public offer of specified securities may not make the  disclosures 
specified  in  Part  C  of  this  Schedule,  in  the  offer  document,  if  it  satisfies  the  conditions 
specified in para 2 of that Part: 

 
(I)  Cover Pages: The cover page shall be of adequate thickness (preferably  minimum hundred 

gcm. quality).  
(A)  Front Cover Pages:  

(1)  The front outside and inside cover pages of the offer document shall be white and 

no patterns or pictures shall be printed on these pages.  

(2)  The  front  outside  cover  page  of  the  offer  document  shall  contain  only  the 

following issue details:  
(a)  The type of offer document (“Red Herring Prospectus” / “Shelf Prospectus” 

/ "Prospectus").  

246[(aa)  The following clause shall be incorporated in a prominent manner, below 

the title of the offer document: 
 

“Please read Section 60B of the Companies Act, 1956.”]     

  
(b)  The name of the issuer, date and place of its incorporation, its logo, address 
of  its  registered  office,  its  telephone  number,  fax  number,  contact  person, 
website address, e-mail address and where there has been any change in the 
address  of  the  registered  office  or  the  name  of  the  issuer,  reference  to  the 
page of the offer document where details thereof are given.  

(c)  The names of the promoters of the issuer. 
(d)  The  nature,  number,  price  and  amount  of  specified  securities  offered  and 

issue size, as may be applicable.  

(e)  The aggregate amount proposed to be raised through all the stages of offers 

of specified securities made through the shelf prospectus. 

(f)  The  following  clause  on  ‘Risks  in  relation  to  the  First  Issue’  (wherever 
applicable) shall be incorporated in a box format in case of an initial public 
offer: 

 

"This being the first issue of the issuer, there has been no formal market for 
the securities of the issuer. The face value of the equity shares is (-----) and 
the issue price / floor price / price band is ‘X-times’ of the face value. The 
issue price /  floor price / price band  (has been determined and justified by 
the  lead  merchant  banker  and  the  issuer  as  stated  under  the  paragraph  on 
“Basis for  Issue Price”)  should not  be taken to  be indicative of the market 
price  of  the  specified  securities  after  the  specified  securities  are  listed.  No 
assurance can be given regarding an active or sustained trading in the equity 
shares of the issuer nor  regarding the price  at  which the equity shares will 
be traded after listing." 

(g)  The  following  clause  on  ‘General  Risk'  shall  be  incorporated  in  a  box 

format: 
                                                           
245  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f. 
23.09.2011. 
246  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f. 
23.09.2011.  

Page 101 of 255 

 

"Investment in equity and equity related securities involve a degree of risk 
and investors should not invest any funds in this offer unless they can afford 
to take the risk of losing their investment. Investors are advised to read the 
risk factors carefully  before taking an investment  decision in  this offering. 
For  taking  an  investment  decision,  investors  must  rely  on  their  own 
examination  of  the  issuer  and  the  offer  including  the  risks  involved.  The 
securities  have  not  been  recommended  or  approved  by  the  Securities  and 
Exchange  Board of  India (SEBI) nor does SEBI guarantee the accuracy  or 
adequacy of this document. Specific attention of investors is  invited to the 
statement of ‘Risk factors’ given on page number(s) ….. under the section 
‘General Risks’" 

(h)  The  following  clause  on  ‘Issuer’s  Absolute  Responsibility’  clause  shall  be 

incorporated in a box format: 
"The issuer, having made all reasonable inquiries, accepts responsibility for 
and  confirms  that this offer document contains all  information  with  regard 
to the issuer and the issue which is material in the context of the issue, that 
the  information  contained  in  the  offer  document  is  true  and  correct  in  all 
material  aspects  and  is  not  misleading  in  any  material  respect,  that  the 
opinions and intentions expressed herein are honestly held and that there are 
no other facts, the omission of which make this document as a whole or any 
of  such  information  or  the  expression  of  any  such  opinions  or  intentions 
misleading in any material respect." 

(i)  The names, logos and addresses of all the lead merchant bankers with their 
titles  who  have  signed  the  due  diligence  certificate  and  filed  the  offer 
document with the Board, along with their telephone numbers, fax numbers, 
website  addresses  and  e-mail  addresses.  247[Where  any  of  the  merchant 
bankers is an associate of the issuer, it shall  disclose  the  same  and  shall 
declare itself to be a 'Marketing Lead Manager'.] 

(j)  The  name,  logo  and  address  of  the  registrar  to  the  issue,  along  with  its 

(k) 

telephone number, fax number, website address and e-mail address.  
Issue schedule: 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii)  Date of earliest closing of the issue, if any.  

Date of opening of the issue.  
Date of closing of the issue.  

(l)  Credit rating, if applicable.  
(m)  The  following  details  under 

the  heading  “IPO  Grading”  shall  be 
incorporated  in  case  of  an  initial  public  offer  248[(if  applicable)]:  All  the 
grades  obtained  for  the  initial  public  offer  and  reference  to  the  page 
number(s) on which the details of IPO grading are given. 

(n)  The  name(s)  of  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  where  the  specified 
securities  are  proposed  to  be  listed  and  the  details  of  in-principle  approval 
for listing obtained from these stock exchanges. 

(B)  Back Cover Pages: The back inside cover page and back outside cover page shall be in 

white. 

 
(II)  Table  of  Contents:  The  table  of  contents  shall  appear  immediately  after  the  front  inside 

cover page. 

 
                                                           
247  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 
248 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment)  Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 4-2-
2014. 

Page 102 of 255 

 

(III)  Definitions and Abbreviations: 

(A)  Conventional or general terms.  
(B)  Issue related terms.  
(C)  Issuer and industry related terms.  
(D)  Abbreviations.  

 
(IV)  Risk Factors: 

(A)  The risk factors, other than those specified in sub-paras. (f), (g) and (h) of para. (2) of 
sub-item  (A)  of  Item  (I)  above,  shall  be  printed  in  clear  readable  font  (preferably  of 
minimum point ten size).  

(B)  The risk factors shall be classified as those which are specific to the project and internal 

to the issuer and those which are external and beyond the control of the issuer.  

(C)  The risk factors shall be determined on the basis of their materiality. In determining the 

materiality of risk factors, the following shall be considered : 
(1)  Some risks may not be material individually but may be material when considered 

collectively.  

(2)  Some risks may have an impact which is qualitative though not quantitative.  
(3)  Some risks may not be material at present but may have a material impact in the 

future.  

(D)  The risk factors shall appear in the offer document in the following manner:  

 

(1)  The risks envisaged by the management.  
(2)  The proposals, if any, to address the risks and the manner in which the same are 

proposed to be addressed. 

(E)  The  proposals  to  address  risks  shall  not  contain  any  speculative  statement  on  the 

positive outcome of any litigation, etc. 

(F)  The proposals to address risks shall not be given for any matter that is sub-judice before 

any Court / Tribunal. 

 

(G)  The risk factors shall be disclosed in the descending order of materiality. Wherever risks 
about material impact are stated, the financial and other implications of the same shall 
be  disclosed.  If  it  cannot  be  quantified,  a  distinct  statement  about  the  fact  that  the 
implications cannot be quantified shall be made. 

(H)  The disclosures of  Risk factors shall include, where applicable, the following: 

(1)  The criminal charges under Indian Penal Code and violations of securities law;  
(2)  All statutory clearances and approval that are yet to be received by the issuer; 
(3)  The seasonality of the business of the issuer;   
(4)  The  issue  of  specified  securities  by  the  issuer  within  the  last  twelve  months  at  a 

price lower than the issue price; 

(5)  The  non-identification  of  acquisition  targets,  where  any  object  of  the  issue  is  to 
finance  acquisitions,  along  with  the  details  of  interim  use  of  funds  and  the 
probable date of completing the acquisitions; 
If  the  industry  segment  for  which  the  issue  is  proposed  by  the  issuer  has 
contributed to  less than twenty  five per  cent.  of the revenues of the issuer in  the 
last three fiscal years. 

(6) 

(7)  The  dependence  of  the  issuer  or  any  of  its  business  segments,  upon  a  single 
customer or a few customers, the loss of any one or more of which would have a 
material adverse effect on the issuer.   

(8)  The  refusal  of  listing  of  any  securities  of  the  issuer  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries  or 
associates  at  any  time  by  any  of  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  in  India  or 
abroad.  

(9)  The failure of  the issuer or any of its subsidiary or group companies to meet the 
listing  requirements  of  any  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  in  India  or  abroad  and 

Page 103 of 255 

 

the  details  of  penalty,  if  any  including  suspension  of  trading,  imposed  by  such 
exchange(s). 

(10)  The trading of any securities of the issuer on stock exchanges or in OTC market, if 

limited or sporadic.   

(11)  In  case  of  outstanding  debt  instruments  issued  to  public  or  to  any  person  on 
private placement basis by the issuer, the default in compliance with the material 
covenants  such  as  in  creation  of  full  security  as  per  terms  of  issue,  default  in 
payment of interest, default in redemption, non-creation of debenture redemption 
reserve, default in payment of penal interest wherever applicable, non-availability 
or non-maintenance of asset cover, interest cover, debt-service cover, etc.   

(12)  The fact that the unsecured loans taken by the issuer, promoter, group companies 

or associates can be recalled by the lenders at any time. 

(13)  The default in repayment of deposits or payment of interest thereon. The roll over 

of liability, if any. 

(14)  The  potential  conflict  of  interest,  if  the  promoters  or  directors  of  the  issuer  are 
involved  with  one  or  more  ventures  which  are  in  the  same  line  of  activity  or 
business as that of the issuer. 

(15)  The shortfall in performance vis-à-vis objects stated in the previous issues of the 
issuer  and  group  companies,  as  disclosed  under  the  heading  "Performance  vis-à-
vis  Objects"  in  the  section  "Other  Regulatory  and  Statutory  Disclosures", 
quantifying such shortfall or delays. 

(16)  The  interests  of  the  promoters,  directors  or  key  management  personnel  of  the 
issuer, other than reimbursement of expenses incurred or normal remuneration or 
benefits. 

(17)  The  portion  of  the  issue  proceeds,  if  proposed  to  be  paid  to  the  promoters, 

directors or key management personnel of the issuer or the group companies. 

(18)  The relationship, if any, of the entities from whom the issuer has acquired the land 
or proposes to  acquire land, with  any of the promoters or directors of the issuer, 
along with the relevant details. 

(19)  The lack of adequate background and experience of the promoters of the issuer in 

the activities for which the issue is proposed. 

(20)  The excessive dependence on key management personnel for the project for which 

the issue is proposed  

(21)  The loss making group companies of the issuer. 
(22)  Any  investment  in  debt  instruments  which  are  unsecured  or  which  carry  interest 

rate lower than the market rate. 

(23)  The non-provision for decline in the value of investments. 
(24)  A  summary  of  the  outstanding  litigations,  disputes,  non-payment  of  statutory 
dues,  overdues  to  banks  or  financial  institutions,  defaults  against  banks  or 
financial  institutions,  contingent  liabilities  not  provided  for,  the  details  of 
proceedings  initiated  for  economic  offences  or  civil  offences  (including  the  past 
cases,  if  found  guilty),  any  disciplinary  action  taken  by  the  Board  or  recognised 
stock exchanges,  etc., pertaining to  the issuer, promoter and wholetime directors 
of the issuer and group companies, along with the nature of the litigation, quantum 
of  funds  involved,  with  a  cross  reference  to  the  page  where  the  detailed 
disclosures  have  been  made  in  the  offer  document.  If  any  the  above  mentioned 
litigations,  etc.,  arise  after  the  filing  the  draft  offer  document,  the  facts  shall  be 
incorporated appropriately in the offer document. 

(25)  The delay, if any, in the schedule of the implementation of the project for which 

the funds are being raised in the public issue.  

(26)  The fact that the deployment of the issue proceeds is entirely at the discretion of 

the issuer and is not subject to any monitoring by any independent agency. 

Page 104 of 255 

 

(27)  Negative cash flow, if any.  
(28)  The fact that the land is not registered in the name of the issuer.   
(29)  Any  lack  of  arrangements  in  place  for  borrowings,  bank  finance  or  institutional 

finance in respect of working capital requirements.  

(30)  Any  restrictive  covenants,  as  regards  interests  of  equity  shareholders,  in  a 
shareholders'  agreement,  promoters'  agreement  or  any  agreement  for  short  term 
(secured and unsecured) and long term borrowings.  

(31)  All  disputed  or  contested  tax  demands  and  other  government  claims,  along  with 
the  disclosures  of  amount,  period  for  which  such  demands  or  claims  are 
outstanding, financial implications and the status of the case. 

(32)  The  existence  of  large  number  of  pending  investor  grievances  against  the  issuer 
and  other  listed  companies  under  the  same  management  within  the  meaning  of 
section 370 (1B) of the Companies Act, 1956. 

(33)  The  risks  associated  with  second  or  residual  charge  or  subordinated  obligation 
created  on  the  asset  cover,  in  case  of  issue  of  secured  convertible  debt 
instruments.  

(34)  The  risk  associated  with  orders  not  having  been  placed  for  plant  and  machinery 
indicating  the  percentage  and  value  terms  of  the  plant  and  machinery  for  which 
orders are yet to be placed 

 
(V)  Prominent  Notes:  This  section  shall  contain  notes  which  are  required  to  be  given 

prominence and shall also include the following: 
(A)  A disclosure to  the effect  that “the investors may contact  any of the merchant  bankers 
who  have  submitted  the  due  diligence  certificate  to  the  Board,  for  any  complaint 
pertaining to the issue". 

(B)  The net worth before the issue (as per latest audited financial  statement disclosed in the 

offer document) and issue size. 

(C)  The cost per share to the promoters and book value per share. 
(D)  The  details  of  the  group  companies  having  business  interests  or  other  interests  in  the 

issuer.  

(E)  The details  of transaction by the issuer with  group or subsidiary companies during the 

last year, the nature of transactions and the cumulative value of transactions.  

(F)  If  there  is  a  change  in  the  name  of  the  issuer  at  any  time  during  the  last  three  years 
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  filing  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board,  the 
reasons  for  the  change  and  whether  and  when  the  objects  clause  of  Memorandum  of 
Association was amended to carry on activities as reflected by the new name. 

(G)  The details of all financing arrangements whereby the promoter group, the directors of 
the  company  which  is  a  promoter  of  the  issuer,  the  directors  of  the  issuer  and  their 
relatives have financed the purchase by any other person of securities of the issuer other 
than in the normal course of the business of the financing entity during the period of six 
months immediately preceding the date of filing draft offer document with the Board. 

 
(VI)  Introduction: 

(A)  Summary:  

(1)  The summary of the industry and business of the issuer. The summary shall not be 

one-sided to disclose the highlights of the issuer or issue.  
Issue details in brief.  

(2) 
(3)  Summary consolidated financial, operating and other data.  

(B)  General Information: 

(1)  The name and address of the registered office and the registration number of the 
issuer,  along  with  the  address  of  the  Registrar  of  Companies  where  the  issuer  is 
registered.  

Page 105 of 255 

 

(2)  The board of directors of the issuer.  
(3)  The brief details of the chairman, managing director, whole time directors, etc. of 

the issuer.  

(4)  The  names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers  and  e-mail  addresses  of 

the Company Secretary, legal advisor and bankers to the issuer.  

(5)  The  name,  address,  telephone  number,  fax  number  and  e-mail  address  of  the 

compliance officer.  

(6)  The  names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers,  contact  person,  website 
addresses  and  e-mail  addresses  of  the  merchant  bankers,  co-managers,  registrars 
to  the  issue,  bankers  to  the  issue,  brokers  to  the  issue,  syndicate  members,  Self 
Certified  Syndicate  Banks,  249[registrar  to  issue  and  share  transfer  agents, 
depository participants,] etc.  

(7)  The  names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers  and  e-mail  addresses  of 

the auditors of the issuer.  

(8)  The  statement  of  inter-se  allocation  of  responsibilities  among  lead  merchant 

bankers, where more than one merchant banker is associated with the issue. 

(9)  The following details of credit rating, in case of a public issue of convertible debt 

instruments: 
(a)  The  names  of  all  the  credit  rating  agencies  from  which  credit  rating 
including  unaccepted  rating  has  been  obtained  for  the  issue  of  convertible 
debt instruments.  

(b)  The details of all the credit ratings including unaccepted rating obtained for 

the issue of convertible debt instruments.  

(c)  All the credit ratings obtained during three years prior to the filing the offer 
document  for  any  of  the  issuer’s  listed  convertible  debt  instruments  at  the 
time of accessing the market through a convertible debt instrument.  

(10)  The following details of IPO Grading 250[, if applicable]:  

(a)  The  names  of  all  the  credit  rating  agencies  from  which  grading  has  been 

obtained for the initial public offer of specified securities.   

(b)  The details of all the grades obtained from such credit rating agencies. 
(c)  The  rationale  or  description  of  the  grading(s)  so  obtained,  as  furnished  by 

the credit rating agency(ies). 

(11)  The names, addresses, telephone numbers, fax numbers, website addresses and e-
mail addresses of the trustees under debenture trust deed, in case of a public issue 
of convertible debt instruments.  

(12)  The name of the monitoring agency, if appointed and the disclosure as to whether 

the appointment is pursuant to regulation 16 of these regulations.  

(13)  The name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of the appraising entity, 

in case the project has been appraised.  

(14)  Where  the  issue  is  being  made  through  the  book  building  process,  the  details  in 

brief explaining the book building process.  

(15)  The details of underwriting, if any:  

(a)  The  names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers  and  e-mail 

addresses of the underwriters and the amount underwritten by them.  

(b)  Declaration by the board of directors of the issuer that the underwriters have 

sufficient resources to discharge their respective obligations.  
In case of partial underwriting of the issue, the extent of underwriting.  

(c) 

                                                           
249  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 01.01.2016. 
250  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 04.02.2014. 

Page 106 of 255 

 

(d)  The  details  of  final  underwriting  arrangement  indicating  actual  number  of 
specified  securities  underwritten,  in  the  prospectus  or  red  herring  prospectus 
before it is registered with Registrar of Companies. 
251[  The  underwriting  agreement  shall  list  out  the  role  and  obligations  of 
each  syndicate  member  and  inter-alia  contain  a  clause  stating  that  margin 
collected shall be uniform across all categories indicating the percentage to 
be paid as margin by the investor at the time of bidding.]    

(e) 

(C)  Green Shoe Option, if applicable: 

(1)  The name of the stabilising agent. 
(2)  The  maximum  number  of  equity  shares,  in  number  and  as  a  percentage  of  the 

proposed issue size, proposed to be over-allotted by the issuer. 

(3)  The period for which the issuer proposes to avail of the stabilisation mechanism.  
(4)  The  maximum  increase  in  the  equity  share  capital  of  the  issuer  and  the 
shareholding  pattern,  post-issue,  in  case  the  issuer  is  required  to  allot  further 
equity shares to the extent of over-allotment in the issue. 

(5)  The  maximum  amount  of  funds  to  be  received  by  the  issuer  in  case  of  further 
allotment  and  the  use  of  these  additional  funds  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  offer 
document.  

(6)  The details of the agreement or arrangement entered into by the stabilising agent 
with  the  promoters  or  shareholders  to  borrow  equity  shares  from  the  latter.  The 
details  shall,  inter-alia,  include  the  name  of  the  promoters  or  shareholders,  their 
existing shareholding in the issuer, the number and percentage of equity shares to 
be  lent  by  them  and  other  important  terms  and  conditions  including  rights  and 
obligations of each party.  

(7)  The  exact  number  of  equity  shares  to  be  allotted  pursuant  to  the  public  issue, 
stating separately the number of equity shares to be borrowed from the promoters 
or  shareholders  and  over-allotted  by  the  stabilising  agent  and  the  percentage  of 
such equity shares in relation to the total issue size. 

(D)  Capital Structure: 

(1)  The capital structure shall be presented in the following manner in a tabular form:  
(a)  The authorised, issued, subscribed and paid up capital (number of securities, 

description and aggregate nominal value).  

(b)  Size  of  the  present  issue,  giving  separately  the  promoters’  contribution, 
reservation  for  specified  categories  and  net  offer  to  public  (number  of 
securities,  description,  aggregate  nominal  value  and  issue  amount  (to  be 
disclosed  in  that  order),  names  of  the  group  companies  if  reservation  has 
been  made  for  shareholders  of  the  group  companies  and  applicable 
percentages may be given in case of a book built issue).   

(c)  Paid up capital:  

(i) 
(ii) 

After the issue.  
After conversion of convertible instruments (if applicable). 

(d)  Share premium account (before and after the issue).  

(2)  The following notes shall be incorporated after the details of capital structure:  

                                                           
251 Substituted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
01.05.2010. Prior to its substitution clause (e) read as under:  
“(e) The underwriting agreement shall list out the role and obligations of each syndicate member and inter-alia contain 
a clause stating that margin collected from categories other than qualified institutional buyers shall be uniform across 
the book runner(s) or syndicate members for each such category, indicating the percentage to be paid as margin by the 
investor at the time of bidding.” 
 
 

Page 107 of 255 

 

(a)  The  details  of  the  existing  share  capital  of  the  issuer  in  a  tabular  form, 
indicating  therein  with  regard  to  each  allotment,  the  date  of  allotment,  the 
number of shares allotted, the face value of the shares allotted and the form 
of consideration.  

(b)  Where  shares  have  been  issued  for  consideration  other  than  cash  or  out  of 
revaluation reserves at any point of time, the details shall be furnished in a 
separate  table,  indicating  the  date  of  issue,  persons  to  whom  issued,  price, 
reasons for the issue and whether any benefits have accrued to the issuer out 
of the issue. 

(c)  Where  shares  have  been  allotted  in  terms  of  any  scheme  approved  under 
sections  391-394  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  the  fact  shall  be  distinctly 
stated and the details  of  such shares allotted shall  be given,  along with  the 
page numbers of the offer document where extensive details of such scheme 
is given.  
In case of bonus shares made out of revaluation reserves, the same shall be 
separately mentioned indicating the date of issue and the date of revaluation 
of assets.  

(d) 

(e)  The  disclosures  specified  at  paras  (a)  to  (d)  above  shall  be  subject  to  the 

following: 
(i)  Where  the  issuer  has  issued  equity  shares  under  one  or  more 
employee  stock  option  schemes,  particulars  of  equity  shares  issued 
under  the  employee  stock  option  schemes  may  be  aggregated 
quarter-wise,  indicating  the  aggregate  number  of  equity  shares 
issued  and  the  price  range  within  which  equity  shares  have  been 
issued in each quarter.  

(ii)  Where item (i) is applicable, a document giving date-wise details of 
issued  under  employee  stock  option  schemes, 
equity  shares 
including the price at which such equity shares were issued, shall be 
made available as a material document for inspection. 

If the issuer has made any issue of specified securities at a price lower than 
the issue price during the preceding one  year, specific details of the names 
of the persons to whom such specified securities have been issued, whether 
they are part of promoters group, reasons for such issue and the price shall 
be given.  

(f) 

(g)  The  proposal  or  intention,  negotiations  and  consideration  of  the  issuer  to 
alter  the  capital  structure  by  way  of  split  or  consolidation  of  the 
denomination of the shares, or issue of specified securities on a preferential 
basis or issue of bonus or rights or further public issue of specified securities 
or  qualified  institutions placement,  within  a  period  of  six  months  from  the 
date of opening of the present issue. 

(h)  The total shareholding of the promoters in a tabular form, clearly stating the 
name  of  the  promoter,  nature  of  issue,  date  of  allotment,  number  of  shares, 
face value, issue price/ consideration, date when the shares were made fully 
paid up, percentage of the total pre and post issue capital, the lock in period, if 
any and  the  number  and  percentage  of  pledged  shares, if any, held by each 
promoter.  

(i)  The details of:  

(i) 

(ii) 

the  aggregate  shareholding  of  the  promoter  group  and  of  the 
directors of the promoters, where the promoter is a body corporate.  
the aggregate number of specified securities purchased or sold by the 
promoter  group  and/or  by  the  directors  of  the  company  which  is  a 
promoter of the issuer and/or by the directors of the issuer and their 

Page 108 of 255 

 

immediate  relatives  (as  defined  in  sub-clause  (ii)  of  clause  (zc)  of 
sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  2  252[)]  within  six  months 
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  filing  draft  offer  document  with 
the Board. 
all  financing  arrangements  whereby  the  promoter  group,  the 
directors  of  the  company  which  is  a  promoter  of  the  issuer,  the 
directors of the issuer and their relatives have financed the purchase 
by  any  other  person  of  securities  of  the  issuer  other  than  in  the 
normal  course  of  the  business  of  the  financing  entity  during  the 
period  of  six  months immediately  preceding  the  date  of  filing  draft 
offer document with the Board.  
the  maximum  and  minimum  price  at  which  purchases  and  sales 
referred to in clause (ii) were made, along with the relevant dates.  

(iii) 

(iv) 

(j) 

Promoters’ contribution: 
(i) 

The details of promoters’ contribution and lock-in period in a tabular 
form,  separately  in  respect  of  each  promoter,  stating  the  date  of 
allotment  of  specified  securities,  the  date  when  fully  paid  up,  the 
nature of allotment (rights, bonus, preferential etc.), the number, face 
value  and  issue  price,  the  percentage  of  promoters’  contribution  to 
total  issued  capital  and  the  date  upto  which  the  specified  securities 
are subject to lock-in.  
In the case of an initial public offer, the details regarding individual 
allotments shall be given from the date of incorporation of the issuer. 
In the case of a listed issuer, the details shall be given for five years 
immediately preceding the date of filing the draft offer document. 
The shares acquired by promoters through public issue, rights issue, 
preferential  issue,  bonus  issue,  conversion  of  depository  receipts  or 
under  any  employee  stock  option  scheme  or  employee  stock 
purchase scheme shall be shown separately from the shares acquired 
in the secondary market. The aggregate cost of shares acquired in the 
secondary market, if available. 
The details of  compliance with  regulation  32  253[and regulation  33] 
has been complied with. 
If  the  issuer  is  exempt  from  the  requirements  of  promoters’ 
contribution, the relevant provisions under which it is exempt. 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi)  A statement that promoters’ contribution has been brought in to the 
extent of not less  than the specified minimum  lot  and from  persons 
defined as promoters under these regulations.  

(vii)  A statement that the promoters undertake to  accept  full conversion, 
if  the  promoters’  contribution  is  in  terms  of  the  same  optionally 
convertible debt instrument as is being offered to the public.  

(k)  A statement that the issuer, its directors or the lead merchant bankers have 
not  entered  into  any  buy  back  arrangements  for  purchase  of  the  specified 
securities  of  the  issuer,  other  than  the  arrangements,  if  any,  entered  for  
safety net facility as permitted in the Regulations. In case any safety net  is 
provided in the issue, the lead merchant banker shall certify that the person 
offering  the  safety  net  has  the  ability  to  honour  the  commitments  and 
disclose the same in  the  offer document.  Further, complete details shall be 

                                                           
252  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
13.04.2010. 
253  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
13.04.2010. 

Page 109 of 255 

 

given  regarding  safety  net  arrangements  such  as  number  of  specified 
securities  covered,  duration,  price,  complete  terms  of  guarantee,  if  any, 
given  by  any  person,  including  conditions  subject  to  which  the  guarantee 
may be invoked.  

(l)  A statement that an over-subscription to the extent of ten per cent. of the net 
offer to public can be retained for the purpose of rounding off to the nearer 
multiple of minimum allotment lot.  

(m)  A disclosure to the effect that all securities offered through the issue shall be 
made  fully  paid-up  or  may  be  forfeited  for  non-payment  of  calls  within 
twelve months from the date of allotment of securities  

(n)  A disclosure stating that:  

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

The unsubscribed portion in any reserved category may be added to 
any other reserved category.  
The  unsubscribed  portion,  if  any,  after  such  inter  se  adjustments 
among the reserved categories shall be added back to the net offer to 
the public portion.  
In  case  of  under-subscription  in  the  net  offer  to  the  public  portion, 
spill-over to the extent of under subscription shall be permitted from 
the reserved category to the net offer to public portion.  

(o)  The following details regarding major shareholders:  

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

The names of the ten largest shareholders of the issuer as on the date 
of registering the offer document with the Registrar of Companies.  
The  number  of  equity  shares  held  by  the  shareholders  specified  in 
clause  (i)  including  number  of  equity  shares  which  they  would  be 
entitled  to  upon  exercise  of  warrant,  option  or  right  to  convert  a 
debenture, loan or other instrument.  
The particulars specified in items (i) and (ii) as on a date two years 
prior to the date of registering the offer document with the Registrar 
of Companies.  
The  particulars  specified  in  items  (i)  and  (ii)  as  on  a  date  ten  days 
prior to the date of registering the offer document with the Registrar 
of Companies.  
If  the  issuer  has  made  an  initial  public  offer  of  specified  securities 
within the immediately preceding two years prior to filing draft offer 
document with  the Board, the particulars specified in  items  (i), (ii), 
(iii)  and  (iv)  shall  be  disclosed  to  indicate  separately  the  names  of 
the persons who acquired equity shares by subscription to the public 
issue  and  those  who  acquired  the  equity  shares  by  allotment  on  a 
firm basis or by private placement.  

(p)  The  details  of  shareholding,  if  any,  of  the  lead  merchant  bankers  and  their 

(q) 

associates in the issuer. 
In case it is not possible to obtain information regarding sales and purchases 
of specified securities by any relative of the promoters, the information shall 
be  disclosed  on  the  basis  of  the  transfers  as  recorded  in  the  books  of  the 
issuer  and/or  the  depository,  as  applicable  and  a  statement  to  such  effect 
shall be made in the offer document.  

(r)  The details of options granted or equity shares issued under any scheme of 
employee  stock  option  or  employee  stock  purchase  of  issuer,  in  last  three 
years (separately for each year) and on a cumulative basis for all options or 
equity  shares  issued  prior  to  the  date  of  the  offer  document,  including  the 
following details in cases where options granted to employees in pursuance 

Page 110 of 255 

 

options granted; 
the pricing formula; 
options vested; 
options exercised; 
the total number of shares arising as a result of exercise of option; 
options lapsed; 
variation of terms of options; 

of  any  employee  stock  option  scheme  existing  prior  to  the  initial  public 
offer, are outstanding at the time of the initial public offer:  
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
(vi) 
(vii) 
(viii)  money realised by exercise of options; 
(ix) 
(x) 

total number of options in force; 
employee-wise details of options granted to:  
  senior managerial personnel; 
  any  other  employee  who  receives  a  grant  in  any  one  year  of 
options  amounting  to  five  per  cent  or  more  of  options  granted 
during that year; 

  identified  employees  who  were  granted  options,  during  any  one 
year,  equal  to  or  exceeding  one  per  cent.  of  the  issued  capital 
(excluding outstanding warrants and conversions) of the issuer at 
the time of grant; 

diluted  Earnings  Per  Share  pursuant  to  issue  of  equity  shares  on 
exercise  of  options  calculated  in  accordance  with  Accounting 
Standard (AS) 20 ‘Earnings Per Share’. 

(xi) 

(xii)  where  the  issuer  has  calculated  the  employee  compensation  cost 
using the intrinsic value of the stock options, the difference between 
the  employee  compensation  cost  so  computed  and  the  employee 
compensation cost that shall have been recognised if it had used the 
fair value of the options and the impact of this difference on profits 
and on the Earnings Per Share of the issuer. 

(xiii)  weighted average exercise prices and weighted average fair values of 
options whose exercise price either equals or exceeds or is less than 
the market price of the stock. 

(xv) 

(xiv)  a description of the method and significant assumptions used during 
the  year  to  estimate  the  fair  values  of  options,  including  weighted-
average  information,  namely,  risk-free  interest  rate,  expected  life, 
expected  volatility,  expected  dividends,  and  the  price  of  the 
underlying share in market at the time of grant of the option.  
the  impact  on  the  profits  and  on  the  Earnings  Per  Share  of  the  last 
three  years  if  the  issuer  had  followed  the  accounting  policies 
specified in clause 13 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Employee  Stock  Option  Scheme  and    Employee  Stock  Purchase 
Scheme)  Guidelines,  1999  in  respect  of  options  granted  in  the  last 
three years. 
the intention of the holders of the equity shares allotted on exercise 
of  options  granted  under  an  employee  stock  option  scheme  or 
allotted  under  an  employee  stock  purchase  scheme,  to  sell  their 
equity  shares  within  three  months  after  the  date  of  listing  of  the 
equity shares in the initial public offer (aggregate number of equity 
shares intended to be sold by the holders of options), if any. In case 
of an employee stock option scheme, this information same shall be 
disclosed  regardless  of  whether  equity  shares  arise  out  of  options 
exercised before or after the initial public offer. 

(xvi) 

Page 111 of 255 

 

(xvii)  specific  disclosures  about  the  intention  to  sell  equity  shares  arising 
out  of  an  employee  stock  option  scheme  or  allotted  under  an 
employee stock purchase scheme within three months after the date 
of  listing,  by  directors,  senior  managerial  personnel  and  employees 
having equity shares issued under an employee stock option scheme 
or employee stock purchase scheme amounting to more than one per 
cent.  of  the  issued  capital  (excluding  outstanding  warrants  and 
conversions),  which  inter-alia  shall  include  name,  designation  and 
quantum of the equity shares issued under an employee stock option 
scheme  or  employee  stock  purchase  scheme  and  the  quantum  they 
intend to sell within three months. 

254[(xviii)  the  details  of  the  number  of  shares  issued  in  ESPS,  the  price  at 
which  such  shares  are  issued,  employee-wise  details  of  the  shares 
issued to  
• 
• 

senior managerial personnel;  
any  other  employee  who  is  issued  shares  in  any  one  year 
amounting to 5% or more shares issued during that year;  
identified employees who were issued shares during  any one 
year  equal  to  or  exceeding  1%  of  the  issued  capital  of  the 
company at the time of issuance; 

• 

(xix) diluted Earning Per Share (EPS) pursuant to issuance of shares under  

ESPS; and consideration received against the issuance of shares.] 

In case of a listed issuer, which has earlier (after being a listed issuer) made 
any preferential allotment or bonus issue of specified securities or qualified 
institutions placement of eligible securities, a confirmation that the relevant 
provisions of the regulations have been complied with.  

(s) 

 

(VII) Particulars of the Issue: 

(A)  Objects of the Issue: 

(1)  The objects of the issue shall be disclosed.  
(2) 

If  one  of  the  objects  is  investment  in  a  joint  venture  or  a  subsidiary  or  an 
acquisition, the following additional disclosures shall be made: 
(a)  Details of the form of investment, i.e., equity, debt or any other instrument  
(b) 
(c) 

If the form of investment has not been decided, a statement to that effect; 
If  the  investment  is  in  debt  instruments,  complete  details  regarding  rate  of 
interest, nature of security, terms of repayment, subordination, etc.  
If the investment is in equity, whether any dividends are assured; 

(d) 
(e)  The  nature  of  benefit  expected  to  accrue  to  the  issuer  as  a  result  of  the 

investment; 

(3) 

(4) 

If one of the objects of the issue is the grant of a loan to any entity, details of the 
loan  agreements,  including  the  rate  of  interest,  whether  secured  or  unsecured, 
duration, nature of security, terms of repayment, subordination etc. and the nature 
of  benefit  expected  to  accrue  to  the  issuer  as  a  result  of  the  investment.  If  such 
loan  is  to  be  granted  to  a  subsidiary,  group  or  associate  company,  details  of  the 
same. 
If one of the objects of the issue is utilisation of the issue proceeds for long term 
working capital, the following additional disclosures shall be made.  

                                                           
254  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
13.04.2010. 
 
 

Page 112 of 255 

 

(a)  Basis of estimation  of  working  capital  requirement  along  with  the  relevant 

assumptions. 

(b)  Reasons for raising additional working capital substantiating the same with 

relevant facts and figures. 

(c)  Details  of  the  projected  working  capital  requirement,  including  detailed 
assessment  of  working  capital  after  implementation  of  the  project  or 
achievement of objects of the issue, as the case may be, capacity utilisation 
assumptions, break up of expected current assets into raw materials, finished 
goods,  work  in  progress,  sundry  debtors  etc.,  with  assumption  about  the 
holding  norms  for  each  type  of  current  asset,  total  current  liabilities,  net 
current  assets  and  envisaged  sources  of  finance  for  net  current  assets,  i.e., 
bank finance, institutional finance, own funds ,etc.. 

(d)  The  total  envisaged  working  capital  requirement  in  a  tabular  form,  the 
margin  money  thereof  and  the  portion  to  be  financed  by  any  bank(s)  or 
otherwise.  

(e)  A complete perspective on the present working capital position vis-à-vis the 
projected  one  based  on  which  the  money  is  proposed  to  be  raised  in  the 
public issue. 

(f)  Details of the existing working capital available to the issuer with a break up 
for total current assets into raw materials, finished goods, work in progress, 
sundry debtors, etc., total current liabilities, net current assets and sources of 
finance  for  net  current  assets  i.e.  bank  finance,  institutional  finance,  own 
funds etc..  
If no working capital is shown a part of project, the reasons therefor. 

(g) 

(5)  Disclosure of asset  cover etc. in  case of public issue of secured  convertible debt 
instruments: The details  of the assets  on which security/ asset  cover, if required,  
shall  be  created,  the  basis  for  computation  of  the  security/asset  cover,  the 
valuation  methods,  the  periodicity  of  such  valuation  and  the  ranking  of  the 
charge(s).  

255[(6)    Full disclosures in the draft offer document or offer document as the case may be, 
shall be made for warrants issued along with public issue or rights issue, regarding 
the objects towards which the funds from conversions of warrants are proposed to 
be used. In such cases, the provisions of this Part dealing with Objects of the Issue 
shall apply, mutatis mutandis.] 

 

(B)  Requirement of Funds: 

(1)  The requirement for funds proposed to be raised through the issue.  
(2)  Where  the  issuer  proposes  to  undertake  more  than  one  activity,  such  as 
diversification, modernisation, expansion, etc., the total project cost shall be given 
activity-wise or project wise, as the case may be.  

(3)  Where the issuer is implementing the project in a phased manner, the cost of each 
phase, including the phase, if any, which has already been implemented, shall be 
separately given.  

(4)  The  details  of  all  material  existing  or  anticipated  transactions  in  relation  to 
utlisation  of  the  issue  proceeds  or  project  cost  with  promoters,  directors,  key 
management personnel, associates and group companies. The relevant documents 
shall be included in the list of material documents for inspection.  

(C)  Funding Plan (Means of Finance): 

                                                           
255  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
30.01.2012.  

Page 113 of 255 

 

(1)  An undertaking shall be given in the offer document by the issuer confirming firm 
arrangements  of  finance  through  verifiable  means  towards  seventy  five  per  cent. 
of  the  stated  means  of  finance,  excluding  the  amount  to  be  raised  through 
proposed issue and existing identifiable internal accruals, have been made.  

(2)  The  balance  portion  of  the  means  of  finance  for  which  no  firm  arrangement  has 

been made shall be mentioned without specification.  

(3)  The details of funds tied up and the avenues for deployment of excess proceeds, if 

any. 
(D)  Appraisal: 

(1)  The scope and purpose of the appraisal, if any, along with the date of appraisal.  
(2)  The cost of the project and means of finance shall be as per the appraisal report.  
(3)  The revision, if any, in the project cost and the means of finance after the date of 

issue of the appraisal report shall be explained and disclosed.  

(4)  The  weaknesses  and  threats,  if  any,  given  in  the  appraisal  report,  shall  be 

disclosed by way of risk factors.  

(E)  Schedule of Implementation:  

(1)  The schedule of implementation of the project in a tabular form and the progress 
made  so  far,  giving  details  of  land  acquisition,  civil  works,  installation  of  plant 
and  machinery,  trial  production,  date  of  commercial  production  and  reasons  for 
delay, if any.  

(F)  Deployment of Funds: 

(1)  The  details  of  the  sources  of  funds  and  the  deployment  of  these  funds  on  the 
project  (where  the  issuer  is  raising  capital  for  a  project),  up  to  a  date  not  earlier 
than  two  months  from  the  date  of  registering  the  offer  document  with  the 
Registrar  of  Companies,  as  certified  by  a  Chartered  Accountant,  along  with  the 
name of the chartered accountant and the date of the certificate. 

(2)  Where the promoters’ contribution has been brought prior to the public issue and 
has  already  been  deployed  by  the  issuer,  the  issuer  shall  give  the  cash  flow 
statement  in  the  offer  document  disclosing  the  use  of  such  funds  received  as 
promoters’ contribution.  

(G)  Sources  of  Financing  of  Funds  Already  Deployed:  The  means  and  source  of 
financing, including details of bridge loan or other financial arrangement, which may be 
repaid from the proceeds of the issue. 

(H)  Deployment of Balance Funds: Year-wise break up of the expenditure proposed to be 

(I) 

incurred on the project. 
256[Interim Use of Funds: Net issue proceeds pending utilization (for the stated objects) 
shall  be  deposited  only  in  the  scheduled  commercial  banks  included  in  the  Second 
Schedule of Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.] 

(J)  Basic Terms of Issue 
(K)  Basis for Issue Price:  

(1)  The  basis  for  issue  price,  floor  price  or  price  band,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  be 
disclosed and justified by the issuer in consultation with the lead merchant banker 
on the basis of the following information, which shall be also disclosed separately:  
(a)  Earnings  Per  Share  and  Diluted  Earnings  Per  Share,  pre-issue,  for  the  last 

three years (as adjusted for changes in capital).  

(b)  Price Earning ratio pre-issue.  
(c)  Average Return on Net Worth in the last three years.  

                                                           

256 Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of  Capital and Disclosure  Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2015, 

w.e.f. 11.08.2015. Prior to its substitution, sub-item (I) read as under : 

"(I) Interim Use of Funds : Investment avenues in which the management proposes to deploy issue proceeds, pending 
its utilisation in the proposed project." 
 

Page 114 of 255 

 

(d)  Minimum  Return  on  Increased  Net  Worth  required  to  maintain  pre-issue 

Earnings Per Share.  

(e)  Net Asset Value per share based on last balance sheet.  
(f)  Net Asset Value per share after issue and comparison thereof with the issue 

price.  

(g)  An  illustrative  format  of  disclosure  in  respect  of  basis  for  issue  price  is 

given hereunder: 

 

(1)    Adjusted  Earning  Per  Share  (EPS)  and  Adjusted 

 

Diluted EPS 

  (a)  1992-93                            
  (b)  1993-94                            
  (c)  1994-95                            
  (d)  Weighted Average           

(2)    Price/  Earning  Ration  (P/E)  in  relation  to  Issue 

Price 

  (a)  Based on 94/95 EPS        
  (b)  Industry P/E 
            

 (i)   Highest                 
 (ii)  Lowest                        
 (iii)  Average                  

Rs.   0.41 
Rs.   8.39 
Rs. 13.82 
Rs. 10.94 
 

37.63 

 

61.2 
0.8 
25.3 

(*Based on Economic Times of 26/6/95) 

 
(3)    Return on Net Worth 

 
 

 (a)  1992-93                          
 (b)  1993-94                        
 (c)  1994-95                          
 (d)  Weighted Average             

(4)    Minimum  Return  on  Total  Net  Worth  after  Issue 

needed to maintain EPS at Rs.13.82 

(5)    Net Asset Value 

 

 (a)  As at 31-3-1995                
 (b)  After issue                  
 (c)  Issue price                   

27.36% 
28.77% 
33.45% 
30.88% 
14.65% 

 
Rs.   46.40 
Rs.   94.29 
Rs. 520.00 

  

257[(h)  

Comparison of accounting ratios of the issuer as mentioned in items 
(a) to (g) above with the industry average and with the accounting ratios of 
the peer group (i.e. companies of comparable size in the same industry). The 
source from which industry average and accounting ratios of the peer group 
has  been  taken  shall  be  indicated.  In  this  regard,  the  following  shall  be 
ensured: 

  Consistency  in  comparison  of  financial  ratios  of  issuer  with 
companies  in  the  peer  group,  i.e.,  ratios  on  standalone/  consolidated 
basis 
on 
standalone/consolidated basis of peer group, respectively. 

compared  with 

ratios 

be 

of 

issuer 

shall 

                                                           
257 Substituted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 
23.09.2011. Prior to its substitution, sub-clause (h) read as under: 
“(h)  Comparison  of  all  the  accounting  ratios  of  the  issuer  as  mentioned  in  items  (a)  to  (g)  above  with  the  industry 
average and with the accounting ratios of the peer group (i.e., companies of comparable size in the same industry the 
source from which industry average and accounting ratios of the peer group has been taken shall be indicated).” 

Page 115 of 255 

 

  Explicit statement as to whether the financial ratios (of issuer as well 

as its peer group) are either on standalone or consolidated basis.  

Financial  information  relating  to  companies  in  the  peer  group  shall  be 
extracted  from  regulatory  filings  made  by  such  companies  to  compute 
corresponding financial ratios. 

(i)  The  fact  of  dilution  of  financial  ratios  consequent  upon  issue  of  bonus 
shares, if any, and justification of the issue price after taking into account the 
diluted ratios with reference to expanded capital. 
In case of a book built issue, the following statement shall be disclosed in the 
red herring prospectus: 

(j) 

"The issue price has been determined by the issuer in consultation with 
the  book  runner(s),  on  the  basis  of  assessment  of  market  demand  for 
the offered securities by way of book-building." 

(k)  The face value of equity shares and the statement  that the issue price, floor 

price or price band, as the case may be, is “X” times of the face value.  

(l)  The accounting ratios disclosed in the offer document in support of basis of 
the  issue  price  shall  be  calculated  after  giving  effect  to  the  consequent 
increase  in  capital  on  account  of  compulsory  conversions  outstanding,  as 
well  as  on  the  assumption  that  the  options  outstanding,  if  any,  to  subscribe 
for additional capital will be exercised.  

(2)  The issuer shall not proceed with the issue in case the accounting ratios mentioned 

(3) 

(4) 

in items (a) to (g) above do not justify the issue price.  
In  case  the  option  of  differential  pricing  under  regulation  29  has  been  availed, 
justification for the price difference shall be given in the offer document. 
Issue  of  debt  instruments  bearing  interest  less  than  bank  rate:  Whenever  fully 
convertible debt instruments are issued bearing interest at a rate less than the Bank 
Rate, the offer document shall contain disclosures about the price that would work 
out to the investor, taking into account the notional interest loss on the investment 
from the date of allotment of FCDs to the date(s) of conversions). 

(L)  Tax Benefits: Any special tax benefits for the issuer and its shareholders. 

 
(VIII)  About the Issuer:  

(A)  Industry Overview  
(B)  Business Overview  

(1)  Details of the business of the issuer:  

(a)  Location of the project; 
(b)  Plant, machinery, technology, process, etc.:  

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

Details  shall  be  given  in  a  tabular  form,  which  shall  include  the 
details  of  the  machines  required  to  be  bought  by  the  issuer,  cost  of 
the machines, name of the suppliers, date of placement of order and 
the date or expected date of supply, etc..  
In case machines are yet to be delivered, the date of quotations relied 
upon for the cost estimates given shall also be mentioned.  
The  percentage  and  value  terms  of  the  plant  and  machinery  for 
which orders are yet to be placed shall be stated.  
The details of the second hand machinery bought or proposed to be 
bought, if any, including the age of the machines, balance estimated 
life, etc. shall also be given.  

(c)  Collaborations, any performance guarantee or assistance in marketing by the 
collaborators: The following information regarding persons or entities with 
whom  technical  and  financial  agreements  have  been  entered  into  shall  be 
given: 

Page 116 of 255 

 

place of registration and year of incorporation.  
paid up share capital. 
turnover of the last financial year of operation. 
general information regarding such persons relevant to the issuer. 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
Infrastructure facilities for raw materials and utilities like water, electricity, 
etc.  

(d) 

(e)  Products or services of the issuer:  

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 
(iv) 

The nature of the product(s), that is, consumer or industrial and end 
users.  
The  details  about  the  market,  including  details  of  the  competition, 
past  production  figures  for  the  industry,  existing  installed  capacity, 
past  trends  and  future  prospects  regarding  exports  (if  applicable), 
demand  and  supply  forecasts  (if  given,  should  be  essentially  with 
assumptions  unless  sourced  from  a  market  research  agency  of 
repute), etc. The source of data used shall be mentioned. 
The approach to marketing and proposed marketing set up.  
The  export  possibilities  and  export  obligations,  if  any  (in  case  of  a 
issuer providing any "service" particulars, as applicable).  

(2)  Business strategy: 

(a)  A brief statement about business strategy. 
(b)  A brief statement about future prospects, including the following:  

(i) 

Capacity and Capacity Utilisation:  
  A  table  shall  be  incorporated  giving  the  existing  installed 
capacities  for  each  product,  capacity  utilisation  for  these 
products  in  the  previous  three  years,  proposed  capacities  for 
existing  as  well  as  proposed  products  and  the  assumptions  for 
future capacity utilisation for the next three years (from the date 
of  commencement  of  commercial  production)  in  respect  of 
existing as well as proposed products.  
If  the  projected  capacity  utilisation  is  higher  than  the  actual 
average  capacity  utilisation  by  more  than  25%  during  the 
previous  three  years,  how  the  issuer  proposes  to  achieve  the 
projected  levels  of  capacity  utilisation  in  view  of  its  failure  to 
achieve levels of similar capacity utilisation in the past, shall be 
stated.  

 

(ii) 

No  forecast  of  projections  relating  to  financial  performance  of  the 
issuer shall be given in the offer document. 

(3) 

Intellectual property rights: 
(a) 

If  the  issuer  is  entitled  to  certain  intellectual  property  rights  such  as  trade 
marks, brand names, etc. whether the same are legally held by the issuer and 
whether all formalities in this regard have been complied with. 
In  case  the  intellectual  property  rights  are  not  registered  in  the  name  of  the 
issuer, the name of the entity with which they are registered. 
In case the intellectual property rights are registered in the name of entity in 
which  the  promoters  are  interested,  the  salient  features  of  the  agreement 
entered into for the use of the intellectual property rights by the issuer.  

(b) 

(c) 

(4)  Property 
(5)  Purchase of property:  

(a)  As respects any property referred to in sub-clause (b):  

(i) 
(ii) 

the names, address, descriptions and occupations of the vendors;  
the  amount  paid  or  payable  in  cash,  shares  or  debentures  to  the 
vendor  and,  where  there  is  more  than  one  separate  vendor,  or  the 

Page 117 of 255 

 

(iv) 

(iii) 

issuer  is  a  sub  purchaser,  the  amount  so  paid  or  payable  to  each 
vendor, specifying separately the amount, if any, paid or payable for 
goodwill;  
the  nature  of  the  title  or  interest  in  such  property  acquired  or  to  be 
acquired by the issuer;  
short  particulars  of  every  transaction  relating  to  the  property 
completed  within  the  two  preceding  years,  in  which  any  vendor  of 
the property to the issuer or any person who is, or was at the time of 
the transaction, a promoter, or a director or proposed director of the 
issuer had  any interest,  direct  or indirect,  specifying the date of the 
transaction  and  the  name  of  such  promoter,  director  or  proposed 
director  and  stating  the  amount  payable  by  or  to  such  vendor, 
promoter, director or proposed director in respect of the transaction.  
(b)  The  property  to  which  sub-clause  (a)  applies  is  a  property  purchased  or 
acquired by the issuer or proposed to be purchased or acquired, which is to 
be  paid  for  wholly  or  partly  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  issue  offered  for 
subscription by the offer document or the purchase or acquisition of which 
has not been completed at the date of issue of the offer document, other than 
property:  
(i) 

the contract for the purchase or acquisition whereof was entered into 
in the ordinary course of the issuer’s business, the contract not being 
made in  contemplation  of the issue nor the issue in  consequence of 
the contract; or  
as respects which the amount of the purchase money is not material. 
 
for  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  where  a  vendor  is  a  firm,  the 
members of  the firm shall not be treated as separate vendors.  
if  the  issuer  proposes  to  acquire  a  business  which  has  been 
carried  on  for  less  than  three  years,  the  length  of  time  during 
which the business has been carried.  

 

(ii) 

(6)  Land : 

(a)  The names of the entities from whom the land has been acquired/ proposed to 
be acquired alongwith the cost of acquisition, along with the relation, if any, of 
such entities to any promoter or director of the issuer.  

(b)  Details  of  whether  the  land  acquired  by  the  issuer  is  free  from  all 
encumbrances and has a clear title and whether it is registered in the name 
of the issuer.   

(c)  Details  of  whether  the  issuer  has  applied/  received  all  the  approvals 
pertaining  to  land.  If  no  such  approvals  are  required  to  be  taken  by  the 
issuer, then this fact may be indicated by way of an affirmative statement.  

(d)  The figures appearing under this section shall be consistent with the figures 

appearing under the section "Cost of the Project". 

(C)  Key Industry-Regulation (if applicable)  
(D)  History and Corporate Structure of the issuer:  

(1)  History  and  main  objects  and  present  business  of  the  issuer  including  the 

following details: 
(a)  Details  of 

the 

the  date  of 

issuer  such  as 

incorporation,  date  of 
commencement  of  business,  date  of  conversion  of  partnership  into  limited 
company  or  private  limited  company  to  public  limited  company,  as 
applicable, dates on which names have been changed, if applicable, reasons 
for change of name, changes in  registered offices of the issuer and reasons 
therefore,  dates  on  which  the  Memorandum  of  Association  of  the  issuer 
have been amended citing the details of amendment.   

Page 118 of 255 

 

(b)  Details of the major events in the history of the issuer, including the details 

of: 
(i) 

(ii) 
(iii) 

Capacity/facility  creation,  location  of  plant,  products,  marketing, 
competition etc.  
Raising of capital in form of equity or debt,  
Time/cost  overrun  in  setting  up  projects  including  the  proposed 
project,  

(iv)  Defaults  or  rescheduling  of  borrowings  with  financial  institutions/ 
banks,  conversion  of  loans  into  equity  along  with  reasons  thereof, 
lock out, strikes and reasons for the same etc.  
Negative  features  like  time  /  cost  overrun,  defaults  and  lock  out  / 
strikes etc  

(v) 

(vi)  Details regarding the changes in the activities of the issuer during the 
last  five  years  which  may  have  had  a  material  effect  on  the 
profits/loss,  including  discontinuance  of  lines  of  business,  loss  of 
agencies or markets and similar factors. 

(c)  Complete details of the subsidiaries and holding company, if applicable. 
(d)  Corporate  profile  of  the  issuer  regarding  its  history,  the  description  of  the 
activities,  services,  products,  market  of  each  segment,  the  growth  of  the 
issuer,  exports  and  profits  due  to  foreign  operations  together  with  the 
country-wise  analysis,  the  standing  of  the  issuer  with  reference  to  the 
prominent  competitors  with  reference  to  its  products,  management,  major 
suppliers  and  customers,  environmental  issues,  segment,  i.e.  geographical, 
etc. 
Injunction or restraining order, if any, with possible implications.    

(e) 
(f)  The technology, market, managerial competence and capacity built-up. 
(g)  Details 

regarding 

acquisition  of  business/undertakings,  mergers, 

amalgamation, revaluation of assets etc, if any. 

(h)  The number of members/ shareholders of the issuer.  

(2)  Main objects as set out in the Memorandum of Association of the issuer 
(3)  Details regarding subsidiary(ies) of the issuer including:  

(a)  Name of the subsidiary; 
(b)  nature of business; 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 

capital structure; 
shareholding of the issuer;  
amount of accumulated profits or losses of the subsidiary(ies) not accounted 
for by the issuer;  
258[***] 

(f) 

(4)  Shareholders' agreements:  

(a)  Key  terms  of  subsisting  shareholders’  agreements,  if  any  (to  be  provided 
even if the issuer is not a party to such an agreement, but is aware of such an 
agreement).  

(b)  Guarantees,  if  any,  given  to  third  parties  by  the  promoters  offering  their 
shares in the proposed offer for sale, stating reasons, amount, obligations on 
the  issuer,  period  of  guarantee,  financial  implications  in  case  of  default, 
security available, consideration etc.  

(c)  All  such  agreements  shall  be  included  in  the  list  of  material  contracts 

required under sub-item (A) of Item 259[(XVI)].  

                                                           
258  Omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
13.04.2010. Prior to its omission, sub-clause (f) read as under:  
“(f) amount of accumulated profits or losses of the subsidiary(ies) not accounted for by the issuer.”  

Page 119 of 255 

 

(5)  Other agreements:  

(a)  The dates, parties to, and general nature of every other material contract, not 
being  a contract  entered  into in  the ordinary  course of the business  carried 
on or intended to be carried on by the issuer or a contract entered into more 
than two years before the date of the offer document. 

(b)  All  such  agreements  shall  be  included  in  the  list  of  material  contracts 

required under sub-item (A) of Item (XII)  

(6)  Strategic partners.  
(7)  Financial partners.  

(E)  Management:  

(1)  Board of Directors:  

(a)  Name,  age,  qualifications,  Director  Identification  Number,  experience, 
address,  occupation  and  date  of  expiration  of  the  current  term  of  office  of 
manager,  managing  director,  and  other  directors  (including  nominee 
directors,  whole-time  directors),  giving 
in  other 
companies.  

their  directorships 

260[(ai)      Details  of  current  and  past  directorship(s)  in  listed  companies  whose 
shares have been/were suspended from being traded on the Bombay Stock 
Exchange Ltd. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd., as follows: 
  Name of the Company : 
  Listed on [give name of the Stock Exchange(s)] : 
  Date of Suspension on stock exchanges : 
  Suspended  more  than  three  months:  Yes/No.  If  yes,  reasons  for 

suspension and period of suspension. 

  Whether  suspension  revoked:  Yes/No.  If  yes,  date  of  revocation  of 

suspension. 

  Term  (along  with  relevant  dates)  of  Director 

in 

the  above 

company(ies). 

Explanation: The above details shall be given with respect to a period of   

five  years  prior  to  date  of  filing  of  draft  offer  document  and  ought  to  be 
updated upto the date of filing of RHP. In case of offer documents for fast 
track  issues  filed  under  Regulation  10,  the  period  of  five  years  shall  be 
reckoned  on  the  date  of  filing  of  prospectus  with  Registrar  of  Companies 
or letter of offer with the designated stock exchange. 

 
(a)(ii)  Details  of  current  and  past  directorship(s)  in  listed  companies  which 

have been/were delisted from the stock exchange(s), as follows: 
  Name of the Company : 
  Listed on [give name of the Stock Exchange(s)] : 
  Date of delisting on the Stock Exchange(s) : 
  Compulsory or voluntary delisting : 
  Reasons for delisting : 
  Whether relisted: Yes/No. If yes, date of relisting on [give name of the 

Stock Exchange(s)]: 

  Term (alongwith relevant dates) of Director in the above company/ies.] 
 

(b)  The nature of any family relationship between any of the directors. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
259  Substituted  for  “(XII)”  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 12.11.2010. 
260 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
12.11.2010. 

Page 120 of 255 

 

(c)  Any  arrangement  or  understanding  with  major  shareholders,  customers, 
suppliers  or  others,  pursuant  to  which  of  the  directors  was  selected  as  a 
director or member of senior management. 

(d)  Details  of  service  contracts  entered  into  by  the  directors  with  the  issuer 
providing  for  benefits  upon  termination  of  employment  and  a  distinct 
negative statement in the absence of any such contract.  

(e)  Details of borrowing powers.  

(2)  Compensation of Managing Directors/ Whole time Directors:  

(a)  The  dates,  parties  to,  and  general  nature  of  every  contract  appointing  or 
fixing  the  remuneration  of  a  Director,  Whole-time  Director,  Managing 
Director or Manager whenever entered into within or more than, two years 
before  the  date  of  the  offer  document.      During  the  last  financial  year,  the 
amount of compensation paid, and benefits in kind granted on an individual 
basis  to  all  such  persons,  by  the  issuer  for  services  in  all  capacities  to  the 
issuer. The disclosure shall also cover contingent or deferred compensation 
accrued for the year, even if the compensation is payable at a later date.  
If  any portion of the compensation was paid  pursuant  to  a bonus or profit-
sharing  plan,  a  brief  description  of  the  plan  and  the  basis  upon  which  the 
directors participate in the plan. 

(b) 

(c)  All such contracts shall be included in the list of material contracts required 

under sub-item (A) of Item (XII). 

(3)  Shareholding of directors, including  details  of qualification shares held  by them, 

(4) 

wherever applicable.  
Interest of directors:  
(a)  Full  particulars  of  the  nature  and  extent  of  the  interest,  if  any,  of  every 

Director. 
(i) 
(ii) 

in the promotion of the  issuer; or  
in any property acquired by the issuer within two years of the date of 
the offer document or proposed to be acquired by it.  

(b)  Where the interest of such a director consists in being a member of a firm or 
company, the nature and extent of the interest of the firm or company, with 
a  statement  of  all  sums  paid  or  agreed  to  be  paid  to  him  or  to  the  firm  or 
company in cash or shares or otherwise by any person either to induce him 
to  become,  or  to  qualify  him  as,  a  director,  or  otherwise  for  services 
rendered  by  him  or  by  the  firm  or  company,  in  connection  with  the 
promotion or formation of the issuer shall be disclosed.  

(5)  Change, if any, in the directors during the last three years, and reasons, thereof.  
(6)  Management Organisation Structure.  
(7)  Corporate Governance:   

(a)  A disclosure to the effect that the issuer has complied with the requirements 
of  Corporate  Governance  contained  in  the  Equity  Listing  Agreement, 
particularly those relating to composition of board of directors, constitution 
of  committees  such  as  Audit  Committee,  Shareholder  /  Investor  Grievance 
Committee, etc 

(b)  Details relating to the issuer's audit committee and remuneration committee, 
including the names of committee members and a summary of the terms of 
reference under which the committees operate shall also be disclosed. 

(8)  Key Management Personnel:  

(a)  Details  of  the  key  management  personnel  as  on  the  date  of  filing  the  offer 
document  with  the  Board  indicating  name,  date  of  joining,  qualification, 
term of office with date of expiration of term and details of service contracts 

Page 121 of 255 

 

including  termination/retirement  benefits,  if  any,  details  of  previous 
employment, etc.  

(b)  Name, business experience, functions and areas of experience in the issuer. 
(c)  The  nature  of  any  family  relationship  between  any  of  the  key  managerial 

personnel. 

(d)  Any  arrangement  or  understanding  with  major  shareholders,  customers, 
suppliers or others, pursuant to which any of the key managerial personnel, 
was selected as a director or member of senior management. 

(e)  During  the  last  financial  year,  the  amount  of  compensation  paid,  and 
benefits  in  kind  granted,  to  the  key  managerial  personnel  on  an  individual 
basis,  by  the  issuer  for  services  in  all  capacities  to  the  company.  The 
disclosure shall also cover contingent or deferred compensation accrued for 
the year, even if the compensation is payable at a later date.  
If  any portion of the compensation was paid  pursuant  to  a bonus or profit-
sharing  plan,  a  brief  description  of  the  plan  and  the  basis  upon  which  the 
key management personnel participate in the plan. 

(f) 

(g)  Disclose  status  of  key  management  personnel,  whether  they  are  in  the 

employment as permanent employees or otherwise. 

(h)  The shareholding of the key management personnel.  
(i)  Bonus or Profit Sharing Plan for the key management personnel. 
(j)  Changes in the Key Management Personnel: Any change otherwise than 
by  way  of  retirement  in  the  normal  course  in  the  senior  key  management 
personnel  particularly  in  charge  of  production,  planning,  finance  and 
marketing  during  the  last  three  years  prior  to  the  date  of  filing  the  offer 
document  with  the  Board  shall  be  disclosed.  If  the  turnover  of  key 
management personnel is high compared to the industry, reasons should be 
261[disclosed].  

(9)  Employees: 

(a)  Refer  the  page  of  the  offer  document  where  disclosures  regarding 
employees  stock  option  scheme/  employees  stock  purchase  scheme  of  the 
issuer,  if  any,  as  required  by  the  Regulations  or  Regulations  of  the  Board 
relating  to  Employee  Stock  Option  Scheme  and  Employee  Stock  Purchase 
Scheme, is given. 

(b)  Payment  or  Benefit  to  Officers  of  the  issuer  (non-salary  related):  Any 
amount or benefit paid or given within the two preceding years or intended 
to be paid or given to any officer and consideration for payment of giving of 
the benefit. 

(F)  Promoters/ Principal Shareholders: 

(1)  Where the promoters are individuals: 

(a)  A  complete  profile  of  the  promoters,  including  their  name,  age,  personal 
addresses,  educational  qualifications,  experience 
the  business  or 
employment  and  in  the  line  of  business  proposed  in  the  offer  document, 
positions/posts  held  in  the  past,  Directorship  held,  other  ventures  of  each 
promoter,  special  achievements,  their  business  and  financial  activities, 
photograph, voter ID number, driving license number shall be disclosed. 

in 

(b)  A declaration, confirming that Permanent  Account Number, Bank Account 
Number and Passport Number of the promoters have been submitted to the 
recognised  stock  exchanges  on  which  the  specified  securities  are  proposed 
to be listed, at the time of filing the draft offer document with them; 

                                                           
261  Substituted  for  “discussed”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010. 

Page 122 of 255 

 

(2)  Where the promoters are companies: 

(a)  History  of  the  companies  and  the  promoters  of  the  companies  shall  be 
furnished.  Where  the  promoters  of  such  companies  are  again  companies 
or  bodies  corporate,  names  of  natural  persons  in  control  (i.e.,  holding 
fifteen  per  cent.  or  more  voting  rights)  or  who  are  on  the  board  of 
directors of such bodies corporate shall be disclosed.  

(b)  Details of change in control or management of the promoter companies, if 
any, including  details  of the persons  who held  the controlling  interest  in 
the three years immediately preceding the filing the draft offer document. 
(c)  A  declaration,  confirming  that  the  Permanent  Account  Numbers,  Bank 
Account Numbers, the Company Registration Numbers and the addresses 
of the Registrars of Companies where the companies are registered have 
been submitted to the recognised stock exchanges on which the specified 
securities  are  proposed  to  be  listed,  at  the  time  of  filing  the  draft  offer 
document with them; 

262[(2A)    Where  the  shares  for  lock-in  towards  minimum  promoters  contribution  is 
offered  by  principal  shareholders  such  as  Venture  Capital  Funds  or    Foreign  Venture 
Capital Investors registered with SEBI: 
(a)  Details of Fund Manager;  
(b) Generic details of the Fund which is the investor in the issuer company; 
(c)  Details  such  as  total  number  of  investors  in  the  Fund,  distribution  of 
investors  category  -  wise  (institutional,  corporate,  individual  etc.)  and 
percentage stake held by each investor category; 

(d) Details of companies funded by the Funds, namely:- 

(i)  Total number of companies funded; 
(ii)  Distribution  of  such  companies-  country  wise,  holding  period  wise, 

sector wise;   

(iii) Number  of  companies  under  the  control  of  the  Fund,  directly  or 

indirectly;  

(iv) In respect of companies where such Funds have offered their shares 

for lock-in as part of minimum promoter’s contribution:-  

  Name of the company  
  Date of listing on each stock exchange 
  Fund’s shareholding in the company as on the date of listing 
  Fund’s shareholding in the company as on the date of filing of 

the DRHP of the company that now seeks to get listed 

 
                       
                     
(3) 

(4) 

 
   

(e) Average holding period of the Fund’s investments; 
(f) Sector focus/core specialization of the Fund, if applicable.] 
If  the  present  promoters  are  not  the  original  promoters  and  control  of  the  issuer 
was acquired within five years immediately preceding the date of filing draft offer 
document  with  the  Board,  disclosure  shall  be  made  of  the  details  regarding  the 
acquisition of control, date of acquisition, terms of acquisition, consideration paid 
for  acquisition  and  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the  SEBI  (Substantial 
Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  1997  and  Listing  Agreement 
as applicable. 
If  there  is  no  identifiable  promoter,  such  fact  shall  be  disclosed  and  a  further 
disclosure  shall  be  made  of  the  shareholders  who  control  individually  or  as  a 
group, fifteen per cent. or more of the voting rights of the issuer and of persons, if 

                                                           
262  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
30.01.2012. 

Page 123 of 255 

 

(5) 

(6) 

any,  who  have  the  right  to  appoint  director(s)  on  the  board  of  directors  of  the 
issuer. 
If the promoters do not have experience in the proposed line of business, that fact 
shall  be  disclosed  explaining  how  the  proposed  activities  would  be  carried 
out/managed. 
If  the  promoters  have  any  interest  in  the  issuer  other  than  as  promoters,  brief 
details  of  the  interest  shall  be  given  along  with  cross-reference  to  the  pages  on 
which extensive details have been given in the offer document. 

(7)  The  following  information  in  respect  of  all  the  group  companies  shall  be  given 

the name and type of organisation 

wherever applicable:  
(a) 
(b)  brief description of the business; 
(c) 

nature and extent of interest of the promoters 

(8)  Full particulars of the nature and extent of the interest, if any, of every promoter, 

directors or group companies : 
(a) 
(b) 

in the promotion of the  issuer; or  
in any property acquired by the issuer within two years of the date of filing 
draft offer document with the Board or proposed to be acquired by it. 

(c)  Where the interest of such a director or promoter consists in being a member 
of  a  firm  or  company,  the  nature  and  extent  of  the  interest  of  the  firm  or 
company, with a statement of all sums paid or agreed to be paid to him or to 
the firm or company in cash or shares or otherwise by any person either to 
induce  him  to  become,  or  to  qualify  him  as,  a  director,  or  otherwise  for 
services rendered by him or by the firm or company, in connection with the 
promotion or formation of the issuer. 
in any transaction in acquisition of land, construction of building and supply 
of  machinery,  etc.  with  full  details  of  the  transaction  and  the  amount 
involved 

(d) 

(9)  Payment or benefit to promoters of the issuer: Any amount or benefit paid or 
given within the two years preceding the date of filing draft offer document with 
the Board or intended to be paid or given to any promoter or promoter group  and 
consideration for payment of giving of the benefit. 

(G)  Currency  of  presentation:  One  standard  financial  unit  shall  be  used  in  the  offer 

document. 

(H)  Dividend policy 

 
(IX)  Financial Statements: 

263[[Notes: 

1. 

2. 

The financial informations specified in this item shall be certified by only those 
auditors  who  have  subjected  themselves  to  the  peer  review  process  of  the 
Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  (ICAI)  and  hold  a  valid  certificate 
issued by the ‘Peer Review Board’ of the ICAI. 
All  financial  informations  specified  in  this  item  must  be  reaudited  for  one  full 
financial  year  and  the  stub  period,  by  the  auditor  certifying  them  in  case  where 
the financial statements were audited by an auditor who had not been subjected 
to peer review process of ICAI.]] 

(A)  Selected Consolidated Financial and Operating data:   

                                                           
263  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009,  w.e.f. 
01.04.2010. 
 

Page 124 of 255 

 

(1)  The  consolidated  financial  statement  prepared  on  the  basis  of  Accounting 
Standard  21(AS  21)  “Consolidated  Financial  Statements”  issued  by  the  Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India shall be incorporated in the offer document.  

(2)  All  the  notes  to  the  accounts,  significant  accounting  policies  as  well  as  the 

auditors’ qualifications shall be incorporated. 

(B)  Financial Information of the issuer: 

(1)  A report by the auditors of the issuer with respect to: 

(a) 

(b) 

profits  and  losses  and  assets  and  liabilities,  in  accordance  with  para  (2)  or 
(3) of sub-item (B) of Item (IX), as the case may require; and 
the rates of dividends, if any, paid by the issuer in respect of each class of 
shares  in  the  issuer  for  each  of  the  five  financial  years  immediately 
preceding the issue of the offer document, giving particulars of each class of 
shares on which such dividends have been paid and particulars of the cases 
in  which no dividends have been paid  in  respect of any class of shares for 
any of those years;  

and, if no accounts have been made up in respect of any part of the period of five 
years  ending  on  a  date  three  months  before  the  issue  of  the  offer  document, 
containing  a  statement  of  that  fact  (and  accompanied  by  a  statement  of  the 
accounts  of  the  issuer  in  respect  of  that  part  of  the  said  period  up  to  a  date  not 
earlier  than  six  months  of  the  date  of  issue  of  the  offer  document  indicating  the 
profit or loss for that period and the assets and liabilities position as at the end of 
that  period  together  with  a  certificate  from  the  auditors  that  such  accounts  have 
been  examined  and  found  correct  by  them.  The  said  statement  may  indicate  the 
nature of provision or adjustments made or are yet to be made). 
If the issuer has no subsidiaries, the report shall: 
(a) 

so  far  as  regards  profits  and  losses,  deal  with  the  profits  or  losses  of  the 
issuer (distinguishing items of a non- recurring nature) for each of the five 
financial years immediately preceding the issue of the offer document; and 
so far as regards assets and liabilities, deal with the assets and liabilities of 
the issuer at the last date to which the accounts of the issuer were made up. 

(b) 

If the issuer has subsidiaries, the report shall: 
(a) 

so far as regards profits and losses, deal separately with the issuer’s profits 
or  losses  as  provided  by  para  (2)  of  sub-item  (B)  of  Item  (IX)  and  in 
addition, deal either: 
(i) 

as a whole with the combined profits or losses of its subsidiaries, so 
far as they concern the members of the issuer; or 
individually  with  the  profits  or  losses  of  each  subsidiary,  so  far  as 
they concern the members of the issuer;  

(ii) 

(2) 

(3) 

(b) 

or, instead of dealing separately with the issuer’s profits or losses, deal as a 
whole with the profits or losses of the issuer, and, so far as they concern the 
members  of  the  issuer,  with  the  combined  profits  or  losses  of  its 
subsidiaries; and 
so far as regards assets and liabilities, deal separately with the issuer’s assets 
and  liabilities  as  provided  by  para  (2)  of  sub-item  (B)  of  Item  (IX)  and  in 
addition, deal either: 
(i) 

as a whole with the combined assets and liabilities of its subsidiaries, 
with or without the issuer’s assets and liabilities; or 
individually with the assets and liabilities of each subsidiaries; 

(ii) 
and shall indicate as respects the assets and liabilities of the subsidiaries, the 
allowance to be made for persons other than the members of the issuer. 

(4) 

If  the  proceeds,  or  any  part  of  the  proceeds,  of  the  issue  of  the  shares  or 
debentures are, or is, to be applied directly or indirectly: 

Page 125 of 255 

 

in the purchase of any business; or 
in the purchase of an interest in any business and by reason of that purchase, 
or anything to  be done in consequence thereof, or in  connection  therewith; 
the issuer will become entitled to an interest as respects either the capital or 
profits and losses or both, in such business exceeding fifty percent, thereof; 
a  report  made  by  accountants  (who  shall  be  named  in  the  offer  document) 
upon: 
(i)  

the profits or losses of the business of each of the five financial years 
immediately preceding the issue of the offer document; and 
the assets and liabilities of the business at the last date to which the 
accounts of the business were made up, being a date not more than 
one hundred and twenty days before the date of the issue of the offer 
document. 

(a) 
(b) 

(5) 

  
(a) 

(ii)  

If: 
(i)  

(ii)  

the proceeds, or any part of the proceeds, of the issue of the shares or 
debentures are or is to be applied directly or indirectly in any manner 
resulting in the acquisition by the issuer of shares in any other body 
corporate; and 
by reason of that acquisition or anything to be done in consequence 
thereof or in connection therewith, that body corporate will become 
a subsidiary of the issuer; 

a  report  shall  be  made  by  accountants  (who  shall  be  named  in  the  offer 
document) upon: 

 

 

the profits or losses of the other body corporate for each of the five 
financial  years  immediately  preceding  the  issue  of  the  offer 
document; and 
the assets and liabilities of the other body corporate at the last date 
to which its accounts were made up. 

(b)  The said report shall: 

(i)  

indicate  how  the  profits  or  losses  of  the  other  body  corporate  dealt 
with  by the report would, in  respect  of the shares to  acquired, have 
concerned  members  of  the  issuer  and  what  allowance  would  have 
fallen to be made, in relation to assets and liabilities so dealt with for 
holders of other shares, if the issuer had at all material times held the 
shares to be acquired; and 

(ii)   where the other body corporate has subsidiaries, deal with the profits 
or losses and the  assets  and liabilities of the body  corporate and its 
subsidiaries  in  the  manner  provided  by  sub-clause  (a)  (ii)  above  in 
relation to the issuer and its subsidiaries. 

(6)  Principal terms of loan and assets charged as security: Brief terms and conditions 

(7) 

of the term loans including re-schedulement, prepayment, penalty, default, etc.  
(a)  Age-wise analysis of sundry debtors shall be given. 
(b)    Aggregate  book  value  of  quoted  investments  as  well  as  aggregate  market 

value of quoted investments shall be disclosed. 

(8)  All  significant  accounting  policies  and  standards  followed  in  the  preparation  of 
the  financial  statements  shall  be  disclosed  including  all  notes  thereto  and  the 
auditors’ qualifications shall be incorporated. 

(9)  Statements  of  Assets  and  Liabilities  and  Profit  and  Loss  or  any  other  financial 
information  shall  be  incorporated  after  making  the  following  adjustments, 
wherever quantification is possible: 

Page 126 of 255 

 

(a)  Adjustments/ rectification for all incorrect accounting practices or failures to 
make provisions or other adjustments which resulted in audit qualifications.. 
Audit  qualifications,  which  have  not  been  given  effect  to,  if  any,  shall  be 
highlighted  along  with  the  management  comments.  If  the  impact  of  non-
provisions is not considered ascertainable, then a statement to that effect by 
the auditors 

(b)  Material  amounts  relating  to  adjustments  for  previous  years  shall  be 
identified  and  adjusted  in  arriving  at  the  profits  of  the  years  to  which  they 
relate irrespective of the year in which the event triggering the profit or loss 
occurred. 

(c)  Where there has been a change in accounting policy, the profits or losses of 
the  earlier  years  (required  to  be  shown  in  the  offer  document)  and  of  the 
year in  which the change in  the accounting policy  has taken place shall be 
recomputed  to  reflect  what  the  profits  or  losses  of  those  years  would  have 
been if a uniform accounting policy was followed in each of these years. 
If  an  incorrect  accounting  policy  is  followed,  the  re-computation  of  the 
financial statements shall be in accordance with correct accounting policies. 
(e)  Statement  of  profit  or  loss  shall  disclose  the  profit  or  the  loss  arrived  at 
before  considering  extraordinary  items  and  after  considering  the  profit  or 
loss  from  extraordinary  items.  An  illustrative  format  of  the  disclosure  of 
profits and losses on this basis is specified hereunder: 

(d) 

 

 

20X1  20X2 

Year ended March 31, …. 
20X5 
(Rupees In lakhs) 

20X4 

20X3 

 

in 

(decrease) 

Income 
Sales - 
of products manufactured by 
the issuer  
of  products  traded  in  by  the 
issuer    
Total  
Other income     
Increase 
inventories     
 
Expenditure  
Raw materials consumed   
Staff costs   
Other 
expenses   
Administration expenses     
Selling 
expenses   
Interest     
 
Net  profit  before  tax  and 
extraordinary items     
Taxation     
Net 

manufacturing 

distribution 

and 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1000 

1240 

1640 

1800 

1800 

100 

    60 

    60 

  200 

  200 

1100 
10 
40 

1150 
 
400 
200 
250 

1300 
    30 
   (70) 

1260 
 
  480 
  220 
  260 

1700 
    40 
    60 

1800 
 
  630 
  240 
  280 

2000 
    60 
  180 

2240 
 
1110 
  340 
  540 

2000 
  100 
  310 

2410 
 
1200 
  400 
  650 

40 
110 

    42 
  120 

    60 
  130 

    80 
  190 

    85 
  250 

60 
1095 
55 

    55 
1227 
   33 

    90 
1495 
  305 

  200 
2635 
(295) 

  140 
2795 
(385) 

25 
30 

   12 
   21 

  144 
  161 

(185) 
(110) 

(235) 
(150) 

profit 

before 

Page 127 of 255 

 

extraordinary items     
Extraordinary  items  (net  of 
tax)     - 
Net 
Extraordinary Items     

Profit 

after 

 

   49 

  (64) 

 800 

1000 

30 

   70  

   97  

 700 

  850 

 
 

(f)  The statement of assets and liabilities shall be prepared after deducting the 
balance  outstanding  on  revaluation  reserve  account  from  both  fixed  assets 
and  reserves  and  the  net  worth  arrived  at  after  such  deductions.  An 
illustrative format of assets and liabilities is specified hereunder: 

Page 128 of 255 

 

 

 

20X1 

20X2 

20X3 

264[ As at March 31,… 
20X5 
(Rupees in lakhs) 

20X4 

(1)  Equity & Liabilities 
Shareholders’ Funds 

 

 

 

 

(a) Share capital 
(b) Reserves & surplus 
 

(2)  Non Current Liabilities 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

                                                           
264 Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 4-
2-2014. Prior to its substitution, said illustrative format read as under: 
 

"As at March 31, …. 

 

(Rupees in lakhs) 

(1) Fixed Assets 

Gross Block 

Less : Depreciation 

Net Block 

20X1 

20X2 

20X3  20X4 

20X5 

 
440 

(55) 

385 

 
750 

 
900 

 
922 

 
1350 

(107) 

(170) 

(250) 

(320) 

643 

730 

672 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

1030 

(75) 

 

3200 

2500 

400 

 
460 

4000 

1100 

 
2000 

1790 

(75) 

Less : Revaluation Reserve 

(100) 

(95) 

(89) 

(83) 

Net  Block  after  adjustment  for 
Revaluation Reserve 

285 

548 

641 

589 

955 

(2)  Current  Assets,  Loans  and 
Advances 

 

 

 

 

485 

420 

720 

1030 

Inventories 

Sundry Debtors 

Cash and Bank Balances 

Loans and Advances 

Other Current Assets 

Total 

(3) Liabilities and Provisions: 

Secured Loans 

Unsecured Loans 

28 

13 

78 

70 

674 

 
376 

3 

30 

14 

100 

80 

644 

 
607 

3 

500 

200 

30 

22 

85 

55 

1100 

2000 

200 

220 

912 

3080 

8320 

 
616 

 
620 

—  — 

Current Liabilities and Provisions  250 

180 

330 

460 

Total 

(4) Net worth 

(5) Represented by 

Share Capital 

Reserves 

(629) 

(790) 

(946) 

(1080) 

(5560) 

330 

402 

607 

2589 

3715 

 
300 

130 

 
300 

197 

 
400 

296 

 
1600 

1072 

Less : Revaluation Reserve 

(100) 

(95) 

(89) 

(83) 

Reserves (Net 
reserves) 

Net worth 

of 

revaluation 

30 

102 

207 

989 

1715 

330 

402 

607 

2589 

3715 

Page 129 of 255 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

(a) Long term borrowings 

 

(b) Deferred tax liabilities (net) 
(c) Long term provisions 
 

(3)  Current Liabilities 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) Short term borrowings 

(b) Trade payables 
(c) Other current liabilities 
(d) Short term provisions 

 

Total 
 

  Assets 

(4)  Non Current Assets 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) Fixed Assets 
(b) Non current investments 

(c) Long term loans and advances 
(d) Other non current assets 
 

(5)  Current Assets 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) Current Investments 

(b) Inventories 
(c) Trade receivables 
(d) Cash and bank balances 

(e) Short term loans and advances 
(f) Other current assets 

 

Total ] 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

(g)  Relevant details of all the contingent liabilities.  

(10)  The turnover disclosed in the Profit and Loss Statement shall be bifurcated into: 

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 

turnover of products manufactured by the issuer; 
turnover of products traded in by the issuer; and 
turnover  in  respect  of  products  not  normally  dealt  in  by  the  issuer  but 
included in (b) above, shall be mentioned separately. 

(11)  The  offer  document  shall  disclose  details  of  `Other  Income'  in  all  cases  where 
such  income  (net  of  related  expenses)  exceeds  twenty  per  cent.  of  the  net  profit 
before tax, including: 
(d) 
(e) 

the sources and other particulars of such income; and 
an indication as to whether such income is recurring or non-recurring, or has 
arisen out of business activities/ other than the normal business activities. 

(12)  Related  Party  Transactions:  The  issuer  shall  disclose  the  following  details  of 
related  party  transactions  and  make  disclosures  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements of Accounting Standard (AS 18) “Related Party Disclosures” issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India: 

Page 130 of 255 

 

(a) 

Information with respect to transactions or loans between the issuer and  
(i)  

that  directly  or 

(ii)  
(iii)  

(iv)  

(v)  

indirectly 

through  one  or  more 
enterprises 
intermediaries,  control  or  are  controlled  by,  or  are  under  common 
control with, the issuer;  
associates;  
individuals  owning,  directly  or  indirectly,  an  interest  in  the  voting 
power of the company that gives them significant influence over the 
issuer, and close members of any such individual’s family;  
key managerial personnel, that is, those persons having authority and 
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of 
the issuer, including directors and senior management of companies 
and close members of such individuals’ families;  
enterprises  in  which  a  substantial  interest  in  the  voting  power  is 
owned, directly  or indirectly, by  any person described in  265[(iii) or 
(iv)]  or  over  which  such  a  person  is  able  to  exercise  significant 
influence  and  includes  enterprises  owned  by  directors  or  major 
shareholders of the issuer. 

(b)  The nature and extent of any transactions which are material to the issuer or 
the  related  party,  or  any  transactions  that  are  unusual  in  their  nature  or 
conditions,  involving  goods,  services,  or  tangible  or  intangible  assets,  to 
which the issuer or any of its parent companies was a party. 

(c)  The  amount  of  outstanding  loans  (including  guarantees  of  any  kind)  made 
by the issuer or any of its  parent  companies to  or for the benefit of any  of 
the  directors  or  key  managerial  personnel.  The  information  given  should 
include the  amount outstanding  as of the latest  date, the nature of the loan 
and  the  transaction  in  which  it  was  incurred,  and  the  interest  rate  on  the 
loan.  

(13)  Accounting and other ratios: 

(a)  The  following  key  accounting  ratios  shall  be  given  for  each  of  the 

accounting periods for which financial information is given. 

(b)  Earnings  per  Share  and  Diluted  Earnings  Per  Share:  This  ratio  shall  be 

calculated after excluding extra ordinary items. 

(c)  Return  on  net  worth:  This  ratio  shall  be  calculated  after  excluding 

revaluation reserves and extra-ordinary items. 

(d)  Net  Asset  Value  per  share.  This  ratio  shall  be  calculated  excluding 

(e) 

(f) 

revaluation reserves. 
‘Accounting  and  other  Ratios’  shall  be  based  on  the  Financial  Statements 
prepared on the basis of Indian Accounting Standards.  
In  the  event  of  capital  structure  undergoing  a  change  on  account  of 
capitalisation  of  reserves,  its  impact  on  the  key  ratios  should  be  distinctly 
brought out. The impact of outstanding financial instruments, if any, on the 
ratios, should also be disclosed. 

(14)  Capitalisation Statement: 

(a)  A  Capitalisation  Statement  showing  total  debt,  net  worth,  and  the  debt/ 

(b) 

equity ratios before and after the issue is made shall be incorporated. 
In  case  of  any  change  in  the  share  capital  since  the  date  as  of  which  the 
financial  information  has  been  disclosed  in  the  offer  document,  a  note 
explaining the nature of the change shall be given. 

(c)  An illustrative format of the Capitalisation Statement is specified hereunder: 

                                                           
265  Substituted  for  “(c)  or  (d)”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010. 

Page 131 of 255 

 

 

 

Particulars 

Pre-issue as at 

As Adjusted 

30-6-20X1 

for issue 

  (Rupees in lakhs) 

 
 

Short-Term Debt                                     
Long Term Debt                                     
Shareholders Funds 
Share Capital                                     
Reserves                                   
Total Shareholders Funds  
Long Term Debt/Equity  
Note:  Since  31-3-20X1  (which  is  the  last  date  as  of  which  financial 
information  has  been  given  in  para  of  this  document)  share  capital  was 
increased form Rs.3000 lacs to Rs.4000 lacs by the issue of bonus shares 
in the ratio of 1 share for every 3 shares. 

1870 
4370 
 
4450 
  37520 
41940 
0.10:1 

1870 
4370 
 
4000 
14570 
18570 
0.24:1 

 
 

 

(15)  Presentation of financials in case of change of denomination: In case of change in 
standard denomination of equity shares, the compliance with the following shall be 
ensured while making disclosure in the offer document: 
(a) 

all the financial data affected by the change in denomination of shares shall 
be clearly and unambiguously presented in the offer document. 
comparison of financial ratios representing value per share and comparison 
of  stock  market  data  in  respect  of  price  and  volume  of  securities  shall  be 
clearly and unambiguously presented in the offer document. 
the  capital  structure  incorporated  in  the  offer  document  shall  be  clearly 
presented  giving  all  the  relevant  details  pertaining  to  the  change  in 
denomination of the shares. 

(b) 

(c) 

(16)  Unsecured loans: 

(a) 

in 

the  offer  document 

 Break-up of total  outstanding unsecured loans taken by the issuer shall be 
given 
from 
promoters/group companies/subsidiaries / material associate companies and 
amount  borrowed  from  others.  Further,  in  respect  of  each  such  loan  of  the 
former  category,  terms  and  conditions  shall  be  disclosed  including  the 
interest  rates  and  repayment  schedule.  If  the  loans  can  be  recalled  by  the 
lenders at any time, the same shall be disclosed. 

the  amount  borrowed 

into 

(b)  Break-up of the total outstanding unsecured loans taken 266[from the issuer] 
by  the  promoters,  group  companies,  related  parties,  material  associate 
companies and others shall be disclosed. 
If  the  loans  can  be  recalled  by  the  lenders  at  any  time,  the  same  shall  be 
disclosed along with details of such loans. 

(c) 

(17)  For a proper understanding of the future tax incidence, the following factors shall 

be identified and explained through proper disclosures: 
(a)  Profits after tax are often affected by the tax shelters which are available. 
(b)  Some of these are of a relatively permanent nature (for example, arising out 
of export profits) while others may be limited in point of time (for example, 
tax holidays for new undertakings). 

                                                           
266  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
13.04.2010. 

Page 132 of 255 

 

 

 

(d) 

(c)  Tax  provisions  are  also  affected  by  timing  differences  which  can  be 
reversed  in  the  future  (for  example,  the  difference  between  book 
depreciation and tax depreciation). 
In  respect  of  provision  for  taxation,  adjustment  shall  be  made  for  deferred 
tax assets and deferred tax liabilities in accordance with the requirements of 
Accounting Standard (AS 22) “Accounting for Taxes on Income” issued by 
the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  and  a  reconciliation  of 
taxable  income  and  book  profits  shall  be  disclosed  in  accordance  with  the 
illustrative format given hereunder: 

 

Tax at Notional Rate  
Adjustments: 
Export Profits  
Difference 
Depreciation 
Depreciation  
Other Adjustments  
Net Adjustments  

between 

and 

Tax Saving thereon  
Total Taxation  
Taxation on Extraordinary Items- 
Tax 
Extraordinary Items  

Profits 

on 

before 

Year ended March 31, …. 
20X1  20X2  20X3  20X4  20X5 
(Rupees in lakhs) 
675 
89 
 
 
(20) 
(120) 
(10) 
(9) 
 

546 
 
(100) 
(10) 

28 
 
(4) 
(6) 

70 
 
(5) 
(8) 

Tax 
Book 

3 
(7) 

(3) 
25 
 
25 

3 
(10) 
 
(5) 
65 
53 
12 

4 
(25) 

4 
(106) 

(13) 
76 
(68) 
144 

(49) 
497 
682 
(185) 

5 
(125) 
 
(58) 
617 
852 
(235) 

(18)  The  issuer,  if  it  so  desires,  may  include  in  the  offer  document,  the  financial 
statements prepared on the basis of more than one accounting practices, subject to 
disclosure  of  the  material  differences  arising  because  of  differences  in  the 
accounting policies of different accounting practices. 

(19)  In  respect  of  the  periods,  within  the  period  of  five  years,  when  the  relevant 
Accounting  Standard  issued  by  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India 
was mandatory in respect of such issuers: 
(a)  Where, in respect of listed issuers, the auditors report does not deal with the 
profits and losses and assets and liabilities of the issuer and its subsidiaries 
as  a  whole,  the  consolidated  balance  sheets  and  profit  and  loss  accounts 
shall be presented in respect of the periods, within the period of five years, 
when  preparation  of  such  statements  was  mandatory  in  respect  of  such 
issuers under the listing agreement with the recognised stock exchanges. 
In  respect  of  business  segments,  disclosure  shall  be  made  of  segment 
revenue,  segment  result  and  net  capital  employed  and  where  the  primary 
segment  is  a  geographic  segment,  similar  details  by  geographic  segments 
shall be given. 

(b) 

(20)  The latest statement of audited/unaudited quarterly financial results published by 
the  issuer  in  accordance  with  clause  41  of  the  equity  listing  agreement  with  the 
stock exchanges shall be reproduced. 

Page 133 of 255 

 

(21)  It  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  whether  any  of  the  sundry  debtors  is 
related to the directors or promoters or the issuer in any way. Similar disclosures 
shall be made in case of loans and advances. 

267[(22)  If  the  issuer  has  entered  into  any  scheme  of  arrangement  during  the  period  for 
which the financials are disclosed in the offer document, lead merchant banker to 
the  issue  shall  ensure  that  the  following  disclosure  requirements  as  specified  in 
Accounting Standard 14 has been complied with:- 
(a)  A description of the accounting treatment followed in respect of financials 
contained in the schemes of arrangement and the reasons for following the 
treatment  if  it  is  different  from  those,  which  has  been  prescribed  in 
applicable Accounting Standards. 
In  case  of  deviations,  disclosure  of  the  accounting  treatment  had  the 
applicable standard been followed. 
Impact on the financials, if any, arising due to such deviation.] 

(b) 

(c) 

 

 

268[(23) Proforma Financial Statements 

(1)  In  addition  to  other  requirements  laid  down  in  these  regulations  and 
subject  to  the  stipulation  in  sub-para  (3)  of  this  para,  the  issuer  shall 
disclose Proforma Financial Statements in the offer document, if— 

(a)  an  acquisition  or  divestment  is  made  by  the  issuer  after  the  end  of 
the  latest  disclosed  annual  financial  results  in  the  offer  document, 
due  to  which  certain  companies  become/cease  to  be  direct  or 
indirect subsidiaries of the issuer, and 

(b) the  financial  statements  of  such  acquired  or  divested  entity  is 

material to the financial statements of the issuer company. 

Explanation: The financial statements of the acquired or divested entity 
shall be “material” to the financial statements of the issuer if: 

(i  )  the  total  book  value  of  the  assets  of  the  acquired/  divested  entity 
amounts  to  more  than  20%  of  the  pre-acquisition/pre-divestment 
book value of the assets of the issuer; 

or 

(ii)  the  total  income  of  the  acquired/divested  entity  amounts  to  more 
than 20% of the pre-acquisition/pre-divestment  total income of the 
issuer. 

(2) Proforma 

Financial 

Statements 

shall 

be 

disclosed 

in 

respect of the following, namely: — 

 i. the last completed accounting year, and 

ii. the period beginning from the date of the end of the last completed 
accounting  year  and  ending  on  the  date  on  which  financial 
statements of the issuer have been disclosed in the offer document. 

(3) Where  the  said  acquisition  or  divestment  does  not  fulfill  the  tests  of 
materiality  specified  in  clause  23(1)(b)  above,  the  fact  of  the  acquisition 
or divestment along with the consideration paid/received and the mode of 

                                                           
267  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009,  w.e.f. 
01.01.2010. 
268 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
12.11.2010 
    

Page 134 of 255 

 

financing such acquisition shall be disclosed. 

(4) The  information  disclosed  as  per  sub-clause  (2)  and  (3)  above  shall  be 

certified by the statutory auditor of the issuer.] 

 

269[(BA)    Alternate Financial Information of the issuer in further public offers:  

(1)  An  issuer  making  further  public  offer  may  disclose  the  financial  information 
specified in  clause (2) of this sub-item , in lieu of information specified under 
sub-item (B) if: 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

the issuer is making  further public offer  in accordance with provisions 
of regulation 10; 
the  specified  securities  offered  in  further  public  offer    are  of  the  same 
class of those  already listed on a recognised stock exchange; 

(iii)  financial  reports  of  the  issuer  are  available  on  the  website  of  any 
recognised  stock  exchange  having  nationwide  trading  terminals  or  on  a 
common e-filing platform specified by the Board; 

(iv)  there has not been any change in management of the issuer; 
(v) 

specified  securities  of  issuer  have  not  been  listed  pursuant  to  relaxation 
granted from clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 19 of Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Rules, 1957. 

(2)  The  issuer  satisfying  the  conditions  specified  in    clause  (1)  may  disclose  its 

financial statements as under: 
(i)  Stand-alone and consolidated financial statements of the issuer: 

(1)  A  report  by  the  auditors  of  the  issuer  with  respect  to  profit  or  loss 
and assets and liabilities (indicating changes in accounting policies, 
if  any)  in  respect  of  the  last  completed  accounting  year  for  which 
audit has been completed. 

(2)  A  report  by  the  auditors  of  the  issuer  on  a  limited  review  of  the 
profit  or  loss  and  assets  and  liabilities  (indicating  changes  in 
accounting policies, if any), as at a date not earlier than six months 
prior to the date of the opening of the issue, where audited accounts 
as at such date are not available. 

(3)  For  the  purpose  of  sub-clauses  (1)  and  (2)  above,  it  shall  be 

sufficient if: 
(a)     In the statement of the assets and liabilities, the main heads of 
assets and liabilities as provided in Part I of Schedule VI of the 
Companies  Act,  1956  have  been  provided.  If  an  issuer  is 
governed by a statute other than the Companies Act, 1956, the 
main  heads  of  assets  and  liabilities  as  specified  in  such  statute 
shall be provided in the statement of assets and liabilities.  

(b)    In the statement of profit or loss, the information required to be 
disclosed  under  the  heads  of  income  and  expenditure  as  per 
clause 41 of the equity listing agreement in respect of quarterly 
financial  information  to  be  filed  with  the  recognised  stock 
exchanges, has been provided. 

(ii) 

In addition, the following information for the period between the last date of the 
balance sheet and profit and loss account sent to the shareholders and up to the 
end of the last but one month preceding the date of the offer document shall be 
furnished. 

                                                           
269  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009,  w.e.f. 
11.12.2009. 

Page 135 of 255 

 

(1)  Working results of the issuer under following heads: 

(i) Sales / turnover 

(a) 
                 (ii) Other income 
(b) 
(c) 
                 (ii) Provision for taxes 
(d) 

Estimated gross profit / loss (excluding depreciation and taxes) 
(i) Provision for depreciation 

Estimated net profit / loss 

(2)  Material changes and commitments, if any affecting financial position of the 

issuer. 

(3)  Week-end prices  for the last four  weeks;  current market  price;  and highest 

and lowest prices of equity shares during the period with the relative dates. 

(iii)  Stock  market  quotation  of  shares/  convertible  instruments  of  the  company 
(high/  low  price  in  each  of  the  last  three  years  and  monthly  high/low  price 
during the last six months).  

(iv)  Accounting and other ratios: The following accounting ratios shall be given for 

each of the accounting periods for which financial information is given: 
(1)  Earnings  per  share:  This  ratio  shall  be  calculated  after  excluding  extra 

ordinary items. 

(2)  Return  on  Networth:  This  ratio  shall  be  calculated  excluding  revaluation 

reserves. 

(3)  Net  Asset  Value  per  share:  This  ratio  shall  be  calculated  excluding 

revaluation reserves.  

(4)  Accounting  and  other  ratios  shall  be  based  on  the  financial  statements 

prepared on the basis of Indian Accounting Standards. 

(v)  Capitalisation Statement: 

(1)  A  Capitalisation  Statement  showing  total  debt,  net  worth,  and  the  debt/ 

(2) 

equity ratios before and after the issue is made shall be incorporated. 
In case of any  change in  the share capital since the date as of  which the 
financial  information  has  been  disclosed  in  the  prospectus,  a  note 
explaining the nature of the change shall be given. 

(3)  An  illustrative  format  of  the  Capitalisation  Statement  is  specified 

hereunder: 

Page 136 of 255 

 

 

Particulars  Pre-issue  as  at  30-6-

As Adjusted for issue 

1995 
  (Rupees in lakhs) 
Short-Term 
1870 
Debt                                    
 

 

1870 

4370 

4370 

 

4450 

 

 

 

 

4000 

Long  Term 
Debt                                    
 
Shareholder
s Funds 
Share 
Capital                                    
 
Reserves                                  
 
Total 
Shareholder
s Funds  
Long  Term 
Debt/Equity  
Note: Since 31-3-1995 (which is the last date as of which financial information has 
been given in para … of this document), share capital was increased from Rs.3000 
lacs to Rs.4000 lacs by the issue of bonus shares in the ratio of 1 share for every 3 
shares. 

  37520 

0.10:1 

0.24:1 

41940 

14570 

18570 

(vi)  One standard financial unit shall be used in the offer document.]                                                                                                                                                                

(C)  Financial Information of Group Companies: 

(1) 

In  case  of  an  issuer  not  being  a  government  company,  statutory  authority  or 
corporation  or  any  special  purpose  vehicle  set  up  by  any  of  them,  the  following 
information for the last three years, based on the audited statements, in respect of 
all the group companies for past three  years shall be given, wherever applicable, 
along with significant notes of auditors.  
(a)  Date of Incorporation; 
(b)  Nature of activities; 
(c)  Equity Capital; 
(d)  Reserves (excluding revaluation reserve); 
(e)  Sales; 
(f) 
(g)  Earnings per share and Diluted Earnings Per Share; 
(h)  Net Asset Value;  
(i)  The  highest  and  lowest  market  price  of  shares  during  the  preceding  six 
months with suitable disclosures for changes in capital structure during the 
period  and  the  market  value  on  the  date  of  registering  the  offer  document 
with the Registrar of Companies. 
If  any  of  the  companies  has  made  public  or  rights  issue  in  the  preceding 
three  years,  the  issue  price  of  the  security,  the  current  market  price  and 
particulars of changes in the capital structure, if any, since the date of issue 

Profit after tax; 

(j) 

Page 137 of 255 

 

(k) 

and  a  statement  regarding  the  cost  and  progress  of  implementation  of  the 
project  in  comparison  with  the  cost  and  implementation  schedule  given  in 
the offer document. 
Information  regarding  significant  adverse  factors  related  to  the  group 
companies and in particular regarding: 
(i) 

whether  the  company  has  become  a  sick  company  within  the 
meaning of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 
1995 or is under winding up; 
whether the company has made a loss in the immediately preceding 
year  and  if  so,  the  profit  or  loss  figures  for  the  immediately 
preceding three years.  

(ii) 

(l)  Disclosure  shall  be  made  about  group  companies  which  had  remained 
defunct and for which application was made to the Registrar of Companies 
for striking off the name of the company, during the five years preceding the 
date  of  filing  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board.  The  disclosure  shall 
include reasons for the company having become defunct as also all pending 
litigations, if any, in respect of such companies. 

(m)  The  information  under  items  (e),  (f),  (g)  and  (k)(ii)  need  not  be  given  in 
respect  of  a  company  which  is  a  private  limited  company  not  being  a 
subsidiary of a public limited company. 

In case there are more than five listed group companies, the financial information 
may  be  restricted  to  the  five  largest  listed  group  companies  to  be  determined  on 
the basis of the market capitalization one month before the date of filing the draft 
offer document or in case of a fast track issue, one month before the reference date 
referred to in Explanation (I) to sub-regulation (1) of regulation 10. In case there 
are less than five listed group companies, the financial information shall be given 
for  all  the  listed  group  companies  and  in  addition  for  the  largest  unlisted  group 
companies  (based  on  turnover)  so  that  the  total  number  of  listed  and  unlisted 
group  companies  for  which  the  information  is  required  to  be  given  does  not 
exceed five. 
270[In  case  there  are  no  listed  group  companies,  the  financial  information  shall be 
given for the five largest unlisted group companies based on turnover:] 
 Provided  that  the  financial  information  regarding  every  such  group  company 
which  has  become  a  sick  industrial  company  or  is  under  winding  up  or  has  a 
negative net worth shall be given. 
If  the  promoters  have  disassociated  themselves  from  any  of  the  companies  or 
firms during the three years preceding the date of filing the draft offer document , 
the  reasons  therefor  and  the  circumstances  leading  to  the  disassociation  shall  be 
furnished together with the terms of such disassociation. 

(2) 

(3) 

(4)  Common Pursuits: 

(a) 

In  case  there  are  common  pursuits  among  the  group-  companies/ 
subsidiaries/associates  companies  and 
reasons  and 
justification  for  the  same  shall  be  spelt  out  and  the  conflict  of  interest 
situations shall be stated. 

issuer, 

the 

the 

(b)  The related business transactions within the group and their significance on 

the financial performance of the issuer.  

(5)  Sales  or  purchase  between  group  companies/subsidiaries/  associate  companies 
when such sales or purchases exceed in value in the aggregate ten per cent. of the 

                                                           
270  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
13.04.2010. 

Page 138 of 255 

 

(6) 

total sales or purchases of the issuer and also disclose material items of income or 
expenditure arising out of such transactions  
If any of the other group companies/subsidiaries/associate companies has business 
interests in the issuer then the amount of commercial business that the said company 
has  /proposes  to  have  with  the  issuer  may  be  quantified.  If  no,  a  distinct  negative 
statement may be incorporated to this effect.  

(D)  Changes in accounting policies in the last three years 
(E)  Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results  of 

Operations as Reflected in the Financial Statements. 
(1)  Overview of the business of the issuer. 
(2)  Significant developments subsequent to the last financial year: A statement by 
the  directors  whether  in  their  opinion  there  have  arisen  any  circumstances  since 
the  date  of  the  last  financial  statements  as  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  and 
which  materially  and  adversely  affect  or  is  likely  to  affect  the  trading  or 
profitability  of  the  issuer,  or  the  value  of  its  assets,  or  its  ability  to  pay  its 
liabilities within the next twelve months. 

(3)  Factors that may affect the results of operations. 
(4)  Discussion  on  the  results  of  operations:  This  information  shall  inter-alia  contain 

the following: 
(a)  A  summary  of  the  past  financial  results  after  adjustments  as  given  in  the 
auditor’s  report  for  the  past  three  years  containing  significant  items  of 
income and expenditure shall be given. 

(b)  A  summary  of  major  items  of  income  and  expenditure  for  the  last  three 

years and most recent entering period  

(c)  The income and sales on account of major product/ main activities. 
(d) 

In  case,  other  income  constitutes  more  than  10%  of  the  total  income,  the 
break up of the same along with the nature of the income, i.e., recurring or 
non-recurring shall be stated.  
If  a  material  part  of  the  income  is  dependant  upon  a  single  customer  or  a 
few  major  customers,  disclosure  of  this  fact  along  with  relevant  data. 
Similarly  if  any  foreign  customer  constitutes  a  significant  portion  of  the 
issuer’s business, disclosure of the fact along with its impact on the business 
on account of exchange rate fluctuations. 
In  case  the  issuer  has  followed  any  unorthodox  procedure  for  recording 
sales and revenues, its impact may be analysed and disclosed.  

(e) 

(f) 

(g)  The nature of miscellaneous income and miscellaneous expenditure for the 

interim period and the preceding years  

(5)  Comparison  of  recent  financial  year  with  the  previous  financial  years  (last  three 
years) on the major heads of the profit and loss statement, including an analysis of 
reasons for the changes in significant items of income and expenditure  shall also 
be given, inter-alia, containing the following: 
(a) 

unusual  or  infrequent  events  or  transactions  including  unusual  trends  on 
account of business activity, unusual items of income, change of accounting 
policies and discretionary reduction of expenses etc. 
significant economic changes that materially affected or are likely to affect 
income from continuing operations; 
known  trends  or  uncertainties  that  have  had  or  are  expected  to  have  a 
material  adverse  impact  on  sales,  revenue  or  income  from  continuing 
operations; 
future changes in relationship between costs and revenues, in case of events 
such as future increase in labour or material costs or prices that will cause a 
material change are known; 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

Page 139 of 255 

 

(e) 

the  extent  to  which  material  increases  in  net  sales  or  revenue  are  due  to 
increased  sales  volume,  introduction  of  new  products  or  services  or 
increased sales prices; 
total turnover of each major industry segment in which the issuer operated; 
status of any publicly announced new products or business segment; 
the extent to which business is seasonal; 
any significant dependence on a single or few suppliers or customers; 
competitive conditions. 

(f) 
(g) 
(h) 
(i) 
(j) 
‘Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results  of 
Operations  as  Reflected  in  the  Financial  Statements’  shall  be  based  on  the 
financial statements prepared on the basis of Indian accounting practices and may 
additionally  be  presented  based  on  other  accounting  practices  and  shall  also 
include the post audit period.. 

(6) 

 
(X)  Legal and Other Information: 

(A)  Outstanding Litigations and Material Developments:  
271[(1)  Litigations 

involving 

its  directors/promoters/group  companies/ 

the 

issuer/ 

subsidiaries: 

(i)  All criminal proceedings;  
(ii)  All actions by statutory / regulatory authorities; 
(iii)  Taxation - Separate disclosures regarding claims related to direct and indirect 
taxes,  in  a  consolidated  manner  giving  details  of  number  of  cases  and  total 
amount; 

(iv)  Other pending litigations - As per policy of materiality defined by the board 

of the issuer and disclosed in the offer document. 

   (2)   Outstanding dues to creditors:  

                                                           
271 Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2015, 

w.e.f. 14.08.2015. Prior to their substitution, sub-clauses (1) and (2) read as under : 

"(1) Outstanding litigations involving the issuer: 

(a) 

  Litigations against the issuer or against any other company whose outcome could have a materially adverse 

effect of the position of the issuer; 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

  All litigations against the directors involving violation of statutory regulations or alleging criminal offence; 

  Any criminal/civil prosecution against the directors for any litigation towards tax liabilities; 

  Pending  proceedings  initiated  for  economic  offences  against  the  issuer  or  its  directors  along  with  their 

present status; 

  Adverse findings, if any, in respect of the issuer as regards compliance with the securities laws; 

  The details of the past cases in which penalties were imposed by the authorities concerned on the issuer or 

its directors; 

  Outstanding  litigations,  defaults,  etc.  pertaining  to  matters  likely  to  affect  operations  and  finances  of  the 
issuer, including disputed tax liabilities, prosecution under any enactment in respect of Schedule XIII to the 
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) etc.; 

  The information regarding pending litigations, defaults, non-payment of statutory dues, proceedings initiated 
for  economic  offences  or  civil  offences  (including  the  past  cases,  if  found  guilty),  any  disciplinary  action 
taken  by  the  Board  or  stock  exchanges  against  the  issuer  or  its  directors  shall  be  appropriately  disclosed 
under this head and as risk factor(s); 

(i) 

  The  name(s)  of  the  small  scale  undertaking(s)  or  any  other  creditors  to  whom  the  issuer  owes  a  sum 

exceeding Rs. one lakh which is outstanding more than thirty days. 

(2) The information regarding outstanding litigations as specified sub-para (g) of para (1) of sub-item (A) of Item 
(X) shall also be furnished in respect of the subsidiaries of the issuer." 

 

Page 140 of 255 

 

(i)  Based on the policy on materiality of the board of the issuer and as disclosed 

in the offer document, disclosure for such creditors; 

(ii)  Consolidated  information  on  outstanding  dues  to  small  scale  undertakings 
and other creditors, separately giving details of number of cases and amount 
involved; 

(iii)  Complete details about outstanding dues to creditors as per (i) and (ii) above 
shall be disclosed on the webpage of the company with a web link thereto in 
the offer document.] 

(3)  272[****] 
(4)  If any the above mentioned litigations, etc., arise after the filing the offer document, 
the facts shall be incorporated appropriately in the offer document. In case there are 
no such cases, a distinct negative statement is required to be made in this regard in 
the offer document. 

(5)  Material developments since the last balance sheet date. 

 

(B)  Government Approvals or Licensing Arrangements: 

Investment approvals (FIPB/ RBI, etc.). 

(1) 
(2)  All government and other approvals. 
(3)  Technical approvals. 
(4)  Letter  of  intent  or  industrial  license  and  declaration  of  the  Central  Government, 
Reserve Bank of India or any regulatory authority about the non-responsibility for 
financial soundness or correctness of the statements. 

 
(XI)  Other Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures: 

(A)  Authority for the issue and details of resolution passed for the issue. 
(B)  Prohibition  by  the  Board:  A  specific  confirmation  that  there  is  no  prohibition  on  the 
issuer, promoters, promoter group, directors, group companies or on the natural persons 

                                                           
272  Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 

w.e.f. 14.08.2015. Prior to its substitution, sub-clause (3) read as under : 

"(3) Outstanding litigations involving the promoter and group companies: 

(a) 

  In  case  of  an  issuer  not  being  a  Government  company,  statutory  authority  or  corporation  or  any  special 
purpose vehicle set up by any of them, all pending litigations in which the promoters are involved, defaults 
to  the  financial  institutions  or  banks,  non-payment  of  statutory  dues  and  dues  towards  instrument  holders 
such  as  debt  instrument  holders,  fixed  deposits  and  arrears  on  cumulative  preference  shares,  by  the 
promoters  and  group  companies,  together  with  the  amounts  involved  and  the  present  status  of  such 
litigations  or  defaults  and  the  details  of  proceedings  initiated  for  economic  offences  or  civil  offences 
(including  the  past  cases,  if  found  guilty),  any  disciplinary  action  taken  by  the  Board  or  recognised  stock 
exchanges  against  the  promoters  and  group  companies.  The  likely  adverse  effect  of  these  litigations, 
defaults, etc. on the financial performance of the issuer shall also be mentioned. 

(b) 

  The cases of pending litigations, defaults, etc. in respect of group companies with which the promoters were 
associated in the past but are no longer associated shall also be disclosed in case their name(s) continue to be 
associated with the particular litigation(s). 

(c) 

  If  any  of 

the  group  companies  had  faced/is  facing  any 

litigations/defaults/overdues  or 

labour 

problems/closure etc., the same shall be disclosed. 

(d) 

  All  the  litigations  against  the  promoter  involving  violation  of  statutory  regulations  or  alleging  criminal 

offence shall be furnished in the offer document. 

(e) 

  Pending  proceedings  initiated  for  economic  offences  against  the  promoters,  group  companies  shall  be 

disclosed separately indicating their present status. 

(f) 

  Adverse  findings,  if  any,  in  respect  of  the  persons/entities  connected  with  the  issuer/promoter/group 

companies as regards compliance with the securities laws. 

  The details of the past cases in which penalties were imposed by the concerned authorities." 

(g) 

 

Page 141 of 255 

 

behind  the  body  corporate  if  the  promoter  is    a  body  corporate,  from  accessing  the 
capital market for any reasons by the Board or any other authorities. 

(C)  A  confirmation  whether  any  of  the  directors  of  the  issuer  are  associated  with  the 
securities  market  in  any  manner,  if  yes,  whether  the  Board  has  initiated  any  action 
against the said entities and the related details.  

(D)  Eligibility of the issuer to enter the capital market. Details of compliance with eligibility 

requirements to make a fast track issue, if applicable. 

(E)  It may be disclosed whether the issuer, promoters, group companies, the relatives (as per 
Companies Act, 1956) of promoters, group companies are identified as wilful defaulters 
273[***].  

(F)  Compliance with Part B of this Schedule, as the case may be, if applicable. 
(G)  Disclaimer clauses: 

(1)  The  offer  document  shall  contain  the  following  disclaimer  clause  in  bold  capital 

letters: 
"It  is  to  be  distinctly  understood  that  submission  of  offer  document  to  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) should not in any way be deemed 
or construed that the same has been cleared or approved by SEBI. SEBI does not 
take  any  responsibility  either  for  the  financial  soundness  of  any  scheme  or  the 
project  for  which  the  issue  is  proposed  to  be  made  or  for  the  correctness  of  the 
statements made or opinions expressed in the offer document. The lead merchant 
banker,  ______________  has  certified  that  the  disclosures  made  in  the  offer 
document  are  generally  adequate  and  are  in  conformity  with  the  SEBI  (Issue  of 
Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  in  force  for  the  time 
being. This  requirement  is  to  facilitate investors to  take an informed decision  for 
making investment in the proposed issue. 

It should also be clearly understood that while the Issuer is primarily responsible 
for the correctness, adequacy and disclosure of all relevant information in the offer 
document,  the  lead  merchant  banker  is  expected  to  exercise  due  diligence  to 
ensure  that  the  issuer  discharges  its  responsibility  adequately  in  this  behalf  and 
towards this purpose, the lead merchant banker _______________ has furnished to 
SEBI a due diligence certificate dated ______________ which reads as follows: 

 

 

(due diligence certificate submitted to the Board to be reproduced here) 
 
The  filing  of  the  offer  document  does  not,  however,  absolve  the  issuer  from  any 
liabilities under section 63 or section 68 of the Companies Act, 1956 or from the 
requirement of obtaining such statutory or other clearances as may be required for 
the purpose of the proposed issue. SEBI further reserves the right to take up, at any 
point  of  time,  with  the  lead  merchant  banker  any  irregularities  or  lapses  in  offer 
document." 

(2)  Disclaimer  Statement  from  the  issuer  and  lead  merchant  banker:  A  statement  to 
the effect that the issuer and the lead merchant banker accept no responsibility for 
statements made otherwise than in the offer document or in the advertisement or 
any  other  material  issued  by  or  at  the  instance  of  the  issuer  and  that  anyone 
placing reliance on any other source of information would be doing so at his own 
risk. 

(H)  Caution. 

                                                           
273  Words  “by  Reserve  Bank  of  India  or  other  authorities”  omitted,  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 25.05.2016. 

Page 142 of 255 

 

(I)  Disclaimer  in  respect  of  jurisdiction:  A  brief  paragraph  mentioning  the  jurisdiction 
under  which  provisions  of  law  and  the  rules  and  regulations  are  applicable  to  the 
274[offer document]. 

(J)  Disclaimer clause of the stock exchanges. 
(K)  Disclaimer  clause  of  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  275[or  Insurance  Regulatory  and 

Development Authority] (if applicable). 

(L)  Filing  or  registering  of  the  offer  document  with  the  Board  and  the  Registrar  of 

Companies: 
(1)  Under this head, the office of the Board where the offer document has been filed 

shall be mentioned. 

(2)  Address of the Registrar of Companies, where copy of the offer document, having 
attached thereto the material contracts and documents referred to elsewhere in the 
offer document, has been registered. 

(M)  Listing: Names of the designated stock exchange and other recognised stock exchanges 
to which application has been made for listing of the specified securities offered in the 
present issue. 

(N)  Consent  of  the  Directors,  auditors,  solicitors  or  advocates,  merchant  bankers  to  the 

issue, registrar to the issue, bankers to the issuer, lenders and experts.  

(O)  Expert opinion obtained, if any. 
(P)  Expenses of the issue along with a break up for each item of expense and shall include 
details  of fees payable to  .(in terms  of amount,  as a percentage of total  issue expenses 
and as a percentage of total issue size) separately as under: 
(1)  Lead merchant bankers. 
(2)  Co-lead merchant bankers, if any 
(3)  Co-managers, if any 
(4)  Other merchant bankers 
(5)  Registrars to the issue. 
(6)  Advisors 
(7)  Bankers to issues 
(8)  Trustees for the debt instrument holders. 
(9)  Underwriting commission, brokerage and selling commission. 
(10)  Others, if any (specify). 

(Q)  Previous public or rights issues, if any (during the last five years): 

If the issue(s) was at premium or discount and the amount thereof. 

(1)  Closing Date. 
(2)  Date of allotment. 
(3)  Date of refunds. 
(4)  Date of listing on the recognised stock exchange. 
(5) 
(6)  The  amount  paid  or  payable  by  way  of  premium,  if  any,  on  each  equity  share 
which  had  been  issued  within  the  two  years  preceding  the  date  of  the  offer 
document  or  is  to  be  issued,  stating  the  dates  or  proposed  dates  of  issue  and, 
where some shares have been or are to be issued at a premium and other shares of 
the same class at a lower premium, or at par or at a discount, the reasons for the 
differentiation and how any premiums received have been or are to be disposed of. 

(R)  Previous issues of securities otherwise than for cash.  
(S)  Commission or brokerage on previous issues. 

                                                           
274  Substituted  for  “letter  of  offer”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010. 
275 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
12.11.2010. 

Page 143 of 255 

 

(T)  Following  particulars  in  regard  to  the  issuer  and  other  listed  group-  companies/ 
subsidiaries/associates which made any capital issue during the last three years shall be 
given: 
(1)  Name of the company. 
(2)  Year of Issue. 
(3)  Type of Issue (public/ rights/ composite). 
(4)  Amount of issue. 
(5)  Date of closure of issue. 
(6)  Date of completion of delivery of share/ debenture certificates. 
(7)  Date  of  completion  of  the  project,  where  object  of  the  issue  was  financing  the 

project. 

(8)  Rate of dividend paid. 

(U)  Performance vis-à-vis objects: 

(1) 

Issuer: 
(a)  A  list  of  all  the  public/rights  issues  made  during  the  period  of  ten  years 
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  filing  the  draft  offer  document  with  the 
Board, along with the year of issue. 

(b)  A separate para entitled "Performance vis-à-vis objects - Last three issues of 
the  issuer"  shall  be  given,  indicating  whether  all  the  objects  mentioned  in 
the  respective  offer  documents  of  the  last  three  issues  of  the  issuer  during 
the period of ten  years immediately preceding the date of filing draft offer 
document with the Board were met.  
If not, non-achievement of objects shall be brought out distinctly.  Shortfall 
and delays shall be quantified. 

(c) 

(2)  Listed Group Companies/Subsidiaries/Associates companies : 

(a)  A  separate  paragraph  entitled  "Performance  vis-à-vis  objects  -  Last  one 
issue  of  group  companies/subsidiaries  /  associate  companies    "  shall  be 
given, indicating whether all the objects mentioned in the offer document of 
the last one issue of each of such companies during the period of  ten years 
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  filing  draft  offer  document  with  the 
Board were met. 
If not, non-achievement of objects shall be brought out distinctly. Shortfall 
and delays shall be quantified. 

(b) 

(V)  Outstanding  debentures  or  bonds  and  redeemable  preference  shares  and  other 
instruments issued by the issuer outstanding as on the date of offer document and terms 
of issue. 

(W)  Stock market data for equity shares of the issuer, if listed: The particulars of: 

(1)  high, low and average market prices of the share of the issuer during the preceding 

three years; 

(2)  monthly  high  and  low  prices  for  the  six  months  preceding  the  date  of  filing  the 
draft  offer  document  with  the  Board  which  shall  be  updated  till  the  time  of 
registering the offer document with the Registrar of Companies; 

(3)  number of shares traded on the days when high and low prices were recorded in 
the  relevant  stock  exchange(s)  during  the  said  period  of  (a)  and  (b)  above  and 
indicating the total number of days of trading during the six months preceding the 
date  of  filing  the  draft  offer  document  and  the  average  volume  of  shares  traded 
during  that  period  and  if  the  shares  were  not  actively  traded,  such  fact  shall  be 
disclosed; 
the  stock  market  data  referred  to  above  shall  be  shown  separately  for  periods 
marked  by  a  change  in  capital  structure,  with  such  period  commencing  from  the 
date  the  relevant  stock  exchange  recognises  the  change  in  the  capital  structure 
(e.g. when the shares have become ex-rights or ex-bonus); 

(4) 

Page 144 of 255 

 

(5) 

(7) 

(6) 

the market price immediately after the date on which the resolution of the board of 
directors approving the issue was approved; 
the volume of securities traded in each month during the six months preceding the 
date on which the offer document is registered with the Registrar of Companies; 
and 
the volume of shares traded along with high, low and average prices of shares of 
the issuer shall also be stated for respective periods. 
(X)  Mechanism evolved for redressal of investor grievances:  

(1)  The  arrangements  or  mechanism  evolved  by  the  issuer  for  redressal  of  investor 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

grievances. 
the  number  of  investor  complaints  received  during  the  three  years  preceding  the 
filing draft offer document with the Board and the number of complaints disposed 
off during that period 
the  number  of  investor  complaints  pending  on  the  date  of  filing  draft  offer 
document with the Board 
the  number  of  investor  complaints  pending  on  the  date  of  filing  draft  offer 
document  with  the  Board  in  respect  of  the  five  largest  (in  terms  of  market 
capitalization) listed group companies. 

(5)  The  time  normally  taken  by  the  issuer  for  disposal  of  various  types  of  investor 

grievances. 

(6)  Similar disclosure shall be made in regard to the listed companies under the same 
management within the meaning of section 370 (1B) of the Companies Act, 1956 
for  the  period  of  three  years  prior  to  the  date  of  registering  the  offer  document 
with the Registrar of Companies. 

(Y)  Change, if any, in the auditors during the last three years, and reasons, thereof. 
(Z)  Capitalisation of reserves or profits (during last five years). 
(A)  Revaluation of assets, if any (during the last five years) 

 
(XII) Offering Information: 

(A)  Terms of the Issue: 

(1)  Ranking of equity shares: The shares issued in the issue shall be pari passu with 

(2) 

the existing shares in all respects including dividends.   
In the case of offer for sale, the dividend for the entire year shall be payable to the 
transferees. Further, disclose name of the entity  bearing the cost of making offer 
for sale along with reasons. 

(3)  Mode of payment of dividend. 
(4)  Face value and issue price/ floor price/ price band. 
(5)  Rights of the instrument holders. 
(6)  Market lot. 
(7)  Nomination facility to investor. 
(8)  The period of operation of subscription list of public issue.  
(9)  Minimum subscription: 

(a)  For  Non-underwritten  Public  Issues:  The  following  statement  shall 

appear: 
"If the issuer does not receive the minimum subscription of ninety per cent. 
of the offer through offer document on the date of closure of the issue, or if 
the subscription level falls below ninety per cent. after the closure of issue 
on  account  of  cheques  having  being  returned  unpaid  or  withdrawal  of 
applications, the issuer shall forthwith refund the entire subscription amount 
received.  If  there  is  a  delay  beyond  eight  days  after  the  issuer  becomes 
liable to pay the amount, the issuer shall pay interest as per section 73 of the 
Companies Act, 1956." 

Page 145 of 255 

 

(b)  For Underwritten Public Issues: The following statement shall appear: 

"If the issuer does not receive the minimum subscription of ninety per cent. 
of the offer through offer document including devolvement of Underwriters 
within  sixty  days  from  the  date  of  closure  of  the  issue,  the  issuer  shall 
forthwith refund the entire subscription amount received. If there is a delay 
beyond  eight  days  after  the  issuer  becomes  liable  to  pay  the  amount,  the 
issuer shall pay interest prescribed under section 73 of the Companies Act, 
1956." 

(c)  For Composite Issues: 

(i) 

(ii) 

The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  requirement  of 
’minimum  subscription’  is  satisfied  both  jointly  and  severally,  i.e., 
independently for both rights and public issues. 
If the issuer does not receive the minimum subscription in either of 
the issues the issuer shall refund the entire subscription received. 

(10)  Arrangements for Disposal of Odd Lots: 

(a)  Any  arrangements  made  by  the  issuer  for  providing  liquidity  for  and 
consolidation of the shares held in odd lots, particularly when such odd lots 
arise on account of issues by way of rights, bonus, conversion of debentures 
or warrants, etc., shall be intimated to the shareholders or investors. 

(b)  The issuer is free to make arrangements for providing liquidity in respect of 
odd lot shares through any investment or finance company, broking firms or 
through  any  other  agency  and  the  particulars  of  such  arrangement,  if  any, 
may  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  related  to  the  concerned  issue  of 
capital. 

(c)  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ascertain  whether  the  issuer  coming  for 
fresh issue of capital proposes to set up trusts in order to provide service to 
the investors in the matter of disposal of odd lot shares of the issuer held by 
them  and  if  so,  disclosures  relating  to  setting  up  and  operation  of  the  trust 
shall be contained in the offer document. 

(d)  Whenever any issue results in issue of shares in odd lots, the issuer, shall as 
far  as  possible  issue  certificates  in  the  denomination  of  1-2-5-10-20-50 
shares. 

(11)  Restrictions,  if  any,  on  transfer  and  transmission  of  shares  or  debentures  and  on 

their consolidation or splitting. 

(12)  New Financial Instruments: 

(a)  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  adequate  disclosures  in  the  offer 
document, more particularly relating to the terms and conditions, redemption, 
security,  conversion  and  any  other  relevant  features  of  any  new  financial 
instruments such as Deep Discount Bonds, Debentures with Warrants, Secured 
Premium Notes etc. 

(13)  Option to Receive Securities in Dematerialised Form: 

(a)  A statement in the offer document and in the application form to the effect that 
the investors have an option to either receive securities in the form of physical 
certificates or hold them in a dematerialised form. 
(B)  Issue Procedure: The following disclosures shall be made: 

(1)  Fixed  price  issue  or  book  building  procedure  as  may  be  applicable,  including 
details  regarding  bid  form  /  application  form,  who  can  bid/apply,  maximum  and 
minimum  bid/application  size,  bidding  process,  bidding,  bids  at  different  price 
levels, etc. 

(2)  Option to subscribe in the issue: 

(a)  The  details  of  option,  if  any,  to  receive  the  specified  securities  subscribed 
for either in demateralised form or physical form. If the issue size, in case of 

Page 146 of 255 

 

a public issue is equal to rupees ten crores or more, the specified securities 
issued in the public issue shall be only in dematerialized form in compliance 
with  Section  68B  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956.    It  shall  be  disclosed  that 
furnishing  details  of  depositories  account  is  mandatory  and  applications 
without  depositories  account  shall  be  treated  as  incomplete  and  rejected.  
Investors  will  not  have  the  option  of  getting  the  allotment  of  specified 
securities in  physical  form.  However, they may  get the specified securities 
rematerialised subsequent to allotment.   
It  shall  be  specifically  disclosed  that  the  specified  securities,  on  allotment, 
shall be traded on stock exchanges in demat segment only.  

(b) 

(c)  Disclosure that single bid from any investor shall not exceed the investment 
limit/minimum number of specified securities that can be held by him/her/it 
under the relevant regulations/statutory guidelines. 

(3)  The following details shall be disclosed in the offer document 276[***]: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the correct procedure for applications by Hindu Undivided Families and the 
fact  that applications by  Hindu Undivided Families would be treated as on 
par with applications by individuals; 
a statement that providing bank account details in the space provided in the 
application  form  is  mandatory  and  applications  that  do  not  contain  such 
details are liable to be rejected; 
the  instances  when  an  application  would  be  rejected  on  technical  grounds 
(e.g., absence of signature, age, etc.) 

(d)  Applications by mutual funds: 

(i) 

(ii) 

the  heads  "Procedure 

The  necessary  disclosures  under 
for 
applications  by  mutual  funds"  and  "Multiple  Applications"  shall  be 
incorporated  to  indicate  that  a  separate  application  can  be  made  in 
respect of each scheme of an Indian mutual fund registered with the 
Board  and  that  such  applications  shall  not  be  treated  as  multiple 
applications. 
A  disclosure  that  the  applications  made  by  asset  management 
companies  or  custodians  of  a  mutual  fund  shall  clearly  indicate  the 
name of the concerned scheme for which application is being made. 

(e)  Applications  by  non-resident  Indians:  The  following  disclosures  shall  be 

made: 
(i) 

(ii) 

the  name  and  address  of  at  least  one  place  in  India  from  where 
individual  non-resident  Indian  applicants  can  obtain  the  application 
forms. 
A  statement  that:  "non-resident  Indian  applicants  may  please  note 
that  only  such  applications  as  are  accompanied  by  payment  in  free 
foreign  exchange  shall  be  considered  for  allotment  under  the 
reserved  category.  The  non-resident  Indians  who  intend  to  make 
payment  through  Non-Resident  Ordinary  (NRO)  accounts  shall  use 
the  form  meant  for  Resident  Indians  and  shall  not  use  the  forms 
meant for reserved category." 

(f)  Application by ASBA investors:  

(i) 

Disclosures  regarding  details  of  Application  Supported  by  Blocked 
Amount  process  including  specific  instructions  for  submitting 
Application  Supported  by  Blocked  Amount  shall  be  made  in  the 
offer document. 

                                                           
276  The  words  “and  application  form”  omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 01.11.2011.  

Page 147 of 255 

 

(ii) 

Disclosure  that  the  application  form  shall  bear  the  stamp  of  the 
syndicate member / SCSBs  277[/ RTAs / DPs / stock brokers] and if 
not, the same shall be rejected. 

(4)  Escrow mechanism: 

(a)  Escrow account of the issuer. 
(b)  Escrow account of the syndicate member. 

(5)  Terms of payment and payment into the escrow collection account. 
(6)  Electronic registration of bids. 
(7)  Build  up  of  the  book  and  revision  of  bids.  In  this  regard,  it  may  be  specifically 
disclosed that qualified institutional buyers shall not be allowed to withdraw their 
bids after the closure of the issue 

(8)  Price discovery and allocation. 
(9)  Signing of underwriting agreement. 
(10)  Filing of the offer document with the Registrar of Companies. 
(11)  Announcement of pre-issue advertisement. 
(12)  Issuance of Confirmation of Allocation Note (“CAN”) and allotment in the Issue. 
(13)  Designated date. 
(14)  General instructions: 

Instructions for completing the bid form. 

(a)  Do’s and don’ts. 
(b) 
(c)  Bidders’ bank account details. 
(d)  Bids  by  non-resident  Indians  or  278[foreign  portfolio 

investors]  on  

repatriation basis 

(15)  Payment instructions: 

(a)  Payment into escrow account of the issuer. 
(b)  Payment into escrow account of the syndicate member. 
(c)  Payment instructions for Application Supported by Blocked Amount. 

(16)  Submission of bid form. 
(17)  Other instructions: 

Joint bids in the case of individuals. 

(a) 
(b)  Multiple bids. 
(c) 

Instruction  to  applicants  to  disclose  Permanent  Account  Number  in  the 
application form, irrespective of the amount for which application or bid is 
made,  along  with  the  instruction  that  applications  without  Permanent 
Account Number would be rejected. 

(d)  Rejection of Bids. 
(e)  Equity shares in demat form with the depositories registered with the Board. 
(f)  The  investor’s  attention  shall  also  be  invited  to  contact  the  compliance 
officer in case of any pre-issue or post-issue related problems such as non-
receipt of letters of allotment or share certificates or refund orders, etc. 

(18)  The  application  form  shall  contain  space  for  indicating  number  of  specified 

securities subscribed for in demat and physical form. 

(19)  No  separate  applications  for  demat  and  physical  is  to  be  made.    If  such 
applications  are  made,  the  applications  for  physical  shares  shalll  be  treated  as 
multiple applications and rejected accordingly. 

(20)  In  case  of  partial  allotment,  allotment  shall  be  done  in  demat  option  for  the 
specified  securities  sought  in  demat  form  and  balance,  if  any,  will  be  allotted  in 
physical form. 

                                                           
277  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 01.01.2016. 
278  Substituted  for  "foreign  institutional  investors"  by  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 7-1-2014.  

Page 148 of 255 

 

(21)  Disposal of application and application moneys. 
(22)  Provisions of sub-section (1) of section 68A of the Companies Act, 1956 relating 
to  punishment  for  fictitious  applications,  shall  be  mentioned,  including  the 
disclosures that any person who: 
(1)  makes  in  a  fictitious  name  an  application  to  a  company  for  acquiring,  or 

subscribing for, any shares therein, or 

(2)  otherwise  induces  a  company  to  allot,  or  register  any  transfer  of,  shares 
therein to him, or any other person in a fictitious name, shall be punishable 
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years. 

(23)  Interest on refund of excess bid amount. 
(24)  Basis  of  allotment  or  allocation:  Disclose  the  names  of  entities  responsible  for 

finalising the basis of allotment in a  fair and proper manner.  

(25)  Procedure and time of schedule for allotment and issue of certificates. 
(26)  Method of proportionate allotment. 
(27)  Letters  of  Allotment  or  refund  orders  or  instructions  to  Self  Certified  Syndicate 
Banks in Application Supported by Blocked Amount process. Ensure that “at par” 
facility  is  provided  for  encashment  of  refund  orders  for  Applications  other  than 
Application Supported by Blocked Amount process. 

(28)  Mode of making refunds:  

(a)  The  mode  in  which  the  issuer  shall  refund  the  application  money  to 
applicants  in  case  of  oversubscription  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  offer 
document. 
If  the  issuer  proposes  to  use  more  than  one  mode  of  making  refunds  to 
applicants, the respective cases where each such mode will be adopted shall 
be disclosed. The permissible modes of making refunds are as follows: 
(i)  

(b) 

In  case of  applicants  residing in  any of the  centres specified by the 
Board:  by  crediting  of  refunds  to  the  bank  accounts  of  applicants 
through  electronic  transfer  of  funds  by  using  ECS  (Electronic 
Clearing  Service),  Direct  Credit,  RTGS  (Real  Time  Gross 
Settlement) or NEFT (National Electronic Funds Transfer), as is for 
the time being permitted by the Reserve Bank of India; 

279[(ii)      In  case  of  other  applicants:  by  dispatch  of  refund  orders  by 

registered post, (subject however to postal rules); and] 

(iii)   In  case  of  any  category  of  applicants  specified  by  the  Board: 
crediting of refunds to  the applicants  in  any other electronic manner 
permissible under the banking laws for the time being in force which 
is permitted by the Board from time to time. 

(29)  Interest  in  Case  of  Delay  in  Despatch  of  Allotment  Letters  or  Refund 
Orders/instruction to Self Certified Syndicate Banks by the Registrar  in Case 
of Public Issues: The caption "Interest in Case of Delay in Despatch of Allotment 
Letters/ Refund Orders in Case of Public Issues" shall appear and shall contain the 
following statement: 
(a)  Where  it  is  a  fixed  price  issue:  "The  issuer  agrees  that  as  far  as  possible 
allotment  of  securities  offered  to  the  public  shall  be  made  within  fifteen 
days of the closure of public issue. The issuer further agrees that it shall pay 
interest  at  the rate of  fifteen per cent.  per annum if the  allotment  letters  or 
refund  orders  have  not  been  despatched  to  the  applicants  or  if,  in  a  case 
where the refund or portion thereof is made in electronic manner, the refund 

                                                           
279 Substituted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 
23.09.2011. Prior to its substitution, section (ii) read as under: 
“(ii) In case of other applicants: by despatch of refund orders by registered post, where the value is Rs  1500/- or more, 
or under certificate of posting in other cases, (subject however to postal rules); and” 

Page 149 of 255 

 

instructions  have  not  been  given  to  the  clearing  system  in  the  disclosed 
manner  within  280[fifteen  days]  from  the  date  of  the  closure  of  the  issue. 
However  applications  received  after  the  closure  of  issue  in  fulfilment  of 
underwriting  obligations  to  meet  the  minimum  subscription  requirement, 
shall not be entitled for the said interest." 

(b)  Where  it  is  a  book-built  issues:  "The  issuer  agrees  that  allotment  of 
securities  offered  to  the  public  shall  be  made  not  later  than  fifteen  days  of 
the closure of public issue. The issuer further agrees that it shall pay interest 
at  the  rate  of  fifteen  per  cent.  per  annum  if  the  allotment  letters  or  refund 
orders have not been despatched to the applicants or if, in a case where the 
refund  or  portion  thereof  is  made  in  electronic  manner,  the  refund 
instructions  have  not  been  given  to  the  clearing  system  in  the  disclosed 
manner within fifteen days from the date of the closure of the issue."  

(30)  Undertaking by the issuer: 

(a)  The  following  undertaking  by  the  issuer  shall  be  incorporated  in  the  offer 

document: 
(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

(viii) 

(ix) 

that the complaints received in respect of the issue shall be attended 
to by the issuer expeditiously and satisfactorily; 
that  all  steps  for  completion  of  the  necessary  formalities  for  listing 
and  commencement  of  trading  at  all  stock  exchanges  where  the 
securities  are  to  be  listed  are  taken  within  seven  working  days  of 
finalisation of basis of allotment; 
that the issuer shall apply in advance for the listing of equities on the 
conversion of debentures/ bonds; 
that funds required for making refunds to unsuccessful applicants as 
per the mode(s) disclosed shall be made available to the registrar to 
the issue by the issuer; 
that  where  refunds  are  made  through  electronic  transfer  of  funds,  a 
suitable communication  shall be sent to  the applicant  within fifteen 
days of closure of the issue giving details of the bank where refunds 
shall be credited along with amount and expected date of electronic 
credit of refund; 
that  the  promoters’  contribution  in  full,  wherever  required,  shall  be 
brought  in  advance  before  the  Issue  opens  for  public  subscription 
and the balance, if any, shall be brought in pro rata basis before the 
calls are made on public; 
that  the  certificates  of  the  securities  or  refund  orders  to  the  non-
resident Indians shall be despatched within specified time; 
that  no  further  issue  of  securities  shall  be  made  till  the  securities 
offered through this offer document are listed or  till the application 
moneys  are  refunded  on  account  of  non-listing,  under  subscription, 
etc.; 
that adequate arrangements shall be made to collect all Applications 
Supported by Blocked Amount and to consider them similar to non-
ASBA applications while finalizing the basis of allotment; 

(b) 

In case of an issue of convertible debt instruments, the issuer shall also give 
undertakings to the following effect in the offer document: 
(i) 

that  the  issuer  shall  forward  the  details  of  utilisation  of  the  funds 
raised through the convertible debt instruments duly certified by the 

                                                           
280  Substituted  for  “thirty  days”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010. 
 

Page 150 of 255 

 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

statutory auditors of the issuer, to the debenture trustees at the end of 
each half-year. 
that  the  issuer  shall  disclose  the  complete  name  and  address  of  the 
debenture trustee in the annual report. 
that  the  issuer  shall  provide  a  compliance  certificate  to  the 
convertible  debt  instrument  holders  (on  yearly  basis)  in  respect  of 
compliance  with  the  terms  and  conditions  of  issue  of  convertible 
debt  instruments  as  contained  in  the  offer  document,  duly  certified 
by the debenture trustee. 
that  the  issuer  shall  furnish  a  confirmation  certificate  that  the 
security  created  by  the  issuer  in  favour  of  the  convertible  debt 
instrument  holders  is  properly  maintained  and  is  adequate  to  meet 
the  payment  obligations  towards  the  convertible  debt  instrument 
holders in the event of default. 
that necessary cooperation with the credit rating agency(ies) shall be 
extended  in  providing  true  and  adequate  information  till  the  debt 
obligations in respect of the instrument are outstanding. 

(c)  Disclosure  that  the  issuer  reserves  the  right  not  to  proceed  with  the  issue 
after  the  bidding  and  if  so,  the  reason  thereof  shall  be  given  as  a  public 
notice within two days of the closure of the issue.  The public notice shall be 
issued  in  the  same  newspapers  where  the  pre-issue  advertisement  had 
appeared. The stock exchanges where the specified securities were proposed 
to be listed shall also be informed promptly.  

 

(d)  Disclosure that if the issuer withdraws the issue after closure of bidding, the 

issuer shall be required to file a fresh draft offer document with the Board.  

(31)  Utilisation of Issue Proceeds: 

(a)  A statement by the board of directors of the issuer to the effect that: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

all monies received out of issue of specified securities to public shall 
be transferred to separate bank account other than the bank account 
referred  to  in  sub-section  (3)  of  section  73  of  the  Companies  Act, 
1956; 
details  of  all  monies  utilised  out  of  the  issue  referred  to  in  sub-
item(i)  shall  be  disclosed  and  continue  to  be  disclosed  till  the  time 
any  part  of  the  issue  proceeds  remains  unutilised  under  an 
appropriate  separate  head  in  the  balance-sheet  of  the  issuer 
indicating the purpose for which such monies had been utilised; and 
details of all unutilised monies out of the issue of specified securities 
referred  to  in  sub-item  (i)  shall  be  disclosed  under  an  appropriate 
separate head in the balance sheet of the issuer indicating the form in 
which such unutilised monies have been invested. 

(b)  The  prospectus  for  an  issue  other  than  an  offer  for  sale  or  a  public  issue 
made by any bank or public financial institution shall contain a statement of 
the board of directors of the issuer to the effect that: 
(i) 

the utilisation of monies received under promoters’ contribution and 
from  reservations  shall  be  disclosed  and  continue  to  be  disclosed 
under an appropriate head in the balance sheet of the issuer, till the 
time any part of the issue proceeds remains unutilised, indicating the 
purpose for which such monies have been utilised; 
the  details  of  all  unutilised  monies  out  of  the  funds  received  under 
promoters’  contribution  and  from  reservations  shall  be  disclosed 

(ii) 

Page 151 of 255 

 

under  a  separate  head  in  the  balance  sheet  of  the  issuer,  indicating 
the form in which such unutilised monies have been invested 

(32)  Restrictions on foreign ownership of Indian securities, if any: 

(a) 
(b) 

Investment by non-resident Indians. 
Investment by 281[foreign portfolio investors]. 

 
(XIII)  Description of Equity Shares and Terms of the Articles of Association: 

(A) Rights  of  members  regarding  voting,  dividend,  lien  on  shares  and  the  process  for 

modification of such rights and forfeiture of shares. 

(B) Main provisions of the Articles of Association. 

 
(XIV)  Any other material disclosures, as deemed necessary. 
 
(XV) In case of a fast track issue, the disclosures specified in this Part, which have been indicated 

in Part B, need not be made. 

 
(XVI)  Other Information: 

(A) List of material contracts and inspection of documents for inspection: 

(1)  Material contracts. 
(2)  Documents:  
(3)  Time and place at which the contracts, together with documents, will be available 
for  inspection  from  the  date  of  offer  document  until  the  date  of  closing  of  the 
subscription list. 
IPO  grading reports for  each of the  grades  obtained by the unlisted issuer  282[, if 
applicable] 

(4) 

(B) Declaration: 

(1)  The draft offer document (in case of issues other than fast track issues) and offer 
document shall be approved by the  Board of Directors of the issuer and  shall be 
signed by all directors, the Chief Executive Officer, i.e., the Managing Director or 
Manager within the meaning of the Companies Act, 1956 and the Chief Financial 
Officer,  i.e.,  the  whole-time  finance  director  or  any  other  person  heading  the 
finance function and discharging that function.  

(2)  The signatories shall further certify that all disclosures made in the offer document 

are true and correct. 

 
 
 

                                                           
281  Substituted  for  "foreign  institutional  investors"  by  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 7-1-2014.  
282 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment)  Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 4-2-
2014.  

Page 152 of 255 

 

PART B 

 

CERTAIN DISCLOSURES NOT MANDATORY IN CASE OF FAST TRACK PUBLIC 

ISSUE 

 
An  issuer  making  a  fast  track  public  issue  of  specified  securities  may  not  make  the  disclosures 
indicated hereunder and specified in Part A of this Schedule, in the offer document: 
(1)  Sub-para (a) of para (2) of sub-item (D) of item (VI); 
(2)  Sub-para (o) of para (2) of sub-item (D) of item (VI); 
(3)  Para (8) of sub-item (E) of item (VIII); 
(4)  Sub-para (b) of para (1) of sub-item (F) of item (VIII); 
(5)  Sub-para (c) of para (2) of sub-item (F) of item (VIII); 
(6)  Para  (1)  of  sub-item  (C)  of  item  (IX),  in  respect  of  entities  not  covered  under  section  370 

(1)(B) of the Companies Act, 1956; 

 

Page 153 of 255 

 

PART C 

 

CERTAIN DISCLOSURES NOT MANDATORY IN CASE OF FURTHER PUBLIC 

OFFER 

 
(1)  An issuer making a further public offer of specified securities may not  make the  disclosures 
indicated hereunder and specified in Part A of this Schedule, in the offer document, subject to 
fulfilment of the conditions specified in para 2: 
(i)  Sub-para (a) of para (2) of sub-item (D) of item (VI); 
(ii)  Sub-para (o) of para (2) of sub-item (D) of item (VI); 
(iii)  Para (8) of sub-item (E) of item (VIII); 
(iv)  Para (1) of sub-item (C) of item (IX), in respect of entities not covered under section 370 

(1)(B) of the Companies Act, 1956; 

(2)  The conditions referred to in para (1) above are as follows: 

(a)  The  issuer  has  been  filing  periodic  statements  in  regard  to  financial  results  and 
shareholding  pattern  with  the  designated  stock  exchange  and  also  with  the  Registrar  of 
Companies  (in  case  of  a  public  issue),  for  the  last  three  years  and  such  statements  are 
available  on  the  website  of  the  designated  stock  exchange  or  on  a  common  e-filing 
platform; 

(b)  The  issuer  has  in  place  an  investor  grievance  handling  mechanism,  which  includes 
meeting  of  the  Shareholders  /  Investors’  Grievance  Committee  at  frequent  intervals, 
appropriate  delegation  of  power  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the  issuer  with  regard  to 
share  transfer  and  clearly  laid  out  systems  and  procedures  for  timely  and  satisfactory  
redressal of investor grievances; 

(c)  The lead merchant banker has certified that the conditions specified at (a) and (b) above 

have been complied with; 

(d)  The  issuer  has  furnished  to  the  Board  the  following  undertaking  along  with  the  draft 

offer document, which shall also be incorporated in the offer document: 
283[***]“We confirm that other than the disclosures made in the instant offer document, 
nothing  material  has  changed  in  respect  of  disclosures  made  by  us  at  the  time  of  our 
previous issue made on …………. .” 

 284[(e)  The  issuer  has  made  the  offer  document  of  its  immediately  preceding  public  or  rights 
issue  public  in  the  manner  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  9  and  sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 61 and has also kept this document for public inspection in 
the manner specified in sub- para (c) of para 4 of sub-item (D) of Item (VIII) of Part A 
of this Schedule.] 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
283 The bracket and letter “(e)” omitted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010. 
284  Item  (f)  renumbered  as  item  (e),  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 13.04.2010. 

Page 154 of 255 

 

285[ PART D 

                                                           
285  Substituted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Seventh  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f.  01.12.2015.  Prior  to  its  substitution,  Part  D  of  Schedule  VIII  as  amended  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f.  01.11.2011,  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f.  04.02.2011,  and  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.01.2016 read as under: 
 
PART D 
[See regulation 58(1)] 
DISCLOSURES IN ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS 
 
 
General Instructions:  
(I) 

Information  which  is  of  generic  nature  and  not  specific  to  the  issuer  shall  be  brought  out  in  the  form  of  a 
General Information Document (GID) as specified by the Board.  
Abridged Prospectus shall be printed in a booklet form of A4 size paper.  
The Abridged Prospectus shall be printed in a font size which shall not be visually smaller than Times New 
Roman size 10 (or equivalent). Exceptions can be made only where the information is in a tabular form and 
cannot fit in the table, which shall not be visually smaller than Times New Roman size 8 (or equivalent). 
Information required to be given in Tabular Format should not appear in running text format.   
The order in which items appear in the abridged prospectus shall be as specified in this Schedule.  
The  application  form  shall  be  so  positioned  that  on  the  tearing-off  of  the  application  form,  no  part  of  the 
information given in the abridged prospectus is mutilated. 

(II) 
(III) 

(IV) 
(V) 
(VI) 

Disclosures: 
An issuer making a public issue of specified securities shall make the following disclosures in the abridged prospectus: 
(I)  Cover Page:  

(A)  Indicate that the issue is 100% Book Building Issue or Fixed Price Issue.  
(B)  Indicate the total number of pages in the booklet.  
(C)  Attention of investor should be invited to the following statement:  

“Please  ensure  that  you  read  the  Red  Herring  Prospectus  (RHP),  the  General  instructions  contained  in  this 
Memorandum  and  the  ‘General  Information  Document  (GID)  for  investing  in  Public  Issues  undertaken  through  the 
book building process’ before applying in the Issue. Unless otherwise specified, all terms used in this form shall have 
the meaning ascribed to such terms in the RHP. The investors are advised to retain a copy of RHP/Abridged Prospectus 
for their future reference”. 
 

(D)  If  the  GID  is  not  appended  to  the  Abridged  Prospectus,  indicate  where  the  GID  would  be  available  for 

perusal. 

(E)  Logo of the issuer, name of the issuer,  incorporation details including details of  change in name (if any), 
Corporate  Identity  Number,  registered  office  of  the  issuer  along  with  telephone  number,  fax  number, 
email address and website address. 

(F)  Name,  phone  number,  fax  number,  email  address  of  Compliance  Officer  for  any  pre-issue  or  post-issue 

related problems. 

(G)  All the grades obtained for the public issue, along with the page numbers where rationale or description 
furnished  by  the  credit  rating  agency(ies)  for  each  of  the  grades  obtained  is  contained  in  this  abridged 
prospectus. 

(H)  Wherever applicable, the rating  for the proposed issue of the convertible debt instruments or preference 

shares, if any, obtained from the credit rating agencies, shall also be indicated.  

(I)  The dates of opening, earliest closing and closing of the issue. 
(J)  Attention of investor should be invited to the following: 

                    “Investors are advised to refer to−  

  Exchange Website and Issue advertisement two days prior to Bid Opening Date for information 
regarding  Price  band,  price  discount  (if  any),  Minimum  Bid  Lot,  P/E  Ratio,  and  Revised  Price 
Band (if any, and revised closing date thereof);  

  Page …. for Index/ Table of Contents;  
  Price  Band  /Issue  Price  (which  has  been  determined  and  justified  by  Merchant  Banker)  stated 
under  the  paragraph  on  “Basis  of  Issue  Price”.  Information  about  Qualitative  Factors  & 
Quantitative  Factors  for  determining  Basis  of  Issue  Price  is  available  on  Page  ….  of  this 
Abridged Prospectus’; 

Page 155 of 255 

 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
  Page …. of this abridged Prospectus for ‘Price Information of past issues handled by Merchant 

Bankers’.” 

(K)  Other  statutory  details  pertaining  to  Issue  (Number  of  equity  shares  and/or  issue  size  &  percentage  of 

dilution and whether the same is in compliance with post issue dilution requirement). 

(L)  The  name(s)  of  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  on  which  the  specified  securities  are  proposed  to  be 

listed. 

(M)  Cover Page should draw attention of investors to read the risk factors & indicate the page number where 

risk factors are contained in abridged prospectus. 

(II) 

Inside Cover Page:  
(A)  The  name  and  logo  of  the  lead  merchant  bankers,  along  with  telephone  number,  fax  number,  website 

address, name of contact person and email address. 

(B)  The  name,  logo  and  address  of  the  registrars  to  the  issue,  along  with  telephone  number,  fax  number, 

website address, name of contact person and email address. 

(C)  Names of Syndicate Members. 
(D)  The name and address along with telephone number, fax number and registration number of the statutory 

auditors. 

(E)  The name and address of the collecting bankers, where applicable. 
(F)  Details  regarding  website  address(es)/link(s)  from  which  the  investor  can  obtain    list  of  designated 

branches of Self Certified Syndicate Banks. 

 (FA) Details regarding  website address(es)/link(s) from  which the investor can obtain list of registrar to issue 
and share transfer agents, depository participants and stock brokers. 
(G)  The name and website address of the Credit rating agencies.  
(H)  The name and address of the trustee under debenture trust deed (in case of a debenture issue), along with 

(I) 

telephone number, fax number, website address, name of contact person and email address. 
Indicative  dates  of  Bid/  Issue  Closing,  finalization  of  basis  of  allotment  with  stock  exchanges,  credit  of 
equity shares to investors’ demat accounts, initiation of refunds and commencement of trading in tabular 
format. (Attention of investor should be invited to disclaimers with regard to indicative table.)    

 
(III)  Table/Index of Contents should be included in tabular format.  
 
(IV)  Our History, Promoters and Management: 

(A)  History of the issuer and the details of any demergers, mergers and acquisitions to be provided. 
(B)  Promoters and their background to be provided. 

(1) Where promoter is individual a complete profile of the promoters, including their name, educational 
qualifications, experience in the business or employment and in the line of business proposed in the 
offer  document,  positions/posts  held  in  the  past,  their  business  and  financial  performance  to  be 
provided. 

(2) Where  the  promoters  are  companies,  history  of  the  companies  and  the  promoters  of  the  companies 

shall be furnished. 

(C)  Board of Directors: 

(1) Name, Designation, Date of Appointment and date of expiration of the current term , Qualification, 

Occupation, Age and a Brief Profile of each Director. 

(2) Attention of investor should be invited to refer to RHP for further details.  
(3) Change, if any, in the directors during the last three years in tabular format. Particulars of name, date 

of appointment, date of cessation and reasons, thereof.  

(4) A disclosure to the effect that the issuer has complied with the requirements of Corporate Governance 
contained  in  the  Equity  Listing  Agreement,  particularly  those  relating  to  composition  of  board  of 
directors,  constitution  of  committees  such  as  Audit  Committee,  Shareholder  /  Investor  Grievance 
Committee, etc. 

(D)  Shareholding Pattern:  

(1) The aggregate shareholding of  each of the categories as prescribed in terms of Clause 35 of Listing 

Agreement  in the following format: 
 
No. 
Shareholders 

Pre-Issue 

of 

.of  Equity 

Percentage 

Category 

 

 

No 
Shares 
 

Post-Issue 

No. of Equity 
Shares 
 

Percentage 

 

 

Page 156 of 255 

 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
(2) The names of the ten largest shareholders of the issuer , number of equity shares held and percentage 
of  the  total  pre  and  post  issue  capital  as  on  the  date  of  registering  the  offer  document  with  the 
Registrar of Companies in tabular format. 

(3) The names of public shareholders holding more than 1% of pre-issue capital, number of equity shares 
held  and  percentage  of  the  total  pre  and  post  issue  capital  as  on  the  date  of  registering  the  offer 
document with the Registrar of Companies in tabular format.   

(4) Sale  or  Purchase/Subscription  of  Company’s  securities  by  promoter(s)/promoter  group/director(s) 
within  three  years  immediately  preceding  the  date  of  registering  the  offer  document  with  the 
Registrar  of  Companies  which  in  aggregate  is  equal  to  or  greater  than  1%  of  pre-issue  capital  of 
company in tabular format. The table shall indicate name of the shareholder, whether the shareholder 
is  a  promoter/promoter  group/director,  total  number  of  shares  acquired  and  total  number  of  shares 
sold. 

(E)  Group Companies/Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures: 

(1) Name  of  the  group  companies,  Equity  Capital,  Turnover,  Profit  after  tax,    shareholding  of  issuer 
company and listing status to be given in tabular format for preceding financial year or the last period 
of  audited  financial  statements  included  in  offer  document.  This  information  is  to  be  given  for  the 
five  largest  group  companies  based  on  turnover.  However  information  regarding  every  such  group 
company  which has become a sick industrial company or is under winding up or has  a negative net 
worth shall be given.  

(2) Total number of subsidiaries and joint ventures to be indicated.  
(3) Name of  the  Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures, Equity Capital, Turnover, Profit after tax,  shareholding of 
issuer company and listing status to be given in tabular format for Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures which 
contribute  more  than  5%  of  revenue/profits/assets  of  the  issuer  company  on  a  consolidated  basis  in 
the  preceding  financial  year  or  the  last  period  of  audited  financial  statements  included  in  offer 
document.  

(F)  Details of Material Penal Actions/ Litigations. 
(G)  Details of Material Related Party Transactions.   
(H)  Details and reasons  for non-deployment or delay in deployment of proceeds or changes  in utilization of 

issue proceeds of past public issues/rights issues, if any, of the Company in the preceding 10 years. 

(V)  Our Business: 

(A)  Summary of Our Business as appearing in offer document. Attention of investor should be invited to refer 

to RHP for details with regards to business.    

(B)  Industry Overview- Attention of investor should be invited to refer to RHP.   
(C)  Regulations and Policies-Attention of investor should be invited to refer to RHP.  
(D)  Details of all pending Government and other Approvals to be indicated.  Attention of investor should be 

invited to refer to RHP for further details.  

 
(VI)  Our Financial Information: 

(A)  Summary  Statement  of  Assets  and  Liabilities,  as  restated,  appearing  in  offer  document  in  tabular  form. 
Additionally the following line items shall be included in the table- for initial public offerings, details of 
bonus issues; and, for further public offerings, details of dividends and bonus issues. 

(B)  Summary Statement of Profit and Loss Account as restated appearing in offer document in tabular form. 
(C)  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Revenues and Profits/Losses. 
(D)  Material Development: Any material development after the date of the latest balance sheet and its impact 

on performance and prospects of the issuer. 

(E)  Aggregate number of shares for Capitalization of Reserves or Profits in the last 5 years. 
(F)  Revaluation of Assets in the last 5 years.  
(G)  Change, if any, in the auditors during the last three years in tabular format. Particulars of name of auditor, 

date of appointment/reappointment, date of cessation and reasons for change, thereof.  

(H)  The authorized, issued, subscribed and paid-up capital, present issue size,  Paid-up Capital after the issue, 
Paid-up  capital  after  conversion  of  securities  (if  applicable),  (number  of  instruments,  description, 
aggregate nominal value) in tabular form. Additionally for further public offerings, details of outstanding 
convertible instruments if any, to be included.  

(I)  Notes to the Capital Structure - Attention of investor should be invited to refer to RHP.  

 
(VII) Risk Factors: 

(A)  The risk factors should be classified under the following heads:  

Page 157 of 255 

 

                                                                                                                                                                                                

(1) Risks arising out of Offences/Litigations/Losses Etc. 
(2) Company/Group Specific Risks- Project/Objects specific risk. 
(3) Industry Specific Risks. 

(B)  The heading of the risk factors should appear in bold and italics. All the risk factors should be highlighted.  
(C)  Attention of investor should be invited to refer to RHP or to the General Information Document for Other 

Risks and General Risks.  

 
(VIII)  Particulars of the Issue: 
(A)  Objects of the issue. 
(B)  Cost of the Project.  
(C)  Means of financing. 
(D)  Schedule of Deployment of Issue Proceeds. 
(E)  Name of Appraising Agency, where applicable. 
(F)  Name  of  Monitoring  Agency  (where  applicable),  if  appointed  by  the  issuer  and  the  disclosure  as  to 

whether the appointment is pursuant to regulation 16 of these regulations. 

 
(IX)  Basis of Issue Price: 

(A)  Qualitative Factors for determining the basis of issue price for the issuer as included in offer document. 
(B)  Quantitative Factors for determining the basis of issue price for the issuer as under: 

(1)  Earnings  per  share  and  Diluted  Earnings  Per  Share  pre-issue  (and  the  weight  assigned)  on 
consolidated basis (where applicable) in tabular form for the last three years (as adjusted for changes 
in capital).   

(2)  Average  return  on  net  worth  (and  the  weight  assigned)  on  consolidated  basis  (where  applicable)  in 

tabular form for the last three years.  

(3)  Net  Asset  Value  on  per  share  on  consolidated  basis  (where  applicable)  in  tabular  form  for  the  last 

three years. 

(C)  Comparison  of  following  parameters  of  the  issuer  with  the  industry  average  and  with  that  of  the  peer 

group (i.e., companies of comparable size in the same industry) in tabular form: 
(1)  Name of company.  
(2)  Revenue.  
(3)  Earnings per share.  
(4)  Face Value of Shares.  
(5)  Average Return on net worth.  
(6)  P/E Ratio. 
(7)  Related to Period. 
(8)  Consolidated/Standalone. 

(D)  Attention  of  investor  should  be  invited  to  refer  to/download  Issue  Advertisement/  Stock  Exchange 
Website/Website of the company and lead merchant bankers or contact the Syndicate Member/Bankers to 
the Issue for Issue Price related Quantitative Factors. 

(E)  For further public offerings, stock market data (Price Data), adjusted for all corporate actions, to be given 
for the stock exchange which recorded the maximum aggregate turnover in terms of the number of shares 
traded  in  the  last  six  months.  Particulars  of  month,  Highest  Closing  Price,  Lowest  Closing  Price,  Total 
Volume (separately for all stock exchanges) and  Main Index Closing Value to be given in tabular format.  

(X)  Other Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures: 

(A)  The  disclosure  under  the  heading  “IPO  Grading”,  stating  all  the  grades  obtained  for  the  initial  public 
offer,  along  with  the  summary  of  rationale  or  description  furnished  by  the  credit  rating  agency(ies)  for 
each of the grades obtained. Particulars of Grading  Agency, Grades Assigned and assessment in tabular 
format (if applicable).  

(B)  Any special tax benefits (if any) for the issuer/project and its shareholders (Only section numbers of the 

relevant legal provisions should be mentioned, without reproducing the text of the sections). 

(C)  Authority for the issue. 
(D)  Eligibility  of  the  Issue-Only  Specific  Regulation  to  be  indicated  without  reproducing  the  text  of  the 

regulation. 

(E)  Expert opinion obtained, if any, except of Auditors and IPO Grading Agencies.  
(F)  Material Contracts and Documents for Inspection. 
(G)  Time and Place of Inspection of material contracts (List of material contracts not required). 

Page 158 of 255 

 

[See regulation 58(1)] 

DISCLOSURES IN ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS 

Disclosures: 

Information  as  is  material  and  appropriate  to  enable  the  investors  to  make  an  informed 
decision shall be disclosed in the abridged prospectus. 

An  issuer  making  a  public  issue  of  specified  securities  shall  make  the  disclosures  in  the 
abridged prospectus as per the format specified by the Board from time to time. 

(I) 

 

(II) 

 

General Instructions: 

The abridged prospectus shall be submitted to the Board (one copy). 

The abridged prospectus including the application form shall not exceed 5 sheets (printed 
both sides). 

Information which is of generic nature and not specific to the issuer shall be brought out in 
the form of a General Information Document (GID) as specified by the Board. 

(I) 

 

(II) 

 

(III) 

 

(IV)  Abridged Prospectus shall be printed in a booklet form of A4 size paper. 

 

(V) 

 

The Abridged Prospectus shall be printed in a font size which shall not be visually smaller 
than Times New Roman size 11 (or equivalent) with 1.0 line spacing. 

(VI) 

Information required to be given in Tabular Format shall not appear in running text format. 

 

(VII)  The  order  in  which  items  appear  in  the  abridged  prospectus  shall  be  as  specified  by  the 

Board. 

(VIII)  The application form shall be so positioned that on the tearing-off of the application form, 

no part of the information given in the abridged prospectus is mutilated."] 

 
 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
(H)  Price Information of past issues handled by Merchant Bankers, in the format and manner as specified by 

the Board.  

(I)  Declaration & Signatories to the Offer Document. 

 
Details of Bidding Centres.   
 

Page 159 of 255 

 

PART E 

[See regulation 57(2)(b)] 

 

DISCLOSURES IN LETTER OF OFFER 

 
(1)  A listed issuer making a rights issue of specified securities shall make disclosures, as specified 

in clause (5) of this Part, in the letter of offer, if it satisfies the following conditions: 
(a)  the issuer has been filing periodic reports, statements and information in compliance with 
the listing agreement for the last three years immediately preceding  the date of filing the 
letter of offer with the designated stock exchange in case of a fast track issue and in any 
other case, the date of filing the draft letter of offer with the Board; 

(b)  the reports, statements and information referred to in sub-clause (a) above are available on 
the  website  of  any  recognised  stock  exchange  with  nationwide  trading  terminals  or  on  a 
common e-filing platform specified by the Board; 

(c)  the  issuer  has  investor  grievance-handling  mechanism  which  includes  meeting  of  the 
Shareholders’  or  Investors’  Grievance  Committee  at  frequent  intervals,  appropriate 
delegation  of  power  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the  issuer  as  regards  share  transfer  and 
clearly laid down systems and procedures for timely and satisfactory redressal of investor 
grievances. 

    

(2)  If  the  listed  issuer  does  not  satisfy  the  conditions  specified  in  clause  (1),  it  shall  make 

disclosures in the letter of offer: 
(a)  as specified in Part A, except for disclosures as specified in clause (4); 
(b)  as specified in items (XVI)(B)(4), (5) and (6) in clause (5) of this Part. 

 
(3)  Irrespective of whether the conditions specified in clause (1) are satisfied or not, the following 
listed  issuers  shall  make  disclosures  in  the  letter  of  offer  as  specified  in  Part  A,  except  for 
disclosures as specified in clause (4): 
(a)  a listed issuer whose management has undergone change pursuant to acquisition of control 
in accordance with the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  1997  and  is  making  a  rights  issue  of 
specified securities for the first time subsequent to such change; 

(b)  an issuer whose specified securities have been listed consequent to relaxation granted by 
the  Board  under  sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules, 
1957 for listing of its specified securities pursuant to a scheme sanctioned by a High Court 
under  sections  391  to  394  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  and  is  making  a  rights  issue  of 
specified securities for the first time subsequent to such listing. 

 
(4)  In respect of an issuer making disclosures in terms of clauses (2) and (3) above, the disclosures 

specified in the following items in Part (A) shall not be applicable: 
(a)  Sub-item (C) of item (V); 
(b)  Sub-para (b) of para (2) of sub-item (B) of item (XII); 
(c)  Sub-para (a) of para (3) of sub-item (B) of item (XII); 
(d)  Sub-para (b) of para (3) of sub-item (B) of item (XII); 
(e)  Sub-para (c) of para (3) of sub-item (B) of item (XII); 
(f)  Para (18) of sub-item (B) of item (XII); 
(g)  Para (19) of sub-item (B) of item (XII). 

 
(5)  A  listed  issuer  referred  to  in  clause  (1)  shall  make  the  following  disclosures  in  the  letter  of 

offer, as far as possible, in the order in which the disclosures are specified in this clause: 

 

Page 160 of 255 

 

(I) 

Cover  Pages:  The  cover  page  paper  shall  be  of  adequate  thickness  (preferably 
minimum hundred gcm. quality).  
(A)  Front Cover Pages: 

(1)  The front outside and inside cover pages of the letter of offer shall be white 

and no patterns or pictures shall be printed on these pages. 

(2)  The  front  outside  cover  page  of  the  letter  of  offer  shall  contain  only  the 

following details: 
(a)  The words "Letter of Offer". 
(b)  The  name  of  the  issuer,  its  logo,  address  of  its  registered  office,  its 
telephone number, fax number, contact  person,  website address  and e-
mail address. 

(c)  The  nature,  number,  price  and  amount  of  specified  securities  offered 

and issue size, as may be applicable. 

(d)  The following clause on general risk : 

"Investment in equity and equity related securities involve a degree of 
risk and investors should not invest any funds in this offer unless they 
can  afford  to  take  the  risk  of  losing  their  investment.  Investors  are 
advised  to  read  the  risk  factors  carefully  before  taking  an  investment 
decision  in  this  offering.  For  taking  an  investment  decision,  investors 
must  rely  on  their  own  examination  of  the  issuer  and  the  offer 
including  the  risks  involved.  The  securities  being  offered  in  the  issue 
have  not  been  recommended  or  approved  by  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India  (SEBI)  nor  does  SEBI  guarantee  the  accuracy  or 
adequacy of this document." 
Specific attention of investors shall be invited to the statement of “Risk 
factors”  given  on  page  number(s)  …..  under  the  section  “General 
Risks”. 

(e)  The  following  clause  on  ‘Issuer’s  Absolute  Responsibility’  shall  be 

reasonable 

issuer,  having  made  all 

incorporated in a box format: 
"The 
inquiries,  accepts 
responsibility  for  and  confirms  that  this  letter  of  offer  contains  all 
information with regard to the issuer and the issue, which is material in 
the context  of the issue, that the information  contained in  the letter of 
offer is true and correct in all material aspects and is not misleading in 
any material respect, that the opinions and intentions expressed herein 
are  honestly  held  and  that  there  are  no  other  facts,  the  omission  of 
which make this document as a whole or any of such information or the 
expression  of  any  such  opinions  or  intentions  misleading  in  any 
material respect." 

(f)  The names, logos and  addresses of all the lead  merchant  bankers with 
their  titles  who  have  signed  the  due  diligence  certificate  and  filed  the 
letter of offer with  the Board, along with their telephone numbers, fax 
numbers, website addresses and e-mail addresses. 

(g)  The name, logo and address of the registrar to the issue, along with its 

telephone number, fax number, website address and e-mail address. 

(h)  Issue schedule: 

(i)  Date of opening of the issue. 
(ii)  Date of closing of the issue. 
(iii) Last date for request for split. 

(i)  The  names  of  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  where  the  specified 
securities of the issuer are listed and the details of in-principle approval 

Page 161 of 255 

 

for listing of the specified securities proposed to be offered in the rights 
issue. 

(B)  Back  Cover  Pages:  The  back  inside  cover  page  and  back  outside  cover  page 

shall be in white. 

(II) 

Table  of  Contents:  The  table  of  contents  shall  appear  immediately  after  the  front 
inside cover page. 

 

 

(III)  Definitions and Abbreviations: 

(A)  Conventional or general terms. 
(B)  Issue related terms. 
(C)  Issuer and industry related terms. 
(D)  Abbreviations. 

 
(IV)  Risk Factors: 

(A)  The  risk  factors  shall  be  printed  in  clear  readable  font  (preferably  of  minimum 

point ten size). 

(B)  The risk factors shall be in relation to the following: 

(1) 
(2) 
(3) 

the issue and objects of the issue; 
the issuer and its ongoing business activities; 
the material litigations which impact the business of the issuer. 

(C)  The  risk  factors  shall  be  determined  on  the  basis  of  their  materiality.  In 

determining the materiality of risk factors, the following shall be considered:  
(1)  Some  events  may  not  be  material  individually  but  may  be  found  material 

collectively. 

(2)  Some risks may have an impact which is qualitative though not quantitative. 
(3)  Some risks may not be material at the time of making the disclosures in the 

letter of offer but may have a material impact in the future. 

(D)  The risk factors shall appear in the letter of offer in the following manner: 

(1)  The risks envisaged by the management. 
(2)  The proposals, if any, to address the risks and the manner in which the same 

are proposed to be addressed. 

(E)  The proposals to address risks shall not contain any speculative statement on the 

positive outcome to any litigation, etc. 

(F)  The proposals to address risks shall not be given for any matter that is sub-judice 

before any Court or Tribunal. 

(G)  The  risk  factors  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  descending  order  of  materiality. 
Wherever  risks  about  material  impact  are  stated,  the  financial  and  other 
implications of the same shall be disclosed.  If it  cannot  be quantified, a distinct 
statement about the fact that the implications cannot be quantified shall be made. 

Prominent  notes:  This  section  shall  contain  notes  which  are  required  to  be  given 
prominence and shall also include the following: 
(A)  The net worth before the issue (as per latest audited financial statement disclosed 

in the letter of offer) and issue size. 

(B)  The  details  of  transactions  by  the  issuer  with  group  or  subsidiary  companies 
during one  year  immediately preceding the date  of filing the letter of offer with 
the designated stock exchange, in case of a fast track issue and in any other case, 
the  date  of  filing  draft  letter  of  offer  with  the  Board,  the  nature  of  transactions 
and the cumulative value of transactions. 

(C)  The  details  of  all  financing  arrangements  whereby  the  promoter  group,  the 
directors  of  the  company  which  is  a  promoter  of  the  issuer,  the  directors  of  the 

Page 162 of 255 

 

 
(V) 

issuer  and  their  relatives  have  financed  the  purchase  by  any  other  person  of 
securities  of  the  issuer  other  than  in  the  normal  course  of  the  business  of  the 
financing entity during the period of six months immediately preceding the date 
of filing the letter of offer with  the designated stock exchange, in  case of a fast 
track issue and in  any  other  case, the date of filing draft letter of offer with the 
Board. 

 

(VI) 

Introduction: 
(A)  Summary: 

(1)  Issue details in brief. 
(2)  Summary consolidated financial, operating and other data. 

(B)  General Information: 

(1)  The name and address of the registered office and the registration number of 
the issuer, along with the address of the Registrar of Companies where the 
issuer is registered. 

(2)  The  names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers  and  e-mail 

addresses of the Company Secretary and compliance officer of the issuer. 

(3)  The  names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers,  contact  person, 
website  addresses  and  e-mail  addresses  of  the  bankers  to  the  issue,  Self 
Certified Syndicate Bankers and legal advisors to the issue. 

(4)  The statement of inter-se allocation of responsibilities among lead merchant 
bankers, where more than one merchant banker is associated with the issue.  
(5)  The following details of credit rating, in case of a rights issue of convertible 

debt instruments: 
(a)   The  details  of  all  the  credit  ratings  including  unaccepted  rating 

obtained for the issue of convertible debt instruments.  

(b)  All credit ratings obtained during the three previous years before filing 
the letter of offer for any of its listed convertible debt instruments at the 
time of accessing the market through a convertible debt instrument. 

(6)  The  names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers,  website  addresses 
and e-mail addresses of the trustees under debenture trust deed, in case of a 
rights issue of convertible debt instruments. 

(7)  The  name  of  the  monitoring  agency,  if  appointed  and  the  disclosure  as  to 

whether the appointment is pursuant to regulation 16 of these regulations. 

(8)  The name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of the appraising 

entity, in case the project has been appraised. 

(9)  The details of underwriting, if any: 

(a)  The  names,  address,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers  and  e-mail 

address of the underwriters and the amount underwritten by them. 

(b)  A  declaration  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the  issuer  that  the 
underwriters  have  sufficient  resources  to  discharge  their  respective 
obligations. 

(c)  In case of partial underwriting of the issue, the extent of underwriting. 
(d)  The  details  of  final  underwriting  arrangement  in  the  letter  of  offer  filed 
with the designated stock exchange, indicating actual number of specified 
securities underwritten. 

(10)  The principal terms of loan and assets charged as security. 

(C)  Capital Structure: 

(1)  The authorised, issued and subscribed capital after suitable incorporation of 
the outstanding convertible securities (number of securities, description and 
aggregate nominal value). 

(2)  Paid-up capital. 

Page 163 of 255 

 

(3)  The following details of outstanding instruments: 

(a)  Details of options, if any. 
(b)  Details of convertible securities, if any. 

(4)  The  details  of  specified  securities  held  by  promoter  and  promoter  group 
including  the  details  of  lock-in,  pledge  of  and  encumbrance  on  such 
specified securities. 

(5)  The details of shares acquired by promoters and promoter group in the last 
one year immediately preceding the date of filing the letter of offer with the 
designated  stock  exchange,  in  case  of  a  fast  track  issue  and  in  any  other 
case, the date of filing draft letter of offer with the Board. 

(6)  The intention and extent of participation by promoters and promoter group 

in the issue with respect to: 
(a)  their rights entitlement. 
(b)  the unsubscribed portion over and above their rights entitlement: 
286[Provided  that  such  participation  shall  not  result  in  breach  of  minimum 
public  shareholding  requirement  stipulated  in  the  equity  listing  agreement 
entered  into  between  the  issuer  and  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  where 
the specified securities of the issuer are listed.] 

287[(6A)      Disclosure  of  ex-rights  price  as  referred  under  clause  of  (b)  of  sub-
regulation  4  of  regulation  10  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011.] 

(7)  The  shareholding  pattern  as  per  the  latest  filing  with  the  recognised  stock 

exchange(s). 

(8)  The details of the shareholders holding more than one per cent. of the share 

capital of the issuer. 

                               

(VII) 

 Particulars of the Issue 
(A)  Objects of the Issue:  

(1)  The objects of the issue shall be disclosed. 
(2)  If  one  of  the  objects  is  investment  in  a  joint  venture  or  subsidiary  or  an 

acquisition, the following additional disclosures shall be made: 
(a)  The  details  of  the  form  of  investment,  i.e.,  equity,  debt  or  any  other 

instrument 

(b)  If  the  form  of  investment  has  not  been  decided,  a  statement  to  that 

effect; 

(c)  If the investment is in debt instruments, complete details regarding the 
rate  of  interest,  nature  of  security,  terms  of  repayment,  subordination, 
etc. 

(d)  If the investment is in equity, whether any dividends are assured; 
(e)  The nature of benefit expected to accrue to the issuer as a result of the 

investment; 

(3)  If one of the objects of the issue is the grant of a loan to any entity, details of 
the  loan  agreements  including  the  rate  of  interest,  whether  secured  or 
unsecured,  duration,  nature  of  security,  terms  of  repayment,  subordination, 
etc. and the nature of benefit expected to accrue to the issuer as a result of 
the  investment.  If  such  loan  is  to  be  granted  to  a  subsidiary,  group  or 
associate company, details of the same. 

(4)  If one of the objects of the issue is utilisation of the issue proceeds for long 

term working capital, the following additional disclosures shall be made.  

                                                           
286  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
13.04.2010. 
287 Inserted by SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 23.09.2011.  

Page 164 of 255 

 

(a)  Basis of estimation of working capital requirement, along with relevant 

assumptions. 

(b)  Reasons for raising additional working capital, substantiating the same 

with relevant facts and figures. 

(c)  Details of the projected working capital requirement including detailed 
assessment  of  working  capital  after  implementation  of  the  project  or 
achievement  of  objects  of  the  issue,  as  the  case  may  be,  capacity 
utilisation  assumptions,  break-up  of  expected  current  assets  into  raw 
materials,  finished  goods, work in  progress,  sundry  debtors etc., along 
with  the  assumption  about  the  holding  norms  for  each  type  of  current 
asset,  total  current  liabilities,  net  current  assets  and  envisaged  sources 
of finance for net current assets, i.e., bank finance, institutional finance, 
own funds, etc. 

(d)  The total envisaged working capital requirement in a tabular form, the 
margin money thereof and the portion to be financed by any bank(s) or 
otherwise.  

(e)  A  complete  perspective  on  the  present  working  capital  position  vis-à-
vis the projected working capital position based on which the money is 
proposed to be raised in the public issue. 

(f)  Details  of the existing working capital  available  with  the issuer,  along 
with  a  break-up  of  total  current  assets  into  raw  materials,  finished 
goods,  work  in  progress,  sundry  debtors,  etc.,  total  current  liabilities, 
net current assets and sources of finance for net current assets, i.e., bank 
finance, institutional finance, own funds, etc.  

(g)  If no working capital is shown as part of the project for which issue is 

being made, the reasons therefor. 

(B)  Requirement of Funds: 

(2)  The requirement for funds proposed to be raised through the issue. 
(3)  Where  the  issuer  proposes  to  undertake  more  than  one  activity  or  project, 
such as diversification, modernisation, expansion, etc., the total project cost 
shall be given activity-wise or project wise, as the case may be. 

(4)  Where the issuer is implementing the project in a phased manner, the cost of 
if  any,  which  has  already  been 

the  phase, 

each  phase 
implemented, shall be separately given. 

including 

(5)  The details of all material existing or anticipated transactions in  relation to 
the utlisation of the issue proceeds or project cost with promoters, directors, 
key  management  personnel,  associates  and  group  companies.  The  relevant 
documents shall be included in the list of material documents for inspection.  
(6)  If  object  of  the  issue  is  to  fund  a  project,  the  following  details  shall  be 

given: 
(a)  location of the project 
(b)  plant and machinery, technology, process, etc. 
(c)  collaboration, performance guarantee if any, or assistance in marketing 

by the collaborators.  

(d)  infrastructure  facilities  for  raw  materials  and  utilities  like  water, 

electricity, etc. 

(7)  If  the  proceeds,  or  any  part  of  the  proceeds,  of  the  issue  are,  or  is,  to  be 

applied directly or indirectly: 
(a)  in the purchase of any business; or 
(b)  in  the  purchase  of  an  interest  in  any  business  and  by  reason  of  that 
purchase,  or  anything  to  be  done  in  consequence  thereof,  or  in 
connection  therewith;  the  issuer  will  become  entitled  to  an  interest  as 

Page 165 of 255 

 

respects either the capital or profits and losses or both, in such business 
exceeding fifty percent, thereof; 

a  report  made  by  accountants  (who  shall  be  named  in  the  letter  of  offer) 
upon: 
(i) 

the  profits  or  losses  of  the  business  of  each  of  the  five  financial  years 
immediately preceding the issue of the letter of offer; and 

(ii)  the  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  business  at  the  last  date  to  which  the 
accounts of the business were made up, being a date not more than six 
months before the date of the issue of the letter of offer. 

(8)  If: 

(a)  the proceeds, or any part of the proceeds, of the issue of the shares or 
debentures  are  or  is  to  be  applied  directly  or  indirectly  in  any  manner 
resulting  in  the  acquisition  by  the  issuer  of  shares  in  any  other  body 
corporate; and 

(b)  by  reason  of  that  acquisition  or  anything  to  be  done  in  consequence 
thereof  or  in  connection  therewith,  that  body  corporate  will  become  a 
subsidiary of the issuer; 

a  report  made  by  accountants  (who  shall  be  named  in  the  letter  of  offer) 
upon: 
(i) 

the  profits  or  losses  of  the  other  body  corporate  for  each  of  the  five 
financial  years immediately preceding the issue  of the  Letter of Offer; 
and 

(ii)  the  assets  and  liabilities of  the  other  body  corporate  at  the  last  date  to 

which its accounts were made up. 

(9)  Strategic partners, if applicable, to the project or objects of the issue. 
(10)  Financial partners, if applicable to the project or objects of the issue. 

(D)  Funding Plan (Means of Finance): 

(1)  An undertaking shall be given in the letter of offer by the issuer confirming 
that firm arrangements of finance through verifiable means towards seventy 
five  per  cent.  of  the  stated  means  of  finance,  excluding  the  amount  to  be 
raised  through  proposed  issue  and  existing  identifiable  internal  accruals, 
have been made. 

(2)  The balance portion of the means of finance for which no firm arrangement 

has been made shall be mentioned without specification. 

(3)  The  details  of  funds  tied  up  and  the  avenues  for  deployment  of  excess 

proceeds, if any. 

(E)  Appraisal: 

(1)  The  scope  and  purpose  of  the  appraisal,  if  any,  along  with  the  date  of 

appraisal. 

(2)  The cost of the project and means of finance as per the appraisal report. 
(3)  Explanation regarding revision, if any, in the project cost and the means of 

finance after the date of issue of the appraisal report. 

(4)  The weaknesses and threats, if any, given in the appraisal report, by way of 

risk factors. 

(F)  Schedule of Implementation: The schedule of implementation of the project in a 
tabular form and the progress made so far, giving details of land acquisition, civil 
works,  installation  of  plant  and  machinery,  trial  production,  date  of  commercial 
production and reasons for delay, if any. 

(G)  Deployment of Funds: 

(1)  The details of the sources of funds and the deployment of these funds on the 
project  (where  the  issuer  is  raising  capital  for  a  project),  up  to  a  date  not 
earlier  than  two  months  from  the  date  of  filing  the  letter  of  offer  with  the 

Page 166 of 255 

 

designated  stock  exchange,  as  certified  by  a  Chartered  Accountant,  along 
with the name of the chartered accountant and the date of the certificate. 

(2)  Where  share  application  money  brought  in  advance  by  the  promoters  is 
deployed in  the project  and the same is  being adjusted towards their rights 
entitlement  in  the  rights  issue,  the  extent  of  deployment  and  utilisation  of 
the funds brought in by the promoters shall be disclosed. 

(H)  Sources  of  Financing  of  Funds  Already  Deployed:  Means  and  source  of 
financing,  including  details  of  "bridge  loan"  or  other  financial  arrangement, 
which may be repaid from the proceeds of the issue. 

(I)  Details  of  Balance  Fund  Deployment:  Year  wise  break  up  of  the  expenditure 

(J) 

proposed to be incurred on the said project. 
288[Interim Use of Funds: Net issue proceeds pending utilization (for the stated 
objects)  shall  be  deposited  only  in  the  scheduled  commercial  banks  included  in 
the Second Schedule of Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.] 

(K)  Any special tax benefits for the issuer and its shareholders. 
(L)  Key  Industry  Regulations  for  the  proposed  objects  of  the  issue  (if  different 

from existing business of the issuer) 

(M)  Interest of promoters and directors, as applicable to the project or objects of 

the issue  

 

(VIII)  History and Corporate Structure about the Issuer: In case the issuer has not come 
out with any issue in the past ten years or more, a brief statement about the history and 
corporate  structure  of  the  issuer,  main  objects  of  the  issuer  and  major  events  in  the 
past. 

 

(IX)  Management (Board of Directors): 

(A)  Name,  age,  qualifications,  Director  Identification  Number,  experience,  address, 
occupation  and  date  of  expiration  of  the  current  term  of  office  of  manager, 
managing director, and other directors (including nominee directors, whole-time 
directors), giving their directorships in other companies.  
 
289[(1)  Details  of  current  and  past  directorship(s)  for  a  period  of  five  years  in 
listed  companies  whose  shares  have  been/were  suspended  from  being  traded  on 
the  Bombay  Stock  Exchange  Ltd./National  Stock  Exchange  of  India  Ltd.,  as 
follows: 
  Name of the Company: 
  Listed on [give name of the Stock Exchange(s)]: 
  Date of Suspension on stock exchanges: 
  Suspended  more  than  three  months:  Yes/No.  If  yes,  reasons  for  suspension 

and period of suspension: 

  Whether  suspension  revoked:  Yes/No.  If  yes,  date  of  revocation  of 

suspension: 

  Date and Term of Director in the above company(ies). 
Explanation.—The above details shall be given for a period of five years prior to 
date  of  filing  of  draft  offer  document  and  ought  to  be  updated  upto  the  date  of 
filing  of  the  red  herring  prospectus.  In  case  of  offer  documents  for  fast  track 

                                                           

288 Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of  Capital and  Disclosure  Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2015, 
w.e.f. 11.08.2015.  Prior  to  its  substitution,  sub-item  (J)  read  as  under  :  "(J)  Interim  Use  of  Funds: Investment 
avenues  in  which  the  management  proposes  to  deploy  issue  proceeds,  pending  its  utilisation  in  the  proposed 
project." 

289 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
12.11.2010. 

Page 167 of 255 

 

issues filed under regulation 10, the period of five years shall be reckoned on the 
date of filing of prospectus with Registrar of Companies or letter of offer with the 
designated stock exchange. 
 
(2)  Details  of  current  and  past  directorship  in  listed  companies  who  have 
been/were delisted from the stock exchange(s): 
  Name of the Company: 
  Listed on [give name of the Stock Exchange(s)]: 
  Date of delisting on the Stock Exchange(s): 
  Compulsory or voluntary delisting: 
  Reasons for delisting: 
  Whether relisted: Yes/No. If yes, date of relisting on [give name of the Stock 

Exchange(s)]: 

  Date and Term of Director in the above company/ies.  ] 
 

(B)  The nature of any family relationship between any of the directors. 
(C)  Any arrangement or understanding with major shareholders, customers, suppliers 
or others, pursuant to which of the directors was selected as a director or member 
of senior management. 

(D)  Details of service contracts entered into by the directors with the issuer providing 
for benefits upon termination of employment and a distinct negative statement in 
the absence of any such contract. 

 

(X) 

Financial Information of the Issuer: 
(A)  Stand-alone and consolidated financial statements of the issuer: 

(4)  A report by the auditors of the issuer with respect to profit or loss and assets 
and  liabilities  (indicating  changes  in  accounting  policies,  if  any)  in  respect 
of the last completed accounting year for which audit has been completed. 

(5)  A report by the auditors of the issuer on a limited review of the profit or loss 
and assets and liabilities (indicating changes in accounting policies, if any), 
as at a date not earlier than six months prior to the date of the opening of the 
issue, where audited accounts as at such date are not available. 

(6)  For the purpose of clauses (1) and (2) above, it shall be sufficient if: 

(a)  In  the  statement  of  the  assets  and  liabilities,  the  main  heads  of  assets 
and  liabilities  as  provided  in  Part  I  of  Schedule  VI  of  the  Companies 
Act,  1956  have  been  provided.  If  an  issuer  is  governed  by  a  statute 
other  than  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  the  main  heads  of  assets  and 
liabilities as specified in such statute shall be provided in the statement 
of assets and liabilities.  

(b)  In  the  statement  of  profit  or  loss,  the  information  required  to  be 
disclosed under the heads of income and expenditure as per clause 41 of 
the  equity 
in  respect  of  quarterly  financial 
information  to  be  filed  with  the  recognised  stock  exchanges,  has  been 
provided. 

listing  agreement 

(B)  In  addition,  in  accordance  with  Ministry  of  Finance  Circular  no.F.2/5/SE/76 
dated February 05, 1977 and amended further on March 08, 1977, the following 
information  for  the  period  between  the  last  date  of  the  balance  sheet  and  profit 
and  loss  account  sent  to  the  shareholders  and  up  to  the  end  of  the  last  but  one 
month preceding the date of the letter of offer shall be furnished. 
(2)  Working results of the issuer under following heads: 

(a)  (i) Sales / turnover 

Page 168 of 255 

 

         

        

        (ii) Other income 
(b)  Estimated gross profit / loss (excluding depreciation and taxes) 
(c)  (i) Provision for depreciation 
        (ii) Provision for taxes 
(d)  Estimated net profit / loss 

(3)  Material changes and commitments, if any affecting financial position of the 

issuer. 

(4)  Week-end prices  for the last four  weeks;  current market  price;  and highest 

and lowest prices of equity shares during the period with the relative dates 

(C)  Stock market quotation of shares/ convertible instruments of the company (high/ 
low  price  in  each  of  the  last  three  years  and  monthly  high/low  price  during  the 
last six months).  

(D)  Accounting  and  other  ratios:  The  following  accounting  ratios  shall  be  given  for 

each of the accounting periods for which financial information is given: 
(5)  Earnings  per  share:  This  ratio  shall  be  calculated  after  excluding  extra 

ordinary items. 

(6)  Return  on  Networth:  This  ratio  shall  be  calculated  excluding  revaluation 

reserves. 

(7)  Net  Asset  Value  per  share:  This  ratio  shall  be  calculated  excluding 

revaluation reserves.  

(8)  Accounting  and  other  ratios  shall  be  based  on  the  financial  statements 

prepared on the basis of Indian Accounting Standards. 

(E)  Capitalisation Statement: 

(4)  A  Capitalisation  Statement  showing  total  debt,  net  worth,  and  the  debt/ 

equity ratios before and after the issue is made shall be incorporated. 

(5)  In  case  of  any  change  in  the  share  capital  since  the  date  as  of  which  the 
financial information has been disclosed in the prospectus, a note explaining 
the nature of the change shall be given. 

(6)  An illustrative format of the Capitalisation Statement is specified hereunder: 

Particulars 

Pre-issue as at 
30-6-1995 

As  Adjusted 
for issue 

  (Rupees in lakhs) 
Short-Term Debt                                     
Long Term Debt                                     
Shareholders Funds 
Share Capital                                     
Reserves                                   
Total Shareholders Funds  
Long Term Debt/Equity  
Note:  Since  31-3-1995  (which  is  the  last  date  as  of  which  financial 
information  has  been  given  in  para  …  of  this  document),  share  capital 
was  increased  from  Rs.3000  lacs  to  Rs.4000  lacs  by  the  issue  of  bonus 
shares in the ratio of 1 share for every 3 shares. 

1870 
4370 
 
4450 
  37520 
41940 
0.10:1 

1870 
4370 
 
4000 
14570 
18570 
0.24:1 

 
 

 
 

(F)  One standard financial unit shall be used in the Letter of Offer 

 

 

(XI)  A statement to the effect that the price has been arrived at in consultation between the 

issuer and the Merchant banker. 

(XII)  Outstanding  Litigations  and  Defaults:  The  following  details  shall  be  disclosed  by 

the issuer: 

Page 169 of 255 

 

(A)  Pending  matters  which,  if  they  result  in  an  adverse  outcome,  would  materially 

and adversely affect the operations or the financial position of the issuer. 

(B)  Matters which are pending or which have arisen in the immediately preceding ten 

years involving: 
(1)  Issues of moral turpitude or criminal liability on the part of the issuer 
(2)  Material violations of statutory regulations by the issuer 
(3)  Economic offences where proceedings have been initiated against the issuer. 
(C)  For the purpose of determining materiality, the following tests or parameters shall 

be applied: 
(1)  For the outstanding litigations which may not have any impact on the future 

revenues, the disclosure is required: 
(a)  Where  the  aggregate  amount  involved  in  such  individual  litigation 
exceeds  one  per  cent.  of  the  net  worth  of  the  issuer  as  per  last 
completed financial year; or 

(b)  Where the decision in one case is likely to affect the decision in similar 
cases, even though the amount involved in single case individually may 
not  exceed  one  per  cent.  of  the  net  worth  of  the  issuer  as  per  the  last 
completed financial year. 

(2)  For  the  outstanding  litigations  which  may  have  any  impact  on  the  future 

revenues, the disclosure is required: 
(a)  Where  the  aggregate  amount  involved  in  such  individual  litigation  is 
likely  to  exceed  one  per  cent.  of  the  total  revenue  of  the  issuer  as  per 
last completed financial year; or 

(b)  Where the decision in one case is likely to affect the decision in similar 
cases, even though the amount involved in single case individually may 
not  exceed  one  per  cent.  of  the  total  revenue  of  the  issuer,  if  similar 
cases put together collectively exceed one per cent. of total revenue of 
the issuer as per last completed financial year. 

(D)  These  disclosures  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  the  issuer  and  the  subsidiary 
companies  of  the  issuer  whose  financial  statements  are  included  in  the  offer 
document, either separately or in consolidated form. 

 

(XIII)  Government  Approvals  or  Licensing  Arrangements:  In  case  of  a  new  line  of 
activity/project,  all  pending  government  and  regulatory  approvals;  In  case  of  an 
existing  line  of  activity/project,  al  pending  regulatory  and  government  approvals  and 
pending renewals of licences. 
 

(XIV)  Material Development: Any material development after the date of the latest balance 

sheet and its impact on performance and prospects of the issuer. 
 

(XV)  Other Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures: 

(A)  Authority for the issue and details of resolution passed for the issue. 
(B)  A statement by the issuer that the issuer, promoters, promoter group, directors or 
person(s) in  control of the promoter have not been prohibited from  accessing or 
operating  in  the  capital  markets  or  restrained  from  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in 
securities under any order or direction passed by the Board.  

(C)  A confirmation whether any of the directors of the issuer are associated with the 
securities  market  in  any  manner,  if  yes,  whether  the  Board  has  initiated  any 
action against the said entities and the related details.  

Page 170 of 255 

 

(D)  It may be disclosed whether the issuer, promoters, group companies, the relatives 
(as  per  Companies  Act,1956)  of  promoters,  group  companies  are  identified  as 
willful defaulters 290[***]. 

(E)  A statement to the effect that the issuer is in compliance with provisions specified 

in Part E of this Schedule. 

(F)  Details of compliance with eligibility requirements to make a fast track issue, if 

applicable. 

(G)  Disclaimer clauses: 

(1)  The  letter  of  offer  shall  contain  the  following  disclaimer  clause  in  bold 

capital letters: 
"It is to be distinctly understood that submission of Letter of Offer to SEBI 
should  not  in  any  way  be  deemed  or  construed  that  the  same  has  been 
cleared or approved by  SEBI. SEBI does not  take any responsibility  either 
for the financial soundness of any scheme or the project for which the issue 
is  proposed  to  be  made  or  for  the  correctness  of  the  statements  made  or 
opinions expressed in the Letter of Offer. Lead merchant banker, …… has 
certified  that  the  disclosures  made  in  the  Letter  of  Offer  are  generally 
adequate and are in conformity with SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  in  force  for  the  time  being.  This 
requirement is to facilitate investors to take an informed decision for making 
investment in the proposed issue. 

 
 

 
 

It  should  also  be  clearly  understood  that  while  the  issuer  is  primarily 
responsible  for  the  correctness,  adequacy  and  disclosure  of  all  relevant 
information  in  the  letter  of  offer,  the  lead  merchant  banker  is  expected  to 
exercise  due  diligence  to  ensure  that  the  issuer  discharges  its  responsibility 
adequately in this behalf and towards this purpose, the lead merchant banker 
……. has furnished to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) a 
due diligence certificate dated …….which reads as follows: 
(due diligence certificate submitted to the Board to be reproduced here) 

The  filing  of  the  letter  of  offer  does  not,  however,  absolve  the  issuer  from 
any liabilities under section 63 or section 68 of the Companies Act, 1956 or 
from the requirement of obtaining such statutory or other clearances as may 
be required for the purpose of the proposed issue. SEBI further reserves the 
right  to  take  up,  at  any  point  of  time,  with  the  lead  merchant  banker  any 
irregularities or lapses in letter of offer." 

(2)  Disclaimer Statement from the issuer and lead merchant banker:  

A statement to the effect that the issuer and the lead merchant banker accept 
no responsibility for statements made otherwise than in  the  Letter of Offer 
or in the advertisement or any other material issued by or at the instance of 
the  issuer  and  that  anyone  placing  reliance  on  any  other  source  of 
information would be doing so at his own risk.  
Investors  who  invest  in  the  issue  will  be  deemed  to  have  been  represented 
by  the  issuer  and  lead  manager  and  their  respective  directors,  officers, 
agents,  affiliates  and  representatives  that  they  are  eligible  under  all 
applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations,  guidelines  and  approvals  to  acquire 
equity  shares  of  our  company,  and  are  relying  on  independent  advice  / 
evaluation as to their ability and quantum of investment in this issue. 

                                                           
290  The  words  “by  Reserve  Bank  of  India  or  other  authorities”  omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 25.05.2016.  

Page 171 of 255 

 

(3)  Disclaimer  in  respect  of  jurisdiction:  A  brief  paragraph  mentioning  the 
jurisdiction under which provisions of law and the rules and regulations are 
applicable to the letter of offer. 

(4)  Disclaimer clause of the stock exchanges, if any 
(5)  Disclaimer clause of the Reserve Bank of India (if applicable). 

(H)  The fact of filing the letter of offer with the Board and the stock exchange(s) and 

the office of the Board where the letter of offer has been filed 

(I)  Details  of  fees  payable  to  (in  terms  of  amount,  as  a  percentage  of  total  issue 

expenses and as a percentage of total issue size): 
(1)  Lead merchant bankers. 
(2)  Co-lead merchant bankers, if any 
(3)  Co-managers, if any 
(4)  Other merchant bankers 
(5)  Registrars to the issue 
(6)  Advisors 
(7)  Bankers to the issue 
(8)  Trustees for the debt instrument holders. 
(9)  Others 
(10)  Underwriting commission, brokerage and selling commission. 

(J)  Arrangements  or  any  mechanism  evolved  by  the  issuer  for  redressal  of  investor 
grievances  and  the  time  normally  taken  by  it  for  disposal  of  various  types  of 
investor grievances. 

 

(XVI)  Offering Information: 

(A)  Terms  of  payments  and  procedure  and  time  schedule  for  allotment  and  issue  of 

certificates, credit of specified securities to the investors’ demat account.  

(B)  How  to  apply,  availability  of  application  forms  and  letter  of  offer  and  mode  of 

payment, including the following: 
(1)  Applications by mutual funds: 

(a)  The  necessary  disclosures  under  the  heads  "Procedure  for  applications 
by mutual  funds" and "Multiple Applications" shall be incorporated to 
indicate  that  a  separate  application  can  be  made  in  respect  of  each 
scheme  of  an  Indian  mutual  fund  registered  with  the  Board  and  that 
such applications shall not be treated as multiple applications. 

(b)  A  disclosure  that  the  applications  made  by  asset  management 
companies  or  custodians  of  a  mutual  fund  shall  clearly  indicate  the 
name of the concerned scheme for which application is being made. 

(2)  Applications  by  non-resident  Indians:  The  following  disclosures  shall  be 

made:  
(a)  the  name  and  address  of  at  least  one  place  in  India  from  where 
individual  non-resident  Indian  applicants  can  obtain  the  application 
forms. 

(b)  A  statement  that:  "non-resident  Indian  applicants  may  please  note  that 
only  such  applications  as  are  accompanied  by  payment  in  free  foreign 
exchange shall be considered for allotment under the reserved category. 
The  non-resident  Indians  who  intend  to  make  payment  through  Non-
Resident  Ordinary  (NRO)  accounts  shall  use  the  form  meant  for 
Resident  Indians  and  shall  not  use  the  forms  meant  for  reserved 
category." 

(3)  Application  by  ASBA  investors:  Disclosures  regarding  eligible  ASBA 
investors  and  ASBA  process  including  specific  instructions  for  submitting 
Application Supported by Blocked Amount. 

Page 172 of 255 

 

(4)  A  statement  that  the  shareholders  who  have  not  received  the  application 
form may, along with the requisite application money, apply in writing on a 
plain paper. 

(5)  The  format  to  enable  the  shareholders  to  make  the  application  on  plain 
paper  specifying  therein  necessary  particulars  such  as  name,  address,  ratio 
of  rights  issue,  issue  price,  number  of  equity  shares  held,  ledger  folio 
numbers,  depository  participant  ID,  client  ID,  number  of  equity  shares 
entitled  and  applied  for,  additional  shares  if  any,  amount  to  be  paid  along 
with application, and particulars of cheque, etc. to be drawn in favour of the 
issuer’s account; 

(6)  A statement that the shareholders making the application otherwise than on 
the application form shall not renounce their rights and shall not utilise the 
application  form  for  any  purpose  including  renunciation  even  if  it  is 
received subsequently. 

291[(BA)  Dealing  with  Fractional  Entitlement:  Manner  of  dealing  with  fractional 
entitlement viz. payment of the equivalent of the value, if any, of the fractional rights in 
cash etc.] 
(C)  Provisions of sub-section (1) of section 68A of the Companies Act, 1956 relating 
to punishment for fictitious applications, including the disclosures that any person 
who: 
(1)  makes  in  a  fictitious  name  an  application  to  a  company  for  acquiring,  or 

subscribing for, any shares therein, or 

(2)  otherwise  induces  a  company  to  allot,  or  register  any  transfer  of,  shares 
therein to him, or any other person in a fictitious name, shall be punishable 
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years. 

(D)  Declaration about the credit of specified securities to the demat account / refunds 
within  a  period  of  fifteen  days  and  interest  in  case  of  delay  in  refund  at  the 
prescribed rate.  

(E)  Mode of making refunds: 

(1)  The  mode  in  which  the  issuer  shall  make  refunds  to  applicants  in  case  of 

oversubscription.  

(2)  If  the  issuer  proposes  to  use  more  than  one  mode  of  making  refunds  to 
applicants, the respective cases where each such mode will be adopted shall 
be disclosed. 

(3)  The permissible modes of making refunds are as follows: 

(a)  In  case  of  applicants  residing  in  any  of  the  centres  specified  by  the 
Board:  by  crediting  of  refunds  to  the  bank  accounts  of  applicants 
through electronic transfer of funds by using ECS (Electronic Clearing 
Service), Direct Credit, RTGS (Real Time Gross Settlement) or NEFT 
(National Electronic Funds Transfer), as is for the time being permitted 
by the Reserve Bank of India; 

(b)  In  case of other  applicants: by despatch of refund orders by registered 
post,  where  the  value  is  Rs  1500/-  or  more,  or  under  certificate  of 
posting in other cases, (subject however to postal rules); and 

(c)  In case of any category of applicants specified by the Board: crediting 
of refunds to the applicants in any other electronic manner permissible 
under  the  banking  laws  for  the  time  being  in  force  which  is  permitted 
by the Board from time to time. 

 

                                                           
291 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 

Page 173 of 255 

 

(XVII)  Undertakings by the issuer in connection with the issue: The issuer shall undertake 

that: 
(A)  the complaints received in respect of the Issue shall be attended to by the issuer 

expeditiously and satisfactorily. 

(B)  that  steps  for  completion  of 

listing  and 
commencement  of  trading  at  all  stock  exchanges  where  the  specified  securities 
are  to  be  listed  are  taken  within  seven  working  days  of  finalisation  of  basis  of 
allotment. 

the  necessary  formalities  for 

(C)  funds required for making refunds to unsuccessful applicants as per the mode(s) 

disclosed shall be made available to the Registrar to the issue by the issuer. 

(D)  that  where  refunds  are  made  through  electronic  transfer  of  funds,  a  suitable 
communication  shall  be  sent  to  the  applicant  within  15  days  of  closure  of  the 
issue  giving  details  of  the  bank  where  refunds  shall  be  credited  along  with 
amount and expected date of electronic credit of refund. 

(E)  that adequate arrangements shall be made to collect all ASBA applications and to 
consider  them  similar  to  non-ASBA  applications  while  finalizing  the  basis  of 
allotment. 

(F)  In  case  of  convertible  debt  instruments,  the  issuer  shall  additionally  undertake 

that: 
(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

the issuer shall forward the details of utilisation of the funds raised through 
the  convertible  debt  instruments  duly  certified  by  the  statutory  auditors  of 
the issuer, to the debenture trustees at the end of each half-year. 
the  issuer  shall  disclose  the  complete  name  and  address  of  the  debenture 
trustee in the annual report. 
the  issuer  shall  provide  a  compliance  certificate  to  the  convertible  debt 
instrument holders (on yearly basis) in respect of compliance with the terms 
and  conditions  of  issue  of  debentures  as  contained  in  the  Letter  of  Offer, 
duly certified by the debenture trustee. 
the issuer shall furnish a confirmation certificate that the security created by 
the company in favour of the convertible debt instrument holders is properly 
maintained  and  is  adequate  to  meet  the  payment  obligations  towards  the 
convertible debt instrument holders in the event of default. 

(5)  necessary cooperation with the credit rating  agency  (ies) shall be extended 
in  providing  true  and  adequate  information  till  the  debt  obligations  in 
respect of the instrument are outstanding. 

 

 

(XVIII) Utilisation of Issue Proceeds: The letter of offer for an issue other than a rights issue 
made by any bank or public financial institution shall contain a statement of the board 
of directors of the issuer to the effect that: 
(A)  all monies received out of issue of shares or specified securities to public shall be 

transferred to separate bank account.  

(B)  details  of  all  monies  utilised  out  of  the  issue  referred  to  in  clause  (A)  shall  be 
disclosed  under  an  appropriate  separate  head  in  the  balance  sheet  of  the  issuer 
indicating the purpose for which such monies had been utilised; and 

(C)  details of all unutilised monies out of the issue of specified securities referred to in 
clause  (A)  shall  be  disclosed  under  an  appropriate  separate  head  in  the  balance 
sheet of the issuer indicating the form in which such unutilised monies have been 
invested. 

(XIX)  Restrictions on foreign ownership of Indian securities, if any: 

(A)  Investment by NRIs. 

Page 174 of 255 

 

(B)  Investment by 292[foreign portfolio investors]. 
 

(XX)  Statement  regarding  minimum  subscription  clause:  The  following  statement  shall 

appear in the letter of offer: 
(A)  "If the issuer does not receive the minimum subscription of ninety per cent. of the 
issue  (including  devolvement  of  underwriters  where  applicable),  the  entire 
subscription shall be refunded to the applicants within fifteen days from the date 
of closure of the issue." 

(B)  "If there is delay in the refund of subscription by more than 8 days after the issuer 
becomes liable to pay the subscription amount (i.e. fifteen days after closure of the 
issue), the issuer will pay interest for the delayed period, at rates prescribed under 
sub-sections (2) and (2A) of Section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956." 

 

(XXI)  Statutory and other information: 

(A)  Option to subscribe in the issue: 

(1)  The  details  of  option,  if  any,  to  receive  the  specified  securities  subscribed 

for either in demateralised form or physical form. 

(2)  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  incorporate  a  statement  in  the  offer 
document  and  in  the  application  form  to  the  effect  that  the  investor  shall 
have  an  option  either  to  receive  the  security  certificates  or  to  hold  the 
securities in dematerialised form with a depository. 

(B)  Material contracts and time and place of inspection which shall include copies of 

the Annual Reports of the issuer for the last five years. 

 
(XXII)  Any other material disclosures, as deemed necessary.   
 
(XXIII) Declaration: 

(A)  The draft letter of offer (in case of issues other than fast track issues) and letter of 
offer shall be approved by the Board of Directors of the issuer and shall be signed 
by  all  directors,  the  Chief  Executive  Officer,  i.e.,  the  Managing  Director  or 
Manager within the meaning of the Companies Act, 1956 and the Chief Financial 
Officer,  i.e.,  the  whole-time  finance  director  or  any  other  person  heading  the 
finance function and discharging that function. 

(B)  The following statement shall be disclosed: 

“No statement made in this letter of offer contravenes any of the provisions of the 
Companies Act,  1956 and the rules made thereunder. All  the legal  requirements 
connected with the issue as also the guidelines, instructions, etc., issued by SEBI, 
Government  and  any  other  competent  authority  in  this  behalf,  have  been  duly 
complied with.” 

(C)  The signatories shall further certify that all disclosures made in the letter of offer 

are true and correct. 

 
(6)  A listed issuer making disclosures in the letter of offer as per this Part shall make a copy of the 
offer document of the immediately preceding public issue or rights issue available to the public 
in  the  manner  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  61  and  shall  also  make  such 
document available as a material document for inspection. 

 

293[(7) Full disclosures in the draft letter of offer or letter of offer as the case may be shall be made 
for  warrants  issued  along  with  rights  issues,  regarding  the  objects  towards  which  the  funds 

                                                           
292 Substituted for "FIIs" by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 7-1-2014.   
293  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
30.01.2012. 

Page 175 of 255 

 

from  conversions  of  warrants  are  proposed  to  be  used.  In  such  cases,  the  provisions  of  this 
Part dealing with Objects of the Issue shall apply, mutatis mutandis.] 

Page 176 of 255 

 

PART F 

[See regulation 58(2)] 

 

DISCLOSURES IN ABRIDGED LETTER OF OFFER 

 
(1)  A listed issuer making a rights issue of specified securities shall make disclosures, as specified 

in Part D of this Schedule, in the abridged letter of offer. 

294[(2)  However, if the conditions specified in clause (1) in Part E of this Schedule are satisfied, the 
disclosure requirements specified in the following clauses in Part D of this Schedule, shall not 
be applicable to such issuer: 

(a)  Sub-item (B) of item II ; 
(b)  Sub-item (D) of item III;  
(c) 
Item V; 
(d)  Item VI; 
(e) 
Item VII ; 
(f) 
Item X; 
(g)  Item XI; 
(h)  Item XIV; 
(i) 
Item XV;  
(j) 
Item XVI.]   

 
(2)  The  order  in  which  items  shall  appear  in  the  abridged  letter  of  offer  shall  correspond, 

wherever applicable, to the order in which items appear in the letter of offer. 

(3)  The abridged letter of offer shall also include the following disclosures: 

(a)  Provisions  pertaining  to  applications  referred  to  in  sub-regulations  (2),  (3)  and  (4)  of 

regulation 54; 

(b)  Rights entitlement ratio; 
(c)  Fractional entitlements; 
(d)  Renunciation; 
(e)  Application for Additional equity shares; 
(f) 
(g)  Statement  that  a  copy  of  the  offer  document  of  the  immediately  preceding  public  or 
rights  issue  is  made  available  to  the  public  as  specified  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of 
regulation 61 and also as a document for public inspection. 

Intention of promoters to subscribe to their rights entitlement; 

  

295[PART G 

[See regulation 4(6)] 

                                                           
294 Substituted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
13.04.2010. Prior to its substitution, para (2) read as under:  
“(2)  However,  if  the  conditions  specified  in  clause  (1)  in  Part  E  of  this  Schedule  are  satisfied,  the  disclosure 
requirements specified in the following clauses in Part D of this Schedule, shall not be applicable to such issuer: 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 
(g) 
(h) 
(i) 
(j) 
 
295  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2016,  w.e.f. 
25.05.2016. 

Sub-item (B) of item VII; 
Sub-item (D) of item VIII; 
Item X; 
Item XI, 
Item XII , 
Item XV,  
Item XVI   
Item XIX   
Item XX and  
Item XXI” 

Page 177 of 255 

 

DISCLOSURES PERTAINING TO WILLFUL DEFAULTERS  

 
(1)  If  the  issuer  or  any  of  its  promoters  or  directors  is  a  wilful  defaulter,  it  shall  make  the 

 

following disclosures: 
 

(a) Name of the bank declaring the entity as a wilful defaulter; 
(b) The year in which the entity is declared as a wilful defaulter; 
(c) Outstanding amount when the entity is declared as a wilful defaulter; 
(d) Name of the party declared as a wilful defaulter;  
(e) Steps taken, if any, for the removal from the list of wilful defaulters; 
(f)  Other  disclosures,  as  deemed  fit  by  the  issuer  in  order  to  enable  investors  to  take 

informed decisions; 

(g) Any other disclosure as specified by the Board. 

 

(2)  The  fact  that  the  issuer  or  any  of  its  promoters  or  directors  is  a  wilful  defaulter  shall  be 

disclosed prominently on the cover page with suitable cross-referencing to the pages. 

(3)  Disclosures  specified  herein  shall  be  made  in  a  separate  chapter  or  section  distinctly 

identifiable in the Index / Table of Contents.] 
 

 

Page 178 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

296[SCHEDULE IX 

                                                           
296 Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 31.5.2017. Prior 
to such substitution, the Schedule read as:  

SCHEDULE IX 

[See regulation 16(2)] 

 

FORMAT OF REPORT TO BE SUBMITTED BY MONITORING AGENCY 

 
NAME OF THE MONITORING AGENCY                           : 
 
MONITORING REPORT FOR THE HALF YEAR ENDED ……….. 
(1) 
(2) 

Issue date                                                              : 
Type of issue (public/rights)                                :             
Type of specified securities                                 : 
Issue size                                                              : ( Rs-----------(in  crores) 
Amount collected                                                : ( Rs. ---------( in crores) 

Name of the Issuer                                                         : 
About the issue whose proceeds to be monitored 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
Details of the arrangement made to ensure the monitoring of issue proceeds. 
Project details (to be monitored)                                     :  
(a) 
(b) 

(3) 
(4) 

Name of the project (particulars and location) 
Cost of the project details                                        :   (Rs. ------( in crores) 
(As mentioned in the offer document) 

: 

 

Item Head 

Original Cost 

Revised 

Remarks 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(c) 
(d) 

Proposal to finance cost overrun, if any. 
Progress in the project: 
(i) 

Expenditure incurred during the six months period (Rs. crores) 

              

 

Item Head 

During Six months 

 

  Cumulative 

  

 

 
(ii)  Means of finance raised during six months period (Rs. Crores) 
If  total  cumulative  amount  raised  is  more  than  the  expenditure  incurred  on  the  project,  explain  how  the 
surplus  funds  are  utilised/  proposed  to  be  utilised.  Give  details  on  investment  like  instruments,  maturity, 
earnings and other conditions. Indicate name of the party/ company in which amounts have been invested. 
The following data shall be given separately for investment in group companies and others: 

 
Type of instrument/ 
Instrument 

Amount invested           Maturity 
Rs. in lakhs                     date 

Earnings 

Comments of monitoring agency on utilisation of funds. 
If  there  is  any  delay  in  implementation  of  the  project,  the  same  may  be  specified  along  with  the  reason 
thereof  and  the  proposed  course  of  action.  (Please  give  the  comparative  statement  of  schedule  of  various 
activities as mentioned in the offer document and their actual implementation). 
Status of Government/ statutory approvals related to the project as disclosed in offer document. 
Technical assistance/ collaboration (Please mention arrangements contemplated at the time of issue and the 
progress thereafter)  

(e) 

(f) 
(g) 

(h) 
(i) 

(j)  Major  deviations from the earlier progress reports. 
(k) 
(l) 

Any favourable/ unfavourable events improving /affecting  project viability. 
Any other relevant information. 

 
   Signature of the Authorised person:  
Name: 
Designation: 
Date: 

Page 179 of 255 

 

FORMAT OF REPORT TO BE SUBMITTED BY MONITORING AGENCY 

[See regulation 16 (2) and (3)] 

 

 
Front Page: 
 

Report of the Monitoring Agency 

Name of the Issuer: 
 
For quarter ended: 
 
Name of the Monitoring Agency: 
 
(a) Deviation from the objects:  
 
–  Utilization  different  from  Objects  stated  in  OD  but  in  line  with  change  of  objects  approved  by  shareholders' 
resolution; or 
– Utilization neither in line with Objects stated in OD nor approved by shareholders' resolution 
– In case of no deviation, the fact would be stated.  
 
(b) Range of Deviation*:  
 
Indicate range of percentage deviation from the amount of issue proceeds earmarked for objects. For example, up to 
10%, 10 - 25%, 25-50%, 50-75%, 75-100%, not ascertainable etc. 
 
* Range of Deviation may be computed by taking weighted average of financial deviation of each object in the ratio of 
issue proceeds allocated for it. Non-financial deviation may be indicated separately by way of notes. 
 
Declaration: 
 
I/We  hereby  declare  that  this  report  is  based  on  the  format  as  prescribed  by  SEBI  (ICDR)  Regulations,  2009,  as 
amended. I/We further declare that this report provides true and fair view of the utilization of issue proceeds.  
 
I/We  declare 
the 
issuer/promoters/directors/management  and  also  confirm  that  we  do  not  perceive  any  conflict  of  interest  in  such 
relationship / interest while monitoring and reporting the utilization of issue proceeds by the issuer. 
 
Signature:  
Name of the Authorized Person/Signing Authority: 
Designation of Authorized person/Signing Authority:  
Seal of the Monitoring Agency: 
Date: 
 

that  we  do  not  have  any  direct 

relationship  with 

indirect 

interest 

/ 

in  or 

Subsequent Pages: 
 

1)  Issuer Details: 

Name of the issuer 
The names of the promoters of the issuer 
Industry/sector to which it belongs   

 

 

 

2)  Issue Details: 

 

Issue Period 
Type of issue (public/rights) 
Type of specified securities 
Grading  
 

 

 

Issue size (` in Crores) 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

: 
: 
: 

: 
: 
: 
: 

: 

 

 

Page 180 of 255 

 

3)  Details of the arrangement made to ensure the monitoring of issue proceeds: 

(Give item by item description for all the objects stated in offer document separately in following format) 

Particulars  

Reply 

Comments of 
Monitoring 
Agency   

Comments of 

Board of 
Directors 

Whether  all  the  utilzation  is  as  per  disclosure  in  Offer 
Document? 

Whether  Shareholder  approval  is  obtained  in  case  of 
material deviations# from expenditures disclosed in Offer 
Document? 

Whether  means  of  finance  for  disclosed  objects  of  the 
Issue has changed? 

Any  major  deviation  observed  over 
monitoring agency reports? 

the  earlier 

Whether all Government / Statutory approvals related to 
the object(s) obtained? 

Whether  all  arrangements  pertaining 
assistance/collaboration in operation? 

to 

technical 

Any favorable events improving object(s) viability 

Any unfavorable events affecting object(s) viability 

Any  other  relevant  information  that  may  materially  
affect the decision making of the investors 

Yes/ 
No 

Yes/ 
No 

Yes/ 
No 

Yes/ 
No 

Yes/ 
No 

Yes/ 
No 

Yes/ 
No 

Yes/ 
No 

Yes/ 
No 

  

  

 

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

# Where material deviation may be defined to mean: 
a) Deviation in the objects or purposes for which the funds have been raised 
b) Deviation in the amount of fund actually utilized by more than 10% of the amount projected in the offer documents. 

 

4)  Details of object(s)s to be monitored: 

(i)  Cost of object(s)- 

(Give Item by Item Description for all the Objects Stated in Offer Document separately in following format) 

Original 

Sl. 
No 

Item 
Head 

Cost (as per 

Revised 

Offer 

Cost 

Document) 

Comments of 
Monitoring 

Agency 

Comments of Board of Directors 

Reason 
of cost  
revision 

Proposed 
financing 

option 

Particulars of 

firm 

arrangements 

made  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 

(ii)  Progress in the object(s)- 

(Give Item by Item Description for all the Objects Stated in Offer Document separately in the following format) 

Page 181 of 255 

 

Amount utilized 

                                                  

Sl. 
No 

Item 
Head$ 

Amount as 
proposed  
in Offer 

Document 

As at 

Beginning 

of  

the quarter 

During 

the 

quarter 

At the 
end  
of the 
quarter 

Total 

unutilized 
Amount 

Comments of 
Monitoring 

Agency 

Comments of Board of 

Directors 

Reason 
of idle 
funds 

Proposed 
Course of  

Action 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

$ Provide following details under Item Head: 
(a)Name of the object(s): 
(b)Brief description of the object(s): 
(c)Location of the object(s) (if applicable): 

 

(iii) Deployment of unutilized IPO proceeds- 

Sl. 
no. 

 

Type of 

instrument 

where amount 

invested* 

Amount invested 

Maturity 

Earnings 

Investment (ROI 

date 

%) 

Return on 

Market Value as at  
the end of quarter** 

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 

* Also indicate name of the party/company in which amounts have been invested 
** Where market value is not practical to find, provide NAV/NRV/Book Value of the same 

(iv) Delay in implementation of the object(s)- 

Object(s) 

Name 

Completion Date 

Delay (No. of 

Comments of Board of Directors 

As per Offer Document 

Actual * 

days/ 

months) 

Reason of delay 

Proposed Course of  

Action 

  

  

  

  

  

  

* In case of continuing object(s) please specify latest/revised estimate of completion date. 

] 

 

Page 182 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE X 

[See Explanation to regulations 26(6), 31, 33(1)(b) and 41(2)(b)] 

 

FACILITIES OR SERVICES INCLUDED IN THE TERM “INFRASTRUCTURE 

SECTOR” 

 
For the purposes of these regulations, the expression “infrastructure sector” shall include the following 
facilities/services: 
(1)  Transportation (including inter modal transportation), including the following: 

(a)  Roads,  national  highways,  state  highways,  major  district  roads,  other  district  roads  and 
village roads, including toll roads, bridges, highways, road transport providers and other 
road-related services; 

(b)  Rail system, rail transport providers, metro rail roads and other railway related services; 
(c)  Ports (including minor ports and harbours), inland waterways, coastal shipping including 

shipping lines and other port related services; 

(d)  Aviation, including airports, heliports, airlines and other airport related services; 
(e)  Logistics services; 

(2)  Agriculture, including the following: 

Infrastructure related to storage facilities; 

(a) 
(b)  Construction  relating  to  projects  involving  agro-processing  and  supply  of  inputs  to 

agriculture;  

(c)  Construction  for  preservation  and  storage  of  processed  agro-products,  perishable  goods 

such as fruits, vegetables and flowers including testing facilities for quality;  

(3)  Water management, including the following: 

(a)  Water supply or distribution; 
(b) 
(c)  Water treatment, etc. 

Irrigation;  

(4)  Telecommunication, including the following: 

(a)  Basic or cellular, including radio paging; 
(b)  Domestic  satellite  service  (i.e.,  satellite  owned  and  operated  by  an  Indian  company  for 

providing telecommunication service); 

(5) 

(c)  Network of trunking, broadband network and internet services;  
Industrial, Commercial and Social development and maintenance, including the following: 
(a)  Real estate development, including an industrial park or special economic zone;  
(b)  Tourism, including hotels, convention centres and entertainment centres; 
(c)  Public  markets  and  buildings,  trade  fair,  convention,  exhibition,  cultural  centres,  sports 

and recreation infrastructure, public gardens and parks; 
(d)  Construction of educational institutions and hospitals; 
(e)  Other  urban  development,  including  solid  waste  management  systems,  sanitation  and 

sewerage systems, etc.; 

(6)  Power, including the following: 

(a)  Generation  of  power  through  thermal,  hydro,  nuclear,  fossil  fuel,  wind  and  other 

renewable  sources; 

(b)  Transmission ,distribution or trading of power by laying a network of new transmission or 

distribution lines; 

(7)  Petroleum and natural gas, including the following: 

(a)  Exploration and production; 
(b) 
(c)  Liquefaction and re-gasification; 

Import terminals; 

Page 183 of 255 

 

(d)  Storage terminals; 
(e)  Transmission networks and distribution networks including city gas infrastructure; 

(8)  Housing, including the following: 

(a)  Urban and rural housing including public / mass housing, slum rehabilitation etc; 
(b)  Other allied activities such as drainage, lighting, laying of roads, sanitation facilities etc.; 

297[(9)    Services  provided  by  recognised  stock  exchanges  and  registered  depositories,  in  relation  to 

securities;] 

298[10] Other miscellaneous facilities/services, including the following: 

(c)  Mining and related activities; 
(d)  Technology related infrastructure;  
(e)  Manufacturing of components and materials or any other utilities or facilities required by 

the infrastructure sector like energy saving devices and metering devices, etc; 

(f)  Environment related infrastructure;  
(g)  Disaster management services;  
(h)  Preservation of monuments and icons; 
(i)  Emergency services (including medical, police, fire, and rescue);  

299[(11)]  Such  other  facility/service  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Board,  constitutes  infrastructure 

sector. 

                                                           
297  Item  (9)  inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016, 
w.e.f. 21-1-2016. 
298  Item  (9)  renumbered  as  item  (10)  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 21-1-2016. 
299  Item  (10)  renumbered  as  item  (11)  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 21-1-2016. 

Page 184 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE XI 

[See regulation 28(3) and 102] 

 

BOOK BUILDING PROCESS 

 

PART A 

 
(1)  An issuer proposing to issue specified securities through book building process shall comply 

with the requirements of this Schedule. 

 
(2)  Lead Book Runner.  

(a)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  one  or  more  merchant  banker(s)  as  book  runner(s)  and  their 

name(s) shall be disclosed in the draft red herring prospectus. 

(b)  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  act  as  the  lead  book  runner  and  shall  be  primarily 

responsible for the book building.  

(c)  There shall be only one lead book runner and other merchant bankers appointed, if any, 

shall either be co-book runners or syndicate members.  

(d)  Other terms such as joint lead merchant bankers etc. shall not be used.  
(e) 

In  case  of  appointment  of  more  than  one  lead  merchant  banker  or  book  runner,  the 
rights,  obligations  and  responsibilities  of  each  shall  be  delineated  in  the  inter-se 
allocation of responsibility as specified in Schedule I  

 
(3)  Syndicate Members.  

The book runner(s) may appoint syndicate members.  

 
(4)  Underwriting. 

(a)  The lead book runner and co-book runners shall compulsorily underwrite the issue and 
the  syndicate  members  shall  sub-underwrite  with  the  lead  book  runner  /co-book 
runners. 

(b)  The  lead  book  runners/  syndicate  members  shall  enter  in  to  underwriting/  sub 
underwriting  agreement  on  the  date  of  allocation  and  furnish  details  forthwith  to  the 
Board. 

(c)  The  details  of  final  underwriting  arrangement  indicating  actual  numbers  of  shares 
underwritten shall be disclosed and printed in the Prospectus before it is registered with 
the Registrar of Companies. 
In case of an under subscription in an issue, the shortfall shall have to be made good by 
the  book  runner(s)  to  the  issue  and  the  same  shall  be  incorporated  in  the  inter-se 
allocation of responsibility as specified  in Schedule II. 

(d) 

 
(5)  Agreement with the stock exchange. 

(a)  The  issuer  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  one  or  more  of  the  stock  exchange(s) 

which have the system of on-line offer of securities.  

(b)  The agreement shall specify inter-alia, the rights, duties, responsibilities and obligations 

of the issuer and recognised stock exchange(s) inter se. 

(c)  The agreement may also provide for a dispute resolution mechanism between the issuer 

and the stock exchange. 

 
(6)  Appointment of stock brokers as bidding/collection centres. 

Page 185 of 255 

 

(a)  The book runner(s)/syndicate members shall appoint stock brokers who are members of 
the  recognised  stock  exchange  and  registered  with  the  Board,  for  the  purpose  of 
accepting bids, applications and placing orders with the issuer and ensure that the stock 
brokers  so  appointed  are  financially  capable  of  honouring  their  commitments  arising 
out of defaults of their clients/investors, if any; 
  Provided  that  in  case  of  Application  Supported  by  Blocked  Amount,  Self  Certified 
Syndicate  Banks,  300[Registrar  to  Issue  and  Share  Transfer  Agents,  Depository 
Participants, Stock brokers] shall also accept and upload the details of such applications 
in electronic bidding system of the stock exchange(s). 
301[The  stock  brokers,  Self  Certified  Syndicate  Bank,  Registrar  to  Issue  and  Share 
Transfer  Agents  and  Depository  Participants  accepting  applications  and  application 
monies shall be deemed as ‘bidding/collection centres’.] 

(b) 

(c)  The issuer shall pay to  the  302[SEBI registered intermediaries] commission/fee  for the 

services rendered by them.  

(d)  The stock exchange shall ensure that any stock broker does not levy a service fee on his 

clients/investors in lieu of his services in this regard. 

 
(7)  Price not to be disclosed in red herring prospectus. 

(a)  Where the issue size is specified the red herring prospectus may not contain the price 

and the number of specified securities. 

(b)  The  draft  red  herring  prospectus  containing  all  the  disclosures  including  total  issue 
size, if applicable, as specified in Schedule VIII, except that of price and the number of 
specified  securities  to  be  offered  through  it  shall  be  filed  with  the  Board  by  the  lead 
merchant banker; 

Provided that in case of a fast track issue the draft red herring prospectus shall not be 

filed with the Board.   

 
(8)  Floor Price and Price Band. 

Subject  to  the  provisions  of  regulation  30  and  the  provisions  of  this  clause,  the  issuer  may 
mention the floor price or price band in the red herring prospectus. 
(a)  where the issuer opts not to make the disclosure of the price band or floor price in the 
red-herring  prospectus,  the  following  shall  also  be  disclosed  in  the  red-herring 
prospectus: 
(i) 

a  statement  that  the  floor  price  or  price  band,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  be 
disclosed at least two working days (in case of an initial public offer) and at least 
one working day (in case of a further public offer) before the opening of the bid; 
a  statement  that  the  investors  may  be  guided  in  the  meantime  by  the  secondary 
market  prices  (in  case  of  a  further  public  offer);names  and  editions  of  the 
newspapers  where  the  announcement  of  the  floor  price  or  price  band  would  be 
made; 

(ii) 

(iii)  names  of  websites  (with  address),  journals  or  other  media  in  which  the  said 

announcement will be made. 

(b) 

 Where the issuer decides to opts for price band instead of floor price, the issuer shall  
also ensure compliance with the following conditions: 

                                                           
300  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 01.01.2016. 
301  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 01.01.2016. Prior to its substitution, sub-item (b) read as under : 
"(b)  The  stock  brokers  and  Self-Certified  Syndicate  Bank  accepting  applications  and  application  monies  shall  be 
deemed as 'bidding/collection centres'." 
302  Substituted  for  "book  runners/syndicate  members/stock  brokers/Self-Certified  Syndicate  Banks  a"  by  the  SEBI 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.01.2016. 

Page 186 of 255 

 

(i)  The cap of the price band should not be more than 20% of the floor of the band; 
i.e  cap  of  the  price  band  shall  be  less  than  or  equal  to  120%  of  the  floor  of  the 
price band; 

(ii)  The  price  band  can  be  revised  during  the  bidding  period  in  which  case  the 
maximum revision on either side shall not exceed 20% i.e floor of price band can 
move up or down to the extent of 20% of floor of the price band disclosed in the 
red  herring  prospectus  and  the  cap  of  the  revised  price  band  will  be  fixed  in 
accordance with clause (i) above; 

(iii)  Any  revision  in  the  price  band  shall  be  widely  disseminated  by  informing  the 
stock  exchanges,  by  issuing  press  release  and  also  indicating  the  change  on  the 
relevant website and the terminals of the syndicate members. 
In  case  the  price  band  is  revised,  the  bidding  period  shall  be  extended  as  per 
provisions of sub–regulation (2) of regulation 46. 

(iv) 

(v)  The  manner  in  which  the  shortfall,  if  any,  in  the  project  financing,  arising  on 
account  of  lowering  of  price  band  to  the  extent  of  20%  will  be  met  shall  be 
disclosed  in  the  red  herring  prospectus.  It  shall  also  be  disclosed  that  the 
allotment shall not be made unless the financing is tied up. 

 
303[(9)  The  manner  and  contents  of  Application-cum-Bidding  Form  and  Revision  Application-
cum-Bidding  Form  (accompanied  with  abridged  prospectus)  shall  be  as  specified  by  the 
Board through Circular.]  

 
(10)  Anchor investors 304[***]. 

                                                           
303 Substituted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f 
01.11.2011. Prior to its substitution, item (9) read as under: 
“(9)    Application-cum-Bidding form. 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 
(e) 
(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

The issuer shall provide the application-cum-bidding forms to the syndicate members and Self Certified 
Syndicate Banks.  
The  issuer  shall  make  arrangement  for  collection  of  the  applications-cum-bidding  from  mandatory 
collection centres as provided in sub-regulation (6) of regulation 5. 
For the purpose of ‘bidding’ the document should be printed and circulated as "Red Herring Prospectus'" 
The same nomenclature shall be used throughout the document. 
Under "Red Herring Prospectus", add "Please read Section 60B of the Companies Act, 1956. 
‘Bid ‘ should be defined as ‘indication to make an offer and not as ‘an offer’ 
State the manner of bidding by corporate bodies and submission/deposit of supporting documents at the 
time  of  bidding.  In  the  case  of  bids/  applications  by  HUF,  state  the  manner  of  making  application  and 
that HUF would be considered as 'individual'. 
Ensure that the application-cum-bidding form meant for Applications Supported by Blocked Amount or 
otherwise,  provides  for  all  the  relevant  information  including  the  one  specified  in  this  regard  in  the 
relevant Acts/ Regulations.  
The  application-cum-bidding  form,  other  than  the  form  meant  for  Applications  Supported  by  Blocked 
Amount, shall satisfy the following conditions: 
(i) 
(ii) 

the bidding form shall be standard to ensure uniformity in bidding and accuracy; 
the  bidding  form  shall  contain  information  about  the  investor,  the  price  and  the  number  of 
securities that the investor wishes to bid; 

(iii)  before being issued to the investors the bidding form shall be serially numbered and date and time 

(iv) 
(v) 

stamped at the bidding centres; 
the serial number may be system generated or stamped with an automatic numbering machine; 
the  bidding  form  shall  be  issued  in  duplicate  signed  by  the  investor  and  countersigned  by  the 
syndicate member, with one form for the investor and the other for the syndicate member(s)/book 
runner(s); 

(i) 

The application-cum-bidding form for Applications Supported by Blocked Amount shall contain all the 
relevant details and shall be uniform for all ASBA investors.” 

304  The  bracket  and  the  words  “(not  applicable  in  case  of  an  IDR  issue)”  omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 11.12.2009. 

Page 187 of 255 

 

(a)  An  Anchor  Investor  shall  make  an  application  of  a  value  of  at  least  Rs.  10  crore  in  the 

public issue. 

305[(b)  Allocation  to  Anchor  Investors  shall  be  on  a  discretionary  basis  and  subject  to  the 

following:-  

(i)  Maximum  of  2  such  investors  shall  be  permitted  for  allocation  upto  Rs.  10 
crore; 
(ii)  Minimum  of  2  and  maximum  of  15  such  investors  shall  be  permitted  for 
allocation  above  Rs,  10  crore  and  upto  Rs.  250  crore,  subject  to  minimum 
allotment of Rs. 5 crore per such investor; 

306[(iii) in case of allocation above Rs.250 crore; a minimum of 5 such investors and a 
maximum of 15 such investors for allocation upto Rs.250 crore and an additional 
10  such  investors  for  every  additional  Rs.250  crore  or  part  thereof,  shall  be 
permitted, subject to a minimum allotment of Rs.5 crore per such investor.]] 

 (c)      Upto  307[sixty]  per  cent.  of  the  portion  available  for  allocation  to  qualified  institutional 
buyers    shall be available to anchor investor(s) for allocation/allotment (“anchor investor 
portion”).  

(d)    One-third of the anchor investor portion shall be reserved for domestic mutual funds.   
(e)    The bidding for Anchor Investors shall open one day before the issue opening date.  

308  [(f)      Anchor  Investors  shall  pay  on  application  the  same  margin  which  is  payable  by  other 
categories of investors the balance, if any, shall be paid within two days of the date of 
closure of the issue.]   

(g)      Allocation  to  Anchor  Investors  shall  be  completed  on  the  day  of  bidding  by  Anchor 

Investors 

(h)      If  the  price  fixed  as  a  result  of  book  building  is  higher  than  the  price  at  which  the 
allocation is made to Anchor Investor, the Anchor Investor shall bring in the additional 
amount. However, if the price fixed as a result of book building is lower than the price 
at  which  the  allocation  is  made  to  Anchor  Investor,  the  excess  amount  shall  not  be 
refunded  to  the  Anchor  Investor  and  the  Anchor  Investor  shall  take  allotment  at  the 
price at which allocation was made to it.    

(i)     The number of shares allocated to Anchor Investors and the price at which the allocation 
is  made,  shall  be  made  available  in  public  domain  by  the  merchant  banker  before 
opening of the issue 

(j)     There shall be a lock-in of 30 days on the shares allotted to the Anchor Investor from the 

date of allotment in the public issue. 

(k)    Neither  the  merchant  bankers  nor  any  person  related  to  the  promoter/promoter 
group/merchant bankers in the concerned public issue can apply under Anchor Investor 
category. The parameters for selection of Anchor Investor shall be clearly identified by 

                                                           
305  Substituted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
30.01.2012. Prior to its substitution, clause (b) read as under: 

“(b)  Allocation  to  Anchor  Investors  shall  be  on  a  discretionary  basis  and  subject  to  a  minimum  number  of  2 
such  investors  for  allocation  of  upto  Rs.  250  crore  and  5  such  investors  for  allocation  of  more  than  Rs.  250 
crore.”  

306  Sub-clause  (iii)  substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Sixth  Amendment) 
Regulations,  2015,  w.e.f.  10-09-2015.  Prior  to  its  substitution,  said  sub-clause,  as  amended  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 30-1-2012, read as under : 
"(iii) Minimum of 5 and maximum of 25 such investors shall be permitted for allocation above Rs.250 crore, subject to 
minimum allotment of Rs. 5 crore per such investor." 
307 Substituted for “thirty” by SEBI  (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2014, w.e.f. 25.08.2014. 
308 Substituted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
01.05.2010. Prior to its substitution, clause (f) read as under:  
“(f) Anchor Investors shall pay a margin of at least 25% on application with the balance to be paid within two days of 
the date of closure of the issue.” 

Page 188 of 255 

 

the merchant banker and shall be available as part of records of the merchant banker for 
inspection by the Board.  

(l)    The  applications  made  by  qualified  institutional  buyers  under  the  Anchor  Investor 
category  and  under  the  Non  Anchor  Investor  category  may  not  be  considered  as 
multiple applications. 

 
(11)  Margin Money. 

309[ The margin collected shall be uniform across all categories of investors.]  
310[***.]   

(a) 
(b) 
(c)  An amount to the extent of entire application money as margin money may be collected 

from the applicants before they  place an order on their behalf 

(d)  Amount of margin charged from an investor shall be entered and printed in the TRS. 
(e)  The  payment  accompanied  with  any  revision  of  Bid,  shall  be  adjusted  against  the 

payment made at the time of the original bid or the previously revised bid.  

(f)  Bids for specified securities beyond the investment limit prescribed under relevant laws 
shall  not  be  accepted  by  the  syndicate  members/stock  brokers  from  any  category  of 
clients/ investors. 

(g)  The  stock  brokers  shall  collect  the  money  from  their  client  for  every  order  placed  by 
them  and  in  case  the  clients/investors  fails  to  pay  for  specified  securities  allocated  as 
per these regulations, the stock brokers shall pay such amount; 
 Provided that in case of Applications Supported by Blocked Amount, the Self Certified 
Syndicate Banks shall follow the procedure specified in this regard by the Board.  

 
(12)  Bidding Process 

(a)  Bidding process shall be only through an electronically linked transparent bidding facility 

provided by recognised stock exchange (s).  

(b)  The  lead  book  runner  shall  ensure  the  availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  with 

syndicate members for data entry of the bids in a timely manner. 

(c)  The  syndicate  members  shall  be  present  at  the  bidding  centres  so  that  at  least  one 
electronically  linked  computer  terminal  at  all  the  bidding  centres  is  available  for  the 
purpose of bidding.  

(d)  During  the  period  the  issue  is  open  to  the  public  for  bidding,  the  applicants  may 
approach  the  stock  brokers  of  the  stock  exchange/s  through  which  the  securities  are 
offered under 311[on-line system, Self Certified Syndicate Banks, Registrar to Issue and 
Share  Transfer  Agents  or  Depository  Participants,]  as  the  case  may  be,  to  place  an 
order for bidding for the specified securities.  

(e)  Every  stock  broker  shall  accept  orders  from  all  clients/investors  who  place  orders 
through him and every Self Certified Syndicate Bank 312[, Registrar to Issue and Share 
Transfer  Agents  or  Depository  Participants]  shall  accept  Applications  Supported  by 
Blocked Amount from ASBA investors. 

                                                           
309 Substituted by SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment)  Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
01.05.2010. Prior to its substitution, clause (a) read as under:  
“(a) The  margin collected from categories other than Qualified Institutional Buyers shall be uniform across the book 
runner(s)/syndicate members /Self Certified Syndicate Banks for each such investor category.” 
310  Omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
01.05.2010. Prior to its omission, clause (b) read as under:  
“(b) An amount of not less than ten percent of the application money in respect of bids placed by qualified institutional 
buyers  and  not  less  than  twenty  five  percent  of  the  application  money  from  the  Anchor  investors  shall  be  taken  as 
margin money.” 
311  Substituted  for  "on-line  system  or  Self-Certified  Syndicate  Banks,"  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.01.2016. 
312  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 01.01.2016. 

Page 189 of 255 

 

(f)  Applicants who are qualified institutional buyers shall place their bids only through the 

stock brokers who shall have the right to vet the bids; 

(g)  The  bidding  terminals  shall  contain  an  online  graphical  display  of  demand  and  bid 

prices updated at periodic intervals, not exceeding thirty minutes.  

(h)  At the end of each day of the bidding period, the demand including allocation made to 
anchor  investors,    shall  be  shown  graphically  on  the  bidding  terminals  of  syndicate 
members  and  websites  of  recognised  stock  exchanges  offering  electronically  linked 
transparent bidding facility,  for information of public.  

313[(i)     The retail individual investors may either withdraw or revise their bids until 314[closure 

of the issue].] 

315[(ia)      The  issuer  may  decide  to  close  the  bidding  by  qualified  institutional  buyers  one  day   

prior to the closure of the issue subject to the following conditions: 
(i)  bidding  shall  be  kept  open  for  a  minimum  of  three  days  for  all  categories  of 

applicants; 

(ii) disclosures are made in the red herring prospectus regarding the issuer’s decision to 

close the bidding by qualified institutional buyers one day prior to closure of issue.] 
316[(j)    The  qualified  institutional  buyers  and  the  non-institutional  investors  shall  neither 

withdraw nor lower the size of their bids at any stage.] 

(k)  The  identity  of  qualified  institutional  buyers  making  the  bidding  shall  not  be  made 

public. 

(l)  The  stock  exchanges  shall  continue  to  display  on  their  website,  the  data  pertaining  to 
book  built  issues  in  an  uniform  format,  inter  alia  giving  category-wise  details  of  bids 
received, for a period of atleast three days after closure of bids. Such display shall be as 
per the format specified in Part B of this Schedule.   

 
(13)   Determination of Price. 

(a)  The issuer shall, in consultation with lead book runner,  determine the issue price based 

on the bids received  

(b)  On determination of the price, the number of specified securities to be offered shall be 

determined (i.e. issue size divided by the price to be determined). 

(c)  Once  the  final  price  (cut-off  price)  is  determined,  all  those  bidders  whose  bids  have 
been found to be successful (i.e. at and above the final price or cut-off price) shall be 
entitled for allotment of specified securities. 

(d)  Retail individual investors may bid at "cut off" price instead of their writing the specific 

bid price in the bid forms. 

(e)  The  lead  book  runner  may  reject  a  bid  placed  by  a  qualified  institutional  buyer  for 
reasons to be recorded in writing provided that such rejection shall be made at the time 
of  acceptance  of  the  bid  and  the  reasons  therefor  shall  be  disclosed  to  the  bidders. 
Necessary disclosures in this regard shall also be made in the red herring prospectus. 

 
(14)   Registering of prospectus with Registrar of Companies.  

                                                           
313  Substituted  for  clause  (i)  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. Prior to substitution, clause (i) read as under: 
“(i) The investors may revise their bids;” 
314  Substituted  for  "finalization  of  allotment"  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.01.2016. 
315  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
01.05.2010. 
316  Substituted  for  clause  (j)  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. Prior to substitution, clause (j) read as under: 
“The qualified institutional buyers shall not withdraw their bids after closure of bidding.” 

Page 190 of 255 

 

The  final  prospectus  containing  all  disclosures  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  these 
regulations including the price and the number of specified securities proposed to be issued 
shall be registered with the Registrar of Companies. 

 
(15)  Manner of Allotment/ Allocation. 

(a)  Allotment  to  317[*  *  *]  non-institutional  investors  and  qualified  institutional  buyers 
other  than  anchor  investors  shall  be  made  proportionately  as  illustrated  in  this 
Schedule. 318[The allotment to retail individual investors shall be made as referred to in 
sub-regulation (1A) of regulation 50 of these regulations.] 
In  case  of  under  subscription  in  any  category,  the  undersubscribed  portion  in  that 
category  shall  be  allocated  to  the  bidders  as  per  disclosures  made  in  the  red  herring 
prospectus; 
 Provided  that  the  unsubscribed  portion  in  qualified  institutional  buyer  category  shall 
not be available for subscription to other categories319[* * *]. 

(b) 

(c)  On  receipt  of  the  sum  payable  on  application  for  the  amount  towards  minimum 
subscription, the issuer shall allot the specified securities to the applicants as per these 
regulations. 

(d)  Definition  of  CAN  to  be  modified  to  state  that  it  is  for  ‘allocation  of  shares’  and  not 

‘confirmation of shares 

 
(16)  Application for listing. 

Subject to the provisions of these regulations, the issuer may apply for listing of specified 
securities  on  a  stock  exchange  other  than  the  stock  exchange  through  which  it  offers  its 
specified securities to public through the on-line system. 

 
(17)  Maintenance of Books and Records. 

(a)  A final book of demand showing the result of the allocation process shall be maintained 

by the lead book runner. 

(b)  The  book  runner/s  and  other  intermediaries  associated  in  the  book  building  process 

shall maintain records of the book building prices.   

(c)  The Board shall have the right to inspect the records, books and documents relating to 

the book building process and such person shall extend full co-operation. 

 
(18)  Applicability to fast track issues. 

Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  in  relation  to  fast  track  issues  all  references  in  this 
Schedule  to ‘draft prospectus’ shall be deemed to have been made to ‘red herring prospectus’. 

                                                           
317  The  words  “retail  individual  investors,”  omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. 
318  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012,  w.e.f. 
12.10.2012. 
319 The symbol and words “, in case the book building process is undertaken for the purpose of compliance of eligibility 
conditions  for  public  issue”  omitted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. 

Page 191 of 255 

 

PART B 

 

FORMAT OF BID DATA DISPLAYED ON STOCK EXCHANGE 

 

<NAME OF THE ISSUE> - BID DETAILS 

 

 
(1)  Details of Allocation to Anchor Investors 

S. 
No. 

Name of Anchor 

No. of equity 

Details of Allocation 

Investor  

shares available 
under Anchor 

Investor portion 

No of 
equity 
shares 

No. of equity shares 

allocated as a percentage of 
no. of equity shares under 
Anchor Investor portion 

(a) 

 

 

AI 1 
AI 2 
Total (a) + (b) 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
(2)  Details of Allocation to Investors other than Anchor Investors 

S. 
No. 

 
 

Category of Investor 

No. of equity 

shares 
offered / 
reserved 

 

No of equity 
shares bid 

No of times 
of the total 

for/allocated 

meant for the 

category 

QIBs 

1. 
   (a)  320[foreign portfolio investors] 
 

Domestic  Financial 
Institutions 
(Banks/FIs/Insurance  Companies, 
etc.) 

Non Institutional Investors 

   (b)  Mutual Funds 
   (c)  Others 
2. 
   (a)  Corporates 
   (b)  Individuals (other than RIIs) 
   (c)  Others 
3. 
  (a)     Cut off 
  (b)  Price bids 
4. 
  (a)     Cut off 
  (b)   Price bids  

Reservation categories, if any  

Retail Individual Investors (RIIs) 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Notes: 
(1)  The graph should have the title “Graphical display of bids received”. 
(2)  A statement to the effect that the position indicated above is only bids position and does not 

necessarily convey the subscription to the issue.  

(3)  Statement as to how the multiple bids are accounted for in the data and graph. 
(4)  Time of updation. 
(5)  Additional comments, if any. 

                                                           
320 Substituted for "FIIs" by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 7-1-2014.  

Page 192 of 255 

 

ILLUSTRATION REGARDING ALLOTMENT TO QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYERS 

321[PART C 

OTHER THAN ANCHOR INVESTORS 

 

(1) 

Issue Details  
 
Sr. 
No. 
1 

Particulars 

Issue size 

2 

3 

 
   a. 

   
b. 
4 

 
   a. 

   
b. 
5 
6 

Portion available to QIBs*  

Anchor Investor Portion 

Of which 
 Reservation to MF (1/3rd) 

Balance for all QIBs including MFs 

Portion  available  to  QIBs*  other  than  anchor  investors 
[(2) – (3)] 
Of which 
 Reservation to MF (5%) 

Balance for all QIBs including MFs 

No. of QIB applicants 
No. of shares applied for 

Issue details 

200  crore  equity 
shares 
100  crore  equity 
shares 
60  crore  equity 
shares 
 
20  crore  equity 
shares 
40    crore  equity 
shares 
40  crore  equity 
shares 
  
2    crore  equity 
shares 
38    crore  equity 
shares 
10 
500  crore  equity 
shares 

  * Where 50% of the issue size is required to be allotted to QIBs. 
 

(2)  Details of QIB Bids 

 

S. 
No. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
  

Type of QIB bidders 

A1 
A2 
A3 
A4 
A5 
MF1 
MF2 
MF3 
MF4 
MF5 
TOTAL 

A1-A5           (QIB bidders other than MFs) 
MF1-MF5     (QIB bidders which are MFs) 

No.  of  shares  bid 
for (in crores) 
50 
20 
130 
50 
50 
40 
40 
80 
20 
20 
500 

                                                           
321  Substituted  for  an  earlier  table  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirement)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 25.08.2014. 

Page 193 of 255 

 

 

(3)  Details of Allotment to QIB Bidders/Applicants 

Allocation  of  2 
crores 
equity 
shares  to  MFs 
proportionately 
(See Note 2) 

                                                                   (No. of equity shares in crores) 
Allocation 
of 
Type 
balance 
38 
of  QIB 
crores 
bidders 
equity 
shares  to  QIBs  
proportionately 
(See Note 4) 
3.82 
1.53 
9.92 
3.82 
3.82 
3.02 
3.02 
6.04 
1.51 
1.51 
38 

0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0.4 
0.4 
0.8 
0.2 
0.2 
2 

Equity 
shares 
bid 
for 

50 
20 
130 
50 
50 
40 
40 
80 
20 
20 
500 

A1 
A2 
A3 
A4 
A5 
MF1 
MF2 
MF3 
MF4 
MF5 
 
Notes: 

Aggregate 
allocation 
to MFs 

3.82 
1.53 
9.92 
3.82 
3.82 
3.42 
3.42 
6.84 
1.71 
1.71 
40.00 

(1)  The  illustration  presumes  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  regulation  50(1)  pertaining  to 

minimum allotment. 

(2)  Out of 40 crore equity shares allocated to QIBs, 2 crore shares (i.e. 5%) will be allocated on 
proportionate basis among 5 mutual fund applicants who applied for 200 crore shares in QIB 
category. 

(3)  The  balance  38  crore  equity  shares  [i.e.  40  –  2  (available  for  MFs)]  will  be  allocated  on 
proportionate basis among 10 QIB applicants who applied for 500 crore shares (including 5 
MF applicants who applied for 200 crore shares). 
(4)  The figures at Col. No. IV are arrived as under :  

For QIBs other than mutual funds (A1 to A5) = No. of shares bid for (i.e Col II) X   38 
/ 498 
For mutual funds (MF1 to MF5) = {(No. of shares bid for (i.e Col. II) less No. of shares 
allotted (i.e., col. III )} X 38 / 498  
The numerator and denominator for arriving at allocation of 38 crore shares to the 10 
QIBs are reduced by 2 crore shares, which have already been allotted to mutual funds 
at Col. No. (III). ] 

a. 

b. 

c. 

 

Page 194 of 255 

 

 

322[PART D 

Alternate method of book building 

In case of further public offers, the issuer may opt for an alternate method of book building, as 
given in this part subject to the following: 

 

(a)  Issuer  shall  follow  the  procedure  laid  down  in  Part  A  of  this  Schedule  except  clause  (13) 

and clause (15) (a) thereof. 

 323[(b) The issuer may mention the floor price in the red herring prospectus or if the floor price is 
not mentioned in the red herring prospectus, the issuer shall announce the floor price at least 
one  working  day  before  opening  of  the  bid  in  all  the  newspapers  in  which  the  pre-issue 
advertisement was released.] 

324[(c) Qualified institutional buyers shall bid at any price above the floor price.] 

 (d) The bidder who bids at the highest price shall be allotted the number of securities that he has 
bided for and then the bidder who has bided at the second highest price and so on, until all 
the specified securities on offer are exhausted.  

325[(e)   Allotment shall be on price priority basis for qualified institutional buyers.]  
326[(f)    Allotment  to  retail  individual  investors,  non-institutional  investors  and  employees  of  the 

issuer shall be made proportionately as illustrated in this Schedule.]     

    (g) Where, however the number of specified securities bided for at a price is more than available 

quantity, then allotment shall be done on proportionate basis.  

327[(h)  Retail  individual  investors,  non-institutional  investors  and  employees  shall  be  allotted 

specified securities at the floor price subject to provisions of clause (d) of regulation 29.] 

328[(i)   The issuer may:- 

(A) place a cap either in terms of number of specified securities or percentage of 

issued capital of the issuer that may be allotted to a single bidder; 

(B) decide whether a bidder be allowed to revise the bid upwards or downwards in 

terms of price and/or quantity; 

(C) decide whether a bidder be allowed single or multiple bids.]] 

                                                           
322  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009,  w.e.f. 
11.12.2009. 
323 Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2010, 
w.e.f. 08.01.2010. Prior to its substitution, clause (b) read as under: 
“(b) The issuer shall disclose a floor price in the red herring prospectus.”  
324 Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2010, 
w.e.f. 08.01.2010. Prior to its substitution, clause (c) read as under: 
 “(c) Investors other than retail individual investors shall bid at any price above the floor price.”  
325 Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2010, 
w.e.f. 08.01.2010. Prior to its substitution, clause (e) read as under: 
“(e) Allotment shall be on price priority basis for investors other than retail individual investors.”  
326 Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2010, 
w.e.f. 08.01.2010. Prior to its substitution, clause (f) read as under: 
 “(f) Allotment to retail individual investors shall be made proportionately as illustrated in this Schedule.”  
327 Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2010, 
w.e.f. 08.01.2010. Prior to its substitution, clause (h) read as under: 
 “(h) Retail individual investors shall be allotted specified securities at the floor price.”  
328 Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2010, 
w.e.f. 08.01.2010. Prior to its substitution, clause (i) read as under:  
“(i) The issuer may place a cap either in terms of number of specified securities or percentage of issued capital of the 
issuer that may be allotted to a single bidder.” 

Page 195 of 255 

 

SECURITIES  AND  EXCHANGE  BOARD  OF  INDIA  (ISSUE  OF  CAPITAL  AND 
DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE XII 

[See regulation 45(10)] 

 

FORMAT OF REPORT FOR GREEN SHOE OPTION 

Issue size (No. of equity shares) : 
Issue opened on : 
Issue closed on : 

 
The report for Green Shoe Option shall be filed in the following format:- 
(1)  Name of the issuer: 
(2)  Name of the Stabilising Agent (Registration No. as merchant banker with SEBI): 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6)  Over-allotment in issue (%): 
(7)  Date of commencement of trading : 
(8)  Amount in the ‘Green Shoe Option Bank Account’ (in rupees) : 
(9)  Details of promoter(s) from whom shares borrowed (Name & Number of shares borrowed): 
(10)  Date on which the stabilisation period ended : 
(11)  Number of shares bought during the stabilization period : 
(12)  Date on which issuer allotted further shares to the extent of shortfall: 
(13)  Date  when  the  shares  in  the  Green  Shoe  Option  Demat  Account  were  returned  to  the 

promoter(s): 

(14)  Date when the money in the Green Shoe Option Bank Account was remitted to the issuer: 
(15)  Details of the Depository account (Special account for Green Shoe Option securities) where 

shares purchased from the market were kept inter-alia the following: 
(a)  Depository Participant 
(b)  Account No. 
(c)  Number of shares purchased, date wise. 
(d)  Number of shares taken out, date wise. 

(16)  Details  of  amount  transferred  to  the  Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund  established  by 

the Board. 

 
Amount (in rupees) 
 

 

 
Place:                            
Date: 
 
 
 
 

Cheque/Pay Order details 
 

 

 

   Stabilising Agent with Official Seal 

Page 196 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE XIII 

FORMATS OF ADVERTISEMENTS FOR PUBLIC ISSUE 

 

PART A 

[See regulations 47(2), 60(7)(m) and 60(7)(n)] 

 

FORMAT OF PRE-ISSUE ADVERTISEMENT FOR PUBLIC ISSUE 

(FIXED PRICE / BOOKBUILT) 

 
          This is only an advertisement for information purposes and not a prospectus announcement. 
 

ABC LTD.(name of the  issuer) 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the ------- Act as _____________________ and 

subsequently renamed as _____________( if applicable)__________ on ________________) 

Registered Office: __________________________________ Tel: 

_______________ Fax ______________ 

Corporate Office: 

_________________________________________________________________ 

Tel: _________ Fax: _______ e-mail: ______ Website: 

 

THE ISSUE 

Public issue of ___________ ( give nature of specified securities)  of Rs. ____ each at a price of 
Rs._____ ( Floor price or price band or as the case may be in case of  book built issue) for cash 

aggregating Rs._________ (appropriate  disclosure for book built issue) 

 

Disclosure with respect to face value of shares as per sub-regulation (2) of regulation 31 

(The disclosure about details of allocation shall be given in case of book built issues on these lines) 

 

The  issue  is  being  made  through  the  book  building  process  wherein  at  least____  %  shall  be 
allocated  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  including  upto  ___%  of  the  issue  to  anchor  investors. 
Further,  not  less  than  ___%  of  the  issue  shall  be  available  for  allocation  to  non-institutional 
investors and the remaining ____% of the issue shall be available for allocation to retail individual 
investors  as  per  the  allotment  procedure  specified  in  the  Regulations,  subject  to  valid  bids  being 
received at or above the issue price. 
 

 

PROMOTERS 

[__XYZ__] 

 

PROPOSED LISTING 

Names of Stock Exchanges 

 

Disclaimer Clause of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 

“SEBI only gives its observations on the offer documents and this does not constitute approval of 
either the issue or the specified securities the offer document.” 
LEAD MERCHANT BANKERS / BOOK RUNNING LEAD MERCHANT BANKERS / CO-

BOOK RUNNING LEAD MERCHANT BANKERS (as the case may be) 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF THE ISSUER 

 

Page 197 of 255 

 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address 

CREDIT RATING (only if applicable)  

 

 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES (if applicable)  

IPO GRADING 329[(if applicable)] 

 

 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS 

Names of issuer, lead merchant bankers, book runners, syndicate members, stock brokers and 
bankers to the issue, Self Certified Syndicate Banks 330[, Registrar to Issue and Share Transfer 

Agents, Depository Participants] (as the case may be) (Addresses optional). 

 
Application  Supported  by  Blocked  Amount  forms  shall  be  available  with  designated  branches  of 
Self Certified Syndicate Banks, the list of which is available at websites of the stock exchanges and 
Board. 

AVAILABILITY OF PROSPECTUS 

 

Investors  are  advised  to  refer  to  the  prospectus,  and  the  risk  factors  contained  therein,  before 
applying in the issue. Full copy of the prospectus is available at www.sebi.gov.in and websites of 
issuer / lead merchant banker/s / stock exchange/s at www…… 

 

ISSUE / BID OPENS ON: 
ISSUE / BID CLOSES ON: 

 

Issued by 
Directors of Issuer 

                                                           
329  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 04.02.2014. 
330  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 01.01.2016. 

Page 198 of 255 

 

[See regulations 48, 60(7)(m) and 60(7)(n)] 

PART B 

 

FORMAT OF ISSUE OPENING ADVERTISEMENT FOR PUBLIC ISSUE 

(FIXED PRICE / BOOKBUILT) 

This is only an advertisement for information purposes and not a prospectus announcement. 

 

 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Companies Act as 

__________________________ and subsequently renamed _______________________ on 

ABC LTD.  (name of issuer) 

Registered Office: __________________________________ Tel: _______________ Fax 

________________) 

______________ 

Corporate Office: _________________________________________________________________ 

Tel: _________ Fax: _______ e-mail: ______ Website: _____________________________ 

 

THE ISSUE 

Public issue of ___________ equity shares / debentures (if applicable) of Rs. ___ each at a price of 
Rs._____ (Floor price or price band or as the case may be for book built issue) for cash aggregating 
Rs._________  (appropriate disclosure for book built issue) 
 

Disclosure with respect to face value of shares as per sub-regulation (2) of regulation 31 

(The disclosure about details of allocation shall be made in case of book built issues in these lines) 
 
The  issue  is  being  made  through  the  book  building  process  wherein  at  least____  %  shall  be 
allocated  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  including  upto  ___%  of  the  issue  to  anchor  investors. 
Further,  not  less  than  ___%  of  the  issue  shall  be  available  for  allocation  to  non-institutional 
investors and the remaining ____% of the issue shall be available for allocation to retail individual 
investors  as  per  the  allotment  procedure  specified  in  the  Regulations,  subject  to  valid  bids  being 
received at or above the issue price.  
 

PROMOTERS 

[__XYZ__] 

 

PROPOSED LISTING 

Names of Stock Exchanges 

 

Disclaimer Clause of Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) 

“SEBI only gives its observations on the offer documents and this does not constitute approval of 
either the issue or the offer document.” 
 
LEAD MERCHANT BANKERS / BOOK RUNNING LEAD MERCHANT BANKERS / CO-

BOOK RUNNING LEAD MERCHANT BANKERS (as the case may be) 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, e-mail ID, website address and contact person 

 

 

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF ISSUER 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, e-mail ID, website address 

CREDIT RATING (only if applicable) 

 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES (only if applicable) 

Page 199 of 255 

 

IPO GRADING  331[(if applicable)] 

 

 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS 

Names of Issuer, lead merchant bankers, book runners and bankers to the issue, Self Certified 
Syndicate Banks 332[, Stock Brokers, Registrar to Issue and Share Transfer Agents, Depository 

Participants] (as the case may be) (Addresses optional) 

 

AVAILABILITY OF PROSPECTUS 

Investors  are  advised  to  refer  to  the  prospectus,  and  the  risk  factors  contained  therein,  before 
applying in the issue. Full copy of the prospectus is available at  www.sebi.gov.in and websites of 
issuer / lead merchant banker/s / Stock Exchange/s at www…… 
 

 

                                                          

ISSUE / BID OPENS TODAY 

 

 

 

                                                                                                  Issued by 
Directors of Issuer 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
331  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 04.02.2014. 
332  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 01.01.2016. 

Page 200 of 255 

 

PART C 

[See regulation 48, 60(7)(m) and 60(7)(n)] 

 

FORMAT OF ISSUE CLOSING ADVERTISEMENT FOR PUBLIC ISSUE 

(FIXED PRICE / BOOKBUILT) 

 

This is only an advertisement for information purposes and not a prospectus announcement. 

 

ABC LTD. (name of issuer) 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Companies Act as 

__________________________ and subsequently renamed _______________________ on 

Registered Office: __________________________________ Tel: _______________ Fax 

________________) 

______________ 

Corporate Office: _________________________________________________________________ 

Tel: _________ Fax: _______ e-mail: ______ Website: _____________________________ 

 

THE ISSUE 

Public issue of ___________ equity shares (if applicable) of Rs. ____ each at a price of Rs._____ 

(Floor price or price band or as the case may be for Book built issue)   for cash aggregating 

Rs._________  (appropriate disclosure for Book Built issue) 

 

 

Disclosure with respect to face value of shares  as per sub-regulation (2) of regulation 31 

[The disclosure about details of allocation shall be made in case of book built issues in these lines]. 
 
The  issue  is  being  made  through  the  book  building  process  wherein  at  least____  %  shall  be 
allocated  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  including  upto  ___%  of  the  issue  to  anchor  investors. 
Further,  not  less  than  ___%  of  the  issue  shall  be  available  for  allocation  to  non-institutional 
investors and the remaining ____% of the issue shall be available for allocation to retail individual 
investors  as  per  the  allotment  procedure  specified  in  the  Regulations,  subject  to  valid  bids  being 
received at or above the issue price.  

 

PROMOTERS 

[__XYZ__] 

 

PROPOSED LISTING 

Names of Stock Exchanges 

 

Disclaimer Clause of Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) 

“SEBI only gives its observations on the offer documents and this does not constitute approval of 
either the issue or the offer document.” 
 
LEAD MERCHANT BANKERS / LEAD BOOK RUNNERS / CO-BOOK RUNNERS (as the 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

case may be) 

 

 

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF ISSUER 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address 

CREDIT RATING (only if applicable) 

 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES (only if applicable) 

Page 201 of 255 

 

IPO GRADING 333[ (if applicable) ] 

 

 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS 

Names of Issuer, Lead Merchant bankers, book runners, Bankers to the issue, Self Certified 

Syndicate Banks 334[, Stock Brokers, Registrar to Issue and Share Transfer Agents, Depository 

Participants] (as the case may be) (Addresses optional) 

AVAILABILITY OF PROSPECTUS 

 

Investors  are  advised  to  refer  to  the  prospectus,  and  the  risk  factors  contained  therein,  before 
applying in the issue. Full copy  of the prospectus is available at www.sebi.gov.in and websites of 
issuer / lead merchant banker/s / Stock Exchange/s at www…… 
 

ISSUE / BID CLOSES TODAY 

                                
                

 

                                                                       Issued by 
Directors of Issuer 

                                                           
333  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 04.02.2014.  
334  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 01.01.2016. 

Page 202 of 255 

 

 

335[Part D 

[See regulation 60(14)] 

COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE IN RESPECT OF NEWS REPORTS  

Sl. 
No
. 

report 

News 
details 
(Newspaper, 
date, etc.) 

Subject 
Matter 

Whether  contents  of 
the  news  report  are 
supported 
by 
disclosures 
the 
in 
offer document 

If yes, page  numbers in 
the draft offer document 
where 
the  disclosures 
are made 

If no,  
action 
taken by 
the 
merchant 
bankers 

                                                              Yes/No 

 
 

                                                           
335 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 
12.11.2010. 

Page 203 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

336[Schedule XIV 

[See regulation 49 (2)] 

 

ILLUSTRATION EXPLAINING MINIMUM APPLICATION SIZE 

 
For inviting applications in multiples of the minimum value as referred to in sub-regulation (2) of 
regulation 49, the procedure is clarified by following example: 
 
Assuming an issue is being made at a price of Rs. 900 per equity share. In this case, the issuer in 
consultation with the lead merchant banker can determine the minimum application lot within the 
range  of  12  –  16  equity  shares  (in  value  terms  between  Rs.10,000-  Rs.15,000),  as  explained 
hereunder: 
 

Options   

Lot Size @ Rs.900/- per share  
Application / Bid amount for 1 lots  
Application / Bid amount for 2 lots  
Application / Bid amount for 4 lots  
Application / Bid amount for 8 lots  
Application / Bid amount for 16 lots 
Application / Bid amount for 18 lots  

I 
12 
shares 

10800 
21600 
43200 
86400 
172800 
194400 

II 
13 
shares 

11700 
23400 
46800 
93600 
187200 
-- 

III 
14 
shares 

12600 
25200 
50400 
100800 
-- 
-- 

IV 
15 
shares 

13500 
27000 
54000 
108000 
-- 
-- 

V 
16 
shares 

14400 
28800 
57600 
115200 
-- 
-- 

 
The options given above are only illustrative and not exhaustive. 
 

                                                           
336  Substituted  for  Schedule  XIV  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. Prior to substitution, Schedule XIV read as under:  
SCHEDULE XIV 
[See regulation 49(2)] 
 
ILLUSTRATION EXPLAINING MINIMUM APPLICATION SIZE 
 
For  inviting  applications  in  multiples  of  the  minimum  value  as  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  49,  the 
procedure is clarified by following example:  
 
Assuming an issue is being made at a price of Rs.390 per equity share. In this case, the issuer in consultation with the 
lead merchant banker can determine the  minimum application lot  within the range of 13  – 17 equity shares (in  value 
terms between Rs.5000- Rs.7000), as explained hereunder: 

Options 

 

I 

II 

III 

IV 

V 

Lot Size @ Rs.390/- per share 

13 shares 

14 shares 

15 shares 

16 shares 

17 shares 

Application / Bid amount for 1 lots 

Application / Bid amount for 2 lots 

Application / Bid amount for 4 lots 

Application / Bid amount for 8 lots 

Application / Bid amount for 9 lots 

5070 

10140 

20280 

40560 

45630 

5469 

10920 

21840 

43680 

49140 

5850 

11700 

23400 

46800 

--- 

6240 

12480 

24960 

49920 

--- 

6630 

13260 

26520 

--- 

-- 

 
The options given above are only illustrative and not exhaustive. 
Where the issuer in consultation with the lead  merchant banker decides to fix the minimum application / bid size as 14 
(Option  II),  necessary    disclosures    to  the  effect  that  the  applicant  can  make  an  application  for  14  shares  and  in 
multiples thereof shall be made in the offer document. 

Page 204 of 255 

 

Where  the  issuer  in  consultation  with  the  lead  merchant  banker  decides  to  fix  the  minimum 
application  /  bid  size  as 14  (Option  III),  necessary  disclosures  to  the  effect  that  the  applicant  can 
make an application for 14 shares and in multiples thereof shall be made in the offer document.] 

Page 205 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

337[Schedule XV 

[See regulation 50 (2), 106 and Schedule XI] 

 

ILLUSTRATION EXPLAINING PROCEDURE OF ALLOTMENT 

 
A. 
(1) Total no. of specified securities on offer@ Rs. 600 per share: 1 crore specified securities. 
 
(2)  Specified  securities  on  offer  for  retail  individual  investors’  category:  35  lakh  specified 
securities. 
 
(3)  The  issue  is  over-subscribed  2.5  times  whereas  the  retail  individual  investors’  category  is 
oversubscribed 4 times. 
 
(4)  Issuer  decides  to  fix  the  minimum  application  /  bid  size  as  20  specified  securities  (falling 
within the range of Rs. 10,000 - 15,000). Application can be made for a minimum of 20 specified 
securities and in multiples thereof. 
 

                                                           
337  Substituted  for  Schedule  XV  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 12.10.2012. Prior to substitution, Schedule XV read as under: 
“SCHEDULE XV 
[See regulations 50(2), 106 and Schedule XI] 
 
ILLUSTRATION EXPLAINING PROCEDURE OF ALLOTMENT 
 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 

Total no. of specified securities on offer@ Rs. 600 per share: 10 crore specified securities  
Specified securities on offer for retail individual investors’ category: 2.5 crore specified securities 
The    issue  is  over  subscribed  4  times  whereas  the  retail  individual  investors’  category  is  over  subscribed  8.25  
times 
Issuer decides to fix the minimum application / bid size as 9 specified securities (falling within the range of Rs. 
5000 - 7000). Application can be made for a minimum of 9 specified securities and in multiples thereof.  
Assume  there  are  three  retail  individual  investors  A,  B  &  C.  A  has  applied  for  81  specified  securities.  B  has 
applied for 72 specified securities and C has applied for 45 specified securities. As per allotment procedure, the 
allotment  to  retail  individual  investors  shall  be  on  proportionate  basis  i.e.,  at  1/8.25th  of  the  total  number  of 
specified securities applied for. The actual entitlement shall be as follows: 

(4) 

(5) 

 

 

Sr. 
No. 

Name 
Investor 

of 

1 

2 

3 

A 

B 

C 

Number 

of  
securities  

Total 
specified 
applied for 
81 

72 

45 

Total number of  specified securities eligible to be allotted   
No. of  specified securities  applied for / 8.25) 

81/8.25 = 9.82 specified securities    rounded off to 10 specified 
securities. 
72/8.25  =  8.73  specified  securities  rounded  off  to  9  specified 
securities (i.e. minimum application size).  
45/8.25=5.45 specified securities. 
Application  liable  to  be  rejected.  (as  the  entitlement  is  less  than 
the minimum application size).  
 
However,  the  successful  applicants  out  of  the  total  applicants 
shall be determined by drawal of lots.  

Note: For the purpose of IDR, minimum application size shall be twenty thousand rupees.”   

Page 206 of 255 

 

(5) Assume that a total of one lakh retail individual investors have applied in the issue, in varying 
number of bid lots i.e. between 1 – 16 bid lots, based on the maximum application size of upto Rs. 
2,00,000. 
 
(6) Out of the one lakh investors, there  are  five retail  individual investors A, B, C, D and E  who 
have applied as follows: A has applied for 320 specified securities. B has applied for 220 specified 
securities. C has applied for 120 specified securities. D has applied for 60 specified securities and E 
has applied for 20 specified securities.  
 
(7) As per allotment procedure, the allotment to retail individual investors shall not be less than the 
minimum bid lot, subject to availability of shares, and the remaining available shares, if any, shall 
be allotted on a proportionate basis. 
 
The actual entitlement shall be as follows: 
 

Sr. No.  Name  of 

Investor 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

A 

B 

C 

D 

E 

Total  Number  of 
specified 
securities  applied 
for 

320 

Total  number  of  specified  securities  eligible  to  be 
allotted 
 

20 specified securities (i.e. the minimum bid lot) + 38 
specified securities [{35,00,000 - (1,00,000 * 20)} / 
{140,00,000 - (1,00,000 * 20)}] * 300 (i.e. 320-20) 

220 

20 specified securities (i.e. the minimum bid lot) + 25 

specified securities [{35,00,000 - (1,00,000 * 20) / 
{140,00,000 - (1,00,000 * 20)}] * 200 (i.e. 220-20) 

20 specified securities (i.e. the minimum bid lot) + 13 
specified securities [{35,00,000 - (1,00,000 * 20)} / 
{(140,00,000 - (1,00,000 * 20)}] * 100 (i.e. 120-20) 
20 specified securities (i.e. the minimum bid lot) + 5 
specified securities [{(35,00,000 - 1,00,000 * 20)} / 
{(140,00,000 - (1,00,000 * 20)}] * 40 (i.e. 60-20) 
20 specified securities (i.e. the minimum bid lot) 

120 

60 

20 

 
 
B. 
(1) Total no. of specified securities on offer @ Rs. 600 per share: 1 crore specified securities. 
 
(2)  Specified  securities  on  offer  for  retail  individual  investors’  category:  35  lakh  specified 
securities. 
 
(3)  The  issue  is  over  subscribed  7  times  whereas  the  retail  individual  investors’  category  is  over 
subscribed 9.37 times. 
 
(4) Issuer decides to fix the minimum application / bid size as 20 specified securities (falling within 
the  range  of  Rs.  10,000  -  15,000).  Application  can  be  made  for  a  minimum  of  20  specified 
securities and in multiples thereof. 
 
(5) Assume that a total of two lakh retail individual investors have applied in the issue, in varying 
number of bid lots i.e. between 1 – 16 bid lots, based on the maximum application size of upto Rs. 
2,00,000, as per the table shown below. 
 

Page 207 of 255 

 

(6) As per allotment procedure, the allotment to retail individual investors shall not be less than the 
minimum bid lot, subject to availability of shares. 
 
(7)  Since  the  total  number  of  shares  on  offer  to  retail  individual  investors  is  35,00,000  and  the 
minimum bid lot is 20 shares, the maximum no. of investors who can be allotted this minimum bid 
lot will be 1,75,000. In other words, 1,75,000 retail applicants will get the minimum bid lot and the 
remaining 25,000 retail applicants will not get allotment.  
 
The details of allotment shall be as follows: 

No. 
of 
Lots 

No. of 
Shares at 
each lot 

No. of retail 
Investors 
applying at each 
lot 

Total No. of 
Shares applied 
for at each lot 

No. of investors who shall receive 
minimum bid-lot (to be selected 
on lottery) 

A 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 

B 
20 
40 
60 
80 
100 
120 
140 
160 
180 
200 
220 
240 
260 
280 
300 
320 

C 

10,000 
10,000 
10,000 
10,000 
20,000 
20,000 
15,000 
20,000 
10,000 
15,000 
10,000 
10,000 
10,000 
5,000 
15,000 
10,000 

D=(B*C) 
2,00,000 
4,00,000 
6,00,000 
8,00,000 
20,00,000 
24,00,000 
21,00,000 
32,00,000 
18,00,000 
30,00,000 
22,00,000 
24,00,000 
26,00,000 
14,00,000 
45,00,000 
32,00,000 

E 

8,750 =(1,75,000/2,00,000)*10,000 

8,750 
8,750 
8,750 
17,500 
17,500 
13,125 
17,500 
8,750 
13,125 
8,750 
8,750 
8,750 
4,375 
13,125 
8,750 

Total 

2,00,000 

328,00,000 

1,75,000 

 

 

Note: For the purpose of IDR, minimum application size shall be twenty thousand rupees.] 

 

Page 208 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE XVI 

FORMATS OF POST ISSUE REPORTS 

 

PART A 

338[*******] 

 

 

 

                                                           
338  Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 01.01.2016. 

Page 209 of 255 

 

PART B 

[See regulations 65(2)(a) and 104(2)(a)] 

 

FORMAT OF INITIAL POST ISSUE REPORT FOR RIGHTS ISSUE 

Subscription Status: (Subscribed / Undersubscribed) 

Note: It is the responsibility of lead merchant banker to give correct information after verifying it from 
the issuer and the registrar to the issue. 
(1)  Name of the issuer 
(2) 
Issue opening date 
(3)  Actual closing date  
(4)  Date of filing letter of offer with the stock exchange 
(5) 

Issue details (as per the letter of offer) 
(a)  Basis of offer (ratio) 
: 
(b)  Nature of specified securities  
:      (equity  shares/fully  convertible  debentures/partly 

: 
: 
: 

: 

: 

 

convertible debentures, etc.)         

(c)  Offer price per instrument  
: 
(d)  Amt. per instrument on application 
(e) 

:  Rs. lakhs 

 Issue size  

(6)  Record date 
(7)  Provisional subscription details of the issue 

:    

: 

: 

(a)  Total amount to be collected on application    : Rs. lakhs  
(b)  Amount collected on application                     : Rs. lakhs 
(c)  % subscribed i.e. % of (ii) to (i)                       :  (%) 
(d)  Please tick mark whether 90% minimum subscription collected : (i) YES  (ii) NO  

 

 
 
Signed by 
Registrars to the Issue  
Place:                                                                                                   
Date: 
 

Signed by  
Issuer   

 
 

 
 

 

Signed by 
Lead merchant banker 

 

 

Page 210 of 255 

 

PART C 

[See regulations 339[65(1)] and 104(2)(b)] 

 

FORMAT OF FINAL POST ISSUE REPORT FOR PUBLIC ISSUE 

Subscription Status: (Subscribed / Undersubscribed) 

Notes: 
(1) 

It  is  the  responsibility  of  lead  merchant  banker  to  give  correct  information  after  verifying  the 
facts from the issuer and the registrar to the issue. 

(2)  The lead merchant banker shall enclose a certificate from the refund banker that the amount of 
refund due from the issuer to investors is deposited in a separate account giving details of the 
total amount deposited in the account and date of deposit. 

IN CASE OF SUBSCRIBED ISSUE: 

 
 

: 
: 
: 

             

: 

 
(I) 
 
(1)  Name of the issuer 
(2) 
Issue opening date 
(3)  Actual closing date 
(4) 

Issue Details (as per the prospectus) 
(a)  Nature of instrument 
debentures, etc.)          

:  (equity  shares/fully  convertible  debentures/partly  convertible 

(b)  Offer price per instrument                : 
(c)  Amount per instrument on application 
(d) 
340[***] 

: Rs. in lakhs 

Issue Size  

(5) 
(6)  No. of collecting banks  : 

 

: 

(Also specify no. of bank branches) 

(7)  Bank-wise names of branches which did not submit final consolidated certificates from closure 

of issue and mention the dates when they actually submitted  : 

(8)  Subscription Details : 

(a)  Public Offer (Net) (Including unsubscribed portion of reserved category added back to net 

public offer) 
(i)  No. of applications recd. 
(ii)  No. of instruments applied for 
(iii)  Amount of subscription received 
(iv)  No. of times issue subscribed 
Information relating to reserved categories  

(b) 

: 
: 
: Rs. 
: 

No. of applications    No. of instruments  Amount  

                        

Reservations 
Employees 
Others 
(Specify) 

(9)  Actual Date of finalisation of Basis of Allotment (enclose copy) 
(10)  Allotment Details : 

: 

(a)  No. of successful allottees per 1 lakh shares         : 
(b)  No. of unsuccessful allottees                  : 

(8)  Actual Date(s) of completion of despatch of : 

                                                           
339  Substituted  for  "65(2)(b)"  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.01.2016. 
340 Omitted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 
01.01.2016. Prior to its omission, item No. (5) read as under : 
"(5) 3-day Report : 

(a)  Due on : 
(b)  Submitted on :" 

Page 211 of 255 

 

(a)  Refund Orders            : 
(b)  Certificates/Allotment Letters           : 
(c)  Reasons for delay in despatch, if any      : 
(d)  Whether interest paid for delayed period, if so, for which period            : 

(9)  Amount of refund due                      :  Rs. 
(10)  Refund Banker(s) (Name and Address) 
(11)  Date of transfer of refund amount to Refund Banker, if any           : 
(12)  Date of completion of despatch of refund orders                : 
(13)  Name of Designated Stock Exchange 
(14)  Names of other stock exchanges where listing is sought              : 
(15)  Date on which application was filed with each stock exchange for listing of instruments        : 
(16)  Date  when  listing  and  trading  permission  given  by  each  stock  exchange  (Enclose  copies  of 

: 

: 

permission letters of stock exchanges)            : 

(17)  Reasons for delay in listing for trading, if any         : 
  
(II) 

IN CASE OF UNDER SUBSCRIBED ISSUE:  

 

If the issue is underwritten, mention the amount of  issue underwritten   

(1) 
(2)  Extent of under subscription on the date of closure of the issue  

:    

(a)  Percentage 
(b)  Amount 

: 
: 

: 
If devolvement notices had not been issued, mention how the shortfall was met 
: 
: 

(3)  Total no. of underwriters 
(4) 
(5)  No. of underwriters to whom devolvement notices had been issued 
(6)  Date of issue of devolvement notices 
(7)  No. of underwriters who did not pay devolvement (Please give names, amount underwritten and 

: 

 

(8) 
(9) 

: 
reasons for not paying)       
In case of default from underwriters, mention how the  shortfall was met 
: 
In case where FIs/ MFs had subscribed to make up shortfall not as underwriter : 
(a)  Name of FI/MF 
(b)  No. of securities applied for          : 
(c)  Amount received 

: 

: 

 

Certified  that  the  information  given  above  and  also  in  the  enclosures  are  true  to  the  best  of  our 
knowledge and no refund orders / allotment letters / certificates are pending for despatch in respect of 
the issue. 
 
Certified that specified securities to be locked in are duly inscribed with the words “specified securities 
cannot be hypothecated / transferred / sold till .........” 
 
 
Signed by  
Registrars to the Issue              Issuer  
Place:  
Date: 
 

Signed by 
Lead Merchant Banker(s) 

Signed by  

 
 

 
 

 

 

Page 212 of 255 

 

PART D 

[See regulations 65(2)(b) and 104(2)(b)] 

 

FORMAT OF FINAL POST ISSUE REPORT FOR RIGHTS ISSUE 

Subscription Status: (Subscribed / Undersubscribed) 

 

Notes: 
(1) 

It is the responsibility of lead merchant banker to give correct information after verifying it from 
the issuer and the registrar to the issue. 

(2)  The lead merchant banker shall enclose a certificate from the banker to issue that the amount of 
refunds due from the issuer to investors is deposited in a separate account giving details of the 
total amount deposited in the account and date of deposit. 

 

IN CASE OF SUBSCRIBED ISSUE: 

(I) 
 
(1)  Name of the issuer 
(2) 
Issue Opening date 
(3)  Actual closing date  
(4) 

: 
: 
: 

Issue Details (as per the letter of offer) 
(a)  Basis of offer 
(b)  Nature of instrument  

: 
: 

(equity 

shares/fully 

convertible 

debentures/partly convertible debentures, etc.)         Offer price per instrument 

(c)  Amt. per instrument on application 
(d) 

Issue Size 

: 
: Rs. in lakhs 

(5)  3-Day Report 
(a)  Due on 
(a)  Submitted on 

: 

: 

(6)  No. of collecting banks (Also specify no. of bank branches) 
(7) 

Bank-wise names of  branches which did not submit final consolidated certificate from closure 
of  issue and mention the dates when they actually submitted  : 

: 

(8)  Details of subscription          : 

(a)  Percentage of rights taken up by  : 

 

Promoters 

(i) 
         : 
(ii)  Other Shareholders          : 

(b)  Percentage of rights renounced by: 

Promoters 

(i) 
(ii)  Others 

: 
: 

(c)  Percentage of rights taken by shareholders/ renounces 
(d)  Percentage at the disposal of the Board 
(e)  Out of the unsubscribed portion as in above, taken by       : 

: 

: 

Promoters 

(i) 
(ii)  Others 

: 
: 
(9)  Promoters’ shareholding              
 

(a)  Prior to the Issue  : 
(b)  On Expanded Capital after the rights issue: 

 : No. of Shares 
 

 

Percentage 

(10)  Date of finalisation of allotment (enclose copy of the basis of allotment) 
(11)  (a)     Name and Address of Refund Banker           : 

: 

(b)  Amount of refund due  
(c)  Date of transfer of refund amount to refund banker, if any 

          : 

: 

(12)  Actual date(s) of completion of despatch of: 

(a)  Refund orders 
(b)  Certificate/ allotment letters/ demat credit  

: 

:  

Page 213 of 255 

 

(c)  Reasons for delay in despatch, if any 
(d)  Whether interest paid for delayed period,  if so, for which period  : 

 
(13)  Name of designated stock exchange 
: 
(14)  Names of other stock exchanges where listing is sought 
: 
(15)  15th day from the date of closure of the issue 
: 
(16)  Date on which application was filed with each stock exchange for listing of instruments 
(17)  Date  when  listing  and  trading  permission  given  by  each  stock  exchange  (Enclose  copies  of  

: 

: 

 

permission letters of stock exchanges) 

(18)  Reason for delay in listing for trading, if any 
 
(II) 
 
(1)  Extent of under-subscription on the date of closure of the issue  

IN CASE OF UNDER SUBSCRIBED ISSUE:  

(a)  Percentage 
(b)  Amount 

: 
: 

(2)  Details of standby assistance, if any 

: 
: 

 

(a)  No. of Underwriters 
(b)  No.  of  Underwriters  who  did  not  pay  devolvement  (Please  give  names,  amount 

: 

underwritten and reasons for not paying)  : 

(3) 

In case where FIs/ MFs had subscribed to make up shortfall not as underwriter 
(a)  Name of FI/MF 
(b)  No. of  securities applied for          : 
(c)  Amount Received 

: 

: 

 

 

 

CERTIFIED  that  the  information  given  above  and  also  in  the  enclosures are  true  to  the  best  of  our 
knowledge and no refund orders / allotment letters / certificates are pending for despatch in respect of 
the issue. 
 
Certified  that  specified  securities  to  be  locked-  in  are  duly  inscribed  with  the  words  "specified 
securities can not be hypothecated / transferred / sold till .........” 
 
 
Signed by 
 
Registrars to the issue  
Place: 
Date: 
 

Signed by 
Lead Merchant Banker(s) 

Signed by  
 

 
Issuer   

 
 

 
 

 

 

Page 214 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE XVII 

[See regulation 67(4) and 105] 

 

FORMAT OF UNDERWRITING DEVOLVEMENT STATEMENT 

 
(1)  Name of the merchant banker 
 
(2)  Name of the issuer 
 
(3) 
 
(4) 
 

Issue size 

                    : 

                    : 

                    : 

Issue-wise statement of non-acceptance of underwriting devolvement     : 

Sr. 
No. 

Name of the 
Underwriter 

Amount 

underwritten 

Amount 
devolved 

Date of issue of 

Reasons for not 

notice of 

accepting 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

devolvement, if any 

devolvement 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Page 215 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE XVIII 

[See  341[regulations 84(1) and 91E(1)]] 

 

DISCLOSURES IN PLACEMENT DOCUMENT 

 
(1)  Disclaimer  to  the  effect  that  the  Memorandum  relates  to  an  issue  made  to  qualified 
institutional buyers under Chapter VIII of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
of Capital and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2009 and that no offer is being made to 
the public or any other class of investors. 

(2)  Glossary of terms/abbreviations 
(3)  Financial statements contained herein 
(4)  Merchant bankers/merchant bankers to the placement and other advisors 
(5)  Summary of the offering and eligible security 
(6)  Risk factors 
(7)  Market price information: Disclose particulars of:- 

(a) 

high, low and average market prices of equity shares of the issuer during the preceding 
three years; 

(b)  monthly  high  and  low  prices  for  the  six  months  preceding  the  date  of  filing  of  the 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

prospectus; 
number of equity shares traded on the days when high and low prices were recorded in 
the relevant stock exchange during period of (i) and (ii) above, and total volume traded 
on those dates; 
the  stock  market  data  referred  to  above  shall  be shown  separately  for  periods  marked 
by  a  change  in  capital  structure,  with  such  period  commencing  from  the  date  the 
concerned stock exchange recognizes the change in the capital structure (e.g., when the 
equity shares have become ex-rights or ex-bonus) 
the  market  price  immediately  after  the  date  on  which  the  resolution  of  the  board  of 
directors approving the issue was approved 
the volume of securities traded in each month during the six months preceding the date 
on which the offer document is filed with Registrar of Companies; 
along  with  high,  low  and  average  prices  of  shares  of  the  issuer,  details  relating  to 
volume of business transacted should also be stated for respective periods. 

(8)  Use of proceeds: 

purpose of the issue; 

(a) 
(b)  break-up of the cost of project for which the money is raised through issue; 
(c) 
(d)  proposed deployment status of the proceeds at each stage of the project. 

the means of financing such project; and 

(9)  Capitalization Statement 
(10)  Dividends 
(11)  Selected Financial and other Information 
(12)  The audited consolidated or unconsolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with 

Indian GAAP shall contain the following: 
(a)  Report of Independent Auditors on the Financial Statements 
(b)  Balance sheets 
(c)  Statements of income 
(d)  Schedules to accounts 

                                                           
341  Substituted  for  “regulation  84(1)”  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 30.01.2012.  

Page 216 of 255 

 

Statements of cash flows 

(e)  Statements of changes in stockholders’ equity 
(f) 
(g)  Statement of accounting policies 
(h)  Notes to financial statements 
(i) 

Statement  relating  to  subsidiary  companies  (in  case  of  unconsolidated  financial 
statements) 

(13)  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of financial condition and results of operations 
(14)  Industry description 
(15)  Business description 
(16)  Organizational structure and major shareholders 
(17)  Board of directors and senior management 
(18)  Taxation aspects relating to the eligible securities 
(19)  Legal proceedings 
(20)  Accountants 
(21)  General Information 
(22)  Such  other  information  as  is  material  and  appropriate  to  enable  the  investors  to  make  an 

informed decision. 

 

 
 
 

Page 217 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE XIX 

[See regulations 103(2)(b) and 103(3)] 

 

DISCLOSURES IN PROSPECTUS AND ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS FOR ISSUE OF 

INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS 

 

PART A 

[See regulation 103(2)(b)] 

 

DISCLOSURES IN PROSPECTUS FOR ISSUE OF INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS 

 

A  prospectus  for  issue  of  Indian  Depository  Receipts  (IDR)  shall  contain  all  details  as  specified 
herein. 
 
(1)  GENERAL  INSTRUCTIONS  WITH  RESPECT  TO  CONTENTS  OF  THE 

PROSPECTUS:  
(a)  The merchant  banker has the option to  file the draft prospectus  as a public filing or a 
confidential  filing,  accompanied  with  fees  as  prescribed  in  Rule  5(1)(ii)  of  the 
Companies (Issue of Indian Depository Receipts) Rules, 2004.  

(b)  Where the merchant banker opts for confidential filing of the draft prospectus, it shall 
subsequently file an updated draft prospectus with the Board (without payment of any 
additional  fees),  after  incorporating  therein  changes,  if  any,  suggested  or  specified  by 
the  Board.  The  updated  draft  prospectus  shall  be  made  public  for  a  period  of  twenty 
one days from the date of its filing with the Board.  

(c)  The  contents  of  the  prospectus  including  the  financial  statements  of  the  issuing 

company, its subsidiaries and associates shall be in plain English. 

(d)  The  term  “associate”  for  the  purpose  of  this  Schedule  would  mean  “associate”  as 
defined in Indian GAAP, or IFRS or US GAAP in which the financial statements of the 
issuing company are disclosed. 

(e)  The prospectus shall contain all material information which shall be true and adequate 
so as to enable the investors to make informed decision on the investments in the issue. 

(f)  The prospectus shall also contain the information and statements specified herein. 
(g)  The  issuing  company  shall,  through  a  merchant  banker  file  a  prospectus  certified  by 
two authorized signatories of the issuing company, one of whom shall be a whole-time 
director and other the Chief Accounts Officer or the Chief Financial Officer, stating the 
particulars of the resolution of the Board or the shareholders by which it was approved, 
with the Board and Registrar of Companies, New Delhi, before such issue. They shall 
also certify that all the disclosures made in the prospectus are correct and adequate.  

(h)  The  agreement  made  with  the  domestic  depository  shall  also  be  furnished  along  with 

the prospectus.  

(i)  The  lead  merchant  banker  who  is  responsible  for  conducting  due  diligence  exercise 
with  respect  to  contents  of  the  offer  document,  as  per  inter-se  allocation  of 
responsibilities, shall sign the due diligence certificate 

(j)  A statement shall be made by the merchant  banker in  the prospectus  (including a due 

(k) 

diligence certificate) in the format as specified in format specified in Part C.  
 A  statement  will  be  made  by  the  issuing  company,  disclaiming  responsibility  for 
statements made otherwise than in the prospectus, as follows: 
“The  issuing  company,  its  directors  and  the  merchant  banker  accept  no  responsibility 
for  statements  made  otherwise  than  in  the  prospectus  or  in  the  advertisements  or  any 

Page 218 of 255 

 

other  material  issued  by  at  our  instance  and  anyone  placing  reliance  on  any  other 
source of information including our website______ shall be doing so at his or her own 
risk.” 

 
(2)  THE ISSUE: Summary of the terms of offer shall be incorporated, including: 

(a)  Offer and listing details 
(b)  Plan of distribution 
(c)  Markets 
(d)  Selling shareholders, if any 
(e)  Dilution 
(f)  Expenses of the Issue 

 
(3)  FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS: A paragraph on the statements that are forward 
looking  statements  and  not  matters  of  historical  facts  shall  be  incorporated.  A  statement  on 
the  sources  of  data  used  in  the  prospectus  and  their  accuracy  shall  also  be  incorporated.  A 
line should also be incorporated on whether these have been independently verified.  

 
(4)  GENERAL INFORMATION:  

(a)  Definitions/terms used in the prospectus 
(b)  Name, address and contact information of the registered office of the issuing company; 
(c)  Name,  address  and  contact  information  of  the  domestic  depository,  the  overseas 
custodian  bank  with  the  address  of  its  office  in  India,  the  merchant  banker,  the 
underwriter to the issue, advisors to the issue and any other intermediary which may be 
appointed in connection with the issue of IDR; 

(d)  Names, addresses and contact information of experts and counsel;  
(e)  Name, address and contact information of the compliance officer in relation to the issue 

of IDR.  [The compliance officer should be placed in India]. 

(f)  Name,  address  and  contact  information  of  stock  exchanges  where  applications  are 

made or proposed to be made for listing of the IDR; 

(g)  Disclosure about provisions relating to punishment for fictitious applications; 
(h)  Statement/declaration for refund of excess subscription 
(i) 

Statement that an interest of 15% p.a. would be paid to the investors if the allotments 
letters / refund orders are not despatched within fifteen days of the closure of the public 
issue 

(j)  Declaration  about  issue  of  allotment  letters/certificates/  IDR  within  the  stipulated 

period; 

(k)  Date of opening of issue; 
(l)  Date of closing of issue; 
(m)  Method and expected timetable of the issue 
(n)  A statement that subscription to the issue shall be kept open for at least three working 

days and not more than ten working days 

(o)  Date of earliest closing of the issue; 
(p)  Declaration  by  the  merchant  banker  with  regard  to  adequacy  of  resources  of 
underwriters  to  discharge  their  respective  obligations,  in  case  of  being  required  to  do 
so; 

(q)  A statement by the issuing company that all moneys received out of issue of IDR shall 
be transferred to a separate domestic bank account, name and address of the bank and 
the nature and number of the account to which the amount shall be credited; 

(r)  Details of availability of prospectus and forms, i.e., date, time, place etc; 
(s)  Amount and mode of payment seeking issue of IDR 
(t)  Disclosure on Investor Grievances and Redressal System: 

Page 219 of 255 

 

(i)  The  arrangements  or  any  mechanism  evolved  by  the  issuing  company  for 

redressal of investor grievances.  

(ii)  The  past  record  (for  a  minimum  period  of  three  years  before  the  date  of  the 
prospectus) of investor grievance redressal of the issuing company and its listed 
subsidiaries/associates  including  details  as  to  the  time  normally  taken  by  it  for 
disposal of various types of investor grievances. 

(iii)  That the company undertakes to subject itself to the jurisdiction of Indian courts 
having jurisdiction over the place where the stock exchange is situated regarding 
grievances of the IDR applicants and IDR holders. 
 

(5)  RISK FACTORS AND MANAGEMENT PERCEPTION, IF ANY: 

(a)  Risk factors shall be disclosed as follows: 

(i)  Risk factors associated with the issuing company’s business 
(ii)  Risk  factors  associated  with  the  country  of  the  issuing  company  proposing  to 

issue IDR 

(iii)  Risk factors associated with the IDR / underlying shares 

(b)  Risk factors shall be classified as those which are specific to the project and internal to 
the issuing company and those which are external and beyond the control of the issuing 
company.  

(c)  Risk factors shall be determined on the basis of their materiality. 
(d)  Materiality shall be decided taking the following factors into account: 

(i) 

Some  events  may  not  be  material  individually  but  may  be  found  material 
collectively. 

(ii)  Some events may have material impact qualitatively instead of quantitatively. 
(iii)  Some events may not be material at present but may be having material impacts 

in future. 

(e)  The Risk factors shall appear in the prospectus in the following manner: 

(i)  Risks envisaged by the management of the issuing company. 
(ii)  Proposals, if any, to address the risks. 
(iii)  Any ‘notes’ required to  be given prominence shall appear  immediately after the 

risk factors. 

 
(6)  RECENT  DEVELOPMENTS:  Important  events  in  the  recent  past  (two  financial  years 
preceding  the  issue)  providing  details  of  important  developments  on  three  key  areas: 
Operations  &  Management,  Shareholding  patterns  and  Business  Environment,  shall  be 
mentioned.  

 

(7)  MARKET  PRICE  INFORMATION  AND  OTHER  INFORMATION  CONCERNING 
THE  SHARES  IN  THE  DOMESTIC  MARKET  OF  THE  ISSUING  COMPANY:  The 
following information should be provided exchange-wise, if the securities are listed in more 
than  one  exchange.  This  information  should  be  updated  as  on  last  available  date  before  the 
date of prospectus. This information shall also b given if it is a further issue of IDR which are 
already listed in India: 
(a)  Market  price  of  shares  for  each  quarter  of  the  last  three  calendar  years  preceding  the 
calendar year preceding the year of the issue of Prospectus (High, Low, Average Daily 
Trading Volume)  

(b)  Market price of shares for each month of the calendar  year preceding  the  year of the 

issue of prospectus (High, Low, Average Daily Trading Volume) 

(c)  Market  price  of  shares  for  the  month  preceding  the  date  of  prospectus  (High,  Low, 

Average Daily Trading Volume) 

(d)  The  opening  and  closing  price  on  the  last  day  of  the  month  preceding  the  date  of  the 

prospectus along with the volume 

Page 220 of 255 

 

 
(8)  DIVIDENDS: 

(a)  Dividend policy of the issuing company 
(b)  Rate of dividend and amount of dividend paid for the last five financial years 
(c)  Regulatory  framework  in  the  country  of  incorporation/share  listed  concerning 

dividends 

(d)  Details  of  arrangement  with  the  depositories  for  payment  of  dividend  to  the  IDR 

(e) 

holders 
Information about changes, if any, in dividends announced and dividends paid and time 
gap between the dividends announced and dividends paid.  
Information about dividend yield. 

(f) 
(g)  Taxation aspects of dividend distribution. 

 

(9)  EXCHANGE RATES: 
(a)  Brief  history  of 

the  pattern  of  exchange 

rates  between 

the  country  of 

incorporation/where shares are listed and India 

(b)  High, Low, Average Rates for the last five years 
(c)  High, Low, Average Rates for the last twelve months 

 

(10)  FOREIGN INVESTMENT  AND EXCHANGE CONTROLS OF THE COUNTRY OF 
INCORPORATION/  WHERE  SHARES  ARE  LISTED:  Information  relating  to  the 
relevant  foreign  investment  laws  and  exchange  control  regulations  of  the  country  of 
incorporation or country where the underlying equity shares are listed.  

 

(11)  OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE / USE OF PROCEEDS: The following shall be disclosed: 

(a)  The purpose of the issue 
(b)  Break-up of the cost of project for which the money is raised through the IDR issue 
(c)  The means of financing such project and 
(d)  The proposed deployment status of the proceeds at each stage of the project. 

 
342[(11A)  Interim  Use  of  Funds:  The  issuer  company  shall  keep  funds  in  a  bank  having  a 
credit rating of 'A' or above by an international credit rating agency.] 
 
(12)  CAPITALISATION STATEMENT  
 

Pre-issue as 

(Figures in Rs. crores) 

 

Particulars 

Short-Term Debt 
Long  Term Debt  
Shareholders Funds 

 
 

(cid:173)  Share  Capital  
(cid:173)  Reserves 

Total Shareholders Funds 
Long Term Debt/Equity 

             

 
(13)  CAPITAL STRUCTURE: 

 
 
 

 
 

(a)  Authorised, issued, subscribed and paid up capital (number of instruments, description, 

aggregate nominal value). 

(b)  Size of present issue.  

                                                           
342  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 11.08.2015. 

Page 221 of 255 

 

(c)  Paid-up Capital: 

before the issue; 
after the issue (if the IDR issue involves issue of fresh equity shares); and 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii)  share premium account (before and after the issue) 

(d)  Detailed notes to capital structure  
(e) 

Information  with  respect  to  Capital  Structure  shall  also  contain  details  regarding 
holdings of major shareholders i.e., the person or persons who are in over-all control of 
the company. 
343[Different classes of shares based on different criteria, if any.] 

(f) 
 

(14)  FINANCIAL INFORMATION:  

 
344[General Instructions:  
(1) The format of disclosure of financial results may be as per the disclosure requirements of 
the issuing company in the home country where the Issuing Company is listed.  
 
(2)  The  issuing  company  shall  intimate  to  the  investors  in  the  offer  document  the  type  of 
disclosures that it will follow i.e. whether as per Indian GAAP, IFRS or US GAAP and any 
change in such format shall be informed to the IDR Holders by way of notices to the stock 
exchange. ] 
 
(a)  The  audited  consolidated  or  unconsolidated  financial  statements,  prepared 

in 
accordance  with  Indian  GAAP  (including  all  Accounting  Standards  issued  by  the 
Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India)  or  with  the  International  Financial 
Reporting  Standards  (IFRS)  or  US  GAAP,  for  a  period  of  three  financial  years 
immediately preceding the date of prospectus shall contain the following:  
(i)  Report of Auditors on the Financial Statements  
(ii)  Balance Sheets  
(iii)  Statements of Income  
(iv)  Schedules to Accounts  
(v)  Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity  
(vi)  Statements of Cash Flows  
(vii)  Statement of Accounting Policies  
(viii)  Notes to Financial Statements  
(ix)  Statement Relating to Subsidiary Companies (in case of unconsolidated financial 

statements)  

(x)  Related Party transactions 
(xi)  Liquidity and Capital Resources. 

(b)  The financial information in the prospectus shall be disclosed in the issuing company’s 
functional  currency/reporting  currency/national  currency  and  the  reporting  currency 
shall be restricted to Sterling Pound/Euro/Yen/US Dollar. 
In  case,  the  financial  results  are  prepared  as  per  IFRS  or  US  GAAP,  the  financial 
results  shall  be  audited  by  a  professional  accountant  or  certified  public  accountant  or 
equivalent  (by  whatever  name  called  in  the  home  country  in  accordance  with  the 
International Standards on Auditing (ISA)). 

(c) 

(d)  Where the law of the home country requires annual  statutory  audit of the accounts of 
the  issuing  company,  a  report  of  the  statutory  auditor  on  the  audited  financial 
statements  of  the  issuing  company  for  each  of  the  three  financial  years  immediately 
preceding  the  date  of  the  prospectus  including  the  profits  or  losses,  assets,  liabilities 

                                                           
343 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 
344 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01.12.2015.  

Page 222 of 255 

 

and cash-flow statement of the issuing company at the last date to which the accounts 
of the issuing company were made in the specified form: 

 Provided  the  gap  between  date  of  opening  of  issue  and  date  of  report  shall  not 

exceed 120 days. 

(e)  The  report  prepared  by  the  statutory  auditors  of  the  issuing  company  should  disclose 
financial  statements  (as  per  relevant  period  in  the  annual  report)  in  Indian  Rupees  (at 
the  closing  rate  of  exchange,  as  at  the  date  on  which  the  financial  information  is 
presented), compiled in a tabular form and include the consolidated or unconsolidated 
income statement, consolidated or unconsolidated cash flow statements, consolidated or 
unconsolidated balance sheet and the capitalisation statement required under item (12). 
(f)  The interim audited financial statements in respect of the period ending on a date which 
is less than 180 days prior to the date of opening of the issue have to be included in the 
report,  if  the  gap  between  the  ending  date  of  the  latest  audited  financial  statements 
disclosed as above and the date of the opening of the issue is more than 180 days: 
 Provided  that  if  the  gap  between  such  date  of  latest  audited  financial  statements  and 
the date of opening of issue is 180 days or less, the requirement above shall be deemed 
to  be  complied  with,  if  disclosures  in  respect  of  material  changes  in  the  financial 
position of issuing company for such gap are disclosed in the prospectus:  
 Provided  further  that  in  case  of  an  issuing  company  which  is  a  foreign  bank 
incorporated  outside  India  and  which  is  regulated  by  a  member  of  the  Bank  for 
International  Settlements  or  a  member  of  the  International  Organization  of  Securities 
Commissions  which  is  a  signatory  to  a  Multilateral  Memorandum  of  Understanding, 
the requirement above, in respect of period beginning with last date of period for which 
the  latest  audited  financial  statements  are  made  and  the  date  of  opening  of  the  issue 
shall be satisfied, if the relevant financial statements are based on limited review report 
of such statutory auditor.   
In case the issuing company opts to prepare and disclose the financial results as per US 
GAAP,  a  reconciliation  statement  vis-a-vis  Indian  GAAP  and  summary  of  significant 
differences  between  the  Indian  GAAP  and  US  GAAP  has  to  be  annexed  with  the 
report. If financial results are prepared in accordance with IFRS, then issuing company 
shall  annex  the  summary  of  significant  differences  between  the  Indian  GAAP  and 
IFRS. 

(g) 

(h)  Where  the  law  of  the  home  country  does  not  require  annual  statutory  audit  of  the 
accounts of the issuing company, a report, prepared in accordance with  Indian GAAP 
certified  by  Chartered  Accountant  in  practice  within  the  terms  and  meaning  of  the 
Chartered  Accountants  Act,  1949  on  the  financial  statements/  results  of  the  issuing 
company  for  each  of  the  three  financial  years  immediately  preceding  the  date  of 
prospectus including the profits or losses, assets, liabilities and cash-flow statement of 
the issuing company at the last date to which the accounts of the issuing company were 
made in the specified form: 
 Provided  that  the  gap  between  date  of  opening  of  issue  and  date  of  report  shall  not 
exceed 120 days.  

(i)  The report prepared by the Chartered Accountants should disclose financial statements 
in Indian Rupees (at the closing rate of exchange, as at the date on which the financial 
information  is  presented),  compiled  in  a  tabular  form  and  include  the  consolidated  or 
unconsolidated income statement, consolidated or unconsolidated cash flow statements, 
consolidated or unconsolidated balance sheet and the capitalisation statement required 
under item (12). 

(j)  The interim financial statements in respect of the period ending on a date which is less 
than 180 days prior to the date of opening of the issue have to be included in report, if 
the gap between the ending date of the latest financial statements disclosed above and 
the date of the opening of the issue is more than 180 days: 

Page 223 of 255 

 

 Provided  that  if  the  gap  between  such  date  of  latest  audited  financial  statements  and 
the date of opening of issue is 180 days or less, the requirement above shall be deemed 
to  be  complied  with  if  disclosures  in  respect  of  material  changes  in  the  financial 
position of issuing company for such gap are disclosed in the prospectus. 
If  the  proceeds  of  the  IDR  issue  are  used  for  investing  in  other  body  (ies)  corporate, 
then following details of such body (ies) corporate shall be given:  
(i)  Names and address(es) of the body(ies) corporate; 
(ii)  The reports as stated above in respect of those body(ies) corporate also. 

(k) 

 

(15)  STATEMENT  ON  MATERIAL  DEVELOPMENTS  SUBSEQUENT  TO  THE  DATE 
OF  THE  LAST  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  AS  DISCLOSED 
IN  THE 
PROSPECTUS: A statement by the directors whether in their opinion there have arisen any 
circumstances since the date of the last financial statements as disclosed in the prospectus any 
which materially and adversely affect or is likely to affect the trading or profitability of the 
issuing company, or the value of its assets, or its ability to pay its liabilities within the next 
twelve months, and if so, an outline of such circumstances and an assessment of their likely 
impact. 

 
(16)  MANAGEMENT  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  THE  FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS  (BY COMPARING THE RECENT FINANCIAL YEAR WITH THE 
PREVIOUS THREE FINANCIAL  YEARS): 
(a)  A summary of past financial results after adjustments as given in the auditors report for 
the  past  three  years  containing  significant  items  of  income  and  expenditure  shall  be 
given. 

(b)  Overview of the business of the issuing company. 
(c)  Factors that may affect results of the operations. 
(d)  An analysis of reasons for the changes in significant items of income and expenditure 

shall also be given, inter alia, containing the following: 
(i) 
(ii) 

unusual or infrequent events or transaction; 
significant  economic  changes  that  materially  affected  or  are  likely  to  effect 
income from continuing operations; 

(iii)  known  trends  or  uncertainties  that  have  had  or  are  expected  to  have  a  material 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

adverse impact on sales, revenue or income from continuing operations; 
future changes in relationship between costs and revenues, in case of events such 
as future increase in labour or material costs or prices that will cause a material 
change are known; 
the extent to which material increases in net sales or revenue are due to increased 
sales volume, introduction of new products or services or increased sales prices; 
total  turnover  of  each  major  industry  segment  in  which  the  issuing  company 
operated 

(vii)  status of any publicly announced new products or business segment; 
(viii)  the extent to which business is seasonal; 
(ix)  any significant dependence on a single or few suppliers or customers; 
(x) 

competitive conditions. 

 
(17)  INDUSTRY AND BUSINESS OVERVIEW: Market  including details of the competition, 
past  production  figures  for  the  industry,  existing  industry  capacity,  past  trends  and  future 
prospects regarding exports (if applicable), demand and supply forecasts (if given, should be 
essentially with assumptions unless sourced from a market research agency of repute), etc. to 
be given. Source of data used shall be mentioned. 

 

(18)  DETAILS OF THE ISSUING COMPANY: 

Page 224 of 255 

 

(a)  Main object, history and present business of the issuing company 
(b)  Location of the project, if any 
(c) 

Installed  capacity  and  the  details  of  plant  and  machinery,  infrastructure  facilities, 
technology etc., where applicable 

(d)  Schedule of implementation of project and progress made so far, if applicable; 
(e)  Nature of product(s), consumer(s), industrial users 
(f)  Research and development, patents and licenses, etc. 
(g)  Property, plants and equipment 
(h)  Particulars of financial and other defaults, if any 
(i)  Underwriting  
(j)  Experts 
(k)  Where you can find additional information 
(l)  Enforcement of civil liabilities against foreign persons  

 
(19)  SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES OF THE ISSUING COMPANY: 

(a)  The  following  information  for  the  last  three  years  based  on  the  audited  statements  in 

respect of subsidiaries and associates of the issuing company: 
(i)  Date of Incorporation 
(ii)  Nature of activities 
(iii)  Equity Capital 
(iv)  Reserves (excluding revaluation reserve) 
(v)  Sales 
(vi)  Profit after tax (PAT) 
(vii)  Earnings per share (EPS) and 
(viii)  Net Asset Value (NAV) 
If the subsidiaries and associates are not required to prepare such audited statements as 
per the laws prevailing in those countries, the same may be certified as true and correct 
by  the  Board  of  Directors  and  the  management  of  such  companies,  provided  a 
certificate from a certified public accountant or equivalent practicing in the concerned 
country is submitted to the Board.  

(b) 

       
(20)  MANAGEMENT: 

(a)  Details with respect to the promoters and their background. If there are no identifiable 
promoters, then the details and background of all persons who hold 5% or more equity 
share capital of the issuing company.) 

(b)  Details  of  the  Board  of  Directors  and  the  Key  Managerial  Personnel  (i.e.  name, 
address(es)  of  directors,  manager,  managing  director  or  other  principal  officers  of  the 
issuing company, age, qualifications, industry experience, other directorships). 

(c)  Remuneration  of  the  Directors  and  the  Key  managerial  personnel  with  detailed 
breakup, sitting fees, their relation  with  promoters /  controlling shareholder(s), if any, 
their  equity  holding  in  the  issuing  company,  duration  of  their  association  with  the 
issuing company. 

(d)  Organisational structure 
(e)  Practices of the Board of Directors  
(f)  Employees 

 
(21)  SECURITIES  MARKET  OF  THE  COUNTRY  OF  INCORPORATION  WHERE 

SHARES ARE LISTED: 
(a)  Brief History 
(b)  Stock exchange regulation 
(c)  Listing Regulations 
(d)  Details of the securities market regulator of the country of the issuing company  

Page 225 of 255 

 

(e)  Whether  the  securities  market  regulator  of  the  country  of  the  issuing  company  has 

signed any MoU with the Board/IOSCO 

(f)  Disclosure under the Companies Act  and Securities Regulations (or equivalent thereof) 
(g)  Stock exchanges 
(h)  Takeover Code/Buy back Code  
(i)  Reforms in some key sectors of the economy 
(j)  Restriction on foreign ownership of securities 
(k)  Overview of the financial sector  
(l)  Nature of the securities trading market in that country 
(m)  A statement of how the enforcement of Indian securities laws would be affected by the 

fact that the issuing company is located outside India 

(n)  A comparative analysis of the corporate governance provisions that would be followed 

by the issuing company vis-à-vis that is applicable to Indian listed companies.  

 
(22)  DESCRIPTION OF THE IDR AND RIGHTS OF IDR HOLDERS: 

(a)  Brief description of the IDR 
(b)  Dividends, other distributions and rights of IDR holders 
(c)  Voting rights if any and the manner of their exercise by IDR holders, if any.  
(d)  Record dates and how the same will be disclosed. 
(e)  Reports and other communication to which the IDR holders will be entitled. 
(f) 
(g)  Governing law regarding various aspects of IDR and transactions therein. 

Procedure of conversion of IDR into shares 

 
(23)  PROVISIONS  REGARDING  TRANSFER  OF  SHARES  AND  DEPOSITORY 

RECEIPTS: 
(a)  Provisions regarding transfer of IDR 
(b)  Outline of provisions regarding transfer of underlying shares after conversion  

 

(24)  INFORMATION  RELATING  TO  THE  DEPOSITARY 

INDIAN  AND 
INTERNATIONAL: Brief details of the domestic depository, overseas custodian bank and 
depository agreement.  

- 

 

(25)  APPROVALS  OF  THE  GOVERNMENT/REGULATORY  AUTHORITIES: 
Information  relating  to  statutory  and  regulatory  approvals  required  in  home  country  for  the 
issue  and  the  related  aspects  and  their  status,  and  approvals  from  Indian  regulatory 
authorities. 

 

(26)  TAXATION 

IN 

INDIA  AND  THE  COUNTRY  OF  
INCORPORATION/ WHERE  SHARES  ARE  LISTED:  Information  relating  to  relevant 
provisions of taxation law, tax treaties and their impact for IDR holders.  

FRAMEWORK 

 
(27)  OUTSTANDING LITIGATIONS AND DEFAULTS: 

(a)  Material  litigation  /  liabilities/defaults  including  arrears  /  potential  liabilities  of  the 
issuing company, its promoters / controlling shareholders / directors and its subsidiaries 
and associates. 

(b)  Materiality shall be determined on the basis of factors which are specific to the project 
and  to  the  issuing  company,  its  promoters  /  controlling  shareholders  /  directors,  its 
subsidiaries  and  associates,  which  may  have  a  bearing  on  the  performance  of  the 
issuing company.   

(c)  Materiality shall be decided taking the following factors into account: 

(i) 

Some  litigation/defaults  may  not  be  material  individually  but  may  be  found 
material   collectively. 

Page 226 of 255 

 

(ii)  Some  litigation/defaults  may  have  material  impact  qualitatively  instead  of 

quantitatively. 

(iii)  Some  litigation/defaults  may  not  be  material  at  present  but  may  be  having  a 

material impact in future. 

 

(28)  BASIS OF ISSUE PRICE: 

(a)  Earnings per share i.e. EPS pre-issue for the last three years (as adjusted for changes in 

capital) 

(b)  P/E pre-issue  
(c)  Average return on net worth in the last three years 
(d)  Minimum return on increased net worth required to maintain pre-issue EPS 
(e)  Net Asset Value per share based on last balance sheet 
(f)  Net Asset Value per share after issue and comparison thereof with the issue price 
(g)  Comparison  of  all  the  accounting  ratios  of  the  issuing  company  as  mentioned  above 
with  the  industry  average  and  with  the  accounting  ratios  of  the  peer  group  (i.e. 
companies of of shares (including the statement about the issue price being “X” times 
of  the  face  value)  and  that  of  the  IDR.  The  aggregate  face  value  of  the  total  equity 
shares  underlying  a  single  comparable  size  in  the  same  industry.  [The  source  from 
which industry average and accounting ratios of the peer group has been taken should 
be indicated]. 

(h)  The face value IDR shall also be given.  

 Provided  that  the  projected  earnings  shall  not  be  used  as  a  justification  for  the  issue 
price in the prospectus.  
 Provided  further  that  the  accounting  ratios  disclosed  in  the  prospectus  in  support  of 
basis of the issue price shall be calculated after giving effect to the consequent increase 
in  capital  on  account  of  compulsory  conversions  outstanding,  as  well  as  on  the 
assumption that the options outstanding, if any, to subscribe for additional capital will 
be exercised. 

 
(29)  MAIN  PROVISIONS  OF  ARTICLES  OF  ASSOCIATION  /  MAIN  CHARTER  OF 

THE  ISSUING COMPANY  

 

(30)  MATERIAL  CONTRACTS  AND  DOCUMENTS  FOR  INSPECTION:  Place  at  which 
inspection  of  the  documents  specified  under  rule  7  of  the  Companies  (Issue  of  Indian 
Depository  Receipts)  Rules,  2004,  the  prospectus,  the  financial  statements  and  auditor's 
report thereof will be allowed during the normal business hours. 

 
(31)  OTHER INFORMATION: 

(a)  Disclosure  of  mandatory  vetting  of  the  prospectus  by  the  legal  counsel  to  the  issuing 
company  operating  at  the  place  where  the  registered  office  of  the  Issuing  company  is 
situated. 

(b)  Consent of merchant bankers, overseas custodian bank, the domestic depository and all 

other intermediaries associated with the issue of IDR. 

(c)  Fees and expenses payable to the intermediaries involved in the issue of IDR 

 
 
 

Page 227 of 255 

 

PART B 

[See regulation 103(3)] 

 

DISCLOSURES IN ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS FOR ISSUE OF INDIAN DEPOSITORY 

RECEIPTS 

 
General Instructions: 
(1)  The information  to  be provided under each of the heads specified below shall be as per the 

requirement of Part A of this Schedule except when specified otherwise. 

(2)  The  abridged  prospectus  shall  be  printed  in  a  font  size  which  shall  not  be  visually  smaller 

than Times New Roman Size 10. 

(3)  The order in which items appear in the abridged prospectus shall correspond, as far as may be 

applicable, to the order in which items appear in the prospectus. 

(4)  The application form shall be so positioned that on the tearing-off of the application form, no 

part of the information given in the abridged prospectus is mutilated. 

 
The  abridged  prospectus  for  the  issue  of  Indian  Depository  Receipts  (IDR)  shall  contain  the 
following disclosures: 
 
(1)  General Information: 

(a)  The  name  of  the  issuing  company    and  address  of  the  registered  office  of  the  issuing 
company,  along  with  telephone  number,  fax  number,  e-mail  address  and  website 
address,  and  where  there  has  been  a  change  in  the  address  of  the  registered  office  or 
name of the issuing company, details thereof. 

(b)  Name, address and contact information of the registered office of the issuing company; 
(c)  Name,  address  and  contact  information  of  the  domestic  depository,  the  overseas 
custodian  bank  with  the  address  of  its  office  in  India,  the  merchant  banker,  the 
underwriter to the issue, advisors to the issue and any other intermediary which may be 
appointed in connection with the issue of IDR; 

(d)  Names, addresses and contact information of experts and counsel;  
(e)  Name, address and contact information of the compliance officer in relation to the issue 

of IDR.  The compliance officer should be placed in India 

(f)  Name,  address  and  contact  information  of  Stock  Exchanges  where  applications  are 

made or proposed to be made for listing of the IDR; 

(g)  Disclosure about provisions relating to punishment for fictitious applications; 
(h)  Statement/declaration for refund of excess subscription 
(i) 

Statement that an interest of 15% p.a. would be paid to the investors if the allotments 
letters  /  refund  orders  are  not  despatched  within  15  days  of  the  closure  of  the  public 
issue, as the case may be 

(j)  Declaration  about  issue  of  allotment  letters/certificates/  IDR  within  the  stipulated 

period; 

(k)  Date of opening of issue; 
(l)  Date of closing of issue; 
(m)  Method and Expected Timetable of the issue; 
(n)  A statement that subscription to the issue shall be kept open for atleast 3 working days 

and not more than 10 working days; 
(o)  Date of earliest closing of the issue; 
(p)  Declaration  by  the  merchant  banker  with  regard  to  adequacy  of  resources  of 
underwriters  to  discharge  their  respective  obligations,  in  case  of  being  required  to  do 
so; 

Page 228 of 255 

 

(q)  A statement by the issuing company that all moneys received out of issue of IDR shall 
be transferred to a separate domestic bank account, name and address of the bank and 
the nature and number of the account to which the amount shall be credited; 

(r)  Details of availability of prospectus and forms, i.e., date, time, place etc; 
(s)  Amount and mode of payment seeking issue of IDR 
(t)  Disclosure on Investor Grievances and Redressal System: 
(u)  That  the  issuing  company  undertakes  to  subject  itself  to  the  jurisdiction  of  Indian 
Courts  having  jurisdiction  over  the  place  where  the  stock  exchange  is  situated 
regarding grievances of the IDR applicants and IDR holders. 

 
(2)  Capital Structure of the issuing company: Following details to be furnished:  

(a)  Authorised, issued, subscribed and paid up capital (Number of instruments, description, 

aggregate nominal value). 

(b)  Size of present issue.  
(c)  Paid-up Capital: 

before the issue; 
after the issue (if the IDR issue involves issue of fresh equity shares); and 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii)  share premium account (before and after the issue) 

(d)  Detailed notes to Capital Structure 
(e) 

345[Different classes of shares based on different criteria, if any.] 

 

(3)  Terms of the Present Issue: 

(a)  Authority  for  the  issue,  terms  of  payment  and  procedure  and  time  schedule  for 

allotment and issue of certificates/ refund orders. 

(b)  The clause "Interest in Case of Delay in Despatch of Allotment Letters/ Refund Orders 

in case of public issues" shall appear. 

 
(4) 

Instructions for applicants: 
(a)  How  to  apply,  availability  of  prospectus,  abridged  prospectus  and  application  forms, 

(b) 

mode of payment and book building procedure, if relevant.  
In the application form, the declaration relating to nationality and residentship shall be 
shown prominently as under: 
"Nationality and Residentship (Tick whichever is applicable) 
(i) 

I am / We are Indian National(s) resident in India and I am/we are not applying 
for  the  said  equity  shares  as  nominee(s)  of  any  person  resident  outside  India  or 
Foreign National(s). 
I am / We are Indian National(s) resident in India and I am / We are applying for 
the said equity shares as Power of Attorney holder(s) of Non- Resident Indian(s) 
mentioned below on non-repatriation basis. 

(ii) 

(iii)  I am / We are Indian National(s) resident outside India and I am/we are applying 

for the said equity shares on my / our own behalf on non-repatriation basis."   

(c)  The  application  form  should  contain  necessary  instructions/  provisions  for  the 

following: 
(i) 

Instructions  to  applicants  to  mention  the  number  of  application  form  on  the 
reverse  of  the  instruments  to  avoid  misuse  of  instruments  submitted  along  with 
the applications for shares/ debentures in public issues. 

(ii)  Provision in the application form for inserting particulars relating to bank account 
number  and  the  name  of  the  bank  with  whom  such  account  is  held,  to  enable 

                                                           
345  Sub-item  (e) inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 

Page 229 of 255 

 

printing of the said details in the refund orders or for refunds through Electronic 
Clearing System. 

(iii)  Instruction  to  applicants  to  disclose  Permanent  Account  Number  in  the 
application form, irrespective of the amount for which application / bid is made, 
along with the instruction that applications without Permanent Account Number 
would be rejected. 

(iv)  Disclosure of PAN/GIR number. 
(v)  Details of options, if any, to receive securities subscribed for and a statement that 
trading  in  securities  on  the  stock  exchanges  in  physical  form  will  be  available 
only subject to limits prescribed by the Board for time to time. 

(d)  Any  special  tax  benefits  for  issuing  company  and  its  shareholders  (Only  section 
numbers  of  the  Income  Tax  Act  and  their  substance  should  be  mentioned,  without 
reproducing the text of the sections) 

(e)  Restrictions on investments in IDR / fungibility of IDR 

 
(5)  Particulars of the Issue: 
(a)  Objects of the issue 
(b)  Project cost 
(c)  Means of financing 
(d)  Name of Appraising Agency, if any  
(e)  Name of Monitoring Agency, if any  

 
(6)  Description of the IDR and Rights of IDR Holders: 

(a)  Brief description of the IDR 
(b)  Dividends, Other Distributions and Rights of IDR holders 
(c)  Voting rights and their manner of exercise by IDR holders, if any. 
(d)  Record dates and how the same will be disclosed. 
(e)  Reports and other communication to which the IDR holders will be entitled. 
(f)  Conversion procedure of IDR into shares 
(g)  Governing Law regarding various aspects of IDR and transactions therein. 

 
(7)  Company, Management and Project: 

(a)  History and main objects and present business of the company. 
(b)  Promoters / controlling shareholders and their background. 
(c)  Names,  address  and  occupation  of  manager,  managing  director,  and  other  Directors 
(including  nominee-directors  and  whole-time  directors)  giving  their  directorships  in 
other companies. 

(d)  Location of the project 
(e)  Plant and machinery, technology, process, etc 
(f)  Collaboration,  any  performance  guarantee  or  assistance  in  marketing  by  the 

collaborators 
Infrastructure facilities for raw materials and utilities like water, electricity, etc. 

(g) 
(h)  Schedule of implementation of the project and progress made so far, giving details of 
land acquisition, civil works, installation of plant and machinery, trial production, date 
of commercial production etc 

(i)  Nature of the products/services and end users 
(j)  Existing, licensed and installed capacity of the product, demand of the product-existing, 
and  estimated  in  the  coming  years  as  estimates  by  a  Government  authority  or  by  any 
other  reliable  institution,  giving  source  of  the  information.  In  case  the  company  is 
providing services, relevant information with regard to nature/ extent of services, etc., 
have to be furnished. 

(k)  Approach to marketing and proposed marketing set up 

Page 230 of 255 

 

(l)  Export possibilities and export obligations, if any. 
(m)  Stock Market Data: Disclose particulars of:- 

(i)  Market price of shares for each quarter of the last three calendar years preceding 
the  calendar  year  preceding  the  year  of  the  issue  of  Prospectus  (High,  Low, 
Average Daily Trading Volume) 

(ii)  Market price of shares for each month of the calendar year preceding  the year of 

the issue of Prospectus (High, Low, Average Daily Trading Volume) 

(iii)  Market  price  of  shares  for  the  month  preceding  the  date  of  Prospectus  (High, 

Low, Average Daily Trading Volume) 

(iv)  The Opening and Closing price on the last day of the preceding month of the date 

of Prospectus along with the volume 

(v)  This information should be provided, exchange wise, if the securities are listed in 

more than one exchange 

(vi)  This  information  should  updated  as  on  last  available  date  before  the  date  of 

prospectus 

(vii)  If  it  is  a  further  issue  of  IDR  which  are  already  listed  in  India,  the  above 

information should be given about such IDR also 

 
(8)  Particulars  with  regard  to  the  subsidiaries  /  associates  of  the  issuing  company:  The 
following  information  for  the  last  3  years  based  on  the  audited  statements  in  respect  of 
subsidiaries and associates of the issuing company: 
(a)  Date of Incorporation; 
(b)  Nature of activities; 
(c)  Equity Capital; 
(d)  Reserves (excluding revaluation reserve); 
(e)  Sales; 
(f) 
(g)  Earnings per share (EPS); and 
(h)  Net Asset Value (NAV); 
 

Profit after tax (PAT); 

(9)  Basis for Issue Price: 

(a)  Earnings per share i.e. EPS pre-issue for the last three years (as adjusted for changes in 

capital); 

(b)  P/E pre-issue 
(c)  Average return on net worth in the last three years 
(d)  Minimum return on increased net worth required to maintain pre-issue EPS; 
(e)  Net Asset Value per share based on last balance sheet; 
(f)  Net Asset Value per share after issue and comparison thereof with the issue price. 
(g)  Comparison  of  all  the  accounting  ratios  of  the  issuing  company  as  mentioned  above 
with  the  industry  average  and  with  the  accounting  ratios  of  the  peer  group  (i.e., 
companies  of  comparable  size  in  the  same  industry.  (Indicate  the  source  from  which 
industry average and accounting ratios of the peer group has been taken)  
 Provided  that  the  projected  earnings  shall  not  be  used  as  a  justification  for  the  issue 
price in the prospectus. 
 Provided  further  that  the  accounting  ratios  disclosed  in  the  prospectus  in  support  of 
basis of the issue price shall be calculated after giving effect to the consequent increase 
in  capital  on  account  of  compulsory  conversions  outstanding,  as  well  as  on  the 
assumption that the options outstanding, if any, to subscribe for additional capital will 
be exercised. 

(h)  The face value of shares (including the statement about the issue price being “X” times 
of  the  face  value)  and  that  of  the  IDR.  The  aggregate  face  value  of  the  total  equity 
shares underlying a single IDR also shall be given 

Page 231 of 255 

 

 
(10)  Outstanding  Material  Litigations  and  Defaults  (in  a  summarised  tabular  form):  Material 
Litigation  /  Liabilities  including  arrears/Potential  liabilities  of  the  issuing  company,  its 
promoters / controlling shareholders / directors and its subsidiaries and associates. 

 
(11)  Material Development: Any material development after the date of the latest balance sheet 

and its impact on performance and prospects of the company. 

 
(12)  Expert opinion obtained, if any.  
 
(13)  Change,  if  any,  in  directors  and  auditors  during  the  last  three  years  and  reasons 

thereof. 

 
(14)   Time  and  Place  of  Inspection  of  material  contracts  (List  of  material  contracts  not 

required) 

 
(15)  Financial  Performance  of  the  Issuing  company  for  the  last  three  years  (Figures  to  be 

taken from the audited annual accounts in a tabular form): 
(a)  Balance Sheet  Data:  Equity Capital,  Reserves  (State Revaluation  Reserve, the  year of 

revaluation and its monetary effect on assets) and borrowings 

(b)  Profit and Loss data: Sales, Gross profit, Net profit, dividend paid, if any 
(c)  Any  change  in  accounting  policies  during  the  last  three  years  and  their  effect  on  the 

profits and the reserves of the issuing company  

(d)  Following  information  as  extracted  from  the  report  of  the  auditors  reproduced  in  the 

main prospectus: 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii)  net profit after accounting for extra ordinary items 

net profit before accounting  for extra ordinary items 
extra ordinary items 

 
(16)  Management Discussions and Analysis on Accounts 
 
(17)  Listed Ventures of Promoters / controlling shareholders  
 
(18)  Disclosure on Investor Grievances and Redressal System  
 
(19)  Statement regarding minimum subscription clause: 

(a)  Following statements shall appear for non-underwritten IDR issues: 

(i) 

(ii) 

“If the issuing company does not receive the minimum subscription of ninety per 
cent. of the offer through offer document on the date of closure of the issue, or if 
the  subscription  level  falls  below  ninety  per  cent.  after  the  closure  of  issue  on 
account  of  cheques  having  being  returned  unpaid  or  withdrawal  of  applications, 
the  issuing  company  shall  forthwith  refund  the  entire  subscription  amount 
received.”  
“If  the  issuing  company  fails  to  refund  the  entire  subscription  amount  within 
fifteen days from the date of the closure of the issue, it is liable to pay the amount 
with  interest  to  the  subscribers  at  the  rate  of  fifteen  per  cent.  per  annum  for  the 
period of delay.” 

(b)  Following statement shall appear for underwritten IDR issues: 

“If the issuing company does not receive the minimum subscription of ninety per cent. 
of the offer through offer document including devolvement of underwriters within sixty 
days from the date of closure of the issue, the issuing company shall forthwith refund 

Page 232 of 255 

 

the  entire  subscription  amount  received  with  interest  to  the  subscribers  at  the  rate  of 
fifteen per cent. per annum for the period of delay beyond sixty days.” 
 

(20)  Information  relating  to  relevant  provisions  of  Taxation  law,  Tax  Treaties  and  their 

impact for IDR holders.” 

 
(21)  Brief  details  of  the  Domestic  Depositary,  Overseas  Custodian  Bank  and  Depositary 

Agreement. 

 
(22)  Information  relating  to  statutory  and  regulatory  approvals  required  in  home  country 
for  the  issue  and  the  related  aspects  and  their  status,  and  approvals  from  Indian 
regulatory authorities. 

 
(23)  Signatories to the Prospectus. 

Page 233 of 255 

 

PART C 

[See regulation 346[101(5)]] 

 

FORMAT OF THE DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE FILED BY THE LEAD 

MANAGER FOR IDR ISSUES 

 
 
To, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub.:  Issue  of  ……………..  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  ‘IDR’)  by  …………(hereinafter 
referred to as the ‘issuing company’) 
 
We,  the  undernoted,  have  been  appointed  as  the  Merchant  Banker  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the 
‘Lead  Merchant  Banker’)  to  the  proposed  issue  of  IDR  by  the  Issuing  Company  and  we  state  as 
follows: 
(1)  The Draft Red Herring Prospectus (hereinafter referred to as the ‘DRHP’) is being filed with 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Board”)  in 
compliance  with  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009 (hereinafter referred to as the Regulations) or any statutory 
modification  or  re-enactment  thereof  read  with  the  Companies  (Issue  of  Indian  Depository 
Receipts)  Rules,  2004  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the  IDR  Rules”),  on  a  public  basis,  for 
approval. 

(2)  We  have  examined  the disclosures  made  by  the  Issuing  Company  in  jurisdictions  where  its 
underlying equity shares are listed so as to ensure uniformity and parity of information shared 
with  investors  across  different  regulatory  jurisdictions  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “publicly 
available  information”)  and  participated  in  discussions  with  the  senior  management  of  the 
Issuing  Company  for  the  purpose  of  preparing  disclosures  on  the  Issuing  Company  in  the 
DRHP. 

(3)  We have examined various documents, more particularly referred to in the Annexure hereto, 

in connection with the finalization of the DRHP pertaining to the said issue. 

(4)  On the basis of such examination and the discussions with the Issuing Company, its directors 

and other officers and other independent agencies/ experts/ reports, WE CONFIRM that: 
(a) 

the  DRHP  forwarded  to  the  Board  is  in  conformity  with  the  publicly  available 
information and information based on representations made by the senior management 
of the Issuing Company; 
the  requirements  under  the  IDR  Rules  and  the  Regulations  DIP  Guidelines  and  other 
relevant laws framed by the Board, the Government and any other competent authority 
in this behalf have been duly complied with; and 
based  on  the  publicly  available  information  and  representations  made  by  the  senior 
management of the  Issuing Company, the disclosures made in the DRHP  are certified 
to be true and are adequate to enable the investors to make a well informed decision as 
to the investment in the proposed issue. 

(b) 

(c) 

(5)  We confirm that besides ourselves, all the other intermediaries named in the DRHP, except [  ], 

are registered with the Board and that till date such registration is valid. 

(6)  We  have  satisfied  ourselves  about  the  worth  of  the  underwriters  to  fulfil  their  underwriting 

commitments. 

                                                           
346  Substituted  for  “101  (6)”  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 12.11.2010. 

Page 234 of 255 

 

(7)  We  certify  that  the  proposed  activities  of  the  Issuing  Company  for  which  the  funds  are  being 
raised  in  the  present  issue  fall  within  the  ‘main  objects’  listed  in  the  object  clause  of  the 
Memorandum  of  Association  or  other  charter  of  the  Issuing  Company  and  that  the  activities 
which  have  been  carried  out  until  now  are  valid  in  terms  of  the  object  clause  of  its 
Memorandum of Association. 

(8)  We  confirm  that  necessary  arrangements  have  been  made  to  ensure  that  the  moneys  received 
pursuant to the issue are kept in a separate bank account and that such moneys shall be released 
by  the  said  bank  only,  after  permission,  for  listing  of  IDR,  is  obtained  from  all  the  stock 
exchanges  mentioned  in  the  prospectus.  We  further  confirm  that  the  agreement  entered  into 
between the bankers to the issue and the Issuing Company specifically contains this condition. 

(9)  We certify that no payment in the nature of discount, commission, allowance or otherwise shall 
be  made  by  the  Issuing  Company  or  the  promoters,  directly  or  indirectly,  to  any  person  who 
receives securities by way of firm allotment in the issue. 

(10)  We certify that disclosure has been made in the prospectus that the investors shall be given an 

option to get the IDR in demat or physical mode. 

(11)  We certify that the following disclosures have been made in the draft prospectus: 

(a)  An  undertaking  from  the  Issuing  Company  that  at  any  given  time  there  shall  be  only  one 

denomination for the IDR of the Issuing Company and 

(b)  An  undertaking  from  the  Issuing  Company  that  it  shall  comply  with  such  disclosure  and 

accounting norms specified by the Board from time to time. 

(12)  We  confirm  that  none  of  the  intermediaries  named  in  the  red  herring  prospectus  /  prospectus 

have been debarred from functioning by any regulatory authority. 

(13)  We confirm that all the material disclosures in respect of the Issuing Company have been made 
in  the  red  herring  prospectus  /  prospectus  and  certify  that  any  material  development  in  the 
Issuing Company or relating to the issue, up to the commencement of listing and trading of the 
IDR offered through this issue, shall be informed through public notices/ advertisements in all 
those newspapers in which pre-issue advertisement and advertisement for opening or closure of 
the issue have been given. 

(14)  We  confirm  that  the  abridged  prospectus  contain  all  the  disclosures  as  specified  in  the 

Regulations. 

(15)  We  confirm  that  agreements  have  been  entered  into  with  both  the  depositories  for 

dematerialisation of the IDR of the Issuing Company 

 
Place:   
Date:    

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Lead Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue  
 

with Official Seal(s) 

Page 235 of 255 

 

ANNEXURE TO THE DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE FOR THE ISSUE OF 

…………………………. BY …………………………. 

 
(1)  Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Issuing Company. 
(2)  Necessary  clearance  from  governmental,  statutory,  municipal  authorities  etc.,  for 

implementation of the project, wherever applicable. 

(3)  Documents  in  support  of  the  track  record  and  experience  of  the  promoters  and  their 

professional competence. 

(4)  Listing Agreement of the Issuing Company for existing securities on the Stock Exchanges. 
(5)  Consent  letters  from  Issuing  Company's  auditors,  Bankers  to  issue,  Bankers  to  the  Issuing 

Company, Lead Merchant Bankers, Brokers and where applicable, proposed Trustees. 

(6)  Applications  made  by  the  Issuing  Company  to  the  financial  institutions/banks  for  financial 

assistance as per object of the issue and copies of relative sanction letters. 

(7)  Underwriting letters from the proposed underwriters to the issue. 
(8)  Audited Balance Sheets of the Issuing Company/Promoter companies for relevant periods. 
(9)  Auditors  certificate  regarding  tax-benefits  available  to  the  Issuing  Company,  shareholders 

and debenture holders. 

(10)  Certificate  from  architects  or  any  other  competent  authority  on  project  implementation 

schedule furnished by the Issuing Company, if applicable. 

(11)  Reports  from  Government  agencies  /  expert  agencies  /  consultants  /  Issuing  Company 
regarding  market  demand  and  supply  for  the  product,  industry  scenario,  standing  of  the 
foreign collaborators, etc. 

(12)  Documents in support of the infrastructural facilities, raw material availability, etc. 
(13)  Auditors'  Report  for  the  period  for  which  the  accounts  are  disclosed  in  the  offer  document, 
indicating summary of audited accounts of the issuing company and also the summary of the 
audited accounts of the subsidiaries of the issuing company.  

(14)  Stock Exchange quotations of the last 3 years duly certified by designated stock exchange. 
(15)  Minutes  of  the  general  body  meetings  and  board  meetings  of  the  Issuing  Company  for 

matters which are in the prospectus 

(16)  Revaluation certificate of Issuing Company's assets given by the Government Valuer or any 

other approved valuer. 

(17)  Certificate from solicitors of the Issuing Company in regard to compliance of legal provisions 

of the prospectus. 

(18)  Certificate  from  Issuing  Company's  legal  counsel,  operating  at  the  place  of  its  registered 

office, confirming that the legal counsel has done the mandatory vetting of the prospectus. 

(19)  A  detailed  checklist  indicating  compliance  with  each  applicable  regulation  of  the 

Regulations. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Lead Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue  
 

with Official Seal(s) 

 
Place:   
Date:    
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 236 of 255 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND 

DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE XIXA 

 

 347[******] 

                                                           
347  Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 14.08.2015.  Earlier,  it  was  inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Listing  of  Specified  Securities  on  Institutional  Trading 
Platform) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 8-10-2013. 

Page 237 of 255 

 

SECURITIES  AND  EXCHANGE  BOARD  OF  INDIA  (ISSUE  OF  CAPITAL  AND 
DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2009 

 

SCHEDULE XX 

[See regulation 348[114]] 

 

AMENDMENTS TO OTHER REGULATIONS 

 
(1)  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Debenture  Trustee) 

Regulations, 1993.  
(i) 

in regulation 15, 
(a) 

in  sub-regulation  (1),  after  clause  (c)  the  following  clause  shall  be  inserted, 
namely:- 
“(ca) supervise the implementation of the conditions regarding creation of security 
for the debentures and debenture redemption reserve, wherever applicable;” 

 

(b) 

after sub-regulation (1), the  following sub-regulation shall be inserted, namely:-  
 “(1A)  The debenture trustee shall: 

(a)  obtain reports from the lead bank regarding progress of the project; 
(b)   monitor utilisation of funds raised in the  issue; 
(c)   obtain a certificate from the issuer's auditors: 

(i) 

in respect of utilisation of funds during the implementation period 
of the project; and 

(ii)  in  the  case  of  debentures  issued  for  financing  working  capital,  at 

the end of each accounting year.” 

 

(2)  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Merchant  Bankers) 

Regulations, 1992.  
(i) 

in  regulation  9,  after  sub-regulation  (1A),  the  following  sub-regulation  shall  be 
inserted, namely: 
 
“(1B)  The  application  for  renewal  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  accompanied  by 
details of the changes that have taken place in the information that was submitted to the 
Board  while  seeking  registration  or  earlier  renewal,  as  the  case  may  be,  and  a 
declaration stating that no changes other than those as mentioned in such details have 
taken place.”  

 

 

regulation 18 shall be omitted. 

(ii) 
 
(iii) 
 
(iv)  after regulation 21, the following regulation shall be inserted, namely:- 

in regulation 20, sub-regulation (2) shall be omitted. 

 

“21A. Merchant banker not to act as such for an associate. 
(1)  A  merchant  banker  shall  not  lead  manage  any  issue  or  be  associated  with  any 
activity undertaken under any regulations made by the Board, if he is a promoter or a 
director or an associate of the issuer of securities or of any person making an offer to 
sell or purchase securities in terms of any regulations made by the Board: 

                                                           
348  Substituted  for  "110"  by  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015, 
w.e.f. 01.12.2015. 

Page 238 of 255 

 

 Provided that a merchant banker who is an associate of such issuer or person may be 
appointed, if he is involved only in the marketing of the issue or offer. 
Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation, a merchant banker shall be deemed to 
be an “associate of the issuer or person” if: 
(i) 

either  of  them  controls,  directly  or  indirectly  through  its  subsidiary  or  holding 
company, not less than fifteen per cent. of the  voting rights in  the other; or 
either  of  them,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  itself  or  in  combination  with  other 
persons, exercises control over the other; or 
there  is  a  common  director,  excluding  nominee  director,  amongst  the  issuer,  its 
subsidiary or holding company and the  merchant banker.” 
 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(v) 
 
(vi) 

regulations 23, 24, 24A and 25 shall be omitted; 

regulation 28 shall be renumbered as “28.(1)” and after the renumbered sub-regulation 
(1), the following sub-regulation shall be inserted, namely:- 
 
“(2) The merchant banker shall submit a half yearly report for the period ending with 
31st  March  and  30th  September  of  every  year,  in  the  format  specified  in  schedule  IV, 
within three months from the close of the period to which it corresponds.”  

 

(vii)  in Schedule I , Form C shall be omitted; 
 
(viii)  Schedule IV shall be substituted with the following, namely:- 

 

“SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (MERCHANT 

BANKERS) REGULATIONS, 1992 

 

SCHEDULE IV 

 [Regulation 28(2)] 

 

 

 

 

 

FORMAT FOR HALF YEARLY REPORT TO BE SUBMITTED BY 

MERCHANT BANKERS 

(For the period ending September / March, 20X1) 

(1)  Name/Category of registration. 
(2)  SEBI Registration No. 
(3)  Name of the Compliance Officer. 
(4)  Addition / deletion / change in address etc. of branch offices from last submitted 

report. 

(5)  Change, if any, in constitution of the organisation (private limited, public limited, 

partnership, merges, acquisition etc.) 

(6)  Change, if any, in directorship details since the last report. 

Name  Induction/ 
retirement/ 
resignation 
 

 

Reasons 
 
 
 

 

 

Effective 

Brief Experience 

Share in 

Qualification 

Date 

(in case of 
induction) 

the 

company 

 

 

(7)  Change  in  the  key  management  personnel  since  last  report  (since  grant  of  

registration in case of first report) 

 

Page 239 of 255 

 

Name 

Date of App./ 

Qualification  Experience 

Resignation/ Termination 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

(8)  Change including addition to/in associate concerns 

Name of Co./ 

firm 

Nature of 

change 

Activities 
Handled 

Nature of interest with 

Merchant Banker 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

(9)  New activities undertaken/discontinuation of any existing activities 

Activity  When commenced/ 

 

 

 

discontinued   

 
 

Object of the new activities/ 
reasons for discontinuation. 

(10)  Details of all pending litigations involving the merchant banker. 
(11)  Issue management  activities (Attach separate sheet if required): 

Name of issuer 
Companies 
 
 
Offer Amount 
(Rs. In Lakhs) 
 
Issue Closing 
date 
 
Stock Exchanges  
where instruments  
were to be listed 
 
Opening trading 
price at respective 
SEs 

Type of issue 
(public/rights/ 
composite) 

Instrument 

Issue Price/ 
Conversion Price 

Issue opening 
date 

No. of times 
oversubscribed           

Functional   
Responsibility 

Reasons for delay 
in listing 

Current market 
price 

First date of  
trading in 
respective SEs 

Remarks 

(12)  Penalty/warnings given by SEBI, if any. 
(13)  Underwriting activities 

(a)  Total number of issues underwritten during the period. 
(b)  Total amount underwritten during the period (Rs. In lakhs). 
(c)  Outstanding  underwriting  commitment  at  the  close  of  the  period  (Rs.  in 

lakhs). 

(d)  Details of disputed/devolved cases   

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Sr. 
No. 

Name 
of the 
issuer 

Instru-
ment 

Amount 
under-
written 
(Rs. in 
lakhs) 

Amount 
devolved  

(Rs. in 
lakhs) 

Devolve-

ment 
met 

yes/no 

If not met, 
the reasons 
thereof & 

how dispute 
was settled 

Penalty/ 

warning if 
any issued 
by SEBI 

Page 240 of 255 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

(14)  Redressal of Investor Grievances 

(a)  System of redressal of investor grievances (a brief write up). 

(i)  Number of investor grievances received during the period. 
(ii)  Nature of grievances. 
(iii)  Number of grievances resolved. 
(iv)  Number of grievances pending. 
(v)  The date of oldest grievance.   

(15)  Financial information   

Year ended 
(Rs in lakhs) 

Previous  
Year ended 
(Rs. In lakhs) 

Paid-up capital 
Free reserves 
Secured loan 

 
Capital Structure 
 
 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv)  Unsecured loan 
(v) 
 
 
 
(i) 
(ii) 

TOTAL 

Fixed Assets (net block) 
Quoted investment at cost/ 
market price whichever is lower 

Others 

 
 

(iii)  Unquoted investment 
(iv)  Current assets 
(v)  Misc. exp. not written off 
(vi)  Others 
 
 
 

TOTAL 

 
 

 

 

 

 

(Please enclose the copy of latest audited financial results along with schedules) 

(16)  Changes, if any in major share holding (more than 5%) 

Name of the 
shareholder 

Investment/ 
disinvestment 

Percentage of total 
paid-up capital  

(17)  Name of the major shareholders holding more than 5%. 

(18)  Any  capital  issue  (rights  or  public)  during  the  period.  If  yes,  details  thereof 

inclusive of status of complaints from investors and their redressal. 

(19)  Indictment  or  involvement  in  any  economic  offence  by  the  merchant  banker  or 

their directors or principle officer, if any, during the period. 

 
PLACE: 
DATE: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AUTHORISED SIGNATORY” 

(3)  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  (Registrars  to  an  Issue  and 

Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993.   

Page 241 of 255 

 

(i) 

in regulation 13A, in the Explanation in clause (b), after the word “director” the words 
“or promoter” shall be inserted.  

Page 242 of 255 

 

349[SCHEDULE XXI 

[See regulation 106F(2)] 

  

PART A 

 

DISCLOSURES IN THE ADDENDUM TO THE OFFER DOCUMENT FOR RIGHTS 

ISSUE OF INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS 

 

(1)  The listed issuer making a rights issue of IDRs shall make the disclosures as specified in this 

Part in the form of an addendum to the offer document.  

(2)  Notwithstanding the above, where disclosures of matters similar or equivalent to those set out 
in this Schedule are required by home country regulations to be made in a particular form or by 
reference  to  particular  requirements  of  such  regulations,  the  same  shall  prevail  over  the 
requirements of this Schedule and shall be deemed to be complied with by disclosures made in 
the offer document on the basis of the home country regulations, but a reference shall be made 
in the addendum, to the concerned page numbers of the offer document where such disclosures 
are made.  

 
 

(I) 
(A) 

Cover Page:  
Front Cover Page: 
(1)  The  front  outside  cover  page  of  the  addendum  for  a  rights  offering  shall  contain 

the following details: 
 
(a)  The  name  of  the  issuer,  its  logo,  address  of  its  registered  office,  principal 
office  in  India,  its  telephone  number,  fax  number,  contact  person,  website 
address and e-mail address. 
 

(b) The number and price of IDRs offered and issue size, as may be applicable. 

 

(c)  The following disclaimer and advisory on general risk : 

"Investment in IDRs involves a degree of risk and investors should not invest 
any  funds  in  this  offer  unless  they  can  afford  to  take  the  risk  of  losing  their 
investment.  Investors  are  advised  to  read  the  risk  factors  carefully  before 
taking  an  investment  decision  in  this  offering.  For  taking  an  investment 
decision,  investors  must  rely  on  their  own  examination  of  the  issuer  and  the 
offer  including  the  risks  involved.  The  securities  being  offered  in  the  issue 
have not been recommended or approved by Securities and Exchange Board of 
India  (SEBI)  nor  does  SEBI  guarantee  the  accuracy  or  adequacy  of  this 
document." 

 

 

(d) Specific  attention  of  investors  shall  be  invited  to  the  statement  of  “Risk 

factors” given on page number(s) ….. under the section “General Risks”. 

(e)  Save  where  a  form  of  responsibility  statement  is  required  in  the  offer 
document  in  accordance  with  the  home  country  regulations,  the  following 
clause  on  ‘Issuer’s  Absolute  Responsibility’  shall  be  incorporated  in  a  box 
format: 

                                                           
349  Inserted  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2011  w.e.f. 
23.09.2011. 

Page 243 of 255 

 

“The  issuer,  having  made  all  reasonable  inquiries,  accepts  responsibility  for 
and  confirms  that  the  offer  document  and  the  addendum  contains  all 
information  with  regard  to  the  issuer  and  the  issue,  which  is  material  in  the 
context of the issue, that the information contained in the offer document and 
the addendum is true and correct in all material respects and is not misleading 
in  any  material  respect,  that  the  opinions  and  intentions  expressed  herein  are 
honestly  held  and  that  there  are  no  other  facts,  the  omission  of  which  make 
these  documents  as  a  whole  or  any  of  such  information  or  the  expression  of 
any such opinions or intentions misleading in any material respect.” 

 

(f)  The name, logo and address of the lead merchant banker and the designation of 
the officers/employees who have signed the due diligence certificate and filed 
the  offer  document  and  the  addendum  with  the  Board,  along  with  their 
telephone numbers, fax numbers, website addresses and e-mail addresses. 
 

(g) The  name,  logo  and  address  of  the  registrar  to  the  issue,  along  with  its 

telephone number, fax number, website address and e-mail address. 
 

(h) Issue schedule: 

(i)  Date of opening of the issue. 
(ii)  Date of closing of the issue. 
(iii) Last date for request for split. 
(iv) The  names  of  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  where  the  IDRs  of 
the  issuer  are  listed  and  the  details  of  in-principle  approval  for 
listing of the IDRs proposed to be offered in the rights issue. 

 

(B)  Back  Cover  Pages:  The  back  inside  cover  page  and  back  outside  cover  page  of  the 

addendum shall be in white. 

 

(II) 

Instructions for Applicants: 

(A)  Disclosure  in  relation  to  the  process  for  announcement  of  record  date,  terms  of 
payments and procedure and time schedule for allotment and issue of certificates, credit 
of IDRs to the investors’ demat account.  

(B)  How  to  apply,  availability  of  application  forms  and  offer  document  for  rights  offering 

and mode of payment for all category of investors. 

(C)  A  statement  that  the  IDR  holders  who  have  not  received  the  application  form  may, 

along with the requisite application money, apply in writing on a plain paper. 

(D)  The format to enable the IDR holders to make the application on plain paper specifying 
therein  necessary  particulars  such  as  name,  address,  ratio  of  rights  issue,  issue  price, 
number of IDRs held, ledger folio numbers, depository participant ID, client ID, number 
of IDRs entitled and applied for, additional IDRs if any, amount to be paid along with 
application, and particulars of cheque, etc. to be drawn in favour of the issuer’s account. 
(E)  A  statement  that  the  IDR  holders  making  the  application  otherwise  than  on  the 
application form shall not renounce their rights and shall not utilise the application form 
for any purpose including renunciation even if it is received subsequently. 

(F)  Provisions  relating  to  punishment  for  fictitious  applications,  including  the  disclosures 

that any person who: 

(1)  makes  in  a  fictitious  name  an  application  to  a  company  for  acquiring,  or 

subscribing for, any IDRs therein, or 

(2)  otherwise  induces  a  company  to  allot,  or  register  any  transfer  of,  IDRs 
therein to him, or any other person in a fictitious name, shall be punishable 
in accordance with the provisions of law. 

Page 244 of 255 

 

(G)  Mode of making refunds: 

(1)  The  mode  in  which  the  issuer  shall  make  refunds  to  applicants  in  case  of 

oversubscription.  

(2)  If  the  issuer  proposes  to  use  more  than  one  mode  of  making  refunds  to 
applicants, the respective cases where each such mode will be adopted shall 
be disclosed. 

 

(III)  General Information: 

(A)  Name,  address  and  contact  information  including  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers, 
contact person, website addresses and e-mail addresses of the domestic depository, the 
overseas custodian bank with the address of its office in India, the merchant banker, the 
underwriter  to  the  issue,  syndicate  members,  bankers  to  the  issue,  self  certified 
syndicate  banks,  auditors  of  the  issuer,  legal  advisors  to  the  issue  and  any  other 
intermediary which may be appointed in connection with the issue of IDRs. 

(B)  Names, addresses and contact information of experts and counsel. 
(C)  The  names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers  and  e-mail  addresses  of  the 

Company Secretary and compliance officer of the issuer in India. 

(D)  The statement of inter-se allocation of responsibilities among lead investment bankers, 

where more than one merchant banker is associated with the issue.  

(E)  The details of underwriting of the IDRs, if any: 

(1)  The names, address, telephone numbers, fax numbers and e-mail address of 

the underwriters and the amount underwritten by them. 

(2)  A  declaration  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the  issuer  that,  as  far  as  the 
directors  are  aware,  the  underwriters  of  IDRs  have  sufficient  resources  to 
discharge their respective obligations. 

(F)  In case of partial underwriting of the issue, the extent of underwriting. 
(G)  The details of final underwriting arrangement in the addendum for rights offering filed 

with the designated stock exchange, indicating actual number of IDRs underwritten. 

(H)  Method and expected timetable of the issue.  
(I)  A statement by the issuing company that all moneys received out of issue of IDR shall 
be transferred to  a separate domestic bank  account,  name and address  of  the bank and 
the nature and number of the account to which the amount shall be credited. 

(J)  Details of availability of  the offer document along with the addendum and forms, i.e., 

date, time, place etc. 

(K)  Amount and mode of payment seeking issue of IDR. 
(L)  A  brief  statement  about  the  history,  corporate  structure  and  business  overview  of  the 

issuer and major events in the past. 

(M) A brief status or statement on the compliance status of the issuer of its obligations under 
Depositary Agreement and the provisions of the listing agreement entered between the 
issuer  and  the  stock  exchanges,  wherever  its  securities  are  listed,  including  the  listing 
agreement entered with recognised stock exchanges in India. 

 
 
(IV)  Management (Board of Directors): 

(A)  Name, age, qualifications, experience, address, occupation and date of expiration of the 
current term of office of executive or whole time directors, giving their directorships in 
other companies, as the case may be. 

 

(B)  The nature of any family relationship between any of the directors. 
(C)  Any  arrangement  or  understanding  with  major  shareholders,  customers,  suppliers  or 
others, pursuant to which of the directors was selected as a director or member of senior 
management. 

Page 245 of 255 

 

(D)  Details  of  service  contracts  entered  into  by  the  directors  with  the  issuer  providing  for 
benefits  upon  termination  of  employment  and  a  distinct  negative  statement  in  the 
absence of any such contract. 

 

(V) 

Financial Information of the Issuer:   

(A)  Convenience  translation  of  the  latest  annual  audited  statements  of  consolidated  profit 
and losses, assets and liabilities and cash flows, in Indian Rupees at the closing rate of 
exchange,  as  at  the  date  on  which  the  financial  information  is  presented,  as  filed  with 
the recognised stock exchanges, pursuant to Clause 36 of the Model Listing Agreement 
specified vide circular no. SEBI/CFD/DIL/IDR/1/2009/16/06 dated June 16, 2009.  
 

(B)  Convenience  translation  of  the  latest  periodical  financial  results,  in  Indian  Rupees  (at 
the  closing  rate  of  exchange  as  at  the  date  on  which  the  financial  information  is 
presented),  as  filed  with  the  recognised  stock  exchanges,  pursuant  to  Clause  37  of  the 
aforementioned Model Listing Agreement. 
 

(C)  One standard financial unit shall be used in the Letter of Offer. 

 

(D)  Link from where the investors can download the soft copy of detailed Annual Report of 

the issuer and their periodical filings. 

 

 

(VI)  Risk Factors and Management Perception, if any:  

(A)  Risk factors shall be disclosed as follows: 

(1)  Risk factors associated with the issuing company’s business  
(2)  Risk  factors associated  with  the country of the issuing company proposing to 

issue IDR 

(3)  Risk factors associated with the IDR / underlying shares 

(B)  Risk factors shall be classified as those which are specific to the project and internal to 
the issuing company and those which are external and beyond the control of the issuing 
company. 

(C)  Risk  factors  shall  be  determined  on  the  basis  of  their  materiality.  Materiality  shall  be 

decided taking the following factors into account: 

(1)  Some  events  may  not  be  material  individually  but  may  be  found  material 

collectively 

(2)  Some  events  may  have  material 

impact  qualitatively 

instead  of 

quantitatively 

(3)  Some  events  may  not  be  material  at  present  but  may  be  having  material 

impacts in future 

(D)  The Risk factors shall appear in the addendum in the following manner: 
(1)  Risks envisaged by the management of the issuing company 
(2)  Proposals, if any, to address the risks 
(3)  Any ‘notes’ required to be given prominence shall appear immediately after 

the risk factors 
 

(VII)  Capital Structure: 

(A)  The  authorised,  issued  and  subscribed  capital  after  suitable  incorporation  of  the 
outstanding  convertible  securities  (number  of  securities,  description  and  aggregate 
nominal value). 

(B)  Paid-up capital.(segregating IDRs). 
(C)  The following details of outstanding instruments: 

(1)  Details of options, if any. 

Page 246 of 255 

 

(2)  Details of convertible securities, if any.  

 

(D)  The  shareholding  pattern  and  IDR  holding  pattern  as  per  the  latest  filing  with  the 

recognised stock exchange(s). 

(E)  The details of the shareholders holding more than three per cent. of the share capital of 

the issuer.  

(F)  The  details  of  IDRs  lock-in,  pledge  of  and  encumbrance  on  such  IDRs  held  by 

promoters, if applicable. 

(G)  The details of IDRs acquired by promoters and promoter group, if applicable in the last 
six  months  immediately  preceding  the  date  of  filing  of  the  offer  document  along  with 
addendum for rights offering with the designated stock exchange, in case of a fast track 
issue and in any other case, the date of filing draft offer document along with addendum 
for rights offering with the Board. 

                            

(VIII)   Particulars of the Issue: 

(A)  Objects of the Issue:  

(1)  The purpose of the issue. 
(2)  Break-up  of  the  cost  of  project  for  which  the  money  is  raised  through  the 

IDR issue. 

(3)  The means of financing such project. 
(4)  The proposed deployment status of the proceeds at each stage of the project. 
(5)  Interest  of  promoters  (if  any)  and  directors,  as  applicable  to  the  project  or 

(B)  350[Interim Use of Funds: The issuer company shall keep funds in a bank having a credit 

objects of the issue. 

rating of 'A' or above by an international credit rating agency.] 

(C)  Any special tax benefits to the IDR holders. 

(IX)  Market price information and  other information concerning the shares/ IDRs: 

Following information should be provided exchange-wise, if the securities are listed in 
more  than  one  exchange.  This  information  should  be  updated  as  on  last  practicable 
date before the date of offer document.  

(A)  Week-end prices for the last four weeks and highest and lowest prices of equity shares 

during the period with the relative dates. 

(B)  Stock  market  quotation  of  shares  of  the  company  (high/low  price  in  each  of  the  last 

three years and monthly high/low price during the last six months). 

(C)  The same details shall be provided for IDRs listed in recognised stock exchange.  

 

(X) 

Exchange Rates: 
(A)  Brief  history  of 

the  pattern  of  exchange 

rates  between 

the  country  of 

incorporation/where shares are listed and India. 

(B)  High, Low, Average Rates for the last twelve months. 

 

 

 

(XI)  Material Litigations and Defaults:  

(A)  Material  litigation  /  liabilities/defaults  including  arrears  /  potential  liabilities  of  the 
issuing company, its promoters / controlling shareholders / directors and its subsidiaries 
and associates. 

                                                           
350 Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2015, 

w.e.f. 11.08.2015. Prior to its substitution, sub-item (B) read as under : 

"(B) Interim Use of Funds : Investment avenues in which the management proposes to deploy issue proceeds, pending 
its utilization in the proposed project." 
 

Page 247 of 255 

 

(B)  Materiality shall be determined on the basis of factors which are specific to the project 
and  to  the  issuing  company,  its  promoters  /  controlling  shareholders  /  directors,  its 
subsidiaries and associates, which may have a bearing on the performance of the issuing 
company. 

(C)  Materiality shall be decided taking the following factors into account: 

(1)  Some litigation/defaults may not be material individually but may be found 

material collectively. 

(2)  Some  litigation/defaults  may  have  material  impact  qualitatively  instead  of 

quantitatively. 

(3)  Some litigation/defaults may not be material at present but may be having a 

material impact in future. 

 

(XII)  Material Development: Any material development after the date of the latest balance 
sheet and its impact on performance and prospects of the issuer in accordance with the 
home country regulations. 

 

(XIII)  Material Contracts and Documents for Inspection: Place at which inspection of the 
documents  specified  under  rule  7  of  the  Companies  (Issue  of  Indian  Depository 
Receipts)  Rules,  2004,  the  offer  document  along  with  the  addendum,  the  financial 
statements  and  auditor's  report  thereof  will  be  allowed  during  the  normal  business 
hours. 

 

(XIV)  Other Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures: 

(A)  Authority for the issue and details of resolution passed for the issue. 
(B)  A statement by the issuer that the issuer, promoters, directors or person(s) in control of 
the  promoter  or  the  issuer,  if  applicable,  have  not  been  prohibited  from  accessing  or 
operating  in  the  capital  markets  or  restrained  from  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in 
securities under any order or direction passed by the Board or the securities regulator of 
its home country.  

(C)  It  may  be  disclosed  whether  the  issuer,  promoters,  the  relatives  of  promoters,  group 
companies, if applicable, are identified as willful defaulters  351[in India or] in its home 
country. 

(D)  Disclaimer clauses: 

The  addendum  for  rights  offering  shall  contain  the  following  disclaimer  clauses  in 
bold capital letters: 

 

(1)  Disclaimer Statement with respect to SEBI:   

(To be written in bold capital letter)  
"It  is  to  be distinctly understood that submission of offer document and the 
addendum  to  SEBI  should  not  in  any  way  be  deemed  or  construed  that  the 
same  has  been  cleared  or  approved  by  SEBI.  SEBI  does  not  take  any 
responsibility either for the financial soundness of any scheme or the project 
for  which  the  issue  is  proposed  to  be  made  or  for  the  correctness  of  the 
statements  made  or  opinions  expressed  in  the  offer  document  and  the 
addendum. Lead merchant banker, has certified that the disclosures made in 
the addendum are generally adequate and are in conformity with SEBI (Issue 
of Capital  and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2009 in  force for the 
time  being.  This  requirement  is  to  facilitate  investors  to  take  an  informed 
decision for making investment in the proposed issue. 

                                                           
351 Substituted for the words " by Reserve Bank of India or such other authorities" by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 25.05.2016. 

Page 248 of 255 

 

 

 

 

It  should  also  be  clearly  understood  that  while  the  issuer  is  primarily 
responsible  for  the  correctness,  adequacy  and  disclosure  of  all  relevant 
information  in  the  addendum,  the  lead  merchant  banker  is  expected  to 
exercise  due  diligence  to  ensure  that  the  issuer  discharges  its  responsibility 
adequately  in  this  behalf  and  towards  this  purpose,  the  lead  merchant 
banker…….  has  furnished  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(SEBI)  a  due  diligence  certificate  dated  …….which  reads  as  follows:  (due 
diligence certificate submitted to the Board to be reproduced here)  

The  filing  of  the  offer  document  along  with  the  addendum  does  not, 
however, absolve the issuer from any liabilities under the Companies (Issue 
of  Indian  Depository  Receipts)  Rules,  2004  or  from  the  requirement  of 
obtaining  such  statutory  or  other  clearances  as  may  be  required  for  the 
purpose of the proposed issue. SEBI further reserves the right to take up, at 
any point of time, with the lead merchant banker any irregularities or lapses 
in offer document and the addendum." 

(2)  Disclaimer Statement from the issuer and lead merchant banker:  

A statement to the effect that the issuer and the lead merchant banker accept 
no responsibility for statements made otherwise than in the offer document 
for the rights offering or in the advertisement or any other material issued by 
or at the instance of the issuer and that anyone placing reliance on any other 
source of information would be doing so at his own risk.  
 
Investors who invest in the issue will be deemed to have been represented by 
the  issuer  and  lead  manager  and  their  respective  directors,  officers,  agents, 
affiliates and representatives that they are eligible under all applicable laws, 
rules, regulations, guidelines and approvals to acquire IDRs of the Company, 
and  are  relying  on  independent  advice  /  evaluation  as  to  their  ability  and 
quantum of investment in this issue. 

 

 

 

(3)  Disclaimer  in  respect  of  jurisdiction:  A  brief  paragraph  mentioning  the 
jurisdiction under which provisions of law and the rules and regulations are 
applicable to the offer document for rights offering. 

 
(4)  Disclaimer statement of the stock exchanges, if any. 
 
(5)  Disclaimer statement of the Reserve Bank of India (if applicable). 

 

(E)  Broad  details  of  fees  payable  to  various  intermediaries  involved  in  the  IDR  rights 

offering. 

 

(F)  Arrangements  or  any  mechanism  evolved  by  the  issuer  for  redressal  of  investor 
grievances in respect of IDRs and the time normally taken by it for disposal of various 
types of investor grievances. 

 
 

(XV)  Undertakings by the issuer in connection with the issue:  

The issuer shall undertake that: 

(1) 

the complaints  received  in  respect  of the issue shall be attended to  by the 
issuer expeditiously and satisfactorily. 

Page 249 of 255 

 

(2) 

that  steps  for  completion  of  the  necessary  formalities  for  listing  and 
commencement of trading at all stock exchanges where the IDRs are to be 
listed are taken within seven working days of closing of the issue. 

(3)  funds  required  for  making  refunds  to  unsuccessful  applicants  as  per  the 
mode(s)  disclosed  shall  be  made  available  to  the  registrar  to  the  issue  by 
the issuer. 
that where refunds are made through electronic transfer of funds, a suitable 
communication shall be sent to the applicant  within 15 days of closure of 
the  issue  giving  details  of  the  bank  where  refunds  shall  be  credited  along 
with amount and expected date of electronic credit of refund. 
that adequate arrangements shall be made to collect all applications. 
that adequate arrangements shall be made to collect all ASBA applications 
and  to  consider  them  similar  to  non-ASBA  applications  while  finalizing 
the basis of allotment. 
that the IDRs shall be credited to the demat account / refunds made within 
a  period  of  fifteen  days  and  interest  in  case  of  delay  in  refund  at  the 
prescribed rate.  

(5) 
(6) 

(4) 

(7) 

 

 
(XVI)  Utilisation  of  Issue  Proceeds:  The  addendum  for  the  rights  offering  shall  contain  a 
statement of the board of directors of the issuer in relation to the use of issue proceeds.  

 
(XVII)  Restrictions on foreign ownership of Indian securities, if any: 

(A)  Investment by NRIs. 
(B)  Investment by 352[foreign portfolio investors]. 
 

(XVIII) Any other material disclosures (as deemed necessary):  

 

(XIX)  Declaration: 

(A)  The addendum for the rights offering shall be approved by the Board of Directors 
of the issuer and shall be signed by all directors, the Chief Executive Officer, i.e., 
the  Managing  Director  or  Manager  within  the  meaning  of  the  respective 
applicable  corporate  laws  of  the  home  country  and  the  Chief  Financial  Officer, 
i.e.,  the  whole-time  finance  director  or  any  other  person  heading  the  finance 
function and discharging that function. 

(B)  The following statement shall be disclosed: 

 

“No statement made in this addendum  contravenes any of the provisions of 
the  applicable  corporate  laws  in  the  home  country  or  of  provisions  of 
Companies (Issue of Indian Depository Receipts) Rules, 2004. All the legal 
requirements  connected  with  the  issue  as  also  the  Regulations,  guidelines, 
instructions,  etc.,  issued  by  SEBI,  Government  and  any  other  competent 
authority in this behalf, have been duly complied with.” 

(C)  The  signatories  shall  further  certify  that  all  disclosures  made  in  the  offer 

document and the addendum for rights offering are true and correct. 

 

PART B 

[See regulation 106I(1)] 

 

 

 

                                                           
352 Substituted for "FIIs" by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 7-1-2014.   

Page 250 of 255 

 

DISCLOSURES IN ABRIDGED LETTER OF OFFER FOR RIGHTS ISSUE OF INDIAN 

DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS 

 
(1)  A  listed  issuer  making  a  rights  issue  of  IDRs  shall  make  disclosures,  as  required  under  its 
home country regulations, if any and as specified in Part B of this Schedule, in the abridged 
letter of offer for rights offering.  

(2)  Notwithstanding the above, where disclosures of matters similar or equivalent to those set out 
in  this  Schedule  are  required  to  be  made  in  a  particular  form  or  by  reference  to  particular 
requirements of home country regulations, the same shall prevail over the requirements of this 
Schedule  and  shall  be  deemed  to  be  complied  with  by  such  disclosures  made  in  the  offer 
document on the basis of the home country regulations. 

(3)  The order in  which items shall appear in  the abridged letter of offer for  rights  offering shall 
correspond, wherever applicable, to the order in which items appear in the offer document and 
the addendum for rights offering. 

(4)  The abridged letter of offer for rights offering shall also include the following disclosures: 

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 

 

Provisions pertaining to applications forms; 
Rights entitlement ratio; 
Fractional entitlements; 
Renunciation; 
Application for Additional IDRs; 
Intention of promoters to subscribe to their rights entitlement, if any. 

(5) General Instructions: 

1.  The information to be provided under each of the heads specified below shall be as per the 

requirement of Part A of this Schedule except when specified otherwise. 

2.  The abridged letter of offer shall be printed in a font size which shall not be visually smaller 

than Times New Roman Size 10. 

3.  The application form shall be so positioned that on the tearing-off of the application form, 

no part of the information given in the abridged letter of offer is mutilated.  

 
The abridged letter of offer for the issue of Indian Depository Receipts (IDR) shall contain the 
following disclosures:   

 

I. 

Instructions for applicants: 

 
II. 

How to apply, availability of letter of offer, abridged letter of offer and application forms, 
mode of payment and how to apply through white sheet, if relevant. 

General Information: 
(A)  The  name  of  the  issuing  company  and  address  of  the  registered  office  of  the  issuing 
company,  along  with  telephone  number,  fax  number,  e-mail  address  and  website 
address,  and  where  there  has  been  a  change  in  the  address  of  the  registered  office  or 
name of the issuing company, details thereof. 

(B)  Name, address and contact information of the principal office of the issuing company in 

India. 

(C)  Name,  address  and  contact  information  of  the  domestic  depository,  the  overseas 
custodian  bank  with  the  address  of  its  office  in  India,  the  merchant  banker,  the 
underwriter to the issue, advisors to the issue and any other intermediary which may be 
appointed in connection with the issue of IDR. 

(D)  Names, addresses and contact information of experts and counsel. 
(E)  Name, address and contact information of the compliance officer in relation to the issue 

of IDR. The compliance officer should be placed in India. 

Page 251 of 255 

 

(F)  Name,  address  and  contact  information  of  Stock  Exchanges  where  applications  are 

made or proposed to be made for listing of the IDR.  

(G)  Disclosure about provisions relating to punishment for fictitious applications. 
(H)   Statement/declaration for refund of excess subscription. 
(I)  Statement  that  an  interest  of  15%  p.a.  would  be  paid  to  the  investors  if  the  allotments 
letters  /  refund  orders  are  not  despatched  within  15  days  of  the  closure  of  the  rights 
issue, as the case may be. 

(J)  Declaration  about  issue  of  allotment  letters/certificates/  IDR  within  the  stipulated 

period. 

(K)  Date of opening of issue. 
(L)  Date of closing of issue. 
(M)  Last date for request for split. 
(N)  Method and Expected Timetable of the issue. 
(O)  Date of earliest closing of the issue. 
(P)  Declaration  by  the  merchant  banker  with  regard  to  adequacy  of  resources  of 
underwriters to discharge their respective obligations, in case of being required to do so. 
(Q)  A statement by the issuing company that all moneys received out of issue of IDR shall 
be transferred to  a separate domestic bank  account,  name and address  of  the bank and 
the nature and number of the account to which the amount shall be credited. 
(R)  Details of availability of letter of offer and forms, i.e., date, time, place etc. 
(S)  Amount and mode of payment seeking issue of IDR. 
(T)   Disclosure on Investor Grievances and Redressal System. 
(U)   That  the  issuing  company  undertakes  to  subject  itself  to  the  jurisdiction  of  Indian 
Courts having jurisdiction over the place where the stock exchange is situated regarding 
grievances of the IDR applicants and IDR holders. 

 

III. 

Capital Structure of the issuing company:  
(A)  Authorised, issued, subscribed and paid up capital (Number of instruments, description, 

aggregate nominal value). 

(B)  Size of present issue.(Segregating issue of IDRs) 
(C)  Paid-up Capital: 

(1)  before the issue; 
(2)  after the issue (if the IDR issue involves issue of fresh equity shares); and 
(3)  share premium account (before and after the issue). 

 

IV. 

Terms of the Present Issue: 
(A)  Authority for the issue, terms of payment and procedure and time schedule for allotment 

and issue of certificates/ refund orders. 

(B)   The clause "Interest in Case of Delay in Despatch of Allotment Letters/ Refund Orders" 

V. 

VI. 

shall appear. 

 
 

 Particulars of the Issue:  
(A)  Objects of the issue. 
(B)  Project cost. 
(C)  Means of financing. 

 

Company, Management and Project:  
(A)  History and present business of the company. 
(B)  Details of major shareholders disclosed in Letter of Offer. 

Page 252 of 255 

 

(C)  Names,  address  and  occupation  of  manager,  managing  director,  and  other  Directors 
(including  nominee-directors  and  whole-time  directors)  giving  their  directorships  in 
other companies. 

 

Outstanding Material Litigations and Defaults (in a summarised tabular form)  

Material Development: Any material development after the date of the latest balance sheet 
and its impact on performance and prospects of the company. 

 Time and Place of Inspection of material contracts. (List of material contracts not 
required) 

 

Financial Performance of the Issuing company as per last completed accounting year for 
which  audit  has  been  completed  and  for  the  latest  stub  period  for  which  audit/limited 
review has been completed. 

Disclosure on Investor Grievances and Redressal System. 

Brief  details  of  the  Domestic  Depository,  Overseas  Custodian  Bank  and  Depository 
Agreement. 

Signatories to the Letter of offer. ] 
 
 

************* 

 

 

VII. 
 
VIII. 

IX. 

X. 

XI. 
 
XII. 

 
XIII. 

 

 

Page 253 of 255 

 

Footnote: 
 
1. The SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 were published in 
the Gazette of India on 26th August, 2009 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2009-10/15/174471. 

2. The SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 were subsequently 
amended on:- 

(1)  11th  December,  2009  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2009  vide  No.  LAD-NRO/GN/2009- 
10/23/186926. 

(2)  1st January,  2010  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
vide  No.  LAD-NRO/GN/2009- 

(Amendment)  Regulations, 

2010 

Requirements) 
2010/25/189240. 

(3)  8th January,  2010  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital and  Disclosure 
Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010  vide  No.  LADNRO/GN/2009-
10/26/190146. 

(4)  13th  April,  2010  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2010  vide  No.  LADNRO/GN/2010-
11/03/1104. 

(5)  12th  November,  2010  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
vide  No. 

(Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations, 

2010 

Disclosure  Requirements) 
LADNRO/GN/2010-11/19/26456. 

(6)  29th  April,  2011  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 vide F. No. LADNRO/GN/2011-12/05/13907. 

(7)  23rd  September,  2011  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of 

Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2011-12/24/30181. 

(8)  23rd  September,  2011  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
(Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2011  vide  F.  No. 

Disclosure  Requirements) 
LADNRO/GN/2011-12/25/30309. 

(9)  30th January, 2012 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 

Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2011-12/34/2499. 

(10)  7th February, 2012 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012  vide  No.  LADNRO/GN/2011-
12/35/3186. 

(11)  21st  May,  2012  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative  Investment 

Funds)Regulations, 2012 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2012-13/04/11262. 

(12)  24th August, 2012 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012  vide  No.  LADNRO/GN/2012-
13/12/18951. 

(13)  12th October, 2012 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2012  vide  No.  LADNRO/GN/2012-
13/18/5391. 

(14)  27th February, 2013 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 

Requirements)(Amendment) Regulations, 2013 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2012-13/32/4947. 

(15)  26th August, 2013 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements)(Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2013  vide  No.  LAD-NRO/GN/2013-
14/19/6422. 

Page 254 of 255 

 

(16)  8th October, 2013 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing of Specified Securities on 

Institutional Trading Platform) Regulations, 2013 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2013-14/28/6720. 

(17)  7th  January,  2014  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors) 

Regulations, 2014 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2013-14/36/12. 

(18)  4th February, 2014 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 

Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2013-14/44/226. 

(19)  23rd  May,  2014  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Payment  of  Fees)  (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2014 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/03/1089. 

(20)  25th August, 2014 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2014  vide  No.  LAD-NRO/GN/2014-
15/06/1372. 

(21)  24th  March,  2015  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital and  Disclosure 

Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/24/538. 

(22)  5th  May  2015  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2015 vide No. SEBI-NRO/OIAE/GN/2015-
16/003. 

(23)  11th August 2015 by  Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements)  (Third  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015  vide  No.  SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2015-
16/007. 

(24)  14th  of  August,  2015  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015  vide  No.  SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2015-16/008. 

(25)  14th  of  August,  2015  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
Disclosure  Requirements)  (Fifth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015  vide  No.  SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2015-16/012.  

(26)  02nd  of  September,  2015  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and 

Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2015-16/013. 

(27)  10th  of  September,  2015  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
Disclosure  Requirements)  (Sixth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015  vide  No.  SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2015-16/18. 

(28)  27th  of  October,  2015  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Seventh 

Amendment) Regulations, 2015 vide No. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2015-16/025. 

(29)  21stof  January,  2016  by  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2016 vide No. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2015-16/031. 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

********* 

Page 255 of 255 

 

