 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/Cir/MIRSD/AP/8/2010 

    

 

 

 

                     July 23, 2010 

To 

The Managing Directors/Chief Executive Officers/ 
Executive Directors/Officiating Executive Directors 
of all the Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
Sub: Market Access through Authorised Persons 
 

 

 

 

1.  Pursuant  to  SEBI  circular  no.  MIRSD/DR-1/Cir-16/09  dated  November  06,  2009 
prescribing the framework governing the market access through Authorised Persons of 
the  stock  brokers,  SEBI  has  received  representations  from  the  stock  exchanges  and 
market  participants  seeking  review  of  the  certification  requirements  for  Authorised 
Persons.  Accordingly,  it  is  decided  to  rationalize  the  certification  requirements  for  the 
Authorised Persons in line with those applicable to the stock brokers and Sub-Brokers.  

2.  In view of the above, the aforesaid circular dated November 06, 2009 has been modified 

as follows:  

      
     (i)    Sub-clause (f) of clause 4.1 of the framework stands deleted.  
     (ii)   New clause 4.4, which reads as under, is inserted: 

The  approved  users  and/or  sales  personnel  of  Authorised  Persons  shall  have  the 
necessary certification of the respective segments at all points of time. 

3.  The  stock  exchanges  are  advised  to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  bye-laws, 
rules and regulations to implement the framework for market access through authorized 
persons. 
 

4.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 
 

5.  The circular shall come into force from date of this circular.  

6.  The  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  head  ‘legal 

 

framework’. 

Yours faithfully, 
B.  N. Sahoo 
Deputy General Manager 
Market Intermediaries Regulation 
And Supervision Department-1 
022-26449250 
biranchins@sebi.gov.in 

