CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    August 27, 2010 

The Managing Director 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (E) 
Mumbai - 400 051 

 

CIR/MRD/DP/27/2010 
 
The Managing Director and CEO   
Bombay Stock Exchange Limited  
 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers  
Dalal Street    
 
 
Mumbai - 400001  
 
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Sub: Clarification on Introduction of Call Auction in pre-open session 

This  is  further  to  the  SEBI  Circular  No.  CIR/MRD/DP/21/2010  dated  July  15,  2010 
regarding introduction of call auction in pre-open session.  
 
2. 

It is clarified that para 11 of the aforesaid circular shall read as under: 
 
a. 

In case the equilibrium price is not discovered in the pre-open session, wherein, 
there are only market orders, the market orders shall be matched at last traded 
price and all unmatched orders shall be shifted to the order book of the normal 
market at last traded price following time priority. Last traded price shall be the 
opening price. 

 
b. 

 

In  case  the  equilibrium  price  is  not  discovered  in  the  pre-open  session  and 
there are no market orders to be matched at last traded price, all unmatched 
orders shall be shifted to the order book of the normal market following price 
time  priority.  The  price  of  the  first  trade  in  the  normal  market  shall  be  the 
opening price.  

3.  The stock exchanges should bring out this clearly in their communication to brokers, 
who in turn shall disseminate the information to their clients desirous of placing call 
auction orders in pre-open session. 

 
4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

   
 

 

 

 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
S V Murali Dhar Rao 
Chief General Manager 
022 26449370 
mdrao@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

 

