 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DP/ 25/2010  

 

 

 

 

 

 

        August 27, 2010 

To  
 
All Stock Exchanges 

Dear Sir/ Madam, 

 

 
 

Sub: Securities Trading using Wireless Technology 

1.  It  has  been  decided  that  SEBI  registered  brokers  who  provide  Internet  Based  Trading  as 
specified by SEBI circular no. SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-06/2000 dated January 31, 2000 shall be 
eligible  to  provide  securities  trading  using  wireless  technology.  All  relevant  requirements 
applicable to internet based trading shall also be applicable to securities trading using wireless 
technology.  

2.  Securities  Trading  using  Wireless  technology  shall  include  devices  such  as  mobile  phone, 

laptop with data card, etc, that use Internet Protocol (IP).  

3.  In addition, the stock exchange shall ensure that the broker complies with the following -  

(a)  There shall be secure access, encryption and security of communication for internet based 
trading and securities trading using wireless technology. DOT policy and regulation shall 
govern the level of encryption. 

 
(b)  Adequate  measures  should  be  taken  for  user  identification,  authentication  and  access 
control using means such as user-id, passwords, smart cards, biometric devices or other 
reliable means, to prevent misuse of facility by unauthorized persons.  

 
(c)  Unique  identification  number  as  given  in  case  of  internet  based  trading  shall  be  made 

applicable for securities trading using wireless technology. 

 
(d)   In case of failure of the wireless network, alternative means of communication for placing 

orders should be available. 

 
(e)  Additional  provisions  specifying  possible  risks,  responsibilities  and  liabilities  associated 
with  securities  trading  using  wireless  technology  should  be  incorporated  in  the  Broker-
Client agreement as an addendum or by bringing to the notice of clients, who are desirous 
of availing such facility, and taking their concurrence on the same. 

 
(f)  As it may not be possible to give detailed information to the investor on a hand held device 
e.g.  mobile  phones,  it  may  be  ensured  that  minimum  information  may  be  given  with 
addresses  of  the  Internet  web  site/web  page  where  detailed  information  would  be 
available. 

 
(g)  Order  confirmation  should  be  provided  to  the  user  on  submitting  the  order.  Order 
modification / cancellation facilities should also be provided. Trade confirmation should be 
provided to the user, along with history of trades for the day. 

 
 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

(h)  Session login details should not be stored on the devices used for internet based trading 

and securities trading using wireless technology. 

 
(i)  Network  security  protocols  and  interface  standards  should  be  as  per  prevalent  industry 
standards and sound audit trails should be available for all transactions conducted using 
wireless devices.  

 
(j)  The  broker’s  server  routing  orders  to  the  exchange  trading  system  shall  be  located  in 

 
(k)  Stock  exchanges  shall  arrange  for  periodic  systems  audits  of  broker  systems  to  ensure 

that requirements specified in the circulars are being met. 

 
(l)  Stock  exchange  shall  also  include  securities  trading  using  wireless  technology  in  their 

ongoing investor awareness and educational programme 

India. 

4.  Stock  exchanges  may  take  such  other  measures  and  implement  such  other  safeguards  as 
they  deem  fit  to  ensure  security  and  integrity  of  transactions  conducted  using  wireless 
technology. 

5.  Exchanges are advised to 

a)  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations  for  the 

implementation of the above decision. 

b)  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the member brokers/clearing members 

of the Exchange and also to disseminate the same on the website. 

c)  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  this  circular  in  the  Monthly 

Development Report. 

6.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  (1)  of  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.    

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
S V MURALI DHAR RAO 
CHIEF GENERAL MANAGER  
022-26449370 
mdrao@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

 

