 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

June 14, 2010 

CIR/ISD/AML/2/2010  
 
 
To all Intermediaries registered with SEBI under Section 12 of the SEBI Act. 
(Through  the  stock  exchanges  for  stock  brokers,  sub  brokers,  depositories  for 
depository participants, AMFI for Asset Management Companies.) 
 
Sub:  Anti  Money  Laundering  (AML)  Standards/Combating  Financing  of  Terrorism 
(CFT)/Obligations  of  Securities  Market  Intermediaries  under  Prevention  of  Money 
Laundering Act, 2002 and Rules framed there-under. 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 

1.  SEBI,  vide  Master  Circular  No.  ISD/AML/CIR-1/2010  dated  February  12,  2010, 
issued  consolidated  requirements/obligations  to  be  fulfilled  by  all  registered 
intermediaries with regard to AML/CFT. In addition to the obligations contained in 
the Master Circular, following are the additional requirements to be fulfilled or the 
clarifications with regard to existing requirements: 
 

a.  Clause  3.2.3  (f)  of  the  Master  Circular  lays  down  obligations  to  establish 
policies and procedures with regard to role of internal audit. It is clarified that 
the internal audit function should be independent, adequately resourced and 
commensurate  with  the  size  of  business  and  operations,  organization 
structure, number of clients and other such factors. 
 

b.  The  following  clause  numbered  5.1(f)  is  added  after  the  existing  clause 
5.1(e)  of  the  Master  Circular:  “Registered  intermediaries  shall  periodically 
update  all  documents,  data  or  information  of  all  clients  and  beneficial 
owners collected under the CDD process”. 

c.  The  following  new  clause  numbered  5.2.1(g)  is  added  after  the  existing 
clause  5.2.1  (f)  of  the  Master  Circular:  “The  CDD  process  should 
necessarily be revisited when there are suspicions of money laundering or 
financing of terrorism (ML/FT)”. 
 

d.  The  following  line  is  added  in  the  existing  clause  5.3.1  of  the  Master 
Circular:  “Further  low  risk  provisions  should  not  apply  when  there  are 
suspicions  of  ML/FT  or  when  other  factors  give  rise  to  a  belief  that  the 
customer does not in fact pose a low risk.” 
 

in 

risk 

high 

clients 

dealing  with 

countries  where 
existence/effectiveness of money laundering control is suspect, it is clarified 
that  apart  from  being  guided  by  the  Financial  Action  Task  Force  (FATF) 
statements that identify countries that do not or insufficiently apply the FATF 
Recommendations,  published  by  the  FATF  on  its  website  (www.fatf-
gafi.org),  registered 
intermediaries  should 
independently  access  and 
consider other publicly available information. 
 

e.  While 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

f.  Clause  5.5(a)  of  the  Master  Circular  shall  read  as  follows:  “All  registered 
intermediaries  shall  proactively  put  in  place  appropriate  risk  management 
systems to determine whether their client or potential client or the beneficial 
owner of such client is a politically exposed person. Such procedures should 
include  seeking  relevant  information  from  the  client,  referring  to  publicly 
available information or accessing the commercial  electronic  databases  of 
PEPS.  Further,  the  enhanced  CDD  measures  as  outlined  in  clause  5.5 
should also be applicable where the beneficial owner of a client is a PEP”. 

g.  The  existing  clause  5.5(c)  of  the  Master  Circular  shall  read  as  follows: 
“Registered intermediaries shall also take reasonable measures to verify the 
sources  of  funds  as  well  as  the  wealth  of  clients  and  beneficial  owners 
identified as PEP”. 

h.  Clause  8.2  of  the  Master  Circular  prescribes  that  intermediaries  shall 
maintain  the  records  of  the  identity  of  clients  prescribed  in  Rule  9  of  the 
PML  Rules  for  a  period  of  10  years  from  the  date  of  cessation  of 
transactions between the client and intermediary. It is clarified that the “date 
of cessation of transactions” shall be read to mean the “date of termination 
of an account or business relationship”. 

i. 

 It  is  clarified  that  the  ”tipping  off”  provision  in  clause  13.3  of  the  Master 
Circular extends not only to the filing of the STR and/or related information 
but even before, during and after the submission of an STR. 

 

2.  All  the  registered  intermediaries  are  directed  to  ensure  compliance  with  the 
requirements contained in this circular on an immediate basis. Stock exchanges, 
Depositories and AMFI are also directed to bring the contents of this circular to the 
attention  of  their  members/  depository  participants  and  verify  compliance  during 
inspections. 
 

3.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (SEBI Act), and Rule 7 
and  Rule  9  of  Prevention  of  Money-laundering  (Maintenance  of  Records  of  the 
Nature and Value of Transactions, the Procedure and Manner of Maintaining and 
Time  for  Furnishing  Information  and  Verification  and  Maintenance  of  Records  of 
the  Identity  of  the  Clients  of  the  Banking  Companies,  Financial  Institutions  and 
Intermediaries)  Rules,  2005  (PML  Rules)  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in 
securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities 
market. 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
S. Ramann 

Page 2 of 2 

 

 

 

 

 

