MIRSD/ SE /Cir- 5/2010 
 March 31, 2010 

The Managing Directors of all Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
Subject: Clarification on dealings between a client and a stock broker 
 

 

1.      This is with reference to SEBI circular No. MIRSD/SE/Cir-19/2009 dated 
December  3,  2009  in  terms  of  which  the  stock  brokers  were  directed  to 
take necessary steps to implement the circular immediately and ensure its 
full compliance in respect of all clients - existing and new - latest by March 
31, 2010.  

 
2.       Subsequent  to  the  issuance  of  the  aforesaid  circular,  SEBI  has  received 
representations  from  market  participants  expressing  difficulties 
in 
implementation of the circular and requesting extension of time. Hence, in 
consultation with the major stock exchanges, it has been decided to extend 
the time line.   

 
3.      The stock brokers are now directed to ensure the full compliance of the 
said circular dated December 3, 2009 in respect of all clients-existing and 
new - latest by June 30, 2010. 

Deputy General Manager 
Market Intermediary Regulation and Supervision Department 
E-mail: biranchins@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

4.      The Stock Exchanges are directed to: 
a.      bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the Stock Brokers and 

also disseminate the same on their websites. 

b.       make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations for the implementation of the above decision in co-ordination 
with one another to achieve uniformity in approach. 

c.       communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions 

of this circular in their Monthly Development Reports. 
 

5. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and 
to regulate the securities markets. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
B. N. Sahoo 

