DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
Market Regulation Department – Division of Policy 
Email: harinib@sebi.gov.in 

 

 
 

 
 
1.  The Executive Directors/ Managing Directors 

 

 

 

 

of all Stock Exchanges 

 
SEBI/MRD/DoP/SE/RTA/Cir-03/2010 
January 07, 2010 

2.  Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents  
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: PAN requirement for transmission of shares in physical form  
 
 
1.  The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  vide  circular  ref.  no. 
MRD/DoP/Cir-05/2007  dated  April  27,  2007  made  PAN  mandatory  for  all 
securities  market  transactions. Thereafter,  vide circular no. MRD/DoP/ Cir-
05/2009  dated  May  20,  2009  it  was  clarified  that  for  securities  market 
transactions and off-market/ private transactions involving transfer of shares 
in  physical  form  of  listed  companies,  it  shall  be  mandatory  for  the 
transferee(s)  to  furnish  copy  of  PAN  card  to  the  Company/  RTAs  for 
registration of such transfer of shares. 

 
2.  Based on representations/ clarifications sought by market participants and in 
continuation  to  the  aforesaid  circulars,  it  is  hereby  clarified  that  it  shall  be 
mandatory to furnish a copy of PAN in the following cases –  

2.1.  Deletion of name of the deceased shareholder(s), where the shares 

are held in the name of two or more shareholders. 

2.2.  Transmission  of  shares  to  the  legal  heir(s),  where  deceased 

shareholder was the sole holder of shares. 

2.3.  Transposition  of  shares  –  when  there  is  a  change  in  the  order  of 
names in which physical shares are held jointly in the names of two or 
more shareholders.  

 
3.  Incase  of  mismatch  in  PAN  card  details  as  well  as  difference  in  maiden 

name and current name (in case of married women) of the investors - 

3.1.  The RTAs can collect the PAN card as submitted by the transferee(s). 
However, this would be subject to the RTAs verifying the veracity of 
the  claim  of  such  transferee(s)  by  collecting  sufficient  documentary 
evidence in support of the identity of the transferee(s) as provided for 
at para. 2 in the SEBI circular no. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-29/2004 dated 
August  24,  2004  read  with  SEBI  circular  no.  MRD/DoP/Cir-08/2007 
dated June 25, 2007. 

 

 

 
 

 
4.  All Stock Exchanges are advised to:- 
 

4.1. 

implement the above by making necessary amendments to the bye-
laws and Listing Agreement, as applicable; 

4.2.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  listed 
companies  for  necessary  compliance  and  also  to  put  the  same  on 
their website for easy access to the investors; and 
communicate  to  SEBI  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the 
provisions  of  this  circular  and  the  action  taken  in  this  regard  in  the 
Monthly Development Report.  

4.3. 

 
5.  All Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents are advised to:-  

 
5.1. 
5.2.  disseminate the provisions of this circular on their website. 

take necessary steps to implement the above decision. 

 
6.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with section 55A 
of  Companies  Act  to  protect  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
HARINI BALAJI 
 
 
 

