 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DMS/13/2010 

 

 

 

 

 

          April 23, 2010 

 

 

 
To 
The Managing Directors of Stock Exchanges and Depositories 
 
Dear Sir(s), 
 

Sub:   Execution of Power of Attorney (PoA) by the Client in favour of the Stock 

Broker/ Stock Broker and Depository Participant  

 
1.  A  Power  of  Attorney  is  executed  by  the  client  in  favour  of  the  stock  broker  /stock 
broker and depository participant to authorize the broker to operate the client’s demat 
account and bank account to facilitate the delivery of shares and pay – in/ pay – out of 
funds. 

 
2.  Generally, the PoA is taken from the clients who want to avail internet based trading 
services.  For  offering  internet  based  trading  services,  a  Stock  Broker  requires 
necessary  authorizations  for  seamless  trading,  collection  of  margins  as  well  as 
settlement  of  funds  and  securities.  Further,  some  of  the  Stock  Brokers  also  obtain 
authorizations from their clients to offer non-internet based services.  

 
3.  It has come to SEBI’s notice that the clients are compelled to give irrevocable power 
of attorney to manage client’s demat account and bank account so that the client is 
able to pay funds or deliver shares to its broker on time. In some cases, the PoA even 
allows  a  broker  to  open  and  close  accounts  on  behalf  of  the  client  and  to  trade  on 
client’s account without the consent of the client.  

 
4.  In order to standardize the norms to be followed by stock brokers/ stock broker and 
depository  participants  while  obtaining  PoA  from  the  clients  guidelines  have  been 
finalized  based  on  discussions  in  Secondary  Market  Advisory  Committee  of  SEBI 
(SMAC)  and  feedback  from  market  participants,  investor  associations,  major  stock 
exchanges  and  depositories  on  discussion  paper  on  the  captioned  subject  put  on 
SEBI website. It has been decided that the guidelines as set out in the annexure shall 
be made applicable to stock brokers/ stock broker and depository participants. 

 
5.  Standardizing  the  norms  for  PoA  must  not  be  construed  as  making  the  PoA  a 
condition  precedent  or  mandatory  for  availing  broking  or  depository  participant 
services. PoA is merely an option available to the client for instructing his broker or 
depository  participant  to  facilitate  the  delivery  of  shares  and  pay-in/pay-out  of  funds 
etc. No stock broker or depository participant shall deny services to the client if the 
client refuses to execute a PoA in their favour. 

 
6.  The Stock Brokers shall take necessary steps to implement this circular latest by May 
31, 2010 for the new clients and ensure to take necessary steps latest by September 
01,  2010  to  revoke  those  authorizations  given  by  the  existing  clients  to  the  stock 
brokers/  stock  broker  and  depository  participants  through  PoA  that  are  inconsistent 
with the present guidelines.   

 

 

Page 1 of 5 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 
 
7.  The Stock Exchanges/ Depositories are directed to: 
 

a)  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the Stock Brokers/Depository 

Participants and also disseminate the same on their websites; 

b)  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 

the implementation of the above decision; 

c)  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 

circular in their Monthly Development Reports. 

 
8.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors 
in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities 
markets. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
MANOJ KUMAR 
General Manager 
+91-22-26449260 
 manojk@sebi.gov.in  

 

Encl:  Guidelines  for  execution  of  Power  of  Attorney  by  Clients  favouring  Stock 

Brokers / Stock Broker and Depository Participants 

 

 
 

 

Page 2 of 5 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Guidelines for execution of Power of Attorney by Clients favouring Stock Brokers / 

 

 

Stock Broker and Depository Participants 

 
PoA favouring Stock Brokers 
 
PoA executed in favour of a Stock Broker by the client should be limited to the following: 
 
1.  Securities 

i.  Transfer  of  securities  held  in  the  beneficial  owner  account(s)  of  the  client(s) 
towards stock exchange related margin / delivery obligations arising out of trades 
executed by the Client(s) on the stock exchange through the same Stock Broker. 

 
ii.  Pledge the securities in favour of Stock Broker for the limited purpose of meeting 
the margin requirements of the client(s) in connection with the trades executed by 
the clients on the stock exchange through the same Stock Broker. Necessary audit 
trail should be available with the Stock Broker for such transactions. 

iii.  To apply for various products like Mutual Funds, Public Issues (shares as well as 
debentures), rights, offer of shares, tendering shares in open offers etc. pursuant 
to  the  instructions  of  the  Client(s).  However,  a  proper  audit  trail  should  be 
maintained  by  the  Stock  Broker  to  prove  that  the  necessary  application/act  was 
made/done pursuant to receipt of instruction from Client. 

 
2.  Funds 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iv.  Transfer of funds from the bank account(s) of the clients for the following: 

a.  For meeting the settlement obligations of the client(s)/ margin requirements 
of the client(s) in connection with the trades executed by the clients on the 
stock exchange through the same Stock Broker. 

b.  For recovering any outstanding amount due from the client(s) arising out of 
clients  trading  activities  on  the  stock  exchanges  through  the  same  Stock 
Broker. 

c.  For  meeting  obligations  arising  out  of  the  client  subscribing  to  such  other 
products/facilities/services  through  the  Stock  Broker  like  Mutual  Funds, 
Public Issues (shares as well as debentures), rights, offer of shares in etc. 

d.  Towards  monies/fees/charges,  etc.  due  to  the  Stock  Broker/Depository 
Participant/ Principal payable by virtue of the client using/subscribing to any 
of the facilities/services availed by the Client at his/her instance. 

Necessary audit trail should be available with the Stock Broker for such transactions. 

 
POA favouring Stock Brokers and Depository Participants 
 
PoA executed in favour of a Stock Broker and Depository Participant by the client should: 
 
3. 

identify/provide  the  particulars  of  the  beneficial  owner  account(s)  and  the  bank 
account(s) of the client(s) that the Stock Broker is entitled to operate. 

 

 

Page 3 of 5 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

provide the list of clients’ & brokers’  Bank  accounts  &  demat accounts where funds 
and  securities  can  be  moved.  Such  bank  &  demat  accounts  should  be  accounts  of 
related party only. 

be executed in the name of the concerned SEBI registered entity only and not in the 
name of any employee or representative of the Stock Broker/Depository Participant. 

not provide the authority to transfer the rights in favour of any assignees of the Stock 
Broker/Depository Participant.  

be executed and stamped as per the rules / law prevailing in the place where the PoA 
is executed or the place where the PoA is kept as a record, as applicable. 

contain a clause by which the Stock Broker would return to the client(s), the securities 
or fund that may have been received by it erroneously or those securities or fund that 
it was not entitled to receive from the client(s).  

be revocable at any time, without notice.  

 
9. 
 
10.  be  executed  by  all  the  joint  holders  (in  case  of  a  demat  account  held  jointly).  If  the 
constitution  of  the  account  is  changed  for  whatever  reason,  a  new  PoA  should  be 
executed. 

 
11.  authorize  the  Stock  Broker/Depository  Participant  to  send  consolidated  summary  of 
Client's scrip-wise buy and sell positions taken with average rates to the client by way 
of  SMS  /  email  on  a  daily  basis,  notwithstanding  any  other  document  to  be 
disseminated as specified by SEBI from time to time.  

 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 

 

 

 

General Guidelines 
 
The POA shall not facilitate the stock broker to do the following:  
 

12.  Transfer of securities for off market trades.  
 
13.  Transfer of funds from the bank account(s) of the Clients for trades executed by the 

clients through another stock broker.  

 
14.  Open  a  broking  /  trading  facility  with  any  stock  broker  or  for  opening  a  Beneficial 

Owner account with any Depository Participant.  

 
15.  Execute trades in the name of the client(s) without the client(s) consent.  

16.  Prohibit issue of Delivery Instruction Slips (DIS) to beneficial owner (client).  
 
17.  Prohibit client(s) from operating the account.  
 
18.  Merging  of  balances  (dues)  under  various  accounts  to  nullify  debit  in  any  other 

account.  

Page 4 of 5 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

19.  Open an email ID/ email account on behalf of the client(s) for receiving statement of 

transactions, bills, contract notes etc. from stock broker / Depository Participant.  

 
20.  Renounce liability for any loss or claim that may arise due to any blocking of funds that 

may be erroneously instructed by the Stock Broker to the designated bank. 

Stock Broker / Depository Participant should ensure that: 
 
21.  A duplicate/ certified true copy of the PoA is provided to the Client(s) after execution. 

 
22. 

 

 

 

 

In case of merger/ demerger of the Stock Broker/Depository Participant with another 
entity/  into  another  entity,  the  scheme  of  merger/  demerger  should  be  approved  by 
High  Court  and  one  month  prior  intimation  given  to  the  client  about  the  corporate 
restructuring to facilitate investor/ client to continue or discontinue with the broker. 

***** 

 
 

Page 5 of 5 

 

