 

 

 

April 22, 2010 

CIR/CFD/DIL/3/2010 
 
To All Registered Bankers to an Issue 
To All Registered Merchant Bankers 
To All Registered Registrars to an Issue 
To All Stock Exchanges  
To All Depositories 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub.: Reduction in time between issue closure and listing  
 
1.  Presently, it takes on an average around 22 days to list the securities after an 
issue closes. This exposes investors as well as issuers to market risk as well as 
leading to infrastructural stress and costs. One of the reasons identified for this 
delay is data entry at multiple level and reconciliation thereof. Needless to say, 
any  reduction  in  the  period  taken  to  list  an  issue  after  closure  is  in  general 
interest of investors. 

 
2.  In consultation with market intermediaries, SEBI has decided to reduce the time 

between issue closure and listing to 12 working days. 

CIRCULAR 

 
 

 

 

  
3.  In  the  new  process,  the  syndicate  members  shall  capture  all  data  relevant  for 
purposes of finalizing basis of allotment while uploading bid data in the electronic 
bidding  system  of  the  stock  exchanges.  In  order  that  the  data  so  captured  is 
accurate, syndicate members may be permitted an additional day to amend some 
of the data fields entered by them in the electronic bidding system.  

 
4.  It is to be noted that syndicate members shall be responsible for any error in the 
bid  details  uploaded  by  them.  In  case  of  apparent  data  entry  error  by  either 
syndicate  member  or  collecting  bank  in  entering  the  application  number  in  their 
respective  schedules  other  things  remaining  unchanged,  the  application  may  be 
considered  as  valid  and  such  exceptions  may  be  recorded  in  minutes  of  the 
meeting submitted to stock exchange(s). In the event of mistake in capturing the 
application number by either the syndicate member or collecting bank leading to 
rejection of application, the registrar may identify based on the bid form, the entity 
responsible  for  the  error.  Valid  records  in  electronic  file  will  be  those  for  which 
money is received. 

 
5.  This  circular  contains  indicative  timelines  for  the  various  activities  in  the  issue 
process.  The  non-ASBA  process  in  this  regard  is  given  in  Annexure  I  of  the 
circular.  Since  the  ASBA  process  also  needs  to  be  revised  pursuant  to  the 
reduced  timelines,  the  revised  ASBA  process  is  indicated  in  Annexure  II  of  the 
circular. 

6.  Details  of  the  mandatory  data  fields  which  are  required  to  be  captured  into  the 
electronic bidding system by the syndicate members including the fields which are 
modifiable/non-modifiable is given in Annexure III of the circular. 

 
7.  In order to facilitate quicker processing of applications for the purpose of allotment, 
instead of the name of the applicant, it is proposed to use PAN which is a unique 
identification  number  of  the  applicant.  In  this  regard,  the  merchant  bankers  are 
directed to ensure that the following is clearly disclosed in the prospectus/abridged 
prospectus,  application  form  and  the  pre-issue  advertisements:  “The  applicants 
may note that in case the DP ID & Client ID and PAN mentioned in the application 
form and entered into the electronic bidding system of the stock exchanges by the 
syndicate members do not match with the DP ID & Client ID and PAN available in 
the depository database, the application is liable to be rejected.” 

 
8.  Stock Exchanges are directed to ensure that in case of revision of bids, there shall 
be  appropriate  provisions  to  capture  the  details  of  the  payment  instrument  for 
difference of amount, if any. 

 
9.  It is given to understand that there is no uniformity in the documents required to be 
submitted to the stock exchanges along with the listing application which results in 
delay  in  the  process.  In  this  regard,  stock  exchanges  are  directed  to  clearly 
indicate the list of documents which they require for giving listing approval, at the 
time of grant of in-principle approval. 

 
10. Stock Exchanges, Merchant Bankers, Registrar to an Issue, Bankers to an issue 
including  those  acting  as  Self  Certified  Syndicate  Banks  and  depositories  are 
directed to ensure that the instructions contained in this circular are complied with.  

 
11. This revised procedure shall be applicable to all public issues opening on or after 

May 3, 2010. 

 
12. This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 read 

with Section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 
13. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

 
14. This circular issues with the approval of the competent authority. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Sanjay Purao 
Deputy General Manager 
 +91-22-26449612 
sanjayp@sebi.gov.in 

Indicative timeline schedule for various activities in the proposed issue 

 

process(Non-ASBA) 

Details of Activities  

Annexure I 

Due Date 
(Working 

Day)  

Issue 
opening date 
to 
issue 
closing  date 
(where  T  is 
issue closing 
date) 
T 
T+1 
 

T+2 
 

 

Sl. 
No. 

1.    Syndicate  members  upload  bid  details  in  the  electronic 

bidding system of stock exchange(s). 
 
Syndicate members need to ensure that required documents 
are attached with the application form. 

4.   

Issue closes. 

2.   
3.    Stock exchange(s) to allow syndicate members to undertake 
modification  of  selected  fields  in  the  bid  details  already 
uploaded. 
 
Registrar  to  get  the  electronic  bid  details  from  the  stock 
exchanges at the end of the day. 
Issuer,  merchant  banker  and  registrar  to  submit  relevant 
documents to the stock exchange(s) except listing application, 
allotment  details  and  demat  credit  and  refund  details  for  the 
purpose of listing permission. 
 
forward  a  schedule  (containing 
Syndicate  members 
application  number,  payment 
instrument  number  and 
amount),  application  forms  and  payment  instruments  to 
collecting banks. 
 
Collecting  banks  may  not  accept  bid  schedule,  bid 
applications and payment instrument after T+2 day. 
 
Registrar  to  give  bid  file  received  from  the  stock  exchanges 
containing  the  application  number  and  amount  to  all  the 
collecting  banks  who  can  use  this  file  for  validation  at  their 
end. 
 
Registrar to commence validation of the electronic bid details 
with depositories records for DP ID, Client ID and PAN. 
 

to 

5.    Registrar  to  continue  validation  of  the  electronic  bid  details 

with depositories records.  
 
Collecting  banks 
instruments. 

to  commence  clearing  of  payment 

6.    Registrar  to  complete  validation  of  the  electronic  bid  details 

with depositories records. 
  
Collecting  banks  to  start  forwarding  application  forms  along 
with bank schedules to registrar.  

7.    Registrar to prepare list of rejected bids based on mis-match 

between electronic bid details and depositories data base. 
 
Registrar  to  undertake  “Technical  Rejection”  test  based  on 
electronic  bid  details  and  prepare  list  of  technical  rejection 
cases. 

8.    Collecting  banks  to  submit  status  of  clearance  status  of 

payment instrument i.e. “Final Certificate” to the registrar. 

9.    Collecting  banks  to  ensure  that  all  application  forms  are 

forwarded to the registrar. 
  
Registrar  to  undertake  and  complete  reconciliation  of  final 
certificate  received  from  the  collecting  banks  with  electronic 
bid details. 
 
Registrar  submits  the  final  basis  of  allotment  to  Designated 
Stock Exchange(s) for approving the basis of allotment. 

10.   Designated  stock  exchange(s)  to  approve  the  basis  of 

allotment. 
 
Registrar  to  prepare  funds  transfer  schedule  based  on 
approved allotment. 
 
Registrar to give instructions to depositories to carry out lock-
in for pre issue capital. 

T+3 
 

T+4 
 

T+5 

T+6 
 
T+7 

T+8  
 

11.   Registrar  and  merchant  banker  to  issue  funds  transfer 

instructions to collecting banks. 
 
Collecting banks to credit the funds in Public Issue Account of 
the issuer and confirm the same. 
 

T+9 
 

12.  

Issuer to make allotment. 
 
Registrar to give instruction to depositories for credit of shares 
to successful allottees. 
 
Registrar  to  receive  confirmation  for  pre-issue  capital  lock-in 
from depositories.   
Issuer  and  registrar  to  file  allotment  details  with  designated 
stock  exchange(s)  and  confirm  all  formalities  are  completed 
except demat credit and refund. 
 
Registrar to complete refund dispatch. 
 
Registrar to issue bank-wise data of allottees, allotted amount 
and refund amount to collecting banks.  

13.   Registrar 

to  receive  confirmation  of  demat  credit 

from 

depositories  and submit the same to the stock exchange(s). 
 
Issuer  and  registrar  to  file  confirmation  of  demat  credit  and 
refund dispatch with stock exchange(s). 
 
Issuer to make a listing application to stock exchange(s) and 
stock exchanges to give listing and trading permission. 
  
Issuer,  merchant  banker  and  registrar  to  publish  allotment 
advertisement  before 
trading, 
prominently displaying the date of commencement of trading, 
in  all 
issue  opening/closing 
advertisements have appeared earlier.  
  
Stock exchange(s) to issue commencement trading notice. 

the  newspapers  where 

the  commencement  of 

T+10 
 

T+11 
 

14.   Trading commences 

T+12 

 
*Working days will be all days excluding Sundays and bank holidays 
 
 
 

Indicative timeline schedule for various activities in the proposed issue process (ASBA) 

 

Sl. No. 

 

Details of Activities 

1.  

2.  

3.  

4.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  

6.  

7.  

An  ASBA  investor,  intending  to  subscribe  to  a  public  issue,  shall 
submit a completed ASBA form to a Self Certified Syndicate Bank 
(SCSB), with whom the bank account to be blocked, is maintained, 
through one of the following modes - 
(i)  Submit the form physically with the Designated Branches (DBs) 

of the SCSB (“Physical ASBA”); 
or 

(ii)  Submit  the  form  electronically  through  the  internet  banking 

facility offered by the SCSB (“Electronic ASBA”). 

The SCSB shall give an acknowledgement by giving the counter foil 
or  specifying  the  application  number  to  the  ASBA  investor,  as  a 
proof of having accepted his/ her ASBA, in a physical or electronic 
mode respectively.  
If the bank account specified in the ASBA does not have sufficient 
credit  balance  to  meet  the  application  money,  the  ASBA  shall  be 
rejected by the SCSB. 
(i)  After  accepting  a  Physical  ASBA,  the  SCSB  shall  block  funds 
available in the bank account specified in the Physical ASBA, to 
the extent of the application money specified in the ASBA. The 
SCSB shall then capture and upload the relevant details in the 
electronic bidding system as specified by the stock exchange(s) 
for a particular issue. 

(ii)  In  case  of  an  Electronic  ASBA,  the  ASBA  investor  himself/ 
herself shall fill in all the relevant details, except the application 
number  which  shall  be  system generated.  The  SCSB  shall 
thereafter  upload  all 
the  stock 
exchange(s).  

the  details  specified  by 

The  SCSB  (Controlling  Branch  (CB)  or  DBs)  shall  provide 
Transaction  Registration  Slip(s)/  Order  number(s),  confirming 
upload of ASBA details in the electronic bidding system of the stock 
exchange.  The  Transaction  Registration  Slip(s)/  Order  number(s) 
shall be provided to the ASBA investor as a proof of uploading the 
details of ASBA, only on demand. 
In case an ASBA investor wants to withdraw his/ her ASBA during 
the  bidding/  offer    period,  he/  she  shall  submit  his/  her  withdrawal 
request  to  the  SCSB,  which  shall  do  the  necessary,  including 
deletion  of  details  of  the  withdrawn  ASBA  from  the  electronic 
bidding system of the stock exchange(s) and unblocking of funds in 
the relevant bank account. 
Stock  exchange  to  allow  SCSBs  to  undertake  modification  of 

Annexure II 

Timeline/ 
Due date 

Issue opening 
date to issue 
closing date 
(where T is 
issue closing 

date) 

 

-do- 

-do 

-do 

-do 

-do 

T+1  

selected fields in the bid details already uploaded  
 
Registrar to get the electronic bid details from the stock exchanges 
at the end of the day.  
The  SCSB  shall  send 
following 
aggregate information as per the format specified by the Registrar to 
the issue, to the registrar: 
(i)  Total number of ASBAs uploaded by the SCSB 
(ii)  Total  number  of  shares  and  total  amount  blocked  against  the 

investor  category-wise 

the 

uploaded ASBAs.. 

The  Registrar  shall  reconcile  the  compiled  data  received  from  the 
stock  exchange(s)  and  all  SCSBs  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the 
“reconciled data”). 

  The  registrar  shall  then  match  the  reconciled  data  with  the 
depositories’ database for correctness of DP ID, Client ID and PAN. 
In  case  any  DP  ID,  Client  ID  or  PAN  mentioned  in  the  bid  file  for 
ASBAs  does  not  match  with  the  one  available  in  the  depositories’ 
database, such ASBA shall be rejected by the registrar. 
In case an ASBA investor wants to withdraw his/her ASBA after the 
bid closing date, he/she shall submit the withdrawal request to the 
registrar.  The  registrar  shall  delete  the  withdrawn  bid  from  the  bid 
file. 

  The registrar shall reject multiple ASBAs determined as such, based 

. 

on common PAN. 

  The registrar shall finalise the basis of allotment and submit it to the 

Designated Stock Exchange for approval. 

  Once  the  basis  of  allotment  is  approved  by  the  Designated  Stock 
Exchange, the registrar shall provide the following details to the CB 
of each SCSB, along with instructions to unblock the relevant bank 
accounts  and  transfer  the  requisite  money  to  the  issuer’s  account 
designated  for  this  purpose,  within  the  timelines  specified  in  the 
ASBA facility:  
(i)  Number of shares to be allotted against each valid ASBA 
(ii)  Amount to be transferred from the relevant bank account to the 
issuer’s  account  designated  for  this  purpose,  for  each  valid 
ASBA 

(iii)  The date by which the funds referred to in sub-para (ii) above, 
shall  be  transferred  to  the  issuer’s  account  designated  for  this 
purpose. 

(iv) Details  of  rejected  ASBAs,  if  any,  along  with  reasons  for 
rejection and details of withdrawn/ unsuccessful ASBAs, if any, 
to enable SCSBs to unblock the respective bank accounts.  

  SCSBs shall unblock the relevant bank accounts for: 

(i)  Transfer of requisite money to the issuer’s account designated 

for this purpose against each valid ASBA.  
(ii)  Withdrawn/ rejected/ unsuccessful ASBAs. 

8.  

9.  

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

 

T+2 

 

 

T+2 to T+6 

T+7 

T+8  

 

T+9 

 
The CB of each SCSB shall confirm the transfer of requisite money 
against each successful ASBA to the Registrar to the Issue .  
 

16. 

  The Issuer shall make the allotment.  

17. 

 

 
Registrar  to  give  instruction  to  depositories  for  credit  of  shares  to 
successful allottees. 
Issuer  and  registrar  to  file  allotment  details  with  Designated  Stock 
Exchange  and  confirm  all  formalities  are  complete  except  demat 
credit. 

18. 

  Registrar to receive confirmation of demat credit from depositories 

and submit the same to the stock exchange(s). 
 
Issuer and registrar to file confirmation of demat credit and refund 
dispatch with stock exchange(s). 
 
Issuer to make a listing application to stock exchange(s) and stock 
exchanges to give listing and trading permission. 
  
to  publish  allotment 
Issuer,  merchant  banker  and 
advertisement  before  the  commencement  of  trading,  prominently 
displaying  the  date  of  commencement  of  trading,  in  all  the 
newspapers  where  issue  opening/closing  advertisements  have 
appeared earlier.  
  
Stock exchange(s) to issue commencement trading notice. 

registrar 

19. 

  Trading commences  

T+9 

T+10 

T+11 

T+12 

 

Data Fields for Bidding Software 

Description 

Modifiable on 

T+1 

Annexure III 
 

Remarks 

Mandatory 
Mandatory 
Mandatory 

Mandatory 
Mandatory 
Mandatory 
Mandatory 
Mandatory 
Mandatory 
Mandatory 

Field Name 

IPO 
APPLNO1 
CATEGORY 

PAN1 
DPID 
BENEFID 
QTY 
PRICE 
CHQ_AMT 
CHQ_No. 

 

IPO Name 
Application No. 
Investor Category 
 
1. Retail Individual Investor 

Investor sub- category 

None 
 

2. Non-Institutional Investor 

Individuals>Rs. 1 lakh 

Investor sub category 
- 
-  Corporates 
-  Others 

 
3. Qualified Institutional Buyers 

Investor sub category 
-  Mutual Funds 
-  Financial Institutions 
- 
Insurance companies 
-  Foreign Institutional 
Investors other than 
corporate and individual 
sub-accounts 

-  Others 

 
4. Employee (if reservation) 
5. Shareholder(if reservation) 
 
First Applicant PAN 
Demat ID 
Beneficiary Account Number 
Quantity Option  
Price Option  
Cheque Amount 
Cheque number 

N 
N 
N 

N 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 

