 
General Manager 
Division of Foreign Institutional Investors & Custodians 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

To 
All Foreign Institutional Investors 
through their designated Custodians of Securities 
 
Dear Madam/Sir 

Cir No. IMD/FII & C/42/2010 
April 09, 2010 

 

 

Sub: Allocation of debt investment limits to FIIs 

 

Based on the assessment of the allocation and the utilization of the limits to FIIs for investments 
in Government and Corporate Debt, it has been decided to allocate the unutilized limits in the 
following manner:-  
 
I 
Allocation through bidding process 

Please refer to SEBI circular IMD/FII & C/ 37/2009 dated February 06, 2009, providing the 
modalities for the allocation methodology through the bidding process. The bidding process 
shall be on April 16, 2010 on the National Stock Exchange for both the government as well 
as the corporate debt limits subject to the following conditions: - 
 
1.  Government Debt: 

a. 

In  partial  amendment  to  clause  3  (h)  of  the  aforesaid  circular  IMD/FII  &  C/ 
37/2009,  no  single  entity  shall  be  allocated  more  than  Rs.200  cr.  of  the 
government debt investment limit. 

b.  In partial amendment to clause 3 (c) and 3(d) of the aforesaid circular IMD/FII & 
C/ 37/2009, the minimum amount which can be bid for shall be Rs.50 cr. and the 
minimum tick size shall be Rs.50 cr. 

2.  Corporate Debt: 

a. 

In  partial  amendment  to  clause  3  (h)  of  the  aforesaid  circular  IMD/FII  &  C/ 
37/2009,  no  single  entity  shall  be  allocated  more  than  Rs.2000  cr.  of  the 
corporate debt investment limit. 

b.  In partial amendment to clause 3 (c) and 3(d) of the aforesaid circular IMD/FII & 
C/ 37/2009, the minimum amount which can be bid for shall be Rs.200 cr. and 
the minimum tick size shall be Rs.200 cr. 

II 
Allocation through first come first serve process (FCFS) 

In terms of SEBI circular dated January 31, 2008, the government and corporate debt  limits 
shall be allocated in the first come fist served basis subject to the following conditions:- 

 

3.  Government Debt: 

4.  Corporate Debt: 

a.  An investment limit of Rs.200 cr. in Government debt shall be allocated among 
the  FIIs/sub-accounts  on  a  first  come  first  served  basis,  subject  to  a  ceiling  of 
Rs.49 cr. per registered entity. 

a.  The remaining amount in corporate debt after bidding process shall be allocated 
among  the  FIIs/sub-accounts  on  a  first  come  first  served  basis,  subject  to  a 
ceiling of Rs.199 cr. per registered entity. 

The  debt  requests 
id 
fii_debtrequests@sebi.gov.in.  The  window  for  first  come  first served  process  shall  open  at 

this  regard  shall  be  forwarded 

the  dedicated  email 

in 

to 

FII Registration No. 

08:30 AM IST, April 19, 2010. Time period for utilization of the allocated debt limit through 
first come first served basis shall be 11 working days from the date of the allocation. 
 
5.  The format for applying for debt limit for FCFS process is as follows: 
 
  Name of FII 
 
 
 
  Name of Sub Account (if applicable) 
 
 
 
 
 
  Approval requested for   
 
 
  Name of Local custodian (of applicant)   
 
6.  A  copy  of  this  circular  is  available  at  the  web  page  “F.I.I.”  on  our  website 
www.sebi.gov.in. The custodians are requested to bring the contents of this circular to the 
notice of their FII clients. 

Sub Account Code (if applicable) 
Limit applied for (amount in INR) 
 
(Government/ Corporate Debt)   

: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
 
: 

 

 
 

 
 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
 
Jeevan Sonparote 

