 
 
General Manager 
Market Intermediaries Regulation 
and Supervision Department - II 
Email: sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in 
 

 
To 
The Managing Directors of Stock Exchanges 
 
 
Dear Sir/s, 
 

SEBI/MIRSD/Cir. No.03/2010 
January 21, 2010 

Sub: 

Requirement of Fee Clearance and NOC – Non applicability in 
respect of certain category of members of stock exchanges 

 
1.  In terms of clause 4 (e) of SEBI Circular No.SEBI/SMD/SE/Cir-24/2003/18/06 
dated June 18, 2003 members of the stock exchanges are required to obtain 
‘NOC’  from  SEBI  through  the  respective  stock  exchanges  before  claiming 
refund of excess Base Minimum Capital from the stock exchange.   

 
2.  Further, 

in 

terms  of  clause  4  of  SEBI  Circular  No.MIRSD/MSS/Cir-
30/13289/03  dated  July  9,  2003,  members  of  the  stock  exchanges  are 
required  to  obtain  ‘fee  clearance’  from  SEBI  through  the  respective  stock 
exchanges for the following purposes: 

 

(a)  Change in shareholding pattern without change in control,  
(b)  Issue and redemption of preference shares, issue of bonus shares,  

and  

(c)  Change in directors other than designated / whole time directors  

 
 
3.  On  a  review,  it  has  been  decided  that  the  above  referred  provisions  of  the 
aforesaid  circulars  shall,  henceforth,  be  not  applicable  to  the  following 
categories of members of the stock exchanges:   

Page 1 of 2 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

 

trading members and clearing members in the equity derivatives and 
currency derivatives segments  
stock brokers in the cash segment who are  covered under Schedule 
III A [payment of fees by stock brokers] of the SEBI (Stock Brokers and 
Sub-brokers) Regulations, 1992 and  
stock brokers in the cash segment who may migrate to Schedule III A 
[payment  of  fees  by  stock  brokers]  of  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and 
Sub-brokers) Regulations, 1992  in future (as and when they migrate). 

4.  However, the stock brokers who are covered under Schedule III [payment of 
fees  by  stock  brokers]  of  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers) 
Regulations,  1992  will  be  required  to  comply  with  the  above  referred 
provisions of the aforesaid circulars.  

 
5.  Stock Exchanges are advised to : 

(a)  issue  necessary  instructions  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  Circular  to 
the notice of their constituents  and also disseminate the same on their 
websites;  

(b)  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 

regulations for the implementation of the above; and 

(c)  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions 

of this Circular by February 28, 2010 . 

 

6.  This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market and shall come into effect from the date of this Circular. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
V.S. SUNDARESAN 
 

Page 2 of 2 

