DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 
DIVISION OF FUNDS-1 

 
 
To 
All Registered Portfolio Managers  
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 

IMD/DOF-1/PMS/Cir-1/2010 
March 15, 2010 

Sub: Half Yearly Reporting by Portfolio Managers 

1.  Please  refer  to  SEBI  circular  No.1(93-94)  dated  October  20,  1993 

regarding submission of half yearly report by portfolio managers. 

2.  The format for the half yearly report on portfolio management activity has 
been  revised  as  per  enclosed  Annexure.  All  portfolio  managers  are 
advised  to  submit  the  half  yearly  report  to  SEBI  in  the  revised  format 
within  30  days  after  the  end  of  respective  period  ended  30/9  &  31/3  of 
each year. 

3.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred by sub-section (1) 
of section 11 and section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

4.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Portfolio Manager”. 

 

 Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Maninder Cheema 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

HALF YEARLY REPORTING REQURIEMENTS 

FOR PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES 

Annexure 

(To be submitted within 30 days, for the period ended 30/9 & 31/3 of each year after 
the end of respective period) 

1.      GENERAL INFORMATION 

1.1 Name 

1.2 Registration no:- 

1.3 Address (Registered and Correspondence office address with email id.) 

2     CAPITAL ADEQUACY:- 

Net worth as on 30/9 or 31/3 as the case may be;  

The statement of networth of ……….. based on audited / unaudited accounts 
as on …………. 
 
 

Amount (in Rs. 

lakhs) 

Paid up equity capital 
Add: Free reserves (excluding reserves created out 
of revaluation) 
Less: Accumulated losses 
Less: Deferred expenditure not written off (including 
miscellaneous expenses not written off) 
Less:  Minimum  Capital  Adequacy 
/networth 
equirement  for  any  other  activity  undertaken  under 
other SEBI regulations. 
Networth 

 
 

 
 

 

 

3.       OTHER INFORMATION 

3.1 Details of all settled and pending disputes against applicant/ its directors/ 

associates 

Sr. No.  Names of the Party  Nature of dispute 

Pending/ settled 

3.2 Indictment or involvement in any economic offence during the period. 

3.3 Any  other  information  considered  relevant  to  the  nature  of  services 

rendered by the Portfolio Manager. 

 3.4 List  of  approved  share  brokers  whose  services  were  utilized  for  PMS 
activities  and  whether  any  of  them  were  suspended  for  more  than  one 
week / had defaulted with any Stock Exchange authority  

4.  List  of  Corporate  Clients  -  (with  Name  and  Amount  of  portfolio  fund 

managed) 

Sr. No. 

Name of Client 

 

 

Amount  of  portfolio fund managed 
(in Rs. lakhs) 
 

5.  Performance  of  Portfolio  Manager  in  comparison  to  relevant  benchmark 
indices  during  the  period  –  (for  the  categories  –  Individual  clients  & 
corporate clients)  

         6. Enclosures:  

(1)     A  certificate  duly  signed  by  the  Principal  Officer  stating  that  the   
information  required  under  Regulation  No.  23(ii)  of  SEBI  (Portfolio 
Managers) Regulations, 1993 has been reported to SEBI. 

(2)   A certificate from the auditors relating to Portfolio Management activities 
as  required  under  Regulation  No.  20(2)  of  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers) 
Regulations, 1993 and management’s comments on the adverse remarks 
if any, made by the auditor.   

(3)  Corporate  Governance  report  as  required  under  the  PMS  Circular     

IMD/PMS/CIR/1/21727/03 dated November 18, 2003. 

 
 

 

 

Authorized Signatory 

 

 

 

 

 

Place: 
 
 
 

      Date: 
 

