 
DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
MARKET REGULATION DEPARTMENT  
DIVISION OF SRO ADMINISTRATION 
Email: rajeshkd@sebi.gov.in  

SEBI/MRD/DSA/CIR-05/2010  
February 10, 2010 
 

 
1. The Managing Directors/ Executive Directors 
     of all Stock Exchanges 
2. Managing Director and CEO, NSDL 
3. Managing Director and CEO, CDSL 
 
 
Dear Madam / Sir, 
 
 
Sub:  Committee  for  review  of  ownership  and  governance  of  market 

infrastructure institutions.   

 
The role of market infrastructure institutions has been continuously evolving to 
meet the challenges of the emerging securities market. These institutions are 
increasingly  called  upon  to  undertake  regulation  and  supervision  of  the 
markets,  while  simultaneously  pursuing  commercial  objectives.  The  emerging 
market microstructure and the evolving role of market infrastructure institutions 
call  for  a  review  of  their  ownership  and  governance  structure  to  ensure  that 
they remain relevant and effective.  
 
In this regard, SEBI Board in its meeting held on December 22, 2009 approved 
the proposal to constitute a committee to look into the issues and concerns in 
the  matter.  Accordingly,  a  committee  has  been  constituted  under  the 
Chairmanship of Dr Bimal Jalan (Former Governor, Reserve Bank of India). 
 
The other members of the committee are: 
 

1.  Dr. K P Krishnan, Jt Secretary, Ministry of Finance  
2.  Mr. Kishore Chaukar, Managing Director, Tata Industries  
3.  Mr. Uday Kotak, Managing Director, Kotak Mahindra Bank 
4.  Prof. G. Sethu, National Institute of Securities Market  
5.  Dr. K. M. Abraham, Whole Time Member, SEBI 
6.  Shri J.N. Gupta, Executive Director, SEBI (Member Secretary). 

 

The  terms  of  reference  of  the  committee  will  be  to  review  and  make 
recommendations on the following issues:  
 
a.  Ownership Structure of Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations, 
b.  Board Composition of Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations, 
c.  Listing and Governance of Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations, 
d.  Balance between Regulatory and Business Functions of Stock Exchanges 

and Clearing Corporations, in the context of their ‘for profit’ status 

 
e.  Relationship between Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations, 
f.  Relationship between Stock Exchanges and Technology Providers, and  
g.  Competition Policy for Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations. 
 
The  committee  may  also  make  recommendations  on  other  relevant  issues 
inter-alia as it finds necessary. 
 
The  recommendations  of  the  committee  shall  later  be  placed  in  the  public 
domain for comments. 
 
This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 
(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market. 
 
This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in.  
  
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
D. RAJESH KUMAR 
 
 

