CHIEF GENERAL MANAGER 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 

 
All Mutual Funds/Asset Management Companies (AMCs) 
 
Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Circular for Mutual Funds  
 

SEBI/IMD/CIR No 18 / 198647 /2010 
March 15 ,2010 

 

1.  Brokerage and commission paid to associates 

ii. 

i.  Regulation 25 (8) of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 mandates that the 
payment  of  brokerage  or  commission,  if  any,  to  the  sponsor  or  any  of  its 
associates,  employees  or  their  relatives,  has  to  be  disclosed  in  the  half–yearly 
annual accounts of the mutual fund.  
In order to standardize the said disclosures on brokerage and commission paid to 
associates/related  parties/group  companies  of  sponsor/Asset  Management 
Company in the unaudited half yearly financial results, the abridged scheme wise 
annual  report  and  the  SAI,  these  disclosures  shall  henceforth  be  made  in  the 
format as prescribed in Annexure A.  
 

2.  Additional mode of payment through Applications Supported by Blocked Amount 
(hereinafter referred to as “ASBA”) in Mutual Funds and Reduction in New Fund 
offer (NFO) period 

i. 

In its continuous endeavor to make the public issue process efficient, SEBI had 
introduced ASBA facility which investors have been enjoying for subscription to 
public issue of equity capital of companies. It has been decided to extend ASBA 
facility to the investors subscribing to New Fund Offers (NFOs) of mutual fund 
schemes.  It  shall  co-exist  with  the  current  process,  wherein  cheques/  demand 
drafts are used as a mode of payment. The banks which are in SEBI’s list shall 
extend the same facility in case of NFOs of mutual fund schemes to all eligible 
investors  in  Mutual  Fund  units.  Mutual  Funds  shall  ensure  that  adequate 
arrangements are made by Registrar and Transfer Agents for the implementation 
of ASBA.  Mutual Funds/AMCs shall make all relevant disclosures in this regard 
in the SAI. Also, SEBI circulars dated July 30, 2008, September 25, 2008 August 
5, 2009 and December 30, 2009 related to ASBA shall be followed to the extent 
applicable.  

ii.  Reduction of NFO Period-  

a. In order to make NFO process efficient, it has been decided to reduce the 

NFO period to 15 days. 

b.  However, the NFO period in case of ELSS schemes shall continue to be 

governed by guidelines issued by Government of India. 

c. Mutual Funds/AMCs shall make investment out of the NFO proceeds only 

on or after the closure of the NFO period. 

d.  The  provisions  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Fund)  Regulations,  1996  regarding 
NFO  period  would  be  suitably  amended  in  due  course.  Further, 
paragraph  1  of  SEBI  Circular  No.  MFD/Cir  No.9/120/2000  dated 
November 24, 2000  is as modified as under- 
 

Initial offer period and time taken for allotment of units and 
dispatch of accounts statements 
“It has been decided that the present limit of maximum period of 
30 days in case of Open ended schemes and 45 days of close ended 
scheme  shall  be  reduced  to  15  days  (except  ELSS  schemes). 
Mutual Funds/ AMCs shall use the NFO proceeds only on or after 
the closure of the NFO period. The mutual fund should allot units/ 
refund  of  money  and  dispatch  statements  of  accounts  within  five 
business  days  from  the  closure  of  the  NFO  and  all  the  schemes 
(except  ELSS)  shall  be  available  for  ongoing  repurchase/sale/ 
trading within five business days of allotment” 

iii.  Applicability:  The  Mutual  Funds/AMCs  have  to  compulsorily  provide  ASBA 
facility  to  the  investors  for  all  NFOs  launched  on  or  after  July  01,  2010.  The 
provisions mentioned at paragraph 2(ii) regarding reduction in NFO period shall 
also be applicable for all NFOs launched on or after July 01, 2010. 

 

3.  Non availability of Unit Premium Reserve for dividend distribution 

i. 

ii. 

The Ninth and Eleventh Schedule of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations provide 
the accounting policies to be followed for determining distributable surplus and 
accounting the sale and repurchase of units in the books of the Mutual Fund. In 
this regard, the format for Scheme Balance Sheet (including Abridged) provides 
for disclosure of Unit Premium Reserve. 
It is clear from the above regulatory requirements that the Unit Premium Reserve, 
which is part of the sales price of units that is not attributable to realized gains, 
cannot be used to pay dividend. However, it is observed that some Mutual Funds 
are  using  Unit  Premium  Reserve  for  distribution  of  dividend.  It  is  therefore 
reiterated that: 

a. When  units  of  an  open-ended  scheme  are  sold,  and  sale  price  is  higher 
than  face  value  of  the  unit,  part  of  sale  proceeds  that  represents 
unrealised gains shall be credited to a separate account (Unit Premium 
Reserve) and shall be treated at par with unit capital and the same shall 
not be utilized for the determination of distributable surplus. 

b.  When units of an open-ended scheme are sold, and sale price is less than 
face  value  of  the  unit,  the  difference  between  the  sale  price  and  face 
value shall be debited to distributable reserves and the dividend can be 
declared  only  when  distributable  reserves  become  positive  after 

adjusting the amount debited to reserves as per para 2(a) (ix) of Eleventh 
Schedule of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations. 

 

4.  Role of Mutual Funds in Corporate Governance of Public Listed Companies 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

The  issue  of  the  role  of  Mutual  Funds  in  Corporate  Governance  of  listed 
companies was considered by the Mutual Fund Advisory Committee. It was felt 
that  mutual  funds  should  play  an  active  role  in  ensuring  better  corporate 
governance of listed companies. 
It  has  been  decided  that  henceforth,  AMCs  shall  disclose  their  general  policies 
and procedures for exercising the voting rights in respect of shares held by them 
on the website of the respective AMC as well as in the annual report distributed to 
the unit holders from the financial year 2010-11. 
 
Further, the AMCs are also required to disclose on the website of the respective 
AMC  as  well  as  in  the  annual  report  distributed  to  the  unit  holders  from  the 
financial  year  2010-11,  the  actual  exercise  of  their  proxy  votes  in  the 
AGMs/EGMs of the investee companies in respect of the following matters 

a.  Corporate  governance  matters,  including  changes  in  the  state  of 
incorporation,  merger  and  other  corporate  restructuring,  and  anti 
takeover provisions. 

b.  Changes to capital structure, including increases and decreases of 

capital and preferred stock issuances. 

c.  Stock option plans and other management compensation issues; 
d.  Social and corporate responsibility issues. 
e.  Appointment and Removal of Directors. 
f.  Any other issue that may affect the interest of the shareholders in 

general and interest of the unit-holders in particular. 

The format for disclosure of voting by mutual funds in general meetings of listed 
companies is placed in Annexure B 

iv. 

 

5.  Provision  of  charging  of  additional  management  fees  by  the  Asset  Management 

Companies in case of schemes launched on no load basis 
i. 

Consequent to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/IMD/CIR No. 4/ 168230/09 dated June 
30,  2009  on  “Mutual  Funds-  Empowering  investors  through  transparency  in 
payment of commission and load structure” which stipulated that “There shall be 
no  entry  load  for  all  mutual  fund  schemes”,  it  is  clarified  that  AMC  shall  not 
collect any additional management fees referred to in Regulation 52(3) of SEBI 
Mutual Funds Regulation, 1996. Necessary amendments to Regulation 52 will be 
notified in due course.  

ii.  Mutual Fund Schemes to be launched including those for which observation letter 
have been issued under Regulation 29 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 
would be required to carry out the changes in Scheme Information Document and 
file the same with SEBI before the launch. 

The provisions of SEBI (Mutual Fund) Regulations, 1996 in this regard would be 
suitably amended in due course 

iii. 

 

6.  Fund of Funds Scheme 

i. 

ii. 

It has been observed from the disclosures in the scheme information documents 
(SID)  that      Asset  Management  Companies  (AMCs)  have  been  entering  into 
revenue sharing arrangements with offshore funds in respect of investments made 
on  behalf  of  Fund  of  Fund  schemes.  These  arrangements  create  conflict  of 
interest.  
It has been decided that henceforth AMCs shall not enter into any revenue sharing 
arrangement with the underlying funds in any manner and shall not receive any 
revenue by whatever means/head from the underlying fund. Any commission or 
brokerage  received  from  the  underlying  fund  shall  be  credited  into  concerned 
scheme’s account.  
 

7.  Mutual Funds/Asset Management Companies shall comply with the above requirements 

in letter and spirit. 
 

8.  The above circulars are issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the provisions of Regulation 
77  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
S. RAVINDRAN 

Annexure A 

 
Brokerage paid to associates/related parties/group companies of Sponsor/AMC 
 

Period covered * 

Nature of  
Association/ 
Nature of 
relation 

Value of transaction ( in 
Rs. Cr. & % of total value 
of transaction of the fund ) 

Brokerage  
( Rs Cr & % of total 
brokerage paid by 
the fund) 

Name of 
associate 
/related 
parties/ 
group 
companies 
of 
Sponsor/ 
AMC 
 
 
 

Name of 
associate 
/related 
parties/ 
group 
companies 
of 
Sponsor/ 
AMC  
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
Commission paid to associates/related parties/group companies of sponsor/AMC 
 

Nature of  
Association/ 
Nature of 
relation 

Period covered * 

Business given (Rs. Cr. & 
% of total business 
received by the fund) 

Commission paid 
( Rs & % of total 
commission paid by 
the fund) 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

* The period covered shall be as following: 

•  SAI - Past three financial years including the current year  
•  Half Yearly Unaudited Financial Results – Current half year and previous half 

year 

•  Abridged Scheme wise Annual Report – Current year and previous year 

The disclosures for the aforementioned period shall be furnished for each period in 
separate tables.  

 

 

 
 

 
Annexure B 
 
 
Management 
Proposals 
 

 

Type of Meeting 
(AGM / EGM) 
  
  
 

Date 
  
  
 
Shareholder 
Proposals 
 

 

 
 

 
 

Proposal
  
  
 

Management 
Recommendation 
  
  
 

 
 

 
 

Type of Meeting 
(AGM / EGM) 
  
  
 

Date 
  
  
 

Proposal
  
  
 

Management 
Recommendation 
  
  
 

 
 
Vote (For / 
Against / 
Abstain) 
  
  
 

 
 
Vote (For / 
Against / 
Abstain) 
  
  
 

