 
GENERAL MANAGER 
DERIVATIVES AND NEW PRODUCTS DEPARTMENT 

SEBI/DNPD/Cir- 51/2010 
January 11, 2010 

To 
Managing Director / Chief Executive Officer  
Stock Exchanges / Equity Derivatives Segment of Stock Exchanges  
and their Clearing Houses/Corporations 
 
Dear Sir, 

SUB: Market Wide Position Limits across Stock Exchanges 

 
In  consultation  with  Stock  Exchanges  and  based  on  the  recommendations  of  the 
Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI, it has been decided to streamline 
the  operationalisation  of  Market  Wide  Position  Limits  (MWPL)  of  the  derivative 
contracts on individual securities traded across Stock Exchanges as under:  
At  the  latest  on 
the Trading Day  
6.30 PM  

Activity 

7.00 PM 

Each  Exchange  to  disseminate  on  web  the  following  for 
every security:  
a. ISIN of the security, 
b. Name and symbol of the security,  
c. MWPL (in terms of no. of shares) of the security, and 
d. Open Interest (in terms of no. of shares) of the security. 
Each  Exchange  to  disseminate  on  web  the  following  for 
every security, after aggregating across Exchanges: 
a. ISIN of the security, 
b. Name and symbol of the security,  
c. MWPL (in terms of no. of shares) of the security,  
d.  Open  Interest  (in  terms  of  no.  of  shares)  of  the  security, 
and 
e.  Permissible  limits  for  next  day  in  terms  of  SEBI  Circular 
SEBI/DNPD/Cir-26/2004/07/16 dated July 16, 2004. 

7.15 PM  

Each Exchange to report any discrepancy in the above data 
to other Exchanges and after correction, disseminate the final 
data on the web. 

 
2.  The above data shall be disseminated in a machine readable, open format (XML 

format). 
 

3.  The methodology for computation of MWPL, as prescribed by SEBI Circular No. 

SEBI/DNPD/Cir-31/2006 dated September 22, 2006 shall remain unchanged. 
 

4.  This Circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the interests of investors in 
securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities 
market and shall come into effect from January 31, 2010. 

 
5.  This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Derivatives- Circulars”. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Sujit Prasad 

