DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
Market Regulation Department – Division of Policy 
Email: harinib@sebi.gov.in 

1.  The Executive Directors/Managing Directors  

 
SEBI/MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir- 01 /2010 
January 06, 2010 
 

of all Stock Exchanges 

2.  Managing Director and CEO, NSDL 
3.  Managing Director and CEO, CDSL 

Dear Sir/ Madam, 

Sub: Review of Securities Lending and Borrowing (SLB) Framework 

The framework for SLB was specified vide circular no. MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir- 14 
/2007  dated December  20,  2007  and  was operationalised with  effect  from April 
21,  2008.  The  SLB  framework  was  revised  vide  circular  no.  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir- 
31/2008  dated  October  31,  2008.  Pursuant  to  feedback  received  from  market 
participants and proposals for revision of SLB received from NSE and BSE, the 
framework is now modified as under: 

1.  The  tenure  of  contracts  in  SLB  may  be  upto  a  maximum  period  of  12 
months.  The  Approved  Intermediary  (Clearing  corporation/  Clearing 
House) shall have the flexibility to decide the tenure (maximum period of 
12 months). 

2.  The  lender  /  borrower  shall  be  provided  with  a  facility  for  early  recall  / 

repayment of shares. 

3.  In  case  the  borrower  fails  to  meet  the  margin  obligations,  the  Approved 
Intermediary (AI) shall obtain securities and square off the position of such 
defaulting borrower, failing which there shall be a financial close-out. 

4.  In  case  lender  recalls  the  securities  anytime  before  completion  of  the 
contract, the AI on a best effort basis shall try to borrow the security for the 
balance  period  and  pass  it  onward  to  the  lender.  The  AI  will  collect  the 
lending fee from the lender who has sought early recall.  

5.  In  case  of  early  recall  by  the  lender,  the  original  contract  between  the 
lender  and  the  AI  will  exist  till  the  contract  with  the  new  lender  for  the 
balance  period  is  executed  and  the  securities  returned  to  the  original 
lender.  

6.  In case of early repayment of securities by the borrower, the margins shall 
be released immediately on the securities being returned by the borrower 
to  the  AI.  The  AI  shall  on  a  best  effort  basis,  try  to  onward  lend  the 

securities and the income arising out of the same shall be passed on to 
the borrower making the early repayment of securities. 

7.  In  case  AI  is  unable  to  find  a  new  borrower  for  the  balance  period,  the 

original borrower will have to forego lending fee for the balance period. 

8.  Incase  of  early  recall  by  lender  or  early  repayment  of  securities  by 
borrower,  the  lending  fee  for  the  balance  period  shall  be  at  a  market 
determined rate. 

9.  The 

other 

provisions, 

no. 
MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-14/2007 dated December 20, 2007 and circular no. 
MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-  31/2008  dated  October  31,  2008  shall  continue  to  be 
applicable. 

in  SEBI 

circular 

as 

specified 

10. Exchanges and Depositories are advised to 

a.      take  necessary  steps  and  put  in  place  necessary  systems  for 

implementation of the above at the earliest; 

b.      make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and 

regulations for the implementation of the above; 

c.      issue necessary 

the  member  brokers/clearing 
members and depository participants  and also to disseminate the 
same on the website. 

instructions 

to 

11. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 
(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Section 
19  of  the  Depositories  Act,  1996,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in 
securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

   
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
HARINI BALAJI 

