 

 
 
 \ 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Division of Funds - I 
 

The Managing Director/ Administrator 
All Stock Exchanges 
 
 
Dear Sirs, 

 
 

 

 
 
SEBI/IMD/DOF-1/BOND/Cir-1/2010  
January 07, 2010 
 
 

Sub:  Simplified Debt Listing Agreement for Debt Securities - Amendments  
 
1.  SEBI vide circular SEBI/IMD/DOF-1/BOND/Cir-5/2009 dated November 26, 2009 

amended the Simplified Listing Agreement for Debt Securities.  

 
2.  In  continuation  thereof,  it  has  been  decided  to  amend  the  Simplified  Listing 

Agreement for Debt Securities as follows with immediate effect: 

(a) After clause 5, the following proviso shall be inserted: 
 

Provided that this requirement shall not be applicable in case of unsecured 
debt  instruments  issued  by  regulated  financial  sector  entities  eligible  for 
meeting capital requirements as specified by respective regulators.   
 

(b) In clause 16, after sub-clause (a), the following proviso shall be inserted: 
 

Provided that this requirement shall not be applicable in case of unsecured 
debt  instruments  issued  by  regulated  financial  sector  entities  eligible  for 
meeting capital requirements as specified by respective regulators.   

 
(c)  In  clause  29  A,  in  sub-clause  (b)  and  sub-clause  (c),  the  word  “un-audited” 

shall be omitted. 

 
3.  The Stock Exchanges are directed to: 

(a)  Give  effect  to  the  abovementioned  policies  and  make  amendments  to  the 

Simplified Listing Agreement for debt securities 

(b)  Make consequential amendments, if any, to the bye- laws and other rules and 

regulations for the implementation of the above decision  
(c)  Bring to the notice of all issuers listed with the exchange. 
(d)  Disseminate the same on their websites for easy access to investors. 
 
 

Page 1 of 2 

 
 
4.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by  sub-section  (1)  of 
section 11 and section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

 
5.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Corp Debt Market”. 

 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Maninder Cheema 
 

 

Page 2 of 2 

