Parag Basu  
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing-II 
Phone: +91 22 2644 9360   
Fax: +91 22 2644 9035. Email: paragb@sebi.gov.in   

 

SEBI/CFD/DIL/DIP/38/2009/08/20 
August 20, 2009 

 
 
To all registered Merchant Bankers  
To all registered Bankers to an Issue 
To all registered Registrars to issues 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub.:  Amendment  to  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  2000  –  Rights  Issue  Process/ 

Procedure.  

In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 read with Section 11A of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, in order to simplify the rights 
issue  process  as  well  as  to  make  it  more  efficient  and  effective,  it  has  been 
decided to amend the SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 
(hereinafter referred to as “the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines”). 

The full text of amendments is given in Annexure I and the brief of amendments 
are as under: 

 
2.1  Rationalisation of rights issue disclosure requirements: 
2.1.1  Rights issues are further issuances of capital made by listed entities to existing 
shareholders.  These  shareholders  are  generally 
in  possession  of  basic 
information  about  the  issuer  company  and  are  generally  updated  on  major 
developments in the company on a continuous basis.  

 
2.1.2  In order to encourage listed companies to look at rights issues as a viable form of 
capital raising by reducing the overall cost of such issuances and also to make 
the  process  of  such  issues  faster,  it  has  been  decided  to  rationalise  the 
disclosure requirements for rights issues.  

 
2.2  Applications Supported by Blocked Amount (ASBA) in rights issues: 
2.2.1  SEBI,  vide  circular  dated  September  25,  2008,  had  enabled  the  facility  of 

applying in rights issue through ASBA on a pilot basis. 

 
2.2.2  It has now been decided to make ASBA applicable to all rights issues. ASBA will 
co-exist  with  the  current  process,  wherein  cheque/demand  draft  is  used  as  a 
mode of payment. Since the web enabled  interface of stock exchanges is now 
operational  for  the  purpose  of  acceptance  of  the  rights  issue  applications,  self 
certified  syndicate  banks  shall  upload  the  application  data  in  to  the  aforesaid 
interface of stock exchanges. 

 
1. 

 
2. 

 
 

Page 1 of 25 

 
 
 
 
2.2.3  All applicants who desire to apply through ASBA should hold shares of the issuer 

company in a depository account.  

 
2.2.4  The applicants shall  indicate either in (i) in Part A of the composite application 
form of rights issue or (ii) in the plain paper application, as to whether they desire 
to avail of the ASBA option. 

 
2.2.5  The ASBA process, from the time of submission of application by the applicants 
till transfer of shares in the depository account of the investors, as specified for 
book built public issues, shall be followed in the case of rights issues also. The 
role  and  responsibilities  of  self  certified  syndicate  banks,  stock  exchanges, 
registrars and merchant bankers, as enumerated in the ASBA process for book 
built public issues, shall be applicable mutatis mutandis. 

2.3  Utilisation of issue proceeds after finalization of the basis of allotment in 

 

the issue:  

2.3.1  Clause  8.19  of  the  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines  provides  that  in  a  rights  issue,  the 
issuer  may  utilise  the  issue  proceeds  collected  after  satisfying  the  designated 
stock exchange that minimum 90% subscription is received. In a public issue, in 
terms of section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956, the issuer company can access 
the issue proceeds only after allotment and listing is completed. 

 
2.3.2  SEBI has reduced the time period taken for finalization of basis of allotment in 
the rights issues to 15 days from the earlier period of 42 days from the date of 
closure of the issue. In view of this, it has been decided to amend clause 8.19 of 
the  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines  to  provide  that  the  issuer  company  can  utilize  the 
issue proceeds only after the basis of allotment is finalized.   

 
2.4  Applicability: 
2.4.1  This circular shall be applicable as follows: 
 

a.  Amendments  in  Annexure-1  pertaining  to  rationalised  disclosures  for  Rights 
Issues shall be applicable for all rights issues where draft letters of offer are 
filed with SEBI on or after the date of this circular; 

 
b.  All other amendments in Annexure-1 shall be applicable to: 

i.  all  rights  issues  where  draft  letters  of  offer  are  filed  with  SEBI  on  or 

after the date of this circular; 

ii.  all rights issues where draft letters of offer have been filed with SEBI 

but no observations has been issued on them by SEBI; and 

iii.  all  rights  issues  where  SEBI  has  issued  observations  but  where  the 

letter of offer is yet to be filed with the designated stock exchanges.  

All  registered  merchant  bankers  are  advised  to  ensure  compliance  with  this 
circular including the amendments contained in Annexure I of this circular. 

Page 2 of 25 

 
3. 

 

This  circular  and  the  entire  text  of  the  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  including  the 
amendments  contained  in  Annexure  I  of  this  circular,  are  available  on  SEBI 
website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories “Legal Framework” and “Issues 
and Listing”. 

 
 
 
 
4. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
 
Parag Basu

Page 3 of 25 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

Amendments to SEBI (DIP) Guidelines, 2000 

Annexure I 
 
 

1.  For clause 1.2.1 (iii-b), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

“(iii-b) 

“ASBA  Investor”  means  an  investor  who  intends  to  apply  through  ASBA 
process and  
(A) 

(c) 

in case of public issue: 
(a) 
(b) 

is a “Resident Retail Individual Investor”; 
is  bidding  at  cut-off,  with  single  option  as  to  the  number  of 
shares bid for; 
is applying through blocking of funds in a bank account with 
the SCSB; 
has agreed not to revise his/her bid; 
is not bidding under any of the reserved categories. 

 

 

(d) 
(e) 
in case of rights issue , an applicant, who;   
(a) 

holds the shares of the issuer in dematerialized form as on 
record  date  and  has  applied  for  entitlements  and  /or 
additional shares in dematerialized form; 
has not renounced his/ her entitlements in full or in part; 
is not a renouncee;  
is applying through a bank account maintained with SCSBs.” 

(B) 

(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
 
 

CHAPTER V 

PRE-ISSUE OBLIGATIONS 

3.  In clause 5.2.1, after the words “in all book built public issues” and before the words 
“provided  in  all”  the  words  “and  rights  issues,  whichever  is  applicable,”  shall  be 
inserted.  

 
4.  Clause 5.3.3.2 (ia) shall be substituted as:- 

“Where the second proviso to clause 6.3, or clause 6.39 are applicable, certify that 
the issuer company is complying with conditions (a) and (b) laid down in 2nd proviso 
to clause 6.3 or with conditions (a), (b) and (c)  laid down in clause 6.39, as the case 
may be;” 

 
5.  In clause 5.7.2, after the words “abridged letter of offer” and before the words “are 

dispatched”, the words “along with composite application form” shall be inserted; 

Page 4 of 25 

 
 
6.  For clause 5.11.4, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

“5.11.4  The advertisement shall also contain a format to enable the shareholders 
to make the application on a plain paper containing necessary particulars 
like name, address, ratio of right issue, issue price, number of shares held, 
ledger  folio  numbers,  Depository  Participant  ID,  Client  ID  number  of 
shares entitled and applied for, additional shares if any, amount to be paid 
along with application, particulars of cheque, etc. to be drawn in favour of 
the company Account - Rights issues.”  

 
 
7.  for clause 5.11.6, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

“5.11.6   The advertisement may also invite attention of the shareholders to the fact 
that  the  shareholders  making  the  applications  otherwise  than  on  the 
composite  application  form  shall  not  be  entitled  to  renounce  their  rights 
and  shall  not  utilise  the  composite  application  form  for  any  purpose 
including renunciation even if it is received subsequently.”  

8.  for clause 5.11.7, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:-  

“5.11.7 

If the shareholder makes an application in more than one mode i.e. both in 
the Composite Application Form and on plain paper, he may face the risk 
of rejection of both the applications.” 

CHAPTER VI 

CONTENTS OF OFFER DOCUMENT 

9.  Section III of Chapter VI of the Guidelines shall be substituted as under:-  

“SECTION III – CONTENTS OF THE LETTER OF OFFER  

A listed issuer company making a rights issue shall make disclosures, as 
specified  in  clause  6.42,  in  the  letter  of  offer,  if  it  satisfies  the  following 
conditions: 
(a) 

the issuer company has been filing periodic reports, statements and 
information  in  compliance  with  the  listing  agreement  for  the  last 
three years immediately preceding the date of filing of the letter of 
offer  with  the  designated  stock  exchange,  in  case  of  a  fast  track 
issue and in any other case, the date of filing of the draft letter of 
offer with the Board; 

 
(b) 

 

the reports, statements and information referred to in sub-clause (a) 
above  are  available  on  the  website  of  any  recognised  stock 
exchange with nationwide trading terminals or on a common e-filing 
platform specified by the Board; 

Page 5 of 25 

 

 

6.39 

 
 

 

 
 

 

(c) 

includes  meeting  of 

the  issuer  company  has  investor  grievance-handling  mechanism 
which 
Investors’ 
Grievance Committee at frequent intervals, appropriate delegation 
of power by the board of directors of the issuer company as regards 
share  transfer  and  clearly  laid  down  systems  and  procedures  for 
timely and satisfactory redressal of investor grievances. 

the  Shareholders’  or 

If  the  listed  issuer  company  does  not  satisfy  the  conditions  specified  in 
clause 6.39, it shall make disclosures in the letter of offer as specified in 
Section  I  and  as  specified  in  sub-clauses  (d),  (e)  and  (f)  of  clause 
6.42.16.2 of this Section. 

Irrespective of whether the conditions specified in clause 6.39 are satisfied 
or  not,  the  following  listed  issuer  companies  shall  make  disclosures,  as 
specified in Section I, in the letter of offer: 
(a) 

A  listed  issuer  company  whose  management  has  undergone 
change  pursuant  to  acquisition  of  control  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997; 

 
(b) 

An issuer company whose securities have been listed consequent 
to relaxation granted by the Board under sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of 
the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957  for  listing  of  its 
securities pursuant to a scheme sanctioned by a High Court under 
sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956. 

A listed issuer company referred to in clause 6.39 shall make the following 
disclosures in the letter of offer, as far as possible, in the order in which 
the disclosures are specified in this clause. 

Cover Pages 
The cover page paper shall be of adequate thickness (preferably minimum 
hundred gcm. quality). 

Front Cover Pages 
The  front  outside  and  inside  cover  pages  of  the  letter  of  offer  shall  be 
white and no patterns or pictures shall be printed on these pages. 

The  front  outside  cover  page  of  the  letter  of  offer  shall  contain  only  the 
following details: 
The words "Letter of Offer". 

The name of the issuer company, its logo, address of its registered office, 
its telephone number, fax number, contact person, website address and e-
mail address. 

The  nature,  number,  price  and  amount  of  the  instruments  offered  and 
issue size, as may be applicable. 

The following clause on general risk : 

Page 6 of 25 

    

6.40 

 
6.41 

 
6.42 

 
6.42.1 
6.42.1.1 

 
6.42.1.2 
(a) 

 
(b) 

a. 
 
b. 

c. 

d. 

 

 

"Investment in equity and equity related securities involve a degree of risk 
and  investors  should  not  invest  any  funds  in  this  offer  unless  they  can 
afford to take the risk of losing their investment. Investors are advised to 
read the risk factors carefully before taking an investment decision in this 
offering.  For  taking  an  investment  decision,  investors  must  rely  on  their 
own examination of the issuer company and the offer including the risks 
involved.  The  securities  being  offered  in  the  issue  have  not  been 
recommended  or  approved  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(SEBI)  nor  does  SEBI  guarantee  the  accuracy  or  adequacy  of  this 
document." 
 

Specific  attention  of  investors  shall  be  invited  to  the  statement  of  “Risk 
factors” given on page number(s) ….. under the section “General Risks”. 
 
The  following  clause  on  ‘Issuer’s  Absolute  Responsibility’  shall  be 
incorporated in a box format: 
"The  issuer  company,  having  made  all  reasonable  inquiries,  accepts 
responsibility  for  and  confirms  that  this  letter  of  offer  contains  all 
information  with  regard  to  the  issuer  company  and  the  issue,  which  is 
material in the context of the issue, that the information contained in the 
letter  of  offer  is  true  and  correct  in  all  material  aspects  and  is  not 
misleading  in  any  material  respect,  that  the  opinions  and  intentions 
expressed herein are honestly held and that there are no other facts, the 
omission  of  which  make  this  document  as  a  whole  or  any  of  such 
information  or  the  expression  of  any  such  opinions  or  intentions 
misleading in any material respect." 

The  names,  logos  and  addresses  of  all  the  lead  merchant  bankers  with 
their titles who have signed the due diligence certificate and filed the letter 
of offer with the Board, along with their telephone numbers, fax numbers, 
website addresses and e-mail addresses. 

The  name,  logo  and  address  of  the  registrar  to  the  issue,  along  with  its 
telephone number, fax number, website address and e-mail address. 

Date of opening of the issue. 
Date of closing of the issue. 
Last date for request for split. 

Issue schedule: 
a. 
b. 
c. 
 
The names of the recognised stock exchanges where the securities of the 
issuer company are listed and the details of in-principle approval for listing 
of the securities proposed to be offered in the rights issue. 

Back Cover Pages 
The back inside cover page and back outside cover page shall be in white. 

Table of Contents 
The table of contents shall appear immediately after the front inside cover 
page. 

Page 7 of 25 

e. 

 
f. 

 
g. 

 
h. 

i. 

 
6.42.1.3 
(c) 
 
6.42.2 
6.42.2.1 

 
6.42.3 
6.42.3.1 
 
6.42.3.2 
 
6.42.3.3 
 
6.42.3.4 

 

6.42.4 
6.42.4.1 

 
6.42.4.2 
(a) 
(d) 
(e) 
 
6.42.4.3 

 
(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

 
6.42.4.4 
(a) 
(b) 

 
6.42.4.5 

 
6.42.4.6 

 
6.42.4.7 

 

6.42.5 

Definitions and Abbreviations 
Conventional or general terms. 

Issue related terms. 

Issuer company and industry related terms. 

Abbreviations. 

Risk Factors 
The  risk  factors  shall  be  printed  in  clear  readable  font  (preferably  of 
minimum point ten size). 

The risk factors shall be in relation to the following: 
The issue and objects of the issue. 
The issuer company and its ongoing business activities. 
The material litigations which impact the business of the issuer company. 

The  risk  factors  shall  be  determined  on  the  basis  of  their  materiality.  In 
determining 
following  shall  be 
considered:  

the  materiality  of  risk 

factors, 

the 

Some events may not be material individually but may be found material 
collectively. 
Some  risks  may  have  an  impact  which  is  qualitative  though  not 
quantitative. 
Some risks may not be material at the time of making the disclosures in 
the letter of offer but may have a material impact in the future. 

The risk factors shall appear in the letter of offer in the following manner: 
The risks envisaged by the management. 
The proposals, if any, to address the risks and the manner in which the 
same are proposed to be addressed. 

The proposals to address risks shall not contain any speculative statement 
on the positive outcome to any litigation, etc. 

The  proposals  to  address  risks  shall  not  be  given  for  any  matter  that  is 
sub-judice before any Court or Tribunal. 

The risk factors shall be disclosed in the descending order of materiality. 
Wherever  risks  about  material  impact  are  stated,  the  financial  and  other 
implications  of  the  same  shall  be  disclosed.  If  it  cannot  be  quantified,  a 
distinct statement about the fact that the implications cannot be quantified 
shall be made. 

Prominent notes 

Page 8 of 25 

6.42.5.1 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
6.42.6 
6.42.6.1 
(a) 
(b) 
 
6.42.6.2 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 

(i) 

 

This  section  shall  contain  notes  which  are  required  to  be  given 
prominence and shall also include the following: 

The net worth before the issue (as per latest audited financial statement 
disclosed in the letter of offer) and issue size. 

The details of transactions by the issuer company with group or subsidiary 
companies  during  the  last  one  year  immediately  preceding  the  date  of 
filing the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange, in case of a 
fast track issue and in any other case, the date of filing draft letter of offer 
with  the  Board,  the  nature  of  transactions  and  the  cumulative  value  of 
transactions. 

The details of all financing arrangements whereby the promoter group, the 
directors of the company which is a promoter of the issuer, the directors of 
the  issuer  and  their  relatives  have  financed  the  purchase  by  any  other 
person of securities of the issuer company other than in the normal course 
of  the  business  of  the  financing  entity  during  the  period  of  six  months 
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  filing  the  letter  of  offer  with  the 
designated stock exchange, in case of a fast track issue and in any other 
case, the date of filing draft letter of offer with the Board. 

Introduction 
Summary 
Issue details in brief. 
Summary consolidated financial, operating and other data. 

General Information 
The name and address of the registered office and the registration number 
of  the  issuer  company,  along  with  the  address  of  the  Registrar  of 
Companies where the issuer company is registered. 

The  names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers  and  e-mail 
addresses of the Company Secretary and compliance officer of the issuer 
company. 

The names, addresses, telephone numbers, fax numbers, contact person, 
website addresses and e-mail addresses of the bankers to the issue, Self 
Certified Syndicate Bankers and legal advisors to the issue. 

The  statement  of  inter-se  allocation  of  responsibilities  among  lead 
merchant bankers, where more than one  merchant banker is associated 
with the issue.  

The following details of credit rating, in case of a rights issue of convertible 
debt instruments: 

The details of all the credit ratings including unaccepted rating obtained for 
the issue of convertible debt instruments.  

Page 9 of 25 

 
(f) 

 
(g) 
 
(h) 

 
(i) 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 
 
(iv) 

 
(j) 
 
6.42.6.3 
(a) 

(i) 
(ii) 
 

 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 

(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

(ii) 

All credit ratings obtained during the three previous years before filing the 
letter of offer for any of its listed convertible debt instruments at the time of 
accessing the market through a convertible debt instrument. 

The  names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers,  website 
addresses  and  e-mail  addresses  of  the  trustees  under  debenture  trust 
deed, in case of a rights issue of convertible debt instruments. 

The name of the monitoring agency, if applicable. 

The  name,  address,  telephone  number  and  e-mail  address  of  the 
appraising entity, in case the project has been appraised. 

The details of underwriting, if any: 
The  names,  address,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers  and  e-mail 
address of the underwriters and the amount underwritten by them. 

A  declaration  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the  issuer  company  that  the 
underwriters  have  sufficient  resources  to  discharge  their  respective 
obligations. 

In case of partial underwriting of the issue, the extent of underwriting. 

The  details  of  final  underwriting  arrangement,  indicating  actual  number  of 
securities  underwritten,  in  the  letter  of  offer  before  it  is  filed  with  the 
designated stock exchange. 

The principal terms of loan and assets charged as security. 

Capital Structure 
The authorised, issued and subscribed capital after suitable incorporation 
of the outstanding convertible securities (number of securities, description 
and aggregate nominal value). 

Paid-up capital. 

The following details of outstanding instruments: 

Details of options, if any. 
Details of convertible securities, if any. 

The  details  of  securities  held  by  promoter  and  promoter  group  including 
the details of lock-in, pledge of and encumbrance on such securities. 

The  details  of  shares  acquired  by  promoters  and  promoter  group  in  the 
last  one  year  immediately  prior  to  the  date  of  filing  of  the  draft  letter  of 
offer with the Board. 

The intention and extent of participation by promoters and promoter group 
in the issue with respect to: 

Page 10 of 25 

 
(i) 
(ii) 
 

(g) 

 
(h) 

their rights entitlement. 
the unsubscribed portion over and above their rights entitlement. 

The shareholding pattern as per the latest filing with the recognised stock 
exchange(s). 

The  details  of  the  shareholders  holding  more  than  one  per  cent.  of  the 
share capital of the issuer company. 

                               
6.42.7 
 
6.42.7.1 
(a) 
 
(b) 

 Particulars of the Issue 

Objects of the Issue 
The objects of the issue shall be disclosed. 

 

 

 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 

If  one  of  the  objects  is  investment  in  a  joint  venture  or  subsidiary  or  an 
acquisition, the following additional disclosures shall be made: 
The  details  of  the  form  of  investment,  i.e.,  equity,  debt  or  any  other 
instrument. 

If the form of investment has not been decided, a statement to that effect. 

If  the  investment  is  in  debt  instruments,  complete  details  regarding  the 
rate of interest, nature of security, terms of repayment, subordination, etc. 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

If the investment is in equity, whether any dividends are assured. 

(v) 

The nature of benefit expected to accrue to the issuer company as a result 
of the investment. 

If one of the objects of the issue is the grant of a loan to any entity, details 
of the loan agreements including the rate of interest, whether secured or 
unsecured,  duration,  nature  of  security, 
repayment, 
subordination,  etc.  and  the  nature  of  benefit  expected  to  accrue  to  the 
issuer company as a result of the investment. If such loan is to be granted 
to a subsidiary, group or associate company, details of the same. 

terms  of 

If one of the objects of the issue is utilisation of the issue proceeds for long 
term working capital, the following additional disclosures shall be made: 
Basis  of  estimation  of  working  capital  requirement,  along  with  relevant 
assumptions. 

Reasons  for  raising  additional  working  capital,  substantiating  the  same 
with relevant facts and figures. 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

(iii)  Details  of  the  projected  working  capital  requirement  including  detailed 
assessment  of  working  capital  after  implementation  of  the  project  or 
achievement  of  objects  of  the  issue,  as  the  case  may  be,  capacity 
utilisation  assumptions,  break-up  of  expected  current  assets  into  raw 
materials,  finished  goods,  work  in  progress,  sundry  debtors  etc.,  along 
Page 11 of 25 

with  the  assumption  about  the  holding  norms  for  each  type  of  current 
asset, total current liabilities, net current assets and envisaged sources of 
finance for net current assets, i.e., bank finance, institutional finance, own 
funds, etc. 

The  total  envisaged  working  capital  requirement  in  a  tabular  form,  the 
margin  money  thereof  and  the  portion  to  be  financed  by  any  bank(s)  or 
otherwise.  

A  complete  perspective  on  the  present  working  capital  position  vis-à-vis 
the  projected  working  capital  position  based  on  which  the  money  is 
proposed to be raised in the public issue. 

 

 

 

(vi)  Details of the existing working capital available with the issuer company, 
along  with  a  break-up  of  total  current  assets  into  raw  materials,  finished 
goods, work in progress, sundry debtors, etc., total current liabilities, net 
current  assets  and  sources  of  finance  for  net  current  assets,  i.e.,  bank 
finance, institutional finance, own funds, etc.  

(iv) 

(v) 

 
(vii) 

 
6.42.7.2 
(a) 
 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

If  no  working  capital  is  shown  as  part  of  the  project  for  which  issue  is 
being made, the reasons therefor. 

Requirement of Funds 
The requirement for funds proposed to be raised through the issue. 

Where the issuer company proposes to undertake more than one activity 
or project, such as diversification, modernisation, expansion, etc., the total 
project cost shall be given activity-wise or project wise, as the case may 
be. 

Where  the  issuer  company  is  implementing  the  project  in  a  phased 
manner,  the  cost  of  each  phase  including  the  phase,  if  any,  which  has 
already been implemented, shall be separately given. 

The details of all material existing or anticipated transactions in relation to 
the  utilisation  of  the  issue  proceeds  or  project  cost  with  promoters, 
directors, key management personnel, associates and group companies. 
The relevant documents shall be included in the list of material documents 
for inspection.  

If  object  of  the  issue  is  to  fund  a  project,  the  following  details  shall  be 
given: 
Location of the project. 

(i) 
 
(ii) 
 
(iii)  Collaboration,  performance  guarantee  if  any,  or  assistance  in  marketing 

Plant and machinery, technology, process, etc. 

by the collaborators.  

 

Page 12 of 25 

 
(f) 

 

 
(g) 

(i) 
 
(ii) 

(i) 

 
(iii) 

 

 
(h) 
 
(i) 
 
6.42.7.3 
(a) 

(iv) 

Infrastructure facilities for raw materials and utilities like water, electricity, 
etc. 

If the proceeds, or any part of the proceeds, of the issue of the shares or 
debentures are, or is, to be applied directly or indirectly: 
in the purchase of any business; or 

in  the  purchase  of  an  interest  in  any  business  and  by  reason  of  that 
purchase, or anything to be done in consequence thereof, or in connection 
therewith;  the  issuer  company  will  become  entitled  to  an  interest  as 
respects either the capital or profits and losses or both, in such business 
exceeding fifty percent, thereof; 

a report made by accountants (who shall be named in the letter of offer) 
upon: 
 
a. 

the  profits  or  losses  of  the  business  of  each  of  the  five  financial 
years immediately preceding the issue of the letter of offer; and 

the  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  business  at  the  last  date  to  which 
the accounts of the business were made up, being a date not more 
than six months before the date of the issue of the letter of offer. 

If: 
the proceeds, or any part of the proceeds, of the issue of the shares or 
debentures  are  or  is  to  be  applied  directly  or  indirectly  in  any  manner 
resulting in the acquisition by the issuer company of shares in any other 
body corporate; and 

by  reason  of  that  acquisition  or  anything  to  be  done  in  consequence 
thereof  or  in  connection  therewith,  that  body  corporate  will  become  a 
subsidiary of the issuer company; 

a report made by accountants (who shall be named in the letter of offer) 
upon: 
a. 

the profits or losses of the other body corporate for each of the five 
financial  years  immediately  preceding  the  issue  of  the  Letter  of 
Offer; and 

the assets and liabilities of the other body corporate at the last date 
to which its accounts were made up. 

Strategic partners, if applicable, to the project / objects of the issue. 

Financial partners, if applicable to the project / objects of the issue. 

Funding Plan (Means of Finance) 
An undertaking shall be given in the letter of offer by the issuer company 
confirming  that  firm  arrangements  of  finance  through  verifiable  means 
towards seventy five per cent. of the stated means of finance, excluding 
Page 13 of 25 

 
b. 

 
b. 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
6.42.7.4 
(a) 

 
(b) 
 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
6.42.7.5 
(a) 

 
6.42.7.6 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
6.42.7.7 
(a) 

 
6.42.7.8 
(a) 

 
6.42.7.9 

the amount to be raised through proposed issue and existing identifiable 
internal accruals, have been made. 

The  balance  portion  of  the  means  of  finance  for  which  no  firm 
arrangement has been made shall be mentioned without specification. 

The  details  of  funds  tied  up  and  the  avenues  for  deployment  of  excess 
proceeds, if any. 

Appraisal 
The  scope  and  purpose  of  the  appraisal,  if  any,  along  with  the  date  of 
appraisal. 

The cost of the project and means of finance as per the appraisal report. 

Explanation regarding revision, if any, in the project cost and the means of 
finance after the date of issue of the appraisal report. 

The weaknesses and threats, if any, given in the appraisal report, by way 
of risk factors. 

Schedule of Implementation 
The  schedule  of  implementation  of  the  project  in  a  tabular  form  and  the 
progress  made  so  far,  giving  details  of  land  acquisition,  civil  works, 
installation  of  plant  and  machinery,  trial  production,  date  of  commercial 
production and reasons for delay, if any. 

Deployment of Funds 
The details of the sources of funds and the deployment of these funds on 
the project (where the issuer company is raising capital for a project), up 
to a date not earlier than two months from the date of filing the letter of 
offer  with  the  designated  stock  exchange,  as  certified  by  a  Chartered 
Accountant, along with the name of the chartered accountant and the date 
of the certificate. 

Where  share  application  money  brought  in  advance  by  the  promoters  is 
deployed in the project and the same is being adjusted towards their rights 
entitlement in the rights issue, the extent of deployment and utilisation of 
the funds brought in by the promoters shall be disclosed. 

Sources of Financing of Funds Already Deployed 
Means and source of financing, including details of "bridge loan" or other 
financial  arrangement,  which  may  be  repaid  from  the  proceeds  of  the 
issue. 

Details of Balance Fund Deployment 
Year wise break up of the expenditure proposed to be incurred on the said 
project. 

Interim Use of Funds 

Page 14 of 25 

(a) 

 
6.42.7.10 
 
6.42.7.11 

 
6.42.7.12 

 
 
6.42.8 
6.42.8.1 

 
6.42.9 
6.42.9.1 

 
6.42.9.2 
 
6.42.9.3 

 
6.42.9.4 

 
6.42.10 
6.42.10.1 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

Investment avenues in which the management proposes to deploy issue 
proceeds, pending its utilisation in the proposed project. 

Any special tax benefits for the issuer company and its shareholders. 

Key Industry Regulations for the proposed objects of the issue (if different 
from existing business of the issuer company). 

Interest of promoters and directors, as applicable to the project or objects 
of the issue. 

History and Corporate Structure about the Issuer company 
In case the issuer company has not come out with any issue in the past 
ten  years  or  more,  a  brief  statement  about  the  history  and  corporate 
structure of the issuer company, the main objects of the issuer company 
and major events in the past. 

Management (Board of Directors) 
Name,  age,  qualifications,  Director  Identification  Number,  experience, 
address, occupation and date of expiration of the current term of office of 
manager,  managing  director,  and  other  directors  (including  nominee 
directors,  whole-time  directors),  giving 
in  other 
companies. 

their  directorships 

 

The nature of any family relationship between any of the directors. 

Any  arrangement  or  understanding  with  major  shareholders,  customers, 
suppliers or others, pursuant to which of the directors was selected as a 
director or member of senior management. 

Details  of  service  contracts  entered  into  by  the  directors  with  the  issuer 
company  providing  for  benefits  upon  termination  of  employment  and  a 
distinct negative statement in the absence of any such contract. 

Financial Information of the Issuer company 
Stand-alone and consolidated financial statements of the issuer company: 
A report by the auditors of the company with respect to profit or loss and 
assets and liabilities (indicating changes in accounting policies, if any) in 
respect  of  the  last  completed  accounting  year  for  which  audit  has  been 
completed. 

A report by the auditors of the company on a limited review of the profit or 
loss and assets and liabilities (indicating changes in accounting policies, if 
any),  as  at  a  date  not  earlier  than  six  months  prior  to  the  date  of  the 
opening  of  the  issue,  where  audited  accounts  as  at  such  date  are  not 
available. 

For the purpose of sub-clauses (a) and (b) above, it shall be sufficient if: 

Page 15 of 25 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
6.42.10.2 

In the statement of the assets and liabilities, the main heads of assets and 
liabilities as provided in Part I of Schedule VI of the Companies Act, 1956 
have been provided. If an issuer company is governed by a statute other 
than the Companies Act, 1956, the main heads of assets and liabilities as 
specified in such statute shall be provided in the statement of assets and 
liabilities.  

In the statement of profit or loss, the information required to be disclosed 
under the heads of income and expenditure as per clause 41 of the equity 
listing  agreement  in  respect  of  quarterly  financial  information  to  be  filed 
with the recognised stock exchanges, has been provided. 

In addition, in accordance with Ministry of Finance Circular no.F.2/5/SE/76 
dated  February  05,  1977  and  amended  further  on  March  08,  1977,  the 
following information for the period between the last date of the balance 
sheet and profit and loss account sent to the shareholders and up to the 
end of the last but one month preceding the date of the letter of offer shall 
be furnished. 

Sales / turnover 
Other income 

Working results of the issuer company under following heads: 
a.  
b. 
 
Estimated gross profit / loss (excluding depreciation and taxes). 

(i) 

(ii) 
 
(iii) 

 

a. 
b. 
 

(a) 

(b) 

 
(c) 

Provision for depreciation 
Provision for taxes. 

(iv)  Estimated net profit / loss. 
 

Material  changes  and  commitments,  if  any  affecting  financial  position  of 
the issuer company. 

Week-end prices for the last four weeks; current market price; and highest 
and  lowest  prices  of  equity  shares  during  the  period  with  the  relative 
dates. 

Stock market quotation of shares/ convertible instruments of the company 
(high/ low price in each of the last three years and monthly high/low price 
during the last six months). 

Accounting and other ratios: 
The following accounting ratios shall be given for each of the accounting 
periods for which financial information is given: 

Earnings  per  share:  This  ratio  shall  be  calculated  after  excluding  extra 
ordinary items. 

Return  on  Networth:  This  ratio  shall  be  calculated  excluding  revaluation 
reserves. 

Page 16 of 25 

 
6.42.10.3 

  
6.42.10.4 
(a) 

 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

 

 
(b) 

 
6.42.10.5 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

(iii)  Net  Asset  Value  per  share:  This  ratio  shall  be  calculated  excluding 

revaluation reserves.  

Accounting  and  other  ratios  shall  be  based  on  the  financial  statements 
prepared on the basis of Indian Accounting Standards. 

Capitalisation Statement: 
A  Capitalisation  Statement  showing  total  debt,  net  worth,  and  the  debt/ 
equity ratios before and after the issue is made shall be incorporated. 

In case of any change in the share capital since the date as of which the 
financial  information  has  been  disclosed  in  the  Letter  of  Offer,  a  note 
explaining the nature of the change shall be given. 

format  of 

the  Capitalisation  Statement 

is  specified 

illustrative 

An 
hereunder: 

Particulars 

Pre-issue as at 

As Adjusted for 

30-6-2009 

issue 

  (Rupees in lakhs)
1870

 

 

 

1870

4370

4370

Debt  

Short-Term 
 
Long Term Debt         
Shareholders Funds 
Share Capital                                  
Reserves                                  
 
41940
Total Shareholders Funds  
Long Term Debt/Equity  
0.10:1
Note:  Since  31-3-2009  (which  is  the  last  date  as  of  which  financial 
information has been given in para … of this document), share capital 
was increased from Rs.3000 lacs to Rs.4000 lacs by the issue of bonus 
shares in the ratio of 1 share for every 3 shares. 

4450
  37520

18570
0.24:1

4000
14570

 
6.42.10.6  One standard financial unit shall be used in the Letter of Offer 
 
6.42.11 

A statement to the effect that the price has been arrived at in consultation 
between the issuer company and the Merchant banker. 

 
6.42.12 
6.42.12.1 
(a) 

 
(b) 

Outstanding Litigations and Defaults 
The following details shall be disclosed by the issuer company: 
Pending  matters  which,  if  they  result  in  an  adverse  outcome,  would 
materially and adversely affect the operations or the financial position of 
the issuer company. 

Matters  which  are  pending  or  which  have  arisen  in  the  immediately 
preceding ten years involving: 
Issues  of  moral  turpitude  or  criminal  liability  on  the  part  of  the  issuer 
company 

(i) 

Page 17 of 25 

(ii)  Material violations of statutory regulations by the issuer company 
(iii) 

Economic  offences  where  proceedings  have  been  initiated  against  the 
issuer company. 

For  the  purpose  of  determining  materiality,  the  following  tests  or 
parameters shall be applied: 

For  the  outstanding  litigations  which  may  not  have  any  impact  on  the 
future revenues, the disclosure is required: 
a.  Where  the  aggregate  amount  involved  in  such  individual  litigation 
exceeds one per cent. of the net  worth  of  the  issuer  company  as 
per last completed financial year; or 

 
b.  Where  the  decision  in  one  case  is  likely  to  affect  the  decision  in 
similar  cases,  even  though  the  amount  involved  in  single  case 
individually  may  not  exceed  one  per  cent.  of  the  net  worth  of  the 
issuer company as per the last completed financial year. 

For  the  outstanding  litigations  which  may  have  any  impact  on  the  future 
revenues, the disclosure is required: 
a.  Where the aggregate amount involved in such individual litigation is 
likely  to  exceed  one  per  cent.  of  the  total  revenue  of  the  issuer 
company as per last completed financial year; or 

 
b.  Where  the  decision  in  one  case  is  likely  to  affect  the  decision  in 
similar  cases,  even  though  the  amount  involved  in  single  case 
individually may not exceed one per cent of the total revenue of the 
issuer  company,  if  similar  cases  put  together  collectively  exceed 
one  per  cent.  of  total  revenue  of  the  issuer  company  as  per  last 
completed financial year. 

These disclosures shall be made in respect of the issuer company and the 
subsidiary companies of the issuer company whose financial statements 
are  included  in  the  offer  document,  either  separately  or  in  consolidated 
form. 
 
Government Approvals or Licensing Arrangements 
In  case  of  a  new  line  of  activity/project,  all  pending  government  and 
regulatory  approvals;  In  case  of  an  existing  line  of  activity/project,  al 
pending  regulatory  and  government  approvals  and  pending  renewals  of 
licences. 

Material Development 
Any material development after the date of the latest balance sheet and its 
impact on performance and prospects of the issuer company. 

Other Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures 
Authority for the issue and details of resolution passed for the issue. 

Page 18 of 25 

 
(c) 

 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(d) 

6.42.13 
6.42.13.1 

 

 

6.42.14 
6.42.14.1 

6.42.15 
6.42.15.1 
 

6.42.15.2 

 
6.42.15.3 

 
6.42.15.4 

 
6.42.15.5 

 
6.42.15.6 

 
6.42.15.7 
(a) 

A statement by the issuer company that the issuer company, promoters, 
promoter group, directors or person(s) in control of the promoter have not 
been  prohibited  from  accessing  or  operating  in  the  capital  markets  or 
restrained from buying, selling or dealing in securities under any order or 
direction passed by the Board.  

A  confirmation  whether  any  of  the  directors  of  the  issuer  company  are 
associated with the securities market in any manner, if yes, whether the 
Board  has  initiated  any  action  against  the  said  entities  and  the  related 
details.  

It  may  be  disclosed  whether  the  issuer  company,  promoters,  group 
companies,  the  relatives  (as  per  Companies  Act,1956)  of  promoters, 
group  companies  are  identified  as  wilful  defaulters  by  Reserve  Bank  of 
India or other authorities. 

A  statement  to  the  effect  that  the  issuer  company  is  in  compliance  with 
provisions specified in clause 6.42. 

Details  of  compliance  with  eligibility  requirements  to  make  a  fast  track 
issue, if applicable. 

 

Disclaimer clauses: 
The  letter  of  offer  shall  contain  the  following  disclaimer  clause  in  bold 
capital letters: 

"It is to be distinctly understood that submission of Letter of Offer to SEBI 
should not in any way be deemed or construed that the same has been 
cleared or approved by SEBI. SEBI does not take any responsibility either 
for  the  financial  soundness  of  any  scheme  or  the  project  for  which  the 
issue  is  proposed  to  be  made  or  for  the  correctness  of  the  statements 
made or opinions expressed in the Letter of Offer. Lead Merchant Banker, 
______________ has certified that the disclosures made in the Letter of 
Offer  are  generally  adequate  and  are  in  conformity  with  SEBI  (Issue  of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 in force for the 
time being. This requirement is to facilitate investors to take an informed 
decision for making investment in the proposed issue. 
 
It  should  also  be  clearly  understood  that  while  the  issuer  company  is 
primarily  responsible  for  the  correctness,  adequacy  and  disclosure  of  all 
relevant  information  in  the  letter  of  offer,  the  lead  merchant  banker  is 
expected  to  exercise  due  diligence  to  ensure  that  the  issuer  company 
discharges  its  responsibility  adequately  in  this  behalf  and  towards  this 
purpose,  the  lead  merchant  banker  _______________________  has 
furnished  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  a  due 
diligence certificate dated ________________ (which reads as follows: 
 
(due diligence certificate submitted to the Board to be reproduced here) 
 

Page 19 of 25 

The  filing  of  the  letter  of  offer  does  not,  however,  absolve  the  issuer 
company  from  any  liabilities  under  section  63  or  section  68  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956 or from the requirement of obtaining such statutory 
or other clearances as may be required for the purpose of the proposed 
issue. SEBI further reserves the right to take up, at any point of time, with 
the lead merchant banker any irregularities or lapses in letter of offer." 
 
Disclaimer Statement from the issuer company and lead merchant banker:  
A statement to the effect that the issuer company and the lead merchant 
banker accept no responsibility for statements made otherwise than in the 
Letter of Offer or in the advertisement or any other material issued by or at 
the  instance  of  the  issuer company and that anyone  placing  reliance  on 
any other source of information would be doing so at his own risk.  
 
Investors  who  invest  in  the  issue  will  be  deemed  to  have  been 
represented by the issuer company and lead manager and their respective 
directors,  officers,  agents,  affiliates  and  representatives  that  they  are 
eligible  under  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations,  guidelines  and 
approvals  to  acquire  equity  shares  of  our  company,  and  are  relying  on 
independent  advice  /  evaluation  as  to  their  ability  and  quantum  of 
investment in this issue. 
 
Disclaimer  in  respect  of  jurisdiction:  A  brief  paragraph  mentioning  the 
jurisdiction under which provisions of law and the rules and regulations are 
applicable to the letter of offer. 

Disclaimer clause of the stock exchanges, if any. 

Disclaimer clause of the Reserve Bank of India (if applicable). 

The  fact  of  filing  the  letter  of  offer  with  the  Board  and  the  stock 
exchange(s) and the office of the Board where the letter of offer has been 
filed. 

(b) 

(c) 

 
(d) 
 
(e) 
 
6.42.15.8 

 
6.42.15.9 

Details  of  fees  payable  to  (in  terms  of  amount,  as  a  percentage  of  total 
issue expenses and as a percentage of total issue size): 
Lead merchant bankers. 
Co-lead merchant bankers, if any 
Co-managers, if any 
Other merchant bankers 
Registrars to the issue 
Advisors 
Bankers to the issue 
Trustees for the debt instrument holders. 
Others 
Underwriting commission, brokerage and selling commission. 

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 
(g) 
(h) 
(i) 
(j) 
 
6.42.15.10  Arrangements  or  any  mechanism  evolved  by  the  issuer  company  for 
redressal  of  investor  grievances  and  the  time  normally  taken  by  it  for 
disposal of various types of investor grievances. 

Page 20 of 25 

 
6.42.16 
6.42.16.1 

 
6.42.16.2 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

(i) 

(ii) 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

Offering Information 
Terms  of  payments  and  procedure  and  time  schedule  for  allotment  and 
issue of certificates, credit of securities to the investors’ demat account.  

How to apply, availability of application forms and letter of offer and mode 
of payment, including the following: 

Applications by mutual funds: 
The necessary disclosures under the heads "Procedure for applications by 
mutual funds" and "Multiple Applications" shall be incorporated to indicate 
that a separate application can be made in respect of each scheme of an 
Indian  mutual  fund  registered  with  the  Board  and  that  such  applications 
shall not be treated as multiple applications. 

A disclosure that the applications made by asset management companies 
or  custodians  of  a  mutual  fund  shall  clearly  indicate  the  name  of  the 
concerned scheme for which application is being made. 

Applications  by  non-resident  Indians:  The  following  disclosures  shall  be 
made:  
The name and address of at least one place in India from where individual 
non-resident Indian applicants can obtain the application forms. 

 

A  statement  that:  "non-resident  Indian  applicants  may  please  note  that 
only  such  applications  as  are  accompanied  by  payment  in  free  foreign 
exchange shall be considered for allotment under the reserved category. 
The  non-resident  Indians  who  intend  to  make  payment  through  Non-
Resident Ordinary (NRO) accounts shall use the form meant for Resident 
Indians and shall not use the forms meant for reserved category." 

Application  by  ASBA 
regarding  details  of 
Application  Supported  by  Blocked  Amount  process  including  specific 
instructions for submitting Application Supported by Blocked Amount. 

investors:  Disclosures 

A statement that the shareholders who have not received the application 
form may, along with the requisite application money, apply in writing on a 
plain paper. 

The  format  to  enable  the  shareholders  to  make  the  application  on  plain 
paper  specifying  therein  necessary  particulars  such  as  name,  address, 
ratio of rights issue, issue price, number of equity shares held, ledger folio 
numbers,  depository  participant  ID,  client  ID,  number  of  equity  shares 
entitled and applied for, additional shares if any, amount to be paid along 
with application, and particulars of cheque, etc. to be drawn in favour of 
the issuer company’s account; 

A statement that the shareholders making the application otherwise than 
on the application form shall not renounce their rights and shall not utilise 

Page 21 of 25 

 
(g) 

(h) 

 
(i) 

 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

(iii) 

 
6.42.17 
6.42.17.1 
(a) 

 
(b) 

the  application  form  for  any  purpose  including  renunciation  even  if  it  is 
received subsequently. 

 
(ii) 

Provisions of sub-section (1) of section 68A of the Companies Act, 1956 
relating to punishment for fictitious applications, including the disclosures 
that any person who: 
(i) 

makes  in  a  fictitious  name  an  application  to  a  company  for 
acquiring, or subscribing for, any shares therein, or 

otherwise  induces  a  company  to  allot,  or  register  any  transfer  of, 
shares therein to him, or any other person in a fictitious name,  

shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five 
years. 
 
Declaration about the credit of securities to the demat account / refunds 
within a period of fifteen days and interest in case of delay in refund at the 
prescribed rate.  

Mode of making refunds: 
The mode in which the issuer company shall make refunds to applicants in 
case of oversubscription.  

If  the  issuer  company  proposes  to  use  more  than  one  mode  of  making 
refunds to applicants, the respective cases where each such mode will be 
adopted shall be disclosed. 

The permissible modes of making refunds are as follows: 
(a) 

In case of applicants residing in any of the centres specified by the 
Board:  by  crediting  of  refunds  to  the  bank  accounts  of  applicants 
through  electronic  transfer  of  funds  by  using  ECS  (Electronic 
Clearing  Service),  Direct  Credit,  RTGS 
(Real  Time  Gross 
Settlement) or NEFT (National Electronic Funds Transfer), as is for 
the time being permitted by the Reserve Bank of India; 
In  case  of  other  applicants:  by  despatch  of  refund  orders  by 
registered  post,  where  the  value  is  Rs  1500/-  or  more,  or  under 
certificate  of  posting  in  other  cases,  (subject  however  to  postal 
rules); and 
In  case  of  any  category  of  applicants  specified  by  the  Board: 
crediting of refunds to the applicants in any other electronic manner 
permissible  under  the  banking  laws  for  the  time  being  in  force 
which is permitted by the Board from time to time. 

(b) 

(c) 

Undertakings by the issuer company in connection with the issue 
The issuer company shall undertake that: 
the complaints received in respect of the Issue shall be attended to by the 
issuer company expeditiously and satisfactorily. 

that  steps  for  completion  of  the  necessary  formalities  for  listing  and 
commencement of trading at all stock exchanges where the securities are 

Page 22 of 25 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

 
(iv) 

 
(v) 

 
6.42.18 
6.42.18.1 

(a) 

 

to be listed are taken within seven working days of finalisation of basis of 
allotment. 

funds  required  for  making  refunds  to  unsuccessful  applicants  as  per  the 
mode(s) disclosed shall be made available to the Registrar to the issue by 
the issuer company. 

that  where  refunds  are  made  through  electronic  transfer  of  funds,  a 
suitable  communication  shall  be  sent  to  the  applicant  within  15  days  of 
closure  of  the  issue  giving  details  of  the  bank  where  refunds  shall  be 
credited  along  with  amount  and  expected  date  of  electronic  credit  of 
refund. 

that  adequate  arrangements  shall  be  made 
to  collect  all  ASBA 
applications and to consider them similar to non-ASBA applications while 
finalizing the basis of allotment. 

In  case  of  convertible  debt  instruments,  the  issuer  company  shall 
additionally undertake that: 
the  issuer  company  shall  forward  the  details  of  utilisation  of  the  funds 
raised  through  the  convertible  debt  instruments  duly  certified  by  the 
statutory auditors of the issuer company, to the debenture trustees at the 
end of each half-year. 

the issuer company shall disclose the complete name and address of the 
debenture trustee in the annual report. 

the  issuer  company  shall  provide  a  compliance  certificate  to  the 
convertible  debt  instrument  holders  (on  yearly  basis)  in  respect  of 
compliance  with  the  terms  and  conditions  of  issue  of  debentures  as 
contained in the Letter of Offer, duly certified by the debenture trustee. 

the issuer company shall furnish a confirmation certificate that the security 
created  by  the  company  in  favour  of  the  convertible  debt  instrument 
holders  is  properly  maintained  and  is  adequate  to  meet  the  payment 
obligations towards the convertible debt instrument holders in the event of 
default. 

necessary  cooperation  with  the  credit  rating  agency  (ies)  shall  be 
extended  in  providing  true  and  adequate  information  till  the  debt 
obligations in respect of the instrument are outstanding. 

Utilisation of Issue Proceeds 
The letter of offer for an issue other than a rights issue made by any bank 
or  public  financial  institution  shall  contain  a  statement  of  the  board  of 
directors of the issuer company to the effect that: 
all monies received out of issue of shares to public shall be transferred to 
separate bank account.  

Page 23 of 25 

(b) 

 
(c) 

 
6.42.19 
6.42.19.1 
 
6.42.19.2 

6.42.20 
6.42.20.1 
(a) 

 

 
(b) 

details of all monies utilised out of the issue referred to in sub-clause (a) 
shall  be  disclosed  under  an  appropriate  separate  head  in  the  balance 
sheet of the issuer company indicating the purpose for which such monies 
had been utilised; and 

details of all unutilised monies out of the issue of shares referred to in sub-
clause (a) shall be disclosed under an  appropriate  separate head in the 
balance  sheet  of  the  issuer  company  indicating  the  form  in  which  such 
unutilised monies have been invested. 

Restrictions on foreign ownership of Indian securities, if any 
Investment by NRIs. 

Investment by FIIs. 

Statement regarding minimum subscription clause 
The following statements shall appear in the letter of offer: 
"If  the  issuer  company  does  not  receive  the  minimum  subscription  of 
ninety per cent. of the issue (including devolvement of underwriters where 
applicable),  the  entire  subscription  shall  be  refunded  to  the  applicants 
within fifteen days from the date of closure of the issue." 

"If there is delay in the refund of subscription by more than 8 days after the 
company becomes liable to pay the subscription amount (i.e. fifteen days 
after  closure  of  the  issue),  the  issuer  company  will  pay  interest  for  the 
delayed  period,  at  rates  prescribed  under  sub-sections  (2)  and  (2A)  of 
Section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956." 

 
6.42.21 
6.42.21.1  Option to subscribe in the issue: 
(a) 

Statutory and other information 

 
(b) 

 

 

6.42.21.3 

6.42.22 
6.42.22.1 

The details of option, if any, to receive the securities subscribed for either 
in demateralised form or physical form. 

The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  incorporate  a  statement  in  the  offer 
document and in the application form to the effect that the investor shall 
have  an  option  either  to  receive  the  security  certificates  or  to  hold  the 
securities in dematerialised form with a depository. 

 
6.42.21.2  Material  contracts  and  time  and  place  of  inspection  which  shall  include 
copies of the Annual Reports of the issuer company for the last five years. 

Any other material disclosures, as deemed necessary. 

 

Declaration 
The draft letter of offer (in case of issues other than fast track issues) and 
letter  of  offer  shall  be  approved  by  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  issuer 
company and shall be signed by all directors, the Chief Executive Officer, 
i.e.,  the  Managing  Director  or  Manager  within  the  meaning  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956 and the Chief Financial Officer, i.e., the whole-time 
Page 24 of 25 

 
6.42.22.2 

 
6.42.22.3 

 
6.43 

finance  director  or  any  other  person  heading  the  finance  function  and 
discharging that function. 

The following statement shall be disclosed: 
“No  statement  made  in  this  letter  of  offer  contravenes  any  of  the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and the rules made thereunder. All 
the  legal  requirements  connected  with  the  issue  as  also  the  guidelines, 
instructions, etc., issued by SEBI, Government and any other competent 
authority in this behalf, have been duly complied with.” 

The signatories shall further certify that all disclosures made in the letter of 
offer are true and correct. 

A listed issuer company making disclosures in the letter of offer as per this 
Part shall make a copy of the offer document of the immediately preceding 
public issue or rights issue available to the public in the manner specified 
in  sub-clause  (ii)  of  clause  5.6.2  and  shall  also  make  such  document 
available as a material document for inspection.” 

 

 

 

10. In chapter VI, Section IV shall be substituted with the following section as under:- 

“SECTION IV - CONTENTS OF THE ABRIDGED LETTER OF OFFER 

 

6.44  The abridged letter of offer shall contain disclosures as specified in Section II of this 

Chapter. 
Provided  that  where  the  conditions  laid  down  in  clauses  6.39  (a)  and  6.39  (b)  are 
satisfied,  clauses  6.18.2,  6.19.3,  6.21,  6.22,  6.23,  6.26,  6.27,  6.30,  6.31  and  6.32, 
specified under Section II of this Chapter shall not apply to the abridged letter of offer. 

6.45 The order in which items shall appear in the abridged letter of offer shall correspond, 

wherever applicable, to the order in which items appear in the letter of offer. 

 
6.46  The abridged letter of offer shall also include the following disclosures: 

(a) Provisions pertaining to applications referred to in clause 5.11; 
(b) Rights entitlement ratio; 
(c) Fractional entitlements; 
(d) Renunciation; 
(e) Application for Additional equity shares; 
(f) Intention of promoters to subscribe to their rights entitlement; 
(g) Statement that a copy of the offer document of the immediately preceding public 
or rights issue is made available to the public as specified under clause 5.6.2(ii) 
and also as a document for public inspection.” 

OTHER ISSUE REQUIREMENTS 

Chapter VIII 

 

 

 

**************** 

11. for clause 8.19.1, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:-   

“The  issuer  company  may  utilise  the  funds  collected  in  the  rights  issue  only  after  the 
basis of allotment is finalized.”  

Page 25 of 25 

