Neelam Bhardwaj 
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Corporate Restructuring 
Phone: +91 22 26449350 (D), Email: neelamb@sebi.gov.in 

CFD/DCR/TO/Cir-01/2009/06/08 
August 6, 2009 

 
To All Registered Merchant Bankers / Stock Exchanges 
 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub:  Interpretative circular under regulation 5 of the Securities and Exchange 
India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 
Board  of 
Regulations 1997  - Applicability of provisions of regulation 11 (2) thereof, 
as amended on October 30, 2008 

 
1. 

 
2. 

 

 
 
 

 

SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  1997 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “SAST  Regulations”)  were  amended  by  SEBI 
(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2008 on October 30, 2008, whereby inter alia second proviso to sub-regulation 
(2) of Regulation 11 1 was inserted. 

Subject to the conditions as specified in this newly inserted proviso, an acquirer 
(together with persons acting in concert with him), holding fifty five per cent (55 
%) or more but less than seventy five per cent (75 %) of the shares or voting 
rights  in  a  target  company,  may  acquire  (either  by  himself  or  through  or  with 
persons  acting  in  concert  with  him)  additional  shares  or  voting  rights  entitling 
him up to five per cent (5 %) voting rights in the target company without making 
a public announcement under the SAST Regulations. 

 
1.  Sub-regulation (2) of regulation 11 reads as –  
 

No acquirer, who together with persons acting in concert with him holds, fifty five per cent (55%) or more 
but less than seventy five per cent (75%) of the shares or voting rights in a target company, shall acquire 
either  by  himself  or  through  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  any  additional  shares  entitling  him  to 
exercise voting rights or voting rights therein, unless he makes a public announcement to acquire shares 
in accordance with these Regulations: 

 

Provided that …………………………………. 

Provided further that such acquirer may, without making a public announcement under these Regulations, 
acquire, either by himself or through or with persons acting in concert with him, additional shares or voting 
right entitling him upto five per cent (5%) voting rights in the target company subject to the following:- 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

the acquisition is made through open market purchase in normal segment on the stock exchange but 
not  through  bulk  deal/block  deal/negotiated  deal/preferential  allotment;  or  the  increase  in  the 
shareholding  or  voting  rights  of  the  acquirer  is  pursuant  to  a  buy  back  of  shares  by  the  target 
company; 

the post acquisition shareholding of the acquirer together with persons acting in concert with him shall 
not increase beyond seventy five per cent (75%). 

2

SEBI  has  been  receiving  representations  from  market  participants  /  listed 
companies  with  respect  to  the  interpretation  of  the  proviso  inserted  by  the 
aforesaid  amendment.  After  examining  these  representations,  it  is  hereby 
clarified that –  

a.  The  acquisition,  within  the  limit  of  five  per  cent  (5%)  under  the  second  
proviso to sub-regulation (2) of regulation 11, may be made by an acquirer 
who,  together  with  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him,  holds  fifty  five  per 
cent (55 %) or more but less than seventy five per cent (75 %) of the shares 
or voting rights in the target company ;   

 
b.  The  acquirer  together  with  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him,  holding 
shares  or  voting  rights  as  specified  at  (a)  above,  may  acquire  additional 
shares or voting rights upto a maximum of five per cent (5 %) voting rights in 
the target company in one or more tranches, without any restriction on the 
time-frame within which the same can be acquired; 

c.  The  aforesaid  acquisition  of  five  per  cent  (5  %)  shall  be  calculated  by 

aggregating all purchases, without netting the sales. 

d.  Consequent  to  such  acquisition,  the  percentage  of  shareholding  /  voting 
rights of the acquirer, together with persons acting in concert with him, in the 
target company, shall not increase beyond seventy five per cent (75 %). This 
limit  is  applicable  irrespective  of  the  level  of  minimum  public  shareholding 
required to be maintained by the target company in terms of clause 40A of 
the Listing Agreement. 

This  circular  is  issued  under  regulation  5  of  the  SAST  Regulations,  read  with 
section 11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, for removal 
of difficulties in the interpretation of the second proviso to sub-regulation (2) of 
regulation 11 of the SAST Regulations. 

 
 
3. 

 

 

 

 

 
4. 

 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Neelam Bhardwaj 
 

