DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT

SEBI/IMD/CIR No. 4/ 168230/09

June 30, 2009

 All Mutual Funds, Asset Management Companies 
and Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI)

 
Madam/ Sir,
 
Sub: Mutual Funds- Empowering investors through transparency in payment of 

commission and load structure

1. SEBI has been taking various steps to empower the investors in mutual funds by 
way of more transparency in the loads borne by the investor so that the investor 
can take informed investment decisions. Towards this end, SEBI had earlier 
abolished initial issue expenses and mutual fund schemes were allowed to 
recover expenses connected with sales and distribution through entry load only. 
Further, investors making direct applications to the mutual funds were exempted 
from entry load.  

2.

In terms of existing arrangement, though the investor pays for the services 
rendered by the mutual fund distributors, distributors are remunerated by Asset 
Management Companies (AMCs) from loads deducted from the invested 
amounts or the redemption proceeds. SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 
also permit AMCs to charge the scheme (under the annual recurring expense) for 
marketing and selling expenses including distributor’s commission.

3. Further, all loads including Contingent Deferred Sales Charge (CDSC) for the 
scheme are maintained in a separate account and this amount is used by the 
AMCs to pay commissions to the distributors and to take care of other marketing 
and selling expenses.  It has been left to the AMCs to credit any surplus in this 
account to the scheme, whenever felt appropriate. In order to incentivise long 
term investors it is considered necessary that exit loads/CDSCs which are 
beyond reasonable levels are credited to the scheme immediately.

4.

In order to empower the investors in deciding the commission paid to distributors 
in accordance with the level of service received, to bring about more 
transparency in payment of commissions and to incentivise long term investment, 
it has been decided that:

a) There shall be no entry load for all mutual fund schemes.  

b) The scheme application forms shall carry a suitable disclosure to the effect that 
the upfront commission to distributors will be paid by the investor directly to the 
distributor, based on his assessment of various factors including the service 
rendered by the distributor.    

c) Of the exit load or CDSC charged to the investor, a maximum of 1% of the 

redemption proceeds shall be maintained in a separate account which can be 
used by the AMC to pay commissions to the distributor and to take care of other 
marketing and selling expenses.  Any balance shall be credited to the scheme 
immediately. 

d) The distributors should disclose all the commissions (in the form of trail 

commission or any other mode) payable to them for the different competing 
schemes of various mutual funds from amongst which the scheme is being 
recommended to the investor.   

 Applicability

5. This circular shall be applicable for 

a.

Investments in mutual fund schemes (including additional purchases and 
switch-in to a scheme from other schemes) with effect from August 1, 
2009 ; 

b. Redemptions from mutual fund schemes (including switch-out from other 

schemes) with effect from August 1, 2009 ; 

c. New mutual fund schemes launched on and after August 1, 2009; and
d. Systematic Investment Plans (SIP) registered on or after August 1, 2009.

6. AMCs shall follow the provisions pertaining in clause 5(2)(b) of SEBI Circular 

SEBI/IMD/CIR No. 5/126096/08 dated May 23, 2008 regarding updation of 

Scheme Information Document (SID) and Key Information Memorandum (KIM) in 
this respect. 

7. The AMCs shall bring the contents of this circular to the notice of their distributors

immediately and monitor compliance.
 

8. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the provisions of 
Regulation 77 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 
securities market.

 
Yours faithfully,
 

Ruchi Chojer

 

