Sanjay Purao 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing 
Phone: +91 22 2644 9612 
Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in 

 

SEBI/CFD/DIL/MB/IS/5/2009/05/08          

August 5, 2009 

 

 
To All Registered Merchant Bankers  
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub:  “Application Supported by Blocked Amount” (ASBA) process 

 

1.  SEBI had introduced the process of ASBA vide its circular dated July 30, 
2008 and made it applicable to all book built public issues opening on or 
after September 1, 2008.  

 
2.  SEBI  held  a  meeting  with  a  few  merchant  bankers  to  review  the 
progress of ASBA mode and to understand the problems, if any, in its 
implementation.  One  of  the  reasons  for  poor  response  to  ASBA  was 
stated to be lack of incentive for Self Certified Syndicate Banks (SCSBs) 
to  do  the  assigned  task  of  accepting  ASBAs,  uploading  details  in  the 
bidding system and blocking or unblocking of the account. It was pointed 
out that while commission is being paid for non-ASBA applications, no 
commission  was  being  paid  for  ASBA  applications.  The  payment  of 
commissions  in  the  issue  process  should  be  based  on  the  principle  of 
fairness  which  demands  a  level  playing  field  for  both  ASBA  and  non-
ASBA applications.   

 

3. 

It  is,  hereby,  clarified  that  for  the  purpose  of  payment  of  commission, 
both type of applications i.e. whether uploaded by Syndicate Members 
(Non–ASBA)  or  by  SCSBs  (ASBA),  shall  be  treated  on  par  and  the 
commission shall be paid accordingly to Syndicate Members or SCSBs, 
as the case may be.  

 

 

4.  All registered merchant bankers are advised to take note of the above 
and  ensure  compliance.  The  provisions  of  this  circular  are  applicable 
with immediate effect. This circular is also available on SEBI website at 
www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories  “Legal  Framework”  and  “Issues 
and Listing”. 

 
5.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  sub-
section (1) of Section 11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act,1992 and shall come in to force with immediate effect. 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Sanjay Purao 

