OFFICER ON SPECIAL DUTY 
INTEGRATED SURVEILLANCE DEPARTMENT  
EMAIL – ramanns@sebi.gov.in 
TEL : 022 26449450 
Fax : 022 26449029 

ISD/AML/CIR-1/2009 
September 01, 2009 

 
To all Intermediaries registered with SEBI under section 12 of the 
SEBI Act, 1992. 
(Through the stock exchanges for stock brokers, sub brokers and 
depositories for depository participants) 
 
Sub:  Anti  Money  Laundering 

(AML)  Standards/Combating 
Financing  of  Terrorism  (CFT)/Obligations  of  Securities 
Market 
Intermediaries  under  Prevention  of  Money 
Laundering Act, 2002 and Rules framed there-under.  

 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
1.  SEBI,  vide  Master  Circular  No. 

ISD/AML/CIR-1/2008  dated 
December  19,  2008,  issued  consolidated  requirements/obligations 
to  be  fulfilled  by  all  registered  intermediaries  with  regard  to 
AML/CFT.    In  addition  to  the  obligations  contained  in  the  Master 
Circular, following are the additional requirements to be fulfilled or 
the clarifications with regard to existing requirements: 
 

a.  The illustrative list of ‘Clients of Special Category’ (CSC) as 
contained  in  the  existing  clause  5.4  (Page  16-17  of  the 
Master Circular) shall be read as under: 

 

i.  Non resident clients, 
ii.  High net-worth clients, 
iii.  Trust,  Charities,  NGOs  and  organizations  receiving 

iv.  Companies  having  close  family  shareholdings  or 

donations, 

beneficial ownership, 

v.  Politically exposed persons (PEP). Politically exposed 
persons  are 
individuals  who  are  or  have  been 
entrusted with prominent public functions in a foreign 
country,  e.g.,  Heads  of  States  or  of  Governments, 
senior  politicians,  senior  government/judicial/military 

 

Page 1 of 4 

of 

senior 

executives 

officers, 
state-owned 
corporations,  important  political  party  officials,  etc. 
The additional norms applicable to PEP as contained 
in the subsequent clause 5.5 (Page 19 of the Master 
Circular) shall also be applied to the accounts of the 
family members or close relatives of PEPs, 

vi.  Companies offering foreign exchange offerings, 
vii.  Clients  in  high  risk  countries  (where  existence  / 
effectiveness of money laundering controls is suspect 
or which do not or insufficiently apply FATF standards, 
where  there  is  unusual  banking  secrecy,  Countries 
active 
in  narcotics  production,  Countries  where 
corruption 
International 
Corruption  Perception 
is  highly  prevalent, 
Countries  against  which  government  sanctions  are 
applied, Countries reputed to be any of the following – 
Havens / sponsors of international terrorism, offshore 
financial centers, tax havens, countries where fraud is 
highly prevalent, 

(as  per  Transparency 

Index) 

viii.  Non face to face clients, 
ix.  Clients  with  dubious 
information available etc. 

 

reputation  as  per  public 

records 

b.  The following line is added in the existing clause 9.2 (Page 
25  of  the  Master  Circular):  “The  background  including  all 
documents/office 
/memorandums/clarifications 
sought  pertaining  to  such  transactions  and  purpose  thereof 
shall  also  be  examined  carefully  and  findings  shall  be 
recorded  in  writing.  Further  such  findings,  records  and 
related documents should be made available to auditors and 
also 
/Stock  Exchanges/FIU-IND/Other  relevant 
Authorities, during audit, inspection or as and when required. 
These records are required to be preserved for ten years as 
is required under PMLA 2002.” 
 

to  SEBI 

c.  The existing clause 10.2 (h)  (Page 27 of the Master Circular) 
shall  be  read  as:  “Unusual  transactions  by  CSCs  and 
businesses undertaken by, offshore banks/financial services, 
businesses  reported  to  be  in  the  nature  of  export-import  of 
small items.” 

 
d.  The following line is added in the existing clause 10.3 (Page 
27  of  the  Master  Circular):  “The  Principal  Officer/Money 
Laundering  Control  Officer 
and  other  appropriate 
compliance,  risk  management  and  related  staff  members 
shall have timely access to customer identification data and 
other  CDD 
transaction  records  and  other 
relevant information.” 

information, 

 

 

Page 2 of 4 

relevant 

e.  The  following  new  clause  numbered  10.5  is  added  after 
existing  clause  10.4  (Page  27  of  the  Master  Circular): 
“Clause  5.4(h)  of  the  Master  Circular  categorizes  clients  of 
high risk countries, including countries where existence and 
effectiveness  of  money  laundering  controls  is  suspect  or 
which  do  not  or  insufficiently  apply  FATF  standards,  as 
‘Clients of Special Category’. Intermediaries are directed that 
such  clients  should  also  be  subject  to  appropriate  counter 
measures. These measures may include a further enhanced 
scrutiny  of 
reporting 
mechanisms or systematic reporting of financial transactions, 
and  applying  enhanced  due  diligence  while  expanding 
business relationships with the identified country or persons 
in that country etc.”  

transactions,  enhanced 

 
f.  The following new clause numbered 11.4 is added after the 
existing  clause  11.3  (Page  29  of  the  Master  Circular): “It  is 
clarified that the registered intermediaries, irrespective of the 
amount  of  transaction  and/or  the  threshold  limit  envisaged 
for  predicate  offences  specified  in  part  B  of  Schedule  of 
PMLA,  2002,  should  file  STR  if  they  have  reasonable 
grounds to believe that the transactions involve proceeds of 
crime.” 

 
g.  The following line is added in the existing clause 12.1 (Page 
30 of the Master Circular): “The Principal Officer shall have* 
access to and be able to report to senior management above 
his/her next reporting level or the Board of Directors.” 

3.  All the registered intermediaries are directed to ensure compliance 
with  the  requirements  contained  in  this  circular  on  an  immediate 
basis. Stock exchanges and depositories are also directed to bring 

 

Page 3 of 4 

2.  An  updated  list  of  individuals  and  entities  which  are  subject  to 
various  sanction  measures  such  as  freezing  of  assets/accounts, 
denial  of  financial  services  etc.,  as  approved  by  Security  Council 
Committee established pursuant to various United Nations' Security 
Council  Resolutions  (UNSCRs)  can  be  accessed  in  the  United 
Nations 
at 
http://www.un.org/sc/committees/1267/consolist.shtml.  Registered 
intermediaries are directed that before opening any new account, it 
will be ensured that the name/s of the proposed customer does not 
appear 
intermediaries  shall 
continuously scan all existing accounts to ensure that no account is 
held by or linked to any of the entities or individuals included in the 
list.  Full  details  of  accounts  bearing  resemblance  with  any  of  the 
individuals/entities  in  the  list  should  immediately  be  intimated  to 
SEBI and FIU-IND.  

list.  Further, 

registered 

website 

the 

in 

 

 

the contents of this circular to the attention of their member brokers/ 
depository  participants,  verify  compliance  during  inspections  and 
take  appropriate  action  under 
respective  Rules/Bye-
laws/Regulations  in  case  of  any  contravention/  non  compliance  of 
this circular or of SEBI Master Circular on AML/CFT.  

their 

 

4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under 
Section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992, and Rule  7 of Prevention of Money-laundering (Maintenance 
of Records of the Nature and Value of Transactions, the Procedure 
and Manner of Maintaining and Time for Furnishing Information and 
Verification  and  Maintenance  of  Records  of  the  Identity  of  the 
Clients  of  the  Banking  Companies,  Financial  Institutions  and 
Intermediaries) Rules, 2005, to protect the interests of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 
securities market. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
S. Ramann 

 

 

Page 4 of 4 

