DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
Market Regulation Department - Division of Policy 
E-mail: harinib@sebi.gov.in 

MRD/DoP/SE/Cir- 21 /2009 
December 9, 2009 
  

  
All Stock Exchanges 
 
  
Dear Sir, 
 
 Sub: Preservation of records 
  
    
1.  This circular is issued in supersession of SEBI circular no. SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-
15/2005 dated August 4, 2005 and SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-23/05 dated December 
22, 2005. 

 
2.  In terms of  Rules 14 and 15 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  SCRR,  1957),  every  recognized  stock  exchange 
and its members are required to  maintain and preserve the specified books 
of account and documents for a period ranging from two years to five years.  
Further,  as  per  regulation  18  of  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  &  Sub-brokers) 
Regulations,  1992  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  Stock  Broker  Regulations), 
every  stock  broker  shall  preserve  the  specified  books  of  account  and  other 
records  for  a  minimum  period  of  five  years.  In  case  such  documents  are 
maintained in electronic form, provisions of Information Technology Act, 2000 
in this regard shall be complied with.  

 
3.  Further, it has been noticed that enforcement agencies like CBI, Police, Crime 
Branch  etc.  have  been  collecting  copies  of  the  various  records/documents 
during  the  course  of  their  investigation.    The  originals  of  such  documents 
maintained either in physical or in electronic form or in both would be required 
by such enforcement agencies during trial of the case also.   

  
4.    In view of the above, it is clarified that if a copy is taken by such enforcement 
agency either from physical or electronic record then the respective original is 
to be maintained till the trial or investigation proceedings have concluded. 

 
 5. All the Stock Exchanges are advised to:- 

a) make necessary amendments to the bye-laws and Listing Agreement, 

as applicable ; 

b)  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of their members and 

also to put up the same on the website; and 

c) communicate to SEBI the status of the implementation of the provisions 

of this circular in the Monthly Development Report.  

 
 
6.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  Section 
11(1)  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the 
interest of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate, the securities market. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
  
 
HARINI  BALAJI 
 
 

