 
 
DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
MARKET REGULATION DEPARTMENT 

MRD/DSA/SE/CIR-18/2009 
December 2, 2009 
 

The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers / 
Executive Directors of 
All Stock Exchanges 
 
  
Sub: Limitation period for filing of Arbitration reference 
  
1. 

The  Secondary  Market  Advisory  Committee  (SMAC),  reviewed  the 
existing  provisions  in  the  Exchange  Byelaws,  which  specify  a  limitation 
period of six months for reference of a complaint/claim/difference/dispute 
for arbitration.  

  
2.  While  computing  the  said  limitation  period,  the  time  taken  in  amicable 
settlement  of  claims,  complaints,  differences,  disputes  through  the 
Investors Grievances Redressal Committee mechanism of the Exchange 
under its Rules, Bye-laws & Regulations is excluded.  

  
3. 

Based  on  the  recommendations  of  the  SMAC,  it  has  now  been  decided 
that the limitation period of six months shall be computed from the end of 
the quarter during which the disputed transaction(s) were executed. Along 
with  the  exclusion  mentioned  under  para  (2)  above  and  subject  to 
sufficient  documentary  proof,  the  period  of  one  month  from  the  date  of 
receipt of complaint/claim/difference/dispute by the trading member or the 
actual  time  taken  by  the  trading  member  from  the  date  of  receipt  of 

Page 1 of 3 

complaint/claim/difference/dispute  by  the  trading  member  to  the  date  of 
receipt  of  the  trading  member’s  last  communication  by  the  investor,  to 
resolve  /  counter  the  complaint  /  claim/  difference/  dispute,  whichever 
ends earlier, shall also be excluded.  

Apart from the above, in certain instances it was observed by SEBI that 
the  arbitration  applications  are  being  rejected  on  the  grounds  of  having 
exceeded  the  limitation  period,  without  going  into  the  circumstances 
leading to the arbitration not being filed within the time period. In case the 
arbitration  application  is  not  filed  within  the  limitation  period  for  reasons 
beyond the control of the party, rejection of the same is not in the interest 
of investors. Accordingly, it has been decided that: 

 
(cid:190) The limitation period can be extended in certain cases for a further period 

of three months by the stock exchange. 

(cid:190) The  stock  exchange  can  decide  on  extending  the  limitation  period  for  a 
period of three months, only after obtaining sufficient documentary proof in 
this  regard  and  recording  the  reasons  for  the  same  in  writing.  In  this 
regard, 
the  stock  exchange  sufficient 
documentary  proof  regarding  the  reasons  for  the  delay  in  filing  the 
arbitration  case  and  the  stock  exchange  shall  examine,  if  the  reasons  / 
documentary  proof  submitted,  for  not  filing  the  arbitration  within  the 
limitation period were indeed beyond the control of the party.  

the  party  shall  provide 

to 

In view of the above, all the Stock Exchanges are advised to :- 

a)     make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and 
the  above  decision 

implementation  of 

regulations 
immediately. 

for 

the 

  
4. 

 

5. 
  

  

Page 2 of 3 

b)    bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  member 
brokers of the Exchange and also to disseminate the same through 
their website. 

  

to  SEBI, 

the  status  of 

c)     communicate 

the 
provisions  of  this  circular  in  the  Monthly  Development  Report  to 
SEBI. 

implementation  of 

  
This circular is being issued under Section 11(1) of the SEBI Act, 1992 to protect 
the interests of investors in securities markets and to promote the development 
of and to regulate the securities market. 
 
This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in 
 
Yours faithfully 
 
 
RAJESH KUMAR D  
  
 

Page 3 of 3 

