Neelam Bhardwaj 
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Phone: +91 22 26449350 (D), Email: neelamb@sebi.gov.in 

SEBI/CFD/SCRR/01/2009/03/09 
September 3, 2009 

 
The  Managing  Director/  Executive  Director/  Administrator  of  all  the  Stock 
Exchanges 
 
Dear Sirs,  
 
Sub.:  Application  under  sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation)  Rules,  1957  for  relaxing  strict  enforcement  of  clause  (b)  to 
sub-rule (2) of rule 19 thereof  

 
1. 

The matters relating to issue of capital, the manner of disclosure of such matters 
and  other  matters  incidental  thereto  have  been  provided  in  the  SEBI  (Issue  of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 (hereinafter referred to 
as “the ICDR Regulations”). The ICDR Regulations have been notified on August 
26, 2009. 

 
2.  Clause 8.3.5 of the SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 
(since  rescinded)  contained  provisions  for  considering  the  applications  under 
sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the  SCRR”)  in  certain  cases.  Since  this  clause 
pertained  to  the  matters  relating  to  listing  of  securities  under  SCRR,  it  was 
decided not to incorporate it in the ICDR Regulations but to issue the same by 
way of a circular under section 11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as “the SEBI Act), read with sub-rule (7) of rule 
19 of the SCRR. 

 

 

2

3.  Accordingly, this circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred by  section 11 
of  the  SEBI  Act,  read  with  sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  SCRR,  to  specify  the 
requirements 
from  strict 
enforcement of clause (b) to sub-rule (2) of rule 19 thereof under sub-rule (7) of 
rule  19  of  the  SCRR.  These  requirements  are  contained  in  Annexure  to  this 
circular.  

for  considering  applications  seeking 

relaxation 

 
4.  Stock  exchanges  are  advised  to  take  into  account  the  requirements  of  this 
circular while making their recommendations on the applications filed with them. 
Stock exchanges are further advised to bring the requirements of this circular to 
the notice of the companies listed therein. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

It is hereby clarified that the applications pending as on the date of this circular 
shall be considered in accordance with this circular.  

This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 
categories “Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing” 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Neelam Bhardwaj 
 
Encl.: As above 
 

 

 

3

Requirements for considering applications seeking relaxation from strict 

enforcement of clause (b) to sub-rule (2) of rule 19 thereof under sub-rule (7) of rule 

ANNEXURE 

19 of the SCRR 

  

PART A 

 
1. 

Application by an unlisted issuer for listing of equity shares pursuant to Scheme 

sanctioned by a High Court 

An unlisted issuer may make an application to the Board under sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of 
the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the 
SCRR”), seeking relaxation from the strict enforcement of clause (b) to sub-rule (2) of 
rule 19 thereof for listing of its equity shares on a recognised stock exchange without 
making an initial public offer if it satisfies the following conditions: 
(a)  The  equity  shares  sought  to  be  listed  have  been  allotted  by  the  unlisted  issuer 
(transferee  entity)  to  the  holders  of  securities  of  a  listed  entity  (transferor  entity) 
pursuant to a scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation (Scheme) sanctioned by 
a High Court under section 391-394 of the Companies Act, 1956; 

(b)  The listing of the equity shares of the transferee entity is in terms of the Scheme 
sanctioned  by  the  High  Court  or  its  order  whereby  the  Scheme  has  been 
sanctioned; 

(c)  At  least  twenty  five  per  cent.  of  the  post-scheme  paid  up  share  capital  of  the 
transferee  entity  comprises  shares  allotted  to  the  public  shareholders  in  the 
transferor entity;  

(d)  The transferee entity has not issued/ reissued any shares, not covered under the 

Scheme;  

(e)  As  on  date  of  application,  there  are  no  outstanding  warrants/  instruments/ 
agreements  which  give  right  to  any  person  to  take  the  equity  shares  in  the 
transferee entity at any future date. If there are such instruments stipulated in the 
Scheme  sanctioned  by  the  High  Court,  the  percentage  referred  to  in  point  (c) 
above shall be computed after giving effect to the consequent increase of capital 
on account of compulsory conversions outstanding as well as on the assumption 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

4

(f) 

that  the  options  outstanding,  if  any,  to  subscribe  for  additional  capital  will  be 
exercised;  
The  share  certificates  have  been  despatched  to  the  allottees  pursuant  to  the 
Scheme or their names have been entered as beneficial owner in the records of 
the depositories;  

(g)  The  shares  of  the  transferee  entity  issued  in  lieu  of  the  locked-in  shares  of  the 

transferor entity are subjected to lock-in for the remaining period. 

The  transferee  entity  shall  also  confirm  that  it  has  taken  steps  for  listing  of  its  equity 
shares,  within  thirty  days  of  the  date  of  the  order  of  the  High  Court  sanctioning  the 
Scheme,  simultaneously  on  all  the  stock  exchanges  where  the  equity  shares  of  the 
transferor entity are/were listed. 
In  case of a hiving off of a division of a listed entity (say, “entity A”) and its merger with a 
newly formed or existing unlisted issuer (say, “entity B”) there will not be any additional 
lock-in,  if  the  paid-up  share  capital  of  the  unlisted  issuer  'B'  is  only  to  the  extent  of 
requirement for incorporation purposes. 
In case of merger where the paid-up share capital of the unlisted issuer seeking listing 
(say,  “entity  B”)  is  more  than  the  requirement  for  incorporation,  the  promoters'  shares 
shall be locked-in to the extent twenty per cent. of the post merger paid-up capital of the 
unlisted issuer, for a period of three years from the date of listing of the shares of the 
unlisted issuer. The balance of the entire pre-merger capital of the unlisted issuer shall 
also be locked-in for a period of three years from the date of listing of the shares of the 
unlisted issuer.  
The formalities for commencing of trading shall be completed within forty five days of the 
date of final order of the High Court. Before commencement of trading, the transferee 
entity  shall  give  an  advertisement  in  one  English  and  one  Hindi  newspaper  with 
nationwide  circulation  and  one  regional  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  at  the  place 
where the registered office of the transferee entity is situated, giving following details: 

 

(a)  Name and address of its registered office. 
(b)  Details of change of name and/or object clause. 
(c)  Capital  structure  -  pre  and  post  scheme  of  amalgamation.  This  shall  provide 
details  of  the  authorized,  issued,  subscribed  and  paid  up  capital  (Number  of 
instruments, description, and aggregate nominal value). 

 

5

(d)  Shareholding  pattern  giving  details  of  its  promoter  group  shareholding,  group 

companies. 

(e)  Names of its ten largest shareholders - number and percentage of shares held by 

each of them, their interest, if any.  

(f)  Details of its promoters - educational qualifications, experience, address. 
(g)  Business and its management. 
(h)  Reason for the amalgamation. 
(i) 
(j) 

Financial statements for the previous three years prior to the date of listing. 
Latest  audited  financial  statements  along  with  notes  to  accounts  and  any  audit 
qualifications. Change in accounting policies in the last three years and their effect 
on profits and reserves (Financial statements should not be later than six months 
prior to the date of listing). 

(k)  Details of its other group companies including their capital structure and financial 

statements. 

(l)  Outstanding litigations and defaults of the transferee entity, promoters, directors or 

any of the group companies. 

(m)  Particulars of  high,  low  and  average  prices  of  the  shares  of  the  listed  transferor 

entity during the preceding three years. 

(n)  Any material development after the date of the balance sheet. 
(o)  Such other information as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 

 

 

6

Application by a listed issuer for listing of equity shares with differential rights as to 

dividend, voting or otherwise 

PART B 

 

A  listed  issuer  desirous  of  listing  of  its  equity  shares  with  differential  rights  as  to  dividend, 
voting or otherwise, without making an initial public offer of such equity shares, may make an 
application  to  the  Board  under  sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  SCRR  seeking  relaxation  from 
strict  enforcement  of  clause  (b)  to  sub-rule  (2)  of  rule  19  thereof  if  it  satisfies  the  following 
conditions: 
(a) 

such equity shares are issued to all the existing shareholders as on record date by way 
of rights or bonus issue;  
the  issuer  is  in  compliance  with  the  conditions  of  minimum  public  shareholding 
requirement  stipulated  in  the  equity  listing  agreement,  with  reference  to  the  equity 
shares already listed and the equity shares with differential rights proposed to be listed; 
the  issuer  undertakes  to  disclose  the  shareholding  pattern  of  the  equity  shares  with 
differential rights separately in terms of the equity listing agreement. 

(b) 

(c) 

 

 

7

PART C 

Application by a listed issuer for listing of warrants offered along with Non-Convertible 

Debentures (NCDs) 

 
A  listed  issuer,  desirous  of  listing  of  its  warrants  without  making  an  initial  public  offer  of 
warrants, may make an application to the Board under sub-Rule (7) of rule 19 of the SCRR 
seeking relaxation from strict enforcement of clause (b) to sub-rule (2) of rule 19 if it satisfies 
the following conditions: 
(a)  warrants  are  issued  as  combined  offering  of  NCDs  and  warrants  through  qualified 
intuitions  placement  under  Chapter  VIII  of  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009 (hereinafter referred to as “the ICDR Regulations”);  
the  issuer  is  in  compliance  with  all  the  provisions  of  Chapter  VIII  of  the  ICDR 
Regulations ; 

(b) 

(c)  NCDs and warrants shall be traded in the minimum trade lot of one lakh rupees. 

  

 

1. 

2. 

8

 PART D 

Miscellaneous 

 

An  application  to  the  Board  under  Part  A,  Part  B  or  Part  C  shall  be  made  through  the 
designated  stock  exchange  of  the  listed  entity  and  the  designated  stock  exchange  shall 
forward  the  application  along  with  its  recommendations,  giving  reasons  in  writing  to  the 
Board. 
The Board may, while granting relaxation, if any, under sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of SCRR, 
stipulate any other conditions as may be deemed necessary in the interest of investors 
and securities market, under the facts and circumstances of the specific case. 

