 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
   
 

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
All Mutual Funds/Asset Management Companies (AMCs) 
Association of Mutual Funds (AMFI) 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
Sub:  Transactions through some mutual fund distributors and compliance with 

SEBI/IMD/CIR No.12 /186868 /2009 
   December 11, 2009 
 

the SEBI circular on AML 

to  all  registered 

 
1.  In terms of the SEBI master circular ISD/AML/CIR-1/2008 dated December 19, 2008 
issued 
intermediaries  on  “Anti  Money  Laundering  (AML) 
Standards/Combating  Financing  of  Terrorism  (CFT)  /  Obligations  of    Securities 
Market Intermediaries under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and Rules 
framed there-under”, it is prescribed that it is the responsibility of the intermediaries 
to  ensure  customer  due  diligence  by  obtaining  sufficient  information  to  identify 
persons,  have  a  policy  in  place  for  acceptance  of  clients  and  client  identification 
procedure, monitoring of transactions etc. 

 
2.  It  has  recently  come  to  our  attention  that  all  documentation  related  to  the  investor 
including  Know  your  Client,  Power  of  Attorney  (PoA)  in  respect  of  transactions/ 
requests made through some mutual fund distributors is not available with the AMC/ 
RTA  of  the  AMC  and  that  the  same  is  stated  to  be  maintained  by  the  respective 
distributors. 

 
3.  In view of the above, we reiterate that the requirements as mentioned in the master 
circular ISD/AML/CIR-1/2008 dated December 19, 2008 issued by SEBI is applicable 
to the Mutual Funds/ AMCs and hence maintaining all the documentation pertaining 
to the unitholders/investor is the responsibility of the AMC.  

4.  You are, therefore, advised to confirm whether all the investor related documents are 
maintained/  available  with  you.  If  not,  and  to  the  extent  of  and  relating  to  such 
investor 
is 
incomplete/inadequate/not  available,  then  the  trustees  of  the  mutual  funds  are 
advised to ensure the following: 

accounts/folios 

documentation 

investor 

related 

where 

a.  No further payment of any commissions, fees and / or payments in any other 
mode should be made to such distributors till full compliance/ completion of 
the steps enumerated herein.   

b.  Take immediate steps to obtain all investor/ unit holders documents in terms 

of the AML/ CFT, including KYC documents / PoA as applicable  

c.  Take  immediate  steps  to  obtain  all  supporting  documents  in  respect  of  the 

past transactions. 

d.  On a one time basis, send statement of holdings and all transactions since 
inception of that folio in duplicate to the investor and seek confirmation from 
the unit holders on the duplicate copy. 

e.  Set up a separate customer services mechanism to handle/ address queries 

and grievance of the above mentioned unitholders. 

5.  Pending  completion  of  documentation,  exercise  great  care  and  be  satisfied  of 
investor bonafides before authorizing any transaction, including redemption, on such 
accounts / folios. 

6.  The  trustees  shall  forthwith  confirm  to  SEBI  that  the  steps  have  been  taken  to 
address  the  above  and  also  send  a  status  to  SEBI  as  and  when  process  is 
completed to satisfaction. 

7.  All mutual funds shall comply with the above requirements in letter and spirit. 
8.  These guidelines are issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation 77 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

ASHA SHETTY 

 

