 
 
 
 
Deputy General Manager 
Market Regulation Department-Division of Policy 
E-mail: harinib@sebi.gov.in 

The Executive Directors/Managing Directors 
of all Stock Exchanges 

Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:  Establishment  of  Connectivity  with  both  depositories  NSDL  and 
CDSL  –  Companies  eligible  for  shifting  from  Trade  for  Trade 
Settlement (TFTS) to normal Rolling Settlement 

 

     MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-09/2009 
July 30, 2009 

                               

 
1. 

2. 

3. 

It  is  observed  from  the  information  provided  by  the  depositories  that  the 
companies  listed  in  Annexure  ‘A’  have  established  connectivity  with  both 
the depositories during the month of May 2009. 
 
The stock exchanges may consider shifting the trading in these securities to 
normal Rolling Settlement subject to the following: 
 
a) 

At  least  50%  of  other  than  promoter  holdings  as  per  clause  35  of 
Listing  Agreement  are  in  dematerialized  mode  before  shifting  the 
trading in the securities of the company from TFTS to normal Rolling 
Settlement.  For  this  purpose,  the  listed  companies  shall  obtain  a 
certificate  from  its  Registrar  and  Transfer  Agent  (RTA)  and  submit 
the  same  to  the  stock  exchange/s.  However,  if  an  issuer-company 
does  not  have  a  separate  RTA,  it  may  obtain  a  certificate  in  this 
regard  from  a  practicing  company  Secretary/Chartered  Accountant 
and submit the same to the stock exchange/s. 

There are no other grounds/reasons for continuation of the trading in 
TFTS. 

 
The Stock Exchanges are advised to report to SEBI, the action taken in this 
regard  in  Section  II,  item  no.  13  of  the  Monthly/Quarterly  Development 
Report. 

 
b) 

 

 
 

 
Yours faithfully, 

 
HARINI BALAJI 
 
 
Encl: a/a 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                    Annexure A  
Sr. No.  Name of the Company 

 ISIN No. 

1. 

2. 

 
Eastern Treads Limited  

INE500D01015 

Softech Infinium Solutions Limited 

INE181K01019 

 
 

 

