 
 
Deputy General Manager 
Market Regulation Department-Division of Policy 
E-mail: harinib@sebi.gov.in 

The Executive Directors/Managing Directors 
of all Stock Exchanges 

     SEBI/MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-17/2009 
November 30, 2009 

Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:  Establishment of Connectivity with both depositories NSDL and CDSL – 
Companies eligible for shifting from Trade for Trade Settlement (TFTS) 
to normal Rolling Settlement 

 

                               

 
1. 

2. 

3. 

It  is  observed  from  the  information  provided  by  the  depositories  that  the 
companies  listed  in  Annexure  ‘A’  have  established  connectivity  with  both  the 
depositories during the month of August 2009. 
 
The  stock  exchanges  may  consider  shifting  the  trading  in  these  securities  to 
normal Rolling Settlement subject to the following: 
 
a) 

At least 50% of other than promoter holdings as per clause 35 of Listing 
Agreement are in dematerialized mode before shifting the trading in the 
securities of the company from TFTS to normal Rolling Settlement. For 
this  purpose,  the  listed  companies  shall  obtain  a  certificate  from  its 
Registrar and Transfer Agent (RTA) and submit the same to the stock 
exchange/s. However, if an issuer-company does not have a separate 
RTA, it may obtain a certificate in this regard from a practicing company 
Secretary/Chartered  Accountant  and  submit  the  same  to  the  stock 
exchange/s. 

There  are  no  other  grounds/reasons  for  continuation  of  the  trading  in 
TFTS. 

 
The  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  report  to  SEBI,  the  action  taken  in  this 
regard in the Monthly/Quarterly Development Report. 

 
b) 

 

 
 

 
Yours faithfully, 

HARINI BALAJI 
 
Encl: a/a 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure A  

Sr. No. 

Name of the Company 

Scenario Media Limited 

           ISIN No. 

INE308E01011 

1 

2 

3 

4 

Starcom Information Technology Limited  

INE347I01010 

Harringtons Indstries Limited 

Pyretic Trading & Finance Co. Ltd. 

INE252K01018 

INE325H01018 

 
                                                           
 

