IMD/DOF-1/FVCI/CIR. No. 1/2009 
                                                                                       July 3, 2009 

 
To, 
 
All Applicants Desirous of Registering as Foreign Venture Capital Investors 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Firm  commitment  requirement  for  registration  as  Foreign  Venture  Capital 
Investors 
 
1.  The SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996 (VCF Regulations) lay down 
conditions for “minimum investment in a venture capital fund” under Regulation 11 
of  VCF  Regulations.  The  Regulation  11(3)  of  the  VCF  Regulations  requires  firm 
commitment  from  investors  for  contribution  of  an  amount  before  the  start  of 
operations as provided below: 
 
“Each  scheme  launched  or  fund  set  up  by  a  venture  capital  fund  shall  have  firm 
commitment from the investors for contribution of an amount of at least rupees five 
crores before the start of operations by the venture capital fund.”  

 
2.  However,  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investors)  Regulations,  2000,  do  not 
stipulate a similar requirement for Foreign Venture Capital Investors (FVCIs). It has 
been decided to bring in parity between domestic Venture Capital Funds and Foreign 
Venture  Capital  Investors  by  requiring  the  applicants  desirous  of  registering  with 
SEBI as FVCIs to obtain firm commitment from their investors for contribution of an 
amount before the start of operations. 

 
3.  Therefore,  applicants  desirous  of  registering  with  SEBI  as  the  Foreign  Venture 
Capital Investors, henceforth, shall obtain firm commitment from their investors for 
contribution  of  an  amount  of  at  least  USD  1  million  at  the  time  of  submission  of 
applications seeking registration as FVCIs.  

 
4.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  (1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors 
in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
5.  This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in, under the category - 

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 
DIVISION OF FUNDS 1 
Email: maninderc@sebi.gov.in 

Circulars”.  

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Maninder Cheema 

-sd- 

