DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
Market Regulation Department - Division of Policy 
E-mail: harinib@sebi.gov.in 

MRD/DoP/DEP/Cir- 20 /2009 
December 9, 2009 
  

  
1.      The Managing Director, NSDL and 
2.      The Executive Director, CDSL 
  
Dear Sir, 
 
 Sub: Preservation of records 
  
    
1.  This  circular 

issued 

is 

in  supersession  of  SEBI  circular  no. 
SEBI/MRD/DEP/Cir-16/2005 dated August 4, 2005 and SEBI/MRD/DEP/Cir-
24/05 dated December 22, 2005. 

 
2.  In terms of regulations 38 and 49 of the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) 
Regulations,  1996  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  D&P  Regulations,  1996), 
Depositories and Depository Participants are required to preserve the records 
and documents for a minimum period of 5 years. In case such documents are 
maintained in electronic form, provisions of Information Technology Act, 2000 
in this regard shall be complied with.  

 
3.  Further, it has been noticed that enforcement agencies like CBI, Police, Crime 
Branch  etc.  have  been  collecting  copies  of  the  various  records/documents 
during  the  course  of  their  investigation.    The  originals  of  such  documents 
maintained either in physical or in electronic form or in both would be required 
by such enforcement agencies during trial of the case also.   

  
4.    In view of the above, it is clarified that if a copy is taken by such enforcement 
agency either from physical or electronic record then the respective original is 
to be maintained till the trial or investigation proceedings have concluded. 

 
 5. The Depositories are advised to:- 

a) make amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 
the  implementation  of  the  above  decision  immediately,  as  may  be 
applicable/necessary ; 

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  DPs  of  the 

Depositories and also to disseminate the same on the website; and 

c) communicate to SEBI the status of the implementation of the provisions 

of this circular in Monthly Development Report.  

 
 
 

 
6.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  Section 
11(1)  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the 
interest of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate, the securities market. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
  
 
HARINI  BALAJI 
 

