Sanjay Purao 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing  
Phone: +91 22 26449612 (D), Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in  

 

 

To All Registered Merchant Bankers  

 

Dear Sirs, 

  

SEBI/CFD/MB/IS/4/2009/31/07          

July 31, 2009 

Sub.: Procedure for submission of updations in the offer documents filed with SEBI 

 

1.  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the  Board”),  vide 

circular dated February 24, 2009, enhanced the validity of its observation letter issued for 

public and rights issues to twelve months from three months. The said circular inter-alia 

stated that before opening of the issue, every issuer shall file an updated offer document 

with  the  Board  at  least  one  month  prior  to  filing  of  the  same  with  the  Registrar  of 

Companies  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “RoC”)  or  the  Designated  Stock  Exchange 

(hereinafter referred to as “DSE”), as the case may be, highlighting all changes made in 

the offer document. It is also stated in the circular that the procedure for submitting such 

updated offer documents, including what will constitute “significant changes”, “additional 

fees” etc with the Board, will be specified shortly.  

 

2.  Accordingly, in exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (1) of Section 11 of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  the  following  instructions  are 

issued to all registered merchant bankers for due compliance: 

 

2.1   The  disclosures  made  in  the  draft  offer  document  filed  with  the  Board  may 

undergo  changes  due  to  developments  before  the  offer  document  is  filed  with 

RoC  or  DSE,  as  the  case may  be.  Such  changes  are  generally  informed  to  the 

Board by the merchant bankers associated with the issue. It has been observed 

in some cases that the material changes informed by merchant bankers resulted 

in  major  deviations  from  the  draft  offer  document  that  was  available  in  public 

domain  and  called  for  fresh  scrutiny  /  processing  of  the  draft  offer  document  by 

the  Board.    Accordingly,  it  has  been  decided  to  classify  the  changes  in  offer 

documents which may call for (i) filing of updated offer document, with the Board, 

 

- 2 - 

along  with fees and (ii) filing of updated offer document,  with  the Board, without 

fees. 

. 

(i) 

Filing of updated offer document, with the Board, along with fees:      

 

(a)   Changes  in  the  following  sections  would  require  filing  of  updated  offer 

document  with  the  Board,  along  with  payment  of  a  fee  of  ten  thousand 

rupees  for  changes  per  section,  subject  to  the  total  fees  not  exceeding 

one  fourth  of  the  filing  fees  paid  at  the  time  of  filing  the  draft  offer 

document with the Board or fifty thousand rupees, whichever is higher: 

 

Section 1:   Risk Factors: Any material development which may result in 

potential risk and may require updation in this section. 

 

Section 2:   Capital Structure: An aggregate increase of 5% or more in 

the  shareholding  of  the  promoter  or  promoter  group  or  an 

aggregate increase of 5% or more in the shareholding of the 

top ten shareholders. 

 

Section 3:   Issue  Size:  Any  addition  or  deletion  to  the  objects  of  the 

issue  resulting  in  a  change  in  the  estimated  issue  size  or 

estimated means of finance by not more than 10%.    

 

Section 4:  Management: Appointment of any new director. 

 

Section 5:   Promoter  Group:  Any  addition  to  the  promoter  group  or 

group companies. 

 

Section 6:   Financial Statements: Any variation in net profit after tax or 

net  loss  after  tax  and/  or  extraordinary  items  in  excess  of 

10% over the last updated financials submitted to SEBI.  

 

 

- 3 - 

Section 7:   Legal  and  other  information:  Any  new  litigation  or  any 

development  about  a  pending  litigation  which  is  material  in 

view of the merchant bankers.  

After  filing  the  updated  offer  document  with  the  Board,  the  merchant 

bankers  are  advised  to  await  confirmation 

from  the  Board  before 

proceeding with the issue. 

 

 

(b)  Changes  in  the  following  sections  would  require  fresh  filing  of  draft  offer 

document  with  the  Board  in  terms  of  clause  2.1.1  of  the  SEBI  (DIP) 

Guidelines, 2000, along with payment of filing fees as specified in Schedule 

IV  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Merchant  Bankers) 

Regulations, 1992: 

 

1.  Change in promoter or persons in control of the company. 

2.  Change in more than half of the board of directors of the company. 

3.  Change in main object clause of the company. 

4.  Additions  to  objects  of  the  issue,  which  taken  together  result  in  a 

change  in  the  estimated  issue  size  or  estimated  means  of  finance  by 

more than 10%. 

5.  Deletions  to  objects  of  the  issue,  which  taken  together  result  in  a 

change  in  the  estimated  issue  size  or  estimated  means  of  finance  by 

more than 10%. 

6.  Any increase or decrease in estimated issue size by more than 10%. 

7.  Any increase or decrease in the estimated deployment of funds in any 

of the objects of the issue by more than 10%.  

8.  Changes  which  may  result  in  non-compliance  of  the  provisions  of  the 

SEBI (DIP) Guidelines, 2000 and the merchant banker intends to seek 

an exemption under clause 17.2A of the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines, 2000. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

- 4 - 

(ii)  Filing of updated offer document, with the Board, without fees: 

 

Any other change in the offer document which is not covered under point (i) 

above  shall  be  carried  out  in  the  offer  document  and  the  updated  offer 

document shall be filed with the Board without payment of any fees. 

3.  The provisions of this circular shall come into force with immediate effect.  

 

4.      All  registered  merchant  bankers  are  advised  to  take  note  of  the  above  and  ensure 

compliance. 

  

5.      This  circular  is  also  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Sanjay Purao 

 

