OFFICER ON SPECIAL DUTY 
INTEGRATED SURVEILLANCE DEPARTMENT 
EMAIL: ramanns@sebi.gov.in 
Tel 
Fax 

 : 022 26449450 
 : 022 26449029 

                               October 23, 2009 

ISD/AML/CIR-2/2009 
 

 
To Stock Exchanges, Depositories and Intermediaries registered with SEBI 
under section 12 of the SEBI Act. 
 
Dear Sir/Madam 
 
Sub:  Combating  Financing  of  Terrorism  (CFT)  under  Unlawful  Activities 
(Prevention)  Act,  1967  –  Directions  to  stock  exchanges,  depositories  and 
all registered intermediaries.  
 

1.  Please refer to the Master Circular ISD/AML/CIR-1/2008 dated December 
19, 2008 and Circular no.ISD/AML/CIR-1/2009 dated September 1, 2009 
on  Anti  Money  Laundering  (AML)  Standards/Combating  Financing  of 
Terrorism  (CFT)/Obligations  of  Securities  Market  Intermediaries  under 
PMLA, 2002 and Rules framed there-under. 
 

2.  Vide paragraph 2 of the Circular dated September 01, 2009, it has been 
brought  to  the  notice  of  registered  intermediaries  that  an  updated  list  of 
individuals  and  entities  which  are  subject  to  various  sanction  measures 
such  as  freezing  of  assets/accounts,  denial  of  financial  services  etc.,  as 
approved by Security Council Committee established pursuant to various 

 

 

Page 1 of 8 

the 

United 

website 

Nations 

United Nations' Security Council Resolutions (UNSCRs) can be accessed 
in 
at 
http://www.un.org/sc/committees/1267/consolist.shtml. 
Registered 
intermediaries have been directed that before opening any new account, it 
will be ensured that the name/s of the proposed customer does not appear 
in the list. Further, it has been directed that registered intermediaries shall 
continuously scan all existing accounts to ensure that no account is held 
by  or  linked  to  any  of  the  entities.  Full  details  of  accounts  bearing 
resemblance with any of the individuals/entities in the list are required to 
be intimated to SEBI and FIU-IND.  
 

3.  The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (UAPA) was enacted for the 
prevention of certain unlawful activities of individuals and associations and 
for  matters  connected  therewith.  UAPA  has  been  amended  by  the 
Unlawful  Activities  (Prevention)  Amendment  Act,  2008.  The  Government 
has,  since  issued  an  Order  dated  August  27,  2009  (copy  enclosed) 
detailing  the  procedure  for  implementation  of  Section  51A  of  the  UAPA, 
relating  to  the  purpose  of  prevention  of,  and  for  coping  with  terrorist 
activities. In terms of Section 51A, the Central Government is  empowered 
to  freeze,  seize  or  attach  funds  and  other  financial  assets  or  economic 
resources  held  by,  on  behalf  of  or  at  the  direction  of  the  individuals  or 
entities Listed in the Schedule to the Order, or any other person engaged 
in or suspected to be engaged in terrorism and prohibit any individual or 
entity from making any funds, financial assets or economic resources or 
related services available for the benefit of the individuals or entities listed 
in the Schedule to the Order or any other person engaged in or suspected 
to be engaged in terrorism. 

 

 

Page 2 of 8 

4.  It  is  directed  that  stock  exchanges,  depositories  and  registered 
intermediaries shall ensure expeditious and effective implementation 
of the procedure laid down in the UAPA Order dated August 27, 2009.   

5.  On receipt of the updated list of individuals/ entities subject to UN sanction 
measures (hereinafter referred to as 'list of designated individuals/ entities) 
from the Ministry of External Affairs’; SEBI will forward the same to stock 
exchanges,  depositories  and  registered  intermediaries  for  the  following 
purposes:  

i. 

ii. 

To maintain updated designated lists in electronic form and run a 
check on the given parameters on a regular basis to verify whether 
individuals or entities listed in the schedule to the Order (referred to 
as  designated  individuals/entities)  are  holding  any  funds,  financial 
assets or economic resources or related services held in the form 
of securities with them.  

In the event, particulars of any of customer/s match  the particulars 
of  designated  individuals/entities,  stock  exchanges,  depositories 
and intermediaries shall immediately, not later than 24 hours from 
the time of finding out such customer, inform full particulars of the 
funds,  financial  assets  or  economic  resources  or  related  services 
held in the form of securities, held by such customer on their books 
to  the  Joint  Secretary  (IS.I),  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs,  at  Fax 
No.011-23092569  and  also  convey  over 
telephone  on  011-
23092736.  The  particulars  apart  from  being  sent  by  post  should 
necessarily be conveyed through e-mail at jsis@nic.in.  

iii.  Stock  exchanges,  depositories  and  registered  intermediaries  shall 
send the particulars of the communication mentioned in (ii) above 

 

 

Page 3 of 8 

through  post/fax  and  through  e-mail  (sebi_uapa@sebi.gov.in)  to 
the UAPA nodal officer of SEBI, Officer on Special Duty, Integrated 
Surveillance Department, Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
SEBI  Bhavan,  Plot  No.  C4-A,  “G”  Block,  Bandra  Kurla  Complex, 
Bandra (E), Mumbai 400 051 as well as the UAPA nodal officer of 
the state/UT where the account is held, as the case may be, and to 
FIU-IND.  

iv. 

In case the aforementioned details of any of the customers match 
the  particulars  of  designated  individuals/entities  beyond  doubt, 
stock exchanges, depositories and registered intermediaries would 
prevent designated persons from conducting financial transactions, 
under intimation to Joint Secretary (IS.I), Ministry of Home Affairs, 
at Fax No. 011-23092569 and also convey over telephone on 011-
23092736.  The  particulars  apart  from  being  sent  by  post  should 
necessarily be conveyed through e-mail at jsis@nic.in. 

v.  Stock  exchanges,  depositories  and  registered  intermediaries  shall 
also  file  a  Suspicious  Transaction  Report  (STR)  with  FIU-IND 
covering all transactions in the accounts covered by paragraph (ii) 
above carried through or attempted, as per the prescribed format. 

6.  Freezing of financial assets: 

i.  On receipt of the particulars as mentioned in paragraph 5(ii) above, 
IS-I Division of MHA would cause a verification to be conducted by 
the State Police and /or the Central Agencies so as to ensure that 
the 
the  stock  exchanges, 
depositories,  registered  intermediaries  are  the  ones  listed  as 
designated  individuals/entities  and  the  funds,  financial  assets  or 

individuals/  entities 

identified  by 

 

 

Page 4 of 8 

economic  resources  or  related  services,  reported  by  stock 
exchanges, depositories, registered intermediaries are held by the 
designated individuals/entities. This verification would be completed 
within  a  period  not  exceeding  5  working  days  from  the  date  of 
receipt of such particulars.  

ii. 

for 

the  benefit  of 

In  case,  the  results  of  the  verification  indicate  that  the  properties 
are  owned  by  or  held 
the  designated 
individuals/entities,  an  order  to  freeze  these  assets  under  section 
51A  of  the  UAPA  would  be  issued  within  24  hours  of  such 
verification and conveyed electronically to the concerned depository 
under intimation to SEBI and FIU-IND.  

iii. 

The  order  shall  take  place  without  prior  notice  to  the  designated 
individuals/entities.  

7.  Implementation  of  requests  received  from  foreign  countries  under 

U.N. Securities Council Resolution 1373 of 2001. 

i.  U.N. Security Council Resolution 1373 obligates countries to freeze 
without delay the funds or other assets of persons who commit, or 
attempt  to  commit,  terrorist  acts  or  participate  in  or  facilitate  the 
commission  of  terrorist  acts;  of  entities  or  controlled  directly  or 
indirectly  by  such  persons;  and  of  persons  and  entities  acting  on 
behalf of, or at the direction of such persons and entities, including 
funds or other assets derived or generated from property owned or 
controlled,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  such  persons  and  associated 
persons and entities.  

 

 

Page 5 of 8 

ii. 

iii. 

To  give  effect  to  the  requests  of  foreign  countries  under  U.N. 
Security  Council  Resolution  1373,  the  Ministry  of  External  Affairs 
shall  examine  the  requests  made  by  the  foreign  countries  and 
forward  it  electronically,  with  their  comments,  to  the  UAPA  nodal 
officer for IS-I Division for freezing of funds or other assets. 

The  UAPA  nodal  officer  of  IS-I  Division  of  MHA,  shall  cause  the 
request  to  be  examined,  within  five  working  days  so  as  to  satisfy 
itself that on the basis of applicable legal principles, the requested 
designation  is  supported  by  reasonable  grounds,  or  a  reasonable 
basis,  to  suspect  or  believe  that  the  proposed  designee  is  a 
terrorist, one who finances terrorism or a terrorist organization, and 
upon his satisfaction, request would be electronically forwarded to 
the  nodal  officer  in  SEBI.  The  proposed  designee,  as  mentioned 
above would be treated as designated individuals/entities.  

iv.  Upon  receipt  of  the  requests  from  the  UAPA  nodal  officer  of  IS-I 
Division, 
to  stock  exchanges, 
depositories and intermediaries and the procedure as enumerated 
at paragraphs 5 and 6 shall be followed.  

list  would  be 

the 

forwarded 

v. 

The  freezing  orders  shall  take  place  without  prior  notice  to  the 
designated persons involved.  

8.  Procedure  for  unfreezing  of  funds,  financial  assets  or  economic 
resources  or  related  services  of  individuals/entities  inadvertently 
affected by the freezing mechanism upon verification that the person 
or entity is not a designated person 

 

 

Page 6 of 8 

registered 

Any  individual  or  entity,  if  it  has  evidence  to  prove  that  the  freezing  of 
funds,  financial  assets  or  economic  resources  or  related  services, 
owned/held  by  them  has  been  inadvertently  frozen,  shall  move  an 
application giving the requisite evidence, in writing, to the concerned stock 
exchanges/depositories  and 
intermediaries.  The  stock 
exchanges/depositories  and  registered  intermediaries  shall  inform  and 
forward  a  copy  of  the  application  together  with  full  details  of  the  asset 
frozen  given  by  any  individual  or  entity  informing  of  the  funds,  financial 
assets  or  economic  resources  or  related  services  have  been  frozen 
inadvertently,  to  the  nodal  officer  of  IS-I  Division  of  MHA  as  per  the 
contact details given in paragraph 5(ii) above within two working days. The 
Joint  Secretary  (IS-I),  MHA,  being  the  nodal  officer  for  (IS-I)  Division  of 
MHA, shall cause such verification as may be required on the basis of the 
evidence furnished by the individual/entity and if he is satisfied, he shall 
pass an order, within fifteen working days, unfreezing the funds, financial 
assets  or  economic  resources  or  related  services,  owned/held  by  such 
applicant under intimation to the concerned stock exchanges, depositories 
and registered intermediaries. However, if it is not possible for any reason 
to  pass  an  order  unfreezing  the  assets  within  fifteen  working  days,  the 
nodal officer of IS-I Division shall inform the applicant.  

9.  Communication  of  Orders  under  section  51A  of  Unlawful  Activities 

(Prevention) Act.  

All  Orders  under  section  51A  of  Unlawful  Activities  (Prevention)  Act, 
relating  to  funds,  financial  assets  or  economic  resources  or  related 
services,  would  be  communicated  to  stock  exchanges,  depositories  and 
intermediaries through SEBI.  

 

 

Page 7 of 8 

10. Stock Exchanges, depositories and registered intermediaries are directed 
to bring the provisions of the UAPA, the Government Order dated August 
27,  2009  and  the  contents  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  staff 
concerned and ensure strict and meticulous compliance of the same. 

11. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 
11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect 
the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, 
and to regulate the securities market. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
S. Ramann 

 

 

 

Page 8 of 8 

