 
DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 
  

All Mutual Funds, Asset Management Companies (AMCs)  
and Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI)  
  
 
Sir / Madam,  
  

SEBI / IMD / CIR No. 8 / 174648 / 2009 
August 27, 2009 
  

Sub:  Code of Conduct for Intermediaries of Mutual Funds 

 
1.  Please refer to the SEBI circular MFD/CIR/06/210/2002 dated June 26, 2002 on 

the captioned subject.  

 
2.  In  order  to  make  the  offer  document  more  reader  friendly  SEBI  vide  circular 
SEBI/IMD/CIR No. 5/126096/08 dated May 23, 2008 split the offer document into 
two parts i.e Statement of Additional Information (SAI) and Scheme Information 
Document  (SID).    Further  SEBI  vide  circular  SEBI/IMD/CIR  No.  4/  168230/09 
dated June 30, 2009 in order to empower the investors through transparency in 
payment  of  commission  and  load  structure,  has  mandated  that  the  distributors 
shall disclose all the commissions (in the form of trail commission or any other 
mode)  payable  to  them  for  the  different  competing  schemes  of  various  mutual 
funds from amongst which the scheme is being recommended to the investor.  

 
3.  In  furtherance  of  the  above  objectives  and  to  effect  necessary  changes,  AMFI 
has now revised the existing code of conduct for the mutual funds intermediaries 
i.e. agents and distributors, a copy of which is enclosed.  

 
4.  It is advised that all intermediaries of mutual funds units shall follow the code of 
conduct strictly. If any intermediary does not comply with the code of conduct, the 
mutual  fund  shall  report  it  to  AMFI  and  SEBI.  No  mutual  fund  shall  deal  with 
those intermediaries who do not follow code of conduct. 

 
5.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation 77 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 
securities market. 

 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Ruchi Chojer 

 
 
 

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR INTERMEDIARIES OF MUTUAL FUNDS 

 
 
1.  Take necessary steps to ensure that the clients’ interest is protected. 
 
2.  Adhere to SEBI Mutual Fund Regulations and guidelines issued from time to time 
related to selling, distribution and advertising practices. Be fully conversant with 
the  key  provisions  of  the  Scheme  Information  Document  (SID),  Statement  of 
Additional Information (SAI) and Key Information Memorandum (KIM) as well as 
the operational requirements of various schemes. 

 
3.  Provide  full  and  latest  information  of  schemes  to  investors  in  the  form  of  SID, 
performance  reports,  fact  sheets,  portfolio  disclosures  and  brochures  and 
recommend schemes appropriate for the client’s situation and needs. 

 
4.  Highlight risk factors of each scheme, avoid misrepresentation and exaggeration 
and urge investors to go through SID/ KIM before deciding to make investments. 

 
5.  Disclose to the investors all material information including all the commissions (in 
the form of trail or any other mode) received for the different competing schemes 
of various Mutual Funds from amongst which the scheme is being recommended 
to the investors. 

 
6.  Abstain from indicating or assuring returns in any type of scheme, unless the SID 

is explicit in this regard. 

 
7.  Maintain  necessary  infrastructure  to  support  the  AMCs  in  maintaining  high 
service  standards  to  investors,  and  ensure  that  critical  operations  such  as 
forwarding forms and cheques to AMCs/registrars and despatch of statement of 
account  and  redemption  cheques  to  investors  are  done  within  the  time  frame 
prescribed in the SID/SAI and SEBI Mutual Fund Regulations. 

 

Note : SID should be read in conjunction with SAI and not in isolation. 

 
8.  Avoid  colluding  with  clients  in  faulty  business  practices  such  as  bouncing 

cheques, wrong claiming of dividend/redemption cheques, etc. 

 
9.  Avoid commission driven malpractices such as : 

(a) 

(b) 

recommending inappropriate products solely because the intermediary 

is getting higher commissions therefrom. 

encouraging  over 

transacting  and  churning  of  Mutual  Fund 
investments  to  earn  higher  commissions,  even  if  they  mean  higher 
transaction costs and tax for investors. 

 
10.  Avoid making negative statements about any AMC or scheme and ensure that 

comparisons if any, are made with similar and comparable products. 

 
 
 
11.  Ensure that all investor related statutory communications (such as changes in 
fundamental attributes, loads, exit options and other material aspects) are sent 
to investors reliably and on time. 

 
12.   Maintain confidentiality of all investor deals and transactions. 
 
13.    When  marketing  various  schemes,  remember  that  a  client’s  interest  and 
suitability  to  their  financial  needs  is  paramount  and  that  extra  commission  or 
incentive earned should never form the basis for recommending a scheme to 
the client. 

 
14. Intermediaries will not rebate commission back to investors and avoid attracting 

clients through temptation of rebate/gifts etc. 

 

 
 

 
15.  A focus on financial planning and advisory services ensures correct selling and 

also reduces the trend towards investors asking for passback of commission. 

 
16. All employees engaged in sales and marketing should obtain AMFI certification. 
Employees in other functional areas should also be encouraged to obtain the 
same certification. 

 

----------------X---------------- 

