 
 

Sanjay Purao 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing  
Phone: +91 22 26449612 (D), Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in
 

 
SEBI/CFD/DIL/DIP/36/2009/09/07 
July 9,2009 

To All Registered Merchant Bankers / Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub.:  Amendments to SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) 

Guidelines, 2000 

 
1. 

 
2. 

In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  sub-section  (1)  of 
Section 11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992,  SEBI  has  amended  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor 
Protection)  Guidelines,  2000  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the 
SEBI (DIP) Guidelines”).The full text of amendments is given in 
Annexure I. 

The  salient  features  of  the  amendments  are  given  in  brief  as 
under: 

 
2.1  Compulsory listing of IPO on at least one stock exchange 

with nationwide trading terminals 

 

(a) At present, in terms of the Companies Act, 1956 and the 
SEBI (DIP) Guidelines, there is no regulatory stipulation 
on an unlisted company making an IPO to compulsorily 
list the securities being issued through the IPO on stock 
exchanges having nationwide trading terminals. 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Listing  of  securities  on  stock  exchanges  having 
nationwide  trading  terminals  provides  an  active  trading 
platform  to  investors,  from  all  across  the  country,  in 
securities of the company. 

(c)  In  view  of  the  above,  it  has  been  decided  to  amend 
clause 2.1.4 of the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines to provide that 
an  unlisted  company  making  an  IPO  shall  list  the 
securities being issued through the IPO on at least one 
stock exchange having nationwide trading terminals.  

 

 

2.2  Equity shares considered eligible for offer for sale 
 

(a)  At  present,  in  terms  of  the  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  a 
shareholder  can  make  an  offer  for  sale  of  the  equity 
shares if such equity shares have been held for a period 
of at least one year as on the date of filing the draft offer 
document with SEBI. 

 
(b) 

received  on  conversion  of 

It has been decided to amend clause 4.14.2 of the SEBI 
(DIP)  Guidelines  to  provide  that  in  case  equity  shares 
which  are 
fully  paid 
compulsorily  convertible  securities,  including  depository 
receipts, are being offered for sale, the holding period of 
such  convertible  securities  as  well  as  that  of  resultant 
equity shares together shall be considered for the purpose 
of calculation of the eligibility period.  

 
 
 
 
 

2

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 

 

Introduction of concept of Anchor Investor in public issues 
through book building route 

(a) 

It has been decided to amend the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines 
to introduce a concept of Anchor Investor in public issues 
through  book  building.  Details  of  this  concept  are  in  the 
amendments to the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines at Annexure I.   

 
(b)  Allocation to Anchor Investor in the public issue shall be 
subject to the conditions as specified in clause 11.3.5 of 
the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines and mentioned in Annexure I to 
this circular.  

 
3. 
3.1  The  amendment  made  by  this  circular  shall  be  applicable  as 

Applicability.  

under: 
a.  Amendments  to  clause  2.1.4  and  4.14.2  of  the  SEBI  (DIP) 
Guidelines  shall  be  applicable  where  draft  offer  documents 
for public issues are filed with SEBI on or after the date of 
this circular. 

b.  Amendment  to  clause  11.3.5  of  the  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines 

shall be applicable to: 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

all  cases  where  draft  red  herring  prospectuses  are 
filed with SEBI on or after the date of this circular; 
all cases where draft red herring prospectuses have 
been filed with SEBI but SEBI has not yet issued its 
observations; and 

 

3

 
 
 
 
 
(iii) 

all  cases  where  SEBI  has  issued  observations  but 
where  the  red  herring  prospectus  is  yet  to  be  filed 
with the Registrar of Companies.  

 
4. 

 
5. 

to  ensure 
All  registered  merchant  bankers  are  advised 
compliance  with  the  amendments  contained  in  Annexure  I  of 
this circular. 

This  circular  and  the  entire  text  of  the  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines, 
including  the  amendments  contained  in  Annexure-I  of  this 
circular,  are  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in 
under  the  categories  “Legal  Framework”  and  “Issues  and 
Listing”. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Sanjay Purao 
 
Encl.: As above. 

 

4

 
 
 
 

ANNEXURE I 

AMENDMENTS TO SEBI (DIP) GUIDELINES, 2000 

CHAPTER II 

ELIGIBILITY NORMS FOR COMPANIES ISSUING SECURITIES 

 

In clause 2.1.4, the following proviso shall be inserted : 

1. 
Provided that in case of an unlisted company making an Initial Public 
Offer,  the  company  shall  make  an  application  for  listing  of  those 
securities  on  at  least  one  stock  exchange  having  nationwide  trading 
terminals. 

 

CHAPTER IV 

PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION AND LOCK-IN REQUIREMENTS 

 

PART II - LOCK-IN REQUIREMENTS 

 

2.  In  clause  4.14.2,  in  sub-clause  (ii),  after  the  second  proviso,  the 
following proviso shall be  inserted: 
 
Provided further that in case equity  shares, received on conversion of 
fully  paid  compulsorily  convertible  securities,  including  depository 
receipts,  are  being  offered  for  sale,  the  holding  period  of  such 
convertible securities as well as that of resultant equity shares together 
shall  be  considered  for  the  purpose  of  calculation  of  the  eligibility 
period. 

CHAPTER XI 

GUIDELINES ON BOOK BUILDING 

 
2. 

 

 

In  clause  11.3.5  after  sub-clause  (iia),  the  following  sub  clause 
(iib) shall be inserted :- 

5

 
 
 
 
 
(iib)  Out  of  the  portion  available  for  allocation  to  Qualified  Institutional 
Buyers under sub-clause (i) or (ii) or any proviso thereof, as the case 
may be, upto 30% may be allocated to Anchor Investors subject to the 
following: 

a)  Anchor  Investors  shall  necessarily  be  Qualified  Institutional 

Buyers as defined in these guidelines. 

b)  The  minimum  application  size  by  an  Anchor  Investor  shall  be 

Rs.10 crores. 

c)  One-third  of  the  Anchor  Investor  portion  shall  be  reserved  for 

domestic mutual funds. 

d)  The bidding for Anchor Investors shall open one day before the 

issue opens and shall be completed on the same day. 

e)  Allocation to Anchor Investors shall be  on a discretionary basis 
subject to minimum number of 2 investors for allocation of upto 
Rs.250 crores and 5 investors for allocation of more than Rs.250 
crores.  

f)  The  number  of  shares  allocated  to  Anchor  Investors  and  the 
price at which the allocation is made, shall be made available in 
public  domain  by  the  merchant  banker  before  opening  of  the 
issue. 

g)  Anchor  Investors  shall  pay  a  margin  of  at  least  25%  on 
application with the balance to be paid within two days of the date 
of closure of the issue.  

 

 

 

 

 

6

 

 

 

 

 

h)  If  the  price  fixed  for  the  public  issue  through  book  building 
process is higher than the price at which the allocation is made to 
Anchor  Investors,  the  additional  amount  shall  be  paid  by  the 
Anchor  Investors.  However,  if  the  price  fixed  for  public  issue  is 
lower than the price at  which the allocation is made to Anchor 
Investors, difference shall not be payable to the Anchor Investors. 

i)  There shall  be a lock-in of 30 days on the shares allotted to the 

Anchor Investors from the date of allotment in the public issue. 

j)  No  person  related 

to 

the  book  running 

lead  managers/ 
promoters/promoter  group  in  the  concerned  public  issue  or  the 
book running lead managers to the concerned public issue can 
apply under Anchor Investor category. 

k)  The parameters for selection of Anchor Investors shall be clearly 
identified by the merchant banker and shall be available as part 
of records of the merchant banker for inspection by SEBI. 

l)  The  applications  made  by  Qualified  Institutional  Buyers  under 
Anchor  Investor  category  and  under  Non  Anchor  Investor 
category may not be considered as multiple applications. 

 

7

