 
 
CHIEF GENERAL MANAGER 
Market Regulation Department  
Email: mdrao@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
To  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers / 
Executive Directors / Officiating Executive Directors  
of all the Stock Exchanges, 
Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents  
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 

MRD/DoP/ Cir-05/2009 
May 20, 2009 

Sub:  PAN requirement for transfer of shares in physical form 

 
1.  The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  vide  circular  ref.  no. 
MRD/DoP/Cir-05/2007 dated April 27, 2007 made PAN the sole identification number 
for all participants transacting in the securities market, irrespective of the amount of 
such transaction.                     

 
2.  In continuation of the aforesaid circular, it is hereby clarified that for securities market 
transactions  and  off-market/  private  transactions  involving  transfer  of  shares  in 
physical  form  of  listed  companies,  it  shall  be  mandatory  for  the  transferee(s)  to 
furnish copy of PAN card to the Company/RTAs for registration of such transfer of 
shares. 

 
3.  All Stock Exchanges are advised to:- 
 

3.1.   implement the above by making necessary amendments to the bye-laws and 

Listing Agreement, as applicable; 

3.2.   bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  listed  companies  for 
necessary  compliance  and  also  to  put  the  same  on  their  website  for  easy 
access to the investors; and 

3.3.  communicate to SEBI the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 
circular and the action taken in this regard in the Monthly Development Report.  

 
4.  All Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents are advised to:-  

 
4.1.  take necessary steps to implement the above decision. 
4.2.  disseminate the provisions of this circular on their website. 
 

5.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  section  11  of  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  section  55A  of 
Companies  Act  to  protect  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
S V MURALI DHAR RAO  

