IMD/DOF I/PMS/Cir- 5/2009 
July 31, 2009 

 
 
All Registered Portfolio Managers 
All Applicants Desirous of Registering as a Portfolio Manager 
 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 
Sub:  Portfolio  Managers  -  Amendment  to  Additional  Information  for 

registration / renewal applications 

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 
DIVISION OF FUNDS - I 
Email: maninderc@sebi.gov.in 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

1.  SEBI  vide  Circular  No.  SEBI/RPM  CIRCULAR  NO.  2  (2002-2003)  dated 
for 

January  14,  2003  specified 
registration / renewal of registration as Portfolio Managers. 

  
2.  Pursuant  to  amendment  of  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  Regulations  1993 
vide  notification  dated  11  August,  2008,  the  above  mentioned  circular  is 
amended as follows: 

the  Additional 

Information  required 

i.  Point  No.  8  of  Additional  Information  shall  be  replaced  with  the 

following: 

 

 

“8. Details of the proposed services. 
Please  furnish  information  regarding  services  you  propose  to 
launch  under  Portfolio  Management.  Forward  a  copy  of  the  draft 
agreement with the client. “ 

ii.  In Point No. 11 of Additional Information, table on networth statement 

shall be replaced with following table: 

 

 

Page 1 of 2 

The statement of networth of ……….. based on audited / unaudited 
accounts as on …………. 

   
             Paid up equity capital 
Add:   Free reserves (excluding  reserves  
created out of revaluation) 
Less: Accumulated losses 
Less:  Deferred  expenditure  not  written  off 
(including  miscellaneous  expenses    not 
written off) 
Less:  Minimum  Capital  Adequacy 
/ 
networth requirement for any other activity 
undertaken under other SEBI Regulations. 
             Networth 

Amount
  
  

  
  

 

  

3.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 11 and section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote 
the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

 
 

 

4.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Legal Framework”. 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Maninder Cheema 

Page 2 of 2 

