 
Parag Basu 
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing 
Phone: +91 22 26449360 (D), Email: paragb@sebi.gov.in  

 

SEBI/CFD/DIL/DIP/37/2009/31/07 
July 31, 2009 

 
To All Registered Merchant Bankers  
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub.:  Amendments to the SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) 
Guidelines,  2000-  amendment  to  Chapter  VIA  concerning 
general and disclosure requirements pertaining to IDR issues 

 

 

1.  In order to align the disclosure requirements pertaining to issuance 
of Indian Depository Receipts (IDRs) with the recent amendments 
made  to  the  Companies  (Issue  of  Indian  Depository  Receipts) 
Rules, 2004 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Rules’) by the Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs and to bring in more clarity with respect to the 
disclosure  requirements  pertaining  to  the  IDR  issuances,  it  has 
been decided to amend Chapter VIA  of the SEBI (Disclosure and 
Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 (hereinafter referred to as the 
“DIP Guidelines”). Further, it is felt that there is a need to explicitly 
mention  the  extent  of  applicability  of  the  provisions  of  the  DIP 
Guidelines to the IDR issuances. 

 
2.  The  amendments  in  the  DIP  Guidelines  mainly  relate  to  the 
disclosure of financial information pertaining to the issuing company 
and the extent of applicability of the DIP Guidelines to IDR issues.  

 
3.  The procedures for Rights issue of IDRs will be prescribed in due 

course. 

Page 1 of 21 

 

 

4.  The  amendments  mentioned  in  Annexure  I  shall  come  into  effect 

immediately. 

5.  All registered merchant bankers are directed to ensure compliance 

with the amendments made vide this circular. 

6.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred 
under sub-section (1) of Section 11 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992. 

 
7.  This circular and the entire text of the DIP Guidelines, including the 
amendments  issued  vide  this  circular,  are  available  on  SEBI 
website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under 
“Legal 
Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

the  categories 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Parag Basu 
 
Encl.: As above. 

Page 2 of 21 

ANNEXURE I 

AMENDMENTS TO THE SEBI (DIP) GUIDELINES, 2000 

CHAPTER VIA 

ISSUE OF INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS (IDRs) 
In Chapter VIA - 

(I). 
A.  in Part I, - 
(1) for clause 6A.1,the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-  
 

“6A.1  PRELIMINARY 
 (i) The guidelines in this Chapter are in addition to the provisions of 
the Companies (Issue of Indian Depository Receipts) Rules, 2004 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the  IDR  Rules”)  and  not  in  derogation 
thereof. 
(ii) For the purpose of this Chapter, the expression, “Home country” 
means the country where the issuing company is incorporated and 
listed.” 

 
(2) in clause 6A.3, - 
(i) 
(ii) 

sub-clause (1) shall be omitted; 
in  sub-clause  4,  after  para  (ii),  the  following  para  shall  be 
inserted, namely:-  
“(iii)  Allotment  to  all  these  categories  shall  be  made  on 
proportionate basis only.” 

 

(3) for clause 6A.5, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:-  

’6A.5  MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION: 

 

(a)  Following  statement  shall  appear  for  non-underwritten  IDR 
issues: 
“If the issuing company does not receive the minimum subscription 
of 90 per cent of the issued amount on the date of closure of the 

Page 3 of 21 

issue, or if the subscription level falls below 90 per cent. after the 
closure  of  issue  on  account  of  cheques  having  being  returned 
unpaid  or  withdrawal  of  applications,  the  issuing  company  shall 
forthwith  refund  the  entire  subscription  amount  received.  If  the 
issuing  company  fails  to  refund  the  entire  subscription  amount 
within 15 days from the date of the closure of the issue, it is liable to 
pay the amount with interest to the subscribers at the rate of 15 per 
cent per annum for the period of the delay.” 

(b) Following statement shall appear for underwritten IDR issues: 

"If the issuing company does not receive the minimum subscription 
of  90  per  cent  of  the  net  offer  to  public  including  devolvement  of 
Underwriters within 60 days from the date of closure of the issue, 
the  issuing  company  shall  forthwith  refund  the  entire  subscription 
amount  received  with  interest  to  the  subscribers  at  the  rate  of  15 
per cent per annum for the period of the delay beyond 60 days.”’ 

 

 

 
B.  in Part II,  
(1) in clause 6A.6 - 

(i) 

in sub-clause (5),  
(a) the words “or letter of offer” occurring after the words “file 
a prospectus” and before the words “certified by” shall be 
omitted; 

(b) the words “true and correct” shall be substituted by “true, 
correct   and adequate”; 

(ii) 

after  sub-clause  6,  the  following  sub-clauses  shall  be 
inserted, namely:- 

 

 

Page 4 of 21 

 

 

 

“7.  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  furnish  to  the  Board  a 
due  diligence  certificate  along  with  the  draft  publicly  filed 
offer  document.  In  addition  to  the  due  diligence  certificate 
furnished  along  with  the  draft  offer  document,  the  lead 
merchant banker shall also: 

(i)  certify  that  all  amendments  suggestion  or  observations 
made  by  the  Board  have  been  incorporated  in  the  offer 
document; 
(ii)  furnish  a  fresh  "due  diligence"  certificate  at  the  time  of 
filing the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies; 
(iii)  furnish  a  certificate  immediately  before  the  opening  of 
the issue that no corrective action on its part is needed;  
(iv) furnish a certificate after the issue has opened but before 
it closes for subscription.  

The due diligence certificates shall be in the format specified 
in  Schedule  –VI  B.  The  lead  merchant  banker  who  is 
responsible  for  conducting  due  diligence  exercise  with 
respect  to  contents  of  the  offer  document,  as  per  inter-se 
allocation  of  responsibilities,  shall  sign  the  due  diligence 
certificate. 

8.  The  issuing  company  shall  soon  after  receiving  final 
observations, if any, on the draft publicly filed prospectus or 
draft  publicly  filed  Red  Herring  Prospectus  from  the  Board, 
issue an advertisement in an english national daily with wide 
circulation and in one hindi national newspaper, which shall 
be  in  the  format  and  contain  the  minimum  disclosures  as 
given  in  Part  A  of  Schedule  XX  –  A,  both  in  case  of  fixed 
price issues as well as book built issues. 

Page 5 of 21 

 

9. At any given time there shall be only one denomination of 
IDRs of the issuing company.”  

 
(2) in clause 6A.7,  for sub-clause 1, the following sub-clause shall be 

substituted, namely:- 
“1.  A  statement  shall  be  made  by  the  Merchant  Banker  in  the 
Prospectus  (including  a  due  diligence  certificate)  in  the  format  as 
specified in Schedule VI-B”.  

 
(3) in clause 6A.10,  

a.  for  sub-clause  4, 

the 

following  sub-clause  shall  be 

substituted, namely:-  
“4.  Names,  addresses  and  contact  information  of  experts 
and counsel;” 

b.  for sub-clause  9, following sub-clause shall be substituted, 

namely:-  
“9. Statement that the issuing company is required to pay an 
interest of 15% p.a. to the investors if the allotments letters / 
refund orders are not despatched within 15 days of the date 
of closure of the public issue” 
 

(4) For  clause  6A.20,  the  following  clause  shall  be  substituted, 

namely:-  

 

“6A.20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
6A.20.1  The  audited  consolidated  or  unconsolidated  financial 
statements, prepared in accordance with Indian GAAP (including all 
Accounting  Standards 
Institute  of  Chartered 
Accountants of India) or with the International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) or US GAAP, for a period of three financial years 

issued  by 

the 

Page 6 of 21 

 

 

 

immediately  preceeding  the  date  of  prospectus  shall  contain  the 
following:  

(a).   Report of Auditors on the Financial Statements  
(b)   Balance Sheets  
(c)   Statements of Income  
(d)   Schedules to Accounts  
(e)  Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity  
(f)   Statements of Cash Flows  
(g)   Statement of Accounting Policies  
(h)   Notes to Financial Statements  
(i)   Statement  Relating  to  Subsidiary  Companies  (in  case  of 

unconsolidated financial statements)  

(j)  Related Party transactions 
(k)   Liquidity and Capital Resources. 
 
The financial information in the prospectus shall be disclosed in the 
issuing  company’s  functional  currency/reporting  currency/national 
currency  and  the  reporting  currency  shall  be  restricted  to  Sterling 
Pound/Euro/Yen/US Dollar. 

In  case,  the  financial  results  are  prepared  as  per  IFRS  or  US 
GAAP,  the  financial  results  shall  be  audited  by  a  professional 
accountant or certified public accountant or equivalent (by whatever 
name  called 
the 
International Standards on Auditing (ISA)). 

in  accordance  with 

in 

the  home  country 

6A.20.2.  Where  the  law  of  the  home  country  requires  annual 
statutory audit of the accounts of the issuing company, a report of 
the  statutory  auditor  on  the  audited  financial  statements  of  the 
issuing company for each of the three financial years immediately 

Page 7 of 21 

 

 

   

 

preceding the date of the prospectus including the profits or losses, 
assets, liabilities and cash-flow statement of the issuing company at 
the  last  date  to  which  the  accounts  of  the  issuing  company  were 
made in the specified form: 

Provided  the  gap  between  date  of  opening  of  issue  and  date  of 
report shall not exceed 120 days. 

6A.20.2.1.  The  report  prepared  by  the  statutory  auditors  of  the 
issuing  company  should  disclose  financial  statements  (as  per 
relevant  period  in  the  annual  report)  in  Indian  Rupees  (at  the 
closing  rate  of  exchange,  as  at  the  date  on  which  the  financial 
information  is  presented),  compiled  in  a  tabular  form  and  include 
the consolidated or unconsolidated income statement, consolidated 
or  unconsolidated  cash 
flow  statements,  consolidated  or 
unconsolidated  balance  sheet  and  the  capitalisation  statement 
required under clause 6A.18. 

6A.20.2.2. The interim audited financial statements in respect of the 
period  ending  on  a  date  which  is  less  than  180  days  prior  to  the 
date of opening of the issue have to be included in the report, if the 
gap  between  the  ending  date  of  the  latest  audited  financial 
statements disclosed as above and the date of the opening of the 
issue is more than 180 days: 

Provided  that  if  the  gap  between  such  date  of  latest  audited 
financial statements and the date of opening of issue is 180 days or 
less, the requirement above shall be deemed to be complied with, if 
disclosures in respect of material changes in the financial position 
of issuing company for such gap are disclosed in the prospectus:  

Page 8 of 21 

 

 

Provided  further  that  in  case  of  an  issuing  company  which  is  a 
foreign bank incorporated outside India and which is regulated by a 
member of the Bank for International Settlements or a member of 
the International Organization of Securities Commissions which is a 
signatory  to  a  Multilateral  Memorandum  of  Understanding,  the 
requirement above, in respect of period beginning with last date of 
period  for  which  the  latest  audited  financial  statements  are  made 
and  the  date  of  opening  of  the  issue  shall  be  satisfied,  if  the 
relevant financial statements are based on limited review report of 
such statutory auditor. 
   
6A.20.2.3  .In  case  the  issuing  company  opts  to  prepare  and 
disclose  the  financial  results  as  per  US  GAAP,  a  reconciliation 
statement  vis-a-vis  Indian  GAAP  and  summary  of  significant 
differences  between  the  Indian  GAAP  and  US  GAAP  has  to  be 
annexed  with  the  report.  If  financial  results  are  prepared  in 
accordance  with  IFRS,  then  issuing  company  shall  annex  the 
summary  of  significant  differences  between  the  Indian  GAAP  and 
IFRS. 

6A.20.3.  Where  the  law  of  the  home  country  does  not  require 
annual  statutory  audit  of  the  accounts  of  the  issuing  company,  a 
report,  prepared  in  accordance  with  Indian  GAAP  certified  by 
Chartered Accountant in practice within the terms and meaning of 
the  Chartered  Accountants  Act,  1949  on  the  financial  statements/ 
results of the issuing company for each of the three financial years 
immediately preceding the date of prospectus including the profits 
or losses, assets, liabilities and cash-flow statement of the issuing 
company  at  the  last  date  to  which  the  accounts  of  the  issuing 
company were made in the specified form: 

Page 9 of 21 

 

 

 

 

Provided that the gap between date of opening of issue and date of 
report shall not exceed 120 days. 
 
6A.20.3.1.  The  report  prepared  by  the  Chartered  Accountants 
should  disclose  financial  statements  in  Indian  Rupees  (at  the 
closing  rate  of  exchange,  as  at  the  date  on  which  the  financial 
information  is  presented),  compiled  in  a  tabular  form  and  include 
the consolidated or unconsolidated income statement, consolidated 
or  unconsolidated  cash 
flow  statements,  consolidated  or 
unconsolidated  balance  sheet  and  the  capitalisation  statement 
required under clause 6A.18. 

6A.20.3.2. The interim financial statements in respect of the period 
ending on a date which is less than 180 days prior to the date of 
opening  of  the  issue  have  to  be  included  in  report,  if  the  gap 
between the ending date of the latest financial statements disclosed 
above  and  the  date  of  the opening of the issue  is  more  than  180 
days: 
 
Provided  that  if  the  gap  between  such  date  of  latest  audited 
financial statements and the date of opening of issue is 180 days or 
less, the requirement above shall be deemed to be complied with if 
disclosures in respect of material changes in the financial position 
of issuing company for such gap are disclosed in the prospectus. 

6A.20.4. If the proceeds of the IDR issue are used for investing in 
other body (ies) corporate, then following details of such body (ies) 
corporate shall be given:  
(a)   Names and address(es) of the body(ies) corporate; 

 

Page 10 of 21 

(b)   The reports as stated above in respect of those body(ies) 

corporate also.” 
 

(5) in  clause  6A.27  ,  after  sub-clause  13  ,  the  following  sub-clause 

shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“14. A comparative analysis of the corporate governance provisions 
that  would  be  followed  by  the  issuing  company  vis-à-vis  that  is 
applicable to Indian listed companies.” 

 
(6) in clause 6A.36, for the words “Rule 6”, the words “Rule 7” shall be 

substituted. 

 
C.  
 

 

 

for Part III, the following part shall be substituted, namely:-  

“PART III: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS OF THE SEBI (DIP) 
GUIDELINES, 2000 

to  an 

1.  Except  Chapter  VI,  all  other  chapters  of  the  SEBI  (DIP) 
Indian 
Guidelines,  2000  would  apply 
Depository  Receipts  (IDRs)  as  if  the  word  “Company”  or 
“issuer”  used  in  other  chapters  deemed  to  include  “Bodies 
Corporate/  Companies  incorporated  outside  India  issuing 
IDRs”.  The  extent  of  applicability  of  each  Chapter  is 
mentioned below: 

issue  of 

(i).  Chapter I: All clauses in the Chapter are applicable 
(ii).  Chapter  II:  All  clauses  in  the  Chapter  are  applicable  except 

clause 2.1.1 to 2.1.3, 2.2 to 2.5A, 2.6 and 2.7 

(iii).  Chapter  III:  All  clauses  in  the  Chapter  are  applicable  except 

clause 3.2 to 3.4.1, 3.4.2 to 3.4.3, 3.5.5 and 3.7 

Page 11 of 21 

(iv).  Chapter IV: Entire Chapter is not applicable 
(v).  Chapter  V:  All  clauses  in  the  Chapter  are  applicable  except 
clause  5.2,  5.3.3,  5.3.4,  5.3.6.2,  5.6A,  5.6B,  5.7.2,  5.11  and 
5.15A. 

(vi).  Chapter  VII:  All  clauses  in  the  Chapter  are  applicable  except 

clause 7.2.2.2, 7.2.2.3 and 7.6.1.2. 

(vii).  Chapter  VIII:  All  clauses  in  the  Chapter  are  applicable  except 
clause  8.1  to  8.4,  8.5  (a)  to  (f),  8.6,  8.7,  8.8.1(b),  8.8.2,  8.12, 
8.15 to 8.17 and 8.19 

(viii).  Chapter VIIIA: Entire Chapter is not applicable 
(ix).  Chapter IX: Applicability of Chapter IX is as follows: 

 

(a).Clause 9.1. to 9.1.13: Applicability is restricted to any issue 
advertisements made in India pertaining to the IDR issue of 
the issuing company; 

(b).Clause 9.1.14 and 9.1.14A: Applicability is restricted to any 
public  communications  and  publicity  material  issued  or 
published in any media in India; 

(c). Clause 9.1.14B: Entirely applicable; 
(d).Clause  9.1.15:  Applicability  is  restricted  to  any  product 
advertisement of an issuing company issued or published in 
any media in India; 

(e).Clause 9.1.16 to 9.1.19: Entirely applicable; 
(f). Clause  9.2  (a)  and  (b):  Applicability  is  restricted  to  any 
material  or  information  released  in  India  and  any  issue 
advertisements and publicity materials issued or published in 
any media in India; 

(g).Clause 9.2A: Not applicable; 
(h).Clause 9.3.1 (i), (ii) and (iii): Entirely applicable;  
(i). Clause  9.3.1  (iv):  Applicability  is  restricted  to  any  research 

report circulated in India; 

Page 12 of 21 

(x).  Chapters X, XIA, XIIA, XIII, XIIIA, XIV, & XV are not applicable 
(xi).  Chapter XI: All clauses in the Chapter are applicable except Clause 
11.1(A), 11.2, 11.3 (b), 11.3.1 (ii) to (iii),11.3.1 (viii), 11.3.5 (i), (ii), 
(ii-b), (iii) and (xxiii) and 11.4. 

(xii).  Chapter  XVI:  All  clauses  in  the  Chapter  are  applicable  except 

Clause 16.1.1, and 16.2.3.1 (b). 

(xiii).  Chapter XVII: All clauses in the Chapter are applicable. 

 

2.  The  extent  of  applicability  of  Schedules  of  SEBI  (DIP) 

Guidelines, 2000 to the IDR issue is mentioned below: 

 

(i).  Schedule  I  :  Applicable,  as  if  the  word  “Company  Act,  1956  ” 
used in Schedule refers to the Companies Act applicable in the 
home country of the issuing company   

(ii).  Schedule II: Applicable  
(iii).  Schedule III,IIIA,IV,V,VI.,VI-A: Not applicable 
(iv).  Schedule VI-B and VII:  Applicable 
(v).  Schedule VIIA,VIII,IX,X ,XI,XII,XIII,XIV and XV: Not applicable 
(vi).  Schedule XVI: Applicable 
(vii).  Schedule XVIA:  Not applicable 
(viii).  Schedule XVII : Applicable 
(ix).  Schedule  XVIII  :  Applicable  subject  to  re-calculation  by  taking 

the minimum application size as Rs.20,000/- 

(x).  Schedule XVIIIA and XIX: Not applicable 
(xi).  Schedule XIXA and XX: Applicable 
(xii).  Schedule XXA: Applicable, as if the words “Company Act, 1956” 
used in Schedule refers to the Companies Act applicable in the 
home country of the issuing company and the “clause 3.7.1(ii)” 
shall read as “Clause 6A.34 (8)”. 

(xiii).  Schedule XXI: Applicable 
(xiv).  Schedule XXIA and Schedule XXII : Not applicable 

Page 13 of 21 

(xv).  Schedule XXIII,XXIIIA,XXIV,XXV,XXVI and XXVII : Applicable 
(xvi).  Schedule XXVIII and Schedule XXIX: Not applicable 
(xvii).  Schedule XXX: Applicable” 

 
D.  in Part IV,  

(1) in clause 1, for the words ” Part I of Chapter VI”, the words “Part II 

of Chapter VIA” shall be substituted. 

 
(2) for clause 5.4, the following clause shall be substituted, namely : 
 “5.4  Names,  addresses  and  contact  information  of  experts  and 
counsel”. 
 
(3) for clause 5.9, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

“5.9 Statement that the issuer is required to pay an interest of 15% 
p.a. to the investors if the allotments letters / refund orders are not 
despatched  within  15  days  from  the  date  of  closure  of  the  public 
issue” 

 
(4) in  clause  19,  the  word  “five”  shall  be  substituted  by  the  word 

“three”. 

 
(5) for clause 23, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:-  
 
  ‘23. Statement regarding minimum subscription clause: 
(a) Following statement shall appear for non-underwritten IDR issues: 
 
“If the issuing company does not receive the minimum subscription of 
90 per cent of the issued amount on the date of closure of the issue, or 
if  the  subscription  level  falls  below  90  per  cent  after  the  closure  of 
issue  on  account  of  cheques  having  being  returned  unpaid  or 
withdrawal of applications, the issuing company shall forthwith refund 

Page 14 of 21 

the entire subscription amount received. If the issuing company fails to 
refund the entire subscription amount within 15 days from the date of 
the closure of the issue, it is liable to pay interest to the subscribers at 
the rate of 15 per cent per annum for the period of the delay.” 

(b) Following statement shall appear for underwritten IDR issues: 
 
"If the issuing company does not receive the minimum subscription of 
90  per  cent  of  the  net  offer  to  public  including  devolvement  of 
Underwriters within 60 days from the date of closure of the issue, the 
issuing company shall forthwith refund the entire subscription amount 
received with interest to the subscribers at the rate of 15 per cent per 
annum for the period of the delay beyond 60 days” ‘ 

(II).  After  Schedule  VI-A,  following  Schedule  shall  be  inserted, 

namely-: 

 

 

“SCHEDULE VI-B 

 

Clause 6A.6 (7) 

FORMAT OF THE DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE FILED BY 

THE LEAD MANAGER(S) FOR IDR ISSUES 

 
To, 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
Dear Sirs, 
SUB.:  ISSUE  OF  ____________________  (hereinafter  referred  to  as 
‘IDRs’)  BY  _______________(hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  ‘Issuing 
Company’) 
 

Page 15 of 21 

We,  the  undernoted,  have  been  appointed  as  the  Merchant  Banker 
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘LM’) to the proposed issue of IDRs by the 
Issuing Company and we state as follows: 
 
1.  The  Draft  Red  Herring  Prospectus  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the 
‘DRHP’)/  Red  Herring  Prospectus  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the 
‘RHP’)/  Prospectus  is  being  filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Board”)  in  compliance 
with  Chapter  VIA  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 or any statutory 
modification  or  re-enactment  thereof  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the 
“DIP Guidelines”) read with the Companies (Issue of Indian Depository 
Receipts) Rules, 2004 (hereinafter referred to as “the IDR Rules”), on a 
public basis, for approval. 

2.  We have examined the disclosures made by the Issuing Company in 
jurisdictions  where  its  underlying  equity  shares  are  listed  so  as  to 
ensure  uniformity  and  parity  of  information  shared  with  investors 
across  different  regulatory  jurisdictions  (hereinafter  referred  to  as 
“publicly available information”) and participated in discussions with the 
senior  management  of  the  Issuing  Company  for  the  purpose  of 
preparing 
the 
disclosures 
DRHP/RHP/Prospectus. 

Issuing  Company 

in 

on 

the 

3.  We have examined various documents, more particularly referred to in 
the  Annexure  hereto,  in  connection  with  the  finalization  of  the 
DRHP/RHP/Prospectus pertaining to the said issue. 

4.  On the basis of such examination and the discussions with the Issuing 
Company,  its  directors  and  other  officers  and  other  independent 
agencies/ experts/ reports, WE CONFIRM that: 
(a) the DRHP/RHP/Prospectus forwarded to the Board is in conformity 
with  the  publicly  available  information  and  information  based  on 

Page 16 of 21 

representations  made  by  the  senior  management  of  the  Issuing 
Company; 

(b) the requirements under the IDR Rules and the DIP Guidelines and 
other relevant laws issued by the Board, the Government and any 
other  competent  authority  in  this  behalf  have  been  duly  complied 
with; and 

(c) based  on  the  publicly  available  information  and  representations 
made  by  the  senior  management  of  the  Issuing  Company,  the 
disclosures made in the DRHP/RHP/Prospectus are certified to be 
true  and  are  adequate  to  enable  the  investors  to  make  a  well 
informed decision as to the investment in the proposed issue. 
 

5.  We confirm that besides ourselves, all the other intermediaries named 
in  the  DRHP/RHP/Prospectus,  except  [    ],  are  registered  with  the 
Board and that till date such registration is valid. 

6.  We have satisfied ourselves about the worth of the underwriters to fulfil 

their underwriting commitments. 

7.  We  certify  that  the  proposed  activities  of  the  Issuing  Company  for 
which  the  funds  are  being  raised  in  the  present  issue  fall  within  the 
‘main  objects’  listed  in  the  object  clause  of  the  Memorandum  of 
Association  or  other  charter  of  the  Issuing  Company  and  that  the 
activities  which  have  been  carried  out  until  now  are  valid  in  terms  of 
the object clause of its Memorandum of Association. 

8.  We confirm that necessary arrangements have been made to ensure 
that the moneys received pursuant to the issue are kept in a separate 
bank account and that such moneys shall be released by the said bank 
only, after permission, for listing of IDRs, is obtained from all the stock 
exchanges  mentioned  in  the  prospectus.  We  further  confirm  that  the 
agreement  entered  into  between  the  bankers  to  the  issue  and  the 
Issuing Company specifically contains this condition. 

Page 17 of 21 

9.  We  certify  that  no  payment  in  the  nature  of  discount,  commission, 
allowance or otherwise shall be made by the Issuing Company or the 
promoters, directly or indirectly, to any person who receives securities 
by way of firm allotment in the issue. 

10. We  certify  that  disclosure  has  been  made  in  the  prospectus  that  the 
investors shall be given an option to get the IDRs in demat or physical 
mode. 

11. We  certify  that  the  following  disclosures  have  been  made  in  the 

DRHP/RHP/Prospectus: 
(a) An  undertaking  from  the  Issuing  Company  that  at  any  given  time 
there  shall  be  only  one  denomination  for  the  IDRs  of  the  Issuing 
Company and 

(b) An undertaking from the Issuing Company that it shall comply with 
such disclosure and accounting norms specified by the Board from 
time to time. 

that  none  of 

the 

in 

12. We  confirm 

the 
DRHP/RHP/Prospectus  have  been  debarred  from  functioning  by  any 
regulatory authority. 

intermediaries  named 

13. We  confirm  that  all  the  material  disclosures  in  respect  of  the  Issuing 
Company have been made in the red herring prospectus / prospectus 
and certify that any material development  in  the  Issuing  Company  or 
relating to the issue, up to the commencement of listing and trading of 
the  IDRs  offered  through  this  issue,  shall  be  informed  through  public 
notices/  advertisements  in  all  those  newspapers  in  which  pre-issue 
advertisement  and  advertisement  for  opening  or  closure  of  the  issue 
have been given. 

14. We confirm that the abridged prospectus contain all the disclosures as 

specified in the DIP Guidelines. 

15. We  confirm  that  agreements  have  been  entered  into  with  both  the 

depositories for dematerialisation of the IDRs of the Issuing Company 

 

Page 18 of 21 

PLACE:  LEAD  MERCHANT  BANKER(S)  TO  THE  ISSUE  WITH  HIS/ 
THEIR SEAL (S) 
 
DATE:  

Page 19 of 21 

from  governmental,  statutory,  municipal 

ANNEXURE TO THE DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE FOR THE ISSUE 
OF 
_______________________ BY ______________________________  
 
1. Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Issuing Company. 
2.  Necessary  clearance 
authorities etc., for implementation of the project, wherever applicable. 
3.  Documents  in  support  of  the  track  record  and  experience  of  the 
promoters and their professional competence. 
4. Listing Agreement of the Issuing Company for existing securities on the 
Stock Exchanges. 
5.  Consent  letters  from  Issuing  Company's  auditors,  Bankers  to  issue, 
Bankers  to  the  Issuing  Company,  Lead  Merchant  Bankers,  Brokers  and 
where applicable, proposed Trustees. 
financial 
6.  Applications  made  by 
institutions/banks  for  financial  assistance  as  per  object  of  the  issue  and 
copies of relative sanction letters. 
7. Underwriting letters from the proposed underwriters to the issue. 
8. Audited Balance Sheets of the Issuing Company/Promoter companies 
for relevant periods. 
9.  Auditors  certificate  regarding  tax-benefits  available  to  the  Issuing 
Company, shareholders and debenture holders. 
10. Certificate from architects or any other competent authority on project 
implementation schedule furnished by the Issuing Company, if applicable. 
11. Reports from Government agencies / expert agencies / consultants / 
Issuing  Company  regarding  market  demand  and  supply  for  the  product, 
industry scenario, standing of the foreign collaborators, etc. 
12.  Documents  in  support  of  the  infrastructural  facilities,  raw  material 
availability, etc. 
13. Auditors' Report indicating summary of audited accounts for the period 
including that of subsidiaries of the Issuing Company. 

the 

Issuing  Company 

to 

the 

Page 20 of 21 

14.  Stock  Exchange  quotations  of  the  last  3  years  duly  certified  by 
designated stock exchange. 
15.  Minutes  of  the  general  body  meetings  and  board  meetings  of  the 
Issuing Company for matters which are in the prospectus 
16.  Revaluation  certificate  of  Issuing  Company's  assets  given  by  the 
Government Valuer or any other approved valuer. 
17.  Certificate  from  solicitors  of  the  Issuing  Company  in  regard  to 
compliance of legal provisions of the prospectus. 
18.  Certificate  from  Issuing  Company's  legal  counsel,  operating  at  the 
place  of  its  registered  office,  confirming  that  the  legal  counsel  has  done 
the mandatory vetting of the prospectus 
19.  A  detailed  checklist  indicating  compliance  with  each  of  the  clauses 
contained in Chapter VI-A of the DIP Guidelines. 
 
PLACE:  LEAD  MERCHANT  BANKER  (S)  TO  THE  ISSUE  WITH  HIS  / 
THEIR SEAL (S) 
 
DATE: “ 
 
 
 

Page 21 of 21 

