 
Deputy General Manager 
Market Regulation Department-Division of Policy 
E-mail: harinib@sebi.gov.in 

MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-08/2009 
July 27, 2009 

 
The Executive Directors/Managing Directors 
of all Stock Exchanges 
  
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Comprehensive Risk Management Framework for the cash market 

 

1.  SEBI  vide  circular  no.  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-07/2005  dated  February  23,  2005  has 

specified the risk management framework for the cash market.  
 

2.  Pursuant  to  the  recommendations  made  by  the  Secondary  Market  Advisory 
Committee of SEBI at its meeting held on June 30, 2009, it has been decided that in 
case of a buy transaction in cash market, VaR margins, Extreme loss margins and 
mark  to  market  losses  together  shall  not  exceed  the  purchase  value  of  the 
transaction.  Further,  in  case  of  a  sale  transaction  in  cash  market,  the  existing 
practice  shall  continue  viz.,  VaR  margins  and  Extreme  loss  margins  together  shall 
not exceed the sale value of the transaction and mark to market losses shall also be 
levied. 

 
3.  The Stock Exchanges are also advised to:  

a.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 

the implementation of the above decision.  

b.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the member brokers/clearing 

members of the Exchange and also to disseminate the same on the website.  

c.  Make  software  changes,  test  the  software  and  remove  any  glitches  in  its 
operation well before the commencement date to avoid any problems in the live 
environment.  

d.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

circular in the Monthly Development Report.  

 

4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 
 

5.  This circular shall come into force from August 17, 2009. 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 

Harini Balaji 

