Parag Basu  
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing-II 
Phone: +91 22 2644 9360   
Fax: +91 22 2644 9016. Email: paragb@sebi.gov.in   

 

 
 
SEBI/CFD/DIL/IDR/1/2009/16/06 
June 16, 2009 

 
The Managing Director/ 
Executive Director/ 
Administrator of all  
the Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 

Sub:    Model  Listing  Agreement  for  listing  of  Indian  Depository 
Receipts  (IDRs)  issued  by  issuing  companies  whose  securities 
market regulators are signatories to the Multilateral Memorandum 
of  Understanding  (MMOU)  of 
International  Organization  of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO).  

 
1.   Vide circular no. CFD/DIL/IDR/1/2006/3/4, dated 03rd April 2006, SEBI 
has  specified  the  Model  Listing  Agreement  for  listing  of  IDRs.  This 
Model Listing Agreement was specified on the basis of the conditions 
of the Equity Listing Agreement applicable to the domestic issuers at 
that point of time.  

 
2.  SEBI received suggestions from market participants to modify the said 
Model Listing Agreement so as to align it with the listing requirements 
of the issuers’ home country so that there is no additional regulatory or 
cost burden to the issuers. 

 

Page 1 of 29 

3.  On  examination  of  the  suggestions,  it  has  been  decided  to  initially 
simplify  the  existing  listing  requirements  for  IDRs  issued  by  issuing 
companies from the countries whose securities market regulators are 
the signatories to the MMOU of IOSCO.  

 
4.  Accordingly,  separate  listing  requirements  for  listing  of  IDRs  of  such 
issuing  companies  have  been  specified.  A  Model  Listing  Agreement 
containing these requirements is enclosed as Annexure A.  

 
5.  This  Model  Listing  Agreement  shall  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the 
Companies  (Issue  of  Indian  Depository  Receipts)  Rules,  2004  and 
Chapter VIA of the SEBI (Disclosure & Investor Protection) Guidelines, 
2000 or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof.  

 
6.  For the issuing companies from other jurisdictions, the existing model 
listing agreement for IDRs shall continue to apply till further advice in 
this regard. 

 
7.  All Stock exchanges are advised to: 
 

(a) execute the Listing Agreement with the issuing companies  in line 
with  the  Model  Listing  agreement  specified  in  the  Annexure,  without 
limiting or diluting any of the requirements thereof; 

       (b) make necessary and consequential amendments, if any , to their 

 

 

bye-laws for the implementation of the above decision; 
(c) disseminate  the  same  on  their  website  for  easy  access  to  the 
issuing companies and investors; and 
(d) communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the 
provisions of this circular in the Monthly Development Report. 

 
8.  The Model Listing agreement specified in the ‘Annexure A’ shall come 

into force with immediate effect. 

Page 2 of 29 

 
9.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by 
sections 11(1) and 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India  
Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
10. This circular, along with the Annexure A, is available on SEBI website 

at http://www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
Parag Basu 
 
Encl: Annexure A 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 3 of 29 

 

ANNEXURE A 

Model  Listing  Agreement  for  listing  of  Indian  Depository  Receipts 
issued by the  issuing companies whose securities market regulator 
is  signatory  to  the  Multilateral  Memorandum  of  Understanding 
(MMOU)  of  International  Organization  of  Securities  Commissions 
(IOSCO). 

This agreement is made on this [●] day of [●], [●] by [●] BETWEEN (name 
of  the  issuing  company)  a  company/  body  corporate  (hereinafter  called  
“the issuing company”)  duly formed and registered under the [●] an Act/ 
law of [●] (country) and having its registered office at [●],which is situated 
in__________________,(country)  and  the    [●]  Stock  Exchange  Ltd. 
(hereinafter called as ‘the stock exchange’). 

Witnesseth 
WHEREAS  the  issuing  company  has  issued  Indian  Depository  Receipts 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “IDRs”)  as  defined  in  rule  3  (i)  (c)  of  the 
Companies (Issue of Indian Depository Receipts) Rules 2004 (“the Rules”) 
and  subsequent  amendments  thereto  against  [●]  (number)  of  underlying 
equity  shares  having  face  value  of  [●]  which  are  deposited  with  [●]  an 
overseas custodian bank (hereinafter referred to as “the custodian”) in the 
home  country  of  the  issuing  company    (i.e.  parent  country  where  the 
issuing company is incorporated and listed.) 
 
AND WHEREAS it is a requirement of the stock exchange that there must 
be  filed  with  the  application  for  listing  of  IDRs,  an  agreement  in  terms 
hereinafter appearing, to qualify for the admission for dealing of the said 
IDRs in the stock exchange. 
 

Page 4 of 29 

AND WHEREAS the issuing company has filed with the stock exchange 
an application for listing its IDRs more particularly described in Schedule I  
annexed hereto and made a part hereof. 
 
NOW THEREFORE in consideration of the stock exchange having agreed 
to list the said IDRs, the issuing company hereby covenants and agrees 
with the stock exchange as follows: 
1.  The issuing company agrees: 

a)  that for all corporate actions (except those which are not permitted 
by Indian laws), it will treat holders of IDRs (hereinafter referred to 
as  “IDR  Holders”),  in  a  manner  equitable  with  the  holders  of  its 
equity shares in the home country; 

b)  that  if  its  equity  shares  or  other  securities  representing  equity 
shares (“securities”) are also listed on the  exchanges in countries 
other than its home country , it shall ensure that IDR Holders are 
treated in a manner equitable with the holders of such securities; 

c)  that advices of allotment for the IDRs will be issued simultaneously 
to all allottees and that in the event of its being impossible to issue 
letters  of  regret  at  the  same  time,  a  notice  to  that  effect  will  be 
issued in the media so that it will appear on the morning after the 
letters of allotment have been posted; and 

d)  that  advices  of  rights  entitlement  to  all  IDR  Holders,  wherever 
applicable, will be issued simultaneously with other shareholders of 
the issuing company in home country.  

 

2.  The issuing company agrees to notify the stock exchange at the same 
time  it  intimates  to  any  other  exchange,  where  its  equity  shares  are 
listed,  regarding 
the 
recommendation or declaration of dividend or rights issue or issue of 
convertible debentures or of debentures carrying a right to subscribe to 
equity shares or the passing over of the dividend and any decision on 

the  meeting,  at  which  matters  such  as 

Page 5 of 29 

buy  back  of  equity  shares  of  the  issuing  company,  are  due  to  be 
considered. 

 

3.  The  issuing  company  agrees  to  intimate  to  the  stock  exchange  after 
the  meeting  of  its  Board  of  Directors  has  been  held  to  consider  or 
decide the following, at the same time and to the extent it intimates the 
same to the listing authority in its home country or other jurisdictions 
where its securities may be listed, by electronic filing: 

 

a)  all  dividends  and/or  cash  bonuses  recommended  or  declared  or 
the decision to pass any dividend or cash bonus; and  

        b) the total turnover, gross profit/loss, provision for depreciation, tax 
provisions  and  net  profits  for  the  year  (with  comparison  with  the 
previous year) and the amounts appropriated from reserves, capital 
profits, accumulated profits of past years or other special source to 
provide  wholly  or  partly  for  any  dividend,  even  if  this  calls  for 
qualification that such information is provisional or subject to audit. 

 
4.  The  issuing  company  agrees  to  notify  the  stock  exchange  at  least 
seven  working  days  in  advance  of  the  record  date  for  the  corporate 
actions  like  rights,  bonus,  splits  and  payment  of  any  dividend  to  IDR 
Holders.  The  issuing  company  further  agrees  that  the  process  for 
setting a record date for any corporate action will be disclosed in the 
offer  document  and  prior  intimation  will  be  provided  to  the  stock 
exchange and in the media if this process changes. 

 
5.  The issuing company agrees to pay the dividend as per the timeframe 
applicable in its home country or other jurisdictions where its securities 
are listed, whichever is earlier, so as to reach the IDR Holders on or 
before  the  date  fixed  for  payment  of  dividend  to  holders  of  its  equity 
share or other securities. 

Page 6 of 29 

 

6.  The  issuing  company  agrees  to  promptly  disclose  to  the  stock 

exchanges the following by electronic filing: 

a)  short  particulars  of  any  increase  of  capital  whether  by  issue  of 
bonus  shares  through  capitalization,  or  by  rights  issue  of  equity 
shares, or in any other manner; 

b)  short particulars of the reissues of forfeited shares or securities, or 
the issue of shares or securities held in reserve for future issue or 
the creation in any form or manner of new shares or securities or 
any other rights, privileges or benefits to subscribe thereto; 

c)   short particulars of any other alterations of capital, including calls; 

and  

d)  any  other  information  necessary  to  enable  the  IDR  Holders  to 
the 

issuing  company’s  position  and 

to  avoid 

the 

appraise 
establishment of a false market in IDRs; 

 

If  the  above  disclosure/s  is  also  required  to  be  made  to  the  listing 
authority or any other authority in its home country or other jurisdiction, 
the  issuing  company  shall  disclose  the  same  to  the  stock  exchange 
simultaneously while intimating to such authority.  

 
7.  The issuing company agrees:  

a)  where  it  is  required  so  to  do  in  its  home  country  or  other 
jurisdictions where its securities may be listed, to fix the record date 
for the purpose of payment of dividends or distribution of any other 
corporate  benefits  to  IDR  Holders  in  consultation  with  the  stock 
exchange; 

 

Page 7 of 29 

b)  to send advices of allotment and letters of right to the IDR Holders 
at the time they are sent to shareholders of the issuing company as 
per the requirement of its home country or other jurisdictions where 
its securities are listed. 

 
8.   

a)  The  issuing  company  declares  that  the  underlying  equity  shares, 
against  which  the  IDRs  are  issued,  have  been/will  be  listed  in  its 
home country before the listing of IDRs in the stock exchange; 

b)  The  issuing  company  agrees  to  obtain  'in-principle'  approval  for 
listing from the stock exchanges where its IDRs are listed, before 
issuing  further  IDRs  and  to  make  an  application  to  the  stock 
exchange for the listing such further IDRs; 

c)  The  issuing  company  agrees  to  make  true,  correct  and  adequate 
disclosure in the offer documents in respect of any new or further 
issue of IDRs; 

d)  The issuing company agrees that it shall not issue any prospectus/ 
offer  document/  letter  of  offer  for  public  subscription  of  any  IDRs 
unless the legal and regulatory requirements relating thereto have 
been fulfilled; 

e)  The issuing company further agrees that the it shall submit to the 
stock exchange the following documents to enable it to admit/ list 
the said IDRs for dealing in stock exchange: 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 8 of 29 

 

i)  a  copy  of  a  letter  indicating  the  observation  on  draft  offer 
documents  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (“SEBI”); 
and 
ii) a certificate from a merchant banker acting as lead manager to 
the issue reporting positive compliance by the issuing company of 
the  Rules  and  the    SEBI(  Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection) 
Guidelines,  2000    or  any  statutory  modification  or  reenactment 
thereof ; 

f)  The  issuing  company  undertakes  that  in  the  event  of  non-
submission of the documents as mentioned in sub-clause (e) above 
by the issuing company to the stock exchange or withdrawal of the 
observation  letter  by  SEBI  at  any  time  before  grant  of  permission 
for listing/ admission to dealing of the IDRs, the IDRs shall not be 
eligible  for  listing/  dealing,  as  the  case  may  be,  and  the  issuing 
company  shall  be  liable  to  refund  the  subscription  monies  to  the 
respective investors immediately; 

g)  The issuing company agrees that it shall disclose the pre and post 
arrangement capital structure and share holding pattern to the IDR 
Holders  in  case  of  any  corporate  restructuring  like  mergers  / 
amalgamations  and  other  schemes  at  the  same  time  and  to  the 
extent that it discloses to holders of securities in its home country or 
in other jurisdictions where its securities are listed; 

h)  The  issuing  company  agrees  to  ensure  that  any  scheme  of 
arrangement/amalgamation/merger/ 
reconstruction/reduction  of 
capital,  etc.  to  be  presented  to  any  Court  or  Tribunal  does  not  in 
any  way  violate,  override  or  circumscribe  the  provisions  of  Rules, 
SEBI( Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000  or any 
statutory modification or reenactment thereof and the requirements 
of  the stock exchange. 

Page 9 of 29 

 

9.  In the event of the issuing company granting any options to purchase 
any  IDR  of  the  issuing  company,  the  issuing  company  will  promptly 
notify the stock exchange:  

a)  of  the  number  of  IDRs  covered  by  such  options,  of  the  terms 

thereof and of the time within which they may be exercised; and  

b)  of  any  subsequent  changes  or  cancellation  or  exercise  of  such 

options. 

 
10. The  issuing  company  agrees  that  it  shall  notify  the  stock  exchange 
without  delay  of  any  change  in  the  rights  attaching  to  any  class  of 
equity shares into which the IDRs are exchangeable. 

 
11. The  issuing  company  agrees  that  it  will  promptly  notify  the  stock 
exchange  at  the  same  time  where  it  notifies  to  comply  with  listing 
requirements of home country or other jurisdictions where its securities 
may be listed:  

a)  of  any  change  in  the  issuing  company’s  Board  of  Directors  by 

death, resignation, removal or otherwise; 

b)  of any change of Managing Director; 

c)  of  any  change  of  Auditors  appointed  to  audit  the  books  and 

accounts of the issuing company; 

d)  of any change in the Compliance Officer ; and  

e)  of any change in the registrar, domestic depository or the overseas 

custodian bank. 

 
12. The  issuing  company  agrees  that  it  will  forward  to  stock  exchange, 

promptly and without application: 

Page 10 of 29 

a)  copies  of  the  Annual  Reports,  which  shall  include  the  Balance 
Sheet and Profit & Loss Account,  and the Auditors Report and of 
all  periodical  and  special  reports  (if  applicable)  at  the  same  time 
and as to the extent that it discloses to holders of securities in its 
home  country  or  in  other  jurisdictions  where  such  securities  are 
listed; 

b)  copies of all notices, resolutions,  circulars, call letters or any other 
circulars including notices of meetings, copies of the proceedings at 
all  Annual  and  Extraordinary  General  Meetings  of  the  issuing 
company, at the same time and as to the extent that it discloses to 
holders  of  securities  in  its  home  country  or  in  other  jurisdictions 
where such securities are listed and six copies (one of which will be 
certified) of amendments to its constitutional documents as soon as 
they shall have been approved by the issuing company in general 
meeting; 

c)  copies of all notices, circulars, etc. issued or advertised anywhere 
else  to  comply  with  requirements  in  home  country  or  in  other 
jurisdictions where such securities are listed; 

d)  copies  of  Agreement  among  issuing  company  and  overseas 
custodian Banks and Domestic Depository relating to new issue of 
capital  in  IDR  form.  In  the  event  the  same  is  being  dispatched  to 
shareholders  or  IDR  Holders,  it  must  be  dispatched  to  the  stock 
exchange  prior  to  their  dispatch  to  equity  shareholders  or  IDR 
Holders; and  

e)  copies  of  all  notices,  circulars,  etc.,  issued  or  advertised  by  the 
issuing  company  in  the  media  relating  to  the  issuing  company  in 
connection  with  any  merger,  amalgamation, 
re-construction, 
reduction  of  capital,  scheme  or  arrangement  involving  the  issuing 
company  (including  notices,  circulars,  etc.  issued  or  advertised  in 
the  media  in  regard  to  meetings  of  equity  shareholders,  IDR 

Page 11 of 29 

Holders or any class of them and copies of the proceedings at all 
such meetings).  

 

13.  The issuing company agrees: 

a)  that  it  will  not  exercise  a  lien  on  the  fully  paid  underlying  shares, 
against which the IDRs are issued, and that in respect of partly paid 
underlying  shares,  against  which  the  IDRs  are  issued,  it  will  not 
exercise any lien except in respect of moneys called or payable at a 
fixed time in respect of such underlying shares; 

b)  that it will not forfeit unclaimed dividends before the claim becomes 
barred by law in the home country of the issuing company, as may 
be  applicable,  and  that  such  forfeiture,  when  effected,  will  be 
annulled in appropriate cases; 

c)  subject  to  the  requirements  under  the  laws  and  regulations  of  its 
home country,  if any amount be paid up in advance of calls on any 
underlying shares against which the IDRs are issued  it will stipulate 
that such amount may carry interest but shall not in respect thereof 
confer a right to dividend or to participate in profits; 

d)  that it, either directly or through an agent, will send out proxy forms 
to IDR Holders in all cases, such proxy forms being so worded that 
a  security  holders  may  vote  either  for  or  against  each  resolution 
and voting rights of the IDR Holders will be exercised in accordance 
with  the  deposit  agreement  (agreement  between  the  issuing 
company and the domestic depository) and 

 

 

 

 

Page 12 of 29 

e)  that when notice is given to its IDR Holders by advertisement, it will 
advertise such notice in at least one leading Hindi and one leading 
English national daily newspaper in India. 

 
14. The issuing company agrees to file with the stock exchange the pattern 
of IDR Holders on a quarterly basis within 15 days of end of the quarter 
in the following form: 

 
Distribution of IDR holding as on quarter ending [●] :   
 Category of IDR holders 

No:  of  IDR 
holders 

of  

Percentage of 
IDRs Held 

No 
IDRs 
held 

Promoter's holding 

Promoters*  

Non-Promoters Holding  

Institutional Investors 

Mutual Funds  

Banks, Financial Institutions, 
Insurance Companies  

Sub-Total 

Others 

Private Corporate Bodies 

Persons resident outside India 
Individuals 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 13 of 29 

 Category of IDR holders 

Others 

Indian Public 

Any other (please specify) 

Sub-Total 

GRAND TOTAL 

No:  of  IDR 
holders 

No 
IDRs 
held 

of  

Percentage of 
IDRs Held 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
* as may be applicable.  
Note 1: The name, number of IDRs held and percentage holding of entities 
/ persons holding more than 1 percent of the IDRs issued by the issuing 
company shall be given under each head.  
 
Note  2:  The  issuing  company  shall  also  post  this  information  on  its  web 
site and on the website specified by SEBI in this regard. 
 
Note  3:  The  issuing  company  shall  provide  the  percentage  of  shares 
underlying IDRs. 
 

the 

information  about 

total 
Issuing  company  shall  provide 
outstanding  shares  at  the  same  time  as  disclosed  in  its  home 
country or in any other country where its securities are listed. 
 
Additionally,  the  issuing  company  agrees  that  it  will  also  provide 
shareholding details on its web site and on the website of the stock 
exchange or any other website specified by SEBI in this regard in 

Page 14 of 29 

compliance with the disclosure requirements of the listing authority 
in its home country or any other jurisdiction where the securities of 
the issuing company are listed. 

 
15. The issuing company agrees that apart from complying with all specific 
requirements as above, to intimate the stock exchange immediately of 
events  such  as  strikes,  lock  outs,  closure  on  account  of  power  cuts, 
etc.  and  other  events  which  will  have  a  material  bearing  on  the 
performance  /  operations  of  the  issuing  company  as  well  as  price 
sensitive  information  both  at  the  time of occurrence of the event and 
subsequently after the cessation of the event at the same time and as 
to  the  extent  that  it  discloses  to  holders  of  securities  in  its  home 
country or in other jurisdictions where such securities are listed in order 
to enable the IDR Holders and the public to appraise the position of the 
issuing company and to avoid the establishment of a false market in its 
IDRs.  The  above  information  should  be  made  public  immediately  by 
the stock exchange. In addition, the issuing company will furnish to the 
stock  exchange  on  request  such  information  concerning  the  issuing 
company as the stock exchange may reasonably require. 

 
16. The  issuing  company  agrees  and  hereby  authorizes  the  stock 
exchange  to  make  available  immediately  to  its  members  and  to  the 
media any information supplied by the issuing company in compliance 
with any of the listing requirements provided that, in cases where it is 
contended  that  such  disclosure  might  be  detrimental  to  the  issuing 
company’s interest a special submission to that effect may be made for 
the  consideration  of 
the 
information. 

the  stock  exchange  when 

furnishing 

 
17. The issuing company agrees that as soon as its IDRs are listed on the 
stock exchange, it will pay to the stock exchange an initial listing fee as 

Page 15 of 29 

prescribed in Schedule II annexed hereto and made a part hereof, and 
that thereafter, so long as the IDRs continue to be listed on the stock 
exchange,  it  will  pay  to  the  stock  exchange  on  or  before  April  30,  in 
each year an Annual Listing Fee computed on the basis of the capital 
of the issuing company as of March 31 representing IDRs and worked 
out  as  provided  in  Schedule  II  annexed  hereto  and  made  a  part 
thereof.  The  issuing  company  also  agrees  that  it  shall  pay  the 
additional  Annual  Listing  Fee,  at  the  time  of  making  application  for 
listing of IDRs arising out of further issue, as is computed in terms of 
Schedule II annexed hereto and made a part thereof for any addition in 
the capital representing IDRs pursuant to the further issue. 

 
18. The issuing company agrees that in the event of application for listing 
being  granted  in  pursuance  of  this  agreement,  the  issuing  company 
shall be subject to the applicable Rules, Bye-laws and Regulations of 
the  stock  exchange,  the  Rules  and  SEBI  regulations,  guidelines  and 
circulars in regard to listing of IDRs which now are or hereafter may be 
in force.  

 
19. The  issuing  company  further  agrees  as  a  pre-condition  for  continued 
listing  to  forthwith  comply  with  such  future  conditions  as  may  be 
stipulated by the stock exchange from time to time as conditions and 
requirements for listing of IDRs.  

 
20. The issuing company agrees that it shall be a condition precedent for 
issuance  of  new  IDRs,  that  it  shall  deposit  before  the  opening  of 
subscription list and keep deposited with the stock exchange (in cases 
where the IDRs are offered for subscription whether through the Issue 
of  a  prospectus,  letter  of  offer  or  otherwise)  an  amount  calculated  at 
1%  of  the  amount  proposed  to  be  raised  by  the  IDRs  offered  for 

Page 16 of 29 

subscription to the public and/or to existing IDR Holders of the issuing 
company, as the case may be, for ensuring compliance by the issuing 
company,  within  the  prescribed  or  stipulated  period,  of  all  prevailing 
requirements  of  law  and  all  prevailing  listing  requirements  and 
conditions as mentioned in, and refundable or forfeitable in the manner 
stated in the Rules, Bye-laws and Regulations of the stock exchange 
for the time being in force. 

 

21. Fifty per cent. (50% ) of the security deposit referred to in clause 20 
shall be paid to the stock exchange in cash. The balance amount can 
be provided for by way of a bank guarantee. The amount to be paid in 
cash shall be limited to Rs. 3 crores. The said amount at the security 
deposit  will  be  released  by  the  stock  exchange  after  the  issuing 
company obtains No Objection Certificate from SEBI. 

 
22. Without prejudice to any other provisions of this agreement, in general 
and  clause  18  in  particular  as  a  condition  for  continued  listing,  the 
issuing company agrees to comply with such provisions of the relevant 
Acts  including  the  section  605A  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  the 
Rules, regulations, guidelines or circulars issued from time to time by 
the Government and/or SEBI including additional disclosures required 
to  be  made  for  IDR  issues  in  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor 
Protection)  Guidelines,  2000  or  any  statutory  modification  or  re-
enactment thereof, as may be applicable to the issuing company.  

 
23. The issuing company declares that it shall comply with all disclosures 
made  by  it  to  the  IDR  holder  in  the  Prospectus  and  also  with  the 
conditions of Deposit Agreement signed by it.  

 

Page 17 of 29 

24. The issuing company agrees and undertakes that, notwithstanding the 
conditions  in  clause  23,  it  shall  not  do  any  act  or  execute  any 
agreement,  undertaking  etc.  so  as  to  dilute  or  limit  the  covenants  of 
this agreement. 

 

25. The issuing company agrees that – 

a)  as far as possible allotment of IDRs offered to the public shall be 

made within 15 days of the closure of the public issue; and  

b)  it shall pay interest at 15% per annum if the allotment has not been 
made  and  or  refund  orders  have  not  been  dispatched  to  the 
investors within 15 days from the date of the closure of the issue. 

26. The issuing company agrees: 

a)  to  appoint  a  company  secretary  in  India  who  is  a  registered 
member of Institute of Company Secretaries of India to act as the 
Compliance Officer of the issuing company who would directly liaise 
with the authorities such as SEBI, the stock exchanges, Registrar of 
Companies  etc.,  and  investors  with  respect  to  implementation  of 
various rules, regulations, guidelines, circulars and other directives 
or  order  of  such  authorities  and  investor  service  &  complaints 
related matters; 

b)  to  satisfy  itself  about  the  capability  of  the  Custodian,  Domestic 
Depository and the Registrar and Transfer Agent to serve the IDR 
Holders  by  ascertaining  whether  these  entities  are  sufficiently 
equipped  with infrastructure facilities such as adequate manpower, 
computer hardware and software, office space, documents handling 
facility; 

c)  to furnish a copy of agreement or MOU entered into with overseas 
custodian  bank,  domestic  depository,  merchant  banker  and 
Registrar and Transfer Agent to the Stock Exchanges; and 

Page 18 of 29 

d)  to  do  all  such  acts,  deeds,  matters  and  appoint  such  agents  and 
intermediaries  as  are  necessary  or  incidental  to  the  issuances  of 
IDRs in India.  

 
27. Corporate Governance  

The  issuing  company  agrees  to  comply  with  the  Corporate  Governance 
provisions  as  applicable  in  its  home  country  and  other  jurisdictions  in 
which  its  equity  shares  are  listed.  Further  the  issuing  company  hereby 
agrees  to  file  a  comparative  analysis  of  the  corporate  governance 
provisions  that  are  applicable  in  its  home  country  and  in  the  other 
jurisdictions in which its equity shares are listed along with the compliance 
of  the  same  vis-à-vis  the  corporate  governance  provisions  applicable  to 
Indian listed companies. The said report shall be filed at the time of filing 
the annual reports with stock exchange. 
 
28. Filing of information: 

(1)  The  issuing  company  agrees  that  it  shall  file  the  following 
information,  statements  and  reports  on  the  website  specified  by 
SEBI in this regard, on-line, in such manner and format and within 
such time and as to the extent that it required to disclose as per the 
listing  requirements  of  its  home  country  or  in  other  jurisdictions 
where such securities are listed : 

1.  full version of annual report including the balance sheet, profit and 
loss account, director’s report and auditor’s report; and such other 
report which is required to be sent to security holders annually as 
per  the  requirements  of  the  home  country;  half  yearly  financial 
statements and quarterly financial statements, if applicable; 

2.  corporate governance report as mentioned in clause 27; 
3.  IDR holding pattern statement; 

Page 19 of 29 

4.    statement  of  action  taken  against  the  issuing  company  by  any 

regulatory agency; 

5.   deposit agreement; 
6.   such other statement, information or report as may be specified by 

SEBI from time to time in this regard; 

Provided that the requirement of this clause shall be in addition to and 
not in derogation from the requirements of other clauses of this listing 
agreement,  which  may  require  filing  of  any  statements,  reports  and 
information in the physical or other form with the exchange. 

(2) The issuing company agrees that it shall authorize the Compliance 
Officer  to  be  responsible  for  filing  the  above  information.  The 
Compliance  Officer  and  the  issuing  company  shall  ensure  the 
correctness  and  authenticity  of  the  information  filed  in  the  system 
and  that  it  is  in  conformity  with  applicable  laws  and  terms  of  the 
listing agreement. 

 

 

 

(3) The issuing company undertakes that while filing the information it 

shall make the following disclaimer clause:  

‘The information furnished above is certified by [issuing company’s name] 
to be true, fair and accurate (except in respect of errors in or omissions 
from  documents  filed  electronically  that  result  solely  from  electronic 
transmission  errors  beyond  our  control  and  in  respect  of  which  we  take 
corrective  action  as  soon  as  it  is  reasonably  practicable  after  becoming 
aware of the error or the omission). SEBI or the stock exchange does not 
take any responsibility for the accuracy, validity, consistency and integrity 
of the data entered and updated by it.’ 
 

Page 20 of 29 

 

 

 

The name of the Compliance Officer with his designation and the issuing 
company’s  name  shall  be  displayed  immediately  below  the  disclaimer 
clause. 
 
29. The issuing company agrees that the underlying shares of IDRs should 
rank pari-passu with the existing shares of the same class and the fact 
of having different classes of shares based on different criteria, if any, 
should be disclosed by the issuing company in every offer document 
issued in India and in the annual report. 

30. The  issuing  company  agrees  to  forward,  on  a  continuous  basis,  any 
information  requested  by  the  stock  exchange,  in  the  interest  of 
investing public from time to time. 

31. The issuing company agrees that it shall comply, at all times, with the 

rules/regulations/laws of the country of origin. 

32. The  issuing  company  agrees  to  inform  the  stock  exchange,  of  any 
action /investigations initiated by any regulatory/statutory authority and 
the purpose for which it was initiated. 

33. The issuing company agrees that the competent Courts, Tribunals and 
regulatory authorities in India shall have jurisdiction in the event of any 
dispute, either with the stock exchange or any investor, concerning the 
IDRs offered and subscribed or bought in India. 

34. Issuing  company  declares  and  undertakes  that  it  shall  ensure 
protection  of  interests  of  IDR  holders  particularly  with  respect  to  all 
corporate  benefits  permissible  under  Indian  laws  and  the  laws  of  its 
home country and disclosures made by it in the Prospectus and agrees 
to address all investor grievances adequately. 

Page 21 of 29 

 

 

35. All  correspondence  including  the  periodic  reports  filed  with  the  stock 
exchanges and those sent to the IDR Holders shall be in English. All 
financial statements required to be disclosed on a continuous basis are 
to be given in English. 

36. Annual Report 

Issuing company agrees: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

to send to its IDR Holders, the annual report at the same time when 
it is made available to its shareholders as per the requirement of its 
home  country  and  the  other  jurisdictions  where  its  securities  are 
listed. An option to IDR Holders to receive electronically, a copy of 
the Annual Report shall be given. Issuing company further agrees 
to ensure that the IDR Holders are able to receive a copy of Annual 
Report  on  request  from  the  domestic  depository  or  Compliance 
Officer.  The  Annual  Report  shall  contain  the  Board’s  report, 
Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss Account, the Auditor’s Report and 
such  other  report  which  is  required  to  be  sent  to  security  holders 
annually as per the requirements of its home country thereon. The 
issuing company further agrees to simultaneously file the same with 
the stock exchange; 

to  comply  with  Indian  GAAP  or  International  Financial  Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) or US GAAP in the preparation and disclosure of 
its financial results. Further if the issuing company is shifting from 
IFRS to US GAAP or vice versa then the accounts relating to the 
previous period have to be properly restated for comparison; 

that the format of disclosure of financial results shall be as per the 
disclosure  requirements  of  the  issuing  company  in  the  home 
country where the Issuing company is listed. The issuing company 

Page 22 of 29 

shall  provide  convenience  translations  in  English  and  other  notes 
such  that  the  IDR  Holders  are  able  to  understand  such  financial 
statements.  The  issuing  company  shall  have  intimated  to  the 
investors in the offer document of the type of disclosures that it will 
follow. Any change in such format shall be duly informed to the IDR 
Holders by way of notices to the stock exchange. If Indian GAAP is 
followed in preparation of the financial results then the format of the 
disclosure of financial results shall be as prescribed by SEBI; 

that in case the issuing company opts to prepare and disclose its 
financial results as per IFRS or US GAAP, the annual results shall 
be  audited  by  a  professional  accountant  or  certified  public 
accountant  in  accordance  with  the  International  Standards  on 
Auditing  (ISA).  The  auditor’s  report  shall  also  be  prepared  in 
accordance  with  the  ISA.  In  case  the  issuing  company  opts  to 
prepare and disclose its financial results as per Indian GAAP, the 
annual  results  shall  be  audited  by  a  Chartered  Accountant  in 
accordance with the Auditing and Assurance Standards issued by 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI); 

that in case the issuing company opts to prepare and disclose the 
financial results as per US GAAP , a reconciliation statement vis-a-
vis  Indian  GAAP  and  summary  of  significant  differences  between 
the Indian GAAP and US GAAP has to be annexed with the report. 
If  financial  results  are  prepared  in  accordance  with  IFRS,  then 
issuing  company  shall  annex  only  the  summary  of  significant 
differences between the Indian GAAP and IFRS; 

that  the  audited  annual  results  sent  to  the  stock  exchange  and 
published  in  newspapers  shall  be  based  on  the  same  set  of 
accounting policies as those followed in the previous year provided 
that  in  case,  there  are  changes  in  the  accounting  policies,  the 
results  of  previous  year  shall  be  restated  as  per  the  present 

Page 23 of 29 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

accounting policies, to make it comparable with current year results; 

to disclose the audit qualifications along with the audited financial 
results  published  under  the  listing  agreement  in  addition  to  the 
explanatory  statement  as  to  how  audit  qualifications  in  respect  of 
the  audited  accounts  of  the  previous  accounting  year  have  been 
addressed in the financial results; 

      to make disclosures of its financial information in its functional 
currency/reporting  currency/national  currency  and  the  reporting 
currency shall be restricted to Sterling Pound/Euro/Yen/US Dollar. 
The  issuing  company  shall  provide  convenience  translation  into 
Indian Rupees of the latest year’s statements of consolidated profit 
and losses, assets and liabilities and cash flows, at the closing rate 
of  exchange,  as  at  the  date  on  which  the  financial  information  is 
presented. 

37.  Periodical financial Results 

      (1)    The issuing company agrees to file periodical audited financial 
results or un-audited financial results subject to limited review by 
the Auditors, prepared in accordance with Indian GAAP or IFRS or 
US  GAAP  with  the  stock  exchange  in  such  manner  and  within 
such time and as to the extent that it is required to file as per the 
listing  requirements  of  home  country.  The  issuing  company 
agrees that in case the issuing company prepares and discloses 
the financial results as per US GAAP, a reconciliation statement 
vis-a’-vis  Indian  GAAP  and  summary  of  significant  differences 
between  the  Indian  GAAP  and  US  GAAP  has  to  be  annexed.  If 
financial  results  are  prepared  in  accordance  with  IFRS,  then 
issuing company agrees to annex only the summary of significant 
differences  between  the  Indian  GAAP  and  IFRS.  The  issuing 
company  further  agrees  that  the  half  yearly  and/or  quarterly 

Page 24 of 29 

reports, as required under the home country regulations, shall be 
audited or subject to limited review by a Chartered Accountant in 
accordance  with  Auditing  and  Assurance  Standards  issued  by 
Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  (ICAI),  if  prepared  in 
accordance with Indian GAAP and in other cases by professional 
accountant  or  certified  public  accountant  in  accordance  with  the 
International  Standards  on  Auditing  (ISA).  The  Accounting  / 
Reporting  Standard  followed  for  any  interim  results  should  be 
consistent with that of the Annual results. 

 
 (2)        The issuing company agrees that, if Indian GAAP is followed in 
preparation of the financial results the format of the disclosure of 
financial  results  shall  be  as  prescribed  by  SEBI.  In  other  cases, 
the  format  of  such  disclosure  shall  be  as  per  the  disclosure 
requirements of the issuing company in the home country where 
the issuing company is listed. The issuing company shall provide 
convenient  translations  in  English  and  other  notes  such  that  the 
IDR Holders are able to understand such financial statements. 

 
(3)        The issuing company agrees to make disclosures of its financial 
information  in  its  functional  currency/reporting  currency/national 
currency and the reporting currency shall be restricted to Sterling 
Pound/Euro/Yen/US Dollar and the Issuing company shall provide 
convenient  translation  into  Indian  Rupees  of  the  latest  periods 
statements of consolidated profit and losses, assets and liabilities 
and cash flows, at the closing rate of exchange, as at the date on 
which the financial information is presented. 

 
(4)              The  issuing  company  further  agrees  to  publish  the  periodical 
results  simultaneously  in  at  least  one  English  national  daily  and 
one Hindi national daily newspaper in India. 

Page 25 of 29 

 

38. Takeover, buy back and delisting:  

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

In  case  of  take-over/delisting/buy-back  of  its  equity  shares,  the 
issuing  company  shall,  while  following  the  laws  applicable  in  its 
home  country,  give  equitable  treatment  to  IDR  holders  vis-à-vis 
holders of its equity shares; 

The issuing company agrees that in case underlying equity shares 
are delisted, it shall delist and cancel the IDRs; 

The issuing company agrees that if it decides to delist IDRs, it shall 
give fair and reasonable treatment to IDR holders and comply with 
such  norms  and  conditions  as  the  stock  exchange  or  SEBI  may 
specify in this regard. 

39. Equivalent Information 

              The issuing company agrees to disclose to the exchange, any information 
which is disclosed to any other overseas stock exchange or made public in 
any other overseas securities market, on which its securities may be listed 
or quoted, simultaneously with such disclosure or publication, or as soon 
thereafter as may be reasonably practicable. 

 

40. Arbitration proceedings  

The issuing company agrees that any claim, difference or dispute arising 
out  of  this  agreement  may  be  referred  to  and  decided  by  arbitration  as 
provided  in  the  Bye-Laws  and  Regulations  of  the  stock  exchange.  The 
issuing company further agrees to comply with any arbitration award. 
 
41. The issuing company agrees to promptly notify the stock exchange of 
any  attachment  or  prohibitory  orders  restraining  the  Company  from 
transferring securities out of the names of the registered holders and 

Page 26 of 29 

furnish  to  the  stock  exchange  particulars  of  the  registered  holders 
thereof.  

 

42. Payment of annual custodian fees to Depositories  

              The  issuing  company  agrees  to  pay  the  depositories  the  Annual 
Custodian  Fees  at  such  rates  as  agreed  between  the  issuing  company, 
domestic depository and the custodian.   
 
 AND  THE  ISSUING  COMPANY  HEREBY  FURTHER  AGREES  AND 
DECLARES    THAT  any  of  its  IDRs  listed  on  the  stock  exchange  shall 
remain  on  the  list  entirely  at  the  discretion  of  the  stock  exchange  AND 
THAT nothing herein contained shall restrict or be deemed to restrict the 
right  of  the  stock  exchange  to  suspend  or  remove  from  the  list  the  said 
IDRs at any time and for any reason which the stock exchange considers 
proper  in  its  absolute  discretion,  subject  however  to  the  applicable  legal 
requirements in that regard. If the issuing company fails to comply with the 
provisions  of  the  listing  agreement  or  relevant  Acts  or  provisions 
prescribed  by  the  Statutory  and  Regulatory  Bodies,  the  stock  exchange 
has  the  right,  without  prejudice  to  the  power  of  the  SEBI  to  take 
appropriate  action  as  it  deems  fit  including  levy  of  fines/penalties, 
suspension of security for dealings and delisting. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the issuing company has caused these presents 
to be executed and its Common Seal to be hereunto affixed as of the day 
and year first above written 
 
The  common  seal  of  [●]  was  hereunto  affixed  pursuant  to  a  resolution 
passed at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the issuing company held 
on [●] day of [●],  [●] in the presence of[●]...................................... 
 

  

Page 27 of 29 

Signature 
 
Name and Designation as per Articles of Association of the Company                                         
 
Signature 

                 

 

Page 28 of 29 

SCHEDULE I 

Issuing company’s listed IDRs. 

 

Kind 
of 
Security   

Numbers 
Issued 

Nominal 
Value 
Per IDR Rs. 

Paid-up 
Value 
Per IDR Rs. 
 

Total 
Nominal 
Value Rs. 

Total 
Paid-up 
Value   
Rs. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
SCHEDULE II 

LISTING FEES 
To be specified by stock exchange. 

Page 29 of 29 

