DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
MARKET REGULATION DEPARTMENT 

 
MRD/DSA/SE/Cir- 12/09 
October 07,2009 
  

The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers / 
Executive Directors / Officiating Executive Directors 
of all Stock Exchanges. 
  
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: - Prior approval for re-commencing trading on the Stock Exchange. 
 

1.  A stock exchange in India is recognized by the Central Government / SEBI under 
section  4  of  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  for  the  purpose  of 
assisting,  regulating  or  controlling  the  business  of  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in 
securities, after it is satisfied that it would be in the interest of the trade and also 
in the public interest to grant such recognition. Currently, there are 20 recognized 
stock exchanges in India. However, it has been observed that some of the stock 
exchanges have no trading over the past several years. 

 
2.  With the completion of corporatisation and demutualisation of stock exchanges, 
some of the stock exchanges have generated renewed trading interest and are in 
the  process  of  resuming  trading  for  reviving  the  stock  exchange.  While  these 
stock  exchanges  have  no  trading  activity  for  quite  some  time,  the  regulatory 
changes introduced by SEBI in the interim may not have been complied with. 

 
3.  Considering  that  a  stock  exchange  is  required  to  have  adequate  and  effective 
trading  systems,  clearing  and  settlement  system,  monitoring  and  surveillance 
mechanisms,  risk  management  systems  etc,  the  resumption  of  trading  activity 
without basic infrastructure may not be in the interest of investors / trade.  

 
4.  In light of the above, the stock exchanges that have no trading for a period of six 
months  or  more  shall  resume  trading  only  after  ensuring  that  adequate  and 
effective  trading  systems,  clearing  and  settlement  systems,  monitoring  and 
surveillance mechanisms, risk management systems are in place and have also 
complied with all other regulatory requirements stipulated by SEBI from time to 
time. Further, the stock exchanges shall resume trading only after obtaining prior 
approval from SEBI.  
 

5.  Further,  the  stock  exchanges  shall  also  comply  with  SEBI  circular  no. 
MIRSD/DPS-III/Cir-22/2008 dated July 23, 2008 on Annual Systems Audit within 
sixty days from the date of commencement of trading. 
 
 

Page 1 of 2 

 
 

 
6.  In case the stock exchanges have no trading for a period of less than six months, 
the  stock  exchange  shall  ensure  that  necessary  regulatory  requirements  have 
been  complied  with  before  resuming  trading  and  the  matter  may  be  placed 
before its Board with reasons, if any. The same may be informed to SEBI in the 
Monthly Development Report / Quarterly Development Report. However, this will 
be  in  addition  to  the  requirement  prescribed  in  circular  no.  MRD/DOP/SE/Cir-
14/2006 dated September 28, 2006 
 

7.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
read with 11(2)(a) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to 
protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, 
and to regulate the securities market. 
 
  
Yours faithfully, 
  
 
  
D. RAJESH KUMAR 
 

Page 2 of 2 

