 
Deputy General Manager 
Market Intermediaries Regulation 
And Supervision Department  
 

MIRSD/ DR-1/ Cir- 16 /09 
November 06, 2009 

 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers / 
Executive Directors / Officiating Executive Directors 
of all the Recognised Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 
Sub: Market Access through Authorised Persons  
 
1.  Pursuant to the recommendations made  by the Secondary Market Advisory 
Committee of SEBI and discussions with major stock exchanges and with a 
view to expand the reach of the markets for exchange traded products, it has 
been  decided  to  allow  SEBI  registered  stock  brokers  (including  trading 
members) of stock exchanges to provide access to clients through authorised 
persons.    The  framework  governing  the  market  access  through  authorised 
persons  is  enclosed  at  Annexure-1.This  framework  provides  the  minimum 
requirements  and  the  stock  exchanges  and  stock  brokers  may  prescribe 
additional  requirements,  as  they  may  deem  appropriate,  in  the  interest  of 
investors and market.  

 
2.  The  stock  exchanges  are  advised  to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the 
bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations  to  implement  the  framework  for  market 
access through authorized persons.  

3.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
B. N. Sahoo 
Encl: a.a. 

Regulatory Framework for Market Access through Authorised Persons  

 

Annexure-1 

1.  Who is an “Authorised Person”? 

 

Any  person  -  individual,  partnership  firm,  LLP  or  body  corporate  –  who  is 
appointed  as  such  by  a  stock  broker  (including  trading  member)  and  who 
provides access to trading platform of a stock exchange as an agent of the 
stock broker. 

2.  Appointment of Authorised Person 

A stock broker may appoint one or more authorised person(s) after obtaining 
specific  prior  approval  from  the  stock  exchange  concerned  for  each  such 
person. The approval as well as the appointment shall be for specific segment 
of the exchange. 

3.  Procedure for Appointment 

a)  Stock broker shall select a person in compliance with the criteria laid down 
by  the  Exchange  and  this  framework  for  appointment  as  an  authorized 
person  and  forward  the  application  of  the  person  to  stock  exchange  for 
approval. 

b)  On receipt of the aforesaid application, the stock exchange   
i.  may  accord  approval  on  satisfying  itself  that  the  person  is  eligible  for 
appointment as authorized person, or 
ii.  may refuse approval on satisfying itself that the person is not eligible for 
appointment as authorized person.  

4.  Eligibility Criteria 
4.1    An individual is eligible to be appointed as authorised person if he:  

a)  is a citizen of India; 
b)  is not less than 18 years of age;  
c)  has not been convicted of any offence involving fraud or dishonesty;  
d)  has good reputation and character; 
e)  has  passed  at  least  10th  standard  or  equivalent  examination  from  an  

institution recognized by the Government; and 

f)  has the certification, as applicable to approved user / sales personnel of 
the  respective  segment,  and  undertakes  to  continue  to  have  valid 
certification thereafter. 

(Stock  Exchange  shall  prescribe  appropriate  certification  if  no  such 
certification 
is  prescribed  under  SEBI  Regulations  and  monitor 
compliance.) 

4.2   A  partnership  firm,  LLP  or  a  body  corporate  is  eligible  to  be  appointed  as 

authorized person  
a)  if  all  the  partners  or  directors,  as  the  case  may  be,  comply  with  the 

requirements contained in clause 4.1 above.  

b)  the  object  clause  of  the  partnership  deed  or  of  the  Memorandum  of 
Association  contains  a  clause  permitting  the  person  to  deal  in  securities 
business. 

4.3 The  person  shall  have  the  necessary  infrastructure  like  adequate  office 
space,  equipment  and  manpower  to  effectively  discharge  the  activities  on 
behalf of the stock broker. 

5.  Conditions of Appointment 

The following are the conditions of appointment of an authorised person: 

a)  The  stock  broker  shall  be  responsible  for  all  acts  of  omission  and 

commission of the authorized person.  

b)  All acts of omission and commission of the authorized person shall be 

deemed to be those of the stock broker.  

c)  The authorized person shall not receive or pay any money or securities 
in its own name or account. All receipts and payments of securities and 
funds shall be in the name or account of stock broker. 

d)  The  authorised  person  shall  receive  his  remuneration  -  fees,  charges, 
commission, salary, etc. - for his services only from the stock broker and 
he shall not charge any amount from the clients. 

e)  A person shall not be appointed as authorized person by more than one 

stock broker on the same stock exchange. 

f)  A partner or director of an authorised person shall not be appointed as 

an authorised person on the same stock exchange. 

g)  The  stock  broker  and  authorised  person  shall  enter  into  written 
agreement(s) in the form(s) specified by Exchange. The agreement shall 
inter-alia cover scope of the activities, responsibilities, confidentiality of 
information, commission sharing, termination clause, etc.  

6.  Withdrawal of  Approval 
Approval  given  to  an  authorised  person  may  be  withdrawn  by  the  stock 
exchange: 

a)  on receipt of a request to that effect from the stock broker concerned or 
the  authorised  person,  subject  to  compliance  with  the  requirements 
prescribed by the stock exchange, or 

b)  on  being  satisfied  that  the  continuation  of  authorised  person  is 
detrimental  to  the  interest  of  investors  or  securities  market  or  the 
authorised person at a subsequent date becomes ineligible under clause 
4 above. 

7.  Obligations of Stock Broker 

a)  The  stock  broker  shall  be  responsible  for  all  acts  of  omission  and 
their  employees, 

commission  of  his  authorised  person(s)  and/or 
including liabilities arising there from. 

b)  If any trading terminal is provided by the stock broker to an authorised 
person, the place where such trading terminal is located shall be treated 
as branch office of the stock broker.  

c)  Stock  broker  shall  display  at  each  branch  office  additional  information 
such as particulars of authorised person in charge of that branch, time 
lines for dealing through authorised person, etc., as may be specified by 
the stock exchange. 

d)  Stock broker shall notify changes, if any, in the authorised person to all 

registered clients of that branch at least thirty days before the change. 

e)  Stock broker shall conduct periodic inspection of branches assigned to 

authorised persons and records of the operations carried out by them. 

f) The  client  shall  be  registered  with  stock  broker  only.  The  funds  and 
securities of the clients shall be settled directly between stock broker and 
client  and  all  documents  like  contract  note,  statement  of  funds  and 
securities would be issued to client by stock broker. Authorised person 
may provide administrative assistance in procurement of documents and 
settlement, but shall not issue any document to client in its own name. 
No fund/securities of clients shall go to account of authorized person. 

g)  On noticing irregularities, if any, in the operations of authorised person, 
stock broker shall seek withdrawal of approval, withhold all moneys due 
to authorised person till resolution of investor problems, alert investors in 
the location where authorised person operates, file a complaint with the 
police, and take all measures  required to protect the interest of investors 
and market. 

8.  Obligations of Exchange 

a)  The  stock  exchange  shall  maintain  a  database  of  all  the  authorised 

persons which shall include the following:  
I.  PAN Number of authorised person and in case of partnership or body 
corporate,  PAN  Number  of  all  the  partners  or  directors  as  the  case 
may be. 

II.  Details of the broker with whom the authorised person is registered. 
III.  Locations of branch assigned to authorised person(s). 
IV.  Number of terminals and their details, given to each authorised person. 

V.  Withdrawal of approval of authorised person. 
VI.  Change in status or constitution of authorised person. 
VII.  Disciplinary  action  taken  by  the  Exchange  against  the  authorised 

person.  

All the above details, except I above, shall be made available on web site of 
the stock exchange. 
b)  While conducting the inspection of the stock broker, the stock exchange 
shall  also  conduct  inspection  of  branches  where  the  terminals  of 
authorised persons are located and records of the operations carried out 
by them. 

c)  Dispute between a client and an authorised person shall be treated as 
dispute between the client and the stock broker and the same shall be 
redressed by the stock exchange accordingly. 

d)  In  case  of  withdrawal  of  approval  of  authorised  person  due  to 
disciplinary action, the stock exchange shall issue a press release and 
disseminate the names of such authorised persons on its website citing 
the reason for cancellation. 

 

 

X-X-X-X-X  

