 
Sanjay Purao 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing 
Phone: +91 2644 9612 Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in 
  

SEBI/CFD/DIL/LA/2/2009/21/7 
July 21, 2009 
The  Managing  Director/  Executive  Director/  Administrator  of  all 
the Stock Exchanges 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
Sub.: Amendments to the Equity Listing Agreement 
1. 

It  has  been  decided  to  amend  the  Equity  Listing  Agreement  to 
prohibit listed companies from issuing shares with superior rights 
as to voting or dividend vis-à-vis the rights on equity shares that 
are already listed. Accordingly, this circular is issued, in exercise 
of  powers  conferred  by  sub-section  (1)  of  Section  11  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the 
interest  of 
the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

in  securities  and 

to  promote 

investors 

 
2. 

The full text of the amendment is given at Annexure A.  

3.  All Stock exchanges are advised to : 

(a)  give effect to the above mentioned policy amendments and 
appropriately  amend  the  relevant  Clauses  of  the  Equity 
Listing  Agreement  in  line  with  the  text  of  the  amendment 
specified in Annexure A. 

(b)  communicate  to  SEBI  the  status  of  implementation  of  the 
the  next  Monthly 

this  circular 

in 

requirements  of 
Development Report. 

 

4.  Applicability 

The  amendment  as  specified  in  Annexure  A  shall  come  into 
force with immediate effect. 

5. 

This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in 
under  the  categories  “Legal  Framework”  and  “Issues  and 
Listing”. 

 

 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Sanjay Purao 
Encl.:   Annexure A 

 
 
Annexure A 

 
1.  After clause 28, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

28A.   The  company  agrees  that  it  shall  not  issue  shares  in  any 
manner which may confer on any person, superior rights as to voting 
or dividend vis-à-vis the rights on equity shares that are already listed.  

 

