GENERAL MANAGER 
DERIVATIVES AND NEW PRODUCTS DEPARTMENT 

 
SEBI/DNPD/Cir- 46 /2009 
August 28, 2009 

To, 
Recognized Stock Exchanges  
and their Clearing Corporations / Clearing Houses, Clearing Members and 
Trading Members  
 
Dear Sir/s,  
 
SUB: EXCHANGE TRADED INTEREST RATE FUTURES 
 
It  has  been  decided  to  introduce  Exchange  traded  10-Year  Notional 
coupon bearing GoI security futures as per the following details in terms of 
product design, risk management measures and other related issues:  
 
A. 

For  trading  in  Exchange  Traded  Interest  Rate  Futures,  Recognized 
Stock Exchanges and their Clearing Corporations / Clearing Houses, 
Clearing  Members  and  Trading  Members  have  to  comply  with  the 
following: 

 

in 

1.  Exchange:  The  Currency  Derivative  Segment  of  a  recognized 
Stock Exchange may apply to SEBI for grant of approval for starting 
trading 
Interest  Rate  Futures.  The  application  shall  be 
accompanied  by  the  details  pertaining  to  the  derivative  product 
proposed  to  be  introduced  and  the  proposed  amendments  to  the 
Bye-laws of the Exchange/ Clearing Corporation / Clearing House.   
 
Further, a Recognized Stock Exchange shall ensure that;  

Page 1 of 23 

 

 

a.  Product design, margins and position limits as laid down in 

Annexure I are complied with.  

 
b.  Risk  management  measures  as  mentioned  in  Annexure  II 

are complied with. 

2.  Clearing Corporation / Clearing House: The Clearing Corporation 
/ Clearing House of Interest Rate Futures shall be the same as for 
currency derivatives segment.   

 

3.  Clearing Member and Trading Member: The members registered 
by SEBI for trading in Currency/Equity Derivative Segment shall be 
eligible to trade in Interest Rate Derivatives also, subject to fulfilling 
the requirements mentioned in Annexure III. 

 
B.  To  operationalise  10-Year  Notional  Coupon-bearing  GoI  security 

Futures, the following is clarified: 

 

1.  Deliverable Grade Securities: Exchanges shall select their own 
basket of securities from the eligible Deliverable Grade Securities, 
viz., GoI securities maturing at least 7.5 years but not more than 
15 years from the first day of the delivery month with a minimum 
total  outstanding  stock  of  Rs  10,000  crore.  Exchanges  shall 
disclose upfront to the market participants the composition of the 
basket  of  deliverable  grade  securities  and 
the  associated 
conversion factors for each of the quarterly contracts. 

 
2.  Revision  of  Basket  of  Deliverable  Grade  Securities:  To  the 
basket  of  deliverable  grade  securities  disclosed  upfront  by  the 
Exchange  for  each  of  the  quarterly  contracts,  additions,  if  any, 

Page 2 of 23 

shall  be  made  not  later  than  10  business  days  before  the  first 
business day of the delivery month. 

 
3.  Daily Settlement Price:  The daily settlement price (DSP) shall 

be determined in the following manner:  

 

 

 

Step 1:  The DSP is the volume weighted average price (VWAP) 
of the trades in the last 30 minute of trading, provided there are at 
least 5 trades for a minimum aggregate notional value of Rs. 10 
crore.    Failing  which,  trades  during  the  last  60  minutes  shall  be 
used for the calculation of VWAP, subject to at least 5 trades for 
Rs.10 crore. Failing which trades during the last 120 minutes shall 
be used for the calculation of VWAP, subject to at least 5 trades 
for Rs.10 crore.  

 

 

Step 2:  If the DSP cannot be calculated as above, a theoretical 
price shall be used. This theoretical price shall be the minimum of 
the  theoretical  futures  prices  of  all  the  securities  in  the  delivery 
basket chosen by the Exchange. The theoretical futures price of 
each  security  is  the  weighted  average  cash  price  of  outright 
trades of that security during the day on the NDS Order Matching 
platform, adjusted for cost of carry, subject to at least 5 trades for 
Rs.10 crore. If there are not enough trades as required above or 
there  is  a  material  market  event  during  the  trading  hours,  the 
theoretical  futures  price  of  each  security  shall  be  the  FIMMDA  / 
PDAI / Bloomberg revaluation price(s) (published on the FIMMDA 
website 
URL 
http://www.fimmda.org/default.asp?access=na),  adjusted  for  cost 
of carry.  The cost of carry shall be computed for the period upto 
the last business day of the delivery month. 
 

basis: 

daily 

on 

a 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 23 

If, however, the near quarter contract is liquid (5 trades for Rs. 10 
crore during the last 30 minutes, 60 minutes or 120 minutes, as 
the case may be), the VWAP of the near quarter contract shall be 
adjusted  for  cost  of  carry  to  arrive  at  the  theoretical  price  for 
subsequent quarter contracts. Further, if near quarter contract is 
illiquid while the next quarter contract is liquid, then the VWAP of 
the  nearest  liquid  quarter  contract  shall  be  used  to  derive  the 
prices  of  the  illiquid  previous  as  well  as  the  subsequent  quarter 
contracts.  
 
The cost of carry for the above purpose shall include the financing 
cost @ 91-day treasury bill rate and the coupon of the particular 
security. 

 

 

4.  Delivery  Schedule  and  Delivery  Process/Mechanism:  Buyer 
and  seller  in  Interest  rate  Futures  on  10-year  Notional  Coupon 
bearing GoI security shall take and give securities respectively in 
the  demat  mode  through  the  depository  system.  The  delivery 
schedule shall be as follows:  
 
T +0 day 
 
Delivery notice: It is the day when the selling Clearing Member 
(CM) sends a notice to the Clearing Corporation (CC) expressing 
his  intention  to  deliver  along  with  details  of  the  security  to  be 
delivered.  CM shall send the notice before 6:00 pm IST on the 
second  business  day  prior  to  the  day  he  wishes  to  deliver.  For 
example, if he wishes to deliver on 4th September 2009 and 2nd 
and 3rd are business days, he shall give notice before 6 PM on 2nd 
September 2009. He can deliver on any business day during the 
delivery  month  of  the  contract.  Along  with  the  notice,  he  shall 

Page 4 of 23 

provide the notional face value (equal to its short position in the 
expiring contract), security ISIN, coupon, maturity date, issuance 
date, coupon convention, and other details as may be sought by 
the CC. Based on these details, the CC shall calculate the invoice 
price.  
 
Allocation:  The  CC  shall  identify  the  eligible  long  positions  for 
allocation  and  assign  the  deliveries  to  long  position  holders  at 
client  level  starting  with  the  highest  vintage  till  the  allocation  is 
over.  Vintage  data  shall  be  computed  and  maintained  at  client 
level for every contract and shall be tracked by the CC on end of 
day  basis.  For  a  given  vintage,  if  the  contracts  to  be  allocated 
(Short) are less than the total long positions, the allocation to such 
long position holders shall be done on a ‘random’ basis. 
 
Based on the client level allocations as above, CC shall compute 
CM  level  deliverable/receivable  obligations  using  multilateral 
netting and intimate the identified long position holders, by 8 pm 
IST on the date of receipt of notice, the details of the securities 
that they would be receiving and the invoice price.   
 
The seller CM shall not be permitted to fulfill an individual futures 
contract by delivering a mixed portfolio of deliverable security (for 
example,  Rs.1,20,000  face  value  of  one  issue  and  Rs.  80,000 
face value of another issue is not permissible). However, a selling 
CM making delivery for more than one futures contract, say two 
contracts, may deliver two deliverable securities for two different 
contracts  (Rs.2,00,000  face  value  of  one  issue  for  one  contract 
and  Rs.2,00,000  face  value  of  another  issue  for  the  other 
contract). 
 

Page 5 of 23 

T + 2 day 
 
On the second business day following the receipt of the delivery 
notice, the CMs shall discharge their obligations and the CC shall 
complete the settlement accordingly.  
 
Initial  Margin:  Methodology,  as  specified  in  the  Annexure  IV, 
shall  be  adopted  for  computation  of  initial  margin.  For  this 
purpose,  the  yield  for  10-Year  benchmark  GoI  security,  as 
published  by  FIMMDA,  shall  be  used.  In  respect  of  FIIs,  margin 
shall  be  collected  either  in  cash  or  foreign  sovereign  securities 
rated AAA. 
 
For  the  purpose  of  intra-day  updation  of  VaR,  the  Exchanges 
shall use the yield of the benchmark 10-Year bond, from the NDS 
Order Matching platform. 

5. 

 

6.  Delivery  Month:  The  delivery  month  shall  be  the  last  month  of 
the expiring contract, i.e., March, June, September and December 

 

7. 

In case there is a failure to honour the settlement obligation by the 
CM, the following action shall be followed: 

 

i  Selling CM fails to deliver the securities  

T +0  day: Selling CM gives intention to deliver the securities 
T+2  day:  Buying  CM  pays-in  funds  and  the  selling  CM  fails  to 
deliver the securities 

 

T+2 or T+3 day: CC shall conduct buy-in auction of the securities. 
In  case  of  successful  auction,  the  defaulting  CM  shall  be  debited 
by: 

Page 6 of 23 

 

 

the actual auction price,  
difference in invoice price and auction price, if the auction price is 
less than the invoice price, and  
a penalty of 2% of the face value of security short delivered.  

 

In  case  of  unsuccessful  auction,  transaction  shall  be  closed  out 
wherein the defaulting CM shall be debited by: 
invoice price, and  
a penalty of 5% of the face value of security short delivered. 
     
In  respect  of  the  seller  in  an  auction  failing  to  honour  the  auction 
obligations, he shall be debited by:  
invoice price, and 
a penalty of 3% of the face value of security short delivered 

These  penalties  shall  be  passed  on  to  the  buying  CM,  who  shall 
pass it on to the buying client.  
 

ii  Buying CM fails to pay-in funds 

T +0 day: Selling CM gives intention to deliver the securities 
T+2 day: Selling CM delivers securities and the buying CM fails to 
pay-in funds.  
The CC shall pay-out funds to the selling CM on T+2 day 

 
Further,  
(cid:131)  In case of a settlement shortage of Rs. 5 lakh or more, the trading 
facility  of  all  trading  members  clearing  through  the  buying  CM 
shall be withdrawn in the Currency Derivatives Segment and the 
securities pay-out to the buying CM shall be withheld. 

(cid:131)  If the buying CM is short for an amount of Rs. 2 lakh or more on 
six or more occasions in the preceding three months, the trading 

Page 7 of 23 

facility of all the trading members clearing through the buying CM 
shall be withdrawn in the Currency Derivatives Segment and the 
securities pay-out to the buying CM shall be withheld. 

(cid:131)  A penalty of 0.07% per day shall be levied on the amount of the 

shortage. 
 
The trading facility shall be restored and securities withheld shall 
be released on the buying CM making good the shortage amount 
in all the above cases.  

Regulatory  Penalty:  In  case  a  selling  CM  defaults  in  delivering 
securities  5  times  during  a  period  of  preceding  6  months,  the 
trading facility of all the trading members clearing through the CM 
shall be withdrawn for 7 days.  
 
 
 
 

8.  Margins and action on deliverable positions 
 

i  Margins on physical delivery positions: For positions marked 
for delivery, a margin equal to VaR of the futures on the invoice 
price  plus  5%  of  face  value  along  with  mark  to  market 
adjustments  shall  be  charged  both  to  the  buying  client  and 
selling client. The margins shall be levied from the intention day 
and shall be released on the completion of the settlement.  

 
ii  Margins  from  last  trading  day  to  last  intention  day:  For 
positions  from  last  trading  date  till  date  of  intention  in  cases 
where no intention is provided, a margin amount equal to VaR 
of the futures on the invoice price of the costliest security from 
the deliverable basket plus 5% of face value along with mark to 

Page 8 of 23 

market  adjustments  based  on  the  underlying  closing  prices  of 
the  costliest  security  from  the  deliverable  basket  shall  be 
charged  on  both  buying  client  and  selling  client.  The  margins 
shall be levied from the last trading day till the day of receipt of 
intention to deliver. 

 

iii  Action  in  case  no  intent  to  deliver  is  provided:  In  case  no 
intent is provided by the selling CM till two business days prior 
to  the  last  delivery  date,  it  shall  be  presumed  that  selling  CM 
has failed to deliver the security and the auction mechanism, as 
specified for security shortages, shall be activated. The auction 
shall take place one business day prior to the last delivery date.  

This  Circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under 
Section  11  (1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992, 
read with Section 10 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to 
protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in., under the 
category “Derivatives- Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully,  

 

SUJIT PRASAD 

Page 9 of 23 

ANNEXURE I 

Product Design, Margins and Position Limits for 10-Year Notional 
Coupon-bearing Government of India (GoI) Security Futures 
 
1     Underlying 

10-Year Notional Coupon-bearing GoI security 

 
2         Coupon  

3 

 
4 

 
5 

6 

7 

The notional coupon would be 7% with semi-annual compounding. 
 
Trading Hours 
The Trading Hours would be from 9 a.m. to 5.00 p.m on all working 
days from   Monday to Friday. 

Size of the Contract 
The Contract Size would be Rs. 2 lakh. 

Quotation 
The  Quotation  would  be  similar  to  the  quoted  price  of  the  GoI 
security. The day count convention for interest payments would be 
on the basis of a 360-day year, consisting of 12 months of 30 days 
each and half yearly coupon payment.  
 
Tenor of the Contract 
The maximum maturity of the contract would be 12 months. 
 
Available Contracts 
The Contract Cycle would consist of four fixed quarterly contracts 
for entire year, expiring in March, June, September and December. 

 

Page 10 of 23 

8 

9 

Daily Settlement Price 
The  Daily  Settlement  Price  would  be  the  closing  price  of  the  10-
year Notional Coupon-bearing GoI security futures contract on the 
trading day. (Closing price = Weighted Average price of the futures 
for last half an hour). In the absence of last half an hour trading the 
theoretical  price,  to  be  determined  by  the  exchanges,  would  be 
considered  as  Daily  Settlement  Price.  The  exchanges  will  be 
required to disclose the model/methodology used for arriving at the 
theoretical price. 
 
Settlement Mechanism 
The  contract  would  be  settled  by  physical  delivery  of  deliverable 
grade  securities  using  the  electronic  book  entry  system  of  the 
existing  Depositories  (NSDL  and  CDSL)  and  Public  Debt  Office 
(PDO) of the RBI. The delivery of the deliverable grade securities 
shall take place from the first business day of the delivery month till 
the last business day of the delivery month. The owner of a short 
position in an expiring futures contract shall hold the right to decide 
when  to  initiate  delivery.  However,  the  short  position  holder  shall 
have to give intimation, to the Clearing Corporation, of his intention 
to deliver two business days prior to the actual delivery date.   

 
10     Deliverable Grade Securities  

GoI  securities  maturing  at  least  7.5  years  but  not  more  than  15 
years from the first day of the delivery month with a minimum total 
outstanding stock of Rs 10,000 crore.  
 
Conversion Factor  
The  Conversion  Factor  for  deliverable  grade  security  would  be 
equal  to  the  price  of  the  deliverable  security  (per  rupee  of  the 

11 

Page 11 of 23 

principal), on the first day (calendar day) of the delivery month, to 
yield 7% with semiannual compounding.  
 
For  deliveries  into  10-Year  Notional  Coupon-bearing  GoI  security 
futures, the deliverable security’s  remaining term to maturity shall 
be  calculated  in  complete  three-month  quarters,  always  rounded 
down  to  the  nearest  quarter.  If,  after  rounding,  the  deliverable 
security  lasts  for  an  exact  number  of  6-month  periods,  the  first 
coupon  shall  be  assumed  to  be  paid  after  6  months.  If,  after 
rounding, the deliverable security does not last for an exact number 
of  6-month  periods  (i.e.  there  are  an  extra  3  months),  the  first 
coupon would be assumed to be paid after 3 months and accrued 
interest would be subtracted.  

Invoice Price 
Invoice Price of the respective deliverable grade security would be 
the futures settlement price times a conversion factor plus accrued 
interest.  
 
Last Trading Day 
Seventh  business  day  preceding  the  last  business  day  of  the 
delivery month.   
 
Last Delivery Day 
Last business day of the delivery month. 
 
Initial Margin 
Initial Margin requirement shall be based on a worst case loss of a 
portfolio  of  an  individual  client  across  various  scenarios  of  price 
changes.  The  various  scenarios  of  price  changes  would  be  so 
computed  so  as  to  cover  a  more  than  99%  VaR  over  a  one  day 

Page 12 of 23 

 
12 

13 

14 

15 

horizon. In order to achieve this, the price scan range may initially 
be fixed at 3.5 standard deviation1.  The initial margin so computed 
would be subject to a minimum of 2.33% of the value of the futures 
contract  on  the  first  day  of  trading  in  10-year  Notional  Coupon-
bearing GoI security futures and 1.6% of the  value of the futures 
contract  thereafter.  The  initial  margin  shall  be  deducted  from  the 
liquid  net  worth  of  the  clearing  member  on  an  online,  real  time 
basis.  
 

16   Extreme Loss Margin 

Extreme  loss  margin  of  0.3%  of  the  value  of  the  gross  open 
positions  of  the  futures  contract  shall  be  deducted  from  the  liquid 
assets of the clearing member on an on line, real time basis. 

 
17 

Calendar Spread Margin 
Interest rate futures position at one maturity hedged by an offsetting 
position  at  a  different  maturity  would  be  treated  as  a  calendar 
spread.    The  calendar  spread  margin  shall  be  at  a  value  of 
Rs.2000/- per month of spread. The benefit for a calendar spread 
would continue till expiry of the near month contract.  
 

18  Model for Determining Standard Deviation 

The Committee examined the results of empirical tests carried out 
using different risk management models in the Value at Risk (VaR) 
framework  in  the  10-year  GoI  security  yields.  Data  for  the  period 
January  3,  2000  to  September  16,  2008  was  analyzed.  GARCH 
(1,1)-normal and GARCH (1,1)-GED (Generalized Auto-Regressive 
Conditional  Heteroskedasticity) at 3 and 3.5 sigma levels were not 
found  to  perform  well  at  1%  risk  level,  as  the  actual  number  of 

                                                 
1 One tailed standard normal variate corresponding to 99 % confidence interval is 2.33.  However, 
simulation on the historical data showed that 99 % of data could be covered only with 3.5 times 
standard.deviation.   

Page 13 of 23 

violations  were  found  to  be  statistically  much  higher  than  the 
expected number of violations. The EWMA (Exponentially weighted 
moving  average)  model  used  by  J.P.Morgan’s  Risk  Metrics 
methodology was found to work well at 3 and 3.5 sigma levels at 
5% risk level and not at 1% risk level.  
 
Given  the  computational  ease  of  the EWMA model and given the 
familiarity of the Exchanges with this particular model (it is currently 
being used in the equity derivatives market), the Committee, after 
considering  the  various  aspects  of  the  different  models,  decided 
that EWMA method would be used to obtain the volatility estimate 
every  day  fixing  the  price  scan  range  at  3.5  standard  deviation. 
During  the  first  time-period  on  the  first  day  of  trading  in  10-year 
Notional Coupon-bearing GoI security futures, the sigma would be 
equal to 0.8 %.  
 
Formula for Determining Standard Deviation 
The EWMA method would be used to obtain the volatility estimate 
every day. The estimate at the end of time period t (σyt) is arrived at 
using the volatility estimate at the end of the previous time period 
i.e.  as  at  the  end  of    t-1  time  period  (σyt-1),  and  the  return  (ryt) 
observed in the futures market during the time period t. The formula 
would be as under:  
 
(σyt)2 = λ (σyt-1)2 + (1 - λ ) (ryt)2 

 
Where 
 
λ(lambda)  is  a  parameter  which  determines  how  rapidly 
volatility estimates changes. The value of λ is fixed at 0.94.  

19 

Page 14 of 23 

i.  σyt  (sigma)  is  the  standard  deviation  of  daily  logarithmic 
returns  of  yield  of  10-year  Notional  Coupon-bearing  GoI 
security futures at time t. 
 The "return" is defined as the logarithmic return: rt = ln(Yt/Yt-1) 
where Yt is the  yield  of 10-year Notional Coupon-bearing GoI 
security futures at time t.  

ii. 

iii.        The  volatility  estimation  and  margin  fixation  methodology 
should  be  clearly  made  known  to  all  market  participants  so 
that they can compute the margin for any given closing level of 
the  interest  rate  futures  price.  Further,  the  trading  software 
itself  should  provide  this  information  on  a  real  time  basis  on 
the trading workstation screen. 

 
Position Limits 
i.  Client level:  The gross open positions of the client across all 
contracts should not exceed 6% of the total open interest or Rs 
300 crores whichever is higher.  The Exchange will disseminate 
alerts  whenever  the  gross  open  position  of  the  client  exceeds 
3%  of  the  total  open  interest  at  the  end  of  the  previous  day’s 
trade. 

ii.  Trading Member level: The gross open positions of the trading 
member across all contracts should not exceed 15% of the total 
open interest or Rs. 1000 crores whichever is higher. 

20 

iii.  Clearing  Member 

level: 

  No  separate  position 

is 
prescribed  at  the  level  of  clearing  member.    However,  the 
clearing member shall ensure that his own trading position and 
the  positions  of  each  trading  member  clearing  through  him  is 
within the limits specified above.   

limit 

iv.  FIIs:  In  case  of  Foreign  Institutional  Investors  registered  with 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  the  total  gross  long 

Page 15 of 23 

(bought)  position  in  cash  and  Interest  Rate  Futures  markets 
taken  together  should  not  exceed  their  individual  permissible 
limit for investment in government securities and the total gross 
short (sold) position, for the purpose of hedging only, should not 
exceed  their  long  position  in  the  government  securities and  in 
Interest Rate Futures, at any point in time. 

 
 
 
 
 

Page 16 of 23 

ANNEXURE II 
 
Risk Management Measures 

1         Portfolio Based Margining  

 

The Standard Portfolio Analysis of Risk (SPAN) methodology shall 
be  adopted  to  take  an  integrated  view  of  the  risk  involved  in  the 
portfolio of each individual client comprising his positions in futures 
contracts across different maturities. The client-wise margins would 
be grossed across various clients at the Trading / Clearing Member 
level.  The  proprietary  positions  of  the  Trading  /  Clearing  Member 
would be treated as that of a client. 

loss  would  have 

Real-Time Computation 
two 
The  computation  of  worst  scenario 
components.  The  first  is  the  valuation  of  the  portfolio  under  the 
various  scenarios  of  price  changes.  At  the  second  stage,  these 
scenario  contract  values  would  be  applied  to  the  actual  portfolio 
positions to compute the portfolio values and the initial margin. The 
exchanges  shall  update  the  scenario  contract  values  at  least  6 
times  in  the  day,  which  may  be  carried  out  by  taking  the  closing 
price  of  the  previous  day  at  the  start  of  trading  and  the  prices  at 
11:00 a.m., 12:30 p.m., 2:00 p.m., 3.30 p.m. and at the end of the 
trading session. The latest available scenario contract values would 
be applied to member/client portfolios on a real time basis. 

Liquid Networth 
The  initial  margin  and  the  extreme  loss  margin  shall  be  deducted 
from  the  liquid  assets  of  the  clearing  member.  The  clearing 
member’s liquid net worth after adjusting for the initial margin and 
extreme loss margin requirements must be at least Rs. 50 Lakhs at 

 
2 

 

3 

Page 17 of 23 

all points in time. The minimum liquid networth shall be treated as a 
capital cushion for days of unforeseen market volatility.  

 
4         Liquid Assets 

The liquid assets for trading in Interest Rate Futures would have to 
be  provided  separately  and  maintained  with 
the  Clearing 
Corporation. However, the permissible liquid assets, the applicable 
haircuts  and  minimum  cash  equivalent  norms  would  be  mutatis 
mutandis applicable from the equity/currency derivatives segment. 

 
5         Mark-to-Market (MTM) Settlement 

The MTM gains and losses shall be settled in cash before the start 
of trading on T+1 day. If MTM obligations are not collected before 
start of the next day’s trading, the Clearing Corporation shall collect 
correspondingly  higher  initial  margin  to  cover  the  potential  for 
losses over the time elapsed in the collection of margins.  

The daily closing price of interest rate futures contract for mark to 
market settlement would be calculated on the basis of the last half 
an  hour  weighted  average  price  of  the  futures  contract.  In  the 
absence  of  trading  in  the  last  half  an  hour  the  theoretical  price 
would  be 
the 
methodology  for  calculating  the  ‘theoretical  price’  at  the  time  of 
making  an  application  for  approval  of  the  interest  rate  futures 
contract  to  SEBI.  The  methodology  for  calculating  the  ‘theoretical 
price’ would also be disclosed to the market.  

taken.  The  eligible  exchanges  shall  define 

6 

Margin Collection and Enforcement 
The  client  margins  (initial  margin,  extreme  loss  margin,  calendar 
spread  margin  and  mark  to  market  settlements)  have  to  be 
compulsorily  collected  and  reported  to  the  Exchange  by  the 
members.  The  Exchange  shall 
impose  stringent  penalty  on 

Page 18 of 23 

 
7 

members  who  do  not  collect  margins  from  their  clients.  The 
Exchange shall also conduct regular inspections to ensure margin 
collection from clients. 

Safeguarding Client’s Money 
The Clearing Corporation should segregate the margins deposited 
by the Clearing Members for trades on their own account from the 
margins deposited with it on client account. The margins deposited 
on client account shall not be utilized for fulfilling the dues which a 
Clearing Member may owe the Clearing Corporation in respect of 
trades on the member’s own account. The client’s money is to be 
held in trust for client purpose only. The following process is to be 
adopted  for  segregating  the  client’s  money  vis-à-vis  the  clearing 
member’s money: 
 
i 

At the time of opening a position, the member should indicate 
whether it is a client or proprietary position.  

ii  Margins  across  the  various  clients  of  a  member  should  be 

collected on a gross basis and should not be netted off. 

iii  When  a  position  is  closed,  the  member  should  indicate 
whether  it  was  a  client  or  his  own  position  which  is  being 
closed. 
In  the  case  of  default,  the  margins  paid  on  the  proprietary 
position  would  only  be  used  by  the  Clearing  Corporation  for 
realizing its dues from the member. 

iv 

 
 
8         Periodic Risk Evaluation Report 

The  Clearing  Corporation  of  the  Exchange  shall  on  an  ongoing 
basis and atleast once in every six months, conduct back testing of 
the margins collected vis-à-vis the actual price changes. A copy of 

Page 19 of 23 

the  study  shall  be  submitted  to  SEBI  along  with  suggestions  on 
changes to the risk containment measures, if any.    

Page 20 of 23 

ANNEXURE III 

 

The  Interest  Rate  Derivative  contracts  shall  be  traded  on  the  Currency 
Derivative  Segment  of  a  recognized  Stock  Exchange.  The  members 
registered by SEBI for trading in Currency/Equity Derivative Segment shall 
be eligible to trade in Interest Rate Derivatives also, subject to meeting the 
Balance Sheet networth requirement of Rs 1 crore for a trading member 
and Rs 10 crores for a clearing member. Before the start of trading, the 
Exchange shall submit the proposal for approval of the contract to SEBI 
giving: 
 

i 

ii 
iii 
iv 

v 

The details of the proposed interest rate futures contract to be 
traded in the exchange; 
The economic purposes it is intended to serve; 
Its likely contribution to market development; 
The safeguards and the risk protection mechanisms adopted 
by  the  exchange  to  ensure  market  integrity,  protection  of 
investors and smooth and orderly trading; 
The infrastructure of the exchange and surveillance system to 
effectively monitor trading in such contracts. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 21 of 23 

ANNEXURE IV 
 
Methodology  
 

The  plus/minus  3.5  sigma  limits2  for  a  99%  VAR  based  on 
logarithmic returns on yield of 10-year Notional Coupon-bearing 
GoI  security  futures  would  have  to  be  converted  into    price 
volatility through the following  formula : 

σpt=D*σyt* Yt 

 
where 
σpt  is  the  standard  deviation  of  percentage  change  in  price  at 
time t; 
 
D is Modified Duration3; 
 
Y4
futures at time t; and  
 

t is the yield of 10-year Notional Coupon-bearing GoI security 

                                                 
2  The  one-tailed  standard  normal  variate  corresponding  to  99%  confidence  interval  is 
2.33. However, since 3.5 standard deviations cover 99 % of the historical data, σ  has 
been taken as 3.5 in all computations. . 

3 Modified Duration = 

D
*
my
/
+

1

,  where D* (Macaulay's duration) = 

Ci is coupon at time ti, y is the annually compounded yield, m is the frequency of coupon 
payments, B is the price of the bond. Modified duration essentially measures percentage 
change in price due to change in yield by 100 bps. 
4 

to  maturity) 

calculated 

security 

(Yield 

YTM 

its 

of 

n

i∑
ct

i

1
=

1/(

+

my
/

)

i

i

 

B

Yield 
n
∑

=

(

t

1
=

as

B

C
mY

t
/

1(

+

)

+

t

)

1(

+

is 
P
mY
/

    where  Y  is  the  YTM  of  the  security,  B  is  the 

n

)

price of the security, P is the par value of the bond, n is the number of periods for coupon 
payment,  m  is  the  frequency  of  coupon  payments  and  C  is  the  coupon  payment  per 
period. 

Page 22 of 23 

σyt (sigma) is the standard deviation of daily logarithmic returns 
of yield of 10-year Notional Coupon-bearing GoI security futures 
at time t. 

The percentage margin on long position would be equal to 100 
(D*3.5σyt*  Yt)  and  the  percentage  margin  on  short  position 
would be equal to 100 (D*(-3.5σyt)* Yt).  The Modified Duration 
for 10-Year Notional Coupon-bearing GoI security futures shall be 
10.  

 

Page 23 of 23 

