The Managing Directors of all Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir,  

 

Subject: Dealings between a client and a stock broker (trading members included)  

 
1.  This is in continuation of circulars (a) No. SMD/SED/CIR/93/23321 dated November 18, 
1993 specifying the norms for regulation of transactions between clients and brokers, (b) 
No.  SEBI/MIRSD/DPS-1/Cir-31/2004  dated  August  26,  2004  specifying  the  model 
format for the Member Clients Agreements, and (c) No. MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-20/2005 dated 
September 8, 2005 specifying the conditions for issuing electronic contract notes.  

 
2.  With  a  view  to  instill  greater  transparency  and  discipline  in  the  dealings  between  the 
clients  and  the  stock  brokers,  it  has  been  decided,  in  consultation  with  Investor 
Associations,  Secondary  Market  Advisory  Committee  of  SEBI  (SMAC),  market 
participants  and  major  stock  exchanges,  that  the  stock  brokers  shall  comply  with  the 
requirements as annexed to this circular. 

 
3.  The stock brokers shall take necessary steps to implement this circular immediately and 
ensure its full compliance in respect of all clients – existing or new – at the latest by 31st 
March 2010. 

 
4.  The Stock Exchanges are directed to: 

a.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the Stock Brokers and also 

disseminate the same on their websites. 

b.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 
the implementation of the above decision in co-ordination with one another to 
achieve uniformity in approach. 

c.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

circular in their Monthly Development Reports. 

 
5.    This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities markets. 

 
 
 
Deputy General Manager 
Market Intermediary Regulation and Supervision Department 
E-mail: biranchins@sebi.gov.in  

MIRSD/ SE /Cir-19/2009 
December 3, 2009 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
B. N. Sahoo 
 
Encl.: Annexure-A 
 
CC: Investor Associations. 

Requirements relating to dealings between a Client and Stock Broker 

 

Annexure -A 

 
Client Registration Procedure 

1.  The  stock  broker  shall  register  a  client  by  entering  into  an  agreement  with 
him. For this purpose, the stock broker shall make available a folder /book 
containing  all  the  documents  required  for  registration  of  a  client.  The 
folder/book shall have an index page listing all the documents contained in it 
and indicating briefly significance of each document. Once signed, a copy of 
the same shall be made available to the client.  

 
2.  The folder/book shall have two parts: (a) Mandatory and (b) Non-mandatory.  
 

Mandatory Documents 

3.  The mandatory documents are: 

broker is associated,  

b.  Know Your Client (KYC) Form  
c.  Risk Disclosure Document (RDD) 

a.  Member  Client  Agreement  (MCA)/Tripartite  Agreement  in  case  sub-

These shall be executed in the format as prescribed by SEBI.  

 
4.  The  Client  shall  indicate  the  stock  exchange  as  well  as  the  market  segment 
where he intends his trades to be executed. He shall do so in the KYC form in 
his own hand and sign against these.  

 
5.  The  KYC  form  shall  capture  the  identity  and  the  address  of  the  introducer 

instead of his MAPIN/UID. The KYC form shall be modified to this extent.  

 
6.  The  stock  broker  shall  have  documentary  evidence  of  financial  details 
provided by the clients who opt to deal in the derivative segment. In respect 
of  other  clients,  the  stock  broker  shall  obtain  the  documents  in  accordance 
with its risk management system. 

 
7.  The Stock Broker shall also capture details of action taken against a client by 

SEBI or other authorities during the last 3 years. 

 
8.  There shall be a mandatory document dealing with policies and procedures 

for each of the following under appropriate headings: 

a.  refusal of orders for penny stocks, 
b.  setting up client’s exposure limits, 
c.  applicable brokerage rate,  
d.  imposition  of  penalty/delayed  payment  charges  by  either  party, 
specifying the rate and the period (This must not result in funding by 
the broker in contravention of the applicable laws), 

e.  the  right  to  sell  clients’  securities  or  close  clients’  positions,  without 
giving notice to the client, on account of non-payment of client’s dues 
(This shall be limited to the extent of settlement/margin obligation), 

request, and  

i.  deregistering a client. 

 
Non-mandatory Documents 

9.  Any  term  or  condition  other  than  those  stated  in  the  mandatory  part  shall 

form part of non-mandatory documents.  

 
10. The clauses in the non-mandatory part shall not be in contravention of any of 
the  clauses  in  the  mandatory  documents,  as  also  the  Rules,  Regulations, 
Articles, Byelaws, circulars, directives and guidelines of SEBI and Exchanges. 
Any such contravening clause shall be null and void. 

 
11. Any  authorization  sought  in  non-mandatory  part  shall  be  a  separate 

document and shall have specific consent of the client.  

 
Running Account Authorization  

f.  shortages in obligations arising out of internal netting of trades,  
g.  conditions  under  which  a  client  may  not  be  allowed  to  take  further 

position or the broker may close the existing position of a client, 

h.  temporarily  suspending  or  closing  a  client’s  account  at  the  client’s 

12. Unless  otherwise  specifically  agreed  to  by  a  Client,  the  settlement  of 
funds/securities  shall  be  done  within  24  hours  of  the  payout.  However,  a 
client  may  specifically  authorize  the  stock  broker  to  maintain  a  running 
account subject to the following conditions: 

a.  The  authorization  shall  be  renewed  at  least  once  a  year  and  shall  be 

dated. 

b.  The  authorization  shall  be  signed  by  the  client  only  and  not  by  any 
authorised  person  on  his  behalf  or  any  holder  of  the  Power  of 
Attorney.  

c.  The authorization shall contain a clause that the Client may revoke the 

authorization at any time. 

d.  For the clients having outstanding obligations on the settlement date, 
the stock broker may retain the requisite securities/funds towards such 
obligations  and  may  also  retain  the  funds  expected  to  be  required  to 
meet  margin  obligations  for  next  5  trading  days,  calculated  in  the 
manner specified by the exchanges.  

e.  The  actual  settlement  of  funds  and  securities  shall  be  done  by  the 
broker, at least once in a calendar quarter or month, depending on the 
preference  of  the  client.  While  settling  the  account,  the  broker  shall 
send to the client a ‘statement of accounts’ containing an extract from 
the client ledger for funds and an extract from the register of securities 
displaying  all  receipts/deliveries  of  funds/securities.  The  statement 
shall  also  explain  the  retention  of  funds/securities  and  the  details  of 
the pledge, if any.  

f.  The  client  shall  bring 

any  dispute  arising  from  the  statement  of 
account  or  settlement  so  made  to  the  notice  of  the  broker  preferably 
within 7 working days from the date of receipt of funds/securities or 
statement, as the case may be.  

g.  Such periodic settlement of running account may not be necessary:  

i.  for clients availing margin trading facility as per SEBI circular 
ii.  for  funds  received  from  the  clients  towards  collaterals/margin  in 

the form of bank guarantee (BG)/Fixed Deposit receipts (FDR). 

h.  The stock broker shall transfer the funds / securities lying in the credit 
of the client within one working day of the request if the same are lying 
with him and within three working days from the request if the same 
are lying with the Clearing Member/Clearing Corporation.  

i.  There shall be no inter-client adjustments for the purpose of settlement 

of the ‘running account’. 

 

j.  These conditions shall not apply to institutional clients settling trades 

through custodians. The existing practice may continue for them.  

 

Authorization for Electronic Contract Notes 

13. The  stock  broker  may  issue  electronic  contract  notes  (ECN)  if  specifically 

authorized by the client subject to the following conditions: 

a.  The authorization shall be in writing and be signed by the client only 
and not by any authorised person on his behalf or holder of the Power 
of Attorney.  

b.  The email id shall not be created by the broker. The client desirous of 
receiving  ECN  shall  create/provide  his  own  email  id  to  the  stock 
broker.  

c.  The authorization shall have a clause to the effect that that any change 
in the email-id shall be communicated by the client through a physical 
letter to the broker. In respect of internet clients, the request for change 
of email id may be made through the secured access by way of client-
specific user id and password.   

General 

14. All the documents in both the mandatory and the non-mandatory parts shall 

be printed in minimum font size of 11. 

 
15. A copy of all the documents executed by client shall be given to him, free of 
charge, within 7 days from the date of execution of documents by the client. 
The stock broker shall take client’s acknowledgement for receipt of the same.  

 
16. The  stock  brokers  having  own  web-sites  shall  display  all  the  documents 
executed by a client, client’s position, margin and other related information, 
statement of accounts, etc. in the web-site and allow secured access by way of 
client-specific user id and password. 

 
17. No  term  of  the  agreement,  other  than  those  prescribed  by  SEBI,  shall  be 
changed without the consent of the client. Such change needs to be preceded 
by a notice of 15 days. 

 
18. The  stock  broker  shall  frame  the  policy  regarding  treatment  of  inactive 
accounts  which  should,  inter-alia,  cover  aspects  of  time  period,  return  of 
client  assets  and  procedure  for  reactivation  of  the  same.  It  shall  display  the 
same on its web site, if any. 

 
19. As on 31st March of every year, a statement of balance of Funds and Securities 

in hard form and signed by the broker shall be sent to all the clients. 

******* 

 

 

