General Manager 
Derivatives and New Products Department   
 

 

 

 

 

SEBI/DNPD/Cir-45/2009 
March 24, 2009 

 
To 
The Managing Director / Executive Director 
of Currency Derivative Segment of Stock Exchanges 
and their Clearing Houses / Corporations. 
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 

Sub: Revised Position Limits for Exchange Traded Currency 

Derivatives  

 
This is in partial modification of SEBI Circular No. SEBI/DNPD/Cir-38/2008 
dated  August  6,  2008  which,  inter-alia,  specified  the  position  limit 
applicable for Client and Trading Member for Exchange Traded Currency 
Derivatives. 
  
The  position  limits  were  reviewed  by  the  RBI-SEBI  Standing  Technical 
Committee and based on its recommendations, the client level and non-
bank trading member level position limits for Exchange Traded Currency 
Derivatives stand modified as under:  
 
a.  Client level: The gross open position of a client across all contracts 
shall  not  exceed  6%  of  the  total  open  interest  or  10  million  USD, 
whichever  is  higher,  instead  of  6%  of  the  total  open  interest  or  5 
million USD, as prescribed earlier. 

Page 1 of 2 

 
b.  Non-bank  Trading  Member  level:  The  gross  open  position  of  a 
Trading  Member,  who  is  not  a  bank,  across  all  contracts  shall  not 
exceed 15% of the total open interest or 50 million USD whichever is 
higher, instead of 15% of the total open interest or 25 million USD, as 
prescribed earlier. 

 
However,  the  position  limits  for  bank  trading  member  would  remain  as 
specified  in  SEBI  Circular  No.  SEBI/DNPD/Cir-38/2008  dated  August  6, 
2008. 
 
It is clarified that the position limits shall be specific to an Exchange and 
not to the Exchange Traded Currency Derivatives market as a whole. 
 
This  Circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under 
Section  11  (1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992, 
read with Section 10 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to 
protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market. 
 
This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in., under the 
category “Derivatives- Circulars”. 
 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
SUJIT PRASAD 

Page 2 of 2 

