 
SEBI/MRD/SE/Dep/Cir- 01/2008 
January 22, 2008  
 
 

1.  The Executive Directors/Managing Directors/Administrators  

of all Stock Exchanges 

2.  The Chairman and Managing Director, NSDL 
3.  The Managing Director & CEO, CDSL 
 
 
Dear Sir(s), 
 
Sub: Trading and settlement of trades in dematerialized scrips 
 
1.  Please refer to SEBI Circular No.SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-38/2000 dated August 18, 
2000  whereby  the  following  scrips  (listed  subsidiaries  of  State  Bank  of  India) 
were excluded from the list of scrips for compulsory demat trading. 

 

1. State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur (SBBJ) 
2. State Bank of Travancore (SBT) 
3. State Bank of Mysore (SBM) 

 
 
CHIEF GENERAL MANAGER 
MARKET REGULATION DEPARTMENT 
Email: mdrao@sebi.gov.in 

 
2.  Recent amendment to Section 19 of State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 
1959, has omitted the restriction on holding more than 200 shares in the above 
banks by shareholders other than State Bank of India (SBI). In view of the said 
amendment,  in  partial  modification  of  SEBI  Circular  No.SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-
38/2000  dated  August  18,  2000,  it  has  been  decided  that  the  aforementioned 
three scrips would also be traded and settled in compulsory dematerialized form.  
Separate  intimation  regarding  the  effective  date  for  compulsory  trading  and 
settlement  by  all  investors  in  dematerialised  form  for  these  scrips  would  follow 
after  these  banks  establish  connectivity  with  the  depositories  and  satisfy  other 
requisite  norms.  Accordingly,  the  said  3  banks  (i.e.  SBBJ,  SBT,  and  SBM)  are 
advised  to  establish  connectivity  with  both  depositories  within  a  period  of  3 
months from the date of issue of this circular. 

 
3.  The Stock Exchanges and the Depositories are advised to : 

3.1.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  member 
brokers/clearing members, depository participants, the said three banks, and 
to disseminate the same on their websites. 

3.2. communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular in the Monthly Development Report. 

 
 

Page 1 of 2 

 
 
 

 
 

: 2 : 

4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, and Section 19 of the 
Depositories  Act,  1996  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

S V MURALI DHAR RAO 

Page 2 of 2 

