Chief General Manager 
Market Regulation Department-Division of Policy 
E-mail: mdrao@sebi.gov.in 

 
MRD/ DoP/SE/Cir- 03 /2009 
February 20, 2009 

The Managing Director 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.,  
Exchange Plaza 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (E) 
Mumbai- 400 051 

 
The Managing Director and CEO 
Bombay Stock Exchange 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers 
Dalal Street 
Mumbai 400001 
 
 
 
Dear Sir, 

 

 

Sub: Direct Market Access - Clarification 

 

1.  This is further to the SEBI circular no. MRD/ DoP/SE/Cir- 7 /2008 dated April 03, 

2008 regarding introduction of facility for Direct Market Access.  

2.  With regard to para 3 of the aforesaid circular, it is clarified as follows: 

a.  Institutional  investors  may  use  DMA  facility  through  investment 
managers  after  due  authorization  and  upon  furnishing  to  the  broker/ 
exchange  suitable  agreements/  undertakings  between  the  institution 
and  investment  manager  stating,  inter  alia,  that  the  institutional 
investor  shall  be  responsible  for  all  actions  undertaken  by  its 
authorized  investment  manager.  Such  investment  managers  may 
execute necessary documents on behalf of the institutional investor. 

b.  The  Broker-Client  Agreement  shall  provide  complete  details  of  such 
investment  manager,  including,  inter  alia,  details  of  their  registration/ 
regulation 
role  and 
responsibilities  of  the  investment  manager,  and  contain  adequate 
safeguards to ensure that DMA facility is utilized to execute trades of 
only those institutions for which the investment manager is authorized. 

jurisdiction,  specify 

relevant 

in 

their 

the 

c.  The exchange/ broker shall ensure that proper audit trails are available 

to establish identity of the ultimate client.  

d.  The exchange may put in place such other safeguards as it deems fit 

to mitigate any concerns it may have.  

..2/- 

 

-2- 

 
3.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
S V Murali Dhar Rao 
 

