Neelam Bhardwaj 
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing 
Phone: +91 22 26449350 (D), Email: neelamb@sebi.gov.in 

 

 
SEBI/CFD/DIL/DIP/ 34/2009/24/09 
February   24, 2009 

 
To All Registered Merchant Bankers / Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub.:  Amendments to SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 

2000 

 
1. 

In exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (1) of Section 11 of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, SEBI has amended 
the SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 (hereinafter 
referred to as “the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines”).The full text of amendments is 
given in Annexure I. 

The salient features of the amendments are given in brief as under: 

 
2. 
 
2.1  Enhancing the validity period of observations.  
 

(a)  The  validity  period  of  the  observations  issued  by  SEBI  has  been 
enhanced from the existing period of three months to twelve months. 
The benefit of extended validity period would be available in respect 
of all the observation letters whose validity period has not expired on 
December 4, 2008.  

 

(b)  Before opening of the issue, every issuer shall be required to file an 
updated offer document with SEBI, highlighting all changes made in 
the document.  

 
(c)  Where  updation  include  significant  changes  in  the  offer  document, 
such an updated Red herring prospectus/ prospectus or letter of offer 
shall be filed with SEBI at least one month before filing the same with 
Registrar  of  Companies  or  with  Designated  Stock  Exchange  as  the 
case may be. The procedure for submitting such updated documents 
including  what  will  constitute  “significant  changes”,  “additional  fees” 
etc will be specified by SEBI shortly.  

 

2.2  Reduction in timelines for completion of bonus issues. 

(a)  At present, in terms of the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines, a listed company is 
required  to  complete a bonus issue  within a  maximum  period  of  six 
months  from  the  date  of  approval  of  the  issue  by  the  board  of 
directors of the company.  

 
(b)  The  DIP  Guidelines  have  been  amended  to  reduce  the  timeline  for 
completion  of  bonus  issues.  Accordingly,  where  no  shareholders’ 
approval is required as per the Articles of Association of the issuer, 
the bonus issue shall be completed within fifteen days from the date 
of the approval by the board of directors of the issuer in this regard. 
However, where  shareholders’  approval  is required  for  capitalisation 
of profits or reserves as per the Articles of Association of the issuer, 
the bonus issue shall be completed within sixty days from the date of 
the  meeting  of  board  of  directors  where-in  bonus  was  announced 
subject to shareholders’ approval.  

 

2.3  Announcement of price band. 

(a)  At  present,  the  floor  price  or  price  band  in  an  initial  public  offer 
through the book building process is required to be disclosed in the 

 

2

Red Herring Prospectus registered with the Registrar of Companies, 
before the issue opening date.  

 
(b)  The  amended  DIP  Guidelines  permit  the  issuer  making  an  initial 
public offer to announce the floor price or price band after the date of 
registration  of  the  Red  Herring  Prospectus  with  the  Registrar  of 
Companies, atleast two working days before the issue opening date.  

 
(c) 

Further,  where  the  floor  price  or  price  band  is  announced  after  the 
date of registration of the Red Herring Prospectus with the Registrar 
of  Companies,  every  issuer  making  a  public  issue,  whether  initial 
public offer or further public offer, shall ensure wide dissemination of 
the  floor  price  or  price  band  through  various  means,  including 
newspaper  advertisement.  While  announcing  the  floor  price or price 
band,  the  issuer  shall  also  disclose  details  of  the  relevant  financial 
ratios used for justification of the floor price or price band. In case of a 
price band, such financial ratios shall be calculated for both upper and 
lower end of the price band. 

 
2.4  Amendments in provisions pertaining to Preferential Allotment . 
 
2.4.1  Preferential allotment of warrants. 

(a)  At  present,  the  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines  provide  that  warrants  can  be 
allotted on preferential basis, subject to the allottees paying upfront, 
an amount equivalent to at least 10% of the price fixed, at the time of 
allotment of warrants. It has now been decided to enhance the upfront 
amount payable from 10% to 25%. 

  
(b)  Certain  clarifications  regarding  lock-in  requirements  of  instruments 
allotted on preferential basis have been made in  clause 13.3.1(c) and 
(d) of the DIP Guidelines.  

 

 

3

2.4.2  Non-applicability  of  certain  provisions  of  Chapter  XIII  of  the  SEBI 

(DIP) Guidelines. 
(a) 

It has been decided that an issuer, which has been granted relaxation 
by  the  Board  in  terms  of  regulation  29A  of  the  SEBI  (Substantial 
Acquisitions  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  1997,  shall  be 
exempted  from  certain provisions  of Chapter  XIII  of  DIP  Guidelines, 
subject  to  the  condition  that  in  the  explanatory  statement    to  the 
notice  for the general meeting of the shareholders, the issuer gives 
adequate  disclosures  about  the  details  of  the  plan  including  the 
process proposed to be followed by it for identification of the allottees 
in addition to the disclosures required in other applicable laws.  

 

2.5  Policy  on  relaxation  from  strict  enforcement  of  rule  19(2)(b)  of  the 

Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 (SCRR). 

 

   
 
 

 

(a)  At present the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines provides for the policy regarding 
considering  the  requests  for  relaxation  of    the  strict  enforcement  of 
requirements  of  rule  19(2)(b)  of  the  SCRR  where  an  unlisted 
company  intends  to  list  its  shares  issued  to  the  shareholders  of  a 
listed company pursuant to a scheme of arrangement approved by a 
High Court, without making an initial public offer. 

  
(b)  The DIP Guidelines have now been amended to provide for the policy 
for considering relaxation from strict enforcement of requirements of 
rule  19(2)(b)  of  SCRR  in  case  of  proposal  for  listing  of  following 
securities by a listed issuer :- 
(i)  Equity  shares  with  differential  rights  as  to  dividend,  voting  or 

otherwise, offered through rights or bonus issue. 

(ii)  Warrants issued along with Non Convertible Debentures through 

Qualified Institutions Placement.   

4

Applicability.  

3. 
 
3.1  The amendment made vide this circular shall be applicable as under: 

a.  Amendments to clause 15.1.7 shall be applicable to all those cases in 
which the resolution for approval of bonus issue is passed by the board 
of directors after date of the circular.  

b.  Amendments  to  clause  13.1.2.3  shall  be  applicable  to  all  the  cases 

where shareholders’ approval is obtained after the date of this circular. 

c.  The other amendments made vide this circular shall come into force with 

immediate effect.  

 
4. 

 
5. 

All registered merchant bankers are advised to ensure compliance with the 
amendments contained in Annexure –I of this circular. 

This circular and the entire text of the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines, including the 
amendments contained in Annexure-I of this circular, are available on SEBI 
website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories  “Legal  Framework”  and 
“Issues and Listing”. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Neelam Bhardwaj 
Encl.: As above. 

 

5

ANNEXURE I 

AMENDMENTS TO SEBI (DIP) GUIDELINES, 2000 

 

CHAPTER II 

ELIGIBILITY NORMS FOR COMPANIES ISSUING SECURITIES 

 

1. 

In  clause  2.2.2B,  in  sub-clause  (iv),  for  the  words  and  figures  “sub-clause 
(iv)”, the words and figures “sub-clause (iii)” shall be substituted. 

 
 

CHAPTER IV 

PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION AND LOCK-IN REQUIREMENTS 

 

In clause 4.6.5:- 
(a) 

the figures and punctuation “4.1.2,” and mark and figure “& 4.5.1” shall 
be omitted;  

 
(b) 

for the punctuation mark “,” appearing after the figure “4.3.1” and before 
the figure “4.4.1”, the word “and” shall be substituted. 

in clause 4.7.1:- 
(a) 

the figures and punctuation “4.1.2,” and mark and figure “& 4.5.1” shall 
be omitted;  

 
(b) 

for the punctuation mark “,” appearing after the figure “4.3.1” and before 
the figure “4.4.1”, the word “and” shall be substituted. 

the mark and figure “& 4.5” shall be omitted;  

In clause 4.11.1:- 
(a) 
 
(b) 

for the punctuation mark “,” appearing after the figure “4.3” and before 
the figure “4.4”, the word “and” shall be substituted. 

6

2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 

 

 

 
5. 

 
 

 
6. 

CHAPTER V 

PRE – ISSUE OBLIGATIONS  

In  clause  5.7.2,  for  the  words  “one  week”,  appearing  after  the  words 
“shareholders at least” and before the words “before the date of opening”, the 
words “three days” shall be substituted. 

CHAPTER VIII 

OTHER ISSUE REQUIREMENTS 

In clause 8.3.5, the words “by an unlisted company” appearing at the end shall 
be omitted. 

 
7.  After clause 8.3.5 and before the existing clause 8.3.5.1, the following clause 

shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“8.3.5.1  Application by an unlisted company for listing of equity shares 

pursuant to scheme sanctioned by a High Court” 

 
8.  The existing clause “8.3.5.1” shall be renumbered as clause “8.3.5.1.1”. 
 
9.  Clause “8.3.5.2” shall be omitted. 
 
10.  Clause “8.3.5.3” shall be renumbered as clause “8.3.5.1.2”. 
 
11.  Clause “8.3.5.4” shall be renumbered as clause “8.3.5.1.3”. 
 
12.  After the renumbered clause 8.3.5.1.3, the following clauses shall be inserted, 

namely:- 

 

 

7

“8.3.5.2   Application  by  a  listed  company  for  listing  of  equity  shares 

with differential rights as to dividend, voting or otherwise. 

 
8.3.5.2.1  A  listed  company  may  make  an  application  to  the  Board  for 
relaxation from applicability of clause (b) to sub-rule (2) of Rule 19 
of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 for listing of 
its  equity  shares  with  differential  rights  as  to  dividend,  voting  or 
otherwise,  without  making  an  initial  public  offer  of  such  equity 
shares, if it satisfies the following conditions: 

 
i. 

ii. 

iii. 

 

 

issue  of  such  equity  shares  are  made  to  all  the  existing 
shareholders as on record date by way of rights or bonus;  

the issuer is in compliance with the conditions of minimum public 
shareholding  requirement  with  reference  to  the  equity  shares 
already  listed  and  the  equity  shares  with  differential  rights 
proposed to be listed; 

the issuer undertakes to disclose the shareholding pattern of the 
equity shares with differential rights separately under clause 35 of 
the Equity Listing Agreement. 

8.3.5.3 

Application by a listed company for listing of warrants offered 
along with Non Convertible Debentures (NCDs) under Chapter 
XIII A. 

 
8.3.5.3.1  A  listed  company  may  make  an  application  to  the  Board  for 
relaxation from applicability of clause (b) to sub-rule (2) of Rule 19 
of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 for listing of 
its warrants, if it satisfies the following conditions: 

 
i. 

warrants are issued as combined offering of NCDs and warrants 
under Chapter XIII A of the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines,2000;  

8

 

 

 

 

ii. 

iii. 

8.3.5.4 

 

 

the issuer is in compliance with all the provisions of Chapter XIII A, 
including eligibility of the issuer company, pricing guidelines, etc.; 

NCDs and warrants shall be traded in the minimum trade lot of Rs. 
1 lakh. 

An  application  to  the  Board  under  clauses  8.3.5.1,  8.3.5.2  and 
8.3.5.3 shall be made through the designated stock exchange of the 
listed company and the designated stock exchange may forward the 
application along with its recommendations, giving reasons in writing 
to the Board. 

8.3.5.5 

The  Board  may,  while  granting  relaxation  under  clauses  8.3.5.1, 
8.3.5.2  and  8.3.5.3,  stipulate  any  other  conditions  as  may  be 
deemed  necessary  in  the  interest  of  investors  and  securities 
market under the facts and circumstances of the specific case.” 

 
13.  In clause 8.21.1:- 

for  the  words  “3  months”,    appearing  after  the  words  “shall  open 
within”  and  before  the  words  “from  the  date  of  issuance  of  the 
observation letter” the words “12 months” shall be substituted; 

in proviso the word “or fast track issue” appearing at the end, shall 
be omitted. 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 

14.  After clause 8.21.1, the following shall be inserted:- 

 
“8.21.2  The issuer shall, before filing a red herring prospectus (in case of a 
book built issue) or prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) with 
ROC or letter of offer with Designated Stock Exchange, as the case 
may  be,  file  with  the  Board  through  the  lead  merchant  banker  an 

 

9

updated  offer  document  highlighting  all  changes  made  in  the 
document. 

 
8.21.3  Where  there  are  significant  changes  in  the  offer  document,  the 
updated  offer  document  shall  be  filed  with  the  Board,  atleast  one 
month before the date of filing of the red herring prospectus (in case 
of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) 
with ROC or letter of offer with Designated Stock Exchange, as the 
case  may  be,  as  per  the  procedure  specified by  the  Board in  this 
regard.” 

 
15.  Clause 8.21.2 shall be renumbered as clause “8.22”. 

 

 

CHAPTER X 

GUIDELINES FOR ISSUE OF CONVERTIBLE DEBT INSTRUMENTS 

16.  In clause 10.7.1.1:- 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

in  the  opening  para  of  the  body,  the  words  “or  the  NCDs”,  appearing 
after  the  words  “portions  of  PCDs”  and  before  the  words  “issued  by  a 
listed company” shall be omitted; 

in  sub-clause  (c),  the  words  “NCDs  or”,  appearing  after  the  words 
“Before roll over of any” and before the words “non-convertible portion” 
shall be omitted. 

 
17.  In sub-clause (b) of clause 10.9:- 

(a) 

 
(b) 

for the word and comma “NCDs,” occurring after the words “In case of”, 
and  before  the  words  “redemption  amount”  the  word  “PCDs”  shall  be 
substituted;  

for the mark and word “/ NCDs” appearing at the end of the sub-clause, 
the word “PCDs” shall be substituted. 

 

10

 
 

CHAPTER XI 

GUIDELINES ON BOOK BUILDING 

 
18.  In clause 11.3.1, in sub clause (viii)(a) :- 

(a) 

for the first proviso, the following provisos shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“Provided that the issuer may not disclose the floor price or price band in 
the red herring prospectus if the same is disclosed  in case of an initial 
public offer, at least two working days before the opening of the bid and 
in  case  of  a  further  public  offer,  at  least  one  working  day  before  the 
opening of the bid, by way of an announcement in all the newspapers in 
which  the  pre-issue  advertisement  was  released  by  the  issuer  or  the 
merchant banker; 
 
Provided  further  that  the  announcement  shall  contain  the  relevant 
financial ratios, computed for both upper and lower end of the price band 
and  also  a  statement  drawing  attention  of  the  investors  to  the  section 
titled “basis of issue price” in the offer document.”  

 
(b) 

in the second proviso:- 
(i) 

for item (a), the following shall be substituted, namely:- 

“a statement that the floor price or price band, as the case may be, 
shall  be  disclosed  at  least  two  working  days  (in  case  of  an  initial 
public offer) and at least one working day (in case of a further public 
offer) before the opening of the bid;” 

(ii)  in  item  (b),  the  words  “in  case  of  a  further  public  offer”  shall  be 

added at the end. 

11

 

 

 

 

19.  In  sub-clause  (viii)(b)of  clause  11.3.1,  for  the  opening  statement,  the 

following  shall be substituted, namely:-  
 
“Where  the  issuer decides  to  opts  for  price  band  instead  of  floor  price,  the 
lead book runner shall ensure compliance with the following conditions:”  

 
 

CHAPTER XIII 

GUIDELINES ON PREFERENTIAL ISSUES 

 

20.  In clause 13.1.2.3, for the words “ten percent”, appearing after the words “to 
atleast” and before the words “of the price”, the words “twenty five percent” 
shall be substituted. 

 
21.  In clause 13.3.1, 

for sub-clause (c), the following  clauses shall be substituted, namely:- 

“(c)  The  instruments  allotted  on  preferential  basis  and  the  shares 
allotted  pursuant  to  exercise  of  options  attached  to  warrants 
issued on preferential  basis to the promoter / promoter group of 
the  issuer,  in  addition  to  the  instruments  or  shares  specified  in 
sub-clauses (a) and (b) of clause 13.3.1, shall be locked-in for a 
period of one year from the date of their allotment. 

 
(c-a)  The  instruments  allotted  on  preferential  basis  and  the  shares 
allotted  pursuant  to  exercise  of  options  attached  to  warrants 
issued on preferential basis to any person other than the promoter 
/  promoter  group  of  the  issuer  shall  be  locked-in  for  a  period  of 
one year from the date of their allotment.” 

in sub-clause (d), after the words “convertible instrument” wherever they 

appear, the words “other than warrants” shall be inserted. 

(i) 
 

 
(ii) 

 

 

12

(iii) 

in sub clause (h), before the explanation, the following proviso shall 
be inserted, namely:- 
“Provided that the Board may, on an application made by the issuer 
in  respect  of  the  preferential  allotment  of  shares  fully  convertible 
debentures and partly convertible debentures, grant relaxation from 
the  requirements  of  this  sub-clause    if  the  Board  has  granted 
relaxation  to  the  company  in  terms  of  Regulation  29A  of  the  SEBI 
(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations, 
1997.” 

 
22.  In  clause  13.4.1,  after  the  existing  proviso  the  following  proviso  shall  be 

inserted, namely:- 
“Provided that where the Board has granted relaxation to the issuer in terms 
of  regulation  29A  of  the  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 
Takeovers)  Regulations,  1997,  the  preferential  allotment  of  shares,  fully 
convertible debentures and partly convertible debentures, shall be made by it 
within  such  time  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board  in  its  order  granting 
relaxation.” 

 
23.  After clause 13.7.2, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

 “13.7.3    Clause  13.1.1,  13.1.2,  13.1.3,  13.1A,  and  13.5.1  shall  not  be 
applicable  to  a  preferential  allotment  of  equity  shares,  fully 
convertible debenture and  partly convertible debentures, where the 
Board has granted relaxation to the company in terms of Regulation 
29A of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 1997;  

 

Provided  that  adequate  disclosures  about  the  plan  including  the 
process  proposed  to  be  followed  for  identifying  the  allottees,  are 
given in the explanatory statement to notice for the general meeting 
of shareholders, in addition to disclosures required in terms of any 
other law.” 

 

13

 

CHAPTER XV 

GUIDELINES FOR BONUS ISSUES 

 

24.  For clause 15.1.7 the following shall be substituted namely:- 

 
“A  company  which  announces  bonus  issue  after  the  approval  of  board  of 
directors  and  does  not  require  shareholders’  approval  for  capitalisation  of 
profits or reserves for making bonus issue as per the Articles of Association, 
shall implement bonus issue within fifteen days from the date of approval of 
the issue by the board of directors of the company and shall not have the 
option of changing the decision. 

 

Provided where the company is required to seek shareholders’ approval for 
capitalisation  of  profits  or  reserves  for  making  bonus  issue  as  per  the 
Articles  of  Association,  the  bonus  issue  shall  be  implemented  within  two 
months from the date of the meeting of the board of directors wherein the 
decision to announce bonus was taken subject to shareholders’ approval.” 

 

 

 

14

