DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 

SEBI/IMD/CIR No.13/150975 / 09 
January 19, 2009 

All Mutual Funds Registered with SEBI 
Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) 
 
Sir/ Madam, 
 
Sub:  Portfolio  of  “Liquid  Schemes”  and  nomenclature  of  “Liquid  Plus” 

schemes 

 
 
A.  Guidelines on portfolio of Liquid Scheme 
 

 

 

 

1.  Please refer to SEBI circular dated October 11, 2006 on “Uniform cut-off 
for  applicability  of  NAV  of  mutual  fund  schemes/plans”,  wherein  the 
characteristics of liquid scheme and plan portfolio have been defined in 
Schedule I.   

 
2.  The  characteristics  of  liquid  schemes  were  discussed  in  the  Advisory 
Committee of Mutual Funds.  It was felt that there is a need to reduce the 
tenure  of  the  securities  held  in  the  portfolio  of  liquid  schemes  from  the 
current requirement of one year.   

3.  Accordingly,  the  circular  no  11/78450/06  dated  October  11,  2006  shall 

stand modified as under: 
 

i. The  definition  of  ‘liquid  fund  schemes  and  plans’  as  mentioned  in 

clause 2(1) (e) of aforesaid circular, shall read as under: 
 

‘liquid fund schemes and plans’ shall mean the schemes and plans of 
a  mutual  fund  as  specified  in  the  guidelines  issued  by  SEBI  in  this 
regard’ 
 

ii.  Schedule I of aforesaid circular stands withdrawn.  

 
4.  The ‘liquid fund schemes and plans’ shall:  

i.  With  effect  from  February  01,  2009  make  investment  in  /purchase 
debt and money market securities with maturity of upto182 days only.  

 
ii.  With  effect  from  May  01,  2009,  make  investment  in  /purchase  debt 

and money market securities with maturity of upto 91 days only. 

Explanation: 

a.  In case of securities where the principal is to be repaid in a single  

1

 

 

 
 

payout the maturity of the securities  shall  mean  residual  maturity.  
In case the principal is to be repaid in more than one payout then 
the  maturity  of  the  securities  shall  be  calculated  on  the  basis  of 
weighted average maturity of security. 
 

b.  In  case  of  securities  with  put  and  call  options  (daily  or  otherwise) 
the residual maturity of the securities shall not be greater than 182 
days w.e.f February 01, 2009 and 91 days w.e.f May 01, 2009. 

 
c.  In case the maturity of the security falls on a non-business day then 

settlement of securities will take place on the next business day. 

 

 
6. 

5.  The  above  requirements  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  and 
shall  form  part  of  the  investment  allocation  pattern.  Any  deviation  from 
these requirements shall be viewed as violation of investment restrictions. 

Inter-scheme  transfers  of  securities  having  maturity  upto  365  days  and 
held  in  other  schemes  as  on  February  01,  2009  shall  be  permitted  till 
October 31, 2009.  With effect from November 1, 2009 the requirements 
stated  at  paragraph  4  (ii)  above  shall  apply  to  such  inter-se  scheme 
transfers also.  

 
B.    Liquid plus schemes 
 

The  Advisory  Committee  of  Mutual  Funds  also  recommended  that  the 
nomenclature of “Liquid Plus Scheme” should be discontinued since it gives 
a  wrong  impression  of  added  liquidity.  It has been decided to accept the 
aforesaid  recommendation  of  the  Advisory  Committee  and  accordingly, 
mutual  funds  are  advised  to  carry  out  the  change  in  the  nomenclature  of 
“Liquid Plus Scheme” and confirm compliance to SEBI within 30 days from 
the date of this circular. 
 

This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  the  provisions  of 
regulation 77 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 to protect the interests 
of Investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 
securities market. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Ruchi Chojer 

 

2

