 
CHIEF GENERAL MANAGER 
Market Regulation Department  
Email: mdrao@sebi.gov.in 

1.  The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers / 
Executive Directors / Officiating Executive Directors 
of all the Stock Exchanges, 

2.  MD and CEO, NSDL 
3.  MD and CEO, CDSL 
 
 
Dear Sir/s, 
 

MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-2/2009 
     February 10, 2009 
 

Sub:  Review of Annual Issuers’ charges 

 

1.  Please refer to SEBI Circular No.MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-4/2005 dated January 
28, 2005 vide which Depositories were allowed/permitted to levy and collect 
the charges towards custody from the issuer. 

 
2.  In  partial  modification  to  our  aforementioned  circular  and  in  light  of 
representations received from the Depositories, it has been decided to revise 
the said Annual Issuers’ charges with effect from April 01, 2009. Accordingly, 
the Depositories may levy and collect the charges towards custody from the 
issuers, on a per folio (ISIN position) basis as at the end of the financial year, 
as per the details given below: 

Issuers  to  pay  @  Rs.8.00  (*)  per  folio  (ISIN  position)  in  the  respective 
depositories, subject to a minimum as mentioned below: 
 

Nominal  value  of  admitted 
securities  (Rs.)  

Custodial 

Annual 
Fee 
payable by a Issuer to each 
Depository (Rs.)  (*) 

Upto 5 crore 
Above 5 crore and upto 10 crore 
Above 10 crore and upto 20 crore 
Above 20 crore 
* Plus service tax as applicable 

  6,000 
15,000 
30,000 
50,000 

 
The  issuers  would  be  required  to  pay  custody  charges  to  the  Depository  with 
whom  they  have  established  connectivity  based  on  the  total  number  of  folios 
(ISIN positions) as on 31st March of the previous financial year or the minimum 
amount,  as  the  case  may  be,  by  30th  April  of  each  financial  year  failing  which 
Depositories may charge penal interest subject to a maximum of 12% p.a.    

 

 
 

Page 1 of 2 

 

3.  All the Stock Exchanges are advised to:-  

3.1. implement the above by making necessary amendments to the bye-laws 

and Listing Agreement, as applicable;    

3.2. to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  listed 
companies/Issuers and also to put up the same on the website for easy 
access to the investors; and 

3.3. communicate to SEBI the status of the implementation of the provisions 
of  this  circular  and  the  action  taken  in  this  regard  in  the  Monthly 
Development Report. 

 
4.  The Depositories are advised to:-  

4.1. make amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and  regulations for the 
implementation of the above decision, as may be applicable/necessary;   

4.2. bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  DPs  of  the  
Depositories  and  the  issuers  whose  securities  have  been  admitted  into 
the depositories and also to disseminate the same on the website; and 

4.3. communicate to SEBI the status of the implementation of the provisions 

of this circular in the Monthly Development Report. 

 

5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 
(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, and Section 19 
of the Depositories Act, 1996, to protect the interests of investors in securities 
and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
S V MURALI DHAR RAO 

Page 2 of 2 

