 
Chief General Manager 
Market Regulation Department-Division of Policy 
E-mail: mdrao@sebi.gov.in 

The Executive Directors/Managing Directors 
of all Stock Exchanges 

     MRD/DoP/SE/ Cir-1 /2009 
January 21, 2009 

                               

 
Yours faithfully, 

 
S V MURALIDHAR RAO 
 
 
Encl: a/a 
 

Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:  Establishment of Connectivity with both depositories NSDL and CDSL – 
Companies eligible for shifting from Trade for Trade Settlement (TFTS) 
to normal Rolling Settlement 

 

It  is  observed  from  the  information  provided  by  the  depositories  that  the 
companies  listed  in  Annexure  ‘A’  have  established  connectivity  with  both  the 
depositories during the month of November 2008. 
 
The  stock  exchanges  may  consider  shifting  the  trading  in  these  securities  to 
normal Rolling Settlement subject to the following: 
 
a) 

At least 50% of other than promoter holdings as per clause 35 of Listing 
Agreement are in dematerialized mode before shifting the trading in the 
securities of the company from TFTS to normal Rolling Settlement. For 
this  purpose,  the  listed  companies  shall  obtain  a  certificate  from  its 
Registrar and Transfer Agent (RTA) and submit the same to the stock 
exchange/s. However, if an issuer-company does not have a separate 
RTA, it may obtain a certificate in this regard from a practicing company 
Secretary/Chartered  Accountant  and  submit  the  same  to  the  stock 
exchange/s. 

There  are  no  other  grounds/reasons  for  continuation  of  the  trading  in 
TFTS. 

 
The  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  report  to  SEBI,  the  action  taken  in  this 
regard in Section II, item no. 13 of the Monthly/Quarterly Development Report. 

 
1. 

2. 

3. 

 
b) 

 

 
 

 

                                                                             Annexure A  
 

 

Sr. No.   Company Name 

1.   
2.   
3.   

  Sanmitra Commercial Limited 
  Gorani Industries Limited 
  PI Industries Limited  
 
 
 

       ISIN 

INE896J01014 
INE792J01015 
   INE603J01014 

