 
 
 
FII & Custodian Division 
Investment Management Department 
Website: www.sebi.gov.in 
 
 

 
To 
All Foreign Institutional Investors, and  
Custodians of Securities 
 
 

Sub: FII investments in Debt Securities 

 
 

 Circular No. IMD/FII & C/ 27 /2008 
January 31, 2008 

SEBI vide Circular No. IMD/FII/25/2007 dated January 19, 2007 announced the increase 
in the cumulative debt investment limit available for investment by FIIs/ Sub Accounts in 
Government Securities/ T-Bills from US $2 billion to US $2.6 billion. It has now been 
decided to further enhance the said limit to US $3.2 billion. 
 
It was noticed that there was no uniformity among custodians with respect to considering 
investments by FIIs in debt oriented mutual fund units either as debt or equity. The issue 
was discussed with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) which advised that the investment 
by  FIIs/Sub-accounts  in  units  of  debt  oriented  mutual  funds  should  be  considered  as 
investment in Corporate Debt. Accordingly, investments by FIIs/ Sub Accounts in debt 
oriented  mutual  fund  units  (including  units  of  money  market  and  liquid  funds)  shall 
henceforth  be  considered  as  corporate  debt  investments  and  reckoned  within  the 
stipulated  limit  of  US  $1.5  billion,  earmarked  for  FII/  Sub  Account  investments  in 
corporate debt. 
 
In view of the above, the following shall be applicable with immediate effect: 
 

1.  Henceforth, there shall be no demarcation between 100% debt and normal 70:30 
FIIs/ Sub Accounts for the purposes of allocation of debt investment limits. The 
individual limits allocated to the 100% debt FIIs/ Sub Accounts stand cancelled.  

2.  The  allocation  of  unutilized/  unallocated  limits  for  investments  in  Government 
Securities/ T-Bills shall be on first-come-first-serve basis. The applications may 
be forwarded on the e-mail ID, fii_debtrequests@sebi.gov.in. The allocation shall 
be  valid  for  a  period  of  15  days  from  the  date  of  the  allocation  letter,  on  the 
expiry of which the unutilized limits shall lapse.  

2/.. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 
            

::2:: 

 

3.  As  mentioned  above,  the  investments  by  FIIs/  Sub  Accounts  in  debt  oriented 
mutual fund schemes shall now be reckoned as investments in corporate debt. On 
re-calculating  the  investment  figures  for  investments  by  FIIs/  Sub  Accounts  in 
corporate  debt,  by  including  their  investments  in  units  of  debt  oriented  mutual 
funds, it is seen that the corporate debt investments exceed the permissible limit 
of US $1.5 billion. Thus, in order to conform to the stated limit, there shall be no 
further  investment,  or  rollover,  of  existing  position  in  corporate  debt,  by  both 
100% debt and normal 70:30 FIIs, till the holdings fall within the stipulated limit 
of US $1.5 billion.  

4.  In view of the above, the following instructions should be taken note of: 

i.  All  FII  transactions  in  debt-oriented  mutual  fund  units  which  were 
previously  reported  as  Equity  transactions  should  be  reported  as  debt  on 
February 15, 2008, through the existing reporting system. 

ii.  Importantly,  all  such  transactions  should  be  nullified  simultaneously  by 

reporting reverse transactions in equity on the aforementioned date. 

 

A  copy  of  this  circular  is  available  at  the  web  page  “F.I.I.”  on  our  website 
www.sebi.gov.in. The custodians are requested to bring the contents of this circular 
to the notice of their FII clients. 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Sangeeta Uchil 
General Manager 
                     

