 
SEBI/DNPD/Cir- 38 /2008 
August 06, 2008 

 
To, 
 
Recognized Stock Exchanges  
and their Clearing Corporations / Clearing Houses, Clearing Members and 
Trading Members  
 
 
SUB: EXCHANGE TRADED CURRENCY DERIVATIVES 
 
A  RBI-SEBI  Standing  Technical  Committee  (“Committee”)  was  constituted  to 
evolve  norms  and  oversee  implementation  of  Exchange  Traded  Currency  and 
Interest Rate Derivatives. To begin with, the Committee has looked at Exchange 
Traded  Currency  Derivatives  and  submitted  a  Report  on  Exchange  Traded 
Currency Futures (“Report”).  The Report, which was submitted on May 29, 2008, 
is also available on the SEBI website www.sebi.gov.in.  
 
The  Report  lays  down  the  framework  for  the  launch  of  Exchange  Traded 
Currency Futures in terms of the eligibility norms for existing and new Exchanges 
and  their  Clearing  Corporations/Houses,  eligibility  criteria  for  members  of  such 
Exchanges/Clearing  Corporations/Houses,  product  design,  risk  management 
measures, surveillance mechanism and other related issues. 
 
I. 
 
For  trading  in  Exchange  Traded  Currency  Derivatives,  Recognized  Stock 
Exchanges  and  their  Clearing  Corporations  /  Clearing  Houses,  Clearing 
Members and Trading Members have to comply with the following: 
 
1. 

EXCHANGE TRADED CURRENCY DERIVATIVES  

GENERAL MANAGER 
DERIVATIVES AND NEW PRODUCTS DEPARTMENT 
 

Exchange:  A  Recognized  Stock  Exchange  fulfilling  the  conditions 
mentioned under paras 5.1 and 5.2 of the Report may apply to SEBI for 
grant  of  approval  for  starting  trading  in  Currency  Derivatives.  The 
application  shall  be  accompanied  by  the  details  pertaining  to  the 
derivatives product proposed to be introduced (mentioned under para 7.2 
of  the  Report),  the  proposed  Bye-laws  of  the  Exchange/  Clearing 
Corporation  /  Clearing  House  and  the  model  documents  for  Currency 
Derivatives Segment (in accordance with para 7.1 of Report).  
 
 
 

 

1

Further, a Recognized Stock Exchange shall ensure that;  
 

a.  Chapter  2  of  the  Report  on  product  design  is  complied  with.  In 
addition, the last day for trading of the contract shall be two working 
days prior to the final settlement day, with the settlement price on 
the last trading day being the Reserve Bank’s Reference Rate on 
that date. 

b.  Chapter 4 of the Report on surveillance and disclosures is complied 

with. 

c.  Membership of the Currency Derivatives Segment is separate from 
the  membership  of  the  other  segments  of  the  Exchange  as 
mentioned under para 6.1 of the Report.  

d.  Appropriate  mechanisms  preventing  participation  of  “persons 
resident  outside  India”  as  defined  in  Section  2(w)  of  the  Foreign 
Exchange  Management  Act,  1999  in  Exchange  Traded  Currency 
Derivatives be put in place. 

  

Clearing Corporation / Clearing House: Clearing Corporation / Clearing 
House fulfilling the conditions mentioned under paras 5.3 and 5.4 of the 
Report  may  apply  to  SEBI  for  grant  of  approval  for  undertaking  clearing 
and  settlement  related  to  trades  in  Currency  Derivatives.  The  Clearing 
Corporation  /  Clearing  house  shall  comply  with  the  risk  management 
measures detailed under Chapter 3 of the Report.   

After obtaining SEBI’s approval, the Recognized Stock Exchange and its 
Clearing Corporation / Clearing House shall make an application to RBI to 
obtain  permission  under  FEMA  for  trading,  clearing  and  settlement  of 
Currency Derivatives. 

Clearing Member and Trading Member: A person desirous of becoming 
a Clearing Member and / or a Trading Member and fulfilling the conditions 
detailed  under  paras  6.2  and  6.3  of  the  Report  may  apply  to  SEBI  for 
registration  under  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and    Sub-Brokers)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2008. 

PARTICIPATION OF BANKS  

 

2. 

 
3. 

 

 
4. 

 
II. 

To enable Banks to become Clearing Member and / or Trading Member of the 
Currency  Derivatives  Segment  of  an  Exchange,  an  Exchange  shall  amend  its 
bye-laws, as under: 

1.  "Any bank, -  

 

2

included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, 
and specifically authorized by RBI for this purpose, 

i.  is eligible to become Clearing Member and / or Trading Member 
of  the  Currency  Derivatives  Segment  of  an  Exchange,  on  the 
recommendation of the governing body of the  Exchange. 

ii.  such bank can act as member for their proprietary dealings, to act 
on their own account, in the Currency Derivatives Segment of the 
Exchange.  

iii.  such  bank  can  also  act  as  member  or  an  agent  for  any  other 
person, client or customer in the Currency Derivatives Segment of 
an Exchange. 

iv.  such  bank  shall  abide  by  circulars and directions issued by RBI 

and SEBI in respect of dealing of such banks in the Exchange." 

III.   CERTIFICATION PROGRAMME 

A  Trading  Member  shall  have  approved  users  and  sales  personnel  who  have 
Certification as applicable to Exchange Traded Equity Derivatives. However, this 
requirement shall not be applicable in respect of a Trading Member, which is a 
bank, for a period of one year from the date of this circular. 

IV.   POSITION LIMIT 

The  gross  open  position  of  a  Trading  Member,  across  all  contracts,  shall  not 
exceed  15%  of  the  total  open  interest  or  25  million  USD,  whichever  is  higher. 
However, the gross open position of a Trading Member, which is a bank, across 
all contracts, shall not exceed 15% of the total open interest or 100 million USD, 
whichever is higher.  

This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 
(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 
of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in.,  under  the 
category “Derivatives- Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully,  

 
 
SUJIT PRASAD 

 

3

