CHIEF GENERAL MANAGER 
MARKET REGULATION DEPARTMENT 

 
MRD/DSA/SE/Cir.-34 /2008 
December 05, 2008 
 

 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers /  
Executive Directors / Officiating Executive Directors   
of all the Stock Exchanges, 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 

Sub:  Maintenance of Security Deposit of 1% of the amount of 
issuer 

securities  offered  to  public/shareholders  by 
companies with the designated stock exchanges 

 

 

1.  Your  attention  is  drawn  to  Clause  42  of  the  Listing  Agreement 
which  requires  that  every  company  proposing  to  issue  new 
securities,  shall,  as  a  condition  precedent,  deposit  before  the 
opening of subscription list and keep deposited with the designated 
exchange, an amount calculated at the rate of 1% of the amount of 
securities  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  ‘security  deposit’)  offered  for 
subscription to the public and/or to the holders of existing securities 
of the company, as the case may be, for ensuring compliance by 
the  company,  within  the  prescribed  or  stipulated  period,  of  all 
prevailing requirements of law. The said clause also prescribes that 
50% of such security deposit shall be paid to the Exchange in cash 
and  the  balance  amount  can  be  provided  for  by  way  of  a  bank 
guarantee.  Further,  Clause  16.2.4  of  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and 
Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000  prescribes  that  the  security 
deposit so deposited with the designated stock exchanges can be 
released  by  the  concerned  stock  exchange  only  after  obtaining  a 
‘NOC’ from SEBI.  

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

2.  It has come to the notice of the SEBI that in many cases, the bank 
guarantees so kept with the stock  exchanges  under  Clause  42  of 
the  listing  agreement,  have  expired  and  the  exchanges  have 
neither taken any step to prevent such eventuality nor to revive the 
bank guarantees so expired. By allowing such bank guarantees to 
expire, the stock exchanges have compromised with an important 
mechanism available for redressal of investor grievances.  

3.  In view of the above, the stock exchanges are hereby directed :  

 
a)  to  recoup  immediately  any  shortfall  in  the  deposit  that  has 
been caused due to the expiry of such bank guarantees by 
taking  either  cash  or  fresh/re-validated  bank  guarantees 
from the concerned issuer companies.  

 
b)  to  put  in  place  a  system  to  keep  track  of  the  bank 
guarantees furnished to it by the issuer companies. The said 
system should generate alerts atleast one month prior to the 
expiry of such bank guarantees, so that the stock exchanges 
have  sufficient  time  to  require  the  issuer  companies  to 
provide fresh/renewed bank guarantees in place of the bank 
guarantees about to expire.  

c)  To  invoke  such  bank  guarantees  before  it  expires,  if  any 
issuer  company  fails  to  satisfy  the  shortfall  in  the  deposit 
amount either by cash or by fresh/renewed bank guarantees, 
within the time frame given in this regard, inspite of the said 
advise from the stock exchange. 

 

4.  Further, some stock exchanges have sought advice as to whether 
they can adjust the 1% security deposit against the dues payable to 
them by the issuer companies. It is hereby clarified that the stock 

Page 2 of 3 

exchanges shall maintain the said 1% security deposit at all times 
and  no  adjustment  against  any  dues  of  the  company  can  be 
permitted.  

5.  This circular is being issued under Section 11(1) of the SEBI Act, 
1992  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market 
and the directions contained in Para 3 above shall be implemented 
by  all  the  stock  exchanges  within  three  months  from  the  date  of 
issue of this circular under intimation to SEBI.   

This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in.  

 

 

  
Yours faithfully,   
 
 
D. RAVIKUMAR 

Page 3 of 3 

