 
 
 
 
DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 
 
 

 

 

 

To 
All Registered Portfolio Manager 
 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
 

    SEBI/IMD/DOF-I/SRP/Cir No. 1/93251 /2007 
     May 11, 2007 

 

 

 

 

 

Sub: Renewal of Certificate of Registration 

 

As  required  under  Section  12  of  the  SEBI  Act  and  also  under  Regulation  3  of 
SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  Regulations,  1993,  a  portfolio  manager  can  function 
as such only under a Certificate of Registration issued by SEBI.  It has also been 
specified  under  Regulation  9B  of  the  SEBI  (Portfolio  Managers)  Regulations, 
1993 that such certificate of registration shall be valid for a period of three years 
from the date of its issue.  Further, Regulation 9(1) of the aforesaid regulations 
requires  a  portfolio  manager  to  make  an  application  for  renewal  three  months 
before the expiry of the validity of the certificate of registration 

However, it is noticed that at times application for renewal is not made in time. It 
is also possible that an application for renewal made by a portfolio manager is 
not  disposed  off  by  the  expiry  of  the  registration  due  to  some  reasons.    As  a 
result, the portfolio manager and its clients are not quite clear whether the entity 
can  continue  to  act  as  a  portfolio  manager  after  expiry  of  registration.  This 
circular intends to clarify these matters 

 

 

 

  

1.  If the application for renewal is not received at SEBI by the expiry date of 

the certificate of registration, the portfolio manager shall: 

a.  cease to be a portfolio manager on the date of such expiry, 
b.  immediately  stop  carrying  on  the  portfolio  manager  activities  from  the 
date  of  such  expiry,  and  such  portfolio  managers  may  either  transfer 
their business to another SEBI registered portfolio manager or allow the 
client to withdraw the securities and funds in its custody at the option of 
the  client,  and  in  either  case,  without  any  additional  cost  to  the  client. 
The option shall be granted to each client separately. 

If  the  portfolio  manager  fails  to  comply  with  all  of  the  above,  it  will  be 
considered  as  a  violation  of  Section  12  and  may  attract  action  under  the 
relevant provision of SEBI Act, 1992. 

 

 

 

 
Contd. on Page 2 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

:: 2:: 

No  application  for  renewal  can  be  made  after  the  date  of  expiry  of 
registration  of  the  Portfolio  Manager.  If  the  erstwhile  Portfolio  Manager 
makes an application after the expiry of registration such application will be 
considered as a fresh application for registration under the Regulations. 
   

2.  If the application for renewal is received at SEBI less than 3 months before 
the expiry of registration and SEBI has not advised otherwise by the date of 
expiry of registration, the portfolio manager shall stop undertaking any fresh 
business / clients from the date of expiry of the registration. 

 
3.  If  the  application  is  received  at  SEBI  within  the  prescribed  time  and  SEBI 
has  not  advised  otherwise,  the  portfolio  manager  may  continue  to  act  as 
such even after expiry of the certificate of registration. If renewal is granted, 
it will be deemed to be in continuation of the earlier registration. 

4.  If  renewal  is  refused  by  SEBI  for  whatever  reason,  the  portfolio  manager 

shall: 

a.  cease to be a portfolio manager on the date of expiry of registration or 

the date of receipt of communication of refusal to grant renewal,   

b.  immediately stop carrying on the portfolio manager activities from the 
date of such expiry, and such portfolio managers may either transfer 
their  business  to  another  SEBI  registered  portfolio  manager  or  allow 
the  client  to  withdraw  the  securities  and  funds  in  its  custody  at  the 
option of the client, and in either case, without any additional cost to 
the client. The option shall be granted to each client separately. 

On failure to comply with the above,  SEBI may initiate any action that may 
be deemed appropriate under the provisions of the SEBI Act, 1992.  
  

5.  It is clarified that in the above cases, the application for renewal shall mean 
the  application  complete  in  all  respects.    Incomplete  application  will  be 
treated as no application. 

6.  If a portfolio manager wishes to surrender the registration voluntarily before 
the  expiry  of  the  registration,  it  shall intimate  its  existing  clients  about  the 
same at least one month in advance before making request for surrender of 
certificate of registration to SEBI. 

 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
S. R. Prasad 

