GENERAL MANAGER 
Market Intermediaries Regulation & Supervision Department 
Division of Policy - II 

 
Cir. No. MIRSD/DPS-2/BTI/Cir-15/2008 
May    6 ,2008 

 
To 

All Bankers to Issue 

 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub:  Reporting of information on a periodic basis 

 

1.  Vide RBTI (GI Series) circular no. 1 (95-96) dated April 21, 1995 read with 
BTI Cir No 3 (1999-2000) dated July 9, 1999, SEBI advised all Bankers to 
Issue to submit information pertaining to their activities on a quarterly and 
annual basis as per the format prescribed in the aforesaid circulars.   

2.  In  partial  modification  of  the  aforementioned  circulars,  it  has  now  been 
decided that beginning from the quarter ending June 30, 2008 and from 
the  Financial  Year  2008-09,  the  Bankers  To  Issue  shall  submit  the 
quarterly and annual reports respectively to SEBI in electronic form only in 
accordance  with  the  format  prescribed  in  the  aforesaid  circulars  and  the 
submission  of  such  reports  in  hard  copy  shall  be  dispensed  with.    The 
quarterly  report  and  annual  report  in  the  prescribed  format  shall  be 
submitted  to  e-mail  id  bti@sebi.gov.in  in  pdf  and  excel  format.  Thus, 
Bankers  To  Issue  who  have  to  submit  information  on  a  quarterly  basis 
shall  submit  two  files  by  e-mail  –  one  file  in  pdf  format  and  the  other  in 
excel  format.  Similarly,  after  closure  of  a  particular  financial  year,  the 
Bankers To Issue shall submit the annual report in the prescribed format 
by way of two files – one in pdf format and the other in excel format. The 
reports submitted shall also be duly certified by the compliance officer.  

 
3.  Further, it has also been decided that beginning from the quarter ended 
June  30,  2008,  bankers  to  issue  who  do  not  have  any  information  to 
submit w.r.t. activities mentioned in Tables 3a, 3b, 3c, 4, 5 and 6 of RBTI 
(GI Series) Cir No 1 (95-96) dated April 21, 1995 for a particular quarter 
shall not be required to submit the report for that quarter.  However, it is 
clarified that all bankers to issue shall continue to submit information on 
annual  basis  within  2  months  of  the  close  of  the  financial  year  in 
accordance with the format prescribed in the aforementioned circular. 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

4.  The pdf/excel  files containing quarterly report shall  be sent to email  id  
bti@sebi.gov.in  with  the  title  “Quarterly  report  submitted  by  aaa  for  the 
quarter ended xxx yyyy” where aaa represents the name of the  Banker to 
the  Issue,  xxx  represents  the  month  at  the  end  of  the  quarter  and  yyyy 
represents  the  year.  Also,  the  attached  pdf/excel  file  containing  the 
quarterly  report  shall    bear  the  name  of  the    Banker  to  the  Issue,  the 
periodicity  of  the  report  as  well  as    the  month  at  the  end  of  the  quarter  
and the corresponding year.  For example, if a bank ABC Bank submits 
the  report  for  the  quarter  ended  June  2008,  the  e-mail  sent  to 
bti@sebi.gov.in  shall  bear  the  title  “Quarterly  report  submitted  by  ABC 
Bank  for  the  quarter  ended  June  2008”  and  the  attached  pdf/excel  file 
shall bear the na me “ABCbankquarterlyJune2008”.  

 
5.  Similarly, the pdf/excel file containing   report submitted annually  shall  be 
sent to email  id  bti@sebi.gov.in with the title “ Annual report submitted 
by aaa for the period ended xxx yyyy” where aaa represents the name of 
the    Banker  to  the  Issue,  xxx  represents  the  month  at  the  end  of  the  
financial year and yyyy represents the year. Also, the attached pdf/excel 
file containing the report submitted annually shall  bear the name of the  
Banker to the Issue, the periodicity of  the report as well as  the month at 
the end of the financial year  and the corresponding year.  For example, if  
a bank ABC Bank submits the annual report for the period ended March  
2008,  the  e-mail  sent  to  bti@sebi.gov.in  shall  bear  the  title  ”Annual 
Report submitted by ABC Bank for the period ended March 2008” and the 
attached pdf/excel file shall bear the name “ABC BankannualMarch2008”.  

6.  The other terms and conditions including the time schedule for submission 
of the quarterly/annual reports mentioned in RBTI (GI Series) cir no. 1(95-
96) dated April 21, 1995  shall remain unchanged. 

7.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under 
Section 11 (1) of Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. Copy 
of the circular is also available on SEBI web-site www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 

 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Suresh B. Menon 
 

Page 2 of 2 

