EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 

SEBI/IMD/CIR No.7/104753/07 
September 26, 2007 

 
All Mutual Funds Registered with SEBI 
Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Re: Overseas Investments by Mutual Funds 
 
Attention  is  drawn  to  the  budget  speech  by  the  Finance  Minister  for  the 
Financial  Year  2007-08  regarding  overseas  investments  by  mutual  funds.  In 
order to facilitate overseas investments by mutual funds and with reference to 
SEBI  Circulars  SEBI/IMD/CIR  No.7/73202/06  dated  August  2,  2006, 
SEBI/IMD/CIR  No.13/83589/07  dated  January  4,  2007  and  SEBI/IMD/  CIR 
No.3/93334/07  dated  May  14,  2007  pertaining  to  investment  in  ADRs/  GDRs/ 
foreign securities and overseas ETFs by mutual funds, it has now been decided 
as under: 
 
1.  Applicable Limits 
 

a)  The aggregate ceiling for overseas investments as per para 2 below is 

US $ 5 billion. 

 
b)  Within the overall limit of US $ 5 billion, mutual funds can make overseas 

investments subject to a maximum of US $300 million per mutual fund. 

 
2.  Permissible investments 

 
Mutual Funds can invest in  

 
i.  ADRs/ GDRs issued by Indian or foreign companies 
ii.  Equity  of  overseas  companies  listed  on  recognized  stock 

iii.  Initial  and  follow  on  public  offerings  for  listing  at  recognized 

exchanges overseas  

stock exchanges overseas 

rating 

not 

iv.  Foreign  debt  securities  in  the  countries  with  fully  convertible 
currencies,  short  term  as  well  as  long  term  debt  instruments 
with 
by 
accredited/registered credit rating agencies  

investment 

below 

grade 

v.  Money market instruments rated not below investment grade  
vi.  Repos  in  the  form  of  investment,  where  the  counterparty  is 
rated not below investment grade; repos should not however, 
involve any borrowing of funds by mutual funds 

                                                                                                                                           1 

vii.  Government securities where the countries are rated not below 

investment grade 

viii.  Derivatives  traded  on  recognized  stock  exchanges  overseas 
only  for  hedging  and  portfolio  balancing  with  underlying  as 
securities 

ix.  Short  term  deposits  with  banks  overseas  where  the  issuer  is 

rated not below investment grade 

x.  Units/securities issued by overseas mutual funds or unit trusts 
registered  with  overseas  regulators  and  investing  in  (a) 
aforesaid securities, (b) Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) 
listed in recognized stock exchanges overseas or (c) unlisted 
overseas securities (not exceeding 10% of their net assets).   

 
3.  Limits for Investment in Overseas Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs): 

The overall ceiling for investment in overseas ETFs that  invest in securities 
is US $ 1 billion subject to a maximum of US $ 50 million per mutual fund. 

 

 
4.  Other Conditions: 
 

Apart  from  applicability  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  and 
guidelines  issued  from  time  to  time,  the  mutual  funds  shall  adhere  to  the 
following specific guidelines for making overseas investments by the mutual 
fund schemes:  
  

a.  Appointment of a Dedicated Fund Manager 

 
The  Mutual  Fund  shall  appoint  a  Dedicated  Fund  Manager  for  making 
overseas investments stipulated under para 2 (i)–(ix) above.  

 
b.  Due Diligence 

 
Boards  of  Asset  Management  Companies  (AMCs)  and  Trustees  shall 
exercise due diligence in making investment decisions. They shall make 
a detailed analysis of risks and returns of overseas investment and how 
these investments would be in the interest of investors. Investment must 
be made in liquid actively traded securities/instruments.  

Boards  of  AMCs  and  Trustees  may  prescribe  detailed  parameters  for 
making  such  investments  which  may  include  identification  of  countries, 
country rating, country limits, etc. They shall satisfy themselves that the 
AMC  has  experienced  key  personnel, 
facilities  and 
infrastructure  for  making  such  investments.  Other  specialised  agencies 
and service providers associated with such investments e.g. custodian, 
bank,  advisors,  etc  should  also  have  adequate  expertise  and 

research 

2 

   

 

 

infrastructure  facilities.  Their  past  track  record  of  performance  and 
regulatory  compliance  record,  if  they  are  registered  with  foreign 
regulators,  may  also  be  considered.  Necessary  agreements  may  be 
entered into with them as considered necessary.  
 
All  investment  decisions  shall  be  recorded  in  accordance  with  SEBI 
circular dated July 27, 2000.  

 
c.  Disclosure Requirements  

 
The  following  disclosure  requirements  shall  be  mandatory  for  mutual 
fund schemes proposing overseas investments. 
  
i. 

Intention to invest in foreign securities/ ETFs shall be disclosed in the 
offer  documents  of  the  schemes.  The  attendant  risk  factors  and 
returns  ensuing  from  such  investments  shall  be  explained  clearly  in 
offer documents. The mutual funds shall also disclose as to how such 
investments will help in the furtherance of the investment objectives 
of 
language 
comprehensible to an average investor in mutual funds.  

the  schemes.  Such  disclosures  shall  be 

in  a 

ii.  The  mutual  funds  shall  disclose  the  name  of  the  Dedicated  Fund 
Manager  for  making  overseas  investments  stipulated  under  para  2 
(i)–(ix) above. 

iii.  The mutual funds shall disclose exposure limits i.e. the percentage of 

assets of the scheme they would invest in foreign securities/ ETFs.  

iv.  Such  investments  shall  be  disclosed  while  disclosing  half-yearly 
portfolios  in  the  prescribed  format  by  making  a  separate  heading 
"Foreign  Securities/overseas  ETFs."  Scheme-wise  percentage  of 
investments  made  in  such  securities  shall  be  disclosed  while 
publishing half-yearly results in the prescribed format, as a footnote.  

 
d. 

 

 

Investment by Existing Schemes:  

Existing schemes of mutual funds where the offer document provides 
for investment in foreign securities and attendant risk factors but which 
have not yet invested, may invest in foreign securities, consistent with 
the  investment  objectives  of  the  schemes,  provided  that  for  making 
overseas  investments  stipulated  under  para  2  (i)–(ix)  above  a 
Dedicated Fund Manager has been appointed. Additional disclosure as 
specified above shall be included by way of addendum and unit holders 
will be informed accordingly.   

In case the offer document of an existing scheme does not provide for 
overseas  investment,  the  scheme,  if  it  so  desires,  may  make  such 
investments in accordance with these guidelines, provided that: prior to 
overseas  investments  for  the  first  time,  the  AMC  shall  ensure  that  a 

 

3 

 

written communication about the proposed investment is sent to each 
unitholder  and  an  advertisement  is  given  in  one  English  daily 
newspaper  having  nationwide  circulation  as  well  as  in  a  newspaper 
published in the language of the region where the Head Office of the 
mutual  fund  is  situated.  The  communication  to  unitholders  shall  also 
disclose the risk factors associated with such investments. 

e.  Reporting to Trustees :  

The  AMCs  shall  send  detailed  periodical  reports  to  the  Trustees 
which shall include the following aspects:  
i.  Performance of overseas investments.  
ii.  Amount  invested  in  various  schemes  and  any  breach  of  the 

exposure limit laid down in the scheme offer documents. 

f.  Review of Performance 

Boards  of  AMCs  and  Trustees  shall  review  the  performance  of 
schemes  making 
appropriate 
benchmark(s) as disclosed in the offer documents.  

investments  with 

overseas 

g.  Reporting to SEBI  

The Trustees shall offer their comments on the compliance of these 
guidelines in the half-yearly reports filed with SEBI.  

h.  Prudential Investment Norms 

Unless  otherwise  stated  in  the  instant  circular,  the  investment 
restrictions specified in the Seventh Schedule to SEBI (Mutual Funds) 
Regulations,  1996  shall  be  applicable 
regarding  overseas 
investments stipulated under para 2(i)-(ix) above. 

It  is  clarified  that  Clause  4  of  Seventh  Schedule  to  SEBI  (Mutual 
Funds) Regulations, 1996 which restricts investments in mutual fund 
units upto 5% of net assets and prohibits charging of fees, shall not 
be  applicable  to  investments  in  mutual  funds  in  foreign  countries 
made  in  accordance  with  guidelines  as  per  aforesaid  circular. 
However, please note that the management fees and other expenses 
charged  by  the  mutual  fund(s)  in  foreign  countries  along  with  the 
management  fee  and  recurring  expenses  charged  to  the  domestic 
mutual fund scheme shall not exceed the total limits on expenses as 
prescribed  under  Regulation  52(6).  Where  the  scheme  is  investing 
only a part of the net assets in the overseas mutual fund(s), the same 
principle shall be applicable for that part of investment. The details of 
calculation  for  charging  such  expenses  shall  be  reported  to  the 

4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Boards  of  AMC  and  Trustees  and  shall  also  be  disclosed  in  the 
Annual Report of the scheme. 

 
5.  SEBI  Circulars  SEBI/IMD/CIR  No.7/73202/06  dated  August  2,  2006, 
SEBI/IMD/CIR No.13/83589/07 dated January 4, 2007 and SEBI/IMD/ CIR 
No.3/93334/07  dated  May  14,  2007  pertaining  to  investment  by  mutual 
funds in ADRs/ GDRs/ foreign securities stand withdrawn. 

 
6.  The procedure for applying to SEBI for making investments in ADRs/ GDRs/ 
foreign  securities  and  overseas  ETFs  is  given  in  the  Annexure.  The 
application  shall  be  made  in  advance  of  making  investments  in  foreign 
securities.  On  receipt  of  approval,  intimation  may  be  sent  by  the  AMC  to 
Overseas Investment Division, Foreign Exchange Department, RBI. 

 
7.  These guidelines are issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 
11(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with the 
provisions  of  Regulation  77  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  to 
protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
R. K. Nair 
 
Encl: a/a 
 

 

5 

 
PROPOSAL FOR INVESTMENTS IN ADRs/GDRs/ FOREIGN SECURITIES / OVERSEAS 
ETFs 

 
 
ANNEXURE 

Name of the Mutual Fund: 

SEBI Registration No.: 

Amount  Proposed  to  be  Invested  in  ADRs  /GDRs  /Foreign 
Securities / Overseas ETFs (in US $)  

  

  

 

Schemes  of  the  Mutual  Fund  through  which  investment  is 
proposed:  

Name and Type of scheme(s) 

Whether  the  investment  is  consistent  with  the  Investment 
Objectives of the Scheme (s); 

Whether 
the  offer  document(s)  provides 
Investments and discloses the attendant risks 

for  Overseas 

Name and Address of the branch of the bank through which 
Foreign Currency Transactions are to be routed: 

Details  of  all  overseas  service  providers  proposed  to  be 
engaged  including  custodians,  specialised  agencies  etc. 
(Details  must  include  name  &  address,  services  to  be 
rendered, details of fee arrangement proposed, whether their 
track  record  of  performance  and  regulatory  compliance 
considered,  their  valid  registration  with  overseas  regulators, 
details 
under 
management/custody, etc.) 

experience/expertise, 

assets 

of 

 

  

  

  

Declaration  
1.  Boards of AMC and Trustees have exercised due diligence as required under Regulation 

25(2) and Guidelines issued in this regard.  
2. Board of AMC and Trustees are satisfied that 

 
 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

The  proposed  investments  in  ADRs/GDRs  issued  by  Indian  or  foreign  companies  or 
foreign securities or overseas ETFs are consistent with the investment objectives of the 
above mentioned scheme(s) and are in the interest of investors.  
The  systems  and  procedures  adopted  by  the  AMC  including  the  arrangements  made 
with the overseas service providers are adequate to support such investments and to 
safeguard the interest of investors.  
The  overseas  service  providers  have  sufficient  experience,  competence  and  a 
satisfactory track record of performance and regulatory compliance.  

A resolution to the above effect has been passed by the Boards of AMC and Trustees on… ….  
(dates) 
Place:                                                                                     Signatures  
                                                                                                Name:  
Date:                                                                                     Designation:  
 

(Authorised by Trustees) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 

 

 

7 

