 
 
GENERAL MANAGER 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 

 
SEBI/VCF/Cir no. 1/ 98645 /2007 
August 09, 2007 

To  
 
All Venture Capital Funds Registered with SEBI 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub: Guidelines for Overseas Investments by Venture Capital Funds 
 
1.  SEBI  registered  Venture  Capital  Fund  (VCFs)  are  permitted  to  invest  in 
securities  of  foreign  companies  in  terms  of  regulation  12(ba)  of  the  SEBI 
(Venture Capital Funds) Regulations 1996. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide 
its Circulars dated April 30, 2007 and May 04,2007, issued in this regard, has 
permitted these VCFs to invest in equity and equity linked instruments only of 
off-shore  venture  capital  undertakings,  subject  to  overall  limit  of  USD  500 
million and applicable SEBI regulations. 

 
2.  Accordingly,  SEBI  registered  VCFs,  desirous  of  making  investments  in  off-
shore Venture Capital Undertakings may submit their proposal for investment 
(in  the  attached  format)  to  SEBI  for  its  prior  approval.  It  is  clarified  that  no 
separate permission from RBI is necessary in this regard. 

 
3.  For the purpose of such investment, it is clarified that – 
 

i.  “Offshore Venture Capital Undertakings” means a foreign company whose 
shares are not listed on any of the recognized stock exchange in India or 
abroad. 

 
ii.  Investments  would  be  made  only  in  those  companies  which  have  an 
Indian connection (i.e. company which has a front office overseas, while 
back office operations are in India) and such investments would be upto 
10% of the investible funds of a VCF. 

iii.  The  allocation  of  investment  limits  would  be  done  on  ‘first  come-  first 
serve’  basis, depending on the availability in the overall limit of USD 500 
million.  

iv.  It is clarified that in case a VCF who is allocated certain investment limit, 
wishes  to  apply  for  allocation  of  further  investment  limit,  the  fresh 
application shall be dealt with on the basis of the date of its receipt and no 
preference shall be granted to it in fresh allocation of investment limit. 

 

 

v.  An applicant VCF shall have a time limit of 6 months for making allocated 
investments in offshore venture capital undertakings. In case the applicant 
does  not  utilize  the  limits  allocated  in  the  stipulated  period  of  6  months 
from  the  date  of  its  approval,  SEBI  may  allocate  such  unutilized  limit  to 
other VCFs/applicants whose applications are pending with it. 

 
4.  These investments would be subject to necessary amendments to Notification 
No. FEMA120/RB-2004 dated July 7, 2004 [Foreign Exchange Management 
(Transfer or Issue of Any Foreign Security) Regulations, 2004], and will also 
be governed by the related directions issued by the RBI from time to time. 

 
5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred under sub-
section (1) of Section 11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992  and  is  without  prejudice  to  compliances/permissions/approvals, if  any, 
required under any other law. 

 

 

 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Satya Ranjan Prasad 
 

 

 
 

To 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Mumbai 

Name of the Venture Capital Fund 
SEBI Registration No. 
Amount  proposed  to  be  invested  in 
Offshore Venture Capital Undertaking -
in USD 
Total  Investible  corpus  of  the  Fund -in 
USD. 
Name and Address of the branch of the 
bank  through  which  Foreign  Currency 
Transaction are proposed to made 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

Proposal for Overseas Investment by Venture Capital Funds 

Annexure 

 
Declaration: 
 

1.  Board of Trustees/Trustees have exercised due diligence with respect to 

the investment decision. 

 
2.  Boards of Trustees/Trustees are satisfied that the proposed investments 
in  foreign  companies  are  consistent  with  the  investment  objective  of  the 
scheme. 

 
A  resolution  to  the  above  effect  has  been  passed  by  the  Boards  of 
Trustees/Trustees on   --------------------------------. 
 
 
 
Name:                                                                  Signature: 
 
 
Place: 
 
Date:  
 

