DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 
 

 
All Mutual Funds Registered with SEBI 
Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) 

 Sir/Madam, 

SEBI/IMD/CIR No. 12/147132/08 
December 11, 2008 

 Sub: Review of Provisions relating to Close Ended Schemes  

In  order  to  further  strengthen  the  framework  for  close  ended  schemes,  it  has  been 
decided that for all close ended schemes (except Equity Linked Savings Schemes) to be 
launched on or after December 12, 2008: 
 

1.  The units shall be mandatorily listed. The provisions in the SEBI (Mutual Funds) 
Regulations, 1996 regarding repurchase and re-issue and exemption from listing 
of units of close ended scheme would be suitably amended in due course. 

 
2.  Listing  fees  shall  be  a  permissible  expense  to  be  charged  under  Regulation 

3.  Trustees shall ensure that before launch of the scheme the in-principle approval 
for  listing  has  been  obtained  from  the  stock  exchange(s)  and  appropriate 
disclosures are made in the Scheme Information Document. 

4.  NAV shall be computed and published on daily basis.  

 
 
It  has  also  been  decided  that  a  close  ended  debt  scheme  shall  invest  only  in  such 
securities which mature on or before the date of the maturity of the scheme. 
 
Schemes  for  which  observations  (final)  under  Regulation  29  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds) 
Regulations,  1996  have  been  issued  but  are  yet  to  be  launched  would  be  required  to 
carry  out  the  changes  in  Scheme  Information  Document  and  file  the  same  with  SEBI 
before the launch.  
 
This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  (1)  of  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation  77  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996,  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities 
market. 

52(4). 

 

 

 Yours faithfully, 

 
Ruchi Chojer 
 

 
 

