GENERAL MANAGER 
Market Intermediaries Regulation & Supervision Department 
Division of Policy - II 

 
Cir. No. MIRSD/DPS-2/MB/Cir-16/2008 
May    6  , 2008 

 
To 

All Merchant Bankers 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub:  Reporting of information on a half yearly basis 

1.  In  terms  of  the  provisions  of  Clause  16.3.2.1  of  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and 
Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 read with the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Merchant bankers) Regulations, 1992, Merchant Bankers are 
required to submit the half - yearly report in the format specified at Schedule 
XXVII  of  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000 
relating to their merchant banking activities. 

 
2.  Currently, the Merchant Bankers are submitting the half-yearly reports in hard 
copy.  It  has  now  been  decided  that  beginning  from  the  half  year  ended 
September  30,  2008,  the  Merchant  Bankers  shall  submit  the  half-yearly 
reports to SEBI in electronic form only and the submission of such reports in 
hard  copy  shall  be  dispensed  with.  Henceforth,  the  Merchant  bankers  are 
advised to submit the half-yearly reports for the period ended March 31 and 
September  30  in  the  prescribed  format  to  e-mail  id  mb@sebi.gov.in  in  pdf 
and excel format. Thus, Merchant Bankers shall submit two files by e-mail – 
one file in pdf format and the other in excel format on a half-yearly basis.  

 
 
3.  The pdf/excel  files containing the half-yearly report shall  be sent to email  id  

mb@sebi.gov.in  with the title “Half-yearly report submitted by aaa for the  

Page 1 of 2 

 
half-year ended xxx yyyy” where aaa represents the name of the   Merchant 
Banker,  xxx  represents  the  month  at  the  end  of  the  half-year  and  yyyy 
represents  the  year.  Also,  the  attached    pdf/excel  file  containing  the  half-
yearly report shall  bear the name of the   Merchant Banker, the periodicity of 
the  report  as  well  as    the  month  at  the  end  of  the  half-year    and  the 
corresponding  year.    For  example,  if    a    Merchant  Banker  ABC  Limited 
submits  the  report  for  the  half  year  ended  September  ,  2008,  the  report 
submitted to mb@sebi.gov.in shall bear the title “Half-yearly report submitted 
by  ABC  Limited  for  the  half-year  ended  September  2008”  and  the  attached 
pdf/excel  file  shall  bear  the  name  “ABCLimitedhalfyearlySeptember2008”.  
The reports submitted shall also be duly certified by the compliance officer. 

 
4.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under 
Section 11 (1) of Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. Copy of 
the circular is also available on SEBI web-site www.sebi.gov.in.  

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Suresh B. Menon 
 

Page 2 of 2 

