 

 
 

Securities  and Exchange Board of India 

Circular No. EFD/ED/Cir-1/2007

 

20th April 2007 
 

        Sub: Guidelines for  

(i)    Consent Orders and  
(ii)   For considering  requests for composition of offences  
 

      under SEBI Act, SC(R) Act and Depositories Act 
 

1.  Under  the  SEBI  Act,1992,  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,1956  (SCRA)  and  the 
Depositories  Act,  1996,  SEBI  pursues  two  streams  of  enforcement  actions  i.e. 
Administrative/Civil or  Criminal. Administrative/civil actions include issuing directions 
such as remedial orders, cease and desist orders, suspension or cancellation of certificate of 
registration  and  imposition  of  monetry  penalty  under  the  respective  statutes  and  action 
pursued  or  defended  in  a  court  of  law/tribunal.  Criminal  action  involves  initiating 
prosecution proceedings against violators  by filing complaint before a  criminal court.  

2.  The Parliament of India has recognised the powers of SEBI to pass consent orders under 
the  SEBI  Act  and  the  Depositories  Act.  This  will  of  the  Parliament  is  apparent  from 
Section  15T  of  the  SEBI  Act  1992  and  section  23  A  of  the  Depositories  Act.  Further, 
section  24A  of  the  SEBI  Act,  section  23N  of  the  SCRA  and  section  22A  of  the 
Depositories Act permit composition of offences.  

3.  Consent orders cannot be construed as waiver of statutory powers by the Board. The Board 
always has the right to proceed for appropriate action if it cannot achieve its objectives 
through a consent order. 

4.  US  Securities  and  Exchange  Commision  settles  a  substantial  number  (over  90%)  of 
administrative/civil  cases  by  consent  orders.  Consent  orders  may  provide  flexibility  of 
wider  array  of  enforcement  actions  which  will  achieve  the  twin  goals  of  an  appropriate 
sanction  and  deterrance  without 
litigation  before 
SEBI/Tribunal/Courts.  Passing  of  consent  orders  will  also  reduce    regulatory  costs  and 
would save time and efforts taken in pursuing enforcement actions. This effort could more 
effectively be used for pursuing cases which require the full process of enforcement action 
and for policy work.  

long  drawn 

resorting 

to  a 

 

 

 

-1- 

           

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

