 
 
Chief General Manager 
Market Regulation Department-Division of Policy 
E-mail: mdrao@sebi.gov.in 

 
MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-13/2008 
May 05, 2008 

  
The Executive Directors/Managing Directors 
of all Stock Exchanges 
 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
  
Sub: Comprehensive Risk Management Framework for the cash market 
  
1.  This is in continuation to circulars MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-07/2005 dated February 
23,  2005,  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-06/2008  dated  March  19,  2008  and 
MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-10/2008  dated  April  17,  2008  on  the  comprehensive  risk 
management for the cash market and margining of institutional trades in the 
cash market. 

 
2.  In order to  improve the efficiency of the use of the margin capital by market 
participants and as an initial step  towards cross margining across cash and 
derivatives markets, margins shall be levied on cash market positions which 
have  off-setting  stock  futures  positions  in  the  derivatives  market  as  given 
below: 

 

 
 
 
 

a.  Cross margin facility will be available initially for institutional trades.  
b.  Cross  margin  facility  will  be  available  to  positions  in  cash  market 
having  corresponding  off-setting  positions  in  the  stock  futures 
market.  

c.  For  positions  in  the  cash  market  which  have  corresponding  off-
setting positions in the stock futures, VaR margin shall not be levied 
on  the  cash  market  position  to  the  extent  of  the  off-setting  stock 
futures market position.  

d.  Extreme Loss Margin and Market to Market Margin shall continue 

to be levied on the entire cash market position 

e.  Near  month  stock  futures  positions  shall  not  be  considered  for 
cross margin benefit three days prior to expiry (as currently being 
done in the case of calendar spread.)  

f.  There will be no change in the margins on the F&O positions. 

..2/- 

: 2 : 

 
 
 
3.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to:  

a.  put  in  place  the  adequate  systems  and  issue  the  necessary 

guidelines for implementing the above decision.  

 
b.  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 

regulations for the implementation of the above decision.  

 
 

 

 

c.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  member 
brokers/clearing members of the Exchange and also to disseminate 
the same on the website.  

d.  communicate  to  SEBI  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the 

provisions of this circular in the Monthly Development Report.  

 
4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 
(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market.  

  
 
Yours faithfully, 
  
 
 
S V MURALI DHAR RAO 
 

