¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

           November 01, 2010 

 

 

             

Cir/ OIAE / IAD / 01 /2010   
 
 
To 
 
All Investor Associations recognised by SEBI  
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 

Sub: Code of Conduct for Investor Associations (IAs) 

1.  In  consultation  with  SEBI  recognised  Investor  Associations,  it  has  been 
decided that they shall abide by the enclosed code of conduct. It has also 
been  decided  that  every  SEBI  recognised  Investor  Association  shall 
submit a letter of compliance with this code of conduct every year in the 
first week of April for the preceding financial year and also along with the 
application for renewal of recognition.  

 
2.  A  copy 

www.investor.sebi.gov.in. 

the  circular 

is  made  available  on 

the 

investor  website, 

3.  This  circular  has  been  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under 
section 11(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to 
protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
G.P.Garg 
Chief General Manager 
 022-26449400 
gpg@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

 

 
 

 

  
 

Encl: as above  
 

Code of Conduct for Investor Associations recognised by SEBI 

 

1.  The main objective of any IA shall be  
i.  To educate the investors  
ii.  To Create awareness among investors  
iii.  To protect the interest of  the investors  

2.  The Association shall disclose its objectives and limitations if any, to all its members.  
3.  The Association shall observe the highest standard of honesty, integrity and fairness 
in  conducting  its  affairs  and  discharging  its  duties  to  the  investors  and  regulatory 
authorities. 

4.  The  Association shall  be  manned  by  people  with  appropriate  level  of  knowledge, 

competency, skill and experience.   

5.  The  Association shall  establish  and  maintain  adequate  infrastructural  facility  to  be 

able to discharge services to the investors adequately. 

6.  The Association shall abide by the provisions of the guidelines issued by SEBI from 

time to time. 

7.  The Association shall update themselves with the latest developments including the 
regulatory changes in the securities market and disseminate the same to the investors 
8.  The Association shall be impartial and professional in their approach and shall ensure 
that the conduct of its committee does not bring any discredit to the Board at any point 
of time. 

9.  The  Association  shall  ensure  that  all  the  records  are  properly  maintained  and 

documented and the record keeping is backed by operation manuals.  

10.  The Association shall not make any untrue statement or suppress any material fact in 

documents, reports or information furnished to the Board. 

11. The  Association  shall  ensure  that  only  members  of  the  executive  committee/ 

governing board represent the IA for meetings / any representation to the Board. 

12.  The  Association  shall  ensure  that  no  person  against  whom  an  adverse  order  has 

been passed by the Board shall hold a position in any capacity in the association. 

13.  The Association shall cooperate and support each other and SEBI in their activities 

and initiatives to the extent possible so as to protect the interests of the investors.  

14. The Association shall not recommend or otherwise promote any issuer, securities or 

intermediary or act as an agent of any issuer, intermediary or listed company. 

************ 

 

