All Mutual Funds Registered with SEBI 
Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) 

 Sir/ Madam, 

SEBI/IMD/CIR No. 11/142521/08 
October 24, 2008 

 Re.:  Applicability  of  Net  Asset  Value  (NAV)  for  Income/Debt  oriented  Mutual 

Fund scheme(s)/plan(s) (other than liquid fund schemes). 

1.  Please refer to SEBI Circular SEBI/IMD/CIR No.11/78450/06 dated October 
11, 2006 on the “Uniform cut-off timings for applicability of Net Asset Value 
(NAV) of Mutual Fund Scheme(s)/ plan(s)”. 

 
2.  The issue of applicability of NAV on realisation basis in case of Income/Debt 
oriented schemes (other than liquid fund schemes) was discussed with AMFI 
and in the Mutual Fund Advisory Committee.  It was felt that steps need to be 
initiated to harmonise the NAV applicability with the realisation of money and 
to move away from the NAV based on the application date. 

 
3.  In view of the same, it has been decided to modify the guidelines specified in 
the  aforementioned  circular  in  case  of  large  applications  for  purchase  of 
Income/ Debt oriented schemes other than liquid fund schemes by inserting a 
clause 6 (2)(A) after clause 6(2) as under: 

“(2)(A) In respect of purchase of units in Income/ Debt oriented schemes 
(other than liquid fund schemes and plans) with amount equal to or more 
than  Rs.  1  crore,  irrespective  of  the  time  of  receipt  of  application,  the 
closing  NAV  of  the  day  on  which  the  funds  are  available  for  utilisation 
shall be applicable.” 

 
4.  All  other  conditions  specified  in  the  above  mentioned  circular  remain 

unchanged.  

 
5.  This circular effective from October 30, 2008 is issued in exercise of powers 
conferred under Section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992, read with the provisions of Regulation 77 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) 
Regulations,  1996,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 

 

 

 Yours faithfully, 

 

 Ruchi Chojer 

 

