 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

November 9, 2010 

CIR/IMD/DF/17/2010 
 
  
All Mutual Funds/ Asset Management Companies (AMCs)/  
Recognised Stock Exchanges/ Depositories / 
Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents 
 
Sir / Madam,  
 
Sub:  Facilitating  transactions  in  Mutual  Fund  schemes  through  the  Stock 
Exchange infrastructure  
 

1.  SEBI  vide  circular  SEBI  /IMD  /  CIR  No.11/183204/  2009  dated  November  13,  2009  has  permitted 
units of mutual fund schemes to be transacted through registered stock brokers of recognized stock 
exchanges.  

In order to provide more avenues for purchasing and redeeming Mutual Fund units, in addition to the 
existing facilities of purchasing and redeeming directly with the Mutual Funds and Stock Brokers, it 
has been decided :  

2.1  that  units  of  mutual  funds  schemes  may  be  permitted  to  be  transacted  through  clearing 

members of the registered Stock Exchanges.  

 
2.2  to permit Depository participants of registered Depositories to process only redemption request 

of units held in demat form. 

3.  The following has been decided with respect to investors having demat account and  purchasing and 

redeeming mutual funds units through stock brokers and clearing members: 

 
2. 

 

 

 

 

3.1  Investors  shall  receive  redemption  amount  (if  units  are  redeemed)  and  units  (if  units  are 
purchased)  through  broker/clearing  member’s  pool  account.  Mutual  Funds(MF)/  Asset 
management Companies(AMC)  would pay proceeds to the broker/clearing member (in case of 
redemption) and broker/clearing member in turn to the respective investor and similarly units 
shall be credited by MF/AMC into broker/clearing member’s pool account (in case of purchase) 
and broker/clearing member in turn to the respective investor.  

 
3.2 Payment of redemption proceeds to the broker/clearing members by MF/AMC shall discharge 
MF/AMC  of  its  obligation  of  payment  to  individual  investor.  Similarly,  in  case  of  purchase  of 
units, crediting units into broker/clearing member pool account shall discharge MF/AMC of its 
obligation to allot units to individual investor. 

 

4. The following may be noted in this regard: 

 
4.1 Clearing members and Depository participants will be eligible to be considered as official points 
of acceptance as per SEBI Circular No. SEBI/IMD/CIR No.11/78450/06 dated October 11, 2006 
and  conditions  stipulated  in  SEBI  Circular  dated  November  13,  2009  for  stock  brokers  Viz.  
AMFI  /NISM  certification,  code  of  conduct  prescribed  by  SEBI  for  Intermediaries  of  Mutual 
Fund, shall be applicable for such Clearing members and Depository participants   as well. 

 
4.2 Stock exchanges and Depositories shall provide investor grievance handling mechanism to the 
extent they relate to disputes between their respective regulated entity and their client and shall 
also  monitor 
the  SEBI  Circulars 
MFD/CIR/20/23230/02 dated November 28, 2002 and SEBI/IMD/08/174648/2009 dated August 
27, 2009 regarding empanelment and code of conduct for intermediaries of Mutual Funds. 
 

the  compliance  of  code  of  conduct  specified 

in 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

5.  The  respective  stock  exchanges  and  Depositories  would  provide  detailed  operating  guidelines  to 
facilitate the above and ensure that timelines prescribed under SEBI (Mutual Fund) Regulations, 1996 
shall  be  adhered  to  with  regard  to  allotment  of  units  and  receipt  of  redemption  proceeds  at  the 
investor’s level.  

 
6.    This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  (1)  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the provisions of Regulation 77 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) 
Regulations, 1996, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, 
and to regulate the securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully 
 
 
 
RUCHI CHOJER 
DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
Tel no. 022-26449310 
Email-ruchic@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

 

