Neelam Bhardwaj 
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing 

SEBI/CFD/DIL/DIP/28/2007/29/11 

November 29, 2007 

 

 

To All Registered Merchant Bankers / Stock Exchanges 

 

Dear Sirs, 

 

Sub.:  Amendments  to  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines, 

2000.  

 

1. 

In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  sub-section  (1)  of  Section  11  of  the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, it has been decided to amend 

the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000  (hereinafter 

referred to as “SEBI (DIP) Guidelines”). 

  

2. 

 

The  full  text  of  amendments  is  given  in  Annexure  I  and  the  amendments  are 

given in brief as under: 

(i) 

Introduction of Fast Track Issues (FTIs)  

 

(a)  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines  presently  enable  a  listed  company,  which  satisfies 

certain specified requirements, to prepare a draft offer document containing 

rationalised disclosures, as against comprehensive disclosures for an IPO. 

The  draft  offer  document  is,  however,  processed  by  SEBI  and  stock 

exchanges in a manner similar to that of a draft IPO document.  

 

(b) 

It is felt that there is a need to enable well established and compliant listed 

companies  to  access  Indian  primary  market  in  a  time  effective  manner 

through  follow-on  public  offerings  and  rights  issues.    Accordingly,  it  has 

been  decided  to  enable  listed  companies  satisfying  certain  specified 

requirements to make Fast Track Issues (FTIs).  

 

(c)  The  amendments  made  vide  this  circular  enable such  listed  companies  to 

proceed  with  follow-on  public  offering  /  rights  issue  by  filing  a  copy  of  the 

Red Herring Prospectus (in case of book built issue) / Prospectus (in case 

2 

 

of fixed price issue) registered with the Registrar of Companies or the letter 

of  offer  filed  with  Designated  Stock  Exchange,  as  the  case  may  be,  with 

SEBI  and  stock  exchanges.  Such  companies  are  not  required  to  file  draft 

offer document with SEBI and stock exchanges.  

  

(ii)  Amendments to Guidelines on Issue of Indian Depository receipts (IDRs)  

 

Presently, SEBI (DIP) Guidelines provide that only Qualified Institutional Buyers 

(QIBs)  can apply  in  an  IPO  of  IDRs.  It has  been  decided  to  amend  SEBI  (DIP) 

Guidelines to allow  all categories of investors to apply in IDR issues, subject to 

(i) at least 50% of the issue being subscribed by QIBs, and (ii) the balance being 

made available for subscription to other categories of investors at the discretion 

of  the  issuer,  which  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  prospectus.  Further,  it  has  been 

decided to reduce the minimum application value in IDR  from Rs. 2,00,000/- to 

Rs.  20,000/-  and  to  carry  out  certain  consequential  amendments  to  SEBI  (DIP) 

Guidelines  pursuant  to  amendments  to  IDR  rules  by  the  Ministry  of  Corporate 

Affairs.  

 

(iii)  Quoting of PAN mandatory  

 

 

Presently, as per SEBI (DIP) Guidelines, all applicants in public and rights issues 

are required to disclose their PAN/GIR in the application form if they are making 

an application for a value exceeding Rs. 50,000/-. It has been decided to extend 

the requirement of quoting PAN in application forms to all applicants, irrespective 

of the application value.  

(iv)  Discount in issue price for retail investors / retail shareholders   

 

Presently,  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines  do  not  provide  for  issuance  of  shares  at 

differential price to investors within the net public offer category. SEBI has been 

receiving  requests  to  permit  issuance  of  shares  to  retail  individual  investors  / 

retail  individual  shareholders  at  a  price  lower  than  that  being  offered  to  other 

categories.  It  has  now  been  decided  to  introduce  a  provision  in  SEBI  (DIP) 

Guidelines,  permitting  companies  making  public  issues  to  issue  securities  to 

retail  individual  investors  /  retail  individual  shareholders  at  a  discounted  price, 

3 

 

provided that such discount does not exceed 10% of the price at which securities 

are issued to other categories of public. 

  

(v)  Definition of “Retail individual shareholder” for listed companies 

  

 

Presently,  listed  companies  making  public  issues  can  make  reservation  on 

competitive  basis  for  its  existing  shareholders  who,  as  on  the  record  date,  are 

holding shares worth up to Rs. 50,000/-. However, no limit has been set on the 

value of the application that can be made by such shareholders. It has now been 

decided to define the term “Retail Individual Shareholder” to mean a shareholder 

(i)  whose  shareholding  is  of  value  not  exceeding  Rs.  1,00,000/-  as  on  the  day 

immediately preceding the record date, and (ii) who makes application or bids in 

a public issue for value not exceeding Rs 1,00,000/-. 

(vi)  Clarification on the term CEO / CFO 

 

SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines  requires  all  directors,  CEO  and  CFO  of  the  issuer 

company  to  certify  that  disclosures  made  in  the  offer  document  are  true  and 

correct.  It  is  now  clarified  that  the  terms  “CEO”  and  “CFO”  in  SEBI  (DIP) 

Guidelines shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in clause 49 of the 

Equity Listing Agreement. 

  

(vii)  Deletion  of  the  chapter  on  “Guidelines  for  Issue  of  Capital  by  Designated 

Financial Institutions (DFIs)” 

 

SEBI had introduced separate guidelines in 1992 for primary issuances by DFIs, 

to  place  companies  /  corporations  /  institutions  engaged  mainly  in  financing  of 

developmental  activities  and  playing  a  catalytic  role  in  the  infrastructure 

development  of  the  country  on  a  different  footing.  Presently,  DFIs  operationally 

compete  on  equal  footing  with  private  entities  and  it  is  felt  that  DFIs,  as  a 

concept,  may  have  outlived  its  utility.  It  has  therefore  been  decided  to  remove 

the special dispensations given to DFIs by deleting the chapter on “Guidelines for 

Issue of Capital by DFIs” from SEBI (DIP) Guidelines. 

 

 

 

 

4 

(viii)  Monitoring of issue proceeds 

 

 

Presently,  as  per SEBI (DIP) Guidelines, every  issuer making  an issue of more 

than Rs. 500 crores is required to appoint a monitoring agency, which is required 

to file a monitoring report with SEBI for record purpose. It has been decided that 

this  provision  shall  not  apply  to  (i)  issues  by  banks  and  public  financial 

institutions  and  (ii)  offers  for  sale.  Further,  it  has  been  decided  that  the 

monitoring agency shall henceforth be required to file the monitoring report with 

the issuer company and not with SEBI, so as to enable the company to place the 

report before its Audit committee. 

(ix)  Amendments to Guidelines for Preferential Issues  

 

It  has  been  decided  that  listed  companies  intending  to  make  preferential 

allotment  shall  be  required  to  obtain  PAN  of  each  of  the  applicants  of  the 

preferential issue before making the preferential allotment.  

 

(x)  Miscellaneous amendments 

 

  

(a)  SEBI  issues  standard  observations  as  a  supplement  to  issue-specific 

observations  on  each  and  every  draft  offer  document  filed  with  SEBI. 

These  standard  observations  are  being 

rationalised 

/ 

reviewed. 

Accordingly,  it  has  been  decided  to  amend  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines  to 

incorporate  certain  clauses  from  the  standard  observations,  essentially 

those  pertaining  to  confirmations,  undertakings,  documents,  information, 

etc.,  to  be  submitted  by  the  Lead  Manager/s  to  the  Issue  while  filing  an 

offer document with SEBI. Lead Managers shall also be required to file as 

an annexure to the due diligence certificate, a detailed check list indicating 

compliance  of  each  of  the  clauses  of  the  relevant  chapters  of  SEBI  (DIP) 

Guidelines.  

(b)  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines  contain  certain  provisions,  which  have  become 

redundant  or  need  to  be  aligned  with  other  provisions  of  SEBI  (DIP) 

Guidelines  /  the  Companies  Act,  1956  or  in  respect  of  which,  there  have 

been  requests  for  exemption  on  regular  basis.  Consequently,  it  has  been 

decided to fine-tune the guidelines by modifying such clauses. 

 

5 

3.  Applicability  

 

3.1 

The amendments made vide this circular shall be applicable as under: 

 

 

(i)  Amendments  to  clauses  6.8.3.2,  6.8.4.6,  6.13.2.17,  6.19.2  and  8.3.4  shall 

be applicable to all prospectuses and Red Herring Prospectuses registered 

with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  or  letters  of  offer  filed  with  stock 

exchanges on or after the date of this circular.          

 

(ii)  Amendments to clauses 5.3.3, 6.8.4.1 and 6.12.4 shall be applicable to all 

draft offer documents filed with SEBI after the date of this circular.  

(iii)  All other amendments shall come into force with immediate effect.  

 

4. 

This  circular  and  the  entire  text  of  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  including  the 

amendments  issued  vide  this  circular,  are  available  on  SEBI  website  at 

www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories  “Legal  Framework”  and  “Issues  and 

Listing”. 

 

5.  All  registered  merchant  bankers  are  directed  to  ensure  compliance  with  the 

applicable amendments made vide this circular. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Neelam Bhardwaj 

 

Encl.: Annexure I 

 

6 

ANNEXURE I 

 

AMENDMENTS TO SEBI (DIP) GUIDELINES, 2000 

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

 

1. 

In clause 1.2.1, after sub-clause (xiib), the following sub-clause shall be inserted, 

namely:- 

 

 

“xiic) 

“Fast  Track  Issue”  means  a  public  issue  or  rights  issue  made  by  a 

listed company which satisfies all the requirements of clause 2.1.2A.” 

2. 

In  clause  1.2.1,  after  sub-clause  (xxiv  a),  the  following  sub-clause  shall  be 

inserted, namely:- 

 

 

“xxiv b)  “Retail  Individual  Shareholder”  means  a  shareholder  of  a  listed 

company, who –  

a) 

as on the record date (i.e., the date fixed for the purpose of determining 

eligible  shareholders),  is  holding  shares  which,  on  the  basis  of  the 

closing price of the shares as on the previous day, are worth up to Rs. 

1,00,000/-; and  

b)  

applies  or  bids  for  securities  of  or  for  a  value  of  not  more  than  Rs. 

1,00,000/-.” 

 

 

CHAPTER II 

ELIGIBILITY NORMS FOR COMPANIES ISSUING SECURITIES 

3.  After clause 2.1.2, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“2.1.2A  Fast Track Issues 

 

2.1.2A.1 Nothing  contained  in  clauses  2.1.1  and  2.1.2  shall  apply  to  a  public 

issue  of  securities  by  a  listed  issuer  company  or  a  rights  issue  of 

securities  by  a  listed  issuer  company,  where  the  aggregate  value  of 

7 

 

 

(a) 

 

(b) 

 

(c) 

such  securities,  including  premium,  if  any,  exceeds  Rs.  50  lacs,  if  the 

following conditions are satisfied: 

The  shares  of  the  company  have  been  listed  on  any  stock  exchange 

having  nationwide  terminals  for  a  period  of  at  least  three  years 

immediately preceding the reference date; 

The  “average  market  capitalisation  of  public  shareholding”  of  the 

company is at least Rs. 10,000 crores for a period of one year up to the 

end of the quarter preceding the month in which the proposed issue is 

approved by the Board of Directors / shareholders of the issuer; 

The annualized trading turnover of the shares of the company during six 

calendar months immediately preceding the month of the reference date 

has been at least two percent of the weighted average number of shares 

listed during the said six months period; 

 

(d) 

The  company  has  redressed  at  least  95%  of  the  total  shareholder  / 

investor  grievances  or  complaints  received  till  the  end  of  the  quarter 

immediately preceding the month of the reference date; 

 

(e) 

The company has complied with the listing agreement for a period of at 

least three years immediately preceding the reference date; 

 

(f) 

 

(g) 

 

(h) 

The  impact  of  auditors’  qualifications,  if  any,  on the audited  accounts  of 

the company in respect of the financial years for which such accounts are 

disclosed in the offer document does not exceed 5% of the net profit/ loss 

after tax of the company for the respective years. 

No prosecution proceedings or show cause notices issued by the Board 

are pending against the company or its promoters or whole time directors 

as on the reference date; and  

The entire shareholding of the promoter group is held in dematerialised 

form as on the reference date. 

 

8 

 

Explanation: For the purposes of this clause: 

 

(a) 

“Reference date” shall mean: 

(i) 

in  case  of  a  public  issue  of  securities  by  a  listed  company 

satisfying  all  the  requirements  specified  in  this  clause,  the 

date of filing of red herring prospectus (in case of a book built 

issue)  or  prospectus  (in  case  of  a  fixed  price  issue)  with 

ROC; and  

 

(ii) 

in  case  of  a  rights  issue  of  securities  by  a  listed  company 

satisfying all the requirements specified in this clause, where 

the  aggregate  value  of  such  securities,  including  premium,  if 

any,  exceeds  Rs.  50  lacs,  the  date  of  filing  of  letter  of  offer 

with Designated Stock Exchange. 

 

(b) 

“Average  market  capitalisation  of  public  shareholding”  shall 

mean  the  sum  of  daily  market  capitalization  of  “public 

shareholding”  for  a  period  of  one  year  up  to  the  end  of  the 

quarter preceding the month in which the proposed issue was 

approved  by  the  Board/  shareholders,  as  the  case  may  be, 

divided  by  the  number  of  trading  days.  For  this  purpose, 

“public  shareholding”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as 

assigned to it in clause 40A of the Listing Agreement. 

 

2.1.2A.2  A  listed  issuer  company  satisfying  all  the  requirements  specified  in 

this clause and filing a red herring prospectus (in case of a book built 

issue) or prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) with ROC or letter 

of  offer  with  Designated  Stock  Exchange,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall 

simultaneously  with  such  filing  or  as  soon  thereafter  as  reasonably 

practicable, but in any case not later than the opening of the issue, file 

a copy thereof with the Board.” 

 

 

 

 

 

9 

 

CHAPTER III 

PRICING BY COMPANIES ISSUING SECURITIES 

 

4.  After clause 3.4.1, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“3.4.1A  An unlisted company or a listed company making a public issue of equity 

shares  or  securities  convertible  at  a  later  date  into  equity  shares  may 

issue  such  securities  to  retail  individual  investors  and/or  retail  individual 

shareholders at a price lower than the price at which net offer is made to 

other categories of public. 

 

Provided  that  the  difference  between  the  price  at  which  the  securities 

are 

issued 

to 

retail 

individual 

investors  and/or 

retail 

individual 

shareholders  and  the  price  at  which  the  net  offer  is  made  to  other 

categories of public, is not more than 10% of the price at which securities 

are offered to other categories of public.” 

 

5. 

In  clause  3.4.3,  for  the  words  and  figures  “sub-clause  3.4.1”,  the  words  and 

figures “sub-clauses 3.4.1 and 3.4.1A” shall be substituted. 

 

6. 

In  clause  3.4.4,  for  the  words  and  figures  “sub-clauses  3.4.1  and  3.4.2”,  the 

words and figures “sub-clauses 3.4.1, 3.4.1A and 3.4.2” shall be substituted. 

 

 

PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION AND LOCK-IN REQUIREMENTS 

CHAPTER IV 

 

PART II - LOCK-IN REQUIREMENTS 

 

7. 

For clause 4.0, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“4.0 

Promoters’  contribution  in  any  issue  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the 

following provisions as on –  

 

(i) 

the  date  of  filing  red  herring  prospectus  (in  case  of  a  book  built  issue)  or 

prospectus  (in  case  of  a  fixed  price  issue)  with  ROC  or  letter  of  offer  with 

10 

 

Designated  Stock  Exchange,  as  the  case  may  be,  in  case  of  a  fast  track 

issue; and 

 

(ii) 

the date of filing draft offer document with the Board, in any other case.” 

 

 

PART II - LOCK-IN REQUIREMENTS 

 

8.  Clauses 4.13 and 4.13.1 and the proviso to the latter shall be omitted.  

 

 

 

CHAPTER V 

PRE- ISSUE OBLIGATIONS 

9. 

In clause 5.2, the following sentence shall be inserted at the end, namely:- 

 

“In case of a fast track issue, the requisite fee shall be paid along with the copy 

of the red herring prospectus, prospectus or letter of offer, as the case may be, 

filed under clause 2.1.2A.2.” 

 

10. 

In clause 5.3.2.2, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“Provided that in case of a fast track issue, inter-se allocation of responsibilities 

(Schedule II) shall not be submitted to the Board.” 

 

11. 

In clause 5.3.3.1, for the word “prospectus”, the words “offer document” shall be 

substituted. 

 

12.  Clause  5.3.3.1A  shall  be  renumbered  as  “clause  5.3.3.1B”  and  after  the  words 

“along  with  the  draft  offer  document”  and  before  the  full  stop,  the  words  “or  in 

case  of  a  fast  track  issue,  along  with  the  copy  of  the  red  herring  prospectus, 

prospectus or letter of offer filed under clause 2.1.2A.2” shall be inserted. 

 

 

 

 

11 

 

13.  The following shall be inserted before the renumbered clause 5.3.3.1B, namely:- 

 

 

“5.3.3.1A  In case of a fast track issue, the lead merchant banker shall furnish a 

due  diligence  certificate  to  the  Board  as  per  the  format  specified  in 

Schedule 

III,  after 

including 

therein  additional  confirmations 

/ 

certification to Schedule III, as specified in Schedule VI-A, along with 

the copy of the red herring prospectus, prospectus or letter of offer, as 

the case may be, filed under clause 2.1.2A.2.”  

14. 

In  clause  5.4.1.1,  after  the  existing  proviso,  the  following  proviso  shall  be 

inserted, namely:- 

 

“Provided  further  that  a  merchant  banker  who  is  an  associate  of  the  issuer 

company  may be appointed  as a  merchant  banker for the issue, if it is involved 

only in the marketing of the issue.” 

 

15. 

In clause 5.6.1 for the word and figures “30 days”, the word and figures “15 days” 

shall be substituted. 

 

16.  After clause 5.6.2(i), the following sub-clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“(i-a)  while filing the copy of the red herring prospectus, prospectus or letter of 

offer, as the case may be, with the Board under clause 2.1.2A.2, also file 

the copy of the red herring prospectus, prospectus or letter of offer with 

the  stock  exchanges  on  which  the  securities  to  be  offered  in  the  fast 

track issue are proposed to be listed; 

 

17. 

In clause 5.6.2(ii), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

 “Provided  that  nothing  contained  in  this  sub-clause,  other  than  the  provisions 

pertaining to hosting of the final offer documents on the websites of all the lead 

managers / syndicate members associated with the issue and ensuring that the 

contents  of  the  final  offer  documents  hosted  on  the  websites  are  the  same  as 

that of their printed versions, shall apply to a fast track issue.” 

 

 

12 

 

18. 

In clause 5.6A.1, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“Provided  that  in  case  of  a  fast  track  issue,  the  advertisement  shall  be  made 

before the issue opening date.” 

 

19.  After 5.6B.1, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“5.6B.1 

IPO  grading  reports  for  each  of  the  grades  obtained  by  the  unlisted 

company  shall  be  included  in  the  list  of  material  contracts  required 

under clause 6.15.1.” 

 

20. 

In clause 5.8.1 for the word and figures “30 days”, the word and figures “21 days” 

shall be substituted. 

 

21.  After clause 5.15.1, the following clauses shall be inserted namely:- 

 

“5.15A  Non applicability of certain provisions to fast track issues 

 

5.15A.1  Nothing  contained  in  clauses  5.3.1.3,  5.3.3.1,  5.3.3.2,  5.3.4.1,  5.3.5.1, 

5.3.6.1,  5.3.6.2  and  sub-clauses (i)  and  (iii)  of  clause  5.6.2  shall  apply 

to a fast track issue.” 

 

 

CHAPTER VI 

CONTENTS OF OFFER DOCUMENT 

 

SECTION I - CONTENTS OF THE PROSPECTUS 

 

22. 

In clause 6.3 -  

 

(i) 

before  the  existing  first  proviso,  the  following  proviso  shall  be  inserted, 

namely:- 

 

“Provided  that  nothing  contained  in  sub-clauses  (a)  and  (j)  of  clause 

6.8.3.2  and  clause  6.9.5.8  and  nothing  contained  in  clause  6.10.3.1  in 

respect  of entities  not  covered under section 370 (1)(B)  of the Companies 

13 

 

Act,  1956  shall  apply  to  a  listed  company  satisfying  all  the  requirements 

specified in clause 2.1.2A.1.” 

in the existing 1st proviso, for the words “Provided that in case of a public 
issue  by  listed  company”,  the  words  “Provided  further  that  in  case  of  a 

public  issue  by  a  listed  company  other  than  a  fast  track  issue”  shall  be 

substituted. 

 

(ii) 

 

(iii) 

in the existing second proviso, for the  word “aforesaid”, the word “second” 

shall be substituted. 

 

23. 

In clause 6.8.2.8, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“Provided  that  in  case  of  a  fast  track  issue  the  inter-se  allocation  of 

responsibilities  shall  be  disclosed,  notwithstanding  that  it  was  not  filed  with  the 

Board.” 

 

24. 

In clause 6.8.3.2 –  

 

(i) 

after sub-clause (a), the following provisos shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

  

“Provided  that  in  case  of  a  public  or  rights  issue  by  a  listed  company, 

where shares  had been issued under one  or more employee stock option 

schemes,  particulars  of  shares  issued  under  the  employee  stock  option 

schemes  may  be  aggregated  quarter-wise,  indicating  the  aggregate 

number  of  shares  issued  and  the  price  range  within  which  shares  have 

been issued in each quarter.  

 

Provided  further  that  in  cases  falling  within  the  foregoing  proviso,  a 

document giving date-wise details of shares issued under employee stock 

option scheme(s), including price at which they were issued, shall be made 

available as a material document for inspection.”  

(ii)  after sub-clause (b), the following sub-clauses shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“(ba)  The manner in which clause 4.6 has been complied with.” 

14 

 

 

“(bb)  If  the  issuer  is  exempt  from  the  requirements  of  promoters’ 

contribution, the relevant provisions should be indicated.” 

 

25. 

In clause 6.8.4.1, the following shall be inserted at the end, namely:- 

 

“Further,  a disclosure to the effect that activities proposed to be undertaken by 

the issuer out of the funds raised in the present issue fall within the main objects 

listed  in  the  Memorandum  of  Association  or  other  charter  or  instrument 

governing the issuer shall be made in the prospectus.” 

 

26. 

In  clause  6.8.4.6,  after  sub-clause  (a),  the  following  clause  shall  be  inserted, 

namely:- 

 

“(b)  A  cash  flow  statement  showing  funds  which  have  been  brought  in  as 

promoters’ contribution and have been deployed prior to the public issue.” 

 

27.  After clause 6.9.5.7, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“6.9.5.7A  Corporate Governance 

 

 

“A  disclosure  to  the  effect  that  the  issuer  has  complied  with  the 

requirements of Corporate Governance contained in the Equity Listing 

Agreement,  particularly  those  relating  to  composition  of  Board  of 

Directors,  constitution  of  committees  such  as  Audit  Committee, 

Shareholder / Investor Grievance Committee, etc.”  

28. 

In  clauses  6.9.6.1,  after  sub-clause  (b),  the  following  proviso  shall  be  inserted, 

namely:- 

 

“Provided  that  nothing  contained  in  sub-clause  (b)  shall  apply  to  a  fast  track 

issue.” 

 

 

 

15 

 

29. 

In  clauses  6.9.6.2,  after  sub-clause  (c),  the  following  proviso  shall  be  inserted, 

namely:- 

 

“Provided  that  nothing  contained  in  sub-clause  (c)  shall  apply  to  a  fast  track 

issue.” 

 

30. 

In clause 6.10.3.1, after sub-clause (k)(ii), the following proviso shall be inserted, 

namely:- 

 

“Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to an issue made by 

any  government  company,  statutory  authority  or  corporation  or  any  special 

purpose vehicle set up by any of them.” 

 

31. 

In  clause  6.10.3.2,  after  the  words  “filing  draft  prospectus  with  the  Board”  and 

before  the  colon,  the  words  “or  in  case  of  a  fast  track  issue,  one  month  before 

the reference date” shall be inserted. 

 

32.  After clause 6.10.3.2, the following Explanation shall be inserted, name:- 

 

“Explanation: 

 

For  the  purposes  of  this  clause,  the  term  “reference  date”  shall have  the  same 

meaning as assigned to it in Explanation (a) to clause 2.1.2A.1.” 

 

33. 

In  clause  6.11.1.3,  after  sub-clause  (f),  the  following  proviso  shall  be  inserted, 

namely:- 

 

“Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to an issue made by 

any  government  company,  statutory  authority  or  corporation  or  any  special 

purpose vehicle set up by any of them.” 

 

34.  After clause 6.12.3A, the following new clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“6.12.3B  Details  of  compliance  with eligibility  requirements  to  make  a  fast  track 

issue, if applicable” 

 

16 

 

35. 

In  sub-clause  (a)  of  clause  6.12.4,  for  the  words  starting  from  “in  accordance 

with”  and  ending  up  to  the  words  “fulfill  their  underwriting  commitments”,  the 

following shall be substituted, namely:-  

 

“which  reads  as  follows  (due  diligence  certificate  submitted  to  the  Board  to  be 

reproduced here):” 

 

36.  For  sub-clause  (c)  of  clause  6.13.2.17,  the  following  sub-clause  shall  be 

substituted, namely:- 

 

“(c) 

Instruction to applicants to disclose Permanent Account Number in the 

application  form,  irrespective  of  the  amount  for  which  application  /  bid 

is made, along with the instruction that applications without Permanent 

Account Number would be rejected.” 

 

37. 

In  clause  6.13.2.28,  after  sub-clause  (b)(ii),  the  following  proviso  shall  be 

inserted, namely:- 

 

 

“Provided  that  nothing  contained  in  this  clause  shall  apply  to  public  issues  or 

rights issues made by banks or public financial institutions or to offers for sale.” 

38. 

In clause 6.15.2, for the declaration, the following shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“(a) 

The  draft prospectus (in case  of issues  other than fast track issues), red 

herring  prospectus  and  prospectus  shall  be  approved  by  the  Board  of 

Directors  of  the  issuer  and  shall  be  signed  by  all  Directors,  the  Chief 

Executive  Officer,  i.e.,  the  Managing  Director  or  Manager  within  the 

meaning of the Companies Act, 1956 and the Chief Financial Officer, i.e., 

the whole-time Finance Director or any other person heading the finance 

function and discharging that function.  

 

(b) 

The  signatories  shall  further  certify  that  all  disclosures  made  in  the 

prospectus are true and correct.” 

  

 

 

17 

 

SECTION II - CONTENTS OF ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS 

 

39.  For  sub-clause  (e)(iii)  of  clause  6.19.2,  the  following  sub-clause  shall  be 

inserted, namely:- 

 

“iii. 

Instruction to applicants to disclose Permanent Account Number in the 

application  form,  irrespective  of  the  amount  for  which  application  /  bid 

is made, along with the instruction that applications without Permanent 

Account Number would be rejected.” 

 

 

SECTION III - CONTENTS OF THE LETTER OF OFFER 

 

40. 

In clause 6.39 –  

 

(i) 

for the words “Section of this Chapter”, the words “Section I of this Chapter” 

shall be substituted. 

 

(ii)  before  the  existing  first  proviso,  the  following  proviso  shall  be  inserted, 

namely:- 

 

“Provided  that  nothing  contained  in  clauses  6.8.2.2,  6.8.2.3,  sub-clauses 

(a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of clause 6.8.3.2, clauses 6.8.4.12, 6.9.2.1, 6.9.2.2, 

6.9.2.3, 6.9.2.4, 6.9.4, 6.9.6, 6.10.3, 6.12.16, 6.12.17, 6.12.18, 6.12.20 and 

6.12.21 shall apply to a rights issue falling under 2.1.2A.1.”  

 

(iii) 

in  the  existing  first  proviso,  for  the  words  “Provided  that”,  the  words 

“Provided  further  that  in  a  case  not  falling  within  the  preceding  proviso” 

shall be substituted. 

 

(iv) 

in the existing second proviso, for the  word “aforesaid”, the word “second” 

shall be substituted. 

 

 

 

 

18 

 

CHAPTER VIA 

ISSUE OF INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS (IDRs) 

 

 

41. 

In clause 6A.3 –  

PART I – GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 

 

 

(i) 

for sub-clause (4), the following shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“4. 

In every issue of IDR –  

(i)  At  least  50%  of  the  IDRs  issued  shall  be  subscribed  to  by 

QIBs; 

(ii)  The  balance  50%  shall  be  available  for  subscription  by  non-

institutional investors (i.e., investors other than QIBs and retail 

individual  investors)  and  retail  individual  investors,  including 

employees.  IDRs  shall  be  allocated  among  non-institutional 

investors,  retail  individual  investors  and  employees  at  the 

discretion  of  the  issuer.  The  manner  of  allocation  shall  be 

disclosed in the prospectus for IDRs.” 

(ii) 

in sub-clause (5), for the word and figures “Rs. 2,00,000/-“, the words and 

figures “Rs. 20,000/-” shall be substituted. 

 

 

 

PART II – DISCLOSURES IN A PROSPECTUS FOR IDRs 

42. 

In  clause  6A.6,  in  sub-clause  (i),  for  the  words  and  figures  “Rule  5  (i)  (b)”,  the 

words and figures “Rule 5(1)(ii)” shall be substituted. 

 

43. 

In clause 6A.20 – 

 

(i) 

In  sub-clause  (2),  for  the  proviso,  the  following  shall  be  substituted, 

namely:- 

 

19 

 

“Provided  that  the  gap  between  the  date  of  issue  and  the  date  of  report 

shall not be more than 180 days, wherever statutory audit is required under 

laws of the country where the issuer is incorporated:” 

 

(ii) 

In sub-clause (3), for the word and figures “120 days”, the word and figures 

“180 days” shall be substituted. 

 

44. 

In clause 6A.26, for sub-clause (1), the following shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“1. Promoters and their background. If there are no identifiable promoters, details 

and background of all the persons who hold 5% or more equity share capital of 

the company.”  

 

 

 

PART IV: CONTENTS OF ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS (See Rule 8(i) of the IDR 

Rules) 

45.  For  sub-clause  (iii)  of  clause  8.3,  the  following  sub-clause  shall  be  inserted, 

namely:- 

 

 

 

 

“iii. 

Instruction to applicants to disclose Permanent Account Number in the 

application  form,  irrespective  of  the  amount  for  which  application  /  bid 

is made, along with the instruction that applications without Permanent 

Account Number would be rejected.” 

CHAPTER VII 

POST - ISSUE OBLIGATIONS 

46.  After clause 7.2.2.2, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“7.2.2.3  Due  diligence  certificate  to  be  submitted  with  final  post  issue 

monitoring report 

 

20 

 

The  post  issue  lead  merchant  banker  shall  file  a  due  diligence 

certificate  in  the  format  given  in  Schedule  XVI-A  along  with  the  final 

post-issue monitoring report.”                                                       

 

47. 

In clause 7.7.1, for the words “finalisation of the basis of allotment” occurring at 

the end, the words and figures “the date of allotment” shall be substituted. 

 

 

 

48. 

In clause 8.2.1(e) –  

CHAPTER VIII 

OTHER ISSUE REQUIREMENTS 

 

 

 

(i) 

after  the  words  “draft  offer  document  with  the  Board”  and  before  the 

full  stop,  the  words  “and  also  at  time  of  filing  red  herring  prospectus 

and prospectus with ROC” shall be inserted. 

 

(ii) 

the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 

“Provided  that  in  case  of  a  public  issue  of  securities  by  a  listed 

company  satisfying  all  the  requirements  specified  in  clause  2.1.2A, 

there  shall  be  no  partly  paid  up  shares/other  securities  at  the  time  of 

filing red herring prospectus and prospectus with ROC.” 

49. 

In clause 2A of Explanation to clause 8.3.4, for the words “the shareholders who, 

on  the  record  date  (  date  fixed  for  the  purpose  of  determining  the  eligible 

shareholders)  ,  are  holding  shares  worth  up  to  Rs.  50,000/-  determined  on  the 

basis  of  closing  price  as  on  the  previous  day”,  the  words  “retail  individual 

shareholders” shall be substituted. 

 

50. 

In  clause  8.5,  after  sub-clause  (g),  the  following  sub-clause  shall  be  inserted, 

namely:- 

 

“(h)  No payment in the nature of discount, commission, allowance or otherwise 

shall  be  made  by  the  issuer  or  promoters,  directly  or  indirectly,  to  any 

person who receives securities by way of firm allotment in an issue.” 

21 

 

 

51.  After clause 8.7.1, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“Provided that in case of a fast track issue, no such further issue of capital shall 

be made during the period between filing of the red herring prospectus (in case 

of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) with ROC or 

the  letter  of  offer  with  Designated  Stock  Exchange  and  listing  of  the  securities 

offered  in the  issue  and/or  refund  of application  moneys,  unless full disclosures 

regarding  the  total  capital  proposed  to  be  so  raised  are  made  in  the  offer 

document.” 

 

52. 

In clause 8.9.1, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to a fast track issue.” 

 

53.  After clause 8.17.1., the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

 

“Provided  that  nothing  contained  in  this  clause  shall  apply  to  public  issues  or 

rights issues made by banks or public financial institutions or to offers for sale.”  

54.  For clause 8.17.2, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“8.17.2  (i)   A  monitoring  report,  as  per  the  format  specified  in  Schedule  XIX, 

shall be filed by the monitoring agency with the issuer company, on a 

half  yearly  basis,  till  the  proceeds  of  the  issue  have  been  entirely 

utilized. 

 

(ii)   The  monitoring  report  together  with  the  management’s  comments 

thereon  shall  be  placed  by  the  issuer  company  before  its  audit 

committee without delay.” 

 

55. 

In clause 8.18.4, after the words “in the draft prospectus“ and before the full stop, 

the words “and/or red herring prospectus and prospectus filed with ROC“ shall be 

inserted. 

 

 

 

22 

56. 

In clause 8.21.1 -  

 

 

 

 

 

(i) 

for the  words  and figures “22nd day”, the  words and figures  “31st day” 
shall be substituted; 

(ii) 

in proviso to the clause, after the words “shelf prospectus” and before 

the full stop, the words “or  fast track issue” shall be inserted. 

CHAPTER IX 

GUIDELINES ON ADVERTISEMENT 

57.  After clause 9.2, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“9.2A   Applicability to fast track issues 

 

9.2A.1  

In case of a fast track issue, all references made in clauses 9.1 and 9.2 

to  “draft  offer  document  filed  with  SEBI”  shall  be  construed  as  having 

been made to “red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or 

prospectus  (in  case  of  a  fixed  price  issue)  filed  with  ROC  or  letter  of 

offer  filed  with  Designated  Stock  Exchange’,  unless  the  context 

otherwise requires.” 

 

 

 

CHAPTER X 

GUIDELINES FOR ISSUE OF DEBT INSTRUMENTS 

58. 

In clause 10.2.5, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“Provided  that  in  case  of  a  fast  track  issue  of  debt  instruments,  the  certificate 

specified in this clause shall not be filed with SEBI.” 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23 

CHAPTER XI 

GUIDELINES ON BOOK BUILDING 

 

59. 

In  clause  11.3.1,  for  sub-clause  (xx-a),  the  following  sub-clause  shall  be 

substituted, namely:- 

 

“(xx-a)   The  bidding  terminals  shall  contain  a  online  graphical  display  of 

demand and bid prices updated at periodic intervals, not exceeding 30 

minutes. The book running lead manager shall ensure the availability of 

adequate infrastructure for data entry of the bids in a timely manner.” 

 

60.  After  clause  11.3.6  and  the  sub-clauses  thereto,  the  following  clauses  shall  be 

inserted, namely:- 

 

“11.4   Applicability to fast track issues 

 

11.4.1 Unless specified otherwise in this Chapter and unless the context otherwise 

requires,  all  references  in  this  Chapter  to  “draft  prospectus”  shall  be 

construed as having been made to “red herring prospectus”, in application 

to fast track issues. 

 

11.4.2 Nothing contained in sub-clause (vi) of clause 11.2 or sub-clause (viii) of 

clause 11.3.1 shall apply to a fast track issue.” 

 

 

CHAPTER XII 

GUIDELINES FOR ISSUE OF CAPITAL BY DESIGNATED FINANCIAL 

INSTITUTIONS  

61.  Chapter XII shall be omitted. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24 

CHAPTER XII-A 

SHELF PROSPECTUS 

 

62. 

In sub-clause (a) of clause 12A.1, the word “debt”, appearing between the words 

”issues of” and “securities” shall be omitted. 

 

63. 

In clause 12A.2.1, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to a fast track issue.” 

 

 

CHAPTER XIII 

GUIDELINES FOR PREFERENTIAL ISSUES 

 

64.  After clause 13.1B, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

 

“13.1C  A  listed  company  shall  not  make  any  preferential  allotment  of  equity 

shares,  FCDs,  PCDs  or  any  other  financial  instrument  which  may  be 

converted into or exchanged with equity shares at a later date unless it 

has  obtained  the  Permanent  Account  Number  of  the  proposed 

allottees.” 

 

 

CHAPTER XVI 

OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES 

65. 

In clauses 16.1.2 and 16.1.3, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

 

“Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to a fast track issue.” 

66. 

In clause 16.1.5, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“Provided that nothing contained in sub-clause (a) and (b) shall apply to a fast 

track issue.” 

 

 

 

25 

SCHEDULE – III 

FORMAT OF DUE DILLIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY LEAD 

MERCHANT BANKER(S) ALONGWITH DRAFT OFFER DOCUMENT 

 

67. 

In the main part - 

 

 

(i) 

In  item  (2),  in  clause  (c),  the  words  “and  such  disclosures  are  in 

accordance  with  the  requirements  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  the  SEBI 

(Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 and other applicable 

legal requirements” shall be inserted at the end. 

 

(ii)  After item (5), the following paragraphs shall be inserted, namely:- 

“6.   We  certify  that  clause  4.6  of  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor 

Protection)  Guidelines,  2000,  which  relates  to  securities  ineligible  for 

computation  of  promoters  contribution,  has  been  duly  complied  with 

and  appropriate  disclosures  as  to  compliance  with  the  clause  have 

been made in the draft prospectus/letter of offer. 

 

7.  We  undertake  that  clauses  4.9.1,  4.9.2,  4.9.3  and  4.9.4  of  the  SEBI 

(Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000  shall  be 

complied  with.  We  confirm  that  arrangements  have  been  made  to 

ensure  that  promoters’  contribution  and  subscription  from  all  firm 

allottees would be received at least one day before the opening of the 

issue  .We  undertake  that  auditors’  certificate      to  this  effect  shall  be 

duly  submitted  to  the  Board.    We  further  confirm  that  arrangements 

have  been  made to ensure that  promoters’  contribution shall  be kept 

in  an  escrow  account  with  a  Scheduled  Commercial  Bank  and  shall 

be  released  to  the  company  along  with  the  proceeds  of  the  public 

issue. 

 

8.  Where the requirements of promoters’ contribution is not applicable to 

the  issuer,  we  certify  the  requirements  of  promoters’  contribution 

under  clause  4.10  {sub-clause  (a),  (b)  or  (c),  as  may  be  applicable} 

are not applicable to the issuer. 

 

26 

 

9.  We certify that the proposed activities of the issuer for which the funds 

are  being  raised  in  the  present  issue  fall  within  the  ‘main  objects’ 

listed in the object clause of the Memorandum of Association or other 

charter  of  the  issuer  and  that  the  activities  which  have  been  carried 

out  until  now  are  valid  in  terms  of  the  object  clause  of  its 

Memorandum of Association. 

 

10.  We confirm that necessary arrangements have been made to ensure 

that the moneys received pursuant to the issue are kept in a separate 

bank account as per the provisions of Section 73(3) of the Companies 

Act,  1956  and  that  such  moneys  shall  be  released  by  the  said  bank 

only  after  permission  is  obtained  from  all  the  stock  exchanges 

mentioned in the prospectus/letter of offer. We further confirm that the 

agreement  entered  into  between  the  bankers  to  the  issue  and  the 

issuer specifically contains this condition. 

 

11.  We  certify  that  no  payment  in  the  nature  of  discount,  commission, 

allowance or otherwise shall be made by the issuer or the promoters, 

directly or indirectly, to any person who receives securities by way of 

firm allotment in the issue. 

 

12.  We certify that a disclosure has been made in the prospectus that the 

investors  shall  be  given  an  option  to  get  the  shares  in  demat  or 

physical mode. 

 

13.  We certify that the following disclosures have been made in the draft 

prospectus/letter of offer: 

 

 

(a)   An  undertaking  from  the  issuer  that  at  any  given  time  there 

shall  be  only  one  denomination  for  the  shares  of  the 

company and  

 

(b)   An undertaking from the issuer that it shall comply with such 

disclosure and accounting norms specified by the Board from 

time to time.” 

27 

 

68. 

In  the  Annexure  to  the  Due  Diligence  Certificate,  after  item  23,  the  following 

items shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“24.  A  detailed  checklist  indicating  compliance  with  each  of  the  clauses 

contained in Chapters II, III, IV, V, VI, VI-A, VII, VIII, VIII-A, IX, X, XI, XI A, 

XII-A  and  XVI  of 

the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and 

Investor  Protection) 

Guidelines, 2000.” 

 

 

FORMAT OF DUE DILLIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY DEBENTURE 

SCHEDULE III-A 

TRUSTEE  

 

69. 

In  Schedule  III-A,  in  item  (2)(d),  between  the  words  “draft  prospectus  /”  and 

“letter of offer”, the words “Red Herring Prospectus (in case of a book built issue) 

/ Prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) filed with ROC /” shall be inserted. 

 

 

SCHEDULE IV 

FORMAT FOR DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE AT THE TIME OF FILING THE 

OFFER DOCUMENT WITH ROC 

 

70. 

In  Schedule  IV,  after  the  para  ending  with  “draft  prospectus  with  SEBI  till  date” 

and  before  the  words  “Yours  faithfully,”,  the  following  paras  shall  be  inserted, 

namely:- 

 

“We confirm that agreements have been entered into with both the depositories 

for dematerialisation of the securities of the issuer.  

 
We certify that as per the requirements of 1st proviso to clause 4.9.1 of the SEBI 
(Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection) Guidelines,  2000, cash  flow  statement has 

been prepared and disclosed in the red herring prospectus and / or prospectus.” 

 

 

 

 

28 

 

71.  After Schedule VI, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“SCHEDULE VI-A 

(Clause 5.3.3.1A) 

ADDITIONAL CONFIRMATIONS / CERTIFICATION TO BE INCLUDED IN DUE 

DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE FOR FAST TRACK ISSUES  

 

1.  We  confirm  that  none  of  the  intermediaries  named  in  the  red  herring 

prospectus (in case of a book built issue) / prospectus (in case of a fixed price 

issue)  /  letter  of  offer  (in  case  of  a  rights  issue)  have  been  debarred  from 

functioning by any regulatory authority. 

 

2.  We  confirm  that  the  issuer  is  eligible  to  make  fast  track  issue  in  terms  of 

clause  2.1.2A  of  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines, 

2000. The fulfilment of the eligibility criteria as specified in that clause, by the 

issuer,  has  also  been  disclosed  in  the  red  herring  prospectus  (in  case  of  a 

book built issue) / prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) / letter of offer (in 

case of a rights issue).   

 

3.  We  confirm  that  all  the  material  disclosures  in  respect  of  the  issuer  have 

been  made  in  the  red  herring  prospectus  (in  case  of  a  book  built  issue)  / 

prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) / letter of offer (in case of a rights 

issue) and certify that any material development in the issuer or relating to 

the  issue  up  to  the  commencement  of  listing  and  trading  of  the  shares 

offered  through  this  issue  shall  be  informed  through  public  notices/ 

advertisements  in  all  those  newspapers  in  which  pre-issue  advertisement 

and advertisement for opening or closure of the issue have been given.  

 

4.  We confirm that the abridged prospectus / abridged letter of offer contains 

all  the  disclosures  as  specified  in  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor 

Protection) Guidelines, 2000. 

5.  We  confirm  that  agreements  have  been  entered  into  with  both  the 

depositories for dematerialisation of the securities of the issuer.  

 

 

29 

 

6.  We certify that as per the requirements of 1st proviso to clause 4.9.1 of the 
SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000,  cash  flow 

statement  has  been  prepared  and  disclosed  in  the  red  herring  prospectus 

and / or prospectus.  

 

 

 

ORDER OF PRESENTATION OF DISCLOSURES IN PROSPECTUS 

SCHEDULE VIIA 

72.  For clause (X)(2)(xvii)(c), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“(c) 

Permanent Account Number.” 

 

 

73.  After Schedule XVI, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“SCHEDULE  XVI-A 

(Clause 7.2.2.3) 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY  

LEAD MERCHANT BANKER(S) ALONG WITH FINAL POST ISSUE 

MONITORING REPORT 

 

To 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

 

Dear Sirs, 

 

SUB.: ISSUE OF …………..BY ……….LTD. 

 

We, 

the  under  noted  post 

issue  Lead  Merchant  Banker(s) 

to 

the 

abovementioned issue state as follows: 

  

(1)  We confirm that – 

(a)  share  certificates  in  respect  of  locked-in  shares  have  been  stamped 

‘not transferable’ indicating the period of non-transferability; 

 

30 

 

(b) 

if  the  shares  offered  for  lock-in  are  in  dematerialised  form,  non-

transferability details have been informed to the depositories; 

 

(c)  details  of  lock-in  have  been  provided  to  all  the  stock  exchanges  on 

which securities are to be listed, before the listing of the securities. 

(2)  We  certify  that  shares  offered  as  minimum  promoters’  contribution,  if  any, 

have been locked-in for a period of three years as per clauses 4.11.1 and 

4.11.2 of the SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000. 

 

(3)  We  certify  that  excess  promoters’  contribution  has  been  locked-in  as  per 

clauses 4.12.1 and 4.12.2 of the SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) 

Guidelines, 2000. 

(4)  We  certify  that  clause  4.12.3  of  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor 

Protection) Guidelines, 2000 has been duly complied with. 

(5)  We  certify  that  provisions  regarding  lock-in  of  securities  have  been  duly 

complied  with in accordance  with clause  4.14 of the SEBI (Disclosure and 

Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000. 

 

 

 

PLACE: 

DATE:  

 

 

 

 

 

 

LEAD MERCHANT BANKERS TO THE ISSUE  

WITH OFFICIAL SEAL(S)” 

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE XX-A 

FORMATS OF ISSUE ADVERTISEMENTS 

 

74. 

In Parts B and C of Schedule XX-A, the words “, Syndicate Members, Brokers”, 

appearing  in  the  para  under  the  heading  “AVAILABILITY  OF  APPLICATION 

FORMS”, shall be omitted. 

 

 

 

 

31 

 

SCHEDULE XXIX 

FINAL REPORT FOR GREEN SHOE OPTION 

 

75. 

In Schedule XXIX, after item “o”, the following shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“p. 

 

 

Amount  transferred  to  the  investor  protection  fund  of  each  of  the  stock 

exchanges on which the shares of issuer company are listed (Rs.)” 

********** 

