 
 
SEBI/CBM/BOND/1/2007/01/03   
March 01, 2007 

 
The Managing Director / Executive Director / Administrator 
Of All Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sirs, 

 

Phone: +91 22 2644 9470 Email: satyarp@sebi.gov.in    

Satya Ranjan Prasad 
Deputy General Manager 
 
 

Sub:  Corporate Bond Market – Reporting Platform to also be set up by NSE  
 
I. 

In  order  to  implement  the  Union  budget  proposal  on  creation  of  a  unified 
platform for trading of Corporate Bonds, SEBI vide circular No. SEBI/CFD/DIL/ 
BOND/1/2006/12/12  dated  December  12,  2006  authorized  Bombay  Stock 
Exchange  Limited  (BSE)  to  set  up  and  maintain  a  corporate  bond  reporting 
platform  to  capture  all  information  related  to  trading  in  corporate  bonds  as 
accurately and as close to execution as possible.  

 
II. 

It  has  now  been  decided  that  the  National  Stock  Exchange  of  India  Limited 
(NSE) may also set up and maintain a similar reporting platform for corporate 
bonds with  immediate effect on  terms and  conditions  laid  out  in  the aforesaid 
SEBI circular.  

 
III.  For the purpose, the following shall be implemented with immediate effect: 

 
1.  Trades executed by the members of BSE or NSE shall be reported on the 
reporting  platforms  of  their  respective  stock  exchanges  who  would  host 
such  information  on  their  websites.  As  regards  Over  the  Counter  (OTC) 
trades, the parties concerned shall have the freedom to report the deals on 
the platform of either BSE or NSE.  

 

 

 

2.  BSE  and  NSE  shall  co-ordinate  among  themselves  to  ensure  that  the 
information  reported  with  BSE  and  NSE  is  aggregated,  checked  for 
redundancy and disseminated on their websites in a homogenous manner. 

3. 

Information disseminated on the websites of BSE and NSE shall display the 
following essential data: Issuer Name, Maturity Date, Current Coupon, Last 
Price  Traded,  Last  Amount  Traded,  Last  Yield  (annualized)  Traded, 
Weighted Average Yield Price, Total Amount Traded and the Rating of the 
Bond and any other additional information as the stock exchanges think fit.  

4.  Further, the following additional details shall be made available through a 
hyperlink:  Ratings  including  the  last  change  where  possible,  Call/  Put 

 

Option  Dates,  Record  Date,  Next  Coupon  Date,  Step  up  Coupons,  Day 
Count  Convention,  Floating  Benchmark  if  applicable  and  the  spread  over 
the Benchmark and any other instrument specific material information.  

5.  The  Fixed  Income  Money  Market  and  Derivatives  Association  of  India 
(FIMMDA)  which  at  present  is  bringing  out  a  daily  valuation  report  of  all 
Central  Government  Securities,  had  proposed  setting  up  of  a  reporting 
platform  for  corporate  bonds  and  also  to  provide  similar  value  added 
dissemination  on  Corporate  Bonds.  Till  such  time  that  FIMMDA  sets  up 
such  a  platform,  it  shall  disseminate  information  made  available  on  bond 
trading  by  the  two  exchanges  with  appropriate  value  addition.  In  this 
regard, BSE and NSE are directed to extend their co-operation to FIMMDA.  

 
IV.  Applicability  
 

 

1.  The reporting shall be made for all trades in listed debt securities issued by 
all  institutions  such  as  Banks,  Public  Sector  Undertakings,  Municipal 
Corporations, bodies corporate and companies.  

 
2.  The reporting of trades in Corporate Bonds shall be made by all person(s) 
dealing  in  such  corporate  bonds  irrespective  of  whether  they  are  SEBI 
registered intermediaries or otherwise. 

3.  Pursuant  to  the  launch  of  the  corporate  bond  reporting  platform  at  NSE, 
reporting may be made to either platform of BSE or NSE but not to both for 
the  same  transaction.  Although,  reporting  may  be  done  at  either  of  the 
exchange platforms, BSE and NSE shall ensure that all the relevant details 
are disseminated by both the stock exchanges on their websites and shall 
ensure that there is no segregation of data between the exchanges on the 
basis of its reporting origin.   

 

V.  Direction to Stock Exchanges  

 
All Stock Exchanges are directed to: 

 

 

a.  Make necessary amendments to the listing agreement, bye- laws, rules and 
regulations  for  the  implementation  of  the  above  decision  immediately,  as 
may be applicable and necessary. 

 
b.  Bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the entities in both equity 
and  debt  segments,  member brokers,  clearing  members  of the  Exchange 
and  also  to  disseminate  the  same  on  the  website  for  easy  access  to  the 
investors; and 

 

Page 2 of 3 

c.  Communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the provisions of this 

circular in the Monthly Development Report from the month of April, 2007. 

 

VI.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by  sub-section  (1)  of 
Section 11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect 
the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and 
to  regulate  the  securities  market.  The  provisions  of  the  earlier  circulars 
No.SEBI/MRD/SE/AT/36/2003/30/09  dated  September  30,  2003,  Circular 
No.SEBI/MRD/SE/AT/46/2003 dated December 22, 2003 and circular No. SEBI/ 
CFD/DIL/BOND/1/2006/12/12  dated  December  12,  2006  in  so  far  as  they  are 
inconsistent with the provisions of the instant circular shall stand superceded. 

 
VII.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in.  
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Satya Ranjan Prasad 
 
 

 

Page 3 of 3 

