Neelam Bhardwaj 
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing 

Phone: +91 22 26449350 (D), Email: neelamb@sebi.gov.in 

 

SEBI/CFD/DIL/DIP/32/2008/28/08 

August 28, 2008 

 

To All Registered Merchant Bankers / Stock Exchanges 

 

Dear Sirs, 

 

Sub.:  Amendments  to  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines, 

2000 

 

1. 

  

2. 

 

In exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (1) of Section 11 of the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  it  has  been  decided  to 

amend  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000 

(hereinafter referred to as “the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines”). 

The  full  text  of  amendments  is  given  in  Annexure  I  and  the  amendments  are 

given in brief as under: 

(i)  Reduction in timelines for rights issue  

(a)  At  present,  timelines  for  listed  companies  making  rights  issues  are 

stipulated in the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines and Equity  Listing Agreement. It is 

understood  that  the  current  timelines  expose  investors  and  issuers  to 

market risks.  

 

(b) 

In  order  to  mitigate  these  risks  and  to  enable  listed  companies  to  raise 

funds  from  its  shareholders  in  a  more  time  effective  manner,  it  has  been 

decided  to  reduce  the  current  timelines,  starting  from  the  notice  period 

required  for  calling  a  board  meeting  of  the  issuer  to  consider  the  rights 

2 

issue  up  to  the  period  stipulated  for  completion  of  allotment  and 

commencement of listing and trading of the shares so issued. 

 

 

(ii)  Definition of “Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs)”  

(a)  Presently,  foreign  institutional  investors  (FIIs)  registered  with  SEBI  are 

included  in  the  definition  of  QIBs.  These  FIIs  invest  in  securities  in  the 

primary market, either on their account or on behalf of their sub-account(s), 

in  terms  of  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Institutional  Investors)  Regulations,  1995.  It 

has  been  decided  to  exclude  sub-accounts  falling  in  the  categories  of 

“foreign corporate” and “foreign individual” from the definition of QIBs. 

 

(b)  Further,  it  has  been  decided  to  include  the  definition  of  “QIB”  in  the 

definition clause of the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines, for the purpose of clarity. 

 

(iii)  Eligibility for making Qualified Institutions Placement (QIP) 

(a)  Presently, the eligibility criteria for listed companies desirous of making QIP 

include  a  condition  that  the  equity  shares  of  the  same  class  of  such 

companies  shall  have  been  listed  on  a  stock  exchange  having  nationwide 

terminals,  for  a  period  of  at  least  one  year  as  on  the  date  of  issuance  of 

notice to shareholders for considering the QIP.  

 

(b) 

It is noted that companies, which have been listed during the preceding one 

year  pursuant  to  approved  scheme(s)  of  merger/  demerger/  arrangement 

entered into by such companies with companies which have been listed for 

more than one year in such stock exchange(s), are not able to use the QIP 

route  for  raising  funds.  In  order  to  enable  such  companies  to  raise  funds 

through QIP route, it has been decided that for the purpose of fulfilment of 

the  abovementioned  eligibility  criterion,  such  companies  may  take  into 

account  the  listing  history  of  the  listed  companies  with  which  they  have 

entered into the approved scheme(s) of merger/ demerger/ arrangement. 

3 

 

 
(iv)  Pricing norms for QIP 

In order to facilitate eligible listed companies to raise funds through QIP route, it 

has been decided to modify the pricing guidelines for QIP by bringing the issue 

price of the securities offered closer to their market price. This has been effected 

through change in the floor price formula and definition of relevant date  

 

(v)  Pricing norms for preferential allotment to QIBs 

In  order  to  facilitate  eligible  listed  companies  to  raise  funds  from  QIBs  without 

having  to  go  through  the  elaborate  documentation  process  required  for  QIP,  it 

has been decided to extend the modified pricing guidelines of QIP to preferential 

allotment to QIBs, provided that the number of QIB allottees in such preferential 

allotment does not exceed five.  

 

(vi)  Lock-in on shares on exercise of warrants issued on preferential basis 

Presently,  as  per  the  guidelines  on  preferential  allotment,  warrants  issued  on 

preferential basis are subject to lock-in for a period of one year or three years, as 

the  case  may  be and lock-in  on  shares  allotted on  exercise  of  such  warrants  is 

reduced  to  the  extent  such  warrants  have  already  been  locked-in.  It  has  been 

decided to subject the shares so allotted pursuant to exercise of warrants to full 

lock-in period of one year or three years, as the case may be, from the date of 

allotment of such shares. 

 

(vii)  Eligibility of shares for promoters’ contribution and offer for sale 

(a)  Presently, the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines provide that only those shares, which 

are held by shareholders for a period of at least one year at the time of filing 

of draft offer document with SEBI, are eligible (i) to be offered for sale and 

(ii)  to  be  included  for  the  purpose  of  promoters’  contribution  (except  in 

cases  where  the  shares  have  been  issued  at  the  same  issue  price  during 

the preceding one year).  

4 

(b) 

It has been decided to permit offer for sale and inclusion in the promoters’ 

contribution  of  those  shares  which  have  been  acquired  pursuant  to  a 

restructuring  exercise  approved  by  High  Court(s),  in  lieu  of  business  and 

invested capital which had been in existence for a period of more than one 

year prior to the restructuring exercise.  

 

 

(viii)  Filing of offer documents at SEBI Regional Offices  

At present, draft offer documents of issue size up to Rs.20 crores can be filed 

by  lead  merchant  bankers  with  such  Regional  Office  of  SEBI  under  the 

jurisdiction of which the registered office of the issuer company falls. It has been 

decided to increase this limit to Rs.50 crores. 

 

(ix)  Miscellaneous amendments 

The SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 were notified 

on June 6, 2008 and are applicable to public issue of debt securities and listing of 

debt  securities  issued  through  public  issue  or  on  private  placement  basis  on  a 

recognised  stock  exchange.  As  per  regulation  33(1)  of  these  regulations,  the 

provisions  of  the  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  in  so  far  as  these  relate  to  issue  and 

listing  of  debt  securities,  shall  stand  rescinded  on  the  commencement  of  these 

regulations.  Consequential  amendments  have  accordingly  been  made  in  the 

SEBI (DIP) Guidelines. 

 

3.  Applicability  

 
3.1  The amendments made vide this circular shall be applicable as under: 

(a)  Amendments to clause 1.2.1(xxiva) shall be applicable after the date of this 

circular to : 

(i) 

all  notices  for  general  meeting  sent  to  shareholders  for  approval  of 

the issue, in case of preferential allotment and QIP; and  

(ii) 

all  prospectuses  (in  case  of  a  fixed  price  issue)  and  Red  Herring 

Prospectuses (in case of a book built issue) filed with the Registrar of 

5 

Companies or letters of offer filed with Designated Stock Exchange, 

 

as the case may be.  

 

(b)  Amendments  to  clauses  13.1.1.1,  13.1.1.2,  13.1.1.3,  13.3.1,  13A.1.1, 

clause 13A.3.1, and 13A.3.2.2 shall be applicable to all notices for general 

meeting  sent  to  shareholders  for  approval  of  the  preferential  allotment  or 

QIP, as the case may be; after the date of this circular. 

 

(c)  Amendments to clauses 4.6.2, 16.1.1 and 4.14.2(ii) shall be applicable to all 

draft offer documents filed with SEBI after the date of the circular; 

 

(d)  All  amendments  other  than  those  specified  in  sub-paras  (a)  to  (c)  above  

shall come into force with immediate effect.  

 

4.  All  registered  merchant  bankers  are  directed  to  ensure  compliance  with  the 

applicable amendments made vide this circular. 

 

 
5. 

 

This  circular  and  the  entire  text  of  the  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  including  the 

amendments  issued  vide  this  circular,  are  available  on  SEBI  website  at 

www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories  “Legal  Framework”  and  “Issues  and 

Listing”. 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Neelam Bhardwaj 

 

Encl.: As above. 

6 

ANNEXURE I 

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

 

 

1. 

In clause 1.2.1:- 

(a)  after sub-clause (viii),  the following sub-clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“viii-a) Convertible  Debt  Instrument”  means  an  instrument  or  security 

which creates or acknowledges indebtedness and is convertible into 

equity shares at a later date, at or without the option of the holder of 

the  instrument  or  the  security  of  a  body  corporate,  whether 

constituting a charge on the assets of the body corporate or not;” 

 

 

(b)  sub-clause (xi) shall be omitted;  

 

(c)  sub-clause  (xxiva),  sub-clause  (xxiv  aa)  and  sub-clause  (xxiv  b)  shall  be 

renumbered  as  sub-clause  “(xxiv  b)”  ,  sub-clause  “(xxiv  c)”  and  sub-clause 

“(xxiv d)” respectively; 

 

(d)  after sub-clause (xxiv), the following sub-clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

“xxiv a)  “Qualified Institutional Buyer” means 

 

a) 

b) 

c) 

a  public  financial  institution  as  defined  in  section  4A  of  the 

Companies Act, 1956; 

a scheduled commercial bank;  

a mutual fund registered with the Board;  

7 

d) 

a  foreign  institutional  investor  and  sub-account  registered  with 

 

SEBI,  other  than  a  sub-account  which  is  a  foreign  corporate  or 

e) 

f) 

g) 

h) 

i) 

j) 

k) 

l) 

foreign individual;  

a multilateral and bilateral development financial institution;  

a venture capital fund registered with SEBI; 

a foreign venture capital investor registered with SEBI; 

a state industrial development corporation; 

an  insurance  company  registered  with  the  Insurance  Regulatory 

and Development Authority (IRDA); 

a provident fund with minimum corpus of Rs. 25 crores; 

a pension fund with minimum corpus of Rs. 25 crores); 

National Investment Fund set up by resolution no. F. No. 2/3/2005-

DDII dated November 23, 2005 of Government of India published in 

the Gazette of India.” 

ELIGIBILITY NORMS FOR COMPANIES ISSUING SECURITIES 

CHAPTER II 

 

 

 

2. 

In clause 2.2.2B, sub-clause (v) shall be omitted. 

 

3. 

In  clause  2.5.1A,  for  the  words  and  brackets  “debt  instruments  (whether 

convertible or not)”, the words “convertible debt instruments” shall be substituted.  

 

4.  Clause 2.5.1B shall be omitted. 

 

 

 

 

 

8 

 

 

5. 

CHAPTER IV 

PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION AND LOCK-IN REQUIREMENTS 

PART I – PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION 

In  clause  4.6.2,  after  3rd  proviso  and  before  Explanation  to  the  clause,  the 

following proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“Provided  further  that  nothing  contained  in  clause  4.6.2  shall  apply  to  shares 

acquired by promoters in lieu of business and invested capital which had been in 

existence  for  a  period  of  more  than  one  year  prior  to  the  restructuring  scheme 

under  sections  391-394  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  as  approved  by  a  High 

Court, which entitled the promoters to acquire such shares.” 

 

6. 

In 4.14.2, in sub-clause (ii):-  
(a)  after  1st  proviso  and  before  Explanation,  the  following  proviso  shall  be 

inserted, namely:- 

 

“Provided  further  that  the  minimum  holding  requirement  of  pre-issue 

capital shall also not apply to shares which have been acquired during one 

year preceding the date of filing draft offer document with the Board in lieu 

of business and invested capital which had been in existence for a period of 

more  than  one  year  prior  to  the  restructuring  scheme  under  sections  391-

394  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  as  approved  by  a  High  Court,  which 

entitled acquisition of such shares.” 

in the para below the heading “Explanation”, for the words “this proviso”, the 
words “1st proviso above” shall be inserted. 

 

(b) 

 

 

 

9 

 

 

CHAPTER V 

PRE- ISSUE OBLIGATIONS 

7. 

In  clause  5.11.1,  for  the  words  and  figure  “7  days”,  the  words  and  figures  “3 

days” shall be substituted. 

 

 

CHAPTER VI 

CONTENTS OF OFFER DOCUMENT 

SECTION III - CONTENTS OF THE LETTER OF OFFER  

 

8. 

In clause 6.41.8, for the words and figures “7 weeks”, the words and figures “15 

days” shall be substituted.  

 

9. 

In clause 6.41.10.1 –  

(a) 

in  sub-clause  (i),  for  the  words  “forty  two  days”,  the  words  “fifteen  days” 

shall be substituted; and 

 

(b) 

in  sub-clause  (ii),  for  the  words  “forty  two  days”,  the  words  “fifteen  days” 

shall be substituted. 

 

10. 

In clause 6.41.10.2 – 

(a) 

in  sub-clause  (i),  for  the  words  “forty  two  days”,  the  words  “fifteen  days” 

shall be substituted; and 

 

(b) 

in  sub-clause  (ii),  for  the  words  “forty  two  days”,  the  words  “fifteen  days” 

shall be substituted. 

 

 

 

 

10 

CHAPTER VIII 

OTHER ISSUE REQUIREMENTS 

 

 

11.  For clause 8.2, the following shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“8.2 

Public issue and listing of Convertible Debt Instruments” 

 

12.  Clause 8.2.1 and clause 8.2.2 shall be omitted. 

 

13. 

In clause 8.2.3, for the words “DSCE”, the words “Convertible Debt Instruments” 

shall be substituted. 

 

14. 

In clause 8.2.3:- 

(a)  sub-clauses (b), (c) and (d) shall be renumbered as sub-clauses “(f)”, “(g)” 

and “(h)” respectively;  

 

(b) 

for sub-clause (a), the following shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“a)  a  credit  rating  is  obtained  from  at  least  one  credit  rating  agency 

registered with the Board.” 

(c)  after sub-clause (a) and before the renumbered sub-clauses (f), (g) and (h), 

the following sub-clauses and proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

 

“b)  A  contribution  of  at  least  20%  of  the  project  cost,  i.e.,  objects 

proposed to be, inter alia, financed through the issue, shall be brought 

in the form of equity. Such equity participation may be brought by the 

promoter  from  his  own  funds  or  from  other  sources,  subject  to  the 

condition  that  at  least  20%  of  the  issue  size  is  brought  by  way  of 

equity by the promoter from his own funds. If the project is to be  

 

 
 

 

11 

 

implemented  in  stages,  the  promoters’  contribution  as  per  these 

requirements  shall  be  with  respect  to  total  equity  participation  till  the 

respective  stage  vis-à-vis  the  debt  raised  or  proposed  to  be  raised 

through the issue.” 

 

“c)  The  issuer  company  shall  agree  to  comply  with  the  requirements  of 

continuing disclosures  as  specified under  the  listing  agreement  to  be 

entered  into  with  concerned  stock  exchanges  as  is  applicable  for 

listing of equity shares.” 

 

“d)  The issuer company shall agree to obtain prior consent of the holders 

of  the  Convertible  Debt  Instruments,  through  special  resolution  to  be 

passed  at  the  general  meeting  of  the  Convertible  Debt  Instrument 

holders, for change in terms of issue, change in capital structure and 

change in shareholding pattern.” 

 

“e)  There shall be no partly paid up shares/ other securities at the time of 

filing  of  draft offer  document  with  the  Board and  also  at  time  of  filing 

Red Herring Prospectus and Prospectus with ROC. 

 

Provided  that  in  case  of  a  public  issue  of  securities  by  a  listed 

company  satisfying  all  the  requirements  specified  in  clause  2.1.2A, 

there shall be no partly paid up shares/ other securities at the time of 

filing Red Herring Prospectus and Prospectus with ROC.” 

(d) 

in  the  renumbered  sub-clause  (f)  and  its  proviso,  for  the  word  “DSCE”, 

wherever  it  appears,  the  words  “Convertible  Debt  Instruments”  shall  be 

substituted; 

 

12 

(e) 

in  the  renumbered  sub-clause  (g),  for  the  word  “DSCE”,  the  words 

 

“Convertible Debt Instruments” shall be substituted; and 

(f) 

in  the  renumbered  sub-clause  (h),  for  the  word  “DSCE”,  wherever  it 

appears, the words “Convertible Debt Instruments” shall be substituted. 

(c) 

In clause 8.2.5, for the words “NCDS/ DSCE”, the words “Convertible Debt 

Instruments” shall be substituted. 

(d) 

In clause 8.8.2.1, for the words and figures “30 days and not more than 60 

days”, the words and figures “15 days and not more than 30 days” shall be 

substituted. 

CHAPTER X 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15. 

In  Chapter  X,  for  the  Chapter  heading  “GUIDELINES  FOR  ISSUE  OF  DEBT 

INSTRUMENTS”, the following shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“GUIDELINES FOR ISSUE OF CONVERTIBLE DEBT INSTRUMENTS” 

 

16. 

In clause 10.0, the mark and words “/ Non Convertible”, appearing after the words 

“company  offering  Convertible”  and  before  the  words  “debt  instruments”,  shall  be 

omitted. 

 

17. 

In  clause  10.1.1,  for  the  words  and  parentheses  “debt  instruments  (whether 

convertible or not)”, the words “convertible debt instruments” shall be substituted.  

 

13 

18. 

In  clause  10.1.4,  for  the  words  and  parentheses  “debt  instrument  (including 

convertible  instruments)”,  the  words  “convertible  debt  instrument”  shall  be 

substituted.  

 

 

19. 

In  clause  10.7.1.1,  the  mark  and  words  “/  Non  Convertible  Debentures 

(NCDs),”,  appearing  after 

the  words  and  brackets  “Partly  Convertible 

Debentures (PCDs)” and before the words “by company not being in default”, 

shall be omitted. 

 

20. 

In clause 10.7.1.1A:- 

 

 

(a) 

in  the  heading,  the  mark  and  words  “/  Non  Convertible  Debentures 

(NCDs),”,  appearing  after  the  words  and parentheses  “Partly  Convertible 

Debentures  (PCDs)”  and  before  the  words  “by  company  being  in 

default”, shall be omitted; and  

 

(b) 

in the body, the words “and the NCDs”, appearing after the words “portions 

of  PCDs”  and  before  the  words  “issued  by  a  listed  company”  shall  be 

omitted. 

21. 

In sub-clause (b) of clause 10.9, the word “PCDs/”, wherever it appears, shall be 

omitted. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14 

CHAPTER XIII 

GUIDELINES FOR PREFERENTIAL ISSUES 

 

 

22. 

In  clause  13.1.1.1,  after  the  words  “on  preferential  basis”  and  before  the  words 

“shall be made at”, the following shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“,  other  than  an  issue  of  shares  on  preferential  basis  to  Qualified  Institutional 

Buyers not exceeding five in number,” 

 

23. 

In  clause  13.1.1.2,  after  the  words  “on  preferential  basis”  and  before  the  words 

“can be made at”, the following shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“,  other  than  an  issue  of  shares  on  preferential  basis  to  Qualified  Institutional 

Buyers not exceeding five in number,” 

 

24.  After  clause  13.1.1.2  and  before  Explanation,  the  following  clause  shall  be 

inserted, namely:- 

 

 

“13.1.1.3  An  issue  of  shares  on  preferential  basis  to  Qualified  Institutional 

Buyers not exceeding five in number shall be made at a price not less 

than  the  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the  closing  prices  of 

the related shares quoted on a stock exchange during the two weeks 

preceding the relevant date.” 

25. 

In the Explanation appearing after the newly inserted clause 13.1.1.3:- 

(a) 

in  Explanation  (a),  for  the  words  and  figures  “for  the  purpose  of  clauses 

13.1.1.1  and  13.1.1.2”,  the  words  and  figures  “for  the  purpose  of  clause 

13.1.1” shall be substituted; and  

 

15 

(b) 

in  Explanation  (b),  for  the  words  and  figures  “for  the  purpose  of  clauses 

13.1.1.1  and  13.1.1.2”,  the  words  and  figures  “for  the  purpose  of  clause 

13.1.1” shall be substituted. 

 

 

26. 

In clause 13.1.2.1:- 

(a) 

in  sub-clause  (a),  for  the  words  and  figures  “Clause  13.1.1.1”,  the  words 

and figures “clause 13.1.1” shall be substituted; and  

 

(b) 

in  sub-clause  (b),  for  the  words  and  figures  “Clause  13.1.1.1”,  the  words 

and figures “clause 13.1.1” shall be substituted. 

 

27. 

In clause 13.3.1:- 

(a) 

in  sub-clause  (a),  after  the  words  “clause  6.8.3.2  of  these  guidelines”  and 

before the words “, shall be subject to lock-in” the following words shall be 

inserted, namely:- 

 

“and  the  shares  allotted  to  such  promoter  /  promoter  group  pursuant  to 

exercise of options attached to warrants issued on preferential basis” 

(b) 

in sub-clause (c), after the words “preferential basis to promoters/ promoter 

group” and before the words “as per clause 13.3.1 (a) and (b)”, the following 

words shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

“and  shares  allotted  to  such  promoters/  promoter  group  pursuant  to 

exercise of options attached to warrants issued on preferential basis” 

(c) 

in sub-clause (d):- 

(i) 

the mark and words “/exercise of warrants,” appearing after the words 

“conversion of the convertible instrument” and before the words “shall 

be reduced”, shall be omitted; and 

 

 

16 

 

 

 

 

 

(ii) 

the  word  “warrants”,  appearing  after  the  words  “to  the  extent  the 

convertible  instrument”  and  before  the  words  “have  already  been 

locked-in”, shall be omitted. 

CHAPTER XIII-A 

GUIDELINES FOR  QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS PLACEMENT 

28. 

In clause 13A.1.1:- 

(a)  after sub-clause (a), the following shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

 

“Provided  that  in  case  of  a  listed  company,  being  the  transferee 

company  in  a  scheme  of  merger/  demerger/  amalgamation/  arrangement 

sanctioned  by  Court(s)  under  sections  391  to  394  of  the  Companies  Act, 

1956, the period for which the equity shares of the transferor company were 

listed  on  a  stock  exchange  having  nation wide  trading  terminals  shall  also 

be considered for the purpose of computation of the period of one year.” 

 

(b)  Explanation (i) shall be omitted; and  

 

(c) 

In  Explanation  (ii),  after  the  words  “nation  wide  trading  terminals”  and 

before  the  words  “,  shall  be  deemed”,  the  following  shall  be  inserted, 

namely:- 

 

“and  satisfy  the  conditions  laid  down  in  Explanation  to  Rule  19(4)  of  the 

Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957” 

 

 

 

17 

29. 

In clause 13A.3.1, along with its Explanation:- 

(a) 

for clause 13A.3.1, the following shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

 

“13A.3.1 An issue of specified securities made under this Chapter shall be 

made at a price not less than the average of the weekly high and 

low of the closing prices of the related shares quoted on the stock 

exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date.” 

(b)  For Explanation (a), the following shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“a) 

"relevant  date"  for  the  purpose  of  this  clause  means  the  date  of  the 

meeting  in  which  the  Board  of  the  company  or  the  Committee  of 

Directors  duly  authorised  by  the  Board  of  the  company  decides  to 

open the proposed issue.” 

 

(c) 

In Explanation (b), for the words “six months”, the words “two weeks” may 

be substituted. 

 

 

30. 

In  clause  13A.3.2.2,  the  words  “a  day  thirty  days  prior  to”,  appearing  after  the 

words  “clause  13A.3.1”  and  before  the  words  “the  date  on  which”,  shall  be 

omitted.  

 

 

 

CHAPTER XVI 

OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES 

31. 

In clause 16.1.1, in sub-clause (a), for the words and figure “Rs. 20 crores”, the 

words and figure “Rs.50 crores” shall be substituted. 

 

 

