 
 
Chief General Manager 
Market Regulation Department-Division of Policy 
E-mail: mdrao@sebi.gov.in 

 
 
The Managing Director and CEO 
Bombay Stock Exchange 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers 
Dalal Street 
Mumbai 400001 
 
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 

MRD/ DoP/SE/Cir- 7 /2008 
April 03, 2008 

The Managing Director 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.,  
Exchange Plaza 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (E) 
Mumbai- 400 051. 

Sub:- Introduction of Direct Market Access facility 

 
Direct  Market  Access  (DMA)  is  a  facility  which  allows  brokers  to  offer  clients  direct 
access  to  the  exchange  trading  system  through  the  broker’s  infrastructure  without 
manual intervention by the broker. Some of the advantages offered by DMA are direct 
control  of  clients  over  orders,  faster  execution  of  client  orders,  reduced  risk  of  errors 
associated  with  manual  order  entry,  greater  transparency,  increased  liquidity,  lower 
impact costs for large orders, better audit trails and better use of hedging and arbitrage 
opportunities through the use of decision support tools / algorithms for trading. 
 
While  ensuring  conformity  with  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  Contract  (Regulations) 
Act,  1956  (42  of  1956),  Stock  Exchanges  may  facilitate  Direct  Market  Access  for 
investors subject to the following conditions: 
 
 
1. Application for Direct Market Access (DMA) facility 
 
Brokers  interested  to  offer  DMA  facility  shall  apply  to  the  respective  stock  exchanges 
giving  details  of  the  software  and  systems  proposed  to  be  used,  which  shall  be  duly 
certified by a Security Auditor as reliable.  
 
The stock exchange should grant approval or reject the application as the case may be, 
and  communicate  its  decision  to  the  member  within  30  calendar  days  of  the  date  of 
completed application submitted to the exchange. 
 
The  stock  exchange,  before  giving  permission  to  brokers  to  offer  DMA  facility  shall 
ensure the fulfillment of the conditions specified in this circular. 
 
 

Page 1 of 4 

 
  
2. Operational specifications 
 
All  DMA  orders  shall  be  routed  to  the  exchange  trading  system  through  the  broker’s 
trading system. The broker’s server routing DMA orders to the exchange trading system 
shall be located in India.   
 
The broker should ensure sound audit trail for all DMA orders and trades, and be able to 
provide identification of actual user-id for all such orders and trades. The audit trail data 
should available for at least 5 years. 
 
Exchanges should be able to identify and distinguish DMA orders and trades from other 
orders and trades. Exchanges shall maintain statistical data on DMA trades and provide 
information on the same to SEBI on a need basis. 
 
The DMA system shall have sufficient security features including password protection for 
the  user  ID,  automatic  expiry  of  passwords  at  the  end  of  a  reasonable  duration,  and 
reinitialisation of access on entering fresh passwords.  
 
Brokers  should  follow  the  similar  logic/priorities  used  by  the  Exchange  to  treat  DMA 
client orders. Brokers should maintain all activities/ alerts log with audit trail facility. The 
DMA  Server  should  have  internally  generated  unique  numbering  for  all  such  client 
order/trades.  
 
A systems audit of the DMA systems and software shall be periodically carried out by 
the broker as may be specified by the exchange and certificate in this regard shall be 
submitted to the exchange. 
 
The  exchanges  and  brokers  should  provide  for  adequate  systems  and  procedures  to 
handle the DMA trades. 
 
3. Client Authorization and Broker – Client agreement 
 
Exchanges shall specify from time to time the categories of investors to whom the 
DMA  facility  can  be  extended.  Initially,  the  permission  is  restricted  to  institutional 
clients. 
 
Brokers shall specifically authorize clients for providing DMA facility after fulfilling Know 
Your  Client  requirements  and  carrying  out  due  diligence  regarding  clients’  credit 
worthiness,  risk  taking  ability,  track  record  of  compliance  and  financial  soundness. 
Brokers shall ensure that only those clients who are deemed fit and proper for this facility 
are  allowed  access  to  the  DMA  facility.  Brokers  shall  maintain  proper  records  of such 
due diligence. Individual users at the client end shall also be authorized by the broker 
based on minimum criteria. The records of user details, user-id and such authorization 
shall  be  maintained  by  the  broker.  Details  of  all  user-ids  activated  for  DMA  shall  be 
provided by the broker to the exchange. 
 

Page 2 of 4 

 
The broker shall enter into a specific agreement with the clients for whom they permit 
DMA facility. This agreement will include the following safeguards: 
 

(a) The client shall use the DMA facility only to execute his own trades and shall 

not use it for transactions on behalf of any other person / entity. 

(b)  Electronic/Automated  Risk  management  at  the  broker’s  level  before  release  of 
order to the Exchange system. The client shall agree to be bound by the various 
limits that the broker shall impose for usage of the DMA facility.  

(c)  Right to withdraw DMA facility if the limits set up are breached or for any other 

(d)  Withdrawal  of  DMA  facility  on  account  of  any  misuse  or  on  instructions  from 

such concerns 

SEBI/Exchange.  

 
Exchanges shall prepare a model agreement for this purpose. The broker’s agreement 
with clients should not have any clause that is less stringent/contrary to the conditions 
stipulated in the model agreement 
 
4. Risk Management 
 
The broker shall ensure that trading limits/ exposure limits/ position limits are set for all 
DMA clients based on risk assessment, credit quality and available margins of the client. 
The broker system shall have appropriate authority levels to ensure that the limits can be 
set up only by persons authorized by the risk / compliance manager. 
 
The broker shall ensure that all DMA orders are routed through electronic/automated risk 
management  systems  of  the  broker  to  carry  out  appropriate  validations  of  all  risk 
parameters  including  Quantity  Limits,  Price  Range  Checks,  Order  Value,  and  Credit 
Checks before the orders are released to the Exchange.  
 
All DMA orders shall be subjected to the following limits: 

(a)  Order quantity / order value limit in terms of price and quantity specified 

for the client. 

applicable.  

(b)  All  the  position  limits  which  are  specified  in  the  derivatives  segment  as 

(c)  Net  position  that  can  be  outstanding  so  as  to  fully  cover  the  risk 
emanating  from  the  trades  with  the  available  margins  of  the  specific 
client.  

(d)  Appropriate limits for securities which are subject to FII limits as specified 

by RBI.  

 

The  broker  may  provide  for  additional  risk  management  parameters  as  they  may 
consider appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 3 of 4 

 
5. Broker to be liable for DMA trades 
 
The  broker  shall  be  fully  responsible  and  liable  for  all  orders  emanating  through  their 
DMA systems. It shall be the responsibility of the broker to ensure that only clients who 
fulfill the eligibility criteria are permitted to use the DMA facility 
 
 
6. Cross Trades 
 
Brokers using DMA facility for routing client orders shall not be allowed to cross trades of 
their clients with each other. All orders must be offered to the market for matching. 
 
 
7. Other legal provisions 
 
In addition to the requirements mentioned above, all existing obligations of the broker as 
per current regulations and circulars will continue without change. Exchanges may also 
like to specify additional safeguards / conditions as they may deem fit for allowing DMA 
facilities to their brokers. 
 
8. The Stock Exchanges are advised to: 

 
•  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 

the implementation of the above 

•  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the member brokers/clearing 

members and also disseminate the same on their website. 

 

 

•  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

circular in the Monthly Development Report. 

 
9.  A review of the working of this facility shall be undertaken after six months from its 

introduction. 

10. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors 
in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities 
market. 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
S V Murali Dhar Rao 
 

Page 4 of 4 

