Neelam Bhardwaj 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing 

 

To All Registered Merchant Bankers / Stock Exchanges 

SEBI/CFD/DIL/DIP/25/2007/30/4 

April 30, 2007 

 

Dear Sirs, 

 

Sub.:  Amendments 

to  SEBI 

(Disclosure  and 

Investor  Protection) 

Guidelines, 2000. 

 

1. 

 

2. 

 

In exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (1) of Section 11 of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  it  has  been 

decided 

to  amend 

the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and 

Investor  Protection) 

Guidelines, 2000 (hereinafter referred as “the Guidelines”).  

The full text of amendments are given in detail in Annexure I and given in 

brief as under: 

2.1      Processing of draft offer documents 

It  is  observed  that  many  times,  draft  offer documents  are  filed  with  SEBI 

with  incomplete  documentation,  incomplete  disclosures  or  information 

which necessitates clarification from/ discussion with the Lead Manager/s. 

SEBI issues observations on the draft offer documents so filed, only after 

receipt of satisfactory replies from the Lead Manager/s to queries raised, 

receipt  of  comments  from  regulators  or  other  agencies  where  reference 

has been so made and receipt of copies of in-principle approvals from all 

the  stock  exchanges  on  which  the  issuer  intends  to  list  the  securities 

proposed to be offered through the prospectus. 

  

It  has  therefore  been  decided  to  amend  the  Guidelines  to  reflect  the 

aforementioned existing practice in the Guidelines.  

- 2 - 
 

 

2.2      Grading of Initial Public offerings (IPOs) 

It has been decided to make grading of all IPOs mandatory. The grading 

shall  be  done  by  credit  rating  agencies,  registered  with  SEBI  under  the 

SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999. It shall be mandatory to 

obtain grading from at least one credit rating agency. The issuer shall be 

required  to  disclose  all  the  grades  obtained  by  it  for  its  IPO  in  the 

prospectus,  abridged  prospectus,  issue  advertisements  and  all  other 

places where the issuer is advertising for the IPO. Expenses incurred for 

grading of IPO shall be borne by the issuer.  

 

2.3     Guidelines on preferential allotment  

At  present,  the  provisions  relating  to  pricing  in  preferential  allotment 

guidelines presuppose existence of listing history of at least six months in 

a  company  proposing  a  preferential  allotment.  It  has  been  decided  to 

amend  the  preferential  allotment  guidelines,  so  as  to  enable  companies 

with  listing  history  of  less  than  six  months  to  raise  money  through 

preferential  allotment,  subject  to  complying  with  the  modified  pricing  and 

disclosure norms. 

 

2.4     Guidelines on Qualified Institutions Placement (QIP) 

It  has  been  decided  to  amend  the  eligibility  criteria  for  a  company 

desirous of making a QIP. In addition to fulfilling other criteria specified in 

the  guidelines  governing  QIP,  such  company  shall  now  be  required  to 

have,  a  listing  history  of  at  least  one  year  as  on  the  date  of  issuance  of 

notice  to  its  shareholders  for  convening  a  general  meeting  in  terms  of 

Section 81(1A) of the Companies Act, 1956 to consider the QIP.  

 

2.5 

Eligibility of pledged shares for computation of minimum promoters’ 

contribution 

It  has  been  decided  to  amend  the  Guidelines  to  provide  that  securities 

which have been pledged with banks or financial institutions as collateral 

- 3 - 
 

security for loans granted by such banks or financial institutions shall not 

be eligible for computation of minimum promoters’ contribution. 

 

2.6  Miscellaneous  

It has also been decided to bring more clarity to the provisions pertaining 

to eligibility of shares for promoters’ contribution and incorporate the new 

addresses of SEBI offices at relevant places in the Guidelines. 

                 

Applicability  

3. 

 

3.1 

The amendments made vide this circular shall be applicable as under: 

a.  Amendments to clauses 2.0, 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 4.0, 4.6.1(ii), 4.6.2, 4.6.4A, 

4.15.1, 5.6.1, 5.8.1 and 11.3.1(x) shall be applicable to all draft offer 

documents on which observations are issued by SEBI on or after the 

date of the circular; 

b.  Amendments 

to  clauses  2.5A,  5.6B,  6.4.2.2(a)(x-a),  6.8.2.9A, 

6.17.3A, Schedule VIIA and Schedule XX-A shall be applicable to all 

draft offer documents filed with SEBI after the date of the circular. 

c.  All amendments other than those specified in para (3.1) (a) and (3.1) 

(b)  above shall come  into force  with immediate  effect. (i.e. 13.1.1.1, 

13.1.1.2,  Explanation  to  clauses  13.1.1.1  and  13.1.1.2,  13.1A, 

Proviso inserted after 13.3.1(e), 13.7.2, 13A.1.1(a), Schedule XXII)  

 

4. 

 

5. 

 

This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Legal Framework”. The entire text of the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines, 

2000, including the  amendments issued vide this circular,  is  available  on 

the  SEBI  website  under  the  categories  “Legal  Framework”  and  “Issues 

and Listing”. 

All  registered  merchant  bankers  are  directed  to  ensure  compliance  with 

the applicable amendments made vide this circular. 

- 4 - 
 

6. 

All  stock  exchanges  are  advised  to  bring  to  the  notice  of  all  the  listed 

companies,  amendments  mainly  pertaining  to  preferential  allotment  and 

QIP, made vide this circular. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Neelam Bhardwaj 

 

Encl.: Annexure I 

ANNEXURE I 

 

AMENDMENTS TO SEBI (DIP) GUIDELINES, 2000 

 

CHAPTER II 

ELIGIBILITY NORMS FOR COMPANIES ISSUING SECURITIES 

 

1. 

In  Clause  2.0,  the  words  “,  unless  specified  otherwise  in  the  Chapter”  shall  be 

inserted after the words “filing the draft offer document with SEBI” and before the 

words “and also at the time of filing the final offer document”.  

2. 

For clause 2.1.1,  the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

 

“2.1.1   No  issuer  company  shall  make  any  public  issue  of  securities,  unless  a 

draft  Prospectus  has  been  filed  with  the  Board  through  a  Merchant 

Banker,  at  least  30  days  prior  to  the  filing  of  the  Prospectus  with  the 

Registrar of Companies (ROC):  

 

Provided  that  if  the  Board  specifies  changes  or  issues  observations  

on the  draft  Prospectus  (without  being  under  any  obligation  to  do  so), 

the  issuer  company  or  the  Lead  Manager  to  the  Issue  shall  carry  out 

such  changes in  the draft  Prospectus  or  comply  with  the  observations 

issued by the Board before filing the Prospectus with ROC. 

 

Provided  further  that  the  period  within  which  the  Board  may  specify 

changes or issue observations, if any, on the draft Prospectus shall be 

30 days from the date of receipt of the draft Prospectus by the Board. 

 

Provided further that where the Board has sought any clarification or 

additional information from the Lead Manager/s to the Issue, the period 

within  which  the  Board  may  specify  changes  or  issue  observations,  if 

any, on the draft Prospectus shall  be 15  days from the date  of receipt 

of satisfactory reply from the Lead Manager/s to the Issue. 

 

 

- 2 - 

Provided further that where the Board has made any reference to or 

sought  any  clarification  or  additional  information  from  any  regulator  or 

such  other  agencies,  the  Board  may  specify  changes  or  issue 

observations, if any, on the draft Prospectus after receipt of comments 

or reply from such regulator or other agencies. 

 

Provided  further  that  the  Board  may  specify  changes  or  issue 

observations, if  any, on the  draft Prospectus only  after receipt  of copy 

of  in-principle  approval  from  all  the  stock  exchanges  on  which  the 

issuer  company  intends  to  list  the  securities  proposed  to  be  offered 

through the Prospectus.” 

 

3. 

For clause 2.1.2,  the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

“2.1.2   No listed issuer company shall make any rights issue of securities, unless 

a  draft  letter  of  offer  has  been  filed  with  the  Board,  through  a  Merchant 

Banker,  at  least  30  days  prior  to  the  filing  of  the  letter  of  offer  with  the 

Designated Stock Exchange (DSE).  

 

Provided  that  if  the  Board  specifies  changes  or  issues  observations 

on  the  draft  Letter  of  Offer  (without  being  under  any  obligation  to  do 

so),  the  issuer  company  or  the  Lead  Manager  to  the  Issue  shall  carry 

out  such  changes  in  the  draft  Letter  of  Offer  or  comply  with  the 

observations  issued  by  the  Board  before  filing  the  Letter  of  Offer  with 

DSE. 

 

Provided  further  that  the  period  within  which  the  Board  may  specify 

changes or issue observations, if any, on the draft Letter of Offer shall 

be  30  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  draft  Letter  of  Offer  by  the 

Board. 

 

Provided further that where the Board has sought any clarification or 

additional information from the Lead Manager/s to the Issue, the period 

within  which  the  Board  may  specify  changes  or  issue  observations,  if 

 

 

 

- 3 - 

any,  on  the  draft  Letter  of  Offer  shall  be  15  days  from  the  date  of 

receipt of satisfactory reply from the Lead Manager/s to the Issue. 

 

Provided further that where the Board has made any reference to or 

sought  any  clarification  or  additional  information  from  any  regulator  or 

such  other  agencies,  the  Board  may  specify  changes  or  issue 

observations,  if  any,  on  the  draft  Letter  of  Offer  after  receipt  of 

comments or reply from such regulator or other agencies . 

 

Provided  further  that  the  Board  may  specify  changes  or  issue 

observations,  if  any,  on  the  draft  Letter  of  Offer  only  after  receipt  of 

copy of in-principle approval from all the stock exchanges on which the 

issuer  company  intends  to  list  the  securities  proposed  to  be  offered 

through the Letter of Offer.” 

 

4.  After clause 2.5, the following new clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

“2.5A 

IPO Grading 

 

2.5A.1  No unlisted company shall make an IPO of equity shares or any other 

security which may be converted into or exchanged with equity shares 

at a later date, unless the following conditions are satisfied as on the 

date  of  filing  of  Prospectus  (in  case  of  fixed  price  issue)  or  Red 

Herring Prospectus (in case of book built issue) with ROC: 

(i) 

the  unlisted  company  has  obtained  grading  for the  IPO  from  at  least 

one credit rating agency; 

 

(ii) 

 

disclosures  of  all  the  grades  obtained,  along  with  the  rationale/ 

description  furnished  by  the  credit  rating  agency(ies)  for  each  of  the 

grades obtained, have been made in the Prospectus (in case of fixed 

price  issue)  or  Red  Herring  Prospectus  (in  case  of  book  built  issue); 

and  

 

 

 

 

- 4 - 

(iii) 

the  expenses  incurred  for  grading  IPO  have  been  borne  by  the 

unlisted company obtaining grading for IPO.” 

 

CHAPTER IV 

PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION AND LOCK-IN REQUIREMENTS 

PART I – PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION 

 

 

 

5. 

The  following  words  shall  be  inserted  in  clause  4.0  after  the  words  “the 

following provisions”, namely:- 

 

“as  on  the  date  of  filing  of  draft  offer  document  with  SEBI,  unless  specified 

otherwise in this Part ” 

 

6. 

In sub-clause (ii) of clause 4.6.1, the following words shall be inserted after the 

words “without accrual of cash resources “, namely:- 

 

  

” or against shares which are otherwise ineligible for computation of promoters’ 

contribution” 

7. 

In clause  4.6.2, for the words “issued to” appearing  after the  words “securities 

which  have  been”  and  before  the  words  “the  promoters  during  the  preceding 

one year”, the words “acquired by” shall be substituted. 

 
8.  After 1st proviso to clause 4.6.2, the following proviso shall be inserted to clause 

4.6.2, namely:- 

“Provided further that nothing contained in clause 4.6.2 shall apply to shares 

acquired  by  promoters  interse,  if  such  shares  had  been  acquired  by  the 

transferor  promoter  during  the  preceding  one  year  at  a  price  equal  or  higher 

than the price at which equity is being offered to public or had been acquired by 

the transferor promoter prior to the preceding one year.” 

 

 

 

 

 

- 5 - 

9.  After clause 4.6.4, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

 

 

“4.6.4A  Pledged  securities  held  by  promoters  shall  not  be  eligible  for 

computation of promoters’ contribution.” 

PART III - OTHER REQUIREMENTS IN RESPECT OF LOCK-IN 

10.  After  clause  4.15.1,  the  following  proviso  shall  be  inserted  to  clause  4.15.1, 

namely:- 

 

 

“Provided  that  if  securities  are  locked  in  as  minimum  promoters’  contribution 

under  clause  4.11.1,  the  same  may  be  pledged,  only  if,  in  addition  to  fulfilling 

the  requirements  of  this  clause,  the  loan  has  been  granted  by  such  banks  or 

financial  institutions  for  the  purpose of financing  one  or  more  of  the  objects of 

the issue.” 

 

 

CHAPTER V 

PRE- ISSUE OBLIGATIONS 

11. 

In clauses 5.6.1 and 5.8.1, for the figures and words “21 days”, the figures and 

words “30 days” shall be substituted.  

 

12.  For clause 5.6B, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“5.6B 

IPO Grading 

 

5.6B.1  Every  unlisted  company  obtaining  grading  for  IPO  under  clause 

2.5A.1 shall disclose all the grades obtained, along with the rationale/ 

description  furnished  by  the  credit  rating  agency(ies)  for  each  of  the 

grades  obtained,  in  the  Prospectus,  Abridged  Prospectus,  issue 

advertisements  and  at  all  other  places  where  the  issuer  company  is 

advertising for the IPO.” 

 

 

- 6 - 

CHAPTER VI 

CONTENTS OF OFFER DOCUMENT 

SECTION I - CONTENTS OF THE PROSPECTUS 

 

 

 

 

13. 

In  sub-clause  (a)  of  clause  6.4.2.2,  for  item  (x-a),  the  following  item  shall  be 

substituted, namely:- 

 

 

“(x-a)  Disclosure  under  the  heading  “IPO  Grading”,  stating  all  the  grades 

obtained  for  the  IPO  and  giving  reference  to  the  page  number(s)  on 

which  details  of  IPO  Grading,  as  provided  for  in  clause  6.8.2.9A,  are 

given.” 

14. 

In sub-clause (a) of clause 6.8.2.9A, –  

,(a) 

for the words “Name of the credit rating agency”, the words “Names of 

all the credit rating agencies” shall be substituted.  

 

(b) 

the words “and the grading so obtained, including unaccepted grades” 

shall be omitted. 

  

15.  For  sub-clause  (b)  of  clause  6.8.2.9A,  the  following  sub-clause  shall  be 

substituted, namely:- 

 

“(b) 

Disclosure of all the grades obtained from the credit rating agencies.” 

SECTION II - CONTENTS OF ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS 

 

 

16.  For clause 6.17.3A, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

 “6.17.3A  Disclosure  under  the  heading  “IPO Grading”,  stating  all  the grades 

obtained for the IPO, along with the rationale/ description furnished 

by the credit rating agency(ies) for each of the grades obtained.” 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- 7 - 

CHAPTER XI 

GUIDELINES ON BOOK BUILDING 

17. 

In clause 11.3.1, sub-clause (x) shall be omitted. 

 

 

 

CHAPTER XIII 

GUIDELINES FOR PREFERENTIAL ISSUES 

18.  For the opening para of clause 13.1.1.1, the following para shall be substituted, 

namely:- 

 

 

“Where the equity shares of a company have been listed on a stock exchange for 

a  period  of  six  months  or  more  as  on  the  relevant  date,  the  issue  of  shares  on 

preferential basis shall be made at a price not less than higher of the following:”  

19.  After  clause  13.1.1.1  and  before  the  Explanation  given  under  clause  13.1.1.1, 

the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

“13.1.1.2 Where  the  equity  shares  of  a  company  have  been  listed  on  a  stock 

exchange for a period of less than six months as on the relevant date, 

the issue of shares on preferential basis can be made at a price not less 

than the higher of the following: 

i) 

The price at which shares were issued by the company in its IPO or the 

value per share arrived at in a scheme of arrangement under sections 

391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956, pursuant to which the shares of 

the company were listed, as the case may be; 

OR 

 

 

 

 

- 8 - 

ii) 

The  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the  closing  prices  of  the 

related shares quoted on the stock exchange during the period shares 

have been listed preceding the relevant date; 

OR 

iii) 

The  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the  closing  prices  of  the 

related  shares  quoted  on  a  stock  exchange  during  the  two  weeks 

preceding the relevant date. 

Provided that on completing a period of six months of being listed on 

a  stock  exchange,  the  company  shall  recompute  the  price  of  the 

shares in accordance  with the provisions  mentioned in sub-clause  (i) 

of clause 13.1.1.1 and if the price at which shares were allotted on a 

preferential  basis  under  clause  13.1.1.2  was  lower  than  the  price  so 

recomputed,  the  difference  shall  be  paid  by  the  allottees  to  the 

company.” 

 

 

20. 

In the Explanation appearing after clause 13.1.1.2 inserted as above, - 

(a) 

in clauses (a) and (b), for the words “for the purpose of this clause”, the 

words  “for  the  purpose  of  clauses  13.1.1.1  and  13.1.1.2”  shall  be 

substituted. 

 

(b) 

In  clause  (a),  at  the  end,  after  the  words  “to  consider  the  proposed 

issue”  and  before  the  full  stop,  the  following  words  shall  be  inserted, 

namely:- 

 

 

“;  provided  however  that  in  respect  of  shares  issued  on  preferential 

basis  pursuant  to  a  scheme  approved  under  the  Corporate  Debt 

Restructuring framework of Reserve Bank of India, the date of approval 

of  the  Corporate  Debt  Restructuring  package  shall  be  the  relevant 

date”. 

21. 

In clause 13.1A, after sub-clause (v), the following sub-clause shall be inserted, 

namely:- 

 

 

 

- 9 - 

“vi. 

in  case  of  a  preferential  allotment  to  which  clause  13.1.1.2  is 

applicable,  requirements  specified  in  proviso  to  clause  13.1.1.2  and 

proviso mentioned after sub-clause (e) of clause 13.3.1.” 

 

22. 

In  clause  13.3.1,  after  clause  (e),  the  following  proviso  shall  be  inserted, 

namely:- 

 

 

“Provided that where any amount payable by the allottee of shares under the 

proviso to clause 13.1.1.2 is not paid till the expiry of lock-in period mentioned 

in sub-clauses (a) to (e) above, lock-in period in respect of the shares issued to 

such  allottee  shall  continue  till  the  time  the  company  receives  such  amount 

from such allottee.” 

23.  After clause 13.7.1, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-: 

 

 

 

“13.7.2  Clauses  13.1  and  13.3  shall  not  be  applicable  to  shares  allotted  to 

any financial institution within the meaning of sub-clauses (ia) and (ii) 

of clause (h) of section 2 of the Recovery of Debts due to Banks and 

Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of 1993).” 

 

CHAPTER XIII-A  

GUIDELINES FOR  QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS PLACEMENT  

24. 

In  clause  13A.1.1,  for  sub-clause  (a),  the  following  shall  be  substituted, 

namely:- 

“(a) 

its  equity  shares  of  the  same  class  were  listed  on  a  stock  exchange 

having nation wide trading terminals for a period of at least one year as 

on the date of issuance of notice to its shareholders for convening the 

meeting referred to in Explanation (a) to clause 13A.3.1; and” 

 

 

 

 

 

- 10 - 

SCHEDULE VIIA 

ORDER OF PRESENTATION OF DISCLOSURES IN PROSPECTUS 

 

25. 

In Schedule VIIA, -  

(a) 

under  the  sub-heading  “Issue  Details”  appearing  under  the  heading 

“Front Cover Pages”, the following item shall be inserted after item (i), 

namely:- 

“(i-a) 

IPO Grading.” 

 

 

(b) 

under  the  sub-heading  “General  Information”  appearing  under  the 

heading  “Introduction”,  the  following  item  be  inserted  after  item  (ix), 

namely:- 

“(ix-a)  IPO Grading.” 

  

 

SCHEDULE XX-A 

FORMATS OF ISSUE ADVERTISEMENTS 

26. 

In  Parts  A,  B  and  C  of  Schedule  XX-A,  the  words  “IPO  GRADING”  shall  be 

inserted  after  the  information  about  “Debenture  Trustees”  and  before  the 

information about “Availability of Application Forms”. 

 

SCHEDULE XXII 

[Clause 16.1.1(b), 16.2.3.1, 16.2.4.3] 

JURISDICTION OF REGIONAL OFFICES/ HEAD OFFICE OF THE BOARD 

 

27. 

In Schedule XXII, the Northern Region and Eastern Region addresses of SEBI 

offices shall be substituted by the following, namely:- 

 

Northern Region –  

“5th Floor, Bank of Baroda Building, 

16, Sansad Marg,  

New Delhi - 110 001.” 

 

Eastern Region – 

“3rd Floor, 16 Camac Street, 

 

 

- 11 - 

Kolkata - 700 017.” 

 

28. 

In  Schedule  XXII,  the  following  address  shall  be  inserted  in  the  list  of  Head 

Office addresses of SEBI offices, namely:- 

 

Head Office –   

“3) Plot No.C4-A, 'G' Block, 

Bandra Kurla Complex, 

Bandra (East),  

Mumbai - 400051.” 

 

 

