 
 

NeelamNeelamNeelamNeelam    Bhardwaj
Bhardwaj 
Bhardwaj
Bhardwaj
General Manager 
Division of Issues and Listing 
Phone: +91 22 26449350 
Email: neelamb@sebi.gov.in 

  

 

 

 
 
 

SEBI/CFD/DIL/DIP/31/2008/30/7    

July 30, 2008 

 
To All Registered Bankers to an Issue 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub.:  Additional  mode  of  payment  through  Applications  Supported  by  Blocked  Amount 

(hereinafter referred to as “ASBA”)    

 
1. 

 

 

2. 

3. 
 

 

 

In  its  continuing  endeavour  to  make  the  existing  public  issue  process  more  efficient, 
SEBI has decided to introduce a supplementary process of applying in public issues, viz., 
the  “Applications  Supported by  Blocked  Amount  (ASBA)”  process.  The  SEBI  (Disclosure 
and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the  Guidelines”) 
have since been amended to provide for the ASBA process.   

The ASBA process shall be available in all public issues made through the book building 
route.  It  shall  co-exist  with  the  current  process,  wherein  cheque  is  used  as  a  mode  of 
payment. 

The main features of ASBA process are as follows:  

a.  Meaning of ASBA: ASBA is an application for subscribing to an issue, containing an 

authorisation to block the application money in a bank account.  

 
b. 

Self  Certified  Syndicate  Bank  (SCSB):  SCSB  is  a  bank  which  offers  the  facility  of 
applying through the ASBA process. A bank desirous of offering ASBA facility shall 
submit a certificate to SEBI as per the format given in Annexure I, for inclusion of 
its name in SEBI’s list of SCSBs. The said list will be displayed by SEBI on its website 
at www.sebi.gov.in. ASBAs can be accepted only by SCSBs, whose names appear in 
the list of SCSBs displayed in SEBI”s website.  

On  inclusion  in the  list  of  SCSBs,  a  bank  shall  commence  its  activities  as  an  SCSB 
w.e.f.  the  1st  or  15th  of  a  month,  whichever  is  earlier,  from  the  date  of  such 
inclusion.  It  shall  then  be  deemed  to  have  entered  into  an  agreement  with  the 
issuer and shall be required to offer the ASBA facility to all its account holders for 
all issues to which ASBA process is applicable.  
 

1 

A SCSB shall identify its Designated Branches (DBs) at which an ASBA investor shall 
submit ASBA and shall also identify the Controlling Branch (CB) which shall act as a 
coordinating branch for the Registrar to the Issue, Stock Exchanges and Merchant 
Bankers.  The  SCSB,  its  DBs  and  CB  shall  continue  to  act  as  such,  for  all  issues  to 
which ASBA process is applicable. The SCSB may identify new DBs for the purpose 
of ASBA process and intimate details of the same to SEBI, after which SEBI will add 
the  DB  to  the  list  of  SCSBs  maintained  by  it.  The  SCSB  shall  communicate  the 
following  details  to  Stock  Exchanges  for  making  it  available  on  their  respective 
websites; these details shall also be made available by the SCSB on its website: 
(i)  Name and address of the SCSB  
(ii)  Addresses  of  DBs  and  CB  and  other  details  such  as  telephone  number,  fax 

number and email ids. 

(iii)  Name and contact details of a nodal officer at a senior level from the CB. 

Eligibility of Investors: An Investor shall be eligible to apply through ASBA process, 
if he/ she : 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv)  has agreed not to revise his/her bid; 
(v) 

is a “Resident Retail Individual Investor”; 
is bidding at cut-off, with  single option as to the number of shares bid for; 
is applying through blocking of funds in a bank account with the SCSB; 

is not bidding under any of the reserved categories. 

Such investors are hereinafter referred as “ASBA investors”. 

ASBA  Process  in  brief:  An  ASBA  investor  shall  submit  an  ASBA  physically  or 
electronically  through  the  internet  banking  facility,  to  the  SCSB  with  whom  the 
bank  account  to  be  blocked,  is  maintained.  The  SCSB  shall  then  block  the 
application  money  in  the  bank  account  specified  in  the  ASBA,  on  the  basis  of  an 
authorisation  to  this  effect  given  by  the  account  holder  in  the  ASBA.  The 
application money shall remain blocked in the bank account till finalisation of the 
basis  of  allotment  in  the  issue  or  till  withdrawal/  failure  of  the  issue  or  till 
withdrawal/ rejection of the application, as the case may be. The application data 
shall thereafter be uploaded by the SCSB in the electronic bidding system through 
a  web  enabled  interface  provided  by  the  Stock  Exchanges.  Once  the  basis  of 
allotment is finalized, the Registrar to the Issue shall send an appropriate request 
to  the  SCSB  for  unblocking  the  relevant  bank  accounts  and  for  transferring  the 
requisite  amount  to  the  issuer’s  account.  In  case  of  withdrawal/  failure  of  the 
issue, the amount shall be unblocked by the SCSB on receipt of information from 
the pre-issue merchant bankers. The ASBA process is given in detail in Annexure 
II. 

2 

 

c. 

 

 
d. 

 
 

 

e. 

f. 

Obligations of the Issuer: The issuer shall ensure that adequate arrangements are 
made by  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue to  obtain  information  about  all ASBAs  and to 
treat these applications similar to non-ASBA applications while finalizing the basis 
of allotment, as per the procedure specified in the Guidelines.   

Applicability  of  ASBA  process:  ASBA  process  shall  be  applicable  to  all  book-built 
public  issues  which  provide  for  not  more  than  one  payment  option  to  the  retail 
individual investors. 

The  details  of  the  role  and  responsibilities  of  SCSBs  in  the  ASBA  process  are  given  in 
Annexure III, for due compliance by SCSBs.   

The  roles  and  responsibilities  of  other  intermediaries,  viz.,  Registrars,  Merchant 
Banker(s) and Stock Exchanges in the ASBA process are given in Annexure IV.  

This  circular  shall  come  in  to  effect  from  the  date  to  be  specified  by  SEBI,  once  few 
eligible banks are recognized as SCSBs. 

This circular and the entire text of the amended SEBI  (DIP) Guidelines are available on 
SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories  “Legal  Framework”  and  “Issues 
and Listing”. 

 

 
4. 

5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 

 
 
 
 Yours faithfully, 
  
 
Neelam Bhardwaj 

 

Encl.: 
 
Annexure I  –  Certification by Self Certified Syndicate Banks (SCSBs) 
Annexure II –  Details of “Applications Supported by Blocked Amount (ASBA)” process 
Annexure III – Role and responsibilities of Self Certified Syndicate Banks (SCSBs) 
Annexure IV – Role and responsibilities of other intermediaries.  

 

3 

 

CERTIFICATION BY SELF CERTIFIED SYNDICATE BANKS (SCSBs) 

 
A  bank  which  is  desirous  of  becoming  a  SCSB  shall  submit  to  SEBI  a  certificate  as  per  the 
format provided hereunder, upon receipt of which the bank’s name will be included in the 
list of SCSBs maintained by SEBI. 
 

Annexure I 

Format of certificate to be submitted by SCSBs 

 

“(i)  We, ___________, hold a valid certificate of registration as a Banker to an Issue under 
the  SEBI  (Bankers  to  an  Issue)  Regulations,  1994.  Our  SEBI  registration  number 
___________ is valid up to ____________. 

(ii)  We have an arrangement with at least one of the stock exchange(s) that provide the 
electronic  bidding  system,  through  a  web  enabled  interface,  for  uploading  details  of 
ASBA (hereinafter referred to as “the Stock Exchange(s)”). 

(iii)  We have undertaken the mock trial run of our systems with the Stock Exchange(s) and 
Registrar(s)  and  have  satisfied  ourselves  that  we  have  adequate  systems/ 
infrastructure  in  place  at  our  Controlling  Branch/  Designated  Branches  to  fulfill  our 
responsibilities/  obligations  as  envisaged  in  the  ASBA  process  within  the  timelines 
specified therein. These responsibilities/ obligations, inter-alia, include: 
a. 
b. 
c. 

Collection of physical and/ or electronic ASBA from the ASBA investors. 
Capturing relevant details from the physical and/ or electronic ASBA. 
Blocking funds to the extent of application money in the bank account specified 
in the ASBA till finalisation of the basis of allotment or withdrawal/ failure of the 
issue or withdrawal/ rejection of the application, as the case may be. Uploading 
details  of  the  ASBA  in  the  electronic  bidding  system  of  the  Stock  Exchange(s), 
sending to and receiving from the Registrar(s), data pertaining to the ASBA and 
the issue, in a secured form. 
Ensuring that there is a proper segregation of applications/ amount/ data issue-
wise in respect of various issues that may be open simultaneously. 
Unblocking  funds  in  the  bank  account  specified  in  the  ASBA  upon  receipt  of 
request from Registrar(s) or on withdrawal/ rejection of the ASBA, and releasing 
the funds in favour of the issuer.  
Unblocking  funds  in  the  bank  account  specified  in  the  ASBA  upon  receipt  of 
information  on  withdrawal/  failure  of  the  issue  from  the  post  issue  merchant 
bankers. 

d. 

e. 

f. 

 

(iv)  We  have  systems  in  place  to  ensure  that  the  amount  blocked  by  us  in  the  bank 
account specified in the ASBA shall be available at all times, for the purpose of giving it 
to the issuer  upon finalisation of the basis of allotment. 

 
(v)  We are responsible for any omission or commission on our part while discharging our 

role as envisaged in the ASBA process. 

 
(vi)  We  have systems  in place to satisfactorily redress complaints arising out of errors or 

delays on our part to capture data, block or release funds, etc. 

 

4

 
(vii)  We have identified our Controlling Branch and Designated Branch(es), the names and 

contact details of which are enclosed herewith. 

 
(viii)  We  have  identified  the  following  official  of  our  bank  as  the  nodal  officer  for  the 

purpose of ASBA process: 
Name: _______________________ 
Designation: __________________ 
Branch: ______________________ 
Address: _____________________ 
Phone number(s): ______________ 
Fax Number: __________________ 
E-mail ID: _____________________ 

 
 
I, on behalf of ____________, hereby confirm that we fulfil all the conditions stated above 
for becoming a SCSB. 
 
 
 

Name and Signature of Authorised official of the Bank” 

 

5

DETAILS OF “APPLICATIONS SUPPORTED BY BLOCKED AMOUNT (ASBA)” PROCESS  

 

Annexure II 

 
The ASBA process is presented in a tabular form as under: 
 

Details of ASBA process 

Sr. 
No. 
1.   An  ASBA investor, intending to  subscribe to a book built  public issue, 
shall submit a completed ASBA form1 to a Self Certified Syndicate Bank 
(SCSB)  ,  with  whom  the  bank  account  to  be  blocked,  is  maintained,  
through one of the following modes - 
(i)  Submit the form physically with the Designated Branches (DBs) of 

Timeline/ 
Due date 
Bidding 
period 

the SCSB (“Physical ASBA”); 

or 

(ii)  Submit  the  form  electronically  through  the  internet  banking 

facility offered by the SCSB (“Electronic ASBA”). 

 

Bidding  
period 

Bidding  
period 

Bidding  
period 

3.  

2.   The  SCSB  shall  give  an  acknowledgement  specifying  the  application 
number  to  the  ASBA  investor,  as  a  proof  of  having  accepted  his/  her 
ASBA in a physical or electronic mode.  
 
If  the  bank  account  specified  in  the  ASBA  does  not  have  sufficient 
credit  balance  to  meet  the  application  money,  the  ASBA  shall  be 
rejected by the SCSB. 
 
 
After accepting a Physical ASBA, the SCSB shall block funds available in 
the bank account specified in the Physical ASBA,  to  the extent of the 
application money specified in the ASBA. The SCSB shall then capture/ 
upload the following details in the electronic bidding system provided 
by the Stock Exchange(s) for the particular public issue: 
(i)  Application number 
(ii)  DP ID, Client ID 
(iii)  Bid Quantity 
(iv)  PAN 
 
In case of an Electronic ASBA, the ASBA investor himself/ herself shall 
fill  in  all  the  abovementioned  details,  except  the  application  number 
which shall be system generated. The SCSB shall thereafter upload all 
the abovementioned details in the electronic bidding system provided 
by the Stock Exchange(s).  
 

4.  
A. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. 
 

5.   The SCSB (Controlling Branch (CB) or DBs) shall generate a Transaction 
Registration Slip/ Order number, confirming upload of ASBA details in 

Bidding  
period 

                                                            
1
 Main contents of ASBA Application are given in Annexure IIA. 

 

6

6.  

the  electronic  bidding  system  of  the  Stock  Exchange(s).  The 
Transaction  Registration  Slip/  Order  number  shall  be  given  to  the 
ASBA  investor  as  a  proof  of  uploading  the  details  of  ASBA,  only  on 
demand. 
 
In case an ASBA investor wants to withdraw his/ her ASBA during the 
bidding period, he/ she shall submit his/ her withdrawal request to the 
SCSB, which shall do the necessary, including deletion of details of the 
withdrawn  ASBA  from  the  electronic  bidding  system  of  the  Stock 
Exchange(s) and unblocking of funds in the relevant bank account. 
 

7.   The Stock Exchange(s) shall make available the updated electronic bid 

file to the Registrar to the Issue.  
 

Bidding  
period 

Bidding  
period 

8.   The  SCSB  shall  send  the  following  aggregate  information  to  the 

T+1  

Registrar to the Issue after closure of the bidding period: 
(i)  Total number of ASBAs uploaded by the SCSB 
(ii)  Total  number  of  shares  and  total  amount  blocked  against  the 

(where T 
stands for 
closing date 

of the 
bidding 
period) 

 
 
 
 

T to T+11 

uploaded ASBAs. 

 

9.   The  Registrar  to  the  Issue  shall  reconcile  the  compiled  data  received 
from  the  Stock  Exchange(s)  (as  explained  in  para  7  above)  and  all 
SCSBs  (as  explained  in  para  8  above)  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the 
“reconciled data”). 
 

10.  The  Registrar  to  the  Issue  shall  then  match  the  reconciled  data  with 
the depository’s database for correctness of DP ID, Client ID and PAN. 
In case any DP ID, Client ID or PAN mentioned in the bid file for ASBAs 
does  not  match  with  the  one  available  in  the  depository’s  database, 
such ASBA shall be rejected by the Registrar. 
 

11.  The Registrar to the Issue shall inform each SCSB about errors, if any, 
in  the  bid  details,  along  with  an  advice  to  send  the  rectified  data 
within the time as specified by the Registrar.  
 

12.  In case an ASBA investor wants to withdraw his/her ASBA after the bid 
closing  date,  he/  she  shall  submit  the  withdrawal  request  to  the 
Registrar  to  the  Issue.  The  Registrar  shall  delete  the  withdrawn  bid 
from the bid file. 
 

13.  The  Registrar  to  the  Issue  shall  reject  multiple  ASBAs  determined  as 

such, based on common PAN. 
 

14.  The  Registrar  to  the  Issue  shall  finalise  the  basis  of  allotment  and 

T+12 

submit it to the Designated Stock Exchange for approval. 
 

 

7

T+13 

15.  Once  the  basis  of  allotment  is  approved  by  the  Designated  Stock 
Exchange, the Registrar to the Issue shall provide the following details 
to the CB of each SCSB, along with instructions to unblock the relevant 
bank  accounts  and  transfer  the  requisite  money  to  the  issuer’s 
account within the timelines specified in the ASBA process:  
(i)  Number of shares to be allotted against each valid ASBA 
(ii)  Amount to be transferred from the relevant bank account to the 

issuer’s account, for each valid ASBA 

(iii)  The  date  by  which  the  funds  referred  to  in  sub-para  (ii)  above, 

shall be transferred to the issuer’s account 

(iv)  Details of rejected ASBAs, if any, along with reasons for rejection 
and  details  of  withdrawn/  unsuccessful  ASBAs,  if  any,  to  enable 
SCSBs to unblock the respective bank accounts.  

 

16.  SCSBs shall unblock the relevant bank accounts for: 

T+14 

(i)  Transfer  of  requisite  money  to  the  issuer’s  account  against  each 

valid ASBA. 

(ii)  Withdrawn/ rejected/ unsuccessful ASBAs. 
 
The  CB  of  each  SCSB  shall  confirm  the  transfer  of  requisite  money 
against each successful ASBA to the Registrar to the Issue.  
 

17.  The Issuer shall make the allotment.  

T+15 

 

18.  The Registrar to the Issue shall credit the shares to the demat account 

T+15 

of the successful ASBA investors. 
 

 

 

8

MAIN CONTENTS OF “APPLICATIONS SUPPORTED BY BLOCKED AMOUNT (ASBA)” FORM 

Annexure IIA 
 

 
1. 

 

 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

A  statement  that  ASBA  can  be  used  only  by  an  “ASBA  investor”,  i.e.,  an  investor 
who: 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 

is a “Resident Retail Individual Investor”; 
is bidding at cut-off, with  single option as to the number of shares bid for; 
is  applying  through  blocking  of  funds  in  a  bank  account  with  the  Self  Certified 
Syndicate Bank (SCSB); 

(iv)  has agreed not to revise his/her bid; 
(v) 

is not bidding under any of the reserved categories. 

Details of ASBA investor:  
(i)  Name 
(ii) 
(iii)  Bidder’s depository account details  
(iv)  Details of bids – 

PAN 

a. 
b. 

Number of equity shares bid for 
Bid payment amount at cut off. 

Bank Account Number of the account with the SCSB, in which funds to the extent of 
application money shall be blocked. 

The following confirmations/ declarations from the ASBA investor:  
(i) 

That  he/  she  is  an  ASBA  investor  as  per  the  applicable  provisions  of  the  SEBI 
(Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000. 
That in accordance with  the ASBA  process  provided  in the SEBI (Disclosure and 
Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000  and  as  disclosed  in  the  Red  Herring 
Prospectus, the ASBA investor has – 

(ii) 

 

a. 

 

b. 

authorised the SCSB to do all acts as are necessary to make an application 
in the issue of the company, including uploading of his/ her bid, blocking 
or  unblocking  of  funds  in  the  bank  account  maintained  with  the  SCSB 
specified in the ASBA, transfer of funds to the issuer’s account on receipt 
of instruction from the Registrar to the Issue after finalisation of the basis 
of allotment entitling the ASBA investor to receive shares on such transfer 
of funds, etc.  

authorised  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue  to  issue  instructions  to  the  SCSB  to 
remove the block on the funds in the bank account specified in the ASBA, 
upon  finalisation  of  the  basis  of  allotment    and  to  transfer  the  requisite 
money to the issuer’s account.  

                                  

(iii) 

In  case  the  amount  available  in  the  bank  account  specified  in  the  ASBA  is 
insufficient  for  blocking  the  amount  equivalent  to  the  application  money,  the 
SCSB shall reject the application. 

 

9

(iv) 

If  the  DP  ID,  Client  ID  or  PAN  furnished  by  the  ASBA  investor  in  his/  her  ASBA 
form  is  incorrect  or  incomplete,  the  ASBA  shall  be  rejected  and  the  Issuer  or 
SCSB shall not be liable for losses, if any.   

   

5. 

Provision for acknowledgment of receipt of ASBA.  

 

6. 

Provision  for  signature  of  the  applicant  and  of  the  account  holder,  if  the  account 
holder is different from the applicant. 

 

10 

Annexure III 
 

ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF SELF CERTIFIED SYNDICATE BANK (SCSBs) 

 
Role and responsibilities of SCSBs shall include the following: 
 
1. 

SCSB  shall  designate  one  branch  as  the  Controlling  Branch,  which  shall  be  the  single 
point interface for the Registrar to the Issue, Stock Exchange(s) and merchant bankers, 
for co-ordination/ communication.  

 
2. 

  
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 
 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 

 

SCSB  shall  identify  Designated  Branches  at  which  Physical  Application  Supported  by 
Blocked Amount (Physical ASBA) can be submitted by ASBA investor. 

An  SCSB  giving  the  facility  of  Electronic  ASBA  shall  ensure  that  a  soft  copy  of  the 
abridged  prospectus  of  the  relevant  public  issue  is  made  available  on  its  website, 
along with the Electronic ASBA, so as to enable an ASBA investor to confirm that he/ 
she  has  read  and  understood  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  abridged  prospectus, 
before applying in the issue. 

SCSB shall not accept any ASBA after the closing time of acceptance of bids on the last 
day of the bidding period. 

SCSB shall give ASBA investors an acknowledgement for the receipt of ASBAs. 

SCSB  shall  not  upload  any  ASBA  in  the  electronic  bidding  system  of  the  Stock 
Exchange(s) unless –  
(i) 
(ii) 

it has received the ASBA in a physical or electronic form; and  
it has blocked the application money in the bank account specified in the ASBA 
or has systems to ensure that Electronic ASBAs are accepted in the system only 
after blocking of application money in the relevant bank account opened with it. 

 
SCSB shall ensure that the details of a particular ASBA are uploaded only once in the 
electronic  bidding  system  of  any  one  of  the  Stock  Exchange(s).  SCSB  shall  be  solely 
responsible  for  the  completion  and  accuracy  of  all  details  entered/  uploaded  on  the 
electronic bidding system of the Stock Exchange(s).  

In case of withdrawal of bids by ASBA investors during the bidding period, SCSB shall 
ensure  deletion  of  the  withdrawn  ASBA  from  the  electronic  bidding  system  of  the 
Stock  Exchange(s)  and  unblocking  of  funds  in  the  relevant  bank  account  within  the 
timelines specified in the ASBA process.  

SCSB shall send the following aggregate information to the Registrar to the Issuer after 
the closure of the bidding period, within the timelines specified in the ASBA process:  
(i) 
(ii) 

Total number of ASBAs uploaded by the SCSB; and 
Total number of shares and total amount blocked against the uploaded ASBAs.  

11 

9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

SCSB  shall  ensure  that  the  bank  accounts  specified  in  the  ASBAs  are  duly  blocked  to 
the extent of the application money till withdrawal/ rejection of the ASBAs or receipt 
of instruction from the Registrar to the Issue for unblocking the bank accounts for the 
purpose of transferring the funds to the issuer’s account within the timelines specified 
in the ASBA process. The SCSB shall also ensure that the amount blocked by it in the 
bank  accounts  specified in  the  ASBA  form  shall be  available  at  all  times  for  giving  to 
the issuer at the time of finalization of allotment.  

In case of failure or withdrawal of the issue, on receipt of appropriate instruction from 
the  pre-issue  merchant  bankers,  SCSB  shall  unblock  the  bank  accounts  latest  by  the 
next day of receipt of such instruction. 

In case SCSB receives any information from the Registrar to the Issue regarding errors 
in  bid  details,  the  SCSB  shall  send  the  rectified data  within the time  specified  by  the 
Registrar. 

 
12.  SCSB shall ensure that information about revision in the bidding period or price band, 
as  and  when  received,  is  communicated  and  effected  to  in  its  systems  promptly,  for 
information of ASBA investors. 

 
13.  SCSB  shall  take  all  necessary  steps  and  co-operate  with  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue, 
Stock  Exchange(s)  and  merchant  bankers  in  ensuring  secured  transfer  of  data  and 
completion  of  allotment  of  the  equity  shares  within  the  time  period  specified  in  the 
Red Herring Prospectus. SCSB shall ensure that information, if any, sought in relation 
to ASBA process by the merchant bankers/ Registrar to the Issue, is promptly given. 

 
14.  SCSB shall retain Physical ASBAs for a period of six months and thereafter forward the 
same  to  the  issuer.  However,  in  case  of  Electronic  ASBAs,  “printouts”  of  such 
applications  need  not  be  retained  or  sent  to  the  issuer.  SCSB  shall,  at  all  times, 
maintain  the  electronic  records  relating  to  ASBA  process  for  a  minimum  period  of 
three years. 

 
15.  SCSB  shall  ensure  that  complaints  of  ASBA  investors  arising  out  of  errors  or  delay  in 
capturing  of  data,  blocking  or  unblocking  of  bank  accounts,  etc.  are  satisfactorily 
redressed. 

 
16.  SCSB  shall  be  liable  for  all  its  omissions  and  commissions  in  discharging  its 

responsibilities in the ASBA process.   

 

12 

ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OTHER INTERMEDIARIES 

 

Annexure IV 
 

Role and Responsibilities of Registrar to the Issue 

(I) 
 
Role and responsibilities of Registrar to the Issue shall include the following: 
 
1. 

Registrar  to  the  Issue  shall  obtain  the  electronic  bid  data  (including  the  Application 
Supported by Blocked Amount (ASBA) bid data) from the Stock Exchange(s) and match 
the DP ID, Client ID  and PAN specified in the electronic bid file with the depository’s 
database, for the purpose of acceptance of applications and finalisation of the basis of 
allotment.  

 

2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 

Registrar  to  the  Issue  shall  inform  each  Self  Certified  Syndicate  Bank  (SCSB)  about 
errors, if any, in the bid details, along with an advice to send the rectified data within a 
specific date, which shall be specified by the Registrar. 

Once  the  basis  of  allotment  is  approved  by  the  Designated  Stock  Exchange,  the 
Registrar to the Issue shall provide the following details to the Controlling Branch (CB) 
of  each  SCSB,  along  with  instructions  to  unblock  the  relevant  bank  accounts  and 
transfer the requisite money to the  issuer’s account within the timelines specified in 
the ASBA process:  
(i)  Number of shares to be allotted against each valid ASBA. 
(ii)  Amount  to  be  transferred  from  the  relevant  bank  account  to  the  issuer’s 

account, for each valid ASBA. 

(iii)  The date by which the funds referred in sub-para (ii) above, shall be transferred 

(iv) 

to the issuer’s account.   
 Details of rejected ASBAs, if any, along with reasons for rejection and details of 
withdrawn/  unsuccessful  ASBAs,  if  any,  to  enable  SCSBs  to  unblock  the 
respective bank accounts.  

The Registrar to the Issue shall be responsible for the  correctness and validity  of the 
information  furnished  by  it  to  SCSBs  and  shall  be  liable  for  all  its  omissions  and 
commissions in discharging its responsibilities in the ASBA process. 

Unless  otherwise  specified  in  the  guidelines/  circulars  for  ASBA  process,  Registrar  to 
the Issue shall ensure that uniform procedure is followed for ASBA and non-ASBA.  

Registrar  to  the  Issue  shall  act  as  a  nodal  agency  for  redressing  complaints  of  ASBA 
and  non-ASBA  investors,  including  providing  guidance  to  ASBA  investors  regarding 
approaching the SCSB concerned.   

Registrar  to  the  Issue  shall  maintain  accurately,  at  all  times,  the  electronic  records 
relating to ASBAs received from all SCSBs, including the following: 
(i) 

ASBAs  taken  from  the  electronic  bidding  system  of  the  Stock  Exchange(s)  and 
ASBAs furnished by SCSBs in respect of the issue; 

13 

particulars relating to allotment of equity shares against valid ASBAs; 

(ii) 
(iii)  particulars  relating  to  the  requisite  money  to  be  transferred  to  the  issuer’s 

account  against valid ASBAs; and 

(iv)  Details of rejected/ withdrawn/ unsuccessful ASBAs, if any.  

 
 
(II)  Role and Responsibilities of Merchant Bankers 
 
Role and responsibilities of Merchant Bankers shall include the following: 
 
1.  The pre-issue merchant banker(s) shall ensure that the ASBA process is provided as one 
of  the  modes  of  accepting  bid-cum-application  forms  in  all  book  built  issues  which 
provide for not more than one payment option to the retail individual investors.  

 
2.  The  pre-issue  merchant  banker(s)  shall  ensure  that  appropriate  disclosures  are  made 
regarding the ASBA process in the Red Herring Prospectus and abridged prospectus, to 
enable investors to understand and apply through the process.  

 
3.  The pre-issue merchant banker(s) shall ensure that sufficient number of Physical ASBA 
forms  are  printed  and  are  made  available  to  all  SCSBs.  Further,  it  shall  ensure  that 
SCSBs are also provided with a soft copy of the abridged prospectus. 

  
4.  The  pre-issue  merchant  banker(s)  shall  intimate  the  bid/  issue  opening  and  closing 

date/ time to SCSBs, including details of revision in price/ bidding period, if any. 

 
5. 

In  case  of  failure/  withdrawal  of  the  issue,  the  pre-issue  merchant  banker(s)  shall  
inform SCSBs regarding the same.   

 
6.  The post-issue  merchant  banker(s)  shall  inform  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue,  the  date  by 

which subscription money shall be transferred to the issuer’s account by SCSBs. 

 
7.  The post-issue merchant banker(s) shall co-ordinate with the Registrar to the Issue for 
providing  appropriate  information/  instructions  to  each  SCSB  in  respect  of  the  ASBA 
process. 

 
8.  Unless  otherwise  specified  in  the  guidelines/  circulars  for  ASBA  process,  the  pre  and 
post  issue  merchant  banker(s)  shall  ensure  that  all  intermediaries  follow  uniform 
procedure for ASBA and non-ASBA forms. 

 
 
(III)  Role and Responsibilities of the Stock Exchange(s)   
 
Role and responsibilities of the Stock Exchanges shall include the following: 
 
1. 

The  Stock  Exchange(s)  shall  ensure  that  details  of  the  Controlling  Branch  and 
Designated  Branches  (DBs)  of  each  SCSB  are  available  on  the  website  of  the  Stock 
Exchange(s) in an easily accessible form.  

 

14 

 
2. 

3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
 

 

The Stock Exchange(s) shall enable: 
(i) 

access  to  their  electronic  bidding  system  through  a  web  enabled  interface,  to 
SCSBs, for uploading details of ASBA; 
SCSBs to upload data on the electronic bidding system in a secured way; and 
identification of data uploaded by each SCSB, DB-wise. 

(ii) 
(iii) 

 

The Stock Exchange(s) shall ensure that the electronic bidding system provides all the 
appropriate  fields,  along  with  identification  of  SCSBs,  to  enable  SCSBs  to  upload  the 
bid  data  properly.  The  electronic  bidding  system  shall  also  be  enabled  to  display  bid 
opening/ closing date, price band and revision in price band/ bid period and to reset 
relevant data fields upon revision, if any. 

The  Stock  Exchange(s)  shall  ensure  that  an  issue  specific  code  is  generated  from  the 
electronic bidding system, so that SCSBs does not face any problem in segregating the 
ASBA issue-wise. 

The  Stock  Exchange(s)  shall  be  responsible  for  accurate,  timely  and  secured 
transmission of the electronic bid file uploaded by SCSBs, to the Registrar to the Issue. 

The  Stock  Exchange(s)  shall  provide  a  facility  of  reverse  confirmation  to  SCSBs 
regarding the data having been uploaded on their electronic bidding system. 

In case of withdrawal  of ASBA  during the bidding period, the  Stock Exchange(s) shall 
provide the facility of enabling SCSBs to – 

(i) 

(ii) 

delete  the  ASBA  from  the  electronic  bidding  system  or  mark  the 
withdrawal individually against the original bid uploaded; or  
upload  withdrawal  of  the  ASBA  in  batch  mode,  in  the  electronic  bidding 
system. 

15 

