Neelam Bhardwaj
Neelam Bhardwaj    
Neelam Bhardwaj
Neelam Bhardwaj
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing 
Phone: +91 22 26449350 (D), +91 22 2644 9000 
Email: neelamb@sebi.gov.in 

 

To  

All Registered Merchant Bankers  

All Recognised Stock Exchanges 

 

Dear Sirs, 

 

SEBI/CFD/DIL/ESOP/4/2008/04/08 

August 4, 2008 

 

Sub.:  Amendments  to  SEBI  (Employee  Stock  Option  Scheme  and  Employee 

Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999.  

 

1. 

 

2. 

 

(i) 

In exercise  of the powers conferred under sub-section (1)  of Section  11 of the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  it  has  been  decided  to 

amend  the  SEBI  (Employee  Stock  Option  Scheme  and  Employee  Stock 

Purchase  Scheme)  Guidelines,  1999  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “SEBI 

(ESOS & ESPS) Guidelines”). 

The full text of the amendments is given in Annexure I and the amendments are 

explained in brief as under: 

Eligibility of nominee directors for ESOS 

(a) 

Presently,  as  per  SEBI  (ESOS  &  ESPS)  Guidelines,  an  employee 

(including a director of a company / its holding company / its subsidiary, 

whether  such  director  is  a  whole-time  director  or  not)  is  eligible  to 

participate  in  the  ESOS  of  the  company,  if  such  employee  is  not  a 

promoter,  does  not  belong  to  the  promoter  group  and  is  not  a  director, 

who,  either  by  himself  or  through  his  relative  or  through  any  body 

corporate,  directly  or  indirectly  holds  more  than  10%  of  the  outstanding 

equity shares of the company.  

 

(b) 

It has been decided to clarify that a director, nominated by an institution 

as its representative  on the Board of Directors of a company, is  eligible 

to  participate  in  the  ESOS  of  the  company,  if  the  contract  /  agreement 

entered  into  between  the  nominating  institution  and  the  director  so 

 

2 

appointed specifically provides for acceptance of ESOS of the company 

by such director and a copy thereof is filed with the company. 

 

(ii) 

Accounting treatment for options granted under graded vesting schemes 

(a) 

Presently, as per SEBI (ESOS & ESPS) Guidelines, where an employee 

stock option scheme provides for graded vesting  of  options, the vesting 

period  is  determined  separately  for  each  portion  of  the  option  and  the 

accounting  value  of  each  such  portion  is  amortised  on  a  straight-line 

basis over the vesting period of that portion. 

 

(b) 

The  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  (ICAI),  which  also 

prescribes the accounting treatment for employee stock options through 

its Guidance Note on “Employee Shared Based Payments”, has, vide its 

Announcement issued in March 2007, revised the accounting treatment, 

reorganisation  and  measurement  of  options  granted  under  graded 

vesting schedule. 

 

 

3. 

 

4. 

 

(c) 

It has been decided to amend SEBI (ESOS & ESPS) Guidelines to bring 

the  accounting treatment  prescribed by SEBI, for options granted  under 

graded vesting, in line with the accounting treatment provided by ICAI in 

this regard. 

The  amendments made vide this circular shall come into force  with immediate 

effect.  

This circular and the entire text of SEBI (ESOS & ESPS) Guidelines, including 

the  amendments  issued  vide  this  circular,  are  available  on  SEBI  website  at 

www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories  “Legal  Framework”  and  “Issues  and 

Listing”. 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Neelam Bhardwaj 

 

Encl.: Annexure I 

 

 

 

3 

ANNEXURE I 

 

AMENDMENTS TO SEBI (ESOS & ESPS) GUIDELINES, 1999 

1.  After clause 4.1, the following Explanation shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

 

“Explanation: Where such employee is a director nominated by an institution as 

its representative on the Board of Directors of the company –  

(i)  

the contract/ agreement entered into between the institution nominating its 

employee as the director of a company and the director so appointed shall, 

inter-alia, specify the following: 

(a)  whether  options  granted  by  the  company  under  its  ESOS  can  be 

accepted  by  the  said  employee  in  his  capacity  as  director  of  the 

company; 

(b) 

that options, if granted to the director, shall not be renounced in favour 

of the nominating institution; and  

(c) 

the  conditions  subject  to  which  fees,  commissions,  ESOSs,  other 

incentives, etc. can be accepted by the director from the company.  

 

(ii)  

the institution nominating its employee as a director of a company shall file 

a  copy  of  the  contract/  agreement  with  the  said  company,  which  shall,  in 

turn,  file  the  copy  with  all  the  stock  exchanges  on  which  its  shares  are 

listed.  

 

(iiii) 

the director so appointed shall furnish a copy of the contract/ agreement at 

the  first  Board  meeting  of  the  company  attended  by  him  after  his 

nomination.” 

2.  After clause 11.6, the following new clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

 

“11.7 The options granted to a director, who is an employee of an institution and 

has been nominated by the said institution, shall not be renounced in favour 

of the institution nominating him.”  

3.  Clause 13.2 shall be omitted. 

 

 

4 

4. 

In Schedule I, for clause (c), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“(c)  Where the accounting value is accounted for as employee compensation in 

accordance with clause (b), the amount shall be amortised as under : 

 

(i)  Where  the  scheme  does  not  provide  for  graded  vesting,  the  amount 

shall be amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. 

 

(ii)  Where the scheme provides for graded vesting - 

(1) 

the  vesting  period  shall  be  determined  separately  for  each 

separate  vesting  portion  of  the  option,  as  if  the  option  was,  in 

substance,  multiple  option  and 

the  amount  of  employee 

compensation  cost  shall  be  accounted  for  and  amortised 

accordingly on a straight-line basis over the vesting period;  

or 

(2) 

the  amount  of employee  compensation  cost  shall  be  accounted 

for  and  amortised  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  the  aggregate 

vesting period of the entire option (that is, over the vesting period 

of the last separately vesting portion of the option): 

Provided  that  the  amount  of  employee  compensation  cost 

recognized  at  any  date  at  least  equals  the  fair  value  or  the 

intrinsic value, as the case may be, of the vested portion of the 

option at that date.”  

