Neelam Bhardwaj 
General Manager  
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing 

 
SEBI/CFD/DIL/LA/4/2007/27/12 
December 27, 2007 

 
The  Managing  Director  /  Executive  Director  /  Administrators  of  All 
Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub.: Amendments to Equity Listing Agreement.  
 
1.0 

In  order  to  bring  more  transparency  in  the  governance  of  a  listed 
company  with  regard  to  utilisation  of  issue  proceeds  and  to 
enhance  availability  of  and  accessibility 
the  continuing 
disclosures  by  listed  companies,  it  has  been  decided  to  amend 
Equity Listing Agreement to provide for the following:  

to 

 
2.0  Monitoring of utilisation of Issue Proceeds: 

 
2.1  As  per  SEBI  (Disclosure  and 

Investor  Protector)  (DIP) 
Guidelines,  2000,  every  issuer  company  making  a  public  or 
rights  issue  of  more  than  Rs.  500  crores  is  required  to 
appoint  an  agency 
issue 
proceeds. SEBI has, vide circular dated November 29, 2007 
amending 
that  a 
monitoring  agency  shall  henceforth  be  required  to  file  its 
report with the issuer company instead of with SEBI.  

the  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  mandated 

the  utilisation  of 

to  monitor 

 

2.2  Presently,  clause  49  of  Equity  Listing  Agreement  requires 
the  Audit  Committee  of  an  issuer  company  to  monitor  the 
utilisation  of 
to  make  appropriate 
recommendations  to  the  Board  of  the  issuer  company.  It  is 

issue  proceeds  and 

 

 

2

therefore felt that even where a monitoring agency has been 
appointed,  the  report  submitted  by  such  agency  may  be 
placed  before  the  Audit  Committee  of  the  issuer  company, 
so  as  to  enable  the  Audit  Committee  to  make  appropriate 
recommendations 
issuer  company. 
Accordingly,  it  has  been  decided  to  amend  clause  49  of 
Equity  Listing  Agreement,  requiring  the  issuer  company  to 
place  the  monitoring  report  filed  with  it  before  its  Audit 
Committee.  

the  Board  of 

to 

the 

2.3  Further,  every  issuer  company  shall  be  required  to  inform 
material  deviations  in  the  utilisation  of  issue  proceeds  to 
the  stock  exchange  and  shall  also  be 
to 
simultaneously  make 
/  adverse 
comments of the Audit committee / monitoring agency public 
through advertisement in newspapers. 

the  material  deviations 

required 

  
3.0  Electronic  filing  through  Corporate  Filing  and  Dissemination 

System (CFDS), viz., www.corpfiling.co.in 

 

introduced  a  clause 

3.1  SEBI  had,  vide  circular  no.  SMD/POLICY/Cir-13/02  dated 
in  Equity  Listing 
June  20,  2002, 
Agreement,  which  inter-alia  mandated  electronic  filing  of 
certain  corporate  information  through  the  Electronic  Data 
Information Filing and Retrieval (EDIFAR) system hosted by 
the  National  Informatics  Centre  on  behalf  of  SEBI.  It  has 
been  decided  to  phase  out  EDIFAR  gradually  in  view  of  a 
new  portal,  viz.,  CFDS  put  in  place  jointly  by  BSE  and  NSE 
at 
the  URL  www.corpfiling.co.in.  CFDS  offers  a  XBRL 
enabled  common  platform  for  listed  companies  to  file  their 
returns  with  stock  exchanges  and  also  a  common  place  for 
investors to view information related to listed companies.  

 

 

3

 

3.2  Accordingly,  it  has  been  decided  to  introduce  a  new  clause 
viz.,  Clause  52  in  Equity  Listing  Agreement,  requiring  listed 
companies  to  file  information  with  the  stock  exchange  only 
through  CFDS.  Over  period,  other  modes  of  sending  public 
information  to  stock  Exchanges  for compliance  with  clauses 
of  Equity  Listing  Agreement  shall  be  dispensed  with.  The 
companies,  which  are  mandated  to  file  information  through 
CFDS  or  have  been  registered  on  CFDS  on  their  own 
volition  though  not  so  mandated,  need  not  file  information 
through  the  EDIFAR  system.  The  companies  which  have 
commenced  filing  through  CFDS  shall  continue  to  do  so 
through CFDS only.  

3.3  BSE and NSE (Participating Stock Exchanges), which jointly 
own and  maintain CFDS,  shall,  in a phased  manner, ensure 
that CFDS is made available to all listed companies for their 
corporate  filings,  irrespective  of  the  stock  exchange  on 
which 
listed.  Participating  Stock 
Exchanges  shall  shortlist  companies,  based  on  market 
capitalization and disseminate and publish the said list from 
time  to  time  and  make  it  available  on  the  website  of  the 
Exchanges 
the  URL 
www.corpfiling.co.in.  

the  companies  are 

as  well 

as 

on  CFDS 

at 

 
4.0  Accordingly,  new  clauses  43A  and  52  shall  be  inserted  in  Equity 
Listing  Agreement  and  existing  clauses  49  and  51  of  Equity 
Listing  Agreement  shall be amended  as detailed  in  the Annexure 
I.  

 
5.0 
 

 All stock exchanges are advised to: 

 

 

4

5.1  Give  effect  to  the  above  mentioned  policy  amendments  and 
appropriately  amend  the  relevant  clauses  of  Equity  Listing 
Agreement in line with the text of the amendments specified 
in Annexure I.  

 
5.2  Make  consequential  changes  in  other  clauses  of  Equity 

Listing Agreement.  

5.3  Communicate  to  SEBI  the  status  of  implementation  of  the 
the  next  Monthly 

circular 

in 

requirements  of 
Development Report. 

this 

 

6.0  Applicability:  

 
All Stock Exchanges shall ensure that: 
 
6.1  Clause 52 shall be applicable to all those companies whose 
names  shall  be  specified  by 
the  Participating  Stock 
Exchanges  from  time  to  time.  The  first  100  companies 
identified  by  the  Participating  Stock  Exchanges,  a  list  of 
which is available on the websites of the Participating Stock 
Exchanges,  shall  make  all  their  submissions  through  CFDS 
from  the  period  starting  from  January  1,  2008.  Initially, 
these  companies  shall  be 
their 
submissions  to  the  respective  stock  exchanges  through 
CFDS,  in  addition  to  the  modes  provided  in  Equity  Listing 
Agreement, i.e., through fax/courier, etc. 

to  make 

required 

 
6.2  Users  are  requested  to  give  their  feedback  on  the  CFDS  at 
cfdsfeedback@nse.co.in  and  corp.relations@bseindia.com 
so  as  to  improve  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  the 
portal. 

 

 

5

6.3  All  other  amendments  to  Equity  Listing  Agreement  shall 

come into force with effect from the date of amendment.  

 
7.0  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by  sub-
section  (1)  of  Section  11,  read  with  sub-section  (2)  of  Section 
11A,  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to 
protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
8.0  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in 
under the categories “Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”.  

 
Yours faithfully 
 
 
Neelam Bhardwaj 
 
Encl.: Annexure I 

 

 
1. 

 

6

Annexure I 

After clause 43, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

“43A. Statement of deviations in use of issue proceeds  
 
(1)   The  company  agrees  to  furnish  to  the  stock  exchange  on  a 
quarterly  basis,  a  statement  indicating  material  deviations, 
if  any,  in  the  use  of  proceeds  of  a  public  or  rights  issue 
from the objects stated in the offer document.  

 
(2)   Where  the  company  has  appointed  a  monitoring  agency  to 
monitor  utilisation  of  proceeds  of  a  public  or  rights  issue 
and  such  monitoring  agency  has  pointed  out  any  deviation 
in  the  use  of  the  proceeds  of  the  issue  from  the  objects 
stated 
the  offer  document  or  has  given  any  other 
reservations  about  the  end  use  of  funds,  the  company 
agrees  to  intimate  the  same  to  the  stock  exchange,  without 
any delay. 

in 

 
(3)   The 

information  mentioned 

in  sub-clause  (1)  shall  be 
furnished  to  the  stock  exchange  along  with  the  interim  or 
annual financial results submitted under clause 41 and shall 
be  published  in  the  newspapers  simultaneously  with  the 
interim or annual financial results, after placing it before the 
Audit Committee in terms of clause 49. 

 
(4)   The  information  mentioned  in  sub-clause  (2)  shall,  after 
review  by  the  Audit  Committee,  be  furnished  to  the  stock 
exchange  as  and  when  received  and  shall  simultaneously 
be published in the newspapers.” 

 

 

2. 
 

7

In clause 49 –  

(a) 

 

 
(b) 

 

 

in  sub-clause  (II)(D),  after  item  (5),  the  following  new  item 
shall be inserted, namely:- 

“5A.  Reviewing,  with  the  management,  the  statement  of 
uses  /  application  of  funds  raised  through  an  issue  (public 
issue,  rights  issue,  preferential  issue,  etc.),  the  statement 
of  funds utilized  for purposes  other  than  those stated in  the 
offer  document/prospectus/notice  and  the  report  submitted 
by 
the  utilisation  of 
proceeds of a public or rights issue, and making appropriate 
recommendations  to  the  Board  to  take  up  steps  in  this 
matter.” 

the  monitoring  agency  monitoring 

in  sub-clause  (IV)(D),  after  the  words  “statutory  auditors  of 
the  company”  and  before  the  words  “The  audit  committee 
shall  make  appropriate  recommendations”,  the  following 
shall be inserted, namely:- 
 
“Furthermore,  where 
the  company  has  appointed  a 
monitoring agency to monitor the utilisation of proceeds of a 
public  or  rights 
the  Audit 
Committee  the  monitoring  report  of  such  agency,  upon 
receipt, without any delay.” 
 

it  shall  place  before 

issue, 

In  clause  51,  after  sub-clause  (3),  the  following  sub-clause  shall 
be inserted, namely:- 

3. 

 

“(4)  Notwithstanding anything in sub-clauses (1), (2) and (3), the 
company  need  not 
the  EDIFAR  website,  any 
information,  statement  or  report  which  has  already  been 

file  on 

8

filed  on  the  Corporate  Filing  and  Dissemination  System  in 
pursuance of clause 52.” 

After clause 51, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

“52.  Corporate  Filing  and  Dissemination  System  (CFDS),  viz., 

www.corpfiling.co.in  

 
(1) 

The company agrees -  

(a) 

 
(b) 

(c) 

to  file  on  the  CDFS,  such  information,  statements  and 
reports as may be specified by the Participating Stock 
Exchanges in this regard. 

correctness, 

the  company  shall  be  responsible 
the 

that  the  Compliance  Officer,  appointed  under  clause 
for 
47(a)  and 
ensuring 
and 
information,  statements 
comprehensiveness  of 
and  reports 
for 
ensuring  that  such  information  is  in  conformity  with 
the applicable laws and the listing agreement.” 

this  clause  and  also 

authenticity 

the 

filed  under 

that 

filing  of 

the  electronic 

information 
to  ensure 
through  CFDS,  pursuant 
to  compliance  with  any 
clause  of  the  listing  agreement,  shall  be  done  within 
the  time  limit  specified  in  the  respective  clause  of  the 
listing agreement.  

(d) 

to  put  in  place  such  infrastructure  as  may  be  required 
to comply with the clause. 

 

 
4. 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

9

Explanation: For the purposes of this clause –  
 
(i) 

shall  mean 

The  term  “Corporate  Filing  and  Dissemination  System 
(CFDS)” 
the  URL 
www.corpfiling.co.in  or  such  other  website  as  may  be 
specified  by  the  participating  stock  exchanges  from 
time to time to take care of exigencies, if any. 

the  portal  at 

 
(ii) 

The  term  “Participating  Stock  Exchanges”  shall  mean 
the stock exchanges owning and maintaining CFDS.” 

 

********* 

