Dr. Sanjeevan Kapshe 
Chief General Manager 
Derivatives and New Products Department 
 

To 
 

SEBI/DNPD/Cir- 32/2007 
September 11, 2007 

1.  The Managing Director of NSE, BSE and their Clearing 

House/Corporation 

2.  All Registered FIIs and Custodians  

Dear Sirs,  

 Sub.:  Circular on acceptance of Foreign Sovereign Securities as collateral 
from  Foreign  Institutional  Investors  (FIIs)  for  Exchange  Traded 
Derivative Transactions 

1. 

Presently, in Exchange Traded Derivative transactions, FIIs are depositing 
the  collateral  with  the  clearing  members,  in  the  form  of  cash.  Under  the 
existing  guidelines  for  clearing  members,  as  per  SEBI  Circular  Ref.  No. 
IES/DC/CIR-4/99  dated  July  28,  1999,  for  collateral  purposes,  at  least 
50% of the liquid assets, shall be in the form of cash or cash equivalents, 
and the rest can be in the form of non-cash components. 

2. 

Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide A. P. (DIR Series) Circular no. 2 dated 
July 19, 2007 has permitted clearing corporations and clearing members –  

i) 

ii) 

iii) 

to open and maintain demat accounts with foreign depositories and 
to  acquire,  hold,  pledge  and  transfer  the  foreign  sovereign 
securities, offered as collateral by FIIs; 
to remit the proceeds arising from corporate action, if any, on such 
foreign sovereign securities; and 
to liquidate such foreign sovereign securities if the need arises. 

3. 

Accordingly,  clearing  members  are  now  permitted  to  accept  foreign 
sovereign  securities  with  ‘AAA’ 
“sovereign  securities”) as  collateral  from  FII  client  with  the  following 
necessary safeguards: 

rating,  (hereinafter  referred 

to  as 

i.  Before  accepting  sovereign  securities  as  collateral  from  FII,  the 
clearing member shall enter into a written agreement with the FII 
and  also  with  the  clearing  corporation,  containing,  inter  alia,  the 
following terms- 

 

a. 

In the event of any dispute regarding liquidation or return of the 
sovereign  securities  tendered  as  collateral,  or  any  other 
incidental  matter,  the  courts  in  India  will  have  jurisdiction  to 
decide such disputes. Alternatively, the agreement may contain 
an arbitration clause.  

b.  The  agreement  shall  also  contain  the  right  of  the  clearing 
corporation  as  well  as  the  clearing  member  to  liquidate  the 
sovereign  securities  tendered  as  collateral,  in  the  event  of 
default by clearing member or FII, as the case may be.  

ii.  The  clearing  member  shall  take  due  care  to  ensure  that  the 
sovereign  securities  tendered  as  collateral  are  available  for 
liquidation in the event of insolvency of the FII or any intermediary 
or any other person located overseas through whom the securities 
are held. 

iii.  The  clearing  corporation  shall  also  take  due  care  to  ensure  that  
sovereign  securities  tendered  as  collateral  are  available  for 
liquidation in the event of insolvency of the clearing member or any 
intermediary  or  other  person  located  overseas  through  whom  the 
securities are held. 

iv.  The  clearing  corporation  shall  take  adequate  care  to  ensure  that 
the  sovereign  securities  accepted  by  it  as  margin  are  tendered 
under a mechanism which does not unduly hinder timely liquidation 
in the event of default by the clearing member. 

4. 

5. 

The  clearing  corporation  shall  value  the  collateral  tendered  by  applying 
due haircuts. The haircut may either be a fixed percentage or VaR based. 
A higher haircut may be considered to cover the  expected time frame for 
liquidation. A market determined price as obtained from an internationally 
recognized data vendor shall be considered for valuation. The prices shall 
be converted into rupee terms on a daily basis. The rupee value so used 
for conversion shall be the “RBI Reference rate”. The RBI reference rate 
shall be disclosed by the clearing corporation to the clearing members, so 
as to enable them to report the value of the margins collected from FIIs. 

The sovereign securities tendered as collateral shall be treated as part of 
the cash component of the liquid assets of the clearing member, and shall 
be subject to the condition that the value of the sovereign securities shall 
not  be  more  than  10%  of  the  total  value  of  the  cash  component  of  the 
liquid assets of the clearing member. 

 

6. 

7. 

8. 

 

The existing procedure for acceptance and release of collateral tendered 
by domestic investors in the case of domestic securities shall be adopted 
mutatis  mutandis  for  the  sovereign  securities  tendered  by  FII,  except  to 
the extent specifically provided otherwise. 

This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by  sub-
section  (1)  of  Section  11  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
Act, 1992, to promote the development of the securities market. 

This  circular is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in,  under  the 
category “Derivatives – Circulars”. The Circular shall come into force from 
the date of the circular.  

Yours faithfully, 

  

  

Dr. Sanjeevan Kapshe 

 

 

Encl.:  Annexure  I  –    List  of  Foreign  Sovereign  Securities,  with  ‘AAA’  rating,  

to  be 

eligible 
Institutional 
Investors 
Derivative Transactions. 

tendered  as  collateral  by  Foreign 
for  Exchange  Traded 

(FIIs) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure I 

 

List  of  Foreign  Sovereign  Securities,  with  ‘AAA’  rating,  eligible  to  be 
tendered as collateral by Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) for Exchange 
Traded Derivative Transactions 

To begin with, US Government securities, with ‘AAA’  rating, are eligible to be tendered 
as  collateral  by  Foreign  Institutional  Investors  (FIIs)  for  Exchange  Traded  Derivative 
Transactions. 

 

 

