EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 

SEBI/IMD/CIR No.7/73202/06 
August 2, 2006 

All Mutual Funds Registered with SEBI 
Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Re:  Investment  in  ADRs/GDRs/Foreign  Securities  and  overseas  ETFs  by 
Mutual Funds 
 
1.  Please  refer  to  SEBI  Circulars  MFD/CIR  No.  4/052/99  dated  September  1, 
1999,  MFD/CIR  No. 
1999, 
MFD/CIR/17/419/02  dated  March  30,  2002,  MFD/CIR/18/21826/2002  dated 
November  7,  2002,  SEBI/MFD/CIR  No.02/6855/03  dated  April  4,  2003, 
SEBI/MFD/CIR  No.07/5573/04  dated  March  19,  2004  and  SEBI/IMD/CIR 
No.3/50241/05 dated September 26, 2005 pertaining to investment by mutual 
funds in ADRs/GDRs/foreign securities. 

dated  September 

 
2.  The  aggregate  ceiling  for  the  mutual  fund  industry  to  invest  in  ADRs/GDRs 
issued  by  Indian  companies,  equity  of  overseas  companies  listed  on 
recognized  stock  exchanges  overseas  and 
rated  debt  securities 
(subsequently referred to as “foreign securities”) has been raised from US $ 1 
billion to US $ 2 billion in the Finance Bill 2006 – 07. 

5/062/99 

30, 

 
3.  Conditions for investments in ADRs/GDRs/Foreign Securities 

a.  The mutual funds can make investments in  

 

 

i.  ADRs/GDRs issued by Indian companies 
ii.  equity  of  overseas  companies  listed  on  recognized  stock 

exchanges overseas  

rating 

iii.  foreign  debt  securities  in  the  countries  with  fully  convertible 
currencies,  short  term  as  well  as  long  term  debt  instruments 
with  highest 
rating)  by 
accredited/registered  credit  rating  agencies,  say  A-1/AAA  by 
Standard & Poor, P-1/AAA by Moody’s, F1/AAA by Fitch IBCA, 
etc.  

(foreign  currency  credit 

iv.  government securities where the countries are AAA rated.  
v.  units/securities  issued  by  overseas  mutual  funds  or  unit  trusts 
which  invest  in  the  aforesaid  securities  or  are  rated  as 
mentioned above and are registered with overseas regulators. 

b.  The mutual funds can invest in ADRs/GDRs/Foreign Securities within 
overall limit of US$2 bn. with a sub-ceiling for individual mutual funds 
which should not exceed 10% of the net assets managed by them as 
on March 31 of each relevant year, subject to a maximum of US $100 
mn. per mutual fund. 

1

 
4.  Conditions for Investment in Overseas exchange traded funds(ETFs): 
 

Finance  Bill  for  the  year  2006-2007  permits  a  limited  number  of  qualified 
Indian  mutual  funds  to  invest,  cumulatively  up  to  $  1  billion,  in  overseas 
exchange traded funds.  
 
a.    Eligibility  :  To  be  eligible  to  invest  in  overseas  ETFs,  either  of  the  two 

conditions shall be satisfied: 

i. 

ii. 

The  Mutual  Fund  shall  be  in  existence  for  a  minimum  period  of  10 
years as on July 31, 2006 and managing schemes. 

The Mutual Fund or its Sponsors shall have experience, to be certified 
by the Trustees, of investing in foreign securities, and an appropriate 
disclosure  regarding  the  nature  of  experience  shall  be  made  in  the 
offer document. 

 

 

 
 

b.  Limits: The mutual funds can invest in overseas ETFs within overall limit 
of US$ 1 bn. with a sub-ceiling for individual mutual fund which should not 
exceed 10% of the net assets managed by them as on March 31 of each 
relevant year, subject to a maximum of US $50 mn. per mutual fund. 

 
 
5.  Other Conditions: 
 

Apart  from  applicability  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  and 
guidelines  issued  from  time  to  time,  the  mutual  funds  shall  adhere  to  the 
following  specific  guidelines  for  making  investments  in  ADRs/GDRs/Foreign 
Securities and overseas ETFs by the Mutual Fund schemes:  
  

   
a.  Appointment of dedicated Fund Manager 

The  Mutual  Fund  shall  appoint  a  dedicated  Fund  Manager  for  making 
investments in ADRs/GDRs/Foreign Securities and overseas ETFs. However, 
the  existing  schemes  which  have  already  invested  in  ADRs/GDRs/Foreign 
Securities shall ensure compliance with the said requirement within a period 
of six months from the date of this circular. 

 
b.  Due Diligence 

Boards of Asset Management Companies (AMCs) and trustees shall exercise 
due  diligence  in  making  investment  decisions  as  required  under  Regulation 
25 (2). They shall make a detailed analysis of risks and returns of investment 
in foreign securities and overseas ETFs, comparing them with likely yields of 
the securities available in domestic markets and how these investments  
 

 

2

 

 
would  be  in  the  interest  of  investors.  Investment  must  be  made  in  liquid 
actively traded securities.  

Boards of AMCs and trustees may prescribe detailed parameters for making 
such investments which may include identification of countries, country rating, 
country  limits,  etc.  They  shall  satisfy  themselves  that  the  AMC  has 
experienced  key  personnel,  research  facilities  and  infrastructure  for  making 
such 
investments.  Other  specialised  agencies  and  service  providers 
associated with such investments e.g. custodian, bank, advisors, etc should 
also  have  adequate  expertise  and  infrastructure  facilities.  Their  past  track 
record  of  performance  and  regulatory  compliance  record,  if  they  are 
registered  with  foreign  regulators,  may  also  be  considered.  Necessary 
agreements may be entered into with them as considered necessary.  
 
All investment decisions shall be recorded in accordance with SEBI circular 
dated July 27, 2000.  

 
c.  Disclosure Requirements  

The  following  disclosure  requirements  shall  be  mandatory  for  mutual  fund 
schemes proposing to invest in foreign securities. 
  
i. 

Intention to invest in foreign securities/ ETFs shall be disclosed in the offer 
documents of the schemes. The attendant risk factors and returns ensuing 
from such investments shall be explained clearly in offer documents. The 
mutual funds shall also disclose as to how such investments will help in 
the  furtherance  of  the  investment  objectives  of  the  schemes.  Such 
disclosures shall be in a language comprehensible to an average investor 
in mutual funds.  
The mutual funds shall disclose the name of the dedicated Fund Manager 
for making investments in ADRs/GDRs/Foreign  Securities  and  Overseas 
ETFs. 
In case of schemes investing in ETFs the nature of experience of mutual 
fund  or  its  Sponsors  of  having  invested  in  foreign  securities  shall  be 
disclosed shall be appropriately disclosed in the offer document. 
The  mutual  funds  shall  disclose  exposure  limits  i.e.  the  percentage  of 
assets of the scheme they would invest in foreign securities/ ETFs.  

v.  Such investments shall be disclosed while disclosing half-yearly portfolios 
in  the  prescribed  format  by  making  a  separate  heading  "Foreign 
Securities/overseas  ETFs."  Scheme-wise  percentage  of  investments 
made  in  such  securities  shall  be  disclosed  while  publishing  half-yearly 
results in the prescribed format, as a footnote.  

Investment by Existing Schemes:  
Existing schemes of mutual funds where the offer document provides for 
investment in foreign securities and attendant risk factors but which have  
 

3

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

 

d. 

 

 

 
not  yet  invested,  may  invest  in  foreign  securities,  consistent  with  the 
investment objectives of the schemes, provided a dedicated fund manager  
 
has  been  appointed  for  making  investments  in  ADRs/GDRs/Foreign 
Securities. Any additional disclosure as specified above shall be informed 
to unitholders by way of addendum.   
 
In  case  the  offer  document  of  an  existing  scheme  does  not  provide  for 
investment  in  ADRs/GDRs  /foreign  securities  and  overseas  ETFs,  the 
scheme, if it so desires, may make such investments in accordance with 
these guidelines, provided that: prior to investment in ADRs/GDRs /foreign 
securities and overseas ETFs for the first time, the AMC shall ensure that 
a  written  communication  about  the  proposed  investment  is  sent  to  each 
unitholder and an advertisement is given in one English daily newspaper 
having nationwide circulation as well as in a newspaper published in the 
language  of  the  region  where  the  Head  Office  of  the  mutual  fund  is 
situated.  The  communication  to  unitholders  shall  also  disclose  the  risk 
factors associated with such investments. 

Reporting to Trustees :  
The  AMCs  shall  send  detailed  periodical  reports  to  the  trustees  which 
shall include the following aspects:  

i.  Performance  of 

investments  made 

overseas ETFs in various countries.  

in 

foreign  securities  and 

ii.  Amount  invested  in  various  schemes  and  any  breach  of  the 

exposure limit laid down in the scheme offer documents. 

Review of Performance 
Boards of AMCs and trustees shall review the performance of investments 
made in foreign securities/overseas ETFs in their meetings by comparing 
the  yield  with  that  of  investment  opportunities  available  in  domestic 
markets  and  shall  decide  further  course  of  action.  In  case  of  schemes 
investing  exclusively  in  foreign  securities/overseas  ETFs,  performance 
may also be compared with appropriate benchmark(s).  

Reporting to SEBI  
The AMCs and trustees shall offer their comments on the compliance of 
these guidelines in the quarterly and half-yearly reports filed with SEBI.  

Clause  4  of  Seventh  Schedule  of  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds) 
Regulations 1996 
It  is  clarified  that  Clause  4  of  Seventh  Schedule  of  the  SEBI  (Mutual 
Funds) Regulations 1996 which restricts investments in mutual fund units 
upto  5%  of  net  assets  and  prohibits  charging  of  fees,  shall  not  be 
applicable  to  investments  in  mutual  funds  in  foreign  countries  made  in 
accordance with guidelines as per aforesaid circular. However, please  

4

 
e. 

 
f. 

 
g. 

 
h. 

 

 
note  that  the  management  fees  and  other  expenses  charged  by  the 
mutual  fund(s)  in  foreign  countries  along  with  the  management  fee  and 
recurring expenses charged to the domestic mutual fund scheme shall not  
 
exceed the total limits on expenses as prescribed under Regulation 52(6). 
Where the scheme is investing only a part of the net assets in the foreign 
mutual  fund(s),  the  same  principle  shall  be  applicable  for  that  part  of 
investment. The details of calculation for charging such expenses shall be 
reported to the Boards of AMC and trustees and shall also be disclosed in 
the Annual Report of the scheme. 

 
6.  SEBI  Circulars  MFD/CIR  No.  4/052/99  dated  September  1,  1999,  MFD/CIR 
No.  5/062/99  dated  September  30,  1999,  MFD/CIR/17/419/02  dated  March 
30, 2002, MFD/CIR/18/21826/2002 dated November 7, 2002, SEBI/MFD/CIR 
No.02/6855/03  dated  April  4,  2003,  SEBI/MFD/CIR  No.07/5573/04  dated 
March  19,  2004  and  SEBI/IMD/CIR  No.3/50241/05  dated  September  26, 
2005  pertaining  to  investment  by  mutual  funds  in  ADRs/GDRs/foreign 
securities stand withdrawn. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
R. K. Nair 
 
Encl: a/a 
 

 
7.  The  procedure 

for  applying 

to  SEBI 

for  making 

investments 

in 

ADRs/GDRs/foreign securities and overseas ETFs is given in the Annexure. 

 
 
8.  These  guidelines  are  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section 
11(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with the 
provisions  of  Regulation  77  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  to 
protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development 
of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 

5

 
PROPOSAL FOR INVESTMENTS IN ADRs/GDRs/ FOREIGN SECURITIES / OVERSEAS 
ETFs 
Name of the Mutual Fund: 

  

 
ANNEXURE 

SEBI Registration No.: 

Amount  Proposed  to  be  Invested  in  ADRs  /GDRs  /Foreign 
Securities / Overseas ETFs (Rs. crores)  

Net Assets of the Fund as on March 31        (Rs crores) 

  

 

 

Schemes  of  the  Mutual  Fund  through  which  investment  is 
proposed:  

Name and Type of scheme(s) 

Whether  the  investment  is  consistent  with  the  Investment 
Objectives of the Scheme (s); 

Whether 
the  offer  document(s)  provides 
Investments and discloses the attendant risks 

for  Overseas 

Name and Address of the branch of the bank through which 
Foreign Currency Transactions are to be routed: 

 

  

  

  

Details  of  all  overseas  service  providers  proposed  to  be 
engaged  including  custodians,  specialised  agencies  etc. 
(Details  must  include  name  &  address,  services  to  be 
rendered, details of fee arrangement proposed, whether their 
track  record  of  performance  and  regulatory  compliance 
considered,  their  valid  registration  with  overseas  regulators, 
details 
under 
management/custody, etc.) 
Declaration  
1.  Boards  of  AMC  and  trustees  have  exercised  due  diligence  as  required  under  Regulation 

experience/expertise, 

assets 

of 

25(2) and Guidelines issued in this regard.  
2. Board of AMC and trustees are satisfied that 

6

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

The  proposed  investments  in  ADRs/GDRs  issued  by  Indian  companies  or  foreign 
securities or overseas ETFs are consistent with the investment objectives of the above 
mentioned scheme(s) and are in the interest of investors.  
The  systems  and  procedures  adopted  by  the  AMC  including  the  arrangements  made 
with the overseas service providers are adequate to support such investments and to 
safeguard the interest of investors.  
The  overseas  service  providers  have  sufficient  experience,  competence  and  a 
satisfactory track record of performance and regulatory compliance.  

A resolution to the above effect has been passed by the Boards of AMC and trustees on……. 
(dates) 
Place:                                                                                     Signatures  
                                                                                                Name:  
Date:                                                                                     Designation:  
 

(Authorised by Trustees) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

