 
 
 
 
GENERAL MANAGER 
Market Regulation Department 
E-mail: sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in 

 
 
The Executive Directors/Managing Directors/Administrators 
of All Stock Exchanges 
 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
 

 
MRD/DoP/SE/Cir- 14/2006 
September 28, 2006 

Sub:  Standing Committee - Computerised Trading System   

 

1.  This  is  with  reference  to  SEBI  Circular  No.SMD/POLICY/Cir-2/98  dated 
January  14,  1998  which,  inter-alia,  provides  for  setting  up  a  Standing 
Committee to investigate the problems of computerised trading system, such 
as, hanging / slowdown / breakdown.  

2.  Pursuant  to  the  observation  made  with  regard  to  compliance  on  the  issue 
during the inspection of stock exchanges conducted by SEBI and with a view 
to clarify the requirements under the aforesaid circular and to bring uniformity 
in implementation / compliance, the exchanges are advised as under:- 

2.1. All instances of hanging /slowdown / breakdown and any other problem in 
the computerized trading system, even if the disruption is less than five 
minutes, should be reported to the Committee for its consideration. 

2.2. The Committee, upon examination of the issue/s shall submit a report to 

the Governing Board / Council of the Stock Exchange. 

2.3. The Governing Board / Council of the Stock Exchange shall deliberate on 

the aforesaid report and take suitable action / remedial measure.  

2.4. Further,  in  case  of  stoppage  beyond  five  minutes  the  exchange  should 
also explain and report to SEBI about the incident as well as the remedial 
measures taken.  The Stock Exchange shall also issue a press release in 
this regard for greater transparency and in the interest of investors. 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

 

3.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to ; 

3.1. make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 

regulations for the implementation of the above decision immediately. 

3.2. bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  member 
brokers/clearing members of the Exchange and also to disseminate the 
same on the website. 

3.3. communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions 
of  this  circular  in  Section  II,  item  no.  13  of  the  Monthly  Development 
Report for the month of October 2006. 

4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 
(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
V S SUNDARESAN 
 
 
 

Page 2 of 2 

