CHIEF GENERAL MANAGER 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 

SEBI/IMD/CIR No.1/42529/05 
June 14, 2005 

All Mutual Funds Registered with SEBI 
Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Re: Minimum Number of Investors in Scheme(s)/Plan(s) of Mutual Funds. 
 
Please  refer 
to  SEBI  Circular  No.  SEBI/IMD/CIR  No.10/22701/03  dated 
December  12,  2003,  on  the  captioned  subject.    SEBI  has  received  further 
suggestions  from  AMFI  on  the  aforesaid  Circular.    Accordingly,  in  order  to 
harmonize 
in  ongoing 
implementation of the said circular, the following clarifications are issued.  
 

the  methodology 

limit 

for  calculating 

the  25  % 

a)  The aforesaid Circular would be applicable at the Portfolio level. 
 
b)  Determining the breach of the 25 % limit by an Investor – The average net 
assets of the scheme would be calculated daily and any breach of the 25 
%  holding  limit  by  an  investor  would  be  determined.    At  the  end  of  the 
quarter, the average of daily holding by each such investor is computed to 
determine  whether  that  investor  has  breached  the  25  %  limit  over  the 
quarter.    If  there  is  a  breach  of  limit  by  any  investor  over  the  quarter,  a 
rebalancing  period  of  one  month  would  be  allowed  and  thereafter  the 
investor  who  is  in  breach  of  the  rule  shall  be  given  15  days  notice  to 
redeem his  exposure over the 25 % limit.  Failure on the part of the said 
investor to redeem his exposure over the 25 % limit within the aforesaid 
15 days would lead to automatic redemption by the Mutual Fund on the 
applicable Net Asset Value on the 15th day of the notice period.  

 
All  other  provisions  of  the  aforesaid  Circular  dated  December  12,  2003  remain 
unchanged. 
 
These guidelines are issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 
(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  the 
provisions of regulation 77 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, to protect 
the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
(D. Chanda) 
 

