Neelam Bhardwaj  
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing 
Phone: +91 22 2284 2826 (D), +91 22 2285 0451- 56, 2288 0962- 70 (Extn: 367) 
 
Fax: +91 22 2204 5633. Email: neelamb@sebi.gov.in   

 
 
 
SEBI/CFD/DIL/LA/2006/13/4 
April 13, 2006 

 
The  Managing  Director  /  Executive  Director  /  Administrator  of  All  Stock 
Exchanges 
 
Dear Sirs, 

 

Sub.:  Amendments  to  Clause  40A  and  Clause  35  of  Equity  Listing 

Agreement 

In order to  ensure availability of floating stock on a continuous basis and to 
bring  about  greater  transparency  in  respect  of  disclosure  of  shareholding 
pattern  of  companies,  SEBI  has  decided  to  bring  in  the  following  policy 
changes to the continuous listing requirements: 
 
1.  Minimum Level of public shareholding 
 

All  listed  companies ,  other  than  those  mentioned  hereunder,  will  be 
required  to  ensure  minimum  level of  public shareholding  at  25%  of  the 
total  number  of  issued  shares  of  a  class  or  kind  for  the  purpose  of 
continuous listing: 

 

 

a.  Companies  which,  at  the  time  of  initial  listing, had offered less than 
25% but not less than 10% of the total number of  issued shares  of a 
class  or  kind,  in  terms  of  Rule  19(2)(b)  of  Securities  Contract 
(Regulation)  Rules  1957  (SCRR)  or  companies  desiring  to  list  their 
shares  by  making  an  Initial  Public  Offering  (IPO)  of  at  least  10%  in 
terms of Rule 19(2)(b) of SCRR.  

b.  Companies which have, irrespective of  the percentage of their shares 
with public at the time of  initial listing, reached a size of two crore or 
more in terms of number of listed shares and Rs. 1000 crore or more 
in terms of market capitalization.  

 
The  companies  at  (a)  and  (b)  above  will  be  required  to  maintain  the 
minimum  level  of  public  shareholding  at  10%  of  the  total  number  of 
issued shares of a class  or kind for the purpose of continuous listing. 
 

 
I. 

 

The  aforesaid  requirement  of  maintaining  minimum  level  of  public 
shareholding on a continuous basis will not be applicable to government 
companies (as defined under Section 617 of the Companies Act,  1956), 
infrastructure companies (as defined  under clause 1.2.1(xv) of the SEBI 
(DIP)  Guidelines,  2000)  and  companies  referred  to  the  Board  for 
Industrial and Financial Reconstruction. 
 
The  “public  shareholding”  for  the  purpose  of  continuous  listing,    will 
continue to comprise of shares held by entities other than promoters  and 
promoter group and  shares held by custodians  against which depository 
receipts  are  issued  overseas.  The  terms  “Promoter”  and  “Promoter 
group”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  is  assigned  to  them under  the 
SEBI (Disclosure & Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000. 
 
Increasing the public shareholding to the minimum level 
 
As  on  the  date  of  this  circular  coming  into  force,  there  may  be  two 
categories of companies,  viz.,  those  which  are  non-compliant and those 
which may  subsequently  become  non-compliant  on  account  of  factors 
such  as  compliance  with  directions  of  a  court,  tribunal,  regulatory  or 
statutory  authority,  compliance  with  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of 
Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997,  re-organization of capital by 
way of a scheme of arrangement, etc.  

2. 

 

It  has  been  decided  to  provide  a  transparent  mechanism  to such  non-
compliant  companies   for  enabling  them  to  graduate  to  the  level  of 
compliant  companies.  The  mechanism 
the  public 
shareholding  to  the  minimum  level  will  inter  alia  provide  for  various 
modes of issuing shares in domestic market and reasonable time period, 
as approved by Specified Stock Exchange. 
 

increasing 

for 

3.  Revision in the reporting format for shareholding pattern  

to  revise 

the  existing  reporting 

format  of 
It  has  been  decided 
shareholding pattern provided in Clause 35 of the Listing Agreement. The 
shareholding  pattern  will  now  be  indicated  under  three  categories,  viz., 
“shares held by promoter and promoter group”, “shares held by public” and 
“shares  held  by  custodians  and  against  which  Depository  Receipts  have 
been  issued,”.  Further,  details  such  as  number of shareholders,  number 
and percentage of  shares  held,  number  of  shares  held  in  dematerialized 
form, etc. will be given for all the three categories. It is clarified that for the 
purpose  of  Clause  40A,  percentage  of  “public  shareholding”  shall  be 
computed as “shares held by public” as a percentage of “total number of 
shares held by promoters, promoter group and public ”. 

 

 

 

II.  Applicability  
 

1.  The  revised  Clause  40A  of  Equity  Listing  Agreement  shall  come  into 

force with effect from May 1, 2006.  

 
2.  The revised Clause 35 of Equity Listing Agreement shall come into force 
with immediate effect. The quarterly reporting as per the revised Clause 
35 shall start from quarter ending June 30, 2006. 

 

III.  Direction to Stock Exchanges  

 
1.  All  Stock Exchanges are advised  to  do  the  following before the date of 

this circular coming into force, i.e., by May 1, 2006 : 

 

 

a.  Give effect to the above mentioned policies and appropriately amend 
Clause 40A and Clause 35 of Equity Listing  Agreement  in  line  with 
the text of the amendments specified in Annexure I and II.  

b.  Make  consequential  changes,  if  any,  in  other  clauses  of  Equity 

Listing Agreement, e.g., Clause 41.  

2.  All Stock Exchanges are further advised to do the following: 

 

 

a.  Monitor compliance with  the  minimum  level  of  public  shareholding, 

based on quarterly returns  submitted by companies .  

b.  Submit  a  report  to  SEBI  on  quarterly  basis  as  per  the  format 
specified in  Annexure  III. The said report shall be submitted within 
45 days of the end of each quarter,  first such report  to be submitted 
for the quarter ending June 30, 2006.  

 

 

c.  Communicate to SEBI, status of implementation of the requirements 

of this circular in the next Monthly Development Report. 

 
3.  Specified Stock Exchanges are advised to grant necessary approvals as 
specified in Clause 40A after examining and satisfying  themselves about 
the circumstances of the case and after recording reasons in writing. The 
decision taken by  Specified Stock Exchanges shall be binding on other 
Stock Exchanges on which the shares of the company are listed.  

 
IV.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred by  sub-section (1) of 
Section  11,  read  with  sub-section  (2)  of  Section  11A,  of  the  Securities and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in 

 

securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities 
market.  The  provisions  of  SEBI  circular  no.  SMDRP/POLICY/CIR -28/01 
dated May 02, 2001 regarding Clause 40A of Equity Listing Agreement shall 
stand  superseded  with  effect  from  May  1,  2006.  The  provisions  of  SEBI 
circular  no.  SMDRP/POLICY/CIR -7/01  dated  February  1,  2001  regarding 
Clause  35  of  Equity  Listing  Agreement  shall  stand  superseded  with 
immediate effect.   

 
V.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in.  
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Neelam Bhardwaj 
 
Encl.:   1.  Annexure I   -   Revised Clause 40A of Equity Listing Agreement. 

2.  Annexure II   -   Revised Clause 35 of Equity Listing Agreement. 
3.  Annexure III  -   Format of  Report indicating Compliance with Minimum 
level  of  Public  Shareholding  (Clause  40A  of  Equity 
Listing Agreement). 

 

ANNEXURE I 

 
The existing Clause 40A of  Equity  Listing  Agreement  shall be substituted by 
the following, namely:- 
 
“40A  Minimum level of public shareholding  
 
(i) 

The company agrees to maintain on a continuous basis, public shareholding 
of  at  least  25%  of  the  total  number of  issued shares  of  a  class  or  kind,  for 
every such class or kind of its shares which are listed.  

 
(ii)  Where the company offers or has in the past offered a particular class or kind 
of  its  shares  to  the  public  to the extent of  at  least  10%  of  the  issue size in 
terms of Rule 19(2)(b) of the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957, 
it  agrees  to  maintain  on  a  continuous  basis,  public  shareholding of  at  least 
10% of the total number of issued shares of such class or kind. 

 
(iii)  Where  the  number of  outstanding  listed  shares  of  any  class  or  kind  of  the 
company  are  two  crore  or  more  and  the  market  capitalization  of  such 
company in respect of shares of such class or kind is Rs. 1000 crore or more, 
it  agrees  to  maintain  on  a  continuous  basis,  public  shareholding  of  at  least 
10% of the total number of issued shares of such class or kind. 

 
(iv)  Where, as on May 1, 2006,  the  shares of a particular class or kind issued by 
the  company  are  listed  and  the  public  shareholding  in  respect of  shares  of 
such class or kind  is less than 25% or 10%, as the case may be, of the total 
number  of  issued  shares  of  such  class  or  kind,  the  company  agrees  to 
increase public shareholding in respect of shares of such class or kind to 25% 
or 10%, as the case may be, within  such period as may be approved by the 
Specified Stock Exchange (SSE) but not  exceeding  two  years  from  the  said 
date. 
 
Provided that the SSE may, on an application made by the company and after 
satisfying itself about  the adequacy of steps taken by the company to increase 
its  public  shareholding  and  genuineness  of  the  reasons  submitted  by  the 
company  for  not  reaching  the  minimum level of public shareholding and  after 
recording  reasons  in  writing,  extend  the  time  for  compliance  with  the 
requirement of  minimum  level of  public shareholding  by  a  further  period  not 
exceeding one year. 
 

(v)  Where  the  public  shareholding  in  a company  in  respect of  shares  of such 
class  or  kind  is  less  than  25%  or  10%,  as  the  case  may  be,  of  the  total 
number of  issued shares of  such  class or kind,  the  company  agrees  not to 
dilute in any way  its public shareholding, except for supervening extraordinary 
events,  including ,  but  not  limited  to  events   specified  in  sub-clause  (vii)  of 
Clause 40A, with the prior approval of the SSE. 

 

(vi) 

 
The company agrees not to make any allotment of its shares to its promoters 
or entities belonging to  its promoter group , except on account of supervening 
extraordinary  events,  including,  but  not  limited  to  events  specified in  sub-
clause (vii) of Clause 40A, or make any offer to buyback its shares or buy its 
shares  for  the  purpose  of  making  sponsored issuance of depository receipts 
or take any other step, including issuance of depository receipts, if it  results in 
reducing the public shareholding below the minimum level of 25% or 10%, as 
the case may be. 

 
(vii)  Where the public shareholding in any class or kind of shares of a company 
falls  below  the  minimum  level  of  public  shareholding  on  account  of 
supervening extraordinary events , including, but not limited to -   
(a) 

issuance  or  transfer  of  shares  in  compliance  with  directions  of  a 
regulatory or statutory authority or court or tribunal;  
issuance or transfer of shares in compliance with the SEBI (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997;  
re-organization of capital by way of a scheme of arrangement; and 
issuance or  transfer of shares under a restructuring plan approved in 
compliance with the Corporate Debt Restructuring System laid down by 
the Reserve Bank of India, 

(b) 

(c) 
(d) 

the SSE may, after examining and satisfying itself about the circumstances of 
the  case  and  after  recording  reasons  in  writing,  extend  the  time  for 
compliance with the requirement of minimum level of public shareholding by a 
further period not exceeding one year. 
 
Provided that the SSE may, on an application made by the company and after 
satisfying itself about the adequacy of steps taken by the company to increase 
its  public  shareholding  and  genuineness  of  the  reasons  submitted  by  the 
company  for  not  reaching  the  minimum level of public shareholding  and after 
recording  reasons  in  writing,  extend  the  time  for  compliance  with  the 
requirement  of  minimum  level of  public shareholding  by  a  further  period  not 
exceeding one year. 
 

(viii)  The  company  agrees  that  in  the  event  of  sub-clauses  (iv)  or  (vii) becoming 
applicable,  it  shall  forthwith  adopt  any  of  the  following  methods to raise the 
public shareholding to the minimum level: 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 

issuance of shares to public through prospectus; 
offer for sale of shares held by promoters to public through prospectus; 
sale of shares held by promoters through the secondary market; or 
any  other  method  which  does  not  adversely  affect  the  interest  of 
minority shareholders. 
 

Provided that for  the  purpose  of  adopting  methods  specified  at  sub-clauses 
(c)  and  (d)  above,  the  company  agrees  to  take  prior  approval  of  the  SSE 
which may impose such conditions as it deems fit. 

 

 

(ix)  Where a company fails to comply with this clause, its shares shall be liable to 
be  delisted  in  terms  of  the  Delisting  Guidelines  /  Regulations,  if  any, 
prescribed by SEBI in this regard  and the company shall be liable for penal 
actions  under  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  and  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  

 
(x) 

Nothing contained in sub-clauses (i) to (vii) shall apply to – 
(a) 

a company in respect of which reference is or has been made to the 
Board  for  Industrial  and  Financial  Reconstruction  under  the  Sick 
Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 or to the National 
Company  Law  Tribunal  under  Section  424A  of  the  Companies  Act, 
1956 and such reference is pending or  a company in respect of which 
any rehabilitation scheme is sanctioned by the Board for Industrial and 
Financial  Reconstruction  or  the  National  Company  Law  Tribunal 
pursuant  thereto  and  is  pending  full  implementation  or  any  appeal  is 
pending  regarding  such  reference  or  scheme  before  the  Appellate 
Authority  for  Industrial  and  Financial  Reconstruction  or  National 
Company Law Appellate Tribunal; 
a  government  company  as  defined  under  Section  617  of 
Companies Act, 1956; or, 
an  infrastructure  company  as  defined  in  clause  1.2.1(xv)  of  the  SEBI 
(Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000. 

the 

(b) 

(c) 

 
Explanation: For the purposes of this clause –  
 
1. 

The term “market capitalization” shall mean the average market capitalization 
for the previous financial year. The average shall be computed as the sum of 
daily  market  capitalization  over  one  year,  divided  by  the  number  of  trading 
days.  The  market  capitalization  so  arrived  at  shall  be  considered  for  the 
succeeding four quarters. 

The term “public shareholding” shall exclude – 
(a) 
(b) 

shares held by promoters and promoter group; and  
shares  which  are  held  by  custodians  and  against  which  depository 
receipts are issued overseas. 

The terms  ”promoter” and “promoter  group”  shall have the same meaning as 
is assigned to them under Explanations I, II and III  to sub-clause (m) of clause 
6.8.3.2 of the SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000. 

Provided  that  for  the  purposes  of  Clause  40A,  clause  (c)  of  the  said 
Explanation I shall be read as under: 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 

 

 

“the person or persons named in the prospectus as promoter(s) or the person 
or  persons  named  as  promoter(s)  in  the  filings  with  the  stock  exchanges, 
whichever is later.” 

The  terms  “prospectus” and  “Qualified  Institutional  Buyers”  shall  have  the 
same  meaning  as  is  assigned  to  them  under  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and 
Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000. 

The term “Specified Stock Exchange (SSE)” shall mean - 
(a) 

in cases  where the company is listed in one stock exchange only, then 
that stock exchange; 
in  cases  where  the  company  is  listed  in  one  or  more  than  one  stock 
exchange having nation wide trading terminal and  /  or  in  one or more 
stock exchange not having nation wide trading terminal,  then all such 
stock exchanges having nation wide trading terminals ; and   
in cases where the company is listed in more than one stock exchange 
and all such stock exchanges do not have nationwide trading terminals, 
then the stock exchange  which was chosen  as the Designated Stock 
Exchange  by the company for  the  previous issue of its shares. Or the 
regional Stock Exchange, as may be applicable. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

(b) 

(c) 

 

 

 

Annexure II 

 
The existing  Clause  35  of  Equity  Listing  Agreement  shall  be  substituted  by  the 
following, namely: -  
 
“35.  The  company  agrees  to  file   the  following  details  with  the  Exchange  on  a  quarterly 

basis, within 21 days from the end of each quarter, in the format specified as under: 

 

 

(I)(a)  Statement showing Shareholding Pattern  

 

Name of the Company: 
Scrip Code: 

Category of 
shareholder 

Number of 
shareholders

Cate -
gory 
code 

(A)  Shareholding of 

  

Promoter and 
Promoter 
Group2  
  
Indian  
Individuals/ 
  
Hindu  Undivided 
Family 
(b)  Central 

(1) 
(a) 

  

Government/ 
State 
Government(s) 

(c)  Bodies Corporate   
(d)  Financial 
  

Institutions/ 
Banks  

(e)  Any Other 

 

(specify) 

  Sub-Total (A)(1)    
  
(2)  Foreign  
(a) 
  

Individuals  (Non-
Resident 
Individuals/ 
Foreig n 

Quarter ended: 

Total 

Number of 

number 

of 

shares held in 
de materialized 

shares  

form 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

Total shareholding as 
a percentage of total 

number of shares 
As a 
As a 

percentage 
of (A+B)1 
    

percentage 
of (A+B+C) 
  

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

                                                                 
1 For determining public shareholding for the purpose of Clause 40A.  
2 For definitions of “Promoter ” and “Promoter Group", refer to Clause 40A.  

 

Individuals) 

(b)  Bodies Corporate   
  
(c) 
(d)  Any Other  
  

Institutions    

(specify) 

  Sub-Total (A)(2)    
 
  

Total 
Shareholding of 
Promoter 
and 
Promoter Group 
(A)=  
(A)(1)+(A)(2) 

(B)  Public 

shareholding3   
Institutions  

(1) 
(a)  Mutual 

Funds/

  

  
  

  

  

UTI 

(b)  Financial 

Institutions/ 
Banks 
(c)  Central 

Government/ 
State 
Government(s)  

(d)  Venture  Capital 
  

(e) 

Funds  
Insurance 
Companies 

(f)  Foreign 

Institutional 
Investors 

  

  

(g)  Foreign  Venture 
  
Capital Investors 

(h)  Any Other 

  

(specify) 

  Sub-Total (B)(1)    
(2)  Non-institutions   
(a)  Bodies Corporate   
(b) 
  

Individuals - 
i.  Individual 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

shareholders 
holding 
nominal  share
                                                                 
3 For definitions of “Public Shareholding”, refer to Clause 40A. 

 

to 

capital  up 
Rs. 1 lakh . 
ii. Individual 

shareholders 
holding 
nominal  share
capital 
in 
excess of Rs. 1 
lakh. 

(c)  Any Other 

 

(specify) 

 

  Sub-Total (B)(2)    
Public 
 
  

Total 
Shareholding 
(B)= 
(B)(1)+(B)(2) 
TOTAL  (A)+(B)   
(C)  Shares  held  by 
 
Custodians  and 
against  which 
Depository 
Receipts  have 
been issued  

  GRAND TOTAL  

 

(A)+(B)+(C) 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

xxx 

xxx 

 

 
 

 
 

 

(I)(b)  Statement  showing  Shareholding  of  persons belonging  to  the  category 

“Promoter and Promoter Group” 

Name of the shareholder Number 

Shares as a percentage of total number of 

Sr. 
No. 

1. 
2. 

  
  

TOTAL 

of 

shares {i.e., Grand Total (A)+(B)+ (C) 

shares 
  
  
 

indicated in Statement at para (I)(a) above} 
  
  
 

(I)(c)  Statement  showing  Shareholding  of  persons belonging  to  the  category 

“Public” and holding more than 1% of the total number of shares 

Sr. 
No. 

Name of the shareholder Number 

Shares as a percentage of total number of 

of 

shares {i.e., Grand Total (A)+(B)+(C) 

shares 

indicated in Statement at para (I)(a) above} 

1. 
2. 

 
 

TOTAL 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

(I)(d)  Statement showing details of locked-in shares 

Sr. 
No. 

Name of the 
shareholder 

Number of 
locked-in 

Locked-in shares as a percentage of total 

number of shares {i.e., Grand Total (A)+(B)+(C) 

shares 

indicated in Statement at para (I)(a) above} 

1. 
2. 

 
 

TOTAL 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

(II)(a)  Statement showing details of Depository Receipts (DRs)  

Sr. 
No. 

Type of 

outstanding DR 
(ADRs, GDRs, 

SDRs, etc .) 

Number of 
outstanding 

DRs  

Number of 

Shares underlying outstanding 

shares 

underlying 
outstanding 

DRs 

DRs as a percentage of total 
number of shares {i.e., Grand 
Total (A)+(B)+(C) indicated in 
Statement at para (I)(a) above} 

1. 
2. 

 
 

TOTAL 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

(II)(b)  Statement  showing  Holding  of  Depository  Receipts  (DRs),  where 

underlying shares are  in excess of 1% of the total number of shares  

Sr. 
No. 

Name 
of the 

DR 

Type of 

outstanding DR 
(ADRs, GDRs, 

Number of 

shares 

underlying 

Shares underlying outstanding DRs 
as a percentage of total number of 

shares {i.e., Grand Total 

Holder 

SDRs, etc.) 

outstanding DRs 

(A)+(B)+(C) indicated in Statement 

1. 
2. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

TOTAL 

 

at para (I)(a) above} 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

ANNEXURE III 

Report indicating Compliance with Minimum level of Public Shareholding 

(Clause 40A of Equity Listing Agreement) 

For quarter ending on ………... 

Sr. 
No. 

Particulars  

 

As at the end of 
previous quarter 
ending on ……. 

(A)  Total number of listed companies 
 
(B)  Number  of  listed  companies  having  public 
 
required  under  Clause 

shareholding  as 
40A(i), (ii) and (iii) 

As at the end of 
current quarter 
ending on ……. 
 
 

(C)  Number  of 

public  share holding  as 
Clause 40A(i), (ii) and (iii) 

listed  companies  not  having 
 
required  under 
 
 
listed 
 
companies  which  have  initiated  steps  as 
required under Clause 40A(iv) 

(D)  Out  of 

(C)  above,  number  of 

(E)  Details  of  extensions/  e xemptions,  if  any, 
 

granted by Specified Stock Exchanges  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

