Deputy General Manager 
Market Regulation Department 
E-mail: sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in 

 
The Executive Directors/Managing Directors/Administrators 
of All Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 

MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-08/2005 
March 4, 2005 

 

1. 

Sub: Margin Trading Facility and Securities Lending and Borrowing 

Please refer to circulars No. 15/2004 and 16/2004 dated March 19, 2004 
and  March  31,  2004  respectively  on  the  captioned  subject.  Pursuant  to 
the  recommendations  of  the  Secondary  Market  Advisory  Committee 
(SMAC) and the approval of the SEBI Board, the regulatory framework for 
Margin Trading Facility and Securities Lending and Borrowing is modified 
as under:-  

 
1.1  Margin Trading Facility 
 
1.1.1  Securities eligible for Margin Trading Facility 

  In addition to the Group 1 securities as specified vide para 1.2.1 of the 
circular dated March 19, 2004, all  the securities which are offered in the 
Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) and which meet the conditions for inclusion 
in the derivatives segment of the Stock Exchanges  would be  eligible for 
Margin Trading Facility. 

 

1.1.2  Margin requirements 

Fixed deposits with banks and Bank Guarantees shall be treated as cash 
equivalent  and  shall  be  considered  as  acceptable  form  of  initial  and 
maintenance  margins  for  the  purpose  of  availing  the  Margin  Trading 
Facility. 

 
1.1.3  No-objection certificate 

Before  providing  Margin  Trading  Facility  to  a  client  who  has  already 
availed  of  Margin  Trading  Facility  from  another  broker,  the  broker  is 
required  to  obtain  a  no-objection  certificate  in  writing  from  the  other 
broker. The other broker shall be required to convey his objection, if any, 
in writing, within a period of 21 days from the date of receipt of query from 
the  broker,  failing  which  the  broker  would  be  free  to  proceed  with 
providing Margin Trading Facility to the client.  

 
1.1.4  The other provisions pertaining to Margin Trading Facility as provided in 
circulars  dated  March  19,  2004  and  March  31,  2004  shall  remain 
unchanged. 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 Securities Lending and Borrowing 

1.2 
 
1.2.1  Only  the  Clearing  Corporation/House  of  the  Stock  Exchanges  shall  be 
permitted  to  act  as  Approved  Intermediaries  (AIs)  under  the  Securities 
Lending  Scheme  (SLS)  to  borrow  and  lend  securities  to  meet  the 
settlement shortages.  

 
1.2.2  In  addition  to  the  conditions  specified  in  para  2.3  of  the  SEBI  circular 
dated  March  19,  2004,  the  Clearing  Corporation/House  of  the  Stock 
Exchanges would be required to comply with the following:- 

a.  In  order  to  enable  lending  of  idle  securities  by  investors,  the 
Clearing  Corporation/House  may  borrow  securities  from  any 
person  through  his  account  with  the  depository  participant  and 
select the borrower on a random basis. 

 
b.  The  Clearing  Corporation/House  of  the  Stock  Exchanges  shall 
work  out  a  mechanism  to  borrow  securities  at  a  market 
determined rate. 

 
2.  The Stock Exchanges are also advised to: 

2.1  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules, 
regulations and listing agreement for the implementation of the above 
decision immediately. 

2.2  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  member 
brokers/clearing members of the Exchange and also to disseminate 
the same on the website. 

2.3  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the 
provisions  of  this  circular  in  Section  II,  item  no.  13  of  the  Monthly 
Development Report. 

3.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 
11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect 
the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, 
and to regulate the securities market. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
V S SUNDARESAN 

Page 2 of 2 

