CHIEF GENERAL MANAGER
Market Intermediaries Regulation
& Supervision Department
Tel : 26598510-13 Fax : 26598514/18

 
 
The Executive Directors/Managing Director/Administrators
of All Stock Exchanges
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam,

SEBI/MIRSD//Cir-06/2004
January 13, 2004

Sub:- Review of norms relating to trading by members/sub brokers.

1.  During the course of inspections carried out by SEBI of the books of accounts and
other  documents  of  members/sub  brokers,  it  has  been  observed  that  certain
members/sub  brokers  are  dealing  through  a  large  number  of  other  stock
brokers/sub  brokers  of  the  same  exchange/other  exchange  for  their  proprietary
trades as well as trades on behalf of clients.   

2. 

Trading  through  large  number  of  brokers/sub  brokers  raises  serious  issues  of
regulatory  concerns  including  taking  excessive  exposure,  executing  pro  account
trading 
in  violation  of  SEBI  circular  no.
SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-32/2003/27/08  dated  August  27,  2003,  possibility  of  over
leveraging and default etc.

from  multiple 

locations 

 

3.  With a view to address these concerns, stock exchanges are directed to ensure the

following:-

3.1  A  stock  broker/  sub  broker  of  an  exchange  can  not  deal  with  brokers/sub
brokers of the same exchange either for proprietary trading or for trading on
behalf of clients, except with the prior permission of the exchange. The stock
exchanges while giving such permission, shall consider the reasons stated by
the  brokers/sub  brokers  for  dealing  with  brokers/sub  brokers  of  the  same
exchange and  after carrying out due diligence allow such brokers/sub brokers
to deal with only one stock broker/sub broker of the same exchange.

3.2  A stock broker/sub broker of an exchange can deal with only one broker/sub
broker of another exchange for proprietary trading after intimating the names
of such stock broker/sub broker to his parent stock exchange.

3.3  As  per  Regulation  15(1)  (e)  of  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub  Brokers)
Regulations, 1992  a sub-broker shall not be affiliated to more than one stock
broker  of  one  stock  exchange.  It  is  reiterated  that  a  stock  broker  of  an
exchange  can  deal  with  only  one  broker  of  another  exchange  on  behalf  of
clients after obtaining necessary registration as a sub broker.

 

 

 

4. 

Stock  Exchanges  are  directed  to  implement  the  above  requirement  with
immediate effect and take necessary disciplinary action wherever violation of the
above provisions are observed.

5. 

The undersigned has been authorized to direct the exchanges to

5.1  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations

for the implementation of the above decision immediately

5.2  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the member brokers/sub
brokers affiliated to the members of the exchange and also to disseminate the
same on the website.

5.3  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of
this  circular  in  the  Monthly  Development  Report  for  the  month  of  January
2004.

This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1)
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with Section 10 of
the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act  1956,  to  protect  the  interests  of
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the
securities market.

 

6. 

Yours faithfully,

USHA NARAYANAN

