 
M. S. SAHOO 
CHIEF GENERAL MANAGER 
 

To 
1. The Managing Director  
NSE, BSE and their Clearing House / Corporation  
2. All Mutual Funds registered with SEBI  
3. Association of Mutual Funds in India. 
 
Dear Sir, 

DNPD/Cir-29/2005 
September 14, 2005 
 

Sub: Trading by Mutual Funds  in Exchange Traded Derivative Contracts 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in 

1.  At  present  Mutual  Funds  are  permitted  to  participate  in  the  derivatives  market  for  the 
purpose of hedging and rebalancing their portfolio in accordance with the SEBI Circular 
no.  MFD/CIR/21/25467/2002  dated  on  December  31,  2002.    This  restriction  on  the 
participation  of  Mutual  Funds 
the 
recommendations of the Committee on Derivatives chaired by Dr. L. C. Gupta.  Since 
then there have been several changes in the structure of the cash market and the volumes 
in the derivatives market have increased manifold.  It is also observed that there has been 
a significant increase in retail participation in the derivatives market.   

the  derivatives  market  followed  from 

 
2.  Following the recommendations of the Secondary Market Advisory Committee, based on 
the above considerations, it has been decided to permit the Mutual Funds to participate in 
the derivatives market at par with Foreign Institutional Investors (FII).  Accordingly, the 
Mutual Funds shall be treated at par with a registered FII in respect of position limits in 
index  futures,  index  options,  stock  options  and  stock  futures  contracts.    The  Mutual 
Funds  will  be  considered  as  trading  members  like  registered  FIIs  and  the  schemes  of 
Mutual Funds will be treated as clients like sub-accounts of FIIs.  

I) 

Applicability  

a.  This revised policy shall be applicable to all new schemes which are  yet to be 
launched,  or  for  which  offer  documents  have  been  submitted  to  SEBI  for 
approval. Appropriate disclosures shall be made in the offer document regarding 
the  extent  and  manner  of  participation  of  the  schemes  of  the  Mutual  Funds  in 
derivatives and the risk factors, which should be explained by suitable numerical 
examples.  

 
b.  The  participation  of  existing  schemes  of  the  Mutual  Funds  in  the  derivatives 

market shall be subject to the following conditions: 

1.  The  extent  and  the  manner  of  the  proposed  participation  in 

derivatives shall be disclosed to the unit holders. 

 

2.  The  risks  associated  with  such  participation  shall  be  disclosed 

and explained by suitable numerical examples.  

 
3.  Positive  consent  shall  be  obtained  from  majority  of  the  unit 

holders. 

4.  An exit option shall be provided to the  dissenting unit holders.  
Such option shall be kept open for a period of one month prior to 
the scheme commencing trading in derivatives.   

5.  No exit load shall be charged to the unit holders exercising such 

exit options. 

1.  Short positions in index derivatives (short futures, short calls and 
long puts) shall not exceed (in notional value) the Mutual Fund’s 
holding of stocks. 

 
2.  Long positions in index derivatives (long futures, long calls and 
short  puts)  shall  not  exceed  (in  notional  value)  the  Mutual 
Fund’s  holding  of  cash,  government  securities,  T-Bills  and 
similar instruments. 

Position Limits  

II) 
 
The position limits for Mutual Funds and its schemes shall be as under: 

 
i.  Position limit for Mutual Funds in index options contracts 
 

a.  The  Mutual  Fund  position  limit  in  all  index  options  contracts  on  a  particular 
underlying index shall be Rs. 250 crore or 15% of the total open interest of the 
market in index options, whichever is higher, per Stock Exchange.  

b.  This  limit  would  be  applicable  on  open  positions  in  all  options  contracts  on  a 

particular underlying index. 

 
ii.  Position limit for Mutual Funds in index futures contracts: 
 

a.  The  Mutual  Fund  position  limit  in  all  index  futures  contracts  on  a  particular 
underlying index shall be Rs. 250 crore or 15% of the total open interest of the 
market in index futures, whichever is higher, per Stock Exchange.  

 
b.  This  limit  would  be  applicable  on  open  positions  in  all  futures  contracts  on  a 

particular underlying index. 

iii.  Additional position limit for hedging  

 
In addition to the position limits at point (i) and (ii) above,  Mutual Funds may take 
exposure in equity index derivatives subject to the following limits: 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

iv.  Position limit for Mutual Funds for stock based derivative contracts 
 

The  Mutual  Fund  position  limit  in  a  derivative  contract  on  a  particular  underlying 
stock,  i.e.  stock  option  contracts  and  stock  futures  contracts,  stand  modified  in  the 
following manner:- 

 

1. 

 For stocks in which the market wide position limit is less than or 
equal  to  Rs.  250  crore,  the  Mutual  Fund  position  limit  in  such 
stock shall be 20% of the market wide position limit.  

 
2.  For stocks in which the market wide position limit is greater than 
Rs. 250 crore, the Mutual Fund position limit in such stock shall 
be Rs. 50 crore. 

v.  Position limit for each scheme of a Mutual Fund  

The position limits for each scheme of mutual fund and disclosure requirements shall 
be identical to that prescribed for a sub-account of a FII. Therefore, the scheme-wise 
position limit / disclosure requirements shall be – 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.  For  stock  option  and  stock  futures  contracts,  the  gross  open 
position across all derivative contracts on a particular underlying 
stock of a scheme of a mutual fund shall not exceed the higher 
of: 

 

 

1%  of  the  free  float  market  capitalisation  (in  terms  of 
number of shares).  

Or  

5% of the open interest in the derivative contracts on a 
particular  underlying  stock  (in  terms  of  number  of 
contracts).  

2.  This position limits shall be applicable on the combined position 
in  all  derivative  contracts  on  an  underlying  stock  at  a  Stock 
Exchange.  

 
3.  For index based contracts, Mutual Funds shall disclose the total 
open interest held by its scheme or all schemes put together in a 
particular  underlying  index,  if  such  open  interest  equals  to  or 
exceeds 15% of the open interest of all derivative contracts on 
that underlying index. 

III)  Monitoring of Position Limits 
 

a.  The  Mutual  Fund  shall  notify  the  names  of  the  Clearing  Member/s  for  each 
scheme  through  whom  it  would  clear  its  derivative  contracts  to  the  Stock 
Exchange.  

b.  The Stock Exchange would then assign a unique client code to each scheme of 

the Mutual Fund.  

 
c.  The Stock Exchange shall monitor the scheme-wise position limits in the manner 
similar  to  that  prescribed  for  FIIs  and  their  sub-accounts  in  SEBI  circular  no. 
SMD/DC/Cir-11/02 dated February 12, 2002 as modified from time to time. 

 

3.  This  circular  is  in  supersession  of  the  previous  circulars  no.  MFD/CIR/011/061/2000 
dated February 1, 2000, no. MFD/CIR/21/25467/2002 dated December 31, 2002 and no. 
SEBI/IMD/Cir  No.  4/2627/2004  dated  February  6,  2004  issued  to  Mutual  Funds 
registered with SEBI.  

 
4.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by  section  11  (1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with section 10 of the Securities 
Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
Yours sincerely, 
 
 
 
(M. S. SAHOO) 

