Deputy General Manager
Market Regulation Department – Policy
Email:-sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in

SEBI/MRD/Policy/AT/Cir- 19/2004
April 21, 2004

1.  The Executive Directors/Managing Directors/Administrators

Of All Stock Exchanges

2.  The Managing Director, NSDL
3.  The Executive Director, CDSL

Dear Sir / Madam,

Sub: Settlement of transactions in the case of holidays

1.  It  has  often  been  noticed  that  the  holidays  of  the  banks  and  the  Stock
Exchanges  are  not  common.  Further,  in  view  of  the  provisions  of  the
Negotiable  Instruments  Act,  1881,  the  holidays  across  stock  exchanges
situated  in  different  states  are  also  not  common.  This  lack  of  uniformity  of
holidays  and  force  majeure  conditions  which  necessitate  sudden  closure  of
one  or  more  Stock  Exchanges  and  banks  in  a  particular  state  result  in
situations  where  multiple  settlements  have  to  be  completed  by  the  Stock
Exchanges on the working day immediately following the day(s) of the closure
of the banks.

2.  With a view to facilitate the smooth completion of settlement process and help
members of the Stock Exchanges meet their obligations in a timely manner
under such circumstances, the Stock Exchanges/Depositories are advised to
follow  the  guidelines  and  adhere  to  the  time  line  laid  down  in  this  circular.
These  guidelines  are  based  on  the  recommendations  of  the  Advisory
Committee  on  Derivatives  and  Market  Risk  Management  (RMG)  and  have
been finalised in consultation with the Stock Exchanges and the Depositories.

2.1 The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  clear  and  settle  the  trades  on  a
sequential basis i.e., the pay-in and the pay-out of the first settlement
shall be completed before the commencement of the pay-in and pay-
out of the subsequent settlement/s.

2.2 The cash/Securities pay out from the first settlement shall be made
available  to  the  member  for  meeting  his  pay-in  obligations  for  the
subsequent settlement/s.

2.3 Further,  in-order  to  meet  his  pay-in  obligations  for  the  subsequent
settlement,  the  member  may  need  to  move  securities  from  one
depository to another. The Depositories shall, therefore, facilitate the
inter-depository  transfers  within  one  hour  and  before  pay-in  for  the
subsequent settlement begins.

Page 1 of 2

2.4 The Stock Exchanges/Depositories shall follow a strict time schedule

to ensure that the settlements are completed on the same day.

2.5 The  Clearing  Corporation/Clearing  House  of  the  Stock  Exchanges
shall execute Auto DO facility for all the settlements together, so as
to make the funds and the securities available with the member on
the same day for all the settlements, thereby enabling the availability
of the funds/securities at the client level by the end of the same day.

3.  SEBI  vide  circular  no.  SMDRP/Policy/Cir-05/2001  dated  February  01,  2001,
had stipulated a time limit of 4 calendar days or 2 working days, whichever is
later,  for  transferring  the  securities  from  the  member’s  pool  account  to  the
beneficiary accounts of clients. Also, SEBI vide circular No. SMD/Policy/Cir-
6/2003  dated  February  6,  2003  has  stipulated  the  brokers  to  distribute  the
pay-out of securities and funds within 24 hours to their clients. Hence, with a
view to harmonize the time limit for the pay-out from the pool account of the
member to the client account, it is now clarified that, in partial modification of
SEBI  circular  no.  SMDRP/Policy/Cir-05/2001  dated  February  01,  2001,  the
stock  brokers/clearing  members  shall  be  required  to  transfer  the  securities
from their respective CM Pool account to the respective beneficiary account
of their clients within 1 working day after the pay-out day. The securities
lying in the pool account beyond the stipulated 1 day shall attract a penalty at
the rate of 6 basis point per week on the value of securities.

4.  The Stock Exchanges/Depositories are advised to:-

4.1 make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and
the  above  decision

implementation  of 

for 

the 

regulations 
immediately.

4.2 bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  member
brokers/clearing members of the Stock Exchanges and DPs of the
Depositories and also to disseminate the same on the website.

5.  The Stock Exchanges are also advised to communicate to SEBI, the status of
the implementation of the provisions of this circular in Section II, item no. 13
of the Monthly Development Report for the month of May, 2004.

6.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11
(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to
regulate the securities market.

Yours faithfully,

V S SUNDARESAN

Page 2 of 2

