Chief General Manager 
Investment Management Department 

SEBI/IMD/CIR No.1/64057/06 
April 4, 2006 

All Mutual Funds Registered with SEBI 
Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Re:  Rationalisation  of  Initial  Issue  Expenses  and  Dividend  distribution 
procedure for Mutual Funds 
  
In  order  to  clarify  the  expense  structure  in  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations, 
1996 with greater precision and to introduce uniform practices in procedure for 
dividend  distribution  by  the  mutual  funds,  SEBI  Board  in  a  recent  meeting 
decided as under: 
 
I.  Rationalisation of Initial Issue Expenses  
 

a.  The initial issue expenses will be permitted for closed-ended schemes only.  

 

 

 

 

 
 

b.  Open  ended  scheme  should  meet  the  sales,  marketing  and  other  such 
expenses connected with sales and distribution of schemes from the entry 
load and not through initial issue expenses.  

c.  Since closed-ended schemes are allowed to charge initial issue expenses, 

they shall not charge entry load. 

d.  In close-ended schemes where initial issue expenses are amortised, for an 
investor  exiting  the  scheme  before  amortisation  is  completed,  AMC  shall 
redeem 
the  balance  proportionate 
unamortised issue expenses. 

the  units  only  after 

recovering 

e.  Conversion  of  a  closed-ended  scheme  or  interval  scheme  to  open-ended 
scheme/  or  issuance  of  new  units  should  be  done  only after the  balance 
unamortised amount has been fully recovered from the scheme. 

II.  Dividend Distribution Procedure for Mutual Funds 

 
Regulation 53(a) of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 permit the mutual 
funds  to  distribute  returns  including  dividend.  It  was  noted  that  mutual  funds 
were  following  different  procedures  for  dividend  distribution.  To  introduce 
uniform practices in procedure for dividend distribution by the mutual funds and 
for development of the mutual funds industry, the following guidelines are being 
issued 

 
 
Unlisted Schemes/Plans 
a.  Quantum of dividend and the record date  shall be fixed by the trustees in 
their  meeting.  Dividend  so  decided  shall  be  paid,  subject  to  availability  of 
distributable surplus. 

 
b.  Record date shall be the date which will be considered for the purpose of 
determining the eligibility of investors whose names appear on the register 
of unit holders for receiving dividends. Further, the NAV shall be adjusted to 
the extent of dividend  distribution and statutory levy, if any, at the close of 
business hours on record date.  

c.  Within  one  calendar  day  of  the  decision by the trustees,  AMC  shall  issue 
notice  to  the  public  communicating  the  decision  including  the  record  date. 
The record date shall be 5 calendar days from the issue of notice. 

 
d.  Such  notice  shall  be  given  in  one  English  daily  newspaper  having 
nationwide circulation as well as in a newspaper published in the language 
of the region where the head office of the mutual fund is situated. 

 
e.  The  notice  shall,  in  font  size  10,  bold,  categorically  state  that  pursuant  to 
payment  of  dividend,  the  NAV  of  the  scheme  would  fall  to  the  extent  of 
payout and statutory levy (if applicable). 

 
f.  Before the issue of such notice, no communication indicating the probable 
date of dividend declaration in any manner whatsoever, may be issued by 
any mutual fund or distributors of its products.  

 

 

 

Liquid Schemes / debt schemes with frequent dividend distribution. 
The requirement of giving notice shall not be compulsory for scheme/plan/option 
having  frequency  of  dividend  distribution  from  daily  upto  monthly  dividend 
provided that there is a disclosure to that effect in the offer document.  
 
Listed Schemes/Plans 
For  declaration  of  dividend,  listed  schemes/plans  shall  continue  to  follow  the 
requirements stipulated in the listing agreement.  
 
Advertisement 
All  Advertisements,  in  any  media,  containing  proposed  dividend  shall,  in  the 
same  font  as  dividend  figure  (in  percentage  or  in  absolute  terms),  disclose 
immediately below the dividend figure that the NAV of the scheme, pursuant to 
payment  of  dividend  would  fall  to  the  extent  of  payout  and  statutory  levy  (if 
applicable). 

 

This circular would be applicable to all mutual fund schemes launched after the 
date of the circular. 

Please  note 
Regulations, 1996 in this regard would follow.  

the  necessary  amendments 

that 

to  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds) 

This circular, is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1)  of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the provisions of 
regulation 77 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, to  protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 
securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

D. Chanda 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

