GENERAL MANAGER  
MARKET REGULATION DEPARTMENT  
 

 
1.  All Stock Exchanges 
2.  NSDL 
3.  CDSL 

 

MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir -17/06  
October 27, 2006  

Dear Sir/s,  
 
 
Sub:   Mandatory  requirement  of  Permanent  Account  Number  (PAN)  – 

Issues and clarifications (III) 

 
1.  This has reference to SEBI Circulars No. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-09/06 dated July 
20, 2006 and MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-13/06 dated September 26, 2006 offering 
clarifications pertaining to complying with the mandatory requirement of PAN 
for operating Beneficiary Owner (BO) Account as well as trading in the cash 
market.  

2.  Pursuant 

to 

from  Non-Resident 

the  representations  received 

 
Indians 
(NRIs)/Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs), SEBI vide para No.4.3 of the circular 
dated July 20, 2006 enabled such NRIs/PIOs who are not able to obtain PAN 
for  one  reason  or  the  other  but  are  holding  securities  in  physical  form  and 
desire to sell the same, to open a “limited purpose BO account” without PAN, 
subject to certain conditions specified therein.  The same was also extended 
for trading in cash market for such NRIs/PIOs vide circular dated September 
26, 2006.  Further, SEBI had also taken up the matter with CBDT vide letter 
dated July 31, 2006 requesting CBDT to address the concerns of NRIs in this 
regard. 

 
3.  The  Directorate  of  Income  Tax  (Systems)  vide  PAN  Circular  No.  4  dated 
October  11,  2006  has  now  issued  guidelines  to  its  service  providers  (M/s 
UTITSL  &  NSDL)  facilitating  the  citizens  of  India  residing  outside  India, 
foreign  citizens  and  other  persons  (like  companies,/trusts/firms)  having  no 
office of their own in India to obtain PAN based on the copy of their passport 
as  ID  proof  and  copy  of  passport/copy  of  bank  account  in  the  country  of 
residence  as  address  proof.    A  copy  of  the  said  circular  is  enclosed  as 
Annexure-I for ready reference. 

 
4.  In  the  light  of  the  above  and  since  NRIs/PIOs/foreign  nationals  have  now 
been enabled by the Income Tax Department to obtain PAN as stated above, 
it has been decided to withdraw the facility of opening a “limited purpose BO 
account”/trading account by them without PAN.  However, the NRIs/PIOs who 
have already opened such BO accounts/trading accounts without PAN shall 
be required to comply with the mandatory requirement of PAN on or before 

Page 1 of 2

 

December 31, 2006, failing which such accounts shall be made inoperable by 
the Depository/Depository Participant/Broker.   

 
5.  The depositories are advised to:-  

5.1 Bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  DPs  of  the  

Depositories and also to disseminate the same on the website;   

5.2 Include  the  aforesaid  clarifications,  as  applicable,  in  the  advertisement 
campaigns released by them from time to time for better understanding of 
the investors; 

5.3 Make amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and  regulations for the 
immediately,  as  may  be 

the  above  decision 

implementation  of 
applicable/necessary;  and 

5.4 Communicate to SEBI the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular in the Monthly Development Report. 

 

6.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to : 

6.1 Make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 

regulations for the implementation of the above decision immediately; 

6.2 Bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  member 
brokers/clearing  members  of  the  Exchange  and  also  to  disseminate  the 
same on the website; and 

6.3 Communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions 
of  this  circular  in  Section  II,  item  no.  13  of  the  Monthly  Development 
Report. 

 
7.  This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11 
(1) of Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interest 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, 
the securities market.  

 
 
Yours faithfully,  
 
          Sd/- 
 
V  S SUNDARESAN 
 
 
Encl: As above 

Page 2 of 2

 

Issue of PAN to persons outside India and foreign citizens -reg.  

PAN Circular No. 4 Dated: 11.10.2006  

Annexure-1 

Following guidelines are issued to facilitate the allotment of PAN to citizens of India residing outside 
India, foreign citizens and other persons (like companies/trusts/firms) having no office of their own in 
India: 

  
I. Citizens of India residing outside India and foreign citizens Service providers shall accept 
applications from these categories of natural persons (individuals), without insisting on details of a 
representative assessee. Details of addresses and proofs required for identity and address in such 
cases will be as per Annexure "A " enclosed  

  
II. Other persons (like companies/trusts/firms) having no office of their own in India: Service 
providers shall accept applications from these categories of applicants, without insisting on details of a 
representative assessee. Details of addresses and proofs required for identity and address in such 
cases will be as per Annexure A enclosed  

  
2. Service providers should advise applicants in the above mentioned categories to clearly indicate the 
address at which the PAN card and other communication should be sent in column 6 of Form No.49A, 
and also to invariably mention their email id in column 7 of Form No.49A. Service providers are 
permitted to charge applicants courier charges for PAN cards required to be delivered abroad, in 
addition to the application fee of Rs.60 plus applicable service tax. Details of service charges and 
delivery time shall be put up on the web-sites of the respective service providers 

  
3. Codes 99 and 999999 should be entered for State and PIN fields respectively for the class of PAN 
applicants not having Indian address. However, actual foreign ZIP / PIN code should be populated in 
any of the 5 address fields (preferably last) along with the name of the country.  

  
4. Service providers should also place on their respective web-sites the available Assessing Officer 
(AO) codes of International Taxation Directorate and advise the applicants to mention AO code out of 
these codes. However, if no AO code is mentioned in the application or the AO code mentioned is other 
than of International Taxation Directorate, then the first international taxation Assessing Officer of Delhi 
may be used as default AO code. 

  
5. These guidelines are applicable only for the purpose of allotment of PAN to the categories of persons 
specified above.    

 

Page 1 of 2

 

  
  

 
  
  

  

Dated: 
11.10.2006 
  

PAN Circular 
No. 4  
   
Subject: Issue of PAN to persons outside 
India and foreign citizens -reg.  
  
  

  
  

  
  

  
  

  
   

 

  

PARTICULARS  

Outside India  

Indian Citizen 
- At the time 
of application 

for PAN 
located:  
In India  

INDIVIDUAL  

Foreign Citizen - At the time of 
application for PAN located:    

Outside 
India  

 

 

ID Proof  

Copy of 
passport  

Copy of 
passport  

Copy of passport, 
duly attested by 
Indian Embassy in 
the country where 
applicant is located.  

Address Proof  

Copy of 

passport; copy 

of bank 
account in 
country of 
residence  

Copy of 
passport; 

copy of bank 
account in 

India  

Photo  

Signature  

Applicant  
Applicant  

Applicant  
Applicant  

Copy of passport, 
duly attested by 
Indian Embassy in 
the country where 
applicant is located; 

copy of bank 

account in country of 

residence  
Applicant  
Applicant  

Representative 

Assessee  
 

Not required  Not required 

Not required  

Annexure “A” 

 

Other persons 
having no office 

in India  

Copy of 

registration 

certificate of their 

country duly 

attested by Indian 
Embassy in the 
country where 
applicant is 
located.  

NA  

NA  

Authorised 
Signatory  

Not Required  

Page 2 of 2

 

