EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 

SEBI/IMD/CIR No.10/ 77780 /06 
September 28, 2006 

All Mutual Funds Registered with SEBI 
Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Re.:  Uniform  cut-off  timings  for  applicability  of  Net  Asset  Value  (NAV)  of 

Mutual Fund scheme(s)/plan(s). 

Please  refer  to  SEBI  Circulars  SEBI/  IMD/CIR  No.  8/5611/  2004  dated 
March  19,  2004  and  SEBI/  IMD/CIR  No.  9/6016/2004  dated  March  25, 
2004 on the captioned subject. AMFI has approached SEBI seeking some 
modifications  to  the  aforesaid  circulars.  The  proposal  of  AMFI  was 
considered and accordingly the following guidelines are being issued: 

Definitions 

(1)   In these Guidelines, unless the context otherwise requires: 

1992; 

a.  ‘Act’  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act, 

b.  ‘Board’ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India; 
c.  ‘cut-off timing’, in relation to an investor making an application to 
a mutual fund for purchase or sale of units, shall mean the outer 
limits  of  timings  within  a  particular  day  which  are  relevant  for 
determination  of  the  NAV  that  is  to  be  applied  for  his 
transaction; 

d.  ‘international scheme’ means a scheme of a mutual fund which 
has substantial investments in foreign securities that are valued 
as per time zones other than Indian standard time zone; 

e.  ‘liquid  fund  schemes  and  plans’  shall  mean  the  schemes  and 
plans of a mutual fund which have the characteristics mentioned 
in Schedule I; 
‘regulations’ mean the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996; 

f. 

 
(2)        Words  and  expressions  used  and  not  defined  in  these  Guidelines 
shall  have  the  meanings,  if  any,  respectively  assigned  to  them  in 
the Act or in the regulations, unless the context otherwise requires. 

 
1. 

 
2.  
 

 

 

 

 
3       Applicability  
 

(1)  These  Guidelines  shall  be  applicable  all  to  schemes  and  plans  of 

mutual funds except international schemes. 

1

 
 

4.  
 

 
5.  
 

 

 

(2)  These Guidelines shall not apply to transactions in mutual fund units 

which are undertaken on a recognised stock exchange. 

 
Fixation of uniform cut-off timings 

(1)  Every mutual fund shall reckon the cut-off timings for its schemes and 
plans  in  compliance  with  these  Guidelines  and  such  cut-off  timings 
shall be uniformly implemented for all its investors. 

(2)  Every  mutual  fund  shall  ensure  that  each  payment  instrument  for 
subscription  or  purchase  of  units  is  deposited  by  it  in  the  bank  with 
utmost expedition prudently utilizing the appropriate banking facility, so 
as to comply with sub-paragraph (1). 

(3)  Any  loss  occasioned  to  any  investor  or  to  the  scheme  or  plan  on 
account of non-compliance with sub-paragraph (2) shall be made good 
by the asset management company. 

Cut-off timings for liquid fund schemes and plans 

(1)    The following cut-off timings shall be observed by a mutual fund in 
respect of purchase of units in liquid fund schemes and their plans, 
and the following NAVs shall be applied for such purchase:  

 

a.  where the application is received upto 12.00 noon on a day and 
funds are available for utilization on the same day – the closing 
NAV of the day immediately preceding the day of application;   

b.  where the application is received after 12.00 noon on a day and 
funds are available for utilization on the same day – the closing 
NAV of the day immediately preceding the next business day after 
the day of application; and   

 
c.  irrespective of the time of receipt of application, where the funds 
are not available for utilization on the day of the application – the 
closing NAV of the day immediately preceding the day on which 
the funds are available for utilization. 

 
(2)  The following cut-off timings shall be observed by a mutual fund in 
respect  of  repurchase  of  units  in  liquid  fund  schemes  and  their 
plans,  and 
for  such 
repurchase: 

following  NAVs  shall  be  applied 

the 

a.  where  the  application  is  received  upto  3.00  pm  –  the  closing 
NAV  of  the  business  day  immediately  preceding  the  next 
business day after the day of application; and  

2

 
 

 

 
 

 

b.  where  the  application  is  received  after  3.00  pm  –  the  closing 

NAV of the next business day after the day of application. 

(3)  A mutual fund shall calculate NAV for each calendar day in respect 

of its liquid fund schemes and their plans.  

Explanation: ‘Business day’ does not include a day on which the money 
markets are closed or otherwise not accessible. 

Cut-off timings for other schemes and plans 

(1)    A mutual fund shall reckon only prospective NAV in accordance with 
this clause, in respect of all their schemes and plans other than liquid 
fund schemes and plans. 

 
(2)    The following cut-off timings shall be observed by a mutual fund in 
respect of purchase of units in its other schemes and their plans, and 
the following NAVs shall be applied for such purchase: 

a.  where  the  application  is  received  upto  3.00  pm  with  a  local 
cheque or demand draft payable at par at the place where it is 
received – closing NAV of the day of application; 

b.  where  the  application  is  received  after  3.00  pm  with  a  local 
cheque or demand draft payable at par at the place where it is 
received – closing NAV of the next business day after the day of 
application; and 

c.  where  the  application  is  received  with  an  outstation  cheque  or 
demand draft which is not payable on par at the place where it 
is  received  –  closing  NAV  of  day  on  which  the  cheque  or 
demand draft is credited. 

  The following cut-off timings shall be observed by a mutual fund in 
respect of repurchase of units in its other schemes and their plans, 
and the following NAVs shall be applied for such repurchase: 

 
(3) 

a.  where the application received upto 3.00 pm – closing NAV of 

the day of application; and 
 

b.  an application received after 3.00 pm – closing NAV of the next 

business day after the day of application. 

Switch and sweep transactions 

1)  Clauses 5 and 6 shall apply to ‘switch in’ transactions as if they were 
purchase transactions and to ‘switch out’ transactions as if they were 
repurchase transactions. 

3

 
6.  
 

 

 

 

 

7.  
 

 

 
2)  In  case  of  ‘switch’  transactions  from  one  scheme  to  another  the 

allocation shall be in line with redemption payouts. 

3)  Clauses  5  and  6  shall  apply  to  ‘sweep’  transactions  as  if  they  were 
purchase  transactions  and  to  ‘reverse  sweep’  transactions  as  if  they 
were repurchase transactions. 

Time stamping 

1)  Every  mutual  fund  shall  disclose  the  location  of  its  official  points  of 
acceptance in its offer documents and websites and shall receive the 
applications made by investors only at such official points. 

2)  Clauses 5 and 6 shall apply with reference to the point of time at which 

the applications are received at such official points of acceptance. 

3)  All  official  points  of  acceptance  shall  have  time  stamping  machines 
which are in compliance with the requirements mentioned in Schedule 
II. 

Compliance reporting and disclosures 

 
8.  
 

 
9.  
 

1)  The status of compliance with these Guidelines shall be reported to the 
Board in all the quarterly compliance reports of the asset management 
company and the half-yearly trustee reports. 

2)  The trustees’ report shall contain a declaration on whether the trustees 
are  satisfied  with  the  systems  and  procedures  of  the  mutual  fund 
designed for the purpose of compliance with these Guidelines. 

3)  The  substance  of  these  Guidelines  shall  be  disclosed  to  investors  in 

the offer document or in any addendum thereto. 

 
10.     SEBI Circulars SEBI/ IMD/CIR No. 8/5611/ 2004 dated March 19, 2004 
and  SEBI/  IMD/CIR  No.  9/6016/2004  dated  March  25,  2004  stand 
withdrawn. 

 
11.     These guidelines are issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 
11(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with 
the provisions of Regulation 77 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 
to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
R. K. Nair 
 
Encl: a/a 
 

 

4

 

Schedule I 

Liquid fund schemes and plans 

[clause 2(1)(e)] 

 

 

1.  ‘Liquid fund schemes and plans’ are such schemes and plans of mutual funds 

that have the following characteristics with regard to their portfolio: 

A.  the mark-to-market component of the fund on a weekly average basis is 

less than 10%; 

 
B.  the repricing tenor is not more than 1 year, reckoned as under – 
 

 

 
 
 
 

(i) 
(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 
 

(v) 

for a fixed rate asset, the remaining tenor is 1 year or less; 
for a floating rate asset, the interest reset frequency is 1 year 
or less; 
for  a  fixed  rate  or  floating  rate  asset  where  the  principal  is 
paid  in  a  staggered  and/or  on  amortizing  basis  (e.g. 
securitized papers), the average maturity of such an asset is 
1 year or less;  
for a portfolio using interest rate swaps,  

a.  the  composite  floating  rate  asset  (underlying  fixed  rate 
asset and interest rate swap, paying fixed and receiving 
floating) has interest reset frequency upto 1 year; 

b.  if interest rate swaps (receiving fixed and paying floating), 
have  been  used  to  convert  a  floating  rate  asset  into  a 
fixed  rate  asset,  the  fixed  leg  of  the  interest  rate  swap 
having remaining tenor upto 1 year; 

for a portfolio using forward rate agreements, the summation 
of  the  beginning  and  end  dates  of  the  period  covered  is  1 
year or less;   

   and 
C.  if there are positions in interest rate futures and bond futures, the repricing 

risk is 1 year or less 

 
2.  For the purpose of sub-clause (a) of clause 1, mark to market shall mean the 
valuation  of  an  asset  (e.g.  marketable  securities,  derivatives  and  other 
financial  contracts)  using  a  traded  price  or  a  derived  price  from  the 
corresponding yield curve.  

 
3.  The  above  requirements  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  and  shall 
form  part  of  the  investment  allocation  pattern.  Any  deviation  from  these 
requirements shall be viewed as violation of investment restrictions 

 

5

 
1.  For  every  machine,  running  serial  number  shall  be  stamped  from  the  first 

number to the last number as per its capacity before repetition of the cycle. 

 
2.  Every  application  for  purchase  shall  be  stamped  on  the  face  and  the 
corresponding  payment  instrument  shall  be  stamped  on  the  back  indicating 
the date and time of receipt and running serial number. The application and 
the payment instrument shall contain the same serial number.  

 
3.  Every application for redemption shall be stamped on the face threof and on 
the  investor’s  acknowledgment  copy  (or  twice  on  the  application  if  no 
acknowledgment  is  issued),  indicating  the  date  and  time  of  receipt  and 
running serial number. 

 
4.  Different applications shall not be bunched with same serial number. 
 
5.  Blank  papers  shall  not  be  time-stamped.  Genuine  errors,  if  any,  shall  be 

recorded with reasons. 

 
6.  The time-stamping machine shall have a tamper proof seal and the ability to 
open  the  seal  for  maintenance  or  repairs  must  be  limited  to  vendors  or 
nominated persons, to be entered in a proper record. 

 
7.  Breakage of seal or breakdown of the time-stamping machine shall be duly 

recorded and reported to the Trustees. 

 
8.  Every effort should be made to ensure uninterrupted functioning of the time-
stamping  machine.  In  case  of  breakdown,  an  alternative  method  of  time 
stamping applications shall be developed by the mutual fund, subject to the 
approval of the Board of the asset management company and the trustees. 
The alternative method shall contain an audit trail. 

 
9.  Any mode of application that does not have any physical or electronic trace 

shall be converted into a physical piece of information and time-stamped. 

 
10. The  applications,  duly  time-stamped  as  above  shall  be  maintained  by  the 
mutual funds at least for the minimum period mentioned in regulation 50(2) of 
the Regulations and shall be open to inspection by the Board or the auditors 
appointed by the Board. 

 

 
  

 

 

Requirements in respect of time stamping machines 

Schedule II 

[clause 8(3)] 

******* 

6

