Neelam Bhardwaj
Neelam Bhardwaj    
Neelam Bhardwaj
Neelam Bhardwaj
Deputy General Manager 
Division of Issues and Listing 

Phone: +91 22 2285 0451-56, 2288 0962-70 (Extn: 367) 
Fax: +91 22 2204 5633. Email: neelamb@sebi.gov.in 

 
 
SEBI/CFD/DIL/DIP/15 / 2005/29/3 
March 29, 2005 
 

 
 
To All Registered Merchant Bankers/Stock exchanges 
 
 
Dear Sirs, 

 

Sub.:  Amendments  to  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  {DIP} 

Guidelines, 2000  

 
 

 

 

1.0 SEBI,  under  the  provision  of  Section  11(1)  of  SEBI  Act,  is  hereby  issuing  the 
amendments  to  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  2000;  (hereinafter  referred  as  “the 
guidelines”)  for  modifying  the  provisions  mainly  pertaining  to  the  book  building 
process.    

 
2.0 The  amendments  are  detailed  in  the  Annexure    and  are  categorized  and 

summarized as follows: 

2.1    Enhancing the allocation category for  retail individual investors  

 

At present, in a book built issue allocation to Retail Individual Investors (RIIs), 
Non Institutional Investors (NIIs) and Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs) is in 
the ratio of 25: 25: 50 respectively. SEBI has decided to increase the allocation 
to RIIs from the existing 25% to 35% and correspondingly reduce the allocation 
to NIIs from the existing 25% to 15%. 

Further, in case the book built issues are made pursuant to the requirement of 
mandatory  allocation of  60%  to  QIBs  in  terms  of  Rule  19(2)(b)  of  SCRR  ,  the 
respective figures shall be 30% for RIIs and 10% for NIIs.  This is a transitory 
provision pending harmonization of the QIB allocation in terms of the aforesaid 
Rule with that specified in the guidelines. 

- 1 - 

 

2.2    Redefining “ Retail Individual Investors” (RII)   
 

The RII, at present,  is defined in value terms as one who can apply for shares 
upto a maximum amount of Rs.50,000/-. SEBI has decided to redefine the RII 
as one who can apply up to Rs.1,00,000/-.  

2.3 

 Reducing the bidding period. 

The  existing  guidelines  provide  a  maximum  bidding  period  of  10  days 
extendable by three more days, if there is a revision in price band.  SEBI has 
decided  to  reduce  the  bidding  period  from  current  5  –  10  days  (including 
holidays) to 3-7 working days.  

2.4  Timing  of  disclosure  of  Price  Band/  Floor  Price  in  case  of  listed 

companies. 

 

 

 

 

  

The existing guidelines require all issuers (whether listed or unlisted), making a 
public  issue  through  book  building  process  to  disclose  the  price  band/  floor 
price in the Red Herring Prospectus (RHP)/application form.  SEBI has decided 
to  give  an  option  to  listed  issuers  to  either  (a)  disclose  price  band  in  RHP 
/application  form/abridged  prospectus  (current  practice)  or  (b)  to  disclose  the 
price band /floor price atleast one day before bid opening.  

2.5 Data reporting at website of stock exchanges. 

 

In  order  to  ensure  dissemination of  relevant  information  in public domain,  it  is 
proposed to amend the guidelines inter alia to (i) improve the contents of and to 
ensure  uniformity  in  data  display  on  the  websites  of  the  concerned  stock 
exchanges  and  (ii)  to  ensure  availability  of  data  for  a  further  period  of  3  days 
after the closure of the bids/issue.  
 

3.0   Applicability  
 

3.1 All the amendments made vide this circular, except  the one at sr.no 2.5 above,    

shall  be applicable to those  public  issues  whose draft offer  documents  are filed 
with SEBI on or after April 4, 2005. 

 
3.2 The concerned stock exchanges are requested to put adequate systems in place 
to ensure compliance with the amendments at sr.no.2.5 above.  The same may 
be done at the earliest and in any case not later than 90 days from the date of 
issuance of this circular. 

 

- 2 - 

 
4.0 

This  circular  along  with  the  annexure  is  available 
in  SEBI  website  at 
www.sebi.gov.in.  Full 
the 
amendments issued vide this circular is also available in SEBI’s web site under 
Issues and Listing. 

text  of  SEBI  (DIP)  guidelines  2000 

including 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Neelam  Bhardwaj 
 
Encl.: a/a 

 

 

 

- 3 - 

ANNEXURE  

 

AMENDMENTS TO THE SEBI (DISCLOSURE AND INVESTOR PROTECTION) 

GUIDELINES, 2000 

 

CHAPTER I – DEFINITIONS  
 
1. 

In  clause  1.2.1,  in  sub-clause  (xxiva),  for  the  letters  and  figures  “Rs.  50,000/-“, 
the following letters and figures shall be substituted, namely “Rs. 1,00,000/-“. 

 
 
CHAPTER XI – GUIDELINES ON BOOK BUILDING 
 
2. 
 

In clause 11.3.1(viii)(a), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely: 

“Provided  that  in  case  of  a  further  public  issue  of  a  class  of  securities  which  is 
already  listed  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange,  it  shall  not  be  necessary  to 
disclose the floor price or price band in the red-herring prospectus if the same is 
disclosed  by  way  of  an  announcement  made  by  the  issuer  or  the  merchant 
banker  at  least  one  day  before  the  opening  of  the  bid  in  all  those  newspapers 
where pre-issue advertisement was released. 
  
“Provided  further  that  where  the  issuer  opts  not  to  make  the  disclosure  of  the 
price  band  or floor  price  in  the  red-herring  prospectus  in  terms  of  the foregoing 
proviso, 
the  red-herring 
prospectus: 
(a) a  statement  that  the  floor  price  or  price  band,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  be 

following  shall  be  additionally  disclosed 

the 

in 

disclosed one before the opening of the bid; 

(b) a  statement  that  the  investors  may  be  guided  in  the  meantime  by  the 

secondary market prices; 

(c) names and editions of the newspapers where the announcement of the floor 

price or price band would be made; 

(d) names  of  websites  (with  address),  journals  or  other  media  in  which  the  said 

announcement will be made.” 

 
In clause 11.3.2, after sub-clause (iii), the following sub-clauses shall be inserted, 
namely:  

“(iv)  the  broad  parameters  on  which  allocation  is  proposed  to  be  made  to 
Qualified Institutional Buyers   
  (v) the proposed manner of allocation among respective categories of investors, 
in the event of under subscription.” 

3. 

 

 

- 4 - 

4. 
 

 
5. 

 

6. 
 

 

7. 
  

 
8. 
 

 
In clause 11.3.4.1(i) –  

a.  for the words and figure “5 days”, the following words shall be substituted, 

namely, “three working days”; 

b.  for  the  words  and  figures  “10  days”,  the  following  words  shall  be 

substituted, namely, “seven working days”; 

c.  for  the  words  and  figures  “13  days”,  the  following  words  shall  be 

substituted, namely, “ten working days”; 

In  clause  11.3.4.1,  after  sub-clause  (xi),  the  following  sub-clause  shall  be 
inserted, namely:  

xii.  

The stock exchanges shall display data pertaining to book built issues in a 
uniform  format,  interalia  giving  category  wise  details  of  bids  received   
Indicative  format  is  given  in  Schedule  XXX.    The  data  pertaining  to  an 
issue shall be displayed on the site for a period of atleast three days after 
closure of bids. 

 

In clause 11.3.5(i),  

a.  in  sub-clause  (a),  for  the  figures  “25%”  the  following  figures  shall  be 

substituted, namely, “35%”; 

b.  in  sub-clause  (b),  for  the  figures  “25%”  the  following  figures  shall  be 

substituted, namely “15%”. 

The following proviso to be added after the first proviso to clause 11.3.5 (i) 

“Provided  further  that,  in  respect  of  issues  made  under  Rule  19(2)(b)  of 
Securities  Contract  (Regulation)  Rules  1957,  with  60%  mandatory  allocation 
to  Qualified  Institutional  Buyers,  the  percentage  allocation  to  retail  individual 
investors and non institutional investors in terms of clause 11.3.5(i)(a) shall be 
30% and 10% respectively.” 

Sub clause (iv) of Clause 11.3.5 shall be substituted with the following, namely: 

“In the event of under subscription in any category, the undersubscribed portion 
shall  be  allocated  to  the  bidders  as  per  disclosures  made  in  terms  of  clause 
11.3.2(v). 
 
Provided  that,  the  unsubscribed  portion  in  the  "Qualified  Institutional  Buyer" 
category,  shall  not  be  available  for  subscription  to  other  categories,  in  case  the 
issuer  company  has  made  an  issue  of  securities  under  clause  2.2.2  or  clause 
2.3.2 of these guidelines.)”  

 

- 5 - 

 
 
9. 

Sub clause (v)(a) of clause 11.3.5 shall be substituted with the following, namely : 
“The allocation to QIBs shall be made as per disclosures made in terms of clause 
11.3.2(iv)” 

 
SCHEDULES 
 
10. 

In  Schedule  XXIX  under  serial  no.  (o),  the  item  numbered  as  (s)  shall  be 
renumbered as (iv) 
After Schedule XXIX, the following new schedule shall be inserted 

11. 

 

“SCHEDULE XXX 

[Clause 11.3.4.1(xii)] 

 

<NAME OF THE ISSUE>-  BID  DETAILS  

 

Category  

Sr. 
No. 

QIBs 

1 
1 (a)  FIIs 
1 (b)  Domestic 
Financial 
Institutions  (Banks 
/  FIs  /  Insurance 
Companies etc.) 

1 (c)  Mutual Funds 
1 (d)  Others 
2 

Non 
Investors 

Institutional 

2(a)  Corporates 
Individuals 
2(b) 
than RIIs) 

(other 

2(c)  Others 
Retail 
3 
Investors (RIIs) 

Individual 

3 (a)  Cut off 
3 (b)  Price bids 
4 

Reservation 
categories, if any  

4(a)  Cut off 
4(b)  Price bids  

of 

No. 
offered / reserved 

shares 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

No  of  times  /  %age  
No 
of 
of  total  meant  for 
shares  bid 
for                  
the category 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

- 6 - 

 

Notes:  

1. 
 
2. 

 
3. 
 
4. 
 
5. 
 

The graph should have the title “Graphical display of bids received”. 

A  statement  to  the  effect  that  the  position  indicated  above  is  only  bids  position 
and does not necessarily convey the subscription to the issue.  

Statement as to how the multiple bids are accounted for in the data and graph. 

Time of updation. 

Additional comments, if any. 

 

- 7 - 

