DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
Market Regulation Department  

The Executive Directors/Managing Directors/ 
Administrators of all Stock Exchanges 
The Managing Director, NSDL 
The Executive Director, CDSL 

1. 
 
2. 
3. 
 
Dear Sir/s, 

Sub:  Review of Dematerialisation Charges 

 

MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-4/2005 
     January 28, 2005 
 

1.  Investors have been representing to SEBI seeking a reduction in the charges 
paid by them for dematerialisation of securities.  The rationalization of charge 
structure  for  dematerialisation  was  discussed  at  the  Secondary  Market 
Advisory Committee of SEBI (SMAC).   

 
2.  After  careful  consideration  of  the  recommendations  of  the  SMAC,  as  a  first 
step, it has been decided to rationalize the existing charge structure as under:  
2.1 

Effective from February 1, 2005 :-  
a)  No investor shall be required to pay any charge towards opening of 
a Beneficiary Owner (BO) Account except for statutory charges as 
may be applicable; 

b)  No  investor  shall  be  required  to  pay  any  charge  for  credit  of 

securities into his/her BO account; and 

c)  No  custody  charge  shall  be  levied  on  any  investor  who  would  be 

opening a BO account on or after February 1, 2005. 

2.2  With effect from April 1, 2005 the custody charges shall not be levied 
on  any  investor.  However,  the  Depositories  may  levy  and  collect  the 
charges towards custody from the issuers, on a per folio (ISIN position) 
basis as at the end of the financial year, according to the table given 
below:  
Issuers to pay @ Rs.5.00 (*) per folio (ISIN position) in the respective 
depositories, subject to a minimum as mentioned below: 
Nominal  value  of  admitted 
securities  (Rs.)  

Annual  Custodial  Fee  payable 
by  a  Issuer  to  each  Depository 
(Rs.)  (*) 

Upto 5 crore 
Above 5 crore and upto 10 crore 
Above  10  crore  and  upto  20 
crore 
Above 20 crore 
* Plus service tax as applicable 

 

4,000 
10,000 
20,000 

30,000 

Page 1 of 2 

The  issuers  would  be  required  to  pay  custody  charges  to  the 
Depository with whom they have established connectivity based on the 
total number of folios (ISIN positions) as on 31st March of the previous 
financial  year  or  the  minimum  amount,  as  the  case  may  be,  by  30th 
April of the each financial year failing which Depositories may charge 
penal interest subject to a maximum of 12% p.a.    
 

3.  All the Stock Exchanges are advised to:- 
  

a)  implement  the  above  with  immediate  effect  by  making  necessary 

amendments to the bye-laws and Listing Agreement, as applicable ;    

b)  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  listed 
companies/Issuers and also to put up the same on the website for easy 
access to the investors ; and 

c)  communicate to SEBI the status of the implementation of the provisions 
of this circular and the action taken in this regard in Section II, item no. 
13 of the Monthly Development Report for the month of February, 2005. 

4.  The Depositories are advised to:-  

a)  make amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and  regulations for 
the  implementation  of  the  above  decision  immediately,  as  may  be 
applicable/necessary ;   

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  DPs  of  the  
Depositories and the issuers whose securities have been admitted into 
the depositories and also to disseminate the same on the website; and 

c)  communicate to SEBI the status of the implementation of the provisions 
of  this  circular  in  the  Monthly  Development  Report  for  the  month  of 
February, 2005. 

5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11 
(1) of Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interest 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, 
the securities market.  

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
V S SUNDARESAN 
 
 

Page 2 of 2 

