Deputy General Manager
Market Regulation Department
E-mail: sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in

MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-07/2005
February 23, 2005

The Executive Directors/Managing Directors/Administrators
of All Stock Exchanges

Dear Sir / Madam,

Sub: Comprehensive Risk Management Framework for the cash market

1.  SEBI has, from time to time, put in place various risk containment measures
to  address  the  risks  involved  in  the  cash  and  derivatives  market.  These
measures have successfully and efficaciously addressed the market risks.
However,  to  keep  pace  with  the  dynamic  state  of  the  markets,  risk
management systems cannot remain static and has to constantly address
the  changing  risk  profile  of  the  market.  Further,  there  were  also  certain
differences  observed  between  the  risk  management  systems  in  the  cash
and derivatives market.

2.  With  an  objective  of  aligning  and  streamlining  the  risk  management
framework across the cash and derivatives markets and to consolidate all
the existing circulars on risk management for the cash market, the Advisory
Committee of Derivatives and Market Risk Management of SEBI (RMG), in
its various meetings reviewed the extant provisions relating to margins and
  After  detailed
risk  management 
deliberations, 
risk
management  framework  for  the  cash  market.  The  comprehensive  risk
management framework has been finalised after a due consultative process
with  the  public.  The  revised  framework  for  risk  management  in  the  cash
market is placed in Annexures I & II.

in 
recommended  a  comprehensive 

framework 
the  RMG  has 

the  cash  market. 

3.  The Stock Exchanges shall put in place the necessary systems to ensure
the  operationalization  of  the  comprehensive  risk  management  framework
with effect from May 18, 2005 and that they have tested the software and
removed any glitches in its operation well before the above mentioned date
to avoid any problems in the live environment.

4.  While  the  comprehensive  risk  management  framework  is  expected  to
contain  risk  in  the  system,  the  efficacy  of  the  same  will  be  dependent  on
monitoring,  surveillance  and  timely  collection  of  margins  by  the  Stock
Exchanges.    The  Stock  Exchanges,  are,  therefore  advised  to  strengthen
their monitoring and surveillance systems and take such timely actions as
and when necessary.

Page 1 of 13

5.  The Stock Exchanges are also advised to:

5.1  ensure  that  their  risk  management  framework  is  in  line  with  the
provisions  contained  in  the  annexure  and  take  steps  to  make
necessary  amendments 
the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and
regulations for the implementation of the above decision immediately.

to 

5.2  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  member
brokers/clearing members of the Exchange and also to disseminate
the same on the website.

5.3  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the
provisions  of  this  circular  in  Section  II,  item  no.  13  of  the  Monthly
Development Report.

6.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section
11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect
the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of,
and to regulate the securities market.

Yours faithfully,

V S SUNDARESAN

Encl:

1.  Annexure-  I  –  Comprehensive  Risk  Management  Framework  for  the

cash market

2.  Annexure- II - Methodology for computation of MTM Margin.

Page 2 of 13

Annexure – I

Comprehensive Risk Management Framework for the cash market

1  Overview

The core of the risk management system is the liquid assets deposited by members
with  the  exchange/clearing  corporation.  These  liquid  assets  shall  cover  the
following four requirements:

a.  MTM (Mark  To  Market)  Losses:  Mark  to  market  losses  on  outstanding

settlement obligations of the member.

b.  VaR Margins: Value at risk margins to cover potential losses for 99% of the

days.

c.  Extreme Loss Margins:  Margins  to  cover  the  expected  loss  in  situations

that lie outside the coverage of the VaR margins.

d.  Base Minimum Capital: Capital required for all risks other than market risk

(for example, operational risk and client claims).

At all points of time, the liquid assets of the member shall be adequate to cover all
the above four requirements. There are no other margins in the risk management
system.

2  Liquid Assets

The acceptable liquid assets and the applicable haircuts are listed below:

Item

Cash
Bank fixed deposits
Bank guarantees

Haircut (see Note A)
Cash Equivalents

0
0
0

Securities  of  the  Central
Government

10%

Limits

No limit
No limit
exchange’s
Limit 
exposure to a single bank
(see Note B)
No limit

on 

Page 3 of 13

10%

No limit

or 

liquid  mutual
Units  of 
government
funds 
securities  mutual 
funds
(by whatever name called
which 
in
government securities)

invest 

1.  Cannot be used for mark to market losses (see Note C)
2.  Total of Other Liquid Assets cannot exceed total of Cash Equivalents (see Note

Other Liquid Assets

D)

Liquid  (Group  I)  Equity
Shares  (see  section  3  for
classification  of  equity
shares  on  the  basis  of
liquidity)
Mutual  fund  units  other
than  those  listed  under
cash equivalents

Card value of eligible
exchanges (see Note F)

Same as the VaR margin
for  the  respective  shares
(see section 5.1 below)

on 

Limit 
exposure 
issuer (see Note E)

exchange’s
to  a  single

it  as  a 

exchange, 

Same as the VaR margin
for 
the  units  computed
using  the  traded  price  on
stock 
if
available,  or  else,  using
the  unit
the  NAV  of 
treating 
liquid
security  (see  section  5.1
below).
50%  if  the  last  sale  or
auction  of  card 
the
exchange 
place
took 
during the last six months.
75%  if  the  last  sale  or
auction  of  card 
the
place
exchange 
took 
during 
twelve
last 
months  but  not  within  the
last six months.
100% if no sale or auction
of  card  in  the  exchange
has  taken  place  during
the last twelve months.

the 

in 

in 

Eligible  only  for  Extreme
Loss Margin

Notes:

A.  The valuation of the liquid assets shall be done on a daily basis except for

the card value which shall be taken on the basis of the last sale or auction.

Page 4 of 13

B.  The exchanges shall lay down exposure limits either in rupee terms or as
percentage  of  the  Trade  Guarantee  Fund  (TGF)  /  Settlement  Guarantee
Fund (SGF) that can be exposed to a single bank directly or indirectly. The
total exposure would include guarantees provided by the bank for itself or for
others  as  well  as  debt  or  equity  securities  of  the  bank  which  have  been
deposited by members towards total liquid assets.

Not more than 5% of the TGF/SGF or 1% of the total liquid assets deposited
with the exchange, whichever is lower, shall be exposed to any single bank
which has a net worth of less than Rs 500 Crores and is not rated P1 (or
P1+) or equivalent, by a RBI recognized credit rating agency or by a reputed
foreign credit rating agency, and not more than 50% of the TGF/SGF or 10%
of the total liquid assets deposited with the exchanges, whichever is lower,
shall be exposed to all such banks put together.

C.  Mark to market losses shall be paid by the member in the form of cash or

cash equivalents.

D.  Cash equivalents shall be at least 50% of liquid assets. This would imply that
Other Liquid Assets in excess of the total Cash Equivalents would not be
regarded as part of Total Liquid Assets.

E.  The exchanges shall lay down exposure limits either in rupee terms or as
percentage of the Trade Guarantee Fund (TGF)/Settlement Guarantee Fund
(SGF) that can be exposed to a single issuer directly or indirectly and in any
case the exposure of the TGF/SGF to any single issuer shall not be more
than  15%  of  the  total  liquid  assets  forming  part  of  TGF/SGF  of  the
exchange.

F.  As a transitional arrangement pending demutualization of stock exchanges,
the  value  of  the  membership  card  in  eligible  stock  exchanges  may  be
included as part of the member’s liquid assets only to cover Extreme Loss
Margin.  To  be  eligible  for  this  treatment,  the  exchange  shall  maintain  an
amount  equivalent  to  at  least  50%  of  the  aggregate  card  value  of  all
members in the form of cash and liquid assets.

3  Liquidity Categorization of Securities

The securities shall be classified into three groups based on their liquidity:

Group

Trading Frequency
(over the previous six
months – see Note A)
Liquid Securities (Group I) At least 80% of the days
Less  Liquid  Securities
At least 80% of the days
(Group II)

Impact Cost (over the
previous six months –
see Note A
Less than or equal to 1%
More than 1%

Page 5 of 13

Illiquid  Securities  (Group
III)

Less than 80% of the
days

N/A

Notes:

A.  For  securities  that  have  been  listed  for  less  than  six  months,  the  trading
frequency  and  the  impact  cost  shall  be  computed  using  the  entire  trading
history of the scrip.

3.1  Monthly Review

The  trading  frequency  and  impact  cost  shall  be  calculated  on  the  15th  of  each
month on a rolling basis considering the previous six months for impact cost and
previous  six  months  for  trading  frequency.  On  the  basis  of  the  trading  frequency
and impact cost so calculated, the securities shall move from one group to another
group from the 1st of the next month.

3.2  Categorisation of newly listed securities

For the first month and till the time of monthly review as mentioned in section 3.1, a
newly  listed  stock  shall  be  categorised  in  that  Group  where  the  market
capitalization of the newly listed stock exceeds or equals the market capitalization
of  80%  of  the  stocks  in  that  particular  group.  Subsequently,  after  one  month,
whenever the next monthly review is carried out, the actual trading frequency and
impact  cost  of  the  security  shall  be  computed,  to  determine  the  liquidity
categorization of the security.
In case any corporate action results in a change in ISIN, then the securities bearing
the new ISIN shall be treated as newly listed scrip for group categorization.

3.3  Calculation of mean impact cost

The mean impact cost shall be calculated in the following manner:

a.  Impact cost shall be calculated by taking four snapshots in a day from the
order book in the past six months. These four snapshots shall be randomly
chosen from within four fixed ten-minutes windows spread through the day.

b.  The  impact  cost  shall  be  the  percentage  price  movement  caused  by  an
order size of Rs.1 Lakh from the average of the best bid and offer price in
the order book snapshot. The impact cost shall be calculated for both, the
buy and the sell side in each order book snapshot.

c.  The  computation  of  the  impact  cost  adopted  by  the  Exchange  shall  be

disseminated on the website of the exchange.

d.  The  exchanges  shall  use  a  common  methodology  for  carrying  out  the
calculations for mean impact cost. The stock exchanges which are unable to
compute the mean impact cost calculations at their exchanges shall use the
impact cost calculations of BSE/NSE. Such stock exchanges shall enter into
a formal legal agreement with the relevant stock exchanges for liquidating

Page 6 of 13

the  positions  of  their  members  if  necessary,  on  that  stock  exchange.  If  a
Stock Exchange is unable to compute the mean impact cost of the scrips
traded  at  the  Exchange,  as  well  as  not  been  able  to  enter  into  a  formal
arrangement for liquidation of positions, it shall levy margins on the scrips as
applicable  to  Group  II  or  Group  III  as  explained  above,  as  classification
between  scrips  in  Group  I  or  Group  II  would  not  be  possible  at  that
Exchange.

e.  The  details  of  calculation  methodology  and  relevant  data  shall  be  made
available to the public at large through the website of the exchanges. Any
change in the methodology for the computation of impact cost shall also be
disseminated by the exchange.

4  Mark to Market Losses

Mark to Market Losses shall be collected in the following manner:

a.  The Stock Exchanges shall collect the mark to market margin (MTM) from

the member/broker before the start of the trading of the next day.

b.  The  MTM  margin  shall  also  be  collected/adjusted  from/against  the
cash/cash equivalent component of the liquid net worth deposited with the
Exchange.

c.  The  MTM  margin  shall  be  collected  on  the  gross  open  position  of  the
member. The gross open position for this purpose would mean the gross of
all net positions across all the clients of a member including his proprietary
position. For this purpose, the position of a client would be netted across his
various securities and the positions of all the clients of a broker would be
grossed. Further, there would be no netting across two different settlements.
d.  There would be no netting off the positions and setoff against MTM profits
across  2  rolling  settlements  i.e.  T  day  and  T-1  day.  However,  for
computation of MTM profits/losses for the day, netting or setoff against MTM
profits would be permitted.

e.  The methodology for computation of MTM margin is also illustrated by way

of an example which is placed in Annexure II.

f.  The margin so collected shall be released along with the pay-in, including

early pay-in of securities.

5  VaR Margin

5.1  Computation of VaR Margin

The  VaR  Margin  is  a  margin  intended  to  cover  the  largest  loss  that  can  be
encountered on 99% of the days (99% Value at Risk). For liquid stocks, the margin
covers one-day losses while for illiquid stocks, it covers three-day losses so as to
allow the clearing corporation to liquidate the position over three days. This leads to
a scaling factor of square root of three for illiquid stocks.

Page 7 of 13

For liquid stocks, the VaR margins are based only on the volatility of the stock while
for other stocks, the volatility of the market index is also used in the computation.
Computation of the VaR margin requires the following definitions:

•  Scrip sigma means the volatility of the security computed as at the end of the
previous trading day. The computation uses the exponentially weighted moving
average  method  applied  to  daily  returns  in  the  same  manner  as  in  the
derivatives market.

•  Scrip VaR means the higher of 7.5% or 3.5 scrip sigmas.
• 

Index sigma means the daily volatility of the market index (S&P CNX Nifty or
BSE  Sensex)  computed  as  at  the  end  of  the  previous  trading  day.  The
computation uses the exponentially weighted moving average method applied
to daily returns in the same manner as in the derivatives market.
Index VaR  means the  higher  of  5%  or  3  index  sigmas.  The  higher  of  the
Sensex VaR or Nifty VaR would be used for this purpose.

• 

The VaR Margins are specified as follows for different groups of stocks:

One-Day VaR

Scrip VaR

Scaling factor for

illiquidity

VaR Margin

1.00

Scrip VaR

(square root of

1.73

3.00)

1.73

(square root of

3.00)

Higher of 1.73
times Scrip VaR
and 5.20 times
Index VaR
8.66 times Index
VaR

Liquidity
Categorization
Liquid Securities
(Group I)
Less Liquid
Securities (Group
II)

Higher of Scrip
VaR and three
times Index VaR

Illiquid Securities
(Group III)

Five times Index
VaR

5.2  Collection of VaR Margin

a.  The VaR margin shall be collected on an upfront basis by adjusting against
the total liquid assets of the member at the time of trade. Collection on T+1
day is not acceptable.

b.  The  VaR  margin  shall  be  collected  on  the  gross  open  position  of  the
member. The gross open position for this purpose would mean the gross of
all net positions across all the clients of a member including his proprietary
position.

c.  For  this  purpose,  there  would  be  no  netting  of  positions  across  different

settlements.

d.  The  VaR  margin  so  collected  shall  be  released  along  with  the  pay-in,

including early pay-in of securities.

Page 8 of 13

6  Extreme Loss Margin

The term Extreme Loss Margin replaces the terms “exposure limits” and “second
line  of  defence”  that  have  been  used  hitherto.  It  covers  the  expected  loss  in
situations that go beyond those envisaged in the 99% value at risk estimates used
in the VaR margin.

a.  The Extreme Loss Margin for any stock shall be higher of:

•  5%, and
•  1.5 times the standard deviation of daily logarithmic returns of the stock price
in the last six months. This computation shall be done at the end of each
month by taking the price data on a rolling basis for the past six months and
the resulting value shall be applicable for the next month.

b.  The  Extreme  Loss  Margin  shall  be  collected/  adjusted  against  the  total  liquid

assets of the member on a real time basis.

c.  The Extreme Loss Margin shall be collected on the gross open position of the
member. The gross open position for this purpose would mean the gross of all
net  positions  across  all  the  clients  of  a  member  including  his  proprietary
position.

d.  For  this  purpose,  there  would  be  no  netting  of  positions  across  different

settlements.

e.  The Extreme Loss Margin so collected shall be released along with the pay-in.

7  Exemption from margins

a.  Institutional businesses i.e., transactions done by all institutional investors shall
be exempt from margin payments. For this purpose, institutional investors shall
include
•  Foreign Institutional Investors registered with SEBI.
•  Mutual Funds registered with SEBI.
•  Public Financial Institutions as defined under Section 4A of the Companies

Act, 1956.

•  Banks,  i.e.,  a  banking  company  as  defined  under  Section  5(1)(c)  of  the

Banking Regulations Act, 1949.
Insurance companies registered with IRDA.

• 

b.  In cases where early pay-in of securities is made, the outstanding position to the

extent of early pay-in shall not be considered for margin purposes.

c.  There shall be no other margin exemptions other than those mentioned above.

8  Shortfall of Margins / Pay-in of funds

a.  Margin shortfall

In  case  of  any  shortfall  in  Margin,  the  terminals  of  the  broker  shall  be
immediately deactivated.

Page 9 of 13

b.  Pay-in shortfall

i. 

In cases where the amount of shortage in a settlement for a trading member
is  in  excess  of  the  base  minimum  capital  (BMC)  prescribed,  the  trading
facility of the member shall be withdrawn and the securities pay-out due to
the member shall be withheld.

ii.  In cases where the amount of shortage exceeds 20% of the BMC but less
than the BMC on six occasions within a period of three months, then also
the trading facility of the member shall be withdrawn and the securities pay-
out due to the member shall be withheld.

iii.  Upon recovery of the complete shortages, the member shall be permitted to
trade  subject  to  his  providing  a  deposit  equivalent  to  his  cumulative  funds
shortage as the 'funds shortage collateral'.  Such deposit shall be kept with
the Exchange for a period of ten rolling settlements and shall be released
thereafter. Such deposit shall not be available for adjustment against margin
liabilities and also not earn any interest. The deposit may be by way of cash,
fixed deposit receipts or bank guarantee.

iv.  The exchange may levy a penal interest of not less than 0.07% per day on

the pay-in shortage of the member.

9  Base Minimum Capital

A.  The Stock Exchanges shall have the BMC requirements as provided below:-

BSE, NSE and Calcutta Stock Exchange
Rs. 10 lakhs
Ahmedabad Stock Exchange & Delhi Stock Exchange Rs. 07 lakhs
Other Stock Exchanges
Rs. 04 lakhs

provided  that  the  Stock  Exchanges  shall  maintain  the  BMC  at  Rs.  1  lakh  if  the
average daily turnover is less than Rs.1 crore for any three consecutive months.

B.  Refund of excess BMC over Rs. 1 lakh

The excess of the BMC over Rs 1 lakh may be refunded to the members of the
exchange subject to the following conditions:

a.  The member has been inactive at the stock exchange for the past 12
months,  i.e.  he  has  not  carried  out  any  transaction  on  that  stock
exchange during the past 12 months.

b.  There are no investor complaints pending against the member.
c.  There are no arbitration cases pending against the member.
d.  The exchange shall retain/deduct/debit from the BMC to be refunded,
the  amount  of  any  complaints/claims  of  the  investors  against  the
member  and 
the
exchange/SEBI  arising  out  of  pending  arbitration  cases,  appealed
arbitration  awards,  administrative  expenses,  SEBI  turnover  fees,
e.t.c.

for  dues  crystallized  and  contingent 

to 

Page 10 of 13

e.  The  exchange  shall  ensure  that  the  member  has  paid  the  SEBI
turnover fees and has obtained a No-Objection Certificate (NoC) from
SEBI in this regard.

C.  Re-enhancement of BMC

If  the  average  daily  turnover  of  the  exchange  exceeds  the  prescribed  level  of
Rs.1 crore for a period of one month at any time, the exchange shall enhance
the requirement of the BMC of the members back to the level as prescribed in
Para A above and shall obtain undertaking to this effect from the members.

10  Additional Margins

Exchanges/clearing  corporations  have  the  right  to  impose  additional  risk
containment measures over and above the risk containment system mandated
by SEBI. However, the Stock Exchanges should keep the following three factors
in mind while taking such action:
a.  Additional risk management measures (like ad-hoc margins) would normally
be  required  only  to  deal  with  circumstances  that  cannot  be  anticipated  or
were not anticipated while designing the risk management system. If ad-hoc
margins  are  imposed  with  any  degree  of  regularity,  exchanges  should
examine whether the circumstances that give rise to such margins can be
reasonably  anticipated  and  can  therefore  be  incorporated  into  the  risk
management  system  mandated  by  SEBI.  Exchanges  are  encouraged  to
analyse  these  situations  and  bring  the  matter  to  the  attention  of  SEBI  for
further action.

b.  Any additional margins that the exchanges may impose shall be based on
objective criteria and shall not discriminate between members on the basis
of subjective criteria.

c.  Transparency is an important regulatory goal and therefore every effort must
be  made  to  make  the  risk  management  systems  fully  transparent  by
disclosing their details to the public.

11  Margins from the Client

Members  should  have  a  prudent  system  of  risk  management  to  protect
themselves from client default. Margins are likely to be an important element of
such a system. The same shall be well documented and be made accessible to
the clients and the Stock Exchanges. However, the quantum of these margins
and the form and mode of collection are left to the discretion of the members.

12  Resultant Modifications in the corresponding circulars

With  the  advanced  collection  of  margins  and  the  introduction  of  the  stringent
margining structure, the following circulars would stand modified suitably:

Page 11 of 13

a.  Gross exposure limits stipulated vide circular No. SMDRP/Policy/2001 dated

March 11, 2001 and press release No.45 /2001dated March 11, 2001.

b.  Intra-day trading limits stipulated vide circular No. SMD/RCG/3737/96 dated

August 13, 1996.

c.  Additional Margin of 6% stipulated vide circular No. SMD/Policy/ Cir - 9/2003

dated March 11, 2003.

d.  The  form  of  maintenance  of  BMC  and  AC  stipulated  vide  circular  No.

SMDRP/Policy/Cir-19/99 dated July 2, 1999.

e.  The  provisions  regarding  Bank  Guarantee  stipulated  vide  Circular  No.

22/2003 dated June 11, 2003.

f.  The provisions relating to usage of stock exchange membership card value
stipulated vide circular No. SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir- 25/2004 dated July 22, 2004.

g.  The provisions relating to handling of pay-in shortfall stipulated vide Circular

No. SEBI/SMD/SE/21/2003/05/06 dated June 05, 2003.

h.  The provisions of collection of margins from clients stipulated vide circulars
No. SMDRP/policy/Cir-35/98 dated December 4, 1998, SMDRP/Policy/Cir-
7/00 dated February 4, 2000, SMDRP/Policy/Cir-33/00 dated July 27, 2000
and SMDRP/Policy/Cir-12/2002 dated May 17, 2002.

************************

Page 12 of 13

Annexure – II

Methodology for computation of MTM Margin

For a Client A, his MTM profit/ loss would be calculated separately for his positions on
T-1  and  T  day  (two  different  rolling  settlements).  For  the  same  day  positions  of  the
client,  his  losses  in  some  scrips  can  be  set  off/netted  against  profits  of  some  other
scrips. Thus, we would arrive at the MTM loss/profit figures of the two different days T
and T-1. These two figures cannot be netted. Any loss will have to be collected and
same will not be setoff against profit arising out of positions of the other day.

Thus, as stated above MTM profits / losses would be computed for each of the clients
Client A, Client B, Client C etc. As regards collection of margin from the broker, the
MTM would be grossed across all the clients i.e. no setoff of loss of one client with the
profit of another client. In other words, only the losses will be added to give the total
MTM loss that the broker has to deposit with the exchange.

T-1
day

800
-500
300

T day

300
-1200
-900

Security X
Security Y
Total

Security Z
700
Security W -1000
Total
-300

Security X
Security Z
Total

1000
-1500
-500

Security Y
Security R
Total

700
-300
400

-400
800
400

500
-800
-300

-200
800
600

Client A

Client B

Client C

Client D

BROKER

Total
profit/loss
of Client

MTM
for
broker

-900

-300

-800

1000

In this example, the broker has to deposit MTM Margin of Rs 2000.

********************

-2000

Page 13 of 13

