CRD/DCR/DLT/HB/Cir-1/06 
January 31, 2006 
 

The Executive Director /Managing Director 
All Stock Exchanges. 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
SUB:-  AMENDMENT  TO  THE  SEBI 
GUIDELINES, 2003 
 
1)  In  order  to  simplify  the  existing  framework  w.r.t.  Compulsory  Delisting  and 
make it possible for stock exchanges to delist the Companies which are non-
compliant  with  the  provisions  of  Listing  Agreement,  it  has been  decided to 
amend the SEBI (Delisting Of Securities) Guidelines, 2003. 

(DELISTING  OF  SECURITIES) 

 
2)  The amendment seeks to ensure adequate and wide public notice of the fact 
of delisting  and  disclosure  of  the  fair  value  through  newspapers  and  notice 
boards/trading systems of the stock exchange upon delisting of a security. 

 
3)  The  amendment  also  seeks  to  determine  the  fair  value  of  securities  by 
persons  appointed  by  the  stock  exchange  out  of  a  panel  of  experts,  which 
shall also be selected by the stock exchange. 

GENERAL MANAGER 
CORPORATION FINANCE DEPARTMENT  
DIVISION OF CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING  
 

 
4)  The  amendment  to  the  SEBI  (Delisting  Of  Securities)  Guidelines,  2003  is 

given in Annexure A. 

 
This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 
securities market. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
S.V. Murali Dhar Rao  
  

 
 
1)  For sub-clause 15.6, the following sub-clauses shall be substituted, namely; 
 

“15.6  The  stock  exchange  may,  after  consideration  of 
the 
representations received from aggrieved persons, delist the securities 
of such companies. 

Annexure A 

15.6A Where the stock exchange delists the securities of a company, it 
shall  ensure  that  adequate  and  wide  public  notice  of  the  fact  of 
delisting is given through newspapers and on the notice boards/trading 
systems of the stock exchange and shall ensure disclosure in all such 
notices  of  the  fair  value  of  such  securities  determined  in accordance 
with the Explanation to clause 16.1.” 

2)  In clause 16.1, the Explanation shall be substituted with the following, namely; 

 

 

 

“Explanation:  For  the  purposes  of  this  sub-clause,  fair  value  of 
securities  shall  be  determined  by  persons  appointed  by  the  stock 
exchange out of a panel of experts, which shall also be selected by 
the  stock  exchange,  having  regard  to  the  factors  mentioned  in 
regulation  20  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations, 
1997.” 
 

3)  Clause 16.2 shall be omitted. 
  
 

