DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
CORPORATION FINANCE DEPARTMENT 
DIVISION OF ISSUES AND LISTING 

 
SEBI/CFD/DIL/DIP/14/ 2005/25/1 
January 25, 2005 

 
To All Registered Merchant Bankers 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub.:  Amendments  to  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  {DIP} 

Guidelines, 2000  

 
1.0 

SEBI,  under  the  provision  of  Section  11(1)  of  SEBI  Act,  1992  is  hereby 
issuing amendments to SEBI (DIP) Guidelines, 2000 (hereinafter referred as 
“the guidelines”).The  amendments  are  detailed  in  Annexure  I  and  are 
summarized under the following broad categories: 

Order of presentation of disclosures in prospectus  

  
1.1 
 
1.1.1  At present, the guidelines provide for the disclosure requirements. However, 
there is no mention of order in which such disclosures should appear in the 
prospectus. The prospectuses in general do not follow a uniform pattern of 
presentation of disclosures and contain lot of repetitions.  

  
1.1.2 

In order to address the aforesaid issue, SEBI has decided to amend Section 
I of Chapter VI of the guidelines. Clauses of Section I have been rearranged 
in the same order in which disclosures  should appear in the prospectus. All 
the  disclosure  requirements  specified  under  Schedule  II  of  the  Companies 
Act, 1956 have been retained either under the same heading or under new 
headings.  Few  requirements  /  sections  have  been  added  to  make  the 
prospectus more effective like summary, table of contents, industry review, 
etc. Repetitive disclosures are to be avoided by giving cross references to 
the  extent  possible.  An  annexure  indicating  order  of  presentation  of 
disclosures  in  the  prospectus  has  been  inserted in  the  guidelines for  easy 
understanding.  

 
1.1.3  The standard order of presentation is not intended to reduce the flexibility to 
the  issuer  to  include  other  disclosures  not  mentioned  in  the  guidelines. 
Issuers  are  free  to  make  additional  disclosures,  so  long  as  they  are  not 
inconsistent with the guidelines. Further, the said disclosures should be, to 
the  extent  possible,  within  the  broad  headings  as  specified  in  Section  I  of 
Chapter VI of the guidelines. 

 
1.2.2 

In  order  to  achieve  the  objective  of  making  the  abridged  prospectus  more 
readable,  the  guidelines  have  been  amended  vide  this  circular.  The 
amendments include increasing the readability / visual impact of the contents 
of  the  abridged  prospectus,  deleting  the  repetitive  disclosures,  etc.  The 
sequence  of  items  followed  shall  be  the  same  as  appearing  in  the 
prospectus. The disclosures in abridged prospectus are as per Form 2A of 
the  Companies  Act,  1956,  supplemented  by  such  information  as  is 
considered most relevant for the prospective retail investors.  

Requirements pertaining to issue advertisements 

 
1.3 
 
1.3.1  At  present,  Clause  11.3.1  (XI)  of  the  guidelines,  pertaining  to  book  built 
issues,  requires  an  issuer  to  publish  an  advertisement  in  newspaper, 
containing the features as specified in Form 2A of the Companies Act, 1956.  

 
1.2 
 
1.2.1  At  present,  Section  II  of  Chapter  VI  of  the  guidelines  lays  down  the 

Requirements pertaining to abridged prospectus 

disclosure requirements in the abridged prospectus.  

 
1.3.2  The pre-issue advertisement plays an important role in creating awareness 
about the issue. However, the cost involved in publishing the entire Form 2A, 
i.e., abridged prospectus in the newspaper was reported to be too high. In 
view  of  this  and  also  in  view  of  the  fact  that  abridged  prospectuses  are 
available  to  investors  along  with  the  application  form,  the  guidelines  have 
been  amended  vide  this  circular.  Pre-issue  advertisement  has  been  made 
mandatory 
issue 
issue  opening  or  closing 
advertisements 
advertisements) shall contain the minimum details prescribed in the formats 
specified  in  the  guidelines.  The  issue  advertisements  like  issue  closing  or 
opening advertisement, would continue to be optional. 

issues  (fixed  or  book  built).  The 

(pre-issue  advertisements, 

for  all  public 

  
1.3.3  The  issuer  company  has  an  option  of  including  additional  disclosures  in 
these advertisements so long as they are not inconsistent with the guidelines 
and subject to the same being in compliance with the principles and code of 
advertisements laid down in Chapter IX of the guidelines.   

 
1.3.4  Any  Bill  Board  Advertisement  in  regard  to  an  issue  shall  not  contain 
information other than as stipulated in the formats specified in the guidelines. 

Removal of restrictions on appointment of co-managers, advisors, etc. 

 
1.4 
 
1.4.1  Clause  5.4.2.1  of  the  guidelines  restricts  the  number  of  co-managers  and 
advisors which can be appointed in an issue. The same has been removed 
vide  this  circular.  Disclosure(s)  pertaining  to  issue  expenses  have  been 
enhanced.  

Applicability 

The amendments stated in (1.1) and (1.2) above are applicable to all those 
issues  where  draft  offer  documents  are  filed  on  or  after  30  days  from  the 
date of this circular i.e with effect from  February 25, 2005. 

The amendments stated at (1.3) and (1.4) are applicable to all those issues 
where  observations  are  issued  by  SEBI  on  or  after  the  date  of  this 
circular. 

You  are  directed  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  SEBI  (DIP) 
Guidelines, 2000 and the amendments thereof. 

This  circular,  along  with  the  annexure,  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at 
www.sebi.gov.in.  Full  text  of  the  guidelines,  including  the  amendments 
issued  vide  this  circular,  is  also  available  on  SEBI  website  under  Primary 
Market Section. 

 
 
2.0 
 
2.1 

 
2.2 

 
3.0 

 
4.0 

 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Neelam Bhardwaj 
 
 
Encl.: a/a 

ANNEXURE - I 

 

 

AMENDMENTS TO THE SEBI (DISCLOSURE AND INVESTOR PROTECTION) 

GUIDELINES, 2000 

 
PRE-ISSUE OBLIGATIONS CHAPTER V – PRE-ISSUE OBLIGATIONS 
 
1.  Clause 5.4.2.1 shall be deleted. 
 
2.  After clause 5.6.3, the following clause shall be inserted, namely: 
 

“5.6A Pre-issue advertisement 
 
5.6A.1 Subject to section 66 of the Companies Act, 1956, the issuer company 
shall soon after receiving final observations, if any, on the offer document from 
the  Board,  make  an  advertisement  in  an  English  National  Daily  with  wide 
circulation,  one  Hindi  National  newspaper  and  a  regional  language  newspaper 
with  wide  circulation  at  the  place  where  the  registered  office  of  the  issuer  is 
situate,  which  shall  be  in  the  format  and  contain  the  minimum  disclosures  as 
given in Part A of Schedule XX-A both in case of fixed price issues as well as 
book built issues.” 

 
 
CHAPTER VI – CONTENTS OF OFFER DOCUMENT 
 
3.  Section I of Chapter VI (clauses 6.0 to 6.19.15) shall be substituted with the 

following, namely: 

“SECTION I - CONTENTS OF THE PROSPECTUS 

In  addition  to  the  disclosures  specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Companies 
Act, 1956, the prospectus shall contain the following: 

The prospectus shall contain all material information which shall be true 
and adequate so as to enable the investors to make informed decision on 
the investments in the issue. 

The  prospectus  shall  also  contain  the  information  and  statements 
specified  in  this  chapter  and  shall  as  far  as  possible  follow  the  order  in 
which  the  requirements  are  listed  in  this  chapter  and  summarised  in 
Schedule VIIA. 

Cover Pages 

 

 
6.1 

 
6.2 

 
6.3 

 
6.4 
 

6.4.1 

 
6.4.2 
 
6.4.2.1 

 
6.4.2.2 

The  cover  page  paper  shall  be  of  adequate  thickness  (preferably 
minimum 100 gcm. quality). 

Front Cover Pages 

The front outside and inside cover pages of the prospectus shall be white 
and no patterns or pictures shall be printed on these pages. 

The front outside cover page of the prospectus shall contain the following 
details only: 

 
(a) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Issue Details 

(i) 

The word "Prospectus". 

(ii)  The name of the issuer company, its logo, its previous name if any, the 
address  of  its  registered  office,  along  with  its  telephone  number,  fax 
number, contact person, website address and e-mail address. 

(iii)  The nature, number, price and amount of the instruments offered and the 

issue size, as may be applicable. 

(iv)  The  following  clause  on  ‘Risks  in  relation  to  the  first  issue’  (wherever 

applicable) shall be incorporated in a box format in case of a initial public 
issue: 

"This  being  the  first  issue  of  the  company,  there  has  been  no  formal 
market for the securities of the company. The face value of the shares is (-
----)  and  the  issue  price/  floor  price/  price  band  is  ‘X-times’  of  the  face 
value. The issue price/ floor price/ price band (has been determined and 
justified by the Lead Merchant Banker and the issuer company as stated 
under  Justification  of  Premium  paragraph  -  in  case  of  premium  issue) 
should  not  be  taken  to  be  indicative  of  the  market  price  of  the  equity 
shares after the shares are listed. No assurance can be given regarding 
an active or sustained trading in the shares of the company nor regarding 
the price at which the equity shares will be traded after listing." 

(v)  The following clause on general risk shall be incorporated: 

"Investment in equity and equity related securities involve a degree of risk 
and  investors  should  not  invest  any  funds  in  this  offer  unless  they  can 
afford to take the risk of losing their investment. Investors are advised to 
read the risk factors carefully before taking an investment decision in this 
offering.  For  taking  an  investment  decision,  investors  must  rely  on  their 
own  examination  of  the  issuer  and  the  offer  including  the  risks  involved. 
The securities have not been recommended or approved by Securities and 

Exchange Board of India (SEBI) nor does SEBI guarantee the accuracy or 
adequacy of this document." 
 
Specific  attention  of  investors  shall  be  invited  to  the  statement  of  ‘Risk 
factors’  by indicating their page number(s) in the ‘General Risks’. 

(vi)  The following clause on ‘Issuer’s Absolute Responsibility’  clause shall be 

incorporated as under: 

"The  issuer,  having  made  all  reasonable  inquiries,  accepts  responsibility 
for  and  confirms  that  this  offer  document  contains  all  information  with 
regard to the issuer and the issue, which is material in the context of the 
issue,  that  the  information  contained  in  the  offer  document  is  true  and 
correct  in  all  material  aspects  and  is  not  misleading  in  any  material 
respect,  that  the  opinions  and  intentions  expressed  herein  are  honestly 
held  and  that  there  are  no  other  facts,  the  omission  of  which  make  this 
document as a whole or any of such information or the expression of any 
such opinions or intentions misleading in any material respect." 

(vii)  The names, logos and addresses of all the Lead Merchant Bankers with 
their  titles  who  file  the  prospectus  with  the  Board,  along  with  their 
telephone  numbers, 
fax  numbers,  website  addresses  and  e-mail 
addresses. 

(viii)  The name, logo and address of the Registrar to the Issue, along with its 

telephone number, fax number, website address and e-mail address. 

(ix) 

Issue Schedule: 

a.  Date of opening of the issue. 
b.  Date of closing of the issue. 
c.  Date of earliest closing of the issue. 

(x)  Credit Rating, if applicable 

(xi)  Name/s of the stock exchanges where listing of the securities is proposed 
(and  the  details  of  in-principle  approval  for  listing  obtained  from  these 
stock exchanges.) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
6.4.3 
 
6.4.3.1 

 
6.5 
 

Back Cover Pages 

The  back  inside  cover  page  and  back  outside  cover  page  shall  be  in 
white. 

Table of Contents 

6.5.1 

 
6.6 
 
6.6.1 
 
6.6.2 
 
6.6.3 
 
6.6.4 
 
6.7 
 
6.7.1 

 
6.7.2 

 
6.7.3 
 
6.7.4 
 
6.7.4.1 

 
6.7.4.2 

 
6.7.4.3 

 
6.7.5 
 
6.7.5.1 
 
6.7.5.2 
 
6.7.6 

 
6.8 

Table  of  Contents  shall  appear  immediately  after  the  front  inside  cover 
page. 

Definitions and Abbreviations 

Conventional/ General Terms. 

Offering-related Terms. 

Company/ Industry-related Terms. 

Abbreviations. 

Risk Factors 

The Risk factors, other than those specified in clauses 6.4.2.2 (a) (iv), (v) 
and  (vi),  shall  be  printed  in  clear  readable  font  (preferably  of  minimum 
point 10 size). 

The  Risk  factors  shall  be  classified  as  those  which  are  specific  to  the 
project and internal to the issuer company and those which are external 
and beyond the control of the issuer company. 

The Risk factors shall be determined on the basis of their materiality.  

Materiality shall be decided taking the following factors into account:  

Some events may not be material individually but may be found material 
collectively. 

Some  events  may  have  material 
quantitatively. 

impact  qualitatively 

instead  of 

Some events may not be material at present but may be having material 
impacts in future. 

The Risk factors shall appear in the prospectus in the following manner: 

Risks envisaged by Management. 

Proposals, if any, to address the risks. 

Any  ‘notes’  required  to  be  given  prominence  shall  appear  immediately 
after the Risk factors. 

Introduction 

Summary of the industry and business of the issuer company. 

Summary consolidated financial, operating and other data. 

Summary 

 
6.8.1 
 
6.8.1.1 
 
6.8.1.2  Offering details in brief. 
 
6.8.1.3 
 
6.8.2 
 
6.8.2.1 

General Information 

The name, address of registered office and the registration number of the 
issuer  company,  along  with  the  address  of  the  Registrar  of  Companies 
where the issuer company is registered. 

The Board of Directors of the issuer company. 

Brief details of the Chairman, Managing Director, Whole Time Directors, 
etc. of the issuer company. 

The  names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers  and  e-mail 
addresses of the Company Secretary, Legal Advisor and Bankers to the 
Company. 

The name, address, telephone number, fax number and e-mail address of 
the Compliance Officer. 

The names, addresses, telephone numbers, fax numbers, contact person, 
website  addresses  and  e-mail  addresses  of  the  Merchant  Bankers,  Co-
Managers, Registrars to the Issue, Bankers to the Issue, Brokers to the 
Issue, Syndicate members, etc. 

The  names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers  and  e-mail 
addresses of the auditors of the issuer company. 

Statement of inter-se allocation of responsibilities among Lead Managers: 

If more than one Merchant Banker is associated with the issue, the inter-
se  allocation  of  responsibility  of  each  Merchant  Banker,  as  demarcated 
and submitted to the Board in terms of clause 5.3.2, shall be disclosed in 
the prospectus. 

Credit Rating (in case of debenture issues): 

The  credit  rating  obtained  from  a  credit  rating  agency  for  the  proposed 
issue of debt security, including convertible instruments. 

 
6.8.2.2 
 
6.8.2.3 

 
6.8.2.4 

 
6.8.2.5 

 
6.8.2.6 

 
6.8.2.7 

 
6.8.2.8 
 

 
6.8.2.9 
 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

If the rating has been obtained from more than one credit rating agencies, 
disclosures shall be made of all ratings including unaccepted rating. 

All the credit ratings obtained during the previous three years before filing 
of  the  prospectus  for  any  of  its  listed  debt-securities  at  the  time  of 
accessing the market through a rated debt-security shall be disclosed. 

 
6.8.2.10  The  names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers,  website 
addresses  and  e-mail  addresses  of  the  trustees  under  debenture  trust 
deed (in case of debenture issue). 

6.8.2.11  Name of the monitoring agency, if applicable, to be disclosed. 
 
6.8.2.12  Where  the  project  is  being  appraised,  the  name,  address,  telephone 

number and e-mail address of the appraising entity. 

 
(c) 
 

Paid-up Capital: 

(i)  After the issue. 

 
6.8.2.13  Book building process in brief. 
 
6.8.2.14  Details of Underwriting, if any: 
 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
6.8.3 
 
6.8.3.1 
 
(a) 

 
(b) 

The  names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers  and  e-mail 
addresses of the underwriters and the amount underwritten by them. 

Declaration  by  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  issuer  company  that  the 
underwriters  have  sufficient  resources  to  discharge  their  respective 
obligations. 

Capital Structure 

The capital structure shall be presented in the following manner: 

Authorised, 
instruments, description and aggregate nominal value). 

issued,  subscribed  and  paid  up  capital  (Number  of 

Size of the present issue, giving separately promoters’  contribution, firm 
allotment/  reservation  for  specified  categories  and  net  offer  to  public 
(Number of instruments, description, aggregate nominal value and issue 
amount shall be given in that order; Name(s) of group companies to be 
given, in case reservation has been made for shareholders of the group 
companies;  Applicable  percentages  may  be  given  in  case  of  book  built 
issue).  

 
(ii)  After conversion of securities (if applicable). 

Share Premium Account (before and after the issue). 

After  the  details  of  capital  structure,  the  following  notes  shall  be 
incorporated: 

Share  capital  issued,  giving  details  such  as  date  of  issue,  number  of 
shares,  face  value,  issue  price,  nature  of  allotment  (rights,  bonus,  etc.), 
cumulative capital, etc. Further, details of any share split, issue of shares 
otherwise  then  for  cash  (with  reasons  thereof),  any  reduction  in  capital 
shall also be disclosed. 

Note relating to promoters' contribution and lock-in period, stating date of 
allotment,  date  when  made  fully  paid  up,  nature  of  allotment  (rights, 
bonus, etc.), number of securities, face value of securities, issue price of 
securities,  percentage  of  promoters’  contribution  to  total  issued  capital 
and the date up to which the securities are locked-in. An illustrative format 
of promoters contribution and lock-in is specified in Schedule VIII. 

Percentage of contribution by the promoters whose name is mentioned in 
the  prospectus  as  promoters  as  per  clause  6.9.6.1  and  the  date  up  to 
which  the  securities  are  locked-in.  An  illustrative  format  of  promoters’ 
contribution  whose  name  figures  in  prospectus  is  specified  in  Schedule 
IX. 

Statement that promoters’  contribution has been brought in to the extent 
of not less than the specified minimum lot and from persons defined as 
promoters under the Guidelines. 

Statement  that  the  promoters  undertake  to  accept  full  conversion,  if  the 
promoters’  contribution  is  in  terms  of  the  same  optionally  convertible 
security as is being offered to the public. 

Details  of  all  ’buy-back’  and  `stand  by’  and  similar  arrangements  for 
purchase of securities by promoters, directors and lead merchant bankers 
shall be disclosed. 

Statement that an over-subscription to the extent of 10% of the net offer to 
public  can  be  retained  for  the  purpose  of  rounding  off  to  the  nearer 
multiple of minimum allotment lot. 

A  disclosure  to  the  effect  that  the  securities  offered  through  this  public/ 
rights  issue  shall  be  made  fully  paid  up  or  may  be  forfeited  within  12 

 
(d) 
 
6.8.3.2 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

 
(g) 

 
(h) 

 
(i) 
 

 

 

 
(j) 
 

months from the date of allotment of securities in the manner specified in 
clause 8.6.2 of these Guidelines. 

A note stating that: 

(i)  Unsubscribed  portion  in  any  reserved  category  may  be  added  to  any 

other reserved category. 

(ii)  The unsubscribed portion, if any, after such inter se adjustments amongst 
the reserved categories shall be added back to the net offer to the public. 

(iii) 

In case of under-subscription in the net offer to the public portion spillover 
to  the  extent  of  under  subscription  shall  be  permitted  from  the  reserved 
category to the net public offer portion. 

Following details regarding major shareholders: 

(i)  Names  of  the  ten  largest  shareholders  as  on  the  date  of  filing  of  the 

prospectus with the Registrar of Companies. 

(ii)  Number of shares held by shareholders at (i) above including number of 
shares which they would be entitled to upon exercise of warrant, option, 
rights to convert a debenture, loan or other instrument. 

(iii)  Particulars as in (i) and (ii) above as on a date two years prior to the date 

of filing the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies. 

(iv)  Particulars as in (i) and (ii) above as on a date ten days prior to the date 

of filing of the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies. 

(v) 

(i) 

(ii) 

 
(k) 
 

If  the  issuer  company  has  made  an  initial  public  offering  within  the 
immediately  preceding  two  years,  the  above  information  shall  be  given 
separately  indicating  the  names  of  persons  who  acquired  shares  by 
subscriptions  to  the  public  issue  and  those  who  acquired  the  shares  by 
allotment on a firm basis or by private placement. 

The details of: 

the aggregate shareholding of the promoter group and of the directors of 
the promoters, where the promoter is a company. 

the  aggregate  number  of  securities  purchased  or  sold  by  the  promoters 
group  and  the  directors  of  the  promoter  during  a  period  of  six  months 
preceding the date on which the draft prospectus is filed with Board and to 
be updated by incorporating the information in this regard till the time of 
filing the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(l) 

 
(m) 

 

(iii) 

the maximum and minimum price at which purchases and sales referred 
to in (ii) above were made along with the relevant dates. 

In the event of it not being possible to obtain information regarding sales 
and purchase of securities by any relative of the promoters, a statement 
to that effect shall be made in the prospectus on the basis of the transfers 
recorded in the books of the issuer company. 

Details  of  options  granted  or  shares  issued  under  any  scheme  of 
employees stock option or employees stock purchase of issuer company. 

Explanation I: 
 
For the purpose of sub-clauses (k) and (l) above, the term 'Promoter' shall 
include: 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 

the person or persons who are in over-all control of the company; 

the person or persons who are instrumental in the formulation of a 
plan  or  programme  pursuant  to  which  the  securities  are  offered  to 
the public; 

the persons or persons named in the prospectus as promoters(s). 

 
(c) 
 
Provided that a director/ officer of the issuer company or person, if they 
are  acting  as  such  merely  in  their  professional  capacity  shall  not  be 
included in the Explanation. 
 
Explanation II: 
 
'Promoter Group' shall include: 
 
(a) 
 
(b)  an  immediate  relative  of  the  promoter  (i.e.,  any  spouse  of  that 
person, or any parent, brother, sister or child of the person or of the 
spouse); and 

the promoter; 

in case promoter is a company: 

a subsidiary or holding company of that company; 

 
(c) 
 
(i) 
 
(ii)  any company in which the promoter holds 10% or more of the equity 
capital  or  which  holds  10%  or  more  of  the  equity  capital  of  the 
promoter; 

 
(iii)  any  company  in  which  a  group  of  individuals  or  companies  or 
combinations thereof who holds 20% or more of the equity capital in 
that  company  also  holds  20%  or  more  of  the  equity  capital  of  the 
issuer company; and 

 
(d) 
 
(i) 

in case the promoter is an individual: 

any company in which 10% or more of the share capital is held by 
the  promoter  or  an  immediate  relative  of  the  promoter  or  a  firm  or 
HUF  in  which  the  promoter  or  any  one  or  more  of  his  immediate 
relative is a member; 

 
(ii)  any company in which a company specified in (i) above, holds 10% 

or more, of the share capital; 

 
(iii)  any HUF or firm in which the aggregate share of the promoter and 
his immediate relatives is equal to or more than 10% of the total; and 

 
(e)  all  persons  whose  shareholding  is  aggregated  for  the  purpose  of 
disclosing in the prospectus under the heading "shareholding of the 
promoter group". 

 
Explanation III: 
 
The Financial Institution, Scheduled Banks, Foreign Institutional Investors 
(FIIs)  and  Mutual  Funds  shall  not  be  deemed  to  be  a  promoter  or 
promoter group merely by virtue of the fact that 10% or more of the equity 
of the issuer company is held by such institution. 
 
Provided  that  the  Financial  Institutions,  Scheduled  Banks  and  Foreign 
Institutional  Investors  (FIIs)  shall  be  treated  as  promoters  or  promoter 
group  for  the  subsidiaries  or  companies  promoted  by  them  or  for  the 
mutual fund sponsored by them. 

Objects of the Offering 

The  object  of  raising  funds  through  the  issue,  that  is  whether  for  fixed 
asset creation and/ or for working capital or any other purpose, shall be 
disclosed clearly in the prospectus.  

Funds Requirement 

The requirement for funds proposed to be raised through the issue shall 
be disclosed clearly. 

 
6.8.4 
 
6.8.4.1 

 
6.8.4.2 
 
(a) 

 

(b) 

 
(c) 

 
6.8.4.3 
 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
6.8.4.4 
 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
6.8.4.5 
 
(a) 

 
6.8.4.6 
 
(a) 

 
6.8.4.7 

Where  the  company  proposes  to  undertake  more  than  one  activity,  i.e., 
diversification, modernisation, expansion, etc., the total project cost shall 
be given activity- wise or project wise as the case may be.. 

Where the company is implementing the project in a phased manner, the 
cost of each phase, including the phase, if any, which has already been 
implemented, shall be separately given. 

Funding Plan (Means of Finance) 

An  undertaking  shall  be  given  in  the  prospectus  by  the  issuer  company 
confirming firm arrangements of finance through verifiable means towards 
75% of the stated means of finance, excluding the amount to be raised 
through proposed Public/ Rights issue, have been made. 

The  balance  portion  of  the  means  of  finance  for  which  no  firm 
arrangement has been made shall be mentioned without specification) 

Appraisal 

The  scope  and  purpose  of  the  appraisal,  if  any,  along  with  the  date  of 
appraisal shall be disclosed in the prospectus. 

The prospectus shall contain the cost of the project and means of finance 
as per the appraisal report. 

The revision, if any, in the project cost and the means of finance after the 
date of issue of the appraisal report shall be explained and disclosed. 

The weaknesses and threats, if any, given in the appraisal report, shall be 
disclosed in the prospectus by way of risk factors. 

Schedule of Implementation 

Schedule  of  implementation  of  the  project  and  progress  made  so  far, 
giving  details  of  land  acquisition,  civil  works,  installation  of  plant  and 
machinery, trial production, date of commercial production, etc. 

Funds Deployed 

Actual expenditure incurred on the project (in cases of companies raising 
capital for a project) upto a date not earlier than two months from the date 
of filing the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies, as certified by a 
Chartered Accountant. 

Sources of Financing of Funds Already Deployed 

 
(a) 

 
6.8.4.8 
 
(a) 

 
6.8.4.9 
 
(a) 

Means and source of financing, including details of "bridge loan" or other 
financial  arrangement,  which  may  be  repaid  from  the  proceeds  of  the 
issue. 

Details of Balance Fund Deployment 

Year  wise  break  up  of  the  expenditure  proposed  to  be  incurred  on  the 
said project. 

Interim Use of Funds 

Investment avenues in which the management proposes to deploy issue 
proceeds, pending its utilisation in the proposed project. 

 
6.8.4.10  Basic Terms of Issue 
 
6.8.4.11  Basis for Issue Price 
 
(a) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The  basis  for  issue  price/  floor  price/  price  band  shall  be  disclosed  and 
justified  on  the  basis  of  the  following  information,  which  shall  be  also 
disclosed separately: 

(i)  Earnings  Per  Share,  i.e.,  EPS  pre-issue  for  the  last  three  years  (as 

adjusted for changes in capital). 

(ii)  P/E pre-issue. 

(iii)  Average Return on Net Worth in the last three years. 

(iv)  Minimum Return on Increased Net Worth required to maintain pre-issue 

EPS. 

(v)  Net Asset Value per share based on last balance sheet. 

(vi)  Net  Asset  Value  per  share  after  issue  and  comparison  thereof  with  the 

issue price. 

(vii)  An  illustrative  format  of  disclosure  in  respect  of  basis  for  issue  price  is 

given in Schedule XV. 

(viii)  Comparison  of  all  the  accounting  ratios  of  the  issuer  company  as 
mentioned above with the industry average and with the accounting ratios 
of  the  peer  group  (i.e.,  companies  of  comparable  size  in  the  same 
industry (indicate the source from which industry average and accounting 
ratios of the peer group has been taken). 

 

 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

(ix)  The face value of shares (including the statement about the issue price/ 

floor price/ price band being “X”  times of the face value). 

Provided that the projected earnings shall not be used as a justification 
for the issue price in the prospectus. 
 
Provided further that the accounting ratios disclosed in the prospectus in 
support of basis of the issue price shall be calculated after giving effect to 
the consequent increase in capital on account of compulsory conversions 
outstanding, as well as on the assumption that the options outstanding, if 
any, to subscribe for additional capital will be exercised. 

The Lead Merchant Banker shall not proceed with the issue in case the 
accounting ratios mentioned above do not justify the issue price. 

In case of book built issues, the red herring prospectus shall state that the 
final  price  would  be  determined  on  the  basis  of  the  demand  from  the 
investors. 

Any special tax benefits for the issuer company and its shareholders. 

About the Issuer Company 

Industry Overview 

Business Overview 

 
6.8.4.12  Tax Benefits 
 
(a) 
 
6.9 
 
6.9.1 
 
6.9.2 
 
6.9.2.1 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 

Details of the business of the issuer company 

Location of the project 

Plant, machinery, technology, process, etc.: 

(i)  Details in a tabular form to be given shall include the machines required to 
be  bought  by  the  issuer  company,  cost  of  the  machines,  name  of  the 
suppliers, the date of placement of order and the date/ expected date of 
supply. 

(ii) 

In case of machines yet to be delivered, the date of quotations relied upon 
for the cost estimates given, shall also be mentioned. 

(iii)  Percentage and value terms the plant and machinery for which orders are 

yet to be placed shall be stated and also be given by way of a risk factor. 

 

 

 
 

 
(c) 

 

 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 
 

 

 

(iv)  Details of second hand machinery bought/ proposed to be bought, if any, 
including the age of the machines, balance estimated life, etc. shall also 
be given. 

Collaborations, any performance guarantee or assistance in marketing by 
the collaborators: 

(i) 

Following information regarding persons/ entities with whom technical and 
financial agreements have been entered into to be given: 

a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 

place of registration and year of incorporation. 
paid up share capital. 
turnover of the last financial year of operation. 
general information regarding such persons relevant to the issuer. 

Infrastructure facilities for raw materials and utilities like water, electricity, 
etc. 

Products/ services of the issuer company: 

(i)  Nature of the product/s – consumer/ industrial and end users. 
 
(ii)  Market, including details of the competition, past production figures for the 
industry,  existing  installed  capacity,  past  trends  and  future  prospects 
regarding exports (if applicable), demand and supply forecasts (if given, 
should  be  essentially  with  assumptions  unless  sourced  from  a  market 
research agency of repute), etc. to be given. Source of data used shall be 
mentioned. 

(iii)  Approach to marketing and proposed marketing set up. 

(iv)  Export  possibilities  and  export  obligations,  if  any  (in  case  of  a  issuer 
company providing any "service" particulars, as applicable, be furnished). 

a.  A table shall be incorporated giving the existing installed capacities 
for  each  product,  capacity  utilisation  for  these  products  in  the 

 
6.9.2.2 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 

 

Business strategy 

A brief statement about business strategy. 

A brief statement about future prospects, including the following: 

(i)  Capacity & Capacity Utilisation: 

previous  three  years,  proposed  capacities  for  existing  as  well  as 
proposed  products  and 
future  capacity 
utilisation for the next three years (from the date of commencement 
of commercial production) in respect of existing as well as proposed 
products. 

the  assumptions 

for 

b. 

If the projected capacity utilisation is higher than the actual average 
capacity  utilisation  by  more  than  25%  during  the  previous  three 
years,  how  the  issuer  company  proposes  to  achieve  the  projected 
levels of capacity utilisation in view of its failure to achieve levels of 
similar capacity utilisation in the past, shall be stated. 

(ii)  Projections: 

No forecast of projections relating to financial performance of the issuer 
company shall be given in the prospectus. 

Property 

Purchase of property 

As respects any property referred to in sub-clause (b): 

the names, address, descriptions and occupations of the vendors; 

(ii) 

the amount paid or payable in cash, shares or debentures to the vendor 
and, where there is more than one separate vendor, or the company is a 
sub purchaser, the amount so paid or payable to each vendor, specifying 
separately the amount, if any, paid or payable for goodwill; 

(iii) 

the  nature  of  the  title  or  interest  in  such  property  acquired  or  to  be 
acquired by the issuer company; 

(iv)  short  particulars  of  every  transaction  relating  to  the  property  completed 
within the two preceding years, in which any vendor of the property to the 
company or any person who is, or was at the time of the transaction, a 
promoter,  or  a  director  or  proposed  director  of  the  company  had  any 
interest, direct or indirect, specifying the date of the transaction and the 
name  of  such  promoter,  director  or  proposed  director  and  stating  the 
amount  payable  by  or  to  such  vendor,  promoter,  director  or  proposed 
director in respect of the transaction. 

The property to which sub-clause (a) applies is a property purchased or 
acquired by the issuer company or proposed to be purchased or acquired, 
which is to be paid for wholly or partly out of the proceeds of the issue 
offered for subscription by the prospectus or the purchase or acquisition 

 

 

 

 
6.9.2.3 
 
6.9.2.4 
 
(a) 
 

(i) 

 

 

 

 
(b) 

of which has not been completed at the date of issue of the prospectus, 
other than property: 

(i) 

the contract for the purchase or acquisition whereof was entered into in 
the  ordinary  course  of  the  issuer  company’s  business,  the  contract  not 
being made in contemplation of the issue nor the issue in consequence of 
the contract; or 

(ii)  as respects which the amount of the purchase money is not material. 

for the purpose of this clause, where a vendor is a firm, the members of  
the firm shall not be treated as separate vendors. 

if  the  issuer  company  proposes  to  acquire  a  business  which  has  been 
carried on for less than three years, the length of time during which the 
business has been carried. 

Key Industry-Regulation (if applicable) 

History and Corporate Structure of the issuer company 

History and Major Events. 

Subsidiaries of the issuer company, if any and their businesses. 

Shareholders agreements 

Key terms of subsisting shareholders’  agreements, if any (to be provided 
even  if  the  issuer  company  is  not  a  party  to  such  an  agreement,  but  is 
aware of such an agreement). 

All  such  agreements  shall  be  included  in  the  list  of  material  contracts 
required under clause 6.15.1. 

 
6.9.4.5  Other agreements 
 
(a) 

The dates, parties to, and general nature of every other material contract, 
not being a contract entered into in the ordinary course of the business 
carried  on  or  intended  to  be  carried  on  by  the  issuer  company  or  a 
contract  entered  into  more  than  two  years  before  the  date  of  the 
prospectus. 

All  such  agreements  shall  be  included  in  the  list  of  material  contracts 
required under clause 6.15.1. 

 
6.9.3 
 
6.9.4 
 
6.9.4.1 
 
6.9.4.2  Main objects. 
 
6.9.4.3 
 
6.9.4.4 
 
(a) 

 

 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(b) 

 
(b) 

 
6.9.4.6 
 
6.9.4.7 
 
6.9.5 
 
6.9.5.1 
 
(a) 

 
(b) 
 
6.9.5.2 
 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
6.9.5.3 
 
6.9.5.4 

 
6.9.5.5 
 
(a) 

(i) 
 
(ii) 

 

 
(b) 

Strategic partners. 

Financial partners. 

Management 

Board of Directors 

Names,  address  and  occupation  of  Manager,  Managing  Director,  and 
other  Directors  (including  Nominee  Directors,  Whole-time  Directors), 
giving their directorships in other companies. 

Details of borrowing powers. 

Compensation of Managing Directors/ Whole time Directors 

The dates, parties to, and general nature of every contract appointing or 
fixing  the  remuneration  of  a  Director,  Whole-time  Director,  Managing 
Director or Manager whenever entered into, that is to say, whether within 
or more than, two years before the date of the prospectus. 

All  such  contracts  shall  be  included  in  the  list  of  material  contracts 
required under clause 6.15.1. 

Compliance with Corporate Governance requirements. 

Shareholding of Directors, including details of qualification shares held by 
them, whereever applicable. 

Interest of directors 

Full  particulars  of  the  nature  and  extent  of  the  interest,  if  any,  of  every 
Director:  

in the promotion of the  issuer company; or 

in  any  property  acquired  by  the  issuer  company  within  two  years  of  the 
date of the prospectus or proposed to be acquired by it. 

Where the interest of such a director consists in being a member of a firm 
or company, the nature and extent of the interest of the firm or company, 
with a statement of all sums paid or agreed to be paid to him or to the firm 
or company in cash or shares or otherwise by any person either to induce 
him to become, or to qualify him as, a director, or otherwise for services 

 
6.9.5.6 

rendered  by  him  or  by  the  firm  or  company,  in  connection  with  the 
promotion or formation of the issuer company shall be disclosed. 

Change, if any, in the directors during the last three years, and reasons, 
thereof.  

 
6.9.5.7  Management Organisation Structure. 
 
6.9.5.8 
 
(a) 

Key Management Personnel 

 

 
(b) 

(c) 
 
(d) 
 
(e) 
 

A paragraph on the key managerial personnel shall be incorporated giving 
full  details  of  the  personnel  recruited  as  on  the  date  of  filing  of  the 
prospectus with the Board indicating name, date of joining, qualification, 
details of previous employment etc. 

The  Lead  Merchant  Banker  shall  verify  and  ensure  that  the  persons 
whose  names  appear  in  this  paragraph  are  in  the  employment  of  the 
issuer company as permanent employees. 

The shareholding of the Key Managerial Personnel. 

 Bonus or Profit Sharing Plan for the Key Managerial Personnel. 

Changes in the Key Managerial Personnel: 

Any change otherwise than by way of retirement in the normal course in 
the key senior managerial personnel particularly in charge of production, 
planning, finance and marketing within one year prior to the date of filing 
the prospectus with the Board shall be disclosed. 

Employees 

 
6.9.5.9 
 
6.9.5.10  Disclosures regarding employees stock option scheme/ employees stock 
purchase  scheme  of  the  issuer  company,  if  any,  as  required  by  the 
Guidelines or Regulations of the Board relating to Employee Stock Option 
Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme. 

 
6.9.5.11  Payment or Benefit to Officers of the issuer company (non-salary related). 
 
(a) 

Any  amount  or  benefit  paid  or  given  within  the  two  preceding  years  or 
intended to be paid or given to any officer and consideration for payment 
of giving of the benefit. 

 
6.9.6 
 
6.9.6.1  Where the promoters are individuals: 

Promoters/ Principal Shareholders 

 
6.9.6.2  Where the promoters are companies: 
 
(a) 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
6.9.6.3 
 
6.9.6.4 

 
(a) 
 
(b) 

 
(c) 

A  complete  profile  of  the  promoters,  including  their  age,  educational 
qualifications, experience in the business or employment and in the line of 
business  proposed  in  the  prospectus,  their  business  and  financial 
activities,  photograph,  voter  ID  number,  driving  license  number  shall  be 
disclosed. 

A  declaration,  confirming  that  the  Permanent  Account  Number,  Bank 
Account  Number  and  Passport  Number  of  the  promoters  have  been 
submitted to the Stock Exchanges on which securities are proposed to be 
listed, at the time of filing the draft prospectus with them. 

History  of  the  companies  and  the  promoters  of  the  companies  shall  be 
furnished. 

Details  in  change  of  management  of  the  companies,  if  any,  including 
details  of  the  persons  who  are  holding  the  controlling  interest  together 
with the applicability and compliance of Securities and Exchange Board of 
India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations, 
1997. 

the  Company  Registration  Numbers  and 

A  declaration,  confirming  that  the  Permanent  Account  Numbers,  Bank 
Account  Numbers, 
the 
addresses  of  the  Registrars  of  Companies  where  the  companies  are 
registered  have  been  submitted  to  the  Stock  Exchanges  on  which 
securities  are  proposed  to  be  listed,  at  the  time  of  filing  the  draft 
prospectus with them. 

Common pursuits 

Full  particulars  of  the  nature  and  extent  of  the  interest,  if  any,  of  every 
promoter: 

in the promotion of the  issuer company; or  

in  any  property  acquired  by  the  issuer  company  within  two  years  of  the 
date of the prospectus or proposed to be acquired by it. 

Where  the  interest  of  such  a  director  or  promoter  consists  in  being  a 
member of a firm or company, the nature and extent of the interest of the 
firm or company, with a statement of all sums paid or agreed to be paid to 
him  or  to  the  firm  or  company  in  cash  or  shares  or  otherwise  by  any 
person either to induce him to become, or to qualify him as, a director, or 

 
6.9.6.5 

otherwise  for  services  rendered  by  him  or  by  the  firm  or  company,  in 
connection with the promotion or formation of the issuer company. 

Payment or benefit to promoters of the issuer company: 
 
Any  amount  or  benefit  paid  or  given  within  the  two  preceding  years  or 
intended  to  be  paid  or  given  to  any  promoter  and  consideration  for 
payment of giving of the benefit. 

Currency of presentation 

Related party transactions as per the Financial Statements 

 
6.9.6.6 
 
6.9.7 
 
6.9.7.1  One standard financial unit shall be used in the prospectus 
 
6.9.8 
 
6.10 
 
6.10.1 
 
6.10.2 
 
6.10.2.1  A report by the auditors of the issuer company with respect to: 
 
(a) 

Selected Consolidated Financial and Operating data 

Financial Information of the issuer company 

Dividend policy 

Financial Statements 

profits  and  losses  and  assets  and  liabilities,  in  accordance  with  clauses 
6.10.2.2 or 6.10.2.3, as the case may require; and 

immediately  preceding 

the  rates  of  dividends,  if  any,  paid  by  the  issuer  company  in  respect  of 
each class of shares in the issuer company for each of the five financial 
years 
the  prospectus,  giving 
particulars  of  each  class  of  shares  on  which  such  dividends  have  been 
paid and particulars of the cases in which no dividends have been paid in 
respect of any class of shares for any of those years; 

issue  of 

the 

and,  if  no  accounts  have  been  made  up  in  respect  of  any  part  of  the 
period of five years ending on a date three months before the issue of the 
prospectus,  containing  a  statement  of  that  fact  (and  accompanied  by  a 
statement of the accounts of the issuer company in respect of that part of 
the  said  period  up  to  a  date  not  earlier  than  six  months  of  the  date  of 
issue of the prospectus indicating the profit or loss for that period and the 
assets and liabilities position as at the end of that period together with a 
certificate from the auditors that such accounts have been examined and 
found  correct  by  them.  The  said  statement  may  indicate  the  nature  of 
provision or adjustments made or are yet to be made). 

 
(b) 

 

 

6.10.2.2 
 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
6.10.2.3 
 
(a) 

If the issuer company has no subsidiaries, the report shall: 

so far as regards profits and losses, deal with the profits or losses of the 
issuer company (distinguishing items of a non- recurring nature) for each 
of  the  five  financial  years  immediately  preceding  the  issue  of  the 
prospectus; and 

so far as regards assets and liabilities, deal with the assets and liabilities 
of the issuer company at the last date to which the accounts of the issuer 
company were made up. 

If the issuer company has subsidiaries, the report shall: 

so  far  as  regards  profits  and  losses,  deal  separately  with  the  issuer 
company’s profits or losses as provided by 6.10.2.2 and in addition, deal 
either: 

(i) 

(ii) 

as a whole with the combined profits or losses of its subsidiaries, so far as 
they concern the members of the issuer company; or 

individually  with  the  profits  or  losses  of  each  subsidiary,  so  far  as  they 
concern the members of the issuer company; 

or,  instead  of  dealing  separately  with  the  issuer  company’s  profits  or 
losses, deal as a whole with the profits or losses of the issuer company, 
and, so far as they concern the members of the issuer company, with the 
combined profits or losses of its subsidiaries; and 

so  far  as  regards  assets  and  liabilities,  deal  separately  with  the  issuer 
company’s assets and liabilities as provided by 6.10.2.2 and in addition, 
deal either: 

(i) 

as a whole with the combined assets and liabilities of its subsidiaries, with 
or without the issuer company’s assets and liabilities; or 

(ii) 

individually with the assets and liabilities of each subsidiaries; 

 

 

 

 
(b) 

 

 

 

and shall indicate as respects the assets and liabilities of the subsidiaries, 
the  allowance  to  be  made  for  persons  other  than  the  members  of  the 
issuer company. 

If the proceeds, or any part of the proceeds, of the issue of the shares or 
debentures are, or is, to be applied directly or indirectly: 

in the purchase of any business; or 

 
6.10.2.4 

 
(a) 
 

(b) 

 

 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

 
6.10.2.5 
(a) 

(i) 

in  the  purchase  of  an  interest  in  any  business  and  by  reason  of  that 
purchase,  or  anything  to  be  done  in  consequence  thereof,  or  in 
connection  therewith;  the  issuer  company  will  become  entitled  to  an 
interest as respects either the capital or profits and losses or both, in such 
business exceeding fifty percent, thereof; 

a  report  made  by  accountants  (who  shall  be  named  in  the  prospectus) 
upon: 

the  profits  or  losses  of  the  business  of  each  of  the  five  financial  years 
immediately preceding the issue of the prospectus; and 

the  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  business  at  the  last  date  to  which  the 
accounts of the business were made up, being a date not more than one 
hundred and twenty days before the date of the issue of the prospectus. 

  
If: 
the proceeds, or any part of the proceeds, of the issue of the shares or 
debentures  are  or  is  to  be  applied  directly  or  indirectly  in  any  manner 
resulting in the acquisition by the issuer company of shares in any other 
body corporate; and 

 

 

 

 

 
(b) 
 

 

(ii)  by  reason  of  that  acquisition  or  anything  to  be  done  in  consequence 
thereof  or  in  connection  therewith,  that  body  corporate  will  become  a 
subsidiary of the issuer company; 

(i) 

(ii) 

(i) 

a  report  made  by  accountants  (who  shall  be  named  in  the  prospectus) 
upon: 

the  profits  or  losses  of  the  other  body  corporate  for  each  of  the  five 
financial years immediately preceding the issue of the prospectus; and 

the  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  other  body  corporate  at  the  last  date  to 
which its accounts were made up. 

The said report shall: 

indicate how the profits or losses of the other body corporate dealt with by 
the  report  would,  in  respect  of  the  shares  to  acquired,  have  concerned 
members of the issuer company and what allowance would have fallen to 
be  made,  in  relation  to  assets  and  liabilities  so  dealt  with  for  holders  of 
other  shares,  if  the  issuer  company  had  at  all  material  times  held  the 
shares to be acquired; and 

(ii)  where the other body corporate has subsidiaries, deal with the profits or 
losses  and  the  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  body  corporate  and  its 
subsidiaries in the manner provided by sub-clause (a) (ii) above in relation 
to the issuer company and its subsidiaries. 

 
6.10.2.6  Principal terms of loan and assets charged as security. 
 
6.10.2.7  Other provisions relating to accounts of the issuer company: 
 
(a) 

All  significant  accounting  policies  and  standards 
preparation of the financial statements shall be disclosed. 

 
(b) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

followed 

in 

the 

Statements  of  Assets  and  Liabilities  and  Profit  and  Loss  or  any  other 
financial  information  shall  be  incorporated  after  making  the  following 
adjustments, wherever quantification is possible: 

(i)  Adjustments/ rectification for all incorrect accounting practices or failures 
to  make  provisions  or  other  adjustments  which  resulted  in  audit 
qualifications. 

(ii)  Material  amounts  relating  to  adjustments  for  previous  years  shall  be 
identified and adjusted in arriving at the profits of the years to which they 
relate  irrespective  of  the  year  in  which  the  event  triggering  the  profit  or 
loss occurred. 

(iii)  Where there has been a change in accounting policy, the profits or losses 
of the earlier years (required to be shown in the prospectus) and of the 
year in which the change in the accounting policy has taken place shall be 
recomputed to reflect what the profits or losses of those years would have 
been if a uniform accounting policy was followed in each of these years. 

(iv) 

If  an  incorrect  accounting  policy  is  followed,  the  re-computation  of  the 
financial  statements  shall  be  in  accordance  with  correct  accounting 
policies. 

(v)  Statement of profit or loss shall disclose both the profit or loss arrived at 
before considering extraordinary items and after considering the profit or 
loss  from  extraordinary  items.  An  illustrative  format  of  the  disclosure  of 
profits and losses on this basis is specified at Schedule X. 

(vi)  The statement of assets and liabilities shall be prepared after deducting 
the  balance  outstanding  on  revaluation  reserve  account  from  both  fixed 
assets and reserves and the networth arrived at after such deductions. A 
suggested format of assets and liabilities is specified at Schedule XI. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(c) 

 

 
(d) 

 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 
 

 
(g) 
 

The  turnover  disclosed  in  the  Profit  and  Loss  Statement  shall  be 
bifurcated into: 

(i) 

turnover of products manufactured by the issuer company; 

(ii) 

turnover of products traded in by the issuer company; and 

(iii) 

turnover  in  respect  of  products  not  normally  dealt  in  by  the  issuer 
company but included in (ii) above, shall be mentioned separately. 

The prospectus shall disclose details of `Other Income' in all cases where 
such  income  (net  of  related  expenses)  exceeds  20%  of  the  net  profit 
before tax, including: 

(i) 

the sources and other particulars of such income; and 

(ii)  an indication as to whether such income is recurring or non-recurring, or 
has  arisen  out  of  business  activities/  other  than  the  normal  business 
activities. 

Changes  (with  quantification,  wherever  possible)  in  the  activities  of  the 
issuer company which may have had a material effect on the statement of 
profit/ loss for the five years, Including discontinuance of lines of business, 
loss of agencies or markets and similar factors. 

Accounting and other ratios: 

(i) 

The following accounting ratios shall be given for each of the accounting 
periods for which financial information is given. 

a.  Earnings  per  Share:  This  ratio  shall  be  calculated  after  excluding 

extra ordinary items. 

b.  Return  on  net  worth:  This  ratio  shall  be  calculated  excluding 

revaluation reserves. 

c.  Net Asset Value per share. This ratio shall be calculated excluding 

revaluation reserves. 

(ii)  ‘Accounting and other Ratios’  shall be based on the Financial Statements 

prepared on the basis of Indian Accounting Standards.  

Capitalisation Statement: 

(i)  A  Capitalisation  Statement  showing  total  debt,  net  worth,  and  the  debt/ 

equity ratios before and after the issue is made shall be incorporated. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(h) 

 
(i) 

 

(ii) 

In case of any change in the share capital since the date as of which the 
financial  information  has  been  disclosed  in  the  prospectus,  a  note 
explaining the nature of the change shall be given. 

(iii)  An  illustrative  format  of  the  Capitalisation  Statement  is  specified  at 

Schedule XIII. 

Unsecured loans: 

(i)  Break-up  of  total  outstanding  unsecured  loans  taken  by  the  issuer 
company, promoters/ group companies/ associate companies and others 
shall be given in the prospectus. 

(ii) 

In respect of each such unsecured loan of the former category, the terms 
and conditions, including interest rates and the repayment schedule. 

(iii) 

If the loan can be recalled by the lenders at any time, the fact has to be 
given as a risk factor. 

For  a  proper  understanding  of  the  future  tax  incidence,  the  following 
factors shall be identified and explained through proper disclosures: 

(i)  Profits after tax are often affected by the tax shelters which are available. 

(ii)  Some of these are of a relatively permanent nature (for example, arising 
out  of  export  profits)  while  others  may  be  limited  in  point  of  time  (for 
example, tax holidays for new undertakings). 

(iii)  Tax  provisions  are  also  affected  by  timing  differences  which  can  be 
reversed  in  the  future  (for  example,  the  difference  between  book 
depreciation and tax depreciation). 

(iv)  An illustrative format of statement in respect of tax shelter is specified in 

Schedule XII. 

 
6.10.2.8  The issuer company, if it so desires, may include in the prospectus, the 
financial statements prepared on the basis of more than one accounting 
practices, subject to disclosure of the material differences arising because 
of differences in the accounting policies of different accounting practices. 

Financial Information of Group Companies 

 
6.10.3 
 
6.10.3.1  The  following  information  for  the  last  three  years,  based  on  the  audited 
statements, in respect of all the companies, firms, ventures, etc. promoted 
by the promoters, irrespective of whether these are covered under section 

370  (1)(B)  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  shall  be  given,  wherever 
applicable: 

Date of Incorporation. 

Nature of activities. 

Equity Capital. 

Reserves (excluding revaluation reserve). 

Sales. 

Profit after tax (PAT). 

Earnings per share (EPS). 

Net Asset Value (NAV). 

The  highest  and  lowest  market  price  of  shares  during  the  preceding  six 
months  with  suitable  disclosures  for  changes  in  capital  structure  during 
the period and the market value on the date of filing the prospectus with 
the Registrar of Companies. 

If any of the companies has made public or rights issue in the preceding 
three years, the issue price of the security, the current market price and 
particulars  of  changes  in  the  capital  structure,  if  any,  since  the  date  of 
issue and a statement regarding the cost and progress of implementation 
of  the  project  in  comparison  with  the  cost  and  implementation  schedule 
given in the prospectus. 

Information  regarding  adverse  factors  related  to  the  company  and  in 
particular regarding: 

(i)  whether the company has become a sick company within the meaning of 
the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1995 or is under 
winding up. 

 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
 
(e) 
 
(f) 
 
(g) 
 
(h) 
 
(i) 

 
(j) 

 
(k) 

 

 

 
6.10.3.2 

(ii)  whether the company has made a loss in the immediately preceding year 
and  if  so,  the  profit  or  loss  figures  for  the  immediately  preceding  three 
years.  

In case, the issuer company has more than five listed group companies, 
the  financial  information  may  be  restricted  to  the  five  largest  listed 
companies  to  be  determined  on  the  basis  of  market  capitalisation  one 
month before the date of filing draft prospectus with the Board.  

Provided that financial information regarding every such company which 
has  become a sick industrial company or is under winding up or has a 
negative net worth shall be provided. 

If  the  promoters  have  disassociated  themselves  from  any  of  the 
companies/ firms during preceding three years, the reasons therefor and 
the  circumstances  leading  to  the  disassociation  shall  be  furnished 
together with the terms of such disassociation. 

 
In case there are common pursuits among these companies, the reasons 
and justification for the same shall be spelt out and the conflict of interest 
situations shall be stated. 

The  related  business  transactions  within  the  group  shall  also  be 
mentioned. 

The significance of these transactions on the financial performance of the 
company/ companies shall be stated. 

 
6.10.3.5  Sales or purchase between companies in the promoter group when such 
sales  or  purchases  exceed  in  value  in  the  aggregate  10%  of  the  total 
sales  or  purchases  of  the  issuer  and  also  disclose  material  items  of 
income or expenditure arising out of transactions in the promoter group. 

Changes in Accounting Policies in the last three years 

 

 
6.10.3.3 

 
6.10.3.4 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
6.10.4 
 
6.10.5 

Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and 
Results of Operations as Reflected in the Financial Statements: 

 
6.10.5.1  Overview of the business of the issuer company. 
 
6.10.5.2  Significant developments subsequent to the last financial year: 
 

A  statement  by  the  directors  whether  in  their  opinion  there  have  arisen 
any  circumstances  since  the  date  of  the  last  financial  statements  as 
disclosed in the prospectus and which materially and adversely affect or is 
likely  to  affect  the  trading  or  profitability  of  the  issuer  company,  or  the 
value of its assets, or its ability to pay its liabilities within the next twelve 
months. 

 
6.10.5.3  Factors that may affect Results of the Operations. 
 
6.10.5.4  Discussion on Results of Operations: 
 

A  summary  of  past  financial  results  after  adjustments  as  given  in  the 
auditors  report  for  the  past  three  years  containing  significant  items  of 
income and expenditure shall be given. 

 
6.10.5.5  Comparison  of  recent  Financial  Year  with  the  Previous  Financial  Years 

(last three years) on the major heads of the Profit & Loss Statement: 

 
(a) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

An analysis of reasons for the changes in significant items of income and 
expenditure shall also be given, inter alia, containing the following: 

(i) 

unusual or infrequent events or transactions. 

(ii)  significant economic changes that materially affected or are likely to affect 

income from continuing operations. 

(iii)  known  trends  or  uncertainties  that  have  had  or  are  expected  to  have  a 
material  adverse  impact  on  sales,  revenue  or  income  from  continuing 
operations. 

(iv) 

(v) 

future  changes  in  relationship  between  costs  and  revenues,  in  case  of 
events such as future increase in labour or material costs or prices that 
will cause a material change are known. 

the extent to which material increases in net sales or revenue are due to 
increased  sales  volume,  introduction  of  new  products  or  services  or 
increased sales prices. 

(vi) 

total  turnover  of  each  major  industry  segment  in  which  the  issuer 
company operated. 

(vii)  status of any publicly announced new products or business segment. 

(viii)  the extent to which business is seasonal. 

(ix)  any significant dependence on a single or few suppliers or customers. 

(x)  competitive conditions. 

 
6.10.5.6  ‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of financial condition and results 

of  operations  as  reflected  in  the  financial  statements  (MDA)’  shall  be 
based  on  the  Financial  Statements  prepared  on  the  basis  of  Indian 
Accounting Practices. In addition, the issuer company may present MDA 
based on other Accounting Practices. 

 
6.11 
 

Legal and Other Information 

Outstanding Litigations and Material developments  

6.11.1 
 
6.11.1.1  Outstanding litigations involving the issuer company: 
 
(a) 

Litigations  against  the  issuer  company  or  against  any  other  company 
whose outcome could have a materially adverse effect of the position of 
the issuer company. 

Further,  all  the  litigations  against  the  directors  involving  violation  of 
statutory regulations or alleging criminal offence shall be furnished in the 
prospectus. 

Pending  proceedings  initiated  for  economic  offences  against  the  issuer 
company  or  its  directors  shall  be  disclosed  separately  indicating  their 
present status. 

The  details  of  the  past  cases  in  which  penalties  were  imposed  by  the 
concerned authorities on the issuer company or its directors. 

Outstanding litigations, defaults, etc., pertaining to matters likely to affect 
operations  and  finances  of  the  issuer  company,  including  disputed  tax 
liabilities, prosecution under any enactment in respect of Schedule XIII to 
the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) etc. shall be disclosed. 

The  Lead  Merchant  Banker  shall  ensure  to  appropriately  incorporate  in 
the  prospectus  and  as  risk  factor(s),  information  regarding  pending 
litigations, defaults, non payment of statutory dues, proceedings initiated 
for  economic  offences/  civil  offences  (including  the  past  cases,  if  found 
guilty),  any  disciplinary  action  taken  by  the  Board/  stock  exchanges 
against the issuer company or its Directors. 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

 
(g) 

The name(s) of small scale undertaking(s) or any other creditors to whom 
the  issuer  company  owes  a  sum  exceeding  Rs.  1  lakh  which  is 
outstanding more than 30 days; and 

 
6.11.1.2  The  information  about  outstanding  litigations  as  per  clause  6.11.1.1  (e) 
shall  be  furnished  in  respect  of  subsidiaries  of  the  issuer  company  (if 
applicable). 

 
6.11.1.3  Outstanding litigations involving the promoter and group companies: 
 
(a) 

All pending litigations in which the promoters are involved, defaults to the 
financial  institutions/  banks,  non-payment  of  statutory  dues  and  dues 
towards  instrument  holders  like  debenture  holders,  fixed  deposits,  and 
arrears  on  cumulative  preference  shares  by  the  promoters  and  the 
companies/  firms  promoted  by  the  promoters,  shall  be  listed  in  the 

prospectus together with the amounts involved and the present status of 
such  litigations/  defaults.  The  likely  adverse  effect  of  these  litigations/ 
defaults,  etc.  on  the  financial  performance  of  the  issuer  company  shall 
also be mentioned. 

Further,  the  cases  of  pending  litigations,  defaults,  etc.  in  respect  of 
companies/ firms/ ventures with which the promoters were associated in 
the past but are no longer associated shall also be disclosed in case their 
name(s) continues to be associated with particular litigation(s). 

Further,  all  the  litigations  against  the  promoter  involving  violation  of 
statutory regulations or alleging criminal offence shall be furnished in the 
prospectus. 

Pending  proceedings 
the 
promoters,  companies  and  firms  promoted  by  the  promoters  shall  be 
disclosed separately indicating their present status. 

for  economic  offences  against 

initiated 

The  details  of  the  past  cases  in  which  penalties  were  imposed  by  the 
concerned authorities. 

The lead merchant banker shall ensure to appropriately incorporate in the 
prospectus and as risk factor(s), information regarding pending litigations, 
defaults,  non  payment  of  statutory  dues,  proceedings  initiated  for 
economic  offences/  civil  offences  (including  the  past  cases,  if  found 
guilty),  any  disciplinary  action  taken  by  the  Board/  stock  exchanges 
against  the  promoters  and  their  other  business  ventures  (irrespective  of 
the fact whether they are companies under the same management with 
the issuer company as per section 370 (1B) of the Companies Act, 1956). 

If  any  the  above  mentioned  litigations,  etc.,  arise  after  the  filing  of  the 
prospectus, the facts shall be incorporated appropriately in the prospectus 
(and as risk factors). 

In case there are no such cases, a distinct negative statement is required 
to be made in this regard in the prospectus. 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

  
6.11.1.4 

 
6.11.1.5 

Government Approvals/ Licensing Arrangements 

 
6.11.1.6  Material developments since the last balance sheet date. 
 
6.11.2 
 
6.11.2.1 
 
6.11.2.2  All government and other approvals. 
 
6.11.2.3  Technical approvals. 

Investment approvals (FIPB/ RBI, etc.). 

 
6.12 
 
6.12.1 
 
6.12.2 
 
6.12.3 
 
6.12.4 
 
(a) 

 

 
6.11.2.4  Letter  of  intent/  industrial  license  and  declaration  of  the  Central 
Govternment/  RBI  about  non-responsibility  for  financial  soundness  or 
correctness of statements. 

Other Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures 

Authority for the issue and details of resolution passed for the issue. 

Prohibition by SEBI. 

Eligibility of the issuer company to enter the capital market. 

Disclaimer clause: 

A prospectus shall contain the following disclaimer clause in bold capital 
letters: 

"It is to be distinctly understood that submission of offer document to SEBI 
should not in any way be deemed or construed that the same has been 
cleared or approved by SEBI. SEBI does not take any responsibility either 
for  the  financial  soundness  of  any  scheme  or  the  project  for  which  the 
issue  is  proposed  to  be  made  or  for  the  correctness  of  the  statements 
made  or  opinions  expressed  in  the  offer  document.  Lead  Merchant 
Banker,  ______________  has  certified  that  the  disclosures  made  in  the 
offer  document  are  generally  adequate  and  are  in  conformity  with  SEBI 
(Disclosures  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines  in  force  for  the  time 
being.  This  requirement  is  to  facilitate  investors  to  take  an  informed 
decision for making investment in the proposed issue. 
 
It  should  also  be  clearly  understood  that  while  the  Issuer  Company  is 
primarily responsible for the correctness, adequacy and disclosure of all 
relevant information in the offer document, the Lead Merchant Banker is 
expected  to  exercise  Due  Diligence  to  ensure  that  the  Company 
discharges  its  responsibility  adequately  in  this  behalf  and  towards  this 
purpose,  the  Lead  Merchant  Banker  _______________________  has 
furnished to SEBI a Due Diligence Certificate dated ________________ 
in  accordance  with  SEBI  (Merchant  Bankers)  Regulations  1992  which 
reads as follows: 
 
(i)  We  have  examined  various  documents  including  those  relating  to 
litigation  like  commercial  disputes,  patent  disputes,  disputes  with 
collaborators  etc.  and  other  materials  in  connection  with  the 
finalisation of the offer document pertaining to the said issue; 

 

(ii)  On  the  basis  of  such  examination  and  the  discussions  with  the 
Company, 
its  Directors  and  other  officers,  other  agencies, 
independent verification of the statements concerning the objects of 
the  issue,  projected  profitability,  price  justification  and  the  contents 
of  the  documents  mentioned  in  the  Annexure  and  other  papers 
furnished by the company. 

 
We confirm that: 
 
(a) 

 
(c) 

the  offer  document  forwarded  to  SEBI  is  in  conformity  with  the 
documents, materials and paper relevant to the issue; 

 
(b)  all the legal requirements connected with the said issue, as also the 
guidelines,  instructions,  etc.  issued  by  SEBI,  the  Government  and 
any  other  competent  authority  in  this  behalf  have  been  duly 
complied with; and 

the  disclosures  made  in  the  offer  document  are  true,  fair  and 
adequate to enable the investors to make a well informed decision 
as to the investment in the proposed issue. 

 
(d)  beside ourselves, all the intermediaries named in the prospectus are 

registered with SEBI and till date such registration is valid. 

 
(e)  We have satisfied ourselves about the worth of the underwriters to 

fulfill their underwriting commitments. 

 
The  filing  of  offer  document  does  not,  however,  absolve  the  company 
from any liabilities under section 63 or 68 of the Companies Act, 1956 or 
from  the  requirement  of  obtaining  such  statutory  or  other  clearances  as 
may  be  required  for  the  purpose  of  the  proposed  issue.  SEBI,  further 
reserves the right to take up, at any point of time, with the lead merchant 
banker(s) any irregularities or lapses in offer document." 

Disclaimer Statement from the Issuer and the Lead Manager:  
 
A statement to the effect that the issuer company and the Lead Manager 
accepts  no  responsibility  for  statements  made  otherwise  than  in  the 
prospectus or in the advertisement or any other material issued by or at 
the instance of the issuer and that anyone placing reliance on any other 
source  of  information  would  be  doing  so  at  his  own  risk  should  be 
incorporated. 

Caution. 

 

Disclaimer in respect of jurisdiction. 

 
(b) 

6.23.1 
6.12.5 
 
6.12.6 

Disclaimer clause of the stock Exchanges. 

 
6.12.7 
 
6.12.8 
 
6.12.9 
 
6.12.9.1  Under this head, the office of the Board where the prospectus has been 

Filing of prospectus with the Board and the Registrar of Companies: 

Disclaimer clause of the Reserve Bank of India (if applicable). 

filed shall be mentioned. 

Listing: 

 
6.12.9.2  Address  of  the  Registrar  of  Companies,  where  copy  of  the  prospectus, 
having attached thereto the material contracts and documents referred to 
elsewhere in the prospectus, has been filed, shall also be mentioned. 

 
6.12.10 
 
6.12.10.1  Names  of  the  designated  stock  exchange  and  other  exchanges  where 
application  has  been  made  for  listing  of  the  present  issue  shall  be 
mentioned. 

 
6.12.11  Consent of the Directors, auditors, solicitors/ advocates, Managers to the 
Issue,  Registrar  to  the  Issue,  Bankers  to  the  Company,  Bankers  to  the 
Issue and experts. 

 
6.12.12  Expert opinion obtained, if any. 
 
6.12.13  Expenses of the issue. 
 
6.12.14  Details of fees payable to (in terms of amount, as a percentage of total 

issue expenses and as a percentage of total issue size): 

 
6.12.14.1  Lead Managers. 
6.12.14.2  Co-lead Managers, if any 
6.12.14.3  Co-managers, if any 
6.12.14.4  Other Merchant Bankers 
6.12.14.5  Registrars to the issue. 
6.12.14.6  Advisors. 
6.12.14.7  Trustees for the debenture-holders. 
 
6.12.15  Underwriting commission, brokerage and selling commission. 
 
6.12.16  Previous public or rights issues, if any (during the last five years): 
 
6.12.16.1  Closing Date. 
 
6.12.16.2  Date of allotment. 

 
6.12.16.3  Date of refunds. 
 
6.12.16.4  Date of listing on the stock exchange. 
 
6.12.16.5  If the issue (s) at premium or discount and the amount thereof. 
 
6.12.16.6  The  amount  paid  or  payable  by  way  of  premium,  if  any,  on  each  share 
which  had  been  issued  within  the  two  years  preceding  the  date  of  the 
prospectus or is to be issued, stating the dates or proposed dates of issue 
and, where some shares have been or are to be issued at a premium and 
other  shares  of  the  same  class  at  a  lower  premium,  or  at  par  or  at  a 
discount,  the  reasons  for  the  differentiation  and  how  any  premiums 
received have been or are to be disposed of. 

 
6.12.17  Previous issues of shares otherwise than for cash. 
 
6.12.18  Commission or brokerage on previous issues. 
 
6.12.19  Following  particulars  in  regard  to  the  issuer  company  and  other  listed 
companies under the same management within the meaning section 370 
(1)(B) of the Companies Act, 1956 which made any capital issue during 
the last three years shall be given: 

 
6.12.19.1  Name of the company. 
 
6.12.19.2  Year of Issue. 
 
6.12.19.3  Type of Issue (public/ rights/ composite). 
 
6.12.19.4  Amount of issue. 
 
6.12.19.5  Date of closure of issue. 
 
6.12.19.6  Date of completion of delivery of share/ debenture certificates. 
 
6.12.19.7  Date of completion of the project, where object of the issue was financing 

the project. 

 
6.12.19.8  Rate of dividend paid. 
 
6.12.20  Promise vis-à-vis performance: 
 
a. 
 

Issuer company: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
b. 
 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

If  not,  non-achievement  of  objects/  projections  shall  be  brought  out 
distinctly. Shortfall and delays shall be quantified. 

 
6.12.21  Outstanding debentures or bonds and redeemable preference shares and 
other  instruments  issued  by  the  issuer  company  outstanding  as  on  the 
date of prospectus and terms of issue. 

 
6.12.22  Stock market data for equity shares of the issuer company, if listed: 
 
6.12.22.1  Particulars of: 
 
(a) 

high, low and average market prices of the share of the issuer company 
during the preceding three years; 

A  separate  para  entitled  "Promise  Vs  Performance  -  Last  three  issues" 
shall  be  given  indicating  whether  all  the  objects  mentioned  in  the 
respective  offer  documents  relating  to  the  earlier  issues  by  the  issuer 
company  were  met  and  whether  all  projections  made  in  the  said  offer 
documents were achieved.  

If  not,  non-achievement  of  objects/projections  shall  be  brought  out 
distinctly shortfall and delays shall be quantified. 

Listed Ventures of Promoters: 

A  separate  paragraph  on  issues  of  group/associate  companies  entitled 
"Promise Vs Performance - Last one Issue of group/associate companies" 
shall  be  given  indicating  whether  all  the  objects  mentioned  in  the 
respective offer documents relating to group/ associate companies were 
met  and  whether  all  projections  made  in  the  said  offer  documents  were 
achieved. 

monthly high and low prices for the six months preceding the date of filing 
the draft prospectus with Board which shall be updated till the time of filing 
the  prospectus  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies/  Stock  Exchange 
concerned; 

number of shares traded on the days when the high and low prices were 
recorded in the relevant stock exchange during said period of (i) and (ii) 
above; 

the  stock  market  data  referred  to  above  shall  be  shown  separately  for 
periods  marked  by  a  change  in  capital  structure,  with  such  period 
commencing from the date the concerned stock exchange recognises the 
change in  the  capital  structure  (e.g.  when  the  shares  have  become  ex-
rights or ex-bonus); 

to volume of business transacted along with high, low and average prices 
of  shares  of  the  issuer  company  shall  also  be  stated  for  respective 
periods. 

 
6.12.23  Mechanism evolved for redressal of investor grievances 
 
6.12.23.1  The  prospectus  shall  disclose  the  arrangements  or  any  mechanism 

evolved by the issuer company for redressal of investor grievances. 

 
6.12.23.2  The  issuer  company  shall  disclose  the  time  normally  taken  by  it  for 

disposal of various types of investor grievances. 

 
6.12.23.3  Similar disclosure shall be made in regard to the listed companies under 
the  same  management  within  the  meaning  of  Section  370  (1B)  of  the 
Companies  Act,  1956  for  the  period  of  three  years  prior  to  the  date  of 
filing of the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies/ Stock Exchange. 

 
6.12.24  Change, if any, in the auditors during the last three years, and reasons, 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

 
(g) 

the market price immediately after the date on which the resolution of the 
Board of Directors approving the issue was approved; 

the  volume  of  securities  traded  in  each  month  during  the  six  months 
preceding the date on which the prospectus is filed with ROC; and 

thereof. 

Terms of the Issue 

Offering Information 

 
6.12.25  Capitalisation of reserves or profits (during last five years). 
 
6.12.26  Revaluation of assets, if any (during the last five years) 
 
6.13 
 
6.13.1 
 
6.13.1.1  Ranking of equity shares. 
 
6.13.1.2  Mode of payment of dividend. 
 
6.13.1.3  Face value and issue price/ floor price/ price band. 
 
6.13.1.4  Rights of the instrument holders. 
 
6.13.1.5  Market lot. 
 
6.13.1.6  Nomination facility to investor. 

 
6.13.1.7  Minimum subscription: 
 
(a) 
 

For Non-underwritten Public Issues: 

Following statement shall appear: 

 
6.13.1.8  Arrangements for Disposal of Odd Lots: 

 

 
(b) 
 

 

 
(c) 
 

 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

"If the company does not receive the minimum subscription of 90% of the 
issued amount on the date of closure of the issue, or if the subscription 
level  falls  below  90%  after  the  closure  of  issue  on  account  of  cheques 
having being returned unpaid or withdrawal of applications, the company 
shall forthwith refund the entire subscription amount received. If there is a 
delay  beyond  8  days  after  the  company  becomes  liable  to  pay  the 
amount,  the  company  shall  pay  interest  as  per  Section  73  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956." 

For Underwritten Public Issues: 

Following statement shall appear: 

"If the company does not receive the minimum subscription of 90% of the 
net offer to public including devolvement of Underwriters within 60 days 
from the date of closure of the issue, the company shall forthwith refund 
the entire subscription amount received. If there is a delay beyond 8 days 
after the company becomes liable to pay the amount, the company shall 
pay interest prescribed under Section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956." 

For Composite Issues: 

(i) 

(ii) 

The Lead Merchant Banker shall ensure that the requirement of ’minimum 
subscription’  is satisfied both jointly and severally, i.e., independently for 
both rights and public issues. 

If the issuer company does not receive the minimum subscription in either 
of  the  issues  the  issuer  company  shall  refund  the  entire  subscription 
received. 

Offer  for  sale:  The  requirement  of  minimum  subscription  shall  not  be 
applicable to offer for sale. 

Public  issues  by  infrastructure  companies:  The  requirement  of  minimum 
subscription shall not be applicable to an eligible infrastructure company, 
provided disclosures regarding the alternate source of funding is made in 
the prospectus. 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(b) 

Whenever  any  issue  results  in  issue  of  shares  in  odd  lots,  the  issuer 
company, shall as far as possible issue certificates in the denomination of 
1-2-5-10-20-50 shares. 

 
6.13.1.9  Restrictions,  if  any,  on  transfer  and  transmission  of  shares/  debentures 

and on their consolidation/ splitting. 

Issue Procedure 

 
6.13.2 
 
6.13.2.1  Fixed  price  issue  or  book  building  procedure  as  may  be  applicable, 
including details regarding bid form / application form, who can bid/apply, 
maximum  and  minimum  bid/application  size,  bidding  process,  bidding, 
bids at different price levels, etc. 

 
6.13.2.2  Option to subscribe in the issue: 
 
(a) 

Any arrangements made by the issuer company for providing liquidity for 
and  consolidation  of  the  shares  held  in  odd  lots,  particularly  when  such 
odd lots arise on account of issues by way of rights, bonus, conversion of 
debentures/  warrants  etc.,  shall  be  intimated  to  the  shareholders/ 
investors. 

The issuer company is free to make arrangements for providing liquidity in 
respect  of  odd  lot  shares  through  any  investment  or  finance  company, 
broking  firms  or  through  any  other  agency  and  the  particulars  of  such 
arrangement,  if  any,  may  be  disclosed  in  the  prospectus  related  to  the 
concerned issue of capital. 

The  Lead  Merchant  Banker  shall  ascertain  whether  the  issuer  company 
coming  for  fresh  issue  of  capital  proposes  to  set  up  trusts  in  order  to 
provide service to the investors in the matter of disposal of odd lot shares 
of  the  issuer  company  held  by  them  and  if  so,  disclosures  relating  to 
setting up and operation of the trust shall be contained in the prospectus. 

The  details  of  option  to  subscribe  for  securities  to  be  dealt  with  in  a 
depository.  

The  Lead  Merchant  Banker  shall  incorporate  a  statement  in  the 
prospectus and in the application form to the effect that the investor shall 
have  an  option  either  to  receive  the  security  certificates  or  to  hold  the 
securities in dematerialised form with a depository. 

 
6.13.2.3  How to apply - availability of forms, prospectus and mode of payment: 
 
(a) 

Applications by mutual funds: 

(i) 

The  Lead  Merchant  Bankers  shall  clearly 
incorporate  necessary 
disclosures under the heads "Procedure for applications by mutual funds" 
and "Multiple Applications" to indicate that a separate application can be 
made in respect of each scheme of an Indian mutual fund registered with 
the  Board  and  that  such  applications  shall  not  be  treated  as  multiple 
applications. 

(ii)  The applications made by the AMCs or custodians of a Mutual Fund shall 
clearly indicate the name of the concerned scheme for which application 
is being made. 

Applications by NRIs: 

(i) 

The Lead Merchant Banker shall ensure the following disclosures: 

 

 

 
(b) 
 

 

 

a. 

b. 

the  name  and  address  of  at  least  one  place  in  India  from  where 
individual NRI applicants can obtain the application forms. 

"NRI applicants may please note that only such applications as are 
accompanied  by  payment  in  free  foreign  exchange  shall  be 
considered for allotment under the reserved category. The NRIs who 
intend  to  make  payment  through  Non-Resident  Ordinary  (NRO) 
accounts shall use the form meant for Resident Indians and shall not 
use the forms meant for reserved category." 

Escrow A/c. of the issuer company. 

Escrow A/c. of the syndicate member. 

 
6.13.2.4  Escrow mechanism: 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
6.13.2.5  Terms of payment and payment into the Escrow Collection Account. 
 
6.13.2.6  Electronic registration of bids. 
 
6.13.2.7  Build up of the book and revision of bids. 
 
6.13.2.8  Price discovery and allocation. 
 
6.13.2.9  Signing of underwriting agreement. 
 
6.13.2.10  Filing of prospectus with the Registrar of Companies. 
 
6.13.2.11  Announcement of Pre-Issue Advertisement. 
 

6.13.2.12  .Issuance of Confirmation of Allocation note (“CAN”) and Allotment in the 

Instructions for completing the Bid form. 

Bids by NRIs or FIIs on a repatriation basis. 

Payment into escrow account of the issuer company. 

Payment into escrow account of the syndicate member. 

Issue. 

Do’s and don’ts. 

Bidders bank details. 

 
6.13.2.13  Designated date. 
 
6.13.2.14  General instructions: 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
 
6.13.2.15  Payment instructions: 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
6.13.2.16  Submission of bid form. 
 
6.13.2.17  Other instructions: 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
 
(e) 
 
(f) 

Pan or GIR number. 

Multiple bids. 

Joint bids in the case of individuals. 

Issuer company’s right to reject bids. 

Equity shares in demat form with NSDL or CDSL. 

The  investor’s  attention  shall  also  be  invited  to  contact  the  compliance 
officer in case of any pre-issue/ post-issue related problems such as non-
receipt of letters of allotment/ share certificates/ refund orders, etc. 

 
6.13.2.18  Disposal of application and Application moneys. 
 
6.13.2.19  Provisions of sub-section (1) of section 68A of the Companies Act, 1956 

relating to punishment for fictitious applications, shall be mentioned. 

 
6.13.2.20  Interest on refund of excess bid amount. 
 

6.13.2.21  Basis of allotment or allocation. 
 
6.13.2.22  Procedure and time of schedule for allotment and issue of certificates. 
 
6.13.2.23  Method of proportionate allotment. 
 
6.13.2.24  Letters of allotment or refund orders. 
 
6.13.2.25  Despatch of refund orders: The following clause shall be incorporated in 

the prospectus: 
 
"The  company  shall  ensure  despatch  of  refund  orders  of  value  over 
Rs.1500/- and share/ debenture certificates by Registered Post only and 
adequate funds for the purpose shall be made available to the Registrars 
by the issuer company ". 

 
6.13.2.26  Interest in Case of Delay in Despatch of Allotment Letters/ Refund Orders 

in Case of Public Issues:   
 
The caption "Interest in Case of Delay in Despatch of Allotment Letters/ 
Refund Orders in Case of Public Issues" shall appear and shall contain 
the following statement: 

 
(a) 
 

(b) 

Where it is a fixed price issue: 

"The  company  agrees  that  as  far  as  possible  allotment  of  securities 
offered to the public shall be made within 30 days of the closure of public 
issue.  The  company  further  agrees  that  it  shall  pay  interest  @15%  per 
annum if the allotment letters/ refund orders have not been despatched to 
the  applicants  within  30  days  from  the  date  of  the  closure  of  the  issue. 
However  applications  received  after  the  closure  of  issue  in  fulfillment  of 
underwriting  obligations  to  meet  the  minimum  subscription  requirement, 
shall not be entitled for the said interest." 
 
Where it is a book-built issues: 
 
"The  company  agrees  that  allotment  of  securities  offered  to  the  public 
shall be made not later than 15 days of the closure of public issue. The 
company further agrees that it shall pay interest @15% per annum if the 
allotment  letters/  refund  orders  have  not  been  despatched  to  the 
applicants within 15 days from the date of the closure of the issue." 

 
6.13.2.27  Undertaking by the issuer company: 
 
(a) 

The following undertaking by the issuer company shall be incorporated in 
the prospectus: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(b) 

 

 

 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

that the complaints received in respect of the Issue shall be attended to 
by the issuer company expeditiously and satisfactorily. 

that  all  steps  for  completion  of  the  necessary  formalities  for  listing  and 
commencement of trading at all stock exchanges where the securities are 
to be listed are taken within seven working days of finalisation of basis of 
allotment. 

that the issuer company shall apply in advance for the listing of equities 
on the conversion of debentures/ bonds. 

that  the  funds  required  for  despatch  of  refund  orders/  allotment  letters/ 
certificates by registered post shall be made available to the Registrar to 
the Issue by the issuer company. 

that the promoters’  contribution in full, wherever required, shall be brought 
in  advance  before  the  Issue  opens  for  public  subscription  and  the 
balance,  if  any,  shall  be  brought  in  pro  rata  basis  before  the  calls  are 
made on public. 

(vi) 

that  the  certificates  of  the  securities/  refund  orders  to  the  non-resident 
Indians shall be despatched within specified time. 

(vii)  that no further issue of securities shall be made till the securities offered 
through  this  prospectus  are  listed  or  till  the  application  moneys  are 
refunded on account of non-listing, undersubscription, etc. 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

In  case  of  a  debenture  issue,  the  issuer  company  shall  also  give 
undertakings to the following effect in the prospectus: 

that the issuer company shall forward the details of utilisation of the funds 
raised  through  the  debentures  duly  certified  by  the  statutory  auditors  of 
the  issuer  company,  to  the  debenture  trustees  at  the  end  of  each  half-
year. 

that the issuer company shall disclose the complete name and address of 
the debenture trustee in the annual report. 

that  the  issuer  company  shall  provide  a  compliance  certificate  to  the 
debenture  holders  (on  yearly  basis)  in  respect  of  compliance  with  the 
terms  and  conditions  of  issue  of  debentures  as  contained  in  the 
prospectus, duly certified by the debenture trustee. 

(iv) 

that  the  issuer  company  shall  furnish  a  confirmation  certificate  that  the 
security  created  by  the  company  in  favour  of  the  debenture  holders  is 

A statement by the Board of Directors of the issuer company to the effect 
that: 

(i) 

all monies received out of issue of shares or debentures to public shall be 
transferred to separate bank account other than the bank account referred 
to in sub-section (3) of section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956; 

(ii)  details of all monies utilised out of the issue referred to in sub-item(i) shall 
be disclosed under an appropriate separate head in the balance sheet of 
the  issuer  company  indicating  the  purpose  for  which  such  monies  had 
been utilised; and 

(iii)  details of all unutilised monies out of the issue of shares or debentures, if 
any,  referred  to  in  sub-item  (i)  shall  be  disclosed  under  an  appropriate 
separate head in the balance sheet of the issuer company indicating the 
form in which such unutilised monies have been invested. 

The prospectus shall contain a statement of the Board of Directors  of the 
issuer company to the effect that: 

the utilisation of monies received under promoters’  contribution and from 
firm allotments and reservations shall be disclosed under an appropriate 
head in the balance sheet of the issuer company, indicating the purpose 
for which such monies have been utilised. 

 

 

 

 
(b) 

 
(i) 

 
(ii) 

 

(v) 

properly  maintained  and  is  adequate  enough  to  meet  the  payment 
obligations towards the debenture holders in the event of default. 

that  necessary  cooperation  with  the  credit  rating  agency  (ies)  shall  be 
extended  in  providing  true  and  adequate  information  till  the  debt 
obligations in respect of the instrument are outstanding. 

 
6.13.2.28  Utilisation of Issue Proceeds: 
 
(a) 

the  details  of  all  unutilised  monies  out  of  the  funds  received  under 
promoters’  contribution and from firm allotments and reservations shall be 
disclosed  under  a  separate  head  in  the  balance  sheet  of  the  issuer 
company, indicating the form in which such unutilised monies have been 
invested. 

 
6.13.2.29  Restrictions on foreign ownership of Indian securities, if any: 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 

Investment by NRIs. 

Investment by FIIs. 

Description of Equity Shares and Terms of the Articles of Association 

6.14 
 
6.14.1  Rights  of  members  regarding  voting,  dividend,  lien  on  shares  and  the 

process for modification of such rights and forfeiture of shares. 

Other Information 

List of material contracts and inspection of documents for inspection: 

 
6.14.2  Main provisions of the Articles of Association. 
 
6.15 
 
6.15.1 
 
6.15.1.1  Material contracts. 
 
6.15.1.2  Documents. 
 
6.15.1.3  Time  and  place  at  which  the  contracts,  together  with  documents,  will  be 
available for inspection from the date of prospectus until the date of closing 
of the subscription list. 

 

 
6.16 

 
6.16.1 

 
6.16.2 

 
6.16.3 

“SECTION II - CONTENTS OF ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS 

General  Instructions:  The  information  to  be  provided  under  each  of  the 
heads specified below shall be as per the requirement of Part I of Chapter 
VI except when specified otherwise. 

The Abridged Prospectus shall be printed in a font size which shall not be 
visually smaller than TIMES NEW ROMAN Size 10. 

The  order  in  which  items  appear  in  the  Abridged  Prospectus  shall 
correspond, wherever applicable, to the order in which items appear in the 
Prospectus. 

The application form shall be so positioned that on the tearing-off of the 
application  form,  no  part  of  the  information  given  in  the  Abridged 
Prospectus is mutilated. 

 
6.15.2  Declaration 
 

The draft prospectus and final prospectus shall be approved by the Board 
of Directors of the issuer company and shall be signed by all the Directors 
(including  the  Managing  Director),  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  Chief 
Financial Officer of the issuer company. They shall also certify that all the 
disclosures made in the prospectus are true and correct.” 

 
4.  Section II of Chapter VI (Clauses 6.20 to 6.38) shall be substituted with the 

following, namely: 

 
6.17 
 
6.17.1 

 
6.17.2 
 
6.17.3 
 
6.17.4 
 
6.17.5 

 
6.17.6 
 
6.17.7 

General Information 

The name of the issuer  company and address of the registered office of 
the  issuer  company,  along  with  telephone  number,  fax  number,  e-mail 
address and website address, and where there has been a change in the 
address of the registered office or name of the Issuer, details thereof. 

Name/s of stock exchanges where listing of the securities is proposed. 

Dates of opening, earliest closing and closing of the issue. 

Disclaimer Clause of SEBI 

Consolidated Disclaimer Clause of Stock Exchanges: Disclaimer clauses 
of stock exchanges shall be combined into a single disclaimer clause with 
appropriate reference to individual stock exchanges. 

Disclaimer Statement of the issuer company and merchant banker 

Name and address of the Lead Managers, along with telephone number, 
fax  number,  website  address,  name  of  contact  person  and  e-mail 
address. 

Name and address of the brokers along with phone numbers. 

 
6.17.8 
 
6.17.9 
 
6.17.10  Name  and  address  of  the  registrars  to  the  issue  along  with  phone 
number, fax number, website address, name of contact person and email 
address.  

Name and address of the collecting bankers. 

 
6.17.11  Name and address of the trustee under debenture trust deed (in case of a 
debenture issue) along with phone number, fax number, website address, 
name of contact person and email address. 

 

6.17.12  Name and address of the statutory auditors.  
 
6.17.13  Rating  for  the  proposed  debenture/  preference  shares  issue,  if  any, 

obtained from the credit rating agencies. 

 
6.17.14  Name  and  address  of  the  underwriters  and  the  amount  underwritten  by 

them, if applicable.  

 
6.17.15 

 

(a) 

(b) 

 

Name, address, telephone number, fax number and email address of the 
Compliance Officer. 

Investor’s  attention  shall  be  invited  to  contact  the  Compliance  Officer  in 
case of any pre-issue/ post-issue related problems such as non-receipt of 
letters of  allotment/  share  certificates/  credit  of  securities  in  depositories 
beneficiary account/ refund orders, etc. 

 
6.17.16  Provisions of sub section (1) of Section 68A of the Companies Act, 1956 

relating to punishment for impersonation. 

 
6.17.17  Declaration about the issue of allotment letters/ refunds within a period of 
30  days  and  interest  in  case  of  delay  in  dispatching  refund/  allotment 
letters @ 15% per annum or at the rate as may be specified. 

 
6.17.18  Risk Factors and proposals to address the same. 
 
6.18 
 
6.18.1 
 
a. 

Capital Structure of the issuer company 

Following details to be furnished:  

Authorised, 
instruments, description, aggregate nominal value). 

issued,  subscribed  and  paid  up  capital  (Number  of 

Size  of  present  issue.  Disclose  separately  promoters’  contribution,  firm 
allotment/ reservation for specified categories and net offer to public. 

Number  of  instruments,  description,  aggregate  nominal  value  and  issue 
amount  shall  be  given  in  this  order.  Name(s)  of  group  companies  to  be 
given, in case, reservation has been made for shareholders of the group 
companies. 

Paid-up Capital 

a.  after the issue 
b.  after conversion of securities (if applicable). 

Share Premium Account (before and after the issue). 

Complete Notes to the Capital Structure.  

A  disclosure  to  the  effect  that  the  securities  offered  through  this  public/ 
rights issue shall be made fully paid up or forfeited within 12 months from 
the date of allotment of securities in a manner as specified in clause 8.5.2. 

Terms of the Present Issue 

 
b. 

 
c. 

 
d. 
 

 
e. 
 
6.18.2 
 
6.18.3 

 
6.19 

 
6.19.1 
i. 

 
ii. 

 
6.19.2 
     
a. 

 
b. 

 

 

   
c. 

       
   
 
     

 
d. 
 

 
Authority  for  the  issue,  terms  of  payment  and  procedure  and  time 
schedule for allotment and issue of certificates/ refund orders. 

The  clause  "Interest  in  Case  of  Delay  in  Despatch  of  Allotment  Letters/ 
Refund Orders in Case of Public Issues" shall appear. 

Instructions for applicants 

How  to  Apply,  Availability  of  Prospectus,  Abridged  Prospectus  and 
Application  Forms,  Mode  of  Payment  and  Book  building  procedure,  if 
relevant.  

Residents: In the application form meant for Indian Public, the declaration 
relating  to  Nationality  and  Residentship  shall  be  shown  prominently  as 
under: 

"Nationality and Residentship (Tick whichever is applicable) 
 
i. 

I am / We are Indian National(s) resident in India and I am/we are 
not applying for the said equity shares as nominee(s) of any person 
resident outside India or Foreign National(s). 

 
ii. 

iii. 

I am / We are Indian National(s) resident in India and I am / We are 
applying for the said equity shares as Power of Attorney holder(s) of 
Non- Resident Indian(s) mentioned below on non-repatriation basis. 

I am / We are Indian National(s) resident outside India and I am/we 
are  applying  for  the  said  equity  shares  on  my  /  our  own  behalf  on 
nonrepatriation basis." 

 Non-Resident Indians (NRIs): The application form meant for NRIs shall 
not contain provision for payment through NR (O) accounts. 

On the face of the form, the following legend shall be printed in a box: 

"Attention  NRI  Applicants:  Payment  must  be  made  through  their  Non 
Resident  External  (NRE)  /  Foreign  Currency  Non  Resident  (FCNR) 
accounts  or  through  cheques  /  drafts  sent  from  abroad  and  drawn  on 
convertible  rupee  accounts  in  India.  Forms  accompanied  by  cheques 
drawn on NR (O) accounts are liable to be rejected". 

Attention of NRIs shall be invited to the following: 

i. 

the name and address of at least one place in India from where individual 
NRI applicants can obtain the application forms. 

ii.  Such  applications  as  are  accompanied  by  payment  in  free  foreign 

exchange shall be considered for allotment under the reserved category. 

iii.  Such  NRIs  who  wish  to  make  payment  through  Non-Resident  Ordinary 
(NRO) accounts shall use the form meant for Resident Indians and shall 
not use the form meant for reserved category.  As regards applications in 
case of reservations to NRIs, a disclosure is to be made incorporating the 
fact that payment for such allotments shall come through external source 
only and that payments through NRO account will not be permitted. 

The application form should contain necessary instructions/ provisions for 
the following: 

i. 

Instructions to applicants to mention the number of application form on the 
reverse of the instruments to avoid misuse of instruments submitted along 
with the applications for shares/ debentures in public issues. 

ii.  Provision in the application form for inserting particulars relating to bank 
account  number  and  the  name  of  the  bank  with  whom  such  account  is 
held,  to  enable  printing  of  the  said  details  in  the  refund  orders  or  for 
refunds through Electronic Clearing System. 

iii.  Disclosure  of  PAN/GIR  number  in  respect  of  applications  for  monetary 

 

 

 
e. 

 

 

 

value of the investment of Rs.50,000 and above. 

 
iv.  Details  of  options,  if  any,  to  receive  securities  subscribed  for,  either  in 
demateralised or physical form and a statement that trading in securities 
on the stock exchanges in physical form will be available only subject to 
limits prescribed by the Board for time to time. 

Application by Mutual Funds 

Any special tax benefits for company and its shareholders (Only section 
numbers of the Income Tax Act and their substance should be mentioned, 
without reproducing the text of the sections). 

Particulars of the Issue 

Objects of the issue 
Project cost 
Means of financing 
Name of Appraising Agency, if any  
Name of Monitoring Agency, if any  

 
f. 
 
6.19.3 

 
6.20 
 
6.20.1 
6.20.2 
6.20.3 
6.20.4 
6.20.5 

Company, Management and Project 

History and main objects and present business of the company. 

Promoters and their background. 

Names,  address  and  occupation  of  manager,  managing  director,  and 
other  Directors  (including  nominee-directors  and  whole-time  directors) 
giving their directorships in other companies. 

Location of the project 

Plant and machinery, technology, process, etc 

Collaboration, any performance guarantee or assistance in marketing by 
the collaborators 

Infrastructure facilities for raw materials and utilities like water, electricity, 
etc. 

Schedule  of  implementation  of  the  project  and  progress  made  so  far, 
giving  details  of  land  acquisition,  civil  works,  installation  of  plant  and 
machinery, trial production, date of commercial production etc 

 
6.21 
 
6.21.1 
 
6.21.2 
 
6.21.3 

 
6.21.4 
 
6.21.5 
 
6.21.6 

 
6.21.7 

 
6.21.8 

 

Products/Services 

 
6.21.9 
 
6.21.9.1  Nature of the products/services and end users 
 
6.21.9.2  Existing,  licensed  and  installed  capacity  of  the  product,  demand  of  the 
product-existing,  and  estimated  in  the  coming  years  as  estimates  by  a 
Government authority or by any other reliable institution, giving source of 
the  information.  In  case  the  company  is  providing  services,  relevant 
information  in  regard  to  nature/  extent  of  services,  etc.,  have  to  be 
furnished. 

 
6.21.9.3  Approach to marketing and proposed marketing set up 
 
6.21.9.4  Export possibilities and export obligations, if any. 
 
6.21.9.5  Stock Market Data: Disclose particulars of:- 
 
a. 

high, low and average market prices of the share of the company during 
the preceding three years 

b. 

 
c. 

 
d. 

 
e. 

 
f. 

 
g. 

 
6.22 

 
a. 
 
b. 
 
c. 
 
d. 
 
e. 
 
f. 
 
g. 

 
h. 
 
6.23 
 

monthly high and low prices for the six months preceding the date of filing 
of the  prospectus 

number  of  shares  traded  on  the  days  when  high  and  low  prices  were 
recorded in the relevant stock exchange during period of (i) and (ii) above, 
and total volume traded on those dates 

the  stock  market  data  referred  to  above  shall  be  shown  separately  for 
periods  marked  by  a  change  in  capital  structure,  with  such  period 
commencing from the date the concerned stock exchange recognises the 
change in the capital structure (e.g., when the shares have become ex-
rights or ex-bonus) 

the market price immediately after the date on which the resolution of the 
Board of Directors approving the issue was approved 

the  volume  of  securities  traded  in  each  month  during  the  six  months 
preceding the date on which the offer document is filed with ROC 

Along with high, low and average prices of shares of the company, details 
relating  to  volume  of  business  transacted  should  also  be  stated  for 
respective periods. 

Following  particulars  in  regard  to  the  listed  companies  under  the 
same  management  which  made  any  capital  issue  in  the  last  three 
years 

Name of the company 

Year of issue 

Type of issue (public/ rights/ composite) 

Amount of issue 

Date of closure of issue 

Date of despatch of share/ debenture certificate completed 

Date of completion of the project, where object of the issue was financing 
of a project 

Rate of dividend paid, if any. 

Basis for Issue Price 

Earnings per share i.e. EPS pre-issue for the last three years (as adjusted 
for changes in capital); 

P/E pre-issue 

Average return on net worth in the last three years 

Minimum  return  on  increased  net  worth  required  to  maintain  preissue 
EPS; 

Net Asset Value per share based on last balance sheet; 

Net  Asset  Value  per  share  after  issue  and  comparison  thereof  with  the 
issue price. 

Comparison  of  all  the  accounting  ratios  of  the  issuer  company  as 
mentioned above with the industry average and with the accounting ratios 
of  the  peer  group  (i.e.,  companies  of  comparable  size  in  the  same 
industry. (Indicate the source from which industry average and accounting 
ratios of the peer group has been taken)  

 

 

Provided that the projected earnings shall not be used as a justification 
for the issue price in the offer document. 

Provided  further  that  the  accounting  ratios  disclosed  in  the  offer 
documents in support of basis of the issue price shall be calculated after 
giving  effect  to  the  consequent  increase  in  capital  on  account  of 
compulsory  conversions  outstanding,  as  well  as  on  the  assumption  that 
the options outstanding, if any, to subscribe for additional capital will be 
exercised. 

The  face  value  of  shares  (including  the  statement  about  the  issue price 
being “X”  times of the face value) 

Outstanding Litigations and Defaults (in a summarised tabular form) 

 
6.24 
 
6.24.1  Whether  all  payment/refunds,  debentures,  deposits  of  banks  or 
companies,  interest  on  deposits,  debenture  interest,  institutional  dues 
have  been  paid  up  to  date.  If  not,  details  of  the  arrears,  if  any,  to  be 
stated. 

a. 

 
b. 
 
c. 
 
d. 

 
e. 
 
f. 

 
g. 

 
 

 
 

 
h. 

 
6.25 

 
6.26 

Material  Development:  Any  material  development  after  the  date  of  the 
latest balance sheet and its impact on performance and prospects of the 
company. 

Expert opinion obtained, if any.  

 
6.27 

 
6.28 

 
6.29 

 
6.29.1 
a. 

Change, if any, in directors and auditors during the last three years 
and reasons thereof. 

Time  and  Place  of  Inspection  of  material  contracts  (List  of  material 
contracts not required) 

Financial  Performance  of  the  Company  for  the  Last  Five  Years 
(Figures to be taken from the audited annual accounts in a tabular form) 

 
Balance  Sheet  Data:  Equity  Capital,  Reserves  (State  Revaluation 
Reserve, the year of revaluation and its monetary effect on assets) and 
borrowings 

Profit and Loss data: Sales, Gross profit, Net profit, dividend paid, if any 

Any  change  in  accounting  policies  during  the  last  three  years  and  their 
effect on the profits and the reserves of the company 

Following  information  as  extracted  from  the  report  of  the  auditors 
reproduced  in  the  main  offer  document  in  terms  of  clause  6.18  of  the 
Guidelines: 

 
b. 
 
c. 

 
d. 

 

 

 

 
6.29.2 
 
6.30 
 
6.31 
 
6.32 
 
6.33 
 

 
6.33.1 
 

i)  net profit before accounting  for extra ordinary items 

ii)  extra ordinary items 

iii)  net profit after accounting for extra ordinary items 

Management Discussions and Analysis on Accounts 

Listed Ventures of Promoters  

Previous Public or Rights Issues, if any ,of last 5 years  

Disclosure on Investor Grievances & Redressal System  

Statement regarding minimum subscription clause: 

Following statements shall appear depending upon the type of issue:  

For Non-underwritten Public Issues 

“If the company does not receive the minimum subscription of 90% of the 
issued amount on the date of closure of the issue, or if the subscription 

level  falls  below  90%  after  the  closure  of  issue  on  account  of  cheques 
having being returned unpaid or withdrawal of applications, the company 
shall forthwith refund the entire subscription amount received. If there is a 
delay  beyond  8  days  after  the  company  becomes  liable  to  pay  the 
amount,  the  company  shall  pay  interest  as  per  Section  73  of  the 
Companies Act 1956.” 

For Underwritten Public Issues  

“If the company does not receive the minimum subscription of 90% of the 
net offer to public including devolvement of Underwriters within 60 days 
from the date of closure of the issue, the company shall forthwith refund 
the entire subscription amount received. If there is a delay beyond 8 days 
after the company becomes liable to pay the amount, the company shall 
pay interest prescribed under Section 73 of the Companies Act 1956.” 

For Composite Issues 

The Lead Merchant Banker shall ensure that the requirement of "minimum 
subscription" is satisfied both jointly and severally, i.e., independently for 
both rights and public issues. 

 
6.33.2 
 

 
6.33.3 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
CHAPTER XI – GUIDELINES FOR BOOK BUILDING 
 
6. 
 
CHAPTER XIII- GUIDELINES FOR PREFERENTIAL ISSUES 
 

In clause 11.3.1, sub-clause (xi) (a) shall be omitted. 

If the company does not receive the minimum subscription in either of the 
issues the company shall refund the entire subscription received. 

 
6.34 
 
5.  Sub  clause  (c)  and  (d)  of  Clause  9.1.12    shall  be  substituted  with  the 

Signatories to the Offer Document.” 

following, namely: 

 

“(c) Subject to section 66 of the Companies Act, 1956, any advertisement made 
by an issuer in respect of opening or closure of the issue shall be in the format 
and contain the minimum disclosures as given in the relevant part of Schedule 
XX-A. 
 
(d) Any pre-issue advertisement made under clause 5.6A or advertisement made 
in connection with opening or closing of an issue by the issuer, which is displayed 
in a billboard shall not contain any information apart from that mentioned in the 
relevant part of Schedule XX-A.” 

In clause 13.4.3, the words “three months”  shall be substituted by “fifteen days”. 

7. 
 
THE SCHEDULES 
 
8.  After Schedule VII, the following new schedule shall be inserted, namely: 
 

“SCHEDULE VIIA 

(See clause 6.1.1) 

 

 

ORDER OF PRESENTATION OF DISCLOSURES IN PROSPECTUS 

CONTENTS OF OFFER DOCUMENT 

 
SR.
NO. 
I.  Cover Pages 
  1.  Front Cover Pages: 
Issue Details: 
(a)  Logo, name, previous name, if any, address, telephone number, 
fax number, contact person, website address and e-mail address 
of the issuer company. 

(i) 

(b)  Nature,  number,  price  and  amount  of  instruments  offered  and 

issue size, as may be applicable. 

(c)  Risks in relation to first issue. 
(d)  General risk regarding investments in equity. 
(e)  Issuer's Absolute Responsibility clause. 
(f)  Logo, names and addresses of all the Lead Merchant Bankers 
with their titles who file the prospectus with the Board, along with 
their  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers,  website  addresses  and 
e-mail addresses. 

(g)  Logo,  names  of  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue,  along  with  its 
telephone  number,  fax  number,  website  address  and  e-mail 
address. 

(h)  Issue Schedule. 
(i)  Credit Rating, if applicable. 
(j)  Names of the Stock Exchanges where listing is proposed along 

with details of in-principle approval. 

2.  Back Cover Pages. 

II.  Table of Contents 
  To include all the main heads. 
III.  Definitions and Abbreviations 
  1.  Conventional/ General terms. 

2.  Offering-related Terms. 
3.  Company/ Industry-related Terms. 
4.  Abbreviations. 

IV.  Risk  Factors 
  1.  Forward-looking  Statements  and  Market  Data,  if  any  (to  be  disclosed  on 

voluntary basis). 

2.  Risk Factors: 

Risks envisaged by Management. 
Proposals, if any, to address the risks. 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii)  Notes to the risk factors. 

V.  Introduction 
  1.  Summary: 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 

(i) 

(ii) 
(iii) 

Summary of the industry and business of the issuer company. 
Offering details in brief. 
Summary Consolidated Financial, Operating and Other Data. 

2.  General Information: 

Name,  address  of  registered  office  and  the  registration  number  of 
the  issuer  company,  along  with  the  address  of  the  Registrar  of 
Companies where the issuer company is registered. 
Board of Directors of the issuer company. 
Brief  details  of  the  Chairman,  Managing  Director,  Whole  Time 
Director, etc. 

(v) 

(iv)  Names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers  and  e-mail 
addresses of the Company Secretary, Legal Advisor and Bankers to 
the Company. 
Name, address, telephone number, fax number and e-mail address 
of the Compliance Officer. 

(vi)  Names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers,  contact 
person,  website  addresses  and  e-mail  addresses  of  the  Merchant 
Bankers,  Co-Managers,  Registrars  to  the  Issue,  Bankers  to  the 
Issue, Brokers to the Issue, Syndicate members, etc. 

(vii)  Names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers  and  e-mail 

addresses of the auditors of the issuer company. 

(viii)  Statement  of  interse  allocation  of  responsibilities  among  Lead 

Managers. 

(ix)  Credit Rating (in case of debenture issue). 
(x) 

Names,  addresses,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers,  website 
addresses  and  e-mail  addresses  of  the  trustees  under  debenture 
trust deed (in case of debenture issue). 

(xi)  Name of the monitoring agency, if applicable. 
(xii)  Where  the  project  is  being  appraised,  name,  address,  telephone 

number and e-mail address of the appraising entity. 

(xiii)  Book Building Process in brief. 
(xiv)  Details of Underwriting, if any. 

3.  Capital Structure: 

Capital structure. 
Classes of shares, if applicable. 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii)  Notes to capital structure. 

4.  Objects of the Offering: 

(i) 
(ii) 

Funds Requirement. 
Funding Plan (Means of Finance). 

Appraisal. 
Schedule of Implementation. 
Funds Deployed. 
Sources of Financing of Funds already deployed. 

(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
(vi) 
(vii)  Details of Balance Fund Requirement. 
(viii) 
(ix) 
(x) 
(xi) 

Interim Use of Funds. 
Basic Terms of Issue. 
Basis for issue price. 
Tax Benefits. 

VI.  About the Issuer Company 
  1. 

Industry overview. 
2.  Business overview. 

(i) 

Details of the business of the issuer company: 
(a)  Location of the project. 
(b)  Plant, machinery, technology, process, etc. 
(c)  Collaborations,  any  performance  guarantee  or  assistance  in 

marketing by the collaborators. 

(d)  Infrastructure  facilities  for  raw  materials  and  utilities  like  water, 

electricity, etc. 

(e)  Products/ services of the company. 

(ii)  Business strategy: 

(a)  Brief statement about business strategy. 
(b)  Brief  statement  about  future  prospects,  including  capacity  & 

capacity utilization and projections. 

Insurance (to be disclosed on a voluntary basis). 

(iii)  Competitive strengths (to be disclosed on a voluntary basis). 
(iv) 
(v)  Property. 
(vi)  Purchase of property. 

3.  Key Industry-Regulation (if applicable). 
4.  History and Corporate Structure of the issuer company: 

Subsidiaries of the issuer company, if any and their businesses. 
Shareholders agreements. 

History and Major Events. 

(i) 
(ii)  Main objects. 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v)  Other agreements. 
(vi) 
Strategic partners. 
(vii)  Financial partners. 

5.  Management: 

Board of Directors. 
Compensation of Managing Directors/ Whole time Directors. 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii)  Compliance with Corporate Governance requirements. 
(iv) 

Shareholding  of  Directors,  including  details  of  qualification  shares 
held by them. 
Interest of the Directors. 

(v) 
(vi)  Change,  if  any,  in  the  directors  in  last  three  years  and  reasons 

thereof, wherever applicable. 

(vii)  Management Organisation Structure. 
(viii)  Details regarding Key Management Personnel. 
(ix) 
(x) 

Employees. 
Disclosures  regarding  employees  stock  option  scheme/  employees 
stock purchase scheme of the issuer company, if any, as required by 
the  Guidelines  or  Regulations  of  the  Board  relating  to  Employee 
Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme. 
Payment or Benefit to Officers of the Company (non-salary related). 

(xi) 

6.  Promoters/ Principal Shareholders: 

Details about promoters who are individuals. 
Details about promoters which are companies. 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii)  Common pursuits. 
(iv) 
(v) 
(vi)  Related party transactions as per the Financial Statements. 

Interest of promoters. 
Payment or benefit to promoters of the issuer company. 

7.  Exchange rates (to be disclosed on voluntary basis). 
8.  Currency of presentation. 
9.  Dividend policy. 

VII.  Financial Statements 

  1.  Selected Consolidated Financial and Operating data. 

2.  Financial information of the issuer company. 
3.  Financial information of group companies. 
4.  Changes in Accounting Policies in the last three years. 
5.  Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and 

Overview of the business of the issuer company. 
Significant developments subsequent to the last financial year. 
Factors that may affect Results of the Operations. 

Results of Operations as Reflected in the Financial Statements: 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv)  Discussion on Results of Operations. 
(v) 

Comparison of recent financial year with the previous financial years 
(last three years) on the major heads of the Profit & Los Statement. 
Liquidity and Capital Resources (to be disclosed on voluntary basis). 

(vi) 
(vii)  Capital Expenditure (to be disclosed on voluntary basis). 
(viii)  Foreign Exchange Risk (to be disclosed on voluntary basis). 
(ix) 
(x) 

Interest rate Risk (to be disclosed on voluntary basis). 
Recent  accounting  pronouncements  (to  be  disclosed  on  voluntary 
basis). 

VIII. Legal & Other Information 

  1.  Outstanding litigations and Material Developments 

(i) 
(ii) 

Outstanding litigations involving the issuer company. 
Outstanding litigations against the issuer company’s subsidiaries (if 
applicable). 

(iii)  Outstanding litigations involving the promoter and group companies. 
(iv)  Material developments since the last balance sheet date. 

2.  Government approvals/ Licensing Arrangements: 

(i) 

Investment approvals (FIPB/ RBI, etc.). 

(ii)  All government and other approvals. 
(iii)  Technical approvals. 
(iv)  Letter  of  intent/  industrial  license  and  declaration  of  the  Central 
Government/ RBI about non-responsibility for financial soundness or 
correctness of statements. 

IX.  Other Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures 
  1.  Authority for the issue and details of the resolution passed for the issue. 

2.  Prohibition by SEBI. 
3.  Eligibility of the Issuer Company to enter the Capital market. 
4.  Disclaimer clause. 
5.  Caution. 
6.  Disclaimer in respect of jurisdiction. 
7.  Disclaimer clause of the stock Exchanges. 
8.  Disclaimer clause of the Reserve Bank of India (if applicable). 
9.  Filing of prospectus with the Board and the Registrar of Companies. 
10. Listing. 
11. Impersonation. 
12. Consents. 
13. Expert opinion obtained, if any. 
14. Expenses of the issue. 
15. Details of fees payable. 
16. Underwriting commission, brokerage and selling commission. 
17. Previous rights and public issues if any (during the last five years). 
18. Previous issues of shares otherwise than for cash. 
19. Commission and brokerage on previous issues. 
20. Particulars  in  regard  to  the  issuer  company  and  other  listed  companies 
under the same management within the meaning section 370 (1)(B) of the 
Companies  Act,  1956  which  made  any capital issue during the last three 
years. 

21. Promise vis-à-vis performance. 
22. Outstanding debentures or bonds and redeemable preference shares and 
other instruments issued by the issuer company outstanding as on the date 
of prospectus and terms of issue. 

23. Stock market data for equity Shares of the issuer company, if listed. 
24. Mechanism evolved for redressal of investor grievances. 
25. Change,  if  any,  in  the  auditors  during  the  last  three  years,  and  reasons, 

Ranking of equity shares. 

(i) 
(ii)  Mode of payment of dividend. 
(iii)  Face value and issue price/ floor price/ price band. 
(iv)  Rights of the equity shareholder. 
(v)  Market lot. 

thereof. 

26. Capitalisation of reserves or profits (during last five years). 
27. Revaluation of assets, if any (during last five years). 

X.  Offering Information 
  1.  Terms of the issue: 

(vi)  Nomination facility to investor. 
(vii)  Minimum subscription. 
(viii)  Arrangements for Disposal of Odd Lots. 
(ix)  Restrictions, 

if  any,  on 

transfer  and 

debentures and on their consolidation/ splitting. 

transmission  of  shares/ 

2. 

Issue procedure: 
(i) 

(iv) 

Fixed price issue or book building procedure as may be applicable, 
including  details  regarding  bid  form  /  application  form,  who  can 
bid/apply,  maximum  and  minimum  bid/application  size,  bidding 
process, bidding, bids at different price levels, etc. 
Option to subscribe in the issue. 

(ii) 
(iii)  How  to  apply  -  availability  of  forms,  prospectus  and  mode  of 

payment. 
Escrow mechanism: 
(a)  Escrow A/c. of the company. 
(b)  Escrow A/c. of the syndicate member. 
Terms of payment and payment into the Escrow Collection Account. 
Electronic registration of bids. 

(v) 
(vi) 
(vii)  Build up of the book and revision of bids. 
(viii)  Price discovery and allocation. 
(ix) 
(x) 
(xi) 
(xii) 

Signing of underwriting agreement. 
Filing of prospectus with the Registrar of Companies. 
Announcement of pre-issue Advertisement. 
Issuance of Confirmation of Allocation note (“CAN”) and Allotment in 
the Issue. 

(xiii)  Designated date. 
(xiv)  General instructions: 

(a)  Do’s. 
(b)  Don’ts. 
(c)  Instructions for completing the Bid form. 
(d)  Bidders bank details. 
(e)  Bids by NRIs or FIIs on a repatriation basis. 

(xv)  Payment instructions: 

(a)  Payment into escrow account of the Issuer Company. 
(b)  Payment into escrow account of the Syndicate member. 

(xvi)  Submission of bid form. 
(xvii)  Other instructions: 

(a)  Joint bids in the case of individuals. 
(b)  Multiple bids. 
(c)  Pan or GIR number. 
(d)  Company’s right to reject bids. 
(e)  Equity shares in demat form with NSDL or CDSL. 
(f) 

Investor’s  attention  invited  to  contact  the  compliance  officer  in 
case of any pre-issue/ post-issue related problems. 

(xviii)  Disposal of application and Application moneys. 
(xix)  Provisions of sub-section (1) of section 68A of the Companies Act, 

1956 relating to punishment for fictitious applications. 
Interest on refund of excess bid amount. 

(xx) 
(xxi)  Basis of allotment or allocation. 
(xxii)  Procedure  and  time  of  schedule  for  allotment  and  issue  of 

certificates. 

(xxiii)  Method of proportionate allotment. 
(xxiv)  Letters of allotment or refund orders. 
(xxv)  Despatch of refund orders. 
(xxvi)  Interest  in  Case  of  Delay  in  Despatch  of  Allotment  Letters/  Refund 

Orders in Case of Public Issues. 

(xxvii) Undertaking by the company. 
(xxviii) Utilisation of Issue Proceeds. 
(xxix)  Restrictions on foreign ownership of Indian securities, if any. 

(a)  Investment by NRIs . 
(b)  Investment by FIIs. 

XI.  Description of Equity Shares and Terms of the Articles of Association 
  1.  Rights  of  members  regarding  voting,  dividend,  lien  on  shares  and  the 

process for modification of such rights and forfeiture of shares. 

2.  Main provisions of the Articles of Association. 

XII.  Other Information 

2.  Declaration. 

  1.  List of material contracts and documents for inspection. 

 
9.  After Schedule XX, the following new schedule shall be inserted, namely: 
 

SAMPLE FORMAT FOR PRE-ISSUE ADVERTISEMENT FOR PUBLIC ISSUE 

(FIXED PRICE / BOOKBUILT) 

This is only an advertisement for information purposes and not a prospectus announcement. 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Companies Act as __________________________ and subsequently 

renamed _______________________ on ________________) 

Registered Office: __________________________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 

Corporate Office: _________________________________________________________________ 

Tel: _________ Fax: _______ e-mail: ______ Website: _____________________________ 

 

Public issue of ___________ equity shares / debentures (if applicable) of Rs. ____ each at a price of Rs._____ ( Floor price 
or price band or as the case may be for Book built issue)   for cash aggregating Rs._________  (appropriate disclosure for 
Book Built issue) 

“SCHEDULE XX-A 

(Clauses 5.6A, 9.4 and 9.5) 

FORMATS OF ISSUE ADVERTISEMENTS 

 

 

 

 

PART A 

ABC LTD. 

THE ISSUE 

Disclosure  as  per  Clau s e  3.7.1(ii) 

The Issue is being made through the 100% Book Building Process wherein at least ___% of the Issue shall be allocated on 
a  discretionary  basis  to  Qualified  Institutional  Buyers.  Further,  not  less  than  ___%  of  the  Issue  shall  be  available  for 
allocation on a proportionate basis to Non-Institutional Bidders and the remaining ____% of the Issue shall be available for 
allocation on a proportionate basis to Retail Bidders, subject to valid bids being received at or above the Issue Price. (The 
disclosure about details of allocation shall be given in case of Book  built issues in these lines) 

PROMOTERS 

XXXX 

PROPOSED LISTING 

Names of Stock Exchanges 

(as the case may be) 

LEAD MANAGERS / BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS / CO-BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS  

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF ISSUER COMPANY 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address 

CREDIT RATING (only if applicable) 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES (only if applicable) 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PART B 

ABC LTD. 

THE ISSUE 

Names of Issuer, Lead Managers, Book runners, Syndicate Members, Brokers and Bankers to the issue (as the case may 
be) (Addresses optional) 

Investors are advised to refer to the prospectus, and the risk factors contained therein, before applying in the issue. Full 
copy  of  the  prospectus  is  available  at  www.sebi.gov.in  and  websites  of  issuer  /  lead  manager/s  /  Stock  Exchange/s  at 
www… …  

AVAILABILITY OF PROSPECTUS  

ISSUE / BID OPENS ON : 
ISSUE / BID CLOSES ON : 

Issued by 

Directors of Issuer 

SAMPLE FORMAT FOR ISSUE OPENING ADVERTISEMENT FOR PUBLIC ISSUES 

(FIXED PRICE / BOOKBUILT) 

 
This is only an advertisement for information purposes and not a prospectus announcement. 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Companies Act as __________________________ and subsequently 

renamed _______________________ on ________________) 

Registered Office: __________________________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 

Corporate Office: _________________________________________________________________ 

Tel: _________ Fax: _______ e-mail: ______ Website: _____________________________ 

Public issue of ___________ equity shares / debentures (if applicable) of Rs. ____ each at a price of Rs._____ (Floor price 
or  price  band  or  as  the  case  may  be  for  Book  built  issue)      for  cash  aggregating  Rs._________    (appropriate 
disclosure for Book Built issue) 
 

 
 

 

Disclosure as per Clause 3.7.1(ii)  

The Issue is being made through the 100% Book Building Process wherein at least ___% of the Issue shall be allocated on 
a  discretionary  basis  to  Qualified  Institutional  Buyers.  Further,  not  less  than  ___%  of  the  Issue  shall  be  available  for 
allocation on a proportionate basis to Non-Institutional Bidders and the remaining ____% of the Issue shall be available for 
allocation on a proportionate basis to Retail Bidders, subject to valid bids being received at or above the Issue Price. (The 
disclosure about details of allocation shall be made in case of Book  built issues in these lines) 

PROMOTERS 

XXXX 

PROPOSED LISTING 

Names of Stock Exchanges 

be) 

LEAD MANAGERS / BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS / CO-BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS (as the case may 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF ISSUER COMPANY 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address 

CREDIT RATING (only if applicable) 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES (only if applicable) 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS 

Names of Issuer, Lead Managers, Book runners, Syndicate Members, Brokers and Bankers to the issue (as the case may 
be) (Addresses optional) 

AVAILABILITY OF PROSPECTUS  

Investors are advised to refer to the prospectus, and the risk factors contained therein, before applying in the issue. Full 
copy  of  the  prospectus  is  available  at  www.sebi.gov.in  and  websites  of  issuer  /  lead  manager/s  /  Stock  Exchange/s  at 
www… …  
 

                                                                                                         Issued by 

ISSUE / BID OPENS TODAY                                                           

Directors of Issuer 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SAMPLE FORMAT FOR ISSUE CLOSING ADVERTISEMENT FOR PUBLIC ISSUES 

(FIXED PRICE / BOOKBUILT) 

 
This is only an advertisement for information purposes and not a prospectus announcement. 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Companies Act as __________________________ and subsequently 

renamed _______________________ on ________________) 

Registered Office: __________________________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 

Corporate Office: _________________________________________________________________ 

Tel: _________ Fax: _______ e-mail: ______ Website: _____________________________ 

Public issue of ___________ equity shares  (if applicable) of Rs. ____ each at a price of Rs._____ (Floor price or price 
band or as the case may be for Book built issue)    for cash aggregating Rs._________  (appropriate disclosure for 
Book Built issue) 

PART C 

ABC LTD. 

THE ISSUE 

Disclosure as per Clause 3.7.1(ii)  

The Issue is being made through the 100% Book Building Process wherein at least ___% of the Issue shall be allocated on 
a  discretionary  basis  to  Qualified  Institutional  Buyers.  Further,  not  less  than  ___%  of  the  Issue  shall  be  available  for 
allocation on a proportionate basis to Non-Institutional Bidders and the remaining ____% of the Issue shall be available for 
allocation on a proportionate basis to Retail Bidders, subject to valid bids being received at or above the Issue Price. (The 
disclosure about details of allocation shall be made in case of Book built issues in these lines) 

PROMOTERS 

XXXX 

PROPOSED LISTING 

Names of Stock Exchanges 

be) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CREDIT RATING (only if applicable) 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES (only if applicable) 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS 

LEAD MANAGERS / BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS / CO-BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS (as the case may 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF ISSUER COMPANY 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address 

Names of Issuer, Lead Managers, Book runners, Syndicate Members, Brokers and Bankers to the issue (as the case may 
be) (Addresses optional) 

AVAILABILITY OF PROSPECTUS  

Investors are advised to refer to the prospectus, and the risk factors contained therein, before applying in the issue. Full 
copy  of  the  prospectus  is  available  at  www.sebi.gov.in  and  websites  of  issuer  /  lead  manager/s  /  Stock  Exchange/s  at 
www… …  
 

ISSUE / BID CLOSES TODAY 

                                                

                                                                                                         Issued by 

****” 

Directors of Issuer 

 
 
Miscellaneous  
 
10. Clauses 1 and 1.3.1 shall be renumbered as clauses 1.1 and 1.3 respectively. 
 
11. In  clause  2.2.2  (b)  (ii),  the  bulleted  sub-clauses  shall  be  numbered  as  sub-

clauses (a), (b) and (c) respectively. 

 
12. In 2nd proviso to clause 2.3.1, the word “further”  shall be inserted after the words 

“Provided”  and before the word “that”. 

 
13. The  heading  “infrastructure  company”  appearing  under  clause  3.2.1  shall  be 

numbered as “clause 3.2A”. The clause 3.2.3 shall be renumbered as 3.2A.1. 

 

 

14. In proviso to clause 4.10.1 (c), the word “that”  shall be inserted after the words 

“Provided”  and before the word “in case”. 

 
15. In  clause  5.4.3.4,  after  sub  clause  (b),  the  words  “The  lead  merchant  banker 
shall ensure that” shall be deleted and the two paragraphs shall be numbered as 
(c) and (d). 

 
16. Clause 5.10.8 shall be deleted. 
 
17. In  clause  6.40.1,  the  words  and  numbers  “clause  6.2  of  Section  I”  shall  be 

substituted for “clause 6.4 of Section I”. 

 
18. Clauses  6.41.11  and  6.41.12  shall  be  renumbered  as  clauses  6.41.10.1  and 

 
19. In clause 6.46.8, the words and numbers “clause 6.13.1”  shall be substituted by 

6.41.10.2 respectively. 

“clause 6.8.4.11”. 

 
20. In  clause  7.5.1,  references  to  stock  invests  shall  be  deleted  viz.,  the  words 
“received along with stock invest”  and  “who have applied through stock invest”  

 
21. In  the  proviso  to  clause  7.6.1,  the  word  “that”  shall  be  inserted  after  the  word 

“Provided” 

 
22. In clause 7.7.1, the words ““cancelled stock invests”  shall be deleted.  
23. In  clause  7.7.5  references  to  stock  invests  shall  be  deleted,  viz.,  the  words 

“alongwith stockinvest”  and“who have applied through stockinvest” 

24. Clause 7.8 shall be deleted. 
25. Clause 8.6.1.1 shall be renumbered as Clause 8.6.1 
26. In clause 8A.4, the term  “clause 6.15.1”  shall be substituted for the term “clause 

6.19.15”.  

respectively. 

27. In  clause  8A.19,  the  bulleted  sub  clauses  shall  be  numbered  (a),  (b)  and  (c) 

28. The following clause shall be numbered as Clause 9.1.8 

“Issue  advertisements  shall  not  appear 
form  of  crawlers  (the 
advertisements which run simultaneously with the programme in a narrow strip 
at the bottom of the television screen) on television.” 

the 

in 

 
28.  The heading of Chapter XI shall read as “GUIDELINES ON BOOK BUILDING” 
29.  The following clause shall be renumbered as Clause 13.1B 

A listed company shall not make any preferential issue of equity shares, Fully 
Convertible Debentures, Partly Convertible Debentures or any other instrument 
which may be converted into or exchanged with equity shares at a latter date if 
the same is not in compliance with the conditions for continuous listing.) 
 

In  clause  13.7.1(ii)(b)  the  term  ”clause  6.8.3.2”  shall  be  substituted  for  “Clause 
6.4.2.1”. 
In Chapter XVI, the following clause shall be numbered as Clause 16.2  
Instructions on post-issue obligations  
In Chapter XVI, the following heading shall be inserted : 
“16.3.0  Merchant Bankers”  
In  chapter  XVI,  the  clause  under  the  head  “Registration  and  renewal  of 
registration of Merchant Bankers” shall be renumbered as Clause 16.3.1. 
In Schedule III, Annexure to the Due Diligence Certificate, the following clause 
at serial no.23 shall be deleted  
“True  copy  of  the  Board  resolution  passed  by  the  issuer  authorising  a 
representative of the Registrar to act on its behalf in relation to handling of stock 
invests.” 

In Schedule VIII, the terms “Clause 6.8.3.2 (b))”  shall be substituted for the term 
“Clause 6.4.2.1(b))” 
In Schedule IX , the term “Clause 6.8.3.2(c))” shall be substituted for “Clause 
6.4.2.1(c)(ii)” 

37.  The  following  shall  be  deleted  from  the  heading  to  Schedule  IX    “IN  THE 

PARAGRAPH ON “PROMOTERS AND THEIR BACKGROUND” 
In  Schedule  X,  the  terms  “Clause  6.10.2.7(b)(v)”  shall  be  substituted  for  ther 
terms “Clause 6.18.7(iv)(b)” 
In Schedule XI, the terms “Clause 6.10.2.7 (b)(vi))”  shall be substituted for the 
terms “Clause 6.18.7.(vi)” 
In  Schedule  XII,  the  terms  “Clause  6.10.2.7(i)(iv)”  shall  be  substituted  for  the 
terms “Clause 6.18.7.(viii)” 
In Schedule XIII, the terms  “Clause 6.10.2.7(g)(iii))” shall be substituted for the 
terms “Clause 6.18.7.(iii)” 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

 
35. 

36. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

44. 

 

 
 

42.  Schedule XIV shall be deleted 
43. 

In Schedule XV, the terms “Clause 6.8.4.11(a)(vii)”  shall be substituted for  the 
terms “Clause 6.13.1(g)”. 
In Schedule XVI, the following clauses pertaining to stock invests appearing in 
the “  Final post issue monitoring report “  shall be deleted : 

In point no. 7,  
“No. of applications accompanied by stock invests 
No. of instruments applied through stock invest 
: 
Amount of subscription received through stock invest 
Percentage of subscription through stock invest in total subscription” 
 
In point no. 10 
“No. of successful allottees from stock-invest applicants 
 No. of instruments allotted to stock invest applicants 
Percentage of stock invest allottees in total  allottees”: 

: Rs. 

: 

 
 

In point no.12 

In point no.16 

      “Cancelled Stock invests” 
 
 
      “Cancelled Stockinvests” 
 
45. 

In  Schedule  XX,  below  the  clause  no.,  the  term  “Clause  11.3.5  (vii)”  shall  be 
inserted to give reference to appropriate clause. 
In Schedule XXI, below the clause no., the term “Clause 11.3.5 (viii)”  shall be 
inserted to give reference to appropriate clause. 
In  Schedule  XXIIIA,  the  term  “Clause  16.1.5  (c)”  shall  be  substituted  for  the 
terms “Clause 16.1.3 and 16 1.4 (c)”. 
In Schedule XXIX, under serial no. (o), the items numbered as (p), (q) and (r ) 
shall be renumbered as (i), (ii) and (iii) respectively. 

46. 

47. 

48. 

 
 
 
 
 

