Deputy General Manager
Corporation Finance Department
Division of Issues and Listing
?  (Board) :  22850451- 56 , 22880962 - 70 (Extn. : 367)
?  (Direct) :  22842826
Fax            :  22045633

To All Registered Merchant Bankers

Dear Sirs,

Sub: Amendments 

the  SEBI 
Protection){DIP} Guidelines,2000

to 

SEBI/CFD/DIL/DIP/12/2004/8/4
April 8, 2004

(Disclosure 

and 

Investor

1.  As  a  part  of  its  constant  endeavor  to  ensure  transparency  and
efficiency in the market and also to streamline and simplify the existing
procedures,  SEBI  has  been  reviewing  the  guidelines  on  an  ongoing
basis.  In this regard, the feedback received from market participants
as well as policy recommendations made by the committees set up by
SEBI are taken into consideration.

2.  The  SEBI  Board,  after  considering  the  above,  has  approved  certain

modifications to be incorporated in the captioned Guidelines.

3.  Accordingly, SEBI, under the provision of Section 11(1) of SEBI Act, is
hereby  issuing  the  amendments  to  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  2000;
incorporating the modifications approved by the SEBI Board, as stated
above.    The  amendments  are  detailed  in  Annexure  I  and  are
categorized as follows:

4.

Guidelines for Issue Advertisements.

 4.1 It is observed that in the case of issue advertisements on television, the
risk factors scroll the screen so fast that they are not readable / legible.
In place of the same, a statement advising the prospective investors to
refer  to  the  Red  Herring  Prospectus  /  Offer  document  for  details,
should appear.

- 1 -

5.

5.1

5.2

5.3

6.

6.1

Introduction of the facility of Shelf Prospectus

As  per  Sec.60A  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  the  facility  of  shelf
prospectus  can  be  availed  of  by  specific  entities  like  public  sector
banks,  scheduled  banks  and  public  financial  institutions.    The  DIP
guidelines have been amended to provide for the same.

These entities can file a draft shelf prospectus with SEBI in the first
instance disclosing the aggregate amount the issuer intends to raise
through  various  tranches.    There  is  no  variation  from  the  existing
requirements,  as  regards  the  procedure  for  filing  and  documents  to
be submitted therewith.

SEBI  will  issue  observations  on  the  draft  shelf  prospectus,  which
would  be  valid  for  365  days.    Subsequently,  for  each  tranche,  the
permitted entities would be required to file the shelf prospectus after
incorporating  the  updations  in  terms  of  Information  Memorandum
with  SEBI.    They  can  proceed  with  the  tranche  without  waiting  for
observations of SEBI.  If there are any complaints etc., they would be
required to address the same to the satisfaction of SEBI.

Guidelines for Preferential Issues

The  guidelines  pertaining  to  preferential  allotment  have  been
amended to restrict sale of shares by shareholders who are allotted
shares  on  preferential  basis,  to  impose  lock-in  on  pre  preferential
shareholding  from  the  relevant  date  till  six  months  after  date  of
allotment,  to  reduce  the  period  for  allotment  from  existing  30  to  15
days, to facilitate corporate debt restructuring schemes etc. Details of
the same are given in Point VI in the Annexure.

7.

Miscellaneous Amendments

7.1     Certain consequential amendments have been carried out, pursuant
to  redefinition  of  retail 
investor  vide  circular  dated
14.8.2003 and  withdrawal of stock invests facility  by Reserve Bank
of India

individual 

- 2 -

8. 

Applicability

8.1     The amendments shall come into force with immediate effect.

9. 

Other issues

9.1 

9.2 

You  are  directed  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  SEBI
(DIP) guidelines 2000 and amendments thereof. This circular along
with  the  annexure  is  available  in  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in.
Full  text  of  SEBI  (DIP)  guidelines  2000  including  the  amendments
issued  vide  this  circular  is  also  available  in  SEBI’s  web  site  under
Primary Market Section.

SEBI  is  in  the  process  of  issuing  digitally  signed  circulars  to
intermediaries.    In  this  regard,  all  registered  merchant  bankers  are
advised to communicate the e-mail ids to the Division of Issues and
Listing  (email  to  ushar@sebi.gov.in)  so  that  their  email  ids  can  be
registered  on  the  server  for  establishing  relevant  mailing  list.
Thereafter  you  may  check  your  email  accounts  periodically  as
physical dispatch of circulars may be discontinued in due course.

Yours faithfully,

NEELAM BHARDWAJ

Encl.: a/a

- 3 -

ANNEXURE I

AMENDMENTS TO SEBI (DIP) GUIDELINES, 2000

I.  

Chapter I – Preliminary

In    clause  1.2.1,  after  sub-clause  (xxvi),  the  following  sub-clause
(xxvi-a) shall be inserted, namely : -

“(xxvi-a)  ‘shelf  prospectus’  means  a  shelf  prospectus  within  the
meaning  of  clause  (b)  of  the  Explanation  to  section  60A  of  the
Companies Act, 1956.”

II.

Chapter VII – POST – ISSUE OBLIGATIONS

(1) Clause 7.4.1.1 shall be omitted.

(2) The heading of clause  7.6.1.2  shall  be  substituted  by  the  following,

namely-

“7.6.1.2 Reservation for Retail Individual Investor”.

(3) In  clause  7.6.1.2.1,  the  words  “small  individual  applicants”  shall  be

substituted by the words “retail individual investors”.

   III.   Chapter VIII – OTHER ISSUE REQUIREMENTS

(2).In clause 8.21.1, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:-

“Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to shelf prospectus”

IV. Chapter IX -GUIDELINES ON ADVERTISEMENTS

After clause 9.1.8, the following clause shall be inserted, namely :

     “9.1.8A In case of issue of advertisement on television screen :

(a) the risk factors shall not be scrolled on the screen; and

(b)  the  advertisement  shall  advise  the  viewers  to  refer  to  the  red
herring prospectus or other offer document for details.”

- 4 -

V. 

Guidelines for Shelf Prospectus

After Chapter XII, a new Chapter XII-A shall be inserted as follows:

“CHAPTER XII-A

SHELF PROSPECTUS

12A.1 

Applicability

(a)  This  Chapter  shall  apply  to  issues  of  debt  securities  to  be
made  by  public  sector  banks,  scheduled  commercial  banks
and public financial institutions pursuant to a shelf prospectus
proposed  to  be  issued  in  terms  of  section  60A  of  the
Companies Act, 1956.

(b)  Unless  otherwise  specified  in  this  Chapter,  the  provisions  of
these Guidelines relating to public issues shall apply in respect
of such issues.

12A.2.

Procedure

12A.2.1  A  public  sector  bank,  scheduled  commercial  bank  or  public
financial  institution  proposing  to  issue  a  shelf  prospectus  shall
file a draft shelf prospectus with the Board.

12A.2.2    Where  a  draft  shelf  prospectus  is  filed  with  the  Board,  the
provisions of Chapter V of these Guidelines shall apply as if it
were a draft prospectus filed under clause 2.1.1.

12A.2.3  The  shelf  prospectus  shall,  in  addition  to  other  requisite
disclosures  as  per 
the
aggregate amount proposed to be raised through all the stages
of offers of securities made under the shelf prospectus.

these  Guidelines,  also  disclose 

12A.2.4 The observation letter issued by the Board shall be valid for a

period of 365 days from the date of issuance.

12A.3 

Information memorandum

12A.3.1      A  public  sector  bank,  scheduled  commercial  bank  or  public
financial      institution  shall  file  the  shelf  prospectus  after
incorporating 
information
memorandum  in  respect  of  the  second  or  any  subsequent
offer of securities with the Board.

the  updations 

in 

terms  of 

- 5 -

12A.3.2   The shelf prospectus as updated in terms of Clause 12A.3.1
shall be uploaded on the website of SEBI and on the website
of the lead merchant banker.

12A.3.3  The  public  sector  bank,  scheduled  commercial  bank  or  public
financial  institution  shall  open  the  particular  stage  of  offer  of
securities  after 
information  memorandum/shelf
prospectus  as  updated  in  terms  of  Clause  12A.3.1  with  the
Registrar of Companies and with the Board.”

filing 

the 

VI.

Chapter XIII – GUIDELINES FOR PREFERENTIAL ISSUES

 

1.

(i) 

(ii)

In clause 13.3.1 -

in  sub-clause  (c),  the  words  “except  on  such  allotments  on
preferential  basis  which  involve  swap  of  equity  shares  /
securities  convertible  into  equity  shares  at  a  later  date,  for
acquisition”  shall be omitted.

after  sub-clause  (d),  the  following  sub-clauses  shall  be
inserted, namely : -

“(e)

 (f)

 (g)

 (h)

the  lock-in  period  in  respect  of  the  shares  issued  on
preferential  basis  pursuant  to  a  scheme  approved
under  Corporate  Debt  Restructuring 
framework
specified  by  Reserve  Bank  of  India,  shall  commence
from  the  date  of  allotment  and  shall  continue  for  a
period  of  one  year  and  in  case  of  allotment  of  partly
paid  up  shares        the  lock-in  period  shall  commence
from the date of allotment and continue for a period of
one year from the date when shares become fully paid
up.
no  listed  company  shall  make  preferential  issue  of
equity  shares,  warrants,  PCDs,  FCDs  or  any  other
financial instruments convertible into or exchanged with
equity shares at a later date,   to any person unless the
entire  shareholding  if  any,  of  such  person    in  the
company is held by him in dematerialized form.
where the shares, warrants, PCDs, FCDs or any other
financial instruments convertible into or exchanged with
equity shares at a later date, are issued on preferential
basis, the entire  pre preferential allotment shareholding
of  such  allottees  shall  be  under  lock  –  in  from  the
relevant date upto a period of six months from the date
of preferential allotment.
where the shares, warrants, PCDs, FCDs or any other
financial instruments convertible into or exchanged with

- 6 -

equity shares at a later date, are issued on preferential
basis,    the  shareholders  who  have  sold  their  shares
during the six months period prior to the relevant date,
as  applicable,  shall  not  be  eligible  for  allotment  of
shares on preferential basis.”

2.

(i)

(ii)

In  clause 13.4.1,

the  words  ‘three  months’  appearing  after  the  words  ‘within  a
period  of’  and  before  the  words  ‘from  the  date  of’  shall  be
substituted by the words ‘fifteen days’;
the following proviso shall be inserted, namely : -

“Provided  that  where  the  allotment  on  preferential  basis  is
pending  on  account  of  pendency  of  any  approval  of  such
allotment  by  any 
the  Central
Government, the allotment shall be completed within 15 days
from the date of such approval.”

regulatory  authority  or 

3.

After  clause  13.4.2,  the  following  clause  shall  be  inserted,
namely -

“13.4.2A Nothing contained in clauses 13.4.1 and 13.4.2 shall
apply in case of allotment of shares and securities convertible
into equity shares at a later date on preferential basis pursuant
to  a  scheme  of  corporate  debt  restructuring  as  per  the
Corporate  Debt  Restructuring  framework  specified  by  the
Reserve Bank of India”.

- 7 -

- 8 -

