 
OFFICER ON SPECIAL DUTY 
INTEGRATED SURVEILLANCE DEPARTMENT  
Tel : 022-26441450. Fax : 022-26449030 
Email: ramanns@sebi.gov.in  

ISD/SR/Circ/120185/2008 
March 12, 2008 

The Managing Director / Executive Director / Administrator 
Of All Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub.:  POLICY  FOR  COMMENCEMENT/  RECOMMENCEMENT  OF 

TRADING OF SECURITIES. 

 
I.  Currently, the stock exchanges have a policy for imposition of price band on first day of 
commencement/recommencement of trading in respect of cases of merger, de-merger, 
amalgamation,  capital  reduction,  scheme  of  arrangement,  revocation  of  suspension, 
direct listing on another stock exchange while being listed on one exchange.  

II.  SEBI has received representations expressing concerns of effect of price band on price 
discovery in cases of merger, de-merger, amalgamation, capital reduction and scheme of 
arrangement. 

III. In consultation with the stock exchanges, it has been decided that in cases of merger, de-
merger,  amalgamation,  capital  reduction,  scheme  of  arrangement,  in  terms  of  the 
Companies Act and/or as sanctioned by the Courts, in cases of rehabilitation packages 
approved by the Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction under Sick Industrial 
Companies Act and in cases of Corporate Debt Restructuring (CDR) packages by the 
CDR  Cell  of  the  RBI,  there  is  no  need  to  have  a  price  band  on  the  first  day  of 
commencement/recommencement  of  trading.  The  price  band  may  be  retained  in  all 
other cases on the first day. 

IV. Applicability 

The above policy may come into force with immediate effect. 

V.  Direction to Stock Exchanges 

Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  give  effect  to  the  abovementioned  policy  and 
communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the requirements of this circular 
in the next Monthly Development Report. 
 
 
 

VI.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 11, 
read  with  sub-section  (2)  of  Section  11A,  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

VII.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
S. RAMANN 

