 
 
Deputy General Manager 
Market Regulation Department – Policy 
Email:-sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in 
Tel : 22164465; Fax: 22164482 

SEBI/MRD/SE/AT/46/2003 
December 22, 2003 

 
 
The Executive Directors/Managing Director/Administrators 
Of All Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam,  

 

 

Sub:   Secondary Market for Corporate Debt Securities - Clarifications 

 

1.  SEBI  had 

issued  a  circular  No.SEBI/MRD/SE/AT/36/2003/30/09  dated 
September  30,  2003  stipulating  the  conditions  to  be  complied  in  respect  of 
private placement of debt securities. These conditions governed three aspects, 
viz., issuance, listing and trading of privately placed debt securities. 

2.  The said circular was issued by SEBI after a consultative paper on the subject 
was  placed  on  the  web  site  of  SEBI  for  public  comments.  Subsequent  to  the 
issuance  of  the  circular,  market  participants  have  made  representations  and 
suggestions  and  sought  clarifications  on  the  various  provisions  of  the  circular 
from SEBI.  A series of meetings were also held with them.  Meanwhile, SEBI 
has vide press release dated November 25, 2003 granted a transition period up 
to March 31, 2004 to those issuer companies who had issued privately placed 
debt securities but did not list those securities prior to September 30, 2003 (the 
date of the circular) to enable them to comply with the provisions of the circular.  

3.  The clarifications sought and representations covered the following aspects : 

Applicability of the circular to  

i.  Type of issuer companies 
ii.  Prospective and existing issues 
iii.  Tenor of the debt instruments 

3.1 

3.2 
3.3 

Extent of disclosures and applicability of DIP Guidelines 
Association  of  SEBI  registered  intermediaries,  including  merchant 
bankers  
Vetting of Offer document 

3.4 
3.5  Whether  the  requirement of 1% deposit  with the stock exchange/s   is 

mandatory 
Applicability of mi nimum subscription clause as per DIP guidelines 
Credit rating  
Listing through a separate listing agreement  
Denomination for issuance and market lot for trading 

3.6 
3.7 
3.8 
3.9 
3.10  Trading of securities on the stock exchanges. 

Page 1 of 5 

4.  The clarifications to the above are as follows: 
 

4.1 Applicability of the circular   

 
i. Type of Issuer companies 

 

 

 

 

a)  The SEBI circular  dated September 30, 2003  would be applicable to 
all listed companies which have any of their securities, either equity 
or  debt,  offered  through  an  offer  document,  i.e.,  through  a  public 
issue and listed on a recognized stock exchange and also includes 
Public  Sector  Undertakings  whose  securities  are  listed  on  a 
recognized stock exchange.  

 
b)  Further,  unlisted  companies/statutory  corporations/other  entities,  if 
they so desire, may get their privately placed debt securities listed in 
the stock exchanges, by complying with the relevant provisions of the 
said circular. 

 
ii. Prospective and existing issues 

a)  The SEBI circular is applicable to all debt securities that have been 
and  would  be  issued  on  a  private  placement  basis  on  or  after  the 
date of the circular, i.e., September 30, 2003.   

 
b)  The  circular  would  also  apply  to  those  issuer  companies  whose 
outstanding debt securities were issued prior to September 30, 2003. 
However,  such  issuer  companies  are  required  to  comply  with  the 
provisions of the  circular before  March 31, 2004  for which transition 
time was provided vide press release dated November 25, 2003.  

 

c)  If,  however, the issuer companies do not comply with the aforesaid 
conditions for listing of such securities before March 31, 2004, then 
such  securities  would  remain  unlisted  and,  would,  therefore,  not  be 
permitted  for  trading  in  the  Stock  Exchange  trading  platform  from 
April 01, 2004.  
 

iii. Tenor of the debt instruments 

 
The  SEBI  circular  would  not  be  applicable  for  private  placement  of 
debt securities having a maturity of less than 365 days. 

Page 2 of 5 

 
 
 
 

4.2 Extent of disclosures and applicability of DIP Guidelines 

 

a)  As  already  stipulated  in  the  circular  dated  September  30,  2003  the 
issuer companies shall make full disclosures (initial and continuing) in 
the  manner  prescribed  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956, 
Chapter  VI  of  the  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  2000  and  the  listing 
agreement with the stock exchanges.  

 
b)  Such  disclosures  may  be  made  through  the  web  site  of  the  stock 
exchanges  where  the  debt  securities  are  sought  to  be  listed  if  the 
privately  placed  debt  securities  are 
the  standard 
denomination of Rs. 10 lakhs.  

issued 

 
c)  The  issuer  companies  which  make  frequent  private  placements  of 
debt securities would be permitted to file an umbrella offer document 
on the lines of a “Shelf prospectus” as applicable for a public issue.  

in 

d)  As regards financial disclosures, issuer companies which are not in a 
position, for genuine reasons, to    disclose audited accounts upto a 
date not earlier than six months of the date of the offer document, in 
terms  of  provisions  of  Clause  6.18  of  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  2000 
may disclose the audited accounts for the last financial year and un-
audited accounts for the subsequent quarters with a limited review by 
a practicing Chartered Accountant. 

e)  It is also being clarified that the provisions  other than Chapter VI  of 
SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  2000  will  not  be  applicable  for  privately 
placed debt securities. 

 

 

 

bankers 
 

4.3 Association  of  SEBI  registered  intermediaries,  including  merchant 

a)  The appointment of intermediaries  (other than debenture trustee)  for 

private placement of debt securities is not mandatory.   

 
b)  Since engaging the services of an intermediary (other than debenture 
trustee)  is  not  mandatory,  the  appointment  of  such  an  intermediary 
would be left to the discretion of the issuer company, as it deems fit. 

Page 3 of 5 

 
 
 

 

 

c)  There  is  no  prohibition  on  SEBI  registered  intermediaries  to  be 
associated  with 
the  privately  placed  unlisted  debt  securities. 
However,  such 
intermediaries  would  be  accountable 
their 
activities. Further, they would be required to furnish periodical reports 
to SEBI in such format as specified by SEBI from time to time. 

for 

 

 

4.4 Vetting of offer document 

There is no requirement of vetting of the offer document by SEBI. 

4.5  Whether the requirement of 1% deposit with the stock exchange/s  is 

mandatory 

There is no requirement to deposit 1% of the issue size of the privately 
placed debt securities with the stock exchanges.  

 

 

4.6 Applicability of minimum subscription clause as per DIP guidelines 
This clause will not be applicable for privately placed debt securities.  

4.7 Credit rating  

The  debt  securities  shall  carry  a  credit  rating  from  a  Credit  Rating 
Agency registered with SEBI. 

 
4.8 Listing through a separate listing agreement  

The  separate  Listing  Agreement  for  listing  the  privately  placed  debt 
securities is being finalised. Till such time, the issuance process would 
be allowed and the securities may be listed on the  basis of disclosures 
subject  to  the  issuer  company  furnishing  an  undertaking  to  the  Stock 
Exchanges  stating,  inter-alia,  that  the  issuer  company  shall  sign  the 
Listing Agreement as soon as the same comes into force. 

 

4.9 Denomination for issuance and market lot for trading  
 

a)  The privately placed debt securities need not necessarily be issued in 

denomination of Rs. 10 lakhs.  

 
b)  The securities shall be issued in demat form.  
 

Page 4 of 5 

 
 
 
c)  However, if an investor is allotted securities of Rs.1 lakh or less, such 
securities  may  be  issued  in  physical  form  at  the  option  of  the 
investor.  It  shall  be  disclosed  by  the  issuer  companies  that  such 
investors  would  not  be  able  to  trade  in such securities  through  the 
stock exchange mechanism. 

 

4.10 Trading of securities on the stock exchanges 
 

a)  The trading in the privately placed debt securities would be permitted 
in  standard  denomination  of  Rs.  10  lakhs  in  the  anonymous,  order 
driven system of the stock exchanges in a separate trading segment. 
The marketable lot would be Rs. 10 lakhs.  

 
b)  All class of investors would be permitted to trade subject to the said 

standard denomination/marketable lot.  

c)  The trades executed on spot basis shall be required to be reported to 

the stock exchange/s. 
 

5. The stock exchanges are directed to:  
 

•  make necessary amendments to the  listing agreement,  bye-   laws,    rules   
and regulations for the implementation of the above decision immediately, 
as may be applicable and necessary. 
 

the  provisions  of 

this  circular 

to 

the  notice  of 

the 

listed    

•  bring 

companies/member brokers/clearing members of the Exchange and also to 
disseminate the same on the website for easy access to the investors; and 
 

•  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 
this circular in Section II, item no. 13 of the Monthly Development Report for 
the month of January, 2004.  

6. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred by section 11 (1) 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market.  

 

 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
V S SUNDARESAN 

Page 5 of 5 

