Chief General Manager
Corporation Finance Department
Division of Issues and Listing
?  (Board) :  22850451- 56 , 22880962 - 70 (Extn. : 249)
?  (Direct) :  22882946
Fax            :  22045633

SEBI/CFD/DIL/DIP/13/2004/28/5
May 28, 2004

To All Registered Merchant Bankers

Dear Sirs,

Sub: Amendments 

the  SEBI 
Protection){DIP} Guidelines,2000

to 

(Disclosure 

and 

Investor

1.  As a part of its constant endeavor to ensure transparency and efficiency in
the  market  and  also  to  streamline  and  simplify  the  existing  procedures,
SEBI  has  been  reviewing  the  guidelines  on  an  ongoing  basis.    In  this
regard,  the  feedback  received  from  market  participants  as  well  as  policy
recommendations made by the committees set up by SEBI are taken into
consideration.

2.  The  SEBI  Board,  after  considering  the  above,  has  approved  certain

modifications to be incorporated in the captioned Guidelines.

issuing 

3.  Accordingly,  SEBI,  under  the  provision  of  Section  11(1)  of  SEBI  Act,  is
to  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  2000;
hereby 
(hereinafter referred as “  the guidelines”  ) incorporating the modifications
approved  by  the  SEBI  Board.    The  amendments  are  detailed  in
Annexure I and are categorized and summarized as follows

the  amendments 

4.  Restriction on splitting of shares

in 

for  share  splits 

4.1  At  present,  the  guidelines  permit  the  issuer  to  determine  the
denomination  of  shares  for  public  /  rights  issue  and  to  change  the
standard  denomination.    It  was  observed  that  many  issuers  were
going 
  Based  on
recommendation  of  advisory  committee,  the  guidelines  have  been
amended  to  restrict  pre  IPO  splitting  of  shares.  The  amendments
inter  alia  provide  for  a  floor  face  value  of  Re.1  per  share,  the  face
value  to  necessarily  be  Rs.10  per  share  for  issue  price  below
Rs.500/- per share, and permit issuer companies to fix the face value
below  Rs  10/-  per  share  only  in  cases  where  the  issue  price  is  Rs
500/- or more.

just  before 

the 

IPOs. 

5.  Terms of the issue

5.1  The  existing  provisions  in  the  guidelines  define  minimum  tradable/
application lot in terms of number of shares based on the offer price
per  share.  Further,  the  minimum  application  money  is  stipulated  at
not less than  Rs. 2000/-.  The above provisions are to be viewed in
the  background  of  the  original  definition  of  the  retail  individual
investor, viz., an investor who has applied for 1000 shares or less.

5.2  Subsequently, vide circular dated  August 14, 2003, SEBI revised the
definition  of  retail  individual  investor  as  an  investor  who  applies  or
bids for securities of or for a value of not more than Rs.50,000/-.  This
amendment necessitated review of the existing provisions pertaining
to minimum application size in terms of number of shares.

5.3  Accordingly,  it  has  been  decided  to  replace  provision  relating  to
minimum application size / tradeable lot in terms of number of shares
based on offer price, by the minimum application value, which shall
fall within the range of Rs.5000- Rs.7000.  The applications can be
made  in  multiples  of  such  value.    The  same  has  been  explained
along with an illustration in the guidelines.

6.  Post Issue Obligations

6.1  As per the existing guidelines, in the event of oversubscription in an
issue,  the  allotment  is  to  be  made  in  terms  of  the  proportionate
allotment procedure, subject to determination of successful applicants
by  drawal  of  lots  and  allotting  a  minimum  of  100  shares/  minimum
tradeable lot to successful applicants.

6.2  The  said  provisions  necessitated  a  review  in  view  of  the  altered
ground realities where trading in demat  form  is  the  norm,    flexibility
given to issuer for determining the  minimum application lot and also
in view of the new definition of retail individual investors.

6.3  Accordingly 

to 

it  has  been  decided 

introduce  allotment  on
proportionate basis within the specified categories, rounded off to the
nearest  integer  subject  to  a  minimum  allotment  being  equal  to  the
minimum  application  size  as  fixed  and  disclosed  by  the  issuer.  The
same has been explained alongwith an illustration in the guidelines.

7.  Public  issue  of  Bonds  by  Designated  Financial  Institutions  under  a

shelf prospectus.

7.1 

It has been observed that financial institutions regularly come out with
a public issue of unsecured redeemable bonds.  These institutions file
a shelf prospectus which states the total amount to be raised during
the  year  along  with  the  oversubscription  option.  Each  time  the
institution comes out with the issue in terms of the shelf prospectus, it
files  an  Information  Memorandum  /  prospectus,      which  states  the
total  amount  to  be  raised  through  the  tranche  alongwith  over
subscription option.

7.2  As  per  clause  12.10.4(b)  of  the  guidelines,  the  maximum  target
amount  raised,  shall  not  exceed  twice  the  minimum  target.    It  has
been  observed  that  the  public  issue  of  bonds,  where  tax  savings
bonds  /  infrastructure  bonds  are  offered,  have  received  heavy
oversubscription 
target  amount
mentioned  in  the  prospectus).  In  such  a  scenario,  returning  of  the
excess  subscription  would  adversely  affect  the  investors  whose  tax
planning measures normally take into account such investments.

(which  exceed 

the  maximum 

7.3 

In view of above, the guidelines have been amended to provide that
once the issue size and over subscription limits are disclosed in the
shelf  prospectus,  issuers  can  raise  and  retain  any  amount  through
the  tranche  issues  subject  to  the  same  being  within  the  respective
limits specified in shelf prospectus and also subject to the condition
that the issuer has to disclose the minimum amount proposed to be
raised and the maximum over subscription proposed to be retained in
the information memorandum / prospectus filed in respect of issues
under a shelf prospectus.

8. Definition of Employees

8.1 Clause  8.3.4  of  the  guidelines  permits  an  issuer  company  to  make
reservations  /  firm  allotments  to  various  categories  of  persons.
Among  the  various  categories  provided  for  in  the  said  clause,  one
category is mentioned as “Permanent employees (including working
directors)  of  the  company  and  in  case  of  a  new  company,  the
permanent  employees  of  the  promoting  companies”.  However  the
term “employee”  has not been defined in the guidelines.

8.2 In view of the above, the guidelines have been amended to define the
term employee SEBI, on the lines of the definition of the said term in
the  SEBI  (Employee  Stock  Option  Scheme  and  Employee  Stock  Purchase)
Guidelines 1999

9. Reservation for shareholders

Clause 8.3.4 of the guidelines has been amended to permit reservation on
competitive basis, in further public issue by a listed company,  for the retail
shareholders  i.e  those  shareholders  who  are  holding  shares  worth  Rs
50,000/-    subject  to  the  allotment  being  on  proportionate  basis  as  is  the
case while allotting shares in public category.

10.Green Shoe Option (GSO) facility

As  GSO  is  essentially  a  device  to  ensure  post  issue  price  stability,  the
guidelines have been  amended to clarify that this facility is available in all
public  issues,  viz.  Initial  public  offers  (  including  fresh  issue  or  offer  for
sale) , follow – on offerings, public issues either through book building or
fixed  price  route.  Further,    the  guidelines  have  also  been  amended  to
permit all pre IPO shareholders ( including promoters) in case of IPOs and
pre  issue  share  holders  holding  more  than  5%  shares,  (including
promoters)  in  case  of  follow  on  offerings,  to  lend  their  shares  for  the
purpose of GSO as per the conditions specified in the Chapter VIII A.of the
guidelines.

11. Applicability

11.1   The amendments shall come into force with immediate effect.

You  are  directed  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  SEBI  (DIP)
guidelines  2000  and  amendments  thereof.  This  circular  along  with  the
annexure  is  available  in  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in.  Full  text  of  SEBI
(DIP)  guidelines  2000  including  the  amendments  issued  vide  this  circular  is
also available in SEBI’s web site under Primary Market Section.

Yours faithfully,

DULAL CHANDA

Encl.: a/a

AMENDMENTS TO SEBI (DISCLOSURE AND INVESTOR PROTECTION)

GUIDELINES, 2000

I.  Chapter I – Preliminary

In  clause  1.2.1,  after  sub-clause  (xiia),  the  following  sub-clause  (xxvi-a)
shall be inserted, namely: -

“(xiib) ‘employee" means
a) a permanent employee of the company working in India or out of India;
or

b)  a  director  of  the  company,  whether  a  whole  time  director,  part  time
director or otherwise;

c) an employee as defined in sub-clauses (a) or (b) of a subsidiary, in India
or out of India, or of a holding company of the company.”

II. Chapter III – PRICING BY COMPANIES ISSUING SECURITIES

1. Clause 3.7.1 shall be substituted by the following, namely : -

“ 3.7.1  An eligible company shall be free to make public or rights issue
of  equity  shares  in  any  denomination  determined  by  it  in  accordance
with sub-section (4) of section 13 of the Companies Act, 1956 and in
compliance with the following and other norms as may be specified by
SEBI from time to time.

 i. 

In case of initial public offer by an unlisted company,

a.  if the issue price is Rs 500/- or more, the issuer company
shall have a discretion to fix the face value below Rs. 10/-
per share subject to the condition that the face value shall
in no case be less than Rs. 1 per share.

b.  if issue price is less than Rs 500 per share, the face value

shall be  Rs. 10/- per share.

 ii.  The  disclosure  about  the  face  value  of  shares    (including  the
statement  about  the  issue  price  being  “X”  times  of  the  face
value) shall be made in the advertisement, offer documents and
in application forms in identical font size as that of issue price or
price band.

III.

(1).

(2).

(3).

Chapter VI– CONTENTS OF OFFER DOCUMENTS

In clause 6.2.1.2, in sub-cluase (iv) para (a) shall be substituted by the
following :-

“(a) The ‘Risks in relation to the first issue’  (wherever applicable)
shall  be  incorporated  in  a  box  format  in  case  of  a  initial  public
issue:

"This  being  the  first  issue  of  the  company,  there  has  been  no
formal  market  for  the  securities  of  the  company.      The  face
value of the shares is (-----) and the issue price is ‘X-times’
of the face value.    The issue price (has been determined and
justified by the Lead Merchant Banker and the issuer company
as stated under Justification of Premium paragraph - in case of
premium  issue)  should  not  be  taken  to  be  indicative  of  the
market price of the equity shares after the shares are listed. No
assurance can be given regarding an active or sustained trading
in  the  shares  of  the  company  nor  regarding  the  price  at  which
the equity shares will be traded after listing."

In  clause  6.13.1  after  sub-clause  (h)  the  following  shall  be  added,
namely: -
(i)

the face value of shares (including the statement about the issue
price being “X”  times of the face value)

In clause 6.27, in clause (i) after sub-clause (g) the following shall be
added, namely: -
(h)

the  face  value  of  shares    (including  the  statement  about  the
issue price being “X”  times of the face value)

IV.

Chapter VII – POST – ISSUE OBLIGATIONS

1.  Clause 7.6.1.1 stands substituted by the following

Allotment  shall  be  on  proportionate  basis  within 
the  specified
categories,  rounded  off  to  the  nearest  integer  subject  to  a  minimum
allotment  being  equal  to  the  minimum  application  size  as  fixed  and
disclosed by the issuer

Explanation  :  For  the  purposes  of  the  aforesaid  clause,  the
illustration given in schedule XVIII may be referred.

V.   Chapter VIII – OTHER ISSUE REQUIREMENTS

 In clause 8.3.4,

(1).

in  Explanation  2,  the  category  of  persons  at  serial  No.  (i)  shall  be
substituted by the following –
“(i)

Employees of the company

(2).   after Explanation 2, the following shall be inserted, namely: -

      “2A.  In  a  public  issue  (not  being  a  composite  issue)  by  a  listed
company, the reservation on competitive basis can be made for the
shareholders who, on the record date ( date fixed for the purpose of
determining the eligible shareholders) , are holding shares worth up
to  Rs.  50,000/-  determined  on  the  basis  of  closing  price  as  on  the
previous day.

Provided  that  the  allotment  to  such  shareholders  shall  be  on
proportionate basis as in case of allotment in public category.”

(3)

Clause  8.6.1,  Clause  8.6.1(i),  Clause  8.6.1(ii)  and  Clause  8.6.1(iii)
shall be substituted  by the following :

8.6.1.1.  Minimum application value

i)  The  minimum  application  value  shall  be  within  the  range  of  Rs.
5,000 to Rs,  7,000.    The  issuer  company,  in  consultation  with  the
merchant  banker,  shall  stipulate  the  minimum  application  size  (in
terms  of  number  of  shares)  falling    within  the  aforesaid  range  of
minimum  application  value  and  make  upfront  disclosures  in  this
regard, in the offer document.

Explanation  :For  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  the  minimum
application  value  shall  be  with  reference  to  the  issue  price  of  the
shares and not with reference to the amount payable on application.

Illustration : For the purpose of sub clause (i), the following may be
taken as illustration

 The issue price of shares is Rs.500.  Out of the same, Rs.100/- is
payable on application and the balance on allotment and calls.  In
this instance, the application value of Rs.5000-7000 shall be arrived
at  with  reference  to  the  issue  price  of  Rs.500/-.    As  such,  the
minimum  application  size,  to  be  stipulated  in  the  offer  document,
would range from 10 shares to 14 shares and not 50 shares to 70
shares.

ii)  Applications can be made in multiples of the minimum size /value
so  stipulated  in  the  offer  document  by  the  issuer  and  merchant
banker as at (i) and within the range of Rs.5000-7000, as stipulated
at (i).

iii)  Schedule XVIIIA may be referred for illustration on  sub clause (ii)

above.

(4) 
(5) 

Clause 8.6.1(iv)  and Clause 8.6.1.(vi) stands deleted.
Sub-clause (v)  of Clause 8.6..1 shall be renumbered as sub – clause
(iv) and sub clause (vii) shall be renumbered as sub-clause (v).

 VI.  CHAPTER VIII-A -GREEN SHOE OPTION

(1) In  clause  8A.1,  sub-clause  (a)  shall  be  substituted  by  the  following,

namely-

“(a)  An  issuer  company  making  a  public  offer  of  equity  shares
can  avail  of  the  Green  Shoe  Option  (GSO)  for  stabilizing  the
post  listing  price  of  its  shares,  subject  to  the  provisions  of  this
Chapter.”

   (2)  In  clause  8A.2,  the  words  “Lead  book  runners,  amongst”  shall  be
substituted by the words “merchant bankers or Book Runners, as the
case may be, from amongst”;

  (3) Clause 8A.3 shall be substituted by the following, namely-

“8A.3  (a).The  SA  shall  also  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the
promoter(s) or pre-issue shareholders who will lend their shares under
the  provisions  of  this  Chapter,  specifying  the  maximum  number  of
shares that may be borrowed from the promoters or the shareholders,
which shall not be in excess of 15% of the total issue size.”

(4) In sub-clause 8A.4, after the words “shall be disclosed in”  and before
the  words  “the  draft  Red  Herring  prospectus”,  the  words  and  comma
“the draft prospectus,”  shall be inserted;

(5) in  sub-clause  8A.5,  before  the  words  “Lead  Book  Runner”  the  words

“lead merchant banker or the ”  shall be inserted;

    (6)  in  sub-clause  8A.6,  after  the  words  “  shall  be  disclosed  in”  and
before  the  words  “the  draft  Red  Herring  prospectus”  ,  the  words  and
comma “  the draft prospectus,”  shall be inserted;

(7) Clause 8A.7 shall be substituted by the following, namely-

“8A.7(a)  In  case  of  an  initial  public  offer  by  a  unlisted  company,  the
promoters and pre-issue shareholders and in case of public issue by a
listed  company,  the  promoters  and  pre-  issue  shareholders  holding

more than 5% shares ,may lend the shares subject to the provisions of
this Chapter.
(b)  The  SA  shall  borrow  shares  from  the  promoters  or  the  pre-issue
shareholders  of  the  issuer  company  or  both,  to  the  extent  of  the
proposed over-allotment.

Provided  that  the  shares  referred  to  in  this  clause  shall  be  in

dematerialized form only.

(8) Clause 8A.21 shall be substituted by the following, namely-

“8A.21 For the purpose of the Chapter VIII-A,

(a)  promoter  means  a  promoter  as  defined  in  Explanation  I  to
clause 6.4.2.1of these guidelines.”
(b)  Over  allotment  shall  mean  as  an  allotment  or  allocation  of
shares in excess of the size of a public issue, made by the SA
out  of  shares  borrowed  from  the  promoters  or  the  pre-issue
shareholders  or  both,  in  pursuance  of  a  green  shoe  option
exercised by the company in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter.”

VII.

Chapter IX -GUIDELINES ON ADVERTISEMENTS

In  clause  9.1.12,  after  sub-clause  (c),  the  following  shall  be  inserted,
namely:

“(d)  It  shall  contain  the  disclosure  about  the  face  value  of  shares
(including the statement about the issue price being “X”  times of the
face value).”

VIII.  CHAPTER  XII  –  GUIDELINES  FOR  ISSUE  OF  CAPITAL  BY

DESIGNATED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.

In  clause  12.10.4,  after  sub-clause  (b)  the  following  proviso  shall  be
inserted, namely-

“Provided  that  the  aforesaid  clause  shall  not  be  applicable  to  the
information memorandum / prospectus in respect of issues  made under
the shelf prospectus.

Provided further that the issue size and over subscription limits disclosed
in the information memorandum / prospectus (in respect of issues made
under a shelf prospectus) shall not exceed the respective limits disclosed
in the shelf prospectus.

(c) After disclosing the issue size and over subscription limits in the shelf
prospectus, the DFI can raise and retain any amount through tranche
issues subject to the limits specified in shelf prospectus.

Provided that DFI has disclosed the minimum amount proposed to be
raised and the maximum over subscription proposed to be retained in
the  information  memorandum  /  prospectus.  issued  in  respect  of
issues under shelf prospectus

(e) The aggregate amount collected through one or more  tranches shall
not  exceed  the  maximum  target  amount  specified  in  the  shelf
prospectus.”

IX.

SCHEDULE  XVIII shall be substituted as under

Schedule XVIII

(Clause 7.6.1.1 and Clause 11.3.5(iii))

Illustration explaining the procedure of allotment

1.  Total shares on offer@ Rs 600 per share:  10 crore shares
2.  Shares on offer for retail category: 2.5 crore shares
3.  The total issue is over subscribed 4  times whereas the retail

category  is over subscribed  8.25  times
Issuer decides to fix the minimum application / bid size as 9
shares (falling within the range of Rs 5000- 7000).  Application
can  be  made  for  a  minimum  of  9  shares  and  in  multiples
thereof.

4. 

Assume  three  retail  investors  A,  B  &  C.    A  has  applied  for  81
shares.  B has applied for 72    shares  and  C  has  applied  for  45
shares.    As  per  allotment  procedure,  the  allotment  to  retail
individual    investors  would  be    on  proportionate  basis  i.e  at
1/8.25th  of  the  total  number  of  shares  applied  for.  The  actual
entitlement shall be as follows:

Sr.
No.

Name  of
Investor

1

2

3

A

B

C

Total  Number
of 
shares
applied for
81

72

45 shares

Total  number  of  shares  eligible
to  be  allotted    (  No.  of  shares
applied for / 8.25)
81 /8.25 = 9.82 shares  rounded
off to 10 shares
72/8.25  =  8.73  shares  rounded
off  to  9  shares  (i.e.  minimum
application size).
45/8.25=5.45 shares.
Application liable to be rejected.
(as  the  entitlement  is  less  than
the minimum application size).

the 

successful
However, 
the 
total
applicants  out  of 
applicants shall be determined
by drawal of lots

X. 

After Schedule XVIII, the following Schedule shall be added

Schedule XVIIIA
(Clause 8.6.1(iii))

Illustration explaining the minimum application size

An issue is being made at a price of Rs.390 per share. In this case,
the issuer in consultation with the merchant banker can determine
the minimum application lot within the range of 13 – 17 shares  ( in
value terms between Rs.5000- Rs.7000), as detailed hereunder :

Options
Lot  Size  @
Rs.390/- 
per
share
/
Application 
Bid  amount  for
1 lots
Application 
/
Bid  amount  for
2 lots
Application 
/
Bid  amount  for
4 lots
Application 
/
Bid  amount  for
8 lots
Application 
/
Bid  amount  for
9 lots

I
13
shares

II
14
shares

III
15
shares

IV
16
shares

V
17
shares

5070

5469

5850

6240

6630

10140

10920

11700

12480

13260

20280

21840

23400

24960

26520

40560

43680

46800

49920

---

45630

49140

---

---

--

The options given above are only illustrative and not exhaustive

Where  the  issuer  company  in  consultation  with  merchant  banker
decides to fix the minimum application / bid size as 14 (Option II),
necessary  disclosures  to the effect that the applicant can make an
application for 14 shares and in multiples thereof shall be made in
the offer document.

