FII DIVISION
FITTC DEPARTMENT
EMAIL: santoshks@sebi.gov.in
Fax No: 91-22-2845776

                                                                            Circular No.FITTC/FII/05/2002
                                                                                   August 26, 2002

To
All Custodians of Securities

Dear Sir/Madam,

Sub: Direct uploading of FII data by the Custodians

It  has  been  decided  in  the  meeting  held  on  August  13,  2002  of  the  FIIs  and  their
representatives  regarding  offline  uploading  of  daily  FII  investment  data  from  the
custodian site from September 2, 2002.

Custodians are advised to submit the following:

1.  Registration form in the enclosed format duly filled and signed. (Annexure I)
2.  One time registration fee of Rs 25,000 by means of demand draft in favour of
"Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India"  payable  at  Mumbai,  towards
availing facility of electronic filing of data. It may be note that this facility can
be used for filling of any other document to SEBI.

Further in this regard, we advise the following operational procedure keeping in view
the proposed offline reporting:

1.  Custodian may load FII investment data on a working day from 10 A.M. to 4

2.  For SEBI holiday, the custodian is advised to load data from their site in case

the same is not market/custodian holiday.

3.  Instructions  for  loading  the  data  is  also  enclosed  for  your  kind  perusal.

P.M.

(Annexure II)

Yours faithfully

SANTOSH SHARMA
ASST. GENERAL MANAGER

Encl: as above

Annexure -I

Annexure – II

Step-by Step Instructions for loading the data through Internet

1. 
2. 
3. 

4. 

5. 
6. 
7. 

Open Internet Explorer
In the address filed type http://extranet.sebi.gov.in:8585
In the citrix login form type username and password and click the
login button
In you login for the first time click on install client and citrix client will
be installed on your machine. You are requested to change the
password immediately.
If the client is already installed click on electronic filing of FII data
If the menu select Data loading
Insert a floppy in A drive containing two files the DTR and DTS having
the names in the following format :

DTR

DTS

DRDDMMYY

DSDDMMYY

Where DD stands for day of the month, MM stands for Month of the Year YY
stands for last two digits of the year.

9.       Enter the reporting date

10.  Press the load button

11. 

If there are no transactions to load press the No Transactions Button.

12.  Exit the form.

13. 

If any error occurred while loading, you can view the errors, correct
them and again load the data in the following manner :

Go to view errors. Here you can query the error record, correct them and load
them by pressing the load button.

14.  Go to exit to log out from the database.

