Neelam Bhardwaj 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation  Finance  Department 
Division of Issues and Listing 
Phone: +91 22 2284 2826 (D), +91 22  2285 0451-56, 2288 0962-70 (Extn: 367) 
Fax: +91 22 2204 5633. Email: neelamb@sebi.gov.in   
 

SEBI/CFD/DIL/CIR- 39 /2004/11/01 
November 1, 2004 
 
 

The Managing Director/ Executive Directors/Administrators 
Of All Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir(s)/Madam(s), 
 
Sub:   Model Listing Agreement for listing of Debt Securities   
 
1.0  SEBI,  vide  its  circulars  dated  30t h  September  2003  and  22nd  December 
2003, stipulated the conditions to be complied with, in respect of privately 
placement debt securities.  One of the conditions specified therein requires 
that  an  entity  desirous  of  listing  privately  placed  debt  securities  shall enter 
into a separate Listing Agreement with the Stock Exchanges. 

It has now been decided that listing of all debt securities irrespective of the 
mode of issuance i.e. whether issued on private placement basis or through 
public/rights issue, shall be done through a separate Listing Agreement.  In 
this  regard,  the  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  henceforth  list  all  debt 
securities  through  an  Agreement  prepared  in  line  with  the  Model  Listing 
Agreement enclosed alongwith this circular. 

 
3.0  The main features of the Model Listing Agreement are as under:  
 

3.1  The Agreement may be used for listing of all debt securities issued by 
an issuer irrespective of mode of issuance.  The debt securities have 
been  referred  as  “debentures” 
includes 
debentures  as  defined  in  Section  2(12)  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956 
and  any  other  debt  instruments,  which  are  proposed  to  be  listed  on 
recognized  Stock  Exchange.  Issuer  means  any  person  making  an 
issue  of  debentures  which  are  proposed  to  be  listed  excluding  Supra 
National Organizations like Asian Development Bank, World Bank etc. 

the  agreement  and 

in 

 
2.0 

 

3.2  The Model Agreement has three parts. Part (I) contains clauses which 
shall be complied by all issuers irrespective of mode of issuance, Part 
(II)  contains  clauses  which  shall  be  complied  with  only  if  the 
debentures are issued either through public or rights issue and part (III) 

 
3.3 

contains  clauses  which  are  required  to  be  complied  with  only  if  the 
debentures are issued on private placement basis.  

In  case  of  issuers  whose  equity  shares  are  listed  and  which  have 
already entered into a Listing Agreement for its equity shares, clauses 
of  Equity  Listing  Agreement  shall  have  an  overriding  effect  over  the 
Debenture Listing Agreement, in case of inconsistency, if any. 

 The Stock Exchanges are hereby directed to:  

 
4.0 

(a) make  necessary  amendments 

to 

regulations 
immediately, as may be applicable 

the 

for 

implementation  of 

the  bye-laws, 

rules  and 
the  above  decision 

(b) bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  concerned 
entities and also to disseminate the same on the website for easy 
access to the investors  and 

(c) communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the 
provisions of this circular in the Monthly Development Report till the 
Debenture Listing Agreement is in place. 

5.0  This  circular 

is  being 

issued 

in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by            

Section  11(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,                    
read with Section 10 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act 1956,                
to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the             
development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Neelam Bhardwaj  
 

MODEL LISTING AGREEMENT FOR DEBENTURES  

Annexure - I 

its 

Registered 

 
This  agreement  made  at  ___________ 
this  ______________________  day 
of___________20_____by__________________________________________________
a  Company/any  other  entity  duly  formed  and  registered  under  the  relevant  Act  and 
having 
office  
at______________________________________________________ 
_________________  (hereinafter  called    “the  Issuer”)  with  the  ______________(name 
of the Stock Exchange)__________________ (hereinafter called ‘the Exchange’). 
 
WHEREAS  the  Issuer  has  filed  with  the  Exchange  an  application  for  listing  its 
debentures more particularly described in detail in Schedule I  annexed hereto and made 
a part thereof. 
 
AND WHEREAS it is a requirement of the Exchange that there must be filed with the 
application an agreement in terms hereinafter appearing, to qualify for the admission and  
continuance of the said securities upon the list of the  Exchange. 
 
AND WHEREAS the issuer, whose equity shares are listed and who has already entered 
into a listing agreement for its equity  shares,  shall also enter into this debenture listing 
agreement for listing its debentures and shall comply with the same in addition to the 
listing  agreement  already  signed.  In  case  of  inconsistency,  if  any  in  the  obligations 
arising out of these agreements the provision of listing agreement for equity shall prevail. 
 
NOW  THEREFORE  in  consideration  of  the  Exchange  having  agreed  to  list  the  said 
securities,  the  Issuer  hereby  agrees  to  covenants  appearing  in  the  part  1  ie.  General 
Clauses  and  part_______  (either  2  or  3,  depending  upon  the  mode  of  issuance)  and 
agrees with the Exchange as follows: 
 
Part 1.0 (General Clauses): 
 
1.1.  The  Issuer  agrees  to  notify  the  Exchange  regarding  expected  default  in  timely 
payment  of  interest  or  redemption  amount  or  both  in  respect  of  the  debentures 
listed on the exchange as soon as the same becomes apparent to the Issuer.  

 
1.2.  The  Issuer  agrees  to  comply  with  such  provisions  as  may  be  specified  by  the 

Exchange for clearing and settlement process.  

 
1.3  The issuer undertakes to promptly notify the exchange:  
a)  

of  any  attachment  or  prohibitory  orders  restraining  the  Issuer  from  transferring 
debentures out of the names of the registered holders and furnish to the Exchange 
particulars of the numbers of securities so affected, the distinctive numbers of such 
securities and the names of the registered holders and their demat account details.  

b) 

c)  

d) 
e)  

of  any  action  which  will  result  in  the  redemption,  conversion,  cancellation, 
retirement in whole or in part of any debentures or such  action that would effect 
adversely payment of interest of debentures listed on the Exchange. 
of any change in the form or nature of any of its debentures that are listed on the 
Exchange  or  in  the  rights  or  privileges  of  the  holders  thereof  and  make  an 
application  for  listing  of  the  said  securities  as  changed,  if  the  Exchange  shall  so 
require. 
any proposed change in the general character or nature of its business/activities. 
any change in the following : 

  i)  Issuer’s  directorate/members  of  council  by  death,  resignation,  removal  or 
otherwise; 
 ii)  of Managing Directors/members of council. 
 iii) of Auditors appointed to audit the books and accounts of the Issuer.  

f)    Within 15 minutes of closure of the meeting of its Board of Directors/Council held 
to consider or decide on the below mentioned matters will inform the Exchange by 
fax, telegram   

i)  short particulars of any increase of capital by way of new securities whether by 
issue of bonus shares through capitalization, or by way of right shares to be 
offered to the shareholders or debenture holders, or in any other way;  

ii)   short particulars of the reissues of forfeited shares or securities, or the issue of 
shares or securities held in reserve for future issue or the creation in any form 
or  manner  of  new  shares  or  securities  or  any  other  rights,  privileges  or 
benefits to subscribe to;  

iii)  short particulars of any other alterations of capital, including calls; 
iv) the dividends and/or bonus recommended or declared or the decision to pass 

over any dividend  

v)   any other information necessary to enable the holders of the listed securities 
of the Issuer to appraise its position and to avoid the establishment of a false 
market in such listed securities. 

 
1.4 a) The Issuer agrees to close its transfer books or fix a record date for purposes of 
payment of interest and payment of redemption amount or for such other purposes 
as  the  exchange  may  agree  to  or  require  and  to  give  to  exchange  the  notice  in 
advance of at least thirty days, or of as many days as exchange may from time to 
time  reasonably  prescribe,  stating  the  dates  of  closure  of  its  transfer  books  (or, 
when the Transfer books are not to be closed, the date fixed for taking a record of 
its debentureholders) and specifying the purpose or purposes  for which the transfer 
books are to be closed (or the record is to be taken) The Issuer further agrees to 
ensure  that  the  time  gap  between  two  book  closures  and  record  dates  would  be 
atleast 30 days. Alternatively, the Issuer may agree to provide its schedule of book 
closure  or  record  dates  for  the  purpose  of  payment  of  interest  and  redemption 
amount  at  the  time  of  listing  of  the  debenture  instrument  itself  and  intimate  any 
changes in such schedule to the stock exchange/debenture holders.  

 
 

b) The Issuer agrees that it will not close its transfer books on such days (or when 
the transfer books are not to be closed, fix such date for the taking of a record of its 

debenture  holders)  as  may  be  inconvenient  to  Exchange  for  the  purpose  of 
settlement  of  transactions, of which due notice at least 21 days in advance shall 
have been given by Exchange to the Issuer. 

 

c)  The  Issuer  will  issue  all  interest  warrants  and  cheques  for  redemption  money 
simultaneously, which shall be payable at par at such centers as may be agreed to 
between the Exchange and the Issuer and disclosed to the debenture holders and 
which shall be collected at par, with collection charges, if any, being borne by the  
Issuer,  in  any  bank  in  the  country  at  centers  other  than  the  centers  agreed  to 
between Exchange and the Issuer, so as to reach the  holders of  debentures on or 
before the date fixed for payment of interest on debentures or redemption money, 
as the case may be.  

 
 
1.5   The  Issuer  will  notify  the  Exchange  at  least  7  days  in  advance  of  the  date of the 
meetings of its Board of Directors/Council of issuer at which the recommendation 
or declaration of issue of convertible debentures or of debentures carrying a right to 
subscribe to equity shares or any other matter affecting the interests of debenture 
holders is due to be considered. 

 
1.6  
a)   The  Issuer  agrees  to  intimate  the  Exchange  in  advance,  of  its  intention  to  raise 
funds through issue of new debentures if it proposes to list such new debentures on 
the Exchange. The Issuer also agrees to make an application to the exchange for the 
listing of such new issue of debentures and to submit such provisional documents 
as required by the Exchange relating thereto. 

b)   The Issuer agrees to make true, fair and adequate disclosure in the offer documents 
as per the applicable regulatory requirements in respect of such new or further issue 
of debentures which the Issuer proposes to list on the Exchange.  

 

e) 

c)   The Issuer agrees that it shall not issue any prospectus/ offer document/ letter of 
offer  for  public  subscription  of  any  securities  unless  the  said  prospectus/  offer 
document/  letter  of  offer  has  been  filed  with  SEBI  and  an  observation  letter  has 
been obtained from SEBI through the lead manager. 

d)   The  Issuer  further  agrees  that  the  Issuer  shall  submit  to  the  exchange  such 
documents to enable it to admit/ list the said securities for dealing in the exchange. 
In  the  event  of  non-submission  of  the  documents  as  mentioned  in  sub-clause (d) 
above by the Issuer to the exchange or withdrawal of the observation letter, if any, 
issued  by  SEBI,  anytime  before  grant  of  permission  for  listing/  admission  to 
dealing of the securities, the securities shall not be eligible for listing/ dealing, as 
the case may be, and the issuer shall be liable to refund the subscription monies to 
the respective investors immediately. 
 The  issuer  agrees  to  ensure  that  any  scheme  of  arrangement/  amalgamation/ 
merger/ reconstruction/ reduction of capital, etc., to be presented to any Court or 
Tribunal  does  not  in  any  way  violate,  override or circumscribe the provisions of 
securities laws or the stock exchange requirements. 

f)   

      

 Explanation: For the purposes of this sub-clause, ‘securities laws’ mean the SEBI 
Act,  1992,  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  the  Depositories Act, 
1996  and  the  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  which  are  administered  by 
SEBI under section 55A thereof, the rules, regulations, guidelines etc. made under 
these Acts and the instant Listing Agreement. 

(g)   The   issuer  agrees  that  in  the  explanatory  statement  forwarded  by  it  to  the 
shareholders u/s 393 or accompanying a proposed resolution to be passed u/s 100 
of  the   Companies  Act,  it  shall  disclose  the  pre  and  post-arrangement  or 
amalgamation (expected) capital structure and shareholding pattern.   
 

1.7.  Unless  the  terms  of  issue  otherwise  provide,  the  Issuer  will  not  select  any  of  its 
listed securities for redemption otherwise than pro rata or by lot and will promptly 
furnish to Exchange any information requested in reference to such redemption.  

 
1.8 The Issuer agrees that it shall have a debenture trustee for each debenture issued and 
listed by it on the Exchange on a continuous basis  (i.e. the onus of appointing a 
debenture trustee on the resignation of the earlier one lies on the Issuer)  and the 
issuer will forward to the Debenture Trustee promptly and without application:-  

a)   Two  copies  of  the  Statutory  and  Directors’  Annual  Reports,  Balance  Sheets  and 
Profits & Loss Accounts and of all periodical and special reports as soon as they 
are issued.  

b)   Two copies of all notices, resolutions and circulars relating to new issue of security 

prior to their dispatch to shareholders/debenture holders; 

c)   Copy of all the notices, call letters or any other circulars at the same time as they 

are sent to the debenture holders or advertised in the Press; 

d)   Copy of the proceedings of the meetings of debenture holders; 
e)   Copy of all notices, circulars, etc., issued or advertised in the press either by the 
Issuer,  or  by  any  entity  which  the  Issuer  proposes  to  absorb  or  with  which  the 
Issuer proposes to merge or amalgamate, or under orders of the court of any other 
statutory  authority  in  connection  with  any  merger,  amalgamation,  re-construction, 
reduction of capital, scheme or arrangement, including notices, circulars, etc. issued 
or advertised in the press in regard to meetings of debenture holders or creditors or 
any class of them and copy of the proceedings at all such meetings. 

f)    Copies  of  all  notices  sent  to  its  shareholders/debenture  holders  with  respect to 
amendments to its Memorandum and Articles of Association and will file with it a 
copy (which will be certified) of such amendments as soon as they shall have been 
adopted by the Issuer in general meeting. 
Such  information  as  required  by  the  debenture  trustee  and  provide  access  to 
relevant books of accounts to debenture trustee  

g) 

h)  A certificate regarding maintenance of adequate security cover in respect of listed 
debentures  by  either  a  practicing  company  secretary  or  a  practicing  chartered 
accountant, every quarter. 
 

1.9  The  Issuer  agrees  to  send  to  its  debenture  holders  upon  request  a  copy  of  the 
Director’s Annual Reports, Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account. The Issuer 
further agrees to file the same with the Exchange. 

 
1.10 The Issuer agrees that it will not forfeit unclaimed interest before the claim becomes 
barred  by  law  and  that  such  forfeiture,  when  effected,  will  be  annulled  in 
appropriate cases;  

 
1.11 Apart from complying with all specific requirements as above, the Issuer will keep 
the  Exchange  informed of events such as strikes, lock outs, closure on account of 
power cuts, etc.  both at the time of occurrence of the event and subsequently after 
the cessation of the event in order to enable the holder of the security and the public 
to  appraise  the  position  of  the  Issuer  and  to  avoid  the  establishment  of  a  false 
market  in  its  securities.  In  addition,  the  Issuer  will  furnish  to  the  Exchange  such 
information  concerning  the  Issuer  as  the  Exchange  may  reasonably  require.  The 
material events may be event such as: 

 

 

•    Change in the general character or nature of business/activities 

Without prejudice to the generality of Clause 1.3 f v) of the Listing Agreement 
the  Issuer  will  promptly  notify  the  Exchange  of  any  material  change  in  the 
general  character  or  nature  of  its  business/activities  where  such  change  is 
brought  about  by  the  Issuer  entering  into  or  proposing  to  enter  into  any 
arrangement  for  technical,  manufacturing,  marketing  or  financial  tie -up or by 
reason of the Issuer, selling or d isposing of or agreeing to sell or dispose of any 
unit or division or by the Issuer, enlarging, restricting or closing the operations 
of any unit or division or proposing to enlarge, restrict or close the operations of 
any unit or division or otherwise.  

•    Disruption of operations due to natural calamity 

The  issuer  will  soon  after  the  occurrence  of  any  natural  calamity  like 
earthquake, flood or fire disruptive of the operation of any one or more units of 
the  Issuer  keep  the  Exchange  informed  of  the  details  of the damage caused to 
the unit thereby and whether the loss/damage has been covered by insurance 
and without delay furnish to the Exchange an estimate of the loss in revenue or 
production arising therefrom, and the steps taken to restore normalcy, in order 
to enable the security holders and the public to appraise the position of the issue 
and to avoid the establishment of a false market in its securities. 

 
•   Commencement of Commercial Production/Commercial Operations 

The  issuer  will  promptly  notify  the  Exchange 
the  commencement  of 
commercial/production or the commencement of commercial operations of any 
unit/division where revenue from the unit/division for a full year of production 
or operations is estimated to be not less than ten per cent of the revenues of the 
Issuer for the year. 

 
•    Developments with respect to pricing/realisation arising out of change in 

the regulatory framework 
The Issuer will promptly inform the Exchange of the developments with respect 
to  pricing  of  or  in  realisation  on  its  goods or services  (which are subject to 

price  or  distribution,  control/restriction  by  the  Government  or  other  statutory 
authorities, whether by way of quota, fixed rate of return, or otherwise) arising 
out  of  modification  or  change  in  Government's  or  other  authorities’ policies 
provided the change can reasonably be expected to have a material impact on its 
present or future operations or its profitability. 

 
•    Litigation /dispute with a material impact 

The  issuer  will  promptly  after  the  event  inform  the  Exchang e  of  the 
developments with respect to any dispute in conciliation proceedings, litigation, 
assessment, adjudication or arbitration to which it is a party or the outcome of 
which can reasonably be expected to have a material impact on its present or 
future operations or its profitability or financials. 

 
•     Revision in Ratings 

The  Issuer  will  promptly  notify  the  Exchange,  the  details  of  any  rating  or 
revision in rating assigned to any debenture or equity instrument of the Issuer or 
to  any  fixed  deposit  programme  or  to  any  scheme  or  proposal  of  the  Issuer 
involving mobilisation of funds whether in India or abroad provided the rating 
so assigned has been quoted, referred to, reported, relied upon or otherwise used 
by or on behalf of the Issuer. 

 
•    Comments of Debenture  Trustees 

The  Issuer  will  promptly  notify  the  Exchange,  the  details  of  any  letter  or 
comments  made  by  Debenture  Trustees  regarding  payment/non-payment  of 
interest on due dates, payment/non-payment of principal on the due dates or any 
other  matter  concerning  the  security,  issuer  and  /or  the  assets  alongwith  its 
comments thereon, if any. 

 
•    Delay in Payment of Interest / Principal Amount 

The Issuer will promptly notify the Exchange, as and when there is a delay in 
timely payment of interest and / or the possibility of delay in repayment of the 
principal amount. 

 
•    Classification as Non Performing Assets 

The  Issuer  will  promptly  notify  the  Exchange,  as  and  when  any  loan  of  the 
Issuer is classified as a non-performing asset as per the norms of Reserve Bank 
of India by any bank or financial institution. 

•    Any other information having bearing on the operation/performance of the 

issuer as well as price sensitive information.  

 

The above information should be made public immediately. 

 
1.12 The Issuer, agrees to furnish such information required by the Exchange in respect 
of  the  securities  listed  on  the  Exchange  and  to  permit  the  Exchange  to  make 
available immediately to its members and to the Press any information supplied by 
the Issuer in compliance with any of the listing requirements. 

 

Provided that in cases where the information concerns an incomplete proposal or 
negotiations or the Issuer considers that disclosure to the public of such information 
might prejudice the issuer’s legitimate commercial interests, the Exchange may, on 
application made in that behalf, grant a dispensation from the publication of such 
information  after  recording  reason(s) 
that  such 
dispensation would be subject to the condition that such information is maintained 
strictly confidential by the Issuer. 

therefor.  Provided  further 

 
1.13 The Issuer agrees that as soon as its Securities are listed on the Exchange, it will pay 
to the Exchange fees as prescribed by the Exchange, and that thereafter, so long as 
the securities continued to be listed on the Exchange, it will pay to the Exchange on 
or before April 30, in each year an Annual Listing Fee computed on the basis of the 
securities of the Issuer as on March 31. The Issuer also agrees that it shall pay the 
additional fee, at the time of making application for listing of debentures arising out 
of further issue.  

 
1.14  The Issuer agrees and undertakes, as a pre-condition for continued listing of securities 
hereunder, to comply with any regulations, requirements, practices and procedures as 
may  be  laid  down  by  the  Stock  Exchange  for  the  purpose  of  dematerialisation  of 
securities  hereunder  in  pursuance  of  the  then  prevailing  statutes  and/or  statutory 
regulations, to facilitate scripless trading 

 
1.15.  In  addition  to  the  foregoing  provisions and not in derogation thereof, the Issuer 
agrees to comply with the provisions of the relevant Acts including the Securities 
Contract  Regulations  Act,  1956,  Securities  Contract  Regulation  Rules,  1957  and 
guidelines  issued  by  the  Securities  Exchange  Board of India and also such other 
and  future  guidelines  as  may  be  issued  from  time  to  time  by  the  Government, 
Reserve Bank of India and/or the Securities Exchange Board of India as may be 
applicable. 

 
1.16  The  issuer  agrees  that  allotment  of  securities  offered  shall  be  done  as  per  the 

disclosures made by the issuer and available in public domain.  

 
1.17 The Issuer agrees and undertakes to designate the Company Secretary or any other 

a)  

b) 

person as Compliance Officer who  
shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  compliance  with  the  regulatory  provisions 
applicable to such issue of debentures and report the same at the meeting of board 
of directors/Council of issuer  held subsequently. He shall directly liaise with the 
authorities such as Securities Exchange Board of India, Stock Exchanges, Registrar 
of Companies, etc., and investors as far as implementation of various clauses, rules, 
regulations  and  other  directives  of  authorities  aforementioned  and  redressal  of 
grievances of the investors are concerned, and,  
shall be responsible for filing the  information in the EDIFAR system as and when 
mandated  by  SEBI.  The  compliance  officer  and  the  Issuer  shall  ensure  the 
correctness and authenticity of the information filed in the system and that it is in 
conformity with applicable laws and terms of the listing agreement.  

 
1.18. The Issuer shall mandatorily comply with all the Accounting Standards issued by 

ICAI or statutorily imposed from time to time.  

 
1.19 The issuer agrees that it shall 

•  create and maintain security ensuring adequate security cover at all times for 

•  ensure  timely  despatch  of  debenture  certificate/demat  credit  and  timely 

secured debentures  

interest/redemption payment  

•  abide  by  the  requirements  of  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection) 

Guidelines, 2000; as  applicable with issuance of debentures. 

 
PROVIDED  ALWAYS  AND  ISSUER  HEREBY  IRREVOCABLY  AGREES  AND 
DECLARES  that  the  issuer  will  not  without  the  concurrence  of  Exchange  and  the 
previous permission in writing from SEBI withdraw its adherence to the clauses of this 
agreement for listing of its securities. 
 
THE  ISSUER  FURTHER  AGREES  that  it  may  apply  for  relaxation  from  strict 
application of the provisions of this agreement, in case it is unable to comply with any of 
the  provisions  of  this  agreement  on  account  of  provisions  of  the  Act/statute/any  other 
document under which it is formed or governed, or in order to avoid undue hardship to 
the security holders, in which case the exchange may grant the relaxation sought for, with 
the prior approval of SEBI.  
 
AND  THE  ISSUER  HEREBY  FURTHER  AGREES  and  declares  that  any  of  its 
securities listed on the exchange shall remain on the list unless the same are delisted as 
per  the  procedure  laid  down  by  SEBI  and  the  Exchange  in  which  case  this  agreement 
shall stand terminated AND THAT nothing herein contained shall restrict or be deemed 
to restrict the right of the Exchange to delist, suspend or remove from the list the said 
securities  at  any  time  and  for  any  reason  which  the  Exchange  considers  proper  in 
accordance with the applicable legal provisions. 
 
And  the  issuer  further  agrees  that  if  it  fails  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  this 
agreement  or  relevant  Acts  or  provisions  prescribed  by  the  Statutory  and  Regulatory 
Bodies,  the  Exchange  has  the  right  to  take  suitable  action  under  applicable  legal 
provisions.  
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Issuer has caused these presents to be executed and its 
Common Seal to be hereunto affixed as of the day and year first above written. 
 
The common seal of ...................................................................................  
was hereunto affixed pursuant to a resolution passed at a meeting held on ...................day 
of………. 
 
Signature of the Board of Directors/Council of the Issuer....................in the presence of  
… … … … …  … … … … … … Signature 

 

 

****** 

 

 
Part 2.0 
 
2.0 Clauses which would be applicable if the debentures are issued through public/ 
rights issue. 
 
2.1    The Issuer agrees:  
 
a)  

that letters of allotment/demat credit/letters of regret will be issued simultaneously 
and that in the event of its being impossible, to issue letters of regret at the same 
time, a notice to that effect will be inserted in the press so that it will appear on the 
morning after the letters of allotment have been posted; 
that  letters  of allotment or acceptance will be serially numbered, printed on good 
quality paper and examined and signed by a responsible officer of the Issuer and 
that whenever possible they will contain the distinctive numbers of the securities to 
which they relate; 
that letters of allotment will contain a provision for splitting  
that  letters  of  allotment  will  state  how  the  next  payment  of  interest  on  the  said 
securities will be calculated.  

b)  

c)  
d)  

 
2.2   The Issuer will issue, when so required, receipts in such forms as prescribed by the  
Exchange,  for  all  debentures  deposited  with  it  whether  for  registration,  sub-
division, consolidation, renewal, exchange or for other purposes. 

 
2.3.   The Issuer agrees   
 
a)  

 
2.4   The Issuer agrees:  
 
a)  

b)  

to have on hand at all times a sufficient supply of certificates to meet the demands 
for transfer, sub-division, consolidation, renewal; 
to  issue  certificates  within  one  month  of  the  date  of  lodgment  for  transfer,  sub-
division,  consolidation,  renewal,  exchange  or  endorsement  of  calls/allotment 
monies 

to  issue,  unless  the  exchange  otherwise  agrees  and  the  parties  concerned  desire, 
allotment letters, certificates and other relevant documents in such units of trading 
as may be specified by the exchange subject to the same being in compliance with 
the instructions, if any, issued by SEBI in this regard.; 
to keep the trading lot as specified by the Exchange from time to time and  to split 
certificates and letters of allotment of large denomination into smaller units and to 
consolidate certificates of small denominations into denominations corresponding 
to requirements of the Exchange; 
to promptly issue new certificates in replacement of those which are old, decrepit or 
worn out or where the cages on the reverse for recording transfers have been fully 
utilized. 

b)  

c)  

e)  

d)   to promptly issue new certificates in replacement of those which are lost within six 
weeks  of  notification  of  loss  and  receipt  of  proper  indemnity,  or  within  a  time 
period agreed by the Stock Exchange upon receipt of such documents/compliance 
of  such  procedures  as  laid  down  in  the  statute  under  which  the  issuer  has  been 
formulated, if any. 
to issue call notices and splits and duplicates thereof in a standard form acceptable 
to  Exchange,  to  forward  a  supply  of  the  same  promptly  to  Exchange  for  meeting 
requests  for  blank,  split  and  duplicate  call  notices,  to  make  arrangements  for 
accepting call moneys at all centers where there are recognized Stock Exchanges in 
India and not to require a discharge on call receipts, wherever applicable. 
to  accept  the  discharge  of  the  member  of  Exchange  on  split,  consolidation  and 
renewal receipts as good and sufficient without insisting on the discharge of the 
registered holders, wherever applicable. 

 
2.5   When documents are lodged for  sub-division, consolidation or renewal through the 

clearing house of Stock Exchange, the Issuer agrees:  

that it will accept the discharge of an official of Stock Exchange Clearing House on 
the Issuer’s split, consolidation and renewal receipts as good and sufficient without 
insisting on the discharge of the registered holders, if the issuer is governed by the 
statute formulating the issuer, in case of inconsistency if any it will act as per the 
governing statute however to the satisfaction of the exchange: 
that when the Issuer is unable to issue certificates or split, consolidation or renewal 
receipts  immediately  on  lodgment,  it  will  verify  whether  the  discharge  of  the 
registered  holders  on  the  documents  lodged  for  sub-division,  consolidation  or 
renewal and their signature on the relative transfers are in order. If the issuer is 
governed by the statute formulating the issuer, in case of inconsistency if any it will 
act as per the governing statute however to the satisfaction of the exchange: 

 
2.6.   The  Issuer  will,  if  so  required  by  Exchange,  certify  transfer  against  letters  of 
allotment  and  certificates  and  in  that  event  the  Issuer  will  promptly  make  on 
transfers an endorsement to the following effect;  

for registration of transfers of its debentures; 
for sub-division and consolidation of  debenture certificates and for sub-division of 
letters of allotment and split, consolidation, renewal and pucca transfer receipts into  
denominations corresponding to the market units of trading; 

f)   

 
a)  

b)  

 

 

 
a)  
b)  

Name of Issuer ______________ Certificate/Allotment Letter No. _______ for the 
within mentioned _______________ securities is deposited in the Issuer’s Office 
against this transfer No._____________________  
Signature(s) of Official(s) ___________________        Date _______________ 

2.7.   Unless  the Exchange otherwise agrees the Issuer agrees that it will not make any 

 

charge to the investor:  

c)  

d)  

 
a)  

b)  

for issue of new certificates in replacement of those which are old, decrepit or worn 
out,  or    where  the  cages  on  the  reverse  of  recording  transfers  have  been  fully 
utilised; 
for  registration  of  any  power  of  attorney,  probate,  letters  of  administration  or 
similar other documents. 

 
2.8.  The Issuer agrees that it will not charge any fees exceeding those, which may be 

agreed upon with Stock Exchange  

for issue of new certificates in replacement of those that are torn, defaced, lost or 
destroyed; 
for sub-division and consolidation of debenture certificates and for sub-division of 
letters of allotment and split, consolidation, renewal and pucca transfer receipts into 
denominations other than those fixed for the market units of trading. 

 
2.9.The Issuer agrees to promptly verify the signatures of  debenture holders on allotment 
letters, split, consolidation, renewal, transfer and any other temporary receipts and 
transfer deeds when so required by the debenture holders holders or a member of 
the Exchange or by the Clearing / Settlement system prescribed by the Exchange. 

 
2.10. Issuer agrees that  
a)  

b)  

the instrument of transfer is in any usual or common form or a form considered to 
be acceptable/ approved by Stock Exchange and 
the transfer deeds are properly executed and accompanied either by certificates or 
by  letters  of  allotment,  pucca  transfer  receipts,  split,  consolidation  or  renewal 
receipts  duly  discharged  either  by  the  registered  holders  or,  in  the  case  of  split, 
consolidation or renewal receipts, by the members of Stock Exchange. 

 
2.11  The  Issuer  agrees  to  promptly  service  the  debentures  with  respect  to  payment of 
interest and principal as per the terms of the issue and shall intimate the Exchange 
in case it commits default on the payment of interest and/or principal. 

 
2.12 
 
A. Annual Accounts 
 

 

(1)  The  Issuer  shall  publish  Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  in  case  it  has 
subsidiaries in the annual report in addition to the individual financial statements. 
The  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  shall  also  be  audited  by  the  statutory 
auditors of the issuer. 
(2)    The  Annual  Report  shall  contain  ‘Related  Party  Disclosures’ in accordance 
with  the  applicable  Accounting  Standards  issued  by  the  Institute  of  Chartered 
Accountants of India. 
(3) The annual accounts shall also contain the following disclosures: 

 

S.No 

In the 

Disclosures of amounts at the year end and the 

accounts of 

1.  Parent 

maximum amount of loans/ advances/ investments 
outstanding during the year.  
• Loans and advances in the nature of loans to 
subsidiaries by name and amount.  
• Loans and advances in the nature of loans to 
associates by name and amount  
• Loans and advances in the nature of loans where 
there is  

(i)  no repayment schedule or repayment  beyond 

seven years or  

(ii) no interest or interest below section 372A of 

Companies Act by name and amount.  

• Loans and advances in the nature of loans to 
firms/companies in which directors are interested by 
name and amount 

2 

3 

Subsidiary 

Parent 

Same disclosures as applicable to the parent 
company in the accounts of subsidiary company. 

Investments by the loanee in the shares of parent 
company and subsidiary company, when the 
company has made a loan or advance in the nature 
of loan. 

 
Note  :  a)  For  the  purpose  of  the  above  disclosures  the  terms  "parent"  and 
"subsidiary" shall have the same meaning as defined in the Accounting Standard on 
Consolidated Financial Statement (AS21) issued by ICAI. 
b)  For  the  purpose  of  the  above  disclosures  the  terms  ‘Associate’  and  ‘Related 
Party’  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  defined  in  the  Accounting  Standard  on 
"Related Party Disclosures (AS 18)" issued by ICAI 

c)  For  the  purpose  of  above  disclosures  directors  interest  shall  have  the  same 

meaning as it has Sec in 299 of Companies Act. 

(4) Issuers who change their name suggesting any new line of business (including 
software  business)  shall  disclose  the  turnover  and  income  etc  from  such  new 
activities separately in the annual accounts for a period of three years from the date 
of change in name. 

 

 

 
B. Cash Flow Statement 
 
 

 
(1) The issuer agrees to give cash flow statement along with the Balance Sheet and 
Profit and Loss Account.  
(2) The Cash Flow Statement will be prepared in accordance with the Accounting 
Standard  on  Cash  Flow  Statement  (AS-3)  issued  by  the  Institute  of  Chartered 

 

Accountants of India, and the Cash Flow Statement shall be presented only under 
the Indirect Method as given in AS-3.  
(3)  The  statement  shall  be  issued  under  the  authority  of  the  Board  of 
Directors/Council of issuer of the issuer and shall be signed on behalf of the Board 
of Directors/Council in the manner provided for the authentication of Balance Sheet 
and Profit and Loss Account in Section 215 of the Companies Act, 1956.  

 
C. Directors Report 
 

 
D. Relaxation 
 

The Issuer agrees to make the following disclosure in the Directors Report: 
i)        in  case  the  shares  or  any  other  securities  of  the  issuer  are  delisted  by  Stock 

Exchange, it shall disclose the fact of delisting, together with reasons therefor  

ii)   in case the securities are suspended from trading, the reason therefor 
iii) the name and address of each Stock Exchange at which the issuer's securities are 
listed  and  also  confirm  that  Annual  Listing  Fee  has  been  paid  to  each  of  the 
exchange. 

The issuer agrees that in case it is unable to provide the statements/reports as stated in 
A through D above to the satisfaction of the stock exchange, it shall publish in a form 
approved  by  Stock  Exchange  such  periodical  statements  of  its  working  and  earning 
as required by Stock Exchange, SEBI, or any statutory body or local authority or any 
body or authority acting under the authority or direction of the Central Government.  

 
2.13 The Issuer agrees to send the following to its debenture holders: 
(a) Notice of all meetings of the relevant debenture holders specifically stating that the 
provisions for appointment of proxy as mentioned in section 176 of the Companies 
Act, 1956, shall be applicable for such meeting. 

(b) A half-yearly communication, counter signed by debenture trustees containing inter-

alia following information  

i)   Credit rating 
ii)  Asset cover available 
iii) Status of security 
iv) Debt-Equity ratio 
v)  Previous due date for the payment of interest/principal and whether the same 

has been paid or not  

would be paid or not 

vi)  Next  due  date  for  the  payment  of  interest/principal  and  whether  the  same 

(c)   Information in sub-clause (b) may also be disseminated as below. 

1.  To publish the details  on half yearly basis in one English National Daily 
with wide circulation, one Hindi national daily with wide circulation and a 
regional language daily with wide circulation at the place of the registered 
office of the issuer. 

2.  The  issuer shall post the same in the EDIFAR website as and when made 

mandatory. The issuer may also host the same in its website. 

(1)  The  Issuer  agrees  that  it  will  furnish  unaudited  financial  results  on  a 
quarterly basis in the following pro -forma within one month from the end 
of quarter (Quarter means 3 months only) to the Stock Exchange. 

(2)  Such  unaudited  quarterly  results  should  have  been  taken  on  record  the 
Board  of  Directors/  Council  of  issuer  as  the  case  may  be  or  it’s  Sub 
Committee and signed by the Managing Director / Executive Director.  

(3)  The Issuer shall inform the Stock Exchange where its securities are listed 
about the date of the board/Council Meeting at least 7 days in advance 
and  shall  also  issue  immediately a press release in at least one national 
newspaper  and  one  regional  language  newspaper  about  the  date  of 
aforesaid Board/Council or its Sub Committee Meeting. 

(4)  The Issuer shall make an announcement to the Stock Exchanges, where 
the Issuer is listed, within 15 minutes of the closure of the Board Meeting 
or  Meeting  of  a  Sub-Committee of Board of Directors/Council of issuer  
(consisting of not less than one third of the Directors/council members), 
in which the unaudited financial results are placed  

(5)  The  Issuer shall within 48 hours of the conclusion of the Board/Council 
or its Sub Committee Meeting publish the unaudited financial results in at 
least one English daily newspaper circulating in the whole or substantially 
the whole of India and in one newspaper published in the language of the 
region, where the registered office of the Issuer is situated.  

 
B. Formats of financial Results 
 

(1) Main Format for companies other than Banks 
 

 

 

2.14 Quarterly Financial Results 
 
A. General 

 

 

Quarterly Results For Period ______  To ______(For Issuers Other Than Banks) 
(Rs. In Lakhs) 

 

 

 

(1) 

 

 

(2) 

 
(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

 

3 
months 
ended 
 

Corresponding  
3 months in the 
previous year. 

1.  Net Sales/Income 
from Operations 
2.  Other Income 
3.  Total Expenditure 

 

 
 

 

 
 

Year  
to 
Date 
figures  
for 
current 
period 

 

 
 

Year  
to date 
figures 
 for the 
previous 
 year 

 

 
 

Previous 
accounting 
 Year 

 

 
 

a)  Increase/decrease in 

stock in Trade 

b)  Consumption of 

raw materials  

c)  Staff cost 
d)  Other expenditure 
(Any item exceeding 10% 
of the total expenditure to 
be shown separately). 
4.  Interest 
5.  Depreciation 
6.  Profit (+)/Loss(-) before 

tax  

(1+2-3-4-5) 
7.  Provision for taxation 
8.  Net Profit (+)/Loss (-) 

9.  Paid-up equity share 

(6-7) 

capital  

(Face Value of the Share 
shall be indicated) 
Reserves excluding 
revaluation reserves (as per 
balance sheet) of  previous 
accounting year to be given 
in column (5) 
10. Basic and diluted EPS 
for the period, for the 
year to date and for the  
previous year (not to 
be annualised) 

11. *(Applicable for half 

yearly  financial results) 
: Aggregate of 

 non-promoter shareholding 
- Number of shares 
- Percentage of shareholding 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Notes : 
a.  Any event or transaction that is material to an understanding of the results for the 
quarter including completion of expansion and diversification programs, strikes, 
lock-outs,  change  in  management,  change  in  capital  structure  etc,  shall  be 
disclosed.    Similar  material  event  or  transactions  subsequent  to  the  end  of  the 

quarter, the effect whereof is not reflected in the results for the quarter shall also 
be disclosed. 

 
b.  All material non-recurring/abnormal income/gain and expenditure/loss and effect 
of  all  changes  in  accounting  practices  affecting  the  profits  materially  must  be 
disclosed separately. 

 
c.  In case of issuers whose revenues are subject to material seasonal variations, they 
shall disclose the seasonal nature of their activities and may also supplement their 
unaudited  financial  results  into  information  for  12  month  periods  ended  at  the 
interim  date  (last  day  of  the  quarter)  for  the  current  and  preceding  years  on  a 
rolling basis. 

 
d.  Issuer  shall  give  the  following  information  in  respect  of  dividend  paid  or 

recommended for the year including interim dividends declared : 

i)  Amount of Dividend distributed or proposed distinguishing between different 
classes of shares and Dividend per share also indicating nominal value per share. 
ii)  Where Dividend is paid or proposed pro-rata for shares allotted during the year, 
the date of allotment, number of shares allotted pro-rata amount of dividend per 
share and the aggregate amount of dividend paid or proposed on pro-rata basis. 

e.  The effect of changes in composition of the Issuer during the quarter, including 
business  combinations,  acquisitions  or  disposal  of  subsidiaries  and  long  term 
investments, restructuring and discontinuing operations shall be disclosed. 

f.  (i)   If there is/are any qualification(s) by the Auditors in respect of Audited 
Accounts of any period, then the Issuer shall disclose the same along with the 
impact of such audit qualification(s) on the profit or loss while publishing the 
accounts for the said period.  

(ii) While publishing unaudited quarterly results, the Issuer shall disclose how the 
qualification(s), if any, by the Auditors in respect of the Audited Accounts of 
the  previous  accounting  year  has/have  been  addressed  in  the  unaudited 
quarterly  results  and  if  the  same  is  not  addressed,  then  the  impact  that  the 
qualification(s) would have had on the profit or loss in the unaudited quarterly 
results shall be disclosed. 

(iii)  The  Issuer,  while  furnishing  the  audited  or  unaudited  financial  results to the 
exchange,  shall  also  explain  to  the  exchange  about  the  reasons  for  the 
qualification(s) referred under (i) and (ii) above, why the Issuer had failed to 
publish  accounts  without  such  audit  qualification(s)  and  when  the  Issuer  will 
remove the qualification(s) and publish accounts without such qualification(s). 

g.  If  the  Issuer  is  yet  to  commence  commercial  production,  then  instead  of  the 
quarterly results, the Issuer should give particulars of the status of the project, its 
implementation and the expected date of commissioning of the project. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

h.  The  un-audited  results  sent  to  Stock  Exchange/s  and  published  in  newspapers 
should be based on the same set of accounting policies as those followed in the 
previous year.  In case, there are changes in the accounting policies, the results of 
previous  year  will  be  recast  as  per  the  present  accounting  policies,  to  make  it 
comparable with current year results. 

If the period of the Financial Year is more than 12 months and not exceeding 15 
months there will be 5 Quarters and is more than 15 months but not exceeding 18 
months there will be 6 Quarters and the financial results will be intimated to the 
Exchange  and  published  in  the  Newspapers  accordingly.    Half  yearly  results 
which are required to be subjected to the “Limited Review” by the Auditors shall 
be prepared for the first two quarters where the Financial Year does not exceed 15 
months and for the first two quarters and also separately for the third and fourth 
quarters where the Financial Year exceeds 15 months. 

(2) Alternative format for un-audited financial results: 

The  manufacturing  and  trading/service  companies  which  have  followed 
functional (secondary) classification of expenditure in the annual profit and loss 
account  in  their  most  recent  annual  report  may  furnish  un-audited  financial 
results  on  a  quarterly  basis  in  the  alternative  format.    The  proforma  for 
submitting the results for companies in the alternative format is given below: 

Quarterly Results For the Period ______  To ______     
(Alternative  format  of  financial  results  for  manufacturing  and  trading/service 
companies,  which  have  followed  functional  (secondary)  classification  of 
expenditure  in  the  annual  profit  and  loss  account  published  in  most  recent 
annual report).             

 

 

(Rs. In Lakhs) 

S.
No 

 

3 

months 
ended 
(1) 

Corresponding 
3 months in 
the previous 

year 
(2) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

2 

Income 

Net 
from 
sales/services  
Cost 
sales/services  
(a) Increase/de

of 

crease 
stock 
trade 

in 
in 

Year to 
date 
figures 

for 

current 
period 

(3) 

Year to date 
figures for 
the previous 

year 
(4) 

Previous 
Accounting 
year 

(5) 

 

 

 

 

and 

5 

6 

3 
4 

Gross Profit 
General 
Administrative 
Expense 
Selling 
Distribution 
Expense 
Operating 
Profit 
interest 
depreciation 
Interest 
Depreciation 
Operating 
Profit 
interest 
depreciation 
10  Other Income 
11  Profit 

7 
8 
9 

before 
and 

after 
and 

(+)/Loss(-) 
before tax   
12  Provision 

taxation 

for 

(b) Consumptio
raw 

n  of 
materials  

(c) Other 

expenditure 

13  Net  Profit(+)/ 

Loss(-) 

14  Paid-up  equity 

share capital 

15  Reserves 
excluding 
revaluation 
reserves (as per 
sheet) 
balance 
of 
previous 
accounting year 
to  be  given  in 
column (5) 

16  Basic 

and 
diluted  EPS  for 
the  period,  for 
the year to date 
for 
and 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

previous 
(not 
to 
annualised) 
17  Aggregate 

year 
be 

 

 

 

 

 

of 
non  pro moters 
shareholding 
(applicable  for 
half 
yearly 
results) 
•  Number 
shares 

•  Percentage of 
shareholding 

of 

 
Notes:  

 

 

 

 

a. Indicate by way of note total expenditure incurred on  

(i)  Staff Cost  
(ii) Any item of expenditure which exceeds 10% of the total expenditure.    
This information shall be given in respect of all the periods included at the 
above statement. 

b.  Any event or transaction that is material to an understanding of the results for 
the  quarter  including  completion  of  expansion  and  diversification programs, 
strikes, lock-outs, change in management, change in capital structure etc, shall 
be disclosed.   Similar material event or transactions subsequent to the end of 
the quarter, the effect whereof is not reflected in the results for the quarter 
shall also be disclosed. 

c.  All  material  non-recurring/abnormal  income/gain  and  expenditure/loss  and 
effect  of  all  changes  in  accounting  practices  affecting  the  profits  materially 
must be disclosed separately. 

d.  In case of issuers whose revenues are subject  to material seasonal variations, 
they  shall  disclose  the  seasonal  nature  of  their  activities  and  may  also 
supplement  their  unaudited  financial  results  with  information  for  12  month 
periods ended at the interim date (last day of the quarter) for the current and 
preceding years on a rolling basis. 

e.  Issuer  shall  give  the  following  information  in  respect  of  dividend  paid  or 

recommended for the year including interim dividends declared: 
i    Amount  of  Dividend  distributed  or  proposed,  distinguishing  between 
different          classes  of  shares  and  Dividend  per  share  also  indicating 
nominal value per share. 

ii Where Dividend is paid or proposed pro-rata for shares allotted during the 
year, the date of allotment, number of shares allotted pro-rata amount of 

dividend per share and the aggregate amount of dividend paid or proposed 
on pro-rata basis. 

f.  The  effect  of  changes  in  composition  of  the  Issuer  during  the  quarter, 
including business combinations, acquisitions or disposal of subsidiaries and 
long  term  investments,  restructuring  and  discontinuing  operations  shall  be 
disclosed. 

g.  (i)   If there is/are any qualification(s) by the Auditors in respect of Audited 
Accounts of any period, then the Issuer shall disclose the same along with the 
impact of such audit qualification(s) on the profit or loss while publishing the 
accounts for the said period. 
(ii) While publishing unaudited quarterly results, the Issuer shall disclose how 
the qualification(s), if any, by the Auditors in respect of the Audited Accounts 
of  the  previous  accounting  year  has/have  been  addressed  in  the  unaudited 
quarterly  results  and  if  the  same  is  not  addressed,  then  the  impact  that  the 
qualification(s) would have had on the profit or loss in the unaudited quarterly 
results shall be disclosed. 
(iii) The Issuer, while furnishing the audited or unaudited financial results to 
the  exchange,  shall  also  explain  to  the  exchange  about  the  reasons  for  the 
qualification(s) referred under (i) and (ii) above, why the Issuer had failed to 
publish accounts without such audit qualification(s) and when the Issuer will 
remove 
such 
qualification(s). 

the  qualification(s) 

and  publish 

accounts  without 

h.  If the Issuer is yet to commence commercial production, then instead of the 
quarterly results, the Issuer should give particulars of the status of the project, 
its implementation and the expected date of commissioning of the project. 

i.  The un-audited results sent to Stock Exchange/s and published in newspapers 
should be based on the same set of accounting policies as those  followed in 
the previous year.  In case, there are changes in the accounting policies, the 
results of previous year will be recast as per the present accounting policies, 
to make it comparable with current year results. 

 
j. 

If the period of the Financial Year is more than 12 months and not exceeding 
15  months  there  will  be  5  Quarters  and  is  more  than  15  months  but  not 
exceeding 18 months there will be 6 Quarters and the financial results will be 
intimated  to  the  Exchange  and  published  in  the  News  papers  accordingly.  
Half  yearly  results  which  are  required  to  be  subjected  to  the  “Limited 
Review” by the Auditors shall be prepared for the first two quarters where the 
Financial Year does not exceed 15 months and for the first two quarters and 
also  separately  for  the  third  and  fourth  quarters  where  the  Financial  Year 
exceeds 15 months. 

(3) Format for banks 
 

 

 

 

The  proforma  for  submitting  results  and  the  review  report  for  banks  whose 
securities are listed in the Stock Exchange is given below: 

Quarterly Results For The Period From _____ To______ (For Banks) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Rs in lakhs) 

  

                             
Particulars 
 

(1) 
3 Months  
ended 
 

(2) 
Corresp
-onding 
 3 
months 
in 
the 
previou
s year. 
 

(5) 
Previous 
accounting 
 Year 

 
(3) 
Year  
 to date 
 figures 
 for  
current 
period 

(4) 
Year  
to date 
figures 
 for the   
previous 
year 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Income 

on 

1. Interest earned  
(a)+(b)+(c)+(d) 
(a)Interest/discount  on  
on advances/bills  
(b) 
investments  
(c) Interest on balances  
with  Reserve  Bank  of 
India  and  other  inter 
bank funds  
(d) Others  
2. Other Income 
A.  TOTAL  INCOME 
(1+2) 
3. Interest Expended 
Operating 
(e)+(f) 
(e) Payments 
provisions 
employees 

to  and 
for 

Expense 

operating 

TOTAL 

(excluding 
and 

(f)  Other 
Expense 
B. 
EXPENDITURE  
(3)+(4) 
Provisions 
Contingencies) 
C. 
PROFIT  
 (A-B) (Profit before 
Provisions 
Contingencies) 
D. Other Provisions 

OPERATING 

and 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 and Contingencies  
E. Provision for Taxes  
F. Net Profit (C-D-E)  
4.  Paid-up equity share 

capital  

5.  Reserves excluding  
Revaluation reserves  
(as per balance sheet of  
previous 
accounting 
year)  
7. Analytical Ratios  
(i) Percentage of shares 
held  by Government of 
India  
(ii)  Capital  Adequacy 
Ratio  
(iii) Earning per Share  
8.*(Applicable for half 
 yearly financial results)  
Aggregate of Non 
 Promoter Shareholding  

•  No. of shares  
•  Percentage of  

Shareholding  

 Notes:  
a. Any event or transaction that is material to an understanding of the results for the 
quarter including change in management, change in capital structure etc., shall be 
disclosed.  Similar  material  event  or  transactions  subsequent  to  the  end  of  the 
quarter, the effect whereof is not reflected in the results for the quarter shall also 
be disclosed.  

b.All  material non recurring/abnormal income/gain and expenditure/loss and effect 
of  all  changes  in  accounting  practices  affecting  the  profits  materially  must  be 
disclosed separately. 

c. Issuer  shall  give  the  following  information  in  respect  of  dividend  paid  or 

recommend for the year including interim dividends declared:  
i.  Amount of dividend distributed or proposed distinguishing between different 
classes  of  shares  and  dividend  per  share  also  indicating  nominal  value  per 
share.  

ii.  Where  dividend  is  paid  or  proposed  pro-rata  for  shares  allotted  during  the 
year,  the  date  of  allotment,  number  of  shares  allotted  pro-rata  amount  of 
dividend per share and the aggregate amount of dividend paid or proposed on 
pro-rata basis.  

d.The  effect  of  changes  in  composition  of  the  Issuer  during the quarter, including 
business  combinations  acquisitions  or  disposal  of  subsidiaries  and  long  term 
investments, restructuring and discontinuing operations shall be disclosed.  

 

 

 

 
e. (i)      If  there  is/are  any  qualification(s)  by  the  Auditors  in  respect  of  Audited 
Accounts of any period, then the Issuer shall disclose the same along with the 
impact  of  such  audit  qualification(s)  on  the  profit  or  loss  while  publishing  the 
accounts for the said period.  

(ii) While publishing unaudited quarterly results, the Issuer shall disclose how the 
qualification(s), if any, by the Auditors in respect of the Audited Accounts of the 
previous  accounting  year  has/have  been  addressed  in  the  unaudited  quarterly 
results and if the same is not addressed, then the impact that the qualification(s) 
would have had on the profit or loss in the unaudited quarterly results shall be 
disclosed. 

(iii) The Issuer, while furnishing the audited or unaudited financial results to the 
exchange,  shall  also  explain  to  the  exchange  about  the  reasons  for  the 
qualification(s)  referred  under  (i)  and  (ii)  above,  why  the  Issuer  had  failed  to 
publish  accounts  without  such  audit  qualification(s)  and  when  the  Issuer  will 
remove the qualification(s) and publish accounts without such qualification(s). 

 
f. The unaudited results sent to Stock Exchange/s and published in newspapers (for 
listed  banks)  should  be  based  on  the  same  set  of  accounting  policies  as  those 
followed  in  the  previous  year.  In  case  there  are  changes  in  the  accounting 
policies, the results of previous year will be recast as per the present accounting 
policies to make it comparable with the current year results. 

g.Half yearly results which are required to be subjected to the "Limited Review" by 

the auditors shall be prepared for the first two quarters.  

 
C. Preparation of the Financial Results 
 

 
(1)  The  Issuer  shall  comply  with  the  Accounting  Standard  on  ‘Accounting  for 

Taxes on Income’ in preparation of the financial results under this clause. 

(2)  The  Issuer  may  publish  consolidated  financial  results  in  addition  to  the 

unaudited financial results under this clause. 

(3)  Issuers  who  change  their  name  suggesting  any  new  line  of  business 
(including  software  business)  shall  disclose  the  turnover  and  income  etc. 
from  such  new  activities  separately  in  the  financial  results  for  a  period  of 
three years from the date of change in name. 

(4)  The  financial  results  shall  be  prepared  on  the  basis  of  accrual  accounting 

policy and uniform accounting practices for all the periods.  

(5)  The unaudited results should be based on the same set of accounting policies 
as  those  followed  in  the  previous  year.  In  case,  there  are  changes  in  the 
accounting  policies,  the  results  of  previous  year  will  be  recast  as  per  the 
present accounting policies, to make it comparable with current year results. 
(6)  The  issuer  agrees  that  where  it  has  not  yet  commenced  its  commercial 
production, it will make additional quarterly disclosures as prescribed under 
Schedule VI of the companies Act 1956, regarding the balance of unutilised 

monies raised by issue and the form in which such unutilised funds have been 
invested by the issuer. 

(7)  The unaudited results should not substantially differ from the audited results 
of the Issuer.  If the sum total of the First, Second, Third and Fourth quarterly 
unaudited results in respect of any item given in the same pro-forma varies by 
20  per  cent  when  compared  with  the  audited  results  for  the  full  year  the 
Issuer shall explain the reasons to the Stock Exchanges. 

 
D. Segment Reporting  
 
Where the issuer has reportable segments, it shall furnish segment wise revenue, results 
and  capital  employed  along  with  the  quarterly  un-audited  financial  results  as  per  the 
format given below.  

 

Format for Reporting of Segment wise Revenue, Results and Capital Employed 

(Rs in Lakhs) 

3  
Months  
ended             
 
 
(1) 
 

Corresponding  
3 months in 
the previous  
year 
           
     (2) 
 

Year to  
date figures 
For current  
Period    
  
    (3) 
 

Year to 
 date Figures 
 For the  
 Previous 
 Year   
     (4) 
 

Previous 
Accounti
ng Year               
 
 
    (5) 
 

 
 

Segment 

1. 
Revenue  
(net sale/income  
from  each segment  
should be disclosed  
under this head)  
a)  Segment – A 
b)  Segment – B 
c)  Segment -  C 
d)   Others 
Total 
Less: 
Segment     
Revenue 
 
Net sales/Income  
From Operations  
2. Segment 
 Results 
(Profit)(+)/ 
Loss(-) before tax 
 and interest from   
Each segment)* 
a)  Segment – A 

Inter 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

b)  Segment – B 
c)  Segment -  C 
d)  Others 
 
Total 
Less : i) Interest** 
ii) Other  
Un-allocable  
Expenditure net off  
Un-allocable 
income 
 
Total  Profit  Before 
Tax 
* Profit/loss before tax and after interest in case of segments having operations which are  
primarily of financial nature. 
** Other than the interest pertaining to the segments having operations which are primarily 
 of financial nature. 
3. 
Capital 
Employed 
(Segment assets  
 –Segment 
Liabilities) 
a)  Segment – A 
b)  Segment – B 
c)  Segment -  C 
d)  Others 
Total 
Note :  
a.  Reportable  segment,  Segment  Revenue,  Segment  Results,  Segment  assets  and 
Segment  liabilities  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  defined  in  the  Accounting 
Standards on Segment Reporting (AS-17) issued by ICAI. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

b.  The  above  information  shall  be  furnished  for  each  of  the  reportable  primary 

segments as identified in accordance with AS-17, issued by ICAI. 

 
E. Half yearly results 
 

(1)  In  addition  to  the  unaudited  results,  the  Issuer  shall  prepare  the  half  yearly 
results  in  the  same  pro-forma  and  the  same  shall  be  approved  by  the  Board  of 
Directors/Council of issuer and subjected to a “Limited Review” by the Auditors of 
the  Issuer  and  a  copy  of  the  Review  Report  shall  be  submitted  to  the  Stock 
Exchanges within 2 months after the close of the half year. For the purpose of this 
Review half year shall be construed as consisting of the first two quarters of the 
Issuer’s Financial Year.  If the sum total of First and Second quarterly un-audited 
results in respect of any item given in the same pro-forma format varies by 20% or 
more  from  the  respective  half  yearly  results  as  determined  after  the  “Limited 

the 

for 

Issuer) 

Review” by the Auditors, the Issuer shall send a statement (approved by the Board 
of  Directors/Council  of  issuer  )  explaining  the  reasons  to  the  Stock  Exchanges 
along with Review Report. The Review Report shall be in the following format: 
 
“We have reviewed the accompanying statement of unaudited financial results of 
……………………………..  (Name  of 
the  period  ended 
…………….. This statement is the responsibility of the Issuer’s Management and 
has been approved by the Board of Directors/Council of issuer. 
 
“A  review  of  interim  financial  information  consists  principally  of  applying 
analytical procedures for financial data and making inquiries of persons responsible 
for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit 
conducted  in  accordance  with  the  generally  accepted  auditing  standards,  the 
objective  of  which  is  the  expression  of  an  opinion  regarding  the  financial 
statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. 
 
“Based  on  our  review  conducted  as  above,  nothing  has  come  to  our  notice  that 
causes us to believe that the accompanying statement of unaudited financial results 
prepared in accordance with accounting standards and other recognised accounting 
practices and policies has not disclosed the information required to be disclosed in 
terms of Clause 2.14 of the Debenture Lis ting Agreement including the manner in 
which it is to be disclosed, or that it contains any material misstatement.”  
 
The Review Report for Banks shall be in the following format : 
"We  have  reviewed  the  accompanying  statement  of  unaudited  financial  results of 
____  (Name  of  the  Issuer)  for  the  period  ended  ____.  This  statement  is  the 
responsibility of the Issuer’s Management and has been approved by the Board of 
Directors/Council of issuer.  
 
“A  review  of  interim  financial  information  consists  principally  of  applying 
analytical procedures for financial data and making inquires of persons responsible 
for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit 
conducted  in  accordance  with  the  generally  accepted  auditing  standards,  the 
objective  of  which  is  the  expression  of  an  opinion  regarding  the  financial 
statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.  
 
 
“In the conduct of our Review we have relied on the review reports in respect of 
non-performing  assets received from concurrent auditors of _________ branches, 
inspection teams of the bank of _______ branches and other firms of auditors of 
_________ branches specifically appointed for this purpose. These review reports 
cover  ______  percent  of  the  advances   portfolio  of  the  bank.  Apart  from  these 
review  reports,  in  the  conduct  of  our  review,  we  have  also  relied  upon  various 
returns received from the branches of the bank.  
 

“Based  on  our  review  conducted  as  above,  nothing  has  come  to  our  notice  that 
causes us to believe that the accompanying statement of unaudited financial results 
prepared in accordance with accounting standards and other recognised accounting 
practices and policies has not disclosed the information required to be disclosed in 
terms of Clause 2.14 of the Listing Agreement including the manner in which it is 
to be disclosed or that it contains any material misstatement or that it has not been 
prepared  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  prudential  norms  issued  by  the  Reserve 
Bank  of  India  in  respect of income recognition, asset classification, provisioning 
and other related matters." 
 
(2) The Issuer shall have an option to publish audited half yearly financial results 
within  two  months  instead  of  publishing  un-audited  results  within  one  month 
followed by a Limited Review within two months. 

 
F. Results for the last quarter  
 

In respect of results for the last quarter of the financial year, if the Issuer intimates 
in  advance  to  the  Stock  Exchange/s  that  it  will  publish  audited  results  within  a 
period  of 3 months from the end of the last quarter of the financial year, in such a 
case unaudited results for the last quarter need not be published / given to the Stock 
Exchanges. The audited results for the year shall be published/given to the Stock 
Exchanges in the same format as is applicable for publishing of quarterly financial 
results.  
 
The  companies  which  opt  to  publish  audited  results  for  the  entire  year  within  3 
months instead of publishing un-audited results for the last quarter within 30 days 
shall be required to publish annual audited results in the format specified below. In 
case  of  banks  and  companies  furnishing  results  in  alternative  format  for 
manufacturing and trading/service companies (which follow functional (secondary) 
classification of expenditure) the columns 1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 as mentioned in the format 
of  unaudited  results  therefor    shall  be  adopted    and  the  rows  shall  remain  as 
required in the respective format. 

 
Format for publication of Annual audited results (Companies opting to give audited 
results instead of unaudited fourth quarter results) (Rs in lacs) 
 

Particulars  

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

Figures for the 
9 months 

Figures for 
the last 
quarter 

  

  

  

  
  
  

  

  

  

  

  
  
  

  

Figures for 
the  corres 
ponding 
quarter of 
the previous 
year 
  

  

  

  
  
  

  

Audited 
figures for 
the 
current 
year 

Audited 
figures 
for the 
previous 
year 

  

  

  

  
  
  

  

  

  

  

  
  
  

  

1.  Net 

Sales/Income
 from 
Operations  

2.  Other 

Income  
  
3.  Total 

Expenditure  
a.Increase/decr
ease in stock 
in trade  
b consumption 
of raw 
materials  
c.Staff cost   
d.Other 
expenditure  
(Any item 
exceeding 10% 
of the total 
expenditure to 
be shown 
separately) 
 

4.  Interest  
5.  Depreciation   
6.  Profit 

(+)/Loss(-) 
before tax 
(1+2-3-4-5)  
7.  Provision for 

taxation   

 

  

  

  

  

 

  

  

  

  

 

  

  

  

  

 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 

8.  Net Profit 

(+)/Loss (-) 
(6-7)  

9.  Paid-up 

equity share 
capital (face 
value of the 
share shall be 
indicated)  
10. Reserves 
excluding 
revaluation 
reserves (as 
per balance 
sheet) of 
previous 
accounting 
year to be 
given in 
column (5)   

11. Basic and 

diluted EPS 
for the 
period, for 
the year to 
date and for 
the previous 
year (not to 
be 
annualized)  
12. (Applicable 

for half 
yearly 
financial 
results)aggre
gate of non 
promoting 
shareholding  
•  no. of 

shares   
•  percentag

e of 
sharehold
ing  

 Notes:  All the notes applicable to the format of un-audited quarterly financial 
results shall also be applicable to this format. 

 
G. Relaxation 

The issuer agrees that in case it is unable to provide the statements/reports as stated 
in A through F above to the satisfaction of the stock exchange, it shall publish in a 
form  approved  by  Stock  Exchange  such  periodical  interim  statements  of  its 
working and earning as required by Stock Exchange, SEBI, or any statutory body 
or local authority or any body or authority acting under the authority or direction of 
the Central Government. 
 

H. Qualifications in Audit Reports: 

i)  If  there  is  /are  any  qualification(s)  by  the  Auditors  in  respect  of  Audited 
Accounts  of  any    time  period,  then  the  issuer  shall  disclose  the  same 
alongwith the impact of such audit qualification(s) on the profit or loss while 
publishing the accounts for the said period. 

ii)  While publishing unaudited quarterly results, the issuer shall disclose how the 
qualification(s), if any, by the Auditors in respect of the Audited Accounts of 
the  previous  accounting  years  has/  have  been  addressed  in  the  unaudited 
quarterly  results  and  it  the  same  is  not  addressed  then  the  impact  that  the 
qualification(s) would have had on the profit or loss in the unaudited quarterly 
results shall be disclosed. 

iii) The  issuer  while  furnishing the audited or unaudited financial results to the 
Exchange,  shall  also  explain  in  the  published  audited/unaudited  financial 
results  about  the  reasons  for  the  qualification(s)  referred  under  (i)  and  (ii) 
above,  why  the  issuer  had  failed  to  publish  accounts  without  such  audit 
qualification(s)  and  when  the  issuer  will  remove  the  qualification(s)  and 
publish accounts without such qualification(s). 

Comment: Qualifications in audit 
reports to be redrafted as per the latest 
amendment in equity listing agreement 

 

 

2.15  The  Issuer  agrees  that  it  shall  be  a  condition  precedent  for  issuance  of  new 
securities,  that  it  shall  deposit  before  the  opening  of  subscription  list  and  keep 
deposited  with  the  designated  stock  exchange  (in  cases  where  the  securities  are 
offered for subscription whether through the Issue of a prospectus, letter of offer or 
otherwise)  an  amount  calculated  at  1%  of  the  amount  of  securities  offered  for 
subscription to the public and/or to the holders of existing securities of the Issuer, 
as the case may be, for ensuring compliance by the Issuer, within the prescribed or 
stipulated  period,  of  all  prevailing  requirements  of  law  and  all  prevailing  listing 
requirements and conditions as mentioned in, and refundable or forfeitable in the 
manner stated in the Rules, Bye-laws and Regulations of the exchange for the time 
being in force.  

50% of the security deposit, subject to a maximum of Rs. 3 crores should be paid to 
the exchange in cash. The balance amount can be provided for by way of a bank 
guarantee.  The  security  deposit  shall  be  released  by  exchange  after  the  issuer 

 
2.16  

obtains  No  Objection  Certificate  from  SEBI  in  accordance  with  the  SEBI 
(Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000  and  the  Bye-laws  of  the 
Exchange. 

a)  The  issuer  agrees  that  it  will  furnish  on  a  quarterly  basis  a  statement  to  the 
exchange indicating the variations between projected utilisation of funds and/ or 
projected  profitability  statement  made  by  it  in  its  offer  document  or  object/s 
stated  in  the  explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  for  the  general  meeting  for 
considering  preferential  issue  of  securities  and  the  actual  utilisation of funds 
and/ or actual profitability. 

b)  The  statement  referred  to  in  clause  a  shall  be  given  for  each  of  the  years  for 
which  projections  are  provided  in  the  offer  document  /object/s  sated  in  the 
explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  for  considering  preferential  issue  of 
securities  as  shall  be  published  in  newspapers  simultaneously  with  the 
unaudited/audited financial results. 

c) If there are material variations between the projections in the offer document or 
the  explanatory  statement  as  the  case  may  be,  and  the  actual  utilisation/ 
profitability, 
therefor 
the 
advertisement and shall also provide the same in the Directors’ Report. 

issuer  shall  furnish  an  explanation 

the 

in 

  
2.17 The issuer agrees that – 

(a)  as  far  as  possible  allotment  of  securities  offered  to  the  public  shall  be  made 

within the time period specified in the relevant guidelines of SEBI.  

(b) Credit to demat account will be given within two working days from the date of 

allotment 

(c) it shall pay interest @ 15% per annum if the allotment has not been made and or 
refund orders have not been dispatched to the investors within the time period 
specified in the guidelines and disclosed in the offer document.  

 
2.18 The issuer agrees to comply with the following provisions:   

(For  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  the term board of directors is generic and shall be 
construed to cover the governing body / council of issuer, wherever applicable) 

 
I. Board of Directors  

 

 

(A) Composition of Board 
 
(i)     The Board of directors of the company shall have an optimum combination of executive 
and  non-executive directors with not less than fifty percent of the board of directors 
comprising of non-executive directors. 
    Where the Chairman of the Board is a non-executive  director,  at  least  one-third of 
the  Board  should  comprise  of  independent  directors  and  in  case  he  is  an  executive 
director, at least half of the Board should comprise of independent directors. 

(ii) 

(iii)  For the purpose of the sub-clause (ii), the expression ‘independent director’ shall mean 

a non-executive director of the company who: 

a.  apart  from  receiving  director’s  remuneration,  does  not  have  any  material  pecuniary 
relationships or transactions with the company, its promoters, its directors, its senior 
management or its holding company, its subsidiaries and associates which may affect 
independence of the director;  

b.  is not related to promoters or persons occupying management positions at the board 

level or at one level below the board;  

c.  has  not  been  an  executive  of  the  company  in  the  immediately  preceding   three 

financial years;  

d.  is  not  a  partner  or  an  executive  or  was  not  partner  or  an  executive  during  the 

preceding three years, of any of the following: 

i) the statutory audit firm or the internal audit firm that is associated with the 

ii)  the  legal  firm(s)  and  consulting  firm(s)  that  have  a  material  association 

company, and  

with the company.  

e.  is  not  a  material supplier, service provider or customer or a lessor or lessee of the 

company, which may affect independence of the director; and  

f.  is not a substantial shareholder of the company i.e. owning two percent or more of the 

block of voting shares.  

 

Explanation  
For the purposes of the sub-clause (iii): 
a.  Associate shall mean a company which is an “associate” as defined in Accounting 
Standard  (AS)  23,  “Accounting  for  Investments  in  Associates  in  Consolidated 
Financial Statements”, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. 

b.  “Senior management” shall mean personnel of the company who are members of 
its  core  management  team  excluding  Board  of  Directors.  Normally,  this  would 
comprise  all  members  of  management  one  level  below  the  executive  directors, 
including all functional heads. 

c.  “Relative” shall mean “relative” as defined in section 2(41) and section 6 read with 

Schedule IA  of the Companies  Act, 1956. 

 
(iv)  Nominee  directors  appointed  by  an  institution  which  has  invested  in  or  lent  to  the 

company shall be deemed to be independent directors. 

Explanation: 
“Institution’  for  this  purpose  means  a  public  financial  institution  as  defined  in  Section 
4A  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  or  a  “corresponding  new  bank”  as  defined  in  section 
2(d) of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 or 
the  Banking  Companies  (Acquisition  and  Transfer  of  Undertakings)  Act,  1980  [both 
Acts].” 

 

 

 

(B) Non executive directors’ compensation and disclosures  

All fees/compensation, if any paid to non-executive directors, including independent directors, 
shall be fixed by the Board of Directors and shall require previous approval of shareholders in 
general meeting. The shareholders’ resolution shall specify the limits for the maximum number 
of stock options that can be granted to non-executive directors, including independent directors, 
in any financial year and in aggregate.  
 

(C) Other provisions as to Board and Committees 

 
(i)  The board shall meet at least four times a year, with a maximum time gap of three months 
between any two meetings. The minimum information to be made available to the board 
is given in Annexure– I A. 

(ii)  A director shall not be a member in more than 10 committees or act as Chairman of more 
than  five  committees  across  all  companies  in  which  he  is  a  director.  Furthermore  it 
should  be  a  mandatory  annual  requirement  for  every  director  to  inform  the  company 
about the committee positions he occupies in other companies and notify changes as and 
when they take place. 

Explanation:  
1.  For  the  purpose  of  considering  the  limit  of  the  committees  on  which  a  director  can 
serve, all public limited companies, whether listed or not, shall be included  and all 
other  companies  including  private  limited  companies,  foreign  companies  and 
companies under Section 25 of the Companies Act shall be excluded. 

2.  For  the  purpose  of  reckoning  the  limit  under  this  sub-clause,  Chairmanship/ 
membership  of  the  Audit  Committee  and  the  Shareholders’  Grievance  Committee 
alone shall be considered.  

(iii)  The  Board  shall  periodically  review  compliance  reports  of  all  laws  applicable  to  the 
company,  prepared  by  the  company  as  well  as  steps  taken  by  the  company  to  rectify 
instances of non-compliances. 

(D) Code of Conduct 

 
(i)  The  Board  shall  lay  down  a  code  of  conduct  for  all  Board  members  and  senior 
management of the company. The code of conduct shall be posted on the website of the 
company. 

 
(ii)  All Board members and senior management personnel shall affirm compliance with the 
code on an annual basis. The Annual Report of the company shall contain a declaration to 
this effect signed by the CEO. 
Explanation:  For this purpose, the term “senior management” shall mean personnel of 
the  company  who  are  members  of  its  core  management  team  excluding  Board  of 
Directors.. Normally, this would comprise all members of management one level below 
the executive directors, including all functional heads. 

 

 

 

 

 
II Audit Committee 
 

(A)  Qualified and Independent Audit Committee 
 
A  qualified  and  independent  audit  committee  shall  be  set  up,  giving  the  terms  of  reference 
subject to the following:  

(i) The audit committee shall have minimum three directors as members. Two -thirds of 

the members of audit committee shall be independent directors.  

(ii)  All  members  of  audit  committee  shall  be  financially  literate  and  at  least  one 

member shall have accounting or related financial management expertise. 

Explanation 1: The term “financially literate” means the ability to read and understand 
basic financial statements i.e. balance sheet, profit and loss account, and statement of 
cash flows. 
Explanation 2:  A  member  will  be  considered  to  have  accounting  or  related  financial 
management  expertise  if  he  or  she  possesses  experience  in  finance  or  accounting,  or 
requisite professional certification in accounting, or any other comparable experience or 
background which results in the individual’s financial sophistication, including being or 
having been a chief executive officer, chief financial officer or other senior officer with 
financial oversight responsibilities. 

(iii)  The Chairman of the Audit Committee shall be an independent director;  
(iv)  The Chairman of the Audit Committee shall be present at Annual General Meeting to 

answer shareholder queries; 

(v)  The audit committee may invite such of the executives, as it considers appropriate (and 
particularly  the  head  of  the  finance  function)  to  be  present  at  the  meetings  of  the 
committee, but on occasions it may also meet without the presence of any executives  of 
the  company.    The  finance  director,  head  of  internal  audit  and  a  representative  of  the 
statutory auditor may be present as invitees for the meetings of the audit committee; 

(vi)  The Company Secretary shall act as the secretary to the committee. 
 

(B) Meeting of Audit Committee 

 
The audit committee should meet at least four times in a year and not more than four months 
shall elapse between two meetings.  The quorum shall be either two members or one third of 
the members of the audit committee whichever is greater, but there should be a minimum of 
two independent members present.  

 

(C) Powers of Audit Committee 

 
The audit committee shall have powers, which should include the following: 
  
1.  To investigate any activity within its terms of reference. 
2.  To seek information from any employee. 
3.  To obtain outside legal or other professional advice. 
4.  To secure attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise, if it considers necessary. 
 

(D) Role of Audit Committee 

         

The role of the audit committee shall include the following: 

1.  Oversight of the company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial 

information to ensure that the financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible.  

2.  Recommending  to  the  Board,  the  appointment,  re-appointment  and,  if  required,  the 

replacement or removal of the statutory auditor and the fixation of audit fees. 

3.  Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other services rendered by the statutory 

auditors.  

4.  Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial statements  before submission to 

the board for approval, with particular reference to: 

a.  Matters  required  to  be  included  in  the  Director’s  Responsibility  Statement  to  be 
included  in  the  Board’s  report  in  terms  of  clause  (2AA)  of  section 217  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956 

b.  Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same 
c.  Major  accounting  entries  involving  estimates  based  on  the  exercise  of  judgment  by 

management 

d.  Significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings  
e.  Compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements 
f.  Disclosure of any related party transactions  
g.  Qualifications in the draft audit report.  

5.  Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial statements before submission to 

the board for approval 

6.  Reviewing,  with  the  management,  performance  of  statutory  and  internal  auditors, 

adequacy of the internal control systems.  

7.  Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, including the structure of the 
internal  audit department, staffing and seniority of the official heading the department, 
reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit.  

8.  Discussion with internal auditors any significant findings and follow up there on.  
9.  Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters 
where there is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a 
material nature and reporting the matter to the board.  

10. Discussion  with  statutory  auditors  before  the  audit  commences,  about  the  nature  and 

scope of audit as well as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern.  

11. To  look  into  the  reasons  for  substantial  defaults  in  the  payment  to  the  depositors, 
debenture  holders,  shareholders  (in  case  of  non  payment  of  declared  dividends)  and 
creditors.  

12. To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower mechanism, in case the same is existing.  
13. Carrying  out  any  other  function  as  is  mentioned  in  the  terms  of  reference  of  the  Audit 

Committee. 
Explanation  (i):  The  term "related party transactions" shall have the same meaning as 
contained  in  the  Accounting  Standard  18,  Related  Party  Transactions,  issued  by  The 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. 
Explanation (ii): If the company has set up an audit committee pursuant to provision of 
the  Companies  Act,  the  said  audit  committee  shall  have  such  additional  functions  / 
features as is contained in this clause.  

 
(E) Review of information by Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee shall mandatorily review the following information:  

1.  Management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations;  
2.  Statement of significant related party transactions (as defined by the audit committee), 

3.  Management  letters  /  letters  of  internal  control  weaknesses  issued  by  the  statutory 

submitted by management; 

auditors; 

4.  Internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses; and  
5.  The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief internal auditor shall 

be subject to review by the Audit Committee  

 
III. Subsidiary Companies 

 

i.  At least one independent director on the Board of Directors of the holding company shall 
be  a  director  on  the  Board  of  Directors  of  a  material  non  listed  Indian  subsidiary 
company. 

ii.  The  Audit  Committee  of  the  listed  holding  company  shall  also  review  the  financial 

statements, in particular, the investments made by the unlisted subsidiary company.  

iii.  The minutes of the Board meetings of the unlisted subsidiary company shall be placed at 
the Board meeting of the listed holding company.  The management should periodically 
bring to the attention of the Board of Directors of the listed holding company, a statement 
of  all  significant  transactions  and  arrangements  entered  into  by  the  unlisted  subsidiary 
company. 

 

Explanation 1:  The term “material  non-listed Indian subsidiary” shall mean an unlisted 
subsidiary, incorporated in India, whose turnover or net worth (i.e. paid up capital and 
free reserves) exceeds 20% of the consolidated turnover or net worth respectively, of the 
listed holding company and its subsidiaries in the immediately preceding accounting year. 
Explanation  2:    The  term  “significant  transaction  or  arrangement”  shall  mean  any 
individual transaction or arrangement that exceeds or is likely to exceed 10% of the total 
revenues  or total expenses or total assets or total liabilities, as the case may be, of the 
material unlisted subsidiary for the immediately preceding accounting year. 
Explanation 3: Where a listed holding company has a listed subsidiary which is itself a 
holding company, the above provisions shall apply to the listed subsidiary insofar as its 
subsidiaries are concerned. 

 
IV. Disclosures  

(A) Basis of related party transactions  
 
(i)  A statement in summary form of transactions with related parties in the ordinary course 

 

 

of business shall be placed periodically before the audit committee. 

(ii)  Details of material individual transactions with related parties which are not in the normal 

course of business shall be placed before the audit committee. 

(iii) Details of material individual transactions with related parties or others, which are not on 
an  arm’s  length  basis  should  be  placed  before  the  audit  committee,  together  with 
Management’s justification for the same..  

 

 

  
(B) Disclosure of Accounting Treatment 
 

Where  in  the  preparation  of  financial  statements,  a  treatment  different  from  that 
prescribed in an Accounting Standard has been followed, the fact shall be disclosed in the 
financial statements, together with the management’s explanation as to why it believes 
such  alt ernative  treatment  is  more  representative  of  the  true  and  fair  view  of  the 
underlying business transaction in the Corporate Governance Report. 

(C) Board Disclosures – Risk management 

 

The  company  shall  lay  down  procedures  to  inform  Board  members  about  the  risk 
assessment and minimization procedures. These procedures shall be periodically reviewed 
to  ensure  that  executive  management  controls  risk  through  means  of  a  properly  defined 
framework. 

(D) Proceeds from public issues, rights issues, preferential issues etc. 

 

When  money  is  raised  through  an  issue  (public  issues,  rights  issues,  preferential  issues 
etc.),  it  shall  disclose  to  the  Audit  Committee,  the  uses  /  applications  of  funds  by  major 
category  (capital  expenditure,  sales  and  marketing,  working  capital, etc), on a quarterly 
basis as a part of their quarterly declaration of financial results. Further, on an annual basis, 
the company shall prepare a statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated 
in  the  offer  document/prospectus/notice  and  place  it  before  the  audit  committee.  Such 
disclosure shall be made only till such time that the full money raised through the issue has 
been fully spent. This statement shall be certified by the statutory auditors of the company. 
The audit committee shall make appropriate recommendations to the Board to take up steps 
in this matter.  

(E) Remuneration of Directors 

(i) All pecuniary relationship or transactions of the non-executive directors vis -à-vis the 

company shall be disclosed in the Annual Report. 

 
(ii) Further the following disclosures on the remuneration of directors shall be made in 

the section on the corporate governance of the Annual Report: 
 
(a)  All elements of remuneration package of individual directors summarized under major 

groups, such as salary, benefits, bonuses, stock options, pension etc. 

(b)  Details  of  fixed  component  and  performance  linked  incentives,  along  with  the 

performance criteria. 

 

 

(c)  Service contracts, notice period, severance fees. 
(d)  Stock option details, if any – and whether issued at a discount as well as the period over 

which accrued and over which exercisable. 

 
(iii) The company shall publish its criteria of making payments to non -executive directors  in its 
annual  report.  Alternatively,  this  may  be  put  up  on  the  company’s  website  and  reference 
drawn thereto in the annual report.  

 
(iv) The company shall disclose the number of shares and convertible instruments held by non-

executive directors in the annual report. 

 
(v)  Non-executive directors shall be required to disclose their shareholding (both own or held 
by  /  for  other  persons  on  a  beneficial  basis)  in  the  listed  company  in  which  they  are 
proposed to be appointed as directors, prior to their appointment. These details should be 
disclosed in the notice to the general meeting called for appointment of such director 

(F) Management  

(i)  As part of the directors’ report or as an addition thereto, a Management Discussion and 
Analysis  report  should  form  part  of  the  Annual  Report  to  the  shareholders.  This 
Management  Discussion  &  Analysis  should  include  discussion on the following matters 
within the limits set by the company’s competitive position: 

Industry structure and developments. 

i. 
ii.  Opportunities and Threats. 
iii.  Segment–wise or product-wise performance. 
iv.  Outlook  
v.  Risks and concerns. 
vi. 
vii.  Discussion on financial performance with respect to operational performance. 
viii.  Material  developments  in  Human  Resources  /  Industrial  Relations  front,  including 

Internal control systems and  their adequacy. 

number of people employed. 

(ii) Senior  management shall make disclosures to the board relating to all material financial 
and commercial transactions, where they have personal interest, that may have a potential 
conflict  with  the  interest  of  the  company  at  large  (for  e.g.  dealing  in  company  shares, 
commercial  dealings  with  bodies,  which  have  shareholding  of  management  and  their 
relatives etc.) 

Explanation: For this purpose, the term "senior management" shall mean personnel of the 
company  who  are  members  of  its.  core  management  team  excluding  the  Board  of 
Directors).  This  would  also  include  all  members  of  management  one  level  below  the 
executive directors including all functional heads. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(G)   Shareholders 

(i)  In case of the appointment of a new director or re-appointment of a director the shareholders 

must be provided with the following information: 

 
(a)  A brief resume of the director; 
(b)  Nature of his expertise in specific functional areas;  
(c)  Names of companies in which the person also holds the directorship and the membership 

of Committees of the Board; and 

(d)  Shareholding of non -executive directors as stated in Clause 2.18 (IV) (E) (v) above 
 

(ii)  Quarterly  results  and  presentations  made  by  the  company  to  analysts  shall  be  put  on 
company’s web-site, or shall be sent in such a form so as to enable the stock exchange on 
which the company is listed to put it on its own web-site. 

 
(iii) A board committee under the chairmanship of a non-executive director shall be formed to 
specifically look into the redressal of shareholder and investors complaints like transfer of 
shares,  non-receipt  of  balance  sheet,  non-receipt  of  declared  dividends  etc.    This 
Committee shall be designated as ‘Shareholders/Investors Grievance Committee’.   

 

(iv) To expedite the process of share transfers, the Board of the company shall delegate the 
power of share transfer to an officer or a committee or to the registrar and share transfer 
agents. The delegated authority shall attend to share transfer formalities at least once in a 
fortnight. 

 
V. CEO/CFO certification    
 

The CEO, i.e. the Managing Director or Manager appointed in terms of the Companies Act, 
1956  and  the  CFO  i.e.  the  whole-time  Finance  Director  or  any  other  person  heading  the 
finance function discharging that function shall certify to the Board that: 
 
(a) They have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year and that 

to the best of their knowledge and belief : 

 

(i)   these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material 

fact or contain statements that might be misleading; 

(ii)  these statements together present a true and fair view of the company’s affairs and are 

in compliance with existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations. 

 
(b) There are, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the 
company during the year which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the company’s code 
of conduct. 

 
(c) They accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls and that they 
have evaluated the effectiveness of the internal control systems of the company and they 
have  disclosed  to  the  auditors  and  the  Audit  Committee,  deficiencies  in  the  design  or 
operation of internal controls, if any, of which they are aware and the steps they have 
taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies. 

 
(d)  They have indicated to the auditors and the Audit committee 
 

(i)  significant changes in internal control during the year;  
(ii)  significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been 

disclosed in the notes to the financial statements; and 

(iii) instances of significant fraud of which they have become aware and the involvement 
therein, if any,  of the management or an employee having a significant role in the 
company’s internal control system 

 
VI. Report on Corporate Governance 
 
(i)  There  shall  be  a  separate  section  on  Corporate  Governance  in  the  Annual  Reports  of 
company, with a detailed compliance report on Corporate Governance. Non-compliance 
of any mandatory requirement of this clause with reasons thereof and the extent to which 
the non-mandatory  requirements  have  been  adopted should be specifically highlighted. 
The suggested list of items to be included in this report is given in Annexure- I C and list 
of non-mandatory requirements is given in Annexure – I D.  

 
(ii) The companies shall submit a quarterly compliance report to the stock exchanges within 
15 days from the close of quarter as per the format given in  Annexure I B. The report 
shall be signed either by the Compliance Officer or the Chief Executive Officer of the 
company  

 

VII.  Compliance 
 
(1) The company shall obtain  a  certificate  from  either  the  auditors  or  practicing  company 
secretaries regarding compliance of conditions of corporate governance as stipulated in 
this clause and annex the certificate with the directors’ report, which is sent annually to 
all the shareholders of the company. The same certificate shall also be sent to the Stock 
Exchanges along with the annual report filed by the company. 

(2) The non-mandatory requirements given in Annexure – I D  may be implemented as per 
the  discretion  of  the  company.    However,  the  disclosures  of  the  compliance  with 
mandatory  requirements  and  adoption  (and  compliance)  /  non-adoption  of  the  non-
mandatory  requirements  shall  be  made  in  the  section  on  corporate  governance  of  the 
Annual Report. 

 

Annexure I A 

Annexure I B 

Format of Quarterly Compliance Report on Corporate Governance 
Name of the Company:   
Quarter ending on:  

Information to be placed before Board of Directors  
1.Annual operating plans and budgets and any updates. 
2.Capital budgets and any updates. 
3.Quarterly results for the company and its operating divisions or business segments. 
4.Minutes of meetings of audit committee and o ther committees of the board. 
5.The information on recruitment and remuneration of senior officers just below the board 
level,  including  appointment  or  removal  of  Chief  Financial  Officer  and  the  Company 
Secretary. 

6.Show  cause,  demand,  prosecution  notices  and  penalty  notices  which  are  materially 

7.Fatal  or  serious  accidents,  dangerous  occurrences,  any  material  effluent  or  pollution 

important  

problems. 

8.Any  material  default  in  financial  obligations  to  and  by  the  company,  or  substantial  non-

payment for goods sold by the company. 

9.Any issue, which involves possible public or product liability claims of substantial nature, 
including any judgement or order which, may have passed strictures on the conduct of the 
company  or  taken  an  adverse  view  regarding  another enterprise that can have negative 
implications on the company.  

10. Details of any joint venture or collaboration agreement. 
11. Transactions  that  involve  substantial  payment  towards  goodwill,  brand  equity,  or 

intellectual property. 

12. Significant labour problems and their proposed solutions. Any significant development in 
Human  Resources/  Industrial  Relations  front  like  signing  of  wage  agreement, 
implementation of Voluntary Retirement Scheme etc. 

13. Sale of material nature, of investments, subsidiaries, assets, which is not in normal course 

of business. 

14. Quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the steps taken by management to 

limit the risks of adverse exchange rate movement, if material. 

15.  Non-compliance  of  any  regulatory,  statutory  or  listing  requirements  and  shareholders 

service such as non-payment of dividend, delay in share transfer etc. 

 

Particulars 

I. Board of Directors  

(A)Composition of Board 
(B)Non-executive 
disclosures  
(C)Other provisions as to Board and Committees 
  (D)Code of Conduct  

Directors’ 

compensation 

&   

 II. Audit Committee 
(A)Qualified & Independent Audit Committee 
  (B)Meeting of Audit Committee 
  (C)Powers of Audit Committee 
  (D)Role of Audit Committee 
(E)Review of Information by Audit Committee 

III.  III. Subsidiary Companies 

  IV. Disclosures 
(A)Basis of related party transactions 
(B)Board Disclosures 

(C)Proceeds 

from  public 

issues, 

rights 

issues, 

preferential issues etc. 

  (D)Remuneration of Directors 

  (E)Management  
(F)Shareholders 
 
V.CEO/CFO Certification 
 
VI. Report on Corporate Governance 

X.    VII. Compliance  

Clause of 
Listing 

agreement  

2.18 I 
2.18(IA) 
2.18 (IB) 

2.18 (IC) 
2.18 (ID) 
2.18 (II) 

2.18 (IIA) 
2.18 (IIB) 
2.18 (IIC) 
2.18 II(D) 
2.18 (IIE) 
2.18 (III) 

2.18 (IV) 

  2.18 (IV A) 
2.18 (IV 
B) 

2.18 (IV C) 

2.18 (IV 

D) 

2.18 (IV E) 
2.18 (IV F) 
2.18 (V)  

2.18 (VI) 

2.18 (VII) 

Compliance 

Status 
Yes/No 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

Remarks  

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Note:   
1) The details under each head shall be provided to incorporate all the information required 

 

as per the provisions of the Clause 2.18 of the Listing Agreement.  

2) In the column No.3, compliance or non-compliance may be indicated by Yes/No/N.A.. For 
example,  if  the  Board  has  been  composed  in  accordance  with  the  Clause  2.18 I of the 
Listing Agreement, "Yes" may be indicated. Similarly, in case the company has no related 
party transactions, the words “N.A.” may be indicated against 2.18 (IV A). 

  3)  In  the  remarks  column,  reasons  for  non-compliance  may  be  indicated,  for  example,  in 
case of requirement related to circulation of information to the shareholders, which would 
be done only in the AGM/EGM, it might be indicated in the "Remarks" column as – “will 
be  complied  with  at  the  AGM”.  Similarly,  in  respect  of  matters  which  can  be  complied 
with only where the situation arises, for example, "Report on Corporate Governance" is to 

be a part of Annual Report only, the words "will be complied in the next Annual Report" 
may be indicated. 

Annexure I C 
 

Suggested List of Items to Be Included In the Report on Corporate Governance in the 
Annual Report of Companies 

 
1.  A brief statement on company’s philosophy on code of governance. 
 
2.   Board of Directors : 

i.  Composition  and  category  of  directors,  for  example,  promoter,  executive,  non- 
executive, independent non-executive, nominee director, which institution represented 
as lender or as equity investor.  

ii.  Attendance of each director at the Board meetings and the last AGM. 
iii.  Number  of  other  Boards  or  Board  Committees  in  which  he/she  is  a  member  or 

Chairperson  

iv.  Number of Board meetings held, dates on which held.  

 

 

3.  Audit Committee: 
 

i.  Brief description of terms of reference 
ii.  Composition, name of members and Chairperson 
iii.  Meetings and attendance during the year 

 
4.  Remuneration Committee: 
 

i.  Brief description of terms of reference 
ii.  Composition, name of members and Chairperson 
iii.  Attendance during the year 
iv.  Remuneration policy 
v.  Details of remuneration to all the direct ors, as per format in main report. 

 
5.  Shareholders Committee: 
 

i.  Name of non-executive director heading the committee 
ii.  Name and designation of compliance officer 
iii.  Number of shareholders’ complaints received so far 
iv.  Number not solved to the satisfaction of shareholders  
v.  Number of pending complaints  

 
6.  General Body meetings: 
 

i.  Location and time, where last three AGMs held. 
ii.  Whether any special resolutions passed in the previous 3 AGMs 
iii.  Whether any special resolution passed last year through postal ballot – details of voting 

pattern 

 

iv.  Person who conducted the postal ballot exercise 
v.  Whether any special resolution is proposed to be conducted through postal ballot  
vi.  Procedure for postal ballot 

7.   Disclosures :  
 

i.  Disclosures on materially significant related party transactions t hat may have potential 

conflict with the interests of company at large.  

ii.  Details  of  non-compliance  by  the  company,  penalties,  strictures  imposed  on  the 
company by Stock Exchange or SEBI or any statutory authority, on any matter related 
to capital markets, during the last three years. 

iii.  Whistle Blower policy and affirmation that no personnel has been denied access to the 

iv.  Details of compliance with mandatory requirements and adoption of the non-mandatory 

audit committee. 

requirements of this clause 

 
8.    Means of communication. 
 

i.  Quarterly results  
ii.  Newspapers wherein results normally published 
iii.  Any website, where displayed 
iv.  Whether it also displays official news releases; and  
v.  The presentations made to institutional investors or to the analysts. 

 
9.     General Shareholder information: 
 

AGM : Date, time and venue 
Financial year 

i. 
ii. 
iii.  Date of Book closure 
iv.  Dividend Payment Date 
v. 
vi.  Stock Code 
vii.  Market Price Data : High., Low during each month in last financial year 
viii.  Performance in comparison to broad-bas ed indices such as BSE Sensex, CRISIL 

Listing on Stock Exchanges  

index etc. 

Share Transfer System 

ix.  Registrar and Transfer Agents  
x. 
xi.  Distribution of shareholding 
xii.  Dematerialization of shares and liquidity 
xiii.  Outstanding  GDRs/ADRs/Warrants  or  any  Convertible  instruments,  conversion 

date and likely impact on equity 

xiv.  Plant Locations 
xv.  Address for correspondence 
 

Annexure I D 
Non-Mandatory Requirements  
 
(1)      The Board 

A  non -executive  Chairman  may  be  entitled  to  maintain  a  Chairman’s  office  at  the 
company’s  expense  and  also  allowed  reimbursement   of  expenses  incurred  in 
performance of his duties.  
 

Independent Directors may have a tenure not exceeding, in the aggregate, a period of 
nine years, on the Board of a company. 
 

(2)       Remuneration Committee 

i.  The board may set up a remuneration committee to determine on their behalf and    

on behalf of the shareholders with agreed terms of reference, the company’s policy 
on specific remuneration packages for executive directors including pension rights 
and any compensation payment.  

ii.  To avoid conflicts of interest, the remuneration committee, which would determine 
the remuneration packages of the executive directors may comprise of at least three 
directors,  all  of  whom  should  be  non-executive  directors,  the  Chairman  of 
committee being an independent director.  

iii.  All the members of the remuneration committee could be present at the meeting.  
iv.  The  Chairman  of  the  remuneration  committee  could  be  present  at  the  Annual 
General Meeting, to answer the shareholder queries. However, it would be up to the 
Chairman to decide who should answer the queries.  

 

Shareholder Rights 
A half-yearly declaration of financial performance including summary of the significant 
events in last six-months, may be sent to each household of shareholders. 
Audit qualifications  
Company may move towards a regime of unqualified financial statements.  
Training of Board Members 
A company may train its Board members in the business model of the company as well 
as the risk profile of the business parameters of the company, their responsibilities as 
directors, and the best ways to discharge them.   

 

 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6)  Mechanism for evaluating non-executive Board Members 

 

The performance evaluation of non-executive directors could be done by a peer group 
comprising the entire Board of Directors, excluding the  director being evaluated; and 
Peer  Group  evaluation  could  be  the  mechanism  to  determine  whether  to  extend  / 
continue the terms of appointment of non-executive directors. 

 

(7)  Whistle Blower Policy 

The company may establish a mechanism for employees to report to the management 
concerns  about  unethical  behaviour,  actual  or  suspected  fraud  or  violation  of  the 
company’s code of conduct or ethics policy. This mechanism could also provide for 
adequate  safeguards  against  victimization  of  employees  who  avail  of  the  mechanism 
and  also  provide  for  direct  access  to  the  Chairman  of  the  Audit  committee  in 
exceptional  cases.  Once  established,  the  existence  of  the  mechanism  may  be 
appropriately communicated within the organization 

 

VI. Report on Corporate Governance 

 
(i) There shall be a separate section on Corporate Governance in the Annual Reports of 
company,  with  a  detailed  compliance  report  on  Corporate  Governance.  Non-
compliance of any mandatory requirement of this clause with reasons thereof and the 
extent  to  which  the  non-mandatory  requirements  have  been  adopted  should  be 
specifically highlighted. The suggested list of items to be included in this report is 

given  in  Annexure-  I  C  and  list  of  non-mandatory  requirements  is  given  in 
Annexure – I D.  

 
(ii)  The  companies  shall  submit  a  quarterly  compliance  report  to  the  stock  exchanges 
within  15  days  from  the  close  of  quarter  as  per  the  format  given  in  Annexure  I  B. 
The report shall be signed either by the Compliance Officer or the Chief Executive 
Officer of the company  

 
VII. Compliance 
 
(1) The company shall obtain a certificate from either the auditors or practicing company 
secretaries regarding compliance of conditions of corporate governance as stipulated 
in  this  clause  and  annex  the  certificate  with  the  directors’  report,  which  is  sent 
annually to all the shareholders of the company. The same certificate shall also be 
sent to the Stock Exchanges along with the annual report filed by the company. 

(2) The non-mandatory requirements given in Annexure  – I D  may be implemented as 
per the discretion of the company.  However, the disclosures of the compliance with 
mandatory  requirements  and  adoption  (and  compliance)  /  non-adoption  of  the  non-
mandatory requirements shall be made in the section on corporate governance of the 
Annual Report. 

 

 

 
2.19 
1) The issuer agrees that, as and when mandated by SEBI, it shall file the information, 
statements and reports etc on the Electronic Data Information Filing and Retrieval 
(EDIFAR), in such a manner and format and within such time as may be specified by 
SEBI. 
Provided  that  the  requirement  of  this  clause  shall  be  in  addition  to  and  not  in 
derogation  from  the  requirement  of  other  clauses  of  this  listing  agreement,  which 
may require filing of any statement, reports and information in the physical or other 
form with the exchange. 

 
2)  The  issuer  agrees  that  the  compliance  officer  and  the  issuer  shall  ensure  the 
correctness  and  authenticity  of  the  information  filed  in  the  EDIFAR  and  it  is  in 
conformity with applicable laws and terms of the filing agreement. 

3) The issuer undertakes that while filing the information in the EDIFAR it shall make 

the following disclaimer: 
‘The information furnished above is certified by [issuer’s name] to be true, fair and 
accurate  (except  in  respect  of  errors  in  or  omissions  from  documents  filed 
electronically  that  result  solely  from  electronic  transmission  errors  beyond  our 
control and in respect of which we take corrective action as soon as it is reasonably 
practicable  after  becoming  aware  of  the  error  or  the  omission).  SEBI,  the  Stock 
Exchanges do not take any responsibility for the accuracy, validity, consistency and 
integrity of the data entered and updated by it.’ 

 
3.2 The issuer agrees:  
 

of allotment 

•  That credit to demat account will be given within two working days from the date 

•  To pay interest as disclosed in the offer document and the application form 

 
3.3 The issuer shall prepare its financial statements as per the accounting standards laid 
down by ICAI or as applicable to the issuer under relevant statutes; and publish its 
half yearly audited results preferably in the format mandated in clause 2.14 of part 
2 of this agreement. The issuer further agrees to file the same with the exchange. 

 
3.4 The Issuer agrees to send the following to its debenture holders  

(a) Notice of all meetings of the relevant debenture holders specifically stating that 
the  provisions  for  appointment  of  proxy  as  mentioned  in  section  176  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956 shall be applicable for such meeting.  

(b) A half-yearly communication, counter signed by debenture trustees containing 

inter-alia following information 

i) Credit rating, 
ii) Asset cover available,  
iii) Status of security 
iv) Debt-Equity ratio 
v)  Previous  due  date  for  the  payment  of  interest/principal  and  whether  the 

The name of the compliance officer with his designation and the issuer’s name shall 
be displayed immediately below the disclaimer. 

 
3.0  Clauses  which  would  be  applicable  if  the  debentures  are  issued  on  private 
placement basis. 
 
3.1 The Issuer agrees  unless the exchange otherwise agrees and the parties concerned 
desire, to credit the demat account in such units of trading as may be specified by 
the exchange subject to the same being in compliance with the instructions, if any 
issued by SEBI in this regard 

vi) Next due date for the payment of interest/principal and whether the same 

same has been paid or not  

would be paid or not 

In addition to that, the aforesaid information of this sub-clause shall be made 
available to public through any one of the following ways: 

i) Hosting in the website of the issuer, if it has any 
ii) Filing in SEBI EDIFAR, as and when mandated by SEBI 
 

3.5   The issuer notes that Corporate Governance requirements specified in clause 2.18 
of  this  agreement  are  recommendatory  and  may  be  implemented  as  per  discretion 
of  the  issuer.  It  agrees  to  disclose  adoption  of  the  same,  if  any,  in  the  Annual 
Report or such other document. 

 
Schedule – I 
 

SCHEDULE OF ISSUER’S DEBENTURES PROPOSED TO BE LISTED 
Kind of Security: 
 
Number  Issued: 
 
Nominal value (face value) of Security (Rs.):   
 
Total Nominal Value (face value) of Security (Rs.):     
 
Total Paid -Up Value(Rs.):  
 
Distinctive Numbers, if applicable:  
 
Interest due date(s): 
 
Date(s) of Redemption:  
 
Any other details felt necessary by the Stock Exchange. 

 
 

