Parag Basu  
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Issues and Listing-II 
Phone: +91 22 2285 0451-56, (Extn: 410) 22871582   
Fax: +91 22 2204 5633. Email: paragb@sebi.gov.in   

SEBI/CFD/DIL/CG/1/2004/12/10 
October 29, 2004 
 

 
The Managing Director/Executive Director/Administrator 
of all the Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Corporate Governance in listed Companies – Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement  
 

1.  All  Stock  Exchanges  are  hereby  directed  to  amend  the  Listing  Agreement  by 
replacing  the  existing  Clause  49  of  the  listing  agreement  (issued  vide  circulars 
dated  21st  February,  2000,  9th  March  2000,  12th  September  2000,  22nd  January, 
2001, 16th March 2001 and 31st December 2001) with the revised Clause 49 given in 
Annexure  I  through  I  D  to  this  circular.  SEBI  Circular  no.  SEBI/MRD/SE/31/2003/ 
26/08 dated August 26, 2003 (which has been since deferred) is hereby withdrawn. The 
revised Clause 49 also specifies the reporting requirements for a company.  

 
2.  Please  note  that  this  is  a  master  circular  which  supersedes  all other  earlier  circulars 

issued by SEBI on Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement. 

   
3.  The  provisions  of  the  revised  Clause  49  shall  be  implemented  as  per  the  schedule  of 

 

 

 

implementation given below: 

for such listing.  

a)  For entities seeking listing for the first time, at the time of seeking  in-principle approval 

b)  For existing listed entities which were required to comply with Clause 49 which is being 
revised i.e. those having a paid up share capital of Rs. 3 crores and above or net worth 
of Rs. 25 crores or more at any time in the history of the company, by April 1, 2005.  

Companies  complying  with  the  provisions  of  the  existing  Clause  49  at present  (issued 
vide  circulars  dated  21st  February,  2000,  9th  March  2000,  12th  September  2000,  22nd 
January, 2001 16th March 2001 and  31st December 2001) shall continue to do so till the 
revised  Clause  49  of  the  Listing  Agreement  is  complied  with  or  till  March  31,  2005, 
whichever is earlier. 

 
4.  The companies which are required to comply with the requirements of the revised Clause 
49 shall submit a quarterly compliance report to the stock exchanges as per sub Clause VI 
(ii), of the revised Clause 49, within 15 days from the end of every  quarter. The first such 
report would be submitted for the quarter ending June 30, 2005. The report shall be signed 
either by the Compliance Officer or the Chief Executive Officer of the company.  

Page 1 of 18 

 

5.  The  revised  Clause  49  shall  apply  to  all  the  listed  companies,  in  accordance  with  the 
schedule  of  implementation  given  above.  However,  for  other  listed  entities  which  are  not 
companies, but body corporate (e.g. private and public sector banks, financial institutions, 
insurance  companies  etc.)  incorporated  under  other  statutes, the revised Clause  49  will 
apply  to  the  extent  that  it  does  not  violate  their  respective  statutes  and  guidelines  or 
directives  issued  by  the  relevant  regulatory  authorities.  The  revised  Clause  49  is  not 
applicable to Mutual Funds. 

 
6.  The Stock Exchanges shall ensure that all provisions of the revised  Clause 49 have been 
complied with by a company seeking listing for the first time, before granting the in-principle 
approval for such  listing.  For  this  purpose,  it  will  be  considered  satisfactory  compliance if 
such  a  company  has  set  up  its  Board  and  constituted  committees  such  as  Audit 
Committee,  Shareholders/  Investors  Grievances  Committee  etc.  in  accordance  with  the 
revised clause before seeking in-principle approval for listing.  

 
7.    The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  set  up  a  separate  monitoring  cell  with  identified  personnel  to 
monitor  the  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the  revised  Clause  49  on  corporate 
governance. The cell, after receiving the quarterly compliance reports from the companies 
which are required to comply with the requirements of the revised Clause 49, shall submit 
a consolidated compliance report to SEBI within 60 days from the end of each quarter.  

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Parag Basu 
 
Encl: Annexure I, I A, I B, I C & I D 

Page 2 of 18 

 

 

 

 
Clause 49 - Corporate Governance  
 
The company agrees to comply with the following provisions:  
 
I. Board of Directors 

Annexure I 

(A) Composition of Board 
 
(i)     The  Board  of  directors  of  the  company  shall  have  an  optimum  combination  of 
executive  and  non-executive  directors  with  not  less  than  fifty  percent  of  the  board  of 
directors comprising of non-executive directors.  

(ii)     Where the Chairman of the Board is a non-executive director, at least one-third of  the 
Board  should  comprise  of  independent  directors  and  in  case  he  is  an  executive 
director, at least half of the Board should comprise of independent directors. 

(iii)  For  the  purpose  of  the  sub-clause  (ii),  the  expression  ‘independent  director’  shall 

mean a non-executive director of the company who: 

a. apart  from  receiving  director’s  remuneration,  does  not  have  any  material  pecuniary 
relationships or transactions with the company, its promoters, its directors, its senior 
management  or  its  holding  company,  its  subsidiaries  and  associates  which  may 
affect independence of the director;  

b. is not related to promoters or persons occupying management positions at the board 

level or at one level below the board;  

c.  has  not  been  an  executive  of  the  company  in  the  immediately  preceding  three 

financial years;  

d. is  not  a  partner  or  an  executive  or  was  not  partner  or  an  executive  during  the 

preceding three years, of any of the following: 

i) the statutory audit firm or the internal audit firm that is associated with the 

company, and  

the company.  

ii) the legal firm(s) and consulting firm(s) that have a  material association with 

e. is not a  material  supplier,  service  provider  or  customer  or  a  lessor  or  lessee  of  the 

company, which may affect independence of the director; and  

f.  is  not  a  substantial  shareholder  of  the  company  i.e.  owning  two percent or more of 

the block of voting shares.  

Explanation  
 
For the purposes of the sub-clause (iii): 

 

a.  Associate  shall  mean  a  company  which  is  an  “associate”  as  defined  in  Accounting 
Standard  (AS)  23,  “Accounting  for  Investments  in  Associates  in  Consolidated 
Financial Statements”, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. 

b.  “Senior management” shall mean personnel of the company who are members of its 
core management team excluding Board of Directors. Normally, this would comprise 
all  members  of  management  one  level  below  the  executive  directors,  including  all 
functional heads. 

Page 3 of 18 

c.  “Relative”  shall  mean  “relative”  as  defined  in  section  2(41)  and  section  6  read  with 

Schedule IA of the Companies Act, 1956.. 

 
(iv)  Nominee  directors  appointed  by  an  institution  which  has  invested  in  or  lent  to  the 

company shall be deemed to be independent directors. 

 
Explanation: 
 
“Institution’ for this purpose means a public financial institution as defined in Section 4A of 
the  Companies  Act,  1956  or  a  “corresponding new bank” as defined in section 2(d) of the 
Banking  Companies  (Acquisition  and  Transfer  of  Undertakings)  Act,  1970  or  the  Banking 
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980 [both Acts].” 
 

(B) Non executive directors’ compensation and disclosures 

 

All fees/compensation, if any paid to non-executive directors, including independent directors, 
shall be fixed by the Board of Directors and shall require previous approval of shareholders in 
general  meeting.  The  shareholders’  resolution  shall  specify  the  limits  for  the  maximum 
number  of  stock  options  that  can  be  granted  to  non-executive  directors,  including 
independent directors, in any financial year and in aggregate.  
 
(C) Other provisions as to Board and Committees 

 
(i)  The  board  shall  meet  at  least  four  times  a  year,  with  a  maximum  time  gap  of  three 
months  between  any  two  meetings.  The  minimum  information  to  be  made  available  to 
the board is given in Annexure– I A. 

(ii)  A  director  shall  not  be  a  member  in  more  than  10  committees  or  act  as  Chairman  of 
more than five committees across all companies in which he is a director. Furthermore it 
should  be  a  mandatory  annual  requirement  for  every  director  to  inform  the  company 
about  the  committee  positions  he  occupies  in  other  companies  and  notify  changes  as 
and when they take place. 

 

 

 

 

Explanation:  
 
1.  For  the  purpose  of  considering  the  limit  of  the  committees  on  which  a  director  can 
serve,  all  public  limited  companies,  whether  listed  or  not,  shall  be  included  and  all  other 
companies including private limited companies, foreign companies and companies under 
Section 25 of the Companies Act shall be excluded. 

2.  For  the  purpose  of  reckoning  the  limit  under  this  sub-clause,  Chairmanship/ 
membership  of  the  Audit  Committee  and  the  Shareholders’  Grievance  Committee alone 
shall be considered.  
 

(iii)  The  Board  shall  periodically  review  compliance  reports  of  all  laws  applicable  to  the 
company,  prepared  by  the  company  as  well  as  steps  taken  by  the  company  to  rectify 
instances of non-compliances. 

(D) Code of Conduct 

Page 4 of 18 

 
(i)  The  Board  shall  lay  down  a  code  of  conduct  for  all  Board  members  and  senior 
management of the company. The code of conduct shall be posted on the website of the 
company. 

 
(ii)  All Board members and senior management personnel shall affirm compliance with the 
code on an annual basis. The Annual Report of the company shall contain a declaration 
to this effect signed by the CEO. 

Explanation:  For this purpose, the term “senior management” shall mean personnel of 
the  company  who  are  members  of  its  core  management  team  excluding  Board  of 
Directors.. Normally, this would comprise all members of management one level below 
the executive directors, including all functional heads. 

 
II Audit Committee 
 

 

 

(A)   Qualified and Independent Audit Committee 
 
A  qualified  and  independent  audit  committee  shall  be  set  up,  giving  the  terms  of  reference 
subject to the following:  
 
(i)  The  audit  committee  shall  have  minimum  three  directors  as  members.  Two-thirds of the 

members of audit committee shall be independent directors.  

 
(ii) All members of audit committee shall be financially literate and at least one member shall 

have accounting or related financial management expertise. 

Explanation 1:  The  term  “financially  literate”  means  the  ability  to  read  and  understand  basic 
financial statements i.e. balance sheet, profit and loss account, and statement of cash flows. 
Explanation 2:  A  member  will  be  considered  to  have  accounting  or  related  financial 
management  expertise  if  he  or  she  possesses  experience  in  finance  or  accounting,  or 
requisite  professional  certification  in  accounting,  or  any  other  comparable  experience  or 
background which results in the individual’s financial sophistication, including being or having 
been  a  chief  executive  officer,  chief  financial  officer  or  other  senior  officer  with  financial 
oversight responsibilities. 
(iii)  The Chairman of the Audit Committee shall be an independent director; 
(iv)  The  Chairman  of  the  Audit  Committee  shall  be  present  at  Annual  General  Meeting  to 

answer shareholder queries; 

(v)  The audit committee may invite such of the executives, as it considers appropriate (and 
particularly  the  head  of  the  finance  function)  to  be  present  at  the  meetings  of  the 
committee, but on occasions it may also meet without the presence of any executives of 
the company.  The finance director, head  of  internal  audit  and  a  representative  of  the 
statutory auditor may be present as invitees for the meetings of the audit committee; 

(vi)  The Company Secretary shall act as the secretary to the committee. 
 

(B) Meeting of Audit Committee 

Page 5 of 18 

The  audit  committee  should  meet  at  least  four  times  in  a  year  and  not  more  than  four 
months  shall  elapse  between  two  meetings.    The  quorum  shall  be  either  two  members  or 
one third of the members of the audit committee whichever is greater, but there should be a 
minimum of two independent members present.  

 

(C) Powers of Audit Committee 

 
The audit committee shall have powers, which should include the following: 
  
1. To investigate any activity within its terms of reference. 
2. To seek information from any employee. 
3. To obtain outside legal or other professional advice. 
4. To secure attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise, if it considers necessary. 
 

(D) Role of Audit Committee 

         

The role of the audit committee shall include the following: 

1.  Oversight of the company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial 

information to ensure that the financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible.  

2.  Recommending  to  the  Board,  the  appointment,  re-appointment  and,  if  required,  the 

replacement or removal of the statutory auditor and the fixation of audit fees. 

3.  Approval  of  payment  to  statutory  auditors  for  any  other  services  rendered  by  the 

statutory auditors.  

4.  Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial statements before submission to 

the board for approval, with particular reference to: 

a.  Matters  required  to  be  included  in  the  Director’s  Responsibility  Statement  to  be 
included  in  the  Board’s  report  in  terms  of  clause  (2AA)  of  section 217  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956 

b.  Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same 
c.  Major  accounting  entries  involving  estimates  based  on  the  exercise  of  judgment  by 

management 

d.  Significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings 
e.  Compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements 
f.  Disclosure of any related party transactions  
g.  Qualifications in the draft audit report.  

5.  Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial statements before submission 

to the board for approval 

6.  Reviewing,  with  the  management,  performance  of  statutory  and  internal  auditors, 

adequacy of the internal control systems.  

7.  Reviewing  the  adequacy  of  internal  audit  function,  if  any,  including  the  structure  of  the 
internal  audit  department,  staffing  and  seniority  of  the  official  heading  the  department, 
reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit.  

8.  Discussion with internal auditors any significant findings and follow up there on.  

Page 6 of 18 

9.  Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters 
where there is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a 
material nature and reporting the matter to the board.  

10. Discussion  with  statutory  auditors  before  the  audit  commences, about  the  nature  and 

scope of audit as well as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern.  

11. To  look  into  the  reasons  for  substantial  defaults  in  the  payment  to  the  depositors, 
debenture  holders,  shareholders  (in  case  of  non  payment  of  declared  dividends)  and 
creditors.  

12. To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower mechanism, in case the same is existing.  
13. Carrying  out  any  other  function  as  is  mentioned  in  the  terms  of  reference  of  the  Audit 

Committee. 

Explanation  (i):  The  term  "related  party  transactions"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as 
contained  in  the  Accounting  Standard  18,  Related  Party  Transactions,  issued  by  The 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. 

Explanation (ii): If the company has set up an audit committee pursuant to provision of the 
Companies  Act,  the  said  audit  committee  shall  have  such  additional  functions  /  features 
as is contained in this clause.  

 
(E) Review of information by Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee shall mandatorily review the following information:  

1.  Management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations;  
2.  Statement  of  significant  related  party  transactions  (as  defined  by  the  audit  committee), 

submitted by management; 

auditors; 

3.  Management  letters  /  letters  of  internal  control  weaknesses  issued  by  the  statutory 

4.  Internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses; and  
5.  The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief internal auditor shall 

be subject to review by the Audit Committee  

 
III.  Subsidiary Companies 

 

 

i.  At least one independent director on the Board of Directors of the holding company shall 
be  a  director  on  the  Board  of  Directors  of  a  material  non  listed  Indian  subsidiary 
company. 

ii.  The  Audit  Committee  of  the  listed  holding  company  shall  also  review  the  financial 

statements, in particular, the investments made by the unlisted subsidiary company.  

iii.  The minutes of the Board meetings of the unlisted subsidiary company shall be placed at 
the Board meeting of the listed holding company.  The management should periodically 
bring to the attention of the Board of Directors of the listed holding company, a statement 
of  all  significant  transactions  and  arrangements  entered  into  by  the  unlisted  subsidiary 
company. 

Explanation  1:    The  term  “material  non-listed Indian subsidiary” shall  mean an unlisted 
subsidiary,  incorporated  in  India,  whose  turnover  or  net  worth  (i.e.  paid  up  capital  and 
free reserves) exceeds 20% of the consolidated turnover or net worth respectively, of the 

Page 7 of 18 

listed  holding  company  and  its  subsidiaries  in  the  immediately  preceding  accounting 
year. 
 
Explanation  2:    The  term  “significant  transaction  or  arrangement”  shall  mean  any 
individual transaction or arrangement that exceeds or is likely to exceed 10% of the total 
revenues or total expenses or total assets or total liabilities, as the case may be, of the 
material unlisted subsidiary for the immediately preceding accounting year. 
 
Explanation  3:  Where  a  listed  holding  company  has  a  listed  subsidiary  which  is  itself  a 
holding company, the above provisions shall apply to the listed subsidiary insofar as its 
subsidiaries are concerned. 

 
IV. Disclosures 

(A) Basis of related party transactions 
 
(i)  A statement in summary form of transactions with related parties in the ordinary course 

 

of business shall be placed periodically before the audit committee. 

(ii)  Details of m aterial individual transactions with related parties which are not in the normal 

course of business shall be placed before the audit committee. 

(iii) Details of material individual transactions with related parties or others, which are not on 
an  arm’s  length  basis  should  be  placed  before  the  audit  committee,  together  with 
Management’s justification for the same..  

 

 

 

  
(B) Disclosure of Accounting Treatment 
 

Where  in  the  preparation  of  financial  statements,  a  treatment  different  from  that 
prescribed  in  an  Accounting  Standard  has  been  followed,  the  fact  shall  be  disclosed  in 
the  financial  statements,  together  with  the  management’s  explanation  as  to  why  it 
believes such alternative treatment is more representative of the true and fair view of the 
underlying business transaction in the Corporate Governance Report. 

(C) Board Disclosures – Risk management 

 

The  company  shall  lay  down  procedures  to  inform  Board  members  about  the  risk 
assessment  and  minimization  procedures.  These  procedures  shall  be  periodically 
reviewed to ensure that executive management controls risk through means of a properly 
defined framework. 

(D) Proceeds from public issues, rights issues, preferential issues etc. 

 

When  money  is  raised  through  an  issue  (public  issues,  rights  issues,  preferential  issues 
etc.),  it  shall  disclose  to  the  Audit  Committee,  the  uses  /  applications  of  funds  by  major 
category  (capital  expenditure,  sales  and  marketing,  working  capital,  etc),  on  a  quarterly 
basis  as  a  part  of  their  quarterly  declaration  of  financial  results.  Further,  on  an  annual 
basis,  the  company  shall  prepare  a  statement  of  funds  utilized  for  purposes  other  than 

Page 8 of 18 

those  stated  in  the  offer  document/prospectus/notice  and  place  it  before  the  audit 
committee.  Such  disclosure  shall  be  made  only  till  such  time  that  the  full  money  raised 
through  the  issue  has  been  fully  spent.  This  statement  shall  be  certified  by  the  statutory 
auditors of the company. The audit committee shall make appropriate recommendations 
to the Board to take up steps in this matter.  

(E) Remuneration of Directors 

(i)  All  pecuniary  relationship  or  transactions  of  the  non-executive  directors  vis-à-vis  the 

company shall be disclosed in the Annual Report. 

 
(ii)  Further  the  following  disclosures  on  the  remuneration  of  directors  shall  be  made  in  the 

section on the corporate governance of the Annual Report: 
 
(a)  All elements of remuneration package of individual directors summarized under major 

groups, such as salary, benefits, bonuses, stock options, pension etc. 

(b)  Details  of  fixed  component  and  performance  linked  incentives,  along  with  the 

performance criteria. 

(c)  Service contracts, notice period, severance fees. 
(d)  Stock  option  details, if any  –  and  whether  issued  at  a  discount  as  well  as  the  period 

over which accrued and over which exercisable. 

 
(iii) The company shall publish its criteria of making payments to non-executive directors in its 
annual  report.  Alternatively,  this  may  be  put  up  on  the  company’s  website  and  reference 
drawn thereto in the annual report.  

 
(iv) The  company  shall  disclose  the  number  of  shares  and  convertible  instruments  held  by 

non-executive directors in the annual report. 

 
(v)  Non-executive directors shall be required to disclose their shareholding (both own or held 
by  /  for  other  persons  on  a  beneficial  basis)  in  the  listed  company  in  which  they  are 
proposed to be appointed as directors, prior to their appointment.  These details should be 
disclosed in the notice to the general meeting called for appointment of such director 

 
(F) Management  

 

 

 

(i)    As  part  of  the  directors’  report  or  as  an  addition  thereto,  a  Management  Discussion  and 
Analysis report should form part of the Annual Report to the shareholders. This Management 
Discussion & Analysis should include discussion on the following matters within the limits set 
by the company’s competitive position: 

Industry structure and developments. 

i. 
ii.  Opportunities and Threats. 
iii.  Segment–wise or product-wise performance. 
iv.  Outlook  
v.  Risks and concerns. 
vi.  Internal control systems and their adequacy. 
vii.  Discussion on financial performance with respect to operational performance. 

Page 9 of 18 

viii. Material developments in Human Resources / Industrial Relations front, including number 

of people employed. 

(ii) Senior management shall make disclosures to the board relating to all material financial 
and  commercial  transactions,  where  they  have  personal  interest,  that  may  have  a 
potential  conflict  with  the  interest  of  the  company  at  large  (for  e.g.  dealing  in  company 
shares, commercial dealings with bodies, which have shareholding of management and 
their relatives etc.) 

 
Explanation:  For  this  purpose,  the  term  "senior  management"  shall  mean  personnel  of  the 
company who are members of its. core management team excluding the Board of Directors). 
This would also include all members of management one level  below the executive directors 
including all functional heads. 

(G)   Shareholders 

 

 

 

 

 

(i)  In case of the appointment of a new director or re-appointment of a director the shareholders 

must be provided with the following information: 

 
(a)  A brief resume of the director; 
(b)  Nature of his expertise in specific functional areas;  
(c)  Names of companies in which the person also holds the directorship and the membership 

of Committees of the Board; and 

(d)  Shareholding of non-executive directors as stated in Clause 49 (IV) (E) (v) above 
 

(ii)  Quarterly  results  and  presentations  made  by  the  company  to  analysts  shall  be  put  on 
company’s web-site, or shall be sent in such a form so as to enable the stock exchange on 
which the company is listed to put it on its own web-site. 

 
(iii)  A  board  committee  under  the  chairmanship  of  a  non-executive director shall be formed to 
specifically  look  into  the  redressal  of  shareholder  and  investors  complaints  like  transfer  of 
shares, non-receipt of balance sheet, non-receipt of declared dividends etc.  This Committee 
shall be designated as ‘Shareholders/Investors Grievance Committee’.   

(iv)  To  expedite  the  process  of  share  transfers, the  Board  of  the  company  shall  delegate  the 
power  of  share  transfer  to  an  officer  or  a  committee  or  to  the  registrar  and share transfer 
agents. The delegated authority shall attend to share transfer formalities at least once in a 
fortnight. 

 

V. CEO/CFO certification    

The CEO, i.e.  the Managing Director or Manager appointed in terms of the Companies Act, 
1956  and  the  CFO  i.e.  the  whole-time  Finance  Director  or  any  other  person  heading  the 
finance function discharging that function shall certify to the Board that: 
 
(a) They  have  reviewed  financial  statements  and  the  cash  flow  statement  for the year  and 

that to the best of their knowledge and belief : 

 

Page 10 of 18 

(i)   these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material 

fact or contain statements that might be misleading; 

(ii)  these  statements  together  present  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the  company’s  affairs  and 
are in compliance with existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations. 

 
(b) There are, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the 
company  during the year  which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the company’s code 
of conduct. 

 
(c) They accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls and that they 
have evaluated the effectiveness of the internal control systems of the company and they 
have  disclosed  to  the  auditors  and  the  Audit  Committee,  deficiencies  in  the  design  or 
operation  of  internal  controls,  if  any,  of  which  they  are  aware  and  the  steps  they  have 
taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies. 

 
(d)  They have indicated to the auditors and the Audit committee 
 

(i)  significant changes in internal control during the year; 
(ii)  significant  changes  in  accounting  policies  during  the  year  and  that  the  same  have 

been disclosed in the notes to the financial statements; and 

(iii)  instances of significant fraud of which they have become aware and the involvement 
therein,  if  any,    of  the  management  or  an  employee  having  a  significant  role  in  the 
company’s internal control system 

VI. Report on Corporate Governance 

 
(i)  There  shall  be  a  separate  section  on  Corporate  Governance  in  the  Annual  Reports  of 
company, with a detailed compliance report on Corporate Governance. Non-compliance 
of  any  mandatory  requirement  of  this  clause  with  reasons  thereof  and  the  extent  to 
which  the  non-mandatory  requirements  have  been  adopted  should  be  specifically 
highlighted.  The  suggested  list  of  items  to  be  included  in  this  report  is  given  in 
Annexure- I C and list of non-mandatory requirements is given in Annexure – I D.  

 
(ii) The companies shall submit a quarterly compliance report to the stock exchanges within 
15 days from the  close of quarter as per the format given in  Annexure I B. The report 
shall  be  signed  either  by  the  Compliance  Officer  or  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the 
company  

 
VII.  Compliance 
 
(1)  The  company  shall  obtain  a  certificate  from  either  the  auditors  or  practicing  company 
secretaries  regarding  compliance  of  conditions  of  corporate  governance  as  stipulated  in 
this clause and annex the certificate with the directors’ report, which is sent annually to all 
the  shareholders  of  the  company.  The  same  certificate  shall  also  be  sent  to  the  Stock 
Exchanges along with the annual report filed by the company. 

(2) The non-mandatory requirements given in Annexure – I D may be implemented as per the 
discretion  of  the  company.    However,  the  disclosures  of  the  compliance  with mandatory 
requirements  and  adoption  (and  compliance)  /  non-adoption  of  the  non-mandatory 
requirements shall be made in the section on corporate governance of the Annual Report. 

 

 

Page 11 of 18 

 

Annexure I A 

Information to be placed before Board of Directors 
 
1.  Annual operating plans and budgets and any updates. 
2.  Capital budgets and any updates. 
3.  Quarterly results for the company and its operating divisions or business segments. 
4.  Minutes of meetings of audit committee and other committees of the board. 
5.  The  information on recruitment and remuneration of senior officers just below the board 
level,  including  appointment  or  removal  of  Chief  Financial  Officer  and  the  Company 
Secretary. 

6.  Show  cause,  demand,  prosecution  notices  and  penalty  notices  which  are  materially 

7.  Fatal  or  serious  accidents,  dangerous  occurrences,  any  material  effluent  or  pollution 

important  

problems. 

8.  Any  material  default  in  financial  obligations  to  and  by  the  company,  or  substantial  non-

payment for goods sold by the company. 

9.  Any issue, which involves possible public or product liability claims of substantial nature, 
including any judgement or order which, may have passed strictures on the conduct of 
the  company  or  taken  an  adverse  view  regarding  another  enterprise  that  can  have 
negative implications on the company. 

10. Details of any joint venture or collaboration agreement. 
11. Transactions  that  involve  substantial  payment  towards  goodwill,  brand  equity,  or 

intellectual property. 

12. Significant labour problems and their proposed solutions. Any significant development in 
like  signing  of  wage  agreement, 

Industrial  Relations 

Human  Resources/ 
implementation of Voluntary Retirement Scheme etc. 

front 

13. Sale  of  material  nature,  of  investments,  subsidiaries,  assets,  which  is  not  in  normal 

course of business. 

14. Quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the steps taken by management to 

limit the risks of adverse exchange rate movement, if material. 

15.  Non-compliance  of  any  regulatory,  statutory  or  listing  requirements  and  shareholders 

service such as non-payment of dividend, delay in share transfer etc. 

 

Page 12 of 18 

Format of Quarterly Compliance Report on Corporate Governance 
 
Name of the Company:   
Quarter ending on: 
 
 

   

 

 

Annexure I B 

Particulars 

I. Board of Directors  
(A)Composition of Board 
(B)Non-executive  Directors’ 
disclosures 
(C)Other provisions as to Board and Committees 
  (D)Code of Conduct 

compensation  &   

 II. Audit Committee 
(A)Qualified & Independent Audit Committee 
  (B)Meeting of Audit Committee 
  (C)Powers of Audit Committee 
  (D)Role of Audit Committee 
(E)Review of Information by Audit Committee 

III.  III. Subsidiary Companies 

  IV. Disclosures 
(A)Basis of related party transactions 
(B)Board Disclosures 
(C)Proceeds  from  public  issues,  rights  issues, 

preferential issues etc. 

  (D)Remuneration of Directors 
  (E)Management 
(F)Shareholders 
 
V.CEO/CFO Certification 
 
VI. Report on Corporate Governance  

X.    VII. Compliance  

Clause of 
Listing 

agreement 

49 I 

49(IA) 
49 (IB) 

49 (IC) 
49 (ID) 
49 (II) 

49 (IIA) 
49 (IIB) 
49 (IIC) 
49 II(D) 
49 (IIE) 
49 (III) 

49 (IV) 

  49 (IV A) 
49 (IV B) 
49 (IV C) 

49 (IV D) 
49 (IV E) 
49 (IV F) 
49 (V) 

49 (VI) 

49 (VII) 

Compliance 

Status 
Yes/No  

Remarks 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

   

 
Note:   
1) The details under each head shall be provided to incorporate all the information required 

 

as per the provisions of the Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement.  

2) In the column No.3, compliance or non-compliance may be indicated by Yes/No/N.A.. For 
example,  if  the  Board  has  been  composed  in  accordance  with  the  Clause  49  I  of  the 
Listing  Agreement,  "Yes"  may  be  indicated.  Similarly,  in  case  the  company  has  no 
related party transactions,  the words “N.A.” may be indicated against 49 (IV A). 

Page 13 of 18 

 3) In the remarks column, reasons for non-compliance  may  be  indicated,  for  example,  in 
case of requirement related to circulation of information to the shareholders, which would 
be done only in the AGM/EGM, it might be indicated in the "Remarks" column as  – “will 
be complied with at the AGM”. Similarly, in respect of matters which can be complied with 
only where the situation arises, for example, "Report on Corporate Governance" is to be 
a part of Annual Report only, the words "will be complied in the next Annual Report" may 
be indicated. 

Page 14 of 18 

 

Suggested List of Items to Be Included In the Report on Corporate Governance in 
the Annual Report of Companies 

Annexure I C 

 
1.  A brief statement on company’s philosophy on code of governance. 
 
2.   Board of Directors: 

i.  Composition  and  category  of  directors,  for  example,  promoter,  executive,  non- 
executive, independent non-executive, nominee director, which institution represented 
as lender or as equity investor. 

ii.  Attendance of each director at the Board meetings and the last AGM. 
iii.  Number  of  other  Boards  or  Board  Committees  in  which  he/she  is  a  member  or 

Chairperson  

iv.  Number of Board meetings held, dates on which held. 

 

 

i.  Location and time, where last three AGMs held. 
ii.  Whether any special resolutions passed in the previous 3 AGMs 
iii.  Whether  any  special  resolution  passed  last  year  through  postal  ballot  –  details  of 

voting pattern 

iv.  Person who conducted the postal ballot exercise 
v.  Whether any special resolution is proposed to be conducted through postal ballot  
vi.  Procedure for postal ballot 

Page 15 of 18 

3.  Audit Committee: 
 

i.  Brief description of terms of reference 
ii.  Composition, name of members and Chairperson 
iii.  Meetings and attendance during the year 

 
4.  Remuneration Committee: 
 

i.  Brief description of terms of reference 
ii.  Composition, name of members and Chairperson 
iii.  Attendance during the year 
iv.  Remuneration policy 
v.  Details of remuneration to all the directors, as per format in main report. 

 
5.  Shareholders Committee: 
 

i.  Name of non-executive director heading the committee 
ii.  Name and designation of compliance officer 
iii.  Number of shareholders’ complaints received so far 
iv.  Number not solved to the satisfaction of shareholders 
v.  Number of pending complaints 

 
6.  General Body meetings: 
 

 
7.   Disclosures:  
 

i.  Disclosures on materially significant related party transactions that may have potential 

conflict with the interests of company at large.  

ii.  Details  of  non-compliance  by  the  company,  penalties,  strictures  imposed  on  the 
company by Stock Exchange or SEBI or any statutory authority, on any matter related 
to capital markets, during the last three years. 

iii.  Whistle Blower policy and affirmation that no personnel has been denied access to the 

audit committee. 

iv.  Details  of  compliance  with  mandatory  requirements  and  adoption  of  the  non-

mandatory requirements of this clause 

 
8.    Means of communication. 
 

i.  Quarterly results 
ii.  Newspapers wherein results normally published 
iii.  Any website, where displayed 
iv.  Whether it also displays official news releases; and  
v.  The presentations made to institutional investors or to the analysts. 

 
9.     General Shareholder information: 
 

i.  AGM : Date, time and venue 
ii.  Financial year 
iii.  Date of Book closure 
iv.  Dividend Payment Date 
v.  Listing on Stock Exchanges 
vi.  Stock Code 
vii. Market Price Data : High., Low during each month in last financial year 
viii. Performance  in  comparison  to  broad-based  indices  such  as  BSE  Sensex,  CRISIL 

index etc. 

ix.  Registrar and Transfer Agents 
x.  Share Transfer System 
xi.  Distribution of shareholding 
xii. Dematerialization of shares and liquidity 
xiii. Outstanding  GDRs/ADRs/Warrants  or  any  Convertible  instruments,  conversion  date 

and likely impact on equity 

xiv. Plant Locations 
xv. Address for correspondence 

 
 

Page 16 of 18 

Non-Mandatory Requirements  
 
(1)      The Board 

Annexure I D 

A  non-executive  Chairman  may  be  entitled  to  maintain  a  Chairman’s  office  at  the 
company’s  expense  and  also  allowed  reimbursement  of  expenses  incurred  in 
performance of his duties.  
 
Independent Directors may have a tenure not exceeding, in the aggregate, a period of 
nine years, on the Board of a company. 
 

(2)       Remuneration Committee 

i.  The board may set up a remuneration committee to determine on their behalf and    

on behalf of the shareholders with agreed terms of reference, the company’s policy 
on specific remuneration packages for executive directors including pension rights 
and any compensation payment.  

ii.  To avoid conflicts of interest, the remuneration committee, which would determine 
the  remuneration  packages  of  the  executive  directors  may  comprise  of  at  least 
three  directors,  all  of  whom  should  be  non-executive  directors,  the  Chairman  of 
committee being an independent director.  

iii.  All the members of the remuneration committee could be present at the meeting.  
iv.  The  Chairman  of  the  remuneration  committee  could  be  present  at  the  Annual 
General  Meeting,  to  answer  the  shareholder  queries.  However,  it  would  be  up  to 
the Chairman to decide who should answer the queries.  

 

Shareholder Rights 
A  half-yearly  declaration of financial performance including summary of the significant 
events in last six-months, may be sent to each household of shareholders. 

 

Audit qualifications 
Company may move towards a regime of unqualified financial statements.  

 

Training of Board Members 
A  company  may  train  its  Board  members  in  the  business  model  of  the  company  as 
well as the risk profile of the business parameters of the company, their responsibilities 
as directors, and the best ways to discharge them.   

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

 

(6)  Mechanism for evaluating non-executive Board Members 

The performance evaluation of non-executive directors could  be done by a peer group 
comprising  the  entire  Board  of  Directors,  excluding  the  director  being  evaluated;  and 
Peer  Group  evaluation  could  be  the  mechanism  to  determine  whether  to  extend  / 
continue the terms of appointment of non-executive directors. 

 

(7)  Whistle Blower Policy 

The company may establish a mechanism for employees to report to the management 
concerns  about  unethical  behaviour,  actual  or  suspected  fraud  or  violation  of  the 

Page 17 of 18 

company’s  code  of  conduct  or  ethics  policy.  This  mechanism  could  also  provide  for 
adequate safeguards against victimization of employees who avail of the mechanism 
and  also  provide  for  direct  access  to  the  Chairman  of  the  Audit  committee  in 
exceptional  cases.  Once  established,  the  existence  of  the  mechanism  may  be 
appropriately communicated within the organization.  

 

Page 18 of 18 

