DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER

 
To,

The Managing Director / Executive Director
of Derivative Segment of NSE & BSE
and their Clearing House / Corporation.
 
Dear Sir,

SEBI/DNPD/Cir-26/2004/07/16
July 16, 2004

Sub: Risk containment measures, position limits and the broad eligibility criteria

of Stocks and Index on which futures and options could be introduced.

This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by  section  11  (1)  of  the
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with section 10 of the Securities
Contracts(regulation) Act 1956, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.

This  circular  is  in  continuation  of  SEBI  Circular  No.  IES/DC/CIR-4/99  dated  July  28,
1999,  Circular  No. 
IES/DC/CIR-5/00  dated  December  11,  2000,  Circular  No.
SMDRP/DC/Cir-7/01  dated  June  20,  2001,  SEBI  Circular  No.  SMDRP/DC/Cir-10/01
dated  November  2,  2001,  Circular  No.  SMDRP/DC/CIR  –  13/02  dated  December  18,
2002,  Circular  No  SEBI/SMDRP/DC/CIR-16/2003/04/19  dated  April  19,  2003  and
SEBI/SMDRP/DC/Cir-18/2004/01/05 dated January 5, 2004 for exchange traded Index
Futures,  Index  Option,  Stock  Option,  Stock  Futures  and  Interest  Rate  Derivative
Contracts  issued  to  Derivative  Exchange  /  Segment  and  their  Clearing  House  /
Corporation (hereinafter collectively referred to as Exchange).

The  existing  eligibility  criteria  for  stocks  and  indices,  the  position  limits  and  the  risk
containment  measures  in  the  derivative  markets  were  reviewed  by  the  Advisory
Committee on Derivatives and Market Risk Management (Advisory Committee). Based
on  the  recommendations  of  the  Advisory  Committee,  considered  and  approved  by  the
SEBI Board, the eligibility criteria, the position limits and the risk containment measures
in the derivative markets stand modified in the following manner.

Page 1 of 7

 I.  ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA OF STOCKS

Clause I(1) and Clause I(5) of Circular No.SMDRP/DC/CIR-13/02 dated December 18,
2002  on  the  eligibility  criteria  of  stocks  and  indices  stand  modified  in  the  following
manner:-

1.  A stock on which stock option and single stock future contracts are proposed to be

introduced shall conform to the following broad eligibility criteria:-

?  The stock shall be chosen from amongst the top 500 stock in terms of average
daily  market  capitalisation and average daily traded value in the previous six
month on a rolling basis.

?  The stock’s median quarter-sigma order size over the last six months shall be
not  less  than  Rs.1  Lakh  (Rupees  One  Lakh).  For  this  purpose,  a  stock’s
quarter-sigma order size shall mean the order size (in value terms) required to
cause a change in the stock price equal to one-quarter of a standard deviation.
?  The market wide position limit in the stock shall not be less than Rs.50 crores
(Rupees Fifty crores). Since market wide position limit for a stock is computed
at the end of every month, the Exchange shall ensure that stocks comply with
this  criterion  before  introduction  of  new  contracts.  Further,  the  market  wide
position limit (which is in number of shares) shall be valued taking the closing
prices of stocks in the underlying cash market on the date of expiry of contract
in the month.

The  procedure  for  introducing  and  dropping  stocks  on  which  option  and  future
contracts  are  traded  shall  continue  to  be  in  the  manner  specified  in  Circular  No.
SMDRP/DC/CIR-13/02 dated December 18, 2002.

2.  The Exchange may consider introducing derivative contracts on an index if 80% of
the index constituents are individually eligible for derivatives trading. However, no
single ineligible stock in the index shall have a weightage of more than 5% in the
index.  The  index  on  which  futures  and  options  contracts  are  permitted  shall  be
required to comply with the eligibility criteria on a continuous basis.

The  Exchange  shall  check  whether  the  index  continues  to  meet  the  aforesaid
eligibility criteria on a monthly basis. If the index fails to meet the eligibility criteria
for  three  months  consecutively,  then  no  fresh  month  contract  shall  be  issued  on
that index. However, the existing unexpired contracts shall be permitted to trade till
expiry and new strikes may also be introduced in the existing contracts.

Page 2 of 7

 II.  RISK CONTAINMENT MEASURES

The  following  risk  containment  measures  are  being  specified  in  addition  to  those
prescribed by SEBI from time to time.

1.  Collection of Mark to Market Margin/Settlement

It  had  been  specified  that  if  mark  to  market  margin  /  settlements  (MTM)  for
derivative contracts is not collected before the start of the next day’s trading, the
Exchange is required to collect correspondingly higher initial margins to cover the
potential for losses over the time elapsed in the collection of MTM.

Henceforth, the Exchange may offer a choice to the members to opt for payment of
MTM –

i)  either before the start of trading the next day i.e. T+0, or
ii)  on the next day i.e. T+1.

If the member opts for payment of MTM by T+1, then correspondingly higher initial
margin  shall  be  collected,  in  the  manner  specified  vide  SEBI  circular  Ref.  No.
IES/DC/CIR-4/99 dated July 28, 1999 and circular Ref. No. SMDRP/DC/CIR- 10/01
dated November 2, 2001, to cover the potential for losses over the time elapsed in
the collection of MTM.

2.  It is clarified that for stocks which have a mean value of impact cost greater than
1%, in addition to the price scanning range, the minimum initial margin for single
stock  futures  contracts  and  the  short  option  minimum  charge  for  stock  option
contracts shall also be scaled up by square root of three.

3.  Liquid assets of  Clearing Member

Circular  No-IES/DC/CIR-4/99  dated  July  28,  1999  specifies  the  composition  of
liquid assets of a clearing member. In order to align the collateral requirements in
the  cash  market  and  the  derivative  market,  the  following  modifications  in
components of liquid asset are specified-

i) Cash equivalent component of liquid assets:-

Units of money market mutual funds and units of gilt funds may be accepted
towards cash equivalent component of the liquid assets of a clearing member.
The unit shall be valued on the basis of its Net Asset Value after applying a
hair cut of 10% on the NAV and any exit load charged by the mutual fund. The

Page 3 of 7

valuation or the marking to market of such units shall be carried out on a daily
basis.

ii) 

Securities component of liquid assets:-

Clause 4 (v) (B) of Circular No. IES/DC/CIR-4/99 dated July 28, 1999 stands
modified by this present circular in the following manner-

a.  Equity securities classified under Group I in the underlying cash market (as
specified  in  SEBI  Circular  No.SMD/POLICY/CIR-9/2003  dated  March  11,
2003)  may  be  accepted  towards  liquid  assets  in  the  derivative  markets.
Securities classified under Group I shall be those which have traded atleast
80% (+/-5%) of the days for the previous eighteen months and which have
a mean impact cost of less than or equal to 1%, for an order size of  Rs. 1
Lakh. The equity securities shall be valued / marked to market on a daily
basis after applying a haircut equivalent to the respective VAR of the equity
security.  The  list  of  acceptable  equity  securities  shall  be  updated  on  the
basis of trading and mean impact cost on the 15th of each month. When a
security is dropped from the list of acceptable equity securities, the existing
deposits of that security shall continue to be counted towards liquid assets
till the end of the month.

b.  Units of all mutual funds may also be accepted as the securities component
of liquid assets. The unit shall be valued on the basis of its Net Asset Value
(NAV) after applying a hair cut equivalent to the VAR of the units NAV and
any exit load charged by the mutual fund. The valuation or the marking to
market of such units shall be carried out on a daily basis.

iii)  The  valuation  /  marking  to  market  of  all  securities,  including  debt  securities,
dated  government  securities  and  T-bills,  shall  be  carried  out  daily,  with
appropriate  haircuts,  specified  vide  SEBI  circular  Ref.No.IES/DC/CIR-4/99
dated July 28, 1999.

4.  Position Limits

i)  Market  wide  position  limits  for  single  stock  futures  and  stock  option

contracts

Clause  6  H  of  Circular  No-SMDRP/DC/CIR-7/01  dated  June  20,  2001  and
Clause 7 F of Circular No-SMDRP/DC/CIR-10/01 dated November 02, 2001 on
Market wide position limits on Single Stock Derivative Contracts stand modified
in the following manner:–

Page 4 of 7

The  market  wide  limit  of  open  position  (in  terms  of  the  number  of  underlying
stock) on futures and option contracts on a particular underlying stock shall be
lower of-

-

-

30  times  the  average  number  of  shares  traded  daily,  during  the  previous
calendar  month,  in  the  relevant  underlying  security  in  the  underlying
segment,
Or
20%  of  the  number  of  shares  held  by  non-promoters  in  the  relevant
underlying security i.e. free-float holding.

This limit would be applicable on all open positions in all futures and option
contracts on a particular underlying stock.

The  requirement  for  doubling  the  price  scan  range  and  volatility  scan  range,
when the total open interest in a contract reaches 80% of the market wide limit
in that contract, stands revoked.

The  Exchange 
administrative measures, in the manner detailed below:

to  enforce 

is  advised 

the  market  wide 

limits 

through

a.  At the end of each day the Exchange shall test whether the market wide
open interest for any scrip exceeds 95% of the market wide position limit
for that scrip. If so, the Exchange shall take note of open position of all
client/  TMs  as  at  the  end  of  that  day  in  that  scrip,  and  from  next  day
onwards the members/ client shall trade only to decrease their positions
through offsetting positions. While the Exchange will take this action only
at end of day, they shall disclose real time information about the market
wide open interest as a percentage of the market wide position limits.

b.  At the end of each day during which the ban on fresh positions is in force
for any scrip, the Exchange shall test whether any member or client has
increased his existing positions or has created a new position in that scrip.
If  so,  that  client  shall  be  subject  to  a  penalty  equal  to  a  specified
percentage  (or  basis  points)  of  the  increase  in  the  position  (in  terms  of
notional value). The penalty shall be recovered before trading begins next
day.  The  Exchange  shall  specify  the  percentage  or  basis  points,  which
shall  be  set  high  enough  to  deter  violations  of  the  ban  on  increasing
positions.

c.  The  normal  trading  in  the  scrip  shall  be  resumed  after  the  open
outstanding  position  comes  down  to  80%  or  below  of  the  market  wide
position limit.

Page 5 of 7

Further, the Exchange shall check on a monthly basis, whether a stock has
remained  subject  to  the  ban  on  new  position  for  a  significant  part  of  the
month consistently for three months. If so, then the Exchange shall phase out
derivative contracts on that underlying. The procedure for dropping stocks on
which option and future contracts are traded shall be in the manner specified
in  Clause  (3)  of  Circular  No.  SMDRP/DC/CIR-13/02  dated  December  18,
2002.

ii) Trading member position limits in index derivative contracts

Clause 5 (ii) of Circular No-IES/DC/CIR-4/99 dated July 28, 1999 and Clause 7
H  of  Circular  No-IES/DC/CIR-5/00  dated  December  11,  2000  on  trading
member position limits in equity index derivative contracts stand modified in the
following manner–

a.  Trading Member Position limits in equity index option contracts:

The trading member position limits in equity index option contracts shall
be higher of:

-

-

Rs.250 Crore
or

15%  of  the  total  open  interest  in  the  market  in  equity  index  option
contracts.

This limit would be applicable on open positions in all option contracts
on a particular underlying index.

b.  Trading Member Position limits in equity index futures contracts:

The trading member position limits in equity index futures contracts shall
be higher of:

-

-

Rs.250 Crore
or

15%  of  the  total  open  interest  in  the  market  in  equity  index  futures
contracts.

This  limit  would  be  applicable  on  open  positions  in  all  futures
contracts on a particular underlying index.

Page 6 of 7

iii) Trading Member position limits in exchange traded interest rate derivative

contracts

Clause  II(  F)  of  Circular  No-SEBI/SMDRP/DC/Cir-16/2003/04/19  dated  April
19, 2003 and clause II of the Circular No-SEBI/SMDRP/DC/Cir-18/2004/01/05
dated  January  5,  2004  on  position  limits  in  exchange  traded  interest  rate
derivative contracts stand modified as under –

Trading  member  position  limit  in  exchange  traded  interest  rate  derivative
contracts shall be higher of:

- Rs.500 Crore

or

-

15 % of the total open interest in the market in exchange traded interest
rate derivative contracts.

The Exchange shall implement the provisions of this circular w.e.f September 1, 2004.

Yours faithfully,

V.S.SUNDARESAN

Page 7 of 7

