¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Cir / IMD / DF / 19  / 2010 
 
 
All Mutual Funds/Asset Management Companies (AMCs)/ 
Trustee Companies/Boards of Trustees of Mutual Funds 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Circular for Mutual Funds 
 

November 26 ,2010 

A.  Interval Schemes/Plans 

 

1.  It  has  been  noticed  that  certain  Scheme  Information  Documents  provide  that  the 
subscription to the scheme can be made during a specific period (known as specified 
transaction  period)  and  the  repurchase  of  units  is  permitted  on  all  business  days 
subject to applicable loads (except for redemption during specified transaction period 
when  no  load  is  charged).  These  schemes  are  generally  referred  to  as  ‘interval 
schemes’.  
 

2.  As  per  the current  regulation,  there  is  no  restriction  on  tenure  of securities  in  which 
interval scheme can invest. This read with daily redemption option may result in asset 
liability  mismatch.    In  line  with  the  changes  made  in  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds) 
Regulations,  1996  regarding  close  ended  schemes,  it  has  been  decided  that, 
henceforth, for all interval schemes/plans 

i.  The units shall be mandatorily listed.  
 
ii.  No  redemption/repurchase  of  units  shall  be  allowed  except  during  the  specified 
transaction period (the period during which both subscription and redemption may 
be  made  to  and  from  the  scheme).  The  specified  transaction  period  shall  be  of 
minimum 2 working days. 

iii.  Minimum duration of an interval period in an interval scheme/plan shall be 15 days. 

iv.  Investments shall be permitted only in such securities which mature on or before 

the opening of the immediately following specified transaction period. 

 
 

 

 

 
 

Explanation: 
In case of securities with put and call options the residual time for exercising the 
put  option  of  the  securities  shall  not  be  beyond  the  opening  of  the  immediately 
following transaction period. 

 
3.  Applicability: 

The AMC shall ensure compliance with the requirements mentioned in Clause 2 from 
the date of next specified transaction period or April 1, 2011 whichever is later.  

Schemes for which observations (final) under Regulation 29 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) 
Regulations, 1996 have been issued but are yet to be launched would be required to 
carry out the changes in Scheme Information Document and file the same with SEBI 
before the launch. 

 

 

 

 
1 

 

B.  Uniform cut-off timings for applicability of Net Asset Value (NAV) of Mutual Fund 

scheme(s)/plan(s). 

As  per  the  current  regulations,  in  respect  of  purchase  of  units  in  liquid  schemes, 
irrespective of the time of receipt of application, where the funds are not available for 
utilization before the cut-off time, the closing NAV of the day immediately preceding 
the day on which the funds are available for utilization shall be applicable;  
 
In respect of purchase of units in Income/ Debt oriented schemes (other than liquid 
fund schemes and plans) with amount equal to or more than Rs. 1 crore, irrespective 
of the time of receipt of application, the closing NAV of the day on which the funds 
are available for utilization shall be applicable.  
 
It is observed that mutual funds are deploying funds without receiving clear funds in 
the scheme account. As a matter of good practice and to avoid systemic risk, it has 
been  decided  to  modify  certain  provisions  of  the  SEBI  Circular  No.  SEBI/IMD/CIR 
No.11/78450/06 dated October 11, 2006 as per the following details. 

2  With  regard  to  Clause  5(1)  of  SEBI  Circular  No.  SEBI/IMD/CIR  No.11/78450/06 
dated October 11, 2006 which specifies cut-off timings for liquid fund schemes and 
plans, it is clarified that for determining the applicable NAV  

 

a.  The  following  cut-off  timings  shall  be  observed  by  a  mutual  fund  in  respect  of 
purchase of units in liquid fund schemes and their plans, and the following NAVs 
shall be applied for such purchase:  

 

i.  where  the  application  is  received  upto  2.00  p.m.  on  a  day  and  funds  are 
available for utilization before the cut-off time without availing any credit facility, 
whether,  intra-day  or  otherwise  –  the  closing  NAV  of  the  day  immediately 
preceding the day of receipt of application;   

ii. where  the  application  is  received  after  2.00  p.m.  on  a  day  and  funds  are 
available  for  utilization  on  the  same  day  without  availing  any  credit  facility, 
whether,  intra-day  or  otherwise  –  the  closing  NAV  of  the  day  immediately 
preceding the next business day ; and   

iii. irrespective  of  the  time  of  receipt  of  application,  where  the  funds  are  not 
available  for  utilization  before  the  cut-off  time  without  availing  any  credit 
facility,  whether,  intra-day  or  otherwise  –  the  closing  NAV  of  the  day 
immediately preceding the day on which the funds are available for utilization. 

b.  For  allotment  of  units  in  respect  of  purchase  in  liquid  schemes,  it  shall  be 

 

ensured that: 

i.  Application is received before the applicable cut-off time. 
ii.  Funds for the entire amount of subscription/purchase as per the application 
are credited to the bank account of the respective liquid schemes before the 
cut-off time. 

iii.  The funds are available for utilization before the cut-off time without availing 
any  credit  facility  whether  intra-day  or  otherwise,  by  the  respective  liquid 
schemes. 

c.  For  allotment  of  units  in  respect  of  switch-in  to  liquid  schemes  from  other 

schemes, it shall be ensured that : 

 
i.  Application for switch-in is received before the applicable cut-off time. 
ii.  Funds for the entire amount of subscription/purchase as per the switch-in 
request  are  credited  to  the  bank  account  of  the  respective  switch-in  liquid 
schemes before the cut-off time. 
iii.  The  funds  are  available  for  utilization  before  the  cut-off  time  without 
availing  any  credit  facility  whether  intra-day  or  otherwise,  by  the  respective 
switch-in schemes. 

3 

 
With regard to Clause 6(2A) of SEBI Circular No. SEBI/IMD/CIR No. 11/142521/08 
dated  October  24,  2008  which  specifies  the  applicability  of  NAV  for  income/debt 
oriented mutual fund schemes/plans other than liquid schemes, it is clarified that 
for determining the applicable NAV 
 
a. 

For allotment of units in respect of purchase in income/debt oriented mutual 
fund schemes/plans other than liquid schemes, it shall be ensured that: 

i.  Application is received before the applicable cut-off time. 
ii.  Funds for the entire amount of subscription/purchase as per the application 
are credited to the bank account of the respective schemes before the cut-
off time. 

iii.  The funds are available for utilization before the cut-off time without availing 
any credit facility whether intra-day or otherwise, by the respective scheme. 

 

 

 

 

 

b. 

For allotment of units in respect of switch-in to income/debt oriented mutual 
fund  schemes/plans  other  than  liquid  schemes  from  other  schemes,  it  shall 
be ensured that: 
 

i.  Application for switch-in is received before the applicable cut-off time. 
ii.  Funds  for  the  entire  amount  of  subscription/purchase  as  per  the  switch-in 
request  are  credited  to  the  bank  account  of  the  respective  switch-in 
income/debt oriented mutual fund schemes/plans before the cut-off time. 

iii.  The funds are available for utilization before the cut-off time without availing 
any credit facility whether intra-day or otherwise, by the respective switch-in 
income/debt oriented mutual fund schemes/plans. 

C.  Encumbrance of the scheme property 

 

Fourth  Schedule  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds) 
Regulations, 1996 provides that the AMC shall not acquire any of the assets out of the 
scheme property which involves the assumption of any liability which is unlimited or 
which  may  result  in  encumbrance  of  the  scheme  property  in  any  way.  AMC’s  are 
advised to strictly adhere to the said provision. 
 

This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the provisions of Regulation 77 of SEBI 
(Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully 

 
 
Asha Shetty 
Deputy General Manager, 
Investment Management Department 
Telephone -022-26449258 
Email : ashas@sebi.gov.in  

 

