 
 
Deputy General Manager 
 \ 
Investment Management Department 
Division of Funds - I 
 

The Managing Director/ Administrator 
All Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sirs, 

 

 
 
SEBI/IMD/DOF-1/BOND/Cir-5/2009  
November 26, 2009 
 

Sub:  Simplified Debt Listing Agreement for Debt Securities - Amendments  
 
1.  SEBI vide circular No.SEBI/IMD/BOND/1/2009/11/05 dated May 11, 2009 put in 
place  the  Simplified  Listing  Agreement  for  Debt  Securities.  Pursuant  to 
suggestions from various market participants received subsequently, it has been 
decided to amend the said Listing Agreement as given in the Annexure.  

 
2.  The amendments are briefly summarized as under: 
 

(a). 100% Asset Cover: To align the Listing Agreement with the provisions of the 
Companies  Act,  1956,  the  amended  Listing  Agreement  requires  issuers  to 
maintain 100% asset cover sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all 
times  for  the  debt  securities  issued.  Further,  to  provide  more  information  to 
investors,  the  periodic  disclosures  to  the  stock  exchange  shall  now  require 
disclosure of the extent and nature of security created and maintained. 

 
(b). Submission  of  certificate  on  maintenance  of  security:  As  against  half-yearly 
certifications on security cover in respect of listed secured debt securities, the 
amended  Listing  Agreement  provides  for  submission  of  such  certificates 
regarding maintenance of 100% asset cover, and the time limit of submission 
in respect of the last half year has been aligned with the option provided for 
submission of annual audited results at a later date. In addition to Banks and 
NBFCs  being  exempt 
issuers  of 
Government guaranteed bonds shall also be exempt.  

from  submitting  such  certificates, 

(c). Statement  on  Use  of  Issue  Proceeds:  In  order  to  enhance  the  quality  of 
disclosures made to investors, issuers shall be required to furnish a statement 
of deviations in use of issue proceeds, if any, to the stock exchange on a half 
yearly  basis.  Also,  the  same  is  required  to  be  published  in  the  newspapers 
simultaneously with the half-yearly financial results. 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 7 

 

 
 
 

 

(d). Deposit of 1% of issue proceeds: So as to ensure that the interest of investors 
investing  in  public  issues  of debt  securities  is protected, the  issuer  shall  be 
required  to  deposit  an  amount  calculated  at  1%  of  the  amount  of  debt 
securities offered for subscription to the public. It is refundable or forfeitable in 
the manner stated in the Rules, Bye-laws and Regulations of the Exchange.  

(e). Submission/ publication of Financial Statements: The time-lines for disclosure 
of financial statements have been aligned with the proposed changes to the 
Equity  Listing  Agreement.  Accordingly,  issuers  would  now  have  to  publish/ 
furnish  to  the  Exchange,  either  audited  half  yearly  financial  statements  or 
unaudited half yearly financial statements subject to a limited review within 45 
days from the end of the half year. In case of the last half year, issuers may 
opt  to  submit  their  annual  audited  results  in  lieu  of  the  unaudited  financial 
results for the period, within 60 days from the end of the financial year.  

 
3.  Since Part-A of the Listing Agreement for debt is applicable for debt issuers with 
already  listed  equity,  it  is  clarified  that  the  covenants  in  the  Equity  Listing 
Agreement  that  require  submission  of  a  draft  offer  document  to  SEBI  for 
observations or obtaining of an acknowledgement card are not applicable in case 
of  an  issue  of  debt  securities  which  is  made  in  terms  of  the  SEBI  (Issue  and 
Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008. 

 
4.  The amendments made to the simplified listing agreement for debt securities vide 

this circular shall be applicable with immediate effect. 

 
5.  All  other  terms  of  the  circular  No.SEBI/IMD/BOND/1/2009/11/05  dated  May  11, 

2009 remain unchanged.  

 
6.  The Stock Exchanges are directed to: 

(a). Give  effect  to  the  abovementioned  policies  and  make  amendments  to  the 

Simplified Listing Agreement for debt securities as set out at Annexure. 

(b). Make consequential amendments, if any to the bye- laws and other rules and 

regulations for the implementation of the above decision. 

(c). Bring this to the notice of all issuers listed with the exchange. 
(d). Disseminate the same on their websites for easy access to investors. 

 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 2 of 7 

 

 
 
7.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by  sub-section  (1)  of 
section 11 and section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

 
8.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Corp Debt Market”. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Maninder Cheema 

 

Page 3 of 7 

 

 

PART-A 

 

1.  For clause 1, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

 
 
Annexure 

“1   The  Issuer  agrees  that  in  addition  to  the  covenants  in  this  part  of  this 
agreement executed between the Issuer and the Exchange, the issuer shall 
be bound by the covenants provided in the equity Listing Agreement  

 

 

Provided  that  covenants  in  the  Equity  Listing  Agreement,  which  are  not 
applicable to issue of debt securities in terms of the SEBI (Issue of Listing of 
Debt Securities) Regulations 2008, shall not be applicable in respect of this 
Listing Agreement.   

Provided  further  that  the  issuer  who  has  submitted  any  information  to  the 
Exchange  in  compliance  with  the  disclosure  requirements  under  the  equity 
Listing Agreement, need not re-submit any such information under this Listing 
Agreement  without  prejudice  to  any  power  conferred  on  the  Exchange  or 
SEBI or any other authority under any law to seek any such information from 
the issuer.”   

 

2.  In  clause  2,  for  sub-clause  (d),  the  following  sub-clause  shall  be  substituted, 

namely:- 

 

“(d)  a  half-yearly  certificate  regarding  maintenance  of  100%  asset  cover  in 
respect of listed debt securities, by either a practicing company secretary or a 
practicing chartered accountant, along with the half yearly financial results.  

 
 

Provided that submission of such half yearly certificates is not applicable in 
cases where an issuer is a Bank or NBFC registered with RBI or where bonds 
are secured by a Government guarantee.” 

 
3.  For clause 5, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“5   In respect of its listed debt securities, the Issuer agrees that it shall maintain 
100% asset cover  sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times for 
the debt securities issued and shall disclose to the exchange on half-yearly 
basis  and  in  their  annual  financial  statements  the  extent  and  nature  of 
security created and maintained.” 

 

 

Page 4 of 7 

 

 
 
 
4.  For clause 6, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“6   The Issuer agrees to send to the Exchange for dissemination, along with the 
half yearly financial results, a half- yearly communication, counter signed by 
trustees, containing inter-alia the following information: 
(a) credit rating; 
(b) asset cover available; 
(c) debt-equity ratio; 
(d) previous due date for the payment of interest/principal and whether the 
same has been paid or not; and 
(e) next due date for the payment of interest/principal. 
 
 
 

PART-B 

 
5.  In  clause  13,  for  sub-clause  (d),  the  following  sub-clause  shall  be  substituted, 

namely:- 
 
“(d)  a  half-yearly  certificate  regarding  maintenance  of  100%  asset  cover  in 
respect of listed debt securities, by either a practicing company secretary or a 
practicing chartered accountant, along with the half yearly financial results. 

 
 

Provided that submission of such half yearly certificates is not applicable in 
cases where an issuer is a Bank or NBFC registered with RBI or where bonds 
are secured by a Government guarantee.” 

 
 
6.  In  clause  16,  for  sub-clause  (a),  the  following  sub-clause  shall  be  substituted, 

namely:- 
 
“(a) In respect of its listed debt securities, the Issuer agrees that it shall maintain 
100% asset cover  sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times for 
the debt securities issued and shall disclose to the exchange on half-yearly 
basis  and  in  their  annual  financial  statements,  the  extent  and  nature  of 
security created and maintained.” 

 

7.  Sub-clause (b) to clause 16 shall be omitted. 
 
 

 

Page 5 of 7 

 

 
 
 
8.  After clause 19, the following clause 19A shall be inserted, namely:- 

 
“19A Statement of deviations in use of issue proceeds- 

 
(a)  The  company  agrees  to  furnish  to  the  stock  exchange  on  a  half  yearly 
basis,  a  statement  indicating  material  deviations,  if  any,  in  the  use  of 
proceeds  of  issue  of  debt  securities  from  the  objects  stated  in  the  offer 
document. 
 
(b)  The  information  mentioned  in  sub-clause  (a)  shall  be  furnished  to  the 
stock  exchange  along  with  the  half-yearly  financial  results  furnished  under 
clause  29  to  the  stock  exchange  and  shall  also  be  published  in  the 
newspapers simultaneously with the half-yearly financial results.” 

 
 

9.  After clause 21, the following clause 21A shall be inserted, namely:- 

 
“21A The issuer agrees that it shall be a condition precedent for issuance of new 
debt securities that it shall deposit before the opening of subscription list and 
keep  deposited  with  the  Exchange  (in  cases  where  the  debt  securities  are 
offered for subscription whether through an offer document or otherwise) an 
amount  calculated  at  the  rate  of  1%  (one  per  cent)  of  the  amount  of  debt 
securities  offered  for  subscription  to  the  public,  as  the  case  may  be  for 
ensuring  compliance  by  the  company,  within  the  prescribed  or  stipulated 
period,  of  all  prevailing  requirements  of  law  and  all  prevailing  listing 
requirements and conditions as mentioned in, and refundable or forfeitable in 
the manner stated in the Rules, Bye-laws and Regulations of the Exchange 
for the time being in force.  

 

Provided  that  50%  (fifty  per  cent)  of  the  above  mentioned  security  deposit 
should  be  paid  to  the  Exchange  in  cash.  The  balance  amount  can  be 
provided for by way of a bank guarantee.  
 
Provided further that the amount to be paid in cash is limited to Rs.3crores.” 

 
 

10. For sub-clause 27 (b), the following sub-clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“(b) A half-yearly communication, counter signed by debenture trustee, along with 

the half yearly financial results, containing, inter alia, following information: 

 

Page 6 of 7 

 

 
(i) credit rating; 
(ii) asset cover available; 
(iii) debt-equity ratio; 
(iv) previous due date for the payment of interest/ principal and whether the 
same has been paid or not; and 
(v) next due date for the payment of interest/ principal. 
 
 

11. For sub-clause 29.A.(a) the following sub-clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“(a) The Issuer agrees to furnish un-audited or audited financial results on a half-
yearly basis preferably in the format as per Annexure I to III within 45 days 
from  the  end  of  the  half  year  to  the  Exchange.  Un-audited  financial  results 
shall  be  accompanied  by  limited  review  report  prepared  by  the  statutory 
auditors  of  the  company  (or  in  case  of  public  sector  undertakings,  by  any 
practicing  Chartered  Accountant)  on  the  lines  of  the  format  given  in 
Annexure IV or V, as applicable. 
 
The explanations to the extant sub-clause (a) shall remain unchanged.  

 
 

12. For sub-clause 29.B the following sub-clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

“B. Results for the last half year 
 
(a)  The issuer agrees that if it intimates in advance to the Stock Exchange/s that 
it would publish/ furnish to the Exchanges its annual audited results within 60 
days from the end of the financial year, un-audited financial results for the last 
half year accompanied by limited review report by the auditors need not be 
published/ furnished to Exchanges. The audited results for the year shall be 
published/ furnished to the Exchanges in the same format as is applicable for 
half-yearly financial results. 

 
(b) The issuer agrees that if it opts to submit un-audited financial results for the 
last  half  year  accompanied  by  limited  review  report  by  the  auditors,  it  shall 
also submit audited financial results for the entire financial year, as soon as 
they are approved by the Board of Directors. 
 

 

 

********** 

 

Page 7 of 7 

