 
SEBI/IMD/CIR No.4/124477/08 
May 2, 2008 

All Mutual Funds Registered with SEBI 
Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) 
  
Dear Sirs, 
  
Sub:  Notification  on  Real  Estate  Mutual  Fund  Schemes  and  Initial  Issue 
Expenses 
 
We  are  enclosing  a  copy  of 
the  gazette  notification  F.  No.  LAD-
NRO/GN/2008/03/123042. dated April 16, 2008 on the captioned subject for your 
information and implementation.   
 
Regarding  49  A(a)(i),  it  is  clarified  that  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  can 
invest in real estate assets in the cities mentioned in  

(i) 
(ii) 

 List of Million Plus Urban Agglomerations/Cities ;   or 
 List of Million Plus Cities 

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

which appear in Census Statistics of India (2001) at www.censusindia.gov.in. A 
printout  of  cities  which  appear  in  the  aforesaid  categories  taken  from  the  said 
website is attached for your ready reference. 
 
This circular, is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category 
"Mutual Funds - Circulars".  

This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation 77 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996. 
  
 
Yours faithfully, 
  
  
  
Ruchi Chojer 
 
Encl : a/a 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART –III– SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, April 16, 2008 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 16th April, 2008 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(MUTUAL FUNDS) (AMENDMENT) REGULATIONS, 2008 

F. No. LAD-NRO/GN/2008/03/123042. -  In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
30  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992),  the  Board 
hereby makes the following Regulations to further amend the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, namely :- 

1.  These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008.  

2.  They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
3.  In the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996–  
(i) 

in regulation 2 –  
(a) for clause (q), the following shall be substituted, namely:- 

“(q) “mutual fund” means a fund established in the form of a trust to raise 
monies through the sale of units to the public or a section of the public 
under one or more schemes for investing in securities including  money 
market  instruments  or  gold  or  gold  related  instruments  or  real  estate 
assets; 

(b) after clause (s), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

2

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

“(sa) “real estate mutual fund scheme” means a mutual fund scheme that 
invests directly or indirectly in real estate assets or other permissible assets 
in accordance with these regulations;” 

in regulation 7, clause (g) shall be substituted with the following namely:- 
“(g)  appointment  of  custodian  in  order  to  keep  custody  of  the  securities  or 
gold  and  gold  related  instrument  or  other  assets  of  the  mutual  fund  held  in 
terms of these regulations, and provide such other custodial services as may 
be authorised by the trustees;” 
in regulation 26, in sub-regulation (1), after the existing proviso, the following 
proviso shall be inserted, namely:- 
  “Provided further that in case of a real estate mutual fund scheme, the title 
deed of real estate assets held by it may be kept in the custody of a custodian 
registered with the Board.” 
in  regulation  33,  in  sub-regulation  3,  for  clause  (c),  the  following  shall  be 
substituted, namely:- 
“(c) the initial issue expenses of the scheme launched prior to commencement 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations,  2008  have  been  amortised  fully  in  accordance  with  the  Tenth 
Schedule.” 
in regulation 43, 
(a) in sub-regulation (1) –  

(i) 
(ii) 

(iii) 

in clause (d), the word “or” occurring at the end shall be omitted; 
in clause (e), for the full stop, the figure and word “; or” shall be 
substituted; 
after clause (e), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- 
“(f) real estate assets as defined in clause (a) of regulation 49A.”  

(b) after  sub-regulation  (4),  the  following  sub-regulation  shall  be  inserted, 

namely:- 
“(5)  Moneys  collected  under  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  shall  be 
invested in accordance with regulation 49E.” 

(vi) 

in regulation 44, 

in sub-regulation (5), clause (a) shall be omitted. 

 

3

(vii) 

in regulation 49 – 
(a) in sub-regulation (3), third proviso shall be omitted; 
(b) for sub-regulation (3B), the following shall be substituted, namely: – 

“(3B)  The  conditions  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (3A)  are  the   
  following: 

(a)  the scheme is launched after the commencement of the Securities 
and  Exchange  Board  of 
(Mutual  Funds)(Second 
Amendment)  Regulations,  2006  and  prior  to  commencement  of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2008; 

India 

(b)  initial  issue  expenses  in  respect  of  the  scheme  are  accounted  in 
the  books  of  accounts  of  the  scheme  in  accordance  with  Tenth 
Schedule.”. 

(viii)  after  regulation  49,  the  following  Chapter  and  regulations  shall  be  inserted, 

namely:- 

“CHAPTER VIA 

REAL ESTATE MUTUAL FUND SCHEMES 

Definitions  
49A. For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires-  

(a) “real estate asset” means an identifiable immovable property-  

(i)        which is located within India in such city as may be specified 
by the Board from time to time or in a special economic zone 
within  the  meaning  of  clause  (za)  of  section  2  of  the  Special 
Economic Zones Act, 2005 (28 of 2005); 
on which construction is complete and which is usable;  

(ii) 
(iii)  which is evidenced by valid title documents; 
(iv)  which is legally transferable; 
(v) 
(vi)  which is not subject matter of any litigation;  
but does not include- 
I.  a project under construction; or  

which is free from all encumbrances;  

 

4

II.  vacant land; or  
III. deserted property; or  
IV. land specified for agricultural use; or  
V.  a  property  which  is  reserved  or  attached  by  any  Government  or 
other  authority  or  pursuant  to  orders  of  a  court  of  law  or  the 
acquisition of which is otherwise prohibited under any law for the 
time being in force;  

(b) “real estate valuer” means a qualified valuer of real estate assets who has 
been accredited by a credit rating agency registered with the Board.  
Applicability  
49B. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to real estate mutual fund 
schemes.  
(2)  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  all  other  provisions  of  these 
regulations  and  the  guidelines  and  circulars  issues  thereunder  shall  apply  to 
real  estate  mutual  fund  schemes,  and  trustees  and  asset  management 
companies in relation to such schemes, except where specific provisions are 
made in relation thereto under this Chapter.  
Additional eligibility criteria  
49C (1) A Certificate of registration may be granted under regulation 9 to an 
applicant proposing to launch only real estate mutual fund schemes if he;- 
(a) has been carrying on business in real estate for a period of not less than 

five years; 

(b)  fulfills eligibility criteria provided in regulation 7, except that specified in 

item (i) of the Explanation to clause (a) thereof:  

   (2)  A  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  of  a  mutual  fund  registered  under  sub-
regulation (1)  shall not invest in the securities mentioned in sub-clauses (ii) to 
(iii) of clause (a) or in clause (b) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 49E unless 
it has key personnel having adequate professional experience in finance and 
financial services related field. 

 

5

(3) An existing mutual fund may launch a real estate mutual fund scheme if it has 
an  adequate  number  of  key  personnel  and  directors  having  adequate 
experience in real estate.  
Other conditions for real estate mutual fund schemes 
49D.  (1)  Every  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  shall  be  close-ended  and  its 
units shall be listed on a recognized stock exchange: 

Provided that the redemption of a real estate mutual fund scheme may be 

done in a staggered manner. 
(2) The units issued by a real estate mutual fund scheme shall not confer any 
right on the unit holders to use the real estate assets held by the scheme and 
any provision to the contrary in the trust deed or in the terms of issue shall be 
void. 
(3) The title deeds pertaining to real estate assets held by a real estate mutual 
fund scheme shall be kept in safe custody with the custodian of the mutual 
fund. 
(4) A real estate mutual fund scheme shall not undertake lending or housing 
finance activities. 
(5)  All  financial  transactions  of  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  shall  be 
routed through banking channels and they shall not be cash or unaccounted 
transactions. 
Permissible investments 
49E. (1) Every real state mutual fund scheme shall invest at least thirty five 
per cent. of the net assets of the scheme directly in real estate assets. 
(2) Subject to sub-regulation (1), every real estate mutual fund scheme shall 
invest- 

 (a) at least seventy five per cent. of the net assets of the scheme in- 

real estate assets; 

(i) 
(ii)  mortgage backed securities (but not directly in mortgages); 
(iii) 
equity  shares  or  debentures  of  companies  engaged  in 
dealing  in  real  estate  assets  or  in  undertaking  real  estate 

 

6

development projects, whether listed on a recognized stock 
exchange in India or not; 
the balance in other securities; 

(b) 

(3) Unless otherwise disclosed in the offer document, no mutual fund shall, 
under all its real estate mutual fund schemes, invest more than thirty per cent. 
of its net assets in a single city. 
(4) No mutual fund shall, under all its real estate mutual fund schemes, invest 
more  than  fifteen  per  cent.  of  its  net  assets  in  the  real  estate  assets  of  any 
single real estate project. 
Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation, “single real estate project” 
means a project by a builder in a single location within a city. 
(5) No mutual fund shall, under all its real estate mutual fund schemes, invest 
more  than  twenty  five  per  cent.  of  the  total  issued  capital  of  any  unlisted 
company. 
(6) No mutual fund shall invest more than fifteen per cent of the net assets of 
any of its real estate mutual fund schemes in the equity shares or debentures of 
any unlisted company. 
(7) No real estate mutual fund scheme shall invest in – 

(a) any unlisted security of the sponsor or its associate or group company ; 
(b)  any  listed  security  issued  by  way  of  preferential  allotment  by  the 
sponsor or its associate or group company; 
(c)  any listed security of the sponsor or its associate or group company, in 
excess of twenty five per cent of the net assets of the scheme. 

(8)  No mutual fund shall transfer real estate assets amongst its schemes. 
(9)  No mutual fund shall invest in any real estate asset which was owned by 
the sponsor or the asset management company or any of its associates during 
the period of last five years or in which the sponsor or the asset management 
company or any of its associates hold tenancy or lease rights. 
Valuation of real estates assets and declaration of net asset value 
49F. (1) The real estate assets held by a real estate mutual fund scheme shall 
be valued –  

 

7

(a) at cost price on the date of acquisition; and 
(b) at fair price on every ninetieth day from the day of its purchase. 

in accordance with the norms specified in Schedule IXB. 
(2)  The  asset  management  company,  its  directors,  the  trustees  and  the  real 
estate  valuer  shall  ensure  that  the  valuation  of  assets  held  by  a  real  estate 
mutual  fund  scheme  are  done  in  good  faith,  in  accordance  with  the  norms 
specified in Schedule IX B and that the accounts of the scheme are prepared in 
accordance with accounting principles specified in Schedule XI. 
 (3)  The  net  asset  value  of  every  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  shall  be 
calculated and declared at the close of each business day on the basis of the 
most current valuation of the real estate assets held by the scheme and accrued 
income thereon, if any. 
Duties of asset management company 
49G.  (1)  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of  regulation  21,  the  asset 
management  company  of  a  mutual  fund  having  real  estate  mutual  fund 
schemes  shall  appoint  suitable  number  of  qualified  key  personnel  with 
relevant experience, before undertaking investment management of real estate 
assets of a real estate mutual fund scheme. 
(2)  The  asset  management  company  may  appoint  advisors  to  advise  it  on 
acquisitions or proposed acquisitions of real estate assets. 
(3) The asset management company shall exercise due care while appointing 
real  estate  valuers  for  valuing  the  real  estate  assets  held  by  the  real  estate 
mutual fund scheme and shall ensure that there is no conflict of interest. 
(4)  The  asset  management  company  shall  lay  down  an  adequate  system  of 
internal controls and risk management. 
(5) The asset management company shall put in place systems to ensure that 
all  financial  transactions  are  done  through  banking  channels  and  exclude 
transactions in cash or unaccounted transactions. 
(6)  The  asset  management  company  shall  exercise  due  diligence  in 
maintenance of the assets of a real estate mutual fund scheme and shall ensure 
that there is no avoidable deterioration in their value. 

 

8

(7) The asset management company shall ensure that the real estate assets held 
by  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  are  adequately  insured  against  impair, 
damage or destruction. 
(8) The asset management company shall ensure that the cost of maintenance 
and insurance of real estate assets is within reasonable limits and that no funds 
of the scheme are utilized towards development of such assets. 
(9)  The  asset  management  company  shall  ensure  that  a  real  estate  valuer 
certifies compliance with sub-regulation (8) on an annual basis. 
(10)  The  asset  management  company  shall  ensure  that  no  real  estate  valuer 
continues with valuation of particular real estate asset for more than two years 
and  that  no  such  valuer  values  the  same  asset  for  a  period  of  at  least  three 
years thereafter. 
(11) The asset management company shall record in writing, the details of its 
decision making process in buying or selling real estate assets together with 
the  justifications  for  such  decisions  and  forward  the  same  periodically  to 
trustees. 
(12) The asset management company shall ensure that investment of funds of 
the real estate mutual fund scheme is not made contrary to provisions of this 
chapter and the trust deed. 
Usage of real estate assets of a real estate mutual fund scheme 
49H.(1)The  asset  management  company  may  let  out  or  lease  out  the  real 
estate assets held by the real estate mutual fund scheme if the term of such 
lease or letting does not extend beyond the period of maturity of the scheme. 
(2) Where real estate assets are let out or leased out, the asset management 
company shall diligently collect the rents or other income in a timely manner. 
(3) Real estate assets held by a real estate mutual fund scheme may be let out 
to  the  sponsor,  asset  management  company  or  any  of  their  associates,  at 
market price or otherwise on commercial terms: 
  Provided that not more than 25% of the total rental income of the scheme 
shall be derived from assets so let out. 
Duties of trustees 

 

9

49I.(1) The trustees shall ensure that the asset management company has the 
necessary expertise, internal control systems and risk management mechanism 
to invest in and manage investments in real estate assets on a continuous basis. 
(2) The trustees shall monitor whether due diligence is exercised by the asset 
management company in managing the investments. 
(3) The trustees shall review the market price of the units during the year and 
shall  recommend  proportionate  buy  back  of  units  from  unit  holders,  if  the 
units are traded at steep discount to the net asset value. 
(4) The magnitude of discount which shall amount to steep discount referred 
to in sub-regulation (3) shall be disclosed in the offer document. 
(5) The trustees shall ensure that only permissible investments are made by 
the asset management company. 
(6)  The  trustees  shall  ensure  that  all  financial  transactions  of  the  real  estate 
mutual fund scheme are made only through banking channels and that systems 
exist to exclude transactions in cash and unaccounted transactions. 
(7)  The  trustees  shall  lay  down  the  criteria  for  empanelment  of  real  estate 
brokers. 
(8)  The  trustees  shall  lay  down  the  broad  procedure  to  be  followed  by  the 
assert management company while transacting in real estate assets. 
(9) The trustees shall require the asset management company to set up such 
systems and submit such reports to trustees, as may be necessary for them to 
effectively monitor the performance and functioning of the real estate mutual 
fund schemes. 
(10)  The  trustees  shall  include  a  confirmation  on  compliance  with  sub 
regulation (9) in their half yearly reports made to the Board. 
Disclosures in offer document and other disclosures 
49J. (1) The offer documents of real estate mutual fund schemes shall contain 
disclosures  which  are  adequate  for  investors  to  make  informed  investment 
decisions and such further disclosures as may be specified by the Board. 

 

10

(2)  The  portfolio  disclosures  and  financial  results  in  respect  of  a  real  estate 
mutual fund scheme shall contain such further disclosures as are specified by 
the Board. 
(3)  Advertisements  in  respect  of  real  estate  mutual  fund  schemes  shall 
conform to such guidelines as may be specified by the Board.   
Transactions by employees etc. 
49K. (1) All transactions done by the trustees or the employees or directors of 
the  asset  management  company  or  the  trustee  company  in  real  estate  assets 
shall be disclosed by them to the compliance officer within one month of the 
transaction. 
(2) The compliance officer shall make a report thereon from the view point of 
possible  conflict  of  interest  and  shall  submit  it  to  the  trustees  with  his 
recommendations, if any. 
(3)The  persons  covered  in  sub-regulation  (1)  may  obtain  the  views  of  the 
trustees before entering into the transaction in real estate assets, by making a 
suitable request to them.” 

    (ix)  in regulation 52 -  

(a) in sub-regulation (4)- 

(1) clause (a) shall be omitted; 
(2) in clause (b):- 
(A) in sub-clause (xii-a) the word ‘and’ appearing at the end thereof, shall 
be omitted; 
(B)  after  sub-clause  (xii-a),  the  following  sub-clause  shall  be  inserted, 
namely:- 
“(xii-b) in case of a real estate mutual fund scheme, insurance premia and 
costs  of  maintenance  of  the  real  estate  assets  (excluding  costs  of 
development  of  such  assets)  over  and  above  the  expenses  specified  in 
regulation 52 to the extent disclosed in the offer document; and”; 

(b) in sub-regulation (5), the provisos shall be omitted. 

(x) in the Seventh Schedule, clause 5 shall be omitted. 
(xi)in the Ninth Schedule -  

 

11

(a) in the opening words , for the bracket,  word and figures “[ Regulations 
50(3),55(4)(iii) ]” the bracket , words and figures “[ Regulations 49F(1) 
and (2), 50(3),55(4)(iii) ]” shall be substituted; 

(b) in 

the  heading,  after  words  “ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  AND 
STANDARDS’, the words “Part A: For Investment in Securities” shall be 
inserted; 

(c) after clause l, the following shall be substituted, namely:- 

 

   

“m. In case of real estate mutual fund scheme, investments in unlisted 
equity shares shall be valued as per the norms specified in this regard.” 

(d) after clause m. the following shall be inserted, namely:- 
    
 “Part B: For direct investment in real estate asset 
Definitions 
1. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires-: 

(a)  ‘fair value’ means the amount for which an asset could be exchanged 
between knowledgeable parties in an arm’s length transaction and certified 
by the real estate valuer; 
(b)  “‘knowledgeable’  means  that  both  the  buyer  and  the  seller  are 
reasonably informed about the nature and characteristics of the real estate 
asset, its actual and potential uses, and market conditions at the balance 
sheet date; 

2.  A real estate asset that is held by a real estate mutual fund scheme 

shall be valued at fair value. 

 
3.  Where a portion of the real estate asset is held to earn rentals or for 
capital  appreciation  and  if  the  portions  can  be  sold  or  leased 
separately, the real estate mutual fund scheme shall account for the 
portions separately.   

 
Initial Recognition 

12

 

 

 
4. A real estate mutual fund scheme shall recognise a real estate asset if : 

(a) 

(b) 

it  is  probable  that  the  future  economic  benefits  that  are 
associated  with  the  real  estate  asset  will  flow  to  the  real 
estate mutual fund scheme; and 
the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. 

 
5. 

A real estate mutual fund scheme shall evaluate all its real 
estate  asset  costs  including  those  incurred  initially  to 
acquire a real estate asset and those incurred subsequently 
to  add  to,  replace  part  of,  or  service  a  real  estate  asset,  at 
the time they are incurred: 

Provided that a real estate mutual fund scheme shall 
not  recognise  in  the  carrying  amount  of  a  real  estate  asset 
the  costs  of  the  day-to-day  servicing  of  such  an  asset  and 
such  costs  shall  be  recognised  in  the  revenue  account  as 
incurred.   

6.  A  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  may  acquire  parts  of  real 
estate  assets  through  replacement.    For  example,  the  interior 
walls  may  be  replacements  of  original  walls.    Under  the 
recognition principle, an real estate mutual fund scheme shall 
recognise  in  the  carrying  amount  of  a  real  estate  asset,  the 
cost  of  replacing  part  of  an  existing  real  estate  asset  at  the 
time  that  cost  is  incurred  if  the  recognition  criteria  are  met.  
The  carrying  amount  of  those  parts  that  are  replaced  shall  be 
derecognised  in  accordance  with  the  derecognition  provisions 
given in later paragraphs. 

7.  The  real  estate  asset  shall  be  recognized  on  the  date  of 
completion  of  the  process  of  transfer  of  ownership  i.e.  the 
date  on  which  the  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  obtains  an 

 

13

enforceable right including all significant risks and rewards of 
ownership. 

Measurement at initial recognition 
8.  A  real  estate  asset  shall  be  measured  initially  at  cost.  Such 
cost  shall  comprise  purchase  price  and  any  other  directly 
attributable  expenditure  such  as  professional  fees  for  legal 
services, registration expenses and asset transfer taxes. 
If the payment for a real estate asset is deferred, its cost is the 
cash  price  equivalent.    An  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme 
shall  recognise  the  difference  between  this  amount  and  the 
total payments as interest expense over the period of credit. 

9. 

10.  A  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  may  acquire  one  or  more 
real  estate  assets  in  exchange  for  a  non-monetary  asset  or 
assets, or a combination of monetary and non-monetary assets.  
The  cost  of  such  a  real  estate  asset  shall  be  measured  at  fair 
value  unless  (a)  the  exchange  transaction  lacks  commercial 
substance or (b) the fair value of neither the asset received nor 
the  asset  given  up  is  reliably  measurable.    The  acquired  real 
estate  asset  shall  be  measured  in  this  manner  even  if  an  real 
estate  mutual  fund  scheme  cannot  immediately  derecognise 
the asset given up.  If the acquired real estate asset cannot be 
measured  at  fair  value,  its  cost  shall  be  measured  at  the 
carrying amount of the asset given up. 

has 

commercial 

substance 

transaction 

11.    A  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  determines  whether  an 
by 
exchange 
considering  the  extent  to  which  its  future  cash  flows  are 
expected to change as a result of the transaction 
Explanation:  An  exchange 
substance if: 

transaction  has  commercial 

 

14

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  cash 

flows  of 

the  configuration  (risk,  timing  and  amount)  of  the 
cash  flows  of  the  asset  received  differs  from  the 
configuration  of 
the  asset 
transferred, or 
the real estate mutual fund scheme-specific value of 
the  portion  of  the  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme’s 
operations  affected  by  the  transaction  changes  as  a 
result of the exchange, and 
the  difference  in  (a)  or  (b)  is  significant  relative  to 
the fair value of the assets exchanged. 

For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  exchange 
transaction  has  commercial  substance,  the  real  estate 
mutual  fund  scheme-specific  value  of  the  portion  of  the 
real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme’s  operations  affected  by 
the  transaction  should  reflect  post-tax  cash  flows.    The 
result  of  these  analyses  may  be  clear  without  an  real 
estate  mutual  fund  scheme  having  to  perform  detailed 
calculations. 

12.  The  fair  value  of  an  asset  for  which  comparable  market 
transactions  do  not  exist  is  reliably  measurable  if  (a)  the 
variability  in  the  range  of  reasonable  fair  value  estimates  is  not 
significant  for  that  asset  or  (b)  the  probabilities  of  the  various 
estimates within the range can be reasonably assessed and used in 
estimating  fair  value.    If  the  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  is 
able  to  determine  reliably  the  fair  value  of  either  the  asset 
received  or  the  asset  given  up,  then  the  fair  value  of  the  asset 
given up is used to measure cost unless the fair value of the asset 
received is more clearly evident. 
Subsequent Measurement  

13.  After initial recognition, a real estate asset held by an real estate mutual 

fund scheme shall be measured at its fair value. 

 

15

14.  A  gain  or  loss  arising  from  a  change  in  the  fair  value  of  the  real  estate 
asset shall be recognised in the Revenue Account for the period in which it 
arises.  The gain that arises from the appreciation in the value of real estate 
asset is an unrealised gain and thus the same cannot be distributed. 
Explanations 
i. 

Fair  value  specifically  excludes  an  estimated  price  inflated  or 
deflated  by  special  terms  or  circumstances  such  as  atypical 
financing, sale and leaseback arrangement, special considerations or 
concessions granted by anyone associated with the sale. 
The fair value of real estate asset shall reflect market conditions at 
the balance sheet date 
The  fair  value  of  real  estate  asset  reflects,  among  other 
things, rental income from current leases and reasonable and 
supportable assumptions that represent what knowledgeable, 
willing  parties  would  assume  about  rental  income  from 
future  leases  in  the  light  of  current  conditions.    It  also 
reflects, any cash outflows that could be expected in respect 
of the asset.   
The best evidence of fair value is given by current prices in 
an  active  market  for  similar  real  estate  asset  in  the  same 
location and condition and subject to similar lease and other 
contracts.  Care shall be taken to identify any differences in 
the  nature,  location  or  condition  of  the  asset,  or  in  the 
contractual terms of the leases and other contracts relating to 
the asset. 
In  the  absence  of  current  prices  in  an  active  market, 
information  from  a  variety  of  sources  shall  be  considered, 
including: 
current  prices  in  an  active  market  for  properties  of  different 
nature,  condition  or  location  (or  subject  to  different  lease  or 
other contracts), adjusted to reflect those differences; 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

(a) 

 

16

vi. 

vii. 

(b) 

recent prices of similar properties on less active markets, with 
adjustments  to  reflect  any  changes  in  economic  conditions 
since the date of the transactions that occurred at those prices; 
and 

(c)  discounted cash flow projections based on reliable estimates of 
future cash flows, supported by the terms of any existing lease 
and  other  contracts  and  (when  possible)  by  external  evidence 
such as current market rents for similar properties in the same 
location  and  condition,  and  using  discount  rates  that  reflect 
current  market  assessments  of  the  uncertainty  in  the  amount 
and timing of the cash flows. 
In  some  cases,  the  various  sources  listed  in  the  previous 
paragraph  may  suggest  different  conclusions  about  the  fair 
value of a real estate asset.  The reasons for those differences 
shall  be  considered,  in  order  to  arrive  at  the  most  reliable 
estimate  of  fair  value  within  a  range  of  reasonable  fair  value 
estimates.  
(a)Where the fair value of the asset is not reliably determinable 
on  a  continuing  basis,  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  shall 
measure  that  real  estate  asset  at  cost  as  per  Accounting 
Standard (AS) 10, Accounting for Fixed Assets.  The residual 
value of the real estate asset shall be assumed to be zero.  The 
real estate mutual fund scheme shall apply AS 10 until disposal 
of the investment asset. 
(b) The fair value of the asset will be considered to not reliably 
determinable  on  a  continuing  basis  if  the  variability  in  the 
range  of  reasonable  fair  value  estimates  is  large  ,  and  the 
probabilities  of  the  various  outcomes  difficult  to  assess,  such 
that the usefulness of a single estimate of fair value is negated. 
This may be due to infrequent comparable market transactions 

 

17

and  alternative  reliable  estimates  of  fair  value  (for  example, 
based on discounted cash flow projections) being not available  

viii. 

In determining the fair value of the real estate asset, it shall be 
ensured that there is no double-counting of assets or liabilities.  
Explanation: 

(a)  equipment  such  as  lifts  or  air-conditioning  is  often  an  integral 
part of a building and is generally included in the fair value of 
the  real  estate  asset,  rather  than  recognised  separately  as  asset, 
plant and equipment. 

(b)  if  an  office  is  leased  on  a  furnished  basis,  the  fair  value  of  the 
office generally includes the fair value of the furniture, because 
the rental income relates to the furnished office.  When furniture 
is  included  in  the  fair  value  of  real  estate  asset,  an  real  estate 
mutual  fund  scheme  shall  not  recognise  that  furniture  as  a 
separate asset. 

(c)  the fair value of real estate asset shall exclude prepaid or accrued 
operating  lease  income,  because  the  real  estate  mutual  fund 
scheme would recognise it as a separate liability or asset. 

(d)  The    fair  value  of  real  estate  asset  held  under  a  lease  reflects 
expected  cash  flows  (including  contingent  rent  that  is  expected 
to  become  payable).  Accordingly,  if  a  valuation  obtained  for  a 
asset  is  net  of  all  payments  expected  to  be  made,  it  will  be 
necessary to add back any recognised lease liability, to arrive at 
the fair value of the real estate asset for accounting purposes. 

 

ix. 

The fair value of real estate asset does not reflect future capital 
expenditure that will improve or enhance the asset and does not 
reflect the related future benefits from this future expenditure. 

x.  Where  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  expects  that  the 
present  value  of  its  payments  relating  to  a  real  estate  asset 

18

 

 

(other  than  payments  relating  to  recognised  liabilities)  will 
exceed  the  present  value  of  the  related  cash  receipts  it  shall 
apply  Accounting  Standard  (AS)  29,  Provisions,  Contingent 
Liabilities  and  Contingent  Assets  to  determine  whether  to 
recognise a liability and, if so, how to measure it. 

15.  To determine the fair value of a real estate asset in accordance with the 
above-mentioned  paragraphs,  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  is 
required  to  use  the  services  of  two  independent  and  approved  valuers 
having recent experience in category of the real estate asset being valued 
and use the lower of the two valuations. 

16. For accounting for rental income on real estate asset, Accounting Standard 
(AS) 19, Leases, shall be followed.  Such income shall be accrued on a 
daily basis, till the currency of the lease agreements. 

17.  Where the rental income receivable by a real estate mutual fund scheme 
in respect of real estate asset, has accrued but has not been received for the 
period  specified  by  the  Board.    Further,  provision  shall  be  made  by 
debiting to the revenue account the income so accrued in the manner as 
may be specified by the Board. 

Derecognition of Real Estate Asset 

18.  A  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  shall  derecognise  a  real  estate  asset  on 
disposal or when the asset is permanently withdrawn from use and no future 
economic benefits are expected from its disposal. 

19. In determining the date of disposal for real estate asset by way of sale, 
a real estate mutual fund scheme shall apply the criteria in Accounting 
Standard (AS) 9, Revenue Recognition, for recognising revenue from 
the sale of goods and considers the related guidance in the Appendix to 
AS 9.   

20. Gains  or  losses  arising  from  the  disposal  or  retirement  of  real  estate 
asset  shall  be  determined  as  the  difference  between  the  net  disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the real estate asset and shall be 

 

19

recognised  in  the  Revenue  Account  in  the  period  of  the  disposal  or 
retirement. 

21. The consideration receivable on disposal of a real estate asset is to be 
recognised  initially  at  fair  value.    In  particular,  if  payment  for  a  real 
estate  asset  is  deferred,  the  consideration  received  is  recognised 
initially  at  the  cash  price  equivalent.    The  difference  between  the 
nominal  amount  of  the  consideration  and  the  cash  price  equivalent 
should be recognised as interest revenue over the period of credit.” 

(xii) in the Tenth Schedule – 

(a) in  the  heading,  for  brackets,  words  and  figures  “[Regulation  52(4)(a)]”, 
the  brackets,  words  and  figures  “[Regulation  49(3B)(b)]”  shall  be 
substituted; 

(b) for clause (b) the following shall be substituted, namely:- 
“(b)  For  a  close-ended  scheme  floated  on  a  ‘load’  basis  prior 
to 
commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual 
Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2008,  the  initial  issue  expenses  shall  be 
amortised on a weekly basis over the period of the scheme: 
Provided that in case such schemes provide for partial redemption during the 
life  of  the  scheme,  the  amortisation  shall  take  into  account  the  number  of 
outstanding units and the aggregate amount during the relevant periods.” 
(c) in clause (d), the following shall be substituted, namely:- 
“(d)  In  case  of  close-ended  schemes  floated  on  a  ‘load’  basis  prior  to 
commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual 
Funds)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2008,  the  unamortised  portion  of  the 
expenses  shall  be  included  in  the  calculation  of  the  NAV.  However,  such 
portion shall not be included in the NAV for the purposes of determining the 
asset  management  company’s  investment  management  and  advisory  fees  or 
for  determining  the  limitation  of  expenses  under  regulation  52  of  these 
regulations.” 

(xiii) for the Eleventh Schedule, the following shall be substituted, namely:–  

“ELEVENTH SCHEDULE 

 

20

ANNUAL REPORT 

1. Annual Report 
The annual report shall contain— 
(ii) 

Report  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  on  the  operations  of  the  various 
schemes of the fund and the fund as a whole during the year and the 
future outlook of the fund; 

(iii)  Balance Sheet and Revenue Account in accordance with paras 2, 3 and 

4, respectively of this Schedule; 

(iv)  Auditor’s Report in accordance with paragraph 5 of this Schedule; 
(v) 

Brief  statement  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  on  the  following  aspects, 
namely:- 

 

 
 

 

 

Investment objective of each scheme; 

(a)  Liabilities and responsibilities of the Trustees and the Settlor; (b)
 
(c)  Basis and policy of investment underlying the scheme; 
(d) 
If the scheme permits investment partly or wholly in shares, bonds, 
debentures, real estate asset and other scrips or securities whose value 
can fluctuate, a statement on the following lines: 
 
“The  price  and  redemption  value  of  the  units,  and  income  from 
them,  can  go  up  as  well  as  down  with  the  fluctuations  in  the  market 
value  of  its  underlying  investments  in  securities  or  fair  value  in 
underlying real estate asset, as the case may be;” 
(e)  Comments of the Trustees on the performance of the scheme, with 
full justification. 

(v)  Statement  giving  relevant  perspective  historical  ‘per  unit’  statistics  in 
accordance with paragraph 6 of this Schedule; 
(vi) Statement on the following lines: 

“On written request, present and prospective unitholder/investors can 
obtain copy of the trust deed, the annual report at a price and the text 
of the relevant scheme.” 

2. Accounting Policies  

 

21

 

 (a)  For  investments  in  securities-  Following  accounting  policies  shall  be 
followed  by  Mutual  Funds  for  investments  in  securities  for  the 
preparation of accounts: 

i.  The realised gains or losses on sale or redemption of investment, as well 
as unrealised appreciation or depreciation shall be recognised in all financial 
statements. For the purpose of all financial statements, all investments shall 
be marked to market and investments shall be carried out in the balance sheet 
at  market  value.  However,  till  necessary  guidance  notes  are  issued  by  the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India to their members, in the above 
matter, investments may be continued to be valued at cost, with the market 
value shown separately and the reconciliation statement for the changes in 
investments valued in the two different ways shall be provided. 

  Where  the  financial  statements  are  prepared  on  a  marked  to  market  basis, 
there need not be a separate provision for depreciation. Since unrealised gain 
arising out of appreciation on investments cannot be distributed, provision has 
to be made for its exclusion and for calculating distributable income. 
ii.  Non-traded investments shall be valued in good faith in accordance with 
the norms specified in Seventh Schedule.  

Provided that in the case of real estate mutual funds schemes, investments 
in  unlisted  equity  shares  shall  be  valued  as  per  the  norms  specified  by  the 
Board in this regard. 
iii.  For  quoted  shares,  the  dividend  income  earned  by  the  scheme  shall  be 
recognised, not on the date the dividend is declared, but on the date the share 
is  quoted  on  an  ex-dividend  basis.  For  investments  in  shares  which  are  not 
quoted on the stock exchanges, the dividend income must be recognised on 
the date of declaration. 
iv.  In respect of all interest-bearing investments, income shall be accrued on a 
day  to  day  basis  as  it  is  earned.  Therefore  when  such  investments  are 
purchased, interest paid for the period from the last interest due date upto the 
date of purchase, shall not be treated as a cost of purchase, but shall be treated 
to  Interest  Recoverable  Account.  Similarly,  interest  received  at  the  time  of 

 

22

 

sale for the period from the last interest due date upto the date of sale must not 
be  treated  as  an  addition  to  sale  value  but  shall  be  credited  to  Interest 
Recoverable Account. 
v.  In  determining  the  holding  cost  of  investments  and  the  gains  or  loss  on 
sale of investments, the “average cost” method shall be followed. 
vi.  Transactions for purchase or sale of investments shall be recognised as of 
the  trade  date  and  not  as  of  the  settlement  date,  so  that  the  effect  of  all 
investments  traded  during  a  financial  year  are  recorded  and  reflected  in  the 
financial  statements  for  that  year.  Where  investment  transactions  take  place 
outside the stock market, for example, acquisitions through private placement 
or purchases or sales through private treaty, the transaction shall be recorded, 
in  the  event  of  a  purchase,  as  of  the  date  on  which  the  scheme  obtains  in 
enforceable  obligation  to  pay  the  price  or,  in  the  event  of  a  sale,  when  the 
scheme  obtains  an  enforceable  right  to  collect  the  proceeds  of  sale  or  an 
enforceable obligation to deliver the instruments sold. 
vii. Bonus  shares  to  which  the  scheme  becomes  entitled  shall  be  recognised 
only  when  the  original  shares  on  which  the  bonus  entitlement  accrues  are 
traded  on  the  stock  exchange  on  an  ex-bonus  basis.  Similarly,  rights 
entitlements shall be recognised only when the original shares on which the 
right  entitlement  accrues  are  traded  on  the  stock  exchange  on  an  ex-rights 
basis. 
viii. 
Where income receivable on investments has been accrued and has 
not been received for a period of 12 months beyond the due date, provision 
shall be made by debit to the revenue account for the income so accrued and 
no further accrual of income should be made in respect of such investment. 
ix.  When the units of an open-ended scheme are sold, the difference between 
the sale price and the face value of the unit, if positive, shall be credited to 
Reserves and if negative is debited to reserve, the face value being credited to 
Capital  Account.  Similarly,  when  units  of  an  open-ended  scheme  are 
repurchased, the difference between the purchase price and face value of the 

 

23

unit,  if  positive  should  be  debited  to  reserves  and,  if  negative,  should  be 
credited to reserves, the face value being debited to the capital account. 
x.  (a)  In  the  case  of  an  open-ended  scheme,  when  units  are  sold  an 
appropriate part of the sale proceeds shall be credited to an Equalisation 
Account and when units are repurchased an appropriate amount shall be 
debited to Equalisation Account. The net balance on this Account should 
be credited or debited to the revenue account. The balance on equalisation 
account debited or credited to the Revenue Account shall not decrease or 
increase  the  net  income  of  the  fund  but  is  only  an  adjustment  to  the 
distributable  surplus.  It  shall,  therefore,  be  reflected  in  the  Revenue 
Account only after the net income of the fund is determined. 
(b) The Trustees of the Board of the Trustee Company may, if necessary, 
transfer  a  portion  of  the  distributable  profits  to  a  dividend  equalisation 
reserve.  Such  a  transfer  would  be  independent  of  the  requirement  to 
operate an Equalisation Account as provided in (x)(a). 

xi. In a close-ended scheme which provides to the unitholders the option for 
an early redemption or repurchase their own units, the par value of the unit 
shall be debited to Capital Account and the difference between the purchase 
price  and  the  par  value,  if  positive,  should  be  debited  to  reserves  and,  if 
negative,  should  be  credited  to  reserves.  In  case  of  such  schemes  launched 
prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 a proportionate part of the 
unamortised initial issue expenses shall also be transferred to the reserves so 
that the balance carried forward on that account is proportional to the number 
of units remaining outstanding. 
xii.  The  cost  of  investments  acquired  or  purchased  shall,  inter  alia,  include 
brokerage, stamp charges and any charge customarily included in the broker’s 
bought  note.  In  respect  of  privately  placed  debt  instruments  any  front-end 
discount offered shall be reduced from the cost of the investment. 
xiii.  Underwriting  commission  shall  be  recognised  as  revenue  only  when 
there is no devolvement on the scheme. Where there is devolvement on 

 

24

the scheme, the full underwriting commission received and not merely 
the portion applicable to the devolvement shall be reduced from the cost 
of the investment. 

(b)  For  investments  in  real  estate  assets-  Following  accounting  policies 
shall be followed by real estate mutual fund schemes for the preparation of 
accounts: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

The  accounting  policies  given  in  paragraph  2(a)  in  respect  of 
investment in securities; 
 The accounting policies given in Part B of the Ninth Schedule in 
respect of real estate assets; and 
In  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  which  provides  to  the  unit 
holders the option for an early redemption or repurchase their own 
units the par value of the unit shall be debited to Capital Account 
and the difference between the purchase price and the par value, if 
positive,  should  be  debited  to  reserves  and,  if  negative,  shall  be 
credited to reserves. 

 3. Contents of Balance Sheet 

(i) 

(ii) 

The Balance Sheet shall give scheme wise particulars of its 
assets  and  liabilities.  These  particulars  shall  contain 
information enumerated in Annexures 1A and 1B hereto. It 
shall also disclose, inter alia, accounting policies relating to 
valuation  of  investments  including  real  estate  investment 
asset and other important areas. 
If  investments  in  securities  are  carried  at  costs  or  written 
down  cost,  their  aggregate  market  value  shall  be  stated 
separately  in  respect  of  each  type  of  investment,  such  as 
equity  shares,  preference  shares,  convertible  debentures 
listed  on  recognised  stock  exchange,  non-convertible 
debentures  or  bonds  further  differentiating  between  those 
listed  on  recognised  stock  exchange  and  those  privately 
placed. 

 

25

 (iii)(A)  The  balance-sheet  shall  disclose  under  each  type  of 
investment(s) in securities the aggregate carrying value and 
market  value  of  non-performing 
investments.  An 
investment  shall  be  regarded  as  non-performing  if  it  has 
provided no returns in the form of dividend or interest for a 
period specified in the guidelines issued by the Board. 

(iii)(B)  The  balance-sheet  shall  disclose  under  each  category  of 
real  estate  asset  the  aggregate  carrying  amount  of  non-
performing investment properties. A real estate asset shall 
be regarded as non-performing if it has provided no returns 
in the form of rental income for a period specified by the 
Board. 

(iv)        The  Balance  Sheet  shall  indicate  the  extent  of  provision 
made in the Revenue Account for the depreciation/loss in 
the  value  of  non-performing  investments  in  securities. 
However,  if  the  investments  in  securities  are  valued  at 
marked to market, provisions for depreciation shall not be 
necessary. 
The  Balance  Sheet  shall  disclose  the  per-unit  net  asset 
value (NAV) as at the end of the accounting year. 

(v) 

(vi)  As  in  case  of  companies,  the  Balance  Sheet  shall  give 
against each item, the corresponding figures as at the end of 
the preceding accounting year. 

(vii)(A)  The  notes  to  the  balance  sheet  should  disclose  the 

following information regarding investments:— 

 

 

(a)all  investments  shall  be  grouped  under  the  major 
classification given in the balance sheet; 
(b)  under  each  major  classification,  the  total  value  of 
investments  falling  under  each  major  industry  group 
(which  constitutes  not 
total 
investment in the major classification) shall be disclosed 

than  5%  of 

less 

the 

 

26

together  with  the  percentage  thereof  in  relation  to  the 
total investment within the classification; 

(e) 

(d) 

(c)    a  full  list  of  investments  of  the  scheme  shall  be  made 
available  for  inspection  with  the  Asset  Management 
Company; 
the  basis  on  which  management  fees  have  been  paid  to 
the  Asset  Management  Company  and  the  computation 
thereof; 
if  brokerage,  custodial  fees  or  any  other  payment  for 
services are paid to or payable to any entity in which the 
Asset  Management  Company  or  its  major  shareholders 
have a substantial interest (being not less than 10% of the 
equity  capital),  the  amounts  debited  to  the  revenue 
account  or  amounts  treated  as  cost  of  investments  in 
respect  of  such  services  shall  be  separately  disclosed 
together  with  details  of  the  interest  of  the  Asset 
Management Company or its major shareholders; 

(f)  aggregate  value  of  purchases  and  sales  of  investments 
during the year and expressed as a percentage of average 
weekly net asset value; 

(g)  where  the  non-traded  investments  which  have  been 
valued “in good faith” exceed 5% of the NAV at the end 
of the year, the aggregate value of such investments; and 

(h)  movement in unit capital should be stated. 

An example of the manner in which the movement in unit capital may be   
disclosed is given below : 

No. of units 

(Rs. in lakhs) 

12,50,00,000

12,500.00 

 

  

Balance  as  on  1st 
April, 1994 

Units  sold  during 

1,27,50,000

1,275.00 

 

27

the year 

repurchased 

Units 
during the year 
  
(i) 

(15,40,000)

(154.00) 

13,62,10,000

13,621.00 

the name of the company including the amount of investment made in each 
company of the group by each scheme and the aggregate investments made 
by all schemes in the group companies of the sponsor; 
if  the  investments  are  marked  to  market,  the  total  income  of  the  scheme 
shall  include  unrealised  depreciation  or  appreciation  on  investment.  There 
should be disclosure and unrealised appreciation deducted before arriving at 
the distributable income in the following manner, e.g. 

Rs. in 
lakh 

Rs. in 
lakh 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

15 

  

80 

5 

  

100

 

 

20

120

 

30

(15)

105

 

(85)

20

(j) 

  

Net income as per Revenue Account 
Add : Balance of undistributed income  
 

as at 1st April, 1994 

 

brought forward 

  
Less : Unrealised appreciation on investments 
 

As on 31st March, 1995 

 

As on 1st April, 1994 

  
Less : Distributed to unitholders 
 

Transfer to reserve 

  

 

 

(vii)(B) In respect of real estate asset, the following additional disclosures shall be 
made in the balance sheet: 

 

 

 

28

 

(a). 
a  reconciliation  between  the  carrying  amounts  of  real  estate 
investment properties at the beginning and end of the period, showing the 
following: 

resulting 

from 

through  business 

acquisitions 

1.  Additions resulting from purchase during the period; 
2.  Additions 
combinations; 
3.  Deletions resulting from sales during the period; 
4.  Deletions resulting from disposal through business combinations; 
5.  Net gain or loss from fair value adjustments; 
6.  Other changes. 

(b) 
the method and significant assumptions applied in determining the 
fair value of each real estate investment asset including a statement whether 
the  determination  of  fair  value  was  supported  by  market  evidence  or  was 
more  heavily  based  on  other  factors  (which  the  real  estate  mutual  fund 
scheme  should  disclose)  because  of  the  nature  of  the  asset  and  lack  of 
comparable data. 
(c) 
the use of two approved valuers and the extent to which the fair 
value determined is based on the lower of the two valuations done by the 
approved valuers having recent experience in the category of the real estate 
asset being valued. 
(d) 
estate asset or the remittance of income and proceeds of disposal.  
(e) 
When the lower valuation obtained from the two approved valuers 
is adjusted significantly for the purpose of the balance sheet, for example to 
avoid double-counting of assets or liabilities that are recognised as separate 
assets or liabilities, the real estate mutual fund scheme should disclose the 
reconciliation  between  the  so  selected  lower  valuation  and  the  adjusted 
valuation shown in the balance sheet. 
(f) 
In  case  where  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  measures  a  real 
estate  asset  using  the  cost  model  [as  mentioned  in  paragraph  (vii)  of 

the existence and amounts of restrictions on the realisability of real 

 

29

Explanation in Part B of the Ninth Schedule], the reconciliation required as 
per item (a)  this paragraph shall disclose amounts relating to that real estate 
asset  separately  from  the  amounts  relating  to  other  real  estate  assets.    In 
addition, an real estate mutual fund scheme shall disclose: 

1. a description of the real estate asset; 
2.an  explanation  of  why  fair  value  cannot  be  determined 
reliably; 
3.if possible, the range of estimates within which fair value is 
highly likely to lie; and 
4.on disposal of investment of the real estate asset not carried 
at fair value: 

–  the  fact  that  the  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  has 
disposed of the real estate investment asset not carried 
at fair value; 

– 

– 

the carrying amount of that real estate investment asset 
at the time of sale; and 
the amount of gain or loss recognised. 

 

 

 

(viii)  Provisions  for  doubtful  deposits,  doubtful  debts  and  for  doubtful 
outstandings  and  accrued  income  shall  not  be  included  under  provisions  on  the 
liability  side  of  the  balance  sheet,  but  shall  be  shown  as  a  deduction  from  the 
aggregate value of its relevant asset. 
(ix)  Disclosure  shall  be  made  of  all  contingent  liabilities  showing  separately 
underwriting  commitments,  uncalled  liability  on  partly  paid  shares  and  other 
commitments with specifying details. 

4. Contents of Revenue Account 

(i)  The  Revenue  Account  shall  give  schemewise  particulars  of  the  income, 
expenditure  and  surplus  of  the  mutual  fund.  These  particulars  shall  contain 
information enumerated in Annexure 2 of this Schedule. 

30

investments 

in  value  of 

(ii) If  profit  on  sale  of  investments  including  real  estate  asset  shown  in  the 
Revenue Account includes profit/loss on inter-scheme transfer of investments 
including real estate asset within the same mutual fund the aggregate of such 
profit  recognised  as  realised,  shall  be  disclosed  separately  without  being 
clubbed with the profit/loss on sale of investments to third parties. 
(iii) Unprovided  depreciation 
in  securities 
representing  the  difference  between  their  aggregate  market  value  and  their 
carrying cost shall be disclosed by way of a note forming part of the Revenue 
Account.  Conversely,  unrealised  profit  on  investment  representing  the 
difference  between  their  aggregate  market  value  and  carrying  cost,  shall  be 
disclosed by way of note to accounts. However, if investments are marked to 
market, depreciation may not be provided. 
(iv)  The Revenue Account shall indicate the appropriation of surplus by way 
of transfer to reserves and dividend distributed. 
(v)(A)  The following disclosures shall also be made in the revenue account: 

(a) provision  for  aggregate  value  of  doubtful  deposits,  debts  and 

outstanding and accrued income; 

(b) profit or loss in sale and redemption of investment may be shown on a 

net basis; 

(c)  custodian and registrar fees; 
(d) total income and expenditure expressed as a percentage of average net 

assets, calculated on a weekly basis. 

(v)(B) In respect of real estate asset, the following additional disclosures 

 
shall be made: 

(a) rental income from real estate asset; 
(b) direct  operating  expense  (including  repairs  and  maintenance) 
arising from real estate asset that generated rental income during the 
period; and 

 

31

(c) direct  operating  expenses  (including  repairs  and  maintenance) 
arising from real estate asset that did not generate rental income during 
the period. 
5. Auditor’s Report 
(i)  All mutual funds shall be required to get their accounts audited in terms 
of  a  provision  to  that  effect  in  their  trust  deeds.  The  Auditor’s  Report 
shall  form  a  part  of  the  Annual  Report.  It  should  accompany  the 
Abridged Balance Sheet and Revenue Account. The auditor shall report 
to the Board of Trustees and not to the unitholders. 

(ii)  The auditor shall state whether: 

  (1) he has obtained all information and explanations which, to the best 
of  his  knowledge  and  belief,  were  necessary  for  the  purpose  of  his 
audit, 

  (2) the Balance Sheet and the Revenue Account are in agreement with 

the books of account of the fund. 

                 (iii) The auditor shall give his opinion as to whether: 

1.  the  Balance  Sheet  gives  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the  schemewise 
state of affairs of the fund as at the balance sheet date, and 
2.  the Revenue Account gives a true and fair view of the schemewise 
surplus/deficit  of  the  fund  for  the  year/period  ended  at  the  balance 
sheet date. 

 
6. Perspective historical per unit statistics 

(1) This  statement  shall  disclose  the  following  schemewise  per  unit 
statistics for the past 3 years: 

net assets value, per unit; 
gross  income  per-unit  broken  up  into  the  following 

(a) 
(b) 
components: 

 

(i)  income other than profit on sale of investment, per 
unit; 

 

32

 

 

 

(ii) income from profit on inter-scheme sales/transfer of 
investment, per unit; 
(iii)income  from  profit  on  sale  of  investment  to  third 
party, per unit; 
(iv) transfer to revenue account from past year’s reserve, 
per unit. 

appreciation/depreciation 

in 

value 

of 

net income, per unit; 
unrealised 

aggregate of expenses, write off, amortisation and charges, 

(c) 
per unit; 
(d) 
(e) 
investments, per unit; 
(f)  
if the units are traded or repurchased/resold, the highest and 
the  lowest  prices  per  unit  during  the  year  and  the  price-earning 
ratio ; 
(g) 
percentage; 
(h) 
per  unit,  ratio  of  gross  income  to  average  net  assets  by 
percentage (excluding transfer to revenue account from past year’s 
reserve but including unrealised appreciation on investments) ; 
(i) 

per  unit,  ratio  of  expenses  to  average  net  assets  by 

per unit NAV. 

ANNEXURE 1A 
[Refer para 3] 

Contents of schemewise Balance Sheet 

ASSETS SIDE OF THE BALANCE SHEET: 

  I.  The assets of the balance sheet shall be grouped into the following categories: 

 
 
 
 

-  Investments 
-  Deposits 
-  Other Current Assets 
-  Fixed Assets 

 

33

II.  INVESTMENTS: 
  (a)  The following types of investment in securities shall be separately disclosed: 

  (i)  Equity shares; 
 (ii)  Preference shares; 
(iii)  Privately placed debentures/bonds; 
 (iv)  Debentures and Bonds listed/awaiting listing on the recognised stock exchange; 
  (v)  Calls paid in advance; 
 (vi)  Term Loans; 
(vii) Central and State Government Securities (including treasury bills); 
(viii) Commercial Paper; 
(ix) Others. 

  (b) Real estate assets shall be separately classified into (1) major classes of residential 
and commercial properties and (2) sub-classified on the basis of developers, location and 
project.  Particulars  shall  include  area,  cost,  fair  value,  basis  of  fair  value,  and  legal 
disputes, etc. 

Accounting policy of valuation of investments shall be disclosed. 

III.  DEPOSITS 
 

  Distinguishing between : 
 
 
 

-  Deposits with scheduled banks; 
-  Deposits with Companies/Institutions; 
-  Others. 

 IV.  OTHER CURRENT ASSETS 
 

  Distinguishing between: 
 
 
 
 
 
 

-  Balances with banks in current account; 
-  Cash on hand; 
-  Sundry Debtors; 
-  Contracts for sale of investments in securities; 
-  Outstanding and accrued income; 
-  Advance, Deposits, etc.; 

 

34

 
 
 

-  Bridge Finance; 
-  Shares/debentures application money, pending allotment; 
-  Others. 

  V.  FIXED ASSETS 

 

-  Depreciated cost of the fixed assets as a whole or net block may be disclosed. 

ANNEXURE 1B 
[Refer para 3] 

Contents of schemewise balance sheet 

LIABILITIES SIDE OF THE BALANCE SHEET 

  I.  Liabilities side of the balance sheet be divided into the following groups : 

  (i)  Unit Capital; 
 (ii)  Reserves & Surplus; 
(iii)  Loans; 
 (iv)  Current Liabilities and Provisions. 

  II.  Unit Capital: 

 

  Distinguishing between: 

 

 

-  Initial capital; 

-  Unit capital (including number of units and face value per unit). 

 III.  Reserves & surplus 

 

  Distinguishing between: 

 

 

 

 

 

-  Unit premium reserve; (optional) 

-  General reserve; 
-  Dividend equalisation reserve; (optional) (Equalisation Account, as per 2(x) of 

the Schedule); 

-  Any other reserve (disclosing its nature); 

-  Appropriation account; 

 

35

 

-  Opening balance, transfer from/to reserve, closing balance shall be separately 

disclosed for each above type of reserve. 

 IV.  Loans 

 

  Distinguishing between: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-  Loan from Reserve Bank of India; 

-  From Settlor; 

-  From Other Commercial Banks; 

-  From others; 

-  If  the  above  loans  are  secured,  the  nature  and  extent  of  security  should  be 

disclosed; 

-  Borrowings  by  the  scheme  with  amount,  rate  of  borrowings,  rate  of  interest, 

source and other terms shown separately, source-wise. 

  V.  Current liabilities and provisions 

 

 

 

  Distinguishing between the following current liabilities and provisions 

  Current liabilities: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-  Sundry creditors; 

-  Interest payable on loans; 

-  Contract for purchase of investments in securities; 

-  Bank account overdrawn as per books; 

-  Unclaimed distributed income; 

-  Others. 

  Provisions: 

 

 

 

 

-  Provisions for loss/depreciation in value of investments in securities (separately 
with reference to each type of investment in securities) (optional, if marked to 
market); 

-  Provision for doubtful deposits; 

-  Provision for outstanding any accrued income considered doubtful; 

-  Provision for gratuity; 

36

 

 

 

-  Provision for staff welfare fund; 

-  Proposed income distributed on initial capital and unit-capital; 

-  Other provisions. 

 VI.  Contingent liabilities 

 

-  Disclosure should be made of all contingent liabilities, showing separately :— 

  (i)  Underwriting commitments; 

 (ii)  Uncalled liability on partly paid shares; 

(iii)  Other commitments; and 

 (iv)  Others (specifying details). 

ANNEXURE 2 
[Refer para 4] 

Contents of revenue account 

 

 

-  Dividend; 
   Interest; 
   Rental (lease) income 
-  Profit  on  sale/redemption  of  investments  in  securities  (other  than  inter-scheme 

transfer/sale); 
  Profit on sale of real estate assets (other than inter-scheme transfer/sale) 
-  Profit on inter-scheme transfer/sale of investments; 
-  Other income (indicating nature). 

 
 
 
Expenses and losses: 

 

 

 

 

 

-  Provision for depreciation in value of investments in securities; 

-  Provision for outstanding accrued income considered doubtful;  

-  Provision for doubtful deposits and current assets; 

-  Loss  on  sale/redemption  of  investments  in  securities  (other  than  inter-scheme 

transfer/sale); 

37

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  Loss  on  sale  of  real  estate  investment  properties  (other  than  inter-scheme 
transfer/sale); 

-  Loss on inter-scheme transfer/sale of investments; 

-  Management fees; 

-  Trusteeship fees; 

-  Staff cost including salaries, allowances, contributions to provident fund, gratuity, 

etc.; 

-  Office and administrative expenses; 

-  Registration and local charges; 

-  Commission to Agents; 

-  Publicity expenses; 

-  Audit fees;  

-  Legal & Title Search Fee; 

-  Insurance & security expenses; 

-  Advisory fee in respect of real estate investment asset; 

-  Other operating expenses; 

-  Depreciation of fixed assets; 

-  Custodian fees; 
-  Registration fees; 
-  Repairs and maintenance in case of real estate asset. 

Less: Amount recovered on sale of units on account of management expenses. 
Note:  
  (i)  Accounting  policy  in  respect  of  recognition  of  revenue  and  income  from 
investments (including dividend and interest in case of securities and rental income 
in case of real estate asset) shall be disclosed by way of a note. 

 (ii)  Unprovided  depreciation  and  unrealised  appreciation  in  value  of  investments  in 
securities representing the difference between their aggregate market value and their 
carrying cost shall be disclosed by way of note. 

 

38

(iii)  Provision for doubtful deposits, debts and outstanding accrued income need not be 

separately shown but can be aggregated. 

 (iv)  Profit on sale/redemption of investments and loss on sale/redemption of investments 

need not be shown on a gross basis but only the net profit or loss need be shown. 

  (v)  The total income and expenditure expressed as a percentage of average net assets, 

calculated on a weekly basis should be indicated. 

 (vi)  Appropriation of the surplus by way of transfer to reserves and dividends distributed 

shall be disclosed in the Abridged Revenue Account itself. 

(vii) The  Balance  Sheet  and  the  Revenue  Account  shall  be  signed  by  the  schemewise 
fund manager/s and the Board of Trustees, and reported upon by the Auditors. The 
financial statements of the scheme should be approved at a meeting of the Board of 
Directors of the Asset Management Company and also at a meeting of the trustees or 
in the case of a trustee company by the Board of Directors of the trustee company.” 

 
C. B. BHAVE 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
[ADVT III/IV/69-ZB/2008/Exty.] 

Footnotes: 

(1)   The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, 
the Principal Regulations were published in the Gazette of India on December 9, 
1996 vide S.O. No. 856(E). 

(2)   The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

were subsequently amended –  

(a) on  April  15,  1997  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual 

Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997 vide S.O. No.327(E). 

(b) on January 12, 1998 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Mutual 

Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998 vide S.O. No.32(E). 

(c) on December 08, 1999 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 

Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999 vide S.O. No.1223(E). 

 

39

(d) on March 14, 2000 by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Mutual 

Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2000 vide S.O. No.235 (E). 

(e) on March 28, 2000 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Appeal to 
the Securities Appellate Tribunal) (Amendment) Regulations, 2000 vide S.O. 
No.278(E). 

(f)  on  May  22,  2000  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual 

Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2000 vide S.O. No.484 (E). 

(g) on January 23, 2001 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 

Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2001 vide S.O. No.69 (E). 

(h) on May 29, 2001 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment 
Advice  by  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2001  vide  S.O. 
No.476(E). 

(i)  on  July  23,  2001  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual 

Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2001 vide S.O. No.698(E). 

(j)  on February 20, 2002 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 

Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 vide S.O. No.219 (E). 

(k) on  June  11,  2002  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual 

Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002 vide S.O. No.625 (E). 

(l)  on  July  30,  2002  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual 

Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2002 vide S.O. No.809(E). 

(m) on September 9, 2002 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 

Funds) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2002 vide S.O. No.956(E). 

(n) on  September  27,  2002  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) 
Regulations, 2002 vide S.O. No.1045(E). 

(o) on  May  29,  2003  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual 

Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003 vide S.O.No. 632(E). 

(p) on January 12, 2004 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 
Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004 vide F.No. SEBI/LAD/DOP/4/2004. 
(q) on March 10, 2004 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Criteria 

for Fit and Proper Person) Regulations, 2004 vide S.O. No. 398(E). 

 

40

(r)  on January 12, 2006 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 

Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006 vide S.O.No. 38(E). 

(s)  on  May  22,  2006  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual 

Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006 vide S.O.No. 783(E). 

(t)  on  August  3,  2006  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual 

Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2006 vide S.O.No. 1254(E). 

(u) on December 27, 2006 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 
vide  F.  No. 

(Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations, 

2006 

Funds) 
SEBI/LAD/DOP/82534/2006. 

(v) on December 27, 2006 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 
F.  No. 

(Fifth  Amendment)  Regulations, 

2006 

Funds) 
SEBI/LAD/DOP/83065/2006. 

vide 

(w) on  May  28,  2007  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual 

Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2007 vide F. No. 11/LC/GN/2007/2518. 

(x) on October 31, 2007 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 
vide  F.  No. 

(Second  Amendment)  Regulations, 

2007 

Funds) 
11/LC/GN/2007/4646. 

(y) On March 31, 2008 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment 
of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 vide F. No. 11/LC/GN/2008/21669. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

41

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

42

