 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 17, 2011 

CIR/IMD/FIIC/1/2011   
 
 
To 
All Foreign Institutional Investors  
through their designated Custodians of Securities 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:- Reporting of Offshore Derivative Instruments(ODIs)/ Participatory Notes(PNs) activity 
 
1.   Please  refer  to  SEBI  Circular  No.  IMD/CUST/8/2003  dated  August  8,  2003  read  with  Circular  No. 
IMD/CUST/9/2003 dated November 20, 2003 read with Circular No. IMD/CUST/15/2004 dated April 
02,  2004,  advising  FIIs  issuing  Offshore  Derivative  Instruments  (ODIs)/  Participatory  Notes  (PNs) 
against  underlying  Indian  securities  about  the  reporting  format  for  reporting  issuance  /  renewal  / 
cancellation / redemption of the aforesaid instruments.  

2.  On a review, it has been decided to revise the reporting formats.  

Revised reporting formats:- 

3.  The FIIs issuing ODIs/PNs shall be now be required to provide information about their ODI/PN activity 

and their underlying trade(s) activity in India in the following manner: - 

a.  Following reports to be submitted by 10th of every month with a six month’s lag (e.g. report 
providing details of ODI/PN activity for the month of April shall be submitted in the month of 
October):-  
o  Annexure A - Details of ODI/PN activity. 
o  Annexure B_Equity - Details of underlying trade(s) in the Indian market where the type of 

underlying Indian security is Equity.     

o  Annexure B_Debt - Details of underlying trade(s) in the Indian market where the type of 

underlying Indian security is Debt.     

o  Annexure B_Derivative - Details of underlying trade(s) in the Indian market where the type 

of underlying Indian security is Derivative.     

o  Annexure C_Equity - Details of assets under management in Indian market where the type 

of underlying Indian security is Equity.     

o  Annexure C_Debt - Details of assets under management in Indian market where the type of 

underlying Indian security is Debt.     

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

o  Annexure C_Derivative - Details of assets under management in Indian market where the 

type of underlying Indian security is Derivative.     

b.  Monthly Summary Report –  

i.  This report shall capture the summary of the India ISIN-wise PN/ODI activity for the 

preceding month. 

ii.  The  report  shall  be  provided  in  the  prescribed  format  as  enclosed  and  submitted  to 
SEBI by 7th of every month providing summary of its ODI/PN activity for the previous 
month.  

Revised undertaking:- 

4.  The reports shall now be submitted with the following revised undertaking:- 

“We  undertake  that  the  beneficial  owner  and  the  person(s)  to  whom  the  Offshore  Derivative 
Instrument  is  issued  in  compliance  with  Regulation  15A  of  SEBI  (FII)  Regulations.  We  also 
undertake  that  the  KYC  compliance  norms  have  been  followed  for  the  beneficial  owner  of  the 
Offshore Derivative Instrument” 

Reporting of FII to FII ODI/PN activity:- 

5.  In case an ODI/PN issuer (A) issues an ODI/PN to another FII (B) that further issues the ODI/PN, then 
the ODI/PN reporting for (A) would be limited to naming (B) as the subscriber, on the basis that (B) in 
its FII capacity is providing a  monthly ODI/PN report to SEBI. The reporting from (B)  would meet 
SEBI’s requirements and avoid duplication of reporting. 

6.  As  per  Circular  No  IMD/CUST/9/2003  dated  November  20,  2003,  FIIs  who  do  not  have  any 
outstanding offshore derivatives are required to submit a statement of ‘Nil’ report once every quarter 
along  with  the  stipulated  undertaking.  Considering  point  no.5  mentioned  above,  the  FIIs  shall  now 
commence reporting to SEBI in the format prescribed herein above, for the month they start issuing 
ODIs/PNs. Hence, quarterly ‘Nil’ reporting is being done away with.  
Threshold for reporting of non-proprietary indices and custom baskets:- 

7.  It is to be clarified that the threshold for non-proprietary indices (eg MSCI World or MSCI EM Asia) 
shall  be  taken  as  20%,  i.e.  those  trades  need  not  be  reported  in  which  the  materiality  of  Indian 
underlyers is less than 20% of the index, even if such exposure was hedged onshore. However, custom 
baskets would always be reportable if hedged onshore regardless of percentage of the Indian component 
that is hedged onshore. 
Manner of submission:- 

8.  The above-mentioned reports shall be submitted in a password secured excel format. The e-mail should 
be  sent  only  by  the  compliance  officer  of  the  respective  FII  to  the  dedicated  e-mail  ID  – 
odireporting@sebi.gov.in  with the subject line “ODI/PN Report of [FII Name and Registration No.] 
for the month of […]”. Please note that the password should be sent in a subsequent e-mail.  
Effective Dates:- 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 
9.  The first such monthly summary report shall be submitted for the month of April, 2011 before 7th May, 
2011. The first such Annexure A, B & C shall be submitted before 10th October, 2011 for the month of 
April, 2011.  

10. This information in the format specified herein is being called for under Regulation 20 and 20A of the 

SEBI (Foreign Institutional Investors) Regulations, 1995. 

11. This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 
1956  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 
regulate the securities market. 

 
A copy of this circular is available at the web page “F.I.I.” on our website www.sebi.gov.in. The custodians 
are requested to bring the contents of this circular to the notice of their FII clients. 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 

 
Jeevan Sonparote 
General Manager 
+91-22-26449110 
jeevans@sebi.gov.in 

 
 
 
Enclosed: ODI Reporting Format 

 

 

Page 3 of 3 

 

