 
 
DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
MARKET INTERMEDIARIES REGULATION AND SUPERVISION DEPARTMENT 

 
 

SEBI/MIRSD/CRA/Cir-01/2010               

January 06, 2010 

 
All Credit Rating Agencies Registered with SEBI 
 
Dear Sirs,   
 
Sub: Internal Audit for Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) 
 
It has been decided in consultation with the credit rating agencies (CRAs) that 
the  audit  envisaged  under  Regulation  22  of 
the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating 
Regulations),  1999  shall  include  an  internal  audit  to  be  undertaken  in  the 
following manner:   

 
a.  It shall be conducted on a half yearly basis. 
 
b.  It shall be conducted by Chartered Accountants, Company Secretaries or 
Cost and Management Accountants who are in practice and who do not 
have any conflict of interest with the CRA.  

 

  

 

 

 

c.  It  shall  cover  all  aspects  of  CRA  operations  and  procedures,  including 
investor  grievance 
the 
requirements  stipulated  in  the  SEBI  Act,  Rules  and  Regulations  made 
thereunder, and guidelines issued by SEBI from time to time.  

redressal  mechanism,  compliance  with 

d.  The report shall state the methodology adopted, deficiencies observed, 

and consideration of response of the management on the deficiencies.  

e.  The  report  shall  include  a  summary  of  operations  and  of  the  audit, 
covering the size of operations, number of transactions audited and the 
number  of  instances  where  violations  /  deviations  were  observed  while 
making observations on the compliance of any regulatory requirement.  

f.  The report shall comment on the adequacy of systems adopted by the 
CRA for compliance with the requirements of regulations and guidelines 
issued by SEBI and investor grievance redressal.    

2.  The time schedule for the internal audit shall be as under: 
 

a.  The  CRA  shall  receive  the  report  of  the  internal  audit  within  two 

months from the end of the half-year.  

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
b.  The Board of Directors of the CRA shall consider the report and take 
steps  to  rectify  the  deficiencies,  if  any,  and  the  CRA  shall  send  an 
Action Taken Report to SEBI within next two months.   

3.  It is clarified that for the half-year October 2009 - March 2010, the CRA 
shall receive the report of the internal audit by May 31, 2010. Its Board of 
Directors  shall  consider  the  report  and  take  appropriate  measures  to 
rectify the deficiencies and the CRA shall send the Action Taken Report 
to SEBI by July 31, 2010. 

4.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11 
(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with the 
provisions  of  Regulations  19(1),  20  and  22  of  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating 
Agencies)  Regulations,  1999  to  protect  the  interest  of  investors  in 
securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market.   

 

 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
PRASANTA MAHAPATRA 

