 

 

 
 
Chief General Manager
Market Intermediaries Regulation 
&  Supervision Department                                                                             
 
 

MIRSD/MSS/Cir- 30/ 13289/03
July 09, 2003

To
The Executive Director/Managing Director
All Stock Exchanges
 
Dear Sir / Madam,
 
Subject:  Change  in  Status  and  Constitution  of  the  Stock  Brokers  in  Cash  and 
Derivatives Segments of the Exchanges under Rule 4 (c) of the SEBI (Stock Brokers 
and Sub-Brokers) Rules, 1992
 
Rule 4 of the SEBI (Stock-brokers and Sub-brokers) Rules, 1992 prescribes the conditions 
for  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  to  a  stock-broker.  Rule  4  (c)  of  the  said  Rules 
prescribes  that in  case of  any  change in  the status  and  constitution,  the stock-broker shall 
obtain prior approval of the SEBI to continue to buy, sell or deal in securities in any stock 
exchange. In the absence of any general advice to stock exchanges about the circumstances 
requiring  prior  approval,  it  is  observed  that  different  exchanges  follow  different  practices. 
For a particular type of change, some exchanges seek approval while some others do not. In 
order to clarify the circumstances which require prior approval and streamline the process of 
such approvals, this circular is being issued.
 
2. The following table enumerates the circumstances which would mean change in status and 
constitution under rule 4 (c) of the SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Rules, 1992 and 
hence would require prior approval of the SEBI:
 

Sl. No.

A

B

C

in  Status 

Type  of  Change 
Constitution
Change  in  designated  /  whole  time 
directors 
Change in ‘Control’
‘Control’ would  have  same  meaning  as 
defined 
(Substantial 
Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 
Regulations, 1997.
Conversion  from  one  form  to  another 
(Proprietorship, 
and 
corporate)

partnership 

in 

the  SEBI 

and 

Remarks

The fees need to be paid as per the prevailing policy. 

Full fees along with interest, if any, as on the date of 
application  for  approval  needs  to  be  paid.  These 
prior approvals would have a validity of six months 
from  the  date  of  issue,  i.e.  applications  for  fresh 
registration,  wherever  required,  shall  be  made  to 
SEBI within six months. 

D

E

F
 

Transfer by way of sale, nomination, or 
otherwise
Consolidation / merger / amalgamation 
of brokers
Surrender of Certificate of registration 

exchange.  The 

Full fees, along with interest, if any, as on the date of 
acceptance  of  surrender  by  the  Exchange  needs  to 
be  paid.  If  application  for  surrender  is  accepted  by 
SEBI, registration would be cancelled by SEBI with 
effect  from  the  date  of  acceptance  of  surrender  by 
the 
cancel 
registration with effect from the same date but after 
receipt  of  advice  from  SEBI  that  the  surrender  has 
been  accepted  by  SEBI.  Until  SEBI  cancels  the 
registration  and  issues  No  Dues  Certificate,  the 
security deposit of the broker shall not be released to 
the broker by the exchange.

exchange  would 

 
 
3. In all the above cases (Para 2), the exchange must approve the application of the broker 
and forward the same, within a week of its approval, to SEBI for prior approval along with a 
confirmation (if otherwise, the details of the same) on the following: 
a)      the broker is not connected with any of the defaulting brokers of any exchange,
b)      no complaint / arbitration /disciplinary proceeding is pending against the broker, 
c)      no investigation / inquiry by any exchange is pending against the broker, 
d)      as on date of application, the broker, as a broker of the concerned exchange, has paid 

fees, as applicable, to SEBI,

e)      the turnover details necessary to assess the fee liability of the broker have been provided 

to SEBI in the prescribed manner, 

f)        in  case  of  approvals  at  Sl.  C,  D,  and  E,  the  outgoing  broker  has  submitted  an 
undertaking  to  the  exchange  that  it  /  he  would  be  liable  for  the  fees  that  may  accrue 
from the date of application for prior approval till the date of change in status, 

g)       in  case  of  approvals  at  Sl.  C,  D,  E  and  F,  the  outgoing  broker  has  submitted  an 
undertaking  to  the  exchange  that  it  /  he  would  be  liable  for  all  liabilities/obligations 
(including monetary penalties, if any) for violations, if any, of the provisions of the SEBI 
Act  and  the  SEBI  (Stock-brokers  and  Sub-brokers)  Rules  and  Regulations,  1992  that 
have taken place before this change in status and constitution,

h)       in  case  of  approvals  at  Sl.  C,  D,  E  and  F,  the  outgoing  broker  has  submitted  an 
undertaking to the exchange that it / he has no sub-brokers on the concerned exchange 
and he / it is not a sub-broker of the subsidiary of the concerned exchange, 

i)         the  incoming  designated  /  whole  time  director  is  eligible  to  be  appointed  as  director 

under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, and

j)        in case of approval at Sl. No. F, the surrendering broker has been disabled from trading 
and the application for surrender is accompanied by the original certificate of registration 
(or indemnity) for cancellation. 

 
4. The exchanges shall obtain fee clearance from SEBI before taking on record / approving 
the following changes:

a. Change in shareholding pattern without change in control, 
b.
c. Change in directors other than designated / whole time directors

Issue and redemption of preference shares, issue of bonus shares,  and

 

5. In order to enable SEBI to determine fee liability of the broker, the exchange shall provide 
turnover details of the broker in the prescribed manner along with the application for prior 
approval or fee clearance. 
 
6.  Change  in  name  would  not  amount  to  change  in  status  and  constitution  and  hence  no 
approval  is  required  for  the  same.  However,  change  in  name  must  be  intimated  to  SEBI 
within a week of the change in name along with the original certificate for record.  
 
7. This circular  supercedes  SEBI  circulars /  letters  (i) SMD/BAD-II/9657/98  dated  April 
06, 1998 regarding prior approval for sale of membership, (ii) SMD/DBA-II/AK/10162/02 
dated  June  06,  2002  regarding  Applications  for  registration  /  requisite  approvals  and  (iii) 
SMD/NDC/ MSS/3998/2003 dated March 11, 2003 regarding Cancellation of Certificate of 
Registration and Issue of No Due Certificate.
 
Yours faithfully,
 
 
(M. S. Sahoo)

 
 

 
 
 

 

