 

 
Executive Director

Secondary Market Department-II

To,

The Executive Directors/Presidents/Managing Directors 

of all the Stock Exchanges

 

Sir,

SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-04/2000

January 20, 2000

Guidelines for market makers

With  a view  to  study the  concept of  “Market Making” and to draft  operational procedures for  market 
making,  eligibility  criteria  for  Market  Makers,  risk  containment  measures,  etc,  SEBI  constituted  a 
Committee  on  March  24,  1998  under  the  chairmanship  of  Shri  G  P  Gupta,  then  Chairman,  UTI  and 
current  Chairman  and  Managing  Director  of  IDBI.   The  Committee  submitted  its  report  to  SEBI  on 
August 31, 1999 vide letter No. SMDRP/Policy-MM/19336/99.  A copy of the report was sent to you on 
October  07,  1999.    The  guidelines  for  the  market  makers  based  on  the  recommendations  of  the 
Committee are enclosed.

 

The market maker would operate under the regulatory framework as envisaged and laid out herewith in 
these guidelines .The Exchanges have been accorded flexibility to make modifications to their schemes 
to make it more attractive to the Market Makers to take up commitments under the schemes, however, 
the terms of selection of scrips, the capital adequacy norms and the risk containment measures such as 
the price bands and margins would not be altered from those stipulated in these guidelines.

 

The exchanges shall explore the possibility of their clearing banks opening special cells in the bank for 
providing funds to the market makers and creating a corresponding lien on the shares held/traded by the 
market makers.

 

The  list  of  the  scrips  eligible  for  market  making  on  the  exchange  should  be  forwarded  to  SEBI  for 
information  and  any  subsequent  changes  in  the  scrips  should  be  incorporated  in  the  Monthly 
Development Reports of the exchanges.

 

Yours faithfully,

 

 

 

M. D. PATEL

 

 

 

Encl:  as above

 

 

Guidelines for Market Makers

Over the past several years the securities market has witnessed a sea change. The market has 
become  more  modern  in  terms  of  infrastructure,  adoption  of  best  international  practices  and 
introduction  of  competition.  With  the  maturity  of  the  regulatory  framework  and  increased 
market  surveillance,  the  market  has  also  become  safer  and  investor  is  better  protected.  The 
extensive  reforms  introduced  by  SEBI  over  the  last  few  years  have  enhanced  the  integrity, 
transparency  and  efficiency  of  the  operations  of  the  securities  market.  The  introduction  of 
electronic trading and “order matching” system in all the stock exchanges, have led to reduction 
in  transaction  costs,  speedier  execution  of  trades  and  gains  in  liquidity.  The,  spreads  have 
dropped by a factor of 10 and volumes have risen a hundred fold in respect of many shares.  
Increase  in  trading  volume  on  the  exchanges,  however,  has  not  been  reflected  always  in  the 
liquidity  of  all  the  listed  shares.  There  are  a  large  number  of  shares  that  are  not  actively  or 
frequently traded although many of them have some fundamental strength and intrinsic value. 
The introduction of market making facility for such shares could be a possible means to infuse 
liquidity in such shares.

 

In the year 1993 guidelines for the Market Makers were issued vide our circular 
no.SMD/SED/93/11362 dated August 05, 1993.  However, the scheme did not elicit adequate 
response. With a view to study the concept of “Market Making” and to draft operational 
procedures for market making, eligibility criteria for Market Makers, risk containment 
measures, etc, SEBI constituted a Committee on March 24, 1998 under the chairmanship of 
Shri G P Gupta, then Chairman, UTI and current Chairman and Managing Director of IDBI.  
The Committee submitted its report to SEBI in August 31, 1999.

 

The  Market  Maker  would  operate  under  the  regulatory  framework  as  envisaged  and  laid  out 
herewith in these guidelines. The Exchange would act as a SRO for the purposes of monitoring 
and effective operations of the Market Makers.  The Exchanges have been accorded flexibility 
to make modifications to the scheme to make it more attractive to the Market Maker to take up 
commitments under this scheme, however, the terms of selection of scrips, the capital adequacy 
norms and  the  risk  containment  measures  such as  the  price  bands  and  margins  would not  be 
altered from those stipulated in these guidelines. 

 

Criterion for selection of scrips for Market Making

The stock exchanges shall formulate its own benchmarks for selecting the scrips for market 
making, however, the shares satisfying any of the following criteria would not be eligible for 
market making :-

        Shares included in the BSE Sensex of the Stock Exchange, Mumbai and the 

S&P CNX Nifty of the NSE;

        Share where the average number of trades is more than 50;

        Shares where the value of   trades   on   a  daily  basis  is  more than 

Rs.10,00,000/-;

        Shares where the company is not in operation and the networth erosion is 

beyond 50%

The list of scrips eligible for market making shall be reviewed by the exchanges so as to shift 
the scrips from one category to the other, after an observation period of two-three months to 
ensure permanence in the trend. 

 

The market making would be on a voluntary basis for these shares. But,  if Market Maker is not 
available for such shares, the share will continue to be traded under the existing system. 

 

Exclusivity of Market Makers  

If a share is eligible for market making and  Market Makers are available, then,  the share 
would trade only under a quote driven system and all orders must flow through Market Makers. 

 

Number of Market Makers for each share 

There would not be more than five Market Makers in any of the eligible shares on an exchange 
who will be selected on the basis of objective criteria to be evolved by the Exchange which 
would include capital adequacy, networth, infrastructure, minimum volume of business etc.

 

Qualifications for a registered Market Maker

Any member of the Exchange would be eligible to act as Market Maker provided he meets the 
criteria laid down by the exchange. The member brokers desirous of acting as Market Maker in 
the eligible scrips shall apply to the concerned stock exchange for registration as Market 
Makers. 

 

The obligations and responsibilities of Market Makers

The Market Maker shall fulfil the following conditions to provide depth and continuity in 
trading the shares : 

(a)   The Market Maker shall be required to provide a 2-way quote on a continuous basis;

(b)   The minimum depth of the quote shall be Rs.5,000/- or one market lot whichever is 
higher;(in case of demat shares, for which there is no market lot, the same market lot as 
existed in the physical segment would be applicable for this purpose.)

(c)    The quote shall be provided in such a way that the quotes are not absent from the 
screen for more than 30 minutes at a time;

(d)   Execution of the order on a continuous basis at the quoted price and quantity must 
be guaranteed by the Market Maker;

(e)  the Market Maker must give commitment to buy and sell shares upto a certain 
quantity in which they make markets;

(f)     The Market Maker will be eligible to change quotes even if no transaction has been 
executed at the displayed quote.  In any case the obligation of the Market Maker will 
end at 1% less than the circuit filter limits;

(g)   The Market Maker may compete with other Market Makers for better quotes to the 
investors;

(h) Once registered as a Market Maker, he has to start providing quotes within 5 trading 
days of registration and shall be subject to the guidelines laid down for market making 
by the exchange. 

(i)   Once registered as a Market Maker, he has to mandatorily act in that capacity for a 
minimum period of three months.

 

Rights of the Market Maker

The Market Maker has the right to information about the share, in which he is making the 
market including the availability of trading and financial information, performance of the 
company in the last three years, etc. on a continuous basis. 

 

Voluntary De-registration

The Market Makers may be allowed to de-register voluntarily from a particular share(s) 
provided it has fulfilled its obligations for a minimum period of three months and a one-month 
notice is given to the exchange. 

 

 

Compulsory De-registration

If a Market Maker fails to fulfil his obligations as a Market Maker for more than three 
consecutive trading days, he will automatically stand de-registered from that share and may not 
be permitted to act as a Market Maker for any other security for a minimum period of three 
months

 

Dissemination of Information 

a)     The exchange should disseminate  a list of Market Makres in a share to the public

b)    Exchange should disseminate the price and volume of turnover in shares eligible for market 

making. 

 

Number of Shares per Market Maker 

The number of companies in whose shares a Market Maker would make market should be 
linked to his capital adequacy.  

 

Risk Containment Measures and monitoring for Market Makers

Margins

All applicable margins should be levied and collected without any waiver/exemption. 

 

Capital Adequacy 

The exchanges would prescribe the capital adequacy requirement for its members 
commensurate with a number of companies in which Market Maker proposes to make market, 
the type of shares, and keeping in mind that the Market Maker works against the market and 
thus bear the brunt of the adverse trend.  The monitoring of this requirement would be done by 
the exchange and any violation of this requirement would be liable for punitive action to be 
taken by the Disciplinary Action Committee (DAC) of the Exchange, which may also include 
monitory penalty apart from the trade restriction as decided by the DAC.     An exchange may 
lay down additional criteria also for Market Makers as risk containment measures.  

 

Price Band and Spreads 

There would be no change to the circuit filters or price bands, which are imposed by SEBI from 

time to time for the shares in which market making is available.  The spreads between the bid 
and ask price would be as follows:-

For shares priced 

Upto Rs 10                            -           no limit on spreads

>Rs. 10 and upto Rs 20      -           10% maximum spread

>Rs. 20/- and upto Rs.50/- -           5% maximum spread

>Rs.50/- and upto Rs. 100/-           4% maximum spread

>Rs. 100/-                              -           3% maximum spread

 

 

 

