 

 

  

  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

SECONDARY MARKET DEPARTMENT

Mittal Court, A Wing, Gr. Floor,

224, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021

SMDRP/POLICY/CIR- 35/2000 
August 04, 2000

To
The President/Executive Directors/Managing Directors
All the Stock Exchanges

Dear Sir/Madam, 

As per the present SEBI guidelines, allotment in public issues is required to be made within 30 
days from the date of closure of issue. However, it has come to SEBI's notice that although the 
issuers complete the allotment process within 30 days, the actual listing and trading 
permissions take a longer time resulting in delay in commencement of trading. It is observed 
that the need to obtain listing and dealing permission separately at two stages after the 
allotment from each of the exchanges where the securities are proposed to be listed is one of the 
major reasons for delays in the listing and commencement of trading. 

Therefore, with a view to rationalise the procedures and to ensure commencement of trading of 
securities expeditiously, it has been decided to modify the listing procedure as under : 

(a) Issuer shall continue to file the draft offer document simultaneously with the 
stock exchanges where the securities are proposed to be listed, while filing with 
SEBI. 

(b) The stock exchanges shall be obliged to accept or decline the request for in-
principle approval for listing within 15 days of submission of the draft offer 
document. The lead manager shall furnish to SEBI the in-principle approval from 
the stock exchanges within the said 15 days. If the in-principle approval of all the 
stock exchanges stated in the draft offer document is not submitted within the said 
period, the lead manager shall not proceed with the issue and the file shall be 
closed. 

(c) The details of in-principle approval for listing shall be disclosed in the offer 
document. 

(d) The despatch of share certificates / refund orders / cancelled stock invests and 
demat credit shall be completed and the allotment and listing documents submitted 
to the stock exchanges within 2 working days of finalisation of the basis of 
allotment. 

Regional stock exchange shall give its final approval for listing and trading within 
3 working days thereafter. It shall be obligatory for other stock exchanges to give 
automatic approval for listing and trading once the regional stock exchange gives 
its consent. The lead manager shall ensure that the issuer completes the formalities 
for listing and commencement of trading at all the stock exchanges where the 
securities are to be listed within 7 working days of finalisation of basis of 
allotment.

The Stock exchanges are advised to ensure and facilitate the above. 

The provisions of this circular shall be applicable to issues for which draft offer documents 
have been filed with SEBI on or after June 15, 2000. 
  
  

Yours faithfully, 
  
  
  

P. K. BINDLISH
Division Chief
Secondary Market, Depository
Research & Publications Dept.
E-mail : pkb@sebi.gov.in
Ph. 2843631 Fax-2845761

 

