 

 
DIVISION CHIEF

MUTUAL FUNDS DEPARTMENT

All Mutual Funds Registered with SEBI 

Unit Trust of India. 
  
  
  
  

Dear Sirs, 

MFD/CIR/4/51/2000 

June 5, 2000

We are enclosing herewith guidelines for advertisements by mutual funds. The guidelines based 
on recommendations made by Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) and further 
detailed discussion held with them shall also be applicable in case of sales literature and 
communications of mutual funds. 

The guidelines shall be supplementary to the advertisement code as prescribed in SEBI 
Regulations. The guidelines are being issued in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 
77 of the SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 and must be followed strictly by all mutual 
funds. 

Please acknowledge receipt. 
  

Yours faithfully, 
  
  
  

P. K. NAGPAL
  
  
  

Encl : as above 

GUIDELINES FOR ADVERTISEMENTS BY MUTUAL FUNDS

The following guidelines are being issued as a supplement to the existing Advertisement Code 
(Schedule VI) prescribed under SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations1996 and shall be followed 
wherever applicable. 

SECTION I – APPLICABILITY

1. The guidelines mentioned hereunder shall apply to all forms of advertisements, 

communications, sales literature, howsoever released. These guidelines will also apply to 
T.V. interviews, public speaking, presentations in seminars and workshops, whichever 

the forum is used by the mutual funds concerned, so long as such fora are used to market 
their schemes or convey the performance of their schemes. 

Advertisement: Any material published or 
designed to be published on which a mutual 
fund has no control over the audience and 
which is broadly distributed. The purpose of 
such communication shall be either to sell 
mutual fund units or to convey the 
performance of their funds or to influence the 
opinion or behaviour of those who receive 
such communication. All material contained 
in such advertisements must be verified or 
substantiated in the offer document of the 
fund. 

Sales Literature : Any written communication 
offering to sell or induce the sale of units of a 
fund, distributed or otherwise made available 
to the customers or to the unitholders. The 
purpose of such communication shall be 
either to sell mutual fund units or to convey 
the performance of their funds or to influence 
the opinion or behaviour of those who receive 
such communication. 

Communication: Includes all advertisements 
through any media sales literature /public 
speaking / presentation at seminars / free 
writing and websites.

Misleading 
Advertisement/ 
sales literature: 
                                                                          An advertisement/sales literature is misleading if 
it: 

 Contains an untrue statement 
 Omits a material fact – material to an 

investor’s decision to buy/hold/sell units 

 Does not contain appropriate 

explanation/limitations to make the 
statements such advertisements clear 

 It portrays part incomes, returns, growth in 

NAV unless such returns/growth are 
computed as per these guidelines 

 It contains any forecasts of growth in NAVs 
or promise any return that is not backed by 
adequate reserve funds or sponsors’ or third 
party guarantees 

 It contains unwarranted/unexplained 

comparisons 

 Contains claims about management 

capability unless such capability is supported 
by a track record of over 3 years. 

1. The guidelines will not apply to communications that carry general messages or public 

speaking that is a general discourse on mutual funds with no references to a fund scheme 
or its performance. 

2.

Issue of advertisements or distribution of sales literature must be accompanied or 
preceded by issue of an offer document. Provided however, a tombstone advertisement 
adhering to the guidelines provided herein, may be issued at any point of time and need 
not be accompanied or preceded by issue of an offer document. 

  

SECTION II - STANDARDS OF COMMUNICATIONS

 

The following standards for all communications with public shall be followed by the mutual 
funds: 

a. Communications shall be based upon fair dealings and good faith. 
b. Do not omit any material fact, if such omission will cause the communication to be 

c.

misread and misunderstood. 
Investments in mutual funds are prone to risks to fluctuation in NAVs, uncertainty of 
dividend distributions, etc. Bring these to the notice of unitholders/public in all 
communications. 

d. When engaged in public speaking, seminars, TV/Radio shows, interview to the press etc., 

the mutual funds and their employees should observe the guidelines as stated herein, 
even though some of such forms of communications may not amount to advertisement 
and/or distribution of sales literature. 

e. Refrain from using exaggerated or unwarranted claims, superlatives and opinions, which 
cannot be substantiated by the available public data. Avoid future forecasts and estimates 
of growth. 

f. Do not treat disclosure of risks as required by Regulations as hedge in communications 

with investors/customers. 

g. Statistical information, charts, graphs, etc., when used should be supported by their 

source, if any. 

h. Refrain from making comparisons unless essential to the form and content of the 

advertisement. If used, such comparisons must be clear and unambiguous. 

  
  

SECTION III - FORMS OF ADVERTISEMENTS

Advertisements are classified into the following categories with restrictions placed on each of 
such types. 

1. Tombstone advertisement :

As the name suggests this form of advertisement can only give basic information about a fund 
which is already launched and is in existence and whose offer document is available. The 
information that may be included in such advertisement are: 

General Information :

 Name of the mutual fund/scheme and the Assets Management 

Company; 

 Scheme classification (i.e. income/growth etc.,) indicating basic 
objectives of the scheme i.e. capital appreciation and/or regular 
income or assured returns with or without assurances for capital, or 
balanced with income and capital appreciation: 

 Logo or trademark, if any 
 General services offered i.e. daily NAVs, daily fund sales and 

redemptions etc., 

 Invitation to inquire for further information i.e. contact details for fund 

literature, etc., 

 Entry and exit loads, if applicable. 

Information that is prohibited in this form of advertisement :

 NAV and performance of the fund. 
 Promise of any returns except in the case of assured returns schemes. 
 Comparisons and usage of ranking given by a third party. 
 Product launches. 

Risk factors may not be mentioned in such form of advertisement. However, a general 
statement to refer to the offer document for details is necessary. Tombstone advertisement 
could be through any media and would cover hoardings, bus panels, kiosks etc. 

2. Product Launch Advertisement

As the name suggests this form of advertisement shall be used only for launch and re-launch of 
funds/schemes and as such must state all that is required by the Advertisement Code and these 
guidelines. Specifically these advertisements must contain the following minimum information: 

 Name of the Fund, the Asset Management Company. 
 Scheme classification (i.e. income/growth etc.,). 
 Investment objective, asset allocation or highlights thereof. 
 Terms of issue and mode of sale and redemption of units. 
 Investor benefits, general services offered. 
 In case of assured return schemes the resources that back such assurances must be 

stated. 

 Logo, corporate symbol, if any. 
 Risk factors as stated in the offer document with a font equivalent to that of the 

text of the highlights. 

 Entry and exit loads applicable. 

Any other information as may be required by the Code or voluntarily disclosed by the mutual 
fund so long as such information is not specifically prohibited by these guidelines as stated 
herein. 

Information prohibited in this form of advertisement:

 NAVs and performance figures of any of the previous schemes unless such 

performance statements conform to these guidelines. 

 Comparisons with any other funds/schemes. 
 Ranking by any ranking agencies. 

Issue of product launch advertisements must be accompanied or preceded by issue of offer 
document. All that is stated in product launch advertisements should be substantiated with the 
offer document. 

These advertisements must also state from whom a copy or prospectus and abridged offer 
document along with an application form may be obtained and that an investor should read the 
offer document before investing in the scheme. 

2. Performance Advertisement :

If any mutual fund uses performance figures in any of its advertisements or sales 
literature or release/issue exclusive performance advertisements, such performance 

advertising must adhere to the following guidelines: 

1. Such advertisement/statements must identify the nature of the scheme and its basic 

investment objective. 

2. The dividends declared or paid shall also be mentioned in rupees per unit 

alongwith the face value of each unit of that scheme and the prevailing NAV at the 
time of declaration of the dividend. 

3. Only compounded annualised yield can be advertised if the scheme has been in 

existence for more than 1 year. For the calculation of compounded annualised yield 
the procedure prescribed in the Standard Offer Document shall be followed. All 
performance calculations shall be based only on NAV and the payouts to the 
unitholders. The calculation of returns shall assume that all payouts during the 
period have been reinvested in the units of the scheme at the then prevailing NAV 
and it should be clarified in the advertisements. The type of plan/option of the 
scheme for which yield is advertised shall also be mentioned. 

4. The aforesaid measurements (annualised yields) when used must be shown for last 
1 year, 3 years, 5 years and since launch of the scheme. For funds in existence for 
less than one year, performance may be advertised in terms of total returns and 
such return should not be annualised. However, in case of money market 
schemes/cash and liquid plans, performance can be advertised by simple 
annualisation of yields if a performance figure is available for atleast 30 days 
provided it does not give any unrealistic or misleading picture of the 
performance/future performance of the scheme. 

5. All advertisements displaying returns/yields must disclose in the main body of the 
advertisement, immediately after the returns/yields and in the same font, that past 
performance may or may not be sustained in future. If the returns/yield are 
unrealistically higher due to extraordinary circumstances (e.g. rise/fall in interest 
rates) may be clarified in the advertisement. 

6. All performance data contained in the advertisement must be of most recent 

practicable date depending upon the type of advertisement. These figures must be 
current to the most recent calendar quarter ended prior to the release of the 
advertisement. 

7. Where performance is compared against benchmarks, use appropriate benchmarks 

and identical time periods. Some of the benchmarks are illustrated below: 

 If the scheme has stated a benchmark in the offer document, then such benchmark 

or; 

 Growth funds having a minimum of 60% of their investments in equities should 
always be compared against BSE Sensex, NSE Fifty, or BSE 100 or CRISIL 500 
or similar standard indices. Once chosen, a benchmark cannot be changed unless 
the funds portfolio has undergone a major shift in asset allocation and the change 
has been approved by the trustees. 

 Income funds with 60% or more of investments in debt instruments should be 

compared with a suitable index that is a surrogate for the funds’ portfolio. 

 Balanced funds with equity investments of 40%-60% should be compared with a 
tailored index having 50% of its weight selected from any equity index as above 
and the other 50% from an appropriate bond return index (e.g. I-sec Bond Total 
Return Index, etc.) 

 Money Market funds or liquid plans can be compared against a suitable money 

market instrument or a combination of such instruments. 

3.7 Use of Rankings in Advertisements and Sales Literature.

a. Definition of "Ranking Entity"

For purposes of the following guidelines, the term "Ranking Entity" refers to any entity 
that provides general information about asset management companies/mutual funds to 
the public, that is independent of the asset management company/mutual fund and its 
affiliates, and whose services are not procured by the asset management company/mutual 

fund or any of its affiliates to assign the asset management company/mutual fund a 
ranking. 
  

b. General Prohibition

Asset Management Company/Mutual Fund shall not use in advertisements, sales 
literature or general promotional material any rankings other than those developed and 
produced by entities that meet the definition of "Ranking Entity" and which conform to 
the requirements of the guidelines herein. 
  

c. Required Disclosures

1. Headlines/Prominent Statements 

A. A headline or other prominent statement must not state or imply that an Asset 

Management Company/Mutual Fund is the best performer in a category unless it is 
actually ranked first in the category. 

B. Prominent disclosure of the Asset Management Company/Mutual Fund’s ranking, 
the total number of asset management companies/mutual funds in the category, the 
name of the category, and the period on which the ranking is based (i.e., the length 
of the period and the ending date; or, the first day of the period and the ending 
date), must appear in close proximity to any headline or other prominent statement 
that refers to a ranking. 

1. All advertisements and sales literature containing an Asset Management 

Company/Mutual Fund ranking must disclose, with respect to the ranking: 

A.
B.
C.
D.

the name of the category (e.g. income/growth); 
the number of asset management companies/mutual funds in the category; 
the name of the Ranking Entity; 
the length of the period and the ending date, or the first day of the period and the 
ending date; 

E. criteria on which the ranking is based; 
F.

for schemes which assess front-end sales loads, whether the ranking takes into 
account sales charge; 
in case the ranking is based on total return of the current standardised yield. if 
fees/expenses have been waived during the period on which the ranking is based, 
and the waiver or advancement had a material effect on the total return of yield for 
that period should be disclosed; 
the publisher of the ranking data. 

G.

H.

The above disclosures must be set forth prominently in the body of the 
advertisement or sales literature. 
  
 

1.

If the ranking consists of a symbol (e.g., a star system) rather than a number, the 
advertisement or sales literature also must disclose the meaning of the symbol (e.g., a 
four-star ranking indicates that the fund is in the top 30% of all mutual fund schemes). 
2. All advertisements and sales literature containing a ranking must disclose in the main 

body of the advertisement that past performance is no guarantee of future results. 

a. Time Periods

1. Any ranking set forth in an advertisement or sales literature must be current to the most 

recent calendar quarter ended, in the case of advertising prior to the submission for 
publication, or in the case of sales literature prior to use. 

2. Except for money market mutual funds: 

A. Advertisements and sales literature must not use any rankings other than rankings 

based on yield for a period of less than one year; 

B. A ranking based on compounded annualised yield must be accomplished by 

rankings based on returns for one year period for scheme in existence for at least 
one year; one and five year periods for schemes in existence for at least five years, 
and one, five and ten year periods for scheme in existence for at least ten years 
supplied by the same Ranking Entity, relating to the same category, and based on 
the same time period; provided that, if rankings for such one, five and ten year time 
periods are not published by the Ranking Entity, then rankings representing short, 
medium and long term performance must be provided in place of rankings for the 
required time periods; and 

C. A ranking based on yield may be based only on the current standardised yield. A 
ranking based on the current standardised yield must be accompanied by rankings 
based on total return for one year period for scheme in existence for at least one 
year; one and five year periods for scheme in existence for at least five years, and 
one, five and ten year periods for scheme in existence for at least ten years supplied 
by the same Ranking Entity relating to the same category, and based on the same 
time period; provided that, if rankings for such, one, five and ten year time periods 
are not published by the Ranking Entity, then rankings representing short, medium 
and long term performance must be provided in place of rankings for the required 
time periods. 

a. Categories

1. The choice of category (including a subcategory of a broader category) on which the 

ranking is based must be one that provides a sound basis for evaluating the performance 
of the Mutual Fund. 

2. Subject to the standards mentioned below, a ranking must be based only on (a) a 

published category or subcategory created by a Ranking Entity or (b) a category or 
subcategory created by an Asset Management Company/Mutual Fund, but based on the 
performance measurements of a Ranking Entity. 

3. When the ranking is based on a subcategory, the advertisements or sales literature must 
disclose the name of the full category and the ranking and the number of schemes in the 
full category. This requirement does not apply if (a) the subcategory is based solely on 
the investment objectives of the schemes included and (b) created by a Ranking Entity. 
This disclosure could be included in a footnote. 

4. The advertisement or sales literature must not use any category or subcategory that is 

5.

based upon the Asset Management Company/Mutual Fund's asset size (whether or not it 
has been created by a Ranking Entity). 
If an advertisement uses a category created by the Asset Management Company/Mutual 
Fund, including a "subcategory" of a category established by a Ranking Entity, the 
advertisement must prominently disclose: 

A.

B.
C.
D.

the fact that the Asset Management Company/Mutual Fund has created the ranking 
category; 
the number of schemes in the category; 
the basis for selecting the category; and 
the Ranking Entity that developed the research on which the ranking is based. 

1. An advertisement or sales literature containing a headline or other prominent statement 

that proclaims an Asset Management Company/Mutual Fund ranking created by an Asset 
Management Company/Mutual Fund, it should be mentioned in close proximity the 
headline or statement, that the ranking is based upon a category created by the Asset 
Management Company/Mutual Fund. 

a. Multiply class/Two-Tier Funds

The rankings for more than one class of asset management company/mutual fund 
schemes with the same portfolio must be accompanied by prominent disclosure of the 
fact that the scheme or classes of scheme have a common portfolio.

SECTION IV - SALES LITERATURE

1. Any communication that does not amount to an "advertisement" as defined above and 

which is distributed to sell units of a scheme or to induce sales or convey periodical 
performance of the schemes and the disclosure of their portfolios is sales literature. Sales 
literature includes leaflets, newsletters, brochures, mailers, performance reports, 
circulars, and seminars/workshop materials. Sales literature will not include motivational 
letters written to marketing intermediaries and agents. 

2. All statements made, facts reported in sales literature issued at the time of launch should 
have been substantiated/verified from the offer documents issued for the launch of such 
schemes. 

3. Sales literature containing performances of the schemes must adhere to the "performance 

advertisement" guidelines stated above. 

*****

 

