 

 

  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

INVESTIGATIONS ENFORCEMENT
& SURVEILLANCE DEPARTMENT

Mittal Court, A Wing, Gr. Floor,

224, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021

IES/DC/ 8726/00 
May 31, 2000

The Managing Director/Executive Director, 
The National Stock Exchange of India Ltd., 
The Stock Exchange, Mumbai. 

Dear Sir, 

The Derivative Segment of the Exchange & its Clearing House have been granted approval to 
commence derivative trading & settlement in SEBI approved derivative contracts. You are 
advised to appoint: 

 Governing Board of Derivative Exchange/Segment (which shall include Governing 

Council/Executive Committee), 

 Clearing Council (which shall include the Clearing Council/Executive Committee of 

Derivatives Clearing House / Clearing Corporation), 

 Chief Executive Officer of the Derivative Exchange/Segment 
 Chief Executive Officer of Derivatives Clearing House/Corporation, and 
 Statutory Committees such as Disciplinary Action Committee, Arbitration Committee, 

Defaulters Committee, 

within a period of two months from the date of final approval for trading and settlement granted 
by SEBI in the manner specified in the enclosed Guidelines. 

Yours sincerely, 
  
  

(L. K SINGHVI)
L.K Singhvi
Sr. Executive Director

GUIDELINES FOR APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF 
DERIVATIVE EXCHANGE/SEGMENT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF 
DERIVATIVES CLEARING HOUSE/CORPORATION, GOVERNING BOARD OF 
DERIVATIVE EXCHANGE/SEGMENT, CLEARING COUNCIL OF DERIVATIVES 
CLEARING HOUSE/CORPORATION AND STATUTORY COMMITTEES

 Governing Board means the governing body of Derivative Exchange/Segment which 

shall include Governing Council/Executive Committee, etc. 

 Clearing Council means the governing body of derivatives clearing house / clearing 
corporation and which shall include the Clearing Council/Executive Committee of 
Derivatives Clearing House / Clearing Corporation, etc. 

 Chief Executive Officer of the Derivative Exchange/Segment means the person 

responsible for day to day operations of the derivatives exchange /segment. 

 Chief Executive Officer of Derivatives Clearing House/Corporation means the person 

responsible for day to day operation of the derivatives clearing house / corporation. 

 Statutory Committees means the Disciplinary Action Committee, Arbitration Committee 

and Defaulters Committee for the derivatives trading and settlement. 

 Board means the Securities and Exchange Board of India(SEBI). 

The exchanges / clearing house shall within a period of two months from the date of final 
approval for trading and settlement granted by the Board shall constitute the Governing Board, 
Clearing Council and Statutory Committees and shall appoint the Chief Executive Officer of 
derivatives segment, Chief Executive Officer of the Clearing House / Corporation in the 
manner prescribed hereunder:-

1) Unless otherwise agreed to by the Board, the Governing Board of the Derivative Exchange/ 
Segment shall be constituted as follows: 

i. The Derivative Exchange/Segment should have a separate Governing Board which shall 

not have representation of Trading/Clearing Members of the Derivative 
Exchange/Segment/Clearing House/Clearing Corporation beyond 40% of the total 
members on the Governing Board provided that no Trading Member/Clearing Member 
shall be allowed to simultaneously be on the Governing Board of the Derivative 
Exchange/Segment and any of the underlying securities market. 

ii. The members of the Governing Board of the Derivative Exchange /Segment shall elect a 

Chairman within a period of 10 days from the constitution of the Board and if the 
Chairman is a Trading/Clearing Member then he shall not carry on any trading or 
clearing business on any Exchange during his tenure as Chairman. 

iii. Not less than 60% of the members on the Governing Board of the Derivative 

Exchange/Segment shall be public representative, Board nominees or any other person 
appointed with the approval of the Board. Provided that not more than 50% of such 
members shall be common with the Governing Board / Executive Committee of the 
underlying securities exchange. Further, such members shall be from amongst the 
persons of integrity having necessary professional competence and experience in the 
areas related to securities / derivatives markets. 

iv. One-third of the elected members under clause 1(i) shall retire at each annual general 

meeting and shall be eligible to offer themselves for re-election. Provided, that where a 
person has been a member elected for two consecutive terms on the governing board of 
the derivatives exchange / segment, he shall not offer himself for re-election for a further 
period of two years. 

v. The Chief Executive Officer of the derivatives exchange/segment shall be member of the 

governing board under the category of members under clause (iii) above. 

vi. The members appointed under clause (iii) above shall not be subject to retirement by 

rotation and shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board or as per the provision of the 
Act and the Rules under which the Exchange is constituted. 

2) Unless otherwise agreed to by the Board, the Clearing Council shall be constituted as 
prescribed hereunder: -

i. The clearing council shall not have any representation from the trading or clearing 

members. 

ii. The members of clearing council shall be persons of integrity having necessary 

professional competence and experience in the areas related to securities / derivatives 
markets. Their appointment however will be subject to approval by the Board. 

iii. The Chief Executive Officer of the derivatives clearing house / corporation shall be a 

member of the clearing council. 

iv. The members on the clearing council shall elect a Chairman within a period of 10 days 

from the constitution of the clearing council. 

v. The members appointed on the clearing council shall not be subject to retirement by 

rotation and shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board or as per the provisions of the 
Act and the Rules under which the clearing house / corporation is constituted. 

3) For the purpose of appointment of the non-elected members on the governing board of the 
derivatives exchange / segment or on the clearing council, the derivatives exchange /segment 

and the clearing council may forward the names of persons to the Board for approval of such 
appointments. The Board shall, however have the right to appoint any other persons, whose 
names have not been forwarded by the governing board of the derivatives exchange/segment 
and / or clearing council. 

4) The appointment, the terms and conditions of service, the renewal of appointment and the 
termination of service of the Chief Executive Officer of derivatives exchange/segment and the 
clearing house / corporation shall be subject to prior approval of the Board. 

5) The Rules or Article of Association, as the case may be, of the stock exchange shall provide 
that besides the governing board / clearing council, it shall be the duty of the Chief Executive 
Officer to give effect to the directives, guidelines and orders issued by the Board in order to 
implement the applicable provisions of law, rules, regulations as also the Rules or the Articles 
of Association, Regulations and Bye-laws of the stock exchange. Any failure in this regard will 
make him liable for removal or termination of service by the governing board of the derivatives 
exchange / segment or the clearing council as the case may be, with the prior approval of the 
Board or on receipt of direction to that effect from the Board, subject to the concerned Chief 
Executive Officer being given an opportunity of being heard against such termination. 

6) The Rules or Articles of Association, as the case may be, shall provide that not more than 
forty percent of the trading or clearing members of the derivatives exchange / segment and its 
clearing house / corporation shall be appointed on the arbitration, disciplinary and default 
committees. Atleast sixty percent shall be nominated on the said committees from persons other 
than members of the derivatives exchange / segment and its clearing house / corporation. The 
appointment of member on the statutory committees shall be with the prior approval of the 
Board. The Default Committee shall function under the supervision of Clearing Council. 

 

ÿ 

