  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA SECONDARY MARKET DEPARTMENTMittal Court, B Wing, First Floor, 224, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021SMDRP/POLICY/ CIR-7/01 February 1, 2001To: The President/Executive Director/Managing Director of all the Stock Exchanges Dear Sir/Madam, Distribution of Share HoldingTo bring about greater transparency in respect of disclosure of shareholding pattern of companies, it has been decided that the listed companies shall be required to disclose the shareholding pattern on a quarterly basis within 15 days of end of the quarter in the following format. The stock exchanges shall post the information immediately on their web site. Additionally, the listed companies shall be required to post this information on their web sites. To implement the above decision, you are advised to amend the Clause 35 of the Listing Agreement as under: Clause 35 "The company agrees to file with the Exchange the shareholding pattern on a quarterly basis within 15 days of end of the quarter in the following form: Distribution of Shareholding As on quarter ending …..  CategoryNo. of shares heldPercentage of shareholdingA.Promoter's holding1.Promoters* – Indian Promoters  – Foreign Promoters   2.Persons acting in Concert #   Sub-Total   B.Non-Promoters Holding   3.Institutional Investors  a.Mutual Funds and UTI  b.Banks, Financial Institutions, Insurance Companies (Central / State Gov. Institutions / Non-government Institutions)  c.FIIs  * as defined in Regulation 2(h) of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997. The promoters' holding shall include all entities in the promoters' group - individual or body corporates.  # as defined in Regulation 2(e) of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 Note 1: Name, Number of shares held and percentage shareholding of entities / persons holding more than 1 percent of the shares of the company be given under each head. Note 2: Total foreign shareholding in number of shares and percentage shareholding be given as footnote including GDR and ADR holdings. Note 3: The company shall also post this information on its web site." Accordingly, the stock exchanges are advised to amend the Listing Agreement. Yours faithfully, P K BINDLISH Deputy General Manager Secondary Market, Depository Research & Publications Dept. E-mail : pkb@sebi.gov.in   Sub-Total   4.Others  a.Private Corporate Bodies  b.Indian Public  c.NRIs / OCBs  d.Any other (please specify)   Sub-Total    GRAND TOTAL   