 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

SECONDARY MARKET DEPARTMENT

Mittal Court, A Wing, Gr. Floor,

224, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021

SMDRP/Policy/Cir- 25/2000 
29 June 2000

To, 
The President/Executive Director/Managing Director
Of all the Stock Exchanges

Dear Sir/Madam, 

The Group on Risk Management for Equity Markets constituted by SEBI met on June 21, 2000, 
and the following decisions were taken: 

A. Compulsory Rolling Settlement

 Volatility Margin

The additional volatility margin shall not be applicable for scrips in the 
compulsory Rolling Settlement.

 Price Bands

It was decided that the relaxation by 8% after the scrip has hit the initial price band 
of 8% would be applicable to all the scrips in the compulsory rolling settlement. 
The procedure for the relaxation of price bands would be same as prescribed in 
SEBI Circular No.SMDRP/Policy/Cir-19/2000 dated April 28, 2000.

These would be applicable for trading on or after July 3, 2000.

B) Account Period Settlement

 Volatility Margin

It was decided that volatility margins should be continued for the account period 
settlement. However, it was felt that the margin structure could be revised by 
reducing the number of slabs and also margin rates for these slabs. Accordingly, 
the revised structure would be as under :

i. Volatility margin would be applicable if volatility (six weekly(high-low)/low) exceeds 

80% instead of of 60% prescribed earlier. 

ii. The slabs for volatility margins and the margin rates would be as follows: 

Volatility

Percentage Margin

More than 80% upto 100%

More than 100% upto 150%

More than 150% 

10%

15%

25%

iii. The new structure would be applicable from the account period commencing 

immediately after June 30, 2000. 

 Price Bands

As in the Compulsory Rolling Settlement the price bands for account period settlement 
have also been relaxed on similar lines for the identified 200 scrips. 

This will be applicable for trading on or after July 3, 2000.

C) Withdrawal of Additional Margin on Sales

The 5% additional margin on scrip-wise net sale position at the end of the day was 
imposed w.e.f. April 26, 2000 stands withdrawn.

D) Encouragement for Delivery Based Transactions

If in respect of trades marked for delivery at the end of the day (to be certified by 
broker), the margins are secured by a bank guarantee from the investor in favour of 
the broker (along with back-to-back bank guarantee by broker in favour of the 
exchange) or in favour of the exchange. The exchange may not insist on any cash 
component in margins. The exchanges will workout the modalities for 
implementation of this decision.

The Exchanges are advised to take steps to give effect to the above decisions. 

Yours faithfully, 
  

P. K. BINDLISH
Division Chief 
Secondary Market, Depository, 
Research & Publications Department 
e-mail : pkb@sebi.gov.in 

 

  

 

