 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

SECONDARY MARKET DEPARTMENT

Mittal Court, A Wing, Gr. Floor,

224, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021

SMD/POLICY/CIR-26/2000
July 04, 2000

To,
The Executive Director/President/Managing Director
Of all the Stock Exchanges

Dear Sir/Madam,

SUB : Amendment to the Listing Agreement

As recommended by the Accounting Standards Committee, it has been decided to amend 
the Clause 41 of the Listing Agreement as follows:

1. Para 3 of Clause 41 shall be amended as follows :

In addition, the Company shall prepare the half yearly results in the same pro-
forma with effect from half year ending on March 31, 2000 and the same shall be 
approved by the Board of Directors and subjected to a "Limited Review" by the 
Auditors of the Company (or by any Chartered Accountant in case of Public Sector 
Undertakings) and a copy of the Review Report shall be submitted to the Stock 
Exchanges within 2 months after the close of the half year. For the purpose of this 
Review half year shall be construed as consisting of the first two quarters of the 
Company’s Financial Year. If the sum total of First and Second quarterly un-
audited results in respect of any item given in the same pro-forma format varies by 
20% or more from the respective half yearly results as determined after the 
"Limited Review" by the Auditors, the Company shall send a statement (approved 
by the Board of Directors) explaining the reasons to the Stock Exchanges along with 
Review Report. The Review Report shall be in the following format:

"We have reviewed the accompanying statement of unaudited financial 
results of …… (Name of the Company) for the period ended ….. This 
statement is the responsibility of the Company’s Management.

A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying 
analytical procedures for financial data and making inquires of persons 
responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in 
scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the generally accepted 
auditing standards, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion 
regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not 
express such an opinion.

Based on our review conducted as above, nothing has come to our notice that 
causes us to believe that the accompanying statement of unaudited financial 
results has not disclosed the information required to be disclosed in terms of 
Clause 41 of the Listing Agreement including the manner in which it is to be 
disclosed, or that it contains any misstatement".

2. Item No. 9 of the pro-forma for the unaudited financial results shall be 
modified as follows :

1. Paid Up Equity Share Capital (Face Value of the Share shall be indicated).

Stock Exchanges are advised to make the above amendments to the Clause 41 of the 
Listing Agreement immediately and confirm compliance.

Yours faithfully,
  

S RAVINDRAN
Division Chief
Secondary Market Department

 

ÿ 

