 

 

To: 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

SECONDARY MARKET DEPARTMENT

Mittal Court, A Wing, Gr. Floor, 

224, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021

SMD/Policy/Cir-43/2000 
September 12, 2000

The President/Executive Director/ 
Managing Director Of all the Stock Exchanges 

Sir/Madam, 

Carry Forward, Automated Lending & Borrowing and Continuous Net 

Settlement in the Rolling Settlement.

A meeting of the Stock Exchanges which have the facilities of carry forward and automated 
lending and borrowing was held on August 23, 2000 at SEBI to discuss the preparedness of the 
stock exchanges for the introduction of carry forward, automated lending & borrowing and the 
continuous net settlement in the rolling settlement. Earlier, SEBI Board in its meeting held on 
June 14, 2000 considered and approved the proposals of the carry forward and the continuous 
net settlement system in the rolling settlement. The features of the carry forward, automated 
lending & borrowing and the continuous net settlement in the rolling settlement were discussed 
in the meeting of the exchanges held on August 23, 2000.

1) Salient Features

a) Carry Forward under Rolling Settlement (CFRS):

There would be carry forward session at the end of each trading day and, the investor would 
have a choice of carrying forward a position for 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 trading days. There would be 
separate screens where bids and offers could be posted for each of these five variants. During 
the term of a carry forward for greater than 1 day the investor may square off the carry forward 
position. In such a case, the investor would first have to square-off the position in the market by 
carrying out appropriate buy/sell transaction and then do a contra carry forward for the 
remaining period of the carry forward. e.g. an investor who carries forward for one week (5 
trading days) today, would be able to square off tomorrow by taking an offsetting position 
tomorrow and carrying it forward in the four day carry forward market.

b) Automated Lending and Borrowing under Rolling Settlement (ALBRS)

The ALBM session would be held everyday and would involve lending and borrowing for 1, 2, 
3, 4 or 5 working days. The separate screens will provide the facility for lending/borrowing for 
these five variants. Thus, for the ALBM session held on day T the first leg will be settled on 
T+5 day. For a one day tenure lending, the reverse leg will be created on T+1 day and will be 
settled on T+6 day. Similarly, in case of a 2 day tenure lending, the reverse leg will be created 
on T+2 day and will be settled on T+7 day and so on.

c) Continuos Net Settlement (CNS)

Internationally, the CNS has been effectively employed by the clearing corporations for the 
settlement of transactions and for maintaining an orderly flow of money and securities. The 
CNS is carried out by the Clearing Corporation / Clearing House as a post settlement 
processing whereby, the seller who has failed to deliver securities can postpone the settlement 

of his obligations to the subsequent settlement. This is primarily a tool for imparting flexibility 
to the seller. 

The key features of the CNS are as under : 

 The CNS would be available only in the Compulsory Rolling Settlement segment. 
 CNS is essentially post settlement processing. 
 The CNS is delivery initiated. 
 In the CNS process, the short deliveries of the seller are marked to the closing price of 

the day and the corresponding amount is debited to the delivering member. 
 The settlement of the CNS positions is postponed to subsequent settlement. 
 Since the CNS is a post settlement activity, the receiving member has to necessarily fulfil 

his funds pay-in obligation. The receiving member however would be subsequently 
credited for the value of the deliveries to the extent that he has received short. 

 The receiving member has the option of insisting on delivery. The members can indicate 
the preference for compulsory receipt of delivery in which case it will be allocated higher 
priority for delivery receipt. In the event of failure to deliver shares to such receiving 
members, these positions would be removed from the CNS and subjected to compulsory 
delivery. Compulsory buy-in or close-out would be effected in the event of failure to 
deliver. 

2) Eligibility of Stock Exchanges

The Exchanges which have already implemented the MCFS or Automated Lending and 
Borrowing Mechanism (ALBM) as prescribed by SEBI in account period settlement would be 
eligible to implement CFRS and ALBRS respectively. The other Exchanges would seek the 
prior permission of SEBI for introduction of CFRS or ALBRS. The exchanges would have to 
seek prior permission of SEBI for the introduction of CNS. For obtaining such permissions the 
exchange must demonstrate that it has a well designed software, well established governance 
structure and administrative infrastructure for monitoring and enforcing the margining system 
and surveillance capability. If necessary, an inspection of the exchange would be carried out by 
the SEBI to satisfy itself.

3) Eligibility of scrips

The criteria for scrips eligible for these products would be issued separately.

4) Risk Containment Measures

Risk containment measures for these products would also be issued separately. 

Yours faithfully 

P. K. BINDLISH
Division Chief
Secondary Market Depository,
Research & Publications Department
e-mail : pkb@sebi.gov.in

 

