 

 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

SECONDARY MARKET DEPARTMENT - II

The President/Executive Directors

Managing Directors of all

Stock Exchanges

Dear Sir/Madam,

SMD-II/ALLSE/CIR-02/2000

January 10, 2000

Subject: Meeting Of All Stock Exchanges

A meeting of heads of all the Stock Exchanges was held on December 20, 1999 to discuss 
the issues related to Revival of small stock exchanges, Y2K preparedness of the Stock 
Exchanges and Stock Brokers and other issues. The decisions taken in the meeting are 
given below for information/necessary action:

1. Revival/Survival Of Small Stock Exchanges

As per SEBI circular dated November 26, 1999, the sub-brokers of the 
subsidiary/company were required to maintain separate deposit with the 
subsidiary/company in the form of cash only. This condition was reviewed and it 
was decided that the same could be maintained 25% in the form of cash and the 
balance 75% in irrevocable bank guarantees.

2. Increasing the membership of stock exchanges

The exchanges will now have freedom to increase the membership or dealership 
subject to compliance of all the legal requirements, without the approval of SEBI.

3. Interference of Elected Directors in the Administration of the Exchange.

In order to ensure smooth functioning of the Stock Exchanges and to give 
administrative freedom to the Executive Directors, as CEOs of the exchanges, it was 
reiterated that the Elected Directors should not interfere in the day to day 
management of the exchange, particularly relating to surveillance and the risk 
management functions.

4. Internet Trading

The Stock Exchanges shall set up necessary mechanism for evaluating the system 
and infrastructure of the applicant broker for ascertaining that the specification 
outlined in the SEBI Committee Report on Internet Trading, are adhered to. All 
applications received in exchanges should be dealt with on top priority.

5. Vanishing Companies

The Exchanges should submit the information regarding vanishing Companies as 
per the format prescribed by SEBI vide circular No PMD/OPG/AG/7827/99 dated 
March 05, 1999 on a weekly basis, to Primary Market Department of SEBI. It was 
also suggested that exchanges should set up a small cell for scanning the reports 
received from the companies for which it is a regional exchange and take action 
against companies where the funds are not used for the purpose for which it was 
raised.

Yours faithfully,
  
  

M D PATEL

 

