 

 

To: 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

SECONDARY MARKET DEPARTMENT

Mittal Court, A Wing, Gr. Floor,

224, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021

SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-31/2000 
July 27, 2000

The President/Executive Director/ 
Managing Director of All the Stock Exchanges 

Dear Sir, 

AUTOMATED LENDING AND BORROWING MECHANISM (ALBM)

1. The various issues related to ALBM have been examined by a Group constituted by SEBI 
under the chairmanship of Prof. J R Varma, Member, SEBI Board. This was also discussed by 
the Risk Management Group constituted by SEBI in its meeting held on July 13, 2000. 

2. Based on the recommendations of these Groups, it has been decided that ALBM would now 
be permitted as a generic product. The basic purpose of ALBM would be to facilitate lending 
and borrowing of securities as envisaged by the Stock Lending Scheme 1997 (SLS). The 
ALBM however may also serve the purpose of deferral of settlement by netting off obligations 
in ALBM with obligations in the normal settlement. This would result in carrying forward of 
the positions in the normal settlement as in the case of Modified Carry Forward System. 

3. ELIGIBILITY OF THE EXCHANGE TO IMPLEMENT ALBM

An Exchange would be eligible to introduce the ALBM if it satisfies the following conditions : 

i. The exchange must demonstrate that it has a well-designed software for margin 

computation and well established governance structures and administrative infrastructure 
for monitoring and enforcing the margining system. If necessary, an inspection of the 
exchange would be carried out by SEBI to satisfy itself about the adequacy of its 
margining system. 

ii. The exchange or its clearing corporation must be an approved intermediary under the 

stock lending scheme. 

4. ELIGIBILITY OF SCRIPS FOR ALBM

Exchanges desirous of implementing ALBM will obtain SEBI approval for : 

i. The eligibility criteria for scrips to be included in the ALBM list 
ii. The process of choosing the scrips in the ALBM list 
iii. Disclosure and transparency provisions relating to the above 

5. RISK CONTAINMENT

5.1 Position Limits :

There will be a position limit per broker of Rs.40 crores in the aggregate and Rs 5 crores per 
scrip. These limits will be determined on the basis of gross position for the broker. These limits 
would apply only to trade positions that are netted against ALBM positions, and would not 

apply to stand-alone ALBM positions. However, the positions of pure securities borrowers as 
defined in point no. 6.1 below, who would be withdrawing the shares would be included in the 
above mentioned overall position limit of Rs.40 crores in aggregate and Rs.5 crores per scrip. 

5.2 Short Sale Transactions

A short seller receives charges in the ALBM when the lending price is below the clearing price. 
Such charges shall be released to the short seller only if either the seller actually owns the 
shares (and is using ALBM only for operational convenience or other reasons) or the seller 
actually has funds by which he could have taken delivery of the borrowed shares even if the 
ALBM transactions and trade transactions were not netted off. In other cases, the excess of the 
clearing price over the lending price would be credited to the Investor Protection Fund of the 
Exchange and shall not be released to the short sellers. 

5.3 Margins

5.3.1 Margining on Gross Basis

ALBM transactions, which are netted against trade positions, would be subjected to margining 
on the basis of gross positions i.e. positions grossed across clients. 

5.3.2 ALBM Margin

The margin on all trade positions that are proposed to be netted against ALBM transactions 
shall not be less than 10%. Further, in cases where the position so netted by a member exceeds 
Rs 20 crores, the excess over Rs 20 crores shall attract a margin which shall be at least 15% 
(5% above the 10% limit). 

The minimum ALBM margins would start applying only at the end of the ALBM session, as 
because of the very nature of the product it would be difficult to achieve the segregation of twin 
track in the case of ALBM as in the case of carry forward system. 

5.3.3. Incremental ALBM Margin

In case the gross position in ALBM in any exchange, in any scrip, exceeds the parameters 
mentioned below, the additional margin shall be levied, in addition to the ALBM margin, at a 
rate which is higher of the rates determined as per the tables below : 
  

Gross 
Outstanding 
Market Position 
(Rs. In crores) 

Rate of 
Margin

  Deferred Gross Positions 
in ALBM (in number of 
shares as % of total 
number of shares paid 
up)

Rate of 
Margin

Exceeding 75 and 
up to 100

5%

Exceeding 100 
and up to 150

8%

Exceeding 150 
and up to 200

12%

Exceeding 200 

17%

 

 

 

 

Exceeding 3% 

5%

going upto 4%

Exceeding 4% 

8%

going upto 5%

Exceeding 5% 

12%

going upto 6%

Exceeding 6% 

17%

and up to 300

going upto 7%

Exceeding 300 
and up to 400

23%

Exceeding 400 

30%

 

 

Exceeding 7% 

23%

going upto 8%

Exceeding 8%

30%

The positions referred to would exclude the positions pertaining to the pure securities 
borrowers to the extent that the collateral securities are kept with the clearing 
house/corporation. 

Once this margin is imposed by any Exchange having ALBM or MCFS facility, the other 
Exchanges having ALBM or MCFS will also follow the same from the start of next settlement. 

5.3.4 Collection of Margins

These margins would be paid 100% in cash or fixed deposits or government securities, or a 
combination of three. 

Mark to Market Margin shall be collected separately from daily/exposure margin as the purpose 
of the two margins is different. 

6.0 RISK MANAGEMENT OF PURE SECURITIES BORROWERS' OBLIGATIONS 
TO RETURN SECURITIES

6.1 Pure securities borrower means a borrower of securities who does not have an offsetting 
long trade position. 

6.2 Pure securities borrowers will have the option of depositing the collateral with the clearing 
corporation. A pure securities borrower who does so would not be subjected to any margin. 
However, if at the end of the settlement, the pure securities borrower wishes to initiate a fresh 
transaction to continue the pure borrowing of securities for one more week, mark to market 
margin would be imposed at that stage. 

The pure securities borrower who opt for withdrawing the shares from the clearing 
house/clearing corporation shall be subject to margins such as mark to market margin, exposure 
margin etc. in addition to ALBM margins mentioned in Para 5 of this circular. 

6.3 The Stock Exchanges would be allowed to introduce ALBM after satisfying the conditions 
and modalities detailed above and after seeking formal approval from SEBI in this regard. 

Yours faithfully, 

P K KURIACHEN
DIVISION CHIEF
SECONDARY MARKET, DEPOSITORY,
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS DEPARTMENT
E-Mail : kuriachen@sebi.gov.in

 

