 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

                                   March  23, 2011 

Cir/ ISD/1/2011 
 
 
To 
 
All Stock Exchanges / All Depositories/ All SEBI Registered Market Intermediaries  
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 

Sub: Unauthenticated news circulated by SEBI Registered Market        

Intermediaries through various modes of communication  

1.  It has been observed by SEBI that unauthenticated news related to various scrips are 
circulated  in  blogs/chat  forums/e-mail  etc.  by  employees  of  Broking  Houses/Other 
Intermediaries  without  adequate  caution  as  mandated  in  the  Code  of  Conduct  for 
Stock  Brokers  and  respective  Regulations  of  various  intermediaries  registered  with 
SEBI. 

 

2.  Further, in various instances, it has been observed that the Intermediaries do not have 
proper  internal  controls  and  do  not  ensure  that  proper  checks  and  balances  are  in 
place to govern the conduct of their employees. Due to lack of proper internal controls 
and poor training, employees of such  intermediaries are sometimes not aware of the 
damage which can be caused by circulation of unauthenticated news or rumours. It is 
a well established fact that market rumours can do considerable damage to the normal 
functioning and behaviour of the market and distort the price discovery mechanisms. 

 

3.  In view of the above facts, SEBI Registered Market Intermediaries are directed that: 

•  Proper internal code of conduct and controls should be put in place. 
•  Employees/temporary staff/voluntary workers etc. employed/working in the 
Offices of market intermediaries do not encourage or circulate rumours or 
unverified information obtained from client, industry, any trade or any other 
sources without verification. 

•  Access  to  Blogs/Chat  forums/Messenger  sites  etc.  should  either  be 

restricted under supervision or access should not be allowed.  

•  Logs for any usage of such Blogs/Chat forums/Messenger sites (called by 
any  nomenclature)  shall  be  treated  as  records  and  the  same  should  be 
maintained  as  specified  by  the  respective  Regulations  which  govern  the 
concerned intermediary. 

•  Employees  should  be  directed  that  any  market  related  news  received  by 
them either in their official mail/personal mail/blog or in any other manner, 
should be forwarded only after the same has been seen and approved by 
the concerned Intermediary’s Compliance Officer. If an employee fails to do 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

so,  he/she  shall  be  deemed  to  have  violated  the  various  provisions 
contained in SEBI Act/Rules/Regulations etc. and shall be liable for actions. 

4.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to: 

a.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the Stock Brokers and also 

disseminate the same on their websites. 

b.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations 
for the implementation of the above decision in co-ordination with one another 
to achieve uniformity in approach. 

c.   communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this  

circular in their Monthly Development Reports. 

5.  The Depositories are advised to:- 

a.  make  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations  for  the 
immediately,  as  may  be 

the  above  decision 

implementation  of 
applicable/necessary ; 

           b.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of their DPs; and 
           c.  disseminate the same on the website. 

6.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors 
in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities 
markets. 

 

 

 

 

 

7.  The circular shall come into force from the date of the circular. 

8.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in,  under  the  category 

‘Legal Framework’. 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
AVARJEET SINGH 
DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
 
TEL : 022 26449262 

Fax : 022 26449023 

EMAIL – avarjeets@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

 

