 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

     

 

 

 

                March 31, 2011 

 

 

CIR/IMD/FIIC/5/2011   
 
To 
All Foreign Institutional Investors 
through their designated Custodians of Securities 
 

Sub: FII Investment in corporate bonds infra long term category  

 

Please refer to the SEBI circular CIR/IMD/FIIC/18/2010 dated November 26, 2010 wherein the mechanism 
of allocation of newly announced limit of long-term corporate debt (infrastructure) was announced 
Increase in overall limits 
1.  The existing limit of USD 5 billion for investment by foreign Institutional investors (FIIs) in corporate 
bonds issued by companies in the infrastructure sector with a residual maturity of over five years has 
been increased by an additional limit of USD 20 billion taking the total limit to USD 25 billion. These 
investments are now permissible in unlisted instruments. 

Investments in unlisted bonds 
2.  FIIs shall now be eligible to invest in unlisted bonds issued by companies in the infrastructure sector 

that are generally organised in the form of special purpose vehicles.  

Lock-in period for investments subject to inter FII trading  
3.  Investments in such bonds shall have a minimum lock-in period of three years. However, during the 
lock-in  period,  FIIs  will  be  allowed  to  trade  amongst  themselves.  During  the  lock-in  period,  the 
investments cannot however, be sold to domestic investors. 

No change in identification of companies eligible as “Infrastructure” 
4.  Identification of corporate bonds issued by companies in the infrastructure sector shall be in terms of 

SEBI circular IMD/FII&C/18/2010 dated November 26, 2010. 

Manner of allocation  
5.  In partial amendment to the aforesaid circular IMD/FII&C/18/2010, it is decided to do away with the 

allocation methodology for investment in Corporate Debt –Long term Infra category.  

6.  FII/sub-accounts  can  now  avail  of  these  limits  without  obtaining  SEBI  approval  till  the  overall  FII 
investments reaches 90% (ninety percent) i.e. USD 22.5 billion. After which the process mentioned in 
circular dated November 26, 2010 shall be initiated for allocation of remaining limits. 

Special window at exchanges 
7.  To  facilitate  to  the  FIIs  during  the  lock-in  period  as  mentioned  at  para  3  above,  a  special  trading 
window  for  FIIs  shall  be  provided  by  Exchanges  on  the  same  lines  as  is  available  for  equities  in 
companies where the overall FII investment has touched the maximum limit. 

 
This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  (1)  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 
 
A copy of this circular is available at the web page “F.I.I.” on our website www.sebi.gov.in. The custodians 
are requested to bring the contents of this circular to the notice of their FII clients. 
 
Yours faithfully,  
 

Jeevan Sonparote 
General Manager  
+91-22-26449110  
jeevans@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 1 of 1 

 

