¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

             

            May 19, 2011 

 

 

CIR/IMD/DF/9/2011  
 
All Mutual Funds/Asset Management Companies 
 
Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Option to hold units in demat form.  
 

1.  In terms of SEBI Circular CIR/IMD/DF/10/2010, dated August 18, 2010, on 
transferability of Mutual Fund units, all AMCs were advised to clarify by way 
of an addendum that units of all Mutual Fund schemes held in demat form 
shall be fully transferable. It has been observed that  in their close ended 
schemes,  many  mutual  funds    provide    an  option  to  hold    units    either  in 
physical or in demat  form,  but offer no such option in case of open ended 
schemes.  In  order  to  facilitate  investors,  Mutual  Funds  should  provide  an 
option  to  the  investors  to  receive  allotment  of  Mutual  Fund  units  in  their 
demat  account  while  subscribing  to  any  scheme  (open  ended/close 
ended/Interval).  Therefore  Mutual  Funds/AMCs  are  advised  to  invariably 
provide an option to the investors to mention demat account details in the 
subscription form, in case they desire to hold units in demat form.  

 
2.  Mutual Funds/AMCs shall ensure that above mentioned option is provided 
to  the  investors  in  all  their  schemes  (existing  and  new)  from  October  01, 
2011 onwards. 

 

3.  It has also been observed that often investors’ request for dematerialising 
their units is rejected as Depository Participants are not having/ or having 
incorrect  ISIN  of  each  option  of  the  scheme.  In  this  regard,  Mutual 
Funds/AMCs are advised to obtain ISIN for each option of the scheme and 
quote  the  respective  ISIN  along  with  the  name  of  the  scheme,  in  all 
Statement  of  Account/Common  Account  Statement  (CAS)  issued  to  the 
investors from October 01, 2011 onwards. 

 
4.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under section 11(1) 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  the 
provisions  of  regulation  77  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  to 
protect  the  interests  of  Investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of and to regulate the securities market.  

Yours faithfully, 

 
RAKESH BHANOT 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel no. 022-26449361 
Email-rakeshb@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

