 

CIR/MIRSD/03/2011 
 
To 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 
 

 

 

                             June 9, 2011 

Sub: Pre- funded instruments / Electronic fund transfers 

  
1.  SEBI  vide  Circular  No.  SEBI  /  MRD  /  SE  /  Cir-33  /  2003  /  27  /  08  dated 
August  27,  2003,  while  specifying  the  mode  of  receipt  and  payment  of 
funds, has permitted the stock brokers to accept Demand Drafts from their 
clients.  

  
2.  While receiving funds from the clients through pre-funded instruments, such 
as, Pay Order, Demand Draft, Banker’s cheque, etc., it is observed that the 
stock brokers are unable to maintain an audit trail of the funds so received, 
as the details of the name of  the client and bank account-number are not 
mentioned on such instruments. This may result in flow of third party funds / 
unidentified  money,  which  is  not  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
aforesaid circular and also affects the integrity of the securities market. 

 

3.  Therefore,  with  a  view  to  address  the  aforesaid  concerns,  it  has  been 
decided in consultation with the major stock exchanges and associations of 
stock brokers, as under: 

 

a.  If  the  aggregate  value  of  pre-funded  instruments  is  `  50,000/-  or 
more,  per  day  per  client,  the  stock  brokers  may  accept  the 
instruments  only  if  the  same  are  accompanied  by  the  name  of  the 
bank account holder and number of the bank account debited for the 
purpose, duly certified by the issuing bank.  The mode of certification 
may include the following: 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 
i.  Certificate from the issuing bank on its letterhead or on a plain 

paper with the seal of the issuing bank. 

ii.  Certified copy of the requisition slip (portion which is retained 

by the bank) to issue the instrument. 

iii.  Certified copy of the passbook/bank statement for the account 

debited to issue the instrument.  

iv.  Authentication of the bank account-number debited and name 
of the account holder by the issuing bank on the reverse of the 
instrument. 

 

b.  Maintain an audit trail of the funds received  through electronic fund 
transfers to ensure that the funds are received from their clients only. 

 

4.  Stock Exchanges are advised to : 

 

a.  issue necessary instructions to bring the provisions of this Circular to 
the  notice  of  their  constituents  and  also  disseminate  the  same  on 
their websites;  

b.  make amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 

the implementation of the above, as deemed necessary; 

c.  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the 

provisions of this Circular by June 30, 2011; and 

d.  develop  the  monitoring  mechanism  through  internal  audit  and 

inspections.   

 

5.  This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and 
to regulate the securities market and shall come into effect from the date of 
this Circular. 

  
6.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
V S Sundaresan 
 Chief General Manager 
022-26449200 
sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 2 

