 

 

 

CIR/DNPD/5/2011   
 
 
To 
 
Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer 
Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam,  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

       

 

  June 2, 2011 

Sub: Liquidity Enhancement Schemes for Illiquid Securities in Equity Derivatives 

Segment  

1.  In  consultation  with  BSE,  MCX-SX,  NSE  and  USE,  it  has  been  decided  to  permit 
Stock Exchanges to introduce one or more liquidity enhancement schemes (LES) to 
enhance liquidity of illiquid securities in their equity derivatives segments. 

2.  The Stock Exchange shall ensure that the LES, including any modification therein or 

its discontinuation, 

a.  has the prior approval of  its Board and its implementation and outcome is 

monitored by the Board at quarterly intervals;  

b.  prescribes  and  monitors  the  obligations  of  liquidity  enhancers  (liquidity 

provider, market maker, maker-taker or by whatever name called); 

c.  disburses the incentives linked to performance;  
d.  is objective, transparent, non-discretionary and non-discriminatory; 
e.  does not compromise market integrity or risk management;  
f.  complies with all the relevant laws; and  
g.  is  disclosed  to  market  at  least  15  days  in  advance  and  its  outcome 
(incentives  granted  and  volume  achieved  –  liquidity  enhancer  wise  and 
security  wise)  is  disseminated  monthly  within    a  week  of  the  close  of  the 
month. 

3.  The LES can be introduced in any of the following securities: 

a.  New  securities  permitted  on  the  Stock  Exchange  after  the  date  of  this 

circular, 

b.  Securities in case of a new Stock Exchange / new Segment, and 
c.  Securities where the average trading volume for the last 60 trading days on 
the  Stock  Exchange  is  less  than  0.1%  of  market  capitalization  of  the 
underlying. 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 
4.  The LES can be discontinued at any time with an advance notice of 15 days. It shall, 
however,  be  discontinued  as  soon  as  the  average  trading  volume  on  the  Stock 
Exchange, during the last 60 trading days, reaches 1% of market capitalization of the 
underlying, or six months from introduction of the scheme, whichever is earlier.  

5.  If a Stock Exchange introduces LES on securities eligible under Para 3 above, other 
Stock Exchanges may introduce LES in the same / competing securities even if those 
are not eligible under Para 3 above. Such LES of the other Stock Exchanges cannot 
be continued beyond the period of LES of the former stock Exchange. 

6.  The  incentives  under  LES  shall  be  transparent  and  measurable.  These  may  take 

either of the two forms: 

a.  Discount in fees, adjustment in fees in other segments, cash payment; 
b.  Shares, including options and warrants, of the Stock Exchange. 

7.  If  a  Stock  Exchange  chooses  the  form  specified  in  Para  ‘6a’  above,  the  incentives 
under all LES, during a financial year, shall not exceed 25% of the net profits or 25% 
of the free reserves of the Stock Exchange, whichever is higher, as per the audited 
financial  statements  of  the  preceding  financial  year.  If,  however,  a  Stock  Exchange 
chooses the form specified in Para ‘6b’ above, the shares, including the shares that 
may  accrue  on  exercise  of  warrants  or  options,  given  as  incentives  under  all  LES, 
during a financial year, shall not exceed 25% of the issued and outstanding shares of 
the Stock Exchange as on the last day of the preceding financial year. 

8.  The  Stock  Exchange  shall  submit  half-yearly  reports  on  the  working  of  its  LES  for 

review of SEBI. 

9.  The  implementation  of  this  circular  shall  be  covered  in  the  inspection  of  the  Stock 

Exchange. 

10. This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992,  read  with  Section  10  of  the 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

11. The circular shall come into force from the date of the circular.  
12. This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category 

“Derivatives- Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully,  

 
Sujit Prasad 
General Manager 
Derivatives and New Products Department 
022-2644-9460 
sujitp@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

 

 

 

