¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

                  

 

June 03, 2011 

 

 

 

 

CIR/CFD/DIL/3/2011 
 
To  
All Stock Exchanges 
All Depositories 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
All Registered Registrars to an Issue/STA 
All Registered Custodians 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

 

Sub: Redemption of Indian Depository Receipts (IDRs) into Underlying Equity Shares 

1.  In  order  to  facilitate  foreign  issuers  to  raise  funds  from  the  Indian  capital  markets 
through  IDRs  and  enable  investors  in  the  domestic  market  to  have  investment 
opportunities  in  the  securities  of  major  multi-national  companies  listed  on  well-
developed  markets,  a  legal  framework  was  created  by  the  Ministry  of  Corporate 
Affairs (MCA), Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and SEBI.  
 

2.  Pursuant to the same, Standard Chartered PLC came out with its IDR issue in May 
2010  and  the  said  IDRs  have  been  listed  on  BSE  and  NSE  on  June  11,  2010.  In 
terms of disclosures in their offer document on ”ability to withdraw shares” from the 
IDR Facility and to deposit further shares into the IDR Facility, it has been stated as 
under:- 
“Pursuant to the terms of the RBI Circular, IDRs are not redeemable into underlying 
equity  shares  before  the  expiry  of  a  one-year  period  from  the  date  of  issue  of  the 
IDRs. The SEBI Regulations and the RBI Circular state that automatic fungibility of 
IDRs is not permitted. Therefore, fungibility of IDRs into the underlying Shares would 
be permitted only after the expiry of the one year period from the date of issue of the 
IDRs  and  subsequent  to  obtaining  RBI  approval  on  a  case-by-case  basis.  Further, 
two-way  fungibility  (the  ability  to  purchase  existing  Shares  on  the  London  Stock 
Exchange  and/or  the  Hong  Kong  Stock  Exchange  and  deposit  them  into  the  IDR 
programme) is not currently permitted. Additionally, in terms of the RBI Circular, at 
the time of redemption/conversion of IDRs into underlying shares, the Indian holders 
(persons resident in India) of IDRs are required to comply with the provisions of the 
Foreign  Exchange  Management  (Transfer  or  Issue  of  Any  Foreign  Security) 
Regulations, 2004.” 

Page 1 of 3 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

3.  Since the one year period is nearing completion, it has become necessary to put in 

place, the framework for redemption of IDRs.  
 

4.  The relevant legal/regulatory provisions of fungibility of IDRs are as under:- 

Rule  10  of  Companies  (Issue  of  Indian  Depository  Receipts)  Rules,  2004:-
“Procedure for Transfer and redemption of IDRs:- 
A  holder  of  IDRs  may  transfer  the  IDRs  or  may  ask  the  Domestic  Depository  to 
redeem these IDRs, subject to the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management 
Act, 1999 and other laws for the time being in force.” 
 
RBI’s circular dated July 22, 2009:- 
“Fungibility:- 
Automatic fungibility of IDRs is not permitted.  
 
Period of redemption:- 
IDRs shall not be redeemable into underlying equity shares before the expiry of one 
year period from the date of issue of IDRs.” 
 
Regulation 100 of Chapter X of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2009:- 
“IDRs  shall  not  be  automatically  fungible  into  underlying  equity  shares  of  issuing 
company.” 

 

5.  The  extant  regulatory  frame  work  does  not  permit  fungibility  but  only  redemption. 
Therefore,  allowing  redemption  freely  in  the  absence  of  two  way  fungibility  could 
result  in  reduction  of  number  of  IDRs  listed,  thereby  impacting  its  liquidity  in  the 
domestic market.  

  

6.  In view of the above, it has been decided, in consultation with the RBI, that:  

a. After the completion of one year from the date of issuance of IDRs, redemption of 
the IDRs shall be permitted only if the IDRs are infrequently traded on the stock 
exchange(s) in India. 

Explanation-  For  this  purpose,  IDRs  shall  be  deemed  to  be  “infrequently 
traded”  if  the  annualized  trading  turnover  in  IDRs  during  the  six  calendar 
months  immediately  preceding  the  month  of  redemption  is  less  than  five 
percent of the listed IDRs.  

b. The  issuer  company  shall  test  the  frequency  of  trading  of  IDRs  on  a  half  yearly 

basis ending on June and December of every year.   

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

c. When the IDRs are considered “infrequently traded” on the above basis, it shall be 

the trigger event for redemption.  

d. The issuer company shall make a public announcement  in an English and Hindi 
language newspaper with wide circulation in the prescribed format (including brief 
details  about  the  trigger  of  the  redemption  event,  time  period  for  submission  of 
application and the approach for processing the applications) as well as notify the 
stock  exchanges.  Such  announcement  shall  be  made  within  seven  days  of 
closure of the half year ending on which the liquidity criteria is tested. A suitable 
format for this purpose shall be prescribed by the stock exchange(s). 

e. The  IDR  holders  may  submit  their  application  to  the  domestic  depository  for 
redemption  of  IDRs  within  a  period  of  thirty  days  from  the  date  of  such  public 
announcement. 

f.  The redemption of IDRs shall be completed within a period of thirty days from the 

date of receipt of application for redemption.  

g. Pursuant  to  such  redemption,  the  domestic  depository  shall  notify  the  revised 
shareholding  pattern  of  the  issuer  company  to  the  concerned  stock  exchanges 
within seven days of completion of the process of redemption.  
 

7.  All  intermediaries  are  directed  to  comply  with  the  instructions  contained  in  this 

circular. 
 

8.  This circular shall be applicable with immediate effect.  

 

9.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 read 

with Section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 
 

10. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

 

Page 3 of 3 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
Sunil Kadam 
General Manager 
 +91-22-26449630 
sunilk@sebi.gov.in 
 

