 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
CIR/OIAE/2/2011 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

June 3, 2011 

 

 

 
 
All Companies whose securities are listed on Stock Exchanges 
(through Stock Exchanges) 
All recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:   Processing of investor complaints against listed companies in SEBI  
 
 
1. 

Complaints Redress System (SCORES) 

SEBI  has  commenced  processing  of  investor  complaints  in  a  centralized  web 
based  complaints  redress  system  ‘SCORES’.        The  salient  features  of  this 
system are: 

•  Centralised database of all complaints, 
•  Online movement of complaints to the concerned listed companies,  
•  Online  upload  of  Action  Taken  Reports  (ATRs)  by  the  concerned 

•  Online  viewing  by  investors  of  actions  taken  on  the  complaint  and  its 

companies, and 

current status.  

 

2. 

 
3. 

 
 
 

All  complaints  pertaining  to  companies  will  be  electronically  sent  through 
SCORES at http://scores.gov.in/Admin.  The companies are required to view the 
complaints  pending  against  them  and  submit  ATRs  alongwith  supporting 
documents  electronically  in  SCORES.    Failure  on  the  part  of  the  company  to 
update  the  ATR  in  SCORES  will  be  treated  as  non  redressal  of  investor 
complaints by the company. Submission of physical ATR will not be accepted for 
complaints  lodged  in  SCORES.    For  complaints  forwarded  to  companies  on  or 
before 20/05/2011, physical ATRs should be submitted.   

The user id and password for logging into SCORES at http://scores.gov.in/Admin 
are being communicated separately to companies against whom complaints are 
lodged in SCORES.  

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

In  case  the  complaints  are  processed  by  the  Registrar  to  Issue  and  Share 
Transfer  Agent  (RTI/STA)  on  behalf  of  the  company,  the  company  should 
indicate  in  the  enclosed  Annexure  whether  they  require  the  facility  to  forward 
complaints to the RTI/STA, so that the ATRs can be uploaded by them.  In such 
cases, the name of the RTI/STA, the name of the Compliance Officer and email 
id  should  be  furnished,  so  that  the  user  id  and  password  can  be  provided 
accordingly.    Further,  failure  on  the  part  of  the  RTI/STA  to  update  the  ATR  in 
SCORES will be treated as non redressal of investor complaints by the company. 

This Circular supercedes the Circular No.OIAE/Cir-1/2009 dated November 25, 
2009  so  far  as  it  relates  to  Annexure-C  to  the  said  Circular  wherein  the 
companies had to submit physical ATRs on the complaints forwarded by SEBI to 
them.  

All  companies  whose  securities  are  listed  on  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to 
comply with the aforesaid Circular. 

The  Stock  Exchanges  are  accordingly  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this 
Circular  to  the  notice  of  all  the  companies  whose  securities  are  listed  in  the 
exchange and also to disseminate the same on the website. 

This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 
Yours faithfully, 

G.P.Garg 
Chief General Manager 
Office of Investor Assistance and Education 
Tel No.022-26449400 
Email id - gpg@sebi.gov.in 

 

4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
 

 
  

Page 2 of 3 

 

AUTHENTICATION FOR SCORES 

ANNEXURE  

 

 

 

 
1. 

 
3. 

Name of the Company: 

2.  Whether complaints processed through: □ RTI  □  Inhouse 

If through RTI, please indicate the following: 
 

 
  Name of the RTI: 
 
  Whether complaints can be passed to them  

 

 

: 

: 

Email id 

Telephone No. 

□manually by the company   □directly to RTI 

The details of the concerned person of the company to whom User id and 
password will be sent: 
 
Name  

 
 
4. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Place:  
Date:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note:  A scanned copy can be sent by email to scores@sebi.gov.in followed by hard 

Signature: 
Name: 
Designation: 
Company Seal: 

Fax No. 

: 

: 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

  

 
 
 
 

copy 

 

Page 3 of 3 

