¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

June 3, 2011 

                      

CIR/MIRSD/2/2011   
 
To 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Periodical Report – Grant of prior approval to members of stock 

exchanges/sub-brokers 

 
1)  SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub-brokers) Regulations, 1992 {hereinafter 
referred  to  as  "the  said  Regulations"},  have  been  amended  vide 
Notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2011-12/03/12650 dated April 19, 2011 
{hereinafter referred to as "the said amendment"}, a copy of which is 
available on SEBI website www.sebi.gov.in   

 
2)  With  the  said  amendment,  the  requirement  of  members  of  the  stock 
exchanges  and  sub-brokers  to  obtain  prior  approval  from  SEBI  for 
change in status or constitution has been done away with.  However, 
the members of the stock exchanges would be required to take prior 
approval from SEBI for change in control.  

 
3)  The  stock  exchanges  will  continue  to  grant  prior  approval  to  their 
members and sub-brokers for change in status or constitution, which 
would include the following; 

 

(a)  in case of a body corporate — 

 
(i)  amalgamation,  demerger,  consolidation  or  any  other  kind  of 
corporate restructuring falling within the scope of section 391 of 
the  Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of  1956)  or  the  corresponding 
provision of any other law for the time being in force; 

(ii) change in its managing director, whole-time director or director 
appointed in compliance with clause (v) of sub-rule (4A) of rule 
8 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957; and 

(iii) any change in control over the body corporate; 

 

(b)  any  change  between 

the  following  legal  forms  -  individual, 
partnership  firm,  Hindu  undivided  family,  private  company,  public 

Page 1 of 4 

company,  unlimited  company  or  statutory  corporation  and  other 
similar changes; 

(c)  in case of a partnership firm any change in partners not amounting 

to dissolution of the firm; 

(d)  any other purpose as may be considered appropriate by the stock 

exchanges 

 

4)  The stock exchanges shall submit a periodical report with details of the 
changes in status or constitution of the members / sub-brokers, as per 
the format and in accordance with guidelines given at Annexure A. 
 

5)  The stock exchanges are directed to: 

 
(a)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  Stock 

Brokers and also disseminate the same on their websites. 

(b)  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations  for  the  implementation  of  the  above  decision  in  co-
ordination with one another to achieve uniformity in approach. 

(c)  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the 

provisions of this circular in their Monthly Development Reports. 

 
6)  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 
11(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to 
protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of, and to regulate the securities markets.  

 
7)  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
V.S.Sundaresan 
Chief General Manager  
022-26449200 
sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in 
 

Encl: Annexure A  

Page 2 of 4 

Format for reporting changes in "status or constitution" of members/ sub-brokers 

Annexure –A 

 
Name of the stock exchange:- 
Report for the quarter ending:- June/September/December/March     
Date of report:-  
S.No.  Date of 
receipt 

Type of 
change

Details of 
changes 

Name of the 
member/ sub-
broker 

Pre 

Post 

Registratio
n number 
INB/F/E 
INS 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

Year:-  

 

PAN 

(incoming 
entities)  

Date of 
Change 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Date of 
approval by 
Stock 
Exchange 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Type 

I 

II 

III 
IV 

V 
VI 

Description of Change 

Amalgamation,  demerger,  consolidation  or  any  other  kind  of  corporate  restructuring  falling  within  the 
scope of section 391 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or the corresponding provision of any other 
law for the time being in force. 
Change in managing director, whole-time director or director appointed in compliance with clause (v) of 
sub-rule (4A) of rule 8 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. 
Change in control. 
Any change between the following legal forms - individual, partnership firm, Hindu undivided family, 
private company, public company, unlimited company or statutory corporation and other similar changes.
In case of a partnership firm any change in partners not amounting to dissolution of the firm. 
Any other purpose as may be considered appropriate by the stock exchanges. 

Page 3 of 4 

 
Guidelines to fill up the format and sending the same to SEBI 
 

1)  A separate annexure shall be submitted for each "Type of change" 

as specified in the format. 

2)  The report shall be signed by an  authorized representative of the 

stock exchange and the same shall be stamped. 

3)  The Stock Exchanges shall furnish the report to SEBI by 7th day of 
month following the end of each quarter, starting with report for the 
quarter ending June 2011. Thus the first report shall be submitted 
to SEBI on or before July 07, 2011. 

4)  The  report  shall  be  submitted  by  e-mail  at  serpa@sebi.gov.in.  A 

hard copy of the report shall also be submitted to SEBI. 

 
 
 

Page 4 of 4 

