¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
CIR/MIRSD/13/2011                                                                     August 02, 2011 
 
To 
All Bankers to an Issue (BTI) and Debenture Trustees (DT) registered with 
SEBI 
 
Sir/ Madam, 
 
Sub:  Processing of Investor Complaints in SEBI Complaints Redress 

System (SCORES) 

 

1.  SEBI has commenced processing of investor complaints in a centralized 
web based complaints redress system ‘SCORES’.  The salient features of 
this system are: 

•  Centralized database of all complaints. 
•  Online movement of complaints to the concerned intermediaries 
•  Online  upload  of  Action  Taken  Reports  (ATRs)  by  the  concerned 

entities, and 

•  Online  viewing  by  investors  of  action  on  the  complaints  and  its 

current status.  

 

2.  Accordingly,  henceforth  all  complaints  shall  be  forwarded  electronically 
through  SCORES  only.    You  are  hereby  directed  to  view  the  pending 
complaints  at  http://scores.gov.in/admin  and  submit  the  ATR  along  with 
supporting  documents  electronically  in  SCORES.    Please  note  that 
updation  of  action  taken  would  not  be  possible  with  physical  ATRs.  
Hence,  submission  of  physical  ATR  will  not  be  accepted  for  complaints 
lodged in SCORES.   

3.  A daily alert on pending complaints will be forwarded to your Compliance 
Officer.    Therefore,  please  send  the  current  details  of  the  Compliance 
Officer i.e. name and email ID to SEBI by August 20, 2011.   

 
 

Page 1 of 2 

4.  The said details shall be forwarded to SEBI to bti@sebi.gov.in (BTI) and 
dt@sebi.gov.in (DT) with subject “SCORES”. On receipt of the same, the 
user ID and password for logging into SCORES shall be communicated to 
you.  

 
5.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and 
to regulate the securities market. 

6.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  (www.sebi.gov.in)  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Ruchi Chojer 
Deputy General Manager 
Phone No. 022-26449310 
Email id: ruchic@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

