¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

August 02, 2011 

 

 

 

               

CIR/MIRSD/14/2011 
 
To 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Registered Depositories 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
All Registered Debenture Trustees 
All Registered Underwriters 
All Registered Bankers to an Issue  
All Registered Credit Rating Agencies  
All Registered Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 

 
Sub: 

Revised  procedure  for  seeking  prior  approval  for  change  in 
control through single window 

 
1)  SEBI  vide  circular  No.MIRSD/MSS/Cir-30/13289/03  dated  July  09,  2003 
addressed  to  all  the  Stock  exchanges  specified,  inter  alia,  the  procedure  for 
seeking  prior  approval  from  SEBI  by  stock  brokers  for  change  in  status  and 
constitution. 

 
2)  SEBI  has  recently  amended  the  regulations  for  certain  intermediaries,  viz., 
Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers,  Merchant  Bankers,  Debenture  Trustees, 
Registrar  to  an  Issue  and  Share  Transfer  Agents,  Underwriters,  Depository 
Participants, Bankers to an Issue and Credit Rating Agencies, vide Notification 
No.  LAD-NRO/GN/2011-12/03/12650  dated  April  19,  2011.  This  has  already 
been communicated to you and a copy of the notification is also available on 
SEBI  website  www.sebi.gov.in.  As  per  the  amendments,  the  requirement  of 
obtaining  prior  approval  for  change  in  status  or  constitution  has  been 
dispensed  with.  However,  in  case  of  change  in  control  of  the  above 
intermediaries except for Sub-brokers, prior approval of SEBI is required.  

 
3)  With  a  view  to  expedite  the  process  of  granting  prior  approval,  it  has  been 
decided  to  adopt  a  ‘single  window  clearance  at  SEBI’,  for  the  above 
intermediaries  in  case  of  their  having  multiple  registrations  with  SEBI. 
Accordingly,  in  consultation  with  the  major  stock  exchanges  and  market 
participants, it has been decided to adopt the following procedure; 

  

Page 1 of 3 

(i) 

In case an applicant holds multiple registrations with SEBI, it shall make 
only  one  application  to  SEBI  accompanied  by  the  following  information 
about itself, the acquirer and the directors/partners of the acquirer;  

 

•  Whether  any  application  was  made  in  the  past  to  SEBI  seeking 
registration  in  any  capacity  but  it  was  not  granted?    If  yes,  details 
thereof.  

•  Whether any action has been initiated / taken under SCRA/SEBI Act 
or  rules  and  regulations  made  thereunder?    If  yes,  status  thereof 
along  with  corrective  action  taken  to  avoid  such  violations  in  the 
future.  The  acquirer  shall  also  confirm  that  it  shall  honour  all  past 
liabilities / obligations of the applicant, if any.  

•  Whether  any  investor  complaint  is  pending?  If  yes,  steps  taken  and 

confirmation that the acquirer shall resolve the same.  

•  Details of litigation, if any. 
•  That all the fees due to SEBI have been paid.  
•  That  there  will  not  be  any  change  in  the  Board  of  Directors  of 

incumbent, till the time prior approval is granted. 

•  That  the  incumbent  shall  inform  all  its  existing  investors  /  clients  in 
order  to  enable  them  to  take  informed  decision  regarding  their 
continuance or otherwise with the entity with new management. 

 

 

(ii)  Further,  in  case  the  incumbent  is  a  registered  stock  broker  and  /  or 
depository participant, in addition to the above, it shall obtain approval / 
NOC from all the Stock Exchanges / Depositories, where the incumbent 
is a member / Depository Participant and forward a self attested copy of 
the same to SEBI.  

(iii)  The application shall be addressed to "Chief General Manager, MIRSD, 

SEBI".  

 
(iv)  The prior approval granted by SEBI shall be valid for a period of 180 days 

from the date of communication. 

 
4)  While the above mentioned intermediaries are advised to ensure compliance 
with the provisions of this circular, the stock exchanges and depositories are 
advised to: 
 
(i)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  Stock  Brokers/ 
Depository Participants and also disseminate the same on their websites. 

 
(ii)  make  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations  as 
deemed  necessary  for  the  implementation  of  the  above  decision  in  co-
ordination with one another to achieve uniformity in approach. 

 

Page 2 of 3 

(iii)  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions 

of this circular in their Monthly Development Reports. 

 
 

 

 
5)  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities markets.  

 
6)  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
V.S.Sundaresan 
Chief General Manager  
022-26449200 
sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in 

Page 3 of 3 

