CIR/MIRSD/15/2011                       
 
To 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã ‚ããõÀ ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 
 

 

                     August 02, 2011 

Sub: SMS and E-mail alerts to investors by stock exchanges 

  
1.  SEBI  receives  complaints  from  investors  against  stock  brokers  which  include 
alleged unauthorized trading in their accounts. SEBI has taken steps in the past 
to address this issue.  
 

2.  As  an  additional  measure,  it  has  now  been  decided  in  consultation  with  the 
major stock exchanges and market participants that the stock exchanges shall 
send  details  of  the  transactions  to  the  investors,  by  the  end  of  trading  day, 
through  SMS  and  E-mail  alerts.    This  would  be  subject  to  the  following 
guidelines: 

 

A.  Applicability 

These guidelines are applicable to equity - cash and derivative - segments 
of the stock exchanges. 

 

B.  Uploading of mobile number and E-mail address by stock brokers 

i. Stock exchanges shall provide a platform to stock brokers to upload the 
details of their clients, preferably, in sync with the UCC updation module.  
ii. Stock brokers shall upload the details of clients, such as, name, mobile 

number, address for correspondence and E-mail address.  

iii. Stock brokers shall ensure that the mobile numbers/E-mail addresses of 
their  employees/sub-brokers/remisiers/authorized  persons  are  not 
uploaded on behalf of clients. 

iv. Stock Brokers shall ensure that separate mobile number/E-mail address 
is  uploaded  for  each  client.  However,  under  exceptional  circumstances, 
the stock broker may, at the specific written request of a client, upload the 
same  mobile  number/E-mail  address  for  more  than  one  client  provided 
such clients belong to one family. ‘Family’ for this purpose would mean 
self, spouse, dependent children and dependent parents. 

 

Page 1 of 3 

C.  Verification by the stock exchanges 

After  uploading  of  details  by  the  stock  brokers,  the  stock  exchanges  shall 
take  necessary  steps  to  verify  the  details  by  any  mode  as  considered 
appropriate by them which may include the following: 
a.  By  way  of  sending  SMS  and  E-mail  directly  to  the  investors  at  the 

numbers/E-mail address uploaded by the stock brokers. 

b.  By way of sending letters to the address of the investors uploaded by the 

stock brokers. 

 

D.  Sending of alerts by the stock exchanges 

Upon receipt of confirmation from the investors, the stock exchanges shall 
commence  sending  the  transaction  details  generated  based  on  investors’ 
Permanent Account Number, directly to them. 

 

E.  Handling of discrepancies, if any. 

If  any  discrepancy  is  observed  by  the  stock  exchanges  in  the  details 
uploaded  by  the  stock  brokers  including  non-confirmation  by  investors, 
bounced E-mails, undelivered SMS/letters, etc., the stock  exchanges shall 
inform the respective stock broker. 

 

F.  Meeting out the expenses for providing SMS and E-mail alerts 

The stock exchanges may use the amount set aside from the listing fees for 
providing  services 
investing  public,  as  provided  vide  SEBI 
communication  dated  SE/10118  dated  October  12,  1992,  to  meet  the 
expenses for providing this facility. 

the 

to 

 

G.  Implementation 

The  stock  exchanges  shall  put  in  place  necessary  infrastructure  and 
implement the SMS and E-mail alert facility at the earliest and not later than 
four months from the date of this circular. 

 
3.  Stock exchanges are advised to : 

 

investors.    

Page 2 of 3 

a.  issue necessary instructions to bring the provisions of this Circular to the 
notice  of  their  constituents  and  also  disseminate  the  same  on  their 
websites;  

b.  make amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for the 
implementation of the above, as deemed necessary, in coordination with 
other stock exchanges; 

c.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions 

of this Circular in the Monthly Development Report to SEBI;  

d.  develop  the  monitoring  mechanism  through  the  system  of  half-yearly 

internal audit and inspections; and 

e.  publicize  widely  the  availability  of  this  facility  for  the  awareness  of  the 

 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

4.  This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of 
investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 
securities market and shall come into effect from the date of this Circular. 

  
5.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
V S Sundaresan 
 Chief General Manager 
022-26449200 
sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in 

Page 3 of 3 

