¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
CIR/MIRSD/17/2011                                                                     August 24, 2011 
 
To 
 
(1) All Merchant Bankers (MBs) registered with SEBI  
(2)All  Registrars  to  an  Issue  and  Share  Transfer  Agents  (RTI/STAs) 
registered with SEBI  
(3) All Underwriters registered with SEBI 
 
Sir/ Madam, 
 
Sub:  Processing  of  Investor  Complaints  in  SEBI  Complaints  Redress 

System (SCORES) 

 

1.  SEBI has commenced processing of investor complaints in a centralized 
web based complaints redress system ‘SCORES’.  The salient features of 
this system are: 

•  Centralized database of all complaints. 
•  Online movement of complaints to the concerned intermediaries 
•  Online  upload  of  Action  Taken  Reports  (ATRs)  by  the  concerned 

entities, and 

•  Online  viewing  by  investors  of  action  on  the  complaints  and  its 

current status.  

 

2.  Accordingly,  henceforth  all  complaints  shall  be  forwarded  electronically 
through  SCORES  only.    You  are  hereby  directed  to  view  the  pending 
complaints  at  http://scores.gov.in/admin  and  submit  the  ATR  along  with 
supporting  documents  electronically  in  SCORES.  Please  note  that 
updation of action taken would not be possible with physical ATRs. Hence, 
submission of physical ATR will not be accepted for complaints lodged in 
SCORES.   

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

3.  Intermediaries can view the complaints in the SCORES system by logging 
in with their user id and password which will be communicated separately. 

4.  A  daily  alert  on  pending  complaints  will  be  forwarded  at  the  e-mail  ID    

registered with SEBI for regulatory communications.  

5.  Failure on the part of the entity in updating the Action Taken Report (ATR) 
on the SCORES will be considered as non-redressal of complaint and will 
be shown as pending against the entity.  
 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and 
to regulate the securities market. 

7.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  (www.sebi.gov.in)  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 

K. Saravanan 
Deputy General Manager 
Phone No. 022-26449220 
Email id: saravanank@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

