¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
 

CIRCULAR 
 

 

 

CIR/MIRSD/18/2011 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Sir/Madam, 

                             August 25, 2011 

 

Sub:  Redressal  of  investor  grievances  against  stock  brokers  and  sub- 

brokers in SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES) 

  
1.  SEBI  has  commenced  processing  of  investor  grievances  in  a  centralized 
web-based complaints redressal system, ‘SCORES’. The salient features of 
this system are: 

 

•  Centralized database of all complaints; 
•  Online movement of complaints to the concerned entities; 
•  Online upload of Action Taken Reports (ATRs) by the concerned 

entities; and 

•  Online tracking of status of complaints by investors. 

  
2.  The investor grievances  received  by  SEBI  against  stock  brokers  and  sub-
brokers will be taken up electronically with the concerned stock exchange(s) 
through  SCORES  (https://scores.gov.in/Admin).  The  stock  exchange(s) 
shall,  in  turn,  take  up  the  matter  with  the  concerned  stock  brokers/sub-
brokers. 

 
3.  The stock brokers and sub-brokers shall take adequate steps for redressal 
of grievances within one month from the date of receipt of the complaint and 
keep  the  investor/stock  exchange(s)  duly  informed  of  the  action  taken 
thereon.  Failure  to  comply  with  the  said  requirement  will  render  the  stock 
broker liable for penal action.  

 
 
 
 

Page 1 of 2 

4.  The stock exchanges shall: 

 
a)  put in place a suitable mechanism to follow up with the stock brokers 

and sub-brokers, wherever necessary; 

b)  devise  a  system  to  levy  penalty  on  its  members  for  any  non-

compliance with the requirements specified in para 3 above; 

c)  update  the  status  of  the  complaints  in  SCORES,  at  every  stage, 

along with supporting documents; and  

d)  ensure  that  the  status  of  investor  complaints  disclosed  on  their 

websites is in conformity with the status updated in SCORES.  

 

5.  The stock exchanges are advised to: 

 

a)  issue necessary instructions to bring the provisions of this circular to 
the  notice  of  their  constituents  and  also  disseminate  the  same  on 
their websites;  

b)  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations for the implementation of the above in co-ordination with 
one another to achieve uniformity in approach; 

c)  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the 
provisions of this circular in the Monthly Development Report of the 
following month;  

d)  monitor  the  compliance  of  this  circular  through  half-yearly  internal 

audit and inspections of stock brokers; and 

e)  encourage investors to use SCORES for lodging their grievances. 

 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and 
to regulate the securities market and shall come into effect from the date of 
this circular. 

  
7.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
V S Sundaresan 
 Chief General Manager 
022-26449200 
sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 2 

