¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

Cir/ IMD/ DF/13/ 2011                                                                

 August 22, 2011 

 
 
 
All Registered Mutual Funds/ Approved Asset Management Companies (AMCs)  
 
 
Sir/Madam, 
 

Sub: Circular for Mutual Funds   

A.  Transaction charges 

 

 

 

1.  Please  refer  to  SEBI  circular  no.  SEBI/IMD/CIR  No.  4/168230/09  dated  June  30, 
in  payment  of 

transparency 

2009  regarding  empowering 
commission and load structure.  
 

investors 

through 

2.  It has been represented to SEBI that distributors incur expenditure on traveling and 
incidentals  for  reaching  investors  and  procuring  business  for  Mutual  Funds. 
Distributors  are  also  required  to  set  up  appropriate  infrastructure  for  servicing 
investors  as  well  as  incur  certain  expenses  while  marketing  the  units  of  Mutual 
Funds. 

3.  In order to enable people with small saving potential and to increase reach of Mutual 
Fund  products  in  urban  areas  and  smaller  towns,  it  has  been  decided  that  a 
transaction charge per subscription of `10,000/- and above  be allowed to be paid to 
the distributors of the Mutual Fund products from the date of this circular. However, 
there shall be no transaction charges on direct investments.  The transaction charge 
shall be subject to the following: 

 

i.  For  existing  investors  in  a  Mutual  Fund,  the  distributor  may  be  paid  `  100/-  as 

transaction charge per subscription of ` 10,000/- and above. 

ii.  As  an  incentive  to  attract  new  investors,  the  distributor  may  be  paid  `  150/-  as 

transaction charge for a first time investor in Mutual Funds. 

iii.  The  terms  and  conditions  relating  to  transaction  charge  shall  be  part  of  the 

application form in bold print. 

iv.  The  transaction  charge,  if  any,  shall  be  deducted  by  the  AMC  from  the 
subscription  amount  and  paid  to  the  distributor;  and  the  balance  shall  be 
invested. 

v.  The  statement  of  account  shall  clearly  state  that  the  net  investment  as  gross 
subscription less transaction charge and give the number of units allotted against 
the net investment. 

vi.  Distributors shall be able to choose to opt out of charging the transaction charge. 
However,  the  ‘opt-out’  shall  be  at  distributor  level  and  not  investor  level  i.e.  a 
distributor  shall  not  charge  one  investor  and  choose  not  to  charge  another 
investor. 

Page 1 of 5 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

vii.  The AMCs shall be responsible for any malpractice/mis-selling by the distributor 

while charging transaction costs. 

viii.  There shall be no transaction charge on subscription below ` 10,000/- 
ix.  In  case  of  SIPs,  the  transaction  charge  shall  be  applicable  only  if  the  total 
commitment  through SIPs  amounts  to  `  10,000/- and  above.  In  such  cases  the 
transaction charge shall be recovered in 3-4 installments. 

x.  There  shall  be  no  transaction  charge  on  transactions  other  than  purchases/ 

subscriptions relating to new inflows. 

4.  Mutual Funds shall institute systems to detect if a distributor is splitting investments 
in  order  to  enhance  the  amount  of  transaction  charges  and  take  stringent  action 
including recommendations to AMFI to take appropriate action.  
 

5.  Mutual Funds/AMCs shall carry out an exercise of de-duplication of folios across all 

Mutual Funds within a period of 6 months from the date of this circular. 
 

6.  It  is  also  clarified  that  as  per  SEBI  circular  no.  SEBI/IMD/CIR  No.  4/  168230/09, 
dated June 30, 2009, upfront commission to distributors shall continue to be paid by 
the  investor  directly  to  the  distributor  by  a  separate  cheque  based  on  his 
assessment of various factors including the service rendered by the distributor. 

 

 

 

 

B.  Distributors of Mutual Fund products 

1.  It  has  been  felt  that  in  the  interest  of  investors  there  is  a  need  to  regulate  the 
distributors  through  AMCs  by  putting  in  place  a  due  diligence  process  to  be 
conducted by AMCs as follows: 

i.The due diligence process shall be initially applicable for distributors satisfying one 

or more of the following criteria: 

a. Multiple point presence (More than 20 locations) 
b. AUM  raised  over  `  100  Crore  across  industry  in  the  non  institutional 

category but including high networth individuals (HNIs) 

c. Commission received of over ` 1 Crore p.a. across industry 
d. Commission received of over ` 50 Lakh from a single Mutual Fund 

 

ii.At  the  time  of  empanelling  distributors  and  during  the  period  i.e.  review  process, 
Mutual  Funds/AMCs  shall  undertake  a  due  diligence  process  to  satisfy  ‘fit  and 
proper’ criteria that incorporate, amongst others, the following factors: 

a. Business model, experience and proficiency in the business. 
b. Record  of  regulatory  /  statutory  levies,  fines  and  penalties,  legal  suits, 
customer  compensations  made;  causes  for  these  and  resultant  corrective 
actions taken. 

c. Review of associates and subsidiaries on above factors. 
d. Organizational controls to ensure that the following processes are delinked 

from sales and relationship management processes and personnel: 

 

i.) Customer risk / investment objective evaluation.  
ii.) MF  scheme  evaluation  and  defining  its  appropriateness  to  various 

Page 2 of 5 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
customer risk categories. 

iii.In this respect, customer relationship and transactions shall be categorized as: 

a.  Advisory  –  where  a  distributor  represents  to  offer  advice  while  distributing 
the product, it will be subject to the principle of ‘appropriateness’ of products 
to  that  customer  category.    Appropriateness  is  defined  as  selling  only  that 
product categorization that is identified as best suited for investors within a 
defined upper ceiling of risk appetite.  No exception shall be made. 

b.  Execution Only – in case of transactions that are not booked as ‘advisory’, it 

shall still require: 

 

i.) The  distributor  has  information  to  believe  that  the  transaction  is  not 
appropriate  for  the  customer,  a  written  communication  be  made  to 
the 
the  product.  The 
communication shall have to be duly acknowledged and accepted by 
investor.   

the  unsuitability  of 

investor  regarding 

ii.) A customer confirmation to the effect that the transaction is ‘execution 
only’  notwithstanding  the  advice  of  in-appropriateness  from  that 
distributor be obtained prior to the execution of the transaction.  

iii.) That  on  all  such  ‘execution  only’  transactions,  the  customer  is  not 
required  to  pay  the  distributor  anything  other  than  the  standard  flat 
transaction charge, as mentioned in part ‘A’ above. 

 

selling  Mutual 

c.  There shall be no third categorization of customer relationship / transaction. 
distributors’ 
d.  While 
group/affiliate/associates,  the  distributor  shall  make  disclosure  to  the 
customer regarding the conflict of interest arising from the distributor selling 
of such products. 

the 

Fund 

products 

of 

 

 

 
 
 

 

iv.Compliance and risk management functions of the distributor  shall  include review 

of defined management processes for: 

a.  The  criteria  to  be  used  in  review  of  products  and  the  periodicity  of  such 

review. 

b.  The factors to be  included  in  determining  the  risk  appetite  of  the  customer 

and the investment categorization and periodicity of such review. 

c.  Review  of  transactions,  exceptions  identification,  escalation  and  resolution 

process by internal audit. 

d.  Recruitment,  training, certification  and  performance  review  of  all  personnel 

engaged in this business.  

e.  Customer  on  boarding  and  relationship  management  process,  servicing 

f. 

standards, enquiry / grievance handling mechanism. 
Internal  /  external  audit  processes,  their  comments  /  observations  as  it 
relates to MF distribution business. 

g.  Findings of ongoing review from sample survey of investors 

2.  Mutual Funds/AMCs may implement additional measures as deemed appropriate to 

help achieve greater investor protection. 

Page 3 of 5 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

 

 

C.  Transparency of information 

1.  SEBI  vide  circular  no.  SEBI/IMD/CIR  No.  4/  168230/09,  dated  June  5,  2000,  has 
stipulated  that  only  compounded  annualized  yield  shall  be  advertised  if  the  scheme 
has been in existence for more than 1 year.  

2.  It  has  been  decided,  henceforth,  that  when  the  scheme  has  been  in  existence  for 

more than three years: 

i.Point-to-point returns on a standard investment of ` 10,000/- shall also be shown 
in  addition  to  CAGR  for  a  scheme  in  order  to  provide  ease  of  understanding  to 
retail investors.  

ii.Performance  advertisement  shall  be  provided  since  inception  and  for  as  many 
twelve month periods as possible for the last 3 years, such periods being counted 
from  the  last  day  of  the  calendar  quarter  preceding  the  date  of  advertisement, 
along with benchmark index performance for the same periods. 

3.  Where  scheme  has  been  in  existence  for  more  than  one  year  but  less  than  three 
years,  performance  advertisement  of  scheme(s)  shall  be  provided  for  as  many  as 
twelve  month  periods  as  possible,  such  periods  being  counted  from  the  last  day  of 
the calendar quarter preceding the date of advertisement, alongwith benchmark index 
performance for the same periods. 

4.  Where  the  scheme  has  been  in existence  for  less  than  one  year, past performance 

shall not be provided. 

5.  For the sake of standardization, a similar return in INR and by way of CAGR must be 

shown for the following apart from the scheme benchmarks: 

Scheme Type 
Equity scheme 
long term debt scheme 
short-term debt fund 

Benchmark 
Sensex or Nifty 
10 year dated GoI security 
1 year T-Bill 

These disclosures shall form a part of the Statement of Additional Information and all 
advertisements of Mutual Funds. 

6.  Any  disclosure  regarding  quarterly/half  yearly/yearly  performance  shall  pertain  to 

respective calendar quarterly/half yearly/yearly only. 

7.  When  the  performance  of  a  particular  Mutual  Fund  scheme  is  advertised,  the 
advertisement  shall  also  include  the  performance  data  of  all  the  other  schemes 
managed by the fund manager of that particular scheme.  

In case the number of schemes managed  by a fund manager is more than  six, then 
the AMC may disclose the total number of schemes managed by that fund manager 
along  with  the  performance  data  of  top  3  and  bottom  3  schemes  (in  addition  to  the 
performance  data  of  the  scheme  for  which  the  advertisement  is  being  made) 
managed by that fund manager in all performance related advertisement. However, in 
such cases AMCs shall ensure that true and fair view of the performance of the fund 
manager is communicated by providing additional disclosures, if required. 

 

 

Page 4 of 5 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

 

Assets Under Management (AUM) disclosure 

8.  Wherever  the  Mutual  Funds  discloses  the  AUM  figures  for  the  fund,  disclosure  on 
bifurcation  of  the  AUM  into  debt/equity/  balanced  etc,  and  percentage  of  AUM  by 
geography (i.e. top 5 cities, next 10 cities, next 20 cities, next 75 cities and others). 
The Mutual Funds shall disclose the aforesaid data on their respective websites & to 
AMFI and AMFI shall disclose industry wide figures on its website. 

Commission disclosure 

9.  Mutual Funds / AMCs shall disclose on their respective websites the total commission 
and expenses paid to distributors who satisfy one or more of the following conditions 
with respect to non-institutional (retail and HNI ) investors  

i.Multiple point of presence (More than 20 locations) 
ii.AUM raised over ` 100 crore across industry  in the non institutional category but 

including high networth individuals (HNIs). 

iii.Commission received of over ` 1 crore p.a. across industry 
iv.Commission received of over ` 50 lakh from a single Mutual Fund/AMC. 

10. Mutual Funds / AMCs shall also submit the above data to AMFI. AMFI shall disclose 

the consolidated data in this regard on its website. 

D.  The aforesaid circulars stand modified to the said extent.  

E.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  (1)  of  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation 77 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, to protect the interests of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 

 
Asha Shetty 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel no. 022-26449258 
Email-ashas@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 5 of 5 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

