 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
 
All Registered Mutual Funds/ Approved Asset Management Companies (AMCs)  
 
Sir/Madam, 

 

Cir/ IMD/ DF/ 16 / 2011               

 September 08, 2011 

Sub: Amendments to SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 

1.  We are enclosing a copy of the Gazette Notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2011-12/27668 on 
Amendments  to  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  dated  August  30,  2011  for  your 
information and implementation. 

 
2.  Mailing of Annual Report or Abridged Summary: 
 
(i) 

Please refer to the SEBI Circular No. IMD/CIR No.8/132968/2008 dated July 24, 2008 
on  Abridged  Schemewise  Annual  Report  Format  and  periodic  disclosures  to  the 
unitholders and proviso to Regulation 56 (1) of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 
regarding mailing of scheme wise annual report or abridged summary thereof.  

(ii) 

In  order  to  bring  cost  effectiveness  in  printing  and  dispatching  the  annual  reports  or 
abridged summary and as a green initiative measure, the following shall be adhered:  

a.  In case of unitholders whose email addresses are available with the Mutual Fund, the 
AMCs shall communicate to them stating that henceforth, the scheme annual reports or 
abridged summary would only be sent by email.  

b.  In case of unitholders whose email addresses are not available with the Mutual Fund, 
the  AMCs  shall  communicate  to  the  unitholders  to  obtain  their  email  addresses  for 
registration of the same in their database. 

 

c.  The  communication  in  both  the  above  cases  shall  clearly  mention  that  the  scheme 
annual  accounts  or  abridged  summary  would  henceforth  be  sent  to  these  email 
addresses and not as physical copies and the communication shall also have an option 
for  the  investors  stating  that  those  who  still  wish  to  receive  the  reports  as  physical 
copies may indicate as such. 

d.  In  case  of  any  request  from  these  unitholders  as  detailed  above  for  physical  copies 
notwithstanding  their  registration  of  email  addresses,  AMCs  shall  provide  the  same 
without demur. 

e.  For  the  rest  of  the  investors,  i.e.  whose  email  addresses  are  not  available  with  the 
mutual fund, the AMCs shall continue to send physical copies of scheme annual reports 
or abridged summary. 

f.  The  AMCs  shall  display  the  link  of  the  scheme  annual  reports  or  abridged  summary 
prominently on their websites and make the physical copies available to the investors at 
their registered offices at all times. 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

