¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

                  

   October 05, 2011 

CIRCULAR 

 

CIR/CFD/DIL/7/2011 
 
To 
All Stock Exchanges  
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 

Sub: Amendments to the Equity, IDR and SME Equity Listing Agreements 

 

1.  In line with the objective to enhance the quality of disclosures made by listed entities, 
certain amendments  are  hereby  carried  out to  the Equity  Listing  Agreement,  Model 
Listing  Agreement  for  Indian  Depository  Receipts  and  Model  SME  Equity  Listing 
Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the “Listing Agreements”).  

 

2.  The full  texts  of  amendments  to  be  effected  in  the  Listing  Agreements are  given  at 

Annexure. Some of the amendments are as under:- 
 
(a) Amendments to Clause 41 - Disclosure of quarterly financial results 

i)  In order to give a better comparative picture of the quarterly financial results, 
listed  entities  shall  disclose  figures  in  respect  of  immediately  preceding 
quarter as well in addition to the existing requirements. 

 
ii)  Listed entities shall also submit the last quarter results along with the audited 

annual results. 

 

(b) Amendments to Clause 41 - Submission of financial results 

It  is  being  observed  that  certain  listed  entities,  while  submitting  their  interim 
financial  results,  submit  unaudited  financials  first  and  subsequently  submit  the 
limited review report after a lag. It is hereby clarified that submission of unaudited 
results shall be accompanied by the limited review report of the auditors. 
 

(c) Amendments  to  Clause  32  –  Mode  of  Supplying  Annual  Reports  to 

Shareholders 
In  modification  of SEBI  circular  no.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/LA/2/2007/26/4 dated  April  26, 
2007 and in line with the green initiative of  Ministry of Corporate Affairs vide their 
circular  dated  April  29,  2011,  it  has  been  decided  that  instead  of  supplying 
complete and full annual reports to all the shareholders, listed entities shall supply: 
i)  soft  copies  of  full  annual  reports  to  all  those  shareholders  who  have 

registered their email addresses for the purpose; 

ii)  hard copy of abridged annual reports to others and 
iii)  hard copies of full annual reports to those shareholders, who request for the 

same. 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 1 of 6 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

(d) Insertion of Clause 35A - Disclosure of voting results by listed entities 

In  order  to  ensure  wider  dissemination  of  information  regarding  voting  results, 
listed  entities  shall  disclose  their  voting  results  in  the  prescribed  format,  to  the 
exchanges  and  also  place  the  same  on  their  websites,  within  48  hours  from  the 
conclusion  of 
this 
requirement  shall  be  applicable  to  top  500  listed  entities  based  on  market 
capitalization computed as on the date of this circular.  
 

the  concerned  shareholders’  meeting.  To  begin  with, 

3.  Applicability 

(a)    Provisions  of  Paras  2(a),  2(b)  and  2(c)  shall  be  applicable  with  effect  from  the 

quarter/financial year ending on December 31, 2011. 

 
(b)    Provisions  of  Para  2(d)  shall  be  applicable  for  all  the  shareholders’  meetings,  for 
which notices are issued on or after January 01, 2012. Stock Exchanges are advised 
to notify the list of entities for whom the said provision would be applicable based on 
the criteria specified at 2(d) above.  

 

     The  above  listing  conditions  are  specified  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under 
Section  11  read  with  Section  11A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act, 
1992. The said listing conditions should form part of the existing Listing Agreements of 
the stock exchange.  

 
5.    All  stock  exchanges  are  advised  to  ensure  compliance  with  this  circular  and  carry  out 

the amendments in their Listing Agreement as per the Annexure to this circular. 

 

6.    This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

Encl: as above 

Yours faithfully, 
 
Sunil Kadam 
General Manager 
 +91-22-26449630 

sunilk@sebi.gov.in    

Page 2 of 6 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Annexure 

Amendments to Equity Listing Agreement 

 
1.  In Clause 5A, sub-clause (II), 

 Para (a), the words "captured in depository’s database" 
may  be  replaced  by  the words  “last  available  address  as  per  company’s/registrar’s 
record”. 
 

2.  In Clause 32, the para which reads –  

“The  Company  will  send  a  statement  containing  the  salient  features  of  the  Balance 
Sheet, Profit and Loss Account and Auditors’ Report to each shareholder: 
Provided  that,  the  company  on  receipt  of  written  request  from  a  shareholder,  shall 
send the complete and full Balance Sheet, Profit & Loss Account and Auditors’ Report 
to the said shareholder.”,  
 
 shall be substituted with the following: 
“The issuer shall supply: 

(i)  Soft  copies  of  full  annual  reports  containing  its  Balance  Sheet,  Profit  &  Loss 
account  and  Directors’  Report  to  all  those  shareholder(s)  who  have  registered 
their email address(es) for the purpose; 

(ii)  Hard  copy  of  statement  containing  the  salient  features  of  all  the  documents,  as 
prescribed  in  sub-clause  (iv)  of  clause  (b)  of  proviso    to  section  219  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956 to those shareholder(s) who have not so registered; 

(iii)  Hard  copies  of  full  annual  reports  to  those  shareholders,  who  request  for  the  

same.” 

 

3.  After Clause 35, a new Clause 35A may be inserted, viz., 

 
“35A.  The  issuer  agrees  to  submit  to  the  stock  exchange,  within  48  hours  of 
conclusion of its General Meeting, details regarding the voting results in the following 
format : 

 
Date of the AGM/EGM: _______________________ 
Total number of shareholders on record date: 
 
No.  of  Shareholders  present  in  the  meeting  either  in  person  or  through 
proxy: 

Promoters and Promoter Group: 
Public:  

 
No. of Shareholders attended the meeting through Video Conferencing 

Promoters and Promoter Group: 
Public:  

 
(Agenda-wise) 
 
Detail of the Agenda:  

Resolution required: (Ordinary/Special) 
Mode of voting: (Show of hands/Poll/Postal ballot/E-voting) 

Page 3 of 6 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
In case of Poll/Postal ballot/E-voting: 

Promoter/Public   No.  of 
shares 
held 
 
 

No. of 
votes 
polled  
 
 

(1) 

(2) 

of  Votes  
on 

% 
Polled 
outstanding 
shares 
 
(3)=[(2)/(1)]*100 

No.  of 
Votes 
- 
in 
favour 
    
(4) 

Promoter  and 
Promoter 
Group 
Public 
Institutional 
holders  
Public-Others 

– 

Total 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

No.  of 
Votes  
- 
against 
 
(5) 
 
 

 

 

 

%  of  Votes 
in favour on 
votes polled 
 
(6)= 
[(4)/(2)]*100 

 

 

 

 

%  of  Votes 
against  on 
votes polled 
 
(7)= 
[(5)/(2)]*100 
 
 

 

 

 

 
4.  In Clause 41 of the Equity LA:- 
a) In Sub-Clause (I) in Para (c), Sub-Para (i) shall be substituted with the following: 
 

“In case the issuer opts to submit unaudited financial results, they shall be subjected 
to  limited  review  by  the  statutory  auditors  of  the  issuer  (or  in  case  of  public  sector 
undertakings,  by  any  practicing  Chartered  Accountant)  and  such  limited  reviewed 
results (financial results accompanied by the limited review report) shall be submitted 
within forty-five days from the end of the quarter.” 

 
b) In Sub-Clause (I), Para (d) may be substituted with the following: 

d) 

“The  issuer  shall  submit  audited  financial  results  for  the  entire  financial  year, 
within sixty days of the end of the financial year. The issuer shall also submit the 
audited financial results in respect of the last quarter alongwith the results for the 
entire financial year, with a note that the figures of last quarter are the balancing 
figures  between  audited  figures  in  respect  of  the  full  financial  year  and  the 
published year to date figures upto the third quarter of the current financial year.” 

 

c)  In  Sub-Clause  (I)  in  Para  (e),  in  Sub-Para  (ii),  the  term  “…under  item  (c)”  shall  be 

substituted with “…under item (d)”.  

 
d)  The  header  row  in  Annexure  I,  II,  III  and  IV  may  be  substituted  with  the  following  to 

inter-alia disclose the immediately preceding quarter results, viz.: 

 

Particulars 

3 months 

ended 

 
 
 

(dd/mm/yyyy) 

(dd/mm/yyyy) 

(dd/mm/yyyy) 

(dd/mm/yyyy) 

(dd/mm/yyyy) 

Page 4 of 6 

 

Previous 3 
months  
ended 

Correspg 3 

Year to date 

months ended 
in the previous 

figures for 

current period 

Year to date 
figures for the 
previous year 

Previous 

accounting 
year ended 

 

year 

ended 

ended 

 

 
(dd/mm/yyyy) 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Audited/ 

Unaudited* 

Audited/ 
Unaudited 

Audited/ 

Audited/ 

Audited/ 

Audited/ 

Unaudited* 

Unaudited* 

Unaudited* 

Unaudited* 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Amendment to the Model SME Equity Listing Agreement 

 

5.  In Clause 34 of the Model SME Equity Listing Agreement, Para (a) may be substituted 

with: 
“The issuer shall supply: 
i)  Soft  copies  of  full  annual  reports  containing  its  Balance  Sheet,  Profit  &  Loss 
account and Directors’ Report to all those shareholder(s) who have registered their 
email address(es) for the purpose; 

ii)  Hard  copy  of  statement  containing  the  salient  features  of  all  the  documents,  as 
prescribed  in  sub-clause  (iv)  of  clause  (b)  of  proviso  to  section  219  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956 to those shareholder(s) who have not so registered; 

iii) Hard  copies  of  full  annual  reports  to  those  shareholders,  who  request  for  the 

same.” 

 

6.  In Clause 43, in Sub-Clause (I),  

i) 

In Para (c), Sub-Para (i)  may be substituted with:  

     “In case the issuer opts to submit unaudited financial results, they shall be subjected 
to  limited  review  by  the  statutory  auditors  of  the  issuer  (or  in  case  of  public  sector 
undertakings,  by  any  practicing  Chartered  Accountant)  and  such  limited  reviewed 
results  (financial  results  accompanied  by  the  limited  review  report)  shall  be 
submitted within forty-five days from the end of the half year.” 

 

 

 

ii)  Para (d) may be substituted with:  

     “The issuer shall submit audited financial results for the entire financial year, within 
sixty days of the end of the  financial year. The issuer shall also submit the audited 
financial  results  in  respect  of  the  last  half  year  alongwith  the  results  for  the  entire 
financial year, with a note that the figures of last year is the balancing figure between 
audited figures in respect of the full financial year and the previous half year.” 

iii)  In Para (e), in Sub-Para (ii), the term “…under item (c)” shall be substituted with  

“…under item (d)”.  

Amendment to Model Listing Agreement for Indian Depository Receipts 
 

7.    In  Clause  36,  Sub-Clause  (a)  of  the  Model  Listing  Agreement  for  Indian  Depository 

 

Receipts may be substituted with: 
“  (a)  to  send  to  its  IDR  Holders,  copies  of  annual  report  at  the  same  time  when  it  is 
made  available  to  its  shareholders,  as  per  the  requirement  of  its  home  country  and 
the other jurisdictions where its securities are listed, in the following manner: 
(i)  Soft  copies  of  full  annual  reports  containing  its  Balance  Sheet,  Profit  &  Loss 
account  and  Directors’  Report  to  all  those  IDR  Holders  who  have  registered  their 
email address(es) for the purpose; 
 

Page 5 of 6 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(ii) Hard copy of abridged annual report (including convenience translation into Indian 
Rupees  as  mentioned  in  sub-clause  (h)),  to  those  IDR  Holder(s)  who  have  not 
registered their email address(es), if the format for abridged annual report is specified 
by home country or the other jurisdictions, where its securities are listed; 
 
(iii)  Hard  copy  of  full  annual  report  to  those  IDR  Holder(s)  who  have  not  registered 
their  email  address(es),  if  no  such  format  for  abridged  annual  report  is  specified  by 
the home country or the other jurisdictions where its securities are listed. 

 

Issuer  further  agrees  to  ensure  that  the  IDR  Holders  are  able  to  receive  a  copy  of 
Annual  Report  from  the  domestic  depository  or  Compliance  Officer,  on  request.  The 
full  Annual  Report  shall  contain  the  Board’s  report,  Balance  Sheet,  Profit  and  Loss 
Account,  the  Auditor’s  Report  and  such  other  report  which  is  required  to  be  sent  to 
security  holders  annually  as  per  the  requirements  of  its  home  country  thereon.  The 
issuer further agrees to simultaneously file the same with the stock exchange;” 

 

************* 

Page 6 of 6 

 

