¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

               

 

 

        October 25, 2011 

 

CIR/MIRSD/22/2011  
 
To 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 

 
Sub: 

 
1)  SEBI  vide 

‘In-person’  verification  (IPV)  of  clients  by  subsidiaries  of  stock 
exchanges, acting as stock brokers 

letter  No.  MIRSD/DPS-III/130466/2008  dated  July  02,  2008 
(addressed  to  the  stock  exchanges),  mandated  the stock  brokers  to  carry  out 
‘in-person’  verification  of  their  clients  by  their  staff  while  registering  them  and 
also ensure that this function is not outsourced.   

  
2)  Subsequently,  SEBI  vide  circular  No.  SEBI/MIRSD/Cir.  No.  02/2010  dated 
January  18,  2010  clarified  that  the  ‘in  person’  verification  done  for  opening 
beneficial owner’s account by a Depository Participant  (DP) will hold good for 
opening  trading  account  by a  stock broker  and  vice versa,  if  the  stock broker 
and DP is the same entity or if one of them is the holding or subsidiary company 
of the other.    

  
3)  The subsidiaries of stock exchanges have now requested SEBI to consider the 
‘in-person’ verification carried out by their sub-brokers as due compliance with 
the aforesaid requirement since the said sub-brokers are also the stock brokers 
of the parent stock exchange and the subsidiaries are not permitted to register 
direct clients.  

4)  The matter has been examined and considering their distinctive structure, it is 
clarified that the subsidiaries of stock exchanges, acting as stock brokers, may 
rely  upon  the  ‘in-person’  verification  done  by  their  sub-brokers  (who  are  also 
registered  with  SEBI  as  stock  brokers  of  the  parent  stock  exchange)  for  their 
respective clients. However, the ultimate responsibility for ‘in-person’ verification 
would  remain  with  the  subsidiaries  and  they  shall  obtain  the  necessary  IPV 
documents for their records.  

 

 
5)  The stock exchanges are advised to: 
 

 

a.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers and also 

disseminate the same on their websites; 

b.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations 
for  the  implementation  of  the  above  decision  in  co-ordination  with  one 
another to achieve uniformity in approach; and 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 
 

 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

c.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular in the Monthly Development Report of the following month. 

 
6)  This  circular  is  issued in exercise of  powers  conferred under  Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of 
investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 
securities markets and shall come into effect from the date of this circular. 

 
7)  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
V. S. Sundaresan 
Chief General Manager  
022-26449200 
sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

