 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MIRSD/24/2011                                                                            December 15, 2011 
 
All intermediaries registered with SEBI 
 
Merchant Bankers/Registrars to An issue and Share Transfer Agents/Debenture 
Trustees/Bankers to An Issue/Underwriters/Credit Rating Agencies/Mutual 
Funds/Portfolio Managers/Venture Capital Funds/Collective Investment 
Schemes/Custodians 
 
All the Stock Exchanges (for stock brokers) 
NSDL/CDSL (for Depository Participants) 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub: Guidelines on Outsourcing of Activities by Intermediaries 
 
1.  SEBI Regulations for various intermediaries require that they shall render at all times 
high standards of service and exercise due diligence and ensure proper care in their 
operations.  
 

2.  It has been observed that often the intermediaries resort to outsourcing with a view to 

reduce costs, and at times, for strategic reasons.  

 
3.  Outsourcing may be defined as the use of one or more than one third party – either 
within  or  outside  the  group  -  by  a  registered  intermediary  to  perform  the  activities 
associated with services which the intermediary offers.  

 
 
4.  Principles for Outsourcing 
 

The risks associated with outsourcing may be operational risk, reputational risk, legal 
risk, country risk, strategic risk, exit-strategy risk, counter party risk, concentration and 
systemic  risk.    In  order  to  address  the  concerns  arising  from  the  outsourcing  of 
activities by intermediaries based on the principles advocated by the IOSCO and the 
experience of Indian markets, SEBI had prepared a concept paper on outsourcing of 
activities related to services offered by intermediaries. 

Based  on  the  feedback  received  on  the  discussion  paper  and  also  discussion  held 
with  various  intermediaries,  stock  exchanges  and  depositories,  the  principles  for 
outsourcing by intermediaries have been framed (Annexure I). These principles shall 
be followed by all intermediaries registered with SEBI. 

Page 1 of 8 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 
 
5.  Activities that shall not be Outsourced 
 

The  intermediaries  desirous  of  outsourcing  their  activities  shall  not,  however, 
outsource their core business activities and compliance functions. A few examples of 
core  business  activities  may  be  –  execution  of  orders  and  monitoring  of  trading 
activities of clients in case of stock brokers; dematerialisation of securities in  case of 
depository  participants;  investment  related  activities  in  case  of  Mutual  Funds  and 
Portfolio  Managers.  Regarding  Know  Your  Client 
the 
intermediaries  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of  SEBI  {KYC  (Know  Your  Client) 
Registration Agency} Regulations, 2011 and Guidelines issued thereunder from time 
to time. 

requirements, 

(KYC) 

 
 
6.  Other Obligations 
 

i.  Reporting  To  Financial  Intelligence  Unit  (FIU)  -  The  intermediaries  shall  be 
responsible  for  reporting  of  any  suspicious  transactions  /  reports  to  FIU  or  any 
other competent authority in respect of activities carried out by the third parties. 

ii.  Need for Self Assessment of existing Outsourcing Arrangements – In view of 
the  changing  business  activities  and  complexities  of  various  financial  products, 
intermediaries  shall  conduct  a  self  assessment  of  their  existing  outsourcing 
arrangements within a time bound plan, not later than six months from the date of 
issuance  of  this  circular  and  bring  them  in  line  with  the  requirements  of  the 
guidelines/principles. 
 
 

7.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors 
in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  
 
 

8.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

Yours faithfully, 

Prasanta Mahapatra 
Deputy General Manager  
022-26449313 
Email id: prasantam@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 8 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
ANNEXURE I 

PRINCIPLES FOR OUTSOURCING FOR INTERMEDIARIES 

 
1.  An  intermediary  seeking  to  outsource  activities  shall  have  in  place  a 
comprehensive  policy  to  guide  the  assessment  of  whether  and  how  those 
activities can  be  appropriately  outsourced.  The  Board  /  partners  (as  the  case 
may  be)  {hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “the  Board”}  of  the  intermediary  shall 
have  the  responsibility  for  the  outsourcing  policy  and  related  overall 
responsibility for activities undertaken under that policy. 

 
1.1  The policy shall cover activities or the nature of activities that can be outsourced, the 
authorities who can approve outsourcing of such activities, and the selection of third 
party to whom it can be outsourced. For example, an activity shall not be outsourced 
if it would impair the supervisory authority’s right to assess, or its ability to supervise 
the business of the intermediary. The policy shall be based on an evaluation of risk 
concentrations,  limits  on  the  acceptable  overall  level  of  outsourced  activities,  risks 
arising from outsourcing multiple activities to the same entity, etc.  

1.2  The Board shall mandate a regular review of outsourcing policy for such activities in 
the wake of changing business environment. It shall also have overall responsibility 
for ensuring that all ongoing outsourcing decisions taken by the intermediary and the 
activities undertaken by the third-party, are in keeping with its outsourcing policy. 

 
2  The intermediary shall establish a comprehensive outsourcing risk management 
programme  to  address  the  outsourced  activities  and  the  relationship  with  the 
third party. 

 
2.1 An  intermediary  shall  make  an  assessment  of  outsourcing  risk  which  depends  on 
several factors, including the scope and materiality of the outsourced activity, etc. The 
factors  that  could  help  in  considering  materiality  in  a  risk  management  programme 
include-  

 

 

Page 3 of 8 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
 
a. The impact of failure of a third party to adequately perform the activity on the 
financial, reputational and operational performance of the intermediary and on the 
investors / clients; 
b. Ability of the intermediary to cope up with the work, in case of non performance 
or failure by a third party by having suitable back-up arrangements;  
c. Regulatory status of the third party, including its fitness and probity status;  
d.  Situations  involving  conflict  of  interest  between  the  intermediary  and  the  third 
party and the measures put in place by the intermediary to address such potential 
conflicts, etc. 

2.2 While  there  shall  not  be  any  prohibition  on  a  group  entity  /  associate  of  the 
intermediary to act as the third party, systems shall be put in place to have an arm’s 
length distance between the intermediary and the third party in terms of infrastructure, 
manpower, decision-making, record keeping, etc. for avoidance of potential conflict of 
interests.  Necessary  disclosures  in  this  regard  shall  be  made  as  part  of  the 
contractual  agreement.  It  shall  be  kept  in  mind  that  the  risk  management  practices 
expected to be adopted by an intermediary while outsourcing to a related party or an 
associate would be identical to those followed while outsourcing to an unrelated party. 
2.3 The  records  relating  to  all  activities  outsourced  shall  be  preserved  centrally  so  that 
the same is readily accessible for review by the Board of the intermediary and / or its 
senior management, as and when needed. Such records shall be regularly updated 
and may also form part of the corporate governance review by the management of 
the intermediary. 

2.4 Regular  reviews  by  internal  or  external  auditors  of  the  outsourcing  policies,  risk 
management  system  and  requirements  of  the  regulator  shall  be  mandated  by  the 
Board  wherever  felt  necessary.  The  intermediary  shall  review  the  financial  and 
operational capabilities of the third party in order to assess its ability to continue to 
meet its outsourcing obligations.  

 

3  The intermediary shall ensure that outsourcing arrangements neither diminish 
its  ability  to  fulfill  its  obligations  to  customers  and  regulators,  nor  impede 
effective supervision by the regulators. 

 

Page 4 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
 
3.1  The intermediary shall be fully liable and accountable for the activities that are being 

 

outsourced to the same extent as if the service were provided in-house. 

3.2  Outsourcing arrangements shall not affect the rights of an investor or client against 
the intermediary in any manner. The intermediary shall be liable to the investors for 
the loss incurred by them due to the failure of the third party and also be responsible 
for  redressal  of  the  grievances  received  from  investors  arising  out  of  activities 
rendered by the third party.  

3.3  The facilities / premises / data that are involved in carrying out the outsourced activity 
by the service provider shall be deemed to be those of the registered intermediary. 
The intermediary itself and Regulator or the persons authorized by it shall have the 
right to access the same at any point of time.  

3.4  Outsourcing  arrangements  shall  not  impair  the  ability  of  SEBI/SRO  or  auditors  to 
the 

its  regulatory  responsibilities  such  as  supervision/inspection  of 

exercise 
intermediary. 

 

4  The intermediary shall conduct appropriate due diligence in selecting the third 

party and in monitoring of its performance. 

 
4.1 It  is  important  that  the  intermediary  exercises  due  care,  skill,  and  diligence  in  the 
selection of the third party to ensure that the third party has the ability and capacity to 
undertake the provision of the service effectively.  

4.2  The due diligence undertaken by an intermediary shall include assessment of: 

a.  third party’s resources and capabilities, including financial soundness, to perform 

the outsourcing work within the timelines fixed;  

b.  compatibility of the practices and systems of the third party with the intermediary’s 

requirements and objectives;  

c.  market  feedback  of  the  prospective  third  party’s  business  reputation  and  track 

record of their services rendered in the past;   

d.  level of concentration of the outsourced arrangements with a single third   party; 

and 

      e.  the environment of the foreign country where the third party is located.  

 

Page 5 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 
 
5  Outsourcing relationships shall be governed by written contracts / agreements / 
terms  and  conditions  (as  deemed  appropriate)  {hereinafter  referred  to  as 
“contract”}  that  clearly  describe  all  material  aspects  of  the  outsourcing 
arrangement,  including  the  rights,  responsibilities  and  expectations  of  the 
parties to the contract, client confidentiality issues, termination procedures, etc. 

 
5.1 Outsourcing arrangements shall be governed by a clearly defined and legally binding 
written contract between the intermediary and each of the third parties, the nature and 
detail  of  which  shall  be  appropriate  to  the  materiality  of  the  outsourced  activity  in 
relation to the ongoing business of the intermediary. 

5.2 Care shall be taken to ensure that the outsourcing contract: 

a.  clearly  defines  what  activities  are  going  to  be  outsourced,  including  appropriate 

service and performance levels; 

b.  provides for mutual rights, obligations and responsibilities of the intermediary and 

the third party, including indemnity by the parties; 

c.  provides  for  the  liability  of  the  third  party  to  the  intermediary  for  unsatisfactory 

performance/other breach of the contract  

d.  provides for the continuous monitoring and assessment by the intermediary of the 
third  party  so  that  any  necessary  corrective  measures  can  be  taken  up 
immediately, i.e., the contract shall enable the intermediary to retain an appropriate 
level  of  control  over  the  outsourcing  and  the  right  to  intervene  with  appropriate 
measures to meet legal and regulatory obligations;  

e.  includes, where necessary, conditions of sub-contracting by the third-party, i.e. the 
contract shall enable intermediary to maintain a similar control over the risks when 
a third party outsources to further third parties as in the original direct outsourcing; 
f.  has  unambiguous  confidentiality  clauses  to  ensure  protection  of  proprietary  and 
customer  data  during  the  tenure  of  the  contract  and  also  after  the  expiry  of  the 
contract;   

g.  specifies the responsibilities of the third party with respect to the IT security and 
contingency  plans,  insurance  cover,  business  continuity  and  disaster  recovery 
plans, force majeure clause, etc.; 

 

Page 6 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
 

 

h.  provides for  preservation of the documents and data by third party ; 
i.  provides  for  the  mechanisms  to  resolve  disputes  arising  from  implementation  of 

the outsourcing contract; 

j.  provides for termination of the contract, termination rights, transfer of information 

and exit strategies; 

k.  addresses  additional  issues  arising  from  country  risks  and  potential  obstacles  in 
exercising  oversight  and  management  of  the  arrangements  when  intermediary 
outsources  its  activities  to  foreign  third  party.    For  example,  the  contract  shall 
include  choice-of-law  provisions  and  agreement  covenants  and  jurisdictional 
covenants that provide for adjudication of disputes between the parties under the 
laws of a specific jurisdiction;  

l.  neither  prevents  nor  impedes  the  intermediary  from  meeting  its  respective 
regulatory obligations, nor the regulator from exercising its regulatory powers; and 
m.  provides for the intermediary and /or the regulator or the persons authorized by it 
to have the ability to inspect, access all books, records and information relevant to 
the outsourced activity with the third party. 

 
6  The intermediary and its third parties shall establish and maintain contingency 
plans,  including  a  plan  for  disaster  recovery  and  periodic  testing  of  backup 
facilities. 

 
6.1 Specific  contingency  plans  shall  be  separately  developed  for  each  outsourcing 

arrangement, as is done in individual business lines.  

6.2 An  intermediary  shall  take  appropriate  steps  to  assess  and  address  the  potential 
consequence  of  a  business  disruption  or  other  problems  at  the  third  party  level. 
Notably,  it  shall  consider  contingency  plans  at  the  third  party;  co-ordination  of 
contingency plans at both the intermediary and the third party; and contingency plans 
of the intermediary in the event of non-performance by the third party. 

6.3 To ensure business continuity, robust information technology security is a necessity. A 
breakdown  in  the  IT  capacity  may  impair  the  ability  of  the  intermediary  to  fulfill  its 
obligations to other market participants/clients/regulators  and could undermine the  

 

Page 7 of 8 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
privacy  interests  of  its  customers,  harm  the  intermediary’s  reputation,  and  may 
ultimately impact on its overall operational risk profile. Intermediaries shall, therefore, 
seek to ensure that third party maintains appropriate IT security and robust disaster 
recovery capabilities. 

6.4 Periodic tests of the critical security procedures and systems and review of the back-
up  facilities  shall  be  undertaken  by  the  intermediary  to  confirm  the  adequacy  of  the 
third party’s systems.  

 
7  The  intermediary  shall  take  appropriate  steps  to  require  that  third  parties 
protect confidential information of both the intermediary and its customers from 
intentional or inadvertent disclosure to unauthorised persons. 

 
7.1 An intermediary that engages in outsourcing is expected to take appropriate steps to 
protect its proprietary and confidential customer information and ensure that it is not 
misused or misappropriated.  

7.2 The intermediary shall prevail upon the third party to ensure that the employees of the 
third party have limited access to the data handled and only on a “need to know” basis 
and the third party shall have adequate checks and balances to ensure the same. 

7.3 In  cases  where  the  third  party  is  providing  similar  services  to  multiple  entities,  the 
intermediary  shall  ensure  that  adequate  care  is  taken  by  the  third  party  to  build 
safeguards for data security and confidentiality. 

 
8  Potential risks posed where the outsourced activities of multiple intermediaries 

are concentrated with a limited number of third parties. 
 
In  instances,  where  the  third  party  acts  as  an  outsourcing  agent  for  multiple 
intermediaries,  it  is  the  duty  of  the  third  party  and  the  intermediary  to  ensure  that 
strong  safeguards  are  put  in  place  so  that  there  is  no  co-mingling  of  information 
/documents, records and assets. 

 

Page 8 of 8 

 

