¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

                                 

December 26, 2011 

 

 

 

CIR. /IMD/DF/22/2011 
 
All Merchant Bankers 
All Stock-Brokers and Sub-brokers  
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 

 

 

Sub: Public issue of Debt Securities- Prohibition on payment of incentives 

1.  It is gathered from market participants that in public issues of debt securities, some 
brokers/ distributors are passing on part of their brokerage/ commission to the final 
investor(s)  for  subscription  to  such  public  issue  of  debt.  As  a  result,  while  on  one 
hand it is giving an unfair advantage/bargaining power to a certain set of investors 
and  distributors,  on  the  other  hand  it  is  adding  to  the  cost  of  issuance  for  the 
company. 
 

2.  In order to curb such practices, it is advised that in respect of public issues of debt 
securities,  no  person  connected  with  the  issue  shall  offer  any  incentive,  whether 
direct or indirect, in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise to 
any person for making an application for allotment of specified securities: 
 
Provided that nothing contained in this circular shall apply to fees or commission for 
services rendered in relation to the issue. 
 
For the purpose of the above guideline, the expression “person connected with the 
issue” includes a person connected with the distribution of issue. 
 

3.  All  recognized  stock  exchanges  are  advised  to  bring  to  the  notice  of  all  their 

members and to disseminate the same on their respective websites for information. 
 

4.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  and 
Section  11  A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with 
Regulation 31(1) of SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 to 
protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of, 
and to regulate the securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 
 

 

 

 

 

Maninder Cheema     

                                         Deputy General Manager 

Tel: No: 022-26449754     

Email: maninderc@sebi.gov.in 

