 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

           January 03, 2012 

 

 

 

 

CIR/IMD/FIIC/1/2012 
To 
All Foreign Institutional Investors 
through their designated Custodians of Securities 
 
Dear Sir/Madam 

Sub: Changes in Re-investment period of FII debt limit 

1.  Please refer to para 2 of SEBI circular Cir No. IMD/FII&C/30/2008 dated July 04, 2008 
and  para  6  of  circular  CIR/IMD/FIIC/18  /2010  dated  November  26,  2010,  relating  to 
facility provided for FIIs for re-investment period for debt investments. 

Withdrawal of the facility of re-investment 

2.  It has been decided that henceforth re-investment period shall not be allowed for all 
new allocations of debt limit to FIIs/sub-accounts. Thus, limits acquired in the bidding 
sessions henceforth shall expire/lapse on either sale or redemption at maturity of the 
debt  investments.  These  limits  then  shall  again  be  allocated  in  subsequent  bidding 
processes. 

Treatment for entities that currently hold limits/ investments 

3.  As on the date of the issuance of this circular those FIIs and sub-accounts that already 
have acquired limits and /or invested in debt, these existing limits shall expire in the 
following manner:-  

a.  Facility of re-investment shall continue until any one of the following thresholds 

is breached 

i.  Total  sales  made 

from  the  existing  debt  portfolio  (current  debt 
investment  and  the  un-utilized  limit  currently  with  the  entity,  if  any)  is 
twice the size of its debt portfolio as on the date of this circular    

 or  

ii.  expiry of two years from the date of this circular i.e. January 02, 2014 

b.  Re-investment period for the above purposes shall continue to be as per para 6 

of circular CIR/IMD/FIIC/18 /2010 dated November 26, 2010 

4.  After the threshold as mentioned above is breached, in case of any sale or redemption 
of  the  investments,  the  limit  shall  expire/lapse.  These  limits  then  shall  again  be 
allocated in subsequent bidding processes. 

5.  It is clarified here that the FII/sub-account is not required to sell its investments in debt 
instrument after it reaches the threshold mentioned above, and thus it can continue to 
retain  the  debt  investments  beyond  the  threshold,  however,  the  sale  or  redemption 
thereon will not be eligible for re-investment beyond the thresholds above. 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Investments in long term infra debt category 

 

 

New Allocations  

6.  For all new allocations of debt limit under this category, if a FII decides to sell their 
holdings  during  lock-in  period  to  another  FII;  the  limit  will  automatically  transfer  to 
purchasing entity. However, if a FII decides to sell/redeem their holdings after lock-in 
period;  same  limit  shall  expire/lapse.  These  limits  then  shall  again  be  allocated  in 
subsequent bidding processes. 

Treatment for entities currently holding investments:  

7.  Similar  facility  as  provided  in  para  3  &  4  above  shall  also  be  applicable  for  all 
investments made in the long term infra debt category (with one year lock in and one 
year residual maturity clause) where lock in provisions are in force.  

a.  During the lock-in period, if a FII/sub-account decides to sells its investments in 
the  special  trading  window  as  provided  by  the  exchanges  in  terms  of  SEBI 
circular dated March 31, 2011, selling FII/ sub-account may exercise its option 
to  sell  its  investments  along  with  the  limits  or  may  choose  to  sell  only  the 
investments and retain the limits.  

b.  In case the selling entity chooses to retain the limit, then it shall be subject to 

para 3 of this circular. 

c.  If selling entity chooses to transfer the limit, then the purchasing entity shall be 

subject to the para 3 of this circular. 

8.  Entities can avail of the benefit of Para 7 (a) if it is sells the investments to another 
another FII/sub-accounts after lock-in period; however this benefit can be availed only 
upto January 02, 2014. 

9.  Upto January 02, 2014, if the FII/Subaccount redeems the investments at the maturity 
of the instrument, or sells to a domestic participant after the lock-in period, it can avail 
benefit of para 3 of this circular. 

10. FIIs are advised to evolve suitable mechanism in consultation with their custodian to 

give effect to the provisions of this circular. 

This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  (1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 of the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the interests of investors in securities and to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 
A copy of this circular is available at the web page “F.I.I.” on our website www.sebi.gov.in. 
The custodians are requested to bring the contents of this circular to the notice of their FII 
clients. 
Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

 

Jeevan Sonparote 
General Manager 
+91-22-26449110 
jeevans@sebi.gov.in 

