 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/ IMD/FII&C/3/2012      

 

January 13, 2012 

 
All SEBI registered Intermediaries/ Recognized Stock Exchanges/ Depositories 
 
Sir / Madam,  
 
Sub: Investment by Qualified Foreign Investors (QFI) in Indian equity shares.  
 
1.   The  Central  Government,  vide  press  release  dated  January  1,  2012  has  announced  its 
decision to allow QFIs to directly invest in Indian equity market in order to widen the class of 
investors, attract more foreign funds, reduce market volatility and to deepen the Indian capital 
market. 
 

2.  In order to facilitate the above and in consultation with the Government and RBI, it has been 
decided  that  foreign  investors  (termed  as  Qualified  Foreign  Investors/  QFI)  who  meet 
prescribed Know Your Customer (KYC) requirements may invest in equity shares listed on the 
recognized stock exchanges and in equity shares offered to public in India. In order to enable 
this they will hold equity shares in a demat account opened with a SEBI registered qualified 
Depository Participant. 

 

3.  The QFI for the purpose shall have the same meaning as that provided in para 3.1 of SEBI 

circular Cir/IMD/DF/14/2011 dated August 09, 20111.   

 

4.  To  become  a  qualified  Depository  Participant  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “DP”),  a  SEBI 

registered DP shall fulfill the following: 

4.1. DP shall have paid up capital of Rs. 50 crore or more; 

                                                 
1 Qualified Foreign Investor (QFI) shall mean a person resident in a country that is compliant with Financial Action Task Force (FATF) 
standards  and  that  is  a  signatory  to  International  Organization  of  Securities  Commission's  (IOSCO’s)  Multilateral  Memorandum  of 
Understanding (MMOU). 

Provided that such person is not resident in India, 

 

 

Provided further that such person is not registered with SEBI as Foreign Institutional Investor or Sub-account. 
Explanation - For the purposes of this clause: 

(1) the term "Person" shall carry the same meaning under Section 2(31) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 
(2) the phrase “resident in India” shall carry the same meaning as in the Income Tax Act, 1961 
(3) “resident” in a country, other than India, shall mean resident as per the direct tax laws of that country. 

 

 

Page 1 of 9 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
4.2. DP  shall  be  either  a  clearing  bank  or  clearing  member  of  any  of  the  clearing 

 

 

corporations; 

4.3. DP shall have appropriate arrangements for receipt and remittance of money with a 

designated Authorised Dealer (AD) Category - I bank; 

4.4. DP shall demonstrate that it has systems and procedures to comply  with the FATF 
Standards,  Prevention  of  Money  Laundering  (PML)  Act,  Rules  and  SEBI  circulars 
issued from time to time; and 

4.5. DP  shall  obtain  prior  approval  of  SEBI  before  commencing  the  activities  relating  to 

opening of accounts of QFI. 

 

5.  All DPs who have obtained approval of SEBI for undertaking activities relating to accepting 
investments by QFI in Mutual Fund schemes need not obtain separate approval from SEBI for 
commencing the activities relating to investments by QFI in equity shares. 

 
6.  Eligible transactions for QFI 

6.1. The  DP shall ensure that transactions of QFI are limited only to the following: 

6.1.1.  Purchase of equity shares in public issues, to be listed on recognised stock 

exchange(s). 

6.1.2.   Purchase of listed equity shares through SEBI registered stock brokers, on 

recognized stock exchanges in India. 

6.1.3.  Sale of equity shares which are held in their demat account through SEBI 

registered stock brokers. 

6.1.4.   Purchase of equity shares against rights issues. 
6.1.5.   Receipt of bonus shares or receipt of shares on stock split/ consolidation. 
6.1.6.  Receipt  of  equity  shares  due  to  amalgamation,  demerger  or  such  other 

corporate actions, subject to the investment limits.  

6.1.7.  Receipt of dividends. 
6.1.8.  Tender  equity  shares  in  open  offer  in  accordance  with  SEBI  (Substantial 

Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. 

6.1.9.  Tender  equity  shares  in  open  offer  in  accordance  with  SEBI  (Delisting  of 

Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009. 

6.1.10. Tender  equity  shares  in  case  of  buy-back  by  listed  companies  in 

accordance with SEBI (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998 

 
7.  Account opening and manner of operation by QFI 

7.1.  A QFI can  open only one demat account with any one of  the DPs and shall make 
purchase  and  sale  of  equity  shares  through  that  DP  only.    In  case  of  jointly  held 

 

Page 2 of 9 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

demat accounts, each of the joint  holders shall meet the requirements specified for 
QFI  and  each  shall  be  deemed  to  be  holding  a  demat  account  as  a  QFI.   
Depositories/ DP shall have adequate systems to ensure the compliance of the same 
and  perform  KYC  due  diligence  for  each  of  the  joint  holders.    The  DP  shall  carry 
necessary  due  diligence  and  obtain  appropriate  declarations  and  undertakings from 
QFI to ensure that no other demat account is held by any of the QFI as a QFI or in 
any other capacity such as NRI, before opening a demat account.  

7.2.  The DP shall ensure that the same set of ultimate/ end beneficial owner(s) are not 
allowed to open more than one demat account as QFI.  For this purpose, the DP 
shall  carry out  necessary  due diligence and obtain  appropriate declarations and 
undertakings from QFI.   

7.3. A QFI can open  trading accounts with one or more SEBI registered stock brokers 
7.4.  The DP shall ensure that only QFI who meet the conditions stipulated in para 3.1 of 
SEBI  circular  Cir/IMD/DF/14/2011  dated  August  9,  2011  are  allowed  to  invest  in 
equity shares.  Additionally, the DP shall ensure that only those entities are allowed to 
open demat account as QFI whose ultimate/ end beneficial ownership is not resident 
in India.  The DP shall carry out necessary due diligence for the same at the time of 
account opening.  An express undertaking to this effect shall be obtained by DP from 
the QFI. 

7.5.  The  entities  having  opaque  structure(s)  such  that  the  details  of  ultimate/  end 
beneficiary  are  not  accessible  or  where  the  beneficial  owners  are  ring  fenced  from 
each other or where the beneficial owners are ring fenced with regard to enforcement 
shall  not  be  allowed  to  open  demat  account  as  QFI.    The  DP  shall  perform 
appropriate due diligence at the time of account opening and ensure that such entities 
are not allowed to open demat account.  An express undertaking to this effect shall be 
obtained by DP from the QFI 

7.6. In case of any direct/ indirect change in structure or beneficial ownership of the QFI, it 
shall  bring  the  same  to  the  notice  of  its  DP,  forthwith.    The  DP  shall  assess  the 
eligibility of that QFI afresh, before allowing it to undertake any further transactions. . 

7.7. The  QFI  shall,  as  and  when  required  by  the  Government,  SEBI  or  any  other 
regulatory  agency  in  India,  submit  to  that  agency,  as  the  case  may  be,  any 
information,  record  or  documents  in  relation  to  his  activities  as  QFI.    An  express 
undertaking to this effect shall be obtained by DP from the QFI. 

7.8. The QFI shall, in relation to his activities as QFI, at all the times, subject themselves to 
the extant Indian laws, rules, regulations, circulars etc. from time to time,  An express 
undertaking to this effect shall be obtained by DP from the QFI.    

 

Page 3 of 9 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
7.9. The DP shall open a separate single rupee pool bank account with a designated AD 
Category-1 Bank, exclusively for the purpose of investments by QFI in equity shares 
in India. 

7.10.  The DP shall ensure that funds of each and every QFI in the rupee pool account 
are clearly segregated from each other at all times.  Further, the DP shall maintain 
appropriate  records  including  audit  trails  on  an  ongoing  basis  regarding  such 
segregation. 

7.11.  The  DP  shall  open  a  demat  account  for  the  QFI  only  after  ensuring  compliance 
with all the requirements as per PML Act, rules and regulations, FATF standards and 
SEBI circulars issued in this regard, from time to time and shall also ensure that QFI 
comply with all these requirements on an ongoing basis. 

7.12.  The  DP  shall  ensure  that  every  QFI  transacts  only  through  one  designated 
overseas bank account and such overseas bank account which QFI has designated 
for the purpose is based in a country which is compliant with   FATF standards and is 
a signatory to MMOU of IOSCO.  

7.13. 

 The DP shall capture, the details of the overseas bank account designated by the 
QFI  and  shall  ensure  that  all  inward  bound  investments  are  received  from  that 
overseas account and repatriation/ remittances of proceeds are also transferred into 
the same overseas account. 

7.14.  The  DP  shall  require  QFI  to  submit  necessary  information  for  the  purpose  of 
obtaining PAN.  The DP may use the combined PAN cum KYC form as notified by 
CBDT for this purpose.  Each QFI shall obtain a separate and distinct PAN.  The DP 
may take any additional information/ documents from QFI other than those mentioned 
in  the  common  PAN  cum  KYC  form  to  ensure  compliance  with  PML  rules  and 
regulations, FATF standards and SEBI circulars issued from time to time. 

7.15.  The  DP  shall  ensure  that  all  the  investor  related  documents/  records  of  QFI  are 

available with the DP. 

7.16.  The DP shall ensure that equity shares held by QFI are free from all encumbrances 

including pledge or lien etc. at all times. 

7.17.  The DP shall, at all times, ensure compliance with laws, rules and regulations of 

the jurisdictions where the QFI are based. 

7.18.  The  DP  shall  ensure  that  the  interests  of  other  clients  of  DP  are  not  adversely 

affected in any manner due to transactions done on behalf of QFI. 

7.19. 

In case of any penalty, pending litigations or proceedings, findings of inspections or 
investigations  for  which  action  may  have  been  taken  or  is  in  the  process  of  being 
taken by an overseas regulator against DP/ QFI, the DP shall notify such information 
forthwith, to the attention of SEBI, depositories and stock exchanges.  The DP shall 

Page 4 of 9 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

mandate  the  QFI  to  furnish  the  details  of  any  such  penalty,  pending  litigations  or 
proceedings, findings of inspections or investigations to it on an ongoing basis.  

7.20.  The  DP  shall  be  responsible  for  the  deduction  of  applicable  tax  at  source  on 
account of profits or gains or dividends or any other income accruing to or received by 
QFI  before  making  any  reinvestment/  repurchase  or  repatriation/  remittance  to  QFI, 
and remit and report the same to the relevant tax authorities. 

7.21. 

In case a QFI desires to change the DP with whom he holds the demat account, he 
shall be allowed to operate a new demat account with another DP only after closure of 
the  earlier  demat  account.      At  the  time  of  opening  a  new  demat  account  with  a 
different  DP,  the  QFI  shall  furnish  the  details  regarding  the  existing  demat  account 
with the earlier DP and the details of the shareholdings in the earlier demat account.  
Simultaneously, the QFI shall issue transfer instructions to the earlier DP with a copy 
to the new DP.  With regard to the funds of the QFI lying in the rupee pool account of 
the  earlier  DP,  the  same  shall  be  remitted  back  to  the  designated  overseas  bank 
account of the concerned QFI.  At any point of time, a QFI shall operate through only 
one demat account with a DP. 

8.  Investment restrictions and monitoring of investment limits for QFI: 

8.1. The QFI shall transact in Indian equity shares only on the basis of taking and giving 

delivery of shares purchased or sold. 

8.2. Each transaction by QFI shall be cleared and settled on gross basis. 
8.3. QFI shall not issue offshore derivatives instruments/ participatory notes.  A declaration 

and undertaking to this effect shall be obtained by DP from the QFI. 

8.4. The DP shall provide on a daily basis, QFI wise, ISIN wise and company wise buy/ 
sell information and any other transaction or any related information to their respective 
depositories on the same day i.e  the day on which the transaction was carried out, 
before the time stipulated by the depositories. 

8.5. The stock exchanges shall provide the details of paid up equity capital of all the listed 
companies, ISIN  wise,  to  the  depositories once  in six  months,  periodically  and  also 
provide information regarding change in paid up equity capital in any listed company, 
immediately. 

8.6. The  QFI  and  DP  shall  ensure  that  the  total  shareholding  held  by  a  QFI  shall  not 
exceed five percent of paid up equity capital of the company at any point of time.  This 
investment  limit  shall  be  applicable  to  each  class  of  equity  shares  having  separate 
and distinct ISIN. 

8.7. The depositories shall put in place appropriate systems and procedures to monitor the 

above limit by using PAN and/ or other unique identity number of the QFI. 

 

Page 5 of 9 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
8.8.  The  depositories  shall  administer  and  monitor,  so  as  to  ensure,  that  aggregate 
shareholding of all QFIs shall not exceed ten percent of the paid up equity capital of 
the    company  at  any  point  of  time,  in  respect  of  each  equity  share  class  having 
separate and distinct ISIN.   

8.9. The  depositories  shall  jointly  publish/  disseminate  the  ISIN  wise  and  company  wise 

aggregate shareholding of QFIs to public, on daily basis. 

8.10.  The 

information  regarding 

ISIN  wise  and  company  wise  aggregate  QFI 
shareholding shall also be provided by the depositories to the RBI in a manner and 
format as stipulated by the Reserve Bank of India from time to time. 

8.11.  When the aggregate shareholding of all the QFIs in a company reaches 8% of the 
equity  paid  up  capital,  the  company’s  name  along  with  ISIN  shall  be  published  in 
caution list by the depositories and no fresh purchases shall be allowed without prior 
approval of the depositories.  The same shall   be informed by the depositories to the 
DPs and recognized stock exchanges having nationwide terminals.  The depositories 
shall also inform the DPs and such stock exchanges when any company is removed 
from the caution list. 

8.12.  For fresh purchases by QFI in equity shares of companies in the caution list, prior 
approval of the depositories shall be obtained.  The QFI shall make such request for 
prior  approval  to  the  concerned  depository  through  the  DP  specifying  therein  the 
name  of  the  QFI,  PAN  and  other  unique  identification  number  relating  to  that  QFI, 
number  of  shares  to  be  purchased  and  the  ISIN,  by  way  of  any  mode  of 
communication as specified by the depositories in consultation with each other.   The 
concerned depository shall provide the details of prior approval requests received by it 
to the other depository. 

8.13.  After market hours, the depository shall give prior approval to request for purchase 
of equity shares of companies in the caution list  on a first-come-first-served basis in 
co-ordination with the other depository, based on time of receipt of the prior approval 
requests by the depositories,.  The validity of the approval shall be for the next trading 
day only. 

8.14. 

In case the aggregate shareholding of the QFI exceeds the limit of ten percent in 
respect of any ISIN, the depositories shall jointly notify the respective DPs regarding 
the  breach  along  with  the  names  of  the  QFI  due  to  whom  the  limits  have  been 
breached.    For  this  purpose,  the  stock  exchanges  shall  provide  the  required 
information so as to enable the depositories to identify the transaction details of the 
QFI  including  the  name  of  QFI,  PAN  and/  or  other  unique  identification  number 
relating to that QFI, purchase quantity and time or any other information as may be 
required by the depositories.  

Page 6 of 9 

 

 

 

 

 
8.15. 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

In case the aggregate shareholding of the QFIs exceeds the limit of ten percent for 
whatsoever  reason,  the  QFI  due  to  whom  the  limit  is  breached  shall  mandatorily 
divest  excess  holdings  within  three  working  days  of  such  breach  being  notified  by 
depositories to the DP.  The DP shall obtain necessary authorization from the QFI at 
the time of account opening for such divestment of excess holdings. 

8.16.  The stock exchanges shall amend Clause 35 of the listing agreement on or before 
June  30,  2012,  so  as  to  incorporate  another  class  of  investor  to  disseminate  QFI 
shareholding in equity shares. 

8.17.  The stock exchanges shall develop a separate segment for intra QFI transactions 
in the equity shares of companies in the caution list, if they wish to buy without the 
prior approval of depositories. However, QFI who have obtained prior approval of the 
depositories as referred in para 8.11 and 8.12 above, may purchase equity shares in 
the normal segment of recognized stock exchanges. 

8.18.  The  stock  exchanges/  depositories/  DPs  shall  not  levy  any  charges  towards 

services relating to monitoring and administering of investment limits of QFI. 

 

9.  Process flow 

9.1. Purchase  

9.1.1.  The QFI shall place a purchase order with the DP mentioning the name of 
the  company  and  ISIN,  number  of  equity  shares,  name  of  the  stock  broker 
and  remit  foreign  inward  remittances  from  the  designated  overseas  bank 
account  of  QFI  through  normal  banking  channel  in  any  permitted  currency 
(freely convertible) directly to the single rupee pool bank account of the DP 
maintained with a designated AD category - I bank.  

9.1.2.  The  DP  in  turn  shall  forward  the  purchase  order  to  the  SEBI  registered 
stock  broker  with  whom  QFI  has  opened  trading  account  and  remits  the 
money to the brokers account after receipt of funds from QFI and as per the 
instructions of QFI.  

9.1.3.  If for any reasons, the QFI is not able to purchase equity shares within five 
working  days  of  the  inward  remittance  (including  the  date  of  receipt  of 
foreign  inward  remittance  through  normal  banking  channels  from  the 
designated overseas bank account of the QFI into the single rupee pool bank 
account), the DP shall immediately remit the money back to the designated 
overseas bank account of the QFI. 

9.1.4.  The  DP  shall  ensure  that  equity  shares  purchased  on  behalf  of  QFI  are 

credited into the demat account of that QFI on the pay-out date. 

 

Page 7 of 9 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

9.1.5.  In  case  of  QFI’  participation  in  public  issues,  the  QFI  shall  provide 
instruction  to  the  DP  to  make  application  for  public  issue.    The  DP,  after 
obtaining  necessary  instructions  from  the  QFI  and  subject  to  availability  of 
funds on account of that QFI in the rupee pool account, shall make application 
on behalf of such QFI and remit money to the issuer company.  
 

9.2. Sale 

9.2.1. On receipt of instruction from QFI containing name of the company and / or 
ISIN,  number  of  equity  shares  and  name  of  the  stock  broker,  the  DP  shall 
place  order  for  sale  of  equity  shares  only  after  verifying  availability  of  such 
equity shares in demat account of that QFI.  Upon receipt of sale proceeds on 
account of sale of equity shares made on behalf of QFI, the same shall be 
retained in single rupee pool bank account of the DP for a period of maximum 
five working days.  

9.2.2. The QFI can instruct the DP to make fresh purchase of equity shares out of 
sale  proceeds  on  account  of  sale  of  equity  shares  provided  that  such 
purchase is made within five working days (including the date of receipt of the 
sale proceeds in the single rupee pooled bank account) of receipt of money  
in the pooled bank account. In case no purchase is made within said period, 
the  money  shall  be  remitted  by  the  DPs  to  the  designated  bank  overseas 
account of the QFI within five working days from the date of receipt of money 
in the pooled bank account. 

 

9.3. Dividend and other corporate actions 

9.3.1. In case of dividend received  on account of QFI, the DP shall remit the same 
to the designated bank overseas account of the QFI within five working days 
(including the date of credit to the single rupee pool account) from the date of 
receipt  of  money  in  the  DP’s  rupee  pooled  bank  account,  unless  any  fresh 
purchase of equity shares is made out of such dividend receipts  
 

9.3.2.  In case of QFI participation in corporate actions such as buy back, delisting 
etc. wherein the pool account maintained with DP is credited with funds, such 
funds shall be remitted back to the designated bank overseas account of the 
QFI within five days of receipt of same, unless any fresh purchase of equity 
shares is made out of such funds. 

 

 

Page 8 of 9 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
10. The  transactions  of  QFIs,  for  all  purposes,  shall  be  treated  at  par  with  that  of  Indian  non-

 

 

institutional investors with regard to margins, voting rights, public issues etc. 
 

11. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors in securities and 
to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
12. The investment by the QFI in listed equity shares as mentioned herein above shall also be 
subject  to  the  relevant  and  extant  FEMA  regulations  and  guidelines  issued  by  the  Reserve 
Bank of India under FEMA, 1999 from time to time. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
S MADHUSUDHANAN 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel No.: 022-26449614 
Email: smadhu@sebi.gov.in 
 
 
 

 

Page 9 of 9 

 

