 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DP/ 05/2012 

 

 

 

 

 

            February 1, 2012 

 
The Managing Director and CEO   
Bombay Stock Exchange Limited  
 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers  
 
Dalal Street    
Mumbai - 400001  
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 

 
 

 
 

The Managing Director 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 
Exchange Plaza, Bpandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (E) 
Mumbai - 400 051 

Sub: Offer For Sale of Shares by Promoters through the Stock Exchange Mechanism  

 

In order to facilitate promoters to dilute/offload their holding in listed companies in a transparent 

manner  with  wider  participation,  it  has  been  decided  to  allow  the  offer  for  sale  of  shares  by 

promoters  of  such  companies  through  a  separate  window  provided  by  the  stock  exchange(s). 

The guidelines for the same are as under: 

 

1.  Eligibility 

 

(a)  Exchanges 

To begin with, the facility of offer for sale of shares shall be available on Bombay Stock 

Exchange (BSE) and National Stock Exchange (NSE).  

   

(b) Sellers 

 

(i) 

All  promoter(s)/  promoter  group  entities  of  such  companies  that  are  eligible  for 

trading  and  are  required    to  increase  public  shareholding  to  meet  the  minimum 

public  shareholding  requirements  in  terms  Rule  19(2)(b)  and  19A  of  Securities 

Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957  (SCRR),  read  with  clause  40A  (ii)  (c)  of 

Listing Agreement.     

(ii) 

All promoter(s)/ promoter group entities of top 100 companies based on average 

market capitalization of the last completed quarter. 

 

For  (i)  and (ii)  above,  the  promoter/promoter group  entities should  not  have  purchased 

and/or sold the shares of the company in the 12 weeks period prior to the offer and they 

 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

should  undertake  not  to  purchase  and/or  sell  shares  of  the  company  in  the  12  weeks 

period after the offer. 

   

(c)  Buyers 

 
All  investors  registered  with  the  brokers  of  the  aforementioned  stock  exchanges  other 

than the promoter(s)/ promoter group entities.  

 

2.  Definitions 

 

(a)  "Single  Clearing  Price”  is  the  price  at  which  the  shares  are  allocated  to  the  successful 

bidders in a proportionate basis methodology. 

 
(b)  “Multiple  Clearing  Prices”  are  the  prices  at  which  the  shares  are  allocated  to  the 

successful bidders in a price priority methodology. 

 
(c)  “Indicative Price” is the price at which the quantity offered is exhausted. 

 
(d)  “Floor Price” is the minimum price at which the seller intends to sell the shares. 

 

3.  Size of Offer for sale of shares 

 

The size of the offer shall be atleast 1% of the paid-up capital of the company, subject to a 

minimum  of  Rs  25  crores.  However,  in  respect  of  companies,  where  1%  of  the  paid-up 

capital  at  closing  price  on  the  specified  date  is  less  than  Rs  25  crores,  dilution  would  be 

atleast  10%  of  the  paid-up  capital  or  such  lesser  percentage  so  as  to  achieve  minimum 

public shareholding in a single tranche. 

 
Note: Specified date shall be the last trading day of the last completed quarter 

 

4.  Advertisement and offer expenses 

 
(a)  Advertisements  about  the  offer  for  sale  of  shares  through  stock  exchange(s)  shall  be 

made after the announcement/ notice of the offer for sale of shares has been made to 

the stock exchanges in accordance with para 5 (b) below; 

(b)  All expenses relating to offer for sale of shares through stock exchange(s) shall be borne 

by the seller(s).   

 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

5.  Operational Requirements  

 
(a)  Appointment of Broker 

 

The  Seller(s)  would  have  to  appoint  Sellers‟  broker(s)  for  this  purpose.  The  Seller‟s 

broker(s) may also undertake transactions on behalf of eligible buyers.  

 

(b) Announcement/ Notice of the Offer for sale of shares 

 
Seller(s)  shall  announce  the  intention  of  sale  of  shares  at  least  one  clear  trading  day 

prior to the opening of offer, along with the following information: 

(i)  Name  of  the  seller(s)  (promoter/  promoter  group)  and  the  name  of  the  company 

whose shares are proposed to be sold. 

(ii)  Name of the Exchange(s) where the orders shall be placed. In case orders are to 

be placed on both BSE and NSE, one of them shall be declared as the Designated 

Stock Exchange (“DSE”). 

(iii)  Date and time of the opening and closing of the offer.  

(iv) 

Allocation methodology i.e. either on a price priority (multiple clearing prices) basis 

or on a proportionate basis at a single clearing price. 

(v)  Number of shares being offered for sale.  

(vi) 

The name of the broker(s) on behalf of the seller(s). 

(vii) 

Floor price, if the seller(s) chooses to announce it to the market or a declaration to 

the effect that the floor price will be submitted to the stock exchange(s) in a sealed 

envelope which shall be declared post closure of the offer. 

(viii)  Conditions, if any, for withdrawal or cancellation of the offer. 

 

(c)  Floor price 

 

(i) 

Seller(s) may declare a floor price in the announcement/ notice 

(ii) 

In  case  the  seller(s)  chooses  not  to  publicly  disclose  the  floor  price,  the  seller(s) 

shall  give  the  floor  price  in  a  sealed  envelope  to  DSE  before  the  opening  of  the 

offer. 

(iii) 

The  floor  price  if  not  declared  to  the  market,  shall  not  be  disclosed  to  anybody, 

including the selling broker(s). 

 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

(iv) 

Sealed envelope shall be opened by the DSE after the closure of the offer for sale 

and the floor price suitably disseminated to the market. 

 

(d) Timelines  

(i) 

(ii) 

 

 

The duration of the offer for sale shall not exceed one trading day.  

The placing of orders by trading members shall take place during trading hours. 

(e)  Order Placement  

 

(i) 

A separate window for the purpose of  offer for  sale of  shares shall be created by 

stock  exchanges.  Modification/  Cancellation  of  orders/  bids  will  be  allowed  during 

the period of the offer. However, modification/ cancellation of orders/ bids shall not 

be allowed during the last 30 minutes of the duration of the offer.. 

(ii) 

Indicative  Price  and  Cumulative  orders/  bid  quantity  information  shall  be  made 

available online by the exchanges at specific time intervals. 

(iii)  No price bands shall be applicable for the orders/ bids placed in the offer for sale. 

Stock specific tick size as per the extant practice in normal trading session shall be 

made applicable for this window. 

(iv) 

In case of shares under offer for sale, the trading in the normal market shall also 

continue.  However,  in  case  of  market  closure  due  to  the  incidence  of  breach  of 

„Market wide index based circuit filter‟, the offer for sale shall be halted. 

(v)  Only limit orders/ bids shall be permitted. 

(vi)  Multiple orders from a single buyer shall be permitted. 

(vii) 

In case floor price is disclosed, orders/ bids below floor price shall not be accepted. 

 

6.  Risk Management 

 
(a)  Stock Exchange shall collect 100% of the order value in cash, at the order level for every 

buy  order/  bid.  Such  funds  shall  neither  be  utilized  against  any  other  obligation  of  the 

trading member nor co-mingled with other segments. Such upfront collection shall also 

be applicable for all institutional orders. 

(b) In case of order/bid modification/cancellation, such funds shall be released/collected on 

a real time basis by the stock exchange. 

 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

(c)  The seller(s) shall deposit the entire quantity of shares offered for sale as payin with the 

clearing corporation/clearing house or DSE prior to the commencement of the offer. No 

other margin shall be charged on the seller(s). 

 

7.  Allocation 

 

(a)  Minimum of 25% of the shares offered shall be reserved for mutual funds and insurance 

companies, subject to allocation methodology. Any unsubscribed portion thereof shall be 

available to the other bidders. 

(b) The orders shall be cumulated by the DSE immediately on close of the offer. Based on 

the  methodology for  allocation  to  be followed  as  disclosed  in  the  notice,  the  DSE  shall 

draw  up  the  allocation.  i.e.  either  on  a  price  priority  (multiple  prices)  basis  or  on  a 

proportionate basis at a single clearing price. 

(c)  No allocation will be made incase of order/ bid is below floor price. 

(d) No  single  bidder  other  than  mutual  funds  and  insurance  companies  shall  be  allocated 

more than 25% of the size of offer for sale. 

 

8.  Settlement 

 
(a)  The  settlement  shall  take  place  similar  to  trade  for  trade  basis.and  shall  be  completed 

latest by T + 2 day (where T is the date of the closure of the offer). The allocation and 

the obligations resulting thereof shall be intimated to the brokers not later than T+1 day. 

(b) There shall be no netting of settlement at broker‟s end. 

(c)  The  clearing  house  of  DSE  shall  transfer  the  shares  received  as  payin  to  the  clearing 

corporation/clearing house of the other stock exchange, to the extent of their obligations. 

(d) Funds collected from the bidders who have not been allocated shares shall be released 

after the download of the obligation. 

(e)  The direct credit of shares shall be given to the demat account of the successful bidder 

provided it is indicated by the broker/bidder. 

 

9.  Issuance of Contract Notes 

 

The  brokers  shall  be  required  to  issue  contract  note  to  the  client  based  on  the  allotment 

price and quantity in terms of conditions specified by the exchange. 

 

10. Withdrawal of offer 

 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

The offer for sale may be withdrawn prior to its proposed opening. In such a case there will 

be  a  cooling  off  period  of  10  trading  days  from  the  date  of  withdrawal  before  an  offer  is 

made  once  again.  The  stock  exchange(s)  shall  suitably  disseminate  details  of  such 

withdrawal.  

 

11. Cancellation of offer 

 
Cancellation of offer shall not be permitted during the bidding period. If the seller(s) fails to 

get sufficient demand at or above the floor price, he may choose to either conclude the offer 

or cancel it in full.  

 

12. Stock Exchanges are advised to: 

.  

 

a.  take necessary steps and put in place necessary systems for implementation of 

the above. 

 
b.  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations 

for the implementation of the above decision. 

 
c.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the member brokers 
of the stock exchange and also to disseminate the same on the website. 
 
d.  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 

circular in the Monthly Development Report. 

 

13. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Harini Balaji 
Deputy General Manager 
022-26449372 
harinib@sebi.gov.in 

 

