»ããÀ¦ããè½ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã»ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã¼ã½ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

   March 01, 2012 

 

 

 

 

 
CIR/MIRSD/3/2012   
 
 
To 
All Credit Rating Agencies Registered with SEBI 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 

Sub: Guidelines for Credit Rating Agencies 

 

1.  According 

to  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  Regulations,  1999  (the 
Regulations),  a  credit  rating  agency  (CRA)  has  been  defined  as  a  body 
corporate which is engaged in the business of rating of securities offered by 
way  of  public  or  rights  issues.  The  term  “securities”  has  been  defined  in 
Clause (h) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956. 

 
2.  However  it  is  observed  that  the  CRAs  registered  with  SEBI  also  carry  out 
rating of other securities / instruments and loans / facilities provided by banks 
which  are  not  regulated  by  SEBI.  Such  ratings  are  being  used  by  the  other 
regulators or their regulated entities for the specified purposes 

 
3.  Therefore,  it  is  desirable  that  in  addition  to  the  review/accreditation  process 
put in place by these regulators, if any, such ratings should also be governed 
by  the  same  stringent  norms  as  applicable  for  rating  of  securities  issued  by 
way of public and rights issues. 

 
4.  In view of the above, it has been decided in consultation with  the CRAs and 
also  with  other  regulators  that  for  the  above  mentioned  ratings,  CRAs  shall 
follow 
to  rating  process  and 
methodology  and  its  records,  transparency  and  disclosures,  avoidance  of 
conflict of interest, code of conduct, etc, as prescribed in the Regulations and 
circulars issued by SEBI from time to time. 

the  applicable  requirements  pertaining 

 
5.  The  half-yearly  internal  audit for  the  CRAs  as  prescribed  by  SEBI  shall  also 

cover the above mentioned ratings. 

 
 
 

Page 1 of 2 

»ããÀ¦ããè½ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã»ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
 
6.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11(1) of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  Regulation 20  of  the 
Regulations. 

 
7.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

 
 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Asha Shetty 
Deputy General Manager 
022-26449258 
Email id: ashas@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

