   
CHIEF GENERAL MANAGER 

 

MIRSD 

    

  

All Stock Exchanges  

All SEBI Registered Debenture Trustees 

MIRSD/DPS III//Cir- 11/07             

August 6, 2007

  

Dear Sir/s,  

   

  

Sub: Dissemination of Information on Debentures 

It  has  been  decided  that  the  companies  issuing  debentures  and  the  respective  debenture 
trustees/stock  exchanges  shall  disseminate  all  information  regarding  the  debentures  to  the 
investors and the general public.  

  

Debenture  trustee  shall  disclose  the  information  to the  investors  and  the  general  public  by 
issuing a press release in any of the following events:  

1.       default  by  issuer  company  to  pay  interest  on  debentures  or  redemption 

amount, 

2.      failure to create a charge on the assets, 

3.      revision of rating assigned to the debentures.  

  

Such  information  shall  also  be  placed  on  the  website  of  the  debenture  trustee,  the  issuer 

company and the stock exchanges. 

  

Further, all  information/reports on debentures  issued  including compliance reports filed  by 
the  companies  and  the  debenture  trustees  shall  be  made  public  by  disseminating  on  the 
websites of the companies and the debenture trustees. The same  shall also be submitted to 
the stock exchanges for dissemination through their websites.  

  

It  is  clarified  that  all  the  aforementioned  requirements  are  in  addition  to  the  requirements 
specified  under  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustees)  Regulations,  1993  and  also  in  addition  to  the 
requirements  mentioned  under  Listing  Agreements  for  Debentures 
issued  through 
Public/Rights Issue and for privately placed debentures. 

  

This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  Section  11  (1)  of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interest  of  investors  in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, the securities market.  

  

  

Yours faithfully,  

  

P K KURIACHEN  

  

  
 

