¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 
 

 

 

 

        March 30, 2012 

 
 

CIR/MRD/DP/ 09 /2012 
 
To  
All Stock Exchanges 
 
Sir / Ma’am, 
 

Sub: Broad Guidelines on Algorithmic Trading  

 
1.  It  has  been  observed  that  adoption  of  technology  for  the  purpose  of  trading  in 
financial instruments has been on a rise over the past few years. Stock brokers 
as  well  as  their  clients  are  now  making  increased  usage  of  trading  algorithm 
(hereinafter referred to as “algo”).  

2.  Based  on  recommendations  of  Technical  Advisory  Committee  (TAC)  and 
Secondary  Market  Advisory  Committee  (SMAC),  it  has  been  decided  to  put  in 
place  the  following  broad  guidelines  for  algorithmic  trading  in  the  securities 
market.  

Definition  

3.   Algorithmic  Trading  –  Any  order  that  is  generated  using  automated  execution 

logic shall be known as algorithmic trading. 

Guidelines to the stock exchanges and the stock brokers 

4.  Stock exchanges shall ensure the following while permitting algorithmic trading:  

(i)  The  stock  exchange  shall  have  arrangements,  procedures  and  system 
capability to manage the load on their systems in such a manner so as to 
achieve consistent response time to all stock brokers. The stock exchange 
shall continuously study the performance of  its systems and, if necessary, 
undertake  system  upgradation, 
its 
surveillance  system,  in  order  to  keep  pace  with  the  speed  of  trade  and 
volume of data that may arise through algorithmic trading.  

including  periodic  upgradation  of 

(ii) 

In  order  to  ensure  maintenance  of  orderly  trading  in  the  market,  stock 
exchange shall put in place effective economic disincentives with regard to 
high daily order-to-trade ratio of algo orders of the stock broker. Further, the 
stock exchange shall put in place monitoring systems to identify and initiate 
measures to impede any possible instances of order flooding by algos. 

(iii)  The stock exchange shall ensure that all algorithmic orders are necessarily 
routed through broker servers located in India and the stock exchange has 
appropriate  risk  controls  mechanism  to  address  the  risk  emanating  from 

 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

algorithmic  orders  and  trades.  The  minimum  order-level  risk  controls  shall 
include the following: 
a.  Price check - The price quoted by the order shall not violate the price 
bands defined by the exchange for the security. For securities that do 
not have price bands, dummy filters shall be brought into effective use 
to serve as an early warning system to detect sudden surge in prices. 

b.  Quantity Limit check - The quantity quoted in the order shall not violate 
the  maximum  permissible  quantity  per  order  as  defined  by  the 
exchange for the security. 

(iv) 

In  the  interest  of  orderly  trading  and  market  integrity,  the  stock  exchange 
shall put in place a system to identify dysfunctional algos (i.e. algos leading 
to loop or runaway situation) and take suitable measures, including advising 
the member, to shut down such algos and remove any outstanding orders in 
the  system  that have emanated from  such dysfunctional  algos.  Further,  in 
exigency,  the  stock  exchange  should  be  in  a  position  to  shut  down  the 
broker’s terminal. 

(v)  Terminals  of  the  stock  broker  that  are  disabled  upon  exhaustion  of 
collaterals shall be enabled manually by the stock exchange in accordance 
with its risk management procedures.  

(vi)  The stock exchange may seek details of trading strategies used by the algo 

for such purposes viz. inquiry, surveillance, investigation, etc. 

(vii)  The  stock  exchange  shall  include  a  report  on  algorithmic  trading  on  the 
stock  exchange  in  the  Monthly  Development  Report  (MDR)  submitted  to 
SEBI 
trading, 
algorithmic trading as percentage of total trading, number of stock brokers / 
clients  using  algorithmic  trading,  action  taken  in  respect  of  dysfunctional 
algos, status of grievances, if any, received and processed, etc. 

turnover  details  of  algorithmic 

inter-alia 

incorporating 

(viii)  The stock exchange shall synchronize its system clock with the atomic clock 
before  the  start  of  market  such  that  its  clock  has  precision  of  atleast  one 
microsecond and accuracy of atleast +/- one millisecond.  

5.  Stock  exchange  shall  ensure  that  the  stock  broker  shall  provide  the  facility  of 
algorithmic trading only upon the prior permission of the stock exchange. Stock 
exchange  shall  subject  the  systems  of  the  stock  broker  to  initial  conformance 
tests to ensure that the checks mentioned below are in place and that the stock 
broker’s  system  facilitate  orderly  trading  and  integrity  of  the  securities  market. 
Further, the stock exchange shall suitably schedule such conformance tests and 
thereafter, convey the outcome of the test to the stock broker. 

For stock brokers already providing algo trading, the stock exchange shall ensure 
that  the  risk  controls  specified  in  this  circular  are  implemented  by  the  stock 
broker. 

 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Additionally,  the  annual  system audit  report  for  a  stock  broker,  as  submitted  to 
the stock exchange, shall include a specific report ensuring that the checks are in 
place.  Such  system  audit  shall  be  conducted  by  Certified  Information  System 
Auditors  (CISA)  empanelled  by  stock  exchanges.  Further,  the  stock  exchange 
shall  subject  the  stock  broker  systems  to  more  frequent  system  audits,  if 
required. 

6.  The stock broker, desirous of placing orders generated using algos, shall satisfy 
the stock exchange with regard to the implementation of the following minimum 
levels of risk controls at its end - 

(i)  Price check – Algo orders shall not be released in breach of the price bands 

defined by the exchange for the security. 

(ii)  Quantity check – Algo orders shall not be released in breach of the quantity 

limit as defined by the exchange for the security. 

(iii)  Order Value check - Algo orders shall not be released in breach of the ‘value 

per order’ as defined by the stock exchanges. 

(iv)  Cumulative Open Order Value check – The individual client level cumulative 
open  order  value  check,  may  be  prescribed  by  the  broker  for  the  clients.  
Cumulative Open Order Value for a client is the total value of its unexecuted 
orders released from the stock broker system. 

(v)  Automated  Execution  check  –  An  algo  shall  account  for  all  executed,  un-
executed  and  unconfirmed  orders,  placed  by  it  before  releasing  further 
order(s). Further, the algo system shall have pre-defined parameters for an 
automatic  stoppage  in  the  event  of  algo  execution  leading  to  a  loop  or  a 
runaway situation.  

(vi)  All  algorithmic  orders  are  tagged  with  a  unique  identifier  provided  by  the 

stock exchange in order to establish audit trail. 

7.  The  other  risk  management  checks  already  put  in  place  by  the  exchange  shall 
continue and the exchange may re-evaluate such checks if deemed necessary in 
view of algo trading. 

8.  The stock broker, desirous of placing orders generated using algos, shall submit 

to the respective stock exchange an undertaking that - 

(i)  The stock broker has proper procedures, systems and technical capability to 

carry out trading through the use of algorithms. 

(ii)  The stock broker has procedures and arrangements to safeguard algorithms 

from misuse or unauthorized access.  

 

 

Page 3 of 4 

 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(iii)  The stock broker has real-time monitoring systems to identify algorithms that 
may  not  behave  as  expected.  Stock  broker  shall  keep  stock  exchange 
informed of such incidents immediately.  

(iv)  The stock broker shall maintain logs of all trading activities to facilitate audit 
trail.  The  stock  broker  shall  maintain  record  of  control  parameters,  orders, 
trades  and  data  points  emanating  from  trades  executed  through  algorithm 
trading.  

(v)  The  stock  broker  shall  inform  the  stock  exchange  on  any  modification  or 

change to the approved algos or systems used for algos. 

9.  The stock exchange, if required, shall seek conformance of such modified algo or 

systems to the requirements specified in the circular. 

10.  Stock exchanges are directed to: 

(i) 

take necessary steps and put in place necessary systems for implementation 
of the above within a period of one month from the date of this circular. 

(ii)  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations 

for the implementation of the above decision. 

(iii)  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers of the 

stock exchange and also to disseminate the same on the website. 

(iv)  For stock brokers that are currently executing orders through algos, a period 
of three months is provided to the stock exchanges within which the approval 
process shall be completed and minimum risk controls shall be established, if 
not already done.  

(v)  communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the provisions of this 

circular in the Monthly Development Report. 

11.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 
(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the 
interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 
regulate the securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Harini Balaji 
Deputy General Manager 
022-26449372 
harinib@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

Page 4 of 4 

