¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã ‚ããõÀ ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/IMD-DoF-1/11/2012 

To 
All Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Processing of investor complaints against companies applying for listing 

of debt securities in SEBI SCORES system 

April 16, 2012 

 

 

1.  With effect from June 2011, SEBI has launched a new web based centralized 
grievance  system  called  SCORES  for  more  efficient  and  transparent 
processing of complaints.  
 

2.  Vide circular No. CIR/OIAE/2/2011 dated June 3, 2011, SEBI has mandated 
all  listed  companies  to  have  SCORES  user  id  and  password  for  processing 
complaints through the SCORES system. 
 

3.  In this regard, in addition to companies mentioned in the aforesaid circular, it 
is  advised  that  companies  which  apply  to  the  stock  exchanges  for  listing  of 
debt  securities  in  accordance  with  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt 
Securities), 2008 are mandated to apply for authentication for SCORES when 
they file for approval for listing of debt securities.   
 

4.  The  company  may  apply  for  SCORES  authentication  in  the  format  as 
specified in the Annexure to the circular No. CIR/OIAE/2/2011 dated June 3, 
2011.  Once  filled,  the  company  shall  scan  the  form  and  e-mail  the  same  at 
scores@sebi.gov.in and send the hard copy to Office of Investor Assistance 
and  Education  (OIAE)  Department,  SEBI,  SEBI  Bhavan,  Plot  No.C4-A,'G' 
Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai 400051. 
 

5.  A  company  shall  use  the  same  SCORES  authentication  for  all  subsequent 
issues  of  debt  securities  listed  with  any  of  the  stock  exchanges.  Companies 
which have already obtained SCORES authentication from SEBI for issue of 
debt securities need not obtain the authentication again. 
 

6.  The  Stock  exchanges  shall  ensure  that  the  company  applying  for  listing  of 
debt securities has SCORES authentication before granting of such approval 
to the company.  
 

Page 1 of 2 

7.  The  stock  exchanges  are  accordingly  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this 
circular to the notice of all the companies when they file for approval for listing 
of their debt securities  on  the stock exchange and disseminate the same on 
the stock exchange website. 
 

8.  This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 
 

9.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Corporate debt market”. 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Maninder Cheema 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-26449754 
Email id - maninderc@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

 

 
 

 

