 

 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

        April 13, 2012 

 
CIR/MRD/DMS/ 12 /2012    
 
To, 
 
All Stock Exchanges / All Depositories 
 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Guidelines for Business Continuity Plan (BCP) and Disaster Recovery (DR) 
 
1.  In  the  event  of  disaster,  the  disruption  in  trading  system  of  stock  exchanges  / 
depository system  may not only affect the market integrity but also the confidence 
of investors. In order to address this issue, the current BCP - DR setups of some of 
the stock exchanges having nation-wide terminals and depositories were examined 
by 
(TAC).  Based  on 
the 
recommendations of TAC, the broad guidelines for BCP - DR are given below: 

the  Technical  Advisory  Committee  of  SEBI 

 

 

 

 
 

 

The stock exchanges and depositories should have in place Business Continuity 
Plan  (BCP)  and  Disaster  Recovery  Site  (DRS)  so  as  to  maintain  data  and 
transaction integrity. 

i. 

 

ii.  Apart from DRS, stock exchanges should also have a Near Site (NS) to ensure 

zero data loss.  

iii. 

iv. 

The DRS should be set up sufficiently away, i.e. in a different seismic zone, from 
Primary Data Centre (PDC) to ensure that both DRS and PDC are not affected 
by the same disasters.  

The manpower deployed at DRS / NS should have similar expertise as available 
at  PDC  in  terms  of  knowledge  /  awareness  of  various  technological  and 
procedural systems and processes relating to all operations such that DRS / NS 
can function at short notice, independently. 

v.  Configuration of DRS / NS with PDC 

 

a)  Hardware,  system  software,  application  environment,  network  and  security 
devices  and  associated  application  environments  of  DRS  /  NS  and  PDC 
should have one to one correspondence between them. 

Page 1 of 3

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

b)  Exchanges / Depositories should have Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and 
Recovery  Point  Objective  (RPO)  not  more  than  30  minutes  and  4  hours, 
respectively.  

c)  Solution  architecture  of  PDC  and  DRS  /  NS should  ensure high  availability, 
fault  tolerance,  no  single  point  of  failure,  zero  data  loss,  and  data  and 
transaction integrity. 

d)  Any updates made at the PDC should be reflected at DRS / NS immediately 
(before  end  of  day)  with  head  room  flexibility  without  compromising  any  of 
the performance metrics. 

e)  Replication architecture, bandwidth and load consideration between the DRS 
/ NS and PDC should be within stipulated RTO and ensure high availability, 
right sizing, and no single point of failure.  

f)  Replication  between  PDC  and  NS  should  be  synchronous  to  ensure  zero 
data loss. Whereas the one between PDC and DR and between NS and DR 
may be asynchronous. 

g)  Adequate  resources  (with  appropriate  training  and  experience)  should  be 
available  at  all  times  to  handle  operations  on  a  regular  basis  as  well  as 
during disasters. 

vi.  DR Drills / Testing 

a)  DR  drills  should  be  conducted  on  quarterly  basis.  In  case  of  exchanges, 
these drills should be closer to real life scenario (trading days) with minimal 
notice to DR staff involved.  

b)  During the drills, the staff based at PDC should not be involved in supporting 
operations in any manner. To begin with, initial three DR drills from the date 
of this circular may be conducted with the support of staff based at PDC. 

c)  The  drill  should  include  running  all  operations  from  DRS  for  at  least  1  full 

trading day. 

d)  Before  DR  drills,  the  timing  diagrams  clearly  identifying  resources  at  both 

ends (DRS as well as PDC) should be in place.  

e)  The  results  and  observations  of  these  drills  should  be  documented  and 
placed  before  the  Governing  Board  of  Stock  Exchange  /  Depositories. 
Subsequently,  the  same  along  with  the  comments  of  the  Governing  Board 
should be forwarded to SEBI within a month of the DR drill.  

f)  The  system  auditor  while  covering  the  BCP  –  DR  as  a  part  of  mandated 
annual  system  audit  should  also  comment  on  documented  results  and 
observations of DR drills. 

vii.  BCP – DR Policy Document 

Page 2 of 3

 

 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

a)  The  BCP  –  DR  policy  of  stock  exchanges  and  depositories  should  be  well 
documented  covering  all  areas  as  mentioned  above  including  disaster 
escalation hierarchy.  

b)  The stock exchanges should specifically address their preparedness in terms 
of  proper  system  and  infrastructure in  case  disaster  strikes  during  business 
hours.  

c)  Depositories  should  also  demonstrate  their  preparedness  to  handle  any 

issue which may arise due to trading halts in stock exchanges.  

d)  The policy document and subsequent changes / additions / deletions should 
be approved by Governing Board of the Stock Exchange / Depositories and 
thereafter communicated to SEBI.  

 
2.  Considering  the  above,  stock  exchanges  and  depositories  are  advised  to  submit 
their  BCP  –  DR  policy  to  SEBI  within  3  months  from  the  date  of  this  circular. 
Further,  they  should  also  ensure  that  point  1  (vi)  (f)  mentioned  above  is  also 
included 
the  circular  no. 
CIR/MRD/DMS/13/2011 dated November 29, 2011. 
 

in  scope  of  system  audit  as  mentioned 

in 

3.  These guidelines will be applicable to depositories, stock exchanges having nation-
wide terminals and stock exchanges having trading on their own platforms. Further 
stock  exchanges,  currently  having  no  trading  on  their  own  platforms,  will  be 
required  to  comply  with  these  guidelines  before  recommencement  of  trading  on 
their own platforms in terms of Circular No. MRD/DSA/SE/Cir-12/09 dated October 
07, 2009. 
 

4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market.  

 
5.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
B. J. Dilip 
Deputy General Manager 
+91-22-26449682 
dilipbj@sebi.gov.in 

Page 3 of 3

