 

 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DSA/14/2012 

 

 

 

 

 

       May 30, 2012 

To, 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers/ 
Officiating Executive Directors of all the Stock Exchanges. 
Dear Sir / Madam,  

Sub.: Exit Policy for De-recognized/ Non-operational Stock Exchanges 

1.  SEBI vide circular dated December 29, 2008 issued guidelines in respect of exit 
option  to  stock  exchanges.  The  exit  policy  of  aforesaid  exchanges  has  been 
reviewed by the Board and the said Circular stands revised/modified to the extent 
as under. 

 

2.  Process of  De-recognition and Exit 

 

2.1  Exchanges may seek exit through voluntary surrender of recognition. 

2.2  Stock exchanges where the annual trading turnover on its own platform is 
less  than  Rs  1000  Crore  can  apply  to  SEBI  for  voluntary  surrender  of 
recognition  and  exit,  at  any  time  before  the  expiry  of  two  years  from  the 
date of issuance of this Circular.  

 

 
2.3 

 

If the stock exchange is not able to achieve the prescribed turnover of Rs 
1000 Crores on continuous basis or does not apply for voluntary surrender 
of recognition and exit before the expiry of two years from the date of this 
Circular,  SEBI  shall  proceed  with  compulsory  de-recognition  and  exit  of 
such stock exchanges, in terms of the conditions as may be specified by 
SEBI. 

2.4  Stock Exchanges which are already de-recognised as on date, shall make 
an application for exit within two months from the date of this circular. Upon 
failure  to  do  so,  the  de-recognized  exchange  shall  be  subject  to 
compulsory exit process. 
 

3.  With  regard  to  exit  option  to  shareholders  of  exclusively  listed  companies,  on 
stock  exchanges  seeking  de-recognition  and/  or  exit  and  de-recognised  stock 
exchanges,  the  following  process  should  be  followed  by  the  exclusively  listed 
companies.  Such  an  exchange  shall  monitor  the  process  given  below  until  its 
exit:  
 

3.1  Exclusively  listed  companies  shall  list  on  any  other  recognized  stock 

exchange. 

 

Page 1 of 5 

  

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Such  other  recognized  stock  exchanges  may  facilitate  the  listing  of 
exclusively  listed  companies,  and,  if  required,  carry  out  changes  to  their 
listing eligibility criteria, in the interest of investors. Stock exchanges may 
have  differential  listing  criteria  for  such  exclusively  listed  companies  in 
respect of following criteria viz, Market Capitalization, Dividend paying track 
record, profitability, and paid-up capital. In this regard, the stock exchanges 
shall issue the differential listing eligibility criteria for such exclusively listed 
companies.  

3.2  The exclusively listed companies, which fail to obtain listing on any other 
stock exchange, will cease to be a listed company and will be moved to the 
dissemination  board  by  the  exiting  stock  exchange.  Therefore,  in  the 
interest  of  investors  of  exclusively  listed  companies,  a  mechanism  of 
dissemination board will be set-up by stock exchanges having nationwide 
trading terminals. 

3.3  Dissemination Board: 

Under  this  mechanism,  a  willing  buyer  and  seller  will  be  given  an 
opportunity  to  disseminate  their  offers  using  the  services  of  brokers  of 
stock  exchanges  hosting  dissemination  board.  The  mechanism  of 
dissemination  board  shall  be  given  wide  publicity  for  the  benefit  of  the 
investors of exclusively listed companies. Every stock exchange hosting a 
dissemination board shall clearly bring out the guidelines in respect of the 
Dissemination Board on its website.  

Features of Dissemination Board: 
i.  Exiting Stock Exchanges will be required to enter into an agreement 
with  at  least  one  of  the  stock  exchanges  with  nationwide  trading 
terminals  providing  the  Dissemination  Board.  The  exiting  stock 
exchange  shall  pay  a  one-time  fee  for  the  arrangement  as  may  be 
decided  in  the  agreement.  The  fee  may  be  based  on  number  of 
companies  moving  on  to  the  dissemination  board,  number  of  public 
shareholders in those companies, their paid up capital etc. 

ii.  Exchanges  having  nationwide  trading  terminal  will  not  have  listing 
agreement with these companies. However, information received from 
such companies will be disseminated. 
The  buyers/  sellers  will  be  required  to  register  with  broker  of  the 
exchange where the dissemination board is set up.  

iii. 

iv.  No contract note is required to be issued for such transactions.  
v. 

The  matched  trades  will  not  be  settled  through  the  stock  exchange/ 
Clearing Corporation mechanism and hence, there will be no recourse 
to  the  Settlement/  Trade  Guarantee  Fund  and    Investor  Protection 
Fund of the Exchange for the trades on Dissemination Board 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

vi. 

The  exiting  Stock  Exchange  as  well  as  exchange  providing 
dissemination  board  will  give  wide  publicity  about  the  dissemination 
board in one leading national daily and one local daily. 

The  stock  exchanges  hosting  dissemination  board  shall  issue  uniform 
operational guidelines for the dissemination board. 

4.   Members of Stock Exchanges to continue trading through Subsidiary 

4.1.  In case of de-recognition of a stock exchange, the exchange may provide 
trading opportunity to their trading members to trade on stock exchanges 
having  nationwide  terminals  through  their  subsidiary  company,  which  will 
function as normal broking entity in terms of SEBI circular dated December 
29, 2008. In case of de-recognition, subsidiary company shall continue to 
function as broking entities in compliance of, inter alia, the provisions of the 
SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 1992. 

 

4.2.  In  case  of  de-recognition,  the  MoU  mechanism,  if  any,  between  a  stock 
exchange  not  having  nationwide  trading  terminal  and  a  stock  exchange 
having nationwide trading terminal, shall be discontinued and in such cases 
the  trading  members  of  erstwhile  stock  exchanges  will  gain  access  to 
exchanges having nationwide terminals through membership of the existing 
subsidiary company.  

 

5.   Treatment of the Assets of de-recognized exchange 

5.1.  De-recognized  stock  exchange  (voluntarily  de-recognized  or  compulsorily 
de-recognized)  is  permitted  to  distribute  its  assets  subject  to  certain 
conditions as laid down in this circular, as well as other guidelines that may 
be  issued  by  SEBI,  Government(s),  or  any  other  statutory  authority  from 
time to time. 

 

 

5.2.  For  the  purpose  of  valuation  of  the  assets  of  the  stock  exchange,  a 

valuation agency shall be appointed by SEBI. 

 

5.3.   The  quantum  of  assets  for  distribution  will  be  available  after  payment  of 
statutory dues including income tax, transfer of funds as specified in para 
6.1,  payment  of  dues  as  specified  in  para  6.2,  refund  of  deposit 
(refundable) to the stock brokers including their initial contribution/ deposit 
to Settlement Guarantee Fund / Trade Guarantee Fund (SGF/ TGF), and 
contribution  to  SEBI  as  specified  in  para  5.4.  However,  the  remainder  of 
SGF/  TGF  after  refunding  to  stock  broker  as  mentioned  above  shall  be 
considered for the purpose of valuation of the assets of the exchange. 

 

Page 3 of 5 

 

 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

5.4.  In case of de-recognition and exit, the stock exchange shall contribute upto 
20%  of  its  assets  (after  tax)  towards  SEBI  Investor  Protection  and 
Education Fund (IPEF) for investor protection and in order to cover future 
liabilities,  if  any.  The  contribution  may  be  decided  by  SEBI  taking  into 
account,  inter  alia,  the  governance  standards  of  the  stock  exchange  and 
estimation of future liabilities. 

 

5.5.  All  stock  exchanges  including  de-recognised  stock  exchanges  shall  not 

alienate any assets of the exchange without taking prior approval of SEBI. 

6.  Other Conditions: 

6.1.  The  exchange  shall  transfer  Investor  Protection  Fund,  Investor  Services 
Fund, 1% security deposit available with them to the SEBI IPEF. The 1% 
security  deposit  shall  subsequently  be  returned  to  the  issuer  company  in 
due course on satisfying the prescribed conditions. 

 

 

6.2.  The exchange shall pay following dues to SEBI: 

6.2.1.  The dues outstanding to SEBI including 10% of the listing fee and the 

annual regulatory fee. 

6.2.2.  The outstanding registration fees of brokers/trading members of such 
de-recognised stock exchanges as specified in the SEBI (Stock Brokers 
and Sub Brokers) Regulations, 1992 till the date of such de-recognition.  
6.2.2.1.  Dues of the brokers to SEBI shall be recovered by the exchange 
out  of  the  brokers’  deposits  /  capital  /  share  of  sale  proceeds  / 
winding  up  proceeds  /  dividend  payable,  etc.  available  with  the 
exchange. 

6.2.2.2.  The  exchange  will  be  liable  to  make  good  any  shortfall  in 

collection of dues of the brokers to SEBI. 

6.3.   In case the stock exchange, after de-recognition, continues as a corporate 
entity under the Companies Act, 1956, it shall not use the expression ‘stock 
exchange’ or any variant in its name or in its subsidiaries name so as to 
avoid  any  representation  of  present  or  past  affiliation  with  the  stock 
exchange.  The  subsidiaries  of  de-recognised  stock  exchanges  may 
continue  to  function  as  any  other  normal  broking  entity,  managed  by  its 
own  board,  with  a  suitable  change  of  name  so  as  to  avoid  any 
representation of any present or past affiliation with the stock exchange.  

 

6.4.  Sale/distribution/transfer  of  assets/winding  up  of  such  exchanges/ 

companies shall be subject to the applicable laws in force.  

6.5.  The stock exchange shall set aside sufficient funds in order to provide for 
settlement of any claims, pertaining to pending arbitration cases, arbitration 

 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

awards,  not  implemented,  if  any,  liabilities/claims  of  contingent  nature,  if 
any,  and  unresolved  investors  complaints/grievances  lying  with  the 
exchange. 

7.  SEBI  may  allow  de-recognition  and/  or  exit  to  stock  exchanges  subject  to 
additional conditions as may be decided by SEBI in the interest of trade or in the 
public interest including securities market. 

 
8.  In  case  of  stock  exchange  seeking  exit,  through  voluntary  surrender  of 
recognition  or  after  being  compulsorily  de-recognized  by  SEBI,  an  appropriate 
order shall be passed by SEBI. 

 

9.  Applicability  

This circular shall apply to: 

(i)  Recognized stock exchanges  
(ii)  Stock exchanges that stand de-recognised as on date of this circular  
(iii)  Stock exchanges that have applied for derecognition/ exit as on the date 

of this circular 

  
10. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) and 
11(2)  (j)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with 
Section  5  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  to  protect  the 
interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 
regulate the securities market. 
 

11. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Rajesh Kumar D 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel. No. 2644 9242 
Email: rajeshkd@sebi.gov.in  

 

Page 5 of 5 

