 
 
 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

                  June 15, 2012 

CIR/MRD/ICC/16/2012   
 
All Depositories 
All recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Madam/Sir, 
 
Sub:  Redressal  of  complaints  against  Stock  Exchanges 
Depositories through SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES). 
 
1.  As  you  are  aware,  SEBI  has  commenced  processing  of  complaints  through 

(SEs)  and 

SCORES. 

2.  The  complaints  received  by  SEBI  against  SEs  and  Depositories  shall  be 
electronically  sent  through  SCORES.  You  are  advised  to  view  the  pending 
complaints  at  http://scores.gov.in/admin  and  submit  the  Action  Taken  Report 
(ATR) along with supporting documents electronically in SCORES. Please note 
that  updation  of  action  taken  shall  not  be  possible  with  physical  ATRs.  Hence, 
submission  of  physical  ATR  shall  not  be  accepted  for  complaints  lodged  in 
SCORES. 

3.  The SEs and Depositories shall do the following: 

a.  indicate  a  contact  person  in  case  of  SCORES,  who  is  an  employee 
heading  the  complaint  services  division/cell/department.  Contact  details 

(i.e.  phone  no.,  email  id,  postal  address)  of  the  said  contact  person  be 
made widely available for e.g. on the websites of SEs/Depositories. 

b.  address/redress the complaints within a period of 15 days upon receipt of 
complaint on SCORES. In case additional information is required from the 
complainant,  the  same  shall  be  sought  within  7  days  of  receipt  on 
SCORES. In such case, the period of 15 days will be counted upon the 
receipt of additional information. 

c.  maintain  a  monthly 

the  complaints  which  are  not 
addressed/redressed  within  15  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the 
complaint/information, alongwith the reason for such pendency. 

record  of 

d.  Upload/update  the  ATR  on  the  SCORES.  Failure  to  do  so  shall  be 
considered as non-redressal of the complaint and the complaint shall be 
shown as pending. 

4.  The circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred upon SEBI under Section 

11(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

5.  The  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
B K Gupta 
Deputy General Manager  
022-26449218. 
bhartendrakg@sebi.gov.in 

  
 

