¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

                  

   July 13, 2012 

 

 

CIR/CFD/DIL/6/2012 
 
To 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges  
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 

Sub: Amendment to the Equity Listing Agreement - Platform for E-Voting by 

Shareholders of Listed Entities 

1.  Section 192A of the Companies Act, 1956, read with the Companies (Passing of the 
Resolution by Postal Ballot) Rules, 2001 (the Rules) obligates the  listed companies to 
conduct certain businesses only by way of postal ballot. The Companies Act and the 
Rules  also  permit  the  companies  to  pass  any  other  business  through  postal  ballot 
apart  from  those  businesses  which  are  to  be  transacted  mandatorily  through  postal 
ballot.    Further,  SEBI (Buy  Back  of  Securities)  Regulations,  1998, SEBI  (Delisting  of 
Equity  Shares)  Regulations,  2009,  SEBI 
(Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  and  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 
Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011  require  listed  companies  to  pass  certain  additional 
businesses through postal ballot.  
 

2.  As  per  section  192A,  a  postal  ballot  also  includes  voting  by  electronic  mode.  It  had 
been  the  endeavor  of  the  Central  Government  to  provide  wider  participation  of 
shareholders  in  decisions  of  the  companies  through  electronic  voting  process.  
Hon’ble Finance Minister in his budget speech for FY 2012-13 has also proposed for 
providing opportunities for wider shareholder participation in important decisions of the 
companies  through  electronic  voting  (e-voting)  facilities,  besides  existing  process  for 
shareholder voting. 
 

3.  In  order  to  have  secured  electronic  platform  for  capturing  accurate  electronic  voting 
processes,   Ministry of Corporate Affairs has  vide circular dated December 27, 2011 
clarified that any agency providing e-voting platform is required to obtain  a certificate 
from  Standardization  Testing  and  Quality  Certification 
(STQC)  Directorate, 
IT, 
Department  of 
Government  of 
- 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited and National Securities Depository Limited 
- are providing e-voting platform, after obtaining necessary certifications. 

Information  Technology,  Ministry  of  Communication  and 

India,  New  Delhi.  Presently,  both 

the  Depositories 

 

4.  In order to implement the aforesaid and to enable wider participation of shareholders 
in important proposals, it has been decided to mandate the listed companies to enable 
e-voting  facility  also  to  their  shareholders,  in  respect  of  those  businesses  which  are 
transacted  through  postal  ballot  by  the  listed  companies.    To  begin  with,  this 
requirement  shall  be  applicable  to  top  500  listed  entities  at  BSE  and  NSE,  chosen 

Page 1 of 3 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

based  on  the  market  capitalization  computed  as  on  the  date  of  this  circular.  It  has, 
therefore, been decided to specify suitable listing conditions in this regard and amend 
the Equity Listing Agreement as per the Annexure.  
 

5.  In order to effectively implement the process of e- voting,  : 

(a) the concerned  listed companies shall choose any one of the agencies, which is 

currently providing e-voting platform for this purpose;  

(b) agencies  providing  such  e-voting  platform  shall  ensure  that  the  process  for  e-
voting  is  explained  in  the  e-voting  platform  along  with  necessary  “FAQs”  and 
shall  also  ensure  that  the  draft  resolutions,  explanatory  statement  and  other 
annexures,  if  any,  sent  to  the  shareholders  are  displayed  prominently  in  the 
concerned page of the e- voting platform. 

 

6.  The  amendment  as  specified  in  Annexure  shall  be  applicable  for  the  shareholders’ 
meetings,  for  which  notices  are  issued  on  or  after  October  01,  2012.  However,  the 
listed  companies  are at  liberty  to  provide  e-voting  facility  to  their shareholders  in  the 
meetings for which notices have been sent prior to October 01, 2012. 
 

7.  The  Recognised  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  notify  the  list  of  listed  companies, 
for which the above decision shall be applicable, as per the criteria specified at point 4 
above. 
 

8.  The  above  listing  conditions  are  specified  in  exercise  of  the powers  conferred  under 
Section 11 read with Section 11A of the Securities and Exchange  Board of India Act, 
1992.  The  said  listing  conditions  should  form  part  of  the  existing  Equity  Listing 
Agreement of the stock exchange.  

 

9.   All Recognised Stock Exchanges are advised to ensure compliance with this circular 
and carry out the amendments in their Equity Listing Agreement as per the Annexure 
to this circular.  

 

10.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Sunil Kadam 
General Manager 
 +91-22-26449630 

sunilk@sebi.gov.in    

Encl: as above 
 

Page 2 of 3 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure 

Amendments to Equity Listing Agreement 

 

 

After Clause 35A, a new Clause 35B shall be inserted, namely;- 
 
“35B. (i) The issuer agrees to provide e-voting facility to its shareholders, in respect of 
those  businesses,  which  are  transacted  through  postal  ballot.  Such  e-voting  facility 
shall  be  kept  open  for  such  period  specified  under  the  Companies  (Passing  of  the 
Resolution  by  Postal  Ballot)  Rules,  2001  for  shareholders  to  send  their  assent  or 
dissent.  
 
(ii) Issuer shall continue to enable those shareholders, who do not have access to e-
voting facility, to send their assent or dissent in  writing on a postal ballot pursuant to 
the  provisions  of  the  Companies  (Passing of  the  Resolution  by  Postal  Ballot)  Rules, 
2001 or amendments made thereto. 
 
(iii)  Issuer  shall  utilize  the  service  of  any  one  of  the  agencies  providing  e-voting 
platform, which is in compliance with conditions specified by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, Government of India, from time to time. 
 
(iv) Issuer shall mention the Internet link of such e-voting platform in the notice to their 
shareholders” 

 

***************** 

Page 3 of 3 

 

