 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DP/ 18 /2012 

 

 

 

 

 

            July 18, 2012 

 
The Managing Director and CEO   
Bombay Stock Exchange Limited  
 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,  
 
Dalal Street,   
Mumbai - 400001  
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
Sub: Comprehensive guidelines on Offer For Sale (OFS) of Shares by Promoters through 

The Managing Director 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (E), 
Mumbai - 400 051 

 
 

 
 

the Stock Exchange Mechanism  

reference 

 
This  has 
to  circular  no.  CIR/MRD/DP/05/2012  dated  February  1,  2012, 
CIR/MRD/DP/07/2012  dated  February  23,  2012  and  CIR/MRD/DP/8/2012  dated  February  27, 
2012 on the captioned subject.   
 
Several  representations/suggestions  have  been  received  from  the  market  participants  on  few 
provisions  of  the  above  circulars.  After  due  examination  and  deliberation  with  the  market 
participants  it  has  been  decided  to  replace  the  procedures  and  instructions  contained  in  the 
aforementioned circulars by the following:  
 
1.  Eligibility 

 
(a) Exchanges 

The  facility  of  offer  for  sale  of  shares  shall  be  available  on  Bombay  Stock  Exchange 
(BSE) and National Stock Exchange (NSE).  
   

(b) Sellers 

 

(i) 

All  promoter(s)/  promoter  group  entities  of such  companies  that  are  eligible  for 
trading and are required  to increase public shareholding to meet the minimum 
public  shareholding  requirements  in  terms  Rule  19(2)(b)  and  19A  of  Securities 
Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957  (SCRR),  read  with  clause  40A  (ii)  (c)  of 
Listing Agreement.     

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

All promoter(s)/ promoter group entities of top 100 companies based on average 
market capitalization of the last completed quarter. 

 

(ii) 

 

For (i) and (ii) above, the promoter/promoter group entities should not have purchased 
and/or sold the shares of the company in the 12 weeks period prior to the offer and they 
should  undertake  not  to  purchase and/or  sell shares  of  the  company  in  the  12  weeks 
period  after  the  offer.  However,  within  the  cooling  off  period  of  +12  weeks,  the 
promoter(s)/promoter group entities can offer their shares only through OFS/ Institutional 
Placement Programme (IPP) with a gap of 2 weeks between successive offers.   
The  above  shall  also  be  applicable  on  promoter(s)  /promoter  group  entities  who  have 
already offered their shares through OFS/IPP. 
   

(c) Buyers 

 
All  investors  registered  with  the  brokers  of  the  aforementioned  stock  exchanges  other 
than the promoter(s)/ promoter group entities.  
 

2.  Definitions 
 

(a)  "Single Clearing Price” is the price at which the shares are allocated to the successful 

bidders in a proportionate basis methodology. 

 
(b)  “Multiple  Clearing  Prices”  are  the  prices  at  which  the  shares  are  allocated  to  the 

successful bidders in a price priority methodology. 

 
(c)  “Indicative Price” is the volume weighted average price of all the valid/confirmed bids  
 
(d)  “Floor Price” is the minimum price at which the seller intends to sell the shares. 
 

3.  Size of Offer for sale of shares 

 
The size of the offer shall be a minimum of ` 25 crores. However, size of offer can be less 
than ` 25 crores so as to achieve minimum public shareholding in a single tranche.  
 

4.  Advertisement and offer expenses 

 
(a)  Advertisements  about  the  offer  for  sale  of  shares  through  stock  exchange(s)  ,  if  any, 
shall be made after the announcement/ notice of the offer for sale of shares to the stock 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

exchanges in accordance with para 5 (b) below and its contents shall be restricted to the 
contents of the notice as given to the stock exchange under Para 5 (b) 

(b)  All expenses relating to offer for sale of shares through stock exchange(s) shall be borne 

by the seller(s).   

 

5.  Operational Requirements  

 
(a) Appointment of Broker 

 

The  Seller(s)  will  appoint  broker(s)  for  this  purpose.  The  Seller’s  broker(s)  may  also 
undertake transactions on behalf of eligible buyers.  
 

(b) Contents of the announcement/ Notice of the Offer for sale of shares 

 
Seller(s)  shall  announce  the  intention  of  sale  of  shares  at  least  one  clear  trading  day 
prior to the opening of offer, along with the following information: 
 
(i)  Name  of  the  seller(s)  (promoter/  promoter  group)  and  the  name  of  the  company 

whose shares are proposed to be sold. 

(ii)  Name of the Exchange(s) where the orders shall be placed. In case orders are to 
be placed on both BSE and NSE, one of them shall be declared as the Designated 
Stock Exchange (“DSE”). 

(iii)  Date and time of the opening and closing of the offer.  
(iv) 

Allocation methodology i.e. either on a price priority (multiple clearing prices) basis 
or on a proportionate basis at a single clearing price. 

(v)  Number of shares being offered for sale.  
(vi) 

(vii) 

The maximum number of shares that the seller may choose to sell over and above 
the  offer  made  at  point  (v)  above.  The  name  of  the  broker(s)  on  behalf  of  the 
seller(s). 
The  date  and  time  of  the  declaration  of  floor  price,  if  the  seller(s)  chooses  to 
announce  it  to  the  market.  Alternatively,  a  declaration  to  the  effect  that  the  floor 
price will be submitted to the DSE in a sealed envelope that shall be disclosed post 
closure of the offer. 

(viii)  Conditions, if any, for withdrawal or cancellation of the offer. 

 
 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

(c) Floor price 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

In case the seller chooses to disclose the floor price, the seller(s) shall declare it 
after  the  close  of  trading  hours  and  before  the  close  of  business  hours  of  the 
exchanges  on  T-1  day  else  the  seller(s)  shall  give  the  floor  price  in  a  sealed 
envelope to DSE before the opening of the offer. (T day being the day of the offer 
for sale) 
The  floor  price  if  not  declared  to  the  market,  shall  not  be  disclosed  to  anybody, 
including the selling broker(s). 
Sealed envelope shall be opened by the DSE after the closure of the offer for sale 
and the floor price suitably disseminated to the market. 

 

(d) Timelines  

 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

 

The duration of the offer for sale shall be as per the trading hours of the secondary 
market and shall not exceed one trading day.  
The  placing  of  orders  and  funds  on  the  exchange  system  shall  take  place  only 
during trading hours. 
In  case  of  institutional  trades,  the  custodians  shall  conclude  the  confirmation  of 
bids with the available funds not later than the end of the half an hour post close 
session. 

(e) Order Placement  

 

(i) 

A separate window for the purpose of offer for sale of shares shall be created by 
stock exchanges. Modification/ Cancellation of orders/ bids will be allowed during 
the  duration  of  the  offer  only  for  bids  for  which  100%  upfront  margin  has  been 
received. However, modification/ cancellation of orders/ bids shall not be allowed 
during the last 60 minutes of the duration of the offer. 

(ii)  Cumulative orders/ bid quantity information shall be made available online by the 
exchanges at specific time intervals. The indicative price shall be disclosed by the 
exchanges only during the last 60 minutes of the duration of the offer for sale.  
If the security has a price band in the normal segment, the same shall not apply for 
the  orders  placed  in  the  offer  for  sale.  Stock  specific  tick  size  as  per  the  extant 
practice in normal trading session shall be made applicable for this window. 

(iii) 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

(iv) 

In case of shares under offer for sale, the trading in the normal market shall also 
continue.  However,  in  case  of  market  closure  due  to  the  incidence  of  breach  of 
‘Market wide index based circuit filter’, the offer for sale shall also be halted. 

(v)  Only limit orders/ bids shall be permitted. 
(vi)  Multiple orders from a single buyer shall be permitted. 
(vii) 

In case floor price is disclosed, orders/ bids below floor price shall not be accepted. 

 

6.  Risk Management 

 
(a)  Clearing Corporation/ Clearing house shall collect 100% of the order value in cash from 
non-institutional  investors  at  the  order  level  for  every  buy  order/  bid.  Institutional 
investors shall have an option to pay either 25% of the order value or 100% of the order 
value  in  cash  at  the  order  level  for  every  buy  order/  bid  to  the  Clearing  Corporation/ 
Clearing house. Such funds shall neither be utilized against any other obligation of the 
trading member nor co-mingled with other segments.   

(b)  Modification/  Cancellation  of  orders/  bids  will be  allowed only  for  bids  for  which 100% 
upfront  margin  has  been  received.  In  case  of  order/bid  modification/cancellation,  such 
funds shall be released/collected on a real time basis by the stock exchange. 

(c)  The  seller(s)  shall  deposit  the  entire  quantity  of  shares  offered  for  sale  including  the 
additional  shares  disclosed  at  Para  5(b)(vi)  as  pay-in  with 
the  clearing 
corporation/clearing  house  of  DSE  prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  offer.  No  other 
margin shall be charged on the seller(s). 

 

7.  Allocation 
 

(a)  Minimum of 25% of the shares offered shall be reserved for mutual funds and insurance 
companies, subject to allocation methodology. Any unsubscribed portion thereof shall be 
available to the other bidders. 

(b)  The orders shall be cumulated by the DSE immediately on close of the offer. Based on 
the methodology for allocation to be followed as disclosed in the notice, the DSE shall 
draw  up  the  allocation.  i.e.  either  on  a  price  priority  (multiple  prices)  basis  or  on  a 
proportionate basis at a single clearing price. 

(c)  No allocation will be made in case of order/ bid is below floor price. 
(d)  No single bidder other than mutual funds and insurance companies shall be allocated 

more than 25% of the size of offer for sale. 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

(e)  The  allocation  details  shall  be  shared  by  the  DSE  with  the  other  exchange  after  the 

allocation is crystallized. 

 

8.  (i)  Settlement 

 
a.  The allocation and the obligations resulting thereof shall be intimated to the brokers on T 

day.  

b.  The settlement shall take place similar to trade for trade basis and shall be completed on 

T + 1 day. There shall be no netting of settlement at broker’s end. 

c.  Funds collected from the bidders who have not been allocated shares shall be released 

after the download of the obligation. 

d.  On T+1 day, to the extent of obligation determined, the clearing Corporation/ Clearing 
house of DSE shall transfer such number of  shares to the clearing corporation/clearing 
house of the other stock exchange, without consideration of money. Excess shares, if 
any, shall be returned to seller broker(s).The direct credit of shares shall be given to the 
demat account of the successful bidder provided such manner of credit is indicated by 
the broker/bidder. 

 

(ii) Handling of default in pay-in  
a.  In the event of default in pay-in an amount of 10% of the bid value shall be forfeited as a 
penalty and shall be credited to Investor Protection Fund. The balance amount shall be 
returned to the bidder. 

b.  The price at which allotments have been made based on the allocation on T day shall 

not be revised as a result of any default in pay-in. 
Issuer shall have the option to cancel in full or conclude the offer. 

c. 
d.  Allotment details after settlement shall also be disseminated by the exchange. 
e.  Allocation details after settlement shall be consolidated by the DSE and excess shares, 
if any, shall be returned by the respective Clearing Corporation/ Clearing house to the 
seller(s) broker(s). 

f.  Settlement  Guarantee  Fund  shall  not  be  available  for  OFS  through  stock  exchange 

mechanism. 

 

9.  Issuance of Contract Notes 

 

The brokers shall be required to issue contracts note to its clients based on the allotment 
price and quantity in terms of conditions specified by the exchange. 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

10. Withdrawal of offer 

The offer for sale may be withdrawn prior to its proposed opening. In such a case there will 
be  a  cooling  off  period  of  10  trading  days  from  the  date  of  withdrawal  before  an  offer  is 
made  once  again.  The  stock  exchange(s)  shall  suitably  disseminate  details  of  such 
withdrawal.  
 

11. Cancellation of offer 

 
Cancellation of offer shall not be permitted during the bidding period. If the seller(s) fails to 
get sufficient demand at or above the floor price, he may choose to either conclude the offer 
or cancel it in full. The seller may also choose to conclude the offer or cancel it in full, in 
case of defaults in settlement obligation. 

 

12.  This  circular  shall  supersede  the  circulars  no.  CIR/MRD/DP/05/2012  dated  February  1, 
2012,  CIR/MRD/DP/07/2012  dated  February  23,  2012  and  CIR/MRD/DP/8/2012  dated 
February 27, 2012. 
 

13. Stock Exchanges are advised to: 
.  

 

above. 

a.  take  necessary  steps  and  put  in  place  necessary  systems  for  implementation  of  the 

 
b.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for the 

implementation of the above decision. 

 
c.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the member brokers of the stock 

exchange and also to disseminate the same on the website. 

 

14. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Harini Balaji 
Deputy General Manager 
022-26449372 
harinib@sebi.gov.in 

