 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DP/ 20 /2012 

 

 

 

 

 

         August 02, 2012 

 
 
The Managing Director and CEO   
Bombay Stock Exchange Limited  
 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers  
Dalal Street    
 
 
Mumbai - 400001  
 
 
 

 
 

The Managing Director 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (E) 
Mumbai - 400 051 

Dear Sir, 
 
Sub: Direct Market Access - Clarification 

 

1.  SEBI,  vide  circular  no.  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-7/2008  dated  April  03,  2008  introduced 
Direct  Market  Access  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “DMA”).  Further,  SEBI  vide 
circular  no.  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-03/2009  dated  February  20,  2009  permitted 
institutional investors to use DMA through the Investment Managers. 

 

2.  In  light  of  the  feedback  received  from  the  market  participants  and  the  several 
measures  prescribed  by  SEBI  to  simplify  and  rationalize  the  “Trading  Account 
Opening Process”, the abovementioned SEBI circulars on DMA stands modified to 
the following extent: 
 
a.  The facility of DMA provided by the stock broker shall be used by the client or 
an investment manager of the client. A SEBI registered entity shall be permitted 
to act as an investment manager on behalf of institutional clients. In case the 
facility  of  DMA  is  used  by  the  client  through  an  investment  manager,  the 
investment  manager  may  execute  the  necessary  documents  on  behalf  of  the 
client(s). 
 

b.  The  point  3  on  Client  Authorization  and  Broker  Client  Agreement  of  the 
SEBI  circular  no.  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-7/2008  dated  April  03,  2008  shall  be 
deleted. 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

c.  In  order  to  bring  uniformity  on  the  requirement  of  documentation  for  trading 
account opening process, in view of the SEBI circular no CIR/MIRSD/16/2011 
dated  August  22,  2011,  the  specific  Broker  –  Client  Agreement  for  the 
purpose of DMA shall be replaced with the “Terms and Condition” document as 
specified at Annexure I. The “Terms and Conditions” shall be provided to the 
client  or  investment  manager  acting  on  behalf  of  a  client  (s)  for  availing  the 
DMA facility. In case the DMA facility provided by the stock broker is used by 
the  client  the  paragraphs  one  to  eighteen  of  Part  A  of  Annexure-I  shall  be 
applicable. In case the DMA facility provided by the stock broker is used by the 
client through an investment manager the paragraphs one to eighteen of Part B 
of  Annexure-I  shall  be  applicable  and  additionally,  the  investment  manager 
shall provide to the stock broker the details as specified at Annexure-II.  
 

d.  Exchange shall specify from time to time the categories of investors to whom 
the  DMA  facility  can  be  extended.  Currently,  this  facility  is  available  for 
institutional  clients.  Brokers  shall  specifically  authorize  clients  or  investment 
managers  acting  on  behalf  of  clients  for  providing  DMA  facility,  after  fulfilling 
Know Your Client requirements and carrying out necessary due diligence. The 
broker shall maintain proper records of such due diligence. 
 

e.  The para 2 (a) and 2 (b) of SEBI circular no MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-03/2009 dated 

February 20, 2009 shall be deleted. 
 

f.  The  other  provision  specified  in  SEBI  circular  no  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-7/2008 
dated  April  03,  2008  and  SEBI  circular  no.  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-03/2009  dated 
February 20, 2009 shall remain applicable. 

 

3.  Stock Exchanges are advised to: 

.  

 
a. 

 

take necessary steps and put in place necessary systems for implementation of 
the above. 
 

b.  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations 

for the implementation of the above decision. 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

c. 

d. 

bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  member  of  the  stock 
exchange and also to disseminate the same on the website. 
 
communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 
circular in the Monthly Development Report. 

4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Harini Balaji 
Deputy General Manager 
022-26449372 
harinib@sebi.gov.in 

 
Encl:  
 
1) Annexure – I: Terms and Conditions  
2) Annexure – II: Format for details of investment manager and client. 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

ANNEXURE I – TERMS AND CONDITIONS 

PART – A: DMA FACILITY USED BY THE CLIENT 

1.  The client is expected to be fully aware of the risks associated with the market and 
the financial instruments being traded on stock exchanges through DMA. The client 
shall  be  responsible  for  complying  with  laws,  rules,  regulations,  notifications  etc 
issued by regulatory authorities as may be applicable from time to time. 

2.  The  client  shall  ensure  that  DMA  facility  provided  by  the  Broker  is  used  only  to 
execute the trades of the client and shall not be used for transactions on behalf of 
any other person / entity. 

3.  The client shall be responsible for ensuring that, only persons authorized by it shall 
access and use the DMA facility provided by the Broker. All orders originating from 
such facility / system shall be deemed to be authorized by the client.  

4.  Where the client accesses or proposes to access the Broker’s DMA platform through 
external  applications,  including  but  not  restricted  to  services  of  third  party  service 
provider(s),  own  application(s),  etc.,  the  client  shall  ensure  that  such  applications 
have  adequate  security  features  including  but  not  limited  to  access  controls, 
password  protection  etc;  and  that  appropriate  agreement(s)  with  such  third  party 
service  provider(s)  etc.  for  ensuring  secured  access  and  communication has  been 
executed and are in place.  

5.  The client shall ensure that no person authorized by them to place orders through 
DMA facility provided by the broker has been / is involved in any adverse action by 
any regulatory authorities in any jurisdiction. 

6.  The client shall provide the names of authorized individual users to the broker prior 

to placing DMA orders. 

7.  The client shall not use or allow the use of DMA facility to engage in any form of 
market misconduct including insider trading and market manipulation or conduct that 
is otherwise in breach of applicable laws, rules and regulation. 

8.  The client is aware that Algorithmic trading i.e. generation of orders using automated 
execution  logic  is  governed  by  Algorithmic  trading  guidelines  issued  by  SEBI  and 
Exchanges  and  requires  prior  approval  of  the  exchanges.  The  client  shall  ensure 
that  new  algorithms  and  changes  to  existing  approved  algorithms  are  not  used 
through the DMA facility without prior approval of concerned stock exchanges. The 
client  shall  ensure  that  it  has  necessary  checks  and  balances,  in  place  to  identify 
and control dysfunctional algorithms and the Broker shall have the right to shut down 
the DMA facility and remove any outstanding client orders in case of any suspected 
dysfunctional algo. 

9.  The client is aware that authentication technologies and strict security measures are 
required for routing orders through DMA facility and undertakes to ensure that the 
password of the client and/or his representative are not revealed to any third party.  

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
10. The  client  acknowledges  that  all  DMA  orders  placed  by  them  through  the  DMA 
facility would be validated by the risk management system of the broker. The Broker 
has  the  right  to  accept  or  reject  any  DMA  order  placed  by  the  client  at  its  sole 
discretion. 

11. The client shall be solely responsible for all acts or omissions of any person using a 
DMA  facility  and  shall  be  bound  to  accept  and  settle  all  transactions  executed 
through the DMA facility provided by the Broker notwithstanding that such order(s) 
may have been submitted erroneously or by an unauthorized user, or that its data is 
inaccurate or incomplete when submitted, or the client subsequently determines for 
whatever reason that the order should not have been submitted. 

12. The  client  shall  notify  the  Broker  in  the  event  of  DMA  facility  being  compromised. 
Upon receipt of this notice, client’s DMA facility shall be promptly disabled but the 
client  shall  continue  to  be  responsible  for  any  misuse  of  the  DMA  facility  or  any 
orders placed through the DMA facility as a result of the compromise of the DMA 
facility  at  their  end.  The  Broker  shall  not  be  liable  for  any  loss,  liability  or  cost 
whatsoever arising as a result of any unauthorized use of DMA facility at the client’s 
end.   

13. In  the  event  of  winding-up  or  insolvency  of  the  client  or  his  otherwise  becoming 
incapable of settling their DMA obligation, broker may close out the transaction of 
the client as permissible under bye-laws, rules, regulations of the exchanges. The 
client shall continue to be liable for any losses, costs, damages arising thereof. 

14. The client is fully aware of the risks of transmitting DMA orders to the Broker’s DMA 
facility  through  vendor  systems  or  service  providers  and  the  Broker  is  not 
responsible for such risks. 

15. The  client  should  be  aware  of  the  fact  that  neither  the  DMA  facility  will  be 
uninterrupted nor error free nor the results that may be obtained from the use of the 
service  or  as  to  the  timeliness,  sequence,  accuracy,  completeness,  reliability  or 
content of any information, service or transaction provided through DMA. The DMA 
service is provided on an "as is", "as available" basis without warranties of any kind, 
either express or implied, including, but not limited to, those of information access, 
order  execution,  merchantability  and  fitness  for  a  particular  purpose.  The  Broker 
shall not be liable for any loss, damage or injury including but not limited to direct 
lost  profits  or  trading  losses  or  any  consequential,  special,  incidental,  indirect,  or 
similar damages from the use or inability to use the service or any part thereof.  

16. The Broker shall have the right to withdraw the DMA facility in case of:- 

  Breach of the limits imposed by the broker or any regulatory authority.  
  On account of any misuse of the DMA facility by the client or on instructions 

from SEBI/Exchanges. 

  Any other reason, at the discretion of the broker 

Broker shall endeavor to give reasonable notice to the client in such instances. 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

17. The Broker shall not be liable or responsible for non-execution of the DMA orders of 

the client due to any link/system failure at the client/ Broker/ exchange(s) end. 

18. This document shall not be altered, amended and /or modified by the parties in a 
manner that shall be in contravention of any other provisions of this document. Any 
additional  terms  and  conditions  should  not  be  in  contravention  with  rules  / 
regulations /bye-laws/circulars, of the relevant authorities including applicable stock 
exchanges as amended from time to time.  

 

PART – B: DMA FACILITY USED BY THE CLIENT THROUGH AN INVESTMENT 

MANAGER 

1.  The client shall be solely responsible for all acts or omissions of any person using 
a  DMA  facility  and  shall  be  bound  to  accept  and  settle  all  transactions  executed 
through the DMA facility provided by the Broker to the investment manager acting on 
behalf  of  the  client,  notwithstanding  that  such  order(s)  may  have  been  submitted 
erroneously or by an unauthorized user, or that its data is inaccurate or incomplete 
when submitted, or the client subsequently determines for whatever reason that the 
order should not have been submitted. 

2.  The investment manager is expected to be fully aware of the risks associated with 
the market and the financial instruments being traded on stock exchanges through 
DMA. The investment manager shall be responsible for complying with laws, rules, 
regulations,  notifications  etc  issued  by  regulatory  authorities  as  may  be  applicable 
from time to time. 

3.  Where the DMA facility provided by the Broker is used to execute trade on behalf 
of  one  or  more  clients,  by  the  investment  manager,  then  it  is  represented  and 
warranted that, at each time an order is placed by such investment manager through 
the DMA facility of the Broker -  

a)  The  investment  manager  has  due  authority  to  deal  on  behalf  of  the  client(s) 
through the Broker, specifying the roles and responsibilities of the investment 
manager in execution of transactions on behalf of the client(s). 

b)  The  investment  manager  shall  comply  with  any  applicable  laws,  rules  and 

regulations affecting or relating to trading operations. 

c)  The  investment  manager  and  the  client(s)  are  bound  by  the  terms  and 

conditions hereof; 

d)  The investment manager using the DMA facility for routing client(s) orders shall 
not cross trades of their client(s) with each other. Accordingly, all orders should 
be offered in the market. 

e)  The stock exchange or SEBI may at any time call for any information from a 
client(s) or an investment manager acting on behalf of the client(s) with respect 
to any matter relating to the activity of the investment manager. The investment 
manager  shall  also 
the  roles  and 

information  specifying 

furnish  any 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

responsibilities  of  the  investment  manager  in  execution  of  transactions  on 
behalf of the client(s), as and when required by the exchanges or SEBI. 

4.  The  investment  manager  shall  be  responsible  for  ensuring  that,  only  persons 
authorized  by  it  shall  access  and  use  the  DMA  facility  provided  by  the  Broker.  All 
orders originating from such facility / system shall be deemed to be authorized by 
the client.  

5.  Where the investment manager accesses or proposes to access the Broker’s DMA 
platform through external applications, including but not restricted to services of third 
party  service  provider(s),  own  application(s),  etc.,  the  investment  manager  shall 
ensure  that  such  applications  have  adequate  security  features  including  but  not 
limited 
that  appropriate 
agreement(s)  with  such  third  party  service  provider(s)  etc.  for  ensuring  secured 
access and communication has been executed and are in place.  

to  access  controls,  password  protection  etc;  and 

6.  The investment manager shall ensure that no person authorized by them to place 
orders  through  DMA  facility  provided  by  the  broker  has  been  /  is  involved  in  any 
adverse action by any regulatory authorities in any jurisdiction. 

7.  The investment manager shall provide the names of authorized individual users to 

the broker prior to placing DMA orders. 

8.  The investment manager shall not use or allow the use of DMA facility to engage in 
any form of market misconduct including insider trading and market manipulation or 
conduct that is otherwise in breach of applicable laws, rules and regulation. 

9.  The investment manager is aware that Algorithmic trading i.e. generation of orders 
using  automated  execution  logic  is  governed  by  Algorithmic  trading  guidelines 
issued by SEBI and Exchanges and requires prior approval of the exchanges. The 
investment  manager  shall  ensure  that  new  algorithms  and  changes  to  existing 
approved algorithms are not used through the DMA facility without prior approval of 
concerned  stock  exchanges.  The  investment  manager  shall  ensure  that  it  has 
necessary  checks  and  balances,  in  place  to  identify  and  control  dysfunctional 
algorithms  and  the  Broker  shall  have  the  right  to  shut  down  the  DMA  facility  and 
remove any outstanding client orders in case of any suspected dysfunctional algo. 

10.  The  investment  manager  is  aware  that  authentication  technologies  and  strict 
security  measures  are  required  for  routing  orders  through  DMA  facility  and 
undertakes  to  ensure  that  the  password  of  the  investment  manager  and/or  his 
representative are not revealed to any third party.  

11.  The  investment  manager  acknowledges  that  all  DMA  orders  placed  by  them 
through the DMA facility would be validated by the risk management system of the 
broker. The Broker has the right to accept or reject any DMA order placed by the 
investment manager at its sole discretion. 

12.  The investment manager shall notify the Broker in the event of DMA facility being 
compromised.  Upon  receipt  of  this  notice,  client’s  DMA  facility  shall  be  promptly 
disabled but the client shall continue to be responsible for any misuse of the DMA 
facility or any orders placed through the DMA facility as a result of the compromise 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

of the DMA facility at their end. The Broker shall not be liable for any loss, liability or 
cost whatsoever arising as a result of any unauthorized use of DMA facility at the 
client’s end.   

13. 

In  the  event  of  winding-up  or  insolvency  of  the  client  or  his  otherwise  becoming 
incapable of honoring their DMA obligation, broker may close out the transaction of 
the client as permissible under bye-laws, rules, regulations of the exchanges. The 
client shall continue to be liable for any losses, costs, damages arising thereof. 

14.  The investment manager is fully aware of the risks of transmitting DMA orders to 
the  Broker’s  DMA  facility  through  vendor  systems  or  service  providers  and  the 
Broker is not responsible for such risks. 

15.  The investment manager should be aware of the fact that neither the DMA facility 
will be uninterrupted nor error free nor the results that may be obtained from the use 
of the service or as to the timeliness, sequence, accuracy, completeness, reliability 
or  content  of  any  information,  service  or  transaction  provided  through  DMA.  The 
DMA service is provided on an "as is", "as available" basis without warranties of any 
kind,  either  express  or  implied,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  those  of  information 
access,  order  execution,  merchantability  and  fitness  for  a  particular  purpose.  The 
Broker shall not be liable for any loss, damage or injury including but not limited to 
direct lost profits or trading losses or any consequential, special, incidental, indirect, 
or similar damages from the use or inability to use the service or any part thereof.  

16.  The Broker shall have the right to withdraw the DMA facility in case of:- 

 
 

 

Breach of the limits imposed by the broker or any regulatory authority.  
On  account  of  any  misuse  of  the  DMA  facility  by  the  client/  investment 

manager or on instructions from SEBI/Exchanges. 
Any other reason, at the discretion of the broker 

Broker shall endeavor to give reasonable notice to the client in such instances. 

 

17.  The Broker shall not be liable or responsible for non-execution of the DMA orders 

of the client due to any link/system failure at the client/ Broker/ exchange(s) end. 

18.  This document shall not be altered, amended and /or modified by the parties in a 
manner that shall be in contravention of any other provisions of this document. Any 
additional  terms  and  conditions  should  not  be  in  contravention  with  rules  / 
regulations /bye-laws/circulars, of the relevant authorities including applicable stock 
exchanges as amended from time to time.  

***** 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Annexure II  

On the letter head of the Investment manager 

PART A 

DETAILS OF THE INVESTMENT MANAGER:  

 

 

 

 

 

NAME OF THE 
INVESTMENT MANAGER:  

NAME OF THE HOME 
REGULATOR  

COUNTRY OF 
JURISDICTION OF HOME 
REGULATOR 

REGISTERED 
/REGULATED IN HOME 
JURISDICTION AS: 

SEBI REGISTRATION 
NUMBER: 

 

PART B 

CLIENT(s) DETAILS: 

S. 
No. 

NAME OF 
THE ENTITY 

NAME OF THE 
REGULATOR 

REGULATED 
IN INDIA AS 

REGISTRATION 

NUMBER 

PAN 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

