CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

July 27, 2012 

 

 
CIR. /IMD/DF-1/20/2012  
 
To 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
All Registered Registrars to an Issue 
All Registered Bankers to an Issue 
All Depositories 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 

Sub: System for Making Application to Public issue of Debt Securities 

 
1.  Regulation 10 of the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 

(the “SEBI Debt Regulations”) provides that: 
“An issuer proposing to issue debt securities to the public through the on-line system 
of  the  designated  stock  exchange  shall  comply  with  the  relevant  applicable 
requirements as may be specified by the Board.” 

 
2.  Regulation 31(2) of SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 

provides that:- 
“In  particular,  and  without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  the  foregoing  power  and 
provisions of these regulations, such orders or circulars may provide for all or any of 
the following matters, namely: 

Electronic  issuances  and  other  issue  procedures  including  the  procedure  for  price 
discovery….” 

3.  In view of the above, in order to facilitate a system for making online applications for 
public issue of debt securities and to reduce the timelines of the issue process for 
public issue of debt securities, it has been decided to: 
a.  Extend ASBA facility to public issues of debt securities; and 
b.  Provide  option  for  subscribing  to  debt  securities  through  an  online  internet 

interface with a facility to make online payment. 

Page 1 of 9 

 

 

c.  Apply  the  timelines  for  the  issue  process  as  provided  in  SEBI  Circular 
CIR/CFD/DIL/1/2011  dated  April  29,  2011  or  as  notified  by  SEBI  from  time  to 
time. 

4.  The detailed procedure for providing the above facilities is laid out in Annexure to 
this  circular.  The  circular  shall  be  applicable  with  immediate  subject  to  putting  in 
place necessary systems and infrastructure by the stock exchanges. 

5.  Recognized Stock Exchanges are directed to: 

a.  Comply with the conditions laid down in this circular 
b.  Put in place necessary systems and infrastructure for implementation of this 

circular. 

c.  Make consequential changes, if any, to the bye-laws of the Exchange as may 

be applicable and necessary.  

d.  Communicate  to  member  brokers/  sub-brokers  and  create  awareness 

amongst them about their roles and responsibilities in such issues. 
 

6.  Depositories, Merchant Bankers and Registrars are directed to: 

a.  Comply with the conditions laid down in this circular 
b.  Put in place necessary systems and infrastructure for implementation of this 

circular. 

c.  Create  awareness  among  issuers  and  investors  about  the  various  modes 

available for making applications 
 

7.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  Regulation  31(2)  of 
SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008. 
 

8.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category 

“Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Corp Debt Market”. 

Yours faithfully, 

 
Maninder Cheema 
Deputy General Manager 
+91-22-2644-9754 
maninderc@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 9 

ANNEXURE 

 

 

 
1.  Method  of  Application:  Issuers  shall  provide  the  following  options  for  making 

application to public issues of debt securities:  

1.1. Direct Applications by using online interface to be provided by Stock Exchanges 

with Online Payment Facility 

1.2. Applications  through  Lead  Managers/Syndicate  Members/  Sub  Syndicate 

Members / Trading Member of stock exchange(s) using ASBA facility  

1.3.  Applications through Banks using ASBA facility 
1.4. Application through Lead Manager/Syndicate Member / Sub Syndicate Member / 

Trading Member of stock exchange(s) without use of ASBA facility.  

1.5. Application through Lead Manager/Syndicate Member/ Sub Syndicate Member/ 
Trading  Member  of  stock  exchange(s)  for  applicants  who  intend  to  hold  debt 
securities in physical form. 
 

2.  Procedure:  The  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  above  options  shall  be  as 

detailed below:  

2.1. Direct  Applications  by  using  online  interface  through  stock  exchange(s 

with Online Payment Facility 

2.1.1. Issuer  shall  provide,  through  a  recognized  stock  exchange  which  offers 
such facility, an online interface enabling direct application by investors to 
the public issue. 

2.1.2. The  online  interface  shall  provide  an  online  payment  facility  and  ensure 

compliance with the requirements as specified in this section. 

2.1.3. Only  investors  with  demat  account  shall  be  permitted  to  make  an 

application using the online interface. 

2.1.4. The  investor  shall  be  required  to  log  on  to  the  stock  exchange  platform 

and provide requisite information as per the application form. 

 

Page 3 of 9 

 

2.1.5. For  compliance  with  KYC  requirements,  the  interface  shall  rely  on  the 
Depository  Participant  ID,  Beneficiary  Owner  Account  No  which  shall  be 
validated online from the Depositories.  

2.1.6. The  investor  shall  make  payment  for  the  debt  securities  through  the 
payment  gateway  provided  by  the  online  interface.  The  exchange  shall 
arrange to send SMS/ email confirmation regarding receipt of funds to the 
investor. 

2.1.7. On  successful  submission  of 

the  application 

acknowledgement number shall be generated. 

form,  a  unique 

2.1.8. Investors shall be able to cancel their application based upon the unique 
acknowledgement  number.  This  unique  acknowledgement  number  shall 
be quoted by the applicant for their grievances, if any. 

2.1.9. All online payments shall be routed to the Escrow Account of the issuer. 

2.1.10.  Upon allotment, the Registrar shall credit securities to the demat account 
of  the  applicant  and  in  case  of  refund,  the  refund  amount  shall  be 
credited directly to the investor’s bank account. 

2.1.11.  Optional  facility  may  be  provided  to  the  applicant  for  selecting  broker 
name and broker code, if any, of the broker who referred the issue to the 
applicant. 

2.1.12.  As the application shall be made online, there shall no movement of any 

document from the Stock Exchange(s) to the Registrar.  

 

2.2. Applications  through  Lead  Manager/Syndicate  Member/  Sub  Syndicate 
Member  /  Trading  Member  of  stock  exchange(s)  using  ASBA  facility  and 
Applications through Banks using ASBA facility  
2.2.1. Issuers shall offer ASBA mechanism as an alternative method for making 
an application for public issue of debt securities. However, it shall not be 
compulsory to make application through ASBA.  

2.2.2. In  respect  of  ASBA  applications,  all  existing  rules,  regulations  and 

procedures as notified by SEBI from time to time shall be followed.  

 

Page 4 of 9 

 

2.2.3. In addition, application for debt securities using ASBA facility may also be 
offered  by  Trading  Member(s)  of  Stock  Exchange(s)  who  are  not 
empanelled  as  Syndicate  /Sub-syndicate  Members.  All  rules,  regulations 
and  procedures  applicable  to  Lead  Manager  /  Syndicate/Sub  syndicate 
members shall mutatis mutandis be applicable to such Trading Member(s) 
of Stock Exchange(s). 

 

2.3. Applications  through  Lead  Manager/Syndicate  /  Sub  Syndicate  Member  / 

Trading Member through Collecting Banks without using ASBA  facility 
2.3.1. Facility 

Lead 
Manager/Syndicate/Sub-syndicate Member/ Trading Member using normal 
cheque payment method shall also be available. 

applications 

through 

making 

online 

for 

2.3.2. Only  investors  with  demat  account  shall  be  permitted  to  make  such 

applications.  

2.3.3. For  such  applications, 

the  Lead  Manager/Syndicate/Sub-syndicate 
Member/ Trading Member shall upload details of applications on the on-
line platform of the stock exchanges.  

2.3.4. Lead Manager/Syndicate / Sub-syndicate Member / Trading Member shall 
also download the forms from stock exchanges platforms or use physical 
application 
along  with 
cheques/drafts/payment instrument to the Collecting Banks. 

submit 

forms 

forms 

these 

and 

2.3.5. The Collecting Banks shall realize the payments for these applications in 
the Escrow Account of the issuer and shall give details of the same to the 
Registrar.  These  application  forms  shall  be  forwarded  to  Registrar  for 
procurement  analysis  and  resolution  of  investor  grievances  as  per 
procedure followed in equity securities issuances.  

2.3.6. The Registrar shall match the application details captured in the electronic 
book as obtained from the stock exchanges and  the payment received for 
the purpose of allotment and reconciliations of funds received. 

2.3.7. The Registrar shall credit the securities in the demat account of successful 

allottees. 

2.3.8. The  Registrar  shall  give  refund  amount  or  excess  application  amount  to 
the  investor  directly  as  per  bank  account  details  provided  in  the  demat 
account of the applicant. 

 

Page 5 of 9 

 

 

2.4. Applications 

for 

Manager/Syndicate / Sub Syndicate Member or Trading  Member 

allotment 

in 

physical 

form 

through 

Lead 

 

2.4.1. Issuer may also provide facility for making applications in physical form for 

investors who do not have demat accounts.  

2.4.2. For allotment in physical mode, the applicant shall required to comply with 
KYC  norms  specified  by  SEBI  by  submitting  documents  for  identity  and 
address proof.  

2.4.3. Such applications shall be collected by the Lead Manager, Syndicate/Sub 

Syndicate member or Trading member who shall  

2.4.3.1.  verify and check required KYC documents submitted by the investor 

along with the application  

2.4.3.2.  upload  application  details  required  for  allotment  on  the  stock 

exchange platform.  

2.4.3.3.  provide acknowledgment  of the application to the investor. 

2.4.4. The  application  along  with  payment  instrument  favoring  the  Escrow 
Account  of  the  issuer  shall  be  submitted  by  the  Lead  Manager, 
Syndicate/Sub  Syndicate  member  or  Trading  member  to  the  Collecting 
Bank. 

2.4.5. The Collecting Bank shall realize the payment instrument and shall send 
details  of  such  applications  forms,  along  with  KYC  documents  to  the 
Registrar. 

2.4.6. The  Registrar  shall  match  the  application  details  with  the  application 
details  received  from  Stock  Exchanges,  and  carry  out  necessary  checks 
and  validations  and  reconciliation  of  funds  received  from  the  Collecting 
Banks. 

2.4.7. The Registrar shall dispatch the physical certificate to the applicant as per 
address  provided  in  the  application.  In  case  KYC  documents  are  not 
proper,  Registrar  shall  hold  back  physical  certificate  pending  receipt  of 
complete KYC documents from investor. 

2.4.8. The Registrar shall send the refund amount or excess application amount 
to the applicant as per the bank account details provided in the application.  

 

Page 6 of 9 

 
3.  Roles and Responsibilities: While providing the options for  making applications 
as  detailed  above,  the  obligations  and  responsibilities  of  various  intermediaries 
shall be as under: 
 

 

3.1.  Issuer 

3.1.1. The issuer shall use an on-line platform provided by stock exchange(s) for 

receiving applications in public issue of debt securities. 

3.1.2. For this purpose, the issuer shall enter into an agreement with the stock 

exchange(s) which offer such system.  

3.1.3. The  agreement  shall  specify  inter-alia,  the  inter  se  rights,  duties, 

responsibilities and obligations of the issuer and stock exchange(s). 

3.1.4. The  agreement  shall  also  provide  for  a  dispute  resolution  mechanism 

between the issuer and the stock exchange(s). 

3.1.5. The issuer shall maintain a single escrow account for collecting application 

money through all the methods. 
 

3.2. Registrar 

3.2.1. The registrar shall have an online or system driven interface with the Stock 

Exchange platform to get updated information pertaining to issues. 

3.2.2. The  Registrar  shall  collect  aggregate  applications  details  from  the  stock 
exchanges  platform  to  decide  the  eligible  applications  and  process  the 
allotment as per applicable SEBI Regulations. 

3.2.3. Where the issuer has signed agreements with multiple stock-exchanges, 

the Registrar shall ensure that the allotment is done on date time priority. 

3.2.4. An application without valid application amount shall be treated as invalid 

application by the Registrar. 

3.2.5. The  Registrar  shall  credit  securities/dispatch  certificates  to  all  valid 

allottees 

3.2.6. The  Registrar  shall  ensure  refund  of  application  amount  or  excess 
application  amount  in  the  bank  account  of  the  applicant  as  stated  in  its 
demat account. 

 

Page 7 of 9 

 

3.3. Stock Exchange 

 

3.3.1. Stock Exchanges shall provide a platform for making applications through 
3.3.1.1.   Syndicate  Member/  Sub  Syndicate  Member  /  Trading  Member  of 

stock exchange(s)  

3.3.1.2.   Web-enabled direct applications from investors with Online Payment 

Facility 

3.3.2. The on-line web enabled platform shall provide  

3.3.2.1.  all appropriate fields, required for public issue of debt securities, as 

per SEBI Cir No. IMD/DF-1/19/2012 dated July 25, 2012.  

3.3.2.2.  issue opening/ closing date. 
3.3.2.3.  facility for generation of acknowledgement number. 
3.3.2.4.  validation of DP ID, Client ID and PAN entered in the online system 

with the Depositories database. 

3.3.2.5.  generate  an  issue  specific  code  from  the  on-line  platform,  so  that 
participants  on  the  online  platform  do  not  face  any  problem  in 
segregating the ASBA issue-wise.  

3.3.2.6.  providing facilities of online payment by the investor through payment 

gateway or any other mechanism 

3.3.3.  The Stock Exchanges shall be responsible for  

3.3.3.1.  accurate, 

transmission  of 

timely  and  secured 

the  electronic 
application file uploaded by all participants on the online platform, to 
the registrar. 

3.3.3.2.  providing  the  necessary  payment  gateway  interface  for  receipt  of 

funds for direct interface to investors. 

3.3.3.3.  ensuring  smooth  movement  of  funds  to  the  Escrow  account  of  the 

issuer. 

3.3.3.4.  disseminating the issue information on Exchange web site on a real 

time basis across all categories and types of options. 

3.3.3.5.  ensuring that any Trading Member does not levy a service fee on his 

clients/investors in lieu of his services in this regard. 

 

Page 8 of 9 

3.3.4. Notwithstanding  the  responsibility  of  the  Lead  Managers/  Syndicate 
Members as laid down in SEBI regulations, the Stock Exchange shall be 
responsible  for  addressing  investor  grievances  arising  from  applications 
submitted  online  through  the  stock  exchange  platform  or  through  their 
Trading Members. 

 

 

3.4. Lead  Manager/Syndicate  Member  /  Sub  –  syndicate  Member  /  Trading 

Member 
3.4.1. The Lead Manager /Syndicate/Sub-syndicate Member or Trading  Member 
shall  be  responsible  for  addressing  any  investor  grievances  arising  from 
the applications uploaded by them in respect of quantity, price or any other 
data entry or other errors made by them. 

3.4.2. If  the  Lead  Manager  /  Syndicate/Sub-syndicate  member  or  Trading 
Member  has  not  entered  any  details  correctly  on  the  stock  exchanges 
platform  and  it  results  on  the  mismatch  with  the  data  obtained  by  the 
Registrar  from  the  Depositories,  the  Lead  Manager  /  Syndicate/sub-
syndicate member or Trading Member shall be responsible for rejection of 
such applications. 

 

3.5.    Collecting Banks 

3.5.1. The  Collecting  Bank  shall  be  responsible  for  addressing  any  investor 
grievances arising from non confirmation of funds to the Registrar despite 
successful realization of the payment instrument in favour of the issuer’s 
Escrow Account, or any delay or operational lapse by the Collecting Bank 
in sending the forms to the Registrar 

 

Page 9 of 9 

