 

CIRCULAR 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CIR/CFD/DIL/7/2012 
 
To 
All the Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Madam / Sir, 
 
Sub.: Manner of Dealing with Audit Reports filed by Listed companies 

August 13, 2012 

1.  Clause 31(a) of Equity Listing Agreement, inter-alia, requires listed companies 
to  submit  six  copies  of  annual  reports  containing  audited  annual  financial 
statements to the stock exchanges. 

 

 

2.  SEBI, in its continuous endeavor to enhance the quality of financial reporting 
being done by listed companies, has now decided to put in place a system to 
monitor the audit qualifications contained in the audit report accompanying the 
audited annual financial statements submitted by listed companies. The exact 
text of amendments to Equity Listing Agreement in this regard is given in the 
Annexure to this circular. 
 

3.  Accordingly,  listed  companies  shall  now  be  required  to  submit  the  following 
forms, as may be applicable, along with copies of annual reports submitted to 
stock exchanges: 

  Form A: Unqualified/ Matter of Emphasis Report 
  Form B: Qualified/ Subject To/ Except For Audit Report 

 

4.  The format of Form A and Form B is given in the Annexure to this circular as 
part  of  the  amendments  to  Equity  Listing  Agreement.  These  forms  shall  be 
signed  by  the  a)  Chief  Executive  Officer  /  Managing  Director,  b)  Chief 
Financial  Officer,  c)  Auditor  and  d)  Chairman  of  the  Audit  Committee.  The 
information submitted as per these forms shall also draw attention to relevant 
notes 
to 
qualifications in the Directors’ report and comments of the Board/ Chair of the 
Audit Committee.  

financial  statements,  management's  response 

in  the  annual 

 
 
 

 

Page 1 of 6 

5.  Stock  exchanges  shall  adopt  the  following  procedure  to  process  the  audit 
reports accompanying audited annual financial statements submitted by listed 
companies along with Form B: 

 

(a)  Stock  exchanges  shall  carry  out  preliminary  scrutiny  of  reports 
accompanied  by  Form  B  including  seeking  necessary  explanation  from 
the  listed  company  concerned  and  consider  the  same  based  on 
materiality  of  the  qualifications.  The  parameters  for  ascertaining  the 
materiality  of  audit  qualifications  shall  be, 
these 
qualifications  on  the  profit  and  loss,  financial  position  and  corporate 
governance  of  the  listed  company.  For  the  purpose  of  uniformity,  stock 
exchanges shall consult one other for deciding the criteria for preliminary 
scrutiny.  Further,  stock  exchanges  shall  also  consult  one  other  for 
distributing the work in case shares of the listed company concerned are 
listed on more than one stock exchange.  
 

impact  of 

the 

(b)  Upon examining the audit reports based on the above parameters, stock 
exchanges  shall  refer  those  cases,  which,  in  their  opinion,  need  further 
examination, to SEBI. 
 

(c)  SEBI  has  constituted  the  ‘Qualified  Audit  Review  Committee’  (QARC) 
with  representatives  from  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India 
(ICAI), stock exchanges, etc. The QARC shall review the cases received 
from  the  stock  exchanges  and  guide  SEBI  in  processing  the  qualified 
annual audit reports referred to by the stock exchanges. 
 

(d)  After  analyzing  the  qualifications  in  audit  reports,  QARC  may  make 

following recommendations: 

(i) 

(ii) 

 
If, prima facie, QARC is of the view that  an audit qualification is not 
significant, it may suggest steps for rectification of such qualification; 

 

If,  prima  facie,  QARC  is  of  the  view  that  an  audit  qualification  is 
significant  and  the  explanation  given  by  the 
listed  company 
concerned  / its Audit Committee is unsatisfactory, the case may be 
referred  to  the  Financial  Reporting  Review  Board  of  ICAI  (ICAI-
FRRB)  for  their  opinion  on  whether  the  qualification  is  justified  or 
requires restatement of the books of accounts of the listed company; 

 

(iii)  If  an  audit  qualification  is  not  quantifiable,  QARC  may  suggest 

rectification of the same within a stipulated period. 

 

(e) 

 

If ICAI-FRRB opines that an audit qualification is justified, SEBI may ask 
the  listed  company  concerned  to  restate  its  books  of  accounts  in 
compliance  with  the  statutory  requirements  and  inform  its  shareholders 
about  the  same  by  making  an  announcement  to  the  stock  exchanges. 

Page 2 of 6 

SEBI may also direct the listed company concerned to reflect the effect of 
these  restatement  adjustments  in  the  annual  report  of  the  subsequent 
financial year.  
 
If ICAI-FRRB is of the view that an audit qualification is not justified, ICAI 
may ask the statutory auditor of the listed company concerned to provide 
necessary clarifications and may take appropriate action.  
 

(f) 

(g)  The  scrutiny  of  all  audit  reports  filed  as  per Form  B  shall  be  carried  out 
twice  a  year  based  on  the  reports  received  up  to  half  year  ending  on 
June  and  December  of  every  year  and  for  this  purpose,  the  following 
timelines are prescribed:  

Activity 

To be completed by 

the  cases  by 

Filing  of  annual  audit  reports 
by the listed companies 
Preliminary  scrutiny  of  the 
reports  received  during  the 
half year (Jan - Jun and Jul -
Dec  each  year)  by  stock 
exchanges 
referring 
applicable cases to SEBI 
Review  of 
QARC 
Referring applicable cases to 
ICAI-FRRB 
Receipt  of  reply  from  ICAI-
FRRB 
Communication  of  decision 
on  the  case  to  the  listed 
company  concerned  and  the 
stock  exchanges.  This  also 
includes 
received 
directly  from  ICAI-FRRB  with 
a 
of 
restatement.  
Publication 
restated 
financial  results  by  the  listed 
company concerned. 

recommendation 

and 

reports 

of 

As  per  the  provisions  of  the  Listing 
Agreement 
One month from the end of half year 
ending on June and December each 
year.  

One  month  from  the  date  of  receipt 
of report from the Stock Exchanges.  
from 
Fifteen  days 
the  date  of 
decision of the QARC 
One  month  from  the  date  of  referral 
by QARC 
Fifteen days from the date of receipt 
of reply from ICAI-FRRB 

Within  two  months  from  the  date  of 
letter  of  communication 
the 
concerned entity. 

to 

  

(h)  SEBI  may,  at  any  stage,  in  the  interest  of  investors,  take  necessary 
action  as  it  deems  fit,  including  mandating  restatement  of  books  of 
accounts.   

 

Page 3 of 6 

 

(i)  Stock exchanges shall display the list of companies which have filed their 

audit reports along with Form B. 

 

6.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section  11 
read  with  Section  11A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act, 
1992.  
 

7.  All stock exchanges are advised to ensure compliance with this circular. This  
circular  is  applicable  to  all  annual  audited  financial  results  submitted  for  the 
period ending on or after December 31, 2012. 

 
8.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Sunil Kadam 
General Manager 
+91-22-26449630 
sunilk@sebi.gov.in 

Annexure: Amendments to Equity Listing Agreement 
 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 6 

 

ANNEXURE 

 

Amendments to Equity Listing Agreement 

 
1.  In  Clause  31  of  Equity  Listing  Agreement,  in  sub-clause  (a),  after  the  term 

".....Directors' Annual Reports", the following shall be inserted, viz.,:- 
 
"along with Form A or Form B, as applicable, the proforma for which shall be as 
under:- 
 

Format of covering letter of the annual audit report to be filed with the 

stock exchanges 

FORM A 

 

1.   Name of the Company: 
2.   Annual financial statements for the 

XYZ Ltd. 
31st March ….. 

year ended 

3.   Type of Audit observation 
4.   Frequency of observation 

5.   To be signed by- 

  CEO/Managing Director 
  CFO 
  Auditor of the company 
  Audit Committee Chairman 

Un-qualified / Matter of Emphasis 
Whether  appeared  first  time  ….  / 
repetitive  ….  /  since    how  long 
period ….. 
 

 

 

Format of covering letter of the annual audit report to be filed with the 

stock exchanges 

FORM B 

1.   Name of the Company: 
2.   Annual  financial  statements  for 

the year ended 

3.   Type of Audit qualification 

4.   Frequency of qualification 

the 

5.   Draw attention to relevant notes 
in 
financial 
statements  and  management 
response  to  the  qualification  in 
the directors report: 

annual 

 
XYZ Ltd 
31st March …… 

Qualified…../  Subject  to  …../  Except 
for…… 
Whether  appeared  first  time  ….  / 
repetitive  ….  /  since    how  long  period 
….. 
gist 
of 
May 
qualifications/headings 
(Refer  page 
numbers  in  the  annual  report)  and 
management’s response  
 

give 

6.   Additional  comments  from  the  This  may  relate 

to  nature  of 

the 

Page 5 of 6 

board/audit committee chair: 

7.   To be signed by- 

  CEO/Managing Director 
  CFO 
  Auditor of the company 
  Audit Committee Chairman" 

including  materiality, 
qualification 
agreement/disagreement 
the 
qualification,  steps  taken  to  resolve 
the qualification, etc. 
 

on 

 
2.  After Clause 31, a new Clause 31A shall be inserted, viz., :- 

 
"31A. The issuer agrees to restate its books of accounts on the directions issued 
by  SEBI  or  by  any  other  statutory  authority,  as  per  the  provisions  of  the  extant 
regulatory framework". 
 

 

 

 

********* 

Page 6 of 6 

