 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
CIR/OIAE/1/2012                                                                              August 13, 2012 
 
All Companies whose securities are listed on Stock Exchanges 
(through Stock Exchanges) 
All recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 

Subject : Redressal of investor grievances against listed companies in SEBI 

Complaints Redress System (SCORES).  

 
SEBI  had  issued  Circular  No.CIR/OIAE/2/2011  dated  June  3,  2011  regarding 
commencement  of  SEBI  Complaints  Redress  System  (SCORES)  and  advising  all 
companies  whose  securities  are  listed  on  various  stock  exchanges  to  comply  with 
the provisions of the said circular.  
 
1. In this regard, all companies whose securities are listed on stock exchanges, are 
hereby advised to obtain SCORES authentication by September 14, 2012 in terms of 
the aforesaid circular.  
 
2.  All  companies  against  whom  complaints  are  pending  on  SCORES,  shall  take 
appropriate necessary steps within 7 days of receipt of complaint by the concerned 
company through SCORES, so as to resolve the complaint within 30 days of receipt 
of  complaint  and  also  keep  the  complainant  duly  informed  of  the  action  taken 
thereon.  
 
3. In case of failure to comply with the above, SEBI would be constrained to initiate 
enforcement actions as per the law as may be deemed appropriate.  
 
4.  The  Stock  Exchanges  are  accordingly  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this 
Circular  to  the  notice  of  all  the  companies  whose  securities  are  listed  in  the 
exchange and also to disseminate the same on the website. 
 
5. This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 
 
6. This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
Gyan Bhushan 
Chief General Manager 
022-26449710 
gyanbhushan@sebi.gov.in 

