 

 

 

CIR/CFD/DIL/8/2012 
 
To 
All Stock Exchanges  
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

 

 

 

                   August 13, 2012 

CIRCULAR 

 

Sub: Business Responsibility Reports 

 

 

 
1.  At a time and age when enterprises are increasingly seen as critical components of the 
social system, they are accountable not merely to their shareholders from a revenue 
and  profitability perspective but also to the larger society which is also its stakeholder. 
Hence, adoption of responsible business practices in the interest of the social set-up 
and the environment are as vital as their financial and operational performance. This is all 
the more relevant for listed entities which, considering the fact that they have accessed 
funds from the  public,  have  an element  of public interest involved,  and  are  obligated to 
make exhaustive continuous disclosures on a regular basis.  
 

2.  Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs,  Government  of  India,  in  July  2011,  came  out  with  the 
'National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of 
Business'.  These  guidelines  contain  comprehensive  principles  to  be  adopted  by 
companies  as  part  of  their  business  practices  and  a  structured  business  responsibility 
reporting format requiring certain specified disclosures, demonstrating the steps taken by 
companies to implement the said principles. 

 

3.  In  line  with  the  above  Guidelines  and  considering  the  larger  interest  of  public 
disclosure  regarding  steps  taken  by  listed  entities  from  a  Environmental,  Social  and 
Governance  (“ESG”)  perspective,  it  has  been  decided  to  mandate  inclusion  of 
Business Responsibility Reports (“BR reports”) as part of the Annual Reports for listed 
entities. Therefore, in line with the objective to enhance the quality of disclosures made 
by  listed  entities,  certain  listing  conditions  are  hereby  specified  by  way  of  inserting 
Clause 55 in the equity Listing Agreement as given in Annexure-1.  

 

4.  Certain key principles to assess the fulfillment of listed entities and a description of the 

core elements under these principles are detailed at Annexure-2.  

 

5.  Applicability 

a.  The  requirement  to  include  BR  Reports  as  part  of  the  Annual  Reports  shall  be 
mandatory  for  top  100  listed  entities  based  on  market  capitalisation  at  BSE  and 
NSE  as  on  March  31,  2012.  BSE  and  NSE  shall  independently  draw  up  a  list  of 
listed entities to whom the circular  would be  applicable based  on the said criteria 
and disseminate the same in their websites respectively.  Other listed entities may 
voluntarily disclose BR Reports as part of their Annual Reports. 

Page 1 of 15 

 

 

 

 

 

Those listed entities which have been submitting sustainability reports to overseas 
regulatory  agencies/stakeholders  based  on  internationally  accepted  reporting 
frameworks need not prepare a separate report for the purpose of these guidelines 
but  only  furnish  the  same  to  their  stakeholders  along  with  the  details  of  the 
framework under which their BR Report has been prepared and a mapping of the 
principles  contained  in  these  guidelines  to  the  disclosures  made  in  their 
sustainability reports. 
 

b.  The  provisions  of  this  circular  shall  be  applicable  with  effect  from  financial  year 
ending  on  or  after  December  31,  2012.  However,  listed  entities  who  are  yet  to 
submit their Annual Reports for financial year ended on March 31, 2012 may also 
include BR Reports as part of their Annual Reports on a voluntary basis 

 
6.  The  above  listing  conditions  are  specified  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under 
Section 11 read with Section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992. The said listing conditions should form part of the existing Listing Agreement of 
the stock exchange. 
 

7.  All stock exchanges are advised to ensure compliance with this circular and carry out 

the amendments in their Listing Agreement as per the Annexure to this circular. 
 

8.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Sunil Kadam 
General Manager 
 +91-22-26449630 

sunilk@sebi.gov.in    

 
Enclosures:  
 
Annexure-1: Amendments 
 
Annexure-2: Principles to assess compliance with ESG norms 
 

Page 2 of 15 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure-1 

Amendments to Listing Agreement 

 
1. A new Clause 55 shall be inserted to read as under, viz.,  
“Listed entities shall submit, as part of their Annual Reports, Business Responsibility 
Reports,  describing  the  initiatives  taken  by  them  from  an  environmental,  social  and 
governance perspective, in the format suggested as under: 
 
Business Responsibility Report – Suggested Framework 
 

Section A: General Information about the Company 

1.  Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company 

 

 

2.  Name of the Company 

 

3.  Registered address 

 

4.   Website 

 

5.  E-mail id 

 

6.  Financial Year reported  

 

7.  Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial activity code-wise) 

 

8.  List  three  key  products/services  that  the  Company  manufactures/provides  (as  in 

balance sheet) 
 

9.  Total number of locations where business activity is undertaken by the Company 

i.  Number of International Locations (Provide details of major 5) 
ii.  Number of  National  Locations 

 

10. Markets served by the Company – Local/State/National/International/ 

 

 

Section B: Financial Details of the Company 

 

1.  Paid up Capital (INR) 

 

2.  Total Turnover (INR) 

 

3.  Total profit after taxes (INR) 

 

4.  Total  Spending  on  Corporate  Social  Responsibility  (CSR)  as  percentage  of  profit 

after tax (%) 

Page 3 of 15 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.  List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has been incurred:- 

 

  
  

a. 
b. 
c.   

Section C: Other Details 

 

1.  Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/ Companies?   

 

2.  Do  the  Subsidiary  Company/Companies  participate  in  the  BR  Initiatives  of  the 

parent company?  If yes, then indicate the number of such subsidiary company(s) 
  

3.  Do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers, distributors etc.) that the Company does 
business  with,  participate  in  the  BR  initiatives  of  the  Company?    If  yes,  then 
indicate  the  percentage  of  such  entity/entities?    [Less  than  30%,  30-60%,    More 
than 60%] 

Section D: BR Information 

 

1.  Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR 

a)   Details  of  the  Director/Director  responsible  for  implementation  of  the  BR 
policy/policies 

●  DIN Number 
●  Name 
●  Designation 

 

b)  Details of the BR head 
 

S.No. 

Particulars 

1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 

DIN Number (if applicable) 
Name 
Designation 
Telephone number 
e-mail id 

 
 
 
 
 

Details 

2.  Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies  (Reply in Y/N) 

S.No. 

Questions 

1. 
2. 

3. 

4. 

Do you have a policy/policies for....  
Has the policy being formulated in 
consultation with the relevant stakeholders? 
Does the policy conform to any national 
/international standards? If yes, specify? 
(50 words) 
Has the policy being approved by the 

P 
1 
 
 

P 
2 
 
 

P 
3 
 
 

P 
4 
 
 

P 
5 
 
 

P 
6 
 
 

P 
7 
 
 

P 
8 
 
 

P 
9 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 15 

 

 

 

Board?  
Is yes, has it been signed by 
MD/owner/CEO/appropriate Board 
Director? 
Does the company have a specified 
committee of the Board/ Director/Official to 
oversee the implementation of the policy? 
Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed 
online? 
Has the policy been formally communicated 
to all relevant internal and external 
stakeholders? 

Does the company have in-house structure 
to implement the policy/policies. 

Does the Company have a grievance 
redressal mechanism related to the 
policy/policies to address stakeholders’ 
grievances related to the policy/policies? 
Has the company carried out independent 
audit/evaluation of the working of this policy 
by an internal or external agency? 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2a. If answer to S.No. 1 against any principle, is ‘No’, please explain why: (Tick 

up to 2 options) 

S.No. 

Questions 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

The company has not understood the 
Principles 
The company is not at a stage where it 
finds itself in a position to formulate and 
implement the policies on specified 
principles 
The company does not have financial or 
manpower resources available for the 
task 
It  is  planned  to  be  done  within  next  6 
months 
It is planned to be done within the next 1 
year 
Any other reason (please specify) 

P 
1 
 

P 
2 
 

P 
3 
 

P 
4 
 

P 
5 
 

P 
6 
 

P 
7 
 

P 
8 
 

P 
9 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 15 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

3.  Governance related to BR 

● 

Indicate  the  frequency  with  which  the  Board  of  Directors,  Committee  of  the 
Board  or  CEO  to  assess  the  BR  performance  of  the  Company.  Within  3 
months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than 1 year 

●  Does  the  Company  publish  a  BR  or  a  Sustainability  Report?  What  is  the 

hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently it is published? 

Section E: Principle-wise performance  

 

 
 
 

 

 

Principle 1 
1.  Does  the  policy  relating  to  ethics,  bribery  and  corruption  cover  only  the 
the  Group/Joint  Ventures/ 

it  extend 

company?  Yes/  No.  Does 
Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs /Others? 
 

to 

2.  How  many  stakeholder  complaints  have  been  received  in  the  past  financial 
year and  what  percentage  was satisfactorily  resolved  by the management? If 
so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 

            
 

  Principle 2 
1.  List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has incorporated social 

or environmental concerns, risks and/or opportunities. 

  
i. 
  
ii. 
iii.    

2.  For each such product, provide the following details in respect of resource use 

(energy, water, raw material etc.) per unit of product(optional): 

i.  Reduction  during  sourcing/production/  distribution  achieved  since  the 

previous year throughout the value chain? 

ii.  Reduction  during  usage  by  consumers  (energy,  water)  has  been 

achieved since the previous year? 
 

3.  Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing (including 

transportation)? 
i. 

If  yes,  what  percentage  of  your  inputs  was  sourced  sustainably?    Also, 

provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 
 

4.  Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and services from local & 

small producers, including communities surrounding their place of work? 

If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and capability 
of local and small vendors? 
 

Page 6 of 15 

 

 

 

5.  Does  the  company  have  a  mechanism  to  recycle  products  and  waste?  If  yes 
what is the percentage of recycling of products and waste (separately as <5%, 
5-10%, >10%).  Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 

 

Principle 3                 
1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

indicate 

the  Total 

Please indicate the Total number of employees. 
 
Please 
temporary/contractual/casual basis.  
 
Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees. 
 
Please indicate the Number of  permanent employees with disabilities 
 

number 

of 

employees 

hired 

on 

5.  Do you have an employee association that is recognized by management. 

 

6.  What  percentage  of  your  permanent  employees  is  members  of  this 

7. 

recognized employee association?  
 
Please  indicate  the  Number  of  complaints  relating  to  child  labour,  forced 
labour,  involuntary  labour,  sexual  harassment  in  the  last  financial  year  and 
pending, as on the end of the financial year. 

S.No.  Category  

No  of  complaints  filed 
during the financial year 

of 

No 
complaints 
pending  as  on  end  of 
the financial year  

1. 

2. 

3. 

Child labour/forced 
labour/involuntary 
labour 

Sexual harassment 

Discriminatory 
employment 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8.  What  percentage  of  your  under  mentioned  employees  were  given  safety  & 

skill up-gradation training in the last year?  

  Permanent Employees 
  Permanent Women Employees 
  Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees 
  Employees with Disabilities 

Page 7 of 15 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
Principle 4 

 

1. Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders? Yes/No 

 

2. Out  of  the  above,  has  the  company  identified  the  disadvantaged,  vulnerable  & 

marginalized stakeholders. 
 

3. Are  there  any  special  initiatives  taken  by  the  company  to  engage  with  the 
disadvantaged,  vulnerable  and  marginalized  stakeholders.  If  so,  provide  details 
thereof, in about 50 words or so. 

 
Principle 5 

1. Does the policy of the company on human rights cover only the company or extend 

to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others? 
 

2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year 

and what percent was satisfactorily resolved by the management? 

 

Principle 6 

1. Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the company or extends to the 

Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others. 
 

2. Does 

initiatives 

the  company  have  strategies/ 

to  address  global 
environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, etc?  Y/N. If yes, 
please give hyperlink for webpage etc. 
 

3. Does the company identify and assess potential environmental risks? Y/N 

 

4. Does the company have any project related to Clean Development Mechanism? 
If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.  Also, if Yes, whether any 
environmental compliance report is filed? 
 

5. Has  the  company  undertaken  any  other  initiatives  on  –  clean  technology, 
energy  efficiency,  renewable  energy,  etc.  Y/N.  If  yes,  please  give  hyperlink  for 
web page etc.  
 

6. Are  the  Emissions/Waste  generated  by  the  company  within  the  permissible 

limits given by CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being reported? 
 

7. Number  of  show  cause/  legal  notices  received  from  CPCB/SPCB  which  are 

pending (i.e. not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 8 of 15 

 

 

 

 
 
 
Principle 7 

 

1. Is  your  company  a  member  of  any  trade  and  chamber  or  association?  If  Yes, 

Name only those major ones that your business deals with: 

a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 

 

  
  
  
  

2. Have  you  advocated/lobbied  through  above  associations  for  the  advancement 
or  improvement  of  public  good?  Yes/No;  if  yes  specify  the  broad  areas  (  drop 
box:  Governance  and  Administration,  Economic  Reforms, 
Inclusive 
Development  Policies,  Energy  security,  Water,  Food  Security,  Sustainable 
Business Principles, Others) 

 

Principle 8 

1.  Does the company have specified programmes/initiatives/projects in pursuit of 

the policy related to Principle 8? If yes details thereof. 
 

2.  Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in-house team/own 

foundation/external NGO/government structures/any other organization? 
 

3.  Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative? 

 

4.  What is your company’s direct contribution to community development projects- 

Amount in INR and the details of the projects undertaken.   

 

 

5.  Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development initiative is 

successfully adopted by the community? Please explain in 50 words, or so. 

 

Principle 9 

1.  What  percentage  of  customer  complaints/consumer  cases  are  pending  as  on 

the end of financial year. 
 

2.  Does the company display product information on the product label, over and 
above  what  is  mandated  as  per  local  laws?  Yes/No/N.A.  /Remarks(additional 
information) 
 
Is  there  any  case  filed  by  any  stakeholder  against  the  company  regarding 
unfair 
irresponsible  advertising  and/or  anti-competitive 
behaviour during the last five years and pending as on end of financial year. If 
so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 
 

trade  practices, 

3. 

Page 9 of 15 

 

 

 

 

 

4.  Did  your  company  carry  out  any  consumer  survey/  consumer  satisfaction 

trends? 

 

 

Page 10 of 15 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure-2  

 
Principles  to  assess  compliance  with  Environmental,  Social  and  Governance 
norms 

 
Principle  1:  Businesses  should  conduct  and  govern  themselves  with  Ethics, 
Transparency and Accountability 
1.  Businesses  should  develop  governance  structures,  procedures  and  practices  that 
ensure ethical conduct at all levels; and promote the adoption of this principle across 
its  value  chain.  Businesses  should  communicate  transparently  and  assure  access  to 
information about their decisions that impact relevant stakeholders. 
 

2.  Businesses  should  not  engage  in  practices  that  are  abusive,  corrupt,  or  anti-

competition. 
 

3.  Businesses  should  truthfully  discharge  their  responsibility  on  financial  and  other 

mandatory disclosures. 
 

4.  Businesses  should  report  on  the  status  of  their  adoption  of  these  Guidelines  as 

suggested in the reporting framework in this document. 
 

5.  Businesses should avoid complicity with the actions of any third party that violates any 

of the principles contained in these Guidelines 

 
Principle  2:  Businesses  should  provide  goods  and  services  that  are  safe  and 
contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle 
1.  Businesses  should  assure  safety  and  optimal  resource  use  over  the  life-cycle  of  the 
product  –  from  design  to  disposal  –  and  ensure  that  everyone  connected  with  it- 
designers,  producers,  value  chain  members,  customers  and  recyclers  are  aware  of 
their responsibilities. 
 

2.  Businesses should raise the consumer's awareness of their rights through education, 
product  labelling,  appropriate  and  helpful  marketing  communication,  full  details  of 
contents and composition and promotion of safe usage and disposal of their products 
and services. 
 

3.  In designing the product, businesses should ensure that the manufacturing processes 

and technologies required to produce it are resource efficient and sustainable. 
 

4.  Businesses should regularly review and improve upon the process of new technology 
development,  deployment  and  commercialization,  incorporating  social,  ethical,  and 
environmental considerations. 
 

5.  Businesses should recognize and respect the rights of people who may be owners of 

traditional knowledge, and other forms of intellectual property. 
 

Page 11 of 15 

 

 

 

 

 
6.  Businesses  should  recognize 

in  unsustainable 
exploitation  of  our  planet's  resources,  and  should  therefore  promote  sustainable 
consumption, including recycling of resources. 

that  over-consumption  results 

 
Principle 3: Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees 
1.  Businesses should respect the right to freedom of association, participation, collective 

bargaining, and provide access to appropriate grievance Redressal mechanisms. 
 

2.  Businesses should provide and maintain equal opportunities at the time of recruitment 
as well as during the course of employment irrespective of caste, creed, gender, race, 
religion, disability or sexual orientation. 
 

3.  Businesses  should  not  use  child  labour,  forced  labour  or  any  form  of  involuntary 

labour, paid or unpaid.  
 

4.  Businesses  should  take  cognizance  of  the  work-life  balance  of  its  employees, 

especially that of women. 
 

5.  Businesses should provide facilities for the wellbeing of its employees including those 
with  special  needs.  They  should  ensure  timely  payment  of  fair  living  wages  to  meet 
basic needs and economic security of the employees. 
 

6.  Businesses  should  provide  a  workplace  environment  that  is  safe,  hygienic  humane, 
and  which  upholds  the  dignity  of  the  employees.  Business  should  communicate  this 
provision to their employees and train them on a regular basis. 
 

7.  Businesses  should  ensure  continuous  skill  and  competence  upgrading  of  all 
employees by providing access to necessary learning opportunities, on an equal and 
non-discriminatory  basis.  They  should  promote  employee  morale  and  career 
development through enlightened human resource interventions. 
 

8.  Businesses  should  create  systems  and  practices  to  ensure  a  harassment  free 

workplace where employees feel safe and secure in discharging their responsibilities. 

 
Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards 
all  stakeholders,  especially  those  who  are  disadvantaged,  vulnerable  and 
marginalized. 
1.  Businesses  should  systematically 

their 
concerns,  define  purpose  and  scope  of  engagement,  and  commit  to  engaging  with 
them. 
 

their  stakeholders,  understand 

identify 

2.  Businesses should acknowledge, assume responsibility and be transparent about the 
impact  of  their  policies,  decisions,  product  &  services  and  associated  operations  on 
the stakeholders. 
 

Page 12 of 15 

 

 

 

 
3.  Businesses  should  give  special  attention 

to  stakeholders 

in  areas 

that  are 

 

underdeveloped. 
 

4.  Businesses  should  resolve  differences  with  stakeholders  in  a  just,  fair  and  equitable 

manner 
 

Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights 
1.  Businesses  should  understand  the  human  rights  content  of  the  Constitution  of  India, 
national  laws  and  policies  and  the  content  of  International  Bill  of  Human  Rights. 
Businesses  should  appreciate  that  human  rights  are  inherent,  universal,  indivisible 
and interdependent in nature. 
 

2.  Businesses  should  integrate  respect  for  human  rights  in  management  systems,  in 
particular  through  assessing  and  managing  human  rights  impacts  of  operations,  and 
ensuring  all  individuals  impacted  by  the  business  have  access  to  grievance 
mechanisms. 
 

3.  Businesses  should  recognize  and  respect 

the  human  rights  of  all  relevant 
stakeholders  and  groups  within  and  beyond  the  workplace,  including  that  of 
communities, consumers and vulnerable and marginalized groups. 
 

4.  Businesses  should,  within  their  sphere  of  influence,  promote  the  awareness  and 

realization of human rights across their value chain. 
 

5.  Businesses should not be complicit with human rights abuses by a third party. 

 

Principle  6:  Business  should  respect,  protect,  and  make  efforts  to  restore  the 
environment 
1.  Businesses  should  utilize  natural  and  manmade  resources  in  an  optimal  and 
responsible  manner  and  ensure  the  sustainability  of  resources  by  reducing,  reusing, 
recycling and managing waste. 
 

2.  Businesses should take measures to check and prevent pollution. They should assess 
the environmental damage  and bear the cost of pollution abatement  with due  regard 
to public interest. 
 

3.  Businesses should ensure that benefits arising out of access and commercialization of 
biological  and  other  natural  resources  and  associated  traditional  knowledge  are 
shared equitably. 
 

4.  Businesses should continuously seek to improve their environmental performance by 
adopting  cleaner  production  methods,  promoting  use  of  energy  efficient  and 
environment friendly technologies and use of renewable energy. 
 

5.  Businesses  should  develop  Environment  Management  Systems 

(EMS)  and 
contingency  plans  and  processes  that  help  them  in  preventing,  mitigating  and 

Page 13 of 15 

 

 

 

 

 

controlling environmental damages  and  disasters,  which may be caused due to their 
operations or that of a member of its value chain. 
 

6.  Businesses should report their environmental performance, including the assessment 
of potential environmental risks associated with their operations, to the stakeholders in 
a fair and transparent manner.  
 

7.  Businesses  should  proactively  persuade  and  support  its  value  chain  to  adopt  this 

principle. 

 
Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, 
should do so in a responsible manner 
1.  Businesses,  while  pursuing  policy  advocacy,  must  ensure  that  their  advocacy 
positions  are  consistent  with  the  Principles  and  Core  Elements  contained  in  these 
Guidelines. 
 

2.  To the extent possible, businesses should utilize the trade and industry chambers and 

associations and other such collective platforms to undertake such policy advocacy. 

 
Principle  8:  Businesses  should  support 
development 
1.  Businesses should understand their impact on social and economic development, and 

inclusive  growth  and  equitable 

respond through appropriate action to minimise the negative impacts. 
 

2.  Businesses should innovate and invest in products, technologies  and  processes that 

promote the wellbeing of society. 
 

3.  Businesses  should  make  efforts  to  complement  and  support  the  development 
priorities  at  local  and  national  levels,  and  assure  appropriate  resettlement  and 
rehabilitation  of  communities  who  have  been  displaced  owing  to  their  business 
operations. 
 

4.  Businesses  operating  in  regions  that  are  underdeveloped  should  be  especially 

sensitive to local concerns. 

 
Principle  9:  Businesses  should  engage  with  and  provide  value  to  their  customers 
and consumers in a responsible manner 
1.  Businesses, while serving the needs of their customers, should take into account the 

overall well-being of the customers and that of society. 
 

2.  Businesses  should  ensure  that  they  do  not  restrict  the  freedom  of  choice  and  free 

competition in any manner while designing, promoting and selling their products. 
 

3.  Businesses  should  disclose  all  information  truthfully  and  factually,  through  labelling 
and other means, including the risks to the individual, to society and to the planet from 
the use of the products, so that the customers can exercise their freedom to consume 

Page 14 of 15 

 

 

 

 

 

in  a  responsible  manner.  Where  required,  businesses  should  also  educate  their 
customers on the safe and responsible usage of their products and services. 
 
 

4.  Businesses should promote and advertise their products in ways that do not mislead 

or confuse the consumers or violate any of the principles in these Guidelines. 
 

5.  Businesses should exercise due care and caution while providing goods and services 
that result in over  exploitation of natural resources or lead to  excessive conspicuous 
consumption. 
 

6.  Businesses  should  provide  adequate  grievance  handling  mechanisms  to  address 

customer concerns and feedback. 

 
 
 

************** 

Page 15 of 15 

 

