CIRCULAR 

 

 

                  

 

August 28, 2012 

 

 

CIR/CFD/DIL/10/2012 
 
To  
All Stock Exchanges 
All Depositories 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
All Registered Registrars to an Issue/STA 
All Registered Custodians 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 

Sub: Redemption of Indian Depository Receipts (IDRs) into Underlying Equity Shares 

 

 

1.  SEBI, vide circular No: CIR/CFD/DIL/3/2011 dated June 03, 2011, has prescribed the 

framework  for  redemption  of  IDRs  into  underlying  equity  shares.  The  circular  has, 

inter-alia,  stated  that  after  the  completion  of  one  year  from  the  date  of  issuance  of 

IDRs,  redemption  of  the  IDRs  shall  be  permitted  only  if  the  IDRs  are  infrequently 

traded on the stock exchange(s) in India. 

 

2.  The Hon’ble Finance Minister in his Budget speech on March 16, 2012, has proposed, 

inter  alia,  that  two-way  fungibility  of  IDRs  be  permitted  subject  to  a  ceiling,  with  the 

objective of encouraging greater foreign participation in Indian capital market. 

 

3.  For  implementation of  the  said budget proposal  and  to  improve  the  attractiveness of 

IDRs as an instrument thereby ensuring long term sustainability of IDRs, it is decided 

to prescribe a framework for two-way fungibility of IDRs.  

 

4.  However,  to  retain  the  domestic  liquidity,  it  is  decided  to  allow  partial  fungibility  of 

IDRs (i.e. redemption/conversion of IDRs into underlying equity shares) in a financial 

year  to  the  extent  of  25  %  of  the  IDRs  originally  issued.  Suitable  instructions  for 

modifying  the  existing  legal  framework  governing  IDRs,  in  order  to  implement  the 

decision to allow redemption of IDRs into underlying equity shares and re-conversion 

of equity shares of a foreign issuer (which has already listed their IDRs) into IDRs, will 

be issued separately. 

   

Page 1 of 2 

 

5.  As and when the instructions for modifying the existing legal framework  referred to at 

para  4  above  are  issued,  this  circular  shall  be  effective  and  SEBI  circular  No: 

CIR/CFD/DIL/3/2011 dated June 03, 2011 would stand rescinded. 

 

 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 read with 

Section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 

7.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

 

 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Sunil Kadam 
General Manager 
 +91-22-26449630 
sunilk@sebi.gov.in 
 

Page 2 of 2 

 

