               औ              

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

CIR/IMD/DF/21/2012 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

September 13, 2012 

All Mutual Funds/Asset Management Companies (AMCs)/  

Trustee Companies/Boards of Trustees of Mutual Funds 

 

 

Sir / Madam, 

 

Sub: Steps to re-energise Mutual Fund Industry 

 

In  order  to  increase  penetration  of  mutual  fund  products  and  to  energise  the 

distribution  network  while  protecting  the  interest  of  investors,  SEBI  held  a  series  of 

meetings with various stakeholders in the mutual fund industry. Mutual Fund Advisory 

Committee  (MFAC)  also  deliberated  and  offered  its  recommendations  on  issues 

confronted  by 

the 

industry.  Pursuant 

to  SEBI  Board’s  approval 

to  various 

recommendations, it has been decided to implement the following: 

 

A. Total Expense Ratio (TER) 

 

1.  Additional TER can be charged up to 30 basis points on daily net assets of the 

scheme  as  per  regulation  52  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996 

(hereinafter referred to as Regulations), if the new inflows from beyond top 15 

cities are at least (a) 30% of gross new inflows in the scheme or (b) 15% of the 

average assets under management (year to date) of the scheme, whichever is 

higher. 

 

In  case  inflows  from  beyond  top  15  cities  is  less  than  the  higher  of  (a)  or  (b) 

above,  additional TER on daily net assets of the scheme shall be charged as 

follows: 

 

 

Daily net assets X 30 basis points X New inflows from beyond top 15 cities 

365* X Higher of (a) or (b) above 

* 366, wherever applicable. 

               औ              

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

The  top  15  cities  shall  mean  top  15  cities  based  on  Association  of  Mutual 

Funds  in  India  (AMFI)  data  on  ‘AUM  by  Geography  –  Consolidated  Data  for 

Mutual Fund Industry’ as at the end of the previous financial year. 

 

2.  The additional TER on account of inflows from beyond top 15 cities so charged 

shall be clawed back in case the same is redeemed within a period of 1 year 

from the date of investment. 

 

3.  Mutual funds/AMCs shall make complete disclosures in the half yearly report of 

Trustees  to  SEBI  regarding  the  efforts  undertaken  by  them  to  increase 

geographical  penetration  of  mutual  funds  and  the  details  of  opening  of  new 

branches, especially at locations beyond top 15 cities. 

 
 

 

B. Service Tax 

 

1.  Mutual funds /AMCs may charge service tax on investment and advisory fees 

to  the  scheme  in  addition  to  the  maximum  limit  of  TER  as  prescribed  in 

regulation 52 of the Regulations.  

 

2.  Service tax on other than investment and advisory fees, if any, shall be borne 

by  the  scheme  within  the  maximum  limit  of  TER  as  per  regulation  52  of  the 

Regulations. 

 

3.  Service tax on exit load, if any, shall be paid out of the exit load proceeds and 

exit load net of service tax, if any, shall be credited to the scheme. 

 

4.  Service tax on brokerage and transaction cost paid for asset purchases, if any, 

shall be within the limit prescribed under regulation 52 of the Regulations. 

 

C. Single plan structure for mutual fund schemes 

 

1.  Mutual funds/AMCs shall launch schemes under a single plan and ensure that 

all new investors are subject to single expense structure. 

               औ              

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

2.  Existing schemes with multiple plans based on the amount of investment  (i.e. 

retail, institutional, super-institutional, etc) shall accept fresh subscriptions only 

under one plan.  

 

3.  Other plans will continue till the existing investors remain invested in the plan. 

 

D. Separate option for direct investments 

 

1.  Mutual  funds/AMCs  shall  provide  a  separate  plan  for  direct  investments,  i.e., 

investments  not  routed  through  a  distributor,  in  existing  as  well  as  new 

schemes.  

 

2.  Such  separate  plan  shall  have  a  lower  expense  ratio  excluding  distribution 

expenses, commission, etc., and no commission shall be paid from such plans. 

The plan shall also have a separate NAV.  

 

E.  Distribution of mutual fund products 

 

1.  In terms of SEBI Circular no. CIR No.10 / 310 /01 dated September 25, 2001, 

MFD/CIR/20/23230/2002  dated  November  28,  2002,  SEBI/MFD/CIR 

No.01/6693/03  dated  April  03,  2003,  SEBI/IMD/CIR  No.2/254/04  dated 

February 04, 2004 and Cir / IMD / DF / 5 / 2010 dated June 24, 2010, agents/ 

distributors  of  mutual  fund  units  are  required  to  obtain  certification  from  the 

National Institute of Securities Markets (NISM) and registration from AMFI. 

 

2.  A  new  cadre  of  distributors,  such  as  postal  agents,  retired  government  and 

semi-government officials (class III and above or equivalent) with a service of 

at  least  10  years,  retired  teachers  with  a  service  of  at  least  10  years,  retired 

bank  officers  with  a  service  of  at  least  10  years,  and  other  similar  persons 

(such as Bank correspondents) as may be notified by AMFI/AMC from time to 

time,  shall  be  allowed  to  sell  units  of  simple  and  performing  mutual  fund 

schemes.  

 

3.  Simple  and  performing  mutual  fund  schemes  shall  comprise  of  diversified 

equity  schemes,  fixed  maturity  plans  (FMPs)  and  index  schemes  and  should 

               औ              

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

have  returns  equal  to  or  better  than  their  scheme  benchmark  returns  during 

each of the last three years.  

 

4.  These  new  cadre  of  distributors  would  require  a  simplified  form  of  NISM 

certification and AMFI Registration.  

 

5.  AMFI  shall  create  a  unique  identity  number  of  the  employee/  relationship 

manager/  sales  person  of  the  distributor  interacting  with  the  investor  for  the 

sale  of  mutual  fund  products,  in  addition  to  the  AMFI  Registration  Number 

(ARN) of the distributor. 

 

6.  The  application  form  for  mutual  fund  schemes  shall  have  provision  for 

disclosing  the  unique  identity  number  of  such  sales  personnel  along  with  the 

ARN of the distributor. 

 

F. Investor Education and Awareness 

 

1.  Mutual Funds/AMCs shall annually set apart at least 2 basis points on daily net 

assets within the maximum limit of TER as per regulation 52 of the Regulations 

for  investor  education  and  awareness  initiatives.  Mutual  Funds  shall  make 

complete  disclosures  in  the  half  yearly  trustee  report  to  SEBI  regarding  the 

investor education and awareness initiatives undertaken.  

 

G. Harmonizing applicability of NAV across schemes 

 

1.  In  partial  modification  to  SEBI  circular  no.  SEBI/IMD/CIR  No.  11/142521/08 

dated October 24, 2008 and Cir/IMD/DF/19/2010 dated November 26, 2010, in 

respect  of  purchase  of  units  of  mutual  fund  schemes  (other  than  liquid 

schemes),  the  closing  NAV  of  the  day  on  which  the  funds  are  available  for 

utilization shall be applicable for application amount equal to or more than 

 2 

lakh, irrespective of the time of receipt of such application.  

 

 

 

               औ              

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
H.  Monthly Portfolio Disclosures 

 

 

1.  Mutual funds/AMCs shall disclose portfolio (along with ISIN) as on the last day 

of the month for all their schemes on their respective website on or before the 

tenth day of the succeeding month in a user-friendly and downloadable format 

(preferably in a spreadsheet).  

 

2.  The format for monthly portfolio disclosure shall be same as that of half yearly 

portfolio disclosures. 

 

3.  Mutual  funds/AMCs  may  disclose  additional  information  (such  as  ratios,  etc.) 

subject to compliance with the Advertisement Code. 

 

4.  In  this  regard,  SEBI  circular  no.  SEBI/IMD/CIR  No.  15/157701/2009  dated 

March 19, 2009 stands withdrawn. 

I. Cash investments in mutual funds 

 

1.  In  partial  modification  to  SEBI  Circular  no.  MFD/CIR/15/19133/2002  dated 

September  30,  2002  and  in  order  to  help  enhance  the  reach  of  mutual  fund 

products  amongst  small  investors,  who  may  not  be  tax  payers  and  may  not 

have 

PAN/bank 

accounts, 

such 

as 

farmers, 

small 

traders/businessmen/workers,  cash  transactions in  mutual funds  to  the  extent 

of  20,000/- per investor, per mutual fund, per financial year shall be allowed 

subject to (i) compliance with Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and 

Rules  framed  there  under;  the  SEBI  Circular(s)  on  Anti  Money  Laundering 

(AML)  and  other  applicable  AML  rules,  regulations  and  guidelines  and  (ii) 

sufficient systems and procedures in place. 

 

2.  Repayment  in  the  form  of  redemptions,  dividend,  etc.  with  respect  to 

aforementioned investments shall be paid only through banking channel. 

 

 

 

               औ              

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
J.  Prudential  limits  and  disclosures  on  portfolio  concentration  risk  in  debt-

oriented mutual fund schemes 

 

1.  Mutual  Funds/AMCs  shall  ensure  that  total  exposure  of  debt  schemes  of 

mutual funds in a particular sector (excluding investments in Bank CDs, CBLO, 

G-Secs, T-Bills and AAA rated securities issued by Public Financial Institutions 

and  Public  Sector  Banks)  shall  not  exceed  30%  of  the  net  assets  of  the 

scheme.  

 

2.  Existing  schemes  shall  comply  with  the  aforementioned  requirement  within  a 

period of one year from the date of issue of this circular. During this one year, 

total exposure of existing debt schemes of mutual funds in a particular sector 

should  not  increase  from  the  levels  existing  (if above  30%)  as  on  the  date of 

issuance of this circular.  

  

3.  Appropriate disclosures shall be made in Scheme Information Document (SID) 

and Key Information Memorandum (KIM) of debt schemes. 

 

K. Transaction Charges 

 

1.  In partial modification to SEBI circular no. Cir/ IMD/ DF/13/ 2011 dated August 

22,  2011,  distributors  shall  have  also  the  option  to  either  opt  in  or  opt  out  of 

levying transaction charge based on type of the product.    

 

L. Disclosure with respect to Half Yearly Financial Results 

 

 

1.  Mutual  funds/AMCs  shall  make  half  yearly  disclosures  of  their  unaudited 

financial 

results  on 

their 

respective  website 

in  a  user-friendly  and 

downloadable format (preferably in a spreadsheet). 

M. Additional Disclosures  

 

1.  In partial modification to SEBI circular no. Cir/ IMD/ DF/13/ 2011 dated August 

22,  2011,  Mutual  Funds/AMCs  shall,  in  addition  to  the  total  commission  and 

expenses  paid 

to  distributors,  make  additional  disclosures 

regarding 

               औ              

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

distributor-wise gross inflows (indicating whether the distributor is an associate 

or group company of the sponsor(s) of the mutual fund), net inflows, average 

assets  under  management  and  ratio  of  AUM  to  gross  inflows  on  their 

respective website on an yearly basis. 

 

In case the data mentioned above suggests that a distributor has an excessive 

portfolio  turnover  ratio,  i.e.  more  than  two  times  the  industry  average,  AMCs 

shall conduct additional due-diligence of such distributors. 

 

2.  Mutual  Funds  /  AMCs  shall  also  submit  the  data  mentioned  in  paragraph  1 

above to AMFI and the consolidated data in this regard shall be disclosed on 

AMFI website. 

 

N.  Applicability of the Circular 

 

1.  All the paras except para D will become effective from October 1, 2012. 

2.  Para D of the circular will be effective from January 1, 2013.  

3.  Necessary amendments to the Regulations to give effect to the contents in the 

circular would be separately notified.  

This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  section  11(1)  of  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  the  provisions  of 

regulation  77  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market.  

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

PARAG BASU 

        General Manager 

        Tel no. 022-26449360 

Email:paragb@sebi.gov.in 

