¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       September 11, 2012 

CIR/MRD/DP/ 24 /2012   
 
To, 
 
The Depositories, 
The Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
Sub: Addendum to Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/21/2012 dated August 02, 2012 on 

activation of ISIN in case of additional issue of shares/ securities 

 
 
1.  Please  refer  to  SEBI  circular  CIR/MRD/DP/21/2012  dated  August  02,  2012  on 

activation of ISIN in case of additional issue of shares/ securities. 
 

2.  In partial modification, the earlier point 3 and 5 of the aforesaid circular shall be 

replaced as under - 

"3. Further, in order to curtail the transfer of additional issue of shares / securities 
including  by  way  of  further  public  offerings,  rights  issue,  preferential  allotment, 
bonus  issue  etc  of  the  listed  company,  prior  to  receipt  of  final  listing  /  trading 
approval, the depositories shall devise a mechanism so that such new securities 
created shall be frozen till the time final listing/ trading permission is granted by 
the exchange." 
 
“5.  The  stock  exchanges  are  advised  to  provide  the  details  to  the  depositories 
whenever final listing / trading permission is given to securities. Further, in case 
of issuance of equity shares by a company, listed on multiple stock exchanges, 
the concerned stock exchanges shall synchronize their effective dates of listing / 
trading approvals and intimate the same to depositories in advance."  
 

3.  The Depositories are advised to:- 
 

a)  make  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations  for  the 
immediately,  as  may  be 

the  above  decision 

implementation  of 
applicable/necessary; 

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  DPs  and  also  to 

disseminate the same on their website. 
 

4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11 (1) 
of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  section  19  of  the 
Depositories  Act,  1996  to  protect  the  interest  of  investors  in  securities  and  to 
promote the development of, and to regulate, the securities market. 

 
 
Maninder Cheema 
Deputy General Manager 
022-26449754 
maninderc@sebi.gov.in 

