 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

         October 04, 2012 

CIR/CFD/14/2012 
 
To  
 
All Stock Exchanges  
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
All Registered Registrars to an Issue 
All Registered Bankers to an Issue 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Public issues in electronic form and use of nationwide broker network of 

Stock Exchanges for submitting application forms 

1.  The  Hon'ble  Finance  Minister  announced  the  following  in  his  speech  while 

presenting Union Budget 2012-13:  

 

 

“Simplifying  the  process  of  issuing  Initial  Public  Offers  (IPOs),  lowering  their 

costs  and  helping  companies  reach  more  retail  investors  in  small  towns. 

To achieve this, in addition to the existing IPO process, I propose to make it 

mandatory  for  companies  to  issue  IPOs  of   Rs.10  crore  and  above  in 

electronic form through nationwide broker network of stock exchanges” 

2.  Pursuant to the above, in consultation with various market participants, SEBI 

has  decided  to  introduce  an  additional  mechanism  for  investors  to  submit 

application forms in public issues using the stock broker (“broker”) network of 

Stock Exchanges, who may not be syndicate members in an issue. 

 

3.  This  mechanism  can  be  used  to  submit  ASBA  as  well  as  non-ASBA 

applications by investors. 

4.  Stock  Exchanges  shall  provide  for  download  of  application  forms  on  their 

websites/broker 

terminals,  so 

that  any 

investor  or  stock  broker  can 

download/print the forms directly. 

Page 1 of 9 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.  Stock  Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  the  information  relating  to  price  band  is 

pre-filled in such downloadable application forms. 

 

6.  The facility to submit the application forms will be available in more than 1000 

locations  which  are  part  of  the  nationwide  broker  network  of  the  Stock 

Exchanges  and  where  there  is  a  presence  of  the  brokers’  terminals 

(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “broker  centre”).  Based  on  the  feedback  received 

from  market  participants  in  this  regard,  it  has  been  decided  to  increase  the 

number of broker centres, in a phased manner as under:  

 

a.  First phase 

Around four hundred (400) broker centres to be covered by  January 01, 

2013 

b.  Second phase 

Remaining centres to be covered by March 01, 2013 

 

7.  Accordingly, details of locations including name of the broker, contact details 

such  as  name  of  the  contact  person,  postal  address,  telephone  number,  e-

mail address of the broker, etc. where the application forms shall be collected 

will be disclosed by the Stock Exchanges on  their websites  at least 15 days 

before  the  dates  specified  above.  Stock  Exchanges  should  ensure  that  the 

details so disclosed on their websites are regularly updated.  

8.  The  details  of  this  mechanism  and  the  indicative  timelines  for  various 

activities  under  this  mechanism  are  specified  at  Annexures  A  and  B 

respectively.  

9.  Merchant Bankers shall ensure that appropriate disclosures in this regard are 

made in the offer document.  

10. All intermediaries are advised to take necessary steps to ensure compliance 

with this circular.  

 

Page 2 of 9 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11. This circular shall be applicable for all offer documents filed with Registrar of 

Companies on or after January 01, 2013.   

 

12. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 

13. This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Sunil Kadam 
General Manager 
+91-22-26449630 

sunilk@sebi.gov.in   

 
      

 

Page 3 of 9 
 

 

 

 
 

 

Annexure A 

Details of the mechanism 

Step 1: Investor to submit the application form to any registered broker (non-

syndicate member) and broker to upload the bid on the Stock Exchange 

platform 

 

a)  Under  the mechanism,  an  investor may  submit  the application  indicating  the 

mode of payment  to any registered broker of the  Stock  Exchange having its 

office in any of the broker centre of the Stock Exchange 

b)  Stock  Exchanges  shall  provide  for  a  mechanism  to  distinguish  applications 

from syndicate and non-syndicate members 

c)  Similar  to  secondary  market  transactions  where  the  investor  can  check  the 

status  of  its  trade  on  the  Stock  Exchange  website,  Stock  Exchanges  shall 

facilitate  investors  to  view  the  status  of  their  issue  applications  on  the 

websites of Stock Exchanges  

d)  All accepted applications shall be stamped and thereby acknowledged by the 

broker  at  the  time  of  receipt  and  will  be  uploaded  on  the  Stock  Exchange 

platform 

e)  Broker  shall  be  responsible  for  uploading  the  bid  on  the  Stock  Exchange 

platform, banking the cheque /  submitting the ASBA form to SCSB, etc. and 

liable for any failure in this regard  

f)  Stock Exchanges shall take action against brokers who fail to comply with the 

requirements  of  this  circular  and  in  case  of  repeated  non-compliances; 

appropriate action shall be taken. 

 

Step 2: In case of non-ASBA application, broker to deposit the cheque, 

prepare electronic schedule and send it to Banker to the Issue (For ASBA 

application, Step 2A to apply) 

 

 

a)  All  Bankers  to  the  Issue  (“BTI”),  which  have  branch/es  in  a  broker  centre, 

shall  ensure  that  at  least  one  of  its  branches  in  the  broker  centre  accepts 

cheques 

Page 4 of 9 
 

 

 

 

 

b)  Brokers shall deposit the cheque in any of the bank branch of the collecting 

bank in the broker centre  

c)  Brokers  shall  also  update  the  electronic  schedule  (containing  application 

details 

including 

the  application  amount)  as  downloaded 

from  Stock 

Exchange platform and send it to local branch of the collecting bank  

d)  Brokers shall retain all physical applications initially and send it to Registrar to 

Issue (“RTA” or ”Registrar”) after 6 months 

 

Step 2A: In case of ASBA application, broker to forward a schedule along with 

application form to respective ASBA Branch 

 

Broker  shall forward  a  schedule  (containing application number  and  amount) along 

with application forms to the branch named for ASBA of the respective self certified 

syndicate banks (SCSBs) for blocking of fund 

 

Step 3: Local Branch to mark for cheque return/block funds, update electronic 

schedule and send it to the controlling branch 

 

Local  branch  of  the  collecting  bank/SCSB  shall  update  the  schedule  based  on 

cheque clearance/ fund blocking and send it to controlling branch  

 

Step  4:  Controlling  branch  shall  consolidate  the  electronic  schedule  of  all 

branches and send it to the RTA 

 

Controlling  branch  shall  consolidate  the  electronic  schedule  of  all  branches, 

reconcile  the  amount  received/blocked  with  the  bank  balance  and  send  the 

consolidated schedule to the RTA along with Final certificate  

 

Step 5: RTA to follow the extant process for other modes 

a)  RTA  shall  reconcile  the  schedules  received  from  the  bank  with  the  Stock 

Exchange data 

b)  It  shall  calculate  the  compensation  payable  to  each  broker  and  share  the 

details with the Stock Exchange 

 

Page 5 of 9 
 

 

 

c)  It  may  request  for  physical  application  forms  directly  from  Brokers/SCSBs 

under exceptional circumstances such as discrepancy in PAN/ demat account 

number/client ID, investor complaint, etc.  

d)  It will follow the usual process of reconciliation, allotment, refund, etc 

 

 

 

Other important points 

 

 

a)  Acknowledgement by the broker shall form the basis of any complaint 

b)  Brokers shall be made responsible for complaints against the sub-brokers 

c)  Stock  Exchanges  shall  disclose  publicly  the  complaint  and  grievance 

redressal  mechanism  along  with  monetary/non-monetary  penalty  as 

applicable 

d)  Issuer,  Merchant  Banker  and  Stock  Exchange  shall  discuss  and  determine 

the commission that shall be payable to the non-syndicate member 

e)  The commission that shall be payable to the non-syndicate member shall be 

disclosed upfront in the offer document  

f) 

In order to determine to which syndicate or non-syndicate broker commission 

is payable to, the terminal from which the bid has been uploaded will be taken 

into account 

g)  Quantum  of  commission  payable  shall  be  determined  not  on  the  basis  of 

allotment,  but  on  the  basis  of  applications  which  have  been  considered 

eligible for the purpose of allotment 

h)  Based  on  the  total  commission  payable  to  the  non-syndicate  broker  as 

calculated  by  the  RTA,  Issuer  shall  disburse  the  amount  to  the  Stock 

Exchange  before  listing  and  the  Stock  Exchange  in  turn  shall  pay  to  the 

brokers through clearing corporation within 2 days from the receipt of money 

from the issuer 

i)  Listing  shall  be  withheld  by  the  Stock  Exchanges  till  the  time  issuer  pays 

brokers’ commission to the Stock Exchange 

j) 

Issuer shall be liable to pay to the brokers for their activity even if the issuer 

withdraws the issue during the issue period 

Page 6 of 9 
 

Indicative timelines for various activities under the mechanism 

 

 

Annexure B 

Details of Activities  

Investor  submits  a  completed  bid  cum  application  form 
indicating the mode of payment to any registered broker 

Due Date 
(Working 

Day*)  

Issue 
opening date 
to 
issue 
closing  date 
(where  T  is 
issue  closing 
date) 

T 

T+1 
 

T+2 
 

 

Sr. 
No. 

1.   

 

 

 

 

 

2.   

Issue closes. 

3.    Stock exchange(s) to allow  brokers to undertake modification 

4.   

of selected fields in the bid details already uploaded. 
 
Registrar  to  get  the  electronic  bid  details  from  the  stock 
exchanges at the end of the day. 

Issuer,  merchant  banker  and  registrar  to  submit  relevant 
documents to the stock exchange(s) except listing application, 
allotment  details  and  demat  credit  and  refund  details  for  the 
purpose of listing permission. 
 
In  case  of  non-ASBA  application,  Brokers  (Non-Syndicate 
members)  to  forward  a  schedule  (containing  application 
number,  payment  instrument  number  and  amount),  and 
payment instruments to collecting banks. 
 
In  case  of  ASBA  application,  Brokers  to  forward  a  schedule 
(containing  application  number  and  amount)  along  with 
application  forms  to  the  branch  named  for  “Syndicate  ASBA” 
of the respective SCSBs for blocking of fund. 
 
Collecting  banks/Designated  branches  may  not  accept  bid 
schedule, bid applications and payment instrument, after T+2 
days. 
 
Collecting  banks 
instruments. SCSBs to start blocking funds. 
 
Registrar  to  give  bid  file  received  from  the  stock  exchanges 
containing  the  application  number  and  amount  to  all  the 

to  commence  clearing  of  payment 

Page 7 of 9 
 

 

 

 

 

collecting  banks/SCSBs  who  may  use 
validation/reconciliation at their end. 
 
Registrar to commence validation of the electronic bid details 
with depositories records for DP ID, Client ID and PAN. 

this 

file 

for 

5.    Registrar  to  continue  validation  of  the  electronic  bid  details 

with depositories records.  
 
Collecting banks to continue clearing of payment instruments. 
SCSBs to continue blocking funds. 

6.    Registrar  to  complete  validation  of  the  electronic  bid  details 

with depositories records. 
  
Local  Branch  of  the  collecting  banks/SCSBs  to  start  sending 
bank schedules to controlling branch.  

T+3 
 

T+4 
 

7.    Registrar to prepare list of rejected bids based on mis-match 

T+5 

between electronic bid details and depositories data base. 
 
Registrar  to  undertake  “Technical  Rejection”  test  based  on 
electronic  bid  details  and  prepare  list  of  technical  rejection 
cases. 
 
Local  Branch  of  the  collecting  banks/SCSBs  to  complete 
sending bank schedules to controlling branch. 

8.    Controlling  branch  of  the  collecting  banks/SCSBs  to  submit 
status  of  clearance  status  of  payment  instrument/Blocking  of 
fund i.e. “Final Certificate” to the registrar. 

9.    Registrar  to  undertake  and  complete  reconciliation  of  final 
certificate received from the controlling branch with electronic 
bid details. 
 
Registrar  submits  the  final  basis  of  allotment  to  Designated 
Stock Exchange(s) for approving the basis of allotment. 

10.   Designated  stock  exchange(s)  to  approve  the  basis  of 

allotment. 
 
Registrar  to  prepare  funds  transfer  schedule  based  on 
approved allotment. 
Registrar to give instructions to depositories to carry out lock-
in for pre issue capital. 

T+6 
 

T+7 

T+8  
 

 

Page 8 of 9 
 

 

T+9 
 

T+10 
 

T+11 
 

 

 

 

11.   Registrar  and  merchant  banker  to  issue  funds  transfer 

instructions to collecting banks/SCSBs. 
 
Collecting  banks/SCSBs  to  credit  the  funds  in  Public  Issue 
Account of the issuer and confirm the same. 
 
Issuer to make allotment. 
 
Registrar to give instruction to depositories for credit of shares 
to successful allottees. 
 
Registrar  to  receive  confirmation  for  pre-issue  capital  lock-in 
from depositories.   

Issuer  and  registrar  to  file  allotment  details  with  designated 
stock  exchange(s)  and  confirm  all  formalities  are  completed 
except demat credit and refund. 
 
Registrar to complete refund dispatch. 
 
Registrar to issue bank-wise data of allottees, allotted amount 
and refund amount to collecting banks/SCSBs.  

12.  

13.   Registrar  to  receive  confirmation  of  demats  credit  from 

depositories and submit the same to the stock exchange(s). 
 
Issuer  and  registrar  to  file  confirmation  of  demat  credit  and 
refund dispatch with stock exchange(s). 
 
Issuer to make a listing application to stock exchange(s) and 
stock exchanges to give listing and trading permission. 
  
Issuer,  merchant  banker  and  registrar  to  publish  allotment 
advertisement  before 
trading, 
prominently displaying the date of commencement of trading, 
in  all 
issue  opening/closing 
advertisements have appeared earlier.  
  
Stock exchange(s) to issue commencement trading notice. 

the  newspapers  where 

the  commencement  of 

14.   Trading commences 

T+12 

 
*Working days will be all days excluding Sundays and bank holidays 

 

Page 9 of 9 
 

