¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DP/32/2012 

 

 

 

 

     December 06, 2012 

 
To  

Stock Exchanges; 
Depositories; 
Mutual  Funds,  Asset  Management  Companies  (AMCs),  Trustee  Companies 
and Boards of Trustees of Mutual Funds. 
 

Sir / Ma’am, 
 

Sub: Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme, 2012  

 
1.  As  announced  in  the  Union  Budget  2012-13,  the  Finance  Act  2012  has 
introduced a new section 80CCG on ‘Deduction in respect of investment 
made  under  an  equity  savings  scheme’  to  give  tax  benefits  to  new 
investors  who  invest  up  to  Rs.  50,000  and  whose  gross  total  annual 
income is less than or equal to Rs. 10 lakhs. The objective of the scheme 
is  to  encourage  flow  of  savings  in  the  financial  instruments  and  improve 
the depth of the domestic capital market. 

2.  Vide notification 51/2012 dated November 23, 2012 (copy enclosed), the 
scheme  has  been  notified  by  the  Department  of  Revenue,  Ministry  of 
Finance (MoF). The notification is available on the website of Income Tax 
Department under section “Notifications”. 

3.  Stock  exchanges,  Depositories,  Mutual  Funds,  Asset  Management 
Companies  (AMCs),  Trustee  Companies  and  Boards  of  Trustees  of 
Mutual  Funds  are  directed  to  take  note  of  the  notification  and  take 
necessary steps to implement the scheme.  AMCs / Trustees shall ensure 
that  RGESS  eligible  Exchange  Traded  Funds  (ETFs)  and  Mutual  Funds 
(MFs) schemes are in compliance with the aforementioned notification. 

4.  With  regard  to  implementation  of  the  MoF  notification,  the  following  is 

clarified: 

(i)  For  RGESS  eligible  close-ended  Mutual  Funds  schemes,  advice 
given by AMCs to the depository for extinguishment of units of close-
ended schemes upon maturity of the scheme shall be considered as 
settled 
therefore  RGESS 
compliant. 

through  depository  mechanism  and 

 

Page 1 of 16 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(ii)  AMCs  shall  disclose  that  the  concerned  RGESS  eligible  Exchange 
Traded  Funds  and  Mutual  Fund  schemes  is  in  compliance  with  the 
provisions  of  RGESS  guidelines  notified  by  Ministry  of  Finance  vide 
notification no. 51/2012 F. No. 142/35/2012-TPL dated November 23, 
2012,  in  Scheme  Information  Document  (SID),  in  case  of  new  fund 
offer,  or  by  way  of  addendum,  in  case  of  existing  RGESS  eligible 
Exchange Traded Funds and Mutual Fund schemes. 

(iii)  Section  6(c)  of  the  notification  states  that  the  eligible  securities 
brought into the demat account will automatically be subject to lock-in 
during the first year, unless the new investor specifies otherwise and 
for  such  specifications,  the  new  retail  investors  shall  submit  a 
declaration  in  Form  B  indicating  that  such  securities  are  not  to  be 
included  within  the  above  limit  of  investment.  It  is  clarified  that  such 
declaration  shall  be  submitted  by  an  investor  to  its  Depository 
Participant within a period of one month from the date of transaction. 

(iv)  For  transactions  undertaken  by  investors  through  their  RGESS 
designated  demat  account,  Depositories  may  seek  necessary 
transactional  details  from  stock  exchanges  viz.  Actual  Trade  value, 
Trading  date,  Settlement  number,  etc,  for  the  purpose  of  enforcing 
lock-in and for generating reports mandated vide MoF notification on 
RGESS.  On  receipt  of  such  request  from  depositories,  stock 
exchanges  shall  provide  the  details  to  depositories  on  an  immediate 
basis. It shall also be ensured that a uniform file structure is used by 
stock  exchanges  and  depositories  for  such  intimation  of  transaction 
details. 

(v)  With regard to point 3(ix)(a) & (b) of RGESS notification, depositories 

may seek confirmation, as applicable, from stock exchanges. 

(vi)  With regard to the securities held in the RGESS designated account, 

treatment of the corporate actions shall be as given at Annexure A. 

5.  Stock exchanges shall furnish list  of RGESS eligible stocks / ETFs /  MF 
schemes on their website. Further, the list shall also be forwarded  to the 
depositories at monthly intervals and whenever there is any change in the 
said list. For this purpose, Mutual Funds / AMCs shall communicate list of 
RGESS eligible MF schemes / ETFs to the stock exchanges. 

6.  Stock exchanges and the depositories are directed to: 

(i)  make necessary amendments, if any, to the relevant  bye-laws, rules 

and regulations for the implementation of the scheme. 

(ii)  create wide publicity of the scheme among the investors and market 
participants,  including  through  investor  programs  and  displaying 
details on their website. 

 

Page 2 of 16 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(iii)  communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the provisions 

of this circular, as applicable. 

7.  Mutual Funds / AMCs are directed to create wide publicity of the scheme 

among the investors, including displaying details on their website 

8.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by 
Section  11  (1)  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992, 
Section  19  of  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  and  the  Regulation  77  of  SEBI 
(Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  to  protect  the  interest  of  investors  in 
securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate,  the 
securities market.  

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Maninder Cheema 
Deputy General Manager 
maninderc@sebi.gov.in 

 
 
Enclosures:  

(i)  Annexure A – Treatment of corporate actions 

(ii)  Annexure B – Illustration of lock-in period in RGESS 

(iii)  MoF  notification  No.  51/2012  F.No.142/35/2012-TPL  dated  November 

23, 2012 

 

Page 3 of 16 

 
 

(i) 

(ii) 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure A 

Treatment of corporate actions 

Involuntary  corporate  actions:  In  case  of  corporate  actions  where 
investors  has  no  choice  in  the  matter,  for  example:  demerger  of 
companies, etc, the compliance status of RGESS demat account shall 
not change.  

Voluntary  corporate  actions:  In  case  of  corporate  actions  where 
investors  has  the  option  to  exercise  his  choice  and  thereby  result  in 
debit  of  securities,  for  example:  buy-back,  etc,  the  same  shall  be 
considered as a sale transaction for the purpose of the scheme. 
 

Consolidated list of ‘corporate actions’  

Corporate Action 

Sr. 
No. 

Amalgamation 
Scheme of Arrangement  

1 
2 
3  Reduction of Capital 
4 
5 

Bonus issue 
Buy Back of Shares 

Stock  Split 

6 
7  Consolidation of Shares 
8  Conversion of Partly Paid up 
9  Dividend  [Final/ Interim/ Special] 
10  Exchange  of  Share  Certificate 

[Name change] 

11  Rights Issue  

12  Conversion (compulsory)* 

13  Conversion (optionally)* 

14  Redemption 

15  Dividend on Mutual Fund 

16  Redemption of Mutual Fund  

Classification (Involuntary  or 
Voluntary) 
Involuntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary  
Voluntary  (Involuntary    in  case 
of court intervention) 
Involuntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary  

Voluntary 

Involuntary  

Involuntary  

Involuntary    (voluntary,  if  there 
is  option 
to  continue  with 
revised terms) 
Involuntary  

 

between 

Involuntary 
on  maturity 
(voluntary,  if  there  is  option  to 
shift 
different 
scheme(s) or on account of exit 
in 
option  due 
fundamental 
of 
scheme) 

to  change 

attributes 

*  Considering  any  conversion  into  equities  (e.g.:  Conversion  of  warrants  into 

equities) 

 

Page 4 of 16 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure B – Illustration of lock-in period in RGESS 

I.  RGESS lock-in period if investments are brought in at once 

Nov 23, 
2012  

Rs. 

50,000 

Fixed lock in 

begins 

Ends on 

November 
22, 2013 

Nov 23, 

2013 

First year of 
flexible lock-
in begins. 

Ends  on 
November 
22, 2014 

Nov 23 , 

2014 

Second year 

of flexible 

lock-in 
begins 

Ends on 

November 
22, 2015 

Nov 23, 

2015 

Account is 
converted 

into an 
ordinary 
demat 
account 

Applicable financial 
year for compliance 

will be 2014-15 

Applicable financial 
year for compliance 

will be 2015-16 

 

 

Page 5 of 16 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure B – Illustration of lock-in period in RGESS 

II.  RGESS lock-in period if investments are brought are in installment 

Period of Fixed lock-in 

 

Period of Flexible lock-in 

Fixed lock-in 

One year of Flexible 

Second year of 

                                     
 

                   

 

March 11, 2013 

ends 

 

Third set of 
Securities 

Rs. 10,000;  
1 year  

                                          

January 15, 2013 

 

Second set 
of Securities 

Rs. 30,000; 1 year 1 months 
24days 

 

             
 

November 23, 2012 

lock-in ends 

Flexible lock-in ends 

 

RGESS portfolio may 

change during this period 

First set of 
Securities 

Rs. 10,000; 1 year 3 months 16 days 

 

 

March 10, 

2014 

March 10, 

2015 

March 10, 

2016 

 

Applicable financial year for 
compliance will be 2014-15 

Applicable financial year for 
compliance will be 2015-16 

Page 6 of 16 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[TO BE PUBLISHED IN PART II, SECTION 3, SUB-SECTION (ii) OF THE GAZETTE 

OF INDIA, EXTRAORDINARY, DATED THE 23rd November, 2012] 

Government of India 

Ministry of Finance 

Department of Revenue 

Notification 

New Delhi, the  23rd   November , 2012. 

(Income-tax) 

 
S.O. 2777(E).— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 80CCG 
of  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961  (43  of  1961),  the  Central  Government  hereby  makes  the 
following Scheme, namely:- 
 
1.  Short  title,  commencement  and  application.  -  (1)  This  Scheme  may  be  called  the 
Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme, 2012. 
(2) 
 
(3) 

It shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.  
This  Scheme  shall  apply  for  claiming  deduction  in  the  computation  of  total 
income  of  the  assessment  year  relevant  to  a  previous  year  on  account  of 
investment  in  eligible  securities  under  sub-section  (1)  of  section  80CCG  of  the 
Income-tax Act, 1961.  

 
2. 

3. 
 
 

 

 

Objective of Scheme.-The objective of the Scheme is to encourage the savings 
of the small investors in domestic capital market.  
Definitions.-  In this Scheme, unless the context otherwise requires,-  

(i) 
(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

“Act” means the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961);  
“demat  account”  means  an  account  opened  with  the  depository 
participant in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);  
“depository” means a company as defined in clause (e) of sub-section (1) 
of section 2 of the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996);  
“depository  participant”  means  a  participant  as  defined  in  clause  (g)  of 
sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996);  
“eligible securities” means any of the following :-  
 
(a) 
 
 

equity shares, on the day of purchase,   falling  in the list of equity 
declared  as  “BSE-100”  or  “  CNX-100”  by  the  Bombay  Stock 
Exchange and the National Stock Exchange, as the case may be; 

Page 7 of 16 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
4. 

 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 
(e) 
(f) 

equity shares of public sector enterprises which are categorised as 
Maharatna, Navratna or Miniratna by the Central Government;  
Units  of  Exchange  Traded  Funds  (ETFs)  or  Mutual  Fund  (MF) 
schemes  with  Rajiv  Gandhi  Equity  Savings  Scheme  (RGESS) 
eligible securities as underlying, as mentioned in sub-clause (i) or 
sub-clause  (ii)  above,  provided  they  are  listed  and  traded  on  a 
stock exchange and settled through a depository mechanism;  
Follow on Public Offer of sub-clauses (i) and (ii) above;  
New Fund Offers (NFOs) of sub-clause (iii) above;  
Initial  Public  Offer  of  a  public  sector  undertaking  wherein  the 
government  shareholding  is  at  least  fifty-one  per  cent.  which  is 
scheduled  for  getting  listed  in  the  relevant  previous  year  and 
whose annual turnover is not less than four thousand crore rupees 
during each of the preceding three years;  

(vi) 

(vii) 
(viii) 

(ix) 

“  financial  year”  means a  year  commencing  on the  1st  day  of April  and 
ending on the 31st day of March;  
“Form” means the Form appended to the Scheme;  
“investment”  means  investment  by  an  assessee  in  any  of  the  eligible 
securities in accordance with the Scheme;  
“new retail investor” means the following resident individuals:-  

(a)  any individual who has not opened a demat account and has 
not  made  any  transactions  in  the  derivative  segment  as  on  the 
date of notification of the Scheme;  

(b)  any  individual  who  has  opened  a  demat  account  before  the 
notification  of  the  Scheme  but  has  not  made  any  transactions  in 
the  equity  segment  or  the  derivative  segment  till  the  date  of 
notification of the Scheme,  

and  any  individual  who  is  not  the  first  account  holder  of  an 
existing joint demat account shall be deemed to have not opened a 
demat account for the purposes of this Scheme 

(x) 
(xi)  words and expressions used and not defined in this Scheme, but defined in the 

“Scheme” means the Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme;  

Act, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.  

Eligibility .- The deduction under the Scheme shall be available to a new retail 
investor who complies with the conditions of the Scheme and whose gross total 
income for the financial year in which the investment is made under the Scheme 
is less than or equal to ten lakh rupees.  

Page 8 of 16 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
6. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

5. 

Procedure  at  time  of  opening  demat  account.-The  new  retail  investor  shall 
follow  the  following  procedure  at  the  time  of  opening  or  designating  a  demat 
account :-  

(a) 

the new retail investor shall open a new demat account or designate his 

existing demat account for the purpose of availing the benefit under the Scheme;  

(b) 
the  new  retail  investor  shall  submit  a  declaration  in  Form  A  to  the 
depository  participant  who  will  forward  the  same  to  the  depository  for 
verifying the status of the new retail investor;  

(c)  the new retail investor shall furnish his Permanent Account Number (PAN) 
while  opening  the  demat  account  or  designating  the  existing  account  as  a 
Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme eligible account, as the case may be.  

Procedure  for  investment  under  Scheme.-  A  new  retail  investor  shall  make 
investments under the Scheme in the following manner :-  

(a)  the new retail investor may make investment in eligible securities in one 
or more than one transactions during the year in which the deduction has to 
be claimed;  

(b)  the  new  retail  investor  may  make  any  amount  of  investment  in  the 
demat  account  but  the  amount  eligible  for  deduction,  under  the  Scheme 
shall not exceed fifty thousand rupees;  

(c)  the  eligible  securities  brought  into  the  demat  account,  as  declared  or 
designated by the new retail investor, will automatically be subject to lock-in 
during  its  first  year,  as  per  the  provisions  of  paragraph  7,  unless  the  new 
retail  investor  specifies otherwise  and for  such specification,  the new  retail 
investor shall submit a declaration in Form B indicating that such securities 
are not to be included within the above limit of investment;  

(d) 
the  new  retail  investor  shall  be eligible  for  a  deduction  under  sub- 
section  (1)  of  section  80CCG  of  the  Act  in  respect  of  the  actual  amount 
invested in eligible securities , in the first financial year in respect of which a 

Page 9 of 16 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

declaration  in  Form  B  has  not  been  made,  subject  to  the  maximum 
investment limit of fifty thousand rupees; 

(e)the new retail investor who has claimed a deduction under sub- section 

(1)  of  section  80CCG  of  the  Act,  in  any  assessment  year,  shall  not  be 
allowed any deduction under the Scheme for any subsequent assessment 
year; 

(f) the new retail investor shall be permitted a grace period of three trading 
days  from  the  end  of  the  financial  year  so  that  the  eligible  securities 
purchased on the last trading day of the financial year also get credited in 
the  demat  account  and  such  securities  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been 
purchased in the financial year itself; 

(g) the  new  retail  investor  may  also  keep  securities  other  than  the  eligible 
securities covered under the Scheme in the demat account through which 
benefits under the Scheme are availed;  

(h) 

the new retail investor can make investments in securities other 
than  the  eligible  securities  covered  under  the  Scheme  and  such 
investments shall not be subject to the conditions of the Scheme nor shall 
they be counted for availing the benefit under the Scheme;  

(i) the  investment  under  the  Scheme  shall  consist  of  all  eligible  securities 
covered under the Scheme that are initially bought by the investor under 
the  Scheme  or  that  are  bought  subsequently  by  the  investor  as  per  the 
provisions of the Scheme;  

(j) the  deduction  claimed  shall  be  withdrawn  if  the  lock-in  period 
requirements  of  the  investment  are  not  complied  with  or  any  other 
condition of the Scheme is violated.  

7.  Period  of  holding  requirements.  -  (1)  The  period  of  holding  of  eligible  securities 

shall be three years to be counted in the manner detailed hereunder. 

 
(2)  All  eligible  securities  are  required  to  be  held  for  a  period  called  the  fixed 
lock-in  period  which  shall  commence  from  the  date  of  purchase  of  such 
securities in the relevant financial year and end one year from the date of 

 

Page 10 of 16 

 
 
purchase  of  the  last  set  of  eligible  securities  (in  the  same  financial  year)  on 
which deduction is claimed under the Scheme. 
 
(3) The new retail investor shall not be permitted to sell, pledge or hypothecate 
any eligible security during the fixed lock-in period. 
 
(4) 

The period of two years beginning immediately after the end of the fixed 

lock-in period shall be called the flexible lock-in period.  
 
(5) 
The new retail investor shall be permitted to trade the eligible securities 
after  the  completion  of  the  fixed  lock-in  period  subject  to  the  following 
conditions:-  
 

(a)  the  new  retail  investor  shall  ensure  that  the  demat 
account  under  the  Scheme  is  compliant  for  a  cumulative 
period  of  a  minimum  of  two  hundred  and  seventy  days 
during each of the two years of the flexible lock-in period 
as laid down hereunder:-  

 
 

 
 

 

(A) 

the  demat  account  shall  be  considered  compliant 
for  the  number  of  days  where  value  of  the 
investment  portfolio  of  eligible  securities  ,  within 
the  flexible  lock-in  period,  is  equal  to  or  higher 
than  the  amount  claimed  as  investment  for  the 
purposes of deduction under section 80CCG of the 
Act;  

(B) 

in  case  the  value  of  investment  portfolio  in  the 
demat account falls due to fall in the market rate of 
eligible  securities  in  the  flexible  lock-in  period, 
then notwithstanding sub clause(A), -  

(i)  the  demat  account  shall  be  considered  compliant 
from  the first  day  of  the  flexible  lock-in  period  to 
the day any such eligible securities are sold during 
this period;  

(ii)  where  the  assessee  sells  the  eligible  securities 
mentioned  in  sub-clause  (B)  from  his  demat 
account,  he  shall  have  to  purchase  eligible 
securities  and  the  said  demat  account  shall  be 
compliant from the day on which the value of the 
investment portfolio in the account becomes -  

Page 11 of 16 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 

(I) at least equivalent to the investment claimed 
as  eligible  for  deduction  under  section 
80CCG of the Act or; 

(II)  the value of the investment portfolio under 

the Scheme before such sale,  

whichever is less. 

(6) 
The new retail investor’s demat account created under the Scheme shall, 
on  the  expiry  of  the  period  of  holding  of  the  investment,  be  converted 
automatically into an ordinary demat account.  

(7) 
For  the  purpose  of  valuation  of  investment  during  the  flexible  lock-in 
period, the closing price as on the previous day of the date of trading, shall be 
considered.  

(8)  While  making  the  initial  investments  upto  fifty  thousand  rupees,  the 
total cost of acquisition of eligible securities shall not include brokerage charges, 
Securities  Transaction  Tax,  stamp  duty,  service  tax  and  all  taxes,  which  are 
appearing in the contract note.  

(9)  Where the investment of the new retail investor undergoes a change as a 
result  of 
like  demerger  of  companies, 
amalgamation,  etc.  resulting  in  debit  or  credit  of  securities  covered  under  the 
Scheme, the deduction claimed by such investor shall not be affected.  

involuntary  corporate  actions 

(10) 
In  case  of  voluntary  corporate  actions like  buy-back,  etc.  resulting  only 
in  debit  of  securities,  where  new  retail  investor  has  the  option  to  exercise  his 
choice, the same shall be considered as a sale transaction for the purpose of the 
Scheme.  

(11) The Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) shall notify the 
corporate actions, referred to in sub-paragraph (9), allowed under the Scheme in 
this regard.  

If the new retail investor fails to fulfil any of the provisions of the Scheme, the 
deduction originally allowed to him under sub-section (1) of section 80CCG of 
the Act for any previous year, shall be deemed to be the income of the assessee 
of such previous year and shall be liable to tax for the assessment year relevant 
to such previous year.  

(1)  The  depository shall certify  the new  retail  investor  status  of  the  assessee  at 
the time of designating his demat account as demat account for the purpose of 
the Scheme.  

Page 12 of 16 

 
 

 
 
 
10. 

 
11. 

(2)  The  depository  participant  shall  furnish  an  annual  statement  of  the  eligible 
securities invested in or traded through the demat account to the demat account 
holder. 

The depository shall provide a consolidated statement of details in the electronic 
format,  as  specified  in  Form  C,  on  all  the  Rajiv  Gandhi  Equity  Savings  Scheme 
beneficiaries to the Director General of Income Tax (Systems) or any other person 
authorised  by  him,  within  a  period  of  thirty  days  from  the  end  of  the  relevant 
financial year.  

For the purpose of paragraph 10, the Director General of Income Tax (Systems) 
shall  determine  the  procedures,  formats  and  standards  for  furnishing  of  the 
report in electronic format in Form C by the depositories.  

 
12.  Assessees  shall  be  liable  to  submit  the  relevant  records  to  the  income-tax 

authorities for verification, as and when required.  

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

[ Notification No.     51 /2012   F. No. 142/35/2012 –TPL) 

 

(Raman Chopra) 

Director (TPL-II) 

Page 13 of 16 

 
 

 

 
 
 

Form A 

[See paragraph 5(b)] 

Declaration  to  be  submitted  by  the  investors  to  the  depository 

participants  for  availing  the  benefits  under  the  Rajiv  Gandhi 
Equity Savings Scheme. 

 
 
Name of the Investor: 
 
(first holder) 
 
Address of the investor: 
 
Permanent Account Number (PAN): 
 

1.  It is hereby certified that* ---  

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

(a)  I  do  not  have  a  demat  account  and  I  have  not  traded  in  any 

derivatives.  

(b)  I       have       demat       account       no       _________________       in  

____________________ depository participant but I have not traded 
in any equity shares or derivatives in this account.  

(c)  I    have    a    joint    demat    account    no    _________________    in  
____________________ depository participant but I am not the first 
account holder.  

2.  I  hereby  declare  that  I  have  read  and  understood  all  the  terms  and 

conditions of the Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme.  

3.  It is hereby verified that I am an eligible new retail investor for availing 

the benefits under the Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme.  

4.  I  undertake  to  abide  by  all  the  requirements  and  fulfill  all  obligations 
under the Scheme, and will comply with all the terms and conditions of 
the Scheme.  

5.  I understand that, in case I fail to comply with any condition specified 
in the Scheme, the benefits availed there under will be withdrawn and 

the tax shall be payable by me accordingly.  

Signature of the Investor 

 
Place: 
 
Date: 
 

 

* Tick which ever is appropriate. 

Page 14 of 16 

 
 

 

 

Form B 

[See paragraph 6(c) and (d)] 

 
 
 
Declaration to be submitted by the new retail investor to the depository 

participant on purchase of eligible securities. 
 
 
 
To 
 
Depository participant 
 
Address 
 
 
 
 

It is hereby informed  that I have demat account no _________________ in 

____________________ depository participant and the following securities 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e)  purchased  in  the  aforesaid  demat  account  on  ______________are  not  to  be 
included as investment for the purpose of the Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings 
Scheme.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Signature 

 
Name of the Investor: 
 
(first holder) 
 
Address of the investor: 
 
Permanent Account Number (PAN): 

 

Page 15 of 16 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

Form C 

[See paragraphs 10 and 11] 

Annual  report  to  be  submitted  by  the  depository  to  the 

Income  Tax  Department  in  Electronic  Format  before  30th 

April. 

(For 80 CCG benefits of Financial Year 2012-13) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2012-13 
Report to 

be 

furnished 
by 30th 

April 2013 

2013-14 
Report to 

be 

furnished 
by 30th 
April 
2014 

Whether 

A/c 

compliant 

with 

RGESS# 

with 

respect to 

fixed 

lock-in* 

2014-15 
Report to 

be 

furnished 
by 30th 

April 2015 

Whether 

A/c 

compliant 

with 

RGESS# 

with 

respect to 
270 days 
period* 

2015-16 
Report to 

be 

furnished 
by 30th 
April 
2016 

Whether 

A/c 

compliant 

with 

RGESS# 

with 

respect to 
270 days 
period* 

Name  PAN  DEMAT 
A/c No. 

Date of 
opening 

A/c 

Amount of 
Investment 

Scrips 
locked in 
RGESS# 

Whether 

A/c 

eligible 

under the 
RGESS# 
Scheme 

Date of 

investment 

for the 

Purpose of 

lock-in 
(date of 
making 
the last 

investment 

in 

RGESS# 
eligible 
scrip) 

 
 
* The Electronic Format shall be determined by the Director General of 

Income Tax (Systems) by 31st March, 2013. 

 
 
**The Financial Year shall be enhanced by one Financial Year every year. 
 
 
#RGESS means the Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme. 
 

 

Page 16 of 16 

