¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 
 

 

 

 

     December 13, 2012 

 
 

CIR/MRD/DP/34/2012 
 
To  
All Stock Exchanges. 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Pre-trade Risk Controls 

1.  SEBI  has  issued  various  circulars  from  time  to  time  to  implement  risk 
management  in  cash  market  and  equity  derivatives  segments.  Stock 
exchanges  have  operationalised  these  measures  by  putting  in  place 
checks to be carried out at their end and by the stock brokers. 

2.  The  recent  incidents  of  erroneous  orders  have  brought  to  fore  certain 
areas that require additional risk control measures to mitigate disruption 
of trading at the exchanges.  

3. 

In  view  of  the  above,  SEBI  engaged  in  a  consultative  process  with  the 
market  participants,  stock  exchanges,  its  Risk  Management  Review 
Committee  (RMRC)  and  Technical  Advisory  Committee  (TAC).  Global 
practices in this regard were also studied.  

4.  Pursuant to the above, it has been decided to prescribe a framework of 
dynamic  trade  based  price  checks  to  prevent  aberrant  orders  or 
uncontrolled trades. These measures would be implemented in phases in 
order to ensure the Indian stock exchanges deploy latest technology while 
maintaining adequate controls. As an initial measure, it has been decided 
that stock exchanges shall implement the measures as given below.  

Order-level checks 

5.  Minimum  pre-trade  risk  controls  for  all  categories  of  orders  placed  on 
Stocks, Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), Index Futures and Stock futures 
shall be as follows: 
5.1.  Value/Quantity Limit per order:  

(a) Any order with value exceeding Rs. 10 crore per order shall not 
be  accepted  by  the  stock  exchange  for  execution  in  the  normal 
market. 

(b) In addition, stock exchange shall ensure that appropriate checks 
for value and / or quantity are implemented by the stock brokers 
based on the respective risk profile of their clients. 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

5.2.  Cumulative limit on value of unexecuted orders of a stock broker:  

(a) Vide SEBI  circular CIR/MRD/DP/09/2012 dated March 30, 2012, 
stock  exchanges  have  been  directed  to  ensure  that  the  trading 
algorithms  of  the  stock  brokers  have  a  ‘client  level  cumulative 
open order value check’. 

(b) In  continuation  to  the  above,  stock  exchange  are  directed  to 
ensure  that  stock  brokers  put-in  place  a  mechanism  to  limit  the 
cumulative  value  of  all  unexecuted  orders  placed  from  their 
terminals to below a threshold limit set by the stock brokers. Stock 
exchanges shall ensure that such limits are effective. 

5.3.  Stock exchanges shall enhance monitoring of the operating controls 
of  the  stock  brokers  to  ensure  implementation  of  the  checks 
mentioned  at  point  5.1(b)  and  5.2(b)  above;  and  levy  deterrent 
penalty in case any failure is observed at the end of stockbroker in 
implementing such checks. 

Dynamic Price Bands (earlier called Dummy Filters or Operating Range) 

6.  Vide circular no. SMDRPD/Policy/Cir-37/2001 dated June 28, 2001, stock 
exchanges  had  been  advised  to  implement  appropriate  individual  scrip 
wise price bands in either direction, for all scrips in the compulsory rolling 
settlement  except  for  the  scrips  on  which  derivatives  products  are 
available or scrips included in indices on which derivatives products are 
available. 

from 

For  scrips  excluded 
the  requirement  of  price  bands,  stock 
exchanges  have  implemented  a  mechanism  of  dynamic  price  bands 
(commonly  known  as  dummy  filters  or  operating  range)  which  prevents 
acceptance of orders for execution that are placed beyond the price limits 
set by the stock exchanges. Such dynamic price bands are relaxed by the 
stock exchanges as and when a market-wide trend is observed in either 
direction. 

6.1 

It  has  been  decided  to  tighten  the  initial  price  threshold  of  the 
dynamic  price  bands.  Stock  exchange  shall  set  the  dynamic  price 
bands  at  10%  of  the  previous  closing  price  for  the  following 
securities: 
(a)  Stocks on which derivatives products are available, 
(b)  Stocks  included  in  indices  on  which  derivatives  products  are 

available, 

(c)  Index futures, 
(d)  Stock futures. 

6.2  Further,  in  the  event  of  a  market  trend  in  either  direction,  the 
dynamic  price  bands  shall  be  relaxed  by  the  stock  exchanges  in 
increments  of 5%.  Stock exchanges shall frame suitable rules  with 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

mutual consultation for such relaxation of dynamic price bands and 
shall make it known to the market. 

Risk Reduction Mode 
7  Stock exchanges shall ensure that the stock brokers are mandatorily put 
in risk-reduction mode when 90% of the stock broker’s collateral available 
for adjustment against margins gets utilized on account of trades that fall 
under  a  margin  system.  Such  risk  reduction  mode  shall  include  the 
following: 
(a)  All unexecuted orders shall be cancelled once stock broker breaches 

90% collateral utilization level. 

(b)  Only orders with Immediate or Cancel attribute shall be permitted in 

this mode. 

(c)  All new orders shall be checked for sufficiency of margins. 
(d)  Non-margined orders shall not be accepted from the stock broker in 

risk reduction mode. 

(e)  The  stock  broker  shall  be  moved  back 

the  normal  risk 
management mode as and when the collateral of the stock broker is 
lower than 90% utilization level. 

to 

8  Stock  exchanges  may  prescribe  more  stringent  norms  based  on  their 

assessment, if desired. 

9  Stock exchanges are directed to: 

(a) 

take necessary steps to put in place systems for implementation of 
the  circular,  including  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-
laws, rules and regulations, within one month from the issuance of 
the circular and with atleast one week advance notice to the market; 
(b)  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers 

and also disseminate the same on its website; 

(c)  communicate to SEBI the status of implementation of the provisions 

of this circular. 

10  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under 
Section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to 
protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Maninder Cheema 
Deputy General Manager 
email: maninderc@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

Page 3 of 3 

