»ããÀ¦ããè½ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã»ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã¼ã½ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 
CIR/CFD/DIL/2/2013  
 
To 
The Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam 
 
Sub: Clarification on Clause 36 of the Equity Listing Agreement 
 
1. 

 

 

January 3, 2013  

It  has  been  brought  to  our  notice  that  certain  listed  companies  have  been  giving 
monthly disclosure of their sales/turnover/production figures to their respective trade 
bodies/industry associations and the same is not disclosed to the stock exchanges. 
 
The listed companies are guided by Clause 36 of the Listing Agreement of the stock 
exchanges which, inter-alia, states that: 
 
“The  Issuer  will  intimate  to  the  Stock  Exchanges,  where  the  company  is  listed 
immediately of events such as strikes, lock outs, closure on account of power cuts, 
etc. and all events which will have a bearing on the performance / operations of the 
company as well as price sensitive information both at the time of occurrence of the 
event  and  subsequently  after  the  cessation  of  the  event  in  order  to  enable  the 
security  holders  and  the  public  to  appraise  the  position  of  the  Issuer  and  to  avoid 
the  establishment  of  a  false  market  in  its  securities.  In  addition,  the  Issuer  will 
furnish  to  Exchange  on  request  such  information  concerning  the  Issuer  as  the 
Exchange may reasonably require”. 

 
It is therefore, reiterated that all the events or material information which will have a 
bearing on the performance / operations of the company  as  well as  price sensitive 
information  shall  be  first  disseminated  to  the  stock  exchanges  as  required  under 
Clause 36 of the Listing Agreement. 
 
Stock exchanges are advised to take into account the requirements of this Circular 
and to bring the same to the notice of the listed companies. 
 
This Circular is issued in in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 read 
with Section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  
 
This Circular is available on SEBI website at  www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 
“Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”.  
 

 Yours faithfully 
 
 
Sunil Kadam  
General Manager  
+91-22-26449630  
sunilk@sebi.gov.in 

 
 

 

Page 1 of 1 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

 

