 

 

 

 

 

         January 17, 2013 

CIR/CFD/DIL/3/2013 
 
To 
 
All Stock Exchanges 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Amendments to SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee 
Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 and Equity Listing Agreement. 

 

1.  SEBI  (Employee  Stock  Option  Scheme  and  Employee  Stock  Purchase  Scheme) 
Guidelines, 1999 ("SEBI (ESOS & ESPS) Guidelines") were issued to enable listed 
entities to reward their employees through stock option schemes and stock purchase 
schemes and to ensure that such schemes introduced by the companies are within 
the regulated framework.   
 

2.  It  has  come to  the  notice  of  SEBI  that  some  listed  entities  have  been  framing  their 
own  employees  benefit  schemes  wherein  Trusts  have  been  set  up  to  deal  in  their 
own securities in the secondary market, which was not envisaged within the purview 
of SEBI (ESOS and ESPS) Guidelines 1999.  
 

3.  It  is  apprehended  that  some  entities  may frame  such  schemes  with  the  purpose of 
dealing  in  its  own  securities  with  the  object  of  inflating,  depressing,  maintaining  or 
causing fluctuation in the price of the securities by engaging in fraudulent and unfair 
trade practices. Such dealing in the company’s shares by the Trusts may also raise 
regulatory  concerns regarding  compliance  with  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and 
Unfair Trade Practices relating to the Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 and SEBI 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992.  

 
4.  In  order  to  address  the  concerns  over  acquisition  of  shares  by  employee  welfare 
Trusts from the secondary market, it has been decided to  prohibit the listed entities 
from framing  any  employee  benefit  schemes  involving  acquisition  of  own  securities 
from the secondary market.  
 

5.  In  order  to  implement  the  above  decision,  certain  listing  conditions  are  hereby 
specified by way of inserting Clause 35C in the Equity Listing Agreement as given in 
Annexure I. 
 

6.  In respect of those companies, which have already framed and implemented before 
the  date  of  this  circular  any  employee  benefit  schemes  involving  dealing  in  the 
securities of the company, which are not in accordance with SEBI (ESOS and ESPS) 
Guidelines, it has been decided that:-  
 
(i) such companies will be required to inform the details of their schemes to the Stock 
Exchanges  within  30  days  from  date  of  this  circular,  in  the  format  provided  in 
Annexure II to this circular and to disseminate the said information on their website.  

Page 1 of 6 

 

 
(ii)  such  companies  shall  align  any  existing  employee  benefit  schemes  with  SEBI 
(ESOS and ESPS) Guidelines on or before June 30, 2013.  

 
7.  In view of the above, it has also been decided to amend the SEBI (ESOS and ESPS) 
Guidelines  1999  as  provided  in  Annexure  III.  The  amendments  made  vide  this 
circular shall come into force with immediate effect.  
 

8.  All  stock  exchanges  are  advised  to  ensure  compliance  with  this  circular,  and  carry 

out the necessary amendments in their Listing Agreement accordingly.  
 

9.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  under  Section  11  read  with 

Section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  

 
10. This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 
 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Sunil Kadam  
General Manager  
+91-22-26449630  
sunilk@sebi.gov.in  

 
Enclosures:  
Annexure-I: Amendments to Listing Agreement  
Annexure –II: Format for reporting the details of the employee benefit schemes 
by listed companies  
Annexure –III: Amendments to SEBI (ESOS and ESPS) Guidelines 1999.  

Page 2 of 6 

 

Annexure –I 

 

Amendments to Equity Listing Agreement 

 

 
1. After Clause 35B, a new clause 35C shall be inserted to read as under: 
 
“35C.  (i)  The  issuer agrees  that all  the  employee  benefit  schemes  involving  the 
securities  of  the  company  shall  be  in  compliance  with  SEBI  (Employee  Stock 
Option Schemes and Employee Stock Purchase Schemes) Guidelines, 1999 and 
any other guidelines, regulations etc. framed by SEBI in this regard.  
 
(ii)  The  issuer  further  agrees  that  all  the  employee  benefit  schemes  already 
framed  and  implemented  by  the  company  involving  dealing  in  the  securities  of 
the company, before the insertion of this clause shall be aligned with and made 
to  conform  to  SEBI  (Employee  Stock  Option  Schemes  and  Employee  Stock 
Purchase Schemes) Guidelines, 1999 by June 30, 2013.”  
 
2.  In  Clause  35B  of  the  Listing  Agreement,  all  references  to  "Companies 
(Passing  of the  Resolution  by Postal  Ballot)  Rules  2001"  shall  be replaced  with 
“Companies (Passing of the Resolution by Postal Ballot) Rules 2011”. 
 

Page 3 of 6 

 
Format  for  furnishing  the  details  of  employee  benefit  schemes  involving 
dealings  in  secondary  market,  not  covered  under  SEBI  (ESOS  and  ESPS) 
Guidelines 1999  
 
1. Name of the Issuer: 

 

 Annexure –II 

2. Name of the Scheme: 

3. Date of implementation: 

4. Mode of Implementation (Trust/Direct): 

5. Brief particulars about the Scheme (modus operandi): 

Details  of  Trust,  Trustees,  and  their  relationship  with  Promoters  or  Directors  of 
the company 

6.  Whether  promoters/persons  belonging  to  the  promoter  group/directors,  are 
also beneficiaries in the scheme. If so, the details thereof and their entitlements: 

7. No. of shares held by Trust/any other agency managing the scheme as on the 
date of the circular  

8. How the Trust/agency is proposing to deal with the existing holding (whether to 
be transferred to the employees, or  to be sold in the market for transferring the 
benefits to the employees, if so, details regarding proposed date of such transfer 
or sale shall be given) Such date shall not be later than June 30, 2013 : 

9.  Details  of  persons  who  are  entitled  to  shares  or  benefits  accruing  out  of  the 
shares, which form part of more than 1 percent of the paid up share capital, as 
on the date of the circular in the following format: 

Name  of 
the 
employee 

falling 

Whether 
under 
Promoter/promoter 
group/directors 

 No. 
entitled 
shares 

of 

%  of  such 
entitlement 
over 
paid-up 
share capital 

the 

No.  of 
shares 
transferred/alloted 
to 
them/benefits 
is 
of 
passed 
to 
them out of (3) 

which 
on 

(1) 

 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

Page 4 of 6 

10.  Details  of  secondary  market  purchases/sales  by  the  company/Trust/  any 
other agency managing the scheme if any, since  April 01, 2012 in the following 
format: 
 
Sl 

No. of Securities  Price  at  which 

Date/time 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

of 

Type 
Transaction 
(Purchase/Sale) 
 
 
 

Purchased/sold 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

Page 5 of 6 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Annexure III 

Amendments to SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee 

Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999. 

After clause 22A, the following new clause shall be inserted namely: 

 
 

“22B. Prohibition on acquisition of securities from secondary market  
 
No  ESOS/ESPS  shall 
secondary market."  

involve  acquisition  of  securities 

from 

the 

*********** 

Page 6 of 6 

