¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

January 24, 2013                          

 

 

 

 
CIR/MIRSD/2/2013   
 
 
SEBI Registered Intermediaries:  
 
1.  Stock Brokers through Recognized Stock Exchanges 
2.  Depository Participants (DPs) through Depositories 
3.  Mutual Funds (MFs) 
4.  Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) 
5.  Portfolio Managers (PMs) 
6.  KYC Registration Agencies (KRAs) 
7.  Alternate Investment Funds (AIFs) 
8.  Collective Investment Schemes (CIS) 
9.  Investment Advisers (IAs) 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub: Guidelines on Identification of Beneficial Ownership 
 
1.  SEBI  Master  Circular  No.  CIR/ISD/AML/3/2010  dated  December  31,  2010 
has mandated all registered intermediaries to obtain, as part of their Client 
Due  Diligence  policy,  sufficient  information  from  their  clients  in  order  to 
identify and verify the identity of persons who beneficially own or control the 
securities account. The beneficial owner has been defined in the circular as 
the  natural  person  or  persons  who  ultimately  own,  control  or  influence  a 
client and/or persons on whose behalf a transaction is being conducted, and 
includes  a  person  who  exercises  ultimate  effective  control  over  a  legal 
person or arrangement.  
 

2.  SEBI has also prescribed uniform Know Your Client (KYC) requirements for 
the securities markets vide circular nos. CIR/MIRSD/16/2011 dated August 
22,  2011  and  MIRSD/SE/Cir-21/2011  dated  October  5,  2011.  The  SEBI 
KYC Registration Agency (KRA) Regulations, 2011 have been notified and 
guidelines have been issued under these regulations from time to time. 
 

3.  Further, the Prevention of Money Laundering Rules, 2005 also require that 
every banking company, financial institution and intermediary, as the case 
may be, shall identify the beneficial owner and take all reasonable steps to 
verify  his  identity.  The  Government  of  India  in  consultation  with  the 
regulators  has  now  specified  a  uniform  approach  to  be  followed  towards 

Page 1 of 3 

determination of beneficial ownership. Accordingly, the intermediaries shall 
comply with the following guidelines.  

 
A.  For clients other than individuals or trusts: 

 

4.  Where the client is a person other than an individual or trust, viz., company, 
partnership  or  unincorporated  association/body  of 
the 
intermediary  shall  identify  the  beneficial  owners  of  the  client  and  take 
reasonable  measures  to  verify  the  identity  of  such  persons,  through  the 
following information: 

individuals, 

 

 

a.  The identity of the natural person, who, whether acting alone or together, 
or  through  one  or  more  juridical  person,  exercises  control  through 
ownership or who ultimately has a controlling ownership interest.  
 
Explanation:  Controlling  ownership 
of/entitlement to: 
 

interest  means  ownership 

i.  more  than  25%  of  shares  or  capital  or  profits  of  the  juridical 

person, where the juridical person is a company; 

ii.  more  than  15%  of  the  capital  or  profits  of  the  juridical  person, 

where the juridical person is a partnership; or  

iii.  more than 15% of the property or capital or profits of the juridical 
is  an  unincorporated 

juridical  person 

person,  where 
association or body of individuals. 

the 

 

b.  In  cases  where  there  exists  doubt  under  clause  4  (a)  above  as  to 
whether  the  person  with  the  controlling  ownership  interest  is  the 
beneficial  owner  or  where  no  natural  person  exerts  control  through 
ownership interests, the identity of the natural person exercising control 
over the juridical person through other means. 

Explanation:  Control  through  other  means  can  be  exercised  through 
voting rights, agreement, arrangements or in any other manner. 
 

c.  Where no natural person is identified under clauses 4 (a) or 4 (b) above, 
the  identity  of  the  relevant  natural  person  who  holds  the  position  of 
senior managing official. 

 
B.  For client which is a trust: 
 
5.  Where  the  client  is  a  trust,  the  intermediary  shall  identify  the  beneficial 
owners of the client and take reasonable measures to verify the identity of 
such persons, through the identity of the settler of the trust, the trustee, the 
protector,  the  beneficiaries  with  15%  or  more interest  in  the  trust  and any 
other  natural  person  exercising  ultimate  effective  control  over  the  trust 
through a chain of control or ownership. 
 

Page 2 of 3 

C.  Exemption in case of listed companies:  

 

6.  Where the client or the owner of the controlling interest is a company listed 
on a stock exchange, or is a majority-owned subsidiary of such a company, 
it  is  not  necessary  to  identify  and  verify  the  identity  of  any  shareholder  or 
beneficial owner of such companies.  

 
D.  Applicability for foreign investors: 
 
7.  Intermediaries  dealing  with  foreign  investors’  viz.,  Foreign  Institutional 
Investors, Sub Accounts and Qualified Foreign Investors, may be guided by 
the  clarifications  issued  vide  SEBI  circular  CIR/MIRSD/11/2012  dated 
September 5, 2012, for the purpose of identification of beneficial ownership 
of the client. 

 
E.  Implementation: 

 

8.  The  provisions of  this  circular  shall  come into  force with immediate effect. 
Intermediaries are directed to review their Know Your Client (KYC) and Anti-
Money Laundering (AML) policies accordingly. 

 
9.  The Stock Exchanges and Depositories are directed to: 
 

a.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the Stock Brokers and 
Depository Participants, as the case may be, and also disseminate the 
same on their websites; 

b.  make amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for the 
implementation of the above decision in co-ordination with one another, 
as considered necessary; 

c.  monitor the compliance of this circular through half-yearly internal audits 

Yours faithfully, 

Krishnanand Raghavan 
Deputy General Manager 
022-26449632 
Email: krishnanandr@sebi.gov.in 

Page 3 of 3 

d.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions 

and inspections; and 

of this circular. 
  

10. In  case  of  mutual  funds,  compliance  of  this  circular  shall  be  monitored  by 
the Boards of the Asset Management Companies and the Trustees and in 
case of other intermediaries, by their Board of Directors. 
 

11. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and 
to regulate the securities markets.  

 

 

