 

 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
 
CIR/MRD/DP/03/2013  

January 24, 2013 
 

To  
 
All Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 

Sub: Guidelines for providing dedicated Debt Segment on Stock Exchanges. 

1.  The  market  for  debt  securities  differs  from  equity  markets  in  several  ways  such 
as risk, returns, liquidity, type of participants and method of trading. While publicly 
issued debt securities are listed, traded and settled in  a manner similar to equity, 
privately placed debt is usually traded between institutional investors on ‘Over the 
Counter'  (OTC)  basis.  Such  OTC  transactions  are  mandatorily  reported  on 
reporting  platforms  at  FIMMDA,  BSE  and  NSE.  The  settlement  for  such 
transactions  is  different  from  that  in  equity  markets  or  publicly  issued  debt 
securities.  
 

2.  Whereas the equity markets in India offer trading infrastructure comparable to the 
best available globally, the debt markets lack such infrastructure. In order to cater 
to  the  unique  characteristics  of  debt  markets,  it  has  been  decided  to  provide 
dedicated a debt segment on the stock exchanges. 
 

3.  The  debt  segment  shall  offer  separate  trading,  clearing,  settlement,  reporting 

facilities and membership to deal in : 
(i)  "debt securities" as defined in Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 

and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008; 

(ii)  Government  Securities,  Treasury  Bills,  State  Government  loans,  SLR  and 
Non-SLR Bonds issued by Financial Institutions, municipal bonds, single bond 
repos,  basket  repos  and  CBLO  kind  of  products  subject  to  RBI  approval, 
where required; 

(iii) Securitized  debt  instruments  as  defined  in  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of 

Securitised Debt Instruments)Regulations, 2008; 

(iv)  any  other  debt  instruments  as  may  be  specified  from  time  to  time  by  the 

competent authority. 

 

4.  An  existing  stock  exchange  or  new  stock  exchange  desirous  of  setting  up  debt 
segment may make an application to SEBI, providing operational, regulatory and 
any other necessary details. 

 

1 

 

 
 

 

 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

5.  The broad framework /features for debt segment shall be as under- 

 
(A) 

(B) 

Listing:  This  segment  shall  list  all  the  securities  and  debt  instruments 
mentioned at para 3 above. 
 
Trading :    

(i)  The  debt  segment  shall  offer  electronic,  screen  based  trading  providing  for 

order matching, request for quote, negotiated trades etc. 

(ii)  The trading facility may be provided using exchange network including using 
access methods such as internet trading, mobile trading or any other methods 
specified by SEBI.  

(iii) The debt segment shall provide separate platforms for the markets described 

below - 

a.  Retail  market  -  which  shall  be  a  market  for  listing  of  and  trading  in 
publicly-issued debt instruments and where participation by registered 
trading  members  can  be  on  their  own  account  or  for  execution  of 
orders placed their clients.  

b.  Institutional  market  -  which  shall  be  a  market  for  non-publicly-issued 

debt instruments with a market lot size of minimum Rs 1 crore. 

(iv) In addition to institutional investors, Direct Market Access (DMA) facility shall 
be  extended  to  other  investors  to  participate  in  Institutional  market  of  debt 
segment.  In  this  regard,  the  provisions  as  stipulated  in  SEBI  circular  MRD/ 
DoP/SE/Cir- 7 /2008 dated April 03, 2008, MRD/DoP/SE/Cir- 03 /2009 dated 
February  20,  2009  and  CIR/MRD/DP/  20  /2012  August  02,  2012  and 
modifications thereto shall be applicable. 

  

(C) 

Trading  Rules: 

(i)  The trading hours shall be from 9:00 hours to 17:00 hours to be in alignment 

with trading hours of government securities as issued by RBI. 

(ii)  The  day  count  convention  of  Actual/Actual  shall  be  followed  for  calculating 

interest rates. 

(iii) The stock exchange shall facilitate availability of price quotes on clean price, 

dirty price and yield. 

(iv) There shall be no shut period during which trades/ transfers are restricted for 
payment of interest or part redemptions. For other corporate actions such as 
redemptions/ put-call options, issuers may choose to specify a shut period.  

2 

 

 
 

 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(v)  The  record  date  shall  be  fixed  not  more  than  15  days  prior  to  date  of 
corporate  action  which  shall  be  displayed  on  trading  terminal  by  stock 
exchanges.  

(vi) 

In case of negotiated trades by members of the debt segment, the trades 

shall be reported to stock exchange within 30 minutes of the trade.  

 

(D)  Clearing and Settlement:   

(i)  All trades shall be cleared and settled through a clearing corporation. For this 
purpose,  all  trading  members  shall  be  self  clearing  members  or  may  clear 
through a clearing member. 

(ii)   The settlement shall depend on the market type, as given below: 

a)  For  institutional  market:  All  trades  shall  be  settled  on  T+1  rolling 
settlement  on  DVP-I  basis  using  RBI  RTGS  account.  Stock 
exchanges/clearing  corporation  may  opt 
to  provide  clearing  and 
settlement on DVP-II or DVP-III basis for this market in future and shall put 
in place appropriate risk management framework for the same. 

b)  For retail market: The trades shall be settled on T+2 rolling settlement on 

DVP-III basis with settlement guarantee. 

 

(E)  Risk management framework:  

(i)  For  retail  market,  a  uniform  margin  rate  of  10%  shall  be  applicable  on  debt 
instruments with rating of AA or above (or with similar rating nomenclature) by 
recognised  credit  rating  agencies  and  25%  for  all  other  debt  instruments.  
Further, in case of shortages, there shall be compulsory close-out with a mark 
up of 5% in case of debt instruments which are assigned a credit rating of AA 
and above and 10% in case of other debt instruments. 

(ii)  For institutional market, as and when settlement is done on DVP-II or DVP-III 

basis, appropriate margins may be prescribed after approval by SEBI. 

(iii) The  clearing  corporation  shall  specify  appropriate 

risk  management 
framework for each market, wherein it shall, inter-alia, provide for computation 
and collection of margins, capital adequacy norms and collateral requirements 
for the clearing members, settlement guarantee fund as applicable. This shall 
be approved by SEBI. 

 
Trade  repository: With  an  objective  to  have  centralised  repository  for  trades  in 
debt  instruments,  the  stock  exchanges  shall  report  trade  information  to  a 
common trade repository as may be specified by SEBI.  
 
 

3 

(F) 

 

 

 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
(G)  Membership:  

(i)  Any  entity  desirous  of  becoming  trading  member,  self  clearing  member  and/or 
clearing  member  of  debt  segment  shall  seek  registration  under  SEBI  (Stock 
Broker and Sub-Broker) Regulations, 1992. 

(ii)  Institutions  such  as  scheduled  commercial  banks,  primary  dealers,  pension 
funds,  provident  funds,  insurance  companies,  mutual  funds  and  any  other 
investors as may be specified by sectoral regulators from time to time, can  trade 
on the debt segment either as clients of registered trading members or directly as 
trading  member  on    proprietary  basis  only  (i.e    own-account  trades  only).  Such 
institutions  desirous  of  trading  on  own  account  only  shall  be  given  trading 
membership  under  SEBI  (Stock  Broker  and  Sub-Broker)  Regulations,  1992  as 
proprietary trading member. 

(iii) For  an  interim  period  of  six  months  from  the  date  of  this  circular  or  till  the 
application for registration as per amended SEBI (Stock Broker and Sub-Broker) 
Regulations,1992    is  refused  by  the  Board  or  till  cessation  of  membership, 
whichever is earlier, the transitional provisions shall be -  

a.  Institutional  market  of  debt  segment:  Any  existing  registered  trading 
member and/or clearing member/self clearing member in derivative segment 
or currency derivatives segment desirous of trading or clearing trades in debt 
segment shall be permitted to trade or clear trades.  

b.  Retail market of debt segment: Any existing registered stock broker/trading 
member and /or clearing member/self clearing desirous of trading or clearing 
trades in debt segment shall be permitted to trade or clear trades. 

(iv) The  trading  member,  proprietary  trading  member,  clearing  member  and  self 
clearing member of debt segment shall have net worth and deposit as prescribed 
in SEBI (Stock Broker and Sub-broker) Regulations, 1992. 

(v)  The Base Minimum Capital for stock broker/trading member shall be in line  with 

SEBI circular dated December 19, 2012. 

(vi)  The  stock  exchanges  and  clearing  corporation  may  specify  additional 
membership criteria for trading member/proprietary trading member and clearing 
member/self clearing member respectively. 

 

(H)  Market  Making: With  the  view  to  infuse  liquidity  in  the market, market makers 
shall  be  permitted  in  the  debt  segment.  Market  making  may  be  provided  by 
merchant  bankers,  issuers  through  brokers  or  any  other  entity  as  may  be 
specified.  The  rules  for  market  making  shall  be  specified  by  the  stock 
exchanges with approval of SEBI. 
 
 

 

4 

 

 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
6.  The stock exchanges and clearing corporations desirous of introducing debt segment 

are advised to - 

(i)  Incorporate /frame separate Bye  Laws, Rules  and  Regulations on  debt segment 

in consonance with aforesaid guidelines 

(ii)  Make necessary amendment to their existing  byelaws, rules and/or regulations , 

if required  

(iii) Send duly completed application for introducing debt segment to SEBI, along with 

necessary byelaws and rules.  

7.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market.  

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
  
Maninder Cheema  
Deputy General Manager  
Email: maninderc@sebi.gov.in 

 

5 

