¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DP/05/2013 

 

 

 

 

           February 08, 2013 

To 

All Stock Exchanges. 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

Sub: Liquidity Enhancement Schemes for Illiquid Securities in Equity 

Cash market 

1.  SEBI  vide  its  circular  CIR/DNPD/5/2011  dated  June  02,  2011,  permitted 
liquidity  enhancement  schemes  (LES)  in  Equity  Derivatives  Segment  and 
specified broad guidelines for the same.  

2.  Pursuant  to  the  introduction  of  LES  scheme  in  derivatives  segment  to 
enhance  liquidity  in  illiquid  derivative  products,  there  was  demand  that 
similar scheme may  also be  introduced for the  Equity  Cash market. It has 
therefore  been  decided  to  permit  stock  exchanges  to  introduce  LES  to 
enhance liquidity of illiquid securities in their Equity Cash market. 

3.  LES may be introduced in any of the following securities: 

(a)  Securities having a mean impact cost greater than or equal to 2% for 
an order size of Rs.1 lakh, where mean impact cost of the security on 
the stock exchange is calculated over the past 60 trading days.  

(b)  Securities introduced for trading in the “permitted to trade” category. 

4.  LES may be continued till such time as the security achieves mean impact 
cost of less than 2% for an order size of Rs.1 lakh  on the stock exchange 
during the last 60 trading days. 

5.  Discontinuation of LES for any security shall be done after  advance notice 

of 15 days.  

6.  Stock  exchanges  may  re-introduce  LES  on  a  security  if  the  criterion  as 

mentioned in para 3(a) is satisfied.   

7. 

In  case  any  stock  exchange  introduces  LES  on  securities  eligible  under 
para  3(a)  above,  other  stock  exchanges  may  also  introduce  LES  in  the 
same securities even if those are not eligible on their stock exchange under 
3(a). Such LES of other stock exchanges shall not be continued beyond the 
period of LES at the initiating stock exchange. 

Page 1 of 3 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
8.  The  stock  exchange  shall  ensure  that  the  LES,  including  any  modification 

therein or its discontinuation, 

(a)  has the prior approval of its Board and its implementation and outcome 

is monitored by the Board at quarterly intervals; 

(b)  prescribes and monitors the obligations of liquidity enhancers  (liquidity 

provider, market maker, maker-taker or by whatever name called); 

(c)  disburses the incentives linked to performance; 

(d)  is objective, transparent, non-discretionary and non-discriminatory; 

(e)  does not compromise market integrity or risk management; 

(f)  complies with all the relevant laws; and 

(g)  is disclosed to the market  atleast 15 days in advance and its outcome 
(incentives granted and volume achieved – liquidity enhancer wise and 
security wise) is disseminated monthly within a week of the close of the 
month. 

9.  The incentives under LES shall be transparent and measurable. These may 

take either of the two forms:  

(a)  Discount  in  fees,  adjustment  in  fees  in  other  segments  or  cash 

payment; 

(b)  Shares, including options and warrants, of the stock exchange. 

10.  If  a  stock  exchange  chooses  the  form  specified  in  Para  ‘9a’  above,  the 
incentives  under  all  LES  (both  Equity  Cash  and  Derivative  Segment), 
during a financial year, shall not exceed 25% of the net profits or 25% of the 
free  reserves  of  the  Stock  Exchange,  whichever  is  higher,  as  per  the 
audited financial statements of the preceding financial  year. If, however, a 
stock exchange chooses the form specified in Para ‘9b’ above, the shares, 
including  the  shares  that  may  accrue  on  exercise  of  warrants  or  options, 
given  as  incentives  under  all  LES  (both  Equity  Cash  and  Derivative 
Segment), during a financial year, shall not exceed 25% of the issued and 
outstanding  shares  of  the  Stock  Exchange  as  on  the  last  day  of  the 
preceding  financial  year.  Further,  the  Exchange  shall  ensure  that  it  is 
compliant with the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012 at all times.  

11.  From  a  market  integrity  perspective,  the  stock  exchange  shall  ensure  the 
following,  in  respect  of  LES  for  both  Equity  Cash  market  and  Derivative 
Segment: 

(a)  The Exchange must have systems and defined procedures in place to 
monitor collusion between trading members indulging in trades solely 

Page 2 of 3 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

for  seeking  incentives  and  prevent  payment  of  incentives  in  such 
cases. 

(b) 

In  addition  to  (a)  above,  incentives  in  the  form  of  cash  payments, 
warrants,  discount  in  fees,  etc  may  not  be  provided  for  the  trades 
where the counterparty is self, i.e., same Unique Client Code (UCC) is 
on both sides of the transaction. 

(c)  Any violations of clauses in this para shall be viewed most seriously. 

(d) 

In  this  regard,  SEBI  circular  CIR/DNPD/5/2011  dated  June  02,  2011 
stands modified to the extent as mentioned in para 10 and 11. 

12.  The  Stock  Exchange  shall  submit  half-yearly  reports  on  the  working  of  its 

LES for review of SEBI. 

13.  This circular shall not be applicable to securities listed on SME Platform or 
SME  Exchange.  Further, 
in  SEBI  circular 
SMDRP/Policy/CIR-04/2000 dated January 20, 2000 shall not be applicable 
for the LES introduced pursuant to this circular.  

the  conditions  specified 

14.  Stock Exchanges are directed to:  

a) 

take necessary steps to put in place systems for implementation of the 
circular,  including  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  byelaws, 
rules and regulations;  

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers 

and also disseminate the same on its website;  

c)  communicate to SEBI the status of implementation of the provisions of 

this circular.  

15.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 
11  (1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect 
the interests  of investors in securities and to  promote the development  of, 
and to regulate the securities market.  

Yours faithfully,  

Maninder Cheema  
Deputy General Manager  
email: maninderc@sebi.gov.in 

Page 3 of 3 

