¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 
 

 

    March 15, 2013 

                           

CIR/MIRSD/3/2013   
 
To 
All Debenture Trustees and Credit Rating Agencies registered with SEBI 
 
Sir/ Madam, 
 
Sub:  Sharing  of 
Debenture Trustees and Credit Rating Agencies 
 

information  regarding 

issuer  companies  between 

1.  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustee)  Regulations,  1993  require  the  Debenture 
Trustees (DTs) to share information regarding the issuer companies that 
are their clients, with Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs). The purpose of the 
Regulations is to enable CRAs to perform their obligations effectively.   
 

2.  DTs  have  also  expressed  the  need  to  receive  relevant  information  on 

Yours faithfully, 
 
Ruchi Chojer 
General Manager 
Phone No. 022-26449310 
Email id: ruchic@sebi.gov.in 

issuer companies from CRAs.    
 

3.  In consultation with DTs and CRAs, it has been decided that registered 
DTs and CRAs shall share information with each other as specified in the 
Annexure.  DTs and CRAs may share any other information from time to 
time  in  respect  of  issues/issuer  companies  which  would  help  them  in 
effective discharge of their duties.  
 

4.  Further, the DTs and CRAs shall assign designated email addresses for 
sending and receiving such information and ensure appropriate action, if 
any, based on the information received.         
 

5.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section 
11(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect 
the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development 
of, and to regulate the securities market. 
 

6.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  (www.sebi.gov.in)  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

 

Sharing of information between Debenture Trustees (DTs) and Credit 
Rating Agencies (CRAs) 

Annexure 

A.  Information from CRAs to DTs 

1.  Rating  assigned/revised  for  debt  securities  along  with  the  rationale  for 

the same.  

2.  Press release, outstanding ratings etc. in respect of debt securities. 
3.  Non-cooperation  by  the  issuers  with  respect  to  sharing  necessary 
information for monitoring the credit quality of the rated instrument with 
CRAs. 

4.  Press release and separate communication to DT on withdrawal of rating 

post redemption of entire amount due towards debenture-holders.  

5.  Default of any type committed by the issuer. 

 

 

B.  Information from DTs to CRAs 

 

1.  Whether the asset in respect of which security has been created is free 
from  any  encumbrance  and  adequate  to  ensure   asset  cover  for  the 
debentures  or   if  there  is  any  breach  of  the  terms  of  creation  of  the 
security. This information shall be shared on half yearly basis.  

2.  Funds  transferred  to   Debenture  Redemption  Reserve(DRR),  depletion 
of  the  DRR/invocation  of  guarantee  which  could  affect  the  payment  of 
debenture obligations. This information shall be shared annually.  

3.  Details of redemption of the issue. 
4.  Any  default  committed  including  the  default  in  payment  of  interest  or 

redemption of debentures or delay in creation of security. 

5.  Any change or restructuring of the terms of the issue.  
6.  Periodic  reports  from  lead  banks  about  the  progress  of  the  project  for 
which  funds  have  been  raised  through  debentures  and  certificate  from 
issuer's auditors in respect of utilization of funds.  

7.  Details  of  grievances  filed  by  debenture-holders  and  action  taken  to 

8.  Non  cooperation  by  the  issuer  with  respect  to  furnishing  required 

resolve them. 

reports/certificates/information. 
 

Information  pertaining  to  points  3  to  8  shall  be  shared  as  and  when 
available. 

 

