¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/ICC/ 8 /2013  

 

 

 

 

                      March 18, 2013 

All Stock Exchanges having nation-wide trading terminals 

Dear Madam/Sir, 

Sub: Arbitration Mechanism through Stock Exchanges - Introduction of Automatic 
Process and Common Pool of arbitrators. 

SEBI  has  received  inputs  from  investors  regarding  functioning  of  the  arbitration 
mechanism at the Stock Exchanges. In light of which, you are advised to carry out the 
following changes in the arbitration mechanism. 

1.  List  of  Arbitrators  on  the  panel  of  all  stock  exchanges  having  nation-wide  trading 
terminals shall be pooled and will be called a 'Common Pool'. This list shall be made 
publicly available including by way of display on websites of the stock exchanges. 

2.  'Common pool' of Arbitrators will consist of Arbitrators listed on the panels of all stock 
exchanges  having  nation-wide  trading  terminals.  The  pooling  of  arbitrators  will  be 
done  centre-wise.  To  illustrate,  the  list  of  arbitrators  on  the  panel  of  all  stock 
exchanges  for  the  region  covered  by  the  Delhi  centre  will  be  pooled.  This  would 
enable an applicant from the region to choose any arbitrator from the 'Common Pool' 
for Delhi.  

If the client and member (stock broker, trading member or clearing member) fail to 
choose the Arbitrator(s) from the Common Pool, the Arbitrator(s) will be chosen by 
an  'Automatic  Process'  wherein  neither  the  parties  to  arbitration  (i.e.  client  or 
member) nor the concerned Stock Exchanges will be directly involved. 

3.  The  'Automatic  Process'  will  entail  a  randomized,  computer  generated  selection  of 
Arbitrator,  from  the  list  of  Arbitrators  in  the  'Common  Pool'.  The  selection  process 
shall  be  in  chronological  order  of  the  receipt  of  arbitration  reference  i.e.  only  after 
selecting an arbitrator for the former arbitration reference received, selection for the 
latter shall be taken up.  

4.  The  'Automatic  Process'  will  send  a  system  generated,  real  time  alert  (sms,  email 
etc.) to all entities involved in the particular case. Further, the communication for the 
appointment of the Arbitrator will be sent immediately and in any case not later than 
the next working day from the day of picking  of the Arbitrator. This  communication 

will  be  sent  by  the  stock  exchange  on  which  the  dispute  had  taken  place,  to  all 
concerned entities including clients, arbitrators, members, stock exchanges etc.  

5.  The selection of Arbitrators by Stock Exchanges as done currently, shall henceforth 

be replaced by the 'Automatic Process'.   

6.  In case of any probable conflict of interest in an arbitration reference being assigned 
to any Arbitrator the Arbitrator will have to upfront decline the arbitration reference. 
After  the  said  arbitrator  declines,  the  'automatic  process'  will  pick  the  name  of 
another Arbitrator. This will continue till the time there is no conflict of interest, by the 
selected  arbitrator.  In  this  regard,  the  timelines  mentioned  at  clause  5.3  in 
CIR/MRD/DSA/24/2010  dated  August  11,  2010  of  30  days  might  get  extended. 
However, SEs shall put on record the reasons of such extension. 

7.  In case of conflict of interest by the arbitrator, the information for the same may reach 
the stock exchange on which the dispute has taken place within 15 days of receipt of 
communication from the SE above. The said information may be sent by any method 
which ensures proof of delivery.  

8.  Fees of arbitrator shall be dealt in line with existing provisions, by the stock exchange 

on which the dispute had taken place. 

9.  The  recognised  stock  exchanges  with  nation-wide  trading  terminals  are  advised  to 
make  necessary  amendments  to  relevant  bye-laws  for  the  implementation  of  the 
above decision immediately. 

10. SEBI inspection of stock exchanges shall cover implementation of this circular. 

11. The  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  upon  SEBI  under 

Section 11(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

12. This  circular 

issued 

is  being 

in  partial  modification  of  SEBI  Circular  No. 
CIR/MRD/DSA/24/2010  dated  August  11,  2010  and  will  come  into  effect  from  1st 
April 2013.   

13. The  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
B K Gupta 
Deputy General Manager  

022-26449218. 
bhartendrakg@sebi.gov.in 

