¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

         June 5, 2013 

 
CIR/CFD/DIL/9/2013 
 
 
To, 
All the Stock Exchanges 
 
 
Dear Madam / Sir, 
 
Sub.: Clarification on SEBI's Circular dated August 13, 2012 providing for the 

 

"Manner of Dealing with Audit Reports filed by Listed Companies" 

 

1.  SEBI  has,  vide  circular  dated  August  13,  2012  providing  for  the  "Manner  of 
Dealing  with  Audit  Reports  filed  by  Listed  companies",  mandated  listed 
companies to submit either Form A (Unqualified/ Matter of Emphasis Report) 
or  Form  B  (Qualified/  Subject  To/  Except  For  Audit  Report)  along  with  the 
Annual Report to the Stock Exchanges. It is also envisaged that the qualified 
audit reports will be scrutinized by Qualified Audit Review Committee (QARC) 
and if necessary, the company will be required to restate its books of accounts 
to provide true and fair view of its financial position. 
 

3. 

2.  SEBI  is  in  receipt  of  various  queries  with  regard  to  restatement  of  books  of 
accounts of listed companies envisaged in the captioned circular. The primary 
concern raised is whether the restatement of books of accounts needs to be 
carried out in the same financial year or in the subsequent financial year as a 
prior period item. 
 
In order to address the aforesaid concern, it is clarified that the restatement of 
books of accounts indicated in Paragraph 5 of the said circular shall mean that 
the company is required to disclose the effect of revised financial accounts by 
way  of  revised  pro-forma  financial  results  immediately  to  the  shareholders 
through Stock Exchange(s). However, the financial effects of the revision may 
be  carried  out  in  the  annual  accounts  of  the  subsequent  financial  year  as  a 
prior period item so that the tax impacts, if any, can be taken care of. 

 

4.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section  11 
read  with  Section  11A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act, 
1992.  
 

 

Page 1 of 2 

5.  All Stock Exchanges are advised to ensure compliance with this circular.  

 

6.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Legal Framework” and "Issues and Listing". 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Harini Balaji 
 
Deputy General Manager 
+91-22-26449372 
harinib@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 2 

