¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã ‚ããõÀ ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/IMD/DF/12/2013 
August 07, 2013 

To 
All Alternative Investment Funds 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 

Sub: Application for change in category of the Alternative Investment Fund 

1.  SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 (“AIF Regulations”) were 

notified on May 21, 2012.  

Regulation 7(2) of AIF Regulations specifies as under: 

"An  Alternative  Investment  Fund  which  has  been  granted  registration  under  a 
particular category cannot change its category subsequent to registration, except 
with the approval of the Board." 

2.  In this regard, it is specified as under: 

2.1 Only  AIFs  who  have  not  made  any  investments  under  the  category  in 
which they were registered earlier shall be allowed to make application for 
change in category.  

2.2 Any  AIF  proposing  to  change  its  category  shall  make  an  application  to 
SEBI  for  the  same  along  with  application  fees  of  Rs.  1  lakh.  The 
application shall include the updated Form A (Refer First Schedule to the 
AIF  Regulations),  other  updated  supporting  documents,  if  any  and 
rationale  for  the  proposed  change.  Registration  fees  shall  not  apply  for 
such applications. 

2.3 If the AIF has received commitments/ raised funds prior to application for 
change in category, the AIF shall be required to send letters/emails to all 
its  investors  providing  them  the  option  to  withdraw  their  commitments/ 
funds  raised  without  any  penalties/charges.  Any  fees  collected  from 
investors  seeking  to  withdraw  commitments/  funds  shall  be  returned  to 
them.  Partial  withdrawal  may  be  allowed  subject  to  compliance  with  the 
minimum investment amount required under the AIF Regulations.  

2.4 The AIF shall not make any investments other than in liquid funds/ banks 

deposits until approval for change in category is granted by SEBI.  

2.5 On approval of the request from SEBI, the AIF shall send a copy of the 
revised placement memorandum and other relevant information to all its 
investors.  

3.  This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 
 

4.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Alternative Investment Funds”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Barnali Mukherjee 
General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9660 
Email id - barnalim@sebi.gov.in 
 

