¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DP/24/2013 

 

 

 

 

              August 19, 2013 

To, 

All Stock Exchanges. 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Subject: Testing of software used in or related to Trading and Risk 

Management 

 
SEBI  vide  circular  SEBI/MRD/Policy/SE/15864/2003  dated  August  21, 
2003  advised  stock  exchanges  to  obtain  an  undertaking  in  the  form  of  an 
affidavit from the members of  the stock exchange stating that the members as 
well  as  their  sub-brokers  are  using  only  authorized  software.  In  this  regard, 
stock exchanges have provided testing facilities to their stock brokers / trading 
members to facilitate testing of the software.  

2.  Further,  vide  various  circulars  issued  by  SEBI  on  Internet  Based  Trading 
(IBT),  Direct  Market  Access  (DMA),  Securities  Trading  using  Wireless 
Technology (STWT), Smart Order Routing (SOR) and Algorithmic Trading (AT), 
stock  exchanges  have  been  directed  to  ensure  that  various  requirements 
specified 
to  systems, 
operations,  testing,  etc.,  are  implemented  and  the  systems  of  stock  broker  / 
trading member facilitate orderly trading and integrity of the securities market. 

including  requirements  related 

in  such  circulars, 

3.  Various incidents of malfunctioning of software used by market participants 
have been observed in Indian as well as foreign securities market in the recent 
past.  Such  incidents  have  emphasized  the  need  for  a  stringent  and  thorough 
testing of software before  its introduction in the securities market. This applies 
equally to any subsequent changes to the software used by the stock brokers / 
trading members. 

4.  SEBI  has  engaged  in  a  consultative  process  with  the  stock  exchanges, 
software  vendors,  system  auditors  and  the  Technical  Advisory  Committee 
(TAC) to streamline and strengthen the process of testing of software. Based on 
the recommendations of TAC, it has been decided that market participants shall 
follow  the  testing  procedure  specified  hereinafter  before  deployment  of  the 
software.  

Page 1 of 6 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
5.  For  the  purpose  of  the  circular,  the  term  ‘software’  shall  mean  electronic 
systems or applications used by stock brokers / trading members for connecting 
to  the  stock  exchanges  and  for  the  purposes  of  trading  and  real-time  risk 
management, including software used for IBT, DMA, STWT, SOR, AT, etc.  

6.  Testing of Software 

6.1. 
In  addition  to  the  testing  and  approval  requirements  specified 
through  various  circulars  issued  by  SEBI  on  IBT,  DMA,  STWT, SOR  and 
AT, stock exchanges shall frame appropriate testing policies for functional 
as  well  as  technical  testing  of  the  software.  Such  framework  shall  at  the 
minimum include the following: 

(i)  Testing  in  a  simulated  test  environment:  Stock  exchanges  shall 
provide  suitable  facilities  to  market  participants  /  software  vendors  to 
test  new  software  or  existing  software  that  have  undergone  change. 
Subjecting the new software or existing software that have undergone 
change  to  such  testing  facility  shall  be  mandatory  for  market 
participants, before putting it in use.  

(ii)  Mock testing 

(a) 
Stock  exchanges  shall  organize  mock  trading  sessions  on 
regular basis, atleast once in a calendar month, to facilitate testing of 
new  software  or  existing  software  that  has undergone  any  change of 
functionality,  in  a  close-to-real  trading  environment.  Stock  exchanges 
shall  suitably  design  and  plan  such  mock  trading  sessions  to  ensure 
maximum participation and sufficient trading volumes for the purpose 
of testing. 

Stock  exchanges  shall  mandate  a  minimum  time  period  for 

(b) 
such testing in the mock trading sessions.   

(c) 
In order to improve the efficacy of the mock trading sessions, all 
stock  brokers  /  trading  members  shall  ensure  that  all  user-ids 
approved  for  Algo  trading,  irrespective  of  the  algorithm  having 
undergone  change  or  not,  shall  participate  in  the  mock  trading 
sessions.  

(d) 
User  Acceptance  Test  (UAT):  The  stock  broker  /  trading 
member  shall  undertake  UAT  of  the  software  to  satisfy  itself  that  the 
newly developed / modified software meets its requirements.  

6.2.  Stock brokers / trading members shall also engage system auditor(s) 
to examine reports of mock tests and UAT in order to certify that the tests 
were satisfactorily undertaken.  

Page 2 of 6 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

6.3.  Stock exchanges shall monitor compliance of stock brokers / trading 
members,  who  use  trading  algorithm,  with  regard  to  the  requirement  of 
participation  in  mock  trading  session  as  mandated  with  this  circular.  In 
cases where stock exchanges find that the stock broker / trading member 
has  failed  to  participate  in  such  mock  trading  sessions,  stock  exchange 
shall  call  for  reasons  and  if  found  unsatisfactory,  shall  suspend  the 
proprietary  trading  rights  of  the  stock  broker  /  trading  member  for  a 
minimum period of one trading day. 

6.4.  Stock exchanges shall also ensure that the system auditors examine 
the  compliance  of  stock  broker  /  trading  member,  who  use  trading 
algorithms, with regard to the requirement of participation in mock trading 
session, as mandated with this circular, and provide suitable comments in 
the  periodic  system  audit  report.  In  cases  where  the  system  audit  report 
indicate that the stock broker / trading member has failed to participate in 
such mock trading sessions, stock exchange shall call for reasons from the 
stock  broker  /  trading  member  and  if  found  unsatisfactory,  shall  suspend 
the  proprietary  trading  rights  of  the  stock  broker  /  trading  member  for  a 
minimum period of one trading day. 

6.5.  For  pre-approval  /  periodic  system  audit  of  Computer-to-Computer 
Link  (CTCL)  or  Intermediate  Messaging  Layer  (IML),  IBT,  DMA,  STWT, 
SOR  and  AT,  stock  brokers  /  trading  members  shall  engage  a  system 
auditor  with  any  of  the  certifications  specified  vide  SEBI  circular  dated 
CIR/MRD/DP/16/2013  dated  May  21,  2013.  While  finalizing  the  system 
auditor,  stock  brokers  /  trading  members  shall  ensure  the  system  auditor 
does  not  have  any  conflict  of  interest  with  the  stock  broker  and  the 
directors  /  promoters  of  the  system  auditor  are  not  directly  or  indirectly 
related  to  the  current  directors  or  promoters  of  stock  broker  /  trading 
member. 

7.  Approval of Software of stock broker / trading member 

7.1.  Stock  brokers  /  trading  members  shall  seek  approval  of  the 
respective  stock  exchanges  for  deployment  of  the  software  in  the 
securities  market  by  submitting  necessary  details  required  by  stock 
exchange  including  details  of  software,  tests  undertaken  and  certificate  / 
report  provided  by  the  system  auditor.  Stock  exchange  may  seek 
additional  details  as  deemed  necessary  for  evaluating  the  application  of 
the stock broker / trading member.  

7.2.  Stock exchanges shall grant approval or reject the application of the 
stock  broker  as  the  case  may  be,  and  communicate  the  decision  to  the 
stock broker / trading member within fifteen working days from the date of 
receipt  of  completed  application  (or  within  any  other  such  time  period 

Page 3 of 6 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

specified vide SEBI circulars on DMA, IBT, STWT, SOR, AT, etc.). In case 
of rejection of the application, the stock exchange shall also communicate 
reasons of rejection to the stock broker / trading member within such time 
period. 

7.3.  Before granting approval to use software in securities market, stock 
exchange  shall  ensure  that  the  requirements  specified  by  SEBI  /  stock 
exchange  with  regard  to  software  are  met  by  the  stock  broker  /  trading 
member.  

8.  Undertaking to be provided by stock brokers / trading members 

8.1.  Stock brokers / trading members shall submit an undertaking to the 
respective stock exchanges stating the following at the minimum: 

(name  of  the  stock  broker  /  trading  member)

(i)  M/s   
      will  take  all 
necessary steps to ensure that every new software and any change 
thereupon  to  the  trading  and/or  risk  management  functionalities  of 
the software will be tested as per the framework prescribed by SEBI 
/ stock exchange before deployment of such new / modified software 
in securities market.  

(name  of  the stock broker /  trading member)

(ii)  M/s  
   will ensure that 
approval  of  the  stock  exchange  is  sought  for  all  new  /  modified 
software  and  will  comply  with  various  requirements  specified  by 
SEBI or the stock exchange from time to time with regard to usage, 
testing and audit of the software. 

(iii)  The  absolute  liability  arising  from  failure  to  comply  with  the 
(name of the stock broker / 
above provisions shall lie entirely with  M/s  
trading member)

  . 

8.2.  Stock  exchanges  may  include  additional  clauses  as  deemed 
necessary in the undertaking. 

9.  Sharing  of  Application  Programming  Interface  (API)  specifications  by  the 
stock exchange with stock brokers / trading members 

9.1.  API  is  an  interface  that  enables  interaction  of  software  with  other 
software and typically includes language and message format that is used 
by  an  application  program  to  communicate  with  the  operating  system  or 
other application program. Stock  brokers / trading members and  software 
vendors  require  relevant  API  specifications  to  facilitate  interaction  of  the 
developed software with the systems of the stock exchanges.  

Page 4 of 6 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

9.2.  Technical  Advisory  Committee  (TAC)  had  engaged  with  stock 
exchanges,  software  vendors  and  stock  brokers  /  trading  members  to 
review the framework of sharing of APIs by stock exchanges.  

9.3.  Based on the recommendations of the committee,  it is decided that 
stock  exchanges  shall  provide  relevant  API  specifications  to  all  stock 
brokers  /  trading  members  and  software  vendors  who  are  desirous  of 
developing  software  for  the  securities  market,  after  establishing  their 
respective credentials.  

9.4. 
In  case  of  refusal  to  share  APIs,  stock  exchanges  shall  provide 
reasons  in  writing  to  the  desirous  stock  brokers  /  trading  members  or 
software  vendors  within  a  period  of  fifteen  working  days  from  the  date  of 
receipt of such request for sharing of API. 

9.5.  Further,  stock  exchanges  shall  not  selectively  release  updates  / 
modifications, if any, of the existing API specifications to few stock brokers 
/ trading members or software vendors ahead of others and shall provide 
such  updated  /  modified  API  specifications  to  all  stock  brokers  /  trading 
members  and  software  vendors  with  whom  the  earlier  API  specifications 
were shared.  

10.  Penalty on malfunction of software used by stock broker / trading member: 
Stock exchanges shall examine the cases of malfunctioning of software used by 
stock brokers / trading members and apply  deterrent penalties in form of fines 
or  suspension  to 
trading  member  whose  software 
malfunctioned.  In  addition,  stock  brokers  /  trading  members  shall  implement 
various mechanisms including the following to minimize their losses in the event 
of software malfunction: 

the  stock  broker 

/ 

10.1.  include suitable clauses in their agreement with the software vendors 
to define liabilities of software vendor and stock broker / trading member in 
case of software malfunction, and / or,  

10.2.  consider taking  suitable insurance cover to meet probable losses in 
case of software malfunction.  

11.  This circular shall be effective from October 01, 2013 and shall supersede 
circular  no.  SEBI/MRD/Policy/SE/15864/2003  dated  August  21,  2003.  Stock 
exchanges are directed to: 

11.1.  take  necessary  steps  and  put  in  place  necessary  systems  for 
implementation of the provisions of this circular. 

11.2.  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations for the implementation of the above decision. 

Page 5 of 6 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

11.3.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers / 
trading members and also disseminate the same on their website. 

12.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 
11  (1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the 
interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 
regulate the securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Maninder Cheema 
Deputy General Manager 
email:  maninderc@sebi.gov.in 

Page 6 of 6 

