 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

                                                    August 28, 2013 

 
CIR/MIRSD/6/2013     
 
To 
All Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) registered with SEBI 
 
Sub:  Guidelines  for  dealing   with  Conflict  of  Interest  for  investment/  trading  by 
CRAs, Access Persons and other employees  
 
1. 

SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999 (hereinafter referred to as "the 
Regulations")  and  SEBI  circular  dated  May  3,  2010  require  every  CRA  to 
formulate the policies and internal code for dealing with the conflict of interest.   
 
Applicability  
(i)  These Guidelines shall be applicable in case of  investment / trading by CRAs 
and  Access  Persons  connected  to  CRAs  and  in  case  of  disclosures  to  all 
employees of CRAs.  

2. 

 

Explanation:  "Access  Persons"  means  officials  of  CRA  appointed  as  Chief 
Executive  or  by  any  other  designation  (such  as  CEO/MD/President  or  by 
whatever  name  called  who  are  performing  functions  similar  to  those  of  the 
Chief  Executive),  the  employees  of  CRA  doing  the  function  of  analyst,  or 
compliance, or heads of the departments  or divisions or any other employee 
as decided by CRA and the members of the Rating Committee of the CRA.  

 
(ii) These  guidelines  shall  cover  transactions  for  purchase  or  sale  of  securities 
either individually or jointly or in the name of their dependents or as a member 
of HUF.  

 

3.  With a view to adopt best industry practices and systems by CRAs for  managing  
conflict of interest in case of investment/ trading in securities (except schemes of 
Mutual Funds) done by CRAs or their Access Persons as defined hereunder, the 
following guidelines, framed in consultation with CRAs are laid down: 

 
a.  CRAs shall adopt adequate systems, procedures and policies to ensure that they 

address conflict of interest while  making their own investments in securities.  
 

b.  The CRAs, their employees and  Access Persons shall not take undue advantage 

of any price sensitive information that they may have about any company.  
 

c.  Access Persons to seek prior approval  for  transactions 

i.  An Access Person shall apply to the Compliance Officer for prior approval of 
transactions  for  purchase  or  sale  of  securities  of  the  companies  which  have 
been rated or graded by the CRA or whose securities / instruments /facilities 
have been rated or graded by the CRA.  
 

Page 1 of 2 

 

ii.  The  Compliance Officer of the  CRA  shall  apply  to  the  Chief  Executive  of  the 

CRA for  such prior approval. 

 

iii.  The  CEO/Compliance  Officer  shall  ensure  that  there  is  no  conflict  of  interest 

while considering the request for prior approval. 

 

iv.  Such approvals, if granted, shall be valid for 7 working days from the date of 

approval.  

 

d.  Disclosures  

i.  Any person, who becomes an employee of the CRA, shall submit a statement 
of holding of all securities in respect of persons mentioned at 2(ii) above to the 
Compliance officer or Chief  Executive, as the case may be, within 7 working 
days of joining CRA.  
 

ii.  All employees of CRA including the Access Persons shall submit the following 

details to the CEO/Compliance Officer, as the case may be: 
a.  Details of purchase or sale transactions effected within 7 working days from 

the date of transaction.  
 

b.  A consolidated  statement of holding of all securities within 30 working days 

from the end of the Financial Year.   
 

iii.  The  members  of  the  Rating  Committee  shall  upfront  declare  /  disclose  their 
interest, if any, to the Chief Executive Officer or Compliance Officer, as per the 
policy of the CRA,  in the  securities /instruments/ facilities that are considered 
for rating / grading  by the CRA.  

 

e.  Restrictions on employees holding ownership of securities of the issuer.  

A CRA shall ensure that employees involved in the rating / grading process shall 
not have ownership of the securities of the issuer. 

4. 

 

5. 

6. 

 

The CRAs shall devise their policies and procedures for effective implementation 
of  these  guidelines    by  October  01,  2013.  The  policies  adopted  by  them  in  this 
regard shall be disclosed on their websites. 

This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  Regulation  17  of 
SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  Regulations,  1999  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 
 
This circular is available on SEBI website (www.sebi.gov.in) under the categories 
“Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Asha Shetty 
Deputy General Manager 
+91-22-2644 9258 
ashas@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

