 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

                                                            August 27, 2013  

CIR/MIRSD/5/2013   
 
To 
 
Registered Intermediaries 
Recognised Stock Exchanges 
Recognised Clearing Corporations 
Depositories 
 
Sir/ Madam, 
 
Sub:  General  Guidelines  for  dealing  with  Conflicts  of  Interest  of  Intermediaries, 
Recognised Stock Exchanges, Recognised Clearing  Corporations, Depositories 
and their Associated Persons in Securities Market.  

 

1.  All  intermediaries,  recognised  stock  exchanges,  recognised  clearing  corporations 
and depositories (hereinafter collectively referred to as "such entities") are presently 
governed by the provisions for avoidance of conflict of interest as mandated in the 
respective regulations read with relevant circulars issued from time to time by SEBI. 
On  the  lines  of  Principle  8  of  the  International  Organisation  of  Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) Objectives and Principles of Securities Regulations, it has 
been decided to put in place comprehensive  guidelines to collectively cover such 
entities and their associated persons, for elimination of their conflict of interest, as 
detailed hereunder. 
 

2.  Such  entities  shall  adhere  to  these  guidelines  for  avoiding  or  dealing  with  or 
managing  conflict  of  interest.  They  shall  be  responsible  for  educating  their 
associated persons for compliance of these guidelines.  

Page 1 of 4 

 

 

3.  For the purpose of these guidelines "intermediaries" and "associated persons" have 
the  same  meaning  as  defined  in  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Certification of Associated Persons in the Securities Markets) Regulations, 2007. 

 
4.  Such entities  and their associated persons shall, 

i.  lay  down,  with  active  involvement  of  senior  management,  policies  and  internal 
procedures to identify and avoid or to deal or manage actual or potential conflict 
of  interest,  develop  an  internal  code  of  conduct  governing  operations  and 
formulate standards of appropriate conduct in the performance of their activities, 
and ensure to communicate such policies, procedures and code to all concerned; 
 

ii.  at all times maintain high standards of integrity in the conduct of their business; 

 

iii.  ensure fair treatment of their clients and not discriminate amongst them; 

 

iv.  ensure that their personal interest does not,  at any time conflict with their duty to 
their clients and client’s interest always takes primacy in their advice, investment 
decisions and transactions;  

 

v.  make appropriate disclosure to the clients of possible source or potential areas of 
conflict  of  interest  which  would  impair  their  ability  to  render  fair,  objective  and 
unbiased services;  

 

vi.  endeavor to reduce opportunities for conflict through prescriptive measures such 
as through information barriers to block or hinder the flow of information from one 
department/ unit to another, etc.; 
 

vii.  place  appropriate  restrictions  on  transactions  in  securities  while  handling  a 
mandate of issuer or client in respect of such security so as to avoid any conflict; 

Page 2 of 4 

 

viii.  not deal in securities while in possession of material non published  information; 

 

ix.  not    to  communicate    the  material  non  published    information  while  dealing  in 

securities on behalf of others;  

 

x.  not in any way contribute to manipulate the demand for or supply of securities in 

the market or to influence prices of securities; 

 

xi.  not have an incentive structure that encourages sale of products not suiting the 

risk profile of their clients; 

 

xii.  not share information received from clients or pertaining to them, obtained as a 

result of their dealings, for their personal interest;   

 

5.  The  Boards  of  such  entities  shall  put  in  place  systems  for  implementation  of  this 
circular  and  provide  necessary  guidance  enabling  identification,  elimination  or 
management  of  conflict  of  interest  situations.  The  Boards  shall  review  the 
compliance of this circular periodically. 
 

6.  Such  entities  shall  conduct  assessment  of  their  existing  policies  on  conflict  of 
interest  in  a  time  bound  manner,  not  later  than  6  months  from  the  date  of  this 
circular and bring them in line with the requirements of these guidelines.  

 

7.  The  said  guidelines  shall  be  in  addition  to  the  provisions,  if  any,  contained  in 
respective  regulations/  circulars  issued  by  the  Board  from  time  to  time  regarding 
dealing with conflict of interest, in respect of such entities.  
 

8.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Sections  11  of  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 

Page 3 of 4 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market.   

 

9.  This circular is available on SEBI website (www.sebi.gov.in) under the categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Ruchi Chojer 
General Manager 
Phone No. 022-26449310 
Email id: ruchic@sebi.gov.in

Page 4 of 4 

