 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
 
 
 
CIR/MRD/DP/ 27 /2013                                                                           September 12, 2013 

To  
 
All Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations  
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 
Sub: Risk Management Framework for Dedicated Debt Segment on Stock Exchanges. 

 

 

1.  With an objective to develop debt markets and encourage transition of trading in debt 
instruments  from  OTC  markets  to  stock  exchanges,  SEBI  issued  Guidelines  for 
providing  dedicated  Debt  Segment  on  Stock  Exchanges  vide  circular  no 
CIR/MRD/DP/03/2013    dated  January  24,  2013.  Pursuant  to  these  Guidelines,  the 
stock exchanges have been given approval to launch the Debt Segment.  
 

2.  Subsequent  to  introduction  of  Debt  Segment  on  stock  exchanges, market feedback 
has  been  received  on  various  issues  including  need  for  DVP-3  settlement  in 
corporate  bond  trades. For  enabling  settlement on  DVP-3  basis  in  corporate  bonds 
trades,  implementation  of  appropriate  risk  management  framework  is  necessary. 
Stock  exchanges  have  submitted  proposals  for  risk  management  framework  and 
these  were  discussed  in  Secondary  Market  Advisory  Committee.  Based  on 
discussions, it has been decided that the risk management framework for corporate 
bond trades shall be as specified herein.  
 

3.  Feedback from market participants and stock exchanges also pointed towards  need 
for  further  clarity/  amendments  to  certain  provisions  of  SEBI  circular  dated  January 
24, 2013. Hence, such provisions are being amended as specified hereunder. 
 

4.  The term "corporate bonds" in this circular refers to debt securities as defined in the 

SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008. 
 

5.  Institutional  Market:  In  the  circular  dated  January  24,  2013,  it  was  specified  that 
institutional market of debt segment shall be the market for  non-publicly-issued debt 
instruments  with  a  market  lot  size  of  minimum  Rs  1  crore.  It  is  clarified  that 
institutional market  shall  provide for  trading  in  both  publicly  issued  and  non-publicly 
(privately)  issued  debt  instruments  with  a  market  lot  size  of  minimum  Rupees  one 
crore.  For  trading  in  smaller  lot  sizes  of  minimum  rupees  ten  lakhs  in  respect  of 
privately  issued  debt  instruments  in  the  institutional  market,  a  separate  odd  lot 
window may be provided.  
 
 

 

1 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

6.  Clearing and Settlement 

 

6.1 Settlement  Cycle:  The  trades  settled  on  DVP-3  basis  in  debt  segment  shall  have 
settlement cycle of T+1 . In case of trades settled on DVP-1 basis, Stock exchanges 
shall have flexibility to settle trades on T+0 or T+1.  

 

6.2 Settlement Basis: 

 

6.2.1 Retail  Market:  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  continue  to  settle  trades  on  DVP-3 

basis in retail market of debt segment for publically issued corporate bonds. 
 

6.2.2 Institutional  market:  The  Stock  exchanges  may  provide  settlement  on  DVP-3 
basis for publicly issued corporate bonds and for such privately placed corporate 
bonds  which  meet  certain  selection/eligibility  criteria  to  be  specified  by  the 
exchanges.  
 

6.2.2.1  The minimum selection/eligibility criteria for privately issued corporate bonds 

to be eligible for DVP-3 settlement shall include the following:  

 
(a)  The  corporate  bonds  shall  have  a  minimum  rating  of  AA+  (or  similar 

nomenclature). 
 

(b)  The yield spread of corporate bonds over similar residual tenure government 

securities shall not exceed 150 basis points.  
 

(c)  New corporate bonds listed during the month shall also be eligible for DVP-3 
settlement if they meet the rating and yield spread criteria stated at (a) and 
(b) above. 
 

(d)  In  case  of  existing  corporate  bonds,  only  liquid  bonds  shall  be  permitted. 
The  stock  exchanges  may  consider  one  or  more  following  factors  while 
defining liquid bonds- 

 

(i)  Bonds  to  have  traded  for  at  least  5  trading  days  in  every  month          

( including  both exchange trades and reported trades) ; 

(ii)  Bonds  to    have  minimum  trading  volumes  of  Rs  25  crores  in  every 

month ( including  both exchange trades and reported trades)  
 

6.2.2.2  The  list  of  eligible  bonds  may  be  reviewed  on  monthly  basis  and  made 

applicable from 15th of subsequent month.  
 

6.2.2.3  In  all  other  cases,  privately  issued  corporate  bonds  shall  continue  to 

settle on DVP-1 basis. 

 
 
 

2 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

7.  Risk Management:  

 

7.1 The  Clearing  Corporation  shall  provide  settlement  guarantee  for  trades  settled  on 
DVP-3  basis.  For  this  purpose,  the  Clearing  Corporation  shall  create  a  Settlement 
Guarantee Fund on similar lines as in other segments.  
 

7.2 For the purpose of risk management in respect of trades settled on DVP-3 basis, the 

Clearing Corporation shall impose the following margins: 

 

7.2.1 

Initial  Margin  (IM):  Initial  margin  shall  be  based  on  a  worst    case  loss  of  a 
portfolio of an individual client  across various scenarios of price changes so 
as to cover a 99% VaR over one day horizon.  
 

7.2.1.1.  The minimum initial margin  shall be 2% for residual maturity up to three 
years, 2.5% for residual maturity above three years and up to five years; 
and 3% for maturity above five years. The margin shall be calculated as 
percentage of traded price of the bond expressed in terms of clean price 
i.e. without taking accrued interest into account. 
  

7.2.1.2.  Stock  Exchanges may  follow  a  VaR  estimation  model  similar  to  Interest 
Rate  Futures  as  prescribed  in  SEBI  circular  SEBI/DNPD/Cir-46/2009 
dated August 28, 2009.  

 

7.2.1.3.  The Initial Margin shall be deducted upfront from the liquid assets of the 

member taking into account gross open positions.  

 

7.2.2  Extreme  Loss  Margin  (ELM):  The  ELM  shall  cover  the  expected  loss  in 
situations  that  go  beyond  those  envisaged  in  risk  estimates  used  in  the  initial 
margins.  The  ELM  for  any  bond  shall  be  2%  of the  traded  price  expressed  in 
terms of clean price. It would be deducted upfront from the total liquid assets of 
the member. 
 

7.3   Liquid  Assets:  The  liquid  assets  for  meeting  margin  requirements  may  be   

deposited in the following form: 

(a)  At  least  50%  in  cash  or  cash  equivalents  i.e.  government  securities,  bank 
guarantee,  fixed  deposits  or  units  of  liquid  mutual  funds  or  government 
securities mutual funds; 

(b)  Not more than 50% in the form of corporate bonds / liquid equity shares/ mutual 
fund  units  other  than  units  of  liquid  mutual  funds  or  government  securities 
mutual funds;  

as  specified  in  SEBI  circular  No.  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-07/2005  dated  February  23,  
2005. 

 

8.  Auction/financial  close-out:  In  case  of  shortages,  stock  exchanges  may  conduct 
auction  and/or  financial  close-out  with  a  mark  up  of  4%  on  traded  price  of  such 
corporate bonds. 

3 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

9.  Reporting:  The  reporting  platform  made  available  by  stock  exchanges  under  the 
earlier SEBI circulars shall be merged with the negotiated window or facility for RFQ 
or  other  such  similar  facility  provided  by  debt  segment  of  exchanges  for  enabling 
reporting  of  OTC  trades  or  facilitating  OTC  trades.  This  platform  shall  be  available 
for reporting of trades by both members and non-members.  
 

10. This  circular  is  in  partial  modification  of  earlier  circular  no  CIR/MRD/DP/03/2013 

dated January 24, 2013 on debt segment. 
 

11. The stock exchanges and clearing corporations are directed to: 

(i) 

take  necessary  steps  and  put  in  place  necessary  systems  for  implementation  of 
the above. 

 

 

(ii)  make  necessary  amendments  to  the relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations for 

the implementation of the above decision. 

 

(iii)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers/  trading 

members and clearing members and also disseminate the same on their website. 

12. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
  
Maninder Cheema  
Deputy General Manager  
Email: maninderc@sebi.gov.in 

 

4 

