¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 
 

 

                  September 04, 2013 

 
 

 

CIR/MRD/DRMNP/26/2013       

 
To  
 
All Clearing Corporations and Depositories. 
 
Sir / Madam, 
 

Background  
 

Sub: Principles of Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMIs) 

for  Systemically 

1.  To  promote  and  sustain  an  efficient  and  robust  global  financial  infrastructure, 
the  Committee  on  Payments  and  Settlement  Systems  (CPSS)  and  the 
International  Organization  of  Securities  Commissions  (IOSCO)  published  the 
Principles  for  financial  market  infrastructures1  (PFMIs)  on  April  2012.  They 
replace  the  three  existing  sets  of  international  standards  set  out  in  the Core 
Important  Payment  Systems (CPSIPS); 
Principles 
for  Securities  Settlement  Systems (RSSS);  and 
the Recommendations 
the Recommendations  for  Central  Counterparties (RCCP).  CPSS  and  IOSCO 
have  strengthened  and  harmonised  these  three  sets  of  standards  by  raising 
minimum requirements, providing more detailed guidance and broadening the 
scope of the standards to cover new risk-management areas and new types of 
FMIs. 
 

2.  The  PFMIs  comprise  of  24  principles  (Annex  1)  for  Financial  Market 
Infrastructure  to  provide  for  effective  regulation,  supervision  and  oversight  of 
FMIs.  They  are  designed  to  ensure  that  the  infrastructure  supporting  global 
financial markets is robust and well placed to withstand financial shocks. 
 

3.  Full,  timely  and  consistent  implementation  of  the  PFMIs  is  fundamental  to 
ensuring the safety, soundness and efficiency of key FMIs and for supporting 
the  resilience  of  the  global  financial  system.  In  addition,  the  PFMIs  play  an 
important  part  in  the  G20's  mandate  that  all  standardized  over-the-counter 
(OTC)  derivatives  should  be  centrally  cleared.  Global  central  clearing 
requirements  reinforce  the  importance  of  strong  safeguards  and  consistent 
oversight of derivatives CCPs in particular.  

 

Financial Market Infrastructure (FMI) 
 

4.  The Principles apply to systematically important financial market infrastructures 
entities  such  as  Central  Counterparty  (CCP),  Central  Securities  Depository 

                                                            
1 CPSS IOSCO: Principles of Financial Market Infrastructures ‐ April 2012 
http://www.bis.org/publ/cpss101a.pdf 

 

Page 1 of 9 

 

 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(CSD)/ Securities Settlement System (SSS), Payment and Settlement systems, 
and  Trade  Repository  (TR)  which  are  responsible  for  providing  clearing, 
settlement  and  recording  of  monetary  and  other  financial  transactions..  The 
principles are international standards set forth to –  

a. Enhance  safety  and  efficiency  in  payment,  clearing,  settlement,  and 

recording arrangements,  

b. Reduce systemic risk.  
c. Foster transparency and financial stability and 
d. Promote protection of participants and investors. 

 

5.  Financial  Market 

 

Infrastructure  (FMI)  are  critically 

institutions 
responsible  for  providing  clearing,  settlement  and  recording  of  monetary  and 
other  financial  transactions.  The  different  categories  of  FMIs,  as  identified 
under PFMIs, are listed below -  

important 

Payment Systems (PSS) 
 
A  payment  system  is  a  set  of  instruments,  procedures,  and  rules  for  the 
transfer  of  funds  between  or  among  participants.  The  system  includes  the 
participants  and  the  entity  operating  the  arrangement.  Payment  systems  are 
typically  based  on  an  agreement  between  or  among  participants  and  the 
operator  of  the  arrangement,  and  the  transfer  of  funds  is  effected  using  an 
agreed-upon operational infrastructure.  
 
Central Securities Depositories (CSD) 
 
Central securities depository provides securities accounts, central safekeeping 
services, and asset services, which may include the administration of corporate 
actions and redemptions, and plays an important role in helping to ensure the 
integrity of securities issues (that is, ensure that securities are not accidentally 
or fraudulently created or destroyed or their details changed). A CSD can hold 
securities  either  in  physical  form  (but  immobilised)  or  in  dematerialised  form 
(that  is,  they  exist  only  as  electronic  records).  A  CSD  may  maintain  the 
definitive record of legal ownership for a security; in some cases, however, a 
separate securities registrar will serve this notary function. 
 
Securities Settlement Systems (SSS) 
 
A securities settlement system enables securities to be transferred and settled 
by  book  entry  according  to  a  set  of  predetermined  multilateral  rules.  Such 
systems allow transfers of securities either free of payment or against payment. 
When  transfer  is  against  payment,  many  systems  provide  delivery  versus 
payment  (DvP),  where  delivery  of  the  security  occurs  if  and  only  if  payment 
occurs. An SSS may be organised to provide additional securities clearing and 

 

 

Page 2 of 9 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

 

settlement  functions,  such  as  the  confirmation  of  trade  and  settlement 
instructions.  
 
Central Counterparties (CCP) 
 
A  central  counterparty  interposes  itself  between  counterparties  to  contracts 
traded in one or more financial markets, becoming the buyer to every seller and 
the  seller  to  every  buyer  and  thereby  ensuring  the  performance  of  open 
contracts.  A  CCP  becomes  counterparty  to  trades  with  market  participants 
through  novation,  an  open-offer  system,  or  through  an  analogous  legally 
binding arrangement. CCPs  have the potential to significantly reduce  risks to 
participants  through  the  multilateral  netting  of  trades  and  by  imposing  more-
effective risk controls on all participants. For example, CCPs typically require 
participants to provide collateral (in the form of initial margin and other financial 
resources)  to  cover  current  and  potential  future  exposures.  CCPs  may  also 
mutualise  certain  risks  through  devices  such  as  default  funds.  As  a  result  of 
their potential to reduce risks to participants, CCPs also can reduce systemic 
risk in the markets they serve.  
 
Trade Repositories (TR) 
 
A  trade  repository  is  an  entity  that  maintains  a  centralised  electronic  record 
(database) of transaction data. TRs have emerged as a new type of FMI and 
have recently grown in importance, particularly in the OTC derivatives market. 
By  centralising  the  collection,  storage,  and  dissemination  of  data,  a  well-
designed TR that operates with effective risk controls can serve an important 
role  in  enhancing  the  transparency  of  transaction  information  to  relevant 
authorities  and  the  public,  promoting  financial  stability,  and  supporting  the 
detection and prevention of market abuse. An important function of a TR is to 
provide  information  that  supports  risk  reduction,  operational  efficiency  and 
effectiveness, and cost savings for both individual entities and the market as a 
whole. Such entities may include the principals to a trade, their agents, CCPs, 
and other service providers offering complementary services, including central 
settlement of payment obligations, electronic novation and affirmation, portfolio 
compression and reconciliation, and collateral. 
 
Adoption of Principles of Financial Market Infrastructures 
 

6.  All CPSS and IOSCO members are required to strive to adopt the PFMIs and 

implement them in their respective jurisdictions.  
 

7.  SEBI as a member of IOSCO is committed to the adoption and implementation 
of  the  new  CPSS-IOSCO  standards of  PFMIs  in  its  regulatory  functions  of 
oversight,  supervision  and  governance  of 
financial  market 
infrastructures under its purview.  

the  key 

 

Page 3 of 9 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

 

8.  Depositories and Clearing Corporations regulated by SEBI are FMIs in terms of 
the  criteria  described  above.  These  systemically 
financial 
infrastructures  provide  essential  facilities  and  perform  systemically  critical 
functions  in  the  market  and  shall  hence  be  required  to  comply  with  the 
principles  of  financial  market  infrastructures  specified  by  CPSS-IOSCO  as 
applicable to them. The list of SEBI regulated FMIs is provided in Annexure 2. 
 

important 

9.  All FMIs in the securities market shall be monitored and assessed against the 

PFMIs on a periodic basis.  

 
10. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 
(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market. 

11. This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
P K Bindlish 
Chief General Manager 
Market Regulation Department  
pkb@sebi.gov.in  

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 9 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
 

Principles for financial market infrastructures  

Annexure 1 

General organisation  

Principle 1: Legal basis  

An FMI should have a well-founded, clear, transparent, and enforceable legal basis for 
each material aspect of its activities in all relevant jurisdictions.  

Principle 2: Governance  

An  FMI  should  have  governance  arrangements  that  are  clear  and  transparent, 
promote the safety and efficiency of the FMI, and support the stability of the broader 
financial  system,  other  relevant  public  interest  considerations,  and  the  objectives  of 
relevant stakeholders.  

Principle 3: Framework for the comprehensive management of risks  

An  FMI  should  have  a  sound  risk-management  framework  for  comprehensively 
managing legal, credit, liquidity, operational, and other risks.  

Credit and liquidity risk management  

Principle 4: Credit risk  

An  FMI  should  effectively  measure,  monitor,  and  manage  its  credit  exposures  to 
participants  and  those  arising  from  its  payment,  clearing,  and  settlement  processes. 
An  FMI  should  maintain  sufficient  financial  resources  to  cover  its  credit  exposure  to 
each  participant  fully  with  a  high  degree  of  confidence.  In  addition,  a  CCP  that  is 
involved in activities with a more-complex risk profile or that is systemically important 
in  multiple  jurisdictions  should  maintain  additional  financial  resources  sufficient  to 
cover a wide range of potential stress scenarios that should include, but not be limited 
to, the default of the two participants and their affiliates that would potentially cause the 
largest  aggregate  credit  exposure  to  the  CCP  in  extreme  but  plausible  market 
conditions. All other CCPs should maintain additional financial resources sufficient to 
cover a wide range of potential stress scenarios that should include, but not be limited 
to, the default of the participant and its affiliates that would potentially cause the largest 
aggregate credit exposure to the CCP in extreme but plausible market conditions.  

Principle 5: Collateral  

An FMI that requires collateral to manage its or its participants’ credit exposure should 
accept collateral with low credit, liquidity, and market risks. An FMI should also set and 
enforce appropriately conservative haircuts and concentration limits.  

 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 9 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
Principle 6: Margin  

A CCP should cover its credit exposures to its participants for all products through an 
effective margin system that is risk-based and regularly reviewed.  

Principle 7: Liquidity risk  

An  FMI  should  effectively  measure,  monitor,  and  manage  its  liquidity  risk.  An  FMI 
should maintain sufficient liquid resources in all relevant currencies to effect same-day 
and, where appropriate, intraday and multiday settlement of payment obligations with a 
high degree of confidence under a wide range of potential stress scenarios that should 
include, but not be limited to, the default of the participant and its affiliates that would 
generate the largest aggregate liquidity obligation for the FMI in extreme but plausible 
market conditions.  

Settlement  

Principle 8: Settlement finality  

An FMI should provide clear and certain final settlement, at a minimum by the end of 
the value date. Where necessary or preferable, an FMI should provide final settlement 
intraday or in real time.  

Principle 9: Money settlements  

An FMI should conduct its money settlements in central bank money where practical 
and available. If central bank money is not used, an FMI should minimise and strictly 
control the credit and liquidity risk arising from the use of commercial bank money.  

Principle 10: Physical deliveries  

An  FMI  should  clearly  state  its  obligations  with  respect  to  the  delivery  of  physical 
instruments  or  commodities  and  should  identify,  monitor,  and  manage  the  risks 
associated with such physical deliveries.  

Central securities depositories and exchange-of-value settlement systems  

Principle 11: Central securities depositories  

A CSD should have appropriate rules and procedures to help ensure the integrity of 
securities issues and minimise and manage the risks associated with the safekeeping 
and  transfer  of  securities.  A  CSD  should  maintain  securities  in  an  immobilised  or 
dematerialised form for their transfer by book entry.  

Principle 12: Exchange-of-value settlement systems  

If an FMI settles transactions that involve the settlement of two linked obligations (for 
example, securities or foreign exchange transactions), it should eliminate principal risk 
by conditioning the final settlement of one obligation upon the final settlement of the 
other.  

 

 

 

Page 6 of 9 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
Default management  

Principle 13: Participant-default rules and procedures  

An FMI should have effective and clearly defined rules and procedures to manage a 
participant default. These rules and procedures should be designed to ensure that the 
FMI  can  take  timely  action  to  contain  losses  and  liquidity  pressures  and  continue  to 
meet its obligations.  

Principle 14: Segregation and portability  

A CCP should have rules and procedures that enable the segregation and portability of 
positions  of  a  participant’s  customers  and  the  collateral  provided  to  the  CCP  with 
respect to those positions.  

General business and operational risk management  

Principle 15: General business risk  

An  FMI  should  identify,  monitor,  and  manage  its  general  business  risk  and  hold 
sufficient liquid net assets funded by equity to cover potential general business losses 
so  that  it  can  continue  operations  and  services  as  a  going  concern  if  those  losses 
materialise.  Further,  liquid  net  assets  should  at  all  times  be  sufficient  to  ensure  a 
recovery or orderly wind-down of critical operations and services.  

Principle 16: Custody and investment risks  

An FMI should safeguard its own and its participants’ assets and minimise the risk of 
loss  on  and  delay  in  access  to  these  assets.  An  FMI’s  investments  should  be  in 
instruments with minimal credit, market, and liquidity risks.  

Principle 17: Operational risk  

An  FMI  should  identify  the  plausible  sources  of  operational  risk,  both  internal  and 
external,  and  mitigate  their  impact  through  the  use  of  appropriate  systems,  policies, 
procedures,  and  controls.  Systems  should  be  designed  to  ensure  a  high  degree  of 
security  and  operational  reliability  and  should  have  adequate,  scalable  capacity. 
Business  continuity  management  should  aim  for  timely  recovery  of  operations  and 
fulfilment  of  the  FMI’s  obligations,  including  in  the  event  of  a  wide-scale  or  major 
disruption.  

Access  

Principle 18: Access and participation requirements  

An  FMI  should  have  objective,  risk-based,  and  publicly  disclosed  criteria  for 
participation, which permit fair and open access.  

 

 

 

 

Page 7 of 9 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
Principle 19: Tiered participation arrangements  

An FMI should identify, monitor, and manage the material risks to the FMI arising from 
tiered participation arrangements.  

Principle 20: FMI links  

An  FMI  that  establishes  a  link  with  one  or  more  FMIs  should  identify,  monitor,  and 
manage link-related risks.  

Efficiency  

Principle 21: Efficiency and effectiveness  

An FMI should be efficient and effective in meeting the requirements of its participants 
and the markets it serves.  

Principle 22: Communication procedures and standards  

An FMI should use, or at a minimum accommodate, relevant internationally accepted 
communication  procedures  and  standards  in  order  to  facilitate  efficient  payment, 
clearing, settlement, and recording.  

Transparency  

Principle 23: Disclosure of rules, key procedures, and market data  

An  FMI  should  have  clear  and  comprehensive  rules  and  procedures  and  should 
provide sufficient information to enable participants to have an accurate understanding 
of  the risks,  fees,  and other  material  costs they incur by  participating  in  the FMI. All 
relevant rules and key procedures should be publicly disclosed.  

Principle 24: Disclosure of market data by trade repositories  

A TR should provide timely and accurate data to relevant authorities and the public in 
line with their respective needs.  

 

 

Page 8 of 9 

 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Annexure 2 

1.  Clearing Corporations  

a. Indian Clearing Corporation Ltd. (ICCL) 
b. MCX-SX Clearing Corporation Ltd. (MCX-SXCCL) 
c.  National Securities Clearing Corporation Ltd. (NSCCL) 

 

 

 

2.  Depositories  

a. Central Depository Services Ltd. (CDSL) 
b. National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL) 

 

Page 9 of 9 

 

 

