 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

      September 17, 2013 

 
 
 
CIR/CFD/POLICYCELL/10/2013   
 
To 
 
All RecognisedStock Exchanges 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
 
Dear Sir(s)/Madam, 
 
Sub: Formats for filing reports in terms of regulations 15(i) and 20(j) of SEBI (Buy 
Back of Securities) Regulations, 1998. 
 

1.  SEBI (Buy Back of Securities) Regulations, 1998 (hereinafter referred to as “Buy Back 
Regulations”) were amended vide notification dated August 08, 2013 with an objective of 
aligning  the  regulatory  requirements  with  the  changing  market  realities  and  enhancing 
the  efficiency  in  the  Buy  Back  process.  The  amended  regulation  15(i)  of  Buy  Back 
Regulations  requires  companies  to  upload  information  regarding  shares  or  other 
specified securities bought back on its website as may be specified by SEBI and submit 
the same to the respective Stock Exchanges.  
 

2.  Regulation  20(j)  of  Buy  Back  Regulations  mandates  Merchant  Bankers  to  file  a  post-

offer report with SEBI as may be specified by the Board.  
 

3.  The  necessary  formats  to  enable  the  listed  companies  and  the  merchant  bankers  to 
make  disclosures  and  ensure  compliance with  the  extant  regulatory  requirements,  are 
specified in Annexure 1 and 2, respectively.  
 

4.  This Circular shall come into force with immediate effect. 

5.  This Circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred under section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with regulation 26 of the Buy 
Back Regulations as amended. 
 

6.  This  Circular  along  with 

the  Annexure 

is  available  on 

the  SEBI  website  at 

www.sebi.gov.in under the category "Legal framework". 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
Amit Tandon  
Deputy General Manager  
+91-22-26449373  
amitt@sebi.gov.in  

 
Format in terms of regulation 15(i) of Buy Back Regulations 
 
Buy-back  Offer  of  Equity  Shares  or  other  specified  securities  of  [●]  (the  "Buy-
back"), in accordance with the Buy Back Regulations 
 
With  reference  to  the  captioned  subject,  [●],  the  company  hereby  submits  the  daily 
report pursuant to regulation 15 (i) of the Buy Back Regulations regarding the shares 
bought-back on [●]  
 

Total amount earmarked for Buy Back  

a. 
b.   Cumulative amount utilised for Buy Back till date 
c.  Maximum  number  of  shares  that  can  be  bought  back  

as per Section 77A(c ) of Companies Act, 1956 

d.  Cumulative number of shares bought back till the end 

of    previous reporting period*  

e.  Number  of  shares  bought  back  during  the  current 

reporting period**  
Cumulative number of shares bought back till the end 
of the current reporting period  

 
 
 

 

 

 

*Previous  reporting  period  shall  be the day before the  reporting  date  when  the 
company had bought back securities. 
** Current reporting period shall be the day on which report is being filed with the 
Stock Exchanges. 

 

 

f. 

 

 
 

 
Place:  

Date:  
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

ANNEXURE - 1 

Signature: 
(on behalf of the company) 
 
Name:  
 
Designation:  

Seal of the company 
 

 

 
 
 

ANNEXURE - 2 

Format in terms of regulation 20(j) of Buy Back Regulations 
 
Basic details 
1.  Name of the company  
2.  Name of the Manager to the offer 
3.  Name/(s) of the designated broker/(s) 
4.  Details of paid up Capital (Amount in crores) 

 
 
 
Pre Buy 
Back 
 

 
 
Details of Buy Back offer 
 
5.  Date of member’s special resolution authorizing 

Buy Back of securities; or  
Date of Board resolution authorizing Buy Back 
of securities 

6.  Date on which previous Buy Back was 

7.  Date on which the previous Buy Back was 

authorized 

completed 

 

 

Post Buy 
Back 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

8.  Date of opening of the present Buy Back offer  
9.  Date of closure of the present Buy Back offer 
 
Details of amount earmarked for present Buy Back and Escrow Account 
 
10.  Amount earmarked for Buy Back 
11.  Details of escrow account (Name of the bank 

 
 

account and composition)  
Amount deposited by way of cash 
Amount deposited by way of bank guarantee 

12.  Amount utilized  for Buy Back  
13.  Whether the amount utilized is less than 50% 

14. 

of the amount earmarked? (Yes/No) 
 
If answer to point No. 13 is Yes, whether the 
Manager to the Offer forfeited the deposit in 
the escrow account in accordance with the 

provisions of regulation 15B(8) of Buy Back 
Regulations. If so, quantum of amount forfeited 

15.  Whether the forfeited amount has been 

deposited in Investor Protection and Education 
Fund of SEBI. 
 
If yes, details of the same/ 
If no, reasons for the same 

 
Other details: 
 
16. 

Date of release of advertisement and name 
of newspapers in which such advertisement 
was published in terms of regulation 19(7) of 
Buy Back Regulations 

17.  Whether the shares have been extinguished 

in accordance with the provisions of Buy 
Back Regulations? 
Pursuant to the Buy Back, whether 
shareholding of any shareholder has 
exceeded the threshold limit as specified 
under regulations 3(1) and 3(2) of SEBI 
(SAST) Regulations, 2011? (Yes/No) 

19.  Whether the obligations of Merchant Banker 

and the company as specified in the Buy 
Back Regulations have been complied with? 
(Yes/No) 
If no, provide details and reasons for the 
same 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18. 

20. 

Date:  

 
I/We hereby declare that the information provided in the instant report is true. 
 
 
Place:  

Signature: 
 
 
Name:  
 
Designation:  
 

 
Seal of the Merchant Banker 

