 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

CIR/MIRSD/8/2013                                                                              September 30, 2013 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

Subject: Simplification of registration requirements for Stock Brokers 

 
1.  Please  find  enclosed  the  Notification  No.  LAD-NRO/GN/2013-14/25/24775  dated 
September  27,  2013  amending 
the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers) 
Regulations,  1992  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  Broker  Regulations).  As  per  the 
amendment,  the  existing  practice  of  obtaining  multiple  registrations  for  operating  in 
different  segments  of  a  stock  exchange  /  clearing  corporation  has  been  done  away 
with and instead a single registration per stock exchange / clearing corporation shall 
be  required.  For  operating  in  multiple  segments,  approval  will  be  required  from  the 
stock exchange or clearing corporation.  
 

2.  For the purpose of implementing the revised registration requirements, the following 

guidelines are being issued: 

 

 

 

 

a.  If  a  new  entity  intends  to  register  as  a  stock  broker  or  clearing  member  in  any 
segment(s) of a stock exchange or a clearing corporation promoted by that stock 
exchange,  then  the  entity  shall  apply  to  SEBI  through  the  respective  stock 
exchange  or  clearing  corporation  in  the  manner  prescribed  in  the  Broker 
Regulations  in  any  one  segment.  The  entity  shall  be  issued  a  certificate  with  a 
unique registration number for each stock exchange or clearing corporation, as the 
case may be, irrespective of number of segments.  

b.  If an entity is already registered with SEBI in any segment of the stock exchange, 
then for operating in any other segment of that stock exchange or for operating in 
the  clearing  corporation  promoted  by  that  stock  exchange,  the  entity  need  not 
apply to SEBI. The entity can directly apply to the concerned stock exchange or 
clearing corporation as per the procedure prescribed in the Broker Regulations for 
approval.  

c.  Similarly,  if  any  entity  is  already  registered  with  SEBI  in  any  segment  of  the 
clearing  corporation,  then  for  operating  in  any  other  segment  of  the  clearing 
corporation  or  for  operating  in  the  stock  exchange  which  has  promoted  that 
clearing corporation, the entity shall follow the procedure as prescribed in Clause 
2b above. 
 

d.  Fees  shall  be  applicable  for  all  the  stock  brokers,  self  clearing  members  and 
clearing  members  as  per  Schedule  V  of  the  Broker  Regulations.  As  per  current 
practice,  the  entity  shall  continue  to  be  liable  to  pay  fees  for  each  additional 
segment  approved  by  the  stock  exchange  or  clearing  corporation,  as  per  the 
Schedule to the Brokers Regulations. For stock brokers coming under Schedule III, 
fees  shall  continue  to  be  applicable  as  per  that  Schedule  till  such  time  as  the 
Schedule V becomes applicable to them. 

Page 1 of 2 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 
 
3.  The  stock  exchange  or  clearing  corporation  shall  grant  approval  for  any  additional 
segment to the stock broker, self-clearing member or clearing member, as the case 
may be, after exercising due diligence and on being satisfied about the compliance of 
all relevant eligibility requirements, and shall also ensure: 
 
a.  The applicant, its directors, proprietor, partners and associates satisfy the Fit and 
Proper  Criteria  as  defined  in  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008  and 
whether  any  past  actions  taken  /  initiated  against  them  by  SEBI  /  stock 
exchange(s) or other regulators. 
 

b.  The stock exchange or clearing corporation shall satisfy itself that the applicant has 
taken  corrective  steps  to  rectify  the  deficiencies  or  irregularities  observed  in  the 
past.  They  may  also  seek  details  whether  the  Board  of  the  applicant  is  satisfied 
about the steps taken. They may also carry out inspection, wherever considered 
appropriate. 

c.  Recover all pending fees / dues payable to SEBI and / or stock exchange. 

 
4.  The Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations are directed to - 
 

a.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the Stock Brokers, Self Clearing 
members  and  Clearing  members  as  the  case  may  be,  and  also  disseminate  the 
same on their websites;  

b.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 

the implementation of the above decision in co-ordination with one another; and 

c.  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 

circular through Monthly Development Report of the following month. 

5.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Regulation 29 & 30 of the SEBI 
(Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers)  Regulations,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities markets.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
A S Mithwani 
Deputy General Manager 
022-26449613 
email: aliasgarm@sebi.gov.in  
 

 
Encl:  As above 

 

Page 2 of 2 

 

