 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/ICC/30/2013  

 

 

 

 

                        26.09.2013 

The Managing Director/Executive Director, 
All Stock Exchanges. 
 
 
Dear Madam/Sir, 
 

Subject: Investor Grievance Redressal Mechanism  

 
1)  Reference  may  be  made  to  CIR/MRD/DSA/03/2013  dated  January  20,  2012, 
CIR/MRD/DSA/24/2010  dated  August  11,  2010  and  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-38/2004 
dated October 28, 2004. 
 

2)  With  a  view  to  streamline  and  make  more  effective  the  investor  grievance 
redressal  mechanism  at  Stock  Exchanges, and consequent to  discussions  with 
Stock Exchanges and Depositories, it has been decided to shorten the time taken 
for the proceedings as well as to give monetary relief to the investors, during the 
course of pendency of proceedings. In this regard, Stock Exchanges are advised 
as under: 
a)  Stock  Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  all  complaints  are  resolved  at  their  end 
within 15 days as mentioned in the circular no. CIR/MRD/ICC/16/2012 dated 
June 15, 2012. The correspondence with the Member & investor (who is client 
of a Member) may be done on email if the email id of the investor is available 
in  the  UCC  database.  The  Member  (Stock  Broker,  Trading  Member  and 
Clearing Member) shall provide a dedicated email id to the stock exchange for 
this purpose. 

 

1 

b)  In case the matter does not get resolved, conciliation process of the exchange 

would start immediately after the time lines stated in sub-para (a) above. 

c)  Investor  Grievance  Redressal  Committee  (IGRC)  shall  be  allowed  a  time  of 

15 days to amicably resolve the investor complaint. 

d)  IGRC shall adopt a two-fold approach i.e. for proceedings leading to direction 
to the Member to render required service in case of service related complaints 
and proceedings leading to an order concluding admissibility of the complaint 
or otherwise in case of trade related complaints. 

e)  In  case  the  matter  is  not  resolved  through  the  conciliation  process,  IGRC 

would ascertain the claim value admissible to the investor. 

f)  Upon conclusion of the proceedings of IGRC, i.e. in case claim is admissible 
to the investor, Stock Exchanges shall block the admissible claim value from 
the deposit of the Member.  

g)  The Stock Exchange shall give a time of 7 days to the Member from the date 
of  signing  of  IGRC  directions  as  mentioned  under  sub-para  (d)  above  to 
inform the Stock Exchange whether the Member intends to pursue the next 
level of resolution ie. Arbitration. 

h)  In case, the Member does not opt for arbitration, the Stock Exchange shall, 

i) 

release the blocked amount to the investor after the aforementioned 7 days. 
In case, the Member opts for arbitration and the claim value admissible to the 
investor is not more than Rs. 10 lac, the following shall be undertaken by the 
Stock Exchange 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

50%  of  the  admissible  claim  value  or  Rs.  0.75  lac,  whichever  is 
less,  shall  be  released  to  the  investor  from  IPF  of  the  Stock 
Exchange. 
In  case  the  arbitration  award  is  in  favour  of  the  investor  and  the 
Member opts for appellate arbitration then a positive difference of, 
50%  of  the  amount  mentioned  in  the  arbitration  award  or  Rs.  1.5 
lac,  whichever  is  less  and  the  amount  already  released  to  the 
investor at clause (i) above, shall be released to the investor from 
IPF of the Stock Exchange. 
In case the appellate arbitration award is in favour of the investor 
and the Member opts for making an application under section 34 of 
the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 to set aside the appellate 

2 

 

arbitration award, then a positive difference of 75% of the amount 
determined  in  the  appellate  arbitration  award  or  Rs.  2  lac, 
whichever is less and the amount already released to the investor 
at  clause  (i)  and  (ii)  above,  shall  be  released  to  the  investor  from 
IPF of the Stock Exchange. 

iv.  Before release of the said amounts from the IPF to the investor, the 
Stock  Exchange  shall  obtain  appropriate  undertaking/  indemnity 
from  the  investor  against  the  release  of  the  amount  from  IPF,  to 
ensure return of the amount so released to the investor, in case the 
proceedings are decided against the investor. 
If  it  is  observed  that  there  is  an  attempt  by  investor/client  either 
individually  or  through  collusion  with  Member(s)  or  with  any  other 
stakeholders, to misuse the provision of this Circular, then without 
prejudice  to  the  powers  of  the  Board  to  take  action,  appropriate 
action in this regard shall be taken against any such person, by the 
Stock Exchange, including disqualification of the person so involved 
from henceforth accessing the benefits of this Circular. 
In  case  the  complaint  is  decided  in  favour  of  the  investor  after 
conclusion of the proceedings, then amount released to the investor 
shall be returned to IPF from the blocked amount of the Member by 
the Stock Exchange and the rest shall be paid to the investor. 
Total  amount  released  to  the  investor  through  the  facility  of 
monetary relief from IPF in terms of this Circular shall not exceed 
Rs. 5 lac in one financial year. 

vi. 

v. 

vii. 

ix. 

viii.  Stock  Exchanges  may  devise  a  detailed  procedure  with  regard  to 
release  of  funds  from  IPF  and  recovery  thereof  and  necessary 
formats of documentation. 
In  case  the  investor  loses  at  any  stage  of  the  proceedings  and 
decides  not  to  pursue  further,  then  the  investor  shall  refund  the 
amount  released  from  IPF,  back  to  the  IPF.  In  case  the  investor 
fails  to  make  good  the  amount  released  out  of  IPF  then  investor 
(based on PAN of the investor) shall not be allowed to trade on any 
of  the  Stock  Exchanges  till  such  time  the  investor  refunds  the 
amount to IPF. Further, the securities lying in the demat account(s) 

3 

 

of the investor shall be frozen till such time as the investor refunds 
the amount to the IPF. 
The  Stock  Exchanges  may  also  resort  to  displaying  the  names  of 
such investors on their websites if considered necessary. 

x. 

 
3)  With  a  view  to  rationalise  the  timelines  involved  in  the  arbitration  mechanism, 

Stock Exchanges are advised as under: 

 

a)  As  per  clause  6.2  of  circular  no.  CIR/MRD/DSA/24/2010  dated  August  11, 
2010  the  Members  are  required  to  file  application  for  appellate  arbitration 
within  one  month  of  the  date  of  receipt  of  arbitral  award.  Further  as  per 
section 34 (3) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 the Members have 
three  months  to  make  an  application  to  set  aside  an  arbitral  award.  In  this 
regard, the Members shall convey their intention to Stock Exchanges within 7 
days  of  receipt  of  the  award,  as  regards  whether  such  Members  desire  to 
challenge the arbitration award/appellate arbitration award in Court or not. 

b)  If  the  Members  do  not  express  their  intent  to  challenge  the  arbitration 
award/appellate  arbitration  award  then  it  would  be  presumed  that  Members 
does  not  intend  to  challenge  the  award  and  the  Stock  Exchange  shall  take 
further steps accordingly. 

 

In  addition  to  the  above,  the  stock  exchanges  shall  also  take  the  below 
mentioned steps: 

4)  With  a  view  to  address  complaints  regarding  'unauthorised  trades'  Stock 

Exchanges are advised to direct the Members to put in place the following: 
a)  In  case  the  Member  has  made  margin  calls  to  the  client  and  the  client  has 
failed  to  comply  with  these  margin  calls,  then  the  contract  note  issued  by 
Member for transactions owing to non-compliance of such margin calls would 
bear a remark specifying the same. 

b)  The  Member  shall  maintain  a  verifiable record of having made such margin 

calls and that the clients have not complied with the same. 

 

 

4 

5)  With  a  view  to  assist  investors  engaged  in  dispute  resolution  process,  Stock 
Exchanges  shall  set  up  facilitation  desks  at  all  investor  service  centres  as 
specified by SEBI from time to time. These facilitation desks would interalia also 
assist investors in obtaining documents/details from Stock Exchanges wherever 
so required for making application to IGRC and filing arbitration. 
 

6)  The stock exchanges are advised to:- 

a)  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations 

for the implementation of the above decision immediately; 

b)  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the members of the stock 

exchange and also to disseminate the same through their website; and 

c)  take steps to make the investors aware of the scheme. 
d)  communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the provisions of this 

circular in the Monthly Development Reports to SEBI. 

7)  This Circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 9(2)(n) 
and Section 10 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the 
interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 
regulate the securities market and shall come into effect immediately. 

8)  This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

Yours faithfully, 
B K Gupta 
Deputy General Manager  
022-26449218 
bhartendrakg@sebi.gov.in 

 

Copy to: All SEBI recognized Investor Associations 

 

5 

