Subject:  Amendment  to  bye-laws  of  recognised  stock  exchanges  with  respect  to 
non-compliance  of  certain  listing  conditions  and  adopting  Standard  Operating 
Procedure for suspension and revocation of trading of shares of listed entities for 
such non compliances. 

1.  Based on general feed- back received from various stakeholders, it has been decided 
to  streamline  the  processes  and  procedures  with  regard  to  actions  for  non 
compliances  of  certain  listing  conditions  which  have  so  far  been  considered  as 
grounds for suspension of trading by the recognised stock exchanges. Accordingly, it 
has  been  decided  that  recognised  stock  exchanges  shall  use  imposition  of  fines  as 
action of first resort in case of such non compliances and invoke suspension of trading 
in case of subsequent and consecutive defaults. In order to maintain consistency and 
uniformity of approach in this regard, it has been decided to lay down, in the bye -laws 
of the recognised stock exchanges, the following: - 
 

(i).  Uniform  fine  structure  for  non-compliance  of  certain  clauses  of  the  listing 

agreement as per Annexure I; 

(ii).  Standard  Operating  Procedure  (SOP)  for  suspension  and  revocation  of 

suspension of trading in the shares of such listed entities as per Annexure II. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/ DSA / 31 /2013                                                       September 30, 2013 
 
 
The Managing Director/Executive Director, 
All recognised Stock Exchanges. 
 
The Managing Director/Executive Director, 
All Depositories. 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

 

2.  Further, in order to ensure effective enforcement of listing conditions, it is felt to bring 
in  place  appropriate  system  to  enforce  the  liabilities  of  listed  entities  and  their 
promoters/promoter group as disclosed to the concerned recognised stock exchange 
under  clause  35  of  the  Listing  Agreement.  It  is  also  felt  desirable  that  while  the 
relevant  disclosures  are  not  made,  such  promoters/promoter  group  should  not  exit 
from the listed entity. Accordingly, it has been decided that during the process of the 
suspension of the trading/ revocation of trading as provided in the SOP, the concerned 
recognised stock exchange shall intimate the details of the concerned non-compliant 
entity  and  its  promoter  /promoter  group  to  the  depositories.  On  receipt  of  such 
intimation, the depositories shall freeze or unfreeze, as the case may be, the entire 
shareholding of the promoter and promoter group in such entity.   
 

3.  Every recognised stock exchanges shall put in place the system to monitor and review 
the compliance of respective listing conditions by the listed entities. It is hereby further 
clarified  that  each  recognised  stock  exchange,  where  the  shares  of  the  concerned 
entity are listed, shall enforce the compliance of respective listing conditions in terms 
of the requirements of this circular.  

 

 

Page 1 of 6 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.  The  recognised  stock  exchanges  shall  disclose  on  its  website  the  action/s  taken 
against the listed entities for non-compliance/s of the listing conditions; including the 
details  of  respective  requirement,  amount  of  fine,  period  of  suspension,  freezing  of 
shares, etc.    

5.  In view of the above, the recognised stock exchanges are advised to:- 

(a) make necessary amendments to the their bye-laws, rules or regulations, for  

incorporation of the above fine structure and SOP immediately; 
 

(b) put  in  place  appropriate  systems  to  monitor  compliance  with  listing 
requirements  and  disclosure  of  compliance  status  with  respect  to  listing 
requirements on their  website;  
 

(c) bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of its trading members and 
the  entities that have their listed shares on the concerned recognised stock 
exchange and also to disseminate the same through  their website ; and 
 

(d) communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of  this  circular  in  the 

Monthly Development Reports to SEBI. 

 

6.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
and Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, recognized stock exchanges may, 
having  regard  to  the  interests  of  investors  and  securities  market,  take  appropriate 
action in line with the principles and procedures laid down in Annexure I and II and 
any deviation therefore should not dilute the spirit of the policy contained therein. Any 
necessary and reasonable deviation shall be on justifiable reasons to be recorded in 
writing.    
 

7.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under sections 11(1) and 
11A (2) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with section 10 
of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 in the interest of trade and public 
interest and for the protection of the interests of investors in securities and to promote 
the development of, and to regulate the securities market and shall come into effect 
immediately. 
 

8.  This Circular is also available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 
 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

 

 

Sunil Kadam 
General Manager  
email: sunilk@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 6 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure I 

 

Imposition of fine 

1.  The  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  impose  fine  on  listed  entities  for  non- 
compliance with certain clauses of the listing agreement due to non-submission /delay 
in submission of reports/documents to recognised stock exchange as under: 
 

Clause of listing agreement  Fine payable for 1st 

non-compliance 

Listing agreement Clause 31 
Non-submission of the Annual 
Report within period 
prescribed under this clause. 
Listing agreement Clause 35 
Non submission of the 
shareholding pattern within 
period prescribed under this 
clause. 

Listing agreement Clause 41
Non submission of the 
financial results within period 
prescribed under this clause 

Listing agreement Clause 49
Non submission of the 
Corporate governance 
compliance report within 
period provided under this 
clause 

If 
non-compliance 
continues for more than 5 
days,  `1,000  per  day  till 
the date of compliance. 
`1,000  per  day  till  the 
date of compliance 
 
and 
 
non-compliance 
If 
continues  for  more  than 
15  days  additional  fine  of 
0.1  %  of  paid  up  capital*
of  the  entity  or  `1  crore, 
whichever is less. 
`5,000  per  day  till  the 
date of compliance 
and 
 
If 
non-compliance 
continues  for  more  than 
15  days  additional  fine  of 
0.1 % of Paid Up capital* 
of  the  entity  or  `  1crore, 
whichever is less. 
`1,000    per  day  till  the 
date of compliance. 

Fine Payable each 
subsequent and 
consecutive non- 
compliance 
`2,000  per  day  till  the 
date of compliance.  

the 

`2,000  per  daytill 
date of compliance 
 
and 
 
non-compliance 
If 
continues  for  more  than 
15 days additional fine of 
0.1 % of paid up capital* 
of the entity or `1 crore, 
whichever is less. 
`10,000  per  day  till  the 
date of compliance 
and 
 
If 
non-compliance 
continues  for  more  than 
15 days additional fine of 
0.1 % of Paid Up capital* 
of the entity or `1 crore, 
whichever is less. 
`2,000  per  day  till  the 
date of compliance. 

*Paid up capital as on first day of the financial year in which the non compliance 
occurs. 

Page 3 of 6 

 

 
 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
2.  The  amount  of  fine  realized  as  per  the  above  structure  shall  be  credited  to  the 

 

 

"Investor Protection Fund" of the concerned recognised stock exchange. 
 

3.  The recognised stock exchange shall disseminate on their website the names of non-
compliant  listed  entities  that  are  liable  to  pay  fine  for  non-compliance  of  the  above 
clauses of the listing agreement. 
 

4.  Every  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  review  the  compliance  status  of  the  listed 
entities within 45 days from the end of the each quarter (for clauses at 35 and 49) and 
within  15  days  from  the  due  date  of  submissions  under  the  clauses  31  and  41  and 
issue notices to the non-compliant listed entities to ensure compliance and pay fine as 
per this circular within 15 days from the date of the notice.   
 

5.  If any non-compliant listed entity fails to pay the fine despite receipt of the notice as 
stated  above,  the  recognised  stock  exchange  may  initiate  appropriate  enforcement 
action including prosecution.  
 

Creation of a new category "Z" for trading  

6.  The recognised stock exchange shall create  a new category "Z" for trading of shares 
of such non- compliant listed entities wherein trades shall take place in 'trade for trade' 
basis. 
 

7.  If  a  listed  entity  commits  two  or  more  consecutive  defaults  in  compliance  of  the 
aforesaid  clauses  of  the  listing  agreement  within  15  days  from  date  of  the  notice 
issued under clause 4, the concerned recognised stock exchange shall, in addition to 
imposing fine as specified above, move the scrip of the listed entities to "Z" category. 
 

8.  The recognised stock exchange shall move  back the scrip of the listed entity to the 
normal trading category, if it complies with respective clauses of the listing agreement 
and completely pays fine prescribed as above. 
 

9.  The  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  give  7  days  prior  public  notice  to  investors 

before moving the share of non- compliant entity to "Z" category or vice versa. 
 

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 6 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure II 

Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) 

A. SOP for suspension of trading 

1.  Criteria for suspension of the trading in the shares of the listed entities: 

(a) failure  to  comply  with  clause  31  of  listing  agreement  with  respect  to 

submission of Annual Report for 2 consecutive financial years; 
 

(b) failure  to  comply  with  clause  35  of  listing  agreement  with  respect  to 

submission of shareholding pattern for two consecutive quarters; 
 

(c) failure  to  comply  with  clause  41  of  listing  agreement  with  respect  to 

submission of financial results for two consecutive quarters;  
 

(d) failure  to  comply  with  clause  49  of  listing  agreement  with  respect  to 
submission  of  corporate  governance  compliance  report  for  two  consecutive 
quarters;   
 

(e) failure to submit information on the reconciliation of shares and capital audit 

report, for two consecutive quarters; 
 

(f)  receipt  of  the  notice  of  suspension  of  trading  of  that  entity  by  any  other 

recognised stock exchange on any or all of the above grounds. 

 

2.  Before suspension of trading on any of the above grounds, except clause 1 (f), the 
concerned  recognized  stock  exchange  shall  send  written  intimation  to  the  non- 
compliant  listed  entity  calling  upon  it  to  comply  with  respective  requirement/s 
mentioned in clause (a) to (e) above  and pay the applicable fine within  21 days of 
the date of the intimation.  

 
3.  If the non-compliant listed entity fails to comply with aforesaid requirement/s and pay 
fine despite the receipt of the intimation of the recognised stock exchange within the 
time as aforesaid, the concerned recognised stock exchange shall forthwith intimate 
the depositories to freeze entire shareholding of the promoter and promoter group of 
the non-compliant entity. Simultaneously, the recognised stock exchange shall give a 
21  days  (prior  to  the  proposed  date  of  suspension)  public  notice  on  its  website 
proposing suspension of trading in the shares of the non-compliant listed entity. 
 

4.  If  the  non-compliant  listed  entity  complies  with  respective  requirement/s  and  pays 
fine five days before the proposed date of suspension, the trading in its shares shall 
not  be  suspended  on  the  proposed  date  and  the  concerned    recognised  stock 
exchange  shall  intimate  to  the  depositories  to  unfreeze,  after  one  month  from  the 
date  of  compliance,  the  shares  of  the  promoter  and  promoter  group  of  the  entity. 
Simultaneously,  the  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  give  a  public  notice  on  its 
website informing compliance by the entity. 
 

5.  In  case  of  failure  to  comply  with  respective  requirement/s  and/or  pay  fine  as 
aforesaid, the recognised stock exchange shall suspend the trading in the shares of 
a non-compliant listed entity.  The entire shareholding of promoter/prompter group of 

 

Page 5 of 6 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

such non-compliant listed entity shall remain frozen till expiry of three months from 
the date of revocation of suspension.  
 

6.  While  suspending  trading  in  the  shares  of  the  non-compliant  entity  the  recognised 
stock  exchange  shall  send  intimation  of  suspension  to  other  recognised  stock 
exchanges  where  the  shares  of  the  non-compliant  entity  are  listed.  On  receipt  of 
such intimation the other recognised stock exchanges shall also suspend trading in 
the shares of the entity.  
 

7.  After  15  days  of  suspension,  trading  in  the  shares  of  non-compliant  entity  may  be 
allowed on the "Trade for Trade" basis, on the first trading day of every week for 6 
months. In this regard, the recognised stock exchange shall  give instruction to its 
trading members/stock brokers to obtain confirmation from clients before accepting 
an  order  for  purchase  of  shares  of  non-compliant  entity  on  the  'Trade  for  Trade' 
basis. 
 

8.  The  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  put  in  place  a  system  to  publish  caution 
message "Trading in shares of the company is under 'suspension and trade to trade 
basis' and trading shall stop completely if the company remains not compliant for six 
months " on trading terminals. 

B.SOP for revocation of suspensionof trading 

1.  If the non-compliant listed entity complies with the aforesaid requirement/s and pays 
applicable  fine  within  three  months  from  the  date  of  suspension,  the  recognized 
stock exchange may revoke the suspension of trading of its shares. 
 

2.  If the non-compliant listed entity complies with the aforesaid requirement/s and pays 
applicable fineafter three months from the date of suspension, the recognized stock 
exchange may revoke the suspension of trading of its shares after a period of three 
more months from the date of such compliance. 
 

3.  The  recognised  stock  exchange  shall,  7  days  prior  to  revocation  of  suspension  of 

trading in shares of the entity, issue public notice on its website.  
 

4.   After 3 months from the date of revocation of the suspension, the recognised stock 
exchange  shall  send  intimation  to  the  depositories  to  unfreeze  the  shares  of  the 
promoter and promoter group. 
 

5.  After revocation of suspension, the trading of shares shall be permitted only in the 
'Trade for Trade' basis for a period of three months from the date of revocation and 
after this period of three months, trading in the shares of the entity  shall be shifted 
back to the normal trading category, after giving prior notice of 7 days to it. 

 
 

******************************** 

 

Page 6 of 6 

 

