 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

        October 28, 2013  

 

 

 

CIR/MIRSD/10/2013 
 
To  
All recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents registered with SEBI  
All Depositories, 
 
Sir / Madam,  
 

Sub: Standardisation and Simplification of Procedures for Transmission of 
Securities  

 
1.  SEBI  has  reviewed  the  process  being  followed  by  the  Share  Transfer  Agents 
(STAs)  and  the  Depositories  /  Issuer  companies  (in-house  STAs)  for  effecting 
transmission of securities held in physical as well as dematerialized mode.   

2.  With a view to make the transmission process more efficient and investor friendly, it 
has  been  decided  in  consultation  with  Registrars  Association  of  India  (RAIN)  and 
the depositories, that STAs/ issuer companies and the depositories shall adhere to 
the following guidelines, as applicable to them: 

I. 

II. 

In  case  of  transmission  of  securities  in  dematerialized  mode,  where  the 
securities are held in a single name without a nominee, the existing threshold 
limit  of  `  1,00,000  (Rupees  One  lakh  only)  per  beneficiary  owner  account 
has now been revised to ` 5,00,000 (Rupees Five lakh only), for the purpose 
of 
the 
depositories vide bye-laws / operating instructions.  
 
In case of transmission of securities held in physical mode: 
 

following  simplified  documentation,  as  already  prescribed  by 

a.  where  the  securities  are  held  in  single  name  with  a  nominee, 
STAs/issuer  companies  shall  follow  the  standardized  documentary 
requirement as given in Annexure A. 

 

b.  where  the  securities  are  held  in  single  name  without  a  nominee,  the  
STAs/issuer  companies  shall  follow,  in  the    normal  course,  the 
simplified documentation as given in Annexure A, for a threshold limit 
of ` 2,00,000 (Rupees Two lakh only) per issuer company. However, 
the  Issuer  companies,  at  their  discretion,  may  enhance  the  value  of 
such securities. 

III. 

 
The timeline for  processing the   transmission requests for securities held in 
dematerialized  mode  and  physical  mode  shall  be  7  days  and  21  days  
respectively, after receipt of the prescribed documents.  
 

3.  To  improve  the  awareness  of  nomination  facility,  all  Registrars  to  an  Issue  and 
Share Transfer Agents shall publicize nomination as an additional right available  to 
investors, while sending communications to the investors. 

4.  All  the  stock  exchanges  are  directed  to  make  necessary  amendments,  wherever 

applicable, to the listing agreements for listing of various securities.  

5.  The  depositories  are  directed 

to  make  necessary  amendments,  wherever 

applicable, to the relevant byelaws/ rules and regulations/circulars in this regard. 

6.  The  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities markets and shall  be complied with  at the earliest and not later than 45 
days from the date of issue of the circular. 

7.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  (www.sebi.gov.in)  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Ruchi Chojer 
General Manager 
Tel.No: 022-26449310 
E-mail id: ruchic@sebi.gov.in 

 

Annexure A 
 

Documentary requirement for securities held in physical mode 
 

1. For securities held in single name with a nominee: 

i. Duly signed transmission request form by the nominee. 

 

ii. Original or  Copy of death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a 

Gazetted Officer. 
 

iii. Self  attested  copy  of  PAN  card  of  the  nominee.  (Copy  of  PAN  card  may  be 
substituted with ID proof in case of residents of Sikkim after collecting address proof)  
 

2. For  securities  held  in  single  name  without  a  nominee,  following  additional 

documents may be sought: 

a)  Affidavit  made  on  appropriate  non  judicial  stamp  paper  –  to  the  effect  of 

identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities 

b)  For  value  of  securities  upto  `  2,00,000  (Rupees  Two  lakh  only)  per  issuer 

company as on date of application, one or more of the following documents: 

i.  No  objection  certificate  [NOC]  from  all  legal  heir(s)  who  do  not  object  to 
such transmission (or) copy of Family Settlement Deed duly notarized or 
attested by  a  Gazetted  Officer and  executed  by  all  the  legal  heirs  of  the 
deceased holder. 

 

ii. 

 

Indemnity  made  on  appropriate  non  judicial  stamp  paper  –  indemnifying 
the STA/Issuer Company. 

c)  For  value  of  securities  more  than  `  2,00,000  (Rupees  Two  lakh  only)  per 

issuer company as on date of application: 

i.  Succession certificate (or) Probate of will (or) Letter of Administration 

(or) Court decree. 

 

 
 

