 
 
CIR/MIRSD/11/2013                                                                                October 28, 2013 
 
To 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Disclosure of Investor Complaints on websites of Stock Exchanges  
 
1.  Please refer to SEBI Circular no. MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-10/2009 dated September 03, 2009 
on the captioned subject which inter alia prescribes the formats for disclosing the details 
of  complaints  lodged  by  clients/investors  against  stock  brokers  on  the  website  of  stock 
exchanges.  The  ‘Report  1C’  prescribes  the  format  for  disclosure  of  redressal  of 
complaints lodged by clients against stock brokers during the financial year. 
 

2.  In order to bring more transparency in the disclosure of complaint redressal status of the 
stock brokers on the website of stock exchange, in consultation with the stock exchanges 
and  the  associations  of  stock  brokers,  it  has  been  decided  to  modify  the  format  by 
including following information: 

a.  Number of active clients of each stock broker. “Active client” means the client who has 

 

traded at least once in the last year.  
 

b.  Percentage of number of complaints received as against number of active clients of 
the  stock  broker  (to  be  calculated  by  dividing  the  number  of  complaints  received 
against stock broker with number of active clients) 
 

c.  Percentage of complaints resolved as against complaints received by the stock broker 
(to  be  calculated  by  dividing  number  of  total  complaints  redressed  with  number  of 
complaints received against stock broker) 
 
 
 
 

2../ 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
 

Page 1 of 2 

::2:: 

 
3.  The  stock  exchanges  shall  also  disclose  separately  in  a  prominent  manner  (i)  total 
number  of  complaints  received  against  all  the  stock  brokers  of  the  Exchange, 
number of their active clients and its percentage and (ii) overall market redressal 
rate  by  dividing  total  number  of  complaints  redressed  with  total  number  of  complaints 
received against all stock brokers of the Exchange. 

 
4.  The above modifications will result in disclosure of complaint redressal rate of individual 
stock broker and also overall redressal rate at stock exchange level. This will indicate the 
efficiency of complaint redressal process. 
 

5.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 
 

6.  The above provisions shall be implemented with effect from the quarter ended December 
2013.  All  other  provisions  mentioned  in  the  circular  dated  September  03,  2009  remain 
unchanged.   

 

 

 

7.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 
 
 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Krishnanand Raghavan 
General Manager 
Tel: 91-22-26449632 
Email: krishnanandr@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

