¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/CFD/DIL/12/2013 

 

 

 

 

              October 23, 2013 

 
To, 
 
All Registered Merchant Bankers  
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 

 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub.: General Information Document   

 

 

1.  In terms of regulation 58 (1) read with General Instructions (I) of Schedule VIII, 

Part D of SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009, 

information  which  is  of  generic  nature  and  not  specific  to  the  issuer  shall  be 

brought out in the form of a General Information Document (GID) as specified by 

the Board.  

 

2.  To this end, the generic disclosures to be brought out in the General Information 

Document are enumerated at Annexure. All Merchant Bankers are advised to take 

note of the contents of GID in Annexure. Accordingly, generic information  need 

not be provided in the Abridged Prospectus.   

 

3.  Lead Manager(s) shall ensure that: 

3.1. the GID should explicitly incorporate the date of last updation; 

3.2. the  number  of  GIDs  printed  by  every  issuer  company  shall  not  be  less  than 

five per cent of the total Abridged Prospectus/ Application Forms printed or 

50,000 in number, whichever is lower; 

3.3. copy  of  GID  is  provided  to  an  investor  as  and  when  requested,  in  form  and 

manner so requested by the investor; 

3.4. the updated GID is made available to investors; and  

3.5. the updated GID is made available on the websites of the:- 

3.5.1.  Stock Exchange(s) where the shares pursuant to an issue are proposed 

to be listed; and 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.5.2.  the  respective  Lead  Manager(s)  to  the  issue,  where  DRHP  /  RHP  / 

Draft Prospectus / Prospectus is made available.  

 

 

4.  This  circular  would  become  applicable  to  all  RHP  /  Prospectus  not  filed  with 

Registrar of Companies as on the date of this circular. 

 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 read 

with  Section  11A  of the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read 

with SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.  

 

6.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Harini Balaji 

Deputy General Manager 

+91-22-26449372  

harinib@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

Enclosure: As above 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

ANNEXURE 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

General Information Document for Investing in 

Public Issues 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
This  General  Information  Document  highlights  the  key  rules,  processes  and  procedures  applicable  to 
public issues in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956, the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation)  Act,  1956,  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957  and  the  Securities  and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009. 
Bidders/Applicants  should  not  construe  the  contents  of  this  General  Information  Document  as  legal 
advice and should consult their own  legal counsel and  other  advisors  in  relation to the legal matters 
concerning the Issue. For taking an investment decision, the  Bidders/Applicants should rely on their 
own  examination  of  the  Issuer  and  the  Issue,  and  should  carefully  read  the  Red  Herring 
Prospectus/Prospectus before investing in the Issue. 

 

 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 
 

 

SECTION 1: PURPOSE OF THE GENERAL INFORMATION DOCUMENT .. 2 

SECTION 2: BRIEF INTRODUCTION TO IPOs/FPOs.......................................... 3 

SECTION 3:   CATEGORY OF INVESTORS ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE IN 

AN ISSUE ..................................................................................................................... 6 

SECTION 4: APPLYING IN THE ISSUE ................................................................. 7 

SECTION 5: ISSUE PROCEDURE IN FIXED PRICE ISSUE ............................... 36 

SECTION 6: ISSUE PROCEDURE IN BOOK BUILT ISSUE ............................... 30 

SECTION 7: ALLOTMENT PROCEDURE AND BASIS OF ALLOTMENT .... 36 

SECTION 8: INTEREST AND REFUNDS ............................................................. 41 

SECTION 9: GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS ............................................. 44 

 

1 
 

 

 

SECTION 1: PURPOSE OF THE GENERAL INFORMATION DOCUMENT (GID) 

This  document  is  applicable  to  the  public  issues  undertaken  through  the  Book-Building 
process  as  well  as  to  the  Fixed  Price  Issues.  The  purpose  of  the  “General  Information 
Document  for  Investing  in  Public  Issues”  is  to  provide  general  guidance  to  potential 
Bidders/Applicants in IPOs and FPOs, on the processes and procedures governing IPOs and 
FPOs, undertaken in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  (“SEBI  ICDR 
Regulations, 2009”).  
 
Bidders/Applicants  should  note  that  investment  in  equity  and  equity  related  securities 
involves risk and Bidder/Applicant should not invest any funds in the Issue unless they can 
afford  to  take  the  risk  of  losing  their  investment.  The  specific  terms  relating  to  securities 
and/or for subscribing to securities in an Issue and the relevant information about the Issuer 
undertaking the Issue are set out in the Red Herring Prospectus (“RHP”)/ Prospectus filed by 
the  Issuer  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  (“RoC”).  Bidders/Applicants  should  carefully 
read the entire RHP/Prospectus and the Bid cum Application Form/Application Form and the 
Abridged Prospectus of the Issuer in which they are proposing to invest through the Issue. In 
case  of  any  difference  in  interpretation  or  conflict  and/or  overlap  between  the  disclosure 
included  in  this  document  and  the  RHP/Prospectus,  the  disclosures  in  the  RHP/Prospectus 
shall  prevail.  The  RHP/Prospectus  of  the  Issuer  is  available  on  the  websites  of  stock 
exchanges, on the website(s) of the BRLM(s) to the Issue and on the website of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) at www.sebi.gov.in. 
 
For  the  definitions  of  capitalized  terms  and  abbreviations  used  herein  Bidders/Applicants 
may refer to the section “Glossary and Abbreviations”. 
 

 

2 
 

 
 

 

SECTION 2: BRIEF INTRODUCTION TO IPOs/FPOs 

2.1  Initial public offer (IPO) 
 
An  IPO  means  an  offer  of  specified  securities  by  an  unlisted  Issuer  to  the  public  for 
subscription  and  may  include  an  Offer  for  Sale  of  specified  securities  to  the  public  by  any 
existing holder of such securities in an unlisted Issuer.  
 
For  undertaking  an  IPO,  an  Issuer  is  inter-alia  required  to  comply  with  the  eligibility 
requirements  of  in  terms  of  either  Regulation  26(1)  or  Regulation  26(2)  of  the  SEBI  ICDR 
Regulations,  2009.  For  details  of  compliance  with  the  eligibility  requirements  by  the  Issuer 
Bidders/Applicants may refer to the RHP/Prospectus. 
 
2.2  Further public offer (FPO)  
 
An FPO means an offer of specified securities by a listed Issuer to the public for subscription 
and may include Offer for Sale of specified securities to the public by any existing holder of 
such securities in a listed Issuer.  
 
For  undertaking  an  FPO,  the  Issuer  is  inter-alia  required  to  comply  with  the  eligibility 
requirements  in  terms  of  Regulation  26/27  of  SEBI  ICDR  Regulations,  2009.  For  details  of 
compliance  with  the  eligibility  requirements  by  the  Issuer  Bidders/Applicants  may  refer  to 
the RHP/Prospectus. 
 
2.3  Other Eligibility Requirements: 

 

In  addition  to  the  eligibility  requirements  specified  in  paragraphs  2.1  and  2.2,  an  Issuer 
proposing  to  undertake  an  IPO  or  an  FPO  is  required  to  comply  with  various  other 
requirements as specified in the SEBI ICDR Regulations, 2009, the Companies Act, 1956 (the 
“Companies Act”), The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 (the “SCRR”), industry-
specific regulations, if any, and other applicable laws for the time being in force. 
 
For details in relation to the above Bidders/Applicants may refer to the RHP/Prospectus. 
 
2.4  Types of Public Issues – Fixed Price Issues and Book Built Issues 
 
In  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  SEBI  ICDR  Regulations,  2009,  an  Issuer  can  either 
determine  the  Issue  Price  through  the  Book  Building  Process  (“Book  Built  Issue”)  or 
undertake  a  Fixed  Price  Issue  (“Fixed  Price  Issue”).  An  Issuer  may  mention  Floor  Price  or 
Price Band in the RHP (in case of a Book Built Issue) and a Price or Price Band in the Draft 
Prospectus  (in  case  of  a  fixed  price  Issue)  and  determine  the  price  at  a  later  date  before 
registering the Prospectus with the Registrar of Companies.  
 
The cap on the Price Band should be less than or equal to 120% of the Floor Price.  The Issuer 
shall    announce  the  Price  or  the  Floor  Price  or  the  Price  Band  through  advertisement  in  all 
newspapers  in  which  the  pre-issue  advertisement  was  given  at  least  five  Working  Days 
before the Bid/Issue Opening Date, in case of an IPO and at least one Working Day before the 
Bid/Issue Opening Date, in case of an FPO. 
 
The Floor Price or the Issue price cannot be lesser than the face value of the securities. 

 

3 
 

 
 
Bidders/Applicants  should  refer  to  the  RHP/Prospectus  or  Issue  advertisements  to  check 
whether the Issue is a Book Built Issue or a Fixed Price Issue.  
 
2.5  ISSUE PERIOD  
 
The  Issue  may  be  kept  open  for  a  minimum  of  three  Working  Days  (for  all  category  of 
Bidders/Applicants) and not more than ten Working Days. Bidders/Applicants are advised to 
refer  to  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form  and  Abridged  Prospectus  or  RHP/Prospectus  for 
details of the Bid/Issue Period. Details of Bid/Issue Period are also available on the website of 
Stock Exchange(s). 
 
In case of a Book Built Issue, the Issuer may close the Bid/Issue Period for QIBs one Working 
Day prior to the Bid/Issue Closing Date  if disclosures to that effect are made in the RHP.  In 
case of revision of the Floor Price or Price Band in Book Built Issues the Bid/Issue Period may 
be  extended  by  at  least  three  Working  Days,  subject  to  the  total  Bid/Issue  Period  not 
exceeding  10  Working  Days.  For  details  of  any  revision  of  the  Floor  Price  or  Price  Band, 
Bidders/Applicants may check the announcements made by the Issuer on the websites of the 
Stock Exchanges and the BRLM(s), and the advertisement in the newspaper(s) issued in this 
regard. 

2.6  FLOWCHART OF TIMELINES  

 

 

A  flow  chart  of  process  flow  in  Fixed  Price  and  Book  Built  Issues  is  as  follows 
[Bidders/Applicants may note that this is not applicable for Fast Track FPOs.]: 
 
 

 

In case of Issue other than Book Build Issue (Fixed Price Issue) the process at the 
following of the below mentioned steps shall be read as: 

i.  Step 7 : Determination of Issue Date and Price 
ii.  Step 10: Applicant submits ASBA Application Form with Designated Branch of 

SCSB and Non-ASBA forms directly to collection Bank and not to Broker. 

iii.  Step 11: SCSB uploads ASBA Application details in Stock Exchange Platform 
iv.  Step 12: Issue period closes 
v.  Step 15: Not Applicable 

 

4 
 

 

 

 

 

 

5 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

SECTION 3:  CATEGORY OF INVESTORS ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE IN AN ISSUE 

 
Each  Bidder/Applicant  should  check  whether  it  is  eligible  to  apply  under  applicable  law. 
Furthermore,  certain  categories of Bidders/Applicants,  such  as  NRIs,  FIIs,  QFIs  and  FVCIs  may 
not  be  allowed  to  Bid/Apply  in  the  Issue  or  to  hold  Equity  Shares,  in  excess  of  certain  limits 
specified under applicable law. Bidders/Applicants are requested to refer to the RHP/Prospectus 
for more details. 
 
Subject to the above, an illustrative list of Bidders/Applicants is as follows:  
 

Indian nationals resident in India  who are competent to contract under the Indian Contract 
Act, 1872, in single or joint names (not more than three);   

  Bids/Applications belonging to an account for the benefit of a minor (under guardianship); 
  Hindu  Undivided  Families  or  HUFs, 

individual  name  of  the  Karta.  The 
Bidder/Applicant should specify that the Bid is being made in the name of the HUF in the Bid 
cum Application Form/Application Form as follows: “Name of sole or first Bidder/Applicant: 
XYZ Hindu Undivided Family applying through XYZ, where XYZ is the name of the Karta”. 
Bids/Applications  by  HUFs  may    be  considered  at  par  with  Bids/Applications  from 
individuals;  

in  the 

  Companies,  corporate  bodies  and  societies  registered  under  applicable  law  in  India  and 

authorised to invest in equity shares; 

  QIBs; 
  NRIs on a repatriation basis or on a non-repatriation basis subject to applicable law ; 
  Qualified Foreign Investors subject to applicable law;  
 

Indian  Financial  Institutions,  regional  rural  banks,  co-operative  banks  (subject  to  RBI 
regulations and the SEBI ICDR Regulations, 2009 and other laws, as applicable); 

  FIIs  and  sub-accounts  registered  with  SEBI,  other  than  a  sub-account  which  is  a  foreign 

 

corporate or foreign individual, bidding under the QIBs category; 
Sub-accounts of FIIs registered with SEBI, which are foreign corporates or foreign individuals 
only under the Non Institutional Investors (NIIs) category; 

  Trusts/societies registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, or under any other law 
relating  to  trusts/societies  and  who  are  authorised  under  their  respective  constitutions  to 
hold and invest in equity shares;  

  Limited  liability  partnerships  registered  under  the  Limited  Liability  Partnership  Act,  2008; 

and 

  Any  other  person  eligible  to  Bid/Apply  in  the  Issue,  under  the  laws,  rules,  regulations, 

guidelines and policies applicable to them and under Indian laws. 

  As per the existing regulations, OCBs are not allowed to participate in an Issue.  
 
 

 

6 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

SECTION 4: APPLYING IN THE ISSUE 

Book Built Issue: Bidders should only use the specified Bid cum Application Form either bearing 
the stamp of a member of the Syndicate or bearing a stamp of the Registered Broker or stamp of 
SCSBs as available or downloaded from the websites of the Stock Exchanges.  
 
Bid cum Application Forms are available with the members of the Syndicate, Registered Brokers, 
Designated Branches of the SCSBs and  at the registered office of the  Issuer. Electronic Bid cum 
Application Forms will be available on the websites of the Stock Exchanges at least one day prior 
to the Bid/Issue Opening Date. For further details regarding availability of Bid cum Application 
Forms, Bidders may refer to the RHP/Prospectus. 
 
Fixed Price Issue: Applicants should only use the specified cum Application Form either bearing 
the  stamp  of  Collection  Bank(s)  or  SCSBs  as  available  or  downloaded  from  the  websites  of  the 
Stock  Exchanges.  Application  Forms  are  available  with  the  Branches  of  Collection  Banks  or 
Designated  Branches  of  the  SCSBs  and  at  the  registered  office  of  the  Issuer.  For  further  details 
regarding availability of Application Forms, Applicants may refer to the Prospectus. 
 
 
Bidders/Applicants  should  ensure  that  they  apply  in  the  appropriate  category.  The  prescribed 
color of the Bid cum Application Form for various categories of Bidders/Applicants is as follows: 
 

Category 

Indian,  Eligible  NRIs  applying  on  a  non 

Resident 
repatriation basis  
NRIs,  FVCIs,  FIIs,  their  Sub-Accounts  (other  than  Sub-
Accounts  which  are 
foreign 
individuals bidding under the QIB), on a repatriation basis 
Anchor  Investors  (where  applicable)  &  Bidders/Applicants 
bidding/applying  in the reserved category  

foreign  corporate(s)  or 

the  Bid  cum 

Color  of 
Application Form  
White 

Blue 

[As specified by the Issuer] 

 
Securities  Issued  in  an  IPO  of  Issue  size  equal  to  rupees  ten  crores  or  more  can  only  be  in 
dematerialized 
the  Companies  Act,  1956. 
Bidders/Applicants  will  not  have  the  option  of  getting  the  allotment  of  specified  securities  in 
physical  form.  However,  they  may  get  the  specified  securities  rematerialised  subsequent  to 
allotment.  

in  compliance  with  Section  68B  of 

form 

 

4.1  INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  FILING  THE  BID  CUM  APPLICATION  FORM/  APPLICATION 

FORM 

 
Bidders/Applicants  may  note  that  forms  not  filled  completely  or  correctly  as  per  instructions 
provided in this GID, the RHP and the Bid cum Application Form/Application Form are liable to 
be rejected.  
 

 

7 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Instructions to fill each field of the Bid cum Application Form can be found on the reverse side of 
the Bid cum Application Form. Specific instructions for filling various fields of the Resident Bid 
cum Application Form and Non-Resident Bid cum Application Form and samples are provided 
below.  
 
The samples of the Bid cum Application Form for resident Bidders and the Bid cum Application 
Form for non-resident Bidders are reproduced below:  

 

8 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

FIELD  NUMBER  1:  NAME  AND  CONTACT  DETAILS  OF  THE  SOLE/FIRST 
BIDDER/APPLICANT  

 

9 
 

 
 

 
 
4.1.1 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
(a)  Bidders/Applicants should ensure that the name provided in this field is exactly the same as 

the name in which the Depository Account is held.  
 
 

(b)  Mandatory  Fields:  Bidders/Applicants  should  note  that  the  name  and  address  fields  are 
compulsory  and  e-mail  and/or  telephone  number/mobile  number  fields  are  optional. 
Bidders/Applicants  should  note  that  the  contact  details  mentioned  in  the  Bid-cum 
Application  Form/Application  Form  may  be  used  to  dispatch  communications(including 
refund  orders  and  letters  notifying  the  unblocking  of  the  bank  accounts  of  ASBA 
Bidders/Applicants)  in  case  the  communication  sent  to  the  address  available  with  the 
Depositories  are  returned  undelivered  or  are  not  available.  The  contact  details  provided  in 
the Bid cum Application Form may be used by the Issuer, the members of the Syndicate, the 
Registered  Broker  and  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue  only  for  correspondence(s)  related  to  an 
Issue and for no other purposes.  
 

(c)  Joint Bids/Applications: In the case of Joint Bids/Applications, the Bids /Applications should 
be  made  in  the  name  of  the  Bidder/Applicant  whose  name  appears  first  in  the  Depository 
account. The name so entered should be the same as it appears in the Depository records. The 
signature of only such first Bidder/Applicant would be required in the Bid cum Application 
Form/Application Form and such first Bidder/Applicant would be deemed to have signed on 
behalf of the joint holders All payments  may  be  made out in favor of the  Bidder/Applicant 
whose  name  appears  in  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form/Application  Form  or  the  Revision 
Form  and  all  communications  may  be  addressed  to  such  Bidder/Applicant  and  may  be 
dispatched  to  his  or  her  address  as  per  the  Demographic  Details  received  from  the 
Depositories.  

 
(d)  Impersonation: Attention of the Bidders/Applicants is specifically drawn to the provisions of 
sub-section  (1)  of  Section  68A  of  the  Companies  Act,  which  is  reproduced  below:  “Any 
person  who:  (a)  makes  in  a  fictitious  name,  an  application  to  a  company  for  acquiring  or 
subscribing for, any shares therein, or (b) otherwise induces a company to allot, or register 
any  transfer  of  shares  therein  to  him,  or  any  other  person  in  a  fictitious  name,  may    be 
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years”.  

 
(e)  Nomination  Facility  to  Bidder/Applicant:  Nomination  facility  is  available  in  accordance 
with the provisions of Section 109A of the Companies Act. In case of allotment of the Equity 
Shares  in  dematerialized  form,  there  is  no  need  to  make  a  separate  nomination  as  the 
nomination  registered  with  the  Depository  may  prevail.  For  changing  nominations,  the 
Bidders/Applicants should inform their respective DP.   

FIELD NUMBER 2: PAN NUMBER OF SOLE/FIRST BIDDER/APPLICANT 

 
4.1.2 
 
(a)  PAN  (of  the  sole/  first  Bidder/Applicant)  provided 

in  the  Bid  cum  Application 
Form/Application  Form  should  be    exactly  the  same  as  the  PAN  of  the  person(s)  in  whose 
name the relevant beneficiary account is held as per the Depositories’ records.  
 

 

10 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
(b)  PAN  is  the  sole  identification  number  for  participants  transacting  in  the  securities  market 
irrespective of the amount of transaction except for Bids/Applications on behalf of the Central 
or  State  Government,  Bids/Applications  by  officials  appointed  by  the  courts  and 
Bids/Applications  by  Bidders/Applicants 
(“PAN  Exempted 
Bidders/Applicants”).  Consequently,  all  Bidders/Applicants,  other  than  the  PAN  Exempted 
Bidders/Applicants,  are  required  to  disclose  their  PAN  in  the  Bid  cum  Application 
Form/Application Form, irrespective of the Bid/Application Amount. A Bid cum Application 
Form/Application  Form  without  PAN,  except  in  case  of  Exempted  Bidders/Applicants,  is 
liable to be rejected. Bids/Applications by the Bidders/Applicants whose PAN is not available 
as per the Demographic Details available in their Depository records, are liable to be rejected.  
 

in  Sikkim 

residing 

(c)  The exemption for the PAN Exempted Bidders/Applicants is subject to (a) the Demographic 
Details  received  from  the  respective  Depositories  confirming  the  exemption  granted  to  the 
beneficiary  owner  by  a  suitable  description  in  the  PAN  field  and  the  beneficiary  account 
remaining in “active status”; and (b) in the case of residents of Sikkim, the address as per the 
Demographic Details evidencing the same.  

 

(d)  Bid  cum  Application  Forms/Application  Forms  which  provide  the  General  Index  Register 

Number instead of PAN may be rejected. 
 

(e)  Bids/Applications  by  Bidders  whose  demat  accounts  have  been  'suspended  for  credit'  are 
liable to be rejected pursuant to the circular issued by SEBI on July 29, 2010, bearing number 
CIR/MRD/DP/22/2010.  Such  accounts  are  classified  as  “Inactive  demat  accounts”  and 
demographic details are not provided by depositories.  

 

FIELD NUMBER 3: BIDDERS/APPLICANTS DEPOSITORY ACCOUNT DETAILS  

 
4.1.3 
 
(a)  Bidders/Applicants should ensure that DP ID and the Client ID are correctly filled in the Bid 
cum Application Form/Application Form. The DP ID and Client ID provided in the Bid cum 
Application Form/Application Form should match with the DP ID and Client ID available in 
the  Depository  database,  otherwise,  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form/Application  Form  is 
liable to be rejected. 

 
(b)  Bidders/Applicants  should  ensure  that  the  beneficiary  account  provided  in  the  Bid  cum 

Application Form/Application Form is active.  

 
(c)  Bidders/Applicants should note that on the basis of DP ID and Client ID as provided in the 
Bid cum Application Form/Application Form, the Bidder/Applicant may be deemed to have 
authorized  the  Depositories  to  provide  to  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue,  any  requested 
Demographic Details of the Bidder/Applicant as available on the records of the depositories. 
These  Demographic  Details  may  be  used,  among  other  things,  for  giving  refunds  and 
allocation  advice  (including  through  physical  refund  warrants,  direct  credit,  NECS,  NEFT 
and  RTGS),  or  unblocking  of  ASBA  Account  or  for  other  correspondence(s)  related  to  an 
Issue.  
 

 

11 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
(d)  Bidders/Applicants  are,  advised  to  update  any  changes  to  their  Demographic  Details  as 
available  in  the  records  of  the  Depository  Participant  to  ensure  accuracy  of  records.  Any 
delay  resulting  from  failure  to  update  the  Demographic  Details  would  be  at  the 
Bidders/Applicants’ sole risk.  

FIELD NUMBER 4: BID OPTIONS  

 
4.1.4 
 
(a)  Price  or  Floor  Price  or  Price  Band,  minimum  Bid  Lot  and  Discount  (if  applicable)  may  be 
disclosed in the Prospectus/RHP by the Issuer. The Issuer is required to announce the Floor 
Price  or  Price  Band,  minimum  Bid  Lot  and  Discount  (if  applicable)  by  way  of  an 
advertisement  in  at  least  one  English,  one  Hindi  and  one  regional  newspaper,  with  wide 
circulation, at least five Working Days before Bid/Issue Opening Date in case of an IPO, and 
at least one Working Day before Bid/Issue Opening Date in case of an FPO.  
 

(b)  The  Bidders  may  Bid  at  or  above  Floor  Price  or  within  the  Price  Band  for  IPOs  /FPOs 
undertaken  through  the  Book  Building  Process.  In  the  case  of  Alternate  Book  Building 
Process for an FPO, the Bidders may Bid at Floor Price or any price above the Floor Price (For 
further details  bidders may refer to (Section 5.6 (e)) 
 

(c)  Cut-Off  Price:  Retail  Individual  Investors  or  Employees  or  Retail  Individual  Shareholders 
can  Bid  at  the  Cut-off  Price  indicating  their  agreement  to  Bid  for  and  purchase  the  Equity 
Shares  at the Issue Price as determined at the end of the Book Building Process.  Bidding at 
the Cut-off Price is prohibited for QIBs and NIIs and such Bids from QIBs and NIIs may be 
rejected. 

 
(d)  Minimum Application Value and Bid Lot: The Issuer in consultation with the  BRLMs may 
decide  the  minimum  number  of  Equity  Shares  for  each  Bid  to  ensure  that  the  minimum 
application  value  is  within  the  range  of  Rs.  10,000  to  Rs.15,000.  The  minimum  Bid  Lot  is 
accordingly determined by an Issuer on basis of such minimum application value. 
 

(e)  Allotment:    The  allotment  of  specified  securities  to  each  RII  shall  not  be  less  than  the 
minimum  Bid  Lot,  subject  to  availability  of  shares  in  the  RII  category,  and  the  remaining 
available shares, if any, shall be allotted on a proportionate basis. For details of the Bid Lot, 
bidders may to the RHP/Prospectus or the advertisement regarding the Price Band published 
by the Issuer.   
 

4.1.4.1  Maximum and Minimum Bid Size 
 
(a)  The Bidder may Bid for the desired number of Equity Shares at a specific price. Bids by Retail 
Individual  Investors,  Employees  and  Retail  Individual  Shareholders  must  be  for  such 
number of shares so as to ensure that the Bid Amount less Discount (as applicable), payable 
by the Bidder does not exceed Rs. 200,000.  
 
In case the Bid Amount exceeds Rs. 200,000 due to revision of the Bid or any other reason, the 
Bid may be considered for allocation under the Non-Institutional Category, with it not being 
eligible for Discount then such Bid may be rejected if it is at the Cut-off Price. 

 

12 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

  

(b)  For NRIs, a Bid Amount of up to Rs. 200,000 may be considered under the Retail Category for 
the  purposes  of  allocation  and  a  Bid  Amount  exceeding  Rs.  200,000  may      be  considered 
under the Non-Institutional Category for the purposes of allocation. 
 

(c)  Bids  by  QIBs  and  NIIs  must  be  for  such  minimum  number  of  shares  such  that  the  Bid 
Amount exceeds Rs. 200,000 and in multiples of such number of Equity Shares thereafter, as 
may be disclosed in the Bid cum Application Form and the RHP/Prospectus, or as advertised 
by the Issuer, as the case may be. Non-Institutional Bidders and QIBs are not allowed to Bid 
at ‘Cut-off Price’. 
 

(d)  RII  may  revise  their  bids  till  closure  of  the  bidding  period  or  withdraw  their  bids  until 
finalization  of  allotment.  QIBs    and  NII’s  cannot  withdraw  or  lower  their  Bids  (in  terms  of 
quantity of Equity Shares or the Bid Amount) at any stage after bidding and are required to 
pay the Bid Amount upon submission of the Bid. 
 

(e)  In case the Bid Amount reduces to Rs. 200,000 or less due to a revision of the Price Band, Bids 
by the Non-Institutional Bidders who are eligible for allocation in the Retail Category would 
be considered for allocation under the Retail Category. 
 

(f)  For Anchor Investors, if applicable, the Bid Amount shall be least Rs. 10 crores. One-third of 
the  Anchor  Investor  Portion  shall  be  reserved  for  domestic  Mutual  Funds,  subject  to  valid 
Bids being received from domestic Mutual Funds at or above the price at which allocation is 
being  done  to  other  Anchor  Investors.  Bids  by  various  schemes  of  a  Mutual  Fund  shall  be 
aggregated to determine the Bid Amount.  A Bid cannot be submitted for more than 30% of 
the QIB Portion under the Anchor Investor Portion. Anchor Investors cannot withdraw their 
Bids or lower the size of their Bids (in terms of quantity of Equity Shares or the Bid Amount) 
at  any  stage  after  the  Anchor  Investor  Bid/  Issue  Period  and  are  required  to  pay  the  Bid 
Amount at the time of submission of the Bid. In case the Anchor Investor Issue Price is lower 
than the Issue Price, the balance amount shall be payable as per the pay-in-date mentioned in 
the  revised  CAN.  In  case  the  Issue  Price  is  lower  than  the  Anchor  Investor  Issue  Price,  the 
amount  in  excess  of  the  Issue  Price  paid  by  the  Anchor  Investors  shall  not  be  refunded  to 
them. 
  

(g)  A Bid cannot be submitted for more than the Issue size.  
 
(h)  The  maximum  Bid  by  any  Bidder  including  QIB  Bidder  should  not  exceed  the  investment 

limits prescribed for them under the applicable laws.  

 
(i)  The  price  and  quantity  options  submitted  by  the  Bidder  in  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form 
may  be  treated  as  optional  bids  from  the  Bidder  and  may  not  be  cumulated.  After 
determination of the Issue Price, the number of Equity Shares Bid for by a Bidder at or above 
the Issue Price may be considered for allotment and the rest of the Bid(s), irrespective of the 
Bid  Amount  may  automatically  become  invalid.    This  is  not  applicable  in  case  of  FPOs 
undertaken  through  Alternate  Book  Building  Process  (For  details  of  bidders  may  refer  to 
(Section 5.6 (e)) 

 

13 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
4.1.4.2  Multiple Bids 
 
(a)  Bidder  should  submit  only  one  Bid  cum  Application Form.  Bidder  shall  have  the  option  to 
make a maximum of Bids at three different price levels in the Bid cum Application Form and 
such options are not considered as multiple Bids.  
 
Submission of a second Bid cum Application Form to either the same or to another member 
of  the  Syndicate,  SCSB  or  Registered  Broker  and  duplicate  copies  of  Bid  cum  Application 
Forms bearing the same application number shall be treated as multiple Bids and are liable to 
be rejected. 
 

(b)  Bidders are requested to note the following procedures may be followed by the Registrar to 

the Issue to detect multiple Bids: 

 

i.  All  Bids  may  be  checked  for  common  PAN  as  per  the  records  of  the  Depository.  For 
Bidders other than Mutual Funds and FII sub-accounts, Bids bearing the same PAN may be 
treated as multiple Bids by a Bidder and may be rejected. 

 

ii.  For Bids from Mutual Funds and FII sub-accounts, submitted under the same PAN, as well 
as Bids on  behalf of the  PAN Exempted Bidders, the Bid cum Application Forms  may  be 
checked  for  common  DP  ID  and  Client  ID.  Such  Bids  which  have  the  same  DP  ID  and 
Client ID may be treated as multiple Bids and are liable to be rejected. 

 

(c)  The following Bids may not be treated as multiple Bids: 

 

i.  Bids by Reserved Categories bidding in their respective  Reservation  Portion as well as bids 

made by them in the Net Issue portion in public category. 

ii.  Separate  Bids  by  Mutual  Funds  in  respect  of  more  than  one  scheme  of  the  Mutual  Fund 

provided that the Bids clearly indicate the scheme for which the Bid has been made. 

iii.  Bids by Mutual Funds, and sub-accounts of FIIs (or FIIs and its sub-accounts) submitted with 

the same PAN but with different beneficiary account numbers, Client IDs and DP IDs. 

iv.  Bids by Anchor Investors under the Anchor Investor Portion and the QIB Category. 
 
4.1.5 
 
(a)  The categories of Bidders identified as per the SEBI ICDR Regulations, 2009 for the purpose 

FIELD NUMBER 5 : CATEGORY OF BIDDERS 

of Bidding, allocation and allotment in the Issue are RIIs, NIIs and QIBs.  
 

(b)  Upto 30% of the QIB Category can be allocated by the Issuer, on a discretionary basis [subject 
to  the  criteria  of  minimum  and  maximum  number  of  anchor  investors  based  on  allocation 
size],  to  the  Anchor  Investors,  in  accordance  with  SEBI  ICDR  Regulations,  2009,  with  one-
third  of  the  Anchor  Investor  Portion  reserved  for  domestic  Mutual  Funds  subject  to  valid 
Bids  being  received  at  or  above  the  Issue  Price.  For  details  regarding  allocation  to  Anchor 
Investors, bidders may refer to the RHP/Prospectus.  
 

 

14 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
(c)  An  Issuer  can  make  reservation  for  certain  categories  of  Bidders/Applicants  as  permitted 
under  the  SEBI  ICDR  Regulations,  2009.  For  details  of  any  reservations  made  in  the  Issue, 
Bidders/Applicants may refer to the RHP/Prospectus.  

 
(d)  The  SEBI  ICDR  Regulations,  2009,  specify  the  allocation  or  allotment  that  may  be  made  to 
various  categories  of  Bidders  in  an  Issue  depending  upon  compliance  with  the  eligibility 
conditions.  Details  pertaining  to  allocation  are  disclosed  on  reverse  side  of  the  Revision 
Form.  For  Issue  specific  details  in  relation  to  allocation  Bidder/Applicant  may  refer  to  the 
RHP/Prospectus. 

FIELD NUMBER 6: INVESTOR STATUS  

 
4.1.6 
 
(a)  Each Bidder/Applicant should check whether it is eligible to apply under applicable law and 
ensure that any prospective allotment to it in the Issue is in compliance with the investment 
restrictions under applicable law.  

 

(b)  Certain categories of Bidders/Applicants, such as NRIs, FIIs and FVCIs may not be allowed to 
Bid/Apply  in  the  Issue  or  hold  Equity  Shares  exceeding  certain  limits  specified  under 
applicable  law.  Bidders/Applicants  are  requested  to  refer  to  the  RHP/Prospectus  for  more 
details. 

 

(c)  Bidders/Applicants should check whether they are eligible to apply on non-repatriation basis 
or  repatriation  basis  and  should  accordingly  provide  the  investor  status.  Details  regarding 
investor status are different in the Resident Bid cum Application Form and Non-Resident Bid 
cum Application Form.  

 

(d)  Bidders/Applicants  should  ensure  that  their  investor  status  is  updated  in  the  Depository 

records.  

FIELD NUMBER 7: PAYMENT DETAILS 

 
4.1.7 
 
(a)  All  Bidders  are  required  to  make  payment  of  the  full  Bid  Amount  (net  of  any  Discount,  as 
applicable)  along-with  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form.  If  the  Discount  is  applicable  in  the 
Issue, the RIIs should indicate the full Bid Amount in the Bid cum Application Form and the 
payment  shall  be  made  for  Bid  Amount  net  of  Discount.  Only  in  cases  where  the 
RHP/Prospectus indicates that part payment may be made, such an option can be exercised 
by  the  Bidder.    In  case  of  Bidders  specifying  more  than  one  Bid  Option  in  the  Bid  cum 
Application Form, the total Bid Amount may be calculated for the highest of three options at 
net price, i.e. Bid price less Discount offered, if any.  

 

(b)  Bidders who Bid at Cut-off price shall deposit the Bid Amount based on the Cap Price. 

 

(c)  QIBs and NIIs can participate in the Issue only through the ASBA mechanism.  

 

 

15 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
(d)  RIIs  and/or  Reserved  Categories  bidding  in  their  respective  reservation  portion  can  Bid, 
either  through  the  ASBA  mechanism  or  by  paying  the  Bid  Amount  through  a  cheque  or  a 
demand draft (“Non-ASBA Mechanism”).  

 

(e)  Bid Amount cannot be paid in cash, through money order or through postal order.  
 
4.1.7.1  Instructions for non-ASBA Bidders:   

 

(a)  Non-ASBA  Bidders  may  submit  their  Bids  with  a  member  of  the  Syndicate  or  any  of  the 
Registered  Brokers  of  the  Stock  Exchange.  The  details  of  Broker  Centres  along  with  names 
and  contact  details  of  the  Registered  Brokers  are  provided  on  the  websites  of  the  Stock 
Exchanges.  
 

(b)  For Bids made through a member of the Syndicate: The Bidder may, with the submission of 
the Bid cum Application Form, draw a cheque or demand draft for the Bid Amount in favour 
of the Escrow Account as specified under the RHP/Prospectus and the Bid cum Application 
Form and submit the same to the members of the Syndicate at Specified Locations. 

 

(c)  For Bids made through a Registered Broker: The Bidder may, with the submission of the Bid 
cum Application Form, draw a cheque or demand draft for the Bid Amount in favour of the 
Escrow Account as specified under the RHP/Prospectus and the Bid cum Application Form 
and submit the same to the Registered Broker.  

 

(d)  If  the  cheque  or  demand  draft  accompanying  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form  is  not  made 

favoring the Escrow Account, the Bid is liable to be rejected.  

 

(e)  Payments should be made by cheque, or demand draft drawn on any bank (including a co-
operative  bank),  which  is  situated  at,  and  is  a  member  of  or  sub-member  of  the  bankers’ 
clearing  house  located  at  the  centre  where  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form  is  submitted. 
Cheques/bank  drafts  drawn  on  banks  not  participating  in  the  clearing  process  may  not  be 
accepted  and  applications  accompanied  by  such  cheques  or  bank  drafts  are  liable  to  be 
rejected.  

 

(f)  The  Escrow  Collection  Banks  shall  maintain  the  monies  in  the  Escrow  Account  for  and  on 

behalf of the Bidders until the Designated Date.  

 

(g)  Bidders are advised to provide the number of the Bid cum Application Form and PAN on the 

reverse of the cheque or bank draft to avoid any possible misuse of instruments submitted. 

 

4.1.7.2  Payment instructions for ASBA Bidders 
 
(a)  ASBA Bidders may submit the Bid cum Application Form either  

i. 

in physical mode to the Designated Branch of an SCSB where the Bidders/Applicants have 
ASBA Account, or  

 

16 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

ii. 

in  electronic  mode  through  the  internet  banking  facility  offered  by  an  SCSB  authorizing 
blocking  of  funds  that  are  available  in  the  ASBA  account  specified  in  the  Bid  cum 
Application Form, or  
 in physical mode to a member of the Syndicate at the Specified Locations  or  

iii. 
iv.  Registered Brokers of the Stock Exchange 

 

(b)  ASBA Bidders may specify the Bank Account number in the Bid cum Application Form. The 
Bid cum Application Form submitted by an ASBA Bidder and which is accompanied by cash, 
demand  draft,  money  order,  postal  order  or  any  mode  of  payment  other  than  blocked 
amounts in the ASBA Account maintained with an SCSB, may not be accepted.  

 
(c)  Bidders  should  ensure  that  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form  is  also  signed  by  the  ASBA 

Account holder(s) if the  Bidder is not the ASBA Account holder;  
 

(d)  Bidders  shall  note  that  that  for  the  purpose  of  blocking  funds  under  ASBA  facility  clearly 

demarcated funds shall be available in the account. 
 

(e)  From one ASBA Account, a maximum of five Bids cum Application Forms can be submitted. 

 

(f)  ASBA Bidders bidding through a member of the Syndicate should ensure that the Bid cum 
Application Form is submitted to a member of the Syndicate only at the Specified locations. 
ASBA  Bidders should also note that Bid cum Application Forms submitted to  a member of 
the Syndicate at the Specified locations may not be accepted by the Member of the Syndicate 
if  the  SCSB  where  the  ASBA  Account,  as  specified  in  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form,  is 
maintained  has  not  named  at  least  one  branch  at  that  location  for  the  members  of  the 
Syndicate to deposit Bid cum Application Forms (a list of such branches is available on the 
website 
http://www.sebi.gov.in/sebiweb/home/list/5/33/0/0/Recognised-
Intermediaries).   

SEBI 

of 

at 

 

(g)  ASBA Bidders bidding through a Registered Broker should note that Bid cum Application 
Forms submitted to the Registered Brokers may not be accepted by the Registered Broker, if 
the  SCSB  where  the  ASBA  Account,  as  specified  in  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form,  is 
maintained has not named at least one branch at that location for the Registered Brokers to 
deposit Bid cum Application Forms.  
 

(h)  ASBA  Bidders  bidding  directly  through  the  SCSBs  should  ensure  that  the  Bid  cum 
Application Form is submitted to a Designated Branch of a SCSB where the ASBA Account is 
maintained. 

 

(i)  Upon  receipt  of  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form,  the  Designated  Branch  of  the  SCSB  may   
verify  if  sufficient  funds  equal  to  the  Bid  Amount  are  available  in  the  ASBA  Account,  as 
mentioned in the Bid cum Application Form. 

 

(j)  If  sufficient  funds  are  available  in  the  ASBA  Account,  the  SCSB  may  block  an  amount 
equivalent  to  the  Bid  Amount  mentioned  in  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form  and  for 

 

17 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

application  directly  submitted  to  SCSB  by  investor,  may  enter  each  Bid  option  into  the 
electronic bidding system as a separate Bid. 

 

(k)  If sufficient funds are not available in the ASBA Account, the Designated Branch of the SCSB 
may  not  upload  such  Bids  on  the  Stock  Exchange  platform  and  such  bids  are  liable  to  be 
rejected. 

 

(l)  Upon  submission  of  a  completed  Bid  cum  Application  Form  each  ASBA  Bidder  may  be 
deemed  to  have  agreed  to  block  the  entire  Bid  Amount  and  authorized  the  Designated 
Branch of the SCSB to  block the Bid Amount specified in the Bid cum Application Form in 
the ASBA Account maintained with the SCSBs. 

 

(m) The Bid Amount may remain blocked in the aforesaid ASBA Account until finalisation of the 
Basis  of  allotment  and  consequent  transfer  of  the  Bid  Amount  against  the  Allotted  Equity 
Shares  to  the  Public  Issue  Account,  or  until  withdrawal  or  failure  of  the  Issue,  or  until 
withdrawal or rejection of the Bid, as the case may be. 

 

(n)  SCSBs bidding in the Issue must apply through an Account maintained with any other SCSB; 

else their Bids are liable to be rejected.       

  
4.1.7.2.1 Unblocking of ASBA Account 
 
(a)  Once the Basis of Allotment is approved by the Designated Stock Exchange, the Registrar to 
the Issue may provide the following details to the  controlling branches of each SCSB, along 
with  instructions  to  unblock  the  relevant  bank  accounts  and  for  successful  applications 
transfer the requisite money to the Public Issue Account designated for this purpose, within 
the specified timelines: (i) the number of Equity Shares to be Allotted against each Bid, (ii) the 
amount to be transferred from the relevant bank account to the Public Issue Account, for each 
Bid, (iii) the date  by which funds referred to in (ii) above  may   be transferred to the Public 
Issue Account, and (iv) details of rejected ASBA Bids, if any, along with reasons for rejection 
and  details  of  withdrawn  or  unsuccessful  Bids,  if  any,  to  enable  the  SCSBs  to  unblock  the 
respective bank accounts.  

 
(b)  On  the  basis  of  instructions  from  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue,  the  SCSBs  may  transfer  the 
requisite amount against each successful ASBA Bidder to the Public Issue Account and may 
unblock the excess amount, if any, in the ASBA Account.  

 

(c)  In the event of withdrawal or rejection of the Bid cum Application Form and for unsuccessful 
Bids, the Registrar to the Issue may give instructions to the SCSB to unblock the Bid Amount 
in the relevant ASBA Account within 12 Working Days of the Bid/Issue Closing Date.  
 

4.1.7.3  Additional Payment Instructions for NRIs 
 
The  Non-Resident  Indians  who  intend  to  make  payment  through  Non-Resident  Ordinary  (NRO) 
accounts shall use the form meant for Resident Indians (non-repatriation basis). In the case of Bids 
by NRIs applying on a repatriation basis, payment shall not be accepted out of NRO Account.  

 

18 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
4.1.7.4  Discount (if applicable) 
 
(a)  The Discount is stated in absolute rupee terms.  

 

(b)  Bidders applying under RII category, Retail Individual Shareholder and employees are only 
eligible  for  discount.  For  Discounts  offered  in  the  Issue,  Bidders  may  refer  to  the 
RHP/Prospectus. 

 

(c)  The  Bidders  entitled  to  the  applicable  Discount  in  the  Issue  may  make  payment  for  an 

amount i.e. the Bid Amount less Discount (if applicable).  
 

Bidder may note that in case the net payment (post Discount) is more than two lakh Rupees, the 
bidding system automatically considers such applications for allocation under Non-Institutional 
Category. These applications are neither eligible for Discount nor fall under RII category.  
 
4.1.8 
 
(a)  Only 

the  Bid  cum  Application 
Form/Application Form. Bidders/Applicants should ensure that signatures are in one of the 
languages specified in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution of India.  

FIELD NUMBER 8: SIGNATURES AND OTHER AUTHORISATIONS  

the  First  Bidder/Applicant 

is  required 

to  sign 

 

(b)  If the ASBA Account is held by a person or persons other than the ASBA Bidder/Applicant., 

then the Signature of the ASBA Account holder(s) is also required. 

 

(c)  In  relation  to  the  ASBA  Bids/Applications,  signature  has  to  be  correctly  affixed  in  the 
authorization/undertaking  box  in  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form/Application  Form,  or  an 
authorisation has to be provided to the SCSB via the electronic mode, for blocking funds in 
the  ASBA  Account  equivalent  to  the  Bid  Amount  mentioned  in  the  Bid  cum  Application 
Form/Application Form. 

 

(d)  Bidders/Applicants  must  note  that  Bid  cum  Application  Form/Application  Form  without 

signature of Bidder/Applicant and /or ASBA Account holder is liable to be rejected.  

 
4.1.9  ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND FUTURE COMMUNICATION 
 
(a)  Bidders should ensure that they receive the acknowledgment duly signed and stamped by a 
member of the Syndicate, Registered Broker or SCSB, as applicable, for submission of the Bid 
cum Application Form.  

 

(b)  Applicants should ensure that they receive the acknowledgment duly signed and stamped by 

an Escrow Collection Bank or SCSB, as applicable, for submission of the Application Form. 

 

(c)  All  communications  in  connection  with  Bids/Applications  made  in  the  Issue  should  be 

addressed as under: 

 

 

19 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

i.  In case of queries related to Allotment, non-receipt of Allotment Advice, credit of allotted 
equity  shares,  refund  orders,  the  Bidders/Applicants  should  contact  the  Registrar  to  the 
Issue.  
 

ii.  In  case  of  ASBA  Bids  submitted  to  the  Designated  Branches  of  the  SCSBs,  the 

Bidders/Applicants should contact the relevant Designated Branch of the SCSB.  
 

iii.  In  case  of  queries  relating  to  uploading  of  Syndicate  ASBA  Bids,  the  Bidders/Applicants 

should contact the relevant Syndicate Member.  
 

iv.  In  case  of  queries  relating  to  uploading  of  Bids  by  a  Registered  Broker,  the 

Bidders/Applicants should contact the relevant Registered Broker 
 
 Bidder/Applicant may contact the Company Secretary and Compliance Officer or BRLM(s) 
in case of any other complaints in relation to the Issue.  

v. 

 

(d)  The following details (as applicable) should be quoted while making any queries -  

 
i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

full  name  of  the  sole  or  First  Bidder/Applicant,  Bid  cum  Application  Form  number, 
Applicants’/Bidders’  DP  ID,  Client  ID,  PAN,  number  of  Equity  Shares  applied  for, 
amount paid on application.   
name and address of the member of the Syndicate, Registered Broker or the Designated 
Branch, as the case may be, where the Bid was submitted or  
In  case  of  Non-ASBA  bids  cheque  or  draft  number  and  the  name  of  the  issuing  bank 
thereof  
In case of ASBA Bids, ASBA Account number in which the amount equivalent to the Bid 
Amount was blocked. 

 

For  further  details,  Bidder/Applicant  may  refer  to  the  RHP/Prospectus  and  the  Bid  cum 
Application Form. 

 
4.2  INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING THE REVISION FORM 
 
(a)  During the Bid/Issue Period, any Bidder/Applicant (other than QIBs and NIIs, who can only 
revise  their  bid  upwards)  who  has  registered  his  or  her  interest  in  the  Equity  Shares  at  a 
particular price level is free to revise his or her Bid within the Price Band using the Revision 
Form, which is a part of the Bid cum Application Form.  

 

(b)  RII  may  revise  their  bids  till  closure  of  the  bidding  period  or  withdraw  their  bids  until 

finalization of allotment.  

 

(c)  Revisions can be made in both the desired number of Equity Shares and the Bid Amount by 

using the Revision Form.  

 

(d)  The  Bidder/Applicant  can  make  this  revision  any  number  of  times  during  the  Bid/  Issue 
Period. However, for any revision(s) in the Bid, the  Bidders/Applicants will have to use the 

 

20 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

services  of  the  same  member  of  the  Syndicate,  the  Registered  Broker  or  the  SCSB  through 
which such Bidder/Applicant had placed the original Bid. Bidders/Applicants are advised to 
retain copies of the blank Revision Form and the Bid(s) must be made only in such Revision 
Form or copies thereof. 

A sample Revision form is reproduced below:  

21 
 

 

  

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Instructions  to  fill  each  field  of  the  Revision  Form  can  be  found  on  the  reverse  side  of  the 
Revision  Form.  Other  than  instructions  already  highlighted  at  paragraph  4.1  above,  point  wise 
instructions regarding filling up various fields of the Revision Form are provided below: 
 

 

 

22 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
4.2.1 

FIELDS  1,  2  AND  3:  NAME  AND  CONTACT  DETAILS  OF  SOLE/FIRST 
BIDDER/APPLICANT, PAN OF SOLE/FIRST BIDDER/APPLICANT & DEPOSITORY 
ACCOUNT DETAILS  OF THE BIDDER/APPLICANT 

FIELD 4 & 5: BID OPTIONS REVISION ‘FROM’ AND ‘TO’ 

 
Bidders/Applicants should refer to instructions contained in paragraphs 4.1.1, 4.1.2 and 4.1.3. 
 
4.2.2 
 
(a)  Apart from mentioning the revised options in the Revision Form, the Bidder/Applicant must 
also mention the details of all the bid options given in his or her Bid cum Application Form 
or earlier Revision Form. For example, if a Bidder/Applicant has Bid for three options in the 
Bid cum Application Form and such Bidder/Applicant is changing only one of the options in 
the  Revision  Form,  the  Bidder/Applicant  must  still  fill  the  details  of  the  other  two  options 
that  are  not  being  revised,  in  the  Revision  Form.  The  members  of  the  Syndicate,  the 
Registered Brokers and the Designated Branches of the SCSBs may not accept incomplete or 
inaccurate Revision Forms. 

 

(b)  In case of revision, Bid options should be provided by Bidders/Applicants in the same order 

as provided in the Bid cum Application Form.  

 

(c)  In  case  of  revision  of  Bids  by  RIIs,  Employees  and  Retail  Individual  Shareholders,  such 
Bidders/Applicants  should  ensure  that  the  Bid  Amount,  subsequent  to  revision,  does  not 
exceed Rs. 200,000. In case the Bid Amount exceeds Rs. 200,000 due to revision of the Bid or 
for any other reason, the Bid may be considered, subject to eligibility, for allocation under the 
Non-Institutional Category, not being eligible for Discount (if applicable) and such Bid may 
be  rejected  if  it  is  at  the  Cut-off  Price.  The  Cut-off  Price  option  is  given  only  to  the  RIIs, 
Employees  and  Retail  Individual  Shareholders  indicating  their  agreement  to  Bid  for  and 
purchase the Equity Shares at the Issue Price as determined at the end of the Book Building 
Process. 

 

(d)  In  case  the  total  amount  (i.e.,  original  Bid  Amount  plus  additional  payment)  exceeds  Rs. 
200,000, the Bid will be considered for allocation under the Non-Institutional Portion in terms 
of the RHP/Prospectus. If, however, the RII does not either revise the Bid or make additional 
payment  and  the  Issue  Price  is  higher  than  the  cap  of  the  Price  Band  prior  to  revision,  the 
number of Equity Shares Bid for shall be adjusted downwards for the purpose of allocation, 
such  that  no  additional  payment  would  be  required  from  the  RII  and  the  RII  is  deemed  to 
have approved such revised Bid at Cut-off Price. 

 

(e)  In  case  of  a  downward  revision  in  the  Price  Band,  RIIs  and  Bids  by  Employees  under  the 
Reservation  Portion,  who  have  bid  at  the  Cut-off  Price  could  either  revise  their  Bid  or  the 
excess  amount  paid  at  the  time  of  bidding  may  be  unblocked  in  case  of  ASBA  Bidders  or 
refunded from the Escrow Account in case of non-ASBA Bidder. 

 
 
 
 

 

23 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
4.2.3 

FIELD 6: PAYMENT DETAILS  
 

(a)  With  respect  to  the  Bids,  other  than  Bids  submitted  by  ASBA  Bidders/Applicants,  any 
revision  of  the  Bid  should  be  accompanied  by  payment  in  the  form  of  cheque  or  demand 
draft for the  amount, if any, to be paid on account of the upward revision of the Bid.  

 
(b)  All Bidders/Applicants are required to make payment of the full Bid Amount (less Discount 
(if  applicable)  along  with  the  Bid  Revision  Form.  In  case  of  Bidders/Applicants  specifying 
more  than  one  Bid  Option  in  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form,  the  total  Bid  Amount  may  be 
calculated for the highest of three options at net price, i.e. Bid price less discount offered, if 
any.  
 

(c)  In  case  of  Bids  submitted  by  ASBA  Bidder/Applicant,  Bidder/Applicant  may  Issue 
instructions to block the revised amount based on cap of the revised Price Band (adjusted for 
the  Discount  (if  applicable)  in  the  ASBA  Account,  to  the  same  member  of  the 
Syndicate/Registered  Broker  or  the  same  Designated  Branch  (as  the  case  may  be)  through 
whom  such  Bidder/Applicant  had  placed  the  original  Bid  to  enable  the  relevant  SCSB  to 
block the additional Bid Amount, if any. 

 

(d)  In  case  of  Bids,  other  than  ASBA  Bids,  Bidder/Applicant,  may  make  additional  payment 
based  on  the  cap  of  the  revised  Price  Band  (such  that  the  total  amount  i.e.,  original  Bid 
Amount plus additional payment does not exceed Rs. 200,000 if the Bidder/Applicant wants 
to  continue  to  Bid  at  the  Cut-off  Price),  with  the  members  of  the  Syndicate  /  Registered 
Broker to whom the original Bid was submitted.  

 

(e)  In case the total amount (i.e., original Bid Amount less discount (if applicable) plus additional 
payment)  exceeds  Rs.  200,000,  the  Bid  may  be  considered  for  allocation  under  the  Non-
Institutional  Category  in  terms  of  the  RHP/Prospectus.  If,  however,  the  Bidder/Applicant 
does not either revise the Bid or make additional payment and the Issue Price is higher than 
the  cap  of  the  Price  Band  prior  to  revision,  the  number  of  Equity  Shares  Bid  for  may  be 
adjusted  downwards  for  the  purpose  of  allotment,  such  that  no  additional  payment  is 
required  from  the  Bidder/Applicant  and  the  Bidder/Applicant  is  deemed  to  have  approved 
such revised Bid at the Cut-off Price. 

 

(f)  In  case  of  a  downward  revision  in  the  Price  Band,  RIIs,  Employees  and  Retail  Individual 
Shareholders,  who  have  bid  at  the  Cut-off  Price,  could  either  revise  their  Bid  or  the  excess 
amount paid at the time of bidding may be unblocked in case of ASBA Bidders/Applicants or 
refunded from the Escrow Account in case of non-ASBA Bidder/Applicant. 

FIELDS 7 : SIGNATURES AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  

 
4.2.4 
 
Bidders/Applicants  may  refer  to  instructions  contained  at  paragraphs  4.1.8  and  4.1.9  for  this 
purpose. 
 
4.3  INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING APPLICATION FORM IN ISSUES MADE OTHER THAN 

THROUGH THE BOOK BUILDING PROCESS (FIXED PRICE ISSUE)  

 

24 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
4.3.1 

FIELDS  1,  2,  3 
  NAME  AND  CONTACT  DETAILS  OF  SOLE/FIRST 
BIDDER/APPLICANT, PAN OF SOLE/FIRST BIDDER/APPLICANT & DEPOSITORY 
ACCOUNT DETAILS  OF THE BIDDER/APPLICANT 

 
Applicants should refer to instructions contained in paragraphs 4.1.1, 4.1.2 and 4.1.3. 
 
4.3.2 

FIELD 4: PRICE, APPLICATION QUANTITY & AMOUNT 
 

(a)  The Issuer may  mention Price or Price  band in the  draft Prospectus. However  a prospectus 

registered with RoC contains one price or coupon rate (as applicable).  

 

(b)  Minimum Application Value and Bid Lot: The Issuer in consultation with the Lead Manager 
to the Issue (LM) may decide the minimum number of Equity Shares for each Bid to ensure 
that  the  minimum  application  value  is  within  the  range  of  Rs.  10,000  to  Rs.15,000.  The 
minimum  Lot  size  is  accordingly  determined  by  an  Issuer  on  basis  of  such  minimum 
application value. 

 
(c)  Applications  by  RIIs,  Employees  and  Retail  Individual  Shareholders,  must  be  for  such 
number  of  shares  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  application  amount  payable  does  not  exceed  Rs. 
200,000. 
 

(d)  Applications by other investors  must  be for such minimum number of shares  such that the 
application  amount  exceeds  Rs.  200,000  and  in  multiples  of  such  number  of  Equity  Shares 
thereafter, as may be disclosed in the  application form and the Prospectus, or as advertised 
by the Issuer, as the case may be.    
 

(e)  An application cannot be submitted for more than the Issue size.  

 

(f)  The  maximum  application  by  any  Applicant  should  not  exceed  the  investment  limits 

prescribed for them under the applicable laws.  
 

(g)  Multiple Applications: An Applicant should submit only one Application Form. Submission 
of  a  second  Application  Form  to  either  the  same  or  to  Collection  Bank(s)  or  SCSB  and 
duplicate copies of Application Forms bearing the same application number shall be treated 
as multiple applications and are liable to be rejected. 
 

(h)  Applicants are requested to note the following procedures may be followed by the Registrar 

to the Issue to detect multiple applications: 
 

i.  All applications may be checked for common PAN as per the records of the Depository. For 
Applicants  other  than  Mutual  Funds  and  FII  sub-accounts,  Bids  bearing  the  same  PAN 
may be treated as multiple applications by a Bidder/Applicant and may be rejected. 
 

ii.  For applications from Mutual Funds and FII sub-accounts, submitted under the same PAN, 
as well as Bids on behalf of the PAN Exempted Applicants, the Application Forms may be 

 

25 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

checked for common DP ID and  Client ID. In any such applications which have the same 
DP ID and Client ID, these may be treated as multiple applications and may be rejected. 

 

(i)  The following applications may not be treated as multiple Bids: 

 

i.  Applications  by  Reserved  Categories  in  their  respective  reservation  portion  as  well  as 

ii. 

that made by them in the Net Issue portion in public category. 
Separate applications by Mutual Funds in respect of more than one scheme of the Mutual 
Fund  provided  that  the  Applications  clearly  indicate  the  scheme  for  which  the  Bid  has 
been made. 

iii.  Applications  by  Mutual  Funds,  and  sub-accounts  of  FIIs  (or  FIIs  and  its  sub-accounts) 
submitted with the same PAN but with different beneficiary account numbers, Client IDs 
and DP IDs. 

 
4.3.3 

FIELD NUMBER 5 : CATEGORY OF APPLICANTS 
 

(a)  The  categories  of  applicants  identified  as  per  the  SEBI  ICDR  Regulations,  2009  for  the 
purpose of Bidding, allocation and allotment in the Issue are RIIs, individual applicants other 
than RII’s and other investors (including corporate bodies or institutions, irrespective of the 
number of specified securities applied for).  

 

(b)  An Issuer can make reservation for certain categories of Applicants permitted under the SEBI 
ICDR  Regulations,  2009.  For  details  of  any  reservations  made  in  the  Issue,  applicants  may 
refer to the Prospectus.  

 

(c)  The  SEBI  ICDR  Regulations,  2009  specify  the  allocation  or  allotment  that  may  be  made  to 
various categories of applicants in an Issue depending upon compliance with the eligibility 
conditions.  Details  pertaining  to  allocation  are  disclosed  on  reverse  side  of  the  Revision 
Form. For Issue specific details in relation to allocation applicant may refer to the Prospectus. 

 
FIELD NUMBER 6: INVESTOR STATUS  

4.3.4 
 
Applicants should refer to instructions contained in paragraphs 4.1.6. 
 
4.3.5 

FIELD 7: PAYMENT DETAILS  
 

(a)  All  Applicants  are  required  to  make  payment  of  the  full  Amount  (net  of  any  Discount,  as 
applicable)  along-with  the  Application  Form.  If  the  Discount  is  applicable  in  the  Issue,  the 
RIIs should indicate the full Amount in the Application Form and the payment shall be made 
for  an  Amount  net  of  Discount.  Only  in  cases  where  the  Prospectus  indicates  that  part 
payment may be made, such an option can be exercised by the Applicant.   

 

(b)  RIIs  and/or  Reserved  Categories  bidding  in  their  respective  reservation  portion  can  Bid, 
either  through  the  ASBA  mechanism  or  by  paying  the  Bid  Amount  through  a  cheque  or  a 
demand draft (“Non-ASBA Mechanism”).  

 

 

26 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
(c)  Application Amount cannot be paid in cash, through money order or through postal order or 

through stock invest.  

 
4.3.5.1  Instructions for non-ASBA Applicants:   

 

(a)  Non-ASBA Applicants may submit their Application Form with the Collection Bank(s).  

 

(b)  For  Applications  made  through  a  Collection  Bank(s):  The  Applicant  may,  with  the 
submission of the Application Form, draw a cheque or demand draft for the Bid Amount in 
favor of the Escrow Account as specified under the Prospectus and the Application Form and 
submit the same to the escrow Collection Bank(s). 

 

(c)  If the cheque or demand draft accompanying the Application Form is not made favoring the 

Escrow Account, the form is liable to be rejected.  

 

(d)  Payments should be made by cheque, or demand draft drawn on any bank (including a co-
operative  bank),  which  is  situated  at,  and  is  a  member  of  or  sub-member  of  the  bankers’ 
clearing house located at the centre where the Application Form is submitted. Cheques/bank 
drafts  drawn  on  banks  not  participating  in  the  clearing  process  may  not  be  accepted  and 
applications accompanied by such cheques or bank drafts are liable to be rejected.  

 

(e)  The  Escrow  Collection  Banks  shall  maintain  the  monies  in  the  Escrow  Account  for  and  on 

behalf of the Applicants until the Designated Date.  

 

(f)  Applicants  are  advised  to  provide  the  number  of  the  Application  Form  and  PAN  on  the 

reverse of the cheque or bank draft to avoid any possible misuse of instruments submitted. 

 
4.3.5.2  Payment instructions for ASBA Applicants 
 
(a)  ASBA  Applicants  may  submit  the  Application  Form  in  physical  mode  to  the  Designated 

Branch of an SCSB where the Applicants have ASBA Account. 
 

(b)  ASBA  Applicants  may  specify  the  Bank  Account  number  in  the  Application  Form.  The 
Application  Form  submitted  by  an  ASBA  Applicant  and  which  is  accompanied  by  cash, 
demand  draft,  money  order,  postal  order  or  any  mode  of  payment  other  than  blocked 
amounts in the ASBA Account maintained with an SCSB, may not be accepted.  

 
(c)  Applicants  should  ensure  that  the  Application  Form  is  also  signed  by  the  ASBA  Account 

holder(s) if the  Applicant is not the ASBA Account holder;  
 

(d)  Applicants shall note that that for the purpose of blocking funds under ASBA facility clearly 

demarcated funds shall be available in the account. 

 

(e)  From one ASBA Account, a maximum of five Bids cum Application Forms can be submitted. 

 

 

27 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
(f)  ASBA  Applicants  bidding  directly  through  the  SCSBs  should  ensure  that  the  Application 
Form is submitted to a Designated Branch of a SCSB where the ASBA Account is maintained. 

 

(g)  Upon  receipt  of  the  Application  Form,  the  Designated  Branch  of  the  SCSB  may  verify  if 
sufficient  funds  equal  to  the  Application  Amount  are  available  in  the  ASBA  Account,  as 
mentioned in the Application Form. 

 

(h)  If  sufficient  funds  are  available  in  the  ASBA  Account,  the  SCSB  may  block  an  amount 
equivalent to the Application Amount mentioned in the Application Form and may upload 
the details on the Stock Exchange Platform. 

 

(i)  If sufficient funds are not available in the ASBA Account, the Designated Branch of the SCSB 
may not upload such Applications on the Stock Exchange platform and such Applications are 
liable to be rejected. 

 

(j)  Upon submission of a completed Application Form each ASBA Applicant may be deemed to 
have agreed to block the entire Application Amount and authorized the Designated Branch 
of the SCSB to block the Application Amount specified in the Application Form in the ASBA 
Account maintained with the SCSBs. 

 

(k)  The  Application  Amount  may  remain  blocked  in  the  aforesaid  ASBA  Account  until 
finalisation  of  the  Basis  of  allotment  and  consequent  transfer  of  the  Application  Amount 
against the Allotted Equity Shares to the Public Issue Account, or until withdrawal or failure 
of the Issue, or until withdrawal or rejection of the Application, as the case may be. 

 

(l)  SCSBs  applying  in  the  Issue  must  apply  through  an  ASBA  Account  maintained  with  any 

other SCSB; else their Applications are liable to be rejected.       

  
4.3.5.2.1 Unblocking of ASBA Account 
 
(a)  Once the Basis of Allotment is approved by the Designated Stock Exchange, the Registrar to 
the Issue may provide the following details to the controlling branches of each SCSB, along 
with  instructions  to  unblock  the  relevant  bank  accounts  and  for  successful  applications 
transfer the requisite money to the Public Issue Account designated for this purpose, within 
the  specified  timelines:  (i)  the  number  of  Equity  Shares  to  be  Allotted  against  each 
Application,  (ii)  the  amount  to  be  transferred  from  the  relevant  bank  account  to  the  Public 
Issue Account, for each Application, (iii) the date by which funds referred to in (ii) above may  
be transferred to the Public Issue Account, and (iv) details of rejected ASBA  Applications, if 
any, along with reasons for rejection and details of withdrawn or unsuccessful Applications, 
if any, to enable the SCSBs to unblock the respective bank accounts.  

 
(b)  On  the  basis  of  instructions  from  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue,  the  SCSBs  may  transfer  the 
requisite amount against each successful ASBA Application to the Public Issue Account and 
may unblock the excess amount, if any, in the ASBA Account.  

 

 

28 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
(c)  In  the  event  of  withdrawal  or  rejection  of  the  Application  Form  and  for  unsuccessful 
Applications,  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue  may  give  instructions  to  the  SCSB  to  unblock  the 
Application  Amount  in  the  relevant  ASBA  Account  within  12  Working  Days  of  the  Issue 
Closing Date.  
 

4.3.5.3  Discount (if applicable) 
 
(a)  The Discount is stated in absolute rupee terms.  

 

(b)  RIIs,  Employees  and  Retail  Individual  Shareholders  are  only  eligible  for  discount.  For 

Discounts offered in the Issue, applicants may refer to the Prospectus. 

 

(c)  The  Applicants  entitled  to  the  applicable  Discount  in  the  Issue  may  make  payment  for  an 

amount i.e. the Application Amount less Discount (if applicable).  
 
4.3.6 

FIELD  NUMBER  8:  SIGNATURES  AND  OTHER  AUTHORISATIONS  & 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND FUTURE COMMUNICATION 
 

Applicants should refer to instructions contained in paragraphs 4.1.8 & 4.1.9. 
 
4.4  SUBMISSION  OF  BID  CUM  APPLICATION  FORM/  REVISION  FORM/APPLICATION 

FORM 

 
4.4.1 

Bidders/Applicants may submit completed Bid-cum-application form / Revision Form 

in the following manner:- 

 

Mode of Application 
Non-ASBA Application 

ASBA Application 

Submission of Bid cum Application Form   
1)  To  members  of  the  Syndicate  at  the  Specified 
Locations  mentioned  in  the  Bid  cum  Application 
Form 

2)  To Registered Brokers 
(a)  To  members  of  the  Syndicate  in  the  Specified 
Locations  or  Registered  Brokers  at  the  Broker 
Centres  

(b)  To  the  Designated  branches  of  the  SCSBs  where 

the ASBA Account is maintained 

  
(a)  Bidders/Applicants should not submit the bid cum application forms/ Revision Form directly 
to the escrow collection banks. Bid cum Application Form/ Revision Form submitted to the 
escrow collection banks are liable for rejection. 

 

(b)  Bidders/Applicants should submit the Revision Form to the same member of the Syndicate, 
the  Registered  Broker  or  the  SCSB  through  which  such  Bidder/Applicant  had  placed  the 
original Bid.   

 

 

29 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
(c)  Upon submission of the Bid-cum-Application Form, the Bidder/Applicant will be deemed to 
have  authorized  the  Issuer  to  make  the  necessary  changes  in  the  RHP  and  the  Bid  cum 
Application Form as would be required for filing Prospectus with the Registrar of Companies 
(RoC)  and  as  would  be  required  by  the  RoC  after  such  filing,  without  prior  or  subsequent 
notice of such changes to the relevant Bidder/Applicant.  

 

(d)  Upon  determination  of  the  Issue  Price  and  filing  of  the  Prospectus  with  the  RoC,  the  Bid-

cum-Application Form will be considered as the application form. 
 

 

 

30 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

SECTION 5: ISSUE PROCEDURE IN BOOK BUILT ISSUE 

Book  Building,  in  the  context  of  the  Issue,  refers  to  the  process  of  collection  of  Bids  within  the 
Price Band or above the Floor Price and determining the Issue Price based on the Bids received as 
detailed  in  Schedule  XI  of  SEBI  ICDR  Regulations,  2009.  The  Issue  Price  is  finalised  after  the 
Bid/Issue  Closing  Date.  Valid  Bids  received  at  or  above  the  Issue  Price  are  considered  for 
allocation in the Issue, subject to applicable regulations and other terms and conditions. 
 
5.1  SUBMISSION OF BIDS  
 
(a)  During  the  Bid/Issue  Period,  ASBA  Bidders/Applicants  may  approach  the  members  of  the 
Syndicate at the Specified Cities or any of the Registered Brokers or the Designated Branches 
to  register  their  Bids.  Non-ASBA  Bidders/Applicants  who  are  interested  in  subscribing  for 
the  Equity  Shares  should  approach  the  members  of  the  Syndicate  or  any  of  the  Registered 
Brokers, to register their Bid.  

 

(b)  Non-ASBA Bidders/Applicants (RIIs, Employees and Retail Individual Shareholders) bidding 
at  Cut-off  Price  may  submit  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form  along  with  a  cheque/demand 
draft  for  the  Bid  Amount  less  discount  (if  applicable)  based  on  the  Cap  Price  with  the 
members of the Syndicate/ any of the Registered Brokers to register their Bid.  

 

(c)  In case of ASBA Bidders/Applicants (excluding NIIs and QIBs) bidding at Cut-off Price, the 
ASBA  Bidders/Applicants  may  instruct  the  SCSBs  to  block  Bid  Amount  based  on  the  Cap 
Price less  discount  (if  applicable).  ASBA  Bidders/Applicants  may  approach  the  members  of 
the  Syndicate  or  any  of  the  Registered  Brokers  or  the  Designated  Branches  to  register  their 
Bids. 
 

(d)  For Details of the timing on acceptance and upload of  Bids in the Stock Exchanges Platform 

Bidders/Applicants are requested to refer to the RHP.  

 
5.2  ELECTRONIC REGISTRATION OF BIDS 
 
(a)  The Syndicate, the Registered Brokers and the SCSBs may register the Bids using the on-line 
facilities of  the  Stock  Exchanges.  The  Syndicate,  the  Registered  Brokers  and  the  Designated 
Branches  of  the  SCSBs  can  also  set  up  facilities  for  off-line  electronic  registration  of  Bids, 
subject to the condition that they may subsequently upload the off-line data file into the on-
line facilities for Book Building on a regular basis before the closure of the issue. 

 

(b)  On  the  Bid/Issue  Closing  Date,  the  Syndicate,  the  Registered  Broker  and  the  Designated 
Branches of the SCSBs may upload the Bids till such time as may be permitted by the Stock 
Exchanges.  

 

(c)  Only Bids that are uploaded on the Stock Exchanges Platform are considered for allocation/ 
Allotment. The members of the Syndicate, the Registered Brokers and the SCSBs are given up 
to  one  day  after  the  Bid/Issue  Closing  Date  to  modify  select  fields  uploaded  in  the  Stock 

 

31 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Exchange  Platform  during  the  Bid/Issue  Period  after  which  the  Stock  Exchange(s)  send  the 
bid  information  to  the  Registrar  for  validation  of  the  electronic  bid  details  with  the 
Depository’s records.  

 

 
5.3  BUILD UP OF THE BOOK 
 
(a)  Bids  received  from  various  Bidders/Applicants  through  the  Syndicate,  Registered  Brokers 
and  the  SCSBs  may  be  electronically  uploaded  on  the  Bidding  Platform  of  the  Stock 
Exchanges’ on a regular basis. The book gets built up at various price levels. This information 
may be available with the BRLMs at the end of the Bid/Issue Period.  
 

(b)  Based  on  the  aggregate  demand  and  price  for  Bids  registered  on  the  Stock  Exchanges 
Platform,  a  graphical  representation  of  consolidated  demand  and  price  as  available  on  the 
websites  of  the  Stock  Exchanges  may  be  made  available  at  the  bidding  centres  during  the 
Bid/Issue Period. 

 

5.4  WITHDRAWAL OF BIDS 

 

(a)  RIIs can withdraw  their Bids until finalization of Basis of Allotment. In case  a  RII applying 
through the ASBA process wishes to withdraw the Bid during the Bid/Issue Period, the same 
can  be  done  by  submitting  a  request  for  the  same  to  the  concerned  SCSB  or  the  Syndicate 
Member  or  the  Registered  Broker,  as  applicable,  who  shall  do  the  requisite,  including 
unblocking of the funds by the SCSB in the ASBA Account.  
 

(b)  In case a RII wishes to withdraw the Bid after the Bid/Issue Period, the same can be done by 
submitting  a  withdrawal  request  to  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue  until  finalization  of  Basis  of 
Allotment.  The  Registrar  to  the  Issue  shall  give  instruction  to  the  SCSB  for  unblocking  the 
ASBA Account on the Designated Date. QIBs  and NIIs can  neither withdraw nor lower the 
size of their Bids at any stage. 
 

5.5  REJECTION & RESPONSIBILITY FOR UPLOAD OF BIDS 
 
(a)  The  members  of  the  Syndicate,  the  Registered  Broker  and/or  SCSBs  are  individually  

responsible for the acts, mistakes or errors or omission in relation to  
 

i.  the Bids accepted by the members of the Syndicate, the Registered Broker and the SCSBs,  
ii.  the Bids uploaded by the members of the Syndicate, the Registered Broker and the SCSBs,  
iii.  the Bid cum application forms accepted but not uploaded by the members of the Syndicate, 

the Registered Broker and the SCSBs, or  

iv.  With respect to Bids by ASBA  Bidders/Applicants, Bids accepted and uploaded by SCSBs 
without blocking funds in the ASBA Accounts. It may be presumed that for Bids uploaded 
by the SCSBs, the Bid Amount has been blocked in the relevant Account. 

 

 

32 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
(b)  The BRLMs and their affiliate Syndicate Members, as the case may be, may reject Bids if all 
the information required is not provided and the Bid cum Application Form is incomplete in 
any respect.  

 

(c)  The  SCSBs  shall  have  no  right  to  reject  Bids,  except  in  case  of  unavailability  of  adequate 

funds in the ASBA account or on technical grounds.  

 

(d)  In case of QIB Bidders, only the (i) SCSBs (for Bids other than the Bids by Anchor Investors); 
and  (ii)  BRLMs  and  their  affiliate  Syndicate  Members  (only  in  the  specified  locations)  have 
the right to reject bids. However, such rejection shall be made at the time of receiving the Bid 
and only after assigning a reason for such rejection in writing.  

 

(e)  All bids by QIBs, NIIs & RIIs Bids can be rejected on technical grounds listed herein. 

 

5.5.1  GROUNDS FOR TECHNICAL REJECTIONS 
 
Bid cum Application Forms/Application Form can be rejected on the below mentioned technical 
grounds  either  at  the  time  of  their  submission  to  the  (i)  authorised  agents  of  the  BRLMs,  (ii) 
Registered Brokers, or (iii) SCSBs, or (iv) Collection Bank(s),  or at the time of finalisation of the 
Basis of Allotment. Bidders/Applicants are advised to note that the Bids/Applications are liable to 
be  rejected,  inter-alia,  on  the  following  grounds,  which  have  been  detailed  at  various  placed in 
this GID:- 

 

(a)  Bid/Application by persons not competent to contract under the Indian Contract Act, 1872, as 
amended, (other than minors having valid Depository Account as per Demographic Details 
provided by Depositories);  

 

(b)  Bids/Applications by OCBs; and 

 

(c)  In case of partnership firms, Bid/Application for Equity Shares made in the name of the firm. 

However, a limited liability partnership can apply in its own name; 

 

(d)  In  case  of  Bids/Applications  under  power  of  attorney  or  by  limited  companies,  corporate, 
trust  etc.,  relevant  documents  are  not  being  submitted  along  with  the  Bid  cum  application 
form/Application Form; 

 

(e)  Bids/Applications by persons prohibited from buying, selling or dealing in the shares directly 

or indirectly by SEBI or any other regulatory authority;  

 

(f)  Bids/Applications  by  any  person  outside  India  if  not  in  compliance  with  applicable  foreign 

and Indian laws;  

 

(g)  DP ID and Client ID not mentioned in the Bid cum Application Form/Application Form; 

 

(h)  PAN  not  mentioned  in  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form/Application  Form  except  for 
Bids/Applications by or on behalf of the Central or State Government and officials appointed 

 

33 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

by the court and by the investors residing in the State of Sikkim, provided such claims have 
been verified by the Depository Participant; 

 

(i)  In  case  no  corresponding  record is  available  with  the  Depositories  that  matches  the  DP  ID, 

the Client ID and the PAN; 

 

(j)  Bids/Applications  for  lower  number  of  Equity  Shares  than  the  minimum  specified  for  that 

category of investors; 

 

(k)  Bids/Applications at a price less than the Floor Price & Bids/Applications at a price more than 

the Cap Price; 

 

(l)  Bids/Applications at Cut-off Price by NIIs and QIBs; 

 

(m) Amount paid does not tally with the amount payable for the highest value of Equity Shares 
Bid for. With respect to  Bids/Applications by ASBA Bidders, the amounts mentioned in the 
Bid cum Application Form/Application Form does not tally with the amount payable for the 
value of the Equity Shares Bid/Applied for; 

 

(n)  Bids/Applications for amounts greater than the maximum permissible amounts prescribed by 

the regulations; 

 

(o)  In  relation  to  ASBA  Bids/Applications,  submission  of  more  than  five  Bid  cum  Application 

Forms/Application Form as per ASBA Account; 
 

(p)  Bids/Applications  for  a  Bid/Application  Amount  of  more  than  Rs.  200,000  by  RIIs  by 

applying through non-ASBA process; 
 

(q)  Bids/Applications  for  number  of  Equity  Shares  which  are  not  in  multiples  Equity  Shares 

which are not in multiples as specified in the RHP; 

 

(r)  Multiple Bids/Applications as defined in this GID and the RHP/Prospectus; 

 

(s)  Bid cum Application  Forms/Application Forms are not delivered by the Bidders/Applicants 
within  the  time  prescribed  as  per  the  Bid  cum  Application  Forms/Application  Form, 
Bid/Issue  Opening  Date  advertisement  and  as  per  the  instructions  in  the  RHP  and  the  Bid 
cum Application Forms; 
 

(t)  With respect to ASBA Bids/Applications, inadequate funds in the bank account to block the 
Bid/Application Amount specified in the Bid cum Application Form/ Application Form at the 
time of blocking such Bid/Application Amount in the bank account; 
 

(u)  Bids/Applications  where  sufficient  funds  are  not  available  in  Escrow  Accounts  as  per  final 

certificate from the Escrow Collection Banks; 

 

 

34 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
(v)  With  respect  to  ASBA  Bids/Applications,  where  no  confirmation  is  received  from  SCSB  for 

blocking of funds; 

 

(w) Bids/Applications by QIBs  (other than Anchor Investors) and Non Institutional Bidders not 
submitted through ASBA process or Bids/Applications by QIBs (other than Anchor Investors) 
and Non Institutional Bidders accompanied with cheque(s) or demand draft(s); 

 

(x)  ASBA Bids/Applications submitted to a BRLM at locations other than the Specified Cities and 
Bid  cum  Application  Forms/Application  Forms,  under  the  ASBA  process,  submitted  to  the 
Escrow Collecting Banks (assuming that such bank is not a SCSB where the ASBA Account is 
maintained), to the issuer or the Registrar to the Issue; 

 

(y)  Bids/Applications not uploaded on the terminals of the Stock Exchanges; 

(z) 

 
Bids/Applications by SCSBs wherein a  separate  account in its own name  held with any 
other  SCSB  is  not  mentioned  as  the  ASBA  Account  in  the  Bid  cum  Application 
Form/Application Form. 
 

5.6  BASIS OF ALLOCATION 
 
(a)  The  SEBI  ICDR  Regulations,  2009  specify  the  allocation  or  Allotment  that  may  be  made  to 
various  categories  of  Bidders/Applicants  in  an  Issue  depending  on  compliance  with  the 
eligibility  conditions.  Certain  details  pertaining  to  the  percentage  of  Issue  size  available  for 
allocation to each category is disclosed overleaf of the Bid cum Application Form and in the 
RHP / Prospectus. For details in relation to allocation, the Bidder/Applicant may refer to the 
RHP / Prospectus. 

 

(b)  Under-subscription  in  Retail  category  is  allowed  to  be  met  with  spill-over  from  any  other 
category or combination of categories at the discretion of the Issuer and in consultation with 
the  BRLMs  and  the  Designated  Stock  Exchange  and  in  accordance  with  the  SEBI  ICDR 
Regulations, 2009. Unsubscribed portion in QIB category is not available for subscription to 
other categories.  

 

(c)  In  case  of  under  subscription  in  the  Net  Issue,  spill-over  to  the  extent  of  such  under-
subscription may be permitted from the Reserved Portion to the Net Issue. For allocation in 
the event of an under-subscription applicable to the Issuer, Bidders/Applicants may refer to 
the RHP. 

 
(d)  Illustration of the Book Building and Price Discovery Process 
  

Bidders should note that this example is solely for illustrative purposes and is not specific to the Issue; 
it also excludes bidding by Anchor Investors.  

  

Bidders can bid at any price within the Price Band. For instance, assume a Price Band of Rs. 
20 to Rs. 24 per share, Issue size of 3,000 Equity Shares and receipt of five Bids from Bidders, 
details of which are shown in the table below.  The illustrative book given  below shows the 

 

35 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

demand  for  the  Equity  Shares  of  the  Issuer  at  various  prices  and  is  collated  from  Bids 
received from various investors. 

Bid Quantity 

Bid Amount (Rs.) 

Cumulative 

Subscription 

500 
1,000 
1,500 
2,000 
2,500 

24 
23 
22 
21 
20 

Quantity 

500 
1,500 
3,000 
5,000 
7,500 

16.67% 
50.00% 
100.00% 
166.67% 
250.00% 

 

 

 

The price discovery is a function of demand at various prices. The highest price at which the 
Issuer is able to Issue the desired number of Equity Shares is the price at which the book cuts 
off,  i.e.,  Rs.  22.00  in  the  above  example.  The  Issuer,  in  consultation  with  the  BRLMs,  may 
finalise the Issue Price at or below such Cut-Off Price, i.e., at or below Rs. 22.00. All Bids at or 
above this Issue Price and cut-off Bids are valid Bids and are considered for allocation in the 
respective categories. 

  
(e)  Alternate Method of Book Building 
 

In case of FPOs, Issuers may opt for an alternate method of Book Building in which only the 
Floor Price is specified for the purposes of bidding (“Alternate Book Building Process”).  
 
The  Issuer  may  specify  the  Floor  Price  in  the  RHP  or  advertise  the  Floor  Price  at  least  one 
Working Day prior to the Bid/Issue Opening Date. QIBs may Bid at a price higher than the 
Floor Price and the Allotment to the QIBs is made on a price priority basis. The Bidder with 
the highest Bid Amount is allotted the number of Equity Shares Bid for and then the second 
highest Bidder is Allotted Equity Shares and this process continues until all the Equity Shares 
have  been  allotted.  RIIs,  NIIs  and  Employees  are  Allotted  Equity  Shares  at  the  Floor  Price 
and allotment to these categories of Bidders is made proportionately.  If the number of Equity 
Shares Bid for at a price is more than available quantity then the allotment may be done on a 
proportionate  basis.    Further,  the  Issuer  may  place  a  cap  either  in  terms  of  number  of 
specified  securities  or  percentage  of  issued  capital  of  the  Issuer  that  may  be  allotted  to  a 
single Bidder, decide whether a Bidder be allowed to revise the bid upwards or downwards 
in  terms  of  price  and/or  quantity  and  also  decide  whether  a  Bidder  be  allowed  single  or 
multiple bids. 

 

 

36 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

SECTION 6: ISSUE PROCEDURE IN FIXED PRICE ISSUE 

Applicants may note that there is no Bid cum Application Form in a Fixed Price Issue. As  the 
Issue  Price  is  mentioned  in  the  Fixed  Price  Issue  therefore  on  filing  of  the  Prospectus  with  the 
RoC, the Application so submitted is considered as the application form.  
  
Applicants  may  only  use  the  specified  Application  Form  for  the  purpose  of  making  an 
Application 
in  terms  of  the  Prospectus  which  may  be  submitted  through  Syndicate 
Members/SCSB and/or Bankers to the Issue or Registered Broker.  
 
ASBA  Applicants  may  submit  an  Application  Form  either  in  physical  form  to  the  Syndicate 
Members or Registered Brokers or the Designated Branches of the SCSBs or in the electronic form 
to  the  SCSB  or  the  Designated  Branches  of  the  SCSBs  authorising  blocking  of  funds  that  are 
available  in  the  bank  account  specified  in  the  Application  Form  only  (“ASBA  Account”).  The 
Application Form is also made available on the websites of the Stock Exchanges at least one day 
prior to the Bid/Issue Opening Date.  
 
In  a  fixed  price  Issue,  allocation  in  the  net  offer  to  the  public  category  is  made  as  follows: 
minimum fifty per cent to Retail Individual Investors; and remaining to (i) individual  investors 
other  than  Retail  Individual  Investors;  and  (ii)  other  Applicants  including  corporate  bodies  or 
institutions,  irrespective  of  the  number  of  specified  securities  applied  for.  The  unsubscribed 
portion in either of the categories specified above may be allocated to the Applicants in the other 
category. 
 
For  details  of  instructions  in  relation  to  the  Application  Form,  Bidders/Applicants  may  refer  to 
the relevant section the GID.  
 

 

37 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

SECTION 7: ALLOTMENT PROCEDURE AND BASIS OF ALLOTMENT 

 
The allotment of Equity Shares to Bidders/Applicants other than Retail Individual Investors and 
Anchor  Investors  may  be  on  proportionate  basis.  For  Basis  of  Allotment  to  Anchor  Investors, 
Bidders/Applicants may refer to RHP/Prospectus. No Retail Individual Investor is will be allotted 
less  than  the  minimum  Bid  Lot  subject  to  availability  of  shares  in  Retail  Individual  Investor 
Category and the remaining available shares, if any will be allotted on a proportionate basis. The 
Issuer is required to receive a minimum subscription of 90% of the Issue (excluding any Offer for 
Sale of specified securities). However, in case the Issue is in the nature of Offer for Sale only, then 
minimum subscription may not be applicable. 
 
7.1  ALLOTMENT TO RIIs 
 
Bids received from the RIIs at or above the Issue Price may be grouped together to determine the 
total demand under this category.  If the aggregate demand in this category is less than or equal 
to the Retail Category at or above the Issue Price, full Allotment may  be made to the RIIs to the 
extent of  the valid Bids. If the aggregate demand in this category is greater than the allocation to 
in the Retail Category at or above the Issue Price, then the maximum number of RIIs who can be 
Allotted the minimum Bid Lot will be computed by dividing the total number of Equity Shares 
available  for  Allotment  to  RIIs  by  the  minimum  Bid  Lot  (“Maximum  RII  Allottees”).  The 
Allotment to the RIIs will then be made in the following manner: 
 
(a)  In the event the number of RIIs who have submitted valid Bids in the Issue is equal to or less 
than Maximum RII Allottees, (i) all such RIIs shall be Allotted the minimum Bid Lot; and (ii) 
the balance available Equity Shares, if any, remaining in the Retail Category shall be Allotted 
on  a  proportionate  basis  to  the  RIIs  who  have  received  Allotment  as  per  (i)  above  for  the 
balance  demand  of  the  Equity  Shares  Bid  by  them  (i.e.  who  have  Bid  for  more  than  the 
minimum Bid Lot). 
 

(b)  In  the  event  the  number  of  RIIs  who  have  submitted  valid  Bids  in  the  Issue  is  more  than 
Maximum  RII  Allottees,  the  RIIs  (in  that  category)  who  will  then  be  allotted  minimum  Bid 
Lot shall be determined on the basis of draw of lots. 

 
7.2  ALLOTMENT TO NIIs  
 
Bids  received  from  NIIs  at  or  above  the  Issue  Price  may  be  grouped  together  to  determine  the 
total demand under this category. The allotment to all successful NIIs may be made at or above 
the  Issue  Price.  If  the  aggregate  demand  in  this  category  is  less  than  or  equal  to  the  Non-
Institutional  Category  at  or  above  the  Issue  Price,  full  allotment  may  be  made  to  NIIs  to  the 
extent of their demand. In  case the  aggregate demand in this category is  greater than the Non-
Institutional  Category  at  or  above  the  Issue  Price,  allotment  may  be  made  on  a  proportionate 
basis up to a minimum of the Non-Institutional Category. 
 
7.3  ALLOTMENT TO QIBs 
 

 

38 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
For the Basis of Allotment to Anchor Investors,  Bidders/Applicants may refer to the SEBI ICDR 
Regulations, 2009 or RHP / Prospectus. Bids received from QIBs bidding in the QIB Category (net 
of  Anchor  Portion)  at  or  above  the  Issue  Price  may  be  grouped  together  to  determine  the  total 
demand under this category. The QIB Category may be available for allotment to QIBs who have 
Bid at a price that is equal to or greater than the Issue Price. Allotment may be undertaken in the 
following manner:  
 
(a)  In  the  first  instance  allocation  to  Mutual  Funds  for  up  to  5%  of  the  QIB  Category  may    be 
determined  as  follows:  (i)  In  the  event  that  Bids  by  Mutual  Fund  exceeds  5%  of  the  QIB 
Category, allocation to Mutual Funds may  be done on a proportionate basis for up to 5% of 
the QIB Category; (ii) In the event that the aggregate demand from Mutual Funds is less than 
5% of the QIB Category then all Mutual Funds may  get full allotment to the extent of valid 
Bids  received  above  the  Issue  Price;  and  (iii)  Equity  Shares  remaining  unsubscribed,  if  any 
and  not  allocated to Mutual Funds  may   be available for  allotment to all QIBs  as set out  at 
paragraph 7.4(b) below;  
 

(b)  In the second instance, allotment to all QIBs may  be determined as follows: (i) In the event of 
oversubscription  in  the  QIB  Category,  all  QIBs  who  have  submitted  Bids  above  the  Issue 
Price  may    be  Allotted  Equity  Shares  on  a  proportionate  basis  for  up  to  95%  of  the  QIB 
Category; (ii) Mutual Funds, who have received allocation as per (a) above, for less than the 
number  of  Equity  Shares  Bid  for  by  them,  are  eligible  to  receive  Equity  Shares  on  a 
proportionate basis along with other QIBs; and (iii) Under-subscription below 5% of the QIB 
Category, if any, from Mutual Funds,  may be included for allocation to the remaining QIBs 
on a proportionate basis.  
 

7.4  ALLOTMENT TO ANCHOR INVESTOR (IF APPLICABLE) 
 
(a)  Allocation of Equity Shares to Anchor Investors at the Anchor Investor Issue Price will be at 

the discretion of the issuer subject to compliance with the following requirements: 
 

i.  not more than 30% of the QIB Portion will be allocated to Anchor Investors; 

 

ii.  one-third  of  the  Anchor  Investor  Portion  shall  be  reserved  for  domestic  Mutual  Funds, 
subject to valid Bids being received from domestic Mutual Funds at or above the price at 
which allocation is being done to other Anchor Investors; and 
 

iii.  allocation to Anchor Investors shall be on a discretionary basis and subject to: 

 

  a maximum number of two Anchor Investors for allocation up to Rs. 10 crores; 
  a  minimum  number  of  two  Anchor  Investors  and  maximum  number  of  15  Anchor 
Investors for allocation of more than  Rs. 10 crores and up to  Rs. 250 crores  subject to 
minimum allotment of Rs. 5 crores per such Anchor Investor; and  

  a  minimum  number  of  five  Anchor  Investors  and  maximum  number  of  25  Anchor 
Investors for allocation of more than Rs. 250 crores subject to minimum allotment of Rs. 
5 crores per such Anchor Investor. 

 

 

39 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
(b)  A physical book is prepared by the Registrar on the basis of the Bid cum Application Forms 
received  from  Anchor  Investors.  Based  on  the  physical  book  and  at  the  discretion  of  the 
issuer in consultation with the BRLMs, selected Anchor Investors will be sent a CAN and if 
required, a revised CAN.  
 

(c)  In  the  event  that  the  Issue  Price  is  higher  than  the  Anchor  Investor  Issue  Price:  Anchor 
Investors  will  be  sent  a  revised  CAN  within  one  day  of  the  Pricing  Date  indicating  the 
number of Equity Shares allocated to such Anchor Investor and the pay-in date for payment 
of  the  balance  amount.  Anchor  Investors  are  then  required  to  pay  any  additional  amounts, 
being the difference between the Issue Price and the Anchor Investor Issue Price, as indicated 
in  the  revised  CAN  within  the  pay-in  date  referred  to  in  the  revised  CAN.  Thereafter,  the 
Allotment Advice will be issued to such Anchor Investors.  
 

(d)  In  the  event  the  Issue  Price  is  lower  than  the  Anchor  Investor  Issue  Price:    Anchor 

Investors who have been Allotted Equity Shares will directly receive Allotment Advice.  
 

7.5  BASIS  OF  ALLOTMENT  FOR  QIBs  (OTHER  THAN  ANCHOR  INVESTORS),  NIIs  AND 

RESERVED CATEGORY IN CASE OF OVER-SUBSCRIBED ISSUE  
 

In the event of the Issue being over-subscribed, the Issuer may finalise the Basis of Allotment in 
consultation with the Designated Stock Exchange in accordance with the SEBI ICDR Regulations, 
2009. 
 
The allocation may be made in marketable lots, on a proportionate basis as explained below: 
  
(a)  Bidders may be categorized according to the number of Equity Shares applied for;  
 
(b)  The total number of Equity Shares to be Allotted to each category as a whole may  be arrived 
at  on  a  proportionate  basis,  which  is  the  total  number  of  Equity  Shares  applied  for  in  that 
category  (number  of  Bidders  in  the  category  multiplied  by  the  number  of  Equity  Shares 
applied for) multiplied by the inverse of the over-subscription ratio;  

 
(c)  The number of Equity Shares to be Allotted to the successful Bidders may  be arrived at on a 
proportionate basis, which is total number of Equity Shares applied for by each Bidder in that 
category multiplied by the inverse of the over-subscription ratio;  

 
(d)  In all Bids where the proportionate allotment is less than the  minimum  bid lot decided per 
Bidder, the allotment may  be made as follows: the successful Bidders out of the total Bidders 
for a category may  be determined by a draw of lots in a manner such that the  total number 
of Equity Shares Allotted in that category is equal to the number of Equity Shares calculated 
in  accordance  with  (b)  above;  and  each  successful  Bidder  may    be  Allotted  a  minimum  of 
such Equity Shares equal to the minimum Bid Lot finalised by the Issuer;  

 
(e)  If the proportionate allotment to a Bidder is a number that is more than the minimum Bid lot 
but is not a multiple of one (which is the marketable lot), the decimal may be rounded off to 
the higher whole number if that decimal is 0.5 or higher. If that number is lower than 0.5 it 

 

40 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

may be rounded off to the lower whole number. Allotment to all bidders in such categories 
may be arrived at after such rounding off; and 

 
(f)  If  the  Equity  Shares  allocated  on  a  proportionate  basis  to  any  category  are  more  than  the 
Equity Shares Allotted to the Bidders in that category, the remaining Equity Shares available 
for  allotment  may  be  first  adjusted  against  any  other  category,  where  the  Allotted  Equity 
Shares  are  not  sufficient  for  proportionate  allotment  to  the  successful  Bidders  in  that 
category. The balance Equity Shares, if any, remaining after such adjustment may be added 
to the category comprising Bidders applying for minimum number of Equity Shares. 

 

7.6  DESIGNATED DATE AND ALLOTMENT OF EQUITY SHARES 

 
(a)  Designated  Date:  On  the  Designated  Date,  the  Escrow  Collection  Banks  shall  transfer  the 
funds  represented  by  allocation  of  Equity  Shares  (other  than  ASBA  funds  with  the  SCSBs) 
from  the  Escrow  Account,  as  per  the  terms  of  the  Escrow  Agreement,  into  the  Public  Issue 
Account with the Bankers to the Issue. The balance amount after transfer to the Public Issue 
Account shall be transferred to the Refund Account. Payments of refund to the Bidders shall 
also  be  made  from  the  Refund  Account  as  per  the  terms  of  the  Escrow  Agreement  and  the 
RHP.  
 

(b)  Issuance of Allotment Advice:  Upon approval of the Basis of Allotment by the Designated 
Stock  Exchange,  the  Registrar  shall  upload  the  same  on  its  website.  On  the  basis  of  the 
approved Basis of Allotment, the Issuer shall pass necessary corporate action to facilitate the 
Allotment  and  credit  of  Equity  Shares.  Bidders/Applicants  are  advised  to  instruct  their 
Depository Participant to accept the Equity Shares that may be allotted to them pursuant 
to the Issue.  

 

Pursuant  to  confirmation  of  such  corporate  actions,  the  Registrar  will  dispatch  Allotment 
Advice to the Bidders/Applicants who have been Allotted Equity Shares in the Issue. 
 

(c)  The dispatch of Allotment Advice shall be deemed a valid, binding and irrevocable contract. 

 

(d)  Issuer  will  ensure  that:  (i)  the  Allotment  of  Equity  Shares;  and  (ii)  credit  of  shares  to  the 
successful  Bidders/Applicants  Depository  Account  will  be  completed  within  12  Working 
Days  of  the  Bid/  Issue  Closing  Date.  The  Issuer  also  ensures  the  credit  of  shares  to  the 
successful  Applicant’s depository account is completed within two Working  Days from the 
date of Allotment, after the funds are transferred from the Escrow Account to the Public Issue 
Account on the Designated Date. 

 

41 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

SECTION 8: INTEREST AND REFUNDS 

 
 
8.1  COMPLETION OF FORMALITIES FOR LISTING & COMMENCEMENT OF TRADING   
 
The Issuer may ensure that all steps for the completion of the necessary formalities for listing and 
commencement  of  trading  at  all  the  Stock  Exchanges  are  taken  within  12  Working  Days  of  the 
Bid/Issue  Closing  Date.  The  Registrar  to  the  Issue  may  give  instructions  for  credit  to  Equity 
Shares the beneficiary account with DPs, and dispatch the Allotment Advice within 12 Working 
Days of the Bid/Issue Closing Date. 
 
8.2 

GROUNDS FOR REFUND 
 

8.2.1  NON RECEIPT OF LISTING PERMISSION  
 
An Issuer makes an application to the Stock Exchange(s) for permission to deal in/list and for an 
official  quotation  of  the  Equity  Shares.  All  the  Stock  Exchanges  from  where  such  permission  is 
sought are disclosed in RHP/Prospectus. The Designated Stock Exchange may be as disclosed in 
the RHP/Prospectus with which the Basis of Allotment may be finalised.  
 
If the permissions to deal in and for an official quotation of the Equity Shares are not granted by 
any  of  the  Stock  Exchange(s),  the  Issuer  may  forthwith  repay,  without  interest,  all  moneys 
received from the Bidders/Applicants in pursuance of the RHP/Prospectus. 
 
If such money is not repaid within eight days after the Issuer becomes liable to repay it, then the 
Issuer and every director of the Issuer who is an officer in default may, on and from such expiry 
of eight days, be liable to repay the money, with interest at such rate, as prescribed under Section 
73 of the Companies Act, and as disclosed in the RHP/Prospectus. 
 
8.2.2  NON RECEIPT OF MINIMUM SUBSCIPTION 
 
If  the  Issuer  does  not  receive  a  minimum  subscription  of  90%  of  the  Net  Issue  (excluding  any 
offer for sale of specified securities), including devolvement to the Underwriters, within 60 days 
from  the  Bid/Issue  Closing  Date,  the  Issuer  may  forthwith,  without  interest  refund  the  entire 
subscription  amount  received.    In  case  the  Issue  is  in  the  nature  of  Offer  for  Sale  only,  then 
minimum subscription may not be applicable. 
 
If there is a delay beyond eight days after the Issuer becomes liable to pay the amount, then the 
Issuer and every director of the Issuer who is an officer in default may, on and from such expiry 
of eight days, be liable to repay the money, with interest at the rate of 15% per annum. 
 
8.2.3  MINIMUM NUMBER OF ALLOTTEES  
 
The Issuer may ensure that the number of prospective Allottees to whom Equity Shares  may be 
allotted may not be less than 1,000 failing which the entire application monies may be refunded 
forthwith. 

 

42 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

IN CASE OF ISSUES MADE UNDER COMPULSORY BOOK BUILDING 

 
 
8.2.4 
 
In case  an Issuer  not eligible under Regulation 26(1) of the  SEBI ICDR Regulations,  2009 comes 
for an Issue under Regulation 26(2) of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2009 but fails to allot at least 75% 
of the Net Issue to QIBs, in such case full subscription money is to be refunded.  
 
8.3 
 
(a)  In case of ASBA Bids/Applications: Within 12 Working Days of the Bid/Issue Closing Date, 
the Registrar to the Issue may give instructions to SCSBs for unblocking the amount in ASBA 
Account  on  unsuccessful  Bid/Application  and  also  for  any  excess  amount  blocked  on 
Bidding/Application. 

MODE OF REFUND 

 
(b)  In  case  of  Non-ASBA  Bid/Applications:  Within  12 Working  Days  of  the  Bid/Issue  Closing 
Date,  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue  may  dispatch  the  refund  orders  for  all  amounts  payable  to 
unsuccessful  Bidders/Applicants 
amount  paid  on 
Bidding/Application, after adjusting for allocation/ allotment to Bidders/Applicants. 

excess 

and 

also 

for 

any 

 
(c)  In  case  of  non-ASBA  Bidders/Applicants,  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue  may  obtain  from  the 
depositories the  Bidders/Applicants’ bank account details, including the MICR code, on the 
basis of the DP ID, Client ID and PAN provided by the Bidders/Applicants in their Bid cum 
Application Forms for refunds. Accordingly, Bidders/Applicants are advised to immediately 
update their details as appearing on the records of their DPs. Failure to do so may result in 
delays  in  dispatch  of  refund  orders  or  refunds  through  electronic  transfer  of  funds,  as 
applicable,  and  any  such  delay  may  be  at  the  Bidders/Applicants’  sole  risk  and  neither  the 
Issuer, the Registrar to the Issue, the Escrow Collection Banks, or the Syndicate, may be liable 
to compensate the Bidders/Applicants for any losses caused to them due to any such delay, 
or liable to pay any interest for such delay. 

 
(d)  In the case of Bids from Eligible NRIs and FIIs, refunds, if any,  may generally be payable in 
Indian Rupees only and net of bank charges and/or commission. If so desired, such payments 
in Indian Rupees may be converted into U.S. Dollars or any other freely convertible currency 
as may be permitted by the RBI at the rate of exchange prevailing at the time of remittance 
and may be dispatched by registered post. The Issuer may not be responsible for loss, if any, 
incurred by the Bidder/Applicant on account of conversion of foreign currency. 

 

8.3.1  Mode of making refunds for Bidders/Applicants other than ASBA Bidders/Applicants 

 
The payment of refund, if any, may be done through various modes as mentioned below: 
 
(e)  NECS—Payment  of  refund  may  be  done  through  NECS  for  Bidders/Applicants  having  an 
account at any of the centers specified by the RBI. This mode of payment of refunds  may be 
subject to availability of complete bank account details including the nine-digit MICR code of 
the Bidder/Applicant as obtained from the Depository; 

 

 

43 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
(f)  NEFT—Payment  of  refund  may  be  undertaken  through  NEFT  wherever  the  branch  of  the 
Bidders/Applicants’  bank  is  NEFT  enabled  and  has  been  assigned  the  Indian  Financial 
System Code (“IFSC”), which can be linked to the MICR of that particular branch. The IFSC 
Code  may be obtained from the website of RBI as at a date prior to the date of payment of 
refund, duly mapped with MICR numbers. Wherever the Bidders/Applicants have registered 
their nine-digit MICR number and their bank account number while opening and operating 
the demat account, the same may be duly mapped with the IFSC Code of that particular bank 
branch  and  the  payment  of  refund  may    be  made  to  the  Bidders/Applicants  through  this 
method.  In  the  event  NEFT  is  not  operationally  feasible,  the  payment  of  refunds  may    be 
made through any one of the other modes as discussed in this section; 

 
(g)  Direct  Credit—Bidders/Applicants  having  their  bank  account  with  the  Refund  Banker  may  

be eligible to receive refunds, if any, through direct credit to such bank account;  

 
(h)  RTGS—Bidders/Applicants  having  a  bank  account  at  any  of  the  centers  notified  by  SEBI 
where clearing houses  are managed  by the  RBI,  may   have the option to receive refunds, if 
any, through RTGS; and  

 
(i)  For  all  the  other  Bidders/Applicants,  including  Bidders/Applicants  who  have  not  updated 
their  bank  particulars  along  with  the  nine-digit  MICR  code,  the  refund  orders  may  be 
dispatched  through  speed  post  or  registered  post  for  refund  orders.  Such  refunds  may  be 
made  by  cheques,  pay  orders  or  demand  drafts  drawn  on  the  Refund  Bank  and  payable  at 
par at places where Bids are received.  

 
For  details  of  levy  of  charges,  if  any,  for  any  of  the  above  methods,  Bank  charges,  if  any,  for 
cashing such cheques, pay orders or demand drafts at other centers etc Bidders/Applicants may 
refer to RHP/Prospectus.  
 

8.3.2  Mode of making refunds for ASBA Bidders/Applicants 

 INTEREST IN CASE OF DELAY IN ALLOTMENT OR REFUND   

 
In  case  of  ASBA  Bidders/Applicants,  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue  may  instruct  the  controlling 
branch  of  the  SCSB  to  unblock  the  funds  in  the  relevant  ASBA  Account  for  any  withdrawn, 
rejected or unsuccessful ASBA Bids or in the event of withdrawal or failure of the Issue.  
 
8.4 
 
The Issuer may pay interest at the rate of 15% per annum if refund orders are not dispatched or 
if,  in  a  case  where  the  refund  or  portion  thereof  is  made  in  electronic  manner,  the  refund 
instructions  have  not  been  given  to  the  clearing  system  in  the  disclosed  manner  and/or  demat 
credits are not made to Bidders/Applicants or instructions for unblocking of funds in the ASBA 
Account are not dispatched within the 12 Working days of the Bid/Issue Closing Date. 
 
The Issuer may pay interest at 15% per annum for any delay beyond 15 days from the Bid/ Issue 
Closing Date, if Allotment is not made.  
 
 

 

44 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SECTION 9: GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS 

 
Unless  the  context  otherwise  indicates  or  implies,  certain  definitions  and  abbreviations  used  in  this 
document may have the meaning as provided below. References to any legislation, act or regulation may be 
to such legislation, act or regulation as amended from time to time. 
 
Term 
Allotment/ 
Allotted 
Allottee 
Allotment Advice 

Description 
The allotment of Equity Shares pursuant to the Issue to successful Bidders/Applicants  

Allot/ 

Anchor Investor 

Anchor Investor Portion 

Application Form 

Application 
Supported 
by  Blocked  Amount/ 
(ASBA)/ASBA 
ASBA Account 

ASBA Bid 
ASBA Bidder/Applicant  
Banker(s)  to  the  Issue/ 
Collection 
Escrow 
Bank(s)/ 
Collecting 
Banker 
Basis of Allotment 

Bid 

Bid /Issue Closing Date 

Bid/Issue Opening Date 

An  Bidder/Applicant to whom the Equity Shares are Allotted 
Note or advice or intimation of Allotment sent to the Bidders/Applicants who have been 
allotted Equity Shares after the Basis of Allotment has been approved by the designated 
Stock Exchanges 
A  Qualified  Institutional  Buyer,  applying  under  the  Anchor  Investor  Portion  in 
accordance with the requirements specified in SEBI ICDR Regulations, 2009.  
Up  to  30%  of  the  QIB  Category  which  may  be  allocated  by  the  Issuer  in  consultation 
with the BRLMs, to Anchor Investors on a discretionary basis. One-third of the Anchor 
Investor  Portion  is  reserved  for  domestic  Mutual  Funds,  subject  to  valid  Bids  being 
received from domestic Mutual Funds at or above the price at which allocation is being 
done to Anchor Investors 
The form in terms of which the Applicant should make an application for Allotment in  
case of issues other than Book Built Issues, includes Fixed Price Issue 
An  application,  whether  physical  or  electronic,  used  by  Bidders/Applicants  to  make  a 
Bid  authorising  an  SCSB  to  block  the  Bid  Amount  in  the  specified  bank  account 
maintained with such SCSB 
Account maintained with an SCSB which may  be blocked by such SCSB to the extent of 
the Bid Amount of the ASBA Bidder/Applicant 
A Bid made by an ASBA Bidder 
Prospective Bidders/Applicants in the Issue who Bid/apply through ASBA 
The banks which are clearing members and registered with SEBI as Banker to the Issue 
with  whom  the  Escrow  Account(s)  may  be  opened,  and  as  disclosed  in  the 
RHP/Prospectus and Bid cum Application Form of the Issuer 

The basis on which the Equity Shares may be Allotted to successful Bidders/Applicants 
under the Issue 
An  indication  to  make  an  offer  during  the  Bid/Issue  Period  by  a  prospective  Bidder 
pursuant  to  submission  of  Bid  cum  Application  Form  or  during  the  Anchor  Investor 
Bid/Issue Period by the Anchor Investors, to subscribe for or purchase the Equity Shares 
of the Issuer at a price within the Price Band, including all revisions and modifications 
thereto. In case of issues undertaken through the fixed price process, all references to a 
Bid should be construed to mean an Application  
The date after which the Syndicate, Registered Brokers and the SCSBs may  not accept 
any  Bids  for  the  Issue,  which  may    be  notified  in  an  English  national  daily,  a  Hindi 
national  daily  and  a  regional  language  newspaper  at  the  place  where  the  registered 
office of the Issuer is situated, each with wide circulation. Applicants/bidders may refer 
to the RHP/Prospectus for the Bid/ Issue Closing Date 
The date on which the Syndicate and the SCSBs may  start accepting Bids for the Issue, 
which may  be the date notified in an English national daily, a Hindi national daily and 
a  regional  language  newspaper  at  the  place where  the  registered  office  of  the  Issuer  is 
situated,  each  with  wide  circulation.  Applicants/bidders  may 
the 
RHP/Prospectus for the Bid/ Issue Opening Date 

refer 

to 

 

45 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Bid/Issue Period 

Bid Amount 

cum  Application 

Bid 
Form 

Bidder/Applicant 

Book Built Process/ Book 
Building  Process/  Book 
Building Method 
Broker Centres 

BRLM(s)/  Book  Running 
Lead  Manager(s)/Lead 
Manager/ LM 

Business Day 
CAN/Confirmation 
Allotment Note 

of 

Cap Price 

Client ID 

Companies Act 
Cut-off Price 

DP 
DP ID 
Depositories 
Demographic Details 

Designated Branches 

Except in the case of Anchor Investors (if applicable), the period between the Bid/Issue 
Opening Date and the Bid/Issue Closing Date inclusive of both days and during which 
prospective  Bidders/Applicants  (other  than  Anchor  Investors)  can  submit  their  Bids, 
inclusive of any revisions thereof. The Issuer may consider closing the Bid/ Issue Period 
for  QIBs  one  working  day  prior  to  the  Bid/Issue  Closing  Date  in  accordance  with  the 
SEBI ICDR  Regulations, 2009.  Applicants/bidders  may  refer  to  the RHP/Prospectus  for 
the Bid/ Issue Period 
The highest value of the optional Bids indicated in the Bid cum Application Form and 
payable  by  the  Bidder/Applicant  upon  submission  of  the  Bid  (except  for  Anchor 
Investors), less discounts (if applicable). In case of issues undertaken through the fixed 
price  process,  all  references  to  the  Bid  Amount  should  be  construed  to  mean  the 
Application Amount  
The form in terms of which the Bidder/Applicant should make an offer to subscribe for 
or  purchase  the  Equity  Shares  and  which  may    be  considered  as  the  application  for 
Allotment  for  the  purposes  of  the  Prospectus,  whether  applying  through  the  ASBA  or 
otherwise. In case of issues undertaken through the fixed price process, all references to 
the Bid cum Application Form should be construed to mean the Application Form 
Any  prospective  investor  (including  an  ASBA  Bidder/Applicant)  who  makes  a  Bid 
pursuant to the terms of the RHP/Prospectus and the Bid cum Application Form. In case 
of 
to  a 
Bidder/Applicant should be construed to mean an Bidder/Applicant 
The book building process as provided under SEBI ICDR Regulations, 2009, in terms of 
which the Issue is being made 

fixed  price  process,  all  references 

the 

issues  undertaken 

through 

Broker  centres  notified  by  the  Stock  Exchanges,  where  Bidders/Applicants  can  submit 
the Bid cum Application Forms/Application Form to a Registered Broker. The details of 
such broker centres, along with the names and contact details of the Registered Brokers 
are available on the websites of the Stock Exchanges. 
The Book Running Lead Manager to the  Issue as disclosed in the RHP/Prospectus and 
the  Bid  cum  Application  Form  of  the  Issuer.  In  case  of  issues  undertaken  through  the 
fixed  price  process,  all  references  to  the  Book  Running  Lead  Manager  should  be 
construed to mean the Lead Manager or LM 
Monday to Friday (except public holidays)  
The note or advice or intimation sent to each successful Bidder/Applicant indicating the 
Equity  Shares  which  may    be  Allotted,  after  approval  of  Basis  of  Allotment  by  the 
Designated Stock Exchange  
The higher end of the Price Band, above which the Issue Price and the Anchor Investor 
Issue Price may  not be finalised and above which no Bids may  be accepted 
Client  Identification  Number  maintained  with  one  of  the  Depositories  in  relation    to 
demat account 
The Companies Act, 1956 
Issue  Price,  finalised  by  the  Issuer  in  consultation  with  the  Book  Running  Lead 
Manager(s), which can be any price within the Price Band. Only RIIs, Retail Individual 
Shareholders and employees are entitled to Bid at the Cut-off Price. No other category of 
Bidders/Applicants are entitled to Bid at the Cut-off Price 
Depository Participant 
Depository Participant’s Identification Number 
National Securities Depository Limited and Central Depository Services (India) Limited 
Details of the Bidders/Applicants including the Bidder/Applicant’s address, name of the 
Applicant’s father/husband, investor status, occupation and bank account details 
Such branches of the SCSBs which may  collect the Bid cum Application Forms used by 
the  ASBA  Bidders/Applicants  applying  through  the  ASBA  and  a  list  of  which  is 
available on http://www.sebi.gov.in/cms/sebi_data/attachdocs/1316087201341.html  

 

46 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Designated Date 

Designated 
Exchange 
Discount 

Stock 

Draft Prospectus 

Employees 

Equity Shares 
Escrow Account 

Escrow Agreement 

Collection 

Escrow 
Bank(s) 
FCNR Account 
First Bidder/Applicant 

FII(s) 

Fixed  Price  Issue/Fixed 
Price  Process/Fixed  Price 
Method 
Floor Price 

FPO 
Foreign  Venture  Capital 
Investors or FVCIs 
IPO 
Issue 
Issuer/ Company 
Issue Price 

Maximum RII Allottees 

MICR 
Mutual Fund 
Mutual Funds Portion 

 

The  date  on  which  funds  are  transferred  by  the  Escrow  Collection  Bank(s)  from  the 
Escrow  Account  or  the  amounts  blocked  by  the  SCSBs  are  transferred  from  the  ASBA 
Accounts,  as  the  case  may  be,  to  the  Public  Issue  Account  or  the  Refund  Account,  as 
appropriate,  after  the  Prospectus  is  filed  with  the  RoC,  following  which  the  board  of 
directors  may    Allot  Equity  Shares  to  successful  Bidders/Applicants  in  the  fresh  Issue  
may    give  delivery  instructions  for  the  transfer  of  the  Equity  Shares  constituting  the 
Offer for Sale  
The designated stock exchange as disclosed in the RHP/Prospectus of the Issuer 

Discount  to  the  Issue  Price  that  may  be  provided  to  Bidders/Applicants  in  accordance 
with the SEBI ICDR Regulations, 2009.   
The  draft  prospectus  filed  with  SEBI  in  case  of  Fixed  Price  Issues  and  which  may 
mention a price or a Price Band 
Employees of an Issuer as defined under SEBI ICDR Regulations, 2009 and including, in 
case  of  a  new  company,  persons  in  the  permanent  and  full  time  employment  of  the 
promoting companies excluding the promoters and immediate relatives of the promoter. 
For further details Bidder/Applicant may refer to the RHP/Prospectus  
Equity shares of the Issuer  
Account  opened  with  the  Escrow  Collection  Bank(s)  and  in  whose  favour  the 
Bidders/Applicants  (excluding  the  ASBA  Bidders/Applicants)  may    Issue  cheques  or 
drafts in respect of the Bid Amount when submitting a Bid 
Agreement  to  be  entered  into  among  the  Issuer,  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue,  the  Book 
Running Lead Manager(s), the Syndicate Member(s), the Escrow Collection Bank(s) and 
the  Refund  Bank(s)  for  collection  of  the  Bid  Amounts  and  where  applicable,  remitting 
refunds  of  the  amounts  collected  to  the  Bidders/Applicants  (excluding  the  ASBA 
Bidders/Applicants) on the terms and conditions thereof 
Refer to definition of Banker(s) to the Issue 
 
Foreign Currency Non-Resident Account 
The  Bidder/Applicant  whose  name  appears  first  in  the  Bid  cum  Application  Form  or 
Revision Form 
Foreign  Institutional  Investors  as  defined  under  SEBI  (Foreign  Institutional  Investors) 
Regulations, 1995 and registered with SEBI under applicable laws in India 
The  Fixed  Price  process  as  provided  under  SEBI  ICDR  Regulations,  2009,  in  terms  of 
which the Issue is being made 

The  lower  end  of  the  Price  Band,  at  or  above  which  the  Issue  Price  and  the  Anchor 
Investor  Issue  Price  may    be  finalised  and  below  which  no  Bids  may    be  accepted, 
subject to any revision thereto 
Further public offering 
Foreign  Venture  Capital Investors  as  defined and  registered with SEBI  under  the  SEBI 
(Foreign Venture Capital Investors) Regulations, 2000 
Initial public offering 
Public Issue of Equity Shares of the Issuer including the Offer for Sale if applicable 
The Issuer proposing the initial public offering/further public offering as applicable 
The final price, less discount (if applicable) at which the Equity Shares may be Allotted 
in terms of the Prospectus. The Issue Price may  be decided by the Issuer in consultation 
with the Book Running Lead Manager(s)  
The  maximum  number  of  RIIs  who  can  be  allotted  the  minimum  Bid  Lot.  This  is 
computed by dividing the total number of Equity Shares available for Allotment to RIIs 
by the minimum Bid Lot. 
Magnetic Ink Character Recognition - nine-digit code as appearing on a cheque leaf 
A mutual fund registered with SEBI under the SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996  
5% of the QIB Category (excluding the Anchor Investor Portion) available for allocation 
to  Mutual  Funds  only,  being  such  number  of  equity  shares  as  disclosed  in  the 
RHP/Prospectus and Bid cum Application Form  

47 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
NECS 
NEFT 
NRE Account 
NRI 

NRO Account 
Net Issue 
Non-Institutional 
Investors or NIIs 

Non-Institutional 
Category 

Non-Resident 

OCB/Overseas Corporate 
Body 

Offer for Sale  

Other Investors 

PAN 
Price Band 

Pricing Date 
 
Prospectus 

Public Issue Account 

Qualified 
Investors or QFIs 

Financial 

National Electronic Clearing Service 
National Electronic Fund Transfer 
Non-Resident External Account 
NRIs from such jurisdictions outside India where it is not unlawful to make an offer or 
invitation  under  the  Issue  and  in  relation  to  whom  the  RHP/Prospectus  constitutes  an 
invitation to subscribe to or purchase the Equity Shares  
Non-Resident Ordinary Account 
The Issue less reservation portion 
All  Bidders/Applicants,  including  sub  accounts  of  FIIs  registered  with  SEBI  which  are 
foreign corporate or foreign individuals, that are not QIBs or RIBs and who have Bid for 
Equity  Shares  for  an  amount  of  more  than  Rs.  200,000  (but  not  including  NRIs  other 
than Eligible NRIs) 
The portion of the Issue being such number of Equity Shares available for allocation to 
NIIs on a proportionate basis and as disclosed in the  RHP/Prospectus and the Bid cum 
Application Form 
A  person  resident  outside  India,  as  defined  under  FEMA  and  includes  Eligible  NRIs, 
FIIs registered with SEBI and FVCIs registered with SEBI  
A company, partnership, society or other corporate body owned directly or indirectly to 
the extent of at least 60% by NRIs including overseas trusts, in which not less than 60% 
of beneficial interest is irrevocably held by NRIs directly or indirectly and which was in 
existence on October 3, 2003 and immediately before such date had taken benefits under 
the general permission granted to OCBs under FEMA  
Public  offer  of  such  number  of  Equity  Shares  as  disclosed  in  the  RHP/Prospectus 
through an offer for sale by the Selling Shareholder  
Investors  other  than  Retail  Individual  Investors  in  a  Fixed  Price  Issue.  These  include 
individual  applicants  other  than  retail  individual  investors  and  other  investors 
including  corporate  bodies  or  institutions  irrespective  of  the  number  of  specified 
securities applied for.  
Permanent Account Number allotted under the Income Tax Act, 1961 
Price Band with a minimum price, being the Floor Price and the maximum price, being 
the Cap Price and includes revisions thereof. The Price Band and the minimum Bid lot 
size for the Issue may  be decided by the Issuer in consultation with the Book Running 
Lead Manager(s) and advertised, at least two working days  in case of an IPO and one 
working  day in  case  of  FPO,  prior  to  the  Bid/  Issue  Opening  Date,  in  English  national 
daily, Hindi national daily and regional language at the place where the registered office 
of the Issuer is situated, newspaper each with wide circulation  
The date on which the Issuer in consultation with the Book Running Lead Manager(s), 
finalise the Issue Price 
The prospectus to be filed with the RoC in accordance with Section 60 of the Companies 
Act  after  the  Pricing  Date,  containing  the  Issue  Price  ,the  size  of  the  Issue  and  certain 
other information 
An  account  opened  with  the  Banker  to  the  Issue  to  receive  monies  from  the  Escrow 
Account and from the ASBA Accounts on the Designated Date 
Non-Resident  investors,  other  than  SEBI  registered  FIIs  or  sub-accounts  or  SEBI 
registered FVCIs, who meet ‘know your client’ requirements prescribed by SEBI and are 
resident in a country which is (i) a member of Financial Action Task Force or a member 
of a group which is a member of Financial Action Task Force; and (ii) a signatory to the 
International  Organisation  of  Securities  Commission’s  Multilateral  Memorandum  of 
Understanding or a signatory of a bilateral memorandum of understanding with SEBI. 
 
Provided that such non-resident investor shall not be resident in country which is listed 
in the public statements issued by Financial Action Task Force from time to time on: (i) 
jurisdictions  having  a  strategic  anti-money  laundering/combating  the  financing  of 
terrorism  deficiencies  to  which counter  measures  apply;  (ii)  jurisdictions  that  have  not 
made  sufficient  progress  in  addressing  the  deficiencies  or  have  not  committed  to  an 
action plan developed with the Financial Action Task Force to address the deficiencies 

 

48 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
QIB Category 

Institutional 

Qualified 
Buyers or QIBs 
RTGS 
Red  Herring  Prospectus/ 
RHP 

Refund Account(s) 

Refund Bank(s) 

through 
of 

transfer 

Refunds 
electronic 
funds 
Registered Broker 

The portion of the Issue being such number of Equity Shares to be Allotted to QIBs on a 
proportionate basis  
As defined under SEBI ICDR Regulations, 2009 

Real Time Gross Settlement 
The red herring prospectus issued in accordance with Section 60B of the Companies Act, 
which  does  not  have  complete  particulars  of  the  price  at  which  the  Equity  Shares  are 
offered and the size of the Issue. The RHP may be filed with the RoC at least three days 
before the Bid/Issue Opening Date and may become a Prospectus  upon filing with the 
RoC after the Pricing Date. In case of issues undertaken through the fixed price process, 
all references to the RHP should be construed to mean the Prospectus 
The  account  opened  with  Refund  Bank(s),  from  which  refunds  (excluding  refunds  to 
ASBA Bidders/Applicants), if any, of the whole or part of the Bid Amount may  be made 
Refund  bank(s)  as  disclosed  in  the  RHP/Prospectus  and  Bid  cum  Application  Form  of 
the Issuer 
Refunds through NECS, Direct Credit, NEFT, RTGS or ASBA, as applicable 

Stock  Brokers  registered  with  the  Stock  Exchanges  having  nationwide  terminals,  other 
than the members of the Syndicate 

Registrar to the Issue/RTI  The Registrar to the Issue as disclosed in the RHP/Prospectus and Bid cum Application 

Category/ 

Reserved 
Categories  
Reservation Portion 

Individual 

Individual 

Retail 
Investors / RIIs 
Retail 
Shareholders 
Retail Category 

Revision Form 

RoC 
SEBI 

SEBI  ICDR  Regulations, 
2009 
Self  Certified  Syndicate 
Bank(s) or SCSB(s) 
Specified Locations 
Stock Exchanges/ SE 

Syndicate 
Syndicate Agreement 

Syndicate Member(s)/SM 
Underwriters 
Underwriting 
Agreement 

 

Form  
Categories of persons eligible for making application/bidding under reservation portion  

The portion of the Issue reserved for category of eligible Bidders/Applicants as provided 
under the SEBI ICDR Regulations, 2009 
Investors who applies or bids for a value of not more than Rs. 200,000. 

Shareholders  of  a  listed  Issuer  who  applies  or  bids  for  a  value  of  not  more  than  Rs. 
200,000. 
The portion of the Issue being such number of Equity Shares available for allocation to 
RIIs  which  shall  not  be  less  than  the  minimum  bid  lot,  subject  to  availability  in  RII 
category and the remaining shares to be allotted on proportionate basis.    
The form used by the Bidders in an issue through Book Building process to modify the 
quantity  of  Equity  Shares  and/or  bid  price  indicates  therein  in  any  of  their  Bid  cum 
Application Forms or any previous Revision Form(s)  
The Registrar of Companies 
The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  constituted  under  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009  
A  bank  registered  with  SEBI,  which  offers  the  facility  of  ASBA  and  a  list  of  which  is 
available on http://www.sebi.gov.in/cms/sebi_data/attachdocs/1316087201341.html  
Refer to definition of Broker Centres 
The stock exchanges as disclosed in the RHP/Prospectus of the Issuer where the Equity 
Shares Allotted pursuant to the Issue are proposed to be listed 
The Book Running Lead Manager(s) and the Syndicate Member 
The  agreement  to  be  entered  into  among  the  Issuer,  and  the  Syndicate  in  relation  to 
collection of the Bids in this Issue (excluding Bids from ASBA Bidders/Applicants) 
The Syndicate Member(s) as disclosed in the RHP/Prospectus 
The Book Running Lead Manager(s) and the Syndicate Member(s) 
The agreement amongst the Issuer, and the Underwriters to be entered into on or after 
the Pricing Date 

49 
 

 
Working Day 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

All days other than a Sunday or a public holiday on which commercial banks are open for 
business, except with reference to announcement of Price Band and Bid/Issue Period, where 
working day shall mean all days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays, which 
are working days for commercial banks in India 

 
 

 

50 
 

