 

 

                    November 18, 2013 

 
CIR/CFD/POLICYCELL/13/2013   
 
 
To 
 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges  
 
Dear Sir(s)/Madam(s), 
 
Sub: Compliance with the provisions of Equity Listing Agreement by listed 

companies – Monitoring by Stock Exchanges 

 

1.  The  Equity  Listing  Agreement  mandates  listed  companies  to  make  periodic 
and event based disclosures which are price sensitive in nature and which will 
have bearing on the performance/operations of the company. 
 

2.  SEBI  vide  circular  No.  CIR/MRD/DSA/31/2013  dated  September  30,  2013 
streamlined  the  processes  and  procedures  with  regard  to  actions  for  non-
compliance of certain listing conditions which had so far been considered as 
grounds for suspension of trading by the recognized Stock Exchanges. It was 
decided  that  recognized  Stock  Exchanges  shall  use  imposition  of  fines  as 
action of first resort  in case of such non-compliances and invoke suspension 
of  trading  in  case  of  subsequent  and  consecutive  defaults.  In  order  to 
maintain consistency and uniformity in approach in this regard, SEBI has laid 
down  (i)  Uniform  fine  structure  for  non-compliance  of  certain  clauses  of  the 
Listing Agreement; and (ii) Standard operating procedures for suspension and 
revocation of suspension of trading in the shares of such listed entities. It was 
also mandated that every recognized Stock Exchange shall put in place the 
system to monitor and review the compliance of respective listing conditions 
by the listed companies. 
 

3.   Concerns  have  been  raised  that  even  though  listed  companies  make 
disclosures  to  Stock  Exchanges  within  the  timeframe  stipulated  under  the 
Listing Agreement; the contents of the disclosures made by such companies 
are  not  adequate  and  accurate.  Therefore,  investors  are  unable  to  take 
informed  investment  decisions  based  on  such  disclosures.    IMF  has  in  its 
report  on  "  India:  Financial  Sector  Assessment  Program-  Detailed 
Assessments Report on IOSCO Objectives and Principles of Securities 
Regulation ", inter-alia, pointed out: 

 

Page 1 of 7 

 
"….. Mechanisms to ensure compliance with listing obligations in India, 
which include periodic reporting, are a responsibility of the RSES. Such 
mechanisms have limitations." 

"….the  information  provided  shows  that  the  RSEs  (recognized  Stock 
exchanges)  review  periodic  reports.  However,  such  information  (for 
examples, the minutes of the committee on non-compliance) leads to 
conclude  that  the  RSEs  have  also  not  acted  as  vigorously  as 
necessary in enforcing compliance by issuers with the listing/reporting 
conditions……." 

i. 

 

ii. 

 

 

4.   Thus, it is felt that the current monitoring mechanism of Stock Exchanges to 
ascertain the adequacy and accuracy of disclosures made in compliance with 
the Listing Agreement need to be made more effective. 

5.  Accordingly,  in  continuation  of  Circular  dated  September  30,  2013  and  
pursuant  to  the  discussions  with  the  Recognised  Stock  Exchanges  and 
market participants, in order to address the above mentioned concerns,  the 
Recognised Stock Exchanges are advised to: 

 
5.1  Put in place appropriate framework (including adequate manpower) to 
effectively monitor the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures made 
by listed companies;  

5.2  Devise the framework in such a way that it detects any non-compliance 
/  violation  of  the  provisions  of  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act, 
1956,  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  the  Rules 
and Regulations made there under, Listing Agreement, and any other 
applicable laws. Some indicative parameters to be included in the said 
framework are given at Annexure I;  

5.3  Put in place an appropriate mechanism for handling complaints related 
to  such  inadequate  and  inaccurate  disclosures  and  non-compliances 
mentioned in clause 5.2; 

5.4  Treat  inadequacy  and  inaccuracy  of  disclosure  as  non-compliance, 
the  Standard 
laid  down  by  SEBI  vide  Circular  No. 

wherever  applicable  and  proceed 
Operating  Procedure 
CIR/MRD/DSA/31/2013 dated September 30, 2013;  

further  as  per 

5.5  Submit  to  SEBI  an  "Exception  Report"  in  addition  to  the  existing 
reporting  requirements,  with  the  details  of  companies  which  do  not 
respond to the clarifications sought by them and/or where the response 
submitted by the company is not satisfactory in the opinion of the Stock 
Exchange. The format of the Exception Report is given at Annexure-II; 
and 

Page 2 of 7 

 
5.6  Obtain the details of the promoters / directors and/or Key Managerial 
Personnel  of  the  listed  companies  who  shall  be  responsible  for 
ensuring compliance with the provisions of the Listing Agreement and 
in case of defaults, disclose such details on its website.  

6.   In  order  to  enable  the  Recognised  Stock  Exchanges  and  the  listed 
companies to put in place adequate infrastructure to ensure compliance with 
the  requirements  of  this  Circular,  Recognised  Stock  Exchanges  shall  begin 
with monitoring the adequacy and accuracy of disclosures made by top 500 
listed  companies  (by  market  capitalization  as  on  March  31,  2013)  in 
compliance with Clauses 35, 36, 41 and 49 of the Equity Listing Agreement 
for the quarter ending December 31, 2013.  

 

 

7.  This  Circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under 
Section  11  read  with  Section 11A of the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India Act, 1992.  

 
8.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
Anindya Kumar Das 
Deputy General Manager  
+91-22-26449616 
anindyakd@sebi.gov.in  

 
 
Enclosures:  
 
Annexure-I: Indicative parameters to be included in the monitoring framework. 
Annexure-II: Format of exception report to be submitted to SEBI 

Page 3 of 7 

 
Annexure-I 

 
Indicative parameters to be included in the framework for monitoring by the 
Stock  Exchanges  in  respect  of  Clause  35,  36,  41  and  49  of  the  Equity 
Listing Agreement 
 
1.  Stock Exchanges shall disseminate the information received from the listed 
companies on their respective websites after doing a preliminary check, as is 
being done presently. 
 

2.  The quality and substantive compliance with respect to Clause-35 shall be 
monitored  by  comparing  with  the  filings  of  the  previous  quarter.  Such 
comparison  shall  include  changes,  if  any,  in  the  names  of  the  promoters, 
their  shareholding,  encumbered  shares,  persons  holding  more  than  the 
required  percentage  in  public  category,  and  ensure  as  to  whether  the 
requisite disclosures have been made in compliance with SEBI (Prohibition 
of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  1992,  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of 
Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011  and  any  other  applicable  laws, 
rules and regulations.  

3.  The disclosures with respect to Clause-41 (including handling of complaints 
relating  to  inadequate  disclosures  and  non-compliances)  and  Clause  49 
shall  be  monitored  for  quality  and  substantive  compliance  and  necessary 
action should be initiated, if found otherwise.   

4.  The quality and substantive compliance with respect to Clause-36 shall be 

monitored by taking into account the following: 

 

 

 
A. 

B. 

Information Verification: 
Stock Exchanges shall keep themselves informed of the updates in 
various  media  including  print  and  mass  media  with  respect  to  a 
listed company and while scrutinizing the disclosures made under 
Clause  36,  ensure  that  any  important  information  has  not  been 
omitted to be disclosed by the company.  
 
Follow-up on material information: 
Stock Exchanges shall follow up with the listed companies at every 
stage for the updates on material events reported, either suo moto 
or upon receipt of information from other sources.  

5. 

 
In case there is any deficiency in the information / clarification provided by 
the  listed  company,  Stock  Exchanges  shall  seek  further  information  / 

Page 4 of 7 

 
clarification from the company within such time as they may deem fit but not 
later than 2 working days from the date of the said disclosure. 
 

6.  Listed  company  shall  submit  the  requisite  information  /  clarification  within 
such timeframe as may be specified by the Stock Exchanges which shall not 
exceed  5  working  days  from  the  date  of  the  communication  of  Stock 
Exchange seeking such information / clarification. 
 

7.  Any  query  raised  by  the  Stock  Exchange  and  reply  received  from  the 
company  shall  be  disseminated  on  the  website  of  the  Stock  Exchange 
immediately  and  the  same  shall  be  tagged  along  with  the  relevant 
disclosures made by the company  under the said clauses.  

8. 

then 

the  same  shall  be 

If  the  reply  given  by  the  company  is  not  found  satisfactory  by  the  Stock 
Exchange, 
treated  as  non-compliance  and 
appropriate  action  shall  be  taken  by  the  Stock  Exchanges  against  the 
company  as  per  Standard  Operating  Procedure  laid  down  by  SEBI  vide 
circular  No.  CIR/MRD/DSA/31/2013  dated  September  30,  2013  and  the 
same shall be reported to SEBI in the Exception Report. 

9.  The fine shall be levied on the company in terms of the said circular and the 
date  of  non-compliance  shall  be  deemed  to  be  the  date  on  which  the  last 
reply  was  received  from  the  company  on  the  query  raised.  In  case  the 
company  does  not  reply  to  the  query  raised  by  the  company,  the  deemed 
date of non-compliance would be the last date by which company ought to 
have replied to the last clarification/communication of the Stock Exchange.   

10.  The  Exception  Report  shall  be  submitted  to  SEBI  within  45  days  from  the 
end of each quarter with respect to Clauses 35, 41 and 49 and on a weekly 
basis with respect to Clause 36. 

11.  The Stock Exchanges shall set up a separate monitoring cell with identified 

personnel to ensure compliance with this circular. 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

 

 

Page 5 of 7 

 
 

 

 
  

 

 

         ANNEXURE-II 

 

Table  A-  Basic  details  of  compliance/  monitoring  status  in  respect  of 
Clauses 35,   41 and 49 of the Equity Listing Agreement: 

EXCEPTION REPORT 

Particulars 

Sr. 
No. 

1.    Total number of companies 

For 
the  current 
quarter ended on 
(………) 

the 

For 
previous 
quarter  ended 
on (………) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.    Number  of  companies  which 

filed 

3.    Quality  check  completed  (number  of 

reports  

companies) 

4.    Number 

of 

companies 

where 

information was found inadequate 

5.    Number  of  companies  from  whom 
clarifications were sought with respect 
to inadequacy of information  

6.    Number  of  companies 

from  which 
either  no  reply  was  received  or  the 
reply received was not satisfactory as 
per  the  Stock  Exchange.  (Details  of 
such companies to be given in Table-
B) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 6 of 7 

 
 
 
 
Table B- Details of outcome of the monitoring: 

Sr. 
No. 

Name  of 
the 
company  

Clause 
respect 
which 
was raised  

in 
of 
query 

Status 
of 
response  by  
the company  
(Y/N)  

Whether 
the 
response was 
satisfactory? 
(Y/N) 

If no, give 
reasons 

Action 
taken  by 
the  Stock 
Exchange 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Whether 
case 
specific 
report 
sent 
to 
SEBI?  If 
so,  date 
of 
the 
report. 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

*********** 

Page 7 of 7 

