 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DP/38 /2013 

 

 

 

 

         December 19, 2013 

To 
All Stock Exchanges   
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 

Sub: Rationalization of Periodic Call Auction for Illiquid Scrips. 

 

 

1. SEBI  vide  circular  no  CIR/MRD/DP/  6/2013  dated  February  14,  2013  issued 
guidelines  for  trading  in  the  illiquid  scrips  through  Periodic  Call  Auction 
session.  After  introduction  of  periodic  call  auction  framework,  representations 
have  been  received from  market  participants  regarding  the  aforesaid  circular. 
The  issues  raised  by  market  participants  were  examined  and  deliberated  in 
Secondary Market Advisory Committee (SMAC).  
 

2. Based  on  recommendations  of  SMAC  and  feedback  received  from  market 
participants  and  stock  exchanges,  it  has  been  decided  to  rationalize  the 
periodic call auction mechanism.  
 

3. Accordingly, following conditions of aforesaid circular are modified as under: 

3.1. Para 2.2 shall be replaced by the following  

 
a)  For the purpose of this circular, a scrip which trades in the normal 
market  and  is  not  shifted  to  trade  for  trade  settlement,  shall  be 
classified as illiquid on a stock exchange if the following conditions 
are met:  

i.  Average  daily  turnover  of  less  than  Rs.2  lakhs  calculated  for 

previous two quarters and 

ii.  The  scrip  is  classified  as  illiquid  at  all  exchanges  where  it  is 

traded  

 

 
 
 
 

1 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

b)  Of  the  scrips  identified  as  per  above  criteria,  scrips  which  satisfy 

any of the following conditions shall be excluded. 

i.  Scrips with average market capitalization more than Rs.10Cr.   

 

ii.  Scrips where company is paying dividend in at least two out of 

last three years.  
 

iii.  Scrips  where    company  is  profitable  in at  least  2  out  of  last  3 
years,  and  not  more  than  20%  of  promoters  shareholding  is 
pledged in the latest quarter and book value is 3 times or more 
than the face value. 

 

3.2. Para 2.4.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
 

 "The  scrip  has  remained  in  periodic  call  auction  for  at  least  one 
quarter."  

 

3.3. Para 2.6 shall be replaced by following: 

   

 

"Number  of  auction  sessions  –  Stock  Exchange  may  determine  the 
number  of  call  auction  session  for  illiquid  stocks.  However  in  order 
have  minimum  trading  sessions  and  uniform  closing  session,  there 
shall  be at least 2 sessions in a trading day with one uniform  closing 
session across the exchanges."  

 
3.4. Para 2.8 shall be replaced by following:    

 
"Order Placement- The orders may remain valid throughout the trading 
day  and  un-matched  orders  remaining  at  the  end  of  a  call  auction 
session may be moved into next call auction session."  

 

4. All  other  conditions  for  trading  in  periodic  call  auction  sessions  contained  in  
the circulars CIR/MRD/DP/21/2010 dated July 15, 2010, CIR/MRD/DP/32/2010 
September  17,  2010  and  CIR/MRD/DP/6/2013  February  14,  2013  remain 
unchanged. 
 

5. Stock Exchanges are directed to:  

5.1. take  necessary  steps  and  put  in  place  necessary  systems  for 

implementation of this circular from the beginning of the next quarter. 

2 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

5.2. make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 

regulations for the implementation of the above decision;  

5.3. bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the member brokers 
of  the  stock  exchange  and  also  to  disseminate  the  same  on  the 
website.  

6. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 
(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the 
interests of  investors  in  securities  and to promote  the  development  of,  and  to 
regulate the securities market.  
 

 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Maninder Cheema  
Deputy General Manager  
email: maninderc@sebi.gov.in 

3 

