1.  All Custodians of Securities 
2.  All Foreign Institutional Investors through their designated Custodians of 

Securities 

3.  Depository Participants through Depositories  
4.  All Depositories 
5.  All Recognized Stock Exchanges 

 
 Dear Sir/ Madam,  
 
 Sub: Operational Guidelines for Designated Depository Participants  
 
The SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014 ("the Regulations") have been 
notified on January 07, 2014. 
 
Pursuant  to  the  implementation  of  Foreign  Portfolio  Investor  ("FPI")  regime,  SEBI 
approved Designated Depository Participants ("DDPs") would grant registration to FPIs 
on  behalf  of  SEBI  and  also  carry  out  other  allied  activities  in  compliance  with 
Regulations and other guidelines, circulars, issued  thereunder.  
 
It  has  been  decided  in  consultation  with  various  market  participants  to  issue  the 
operational guidelines to facilitate registration of FPIs by DDPs on behalf of SEBI. The 
same is annexed herewith.  
 
This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 
 
The  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 
"Legal framework" and "information for - FII". 

CIRCULAR 

	

CIR/IMD/FIIC/02/2014 
January 08, 2014 

To, 
 

 
Yours faithfully, 

 

S. Madhusudhanan 
Deputy General Manager 
+91-22-26449614 
smadhu@sebi.gov.in 

SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014                                                

Operational Guidelines for Designated Depository Participants 

 
These  operational  guidelines  for  Designated  Depository  Participants  (“DDPs”)  are 
issued  to  facilitate  implementation  of  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations, 
2014 (“the Regulations”). 
 
1.0  Engagement of DDP  

Each FPI shall engage a DDP before making investment in Indian securities market. At 
all times the DDP and the Custodian of Securities (“Custodian”) of the FPI shall be the 
same entity. 
 

2.0  Registration of FPI by DDP 

 
2.1 Scrutiny of applications 

 
The application received for grant of registration as FPI in the format prescribed 
under  the  Regulations  (Form  A)  shall  be  scrutinized  by  the  DDP  on  the 
parameters as described below:  

2.2 Check List for Grant of Registration as FPI* 

 
The following checklist may be used by DDP for scrutiny of documents relating 
to registration of FPI.  
 

 Part A: Documents / information submitted by the applicant: 

 

 

S No.  Particulars of Document 

1 

2 

3 

4 

Application Form-A, duly filled and signed  

PCC/ MCV Declarations and Undertakings 

Applicable conversion/registration fees 

Additional undertakings or information (please provide 
details thereof) 

                         (All the above 4 points have to be replied in the affirmative.) 

Whether 
Submitted

Yes/ No 

Yes/ No 

Yes/ No 

Yes/ No 

Page 1 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014                                                

Operational Guidelines for Designated Depository Participants 

Part B: Consideration of application: 

 

S No.  Regulatory requirements as specified in 

SEBI (FPI) Regulations, 2014 

1  Name of the Applicant  

Category of the applicant: 
(please specify the name of the Sub-
Category) 
Category I 
Category II 
Category III 
If the applicant or its investment 
manager/investment advisor/trustee of trust 
belong to Category II, its registration status 
with overseas regulatory authority, indicating 
the following details: 

i.  Name of the Regulator 
ii.  Registration No. & Validity 
iii.  Adverse Remark, if any.   

4  Date & Place of Incorporation (Wherever 

applicable)  
Principal place of business  

i.  Name of the Country 
ii.  Whether the securities market regulator 

is signatory to IOSCO MMOU 
(Appendix-A) or a signatory to bilateral 
MoU with SEBI. 

iii.  If applicant is a Bank, whether the 

central bank is a member of BIS 

iv.  Whether the country is listed in FATF 

public statements conveying 
jurisdictions with deficiencies.  

6 

Is it legally permissible for the applicant to 
invest in securities outside the country of its 
incorporation or establishment? 

2 

3 

5 

 

 

Remarks of the DDP 

 
 

 

 

(Please fill in the name of 
country) 

 (Yes)  / (No) 

 

(Yes)  / (No) 

 

(Yes)  / (No) 

(Yes)  / (No) 

Page 2 of 10 

SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014                                                

Operational Guidelines for Designated Depository Participants 

Whether the applicant is authorized by its 
Articles of the Memorandum and/or Articles 
of Association or equivalent document(s) or 
the agreement to invest on its own behalf or 
on behalf of its clients? 

(Yes)  / (No) 

(Yes)  / (No) 

Whether the applicant has good track-record, 
professional competence, financial 
soundness, sufficient experience, good 
reputation of fairness and integrity, in 
general? 
Brief details of the activities carried out by the 
 
applicant.  

Whether the applicant is fit and proper?   

(Yes)  / (No) 

 

7 

8 

9 

10 
11  PCC/MCV status of the applicant 
12  Whether the applicant is a part of any 

investor group? 
Whether the name of the applicant figures in 
the list of defaulters (for default in payment of 
fees) available on SEBI website.  
Whether the name of the applicant has been 
checked in the publicly available sources for 
ascertaining any regulatory action against the 
applicant?  
Whether the applicant complies with the 
eligibility criteria as specified under SEBI 
(FPI) Regulations, 2014. 

 
(Yes) / (No) 

(Yes)  / (No) 

(Yes)  / (No) 

(Yes)  / (No) 

 

13 

14 

15 

 
 
2.3 

 

 

 
*  This  checklist  is  only  illustrative  and  therefore  does  not  prohibit  DDP  to  obtain  any 
other suitable information/ document from the applicant. 

In case of an applicant being a bank or its subsidiary, the respective DDP shall 
forward  the  relevant  details  of  the  applicant  such  as  its  name  &  address  to 
SEBI. SEBI would in turn request RBI to provide its comments. Based on the 
comments  received  from  RBI,  SEBI  would  intimate  the  comments  of  RBI  to 
DDP accordingly.    

Page 3 of 10 

SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014                                                

Operational Guidelines for Designated Depository Participants 

 

2.4  Where the application form is incomplete, or lacks clarity, the applicant shall 
be  advised  by  the  DDP  to  clarify  or  furnish  the  desired  information  within  a 
reasonable time. 
 

2.5  Conditional Registration  

If the applicant is newly incorporated/ established seeking to register itself as a 
broad  based  fund  under  Category  II,  but  does  not  satisfy  the  broad  based 
criteria  at  the  time  of  making  application,  the  DDP  may  consider  grant  of 
conditional registration, with validity period of 180 days to such applicant if: 
 
2.5.1  The  applicant  is  an  India  dedicated  fund  or  undertakes  to  make 

investment of atleast 5% corpus of the fund in India; 

2.5.2  The applicant undertakes to comply with the broad based criteria before 

the validity of its conditional registration i.e. within 180 days; 

2.5.3  In order to assess the compliance with the broad based criteria, the FPI 
shall  provide  details  of  investors  to  the  DDP.    The  DDP  may,  after, 
appropriate due-diligence, issue acknowledgement regarding fulfilment 
of broad based criteria, if it is satisfied. 

2.5.4  In case the DDP issues acknowledgement regarding fulfilment of broad 
treated  as 

the  conditional  registration  shall  be 

based  criteria, 
registration, henceforth. 

2.5.5  If the FPI fails to satisfy the DDP that it has attained broad based status 

within 180 days, it shall be reclassified as category III.  

2.5.6  If an existing broad based fund registered as Category II FPI, ceases to 
remain  broad  based  on  account  of  redemption  etc.,  the  procedure 
specified at clause 2.5.1 to clause 2.5.5 shall be followed.  
 

3.0  Surrender Of Registration 

 
3.1  Where an FPI desires to surrender its certificate of registration, it may make an 
application  to  the  DDP.    The  DDP  shall  accept  the  surrender  of  registration 
after ensuring the following: 
 

3.1.1  There are no dues by the applicant outstanding to SEBI. 
3.1.2  The  holdings  of  the  concerned  applicant  in  security  account  and 

bank account is nil.  

3.1.3  SEBI has given its No Objection Certificate (NOC).  

Page 4 of 10 

 
 
 

 

SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014                                                

Operational Guidelines for Designated Depository Participants 

 
4.0  Clubbing Of Investment Limits 

 

 

4.1  Where multiple FPIs belong to the same investor group, the investment limits 
of  all  such  FPIs  shall  be  clubbed  at  the  investment  limit  as  applicable  to  a 
single FPI.  This shall be the responsibility of the depositories. 
 

4.2  For  the  purpose  of  ascertaining  investor  group,  the  concerned  DDPs  shall 
consider  all  such  entities  having  direct  or  indirect  common  shareholding/ 
beneficial  ownership/  beneficial  interest  of  more  than  50%,  as  belonging  to 
same investor group.  The DDP shall report the details of investor group(s) to 
the depositories. 

 
4.3 

Information regarding investor group(s) may be obtained by the DDPs from the 
respective applicants in the format as prescribed in Form A of the Regulations.  

4.4  Where  different  FPIs  belonging  to  the  same  investor  group  are  serviced  by 
different  custodians,  the  custodians  shall  report  the  holdings  to  both  the 
depositories. The depositories shall club the investment limits and ensure that 
combined holdings of all these FPIs does not exceed 10% of the issued capital 
of the investee company at any time.   

Information regarding FPI groups:  

S 
No. 

Name of 
the 
reporting 
entity 

Registration 
no. of 
reporting 
entity 

A 
 
 

B 
 
 

C 
 
 

Name of FPI 
with whom 
the applicant 
shares 
common end 
beneficial 
owners 
D 
 
 

Registration 
no. of FPI 

Demat 
Account No. 
of FPI 
mentioned at 
col. C 

E 
 
 

F 
 
 

Instructions for providing investor group information: 

•  FPIs shall provide details of all entities having direct or indirect common shareholding 
/ beneficial ownership / beneficial interest, of more than 50%, as a part of their group, 
for submitting this data. 

•  The  common  beneficiary  owner(s)  shall  be  identified  on  the  basis  of  (1)  share-
holding,  (2)  voting  rights  (3)  any  other  forms  of  control,  in  excess  of  50%,  across 
FPIs, if any. 

Page 5 of 10 

 

SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014                                                

Operational Guidelines for Designated Depository Participants 

 
•  In  case  of  FPI  groups,  any  one  FPI  may  file  the  declaration,  listing  all  other  FPIs 
covered, and furnish the agreement / acknowledgement of other FPIs in that group on 
the cover letter i.e. a single certification can be provided for an FPI group. 

•  For individual investors, the individual and his/her relatives would constitute a group.  
The definition of “relative” shall be as per Section 2 Sub section 77 of the Companies 
Act, 2013. 

4.5  The DDP shall take necessary declarations & undertakings from the FPI. 

4.6  The Depositories shall ensure that the investment limit of 10% is not breached 

by the FPI investor group. 

4.7  The  depositories  shall  put  in  place  appropriate  systems,  procedures  and 
mechanisms to capture and maintain the details of FPIs belonging to the same 
investor group, based on the information provided by the DDPs, from time to 
time. 

4.8  The  depositories  shall  put  in  place  appropriate  systems,  procedures  and 
mechanisms to capture and maintain the details of holdings of FPIs belonging 
to 
information  provided  by 
DDPs/Custodians from time to time. 

investor  group,  based  on 

the  same 

the 

4.9  The  depositories  shall  put  in  place  appropriate  systems,  procedures  and 
mechanisms to monitor the investment limit/ holdings of FPIs belonging to the 
same investor group.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.10  The depositories shall ensure that the aggregate holdings of all FPIs belonging 
to the same investor group should remain below 10% of the paid up capital of 
the investee company. 

4.11  In case the aggregate holdings of FPIs belonging to the same investor group 
exceeds the stipulated limit for any reason whatsoever, the depositories shall 
put in place appropriate procedures and mechanism to bring back the holdings 
within  the  stipulated  investment  limit,  in  a  reasonable  period  of  time  not 
exceeding 7 days. 

4.12  The depositories shall report the details of those FPIs who are responsible for 

such breach of investment limit to SEBI, forthwith.      

 

Page 6 of 10 

 

  

 

SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014                                                

Operational Guidelines for Designated Depository Participants 

 
5.0  Miscellaneous Approvals 

 

5.1  Change in Material Information 

 
5.1.1  Under the Regulations, “if there is any material change in the 

information previously furnished by it to the Designated Depository 
Participant and/or Board, which has a bearing on the certificate 
granted by the Designated Depository Participant on behalf of the 
Board, it shall forthwith inform the Designated Depository 
Participant and/or the Board;  

5.1.2  Such  material  change  may  include:  direct  or  indirect  change  in 
regulatory  status,  merger,  demerger  or 

control,  change 
restructuring, change in category, change in structure etc. 

in 

5.1.3  The  DDP  shall  examine  all  such  material  changes  and  re-assess 

the eligibility of the FPI. 

5.1.4   Where  there  is  a  delay  of  more  than  six  months  in  intimation  of 
material  change  by  the  FPI  to  the  DDP,  the  DDP  shall,  forthwith, 
inform all such cases to SEBI for appropriate action, if any. 

5.2  Permission for Disinvestment 

 
5.2.1  FPIs which are not desirous of continuing with the registration but 
are holding certain securities, may hold such securities after expiry 
of  registration.  Such  FPIs  shall  be  permitted  to  hold  the  residual 
securities 
the  expiry  of  FPI 
registration,  subject  to  receipt  of  specific  permission  from  DDP  in 
this regard. 

for  subsequent  disposal,  after 

5.2.2  The  procedure  for  seeking  permission  for  disinvestment  by  FPIs 

after expiry of registration is given below: 

5.2.2.1 At  the  time  of  expiry  of  registration,  the  FPI  desiring 
permission  for  disinvestment  shall  make  a  request  to  DDP 
along with details of its holdings.   

5.2.2.2 The  DDP  may  grant  such  permission  for  disinvestment  with 

an initial validity period  of 6 months.  

5.2.3  The required sale trades shall be carried out by the FPI only after 

receipt of permission from DDP. 

5.2.4  The permission shall be granted only for sale of the securities held 
by  the  FPI  as  on  date  of  expiry  of  registration.  No  purchase 
transactions  shall  be  permitted  after  the  expiry  of  registration. 

Page 7 of 10 

 

 

SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014                                                

Operational Guidelines for Designated Depository Participants 

 

 

 

However,  credit  of  corporate  benefits  and  application  for  rights 
issue in respect of existing securities would be permitted.  

5.2.5  If  the  FPI  is  unable  to  sell  the  securities  within  6  months,  it  can 
approach  the  DDP  for  extension  of  permission.  The  request  shall 
mention the reason for seeking extension and also accompanied by 
a  statement  of  current  holdings  in  the  required  format.    These 
requests may be considered based on the merits of the case.  

 

5.3  Name Change 

 
5.3.1  In case the FPI has undergone a change in name, the request for 
updation/  incorporation  of  new  name  should  be  submitted  by  the 
FPI  to  the  DDP  accompanied  by  documents  certifying  the  name 
change.  The documents relevant for name change are:  
 

i.  Original FPI registration certificate granted in the old name; 
ii.  Certified  copy  of  document(s) 

from  home 

regulator 

evidencing the name change; 

iii.  Certified copy of document(s) from of Registrar of Company 
issued, 

(or  equivalent  authority)  (wherever  applicable) 
thereby evidencing the name change. 

iv.  An  undertaking  by  the  FPI  stating  that  it  is  a  mere  name 
change and does not involve change in beneficial ownership. 
 

5.3.2  Upon  receipt  of  the  request  for  name  change  along  with  above-
mentioned documents, the DDP shall effect the change in name in 
the Registration Certificate and in its database. 

5.3.3  If  there  is  a  delay  of  more  than  six  months  in  intimation  of  name 
change  by  the  FPI  to  the  DDP,  then  it  shall  lead  to  violation  of 
Regulation  23(1)(c)  and  liable  for  penal  action,  as  deemed  fit,  by 
SEBI.  

5.3.4  The  DDP  shall,  forthwith,  forward  all  such  cases  of  delayed 

reporting to SEBI for appropriate penal action, if any. 
 
       

5.4  Change in DDP/Custodian  

In  case  the  FPI  wishes  to  change  the  DDP/Custodian,  the  request  for 
change  shall  be  intimated  to  SEBI  through  the  concerned  DDP/Custodian. 
On receipt of no objection from the existing /transferor DDP/Custodian and 

Page 8 of 10 

SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014                                                

Operational Guidelines for Designated Depository Participants 

 

 

5.5.2 

 

5.6.1 

5.6.2 

acceptance  from  the  proposed  /  transferee  DDP/Custodian,  then  approval 
from SEBI shall be sought by concerned FPI. 

5.5  Change in Status of a Compliant Jurisdiction 

 

 

5.5.1 

If a jurisdiction, which was compliant with SEBI (FPI) Regulations at 
the time of grant of registration to FPI, becomes non compliant i.e. 
ceases to be member of IOSCO/BIS or the concerned jurisdiction is 
listed in FATF public statement as "high risk" and "non-cooperative" 
jurisdiction,  then  concerned  Custodian  shall  not  allow  the  FPIs 
belonging to such jurisdictions to make fresh purchases till the time 
the jurisdiction is compliant with SEBI (FPI) Regulations. However, 
the FPI shall be allowed to continue to hold the securities already 
purchased by it.  
The concerned DDP shall inform to SEBI a list of such jurisdiction 
along with the details of FPIs belonging to the jurisdiction.  

5.6  Other Changes relating to FPI   

 

DDP  shall  take  note  of  the  other  changes  such  as  change  in 
Compliance  Officer,  change  in  contact  details  and  address  and 
update the records accordingly.  
If change in address results in change in home jurisdiction of FPI, 
the DDP shall reassess the eligibility of FPI as per the Regulations. 

6.0  Obligation of DDP with regard to taxation  

 
The DDP shall set up a mechanism for tax deduction and payment in compliance 
with the directions issued by the Income Tax Department/CBDT/RBI from time to 
time. 
 

7.0  Grandfathering provision for Qualified Depository Participants with existing 

 

 

clientele  

Qualified Depository Participants ("QDPs") which are deemed to have been granted 
approval  as  DDPs  under  the  Regulation  11(1)  of  the  Regulations  would  be 
permitted  to  service  the  clients,  which  have  opened  qualified  foreign  investor 
accounts, as on date of notification of the regulations.  
 
However,  such  QDPs  will  be  allowed  to  register  new  FPIs  after  obtaining 
registration as a Custodian from SEBI.  

Page 9 of 10 

 

SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014                                                

Operational Guidelines for Designated Depository Participants 

 
 
8.0  Eligibility of Insurance and Reinsurance companies 

It  is  clarified  that  insurance  and  reinsurance  companies  shall  be  deemed  to  be 
appropriately regulated for the   purpose of the Regulations, if they are regulated or 
supervised  by  the  relevant  regulator  in  their  concerned  foreign  jurisdiction  in  the 
same capacity in which they propose to make investments in India.  Such entities 
shall also be required to satisfy the eligibility criteria as laid down in Regulation 4 of 
the Regulations. 

 

9.0  Clarification on Regulation 5(b)(iii) 

For  the  purpose  of  Regulation  5(b)(iii)  investment  manager  shall  mean  an  entity 
performing the role of investment management, investment advisory, trustee or any 
equivalent role and is responsible for investment related compliance of the foreign 
portfolio investor. 
 

************ 

 

Page 10 of 10 

