¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

      

 
         January 20, 2014 

 

             

CIR/MRD/DRMNP/2/2014 
 
To 
 
Depositories, 
Recognized Stock Exchanges, 
Recognized Clearing Corporations, 
All Foreign Institutional Investors through their designated Custodians of Securities 
 
Dear Sir/Madam,  
 

Sub: FII Position Limits in Exchange Traded Interest Rate Futures (IRF) 

 
 
1.  SEBI  in  consultation  with  RBI,  vide  circular  CIR/MRD/DRMNP/35/2013 dated 
December  5,  2013  prescribed  the  framework  for  Stock  Exchanges  to  launch  cash 
settled Interest Rate Futures on 10-year G-sec. 

2.  In the said circular, the following position limits were prescribed for FIIs: 

“The gross open positions of the FII across all contracts shall not exceed 10% of the 
total open interest or INR 600 crores, whichever is higher. 

Additional restriction: The total gross short (sold) position of each FII in IRF shall not 
exceed  its  long  position in  the  government  securities  and  in  Interest  Rate  Futures,  at 
any  point  in  time.  The  total  gross  long  (bought)  position  in  cash  and  IRF  markets 
taken  together  for  all  FIIs  shall  not  exceed  the  aggregate  permissible  limit  for 
investment in government securities for FIIs. 

FIIs  shall  ensure  compliance  with  the  above  limits.  Stringent  action  shall  be  taken 
against FII in case of violation of the limits." 

3.  SEBI vide circulars dated April 1, 2013 and July 18, 2012 has put in place mechanism 
for  monitoring  and  enforcing  limits  of  FIIs  in  Government  Securities  and  corporate 
bonds  by  directing  depositories  to  disseminate  information  regarding  the  total  FII 
investment  values  in  Government  and  corporate  bonds.  It  has  been  decided  in 
consultation  with  RBI  that  this  monitoring  mechanism  shall  also  incorporate 
monitoring of gross long positions of FIIs in IRF as mentioned in Paragraph '2' above. 
The mechanism shall be as follows: 

a.  Stock  exchanges  shall  provide  information  regarding  aggregate  gross  long 
position in IRF of all FIIs taken together at end of the day to the depositories 
NSDL and CDSL and shall also publish the same on their website.  

 

Page 1 of 2 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

b.  NSDL and CDSL shall aggregate the gross long position of FIIs in IRF in each 
exchange  and  add  it  with  investment  of  FIIs  in  Government  Debt  for 
monitoring adherence to the regulatory limit prescribed in paragraph 13 (d) of 
the  SEBI  Circular  on  IRF  dated  Dec  5,  2013  /  paragraph  4.2  of  the  RBI 
directions on IRF dated Dec 5, 2013 and shall jointly publish/disseminate the 
same on their website, on daily basis. 

c.  As  and  when  the  total  of  cash  and  IRF  of  all  FIIs  as  determined  in  sub-
paragraph  b  above  reaches  85%  of  the  permissible  limit,  NSDL  and  CDSL 
shall inform RBI (CGM-in-Charge, Foreign Exchange Department), SEBI and 
Stock Exchanges.  

d.  Once 90% of limit  is  utilized, NSDL  and CDSL  shall inform  RBI, SEBI  and 
Stock Exchanges about the same.  Stock Exchanges shall notify the same to the 
market and thereafter FIIs shall not further increase their long position in IRF 
till the time the overall long position of FIIs in cash and IRF comes below 85% 
of existing permissible limit. 

4.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992,  read  with  Section  10  of  the 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

5.  The circular shall come into force from the date of the circular. 

6.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in.,  under  the  category 

“Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully,  

 

Shashi Kumar 
General Manager 
Division of Risk Management and New Products 
Market Regulation Department 
shashikumarv@sebi.gov.in  

 

 

Page 2 of 2 
 

