¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/CFD/POLICY CELL/2/2014   

 

To 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges  

 
Dear Sir(s)/Madam(s),  
 

 
  

 
  

 

           

April 17, 2014 
 

Sub: Corporate Governance in listed entities - Amendments to Clauses 35B and 49 

of the Equity Listing Agreement 

 

1.  Please  refer  to  master  circular  No.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/CG/2004/12/10  dated  October  29, 

2004 on Clause 49 of the Equity Listing Agreement. 
 

2.  The Companies Act, 2013 was enacted on August 30, 2013  which provides for a major 
overhaul in the Corporate Governance norms for all companies. The rules pertaining to 
Corporate  Governance  were  notified  on  March  27,  2014.  The  requirements under  the  
Companies  Act,  2013  and  the  rules  notified  there  under  would   be applicable  for  every 
company or a class of companies (both listed and unlisted) as may be provided therein. It 
has been decided to review the provisions of the Listing Agreement in this regard with the 
objectives to align with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, adopt best practices 
on  corporate  governance  and  to  make  the  corporate  governance  framework  more 
effective.      

 
3.  The full text of the revised Clause 35B of the Equity Listing Agreement is given in Part-A 
of the circular. The full text of the revised Clause 49 of the Equity Listing Agreement is 
given in Part-B of the circular.  

 

4.  Applicability 

 
4.1  The  revised  Clause  49  would  be  applicable  to  all  listed  companies  with  effect 
from October 01, 2014. However, the provisions of Clause 49(VI)(C) as given in 
Part-B  shall  be  applicable to top  100  listed companies  by  market capitalisation 
as at the end of the immediate previous financial year.  
 

4.2  The  provisions  of  Clause  49(VII)  as  given  in  Part-B  shall  be  applicable  to  all 
prospective  transactions.  All  existing  material  related  party  contracts  or 
arrangements as on the date of this circular which are likely to continue beyond 
March  31,  2015  shall  be  placed  for  approval  of  the  shareholders  in  the  first 
General  Meeting  subsequent  to  October  01,  2014.  However,  a  company  may 
choose  to  get  such  contracts  approved  by  the  shareholders  even  before 
October 01, 2014. 

Page 1 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

4.3  For  other  listed  entities  which  are  not  companies,  but  body  corporate  or  are 
subject  to  regulations  under  other  statutes  (e.g.  banks,  financial  institutions, 
insurance companies etc.), the Clause 49 will apply to the extent that it does not 
violate  their  respective  statutes  and  guidelines  or  directives  issued  by  the 
relevant regulatory authorities. The Clause 49 is not applicable to Mutual Funds. 
 

4.4  The  revised  Clause  35B  would  be  applicable  to  all  listed  companies  and  the 
modalities  would  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Companies  (Management 
and  Administration)  Rules,  2014.  Circular  No.  CIR/CFD/DIL/6/2012  dated  July 
13, 2012 stands amended to that extent. 

 

5.  The  monitoring  cell  formed  by  the  Stock  Exchanges  in  terms  of  Circular  No. 
CIR/CFD/POLICYCELL/13/2013  dated  November  18,  2013  shall  also  monitor  the 
compliance with the provisions of the revised Clause 49 on corporate governance for 
all  listed  companies.  The  cell  shall  ascertain  the  adequacy  and  accuracy  of 
disclosures in the quarterly compliance reports received from the companies and shall 
submit a consolidated compliance report to SEBI within 60 days from the end of each 
quarter. 
 

6.  The  above  listing  conditions  are  specified  in  exercise  of  the powers  conferred  under 
Section 11 read with Section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992.  The  said  listing  conditions  should  form  part  of  the  existing  Equity  Listing 
Agreement of the Stock Exchange. 

 
7.  All Stock Exchanges are advised to ensure compliance with this circular and carry out 

the amendments to their Listing Agreement as per Part-A and Part-B of this circular. 

 

8.  This  master  circular  will  supersede  all  other  earlier  circulars  issued  by  SEBI  on 

Clauses 35B and 49 of the Equity Listing Agreement. 
 

9.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Amit Tandon 
Deputy General Manager 
 +91-22-26449373 
amitt@sebi.gov.in  

 

Enclosures:  

Part-A: Clause 35B of the Equity Listing Agreement 
Part-B: Clause 49 of the Equity Listing Agreement 

Page 2 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Part-A 

 
Clause 35B 
 
35B. (i) The issuer agrees to provide e-voting facility to its shareholders, in respect of all 
shareholders'  resolutions,  to  be  passed  at  General  Meetings  or  through  postal  ballot. 
Such e-voting facility shall be kept open for such period specified under the  Companies 
(Management  and  Administration)  Rules,  2014  for  shareholders  to  send  their  assent  or 
dissent.  
 
(ii)  Issuer  shall  continue  to  enable  those  shareholders,  who  do  not  have  access  to  e-
voting  facility,  to  send  their  assent  or  dissent  in  writing  on  a  postal  ballot  as  per  the 
provisions  of  the  Companies  (Management  and  Administration)  Rules,  2014  or 
amendments made thereto. 
 
(iii) Issuer shall utilize the service of any one of the agencies providing e-voting platform, 
which  is  in  compliance  with  conditions  specified  by  the  Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs, 
Government of India, from time to time. 
  
(iv)  Issuer  shall  mention  the  Internet  link  of  such  e-voting  platform  in  the  notice  to  their 
shareholders 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

Page 3 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
Part-B 
 

49. Corporate Governance  
 
I.  The  company  agrees  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  Clause  49  which  shall  be 
implemented  in  a  manner  so  as  to  achieve  the  objectives  of  the  principles  as 
mentioned  below.  In  case  of  any  ambiguity,  the  said  provisions  shall  be  interpreted 
and applied in alignment with the principles. 

 
A.  The Rights of Shareholders  
 

1.  The  company  should  seek  to  protect  and  facilitate  the  exercise  of  shareholders’ 

rights. 
 

a.  Shareholders  should  have  the  right  to  participate  in,  and  to  be  sufficiently 

informed on, decisions concerning fundamental corporate changes. 
 

b.  Shareholders should have the opportunity to participate effectively and vote 

in general shareholder meetings. 
 

c.  Shareholders  should  be  informed  of  the  rules,  including  voting  procedures 

that govern general shareholder meetings. 
 

d.  Shareholders should have the opportunity to ask questions to the board, to 
place items on the agenda of general meetings, and to propose resolutions, 
subject to reasonable limitations. 
 

e.  Effective shareholder participation in key Corporate Governance decisions, 
such  as  the  nomination  and  election  of  board  members,  should  be 
facilitated. 
 

f.  The exercise of ownership rights by all shareholders, including institutional 

investors, should be facilitated. 
 

g.  The  Company  should  have  an  adequate  mechanism  to  address  the 

grievances of the shareholders. 
 

h.  Minority shareholders should be protected from abusive actions by, or in the 
interest  of,  controlling  shareholders  acting  either  directly  or  indirectly,  and 
should have effective means of redress. 

 

2.  The company should provide adequate and timely information to shareholders. 

Page 4 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

a.  Shareholders  should  be  furnished  with  sufficient  and  timely  information 
concerning  the  date,  location  and  agenda  of  general  meetings,  as  well  as 
full  and  timely  information  regarding  the  issues  to  be  discussed  at  the 
meeting. 
 

b.  Capital  structures  and  arrangements  that  enable  certain  shareholders  to 
obtain a degree of control disproportionate to their equity ownership should 
be disclosed. 
 

c.  All investors should be able to obtain information about the rights attached 

to all series and classes of shares before they purchase. 

 

 

 

3.  The  company  should  ensure  equitable  treatment  of  all  shareholders,  including 

minority and foreign shareholders. 
 

a.  All shareholders of the same series of a class should be treated equally. 

 

b.  Effective shareholder participation in key Corporate Governance decisions, 
such  as  the  nomination  and  election  of  board  members,  should  be 
facilitated. 
 

c.  Exercise of voting rights by foreign shareholders should be facilitated. 

 

d.  The  company  should  devise  a  framework  to  avoid  Insider  trading  and 

abusive self-dealing. 
 

e.  Processes  and  procedures  for  general  shareholder  meetings  should  allow 

for equitable treatment of all shareholders. 
 

f.  Company  procedures  should  not  make  it  unduly  difficult  or  expensive  to 

cast votes. 

 
B.  Role of stakeholders in Corporate Governance 

 
1.  The  company  should  recognise  the  rights  of  stakeholders  and  encourage  co-

operation between company and the stakeholders. 
 

a.  The  rights  of  stakeholders  that  are  established  by  law  or  through  mutual 

agreements are to be respected. 

b.  Stakeholders  should  have  the  opportunity  to  obtain  effective  redress  for 

violation of their rights. 

Page 5 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

c.  Company should encourage mechanisms for employee participation. 

 

d.  Stakeholders  should  have  access  to  relevant,  sufficient  and  reliable 
information  on  a  timely  and  regular  basis  to  enable  them  to  participate  in 
Corporate Governance process. 
 

e.  The  company  should  devise  an  effective  whistle  blower  mechanism 
enabling  stakeholders, 
their 
representative bodies, to freely communicate their concerns about illegal or 
unethical practices. 

individual  employees  and 

including 

 
C.  Disclosure and transparency 

 
1.  The company should ensure timely and accurate disclosure on all material matters 
including  the  financial  situation,  performance,  ownership,  and  governance  of  the 
company. 
 

a.  Information  should  be  prepared  and  disclosed  in  accordance  with  the 

prescribed  standards of accounting, financial and non-financial disclosure. 
 

b.  Channels for disseminating information should provide for equal, timely and 

cost efficient access to relevant information by users. 
 

c.  The  company  should  maintain  minutes  of  the  meeting  explicitly  recording 

dissenting opinions, if any. 
 

d.  The  company  should  implement  the  prescribed  accounting  standards  in 
letter  and  spirit  in  the  preparation  of  financial  statements  taking  into 
consideration  the  interest  of  all  stakeholders  and  should  also  ensure  that 
the  annual  audit  is  conducted  by  an  independent,  competent  and  qualified 
auditor. 
 

D.  Responsibilities of the Board 

 
1.  Disclosure of Information 

 

a. Members  of  the  Board  and  key  executives  should  be  required  to  disclose  to 
the board whether they, directly, indirectly or on behalf of third parties, have a 
material interest in any transaction or matter directly affecting the company. 
 

Page 6 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

b. The Board and top management should conduct themselves so as to meet the 
expectations  of  operational  transparency  to  stakeholders  while  at  the  same 
time  maintaining  confidentiality  of  information  in  order  to  foster  a  culture  for 
good decision-making. 

2.  Key functions of the Board 

 
The board should fulfill certain key functions, including: 
 

a.  Reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, major plans of action, risk policy, 
annual  budgets  and  business  plans;  setting  performance  objectives; 
monitoring  implementation  and  corporate  performance;  and  overseeing 
major capital expenditures, acquisitions and divestments. 
 

b.  Monitoring  the  effectiveness  of  the  company’s  governance  practices  and 

making changes as needed. 
 

c.  Selecting,  compensating,  monitoring  and,  when  necessary,  replacing  key 

executives and overseeing succession planning. 
 

d.  Aligning  key  executive  and  board  remuneration  with  the  longer  term 

interests of the company and its shareholders. 
 

e.  Ensuring  a  transparent  board  nomination  process  with  the  diversity  of 

thought, experience, knowledge, perspective and gender in the Board. 
 

f.  Monitoring  and  managing  potential  conflicts  of  interest  of  management, 
board members and shareholders, including misuse of corporate assets and 
abuse in related party transactions. 
 

g.  Ensuring  the  integrity  of  the  company’s  accounting  and  financial  reporting 
systems,  including  the  independent  audit,  and  that  appropriate  systems  of 
control  are  in  place,  in  particular,  systems  for  risk  management,  financial 
and  operational  control,  and  compliance  with  the  law  and  relevant 
standards. 
 

h.  Overseeing the process of disclosure and communications. 

 

i.  Monitoring and reviewing Board Evaluation framework. 

 

 

 
 
 

Page 7 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

3.  Other responsibilities 

 

a.  The  Board  should  provide  the  strategic  guidance  to  the  company,  ensure 
effective  monitoring  of  the  management  and  should  be  accountable  to  the 
company and the shareholders. 
 

b.  The  Board  should  set  a  corporate  culture  and  the  values  by  which 

executives throughout a group will behave. 
 

c.  Board members should act on a fully informed basis, in good faith, with due 
diligence  and  care,  and  in  the  best  interest  of  the  company  and  the 
shareholders. 
 

d.  The Board should encourage continuing directors training to ensure that the 

Board members are kept up to date.  
 

e.  Where  Board  decisions  may  affect  different shareholder  groups  differently, 

the Board should treat all shareholders fairly. 
 

f.  The Board should apply high ethical standards. It should take into account 

the interests of stakeholders. 
 

g.  The Board should be able to exercise objective independent judgement on 

corporate affairs. 
 

h.  Boards  should  consider  assigning  a  sufficient  number  of  non-executive 
Board  members  capable  of  exercising  independent  judgement  to  tasks 
where there is a potential for conflict of interest. 
 

i.  The  Board  should  ensure  that,  while  rightly  encouraging  positive  thinking, 
these do not result in over-optimism that either leads to significant risks not 
being recognised or exposes the company to excessive risk. 
 

j.  The  Board  should  have  ability 

to  assist  executive 
management by challenging the assumptions underlying: strategy, strategic 
initiatives (such as acquisitions), risk appetite, exposures and the key areas 
of the company's focus. 
 

to 

‘step  back’ 

k.  When committees of the board are established, their mandate, composition 
and working procedures should be well defined and disclosed by the board. 
 

Page 8 of 36 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

l.  Board  members  should  be  able  to  commit  themselves  effectively  to  their 

responsibilities. 
 

m.  In order to fulfil their responsibilities, board members should have access to 

accurate, relevant and timely information. 
 

n.  The  Board  and  senior  management  should  facilitate  the  Independent 
Directors  to  perform  their  role  effectively  as  a  Board  member  and  also  a 
member of a committee. 
 

II.  Board of Directors 

A.  Composition of Board 

 

1.  The  Board  of  Directors  of  the  company  shall  have  an  optimum  combination  of 
executive and non-executive directors with at least one woman director and not 
less  than  fifty  percent  of  the  Board  of  Directors  comprising  non-executive 
directors.  
 

2.  Where the Chairman of the Board is a non-executive director, at least one-third 
of  the  Board  should  comprise  independent  directors  and  in  case  the  company 
does  not  have  a  regular  non-executive  Chairman,  at  least  half  of  the  Board 
should comprise independent directors.  
 
 
Provided  that  where  the  regular  non-executive  Chairman  is  a  promoter  of 
the  company  or  is  related  to  any  promoter  or  person  occupying  management 
positions at the Board level or at one level below the Board, at least one-half of 
the Board of the company shall consist of independent directors. 
 
Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  the  expression  “related  to  any  promoter” 
referred to in sub-clause (2):  
  
i.  If  the  promoter  is  a  listed  entity,  its  directors  other  than  the  independent 

directors, its employees or its nominees shall be deemed to be related to it; 

  
ii.  If  the  promoter  is  an  unlisted  entity,  its  directors,  its  employees  or  its 

nominees shall be deemed to be related to it.” 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 9 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

B.  Independent Directors 

 

1.  For the purpose of the clause A, the expression ‘independent director’ shall mean 

a non-executive director, other than a nominee director of the company:  
 

a.  who,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Board,  is  a  person  of  integrity  and  possesses 

relevant expertise and experience; 
 

b.  (i) who is or was not a promoter of the company or its holding, subsidiary or 

associate company; 
 

      (ii) who is not related to promoters or  directors in the company, its  holding, 

subsidiary or associate company; 

 
c.  apart  from  receiving  director's  remuneration,  has  or  had  no  pecuniary 
relationship with the company, its holding, subsidiary or associate company, 
or  their  promoters,  or  directors,  during  the  two  immediately  preceding 
financial years or during the current financial year; 
 

d.  none of whose relatives has or had pecuniary relationship or transaction with 
the  company,  its  holding,  subsidiary  or  associate  company,  or  their 
promoters,  or  directors,  amounting  to  two  per  cent.  or  more  of  its  gross 
turnover or total income or fifty lakh rupees or such higher amount as may be 
prescribed,  whichever  is  lower,  during  the  two  immediately  preceding 
financial years or during the current financial year; 
 

e.  who, neither himself nor any of his relatives — 

 

      (i) holds or has held the position of a key managerial personnel or is or has 
been  employee  of  the  company  or  its  holding,  subsidiary  or  associate 
company  in  any  of  the  three  financial  years  immediately  preceding  the 
financial year in which he is proposed to be appointed; 

 

                  (ii) is or has been an employee or proprietor or a partner, in any of the three 
financial  years  immediately  preceding  the  financial  year  in  which  he  is 
proposed to be appointed, of — 

 

(A) a firm of auditors or company secretaries in practice or cost auditors of 
the company or its holding, subsidiary or associate company; or 
 

Page 10 of 36 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(B) any legal or a consulting firm that has or had any transaction with the 
company,  its  holding,  subsidiary  or  associate  company  amounting  to  ten 
per cent or more of the gross turnover of such firm; 
 

(iii)  holds  together  with  his  relatives  two  per  cent  or  more  of  the  total  voting 

power of the company; or 

 
(iv) is a Chief Executive or director, by whatever name called, of any non-profit 
organisation that receives twenty-five per cent or more of its receipts from 
the  company,  any  of  its  promoters,  directors  or  its  holding,  subsidiary  or 
associate  company  or  that  holds  two  per  cent  or more  of  the  total  voting 
power of the company;  

 

(v) is a material supplier, service provider or customer or a lessor or lessee of 

the company; 

 

f.  who is not less than 21 years of age. 

Explanation  
For the purposes of the sub-clause (1):  
 

"Associate"  shall  mean  a  company  which  is  an  “associate”  as  defined  in 
Accounting  Standard  (AS)  23,  “Accounting  for  Investments  in  Associates  in 
Consolidated  Financial  Statements”,  issued  by  the  Institute  of  Chartered 
Accountants of India.  
 
“Key  Managerial  Personnel"  shall  mean  “Key  Managerial  Personnel”  as 
defined in section 2(51) of the Companies Act, 2013.  
 
“Relative” shall mean “relative” as defined in section 2(77) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and rules prescribed there under. 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

 

2.  Limit on number of directorships 

 
a.  A  person  shall  not  serve  as  an  independent  director  in  more  than  seven 

listed companies.  
 

b.  Further,  any  person  who  is  serving  as  a  whole  time  director  in  any  listed 
company  shall  serve  as  an  independent  director  in  not  more  than  three 
listed companies. 

 
 

Page 11 of 36 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

3.  Maximum tenure of Independent Directors 

 

a.  An independent director shall hold office for a term up to five consecutive years 
on  the Board  of a  company  and  shall  be  eligible  for  reappointment for another 
term  of  up  to  five  consecutive  years  on  passing  of  a  special  resolution  by  the 
company.  
 
 
Provided that a person who has already served as an independent director 
for five years or more in a company as on October 1, 2014 shall be eligible for 
appointment, on completion of his present term, for one more term of up to five 
years only.  
 
 
Provided  further  that  an  independent  director,  who  completes  his  above 
mentioned term shall be eligible for appointment as independent director in the 
company  only  after  the  expiration  of  three  years  of  ceasing  to  be  an 
independent director in the company. 

4.  Formal letter of appointment to Independent Directors 

 
a.  The  company  shall  issue  a  formal  letter  of  appointment  to  independent 

directors in the manner as provided in the Companies Act, 2013.  
 

b.  The  letter  of  appointment  along  with  the  detailed  profile  of  independent 
director  shall  be  disclosed  on  the  websites  of  the  company  and  the  Stock 
Exchanges  not  later  than  one  working  day  from  the  date  of  such 
appointment. 

 

5.  Performance evaluation of Independent Directors 

 
a.  The  Nomination  Committee  shall  lay  down  the  evaluation  criteria  for 

performance evaluation of independent directors. 
 

b.  The  company  shall  disclose  the  criteria  for  performance  evaluation,  as  laid 

down by the Nomination Committee, in its Annual Report. 
 

c.  The  performance  evaluation  of  independent  directors  shall  be  done  by  the 

entire Board of Directors (excluding the director being evaluated).  
 

d.  On the basis of the report of performance evaluation, it shall be determined 
whether  to  extend  or  continue  the  term  of  appointment  of  the  independent 
director. 
 

Page 12 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

6.  Separate meetings of the Independent Directors 

 
a.  The independent directors of the company shall hold at least one meeting in 
a year, without the attendance of non-independent directors and members of 
management. All the independent directors of the company shall strive to be 
present at such meeting. 
 

b.  The independent directors in the meeting shall, inter-alia: 

 
i. 

ii. 

iii. 

 

review the performance of non-independent directors and the Board as 
a whole; 
 
review the performance of the Chairperson of the company, taking into 
account the views of executive directors and non-executive directors; 
 
assess  the  quality,  quantity  and  timeliness  of  flow  of  information 
between the company management and the Board that is necessary for 
the Board to effectively and reasonably perform their duties. 

7.  Training of Independent Directors 

 

 

a.  The  company  shall  provide  suitable  training  to  independent  directors  to 
familiarize  them  with  the  company,  their  roles,  rights,  responsibilities  in  the 
company,  nature  of  the  industry  in  which  the  company  operates,  business 
model of the company, etc.  

 

b.  The details of such training imparted shall be disclosed in the Annual Report. 

 

C.  Non-executive Directors’ compensation and disclosures 
 

All fees / compensation, if any paid to non-executive directors, including independent 
directors, shall be fixed by the Board of Directors and shall require previous approval 
of  shareholders  in  general  meeting.  The  shareholders’  resolution  shall  specify  the 
limits for the maximum number of stock options that can be granted to non-executive 
directors, in any financial year and in aggregate. 
 
   
Provided that the requirement of obtaining prior approval of shareholders in 
general meeting shall not apply to payment of sitting fees to non-executive directors, 
if made within the limits prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 for payment of 
sitting fees without approval of the Central Government. 
 

Page 13 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Provided further that independent directors shall not be entitled to any stock 

 

   
option. 

 
D.  Other provisions as to Board and Committees 

 

1.  The  Board  shall  meet  at  least  four  times  a  year,  with  a  maximum  time  gap  of  one 
hundred  and  twenty  days  between  any  two  meetings.  The  minimum  information  to 
be made available to the Board is given in Annexure - X to the Listing Agreement.  
 

2.  A director shall not be a member in more than ten committees or act as Chairman of 
more  than  five  committees  across  all  companies  in  which  he  is  a  director. 
Furthermore, every director shall inform the company about the committee positions 
he occupies in other companies and notify changes as and when they take place. 

 

Explanation: 
i.  For  the  purpose  of  considering  the  limit  of  the  committees  on  which  a  director 
can  serve,  all  public  limited  companies,  whether  listed  or  not,  shall  be  included 
and all other companies including private limited companies, foreign companies 
and companies under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 shall be excluded.  
 

ii.  For  the  purpose  of  reckoning  the  limit  under  this  sub-clause,  Chairmanship  / 
membership  of  the  Audit  Committee  and  the  Stakeholders'  Relationship 
Committee alone shall be considered. 

 

3.  The Board  shall periodically review compliance reports of all laws applicable to the 
company, prepared by the company as well as steps taken by the company to rectify 
instances of non-compliances. 
 

4.  An independent director who resigns or is removed from the Board of  the Company 
shall be replaced by a new independent director at the earliest but not later than the 
immediate  next  Board  meeting  or  three  months  from  the  date  of  such  vacancy, 
whichever is later. 
 

5.  Provided that where the company fulfils the requirement of  independent directors in 
its Board even without filling the vacancy created by such resignation or removal, as 
the  case  may  be,  the  requirement  of  replacement  by  a  new  independent  director 
shall not apply. 
 

6.  The  Board  of  the  company  shall  satisfy  itself  that  plans  are  in  place  for  orderly 

succession for appointments to the Board and to senior management. 
 
 

Page 14 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

E.  Code of Conduct 

 

1.  The  Board  shall  lay  down  a  code  of  conduct  for  all  Board  members  and  senior 
management of the company. The code of conduct shall be posted on the website of 
the company. 
 

2.  All Board members and senior management personnel shall affirm compliance with 
the  code  on  an  annual  basis.  The  Annual  Report  of  the  company  shall  contain  a 
declaration to this effect signed by the CEO. 
 

3.  The Code of Conduct shall suitably incorporate the duties of Independent Directors 

as laid down in the Companies Act, 2013.  
 

4.  An independent director shall be held liable, only in respect of such acts of omission 
or  commission  by  a  company  which  had  occurred  with  his  knowledge,  attributable 
through Board processes, and with his consent or connivance or where he had not 
acted diligently with respect of the provisions contained in the Listing Agreement. 

 

 

Explanation: For this purpose, the term “senior management” shall mean personnel 
of the company who are members of its core management team excluding Board of 
Directors.  Normally,  this  would  comprise  all  members  of  management  one  level 
below the executive directors, including all functional heads. 

F.  Whistle Blower Policy 
 

1.  The company shall establish a vigil mechanism for directors and employees to report 
concerns  about  unethical  behaviour,  actual  or  suspected  fraud  or  violation  of  the 
company’s code of conduct or ethics policy.  
 

2.  This  mechanism  should  also  provide  for  adequate  safeguards  against  victimization 
of director(s) / employee(s) who avail of the mechanism and also provide for direct 
access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee in exceptional cases.  
 

3.  The details of establishment of such mechanism shall be disclosed by the company 

on its website and in the Board’s report. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 15 of 36 

 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

III.   Audit Committee 

A.  Qualified and Independent Audit Committee 

A  qualified  and  independent  audit  committee  shall  be  set  up,  giving  the  terms  of 
reference subject to the following: 
 
1.  The audit committee shall have minimum three directors as members. Two-thirds 

of the members of audit committee shall be independent directors.  

 
2.  All  members  of  audit  committee  shall  be  financially  literate  and  at  least  one 

member shall have accounting or related financial management expertise. 

 

 

 

Explanation  (i):  The  term  “financially  literate”  means  the  ability  to  read  and 
understand  basic financial  statements  i.e.  balance  sheet,  profit and  loss  account, 
and statement of cash flows.  

Explanation  (ii):  A  member  will  be  considered  to  have  accounting  or  related 
financial  management  expertise  if  he  or  she  possesses  experience  in  finance  or 
accounting,  or  requisite  professional  certification  in  accounting,  or  any  other 
comparable  experience  or  background  which  results  in  the  individual’s  financial 
sophistication,  including  being  or  having  been  a  chief  executive  officer,  chief 
financial officer or other senior officer with financial oversight responsibilities. 

3.  The Chairman of the Audit Committee shall be an independent director; 

 

4.  The Chairman of the Audit Committee shall be present at Annual General Meeting 

to answer shareholder queries; 
 

5.  The Audit Committee may invite such of the executives, as it considers appropriate 
(and particularly the head of the finance function) to be present at the meetings of 
the  committee,  but  on  occasions  it  may  also  meet  without  the  presence  of  any 
executives  of  the  company.  The  finance  director,  head  of  internal  audit  and  a 
representative of the statutory auditor may be present as invitees for the meetings 
of the audit committee; 
 

6.  The Company Secretary shall act as the secretary to the committee. 

B.  Meeting of Audit Committee 

The Audit Committee should meet at least four times in a year and not more than four 
months shall elapse between two meetings. The quorum shall be either two members 

Page 16 of 36 

 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

or  one  third  of  the  members  of  the  audit  committee  whichever  is  greater,  but  there 
should be a minimum of two independent members present. 

C.  Powers of Audit Committee 

The Audit Committee shall have powers, which should include the following: 
 
1.  To investigate any activity within its terms of reference. 

 

2.  To seek information from any employee. 

 

3.  To obtain outside legal or other professional advice. 

 

4.  To  secure  attendance  of  outsiders  with  relevant  expertise,  if  it  considers 

necessary. 

 

D.  Role of Audit Committee 

The role of the Audit Committee shall include the following: 

1.  Oversight  of  the  company’s  financial  reporting  process  and  the  disclosure  of  its 
financial information to ensure that the financial statement is correct, sufficient and 
credible; 
 

2.  Recommendation  for  appointment,  remuneration  and  terms  of  appointment  of 

auditors of the company; 
 

3.  Approval  of  payment  to  statutory  auditors  for  any  other  services  rendered  by  the 

statutory auditors; 
 

4.  Reviewing,  with  the  management,  the  annual  financial  statements  and  auditor's 
report  thereon  before  submission  to  the  board  for  approval,  with  particular 
reference to:  
 
a.  Matters required to be included in the Director’s Responsibility Statement to be 
included in the Board’s report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section 3 of section 
134 of the Companies Act, 2013  
 

b.  Changes,  if  any,  in  accounting  policies  and  practices  and  reasons  for  the 

same 
 

Page 17 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

c.  Major  accounting  entries  involving  estimates  based  on  the  exercise  of 

judgment by management  
 

d.  Significant  adjustments  made  in  the  financial  statements  arising  out  of  audit 

findings  
 

e.  Compliance  with  listing  and  other  legal  requirements  relating  to  financial 

statements  
 

f.  Disclosure of any related party transactions  

 

g.  Qualifications in the draft audit report 

 

5.  Reviewing,  with  the  management,  the  quarterly  financial  statements  before 

submission to the board for approval; 
 

6.  Reviewing,  with  the  management,  the  statement  of  uses  /  application  of  funds 
raised  through  an  issue  (public  issue,  rights  issue,  preferential  issue,  etc.),  the 
statement  of  funds  utilized  for  purposes  other  than  those  stated  in  the  offer 
document / prospectus / notice and the report submitted by the monitoring agency 
monitoring  the  utilisation  of  proceeds  of  a  public  or  rights  issue,  and  making 
appropriate recommendations to the Board to take up steps in this matter; 
 

7.  Review  and  monitor 

the  auditor’s 

independence  and  performance,  and 

effectiveness of audit process; 
 

8.  Approval  or  any  subsequent  modification  of  transactions  of  the  company  with 

related parties; 
 

9.  Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments; 

 

10. Valuation of undertakings or assets of the company, wherever it is necessary; 

 

11. Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management systems; 

 

12. Reviewing,  with  the  management,  performance  of  statutory  and  internal  auditors, 

adequacy of the internal control systems; 
 

13. Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, including the structure of 
the  internal  audit  department,  staffing  and  seniority  of  the  official  heading  the 
department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit; 
 

Page 18 of 36 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

14. Discussion with internal auditors of any significant findings and follow up there on; 

 

15. Reviewing  the  findings  of  any  internal  investigations  by  the  internal  auditors  into 
matters where there is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control 
systems of a material nature and reporting the matter to the board; 
 

16. Discussion  with  statutory  auditors  before  the  audit  commences,  about  the  nature 
and  scope  of  audit  as  well  as  post-audit  discussion  to  ascertain  any  area  of 
concern; 
 

17. To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, 
debenture  holders,  shareholders  (in  case  of  non-payment  of  declared  dividends) 
and creditors;  
 

18. To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower mechanism; 

 

19. Approval of appointment of CFO (i.e., the whole-time Finance Director or any other 
person  heading  the  finance  function  or  discharging  that  function)  after  assessing 
the qualifications, experience and background, etc. of the candidate; 
 

20. Carrying  out  any  other  function  as  is  mentioned  in  the  terms  of  reference  of  the 

Audit Committee. 

Explanation  (i):  The  term  "related  party  transactions"  shall  have  the  same 
meaning as provided in Clause 49(VII) of the Listing Agreement. 

 

E.  Review of information by Audit Committee 

The Audit Committee shall mandatorily review the following information: 
 
1.  Management  discussion  and  analysis  of  financial  condition  and  results  of 

operations;  
 

2.  Statement  of  significant  related  party  transactions  (as  defined  by  the  Audit 

Committee), submitted by management;  
 

3.  Management letters / letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the statutory 

auditors; 
 

4.  Internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses; and  

 

Page 19 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

5.  The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief internal auditor 

shall be subject to review by the Audit Committee. 

 

IV.  Nomination and Remuneration Committee 

 

A.  The  company  shall  set  up  a  nomination and  remuneration  committee  which  shall 
comprise at least three directors, all of whom shall be non-executive directors and 
at  least  half  shall  be  independent.  Chairman  of  the  committee  shall  be  an 
independent director.  
 

B.  The role of the committee shall, inter-alia, include the following: 

 
1.  Formulation of the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and 
independence  of  a  director  and  recommend  to  the  Board  a  policy,  relating  to 
the  remuneration  of  the  directors,  key  managerial  personnel  and  other 
employees; 
 

2.  Formulation of criteria for evaluation of Independent Directors and the Board;  

 

3.  Devising a policy on Board diversity;  

 

4.  Identifying  persons  who  are  qualified  to  become  directors  and  who  may  be 
appointed in senior management in accordance with the criteria laid down, and 
recommend  to  the  Board  their  appointment  and  removal.  The  company  shall 
disclose  the  remuneration  policy  and  the  evaluation  criteria  in  its  Annual 
Report.  
 

C.  The Chairman of the nomination and remuneration committee could be present at 
the  Annual  General  Meeting,  to  answer  the  shareholders'  queries.  However,  it 
would be up to the Chairman to decide who should answer the queries. 

  

V.  Subsidiary Companies 

 

A.  At least one independent director on the Board of Directors of the holding company 
shall  be  a  director  on  the  Board  of  Directors  of  a  material  non-listed  Indian 
subsidiary company.  
 

B.  The Audit Committee of the listed holding company shall also review the financial 
statements,  in  particular,  the  investments  made  by  the  unlisted  subsidiary 
company.  
 

Page 20 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

C.  The  minutes  of  the  Board  meetings  of  the  unlisted  subsidiary  company  shall  be 
placed  at  the  Board  meeting  of  the  listed  holding  company.  The  management 
should  periodically  bring  to  the  attention  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  listed 
holding  company,  a  statement  of  all  significant  transactions  and  arrangements 
entered into by the unlisted subsidiary company. 
 

D.  The  company  shall  formulate  a  policy  for  determining  ‘material’  subsidiaries  and 

such policy shall be disclosed to Stock Exchanges and in the Annual Report. 
 

E.  For the purpose of this clause, a subsidiary shall be considered as material if the 
investment  of  the  company  in  the  subsidiary  exceeds  twenty  per  cent  of  its 
consolidated net worth  as per the audited balance sheet of the previous financial 
year or if the subsidiary has generated twenty per cent of the consolidated income 
of the company during the previous financial year. 
 

F.  No company shall dispose of shares in its material subsidiary which would reduce 
its shareholding (either on its own or together with other subsidiaries) to less than 
50% or cease the exercise of control over the subsidiary  without passing a special 
resolution in its General Meeting.  
 

G.  Selling, disposing and leasing of assets amounting to more than twenty percent of 
the assets of the material subsidiary shall require prior approval of shareholders by 
way of special resolution 

Explanation  (i):  The  term  “material  non-listed  Indian  subsidiary”  shall  mean  an 
unlisted subsidiary, incorporated in India, whose  income or net worth (i.e. paid up 
capital  and  free  reserves)  exceeds  20%  of  the  consolidated  income  or  net  worth 
respectively, of the listed holding company and its subsidiaries in the immediately 
preceding accounting year. 
 
Explanation (ii): The term “significant transaction or arrangement” shall mean any 
individual  transaction  or  arrangement  that  exceeds  or  is  likely  to  exceed  10%  of 
the total revenues or total expenses or total assets or total liabilities, as the case 
may  be,  of  the  material  unlisted  subsidiary  for  the  immediately  preceding 
accounting year. 
 
Explanation (iii): Where a listed holding company has a listed subsidiary which is 
itself a holding company, the above provisions shall apply to the listed subsidiary 
insofar as its subsidiaries are concerned. 
 
 

 

 

 

Page 21 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

VI.  Risk Management 

A.  The company shall lay down procedures to inform Board members about the risk 

assessment and minimization procedures.  
 

B.  The Board shall be responsible for framing, implementing and monitoring the risk 

management plan for the company. 
 

C.  The  company  shall  also  constitute  a  Risk  Management  Committee.  The  Board 
shall define the roles and responsibilities of the Risk Management Committee and 
may  delegate  monitoring  and  reviewing  of  the  risk  management  plan  to  the 
committee and such other functions as it may deem fit.  

 
VII.  Related Party Transactions 

 

A.  A  related  party  transaction  is  a  transfer  of  resources,  services  or  obligations 

between a company and a related party, regardless of whether a price is charged. 

 

B.  A  ‘related  party'  is  a  person  or  entity  that  is  related  to  the  company.  Parties  are 
considered  to  be  related  if  one  party  has  the  ability  to  control  the  other  party  or 
exercise  significant  influence  over  the  other party,  directly  or  indirectly,  in  making 
financial and/or operating decisions and includes the following: 
 
1. A  person  or  a  close  member  of  that  person’s  family  is  related  to  a  company  if 

that person: 

a. 

is a related party under Section 2(76) of the Companies Act, 2013;or 

b.  has control or joint control or significant influence over the company; or 

c. 

is  a  key  management  personnel  of  the  company  or  of  a  parent  of  the 
company; or 

 

2.  An entity is related to a company if any of the following conditions applies:  

a.  The entity is a related party under Section 2(76) of the Companies Act, 2013; 

or 

b.  The entity and the company are members of the same group (which means 
that each parent, subsidiary and fellow subsidiary is related to the others); or 

c.  One entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an associate 
or  joint  venture  of  a  member  of  a  group  of  which  the  other  entity  is  a 
member); or 

d.  Both entities are joint ventures of the same third party; or 

Page 22 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

e.  One  entity  is  a  joint  venture  of  a  third  entity  and  the  other  entity  is  an 

associate of the third entity; or 

f.  The entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of employees of 
either  the  company  or  an  entity  related  to  the  company.  If  the  company  is 
itself such a plan, the sponsoring employers are also related to the company; 
or 

g.  The entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person identified in (1). 

h.  A person identified in (1)(b) has significant influence over the entity (or of a 

parent of the entity); or 

 

 

Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  Clause  49(V)  and  Clause  VII(B), the  term 
“control”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  defined  in  SEBI  (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. 

C.  The  company  shall  formulate  a  policy  on  materiality  of  related  party  transactions 

and also on dealing with Related Party Transactions. 
 
Provided that a transaction with a related party shall be considered material 
 
if  the  transaction  /  transactions  to  be  entered  into  individually  or  taken  together  
with  previous  transactions  during  a  financial    year,  exceeds  five  percent  of  the  
annual turnover or twenty percent of the net worth of the company as per the last 
audited financial statements of the company, whichever is higher. 
 

D.  All Related Party Transactions shall require prior approval of the Audit Committee.  

 

E.  All material Related Party Transactions shall require approval of the shareholders 
through special resolution and the related parties shall abstain from voting on such 
resolutions. 
 

VIII.  Disclosures 
 

A.  Related Party Transactions 

 

1.  Details  of  all  material  transactions  with  related  parties  shall  be  disclosed 

quarterly along with the compliance report on corporate governance. 
 

2.  The  company  shall  disclose  the  policy  on  dealing  with  Related  Party 

Transactions on its website and also in the Annual Report. 
 

 

Page 23 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

B.  Disclosure of Accounting Treatment 

Where  in  the  preparation  of  financial  statements,  a  treatment  different  from  that 
prescribed  in  an  Accounting  Standard  has  been  followed,  the  fact  shall  be 
disclosed in the financial statements, together with the management’s explanation 
as to why it believes such alternative treatment is more representative of the true 
and fair view of the underlying business transaction in the Corporate Governance 
Report. 

 

C.  Remuneration of Directors 

 

 

 

1.  All pecuniary relationship or transactions of the non-executive directors vis-à-

2. 

vis the company shall be disclosed in the Annual Report.  
 
In  addition  to  the  disclosures  required  under  the  Companies  Act,  2013,    the 
following  disclosures  on  the  remuneration  of  directors  shall  be  made  in  the 
section on the corporate governance of the Annual Report:  
 
a. All  elements  of  remuneration  package  of  individual  directors  summarized 
under  major  groups,  such  as  salary,  benefits,  bonuses,  stock  options, 
pension etc.  
 

b. Details  of  fixed  component  and  performance  linked  incentives,  along  with 

the performance criteria.  
 

c. Service contracts, notice period, severance fees.  

 

d. Stock option details, if any - and whether issued at a discount as well as the 

period over which accrued and over which exercisable.  
 

3.  The  company  shall  publish  its  criteria  of  making  payments  to  non-executive 
directors  in  its  annual  report.  Alternatively,  this  may  be  put  up  on  the 
company’s website and reference drawn thereto in the annual report.  
 

4.  The company shall disclose the number of shares and convertible instruments 

held by non-executive directors in the annual report.  
 

5.  Non-executive  directors  shall be  required  to disclose  their  shareholding  (both 
own or held by / for other persons on a beneficial basis) in the listed company 
in  which  they  are  proposed  to  be  appointed  as  directors,  prior  to  their 
appointment.  These  details  should  be  disclosed  in  the  notice  to  the  general 
meeting called for appointment of such director 

Page 24 of 36 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

D.   Management 

1.  As  part  of  the  directors’  report  or  as  an  addition  thereto,  a  Management 
Discussion  and  Analysis  report  should  form  part  of  the  Annual  Report  to  the 
shareholders.  This  Management  Discussion  &  Analysis  should  include 
discussion  on  the  following  matters  within  the  limits  set  by  the  company’s 
competitive position: 

a. Industry structure and developments. 
b. Opportunities and Threats. 
c. Segment–wise or product-wise performance. 
d. Outlook 
e. Risks and concerns. 
f.  Internal control systems and their adequacy. 
g. Discussion  on 

financial  performance  with  respect 

performance. 

to  operational 

h. Material developments in Human Resources / Industrial Relations front, 

including number of people employed.  

 

2.  Senior management shall make disclosures to the board relating to all material 
financial and commercial transactions, where they have personal interest, that 
may have a potential conflict with the interest of the company at large (for e.g. 
dealing  in  company  shares,  commercial  dealings  with  bodies,  which  have 
shareholding of management and their relatives etc.) 

Explanation:  For  this  purpose,  the  term  "senior  management"  shall  mean 
personnel  of  the  company  who  are  members  of  its  core  management  team 
excluding  the  Board  of  Directors).  This  would  also  include  all  members  of 
management  one  level  below  the  executive  directors  including  all  functional 
heads. 

 

3.  The Code of Conduct for the  Board of Directors and the senior management  

shall be disclosed on the website of the company. 

E.  Shareholders 

1. 

In  case  of  the  appointment  of  a  new  director  or  re-appointment  of  a  director 
the shareholders must be provided with the following information: 
 
a.  A brief resume of the director; 

 

b.  Nature of his expertise in specific functional areas; 

Page 25 of 36 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

c.  Names  of  companies  in  which  the  person  also  holds  the  directorship  and 

the membership of Committees of the Board; and 
 

d.  Shareholding of non-executive directors as stated in Clause 49 (IV) (E) (v) 

above  

 

2.  Disclosure  of  relationships  between  directors  inter-se  shall  be  made  in  the 
Annual  Report,  notice  of  appointment  of  a  director,  prospectus  and  letter  of 
offer for issuances and any related filings made to the stock exchanges where 
the company is listed. 
 

3.  Quarterly results and presentations made by the company to analysts shall be 
put on company’s web-site, or shall be sent in such a form so as to enable the 
stock exchange on which the company is listed to put it on its own web-site. 
  

4.  A  committee  under  the  Chairmanship  of  a  non-executive  director  and  such 
other  members  as  may  be  decided  by  the  Board  of  the  company  shall  be 
formed  to  specifically  look  into  the  redressal  of  grievances  of  shareholders, 
debenture  holders  and  other  security  holders.  This  Committee  shall  be 
designated  as  ‘Stakeholders  Relationship  Committee’  and  shall  consider  and 
resolve  the  grievances  of  the  security  holders  of  the  company  including 
complaints  related  to  transfer  of  shares,  non-receipt  of  balance  sheet,  non-
receipt of declared dividends. 
 

5.  To  expedite  the  process  of  share  transfers,  the  Board  of  the  company  shall 
delegate  the  power  of  share  transfer  to  an  officer  or  a  committee  or  to  the 
registrar  and  share  transfer  agents.  The  delegated  authority  shall  attend  to 
share transfer formalities at least once in a fortnight. 

F.  Disclosure of resignation of directors  

 

1.  The  company  shall  disclose  the  letter  of  resignation  along  with  the  detailed 
reasons of resignation provided by the director of the company on its website 
not  later  than  one  working  day  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  letter  of 
resignation. 
 

2.  The company shall also forward a copy of the letter of resignation along with 
the detailed reasons of resignation to the stock exchanges  not later than one 
working  day  from  the date  of  receipt  of  resignation for  dissemination  through 
its website.  

 

Page 26 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

G.  Disclosure of formal letter of appointment 

1.  The  letter  of  appointment  of  the  independent  director  along  with  the  detailed 
profile  shall  be  disclosed  on  the  websites  of  the  company  and  the  Stock 
Exchanges not later than one working day from the date of such appointment. 

 

H.  Disclosures in Annual report 

1.  The details of training imparted to Independent Directors shall be disclosed in 

the Annual Report. 
 

2.  The  details  of  establishment  of  vigil  mechanism  shall  be  disclosed  by  the 

company on its website and in the Board’s report. 
 

3.  The company shall disclose the remuneration policy and the evaluation criteria 

in its Annual Report. 

 

I.  Proceeds from public issues, rights issue, preferential issues, etc. 

 

When  money  is  raised  through  an  issue  (public  issues,  rights  issues,  preferential 
issues etc.), the company shall  disclose the uses / applications of funds by major 
category  (capital  expenditure,  sales  and  marketing,  working  capital,  etc),  on  a 
quarterly  basis  as  a  part  of  their  quarterly  declaration  of  financial  results  to  the 
Audit  Committee.  Further,  on  an  annual  basis,  the  company  shall  prepare  a 
statement  of  funds  utilized  for  purposes  other  than  those  stated  in  the  offer 
document  /  prospectus  /  notice  and  place  it  before  the  audit  committee.  Such 
disclosure shall be made only till such time that the full money raised through the 
issue  has  been  fully  spent.  This  statement  shall  be  certified  by  the  statutory 
auditors  of  the  company.  Furthermore,  where  the  company  has  appointed  a 
monitoring agency to monitor the utilisation of proceeds of a public or rights issue, 
it  shall  place  before  the  Audit  Committee  the  monitoring  report  of  such  agency, 
upon  receipt,  without  any  delay.  The  audit  committee  shall  make  appropriate 
recommendations to the Board to take up steps in this matter. 
 

IX.  CEO/CFO certification 

The CEO, i.e. the Managing Director or Manager appointed in terms of the Companies 
Act,  1956  and  the  CFO  i.e.  the  whole-time  Finance  Director  or  any  other  person 
heading the finance function discharging that function shall certify to the Board that:  

A.  They have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year 

and that to the best of their knowledge and belief : 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 27 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 
1.  these  statements  do  not  contain  any  materially  untrue  statement  or  omit  any 

material fact or contain statements that might be misleading; 

2.  these statements together present a true and fair view of the company’s affairs 
and are in compliance with existing accounting standards, applicable laws and 
regulations.  
 

B.  There are,  to the best of their knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into 
by  the  company  during  the  year  which  are  fraudulent,  illegal  or  violative  of  the 
company’s code of conduct.  
 

C.  They  accept  responsibility  for  establishing  and  maintaining  internal  controls  for 
financial  reporting  and  that  they  have  evaluated  the  effectiveness  of  internal 
control  systems  of  the  company  pertaining  to  financial  reporting  and  they  have 
disclosed  to  the  auditors  and  the  Audit  Committee,  deficiencies  in  the  design  or 
operation of  such  internal  controls,  if  any,  of which  they  are  aware and  the  steps 
they have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies. 
 

D.  They have indicated to the auditors and the Audit committee: 

 
1.  significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year; 

 

2.  significant  changes  in  accounting  policies  during  the  year  and  that  the  same 

have been disclosed in the notes to the financial statements; and  
 

3.  instances  of  significant  fraud  of  which  they  have  become  aware  and  the 
involvement  therein,  if  any,  of  the  management  or  an  employee  having  a 
significant role in the company’s internal control system over financial reporting. 
 

X.  Report on Corporate Governance 

A.  There shall be a separate section on Corporate Governance in the Annual Reports 
of  company,  with  a  detailed  compliance  report  on  Corporate  Governance.  Non-
compliance of any mandatory requirement of this clause with reasons thereof and 
the extent to which the non-mandatory requirements have been adopted should be 
specifically highlighted. The suggested list of items to be included in this report is 
given  in  Annexure  -  XII  to  the  Listing  Agreement  and  list  of  non-mandatory 
requirements is given in Annexure - XIII to the Listing Agreement.  

 

B.  The companies shall submit a quarterly compliance report to the stock exchanges 
within 15 days from the close of quarter as per the format given in  Annexure - XI 

Page 28 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 
 

to  the  Listing  Agreement.  The  report  shall  be  signed  either  by  the  Compliance 
Officer or the Chief Executive Officer of the company. 

 

XI.  Compliance 

A.  The  company  shall  obtain  a  certificate  from  either  the  auditors  or  practicing 
company secretaries regarding compliance of conditions of corporate governance 
as  stipulated  in  this  clause  and  annex  the  certificate  with  the  directors’  report, 
which is sent annually to all the shareholders of the company. The same certificate 
shall also be sent to the Stock Exchanges along with the annual report filed by the 
company.  
 

B.  The  non-mandatory  requirements  given  in  Annexure  -  XIII  to  the  Listing 
Agreement may be implemented as per the discretion of the company. However, 
the disclosures of the compliance with mandatory requirements and adoption (and 
compliance)  /  non-adoption  of  the  non-mandatory  requirements  shall  be  made  in 
the section on corporate governance of the Annual Report.  

 

Page 29 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Annexure - X to the Listing Agreement 
 

Information to be placed before Board of Directors 
 
1.  Annual operating plans and budgets and any updates. 

  

2.  Capital budgets and any updates. 

  

3.  Quarterly results for the company and its operating divisions or business segments.  

 

4.  Minutes of meetings of audit committee and other committees of the board.  

 

5.  The  information  on  recruitment  and  remuneration  of  senior  officers  just  below  the 
board  level,  including  appointment  or  removal  of  Chief  Financial  Officer  and  the 
Company Secretary.  
 

6.  Show  cause,  demand,  prosecution  notices  and  penalty  notices  which  are  materially 

important. 
 

7.  Fatal  or  serious  accidents,  dangerous  occurrences,  any  material  effluent  or  pollution 

problems.  
 

8.  Any  material  default  in  financial  obligations  to  and  by  the  company,  or  substantial 

nonpayment for goods sold by the company.  
 

9.  Any  issue,  which  involves  possible  public  or  product  liability  claims  of  substantial 
nature,  including  any  judgement  or  order  which,  may  have  passed  strictures  on  the 
conduct  of  the  company  or  taken  an  adverse  view  regarding  another  enterprise  that 
can have negative implications on the company.  
 

10. Details of any joint venture or collaboration agreement.  

 

11. Transactions that involve substantial payment towards goodwill, brand equity, or 

intellectual property.  
 

12. Significant labour problems and their proposed solutions. Any significant development 
in  Human  Resources/  Industrial  Relations  front  like  signing  of  wage  agreement, 
implementation of Voluntary Retirement Scheme etc.  
 

13. Sale  of  material  nature,  of  investments,  subsidiaries,  assets,  which  is  not  in  normal 

course of business.  
 

14. Quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the steps taken by management 

to limit the risks of adverse exchange rate movement, if material.  
 

15. Non-compliance of any regulatory, statutory or listing requirements and shareholders 

service such as non-payment of dividend, delay in share transfer etc.  

Page 30 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Annexure - XI to the Listing Agreement 
 

Format of Quarterly Compliance Report on Corporate Governance 
 
Name of the Company: 
Quarter ending on: 
 

Particulars 

II. Board of Directors 

Clause  of 
Listing 
agreement 
49 (II) 

Compliance 
Status 
Yes/No 
 

Directors’  

Non-executive 

(A) Composition of Board 
(B) Independent Directors 
(C) 
 
compensation  & disclosures 
(D)  Other  provisions  as  to  Board  and 
Committees 
(E) Code of Conduct 
(F) Whistle Blower Policy 
III. Audit Committee 

Independent  Audit 

(A)  Qualified  & 
Committee 
(B) Meeting of Audit Committee 
(C) Powers of Audit Committee 
(D) Role of Audit Committee 
(E)  Review  of  Information  by  Audit 
Committee 
IV.  Nomination  and  Remuneration 
Committee 
V. Subsidiary Companies 

VI. Risk Management 

VII. Related Party Transactions 

VIII. Disclosures 

49 (IIA) 
49 (IIB) 
49 (IIC) 

49 (IID) 

49 (IIE) 
49 (IIF) 
49 (III) 

49 (IIIA) 

49 (IIIB) 
49 (IIIC) 
49 (IIID) 
49 (IIIE) 

49 (IV) 

49 (V) 

49 (VI) 

49 (VII) 

49 (VIII) 

Disclosure 

of 

Accounting 

49 (VIIIA) 
49 (VIIIB) 

(A) Related party transactions 
(B) 
Treatment 
(C) Remuneration of Directors 
(D) Management 
(E) Shareholders 
(F)  Disclosure  of 
directors 
(G)  Disclosure  of 
appointment 
(H) Disclosures in the Annual report 
49 (VIII H) 
(I)  Proceeds  from  public  issues,  rights  49 (VIII I) 

49 (VIII C) 
49 (VIII D) 
49 (VIII E) 
49 (VIII F) 

resignation  of 

formal 

letter  of 

49 (VIII G) 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

Page 31 of 36 

 

Remarks 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
Particulars 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Clause  of 
Listing 
agreement 

Compliance 
Status 
Yes/No 

Remarks 

issue, preferential issues, etc 
IX. CEO/CFO Certification 

49 (IX) 

X. Report on Corporate Governance  49 (X) 

XI. Compliance 

49 (XI) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Note: 
 
1.  The  details  under  each  head  shall  be  provided  to  incorporate  all  the  information 

required as per the provisions of the Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement.  
 

2.  In the column No. 3, compliance or non-compliance may be indicated by Yes/No/N.A.. 
For example, if the Board has been composed in accordance with the Clause 49 I of 
the Listing Agreement, "Yes" may be indicated. Similarly, in case the company has no 
related party transactions, the words “N.A.” may be indicated against 49(VII). 
 

3.  In the remarks column, reasons for non-compliance may be indicated, for example, in 
case  of  requirement  related  to  circulation  of  information  to  the  shareholders,  which 
would be done only in the AGM/EGM, it might be indicated in the "Remarks" column 
as – “will be complied with at the AGM”. Similarly, in respect of matters which can be 
complied  with  only  where  the  situation  arises,  for  example,  "Report  on  Corporate 
Governance" is to be a part of Annual Report only, the words "will be complied in the 
next Annual Report" may be indicated. 

 

 

Page 32 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Annexure - XII to the Listing Agreement 

 
Suggested List of Items to Be Included In the Report on Corporate Governance in 
the Annual Report of Companies 
 
1.  A brief statement on company’s philosophy on code of governance.  
 
2.  Board of Directors:  
 

a.  Composition  and  category  of  directors, 

for  example,  promoter,  executive, 
nonexecutive,  independent  non-executive,  nominee  director,  which  institution 
represented as lender or as equity investor.  

b.  Attendance of each director at the Board meetings and the last AGM.  
c.  Number of other Boards or Board Committees in which he/she is a member or 

Chairperson.  

d.  Number of Board meetings held, dates on which held. 

 
3.  Audit Committee:  
 

i.  Brief description of terms of reference  
ii.  Composition, name of members and Chairperson  
iii.  Meetings and attendance during the year  

 

4.  Nomination and Remuneration Committee:  
 

i.  Brief description of terms of reference  
ii.  Composition, name of members and Chairperson  
iii.  Attendance during the year  
iv.  Remuneration policy  
v.  Details of remuneration to all the directors, as per format in main report.  

 

5.  Stakeholders' Grievance  Committee:  
 

i.  Name of non-executive director heading the committee  
ii.  Name and designation of compliance officer  
iii.  Number of shareholders’ complaints received so far  
iv.  Number not solved to the satisfaction of shareholders  
v.  Number of pending complaints  

 

6.  General Body meetings:  
 

i.  Location and time, where last three AGMs held.  

Page 33 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

ii.  Whether any special resolutions passed in the previous 3 AGMs  
iii.  Whether any special resolution passed last year through postal ballot  –  details of 

voting pattern  

iv.   Person who conducted the postal ballot exercise  
v.  Whether any special resolution is proposed to be conducted through postal ballot  
vi.  Procedure for postal ballot  

 

7.  Disclosures:  
 

i.  Disclosures  on  materially  significant  related  party  transactions  that  may  have 

potential conflict with the interests of company at large.  

ii.  Details  of  non-compliance  by  the  company,  penalties,  strictures  imposed  on  the 
company  by  Stock  Exchange  or  SEBI  or  any  statutory  authority,  on  any  matter 
related to capital markets, during the last three years.  

iii.  Whistle Blower policy and affirmation that no personnel has been denied access to 

the audit committee.  

iv.  Details  of  compliance  with  mandatory  requirements  and  adoption  of  the  non-

mandatory requirements of this clause  

 

8.  Means of communication: 
 

i.  Quarterly results  
ii.  Newspapers wherein results normally published  
iii.  Any website, where displayed  
iv.  Whether it also displays official news releases; and  
v.  The presentations made to institutional investors or to the analysts.  

 

9.  General Shareholder information:  
 

i.  AGM: Date, time and venue  
ii.  Financial year  
iii.  Date of Book closure  
iv.  Dividend Payment Date  
v.  Listing on Stock Exchanges  
vi.  Stock Code  
vii.  Market Price Data: High., Low during each month in last financial year  
viii.  Performance in comparison to broad-based indices such as BSE Sensex, CRISIL 

index etc.  

ix.  Registrar and Transfer Agents  
x.  Share Transfer System  
xi.  Distribution of shareholding  
xii.  Dematerialization of shares and liquidity  

Page 34 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

xiii.  Outstanding  GDRs/ADRs/Warrants  or  any  Convertible  instruments,    conversion 

date and likely impact on equity  

xiv.  Plant Locations  
xv.  Address for correspondence 

 

 

 
 

Page 35 of 36 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

Non-Mandatory Requirements 

 

1.  The Board 

Annexure - XIII to the Listing Agreement 

The Board - A non-executive Chairman may be entitled to maintain a Chairman's 
office  at  the  company's  expense  and  also  allowed  reimbursement  of  expenses 
incurred in performance of his duties.  
 

2.  Shareholder Rights 

            A  half-yearly  declaration  of  financial  performance  including  summary  of  the   

significant  events  in  last  six-months,  may  be  sent  to  each  household  of 
shareholders.  

 

3.  Audit qualifications 

Company may move towards a regime of unqualified financial statements. 

 

4.  Separate posts of Chairman and CEO 

The  company  may  appoint  separate  persons  to  the  post  of  Chairman  and 
Managing Director/CEO. 
 

5.  Reporting of Internal Auditor 

The Internal auditor may report directly to the Audit Committee. 

Page 36 of 36 

 

