¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

                  

 

April 23, 2014  

 

CIR/MRD/DP/14/2014  
 
To  
 
All Stock Exchanges  
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 

Sub:  Revised  guidelines  for  Liquidity  Enhancement  Scheme  in  the  Equity  Cash 
and Equity Derivatives Segments 

 
1.  SEBI  vide  circular  CIR/DNPD/5/2011  dated  June  02,  2011  and  circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/14/2010  dated  February  08,  2013  permitted  stock  exchanges  to 
introduce  liquidity  enhancement  schemes  in  the  equity  derivatives  and  equity  cash 
segments to enhance liquidity in illiquid securities.  

2.  Based  on  the  experience  of  stock  exchanges  in  offering  liquidity  enhancement 
schemes  in  the  equity  cash  and  equity  derivatives  segments,  and  based  on  the 
discussions  held  in  Secondary  Market  Advisory  Committee,  it  has been  decided  to 
revise the framework for providing liquidity enhancement schemes as given below.   

3.  Introduction of liquidity enhancement schemes - The stock exchange may introduce 
liquidity  enhancement  schemes  in  equity  cash  and  equity  derivatives  segments 
subject to the following: 

3.1.  The scheme shall have the prior approval of the Stock Exchange’s Board and 
its implementation and outcome shall be monitored by the Board at quarterly 
intervals. 

3.2.  The  scheme  shall  be  objective,  transparent,  non-discretionary  and  non-

discriminatory. 

3.3.  The  scheme  shall  specify  the  incentives  available  to  the  market  makers  / 
liquidity  providers  and  such  incentives  may  include  discount  in  fees, 
adjustment  in  fees  in  other  segments,  cash  payment  or  issue  of  shares, 
including options and warrants. 

3.4.  The scheme shall not compromise market integrity or risk management. 

3.5.  The  effectiveness  of  the  scheme  shall  be  reviewed  by  the  stock  exchange 
every  six  months  and  the  stock  exchange  shall  submit  half-yearly  reports  to 
SEBI. 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

3.6.  The scheme, including any modification therein or its discontinuation, shall be 

disclosed to the market atleast 15 days in advance. 

3.7.  Outcome  of  the  scheme  (incentives  granted  and  volume  achieved  –  market 

maker wise and security wise) shall be disseminated monthly. 

3.8.  The scheme shall comply with all the relevant laws. 

4.  Securities  eligible  for  liquidity  enhancement  schemes  -  The  stock  exchange  shall 
formulate it's own benchmarks for selecting the securities for liquidity enhancement 
with the broad objective of enhancing liquidity in illiquid securities.  

4.1.  The  stock exchanges shall introduce  liquidity enhancement schemes on any 
security  for  a  maximum  period  of  three  years.  Once  the  scheme  is 
discontinued, the scheme can be re-introduced on the same security provided 
it is less than the three year period since the introduction of  scheme on that 
security. 

4.2.  Further,  a  stock  exchange  may  introduce  liquidity  enhancement  schemes  in 
securities  where  liquidity  enhancement  scheme  has  been  introduced  in 
another  stock  exchange.  Such  schemes  cannot  be  continued  beyond  the 
period of liquidity enhancement schemes of the initiating stock exchange.  

4.3.  The  list of  securities eligible  for  liquidity  enhancement  shall  be  disseminated 

to the market.  

5.  The  incentives  under  liquidity  enhancement  schemes  shall  be  transparent  and 

measurable, and may take either of the following two forms:  

5.1.  Discount in fees, adjustment in fees in other segments or cash payment - The 
incentives  during  a  financial  year  shall  not  exceed  25%  of  the  net  profits  or 
25% of the free reserves of the stock exchange, whichever is higher, as per 
the audited financial statements of the preceding financial year. 

5.2.  Shares,  including options  and  warrants, of the  stock  exchange  - The  shares 
that may accrue on exercise of warrants or options, given as incentives under 
all  liquidity  enhancement  scheme,  during  a  financial  year,  shall  not  exceed 
25%  of  the  issued  and  outstanding  shares  of  the  stock  exchange  as  on  the 
last  day  of  the  preceding  financial  year.  Further,  the  stock  exchange  shall 
ensure  that  this  is  in  compliance  with  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation) 
(Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012 at all times. 

6.  Market integrity - The stock exchange shall ensure the following:  

6.1.  The  stock  exchange  shall  have  systems  and  defined  procedures  in  place  to 
monitor collusion between stock brokers indulging in trades solely for seeking 
incentives and prevent payment of incentives in such cases.  

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

6.2.  Incentives shall not be provided for the trades where the counterparty is self, 

i.e., same Unique Client Code (UCC) is on both sides of the transaction.  

6.3.  Any violations of clauses in this para shall be viewed most seriously. 

7.  Market  maker  /  liquidity  enhancer    - The  exchange  shall  prescribe and monitor  the 
obligations of liquidity enhancers (liquidity provider, market-maker, maker-taker or by 
whatever name called) 

7.1.  All market maker / liquidity enhancer orders / trades should be identifiable by 

the stock exchange. 

7.2.  A conflict of interest framework shall be put in place by the stock exchange for 
the  liquidity  enhancement  scheme.  Such  a  framework  shall  provide  for 
obligation on the part of the market maker / liquidity enhancer to disclose any 
conflict  of  interest  while  participating  in  the  scheme.  The  same  shall  be 
disclosed by the stock exchange on their website.  

8.  This  circular  shall  not  be  applicable  to  securities  listed  on  SME  Platform  or  SME 

Exchange.  

9.  This  circular  shall  supersede  earlier  SEBI  circulars  viz.  CIR/DNPD/5/2011  dated 
June  02,  2011  and  CIR/MRD/DP/14/2010  dated  February  08,  2013  on  liquidity 
enhancement in the equity derivatives and equity cash segments.  

10. Stock Exchanges are directed to:  

10.1. take  necessary  steps  to  put  in  place  systems  for  implementation  of  the 
circular, including necessary amendments to the relevant byelaws, rules and 
regulations;  

10.2. bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers and also 

disseminate the same on its website;  

10.3. communicate  to  SEBI  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 

circular.  

11. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market.  

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Maninder Cheema  
Deputy General Manager  
email: maninderc@sebi.gov.in 

