 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIR/IMD/DF/ 12 /2014                                                                  June 17, 2014 

CIRCULAR 

 
 
 To,  
 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
All Credit Rating Agencies  
All Issuers, through stock exchanges, where they are listed. 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

Base Issue Size, Minimum Subscription, Retention of Over-Subscription Limit 
and further disclosures in the Prospectus for Public Issue of Debt securities 

 

1.  Minimum Subscription Limit:  

 

 

 

a)  Section  69  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  specifies  that  no  allotment  shall  be 
made  of  any  share  capital  of  a  company,  offered  to  the  public  for 
subscription,  unless  the  amount  stated  in  the  prospectus  as  the  minimum 
amount  has  been  subscribed.  As  per  Schedule  II  to  the  Companies  Act, 
1956, the issuer is required to make a declaration about refund of the issue, 
if minimum subscription of 90% of the issue size is not received. 

b)  However,  for  public  issue  of  non-convertible  debentures  (NCDs),  no  such 
requirement  is  specified  under  Companies  Act,  1956.  Further,  as  per 
Regulation  12  of  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities)  Regulations, 
2008  (SEBI  ILDS  Regulations),  the  issuer  may  decide  the  amount  of 
minimum  subscription,  which  it  seeks  to  raise  from  public  through  issue  of 
NCDs and disclose the same in the offer document.  

c)  Companies  Act,  2013  and  the  Rules  made  there  under  also  do  not  specify 
the quantum of minimum subscription needed in case of public issues (both 
for  equity  and  debt),  but  only  requires  disclosure  of  the  same  in  the  offer 
document. 

 

d)  In view of the above, it has been decided that  the minimum subscription for 

public issue of debt securities shall be specified as 75% of the base issue  
 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

e)  size for  both NBFCs  and  Non NBFC  issuers. Further, if the issuer  does  not 
receive  minimum  subscription  of  its  base  issue  size  (75%),  then  the  entire 
application  monies  shall  be  refunded  within  12  days  from  the  date  of  the 
closure of the issue. In the event, there is a delay, by the issuer in making the 
aforesaid  refund, then the issuer shall refund the subscription amount along 
with interest at the rate of 15% per annum for the delayed period.  

 

f)  However, the issuers issuing tax-free bonds, as specified  by CBDT, shall be 

exempted from the above proposed minimum subscription limit. 

 

2.  Base Issue Size: 

 
In  any  public  issue  of  debt  securities,  it  has  been  decided  that  the  Base  Issue 
size shall be minimum Rs 100 crores. 

 

3.  Retention of Over-Subscription Limit:  

 

a)  Currently,  in  respect  of  public  issue  of  NCDs,  SEBI  ILDS  Regulations  does  not 

specify any maximum cap on the retention of over-subscription. 

 

b)  In  general,  issuers  shall  be  allowed  to  retain  the  over-subscription  money  up  to 
the maximum of 100% of the Base Issue size or any lower limit as specified in the 
offer document. However, for the issuers filing a shelf prospectus, they can retain 
oversubscription up to the rated size, as specified in their Shelf Prospectus. 

 

c)  The  issuers  of tax free bonds,  who have not filed Shelf Prospectus, the limit for 
retaining the oversubscription shall be the amount, which they are authorised by 
CBDT to raise in a year or any lower limit, subject to the same being specified in 
the offer document. 

 

4.  Further disclosures in the prospectus for Debt Issues: 

 

I. 

“Objects of the issue”  
 

a)  As per Schedule I of SEBI ILDS Regulations, companies making public issue of 
NCDs need to specify the “Object  of the issue” in the offer document. However, 
detailed  disclosure  requirements,  as  required  in  case  of  equity  issues  are  not 
specified under the SEBI ILDS Regulations.  

 

b)  On analysis of the various offer documents, filed by the issuers for public issue of 
NCDs, it is observed that almost none of the issuers gave concrete objectives for 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

the  issue.  Most  of  the  objectives  stated  are  in  the  form  of  a  blanket  statement 
encompassing a lot of avenues for utilizing the monies raised through the issue. 

 

c)  In this regard,  it is stated that the entities coming out  with  public issue  of NCDs 
shall  provide  granular  disclosures  in  their  offer  document,  with  regards  to  the 
"Object of the Issue"  including the  percentage of the issue  proceeds  earmarked 
for each of the “object of the issue”. Further, the amount earmarked for "General 
Corporate Purposes", shall not exceed 25% of the amount raised by the issuer in 
the proposed issue. 

 

d)  Further,  it  is  understood  that  NBFCs  are  the  most  frequent  users  of  the  debt 
channel and most of the NBFCs utilize the issue proceeds for onward lending. In 
view  of  the  same,  NBFCs  shall  have  to  disclose  in  their  offer  document,  the 
details  with  regards  to  the  lending  done  by  them,  out  of  the  issue  proceeds  of 
previous public issues, including details regarding the following:  

i. 

Lending policy;  

ii.  Classification  of 

to  associates,  entities 
/person relating to Board, Senior Management, Promoters, Others, 
etc. ; 

loans/advances  given 

iii.  Classification of loans/advances given to according to type of loans, 
sectors,  maturity  profile  (less  than  one  year,  1-3  yrs,  3-5  yrs,  5-10 
yrs, etc.), denomination (loans of value below Rs. 50 lakhs, Rs. 50 
Lakhs  –  1  Cr;  Rs.  1  Cr-  5  Cr,  Rs.  5  Cr-  25  Cr,  Rs.  25  Cr.-100  Cr 
etc,), geographical classification of borrowers, etc.; 

iv.  Details  of  top  ten  borrowers  including  their  name,  address, 

exposure etc;  

v.  Details  of  top  ten  loans,  overdue  and  classified  as  non-performing 
in  accordance  with  RBI  Guidelines,  in  terms  of  exposure  to  those 
entities. 

II.  Disclosures in the offer document for public issue of NCDs: 

 

Issuers  coming  out  with  public  issues  of  NCDs  need  to  make  disclosure  in 
accordance  with  the  disclosure  requirements  as  specified  in  Schedule  II  to 
Companies  Act,  1956  (Chapter  III  of  Companies  Act,  2013)  and  disclosure 
requirements as specified in Schedule I of SEBI ILDS Regulations. In furtherance 
to the same, it has been decided that following additional disclosures have to be 
made in the Offer Document, by the issuers. 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

i.  Offer document shall contain the following disclaimer clause in bold capital 

letters: 

in 

the  offer  document.  The 

"It  is  to  be  distinctly understood  that  submission  of  offer  document  to  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) should not in any way be 
deemed  or  construed  that  the  same  has  been  cleared  or  approved  by 
SEBI.  SEBI  does  not  take  any  responsibility  either  for  the  financial 
soundness of any scheme or the project for which the issue is proposed to 
be  made  or  for  the  correctness  of  the  statements  made  or  opinions 
expressed 
lead  merchant  banker, 
______________  has  certified  that  the  disclosures  made  in  the  offer 
document  are  generally  adequate  and  are  in  conformity  with  the  SEBI 
(Issue  and  listing  of  Debt  Securities)  Regulations,  2008  in  force  for  the 
time  being.  This  requirement  is  to  facilitate  investors  to  take  an  informed 
decision for making investment in the proposed issue. 
 
It  should  also  be  clearly  understood  that  while  the  Issuer  is  primarily 
responsible  for  the  correctness,  adequacy  and  disclosure  of  all  relevant 
information in the offer document, the lead merchant banker is expected to 
exercise  due  diligence 
its 
responsibility adequately in this behalf and towards this purpose, the lead 
merchant banker _______________ has furnished to SEBI a due diligence 
certificate dated ______________ which reads as follows:  
 
(due  diligence  certificate  submitted  to  the  Board,  as  per  Schedule  II  of 
SEBI ILDS Regulations, to be reproduced here)" 

to  ensure 

that 

the 

issuer  discharges 

ii.  Provisions relating to fictitious applications  

iii.  Declaration  by  board  of  directors  that  the  underwriters,  if  any,  have 

sufficient resources to discharge their respective obligations. 

iv.  Reservation in the Issue, if any  

v.  Utilization details regarding the Previous Issues of the issuer as well as the 

Group Companies 

vi.  Benefit  /  interest  accruing  to  Promoters/Directors  out  of  the  object  of  the 

issue 

vii.  Details  regarding  material  Contracts  other  than  the  contracts  entered  in 
the  ordinary course of business and the material contracts entered within 
the previous 2 Years.  

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

5.  The provisions of this circular shall be applicable for the draft offer document for 
issuance  of  debt  securities  filed  with  the  designated  stock  exchange  on  or  after 
July 16, 2014.  
 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities markets.  
 

7.   This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in.  

 

 

Yours faithfully,  
  
  
Barnali Mukherjee  
General Manager  
Investment Management Department  
Tel No.022-2644 9660  
Email Id - barnalim@sebi.gov.in  
 

