 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

CIR/MRD/DP/20/2014 

 

 

 

 

                 June 20, 2014 

To 

All Stock exchanges and Clearing corporations, 
All Depositories, 
All Designated Depository Participants (DDPs) through Depositories, 
All Custodians of Securities, 
All Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) through their DDPs. 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Participation of FPIs in the Currency Derivatives segment and 

Position limits for currency derivatives contracts 

The  Hon’ble  Finance  Minister  in  his  Budget  2013-2014  speech  on 
February 28, 2013 had announced that “FIIs will be allowed to participate in the 
exchange traded currency derivative segment to the extent of their Indian rupee 
exposure in India”. 

(Foreign  Exchange  Derivative  Contracts) 

Pursuant  to  notification  dated  May  21,  2014  on  Foreign  Exchange 
2. 
Management 
(Amendment) 
Regulations, 2014, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular 
no.  148  dated  June  20,  2014  has  allowed  FPIs,  who  are  eligible  to  invest  in 
securities  as  laid  down  in  Schedules  2,  5,  7  and  8  of  Foreign  Exchange 
Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by a person resident outside India) 
Regulations, 2000, to enter into currency futures or exchange traded currency 
options  contracts,  subject  to  terms  and  conditions  mentioned  in  the  said 
circular. Copy of the RBI circular is enclosed for reference. 

Participation of FPIs in the Currency Derivatives segment 

3. 
In  view  of  the  above,  FPIs  are  permitted  to  trade  in  the  currency 
derivatives  segment  of  stock  exchanges,  subject  to  terms  and  conditions 
mentioned in this circular and aforesaid RBI circular.  

4. 
Accordingly,  para  I.1.d.  of  the  SEBI  Circular  SEBI/DNPD/Cir-38/2008 
dated  August  06,  2008  regarding  Exchange  Traded  Currency  Derivatives  is 
modified as under: 

Appropriate  mechanisms  are  implemented  to  prevent  participation  in 
Exchange  Traded  Currency  Derivatives  of  “persons  resident  outside 
India”, as defined in Section 2(w) of the Foreign Exchange Management 
Act,  1999,  except  persons  allowed  under  regulation  5B  of  Foreign 

Page 1 of 5 

Exchange  Management 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2014. 

(Foreign  Exchange  Derivative  Contracts) 

 

 

 

5.  Within the applicable position limits specified in para 12, positions taken 
by  the  FPIs  in  the  currency  derivatives  segment  of  a  recognised  stock 
exchange shall be subject to the following conditions: 

(a) 
FPIs  may  take  long  as  well  as  short  positions  in  the  permitted 
currency pairs upto USD 10 million / EUR 5 million / GBP 5 million / JPY 
200  million,  as  applicable,  per  stock  exchange  without  having  to 
establish the existence of any underlying exposure. 
(b) 
FPIs  shall  ensure  that  their  short  positions  at  a  stock  exchange 
across all contracts in a permitted currency pair do not exceed USD 10 
million / EUR 5 million / GBP 5 million / JPY 200 million, as applicable. In 
the event a FPI breaches the short position limit, stock exchanges shall 
restrict  the  FPI  from  increasing  its  existing  short  positions  or  creating 
new short positions in the currency pair till such time FPI complies with 
the said requirement.  
(c) 
To take long positions in the permitted currency pair in excess of 
USD  10  million  /  EUR  5  million  /  GBP  5  million  /  JPY  200  million,  as 
applicable,  FPIs  shall  be  required  to  have  an  underlying  exposure  in 
Indian  debt  or  equity  securities,  including  units  of  equity/debt  mutual 
funds.   

Primary  onus  for  ensuring  compliance  with  the  above  provisions  shall 

6. 
rest with the FPI.  

7.  With  regard  to  enabling  monitoring  of  positions  of  FPIs  as  per  the 
provisions of the RBI A.P. (DIR Series) Circular no. 148 dated June 20, 2014, 
the  following  shall  be  implemented  by  the  clearing  corporations  and  the 
custodians of securities of the FPIs: 

The clearing corporation shall provide details on the FPI’s day-end 
(a) 
and  day’s  highest  open  positions  at  end  of  day  to  the  custodians  of 
securities of the FPI. 

(b) 
The  custodian  of  securities  of  the  FPI  shall  aggregate  the 
positions  taken  by  the  FPI  on  the  currency  derivatives  segments  of  all 
the stock exchanges and forward such details to the designated bank of 
the FPI as defined at regulation 2(1)(e) of the Securities and Exchange 
Board  of  India  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations,  2014.  The 
custodian of securities of the FPI shall also provide the market value of 
applicable underlying exposure of the FPI to the designated bank of the 
FPI. 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 
Participation of domestic clients in the currency derivatives segment 

 

8. 
RBI  vide  A.P.  (DIR  Series)  Circular  no.  147  dated  June  20,  2014  has 
revised  the  participation  requirements  for  the  domestic  participants  in  the 
currency  derivatives  segment.  Copy  of  the  RBI  circular  is  enclosed  for 
reference. 

9. 
Accordingly,  within  the  applicable  position  limits  specified  in  para  12, 
positions  taken  by  the  domestic  clients  shall  be  subject  to  the  following 
conditions: 
(a) 
Domestic clients may take long or short positions in the permitted 
currency pairs upto USD 10 million / EUR 5 million / GBP 5 million / JPY 
200  million,  as  applicable,  per  stock  exchange  without  having  to 
establish the existence of any underlying exposure. 

(b) 
Domestic  clients  may  take  positions  in  the  permitted  currency 
pairs in excess of USD 10 million / EUR 5 million / GBP 5 million / JPY 
200  million,  as  applicable,  subject  to  the  conditions  specified  the  RBI 
A.P. (DIR Series) Circular no. 147 dated June 20, 2014.  

10. 
Stock brokers shall comply with the requirements mentioned in the RBI 
A.P.  (DIR  Series)  Circular  no.  147  dated  June  20,  2014  while  dealing  with 
domestic clients and  shall bring  to the notice of their clients the requirements 
specified in this circular and the aforementioned RBI circular. 

11. 
The  primary  onus  of  complying  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  RBI 
A.P. (DIR Series) Circular no. 147 dated June 20, 2014 shall rest with the client 
and in case of any contravention, the client shall render itself liable to any action 
that  may  be  warranted  by  RBI  as  per  the  provisions  of  Foreign  Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 and Regulations, Directions, etc. framed thereunder. 

Position limits in the permitted currency pairs 

to  position 

In  modification 

12. 
limits  specified  vide  SEBI  circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/22/2013 dated July 08, 2013 for USD-INR contracts and in partial 
modification to the position limits specified for EUR-INR, GBP-INR and JPY-INR 
contracts vide SEBI circular SEBI/DNPD/Cir-52/2010 dated January 19, 2010, 
the revised position limits per stock exchange shall be as follows: 

Position limits for Stock Brokers (bank and non-bank), Category I 

(a) 
& II FPIs: The position limits shall be as given in the table below. 

Currency Pair  Position limits  
USD-INR 

Gross open position across all contracts shall not 
exceed 15% of the total open interest or USD 100 
million, whichever is higher. 

Page 3 of 5 

 

 

 

EUR-INR 

GBP-INR 

JPY-INR 

Gross open position across all contracts shall not 
exceed 15% of the total open interest or EUR 50 million, 
whichever is higher. 

Gross open position across all contracts shall not 
exceed 15% of the total open interest or GBP 50 million, 
whichever is higher. 

Gross open position across all contracts shall not 
exceed 15% of the total open interest or JPY 2000 
million, whichever is higher. 

(b) 
Proprietary  positions  of  non-bank  stock  brokers:  Proprietary 
positions  of  non-bank  stock  brokers  shall  be  subject  to  position  limits 
mentioned at para 12(c). 

Position  limits  for  Clients  and  Category  III  FPIs:    The  position 

(c) 
limits shall be as given in the table below. 

Currency Pair  Position limits  

USD-INR 

EUR-INR 

GBP-INR 

JPY-INR 

Gross open position across all contracts shall not 
exceed 6% of the total open interest or USD 10 million, 
whichever is higher. 

Gross open position across all contracts shall not 
exceed 6% of the total open interest or EUR 5 million, 
whichever is higher. 

Gross open position across all contracts shall not 
exceed 6% of the total open interest or GBP 5 million, 
whichever is higher. 

Gross open position across all contracts shall not 
exceed 6% of the total open interest or JPY 200 million, 
whichever is higher. 

Stock  exchanges  shall  impose  appropriate  penalties  for  violation  of 

13. 
position limits by stock brokers / FPIs / domestic clients. 

In  case  of  positions  taken  to  hedge  underlying  exposure,  the  position 
14. 
limit linked to open interest shall be applicable at the time of opening a position. 
Such positions shall not be required to be unwound in the event a drop of total 
open  interest  in  a  currency  pair  at  a  stock  exchange.  However,  participants 
shall not be allowed to increase their existing positions or create new positions 
in the currency pair till they comply with the position limits. 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 
All other conditions as specified vide earlier SEBI Circulars shall remain 
15. 
unchanged.  Stock  exchanges  /  Clearing  corporations  may  specify  additional 
safeguards  /  conditions,  as  deemed  fit,  to  manage  risk  and  to  ensure  orderly 
trading. 

 

16.  Depositories are directed to forward this circular to the DDPs, who shall 
in turn bring the contents of this circular to the notice of the FPIs registered with 
them. 

17. 

Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations are directed to:  
(a) 
take necessary steps to put in place systems for implementation 
of the circular by June 27, 2014, including necessary amendments to the 
relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations.  
(b) 
bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock 
brokers  /  clearing  members  and  also  disseminate  the  same  on  their 
website;  
(c) 
provisions of this circular.  

communicate  to  SEBI  the  status  of  implementation  of  the 

18. 
This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under 
Section  11  (1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to 
protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development 
of, and to regulate the securities market.  

Yours faithfully,  

 
Maninder Cheema  
Deputy General Manager  
email: maninderc@sebi.gov.in 

Enclosures: 

(i)  Reserve  Bank  of  India  A.P.  (DIR  Series)  Circular  no.  148  dated  June  20, 
2014 on ‘Risk Management and Inter-bank Dealings: Guidelines relating to 
participation  of  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  (FPIs)  in  the  Exchange  Traded 
Currency Derivatives (ETCD)’. 

(ii) Reserve  Bank  of  India  A.P.  (DIR  Series)  Circular  no.  147  dated  June  20, 
2014 on ‘Risk Management and Inter-bank Dealings: Guidelines relating to 
participation  of  Residents  in  the  Exchange  Traded  Currency  Derivatives 
(ETCD) market’. 

Page 5 of 5 

