भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 
 

          June 19, 2014 

CIR/IMD/DF/14/2014  
 
To 
All Alternative Investment Funds ("AIFs") registered with SEBI 
All custodians of Category III Alternative Investment Funds  
All  Alternative  Investment  Funds  which  are  exempt  from  registration  under 
sub-regulation (1) of Regulation (3) of the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) 
Regulations, 2012 ("AIF Regulations") 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Guidelines  on  disclosures,  reporting  and  clarifications  under  AIF 
Regulations 
 
SEBI  (Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012  were  notified  on  May  21, 
2012. A Circular no.CIR/IMD/DF/10/2013 dated July 29, 2013 was also subsequently 
issued  for  operational,  prudential  and  reporting  requirements  for  AIFs.  Certain 
amendments  were  also  made  to  the  AIF  Regulations  on  September  16,  2013.  It  is 
decided 
increase 
transparency to the investors and provide reporting norms for AIFs as under: 

to  provide  certain  clarifications  on 

the  AIF  Regulations, 

1.  Submission  of  information  to  SEBI  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  Regulation  (3)  of 

AIF Regulations  

a.  Circular  no.  CIR/IMD/DF/10/2013  dated  July  29,  2013  requires  that  all 
Category  III  AIFs  report  to  the  custodian  on  a  daily  basis  the  amount  of 
leverage  at  the  end  of  the  day  (based  on  closing  prices)  and  whether  there 
has been any breach of limit during the day.  

b.  It has been observed that  with respect to reporting of  amount of leverage at 
the  end  of  the  day,  the  AIF  is  dependent  on  various  parties  in  order  to 
calculate and submit to the custodian the amount of leverage as at the end of 
the day. Such  various  parties provide information at  varied time periods  due 
to which the AIFs are finding it difficult to report to the custodian the amount 
of end-of-day leverage on the same day.  

c.  Therefore,  in  part  modification  of  the  aforesaid  circular  dated  July  29,  2013, 
all  Category  III  AIFs  shall  report  to  the  custodian  the  amount  of  leverage  at 
the end of the day (based on closing prices) by the end of next working day.  

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

2.  Disclosures in placement memorandum 

a.  Disclosure on fees and charges and litigations 

i.  It  has  been  observed  that  fee  structure  applicable  to  the  investors  in  an 
AIF  is  generally  complex  in  nature.  Therefore,  for  better  understanding, 
every  AIF  shall,  in  its  placement  memorandum,  add  by  way  of  an 
annexure,  a  detailed  tabular  example  of  how  the  fees  and  charges  shall 
be applicable to the investor including the distribution waterfall.  

ii.  While  Regulation  11(2)  requires  that  an  AIF  shall  include  disciplinary 
actions  in  its  placement  memorandum,  it  has  been  observed  that  many 
AIFs have not been including the same in their placement memorandum.  

In  view  of  the  above,  it  is  clarified  that  all  AIFs  shall  include  in  their 
placement memorandum, disciplinary history of: 

(1) AIF,  sponsor,  manager  and  their  Directors/partners/promoters  and 

associates 

(2) If applicant is a trust, Trustees or trustee company and its directors  

Such disciplinary history shall, inter alia, include: 

(1) Details  of  outstanding/pending  and  past  cases  (where  the  person 
has  been  found  guilty)  of  litigations,  criminal  or  civil  prosecution, 
disputes,  non-payment  of  statutory  dues,  overdues  to/defaults 
against  banks  or  financial  institutions,  contingent  liabilities  not 
provided  for,  proceedings  initiated  for  economic  offences  or  civil 
offences, adverse findings with respect to compliance with securities 
laws, penalties levied, disputed tax liabilities, etc.  

(2) any  disciplinary  action  taken  by  the  Board  or  any  other  regulatory 

authority. 

In case of operational  actions such as administrative  warnings/deficiency 
letters, the same may be grouped together and summarized. However, if 
the  investor  seeks  details  of  the  summarized  portion,  the  same  shall  be 
provided by the AIF to the investor.  

Any  further  litigations/cases,  etc.  as  may  arise  in  the  course  of  the 
activities  of  the  AIF  shall  be  appropriately  incorporated  in  the  placement 
memorandum and intimated to the investors. 

iii.  Existing AIFs shall send the annexure as stated in clause (a)(i) above and 
disciplinary  actions,  if  not  already  included,  to  all  their  investors  as  an 
addendum to the existing placement memorandum within 30 days of this 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

circular. A copy of the same shall also be filed  with SEBI at least 7 days 
prior to sending the same to the investors. 

b.  Changes to placement memorandum 

i.  At  the  time  of  submission  of  final  placement  memorandum  to  SEBI,  any 
changes  which  have  been  made  vis-à-vis 
the  draft  placement 
memorandum submitted to SEBI at the time of application shall be listed 
clearly  in  the  covering  letter.  Further,  the  changes  shall  also  be 
highlighted in the copy of the final placement memorandum.  

ii.  Further,  it  has  been  observed  in  several  cases  that  changes  are  being 
made  to  the  placement  memorandum  without  intimation  to  or  consent 
from unit holders, which is not in the interest of the investors.  

iii.  All  AIFs  shall  intimate  any  change  to  the  placement  memorandum  to  all 
unit  holders  (including  investors  who  have  provided  commitment  to  the 
AIF)  within  7  days  of  making  such  change,  specifically  indicating  the 
changes made. Such changes shall also be intimated to SEBI. 

iv.  However,  in  cases  of  material  changes  significantly  influencing  the 
decision of the investor to continue to be invested in the AIF, the process 
as  mentioned  hereunder  shall  be  complied  with.  Such  changes  shall 
include, but not be limited to the following: 

a.  Change  in  sponsor/manager  (not  including  an  internal  restructuring 

within the group) 

b.  Change in control of sponsor/manager  
c.  Change  in  fee  structure  or  hurdle  rate  which  may  result  in  higher 

fees being charged to the unit holders  

The following process shall be followed by the AIF: 

a.  Existing  unit  holders  who  do  not  wish  to  continue  post  the  change 
shall  be  provided  an  exit  option.  The  unit  holders  shall  be  provided 
not less than one month for expressing their dissent.  

b.  In case the scheme of the AIF is open-ended, the exit option may be 

provided by either of the following: 

(1) Buying  out  of  units  of  the  dissenting  investors  by  the  manager/ 
any  other  person  as  may  be  arranged  by  manager,  valuation  of 
which shall be based on market price of underlying assets.  

(2) Redemption  of  units  of  the  investors  through  sale  of  underlying 

assets. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

c.  In case the scheme of the AIF is close-ended, the exit option may be 

provided as under: 

(1) The  exit  option  shall  be  provided  by  buying  out  of  units  of  the 
dissenting  investors  by  the  manager/  any  other  person  as  may 
be arranged by manager.  

(2) Prior  to  buying  out  of  such  units,  valuation  of  the  units  shall  be 
undertaken  by  2  independent  valuers  and  the  exit  shall  be  at 
value not less than average of the two valuations.  

d.  The responsibility to provide exit to the dissenting investors shall be 
on the manager. The expenses for the entire process shall be borne 
by  the  manager/sponsor/proposed  new  manager  or  sponsor  and 
shall not be charged to the unit holders. 

e.  The entire process of exit to dissenting investors shall be completed 
within  3  months  from  the  date  of  expiry  of  last  date  of  the  offer  for 
dissent.  

f.  The  trustee  of  AIF  (in  case  AIF  is  a  trust)/  sponsor  (in  case  of  any 
other AIF) shall be responsible for overseeing the process, ensuring 
compliance and regularly updating SEBI on the developments.  

3.  Clarification on certain aspects of the AIF Regulations 

a.  For  the  purpose  of  Regulation  10(b)  of  the  AIF  Regulations,  in  case  the 

corpus of an open-ended scheme falls below rupees twenty crores : 

i.  The AIF shall intimate to SEBI within 2 days of receiving request for 

redemption from the client. 

ii.  The AIF shall take necessary action to bring back the scheme size to 

twenty crores within 3 months from the date of such breach.  

iii.  In  case  the  AIF  fails  to  bring  back  the  corpus  within  the  prescribed 

period, it shall redeem entire units of all investors. 

iv.  In  case  of  repeated  violations  by  the  AIF,  SEBI  may  take  action 

against the AIF, as may be appropriate. 

b.  With  respect  to  units  of  AIF  issued  to  the  employees  of  the  manager  of  the 
AIF for profit-sharing, Regulation 10(c) shall not be applicable in cases where 
such units do not entail any contribution/investment from the employees.  

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

c.  With respect to investment by the sponsor/manager in the AIF, the sharing of 
loss by the sponsor/manager shall not be less than pro rata to their holding in 
the AIF vis-à-vis other unit holders.  

d.  With  respect  to  Regulation  10(c),  an  AIF  may  accept  the  following  as  joint 

investors for the purpose of investment of not less than one crore rupees: 

i.  an investor and his/her spouse 
ii.  an investor and his/her parent 
iii.  an investor and his/her daughter/son 

With  respect  to  the  above  investors,  not  more  than  2  persons  shall  act  as 
joint-investors  in  an  AIF.  In  case  of  any  other  investors  acting  as  joint-
investors,  for  every  investor,  the  minimum  investment  amount  of  one  crore 
rupees shall apply. 

e.  For the purpose of maintaining continuing interest under Regulation 10(d) of 
the AIF Regulations, such interest may be maintained pro-rata to the amount 
of funds raised (net) from other investors in the AIF. 

f.  An  AIF  shall  not  invest  in  units  of  another  AIF  unless  it  is  fund  of  AIFs  as 

specified under the Regulations.  

g.  For  the  purpose  of  Regulation  15(1)(c),  in  case  the  AIF  proposes  to  invest 
into real estate or infrastructure projects, every such investee company shall 
hold not less than one project.  

h.  For  the  purpose  of  Regulation  15(1)(e),  prior  to  every  investment  in  an 

associate, approval of the investors as specified shall be obtained.  

i. 

In case of an AIF which is open-ended, the first single lump-sum investment 
amount  received  from  the  investor  should  not  be  less  than  the  minimum 
investment amount. Further, in case of request for partial redemption of units 
by  an  investor  in  an  open-ended  AIF,  the  AIF  shall  ensure  that  after  such 
redemption,  the  amount  of  investment  retained  by  the  investor  in  the  fund 
does  not  fall  below  the  prescribed  minimum  limit  as  provided  under  the 
Regulations.  

j.  With respect to an in-principle approval is granted to an applicant, in case the 
registered trust deed or duly filed partnership deed is not submitted within the 
prescribed  time  period,  the  applicant  shall  file  a  fresh  application  for 
registration under the Regulations. 

k.  Pooling vehicles shall not be created solely for the purpose of investing in an 
AIF  unless  the  pooling  vehicles  are  registered  with  SEBI  as  AIFs  (acting  as 
Fund of AIFs).  

l.  With  respect  to  Regulation  17(a),  it  is  clarified  that  the  term  'primarily'  is 
indicative  of  where  the  main  thrust  of  Category  II  AIFs  ought  to  be.  The 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

investment  portfolio  of  a  Category  II  AIF  ought  to  be  more  in  unlisted 
securities as against the aggregate of other investments. 

m.  All  circulars/guidelines  as  may  be  issued  by  SEBI  with  respect  to  KYC 
requirements,  Anti-Money  Laundering  and  Outsourcing  of  activities  shall  be 
applicable  to  AIFs  and  the  manager  of  the  AIF  shall  be  responsible  for 
compliance with such circulars/guidelines. 

4.  Compliance Test Report (CTR) 

a.  At  end  of  financial  year,  the  manager  of  an  AIF  shall  prepare  a  compliance 
test  report  on  compliance  with  AIF  Regulations  and  circulars  issued 
thereunder in the format as specified in the Annexure to this circular.  

b.  In  case  the  AIF  is  a  trust,  the  CTR  shall  be  submitted  to  the  trustee  and 
sponsor  within  30  days  from  the  end  of  the  financial  year.  In  case  of  other 
AIFs, the CTR shall be submitted to the sponsor within 30 days from the end 
of the financial year.  

c.  In case of any observations/comments on the CTR, the trustee/sponsor shall 
intimate the same to the manager within 30 days from the receipt of the CTR. 
Within  15  days  from the  date  of receipt  of  such  observations/comments,  the 
manager shall make necessary changes in the CTR, as may be required, and 
submit its reply to the trustee/sponsor.  

d.  In  case  any  violation  of  AIF  Regulations  or  circulars  issued  thereunder  is 
observed  by  the  trustee/sponsor,  the  same  shall  be  intimated  to  SEBI  as 
soon as possible.  

5.  Submission  of  information  to  SEBI  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  Regulation  (3)  of 

AIF Regulations 

a.  Under  fourth  proviso  to  Regulation  3(1)  of  AIF  Regulations,  'such  existing 
funds,  which  do  not  propose  to  accept  any  fresh  commitments  after 
commencement  of  these  regulations  shall  not  be  required  to  obtain 
registration  under  these  regulations  subject  to  submission  of  information  on 
their activities to the Board in the manner as may be specified.'  

b.  Funds  falling  under  the  purview  of  the  aforesaid  proviso  shall  disclose  to 

SEBI information in the manner as specified hereunder: 

i.  Such  funds  shall  download  the  excel  sheet  provided  on  SEBI  website 
under  the  Section  Info  forAlternative  Investment  Funds"Information 
to be filled by unregistered funds" 

ii.  The fund shall not add any additional rows/columns to the excel sheet or 
fill any information other than the information sought in the excel sheet.  
iii.  Once filled, the excel sheet shall be emailed to aifreporting@sebi.gov.in. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

iv.  The aforesaid information shall be sent only by email. No physical copy 

of the aforesaid sheet shall be sent to SEBI. 

v.  The  information  shall  be  sent  to  SEBI  within  30  days  from  the  date  of 

this circular. 

c.  Funds  which  have  been  closed/wound  up  (where  all  moneys  have  been 
returned  to  all  the  investors)  on  the  date  of  commencement  of  the  AIF 
Regulations need not submit the aforesaid information. Funds which have not 
been  wound  up  and  which  have  launched  multiple  schemes  shall  submit 
information only for those schemes which have not been closed/ wound up as 
on the date of commencement of the AIF Regulations. 

 
This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. This Circular is available on SEBI 
website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories “Legal Framework” and “Alternative 
Investment Funds”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Barnali Mukherjee 
General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-26449660 
Email id - barnalim@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure 

Format of Compliance Test Reports (CTRs) 

 

 

Name of the AIF: 
Category:  
CTR for the Year: 
Contact details of the compliance officer: 

Sr. No  Compliance with respect to 

1. 

  Regulation 7(1)(c): 

During  the  year,  whether  the  AIF 
has informed the Board in writing, 
if  any  information  or  particulars 
previously  submitted  to  the  Board 
are found to be false or misleading 
in  any  material  particular  or  if 
there is any material change in  
the information already submitted.  

2. 

  Regulation 9(2): 

to 

there  has  been  any 
Whether 
the  fund 
material  alteration 
strategy  during  the  year  and  in 
such  case,  whether  consent  of 
atleast  two-thirds  of  unit  holders 
by value of their investment in the 
AIF has been obtained. 

3. 

  Regulation 10(b): 

Whether  each  scheme  of  the  AIF 
has  corpus  of  atleast  twenty  crore 
rupees; 

4. 

  Regulation 10(c): 

Whether  the  AIF  has  added  any 
new  investors  during  the  year.  If 
yes,  whether  the  AIF  has  accepted 
from an investor, an investment of  
value  not  less  than  one  crore 
rupees.  

5. 

  Regulation 10(d): 

Whether  the  Manager  or  Sponsor 
has a continuing interest in the AIF 
of  not  less  than  two  and  half 
percent  of  the  corpus  or  five  crore 
rupees,  whichever  is  lower,  in  the 
form of investment in the AIF and 
such  interest  is  not  through  the 
waiver of management fees. 
In  case  of  Category  III  AIF, 

 
Details of compliance  Any other comments 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

whether  the  continuing  interest  is 
not  less  than  five  percent  of  the 
corpus  or 
rupees, 
whichever is lower. 

crore 

ten 

6. 

  Regulation 10(e): 

Whether the Manager and Sponsor 
have disclosed their investments in 
the AIF to the investors of the AIF. 

7. 

  Regulation 10(f): 

Whether  each  scheme  of  the  AIF 
has not more than one thousand  
Investors.  

8. 

  Regulation 10(g): 

Whether  the  AIF  has  solicited  or 
collected  funds  only  by  way  of 
private placement.  
  Regulation 11(2): 
the 

9. 

Whether 
memorandum 
information 
as 
Regulation 11(2) 

contains 

placement 
all 
in 

specified 

10.    Regulation 12: 

Whether the AIF has launched any 
new scheme during the year and in 
such  case,  whether  the  placement 
memorandum  has  been  filed  with 
SEBI atleast thirty days prior to  
launch  of  scheme  along  with  the 
scheme fees. 

11.    Regulation 13(4) & 13(5): 

Whether 
there  has  been  any 
extension of the tenure of the close 
ended  AIF.  If  yes,  whether  the 
same  is  not  more  than  two  years 
and  approved  by  two-thirds  of  the 
unit holders by value of their  
investment in the AIF.  
In  the  absence  of  consent  of  unit 
holders,  whether  the  AIF  has  fully 
liquidated  within 
year 
following  expiration  of  the  fund 
tenure or extended tenure.  

one 

12.    Regulation 14(1): 

In  case  the  units  of  the  AIF  are 
listed  during  the  year,  whether  the 
listing is after final close of  
the fund or scheme. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

13.    Compliance  with  every  clause  of 

Regulation 15 
(Separate  compliance  for  every 
clause shall be provided) 

14.    Compliance  with  every  clause  of 
as 

Regulation 
applicable 
(Separate  compliance  for  every 
clause shall be provided) 

16/17/18, 

15.    Compliance  with  every  clause  of 

Regulation 20 
(Separate  compliance  for  every 
clause shall be provided) 

16.    Regulation 21: 

In  case  of  any  conflict  of  interests 
that  have  arose  during  the  year, 
whether  Regulation  21  has  been 
complied with.  
17.    Regulation 22: 

Whether  the  AIFs  have  disclosed 
information 
the 
clauses under Regulation 22 to the 
investors.  

contained 

in 

18.    Regulation 23: 

(Separate  compliance  for  every 
clause shall be provided) 

19.    Regulation 25: 

laid  down  procedure 

Whether  the  AIF,  by  itself  or 
through  the  Manager  or  Sponsor, 
has 
for 
resolution  of  disputes  between  the 
investors,  AIF,  Manager 
or 
Sponsor  through  arbitration  or  any 
such  mechanism 
as  mutually 
decided  between  the  investors  and 
the AIF. 

20.    Regulation 28: 

Whether  reports  to  be  submitted 
the  SEBI  during  the  year  have 
been  submitted  in  the  manner  as 
specified by SEBI. 

21.    Regulation 29: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the 

In  case  the  AIF  has  wound  up 
during 
whether 
Regulation  29  has  been  complied 
with. 
 

year, 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

22.    Compliance  with  SEBI  circular 

No. CIR/IMD/DF/10/2013  
dated  July  29,  2013  regarding 
Operational,  Prudential 
and 
Reporting Norms for Alternative 
Investment  
Funds (AIFs): 
Compliance with respect to: 
  Risk  management 

and 

compliance 

  Redemption norms 
  Prudential requirements 

23.    Compliance  with  circular  No. 
dated 

CIR/IMD/DF/14/2014 
June 19, 2014  
Compliance with respect to: 

  Disclosures  in  placement 

 

memorandum 
every  clause  under  point 
(3)  on 
'Clarification  on 
certain  aspects  of  the  AIF 
Regulations'. 

24.    Compliance with  any  circular  as 

may be issued by SEBI 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

