 

CIRCULAR 

 

                                        June 30, 2014                       

 

 

 

CIR/MIRSD/ 2/2014  
 
To,  
 
1.  All Recognized Stock Exchanges  
2.  Stock Brokers through Recognized Stock Exchanges  
3.  All Depositories 
4.  Depository Participants through Depositories  
5.  Mutual Funds 
6.  Portfolio Managers  
7.  Alternative Investment Funds 
8.  Collective Investment Schemes 
9.  Custodians  

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Inter-Governmental Agreement with United States of America under Foreign 
Accounts Tax Compliance Act - Registration 
 
1.  The Government of India has advised that India and the United States of America 
(US)  have  reached  an  agreement  in  substance  on  the  terms  of  an  Inter-
Governmental Agreement (IGA) to implement Foreign Accounts Tax Compliance Act 
(FATCA) and India is now treated as having an IGA in effect from April 11, 2014. 
However, the IGA may be signed in due course. Information on FATCA is available 
at: 
http://www.irs.gov/Businesses/Corporations/Foreign-Account-Tax-Compliance-
Act-FATCA. 

  
2.  As  advised  by  the  Government,  the  following  points  may  be  noted  by  all  SEBI 

registered intermediaries: 
a.  Indian Financial Institutions would have time upto December 31, 2014 to register 
with  US  authorities  and  obtain  a  Global  Intermediary  Identification  Number 
(GIIN).  This  time  limit  would  also  be  applicable  to  Indian  Financial  Institutions 
having  overseas branches  in  Model  1 jurisdictions,  including  those  jurisdictions 
where an agreement under Model 1 has been reached in substance. Registration 
should be done only after the formal IGA is signed. Information in this regard will 
be communicated to you.  
 

b.  Overseas branches of Indian Financial Institutions in a jurisdiction having IGA 2 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

agreement  or  in  a  jurisdiction  that  does  not  have  an  IGA  but  permits  financial 
institutions  to  register  and  agree  to  a  Foreign  Financial  Institution  (FFI) 
agreement, may register with US authorities within the stipulated time period and 
obtain a GIIN in accordance with the requirements to avoid potential withholding 
under FATCA. 
 

 

c.  Overseas branches of Indian Financial Institutions in a jurisdiction that does not 
have an IGA and does not permit financial institutions to register and agree to an 
FFI agreement may not register and their overseas branches would eventually be 
subject to withholding under FATCA. 
  

d.  The  Government  has 

the  parent 
intermediary/  head  office  is  a  pre-requisite  for  a  branch  to  register,  such 
intermediaries may register as indicated at (a) and (b) above. 

if  registration  of 

further  advised 

that 

 

 

 

3.  The  Stock  Exchanges  and  Depositories  are  advised  to  bring  the  contents  of  this 
Circular to the notice of the Stock Brokers, Depository Participants, as the case may 
be, and also disseminate the same on their websites. 
 

4.  This Circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (SEBI Act). 
 
 

Yours faithfully, 

Krishnanand Raghavan 
General Manager 
Email: krishnanandr@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

