भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 
 

 

           July 18, 2014 

CIR/IMD/DF/16/2014  
 
To 
All Alternative Investment Funds ("AIFs") registered with SEBI 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Clarification  and  extension  of  deadline  with  respect  to  circular  on 
'Guidelines on disclosures, reporting and clarifications under AIF Regulations' 
 
SEBI  had  issued  a  circular  No.  CIR/IMD/DF/14/2014  dated  June  19,  2014  on 
'Guidelines on disclosures, reporting and clarifications under AIF Regulations'. In this 
regard, it is clarified as under: 

1.  The  deadline  for  sending  of  annexure  to  the  placement  memorandum  to  the 

investors under clause 2(a)(iii) is extended till August 31, 2014. 

2.  With  respect  to  disclosure  of  disciplinary  history  under  clause  2(a)(ii),  the  same 
shall be applicable for the last 5 years and where monetary penalty is involved, in 
cases  where  such  penalty  is  greater  than  Rs.  5  lakhs. With  respect  to  disputed 
tax  liabilities,  the  same  shall  not  apply  to  liabilities  in  personal  capacity  of  an 
individual. Contingent liabilities shall be as disclosed in books of accounts of the 
entity. 

3.  With  respect  to  clause  2(b)(iii),  the  changes  shall  include modifications  in  terms 
or  documents  of  the  fund/scheme  and  the  same  may  be  intimated  to  investors 
and SEBI once every six months on a consolidated basis. With respect to clause 
2(b)(iv),  'material'  changes  may  be  construed  as  changes  in  the  fundamental 
attributes of the fund/scheme and the process for exit under the clause shall not 
apply in cases  where the AIF has approval of not less than 75% of unit holders 
by value of their investment in the AIF with respect to sub-clauses (a) and (b).  

4.  With respect to clause 3(d), joint investors shall mean where each of the investor 
contributes towards the AIF. With respect to clause 3(g), such investee company 
shall hold or propose to hold not less than one project, directly or indirectly. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Barnali Mukherjee 
General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-26449660 
Email id - barnalim@sebi.gov.in 

