 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DRMNP/25/2014 

 

 

 

 

                August 27, 2014 

To 
All recognized Clearing Corporations/Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Core Settlement Guarantee Fund, Default Waterfall and Stress Test 

1)  Vide  circular  no.  SMD/POLICY/SGF/CIR-13/97  dated  June  09,  1997  SEBI 
prescribed  the  "Guidelines  for  Settlement  Guarantee  Fund  (SGF)  at  Stock 
Exchanges", which, inter-alia, covered criteria for corpus of the fund, contribution to 
the fund, management of the fund, access to / usage of the fund and recoupment of 
the fund corpus. 

2)  After  an  extensive  study  on  the  structure  of  Indian  securities  market,  which  has 
undergone  significant  structural  changes  in  the  past  decade,  SEBI  notified  the 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations) 
Regulations,  2012,  (SECC)  on  June  20,  2012  to  regulate  recognition,  ownership 
and  governance  in  stock  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations.  The  SECC 
Regulations, inter-alia, state the following: 

39 Fund to guarantee settlement of trades 

(1)  Every  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  establish  and  maintain  a  Fund  by 
whatever  name  called,  for  each  segment,  to  guarantee  the  settlement  of  trades 
executed in respective segment of a recognised stock exchange. 
(2). . . 
(3). . . 
(4). . . 
(5) In the event of a clearing member failing to honour his settlement obligations, 
the Fund shall be utilized to complete the settlement. 
(6)  The  corpus  of  the  Fund  shall  be  adequate  to  meet  the  settlement  obligations 
arising on account of failure of clearing member(s). 
(7)  The  sufficiency  of  the  corpus  of  the  Fund  shall  be  tested  by  way  of  periodic 
stress tests, in the manner specified by the Board. 
 
In  order 
financial 
infrastructure,  the  Committee  on  Payments  and  Settlement  Systems  (CPSS)  and 
the  International  Organization  of  Securities  Commissions  (IOSCO)  updated  the 
standards  applicable  for  systemically  important  financial  market  infrastructures 
(central  counterparties,  payment  systems, 
trade  repositories  and  securities 
settlement systems) with the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMIs). 

to  promote  and  sustain  an  efficient  and  robust  global 

1 

3) 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

SEBI as a member of IOSCO is committed to the adoption and implementation of 
the  new  CPSS-IOSCO  standards  of  PFMIs.  As  required  under  PFMIs,  to provide 
greater legal basis for settlement finality, netting and rights of FMIs over collateral, 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2013 were notified on September 02, 2013. Vide circular 
dated  September  04,  2013,  SEBI  required  FMIs  under  its  regulatory  purview  to 
comply  with  the  PFMIs  applicable  to  them.  The  FMI  principles,  inter-alia,  include 
standards  regarding  participant  default  rules  and  procedures,  minimum  financial 
resources to cover credit and liquidity exposure of central counterparties and testing 
(stress testing, reverse stress testing, back testing).  

4)  Based  on  deliberations  in  the  Risk  Management  Review  Committee  of  SEBI  and 
further  discussions  with  clearing  corporations,  stock  exchanges  and  market 
participants, it has been decided to issue granular norms related to core settlement 
guarantee  fund,  stress  testing  and  default  procedures  which  would  bring  greater 
clarity  and  uniformity  as  well  as  align  the  same  with  international  best  practices 
while  enhancing  the  robustness  of  the  present  risk  management  system  in  the 
clearing  corporations.  These  norms  are  aimed  at  achieving  mainly  the  following 
objectives: 

a)  create  a  core  fund  (called  core  settlement  guarantee  fund),  within  the  SGF, 
against  which  no  exposure  is  given  and  which  is  readily  and  unconditionally 
available to meet settlement obligations of clearing corporation in case of clearing 
member(s) failing to honour settlement obligation,  

b)  align stress testing practices of clearing corporations with FMI principles (norms 
for stress testing for credit risk, stress testing for liquidity risk and reverse stress 
testing including frequency and scenarios), 

c)  capture in stress testing, the risk due to possible default in institutional trades, 
d)  harmonise default waterfalls across clearing corporations 
e)  limit the liability of non-defaulting members in view of the Basel capital adequacy 

requirements for exposure towards Central Counterparties (CCPs), 

f)  ring-fence each segment of clearing corporation from defaults in other segments, 

and 

g)  bring  in  uniformity  in  the  stress  testing  and  the  risk  management  practices  of 

different clearing corporations especially with regard to the default of members. 
 
 

Core Settlement Guarantee Fund (Core SGF) 

Objective of Core SGF 
5)  Clearing Corporation (CC) shall have a fund called Core SGF for each segment of 
each  Recognised  Stock  Exchange  (SE)  to  guarantee  the  settlement  of  trades 
executed  in  respective  segment  of  the  SE.  In  the  event  of  a  clearing  member 
(member) failing to honour settlement commitments, the Core SGF shall be used to 
fulfill the obligations of that member and complete the settlement without affecting 
the normal settlement process. 

 

2 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
Corpus of Core SGF 
6)  The corpus of the fund should be adequate to meet out all the contingencies arising 
on account of failure of any member(s). The risk or liability to the fund depends on 
various  factors  such  as  trade  volume,  delivery  percentage,  maximum  settlement 
liability of the members, the history of defaults, capital adequacy of the members, 
the  degree  of  safety  measures  employed  by  the  CC/SE  etc.  A  fixed  formula, 
therefore, cannot be prescribed to estimate the risk or liability of the fund. However, 
in order to assess the fair quantum of the corpus of Core SGF, CC should consider 
the following factors: 

•  Risk management system in force 
•  Current and projected volume/turnover to be cleared and settled by the 

• 

CC on guaranteed basis 
 Track record of defaults of members (number of defaults, amount in 
default)  

 

7)  However, Minimum Required Corpus of Core SGF (MRC) for each segment of each 

stock exchange shall be subject to the following: 

 
i)  The MRC shall be fixed for a month. 
ii)  By  15th  of  every  month,  CC  shall  review  and  determine  the  MRC  for  next 
month based on the results of daily stress tests of the preceding month. (For 
example,  by  15th  February,  CC  shall  determine  MRC  for  March  based  on 
results  of  various  stress  tests  conducted  in  January).  CC  shall  also  review 
and determine by 15th of every month, the adequacy of contributions made 
by  various  contributors  and  any  further  contributions  to  the  Core  SGF 
required  to  be  made  by  various  contributors  (as  per  clause  8)   for  the  next 
month. 

iii)  For  every  day  of  the  preceding  month  (i.e.,  January  as  per  example  in  (ii) 
above),  uncovered  loss  numbers  shall  be  estimated  by  the  various  stress 
tests for credit risk conducted by the CC for the segment (as per clause 18) 
and highest of such numbers shall be taken as worst case loss number for 
the day. 

iv)  Average  of  all  the  daily  worst  case  loss  numbers  determined  in  (iii)  above 

shall be calculated. 

v)  The MRC for next month (i.e., March as per example in (ii) above) shall be 
higher of the average arrived in at step iv above and the segment MRC as per 
previous review (i.e., review done on 15th January for the month of February). 

Contribution to Core SGF 
8)  At any point of time, the contributions of various contributors to Core SGF  of any 

segment shall be as follows: 

 

3 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

a.  Clearing Corporation contribution: CC contribution to Core SGF shall be at 
least 50% of the MRC. CC shall make this contribution from its own funds. 
CC contribution to core SGFs shall be considered as part of its net worth. 
b.  Stock  Exchange  contribution:  Stock  Exchange  contribution  to  Core  SGF 
shall  be  at  least  25%  of  the  MRC  (can  be  adjusted  against  transfer  of 
profit  by  Stock  Exchange  as  per  Regulation  33  of  SECC  Regulations, 
which may be reviewed in view of these guidelines). 

c.  Clearing Member primary contribution: If the CC wishes, it can seek risk 
based  contribution  from  Clearing  Members  (CMs)  of  the  segment 
(including  custodial  clearing  members)  to  the  Core  SGF  subject  to  the 
following conditions: 

• that total contribution from CMs shall not be more than  25% of the 

MRC, 

• that  no  exposure  shall  be  available  on  Core  SGF  contribution  of 
any CM (exposure-free collateral of CM available with CC can be 
considered towards Core SGF contribution of CM), and 

• that required contributions of individual CMs shall be pro-rata based 

on the risk they bring to the system. 

CC  shall  have  the  flexibility  to  collect  CM  primary  contribution  either 
upfront  or  staggered  over  a  period  of  time.  In  case  of  staggered 
contribution,  the  remaining  balance  shall  be  met  by  CC  to  ensure 
adequacy  of  total  Core  SGF  corpus  at  all  times.  Such  CC  contribution 
shall be available to CC for withdrawal as and when further contributions 
from CMs are received. 
 

The above prescribed limits of contribution by CC, SE and CMs may be reviewed 
by SEBI from time to time considering the prevailing market conditions.  

 

 

9)  Any penalties levied by CC (as per Regulation 34 of SECC Regulations) shall be 

credited to Core SGF corpus.  

10)  Interest on cash contribution to Core SGF shall also accrue to the Core SGF and 

pro-rata attributed to the contributors in proportion to their cash contribution. 
 

11)  CC shall ordinarily accept cash collateral for Core SGF contribution. However, CC 
may  accept  CM  contribution  in  the  form  of  bank  FDs  too.  CC  shall  adhere  to 
specific guidance which may be issued by SEBI from time to time in this regard. 

 

Management of Core SGF 
12)  The  Defaulter's  Committee/SGF  utilization  Committee  of  the  Clearing  Corporation 

shall mange the Core SGF.  
 

 

4 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

The CCs shall follow prudential norms of Investment policy for Core SGF corpus and 
establish and implement policies and procedures to ensure that Core SGF corpus is 
invested in highly liquid financial instruments with minimal market and credit risk and 
is capable of being liquidated rapidly with minimal adverse price effect.  
 
The instruments in which investments may broadly be made are Fixed Deposit with 
Banks (only those banks which have a net worth of more than INR 500 Crores and 
are  rated  A1  (or  A1+)  or  equivalent,  ,  Treasury  Bills,  Government  Securities  and 
money  market/liquid  mutual  funds  subject  to  suitable  transaction/investment  limits 
and  monitoring  of  the  same.  The  CCs  shall  further  ensure  that  the  financial 
instruments in which the Core SGF corpus is invested remain sufficiently diversified 
at all times. 
 
SEBI may prescribe the investment norms in this regard from time to time. 

Access to Core SGF 
13)  CC  may  utilise  the  Core  SGF  in  the  event  of  a  failure  of  member(s)  to  honour 

settlement commitment. 

Further contribution to / Recoupment of Core SGF 
14)  Requisite contributions to Core SGF by various contributors (as per clauses 7 and 

8) for any month shall be made by the contributors before start of the month.  

In the event of usage of Core SGF during a calendar month, contributors shall, as 
per  usage  of  their  individual  contribution,  immediately  replenish  the  Core  SGF  to 
MRC. 

In  case  there  is  failure  on  part  of  some  contributor(s)  to  replenish  its  (their) 
contribution,  same  shall  be  immediately  met,  on  a  temporary  basis  during  the 
month, in the following order: 

(i)  By CC 
(ii) By SE  

Review of Core SGF 
15)  The  monthly  review  results  shall  be  communicated  to  the  Risk  Management 
Committee  and  the  Governing  Board  of  the  Clearing  Corporation.  The  exception 
reporting  shall  be  made  to  SEBI  detailing  the  outcome  of  the  review  by  the  CC 
Governing Board, including steps taken to enhance the Core SGF.  

Default waterfall 

16)  The  default  waterfall  of  CC  for  any  segment  shall  generally  follow  the  following 

order –  

 

5 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

I.  monies  of  defaulting  member  (including  defaulting  member's  primary 
contribution  to  Core  SGF(s)  and  excess  monies  of  defaulter  in  other 
segments). 
Insurance, if any. 

II. 
III.  CC resources (equal to 5% of the segment MRC). 
IV.  Core SGF of the segment in the following order: 

i.  Penalties 
ii.  CC contribution to the extent of at least 25% of the segment MRC 
iii.  Remaining  Core  SGF:  CC  contribution,  Stock  Exchange 
contribution  and  non-defaulting  members’  primary  contribution  to 
Core SGF on pro-rata basis. 

V.  Proportion of remaining CC resources (excluding CC contribution to core 
SGFs of other segments and INR 100 Crore) equal to  ratio of segment 
MRC to sum of MRCs of all segments.* 

VI.  CC/SE  contribution  to  Core  SGFs  of  other  segments  (after  meeting 
obligations of those segments) and remaining CC resources to that extent 
as approved by SEBI. 

VII.  Capped  additional  contribution  by  non-defaulting  members  of 

the 

segment.**  

 

VIII.  Any remaining loss to be covered by way of pro-rata haircut to payouts.*** 

the 

limit 

liability  of  non-defaulting  members 

* INR 100 Crore to be excluded only when remaining CC resources (excluding CC 
contribution to core SGFs of other segments) are more than INR 100 Crore. 
**CC  shall 
towards  additional 
contribution to a multiple of their required primary contribution to Core SGF and the 
framework regarding the same should be disclosed. In case of shortfall in recovery 
of assessed amounts from non-defaulting members, further loss can be allocated to 
layer 'VI' with approval of SEBI. 
***In  case  loss  allocation  is  effected  through  haircut  to  payouts,  any  subsequent 
usage of funds shall be with prior SEBI approval. Further, any exit by CC post using 
this layer shall be as per the terms decided by SEBI in public interest. 
 

Stress testing and back testing 

17)  CC  shall  effectively  measure,  monitor,  and  manage  its  credit  exposures  to  its 
participants and those arising from its payment, clearing, and settlement processes. 
 

18) Stress  test  for  credit  risk:  CC  shall  carry  out  daily  stress  testing  for  credit  risk 
using  at  least  the  standardized  stress  testing  methodology  prescribed  for  each 
segment  viz.  equity,  equity  derivatives  and  currency  derivatives  in  the  Annexure. 
Apart from the stress scenarios prescribed for cash market and derivatives market 
segments in the Annexure, CCs shall also develop own scenarios for a variety of 
‘extreme but plausible market conditions’ (in terms of both defaulters’ positions and 
possible price changes in liquidation periods, including the risk that liquidating such 
positions  could  have  an  impact  on  the  market)  and  carry  out  stress  testing  using 

 

6 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

self-developed  scenarios.  Such  scenarios  should  include  relevant  peak  historic 
price volatilities, shifts in other market factors such as price determinants and yield 
curves,  multiple  defaults  over  various  time  horizons  and  a  spectrum  of  forward-
looking stress scenarios in a variety of extreme but plausible market conditions. 

Also,  for  products  for  which  specific  stress  testing  methodology  has  not  been 
prescribed  in  this  circular,  CCs  shall  develop  extreme  but  plausible  market 
scenarios  (both  hypothetical  and  historical)  and  carry  out  stress  tests  based  on 
such  scenarios  and  enhance 
the  corpus  of  Core  Settlement  Guarantee 
Fund/reserves, as required by the results of such stress tests. 
 

19) Liquidity stress test and adequacy of liquidity arrangements: CC shall ensure 
that it maintains sufficient liquid resources to manage liquidity risks from members, 
settlement banks and those generated by its investment policy. CC shall daily test 
the adequacy of its liquidity arrangements in order to ensure that its liquid resources 
are adequate to meet simultaneous default of at least two clearing members and 
their associates that would generate the largest aggregate liquidity obligation for the 
CC  in  extreme  but  plausible  market  conditions  and  compare  such  obligation  with 
the resources mentioned hereunder: 

a)  Cash 
b)  Committed lines of credit available to CC 

 

20) Reverse stress test: CC shall periodically carry out reverse stress tests designed 
to identify under which market conditions and under what scenarios the combination 
of its margins, Core SGF and other financial resources prove insufficient to meet its 
obligations (e.g. simultaneous default of top N members or N% movement in price 
of top 2 scrips by turnover or 20% movement in price of top N scrips by turnover 
etc.)  
 

21) Back testing for adequacy of margins: CC shall daily conduct back testing of the 
margins collected vis-à-vis the actual price changes for the contracts being cleared 
and settled in every segment to assess appropriateness of its margining models. 
 

22) Adequacy  of  financial  resources:  CC  shall  ensure  that  it  maintains  sufficient 
financial resources to cover a wide range of potential stress scenarios that should 
include, but not be limited to, the default of the two participants and their associates 
that  would  potentially  cause  the  largest  aggregate  credit  exposure  to  the  CC  in 
extreme but plausible market conditions.  Thus, CC shall continuously monitor the 
adequacy  of  financial  resources  (as  available  in  its  default  waterfall)  against  the 
uncovered loss estimated by the various stress tests conducted by the CC and take 
steps to beef up the same in case of shortfall. 
 

23)  On  at  least  a  monthly  basis,  CC  shall  perform  a  comprehensive  and  thorough 
analysis  of  stress  testing  scenarios,  models,  and  underlying  parameters  and 

 

7 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

assumptions  used  to  ensure  they  are  appropriate  for  determining  the  CCP’s 
required level of default protection in light of current and evolving market conditions. 
CC shall perform this analysis of stress testing more frequently when the products 
cleared  or  markets  served  display  high  volatility,  become  less  liquid,  or  when  the 
size or concentration of positions held by a CC’s participants increases significantly. 
A  full  validation  of  CC’s  risk-management  model  shall  be  performed  at  least 
annually. 
 

24)  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  as  per  clauses  18,  19,  20,  21  and  22  above  and 
review  conducted  as  per  clause  23  shall  be  monitored  by  the  Risk  Management 
Committee  of  the  CC  and  the  same  should  be  communicated  for  discussion  and 
review by the Board of the CC. 

 

25)  Clearing corporations and Stock Exchanges are directed to: 

a) 

take  necessary  steps  to  put  in  place  systems  for  implementation  of  the 
circular, including necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and 
regulations;  

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  members  and  also 

disseminate the same on its website; 

c)  make the following details available on its website: 

i.  Policy on composition and contributions to be made to the Core SGF; 
ii. 
iii.  Default  waterfall  for  each  segment  along  with  the  quantum  of  resources 

Investment policy for Core SGF; 

d) 

available in each layer of default waterfall; 

the  provisions  of 

implement 
communicate to SEBI the status of implementation. 
 

this  circular  by  December  1,  2014  and 

26)  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate,  the 
securities market. 

27)  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in, under the category 

"Circulars". 

Yours faithfully, 
 

Shashi Kumar  
General Manager  
Division of Risk Management and New Products  
Market Regulation Department  
shashikumarv@sebi.gov.in  
 

 

8 

Encl: as above 

 

 
Annexure 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Standard Stress Test Scenarios 

Day of Stress test –'S' day 
 
Cash Market Segment:  
 
Scenario 1: Default by 2 Brokers 
 

1.  CC  shall  compute  the  ‘Cumulative  Funds  pay-in’,  'Cumulative  Funds  pay-out', 
‘Cumulative Securities pay-in’ and ‘Cumulative Securities pay-out’ of all members 
as on the end of pay-in deadline on the ‘S’ day. For this purpose cumulative pay-
in/payout of each member's trades (shall include non-institutional trades as well 
as 2X% by value of those institutional trades which have not yet been confirmed 
by the custodian) undertaken on ‘S-2’ day, ‘S-1’ day and on ‘S’ day till the pay-in 
deadline shall be considered. (X being the highest daily % by value of custodial 
rejects in the previous 12 months) 

2.  Any early pay-in of funds/securities shall be ignored. 
3.  It  shall  be  assumed  that  each  clearing  member  would  default  in  meeting  its 

‘cumulative funds pay-in’ and ‘cumulative securities pay-in’ obligations. 

4.  Loss: 

I.        Securities pay-in failure of the member: It shall be assumed that the failure 
to  bring  in  securities  would  result  in  financial  close-out  and  the  clearing 
corporation  would  suffer  a  loss  of  20%  (at  the  minimum)  of  the  value  of  such 
securities pay-in obligation. 
II.      Funds  pay-in  obligation  failure  of  the  member:  The  assumed  loss  on 
liquidation of securities that would have been paid-out to the defaulting member 
shall be – 

a.    Group 1 securities – 20% 
b.   Group 2 & 3 securities – 20% scaled up by root of 3. 

III.   Gross loss due to member = (Funds pay-in) + (120% of securities pay-in) - 
(funds pay-out) - (liquidation value of securities pay-out) 

5.  Coverage: 

Clearing  corporation  shall  calculate  the  gross  loss  (as  per  4  above)  for  each 
clearing  member  and  assess  that  against  the  defaulting  clearing  members' 
required  margins  (In  case  of  early  pay-in,  those  margins  which  would  have 
been  applicable  had  the  early  pay-in  was  not  made,  to  be  considered.  Excess 
collateral, if any, shall be ignored) and other mandatory deposits to find the credit 
exposure of CC towards each member. Equity scrips as collateral, if any, shall be 
valued with minimum 20% haircut. 

6.  Clearing Corporation shall calculate the total credit exposure due to simultaneous 
default of at least two clearing members (based on residual loss calculated in 5 
above) and their associates causing highest credit exposure 
 

 

9 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Scenario 2: Default by 1 Custodian 

 
1.   CC  shall  compute  the  ‘Cumulative  Funds  pay-in’,  'Cumulative  Funds  pay-out', 
‘Cumulative  Securities  pay-in’  and 
‘Cumulative  Securities  pay-out’  of  all 
custodians  as  on  the  end  of  pay-in  deadline  on  the  ‘S’  day.  For  this  purpose 
cumulative pay-in/payout of each custodian's trades (shall include those trades 
which have been confirmed by the custodian) undertaken on ‘S-2’ day, ‘S-1’ day 
and on ‘S’ day till the pay-in deadline shall be considered. 

2.  Any early pay-in of funds/securities shall be ignored. 
3.  It shall be assumed that each custodian would default in meeting its ‘cumulative 

funds pay-in’ and ‘cumulative securities pay-in’ obligation. 

4.  Loss: 

I 
Securities pay-in failure of the member: It shall be assumed that the failure 
to  bring  in  securities  would  result  in  financial  close-out  and  the  clearing 
corporation  would  suffer  a  loss  of  20%  (at  the  minimum)  of  the  value  of  such 
securities pay-in obligation. 
II.      Funds  pay-in  obligation  failure  of  the  member:  The  assumed  loss  on 
liquidation of securities that would have been paid-out to the defaulting member 
shall be – 

a.    Group 1 securities – 20% 
b.   Group 2 & 3 securities – 20% scaled up by root of 3. 

III.   Gross loss due to member = (Funds pay-in) + (120% of securities pay-in) - 
(funds pay-out) - (liquidation value of securities pay-out) 

5.  Coverage: 

Clearing  corporation  shall  calculate  the  gross  loss  (as  per  4  above)  for  each 
custodian and assess that against the defaulting custodians' required margins 
(In  case  of  early  pay-in,  those  margins  which  would  have  been  applicable  had 
the early pay-in was not made, to be considered. Excess collateral, if any, shall 
be  ignored)  and  other  mandatory  deposits  to  find  the  credit  exposure  of  CC 
towards each custodian. Equity scrips as collateral, if any, shall be valued with 
minimum 20% haircut. 

6.  Clearing Corporation shall calculate the total credit exposure due to default of the 
custodian (based on residual loss calculated in 5 above) causing highest credit 
exposure. 

 

Equity Derivatives and Currency Derivatives segments: 
  
The loss on closing out of client/proprietary positions shall be as per the following 
scenarios:  
 
Hypothetical  
Price movement in respect of each underlying to the extent of 1.5 times the normal price 
scan range (PSR) and 1.5 times the normal volatility scan range shall be considered. 
Scenario 1: Underlying price increasing by 1.5 PSR, volatility increasing by 1.5 VSR.  
Scenario 2: Underlying price decreasing by 1.5 PSR, volatility increasing by 1.5 VSR.  

 

10 

 
 
Historical:  
Price movement in respect of each underlying over the last 10 years to be considered. 
The maximum percentage price movement shall be applied to the price on the day for 
which the stress test is being done:  
Scenario 3: Maximum percentage rise over a period of 1 day  
Scenario 4: Maximum percentage fall over a period of 1 day  
 
 
All  open  positions  shall  be  assumed  to  be  squared  up  at  the  theoretical  price 
corresponding to the revised prices of the underlying in each of the scenarios 1, 2, 3 
and 4. The net profit/loss in squaring off the portfolio is to be calculated under each of 
the scenarios 1, 2, 3 and 4. 
  
For each clearing member, the credit exposure to CC shall be calculated as follows:  
 

a) The time of stress test shall be the time of pay-in deadline.  
b) It shall be assumed that clearing member will default at the time of pay-in.  
c) Loss shall be calculated at client portfolio level.  
d)  For  each  client,  residual  loss  shall  be  equal  to  –>  (loss  due  to  close-out  of 
client positions – margin supporting client positions)  
e)  All  residual  losses  (residual  profits  to  be  ignored)  for  all  clients  shall  be 
grossed to compute total residual losses due to client positions.  
f) Loss due to close-out of proprietary positions shall be considered.  
g)  Loss  at  (e)  and  loss  at  (f)  and  the  net  pay-in/pay-out  requirement  of  the 
clearing member (pay-in and pay-out pertaining to requirements of both S-1 and 
S  (till  pay-in  time)  day  to  be  reckoned)  shall  be  assessed  against  required 
margins  (excluding  margin  supporting  client  positions  and  excess  collateral,  if 
any)  and  other  mandatory  deposits  of  defaulting  member  to  calculate  credit 
exposure of CC to the member. Equity scrips as collateral, if any, shall be valued 
with minimum 20% haircut.  

 
For each of the scenarios 1, 2, 3 and 4, Clearing Corporation shall calculate the total 
credit exposure due to simultaneous default of at least 2 clearing members (and their 
associates) causing highest credit exposure.  

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

11 

