 

CIR/CFD/POLICY CELL/7/2014   

 

To 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges  

 
Dear Sir(s)/Madam(s),  
 

CIRCULAR 

 
 

 

September 15, 2014 

 

 

 

 

Sub: Corporate Governance in listed entities - Amendments to Clause 49 of the 

Equity Listing Agreement 

 

1.  This circular is in continuation to circular No. CIR/CFD/POLICY CELL/2/2014 dated 
April  17,  2014  on  amendments  to  Clauses  35B  and  49  of  the  Equity  Listing 
Agreement.  In  terms  of  the  said  circular,  the  revised  Clause  49  would  be 
applicable to all listed companies with effect  from October 01, 2014. 

2.  The  Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs  has  issued  the  following  circulars  on  matters 
related to Corporate Governance clarifying certain provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013: 

Reference 

Date 

Subject matter 

Circular 
No.14/2014  

June 
2014 

09, 

Circular 
No.30/2014 
Notification 

July 
2014 
August 
2014 

17, 

14, 

of 

directors 

Clarification  on  rules  prescribed 
under  the  Companies  Act,  2013- 
matters relating to appointment and 
qualification 
and 
independent directors 
Clarifications  on  matters  relating  to 
related party transactions 
Amendment to Company (Meetings 
of  board  and  its  powers)    Rules, 
2014 

Sr. 
no. 
1. 

2. 

3. 

 

3.  Post issuance of the SEBI circular dated April 17, 2014, SEBI vide letter dated 
August 12, 2014, sought the status of preparedness of top 500 listed companies 

 

Page 1 of 8 

 

 

by market capitalization, for ensuring timely compliance with the revised Clause 
49.   

4.  Meanwhile, SEBI has received representations from market participants including 
companies and industry associations, highlighting certain practical difficulties in 
ensuring compliance, seeking clarifications on interpretation of certain provisions 
and suggesting various options to ease the process of implementation. 

5.  The  aforesaid  issues  were  examined  and  discussed  in  the  Primary  Market 

Advisory Committee of SEBI.   

6.  In  order  to  address  the  above  mentioned  concerns  and  facilitate  the  listed 
companies to ensure compliance with the provisions of the revised Clause 49, it 
has been decided to make certain amendments to Clause 49. The amendments 
are given as  Annexure to the circular.  

7.  It is reiterated that the provisions of Clause 49 as specified in Circular dated April 
17, 2014, as amended through this circular would be applicable with effect from 
October 01, 2014 except Clause 49 (II)(A)(1). 

8.  The  above  amendments  are  carried  out  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred 
under Section 11 read with Section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India Act, 1992. 

9.  All  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  ensure  compliance  with  this  circular  and 

carry out the amendments to their Listing Agreement as per the Annexure. 

10. This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
AmitTandon 
Deputy General Manager 
 +91-22-26449373 
amitt@sebi.gov.in 

 

Encl : Annexure – Amendments to Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement  

 

 

Page 2 of 8 

 
Annexure 

Amendments to Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement 
1.  Applicability of Clause 49 

The Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement shall be applicable to all companies whose 
equity shares are listed on a recognized stock exchange. However, compliance with 
the provisions of Clause 49 shall not be mandatory, for the time being, in respect of 
the following class of companies: 
a.  Companies having paid up equity share capital not exceeding Rs.10 crore and  
Net  Worth  not  exceeding  Rs.25  crore,  as  on  the  last  day  of  the  previous 
financial year; 
   
Provided that where the provisions of Clause 49 becomes applicable 
to a company at a later date, such company shall comply with the requirements 
of Clause 49 within six months from the date on which the provisions became 
applicable to the company. 

b.  Companies  whose  equity  share  capital  is  listed  exclusively  on  the  SME  and 

SME-ITP Platforms. 

2.  Clarification on applicability of appointment of woman director 

The provisions regarding appointment of woman director as provided in Clause 49 
(II)(A)(1) shall be applicable with effect from April 01, 2015. 

3.  Amendment to Clause 49(II)(B)(1)(c) 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 
"(c)  apart  from  receiving  director's  remuneration,  has  or  had  no  material 
pecuniary  relationship  with  the  company,  its  holding,  subsidiary  or  associate 
company, or their promoters, or directors, during the two immediately preceding 
financial years or during the current financial year." 
 

4.  Amendment to Clause 49(II)(B)(3)(a) 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 
"The  maximum  tenure  of  Independent  Directors  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the 
Companies Act, 2013 and clarifications/ circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, in this regard, from time to time." 
 
 

Page 3 of 8 

 

 

 

 

5.  Amendment to Clause 49(II)(B)(4)(b) 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 
"(b) The terms and conditions of appointment shall be disclosed on the website of 
the company." 

6.  Amendment to Clause 49(II)(B)(7) 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 
"7. Familiarisation programme for Independent Directors 

a.  The company shall familiarise the independent directors with the company, 
their roles, rights, responsibilities in the company, nature of the industry in 
which  the  company  operates,  business  model  of  the  company,  etc., 
through various programmes. 

b.  The  details  of  such  familiarisation  programmes  shall  be  disclosed  on  the 
company's website and a web link thereto shall also be given in the Annual 
Report." 

7.  Amendment to Clause 49(IV)(A) 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 
" A. The company through its Board of Directors shall constitute the nomination 
and remuneration committee which shall comprise at least three directors, all of 
whom  shall  be  non-executive  directors  and  at  least  half  shall  be  independent. 
Chairman of the committee shall be an independent director.  
 
Provided that the chairperson of the company (whether executive or non-
executive) may be appointed as a member of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee but shall not chair such Committee." 

8.  Amendment to Clause 49(V)(D) 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 
"(D)The company shall formulate a policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries 
and  such  policy  shall  be  disclosed  on  the  company's  website  and  a  web  link 
thereto shall be provided in the Annual Report." 

9.  Amendment to Clause 49(V) (F) 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 
"(F). No company shall dispose of shares in its material subsidiary which would 
reduce its shareholding (either on its own or together with other subsidiaries) to 
less  than  50%  or  cease  the  exercise  of  control  over  the  subsidiary  without 

Page 4 of 8 

 

 

 

passing a special resolution in its General Meeting except in cases where such 
divestment  is  made  under  a  scheme  of  arrangement  duly  approved  by  a 
Court/Tribunal." 

10. Amendment to Clause 49(V)(G) 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 
"(G).  Selling,  disposing  and  leasing  of  assets  amounting  to  more  than  twenty 
percent of the assets of the material subsidiary on an aggregate basis during a 
financial  year  shall  require  prior  approval  of  shareholders  by  way  of  special 
resolution,  unless 
is  made  under  a  scheme  of 
arrangement duly approved by a Court/Tribunal." 
Explanation  (i):  For  the  purpose  of  sub-clause  (V)(A),  the  term  “material  non-
listed Indian subsidiary” shall mean an unlisted subsidiary, incorporated in India, 
whose income or net worth (i.e. paid up capital and free reserves) exceeds 20% 
of  the  consolidated  income  or  net  worth  respectively,  of  the  listed  holding 
company and its subsidiaries in the immediately preceding accounting year. 

the  sale/disposal/lease 

Explanation  (ii):  For  the  purpose  of  sub-clause  (V)(C),  the  term  “significant 
transaction  or  arrangement”  shall  mean  any 
transaction  or 
arrangement that exceeds or is likely to exceed 10% of the total revenues or total 
expenses or total assets or total liabilities, as the case may be, of the material 
unlisted subsidiary for the immediately preceding accounting year. 

individual 

Explanation  (iii):  For  the  purpose  of  sub-clause  (V),  where  a  listed  holding 
company  has  a  listed  subsidiary  which  is  itself  a  holding  company,  the  above 
provisions  shall  apply  to  the  listed  subsidiary  insofar  as  its  subsidiaries  are 
concerned." 

11. Amendment to Clause 49(VI) 

The clause 49(VI)(C) shall be substituted with the following: 
"(C)  The  company  through  its  Board  of  Directors  shall  constitute  a  Risk 
Management Committee. The Board shall define the roles and responsibilities of 
the Risk Management Committee and may delegate monitoring and reviewing of 
the risk management plan to the committee and such other functions as it may 
deem fit. " 
 
 

Page 5 of 8 

 

 

 

The following clauses shall be inserted after Clause 49(VI)(C): 
" (D) The majority of Committee shall consist of members of the Board of  Directors.  
(E) Senior executives of the company may be members of the said Committee 
but the Chairman of the Committee shall be a member of the Board of Directors." 

12. Amendment to Clause 49(VII)(A) 

The following explanation shall be inserted after Clause 49(VII)(A): 
"Explanation:  A  "transaction"  with  a  related  party  shall  be  construed  to  include  
single transaction or a group of transactions in a contract." 

13. Amendment to Clause 49(VII)(B) 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 

"B. For the purpose of Clause 49 (VII), an entity shall be considered as related to 
the company if: 

(i) such entity  is a related party under Section 2(76) of the Companies Act, 
2013; or 
(ii)  such  entity  is  a  related  party  under  the  applicable  accounting 
standards." 

14. Amendment to Clause 49(VII)(C) 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 
"(C)The  company  shall  formulate  a  policy  on  materiality  of  Related  Party 
Transactions and also on dealing with Related Party Transactions. 
 
Provided  that  a  transaction  with  a  related  party  shall  be  considered 
 
material if the transaction / transactions to be entered into individually or taken 
together  with previous transactions during a financial  year, exceeds ten percent 
of  the    annual  consolidated  turnover  of  the  company  as  per  the  last  audited 
financial statements of the company." 

15. Amendment to Clause 49(VII)(D) 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 
"(D)All  Related  Party  Transactions  shall  require  prior  approval  of  the  Audit 
Committee.  However,  the  Audit  Committee  may  grant  omnibus  approval  for 
Related Party Transactions proposed to be entered into by the company subject 
to the following conditions: 

Page 6 of 8 

 

 

 

a.  The  Audit  Committee  shall  lay  down  the  criteria  for  granting  the  omnibus 
approval  in  line  with  the  policy  on  Related  Party  Transactions  of  the 
company  and  such  approval  shall  be  applicable  in  respect  of  transactions 
which are repetitive in nature. 

b.  The Audit Committee shall satisfy itself the need for such omnibus approval 

and that such approval is  in the interest of the company; 

c.  Such  omnibus  approval  shall  specify  (i)  the  name/s  of  the  related  party, 
nature of transaction, period of transaction, maximum amount of transaction 
that  can  be  entered  into,  (ii)  the  indicative  base  price  /  current  contracted 
price  and  the  formula  for  variation  in  the  price  if  any    and  (iii)  such  other 
conditions as the Audit Committee may deem fit; 
 
Provided that where the need for Related Party Transaction cannot 
be foreseen and aforesaid details are not available,  Audit Committee may 
grant  omnibus  approval  for  such  transactions  subject  to    their  value    not 
exceeding Rs.1 crore per transaction. 

 

d.  Audit  Committee  shall  review,  atleast  on  a  quarterly  basis,  the  details  of 
RPTs entered into by the company pursuant to each of the omnibus approval 
given. 

e.  Such omnibus approvals shall be valid for a period not exceeding one year 

and shall require fresh approvals after the expiry of one year" 

16. Amendment to Clause 49(VII)(E) 

The following proviso and explanations  shall be inserted after Clause 49(VII)(E): 
"Provided that sub-clause 49 (VII)(D) and (E) shall not be applicable in the following 
cases: 
(i) transactions entered into between two government companies; 
(ii)transactions  entered  into  between  a  holding  company  and  its  wholly  owned 
subsidiary whose accounts are consolidated with such holding company and placed 
before the shareholders at the general meeting for approval. 
Explanation(i):For the purpose of Clause 49(VII), "Government company" shall have 
the same meaning as defined in Section 2(45) of the Companies Act, 2013." 
Explanation(ii):For  the  purpose  of  Clause  49(VII),  all  entities  falling  under  the 
definition of related parties shall abstain from voting irrespective of whether the entity 
is a party to the particular transaction or not." 

Page 7 of 8 

 

 

 

 

17. Amendment to Clause 49(VIII)(A)(2) 

 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 
"(2)  The  company  shall  disclose  the  policy  on  dealing  with  Related  Party 
Transactions  on  its  website  and  a  web  link  thereto  shall  be  provided  in  the 
Annual Report." 

18. Amendment to Clause 49(VIII)(F), (G) and (H) 

These clauses shall stand deleted. 

19. Amendment to clause 49(IX)  

The words " The CEO, i.e. the Managing Director or Manager appointed in terms 
of the Companies Act, 1956 and the CFO i.e. the whole-time Finance Director or 
any  other  person  heading  the  finance  function  discharging  that  function  shall 
certify to the Board that:"   

shall be substituted with:  

"The CEO or the Managing Director or manager or in their absence, a Whole Time 
Director appointed in terms of Companies Act, 2013 and the CFO shall certify to the 
Board that :" 

 

 
 

********* 

 

 

Page 8 of 8 

