 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 
CIR/ MIRSD/ 4/ 2014                                                                                October 13, 2014 
 
All recognized Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

 

Subject: Single registration for Stock Brokers & Clearing Members. 

 

1.  Please  find  enclosed  the  Notification  No.  LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/15/1671  dated 
October 08, 2014 amending the SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 
1992  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  Broker  Regulations).  As  per  the  amendment,  the 
existing  requirement  of  obtaining  registration  as  stock  broker/  clearing  member  for 
each  stock  exchange/  clearing  corporation  has  been  done  away  with  and  instead  a 
single registration with any stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall be required. For 
operating  in  any  other  stock  exchange(s)/  clearing  corporation(s),  approval  will  be 
required from the concerned stock exchange or clearing corporation.  

 
2.  For the purpose of implementing the revised registration requirements, the following 

guidelines are being issued: 

 

 

 

a.  If a new entity desires to register as a stock broker or clearing member with any 
stock exchange or clearing corporation, as the case may be, then the entity shall 
apply to SEBI through the respective stock exchange or clearing corporation in the 
manner  prescribed  in  the  Broker  Regulations.  The  entity  shall  be  issued  one 
certificate  of  registration, 
the  stock  exchange(s)/  clearing 
corporation(s) or number of segment(s).   
 

irrespective  of 

b.  If  the  entity  is  already  registered  with  SEBI  as  a  stock  broker  with  any  stock 
exchange,  then  for  operating  on  any  other  stock  exchange(s)  or  any  clearing 
corporation,  the  entity  can  directly  apply  for  approval  to  the  concerned  stock 
exchange  or  clearing  corporation,  as  per  the  procedure  prescribed  in  the  Broker 
Regulations for registration. The stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall report 
to SEBI about such grant of approval. 
 

c.  Similarly, if any entity is already registered with SEBI as a clearing member in any 
clearing corporation, then for operating in any other clearing corporation(s) or any 
stock exchange, the entity shall follow the procedure as prescribed in Clause 2b 
above.  
 

d.  Fees  shall  be  applicable  for  all  the  stock  brokers,  self  clearing  members  and 
clearing  members  as  per  Schedule  V  of  the  Broker  Regulations.  As  per  current 
requirement,  the  entity  shall  continue  to  be  liable  to  pay  fees  for  each  segment 
approved by the stock exchange or clearing corporation, as per the Schedule to 
the Brokers Regulations.  
 
 
 

Page 1 of 2 

 

