¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

     

    November 12, 2014 

 

 

CIR/MRD/DP/31/2014 
 
To,  
 
The Depositories, 
Asset Management Companies, 
Mutual Fund RTAs. 
 
Dear Sir, 
 

Subject: Consolidated Account Statement (CAS) for all securities assets   

 
1.  Pursuant to the Interim Budget announcement in 2014 to create one record for all 
financial  assets  of  every  individual,  SEBI  had  extensive  deliberations  with  the 
Depositories, AMFI and RTAs of Mutual Funds (MF-RTAs) to implement it with 
respect to financial assets of securities market. 
 

2.  As  a  first  step  in  this  direction,  it  has  been  decided  to  enable  a  single 
consolidated view of all the investments of an investor in Mutual Funds (MF) and 
securities held in demat form with the Depositories.  

3.  The  Depositories  and  the  Asset  Management  Companies  (AMCs)/  MF-RTAs  
shall  put  in  place  systems  to  facilitate  generation  and  dispatch  of  single 
Consolidated  Account  Statements  (CAS)  for  investors  having  MF  investments 
and holding demat accounts.  AMCs/ RTAs shall share the requisite information 
with the Depositories on monthly basis to enable generation of CAS. 

 

 

4.  Consolidation of account statement shall be done on the basis of PAN. In case of 
multiple holding, it shall be PAN of the first holder and pattern of holding. Based 
on the PANs provided by the AMCs/MF-RTAs, the Depositories  shall match their 
PAN  database  to  determine  the  common  PANs  and  allocate  the  PANs  among 
themselves  for  the  purpose  of  sending  CAS.  For  PANs  which  are  common 
between depositories and AMCs, the Depositories shall send the CAS. In other 
cases (i.e. PANs with no demat account and only MF units holding), the AMCs/  
MF-RTAs shall continue to send the CAS to their unit holders as is being done 
presently  in  compliance  with  the  Regulation  36(4)  of  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds) 
Regulations.  

5.  In  case  investors  have  multiple  accounts  across  the  two  depositories,  the 
depository having the demat account which has been opened earlier shall be the 

Page 1 of 3 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

default  depository  which  will  consolidate  details  across  depositories  and  MF 
investments and dispatch the CAS to the investor. However, option shall be given 
to the demat account holder by the default depository to choose the depository 
through which  the investor wishes to receive the CAS. 

6.  The  CAS  shall  be  generated  on  a  monthly  basis.  The  AMCs  /MF-RTAs  shall 
provide  the  data  with  respect  to  the  common  PANs  to  the  depositories  within 
three  days  from  the  month  end.  The  depositories  shall  then  consolidate  and 
dispatch the CAS within  ten days from the month end.  

7.  Where statements are presently being dispatched by email either by the Mutual 
Funds or by the Depositories, CAS shall be sent through email. However, where 
an investor does not wish to receive CAS through email, option shall be given to 
the investor to receive the CAS in physical form at the address registered in the 
Depository system. 

through  CAS.  AMCs/MF-RTAs  would  be  accountable 

8.  A  proper  grievance    redressal  mechanism  shall  be  put  in  place  by  the 
depositories  and the AMCs/MF-RTAs which shall  also be communicated to the 
investors 
the 
authenticity  of  the  information  provided  through  CAS  in  respect  of  MF 
investments  and  timely  sharing  of  such  information  with  Depositories.  The 
Depositories would be responsible for the timely dispatch of CAS to the investors 
serviced by them and the demat account information.  
 

for 

9.  The  depositories  and  the  AMCs/  MF-RTAs  shall  ensure  data  integrity  and 
confidentiality in respect of the shared information. The depositories shall utilise 
the shared data only for the purpose of providing CAS and shall not share the 
same  with  their  Depository  Participants.  Where  Depositories  are  required  to 
share  such  information  with  unregulated  entities  like  third  party  printers,  the 
depositories shall enter into necessary data confidentiality agreements with them. 

10. The CAS shall be implemented from the month of March 2015 with respect to the 

transactions carried out during the  month of February 2015.  

11. If  an  investor  does  not  wish  to  receive  CAS,  an  option  shall  be  given  to  the 
investor  to  indicate  negative  consent.  Depositories  shall  accordingly  inform 
investors in their statements from the month of January 2015 about the facility of 
CAS and give them information on how to opt out of the facility if they do not wish 
to avail it. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 3 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
12. Where  such  an  option  is  exercised,  the  concerned  depository  shall  inform  the 
AMC/MF-RTA accordingly and the data with respect to the said investor  shall not 
be shared by the AMC/MF-RTA with the depository. 
 

13. If there is any transaction in any of the demat accounts of the investor or in any of 
his mutual fund folios, then CAS shall be sent to that investor on monthly basis.  
In  case  there  is  no  transaction  in  any  of  the  mutual  fund  folios  and  demat 
accounts then CAS with holding details shall be sent to the investor on half yearly 
basis. However, in case of demat accounts with nil balance and no transactions 
in securities and in mutual fund folios, the requirement to send physical statement 
shall be applicable as specified in SEBI circular no. CIR/MRD/DP/21/2014 issued 
on July 01, 2014. 

14. Further, the holding statement dispatched by the DPs to their BOs with respect to 
the dormant demat accounts with balances shall also be dispatched half-yearly in 
partial  modification  of  clauses  5(b)  and  6(c)  of 
the  circular  no. 
CIR/MRD/DP/22/2012  dated August 27, 2012.  

15. The dispatch of CAS by the depositories to BOs would constitute compliance by 
the  Depository  Participants  with  requirement  under  Regulation  43  of  SEBI 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, to provide statements of account to 
the BOs as also compliance by the MFs with the requirement under Regulation 
36(4) of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations. 

 

 

 

 

16. The Depositories are advised to:- 

a)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  DPs  and  also  to 

disseminate the same on their website; 

b)  make  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations  for  the 

implementation of the above decision as may be applicable / necessary; and 

c)  communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the provisions of this 

circular in the Monthly Development Report. 

17. This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11 (1) 
of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  section  19  of  the 
Depositories  Act,  1996  to  protect  the  interest  of  investors  in  securities  and  to 
promote the development of, and to regulate, the securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 

Maninder Cheema 
Deputy General Manager 
                                                                                         maninderc@sebi.gov.in  

Page 3 of 3 

