CIRCULAR 

 

 

CIR/IMD/FIIC/ 20  /2014 

 

 

 

 

 

 
                November 24, 2014 
 
 

To, 
All Foreign Portfolio Investors 
through their designated Custodians of Securities 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam 
 
Sub:  Conditions  for  issuance  of  Offshore  Derivative  Instruments  under  SEBI 
(Foreign Portfolio Investor) Regulations, 2014. 
 
1.  It  has  been  decided  to  align  the  applicable  eligibility  and  investment  norms 
between  Foreign  Portfolio  Investor  (FPI)  regime  and  subscription  through  the 
Offshore Derivative Instruments (ODI) route. Accordingly, it is clarified as under. 

 
2.  An  FPI  shall  issue  ODIs  only  to  those  subscribers  which  meet  the  eligibility 
criteria  as  laid  down  in  Regulation  4  of  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investor) 
Regulations,  2014.  Regulation  4  requires  that  an  FPI  applicant  shall  not  be 
granted registration unless it satisfies inter alia the following conditions namely: 

to 

a.  the applicant is resident of a country whose securities market regulator is a 
signatory 
International  Organization  of  Securities  Commission’s 
Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding (Appendix A Signatories) or a 
signatory to bilateral Memorandum of Understanding with the Board; 

b.  the applicant being a bank, is a resident of a country whose central bank is 

a member of Bank for International Settlements; 

c.  the applicant is not resident in a country identified in the public statement 

of Financial Action Task Force as: 

i.  a 

jurisdiction  having  a  strategic  Anti-Money  Laundering  or 
Combating the Financing of Terrorism deficiencies to which counter 
measures apply; or 

ii.  a  jurisdiction  that  has  not  made  sufficient  progress  in  addressing 
the deficiencies or has not committed to an action plan developed 
with the Financial Action Task Force to address the deficiencies; 

 

3.  An  FPI  shall  issue  ODIs  only  to  those  subscribers  which  do  not  have  opaque 
structure(s),  as  defined  under  Explanation  1  of  Regulation  32(1)(f)  of  SEBI 
(Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014. 

 
4.  Regulation  21(7)  of  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investor)  Regulations,  2014,  lays 

down the investment restrictions which are applicable to FPIs. It is clarified that:  

a.  These investment restrictions shall apply to ODI subscribers also. For this 
purpose, two or more ODI subscribers having common Beneficial Owner 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

(BO) shall be considered together as a single ODI subscriber, in the same 
manner as is being done in the case of FPIs.  

b.  Further,  where  an  investor  has  investments  as  FPI  and  also  holds 
positions  as  an  ODI  subscriber,  these  investment  restrictions  shall  apply 
on  the  aggregate  of  FPI  investments  and  ODI  positions  held  in  the 
underlying  Indian  Company.  In  other  words,  the  investment  as  FPI  and 
positions held as ODI subscriber will be clubbed together with reference to 
the said investment restrictions. 
 

5.  FPIs  which  issue  ODIs  shall  put  in  place  necessary  systems  to  ensure 

compliance with above provisions as mentioned in paragraph 2, 3 and 4.  
 

till 

6.  Existing ODI positions, if they are not in accordance with paragraph 2, 3 and 4, 
the  ODI  contract.  No  additional 
may  continue 
issuances/renewal/rollover of  such  positions  shall  be permitted. Fresh  issuance 
of ODIs shall be made only to the eligible subscribers subject to the compliance 
with  paragraph  5  of  this  circular  and  with  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors) 
Regulations, 2014 and other applicable norms. 

the  expiry  of 

 
7.  This circular shall come into effect immediately. This circular is issued in exercise 
of powers conferred under SEBI Section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992. 

 
8.  A  copy  of  this  circular  is  available  at  the  web  page  “Circulars”  on  our  website 
www.sebi.gov.in. The custodian of securities are requested to bring the contents 
of this circular to the notice of their FPI clients.  

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
Yours Faithfully 

S Madhusudhanan 
Deputy General Manager  
+91-22-26449614  
smadhu@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

