 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
 
CIR/OIAE/1/2014                                                                               December 18, 2014  
 
To 
All  Companies  whose  securities  are  listed  on  SEBI  recognized  Stock  Exchanges 
(Through the Stock Exchanges) 
All  Intermediaries  registered  with  SEBI  (Through  the  Stock  Exchanges  for  Stock 
Brokers  and  Sub  Brokers,  Depositories  for  Depository  Participants,  AMFI  for  Mutual 
Funds and Asset Management Companies) 
All recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Depositories 
Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Subject  :  Redressal  of  investor  grievances  through  SEBI  Complaints  Redress 
System (SCORES) platform 
 
1.  SEBI  launched  a  centralized  web  based  complaints  redress  system  ‘SCORES’  in 
June  2011.  The  purpose  of  SCORES  is  to  provide  a  platform  for  aggrieved 
investors, whose grievances, pertaining to securities market, remain unresolved by 
the  concerned  listed  company  or  registered  intermediary  after  a  direct  approach. 
SCORES also provides a platform, overseen by SEBI through which the investors 
can approach the concerned listed company or SEBI registered intermediary in an 
endeavor  towards  speedy  redressal  of  grievances  of  investors  in  the  securities 
market.  It  would,  however,  be  advisable  that  investors  may  initially  take  up  their 
grievances 
listed  company  or  registered 
intermediary,  who  are  required  to  have  designated  persons/officials  for  handling 
issues relating to compliance and redressal of investor grievances. 
 

for  redressal  with 

the  concerned 

2.  SEBI  has  issued  various  circulars/directions  from  time  to  time  with  respect  to 
SCORES.  In  order  to  enable  the  users  to  have  an  access  to  all  the  applicable 
circulars/directions at one place, this Circular on SCORES consolidates the current 
provisions. 
 

3.  This Circular inter alia consolidates the following circulars/directions issued by SEBI 

in this regard till date and shall come into force from the date of its issue: 

i.  Circular no.CIR/OIAE/2/2011 dated June 3, 2011 
ii.  Circular no.CIR/OIAE/1/2012 dated August 13, 2012 
iii.  Circular no.CIR/OIAE/1/2013 dated April 17, 2013 

 

 

Page 1 of 6 

 

 

4.  The salient features of SCORES are: 

 

 

 

i.  Centralised database of investor complaints 
ii.  Online  movement  of  complaints  to  the  concerned  listed  company  or 

SEBI registered intermediary 

iii.  Online upload of Action Taken Reports (ATRs) by the concerned listed 

company or SEBI registered intermediary 

iv.  Online viewing by investors of actions taken on the complaint and its 

current status 
 

to  be 

routed 

through 

5.  All  newly  listed  companies  and  SEBI  registered  intermediaries  (excluding  Stock 
Brokers, Sub-Brokers and Depository Participants) are hereby advised to send their 
details as per Form-A and Form-B annexed to this Circular, respectively to SEBI in 
hard  copy  and  by  email  to  scores@sebi.gov.in  and  obtain  SCORES  user  id  and 
password  immediately  within  a  period  of  one  month  from  the  date  of  listing.  The 
email  id  to  be  furnished  by  the  listed  company  /  SEBI  registered  intermediary  for 
receiving  SCORES  user  id  and  password  from  SEBI  has  to  be  preferably  a 
corporate email id and necessarily a permanent one. Failure by any listed company 
or SEBI registered intermediary to obtain the SCORES user ID and password would 
not only be deemed as non-redressal of investor grievances but also indicate willful 
avoidance  of  the  same.  The  existing  listed  companies  which  have  failed  to  obtain 
authentication will be dealt with in accordance with para 15 below. 
 

6.  Stock Brokers, Sub-Brokers and Depository Participants are not required to obtain 
intermediaries  shall 
the  concerned  Stock 

SCORES  authentication  since  complaints  against 
continue 
Exchange/Depository.  
 

the  platforms  of 

7.  The registered intermediaries shall submit the details in hard copy (Form-B) to the 
Department/Division of SEBI which has granted them registration to operate in the 
securities  market.  SCORES  user  id  and  password  of  an  intermediary  shall  be 
created  only  after  receiving  approval  from  the  concerned  Department/Division  of 
SEBI. 
 

8.  In  case  of  complaints  against  listed  companies,  the  same  can  be  processed  by 
companies  in-house  or  through  its  Registrar  to  Issue  and  Share  Transfer  Agent 
(RTI/STA). In case the complaints are processed by the RTI/STA on behalf of the 
listed company, the company should indicate in the enclosed Form-A whether they 
require the facility to forward complaints to the RTI/STA, so that the ATRs can be 
uploaded  by  them.  In  such  cases,  the  name  of  the  RTI/STA,  the  name  of  the 
Compliance Officer of the listed company and email id of the listed company should 
be furnished, so that the user id and password can be provided accordingly. In case 
the complaints are processed by the RTI/STA on behalf of the listed company, any 
failure on the part of the RTI/STA to redress the complaints or failure to update ATR 
in SCORES, will be treated as failure of the listed company to furnish information to 
SEBI and non redressal of investor complaints by the listed company. 

these 

 

Page 2 of 6 

 

9.  All listed companies and SEBI registered intermediaries shall review their investors 
grievances  redressal  mechanism  so  as  to  further  strengthen  it  and  correct  the 
existing  shortcomings, 
listed  companies  and  SEBI  registered 
intermediaries  to  whom  complaints  are  forwarded  through  SCORES,  shall  take 
immediate efforts on receipt of a complaint, for its resolution, within thirty days. The 
listed companies and SEBI registered intermediaries shall keep the complainant duly 
informed of the action taken thereon. 

if  any.  The 

 

 

 

10. The  listed  companies  and  SEBI  registered  intermediaries  shall  update  the  ATR 
along with supporting documents, if any, electronically in SCORES. ATR in physical 
form  need  not  be  sent  to  SEBI.  The  proof  of  dispatch  of  the  reply  of  the  listed 
company  /  SEBI  registered  intermediary  to  the  concerned  investor  should  also  be 
uploaded  in  SCORES  and  preserved  by  the  listed  company  /  SEBI  registered 
intermediary, for future reference. 

11. Action taken by the listed companies and SEBI registered intermediaries will not be 
considered  as  complete  if  the  relevant  details/  supporting  documents  are  not 
uploaded in SCORES and consequently, the complaints will be treated as pending. 
 

12. A  complaint  shall  be 

treated  as  resolved/disposed/closed  only  when  SEBI 
disposes/closes  the  complaint  in  SCORES.  Hence,  mere  filing  of  ATR  by  a  listed 
company or SEBI registered intermediary with respect to a complaint will not mean 
that the complaint is not pending against them. 

 

13. Failure  by  listed  companies  and  SEBI  registered  intermediaries  to  file  ATR  under 
SCORES  within  thirty  days  of  date  of  receipt  of  the  grievance  shall  not  only  be 
treated  as  failure  to  furnish  information  to  SEBI  but  shall  also  be  deemed  to 
constitute non-redressal of investor grievance. 
 

14. The Board of Directors of the listed company or the Board of Directors/ Proprietor/ 
Partner of the registered intermediary shall be responsible for ensuring compliance 
with the provisions of this Circular. 

 
15. The Circulars mentioned in para 3 of this Circular stand rescinded. Notwithstanding 
such  rescission,  anything  done  or  any  action  taken  or  any  failure  to  take  action 
under those Circulars before the date of issuance of this Circular, shall be deemed 
to have been done or taken or commenced under the provisions of this Circular.  
 

16. All  companies  whose  securities  are  listed  on  recognized  Stock  Exchanges  and 

intermediaries registered with SEBI are advised to comply with this Circular. 
 

17. Stock Exchanges, Depositories and the Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI) 
are  accordingly  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  Circular  to  the  notice  of  all 
Listed  Companies,  registered  Stock-Brokers,  Depository  Participants  and  Asset 
Management Companies respectively and also to disseminate the same on their  
 

 

 

Page 3 of 6 

 
websites. Further, the Stock Exchanges, Depositories and AMFI should also arrange 
for adequate publicity of this Circular on an urgent basis. 

 
18. This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 

 

19. This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 
 
                                                                                                        Yours faithfully, 
 
 

 

N Hariharan 
Chief General Manager 
Office of Investor Assistance and Education 
                            Tel No. 022 26449880 
Email id -  hariharan@sebi.gov.in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 4 of 6 

 

AUTHENTICATION FOR SCORES BY LISTED COMPANIES 

FORM - A 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

1.  Name of the Company: 
2.  PAN of Company :  
3.  CIN of Company: 
4.  Date of incorporation of company: 
5.  Registered Office address of company: 
6.  Complaints processed through:  □RTI/STA    □Company 
7.  Please indicate the following: 
 
    Name of the RTI/STA (if through RTI/STA): 
    
    Whether complaints will be passed to RTI/STA by the company 
    □ directly to the RTI/STA □ through SCORES 
 
8.  Stock exchange on which company is listed/ proposed to be listed: 
9.  The details of the concerned person of the company to whom User id and 
      password will be sent: 
 
    Name : 
 
    Designation: 
     
    Email id : (Corporate and permanent email id) 
 
    Mobile no. 
 
    Telephone No. : 
 
    Fax No. : 
 
10. Name, PAN and address of the promoters and directors of the company: 
 
   Place:                                                        Signature of Compliance Officer of company: 
    
   Date:                                                         Name: 
                                                                     Designation:                                                         
                                                                     Company Seal: 
 
Note:    A  scanned  copy  to  be  sent  by  email  to  scores@sebi.gov.in  followed  by  hard  copy  to 
Office of the Investor Assistance and Education, Securities and Exchange Board of India, Plot 
No. C4-A, 'G' Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai - 400 051 
 
Important:   Please note that SCORES has the  provision for updating company details by the 
company  itself.  Any  field  (except  the  e-mail  id  which  is  permanent)  such  as  registered  office 
address, name of the RTI/STA, name/details of the compliance officer, telephone numbers, etc 
should be changed by the company immediately when warranted. 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 6 

1.  Name of the registered intermediary : 

2.  Nature of registered intermediary: 

3.  SEBI registration no. 

4.  PAN of registered intermediary :  

5.  Date of SEBI registration of intermediary: 

6.  SEBI registration valid upto: 

7.  Office address of the intermediary: 

password will be sent: 

 
    Name : 
 
    Designation: 
     
    Email id : (corporate and permanent email id) 
 
    Mobile no. 
 
    Telephone No. : 
 
    Fax No. : 
 
 
   Place:                                                        Signature: 
    
   Date:                                                         Name: 
                                                                     Designation: 

                                                         Seal: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AUTHENTICATION FOR SCORES BY SEBI REGISTERED INTERMEDIARIES 

 

FORM - B 

 

 

 

8.  The details of the concerned person of the intermediary to whom User id and 

 
Note:   A scanned copy to be sent by email to scores@sebi.gov.in followed by hard copy to the 
concerned Department/Division of Securities and Exchange Board of India, Plot No. C4-A, 'G' 
Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai - 400 051 

 

Important:  Please note that SCORES has the provision for updating intermediary's details by 
the intermediary itself. Any field (except the e-mail id which is permanent) such as registered 
office  address,  name/details  of  the  compliance  officer,  telephone  numbers,  etc  should  be 
changed by the intermediary immediately when warranted. 

 

Page 6 of 6 

