¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã ‚ããõÀ ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã ºããñ¡Ã  

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
CIRCULAR 

 
CIR/ MIRSD/5/ 2014                                                                                   December 30, 2014 
 
To 
 
All Depositories 

 

 

Dear Sir / Madam, 
 

Subject: Single Registration for Depository Participants. 

 
1.  Please  find  enclosed  the  Notification  No.  LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/18/1952.  dated 
December 24, 2014 amending the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 
1996 (hereinafter referred to as DP Regulations).  
 

2.  As  per  the  amendment,  the  existing  requirement  of  obtaining  certificate  of  initial 
registration  to  act  as  a  participant  and  subsequently  permanent  registration  to 
continue  to  act  as  a  participant  for  each  depository  has  been  done  away  with. 
Henceforth,  one  certificate  of 
initial  registration  and  subsequently  permanent 
registration  through  any  depository  shall  be  required  after  commencement  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2014.  

 
3.  For  the  purpose  of  implementing  the  above  registration  requirements,  the  following 

guidelines are being issued:  

a.  If  a  new  entity  desires  to  act  as  a  participant  in  any  of  the  depository,  then  the 
entity shall apply to SEBI for certificate of initial registration through the concerned 
depository in the manner prescribed in the DP Regulations.  
 

b.  If  an  entity  has  been  granted  a  certificate  of  registration  to  act  as  a  participant 
through one depository and wishes to act as a participant with the other depository 
then it shall directly apply to the concerned depository for approval in the manner 
as prescribed in the DP Regulations. The concerned depository, on receipt of the 
application, may grant approval to the entity after exercising due diligence and on 
being  satisfied  about  the  compliance  of  all  relevant  eligibility  requirements 
including the following:  

i.  The applicant, its directors, proprietor, partners and associates satisfy the Fit 
and  Proper  Criteria  as  defined  in  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 
2008;  

ii.  The applicant has taken satisfactory corrective steps to rectify the deficiencies 
or irregularities observed in the past inspections or in case of actions initiated/ 
taken  by  SEBI/  depository(s)  or  other  regulators.  The  depository  may  also 

