CIRCULAR 

 

CIR/IMD/FIIC/2/2015 
February 05, 2015 

To 
All Foreign Portfolio Investors 
through their designated Custodians of Securities 
 

The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL) 

Sir / Madam, 

 

Sub:  Change  in  investment  conditions  for  FPI  investments  in  Government  Debt 
securities 

1.  Pursuant  to  the  announcements  made  in  the  Sixth  Bi-monthly  Monetary  Policy 
Statement, 2014-15 dated February 03, 2015 by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), it has 
been decided that investment of coupons in Government securities will be enabled even 
when the existing limits for FPIs are fully utilised.  
 

2.  Accordingly,  FPIs  shall  be  permitted  to  invest  in  Government  securities,  the  coupons 
received on their investments in Government securities. Such investments shall be kept 
outside  the  applicable  limit  (currently  USD  30  billion)  for  investments  by  FPIs  in 
Government securities.  
 

3.  For the purpose of investment of coupons, the FPIs shall have an investment period of 5 
working  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  coupon.  A  re-investment  facility  of  5 
working days shall be provided on the Government securities that have been purchased 
by  utilizing  the  coupons.  All  other  existing  conditions  for  investment  by  FPIs  in  the 
Government securities market remain unchanged for this additional facility as well.  It 
is further clarified that coupons received on these Government securities purchased by 
investment of coupons shall also have the same facility.  
 

4.  The  coupons  invested  in  purchasing  Government  securities  shall  be  classified  into  a 
separate investment category which is over and above the USD 30 billion Government 
debt  limit.  The  depositories  shall  put  in  place  the  necessary  systems  for  the  daily 
reporting  by  the  custodians  of  the  FPIs  and  shall  also  disseminate  this  coupon 
investment data along with the daily debt utilization data.  
 
 

Page | 1  

 

 
This  circular  shall  come  into  effect  immediately.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of 
powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992. 

A  copy  of  this  circular  is  available  at  the  web  page  “Circulars”  on  our  website 
www.sebi.gov.in.  Custodians  are  requested  to  bring  the  contents  of  this  circular  to  the 
notice of their FPI clients. 

Yours faithfully, 

 
 
S MADHUSUDHANAN 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel No.: 022-26449614 
Email: smadhu@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

Page | 2  

