 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

                 April 13,  2015 

 
 
 
CIR/CFD/POLICYCELL/1/2015 
 
To 
 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
All Registrars to the Issue 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:  Mechanism  for  acquisition  of  shares  through  Stock  Exchange  pursuant  to 
Tender-Offers under Takeovers, Buy Back and Delisting 
 

1.  SEBI  (Buy  Back  of  Securities)  Regulations,  1998  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “Buy 

Back  Regulations”),  SEBI(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 

Regulations,  2011 

(hereinafter 

referred 

to  as 

"Takeover  Regulations"),  

SEBI(Delisting  of  Equity  Shares)  Regulations,  2009  (hereinafter  referred  to  as 

"Delisting Regulations")  were amended vide notification dated March 24, 2015 to 

facilitate  tendering  of  shares  by  the  shareholders  and  settlement  of  the  same, 

through the stock exchange mechanism as specified by the Board. 

 

 

 

2. 

 After  due  deliberations  and  consultations  with  the  market  participants,  the 

procedure  for  tendering  and  settlement  of  shares  through  stock  exchange  is 

specified in Annexure-1. 

 

3.  Applicability 

 

a.  This  circular  shall  be  applicable 

to  all 

the  offers 

for  which  Public 

Announcement is made on or after July  01, 2015.  

b. 

 For all impending offers, acquirer/ promoter/ company shall have the option to 

follow this mechanism or the existing one.  

 

Page 1 of 6 

 

 

 

 

c. 

In  case  an  acquirer  or  any  person  acting  in  concert  with  the  acquirer  who 

proposes  to  acquire  shares  under  the  offer  is  not  eligible  to  acquire  shares 

through stock exchange due to operation of any other law, such offers would 

follow the existing 'tender offer method'. 

d. 

In case of competing offers under Regulation 20 of the Takeover Regulations, 

in  order  to  have  a  level  playing  field,  in  the  event  one  of  the  acquirers  is 

ineligible  to  acquire  shares  through  stock  exchange  mechanism,  then  all 

acquirers shall follow the existing ‘tender offer method’. 

 

4.  Stock  Exchanges  shall  take  necessary  steps  and  put  in  place  necessary 

infrastructure  and  systems  for  implementation  of  the  mechanism  and  to  ensure 

compliance with requirements of this circular.  

 

5.  This Circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred under section 11 

(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  regulation 

13(1A)  of  Delisting  Regulations,  regulation  9(3A)  of  Buy  Back  Regulations, 

regulation 18(6A) of Takeover Regulations as amended. 

 

6.  This  Circular  along  with  the  Annexure  is  available  on  the  SEBI  website  at 

www.sebi.gov.in under the category "Legal framework". 

 

 

Yours faithfully,  

 

 

Amit Tandon  

Deputy General Manager  

+91-22-26449373  

amitt@sebi.gov.in  

Page 2 of 6 

 

 

 

Procedure for tendering and settlement of shares through Stock Exchange 

ANNEXURE – 1 

 

 

ACQUISITION WINDOW 

a.  The facility for acquisition of shares through Stock Exchange mechanism pursuant to 

offer shall be available on the Stock Exchanges having nationwide trading terminals 

in the form of a separate window(the “Acquisition Window”). 

 

b.  The  acquirer  or  company  may  choose  to  use  the  Acquisition  Window  provided  by 

more than one Stock Exchange having nationwide trading terminal and in that case, 

one of the exchanges shall be chosen as the "Designated Stock Exchange"(DSE).  

 

c.  The  Recognised  Stock  Exchanges  having  nationwide  trading  terminals  shall  also 

facilitate acquirers to provide the platform in case of companies exclusively listed on 

Recognised Regional Stock Exchanges.  

 

d.  In case of competing offers under Regulation 20 of the Takeover Regulations, each 

acquirer  will  apply  for  and  use  separate  Acquisition  Windows  during  the  tendering 

period.  If  one  acquirer  chooses  to  use  acquisition  window  of  one  Stock  Exchange 

having nationwide trading terminal, it would not be mandatory for the other acquirer 

to choose the same Stock Exchange. 

 

e.  The acquirer/ company shall appoint a stock broker registered with the Board for the 

offer. Such broker may also undertake transactions on behalf of sellers. 

 

Placing of orders and basis of acceptance 

f.  At the beginning of the tendering period, the order for buying the required number of 

shares shall be placed by acquirer/ company  through his stock broker. 

 

Page 3 of 6 

 

 

 

 

g.  During the tendering period, the order for selling the shares will be placed by eligible 

sellers  through  their  respective  stock  brokers  during  normal  trading  hours  of  the 

secondary market. 

 

h.  Such  shares  would  be  transferred  to  a  special  account  of  the  clearing  corporation 

specifically created for this purpose prior to placing the bid. The  stock brokers shall 

also forward to the Clearing Corporation such details regarding the shares tendered 

as may be required by the Merchant Banker.  

 

i.  The  cumulative  quantity  tendered  shall  be  made  available  online  to  the  market 

throughout the trading session at specific intervals by each of the Stock Exchanges 

during the tendering period on the basis of shares transferred to the special account 

of the clearing corporation. 

 

Finalisation of basis of acceptance 

j. 

In case of offer under Takeover Regulations, the Merchant Banker to the offer shall 

finalise  the  basis  of  acceptance  of  the  shares  depending  upon  the  level  of 

acceptances received in the offer.    

 

k.  In case of offer under Buy Back  Regulations, the company is required to announce 

a Record Date for the purpose of determining the entitlement and the names of the 

security holders who are eligible to participate in the proposed Buy-Back. Based on 

this  information, eligible  shareholders  can  tender  shares  in  the  Buy-Back  using  the 

Acquisition  Window  of  the  Stock  Exchanges  through  selling  brokers.  However, 

reconciliation  for  acceptances  shall  be  conducted  by  the  Merchant  banker  and  the 

Registrar to the offer after closing of the Offer and  the final list shall be provided to 

the Stock Exchanges to facilitate settlement. 

 

 

Page 4 of 6 

 

 

 

Execution of trades and settlement  

l.  Once  the  basis  of  acceptance  is  finalised,  the  clearing  corporation  would  facilitate 

execution  and  settlement  of  trades  by  transferring  the  required  number  of  shares 

from the special account to the escrow account of the acquirer/ company.  

 

m.  The  trades  shall  be  carried  out  in the manner  similar  to  settlement  of  trades  in  the 

secondary  market  process  including  providing  an  option  for  direct  payout  to  the 

shareholders. This would include settlement of trades of physical shares as well. 

 

n.  Excess  shares,  if  any,  would  be  returned  to  the  seller  brokers  by  Clearing 

Corporation. 

 

o.  The  seller  broker  would  then  issue  contract  note  for  the  shares  accepted  and  also 

return the balance to their respective clients. 

 

p.  Disclosures  

Additional  disclosures  required  in  Detailed  Public  Statement,  Letter  of  Offer    for 

Takeover  Regulations,  in  Public  Announcement  for  Buyback  Regulations  and 

Delisting Regulations: 

i.  Name and address of the stock broker appointed by the Acquirer/Company; 

ii.  Name  of  the  Recognised  Stock  Exchanges  with  nationwide  trading  terminals 

where  the  Acquisition  Window  shall  be  available  including  the  name  of  the 

Designated Stock Exchange. 

iii.  Methodology  for  placement  of  orders,  acceptances  and  settlement  of  shares 

held in dematerialised form and physical form  

iv.  Details of the special account opened with Clearing Corporation. 

 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 6 

 

 
q.  Participation by Physical Shareholders 

 

With  regard  to  the  participation  of  shareholders  holding  physical  shares,  the 

procedure  similar  to  the  buyback  for  physical  shares  through  the  open  market 

method  of  buyback  as  specified  in  regulation  15A  of  SEBI  (Buyback  of  Securities) 

regulations, 1998 shall apply. 

 

r.  Tendering of Locked in-shares 

For shares which are locked-in, the selling shareholder can tender the shares in the 

same manner which is in existence currently i.e. through off-market.  

*********************** 

Page 6 of 6 

 

 

