  ¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India

 

CIRCULAR 

 

    April 17, 2015 

CIR/MRD/DSA/05/2015                                                           
 
The Managing Director  
All recognised/Exited Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
Sub: Exclusively listed companies of De-recognized/Non operational/exited Stock 
Exchanges. 
1.  SEBI vide circular dated May 30, 2012 (Exit Circular) issued guidelines for exit of 
De-recognized/Non-operational stock exchanges. Subsequently, vide circular dated 
May  22,  2014,  SEBI  issued  directions  to  the  stock  exchanges  to  address  issues 
faced by companies exclusively listed in non-operational stock exchanges. 

2.  As  per  the  above  referred  circulars,  inter-alia,  the  exclusively  listed  companies 
which fail to obtain listing in any other nationwide stock exchange will cease to be 
a  listed  company  and  will  be  moved  to  the  dissemination  board  by  the  existing 
stock exchange.  

3.  Subsequently, SEBI has been in receipt of representations from exclusively listed 
companies stating that although they are interested and eligible to migrate to the 
main boards of nationwide stock exchanges, they are not in a position to opt for the 
same  due  to  paucity  of  time.  Such  companies  have  sought  time  to  list  in 
nationwide stock exchanges. In the interest of investors of such companies, it has 
been  decided  to  allow  a  time  line  of  eighteen  months,  within  which  such 
companies shall obtain listing upon compliance with the listing requirements of the 
nation-wide stock exchange, subject to the following:-  
a)  Listing in nationwide stock exchanges is permitted only in respect of those 
class  of  securities  that  were  already  listed  in  the  non-operational  stock 
exchanges.  

b)  The  exclusively  listed  companies  seeking  listing  on  nationwide  exchanges 
shall not undergo any material  changes in their shareholding pattern  which 
suggests  change  of  control  at  the  time  of  listing  on  nationwide  stock 
exchanges.  

c)  Pursuant to exit or de-recognition of the non-operational stock exchanges, the 
exclusively  listed  companies  of  such  stock  exchanges  which  have  been 
moved to the Dissemination Boards of nation-wide stock exchanges may be 
desirous of migrating to the main boards of the nation-wide stock exchanges. 
However, they may not be in a position to obtain the NOC or other requisite 
confirmations from the non-operational/exited  stock exchanges wherein they 
were originally listed.  
In  such  instances,  for  the  purpose  of  direct  listing,  the  exclusively  listed 
companies which were filing returns for the last two financial years with their 
respective  Registrar  of  Companies  ("RoC")  may  be  treated  as  a  compliant 
company  and  the  requirement  of  No  Objection  Certificate  ("NOC")  or  any 
other  documents  from  non-operational/exited  stock  exchanges  may  not  be 
insisted  upon  by  the  nationwide  exchange  which  is  providing  the  listing 
platform.    For  the  listing  purpose,  the  company  shall  obtain  compliance 
certification  from  any  independent    professionals  and  submit  to  the 
nationwide stock exchanges. The nationwide stock exchanges shall also carry 
out independent verification for ensuring the compliance of the requirements. 
d)  All  the  promoters  and  directors  of  such  companies,  who  have  failed  to 
provide  the  trading  platform  or  exit  to  its  shareholders,  even  after  the 
extended time of eighteen months will have to undergo stricter scrutiny for 
their 
securities  market.  Any 
company/entity/person which proposes to make public offer or get registered 
with SEBI in any capacity and has/is promoter or director whose company is 
in  dissemination  board  has  to  demonstrate  that  they  have  made  adequate 
efforts for providing exit to their shareholders and that upon failure of such 
efforts, such companies have remained on the dissemination board. This shall 
be  notwithstanding  any  other  action  that  may  be  taken  against  such 
promoters/directors/companies by SEBI.  

association  with 

any 

future 

e)  Nationwide  Stock  exchange  shall  have  a  dedicated  cell  to  process  the 
application  of  exclusively  listed  companies  of  non-operational/exited  stock 
exchanges.  The  applications  of  these  companies  for  compliance  with  this 
circular shall be disposed off as early as possible but not later than 2 months 
from the date of receipt of the application. 

4.  Until such listing, these companies shall continue to remain in the Dissemination 

Boards of the nation-wide stock exchanges.  

5.  The companies which are referred to the respective Registrar of  Companies (RoC) 
by  the  non-operational  exchanges  for  the  purpose  of  declaring  as  'vanishing 
company'  may  be  removed  from  the  dissemination  board  once  the  company  is 
identified as 'Vanishing' by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs ("MCA") or RoC. 

 
 

Applicability  
6.  The provisions of this Circular are applicable to the exclusively listed companies 
of all de-recognized/non-operational stock exchanges exited/exiting (Compulsory 
or Voluntarily) in terms of exit circular dated May 30, 2012.  

7.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) and 
11(2)(j) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the 
interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 
regulate the securities market. 

8.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
Sunil Kadam 
General Manager 
Ph: +912226441630 
Email: sunilk@sebi.gov.in 

 

