CIRCULAR 

 

CIR/CFD/POLICY CELL/2/2015   

 

 

 

 

       June 16, 2015 

To 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges  

Dear Sir/Madam,  
 
Sub:  Requirements  specified  under  the  SEBI  (Share  Based  Employee  Benefits) 
Regulations, 2014 

1.  This has reference to the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 
("the Regulations") notified on October 28, 2014. The Regulations provide for certain 
processes / disclosure requirements to be specified by SEBI. Accordingly, necessary 
guidelines are being issued and given in the Annexure to this circular. 
 

2.  The stock exchanges are advised to bring the contents of this circular to the notice 

of the companies listed on them and ensure its compliance. 
 

3.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  under  regulation  28  of  the 
Regulations  and  section  11  read  with  section  11A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992.  
 

4.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”.  

 
Yours faithfully, 
 

 
Amit Tandon 
Deputy General Manager 
+91-22-26449373 
amitt@sebi.gov.in  

 

 

 

Page 1 of 17 

Requirements  under  the  SEBI  (Share  Based  Employee  Benefits)  Regulations, 
2014 

Annexure 

Regulation 3(3) - Minimum Provisions in Trust Deed 

The trust deed shall, inter alia, cover the following:  

1. 

Details of the trust, including:  

Name of the trust; 
Object of the trust; 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii)  Details of settlor; 
(iv)  Details of scheme(s) administered; 
(v) 
(vi)  Description  of  the  manner  in  which  the  trust  funds  shall  be  used  for 

Source of funds; 

meeting object of the trust; 

(vii)  Description  of  the  classes  of  beneficiaries  along  with  their  rights  and 

obligations; 

(viii)  Details of trustee(s); 

2. 

Powers and duties of trustee(s), including: 

(i) 

Frame  rules  for  administration  of  the  scheme(s)  in  compliance  with  the 
scheme documents, object of the trust and the regulations;  

(ii)  Maintain  books  of  accounts  of  trust  as  required  under  law  including  the 

regulations;  

Provisions on dissolution of the trust;  

Trust  deed  shall  provide  that  it  would  be  the  duty  of  the  trustees  to  act  in  the 
interest of employees who are beneficiaries of the trust and subject to provisions 
of  the  regulations,  it  shall  not  act  in  any  manner  or  include  any  provision  in  the 
trust deed that would be detrimental to the interests of the beneficiaries. 

Such  other  clauses  which  are  necessary  for  safeguarding  the  interests  of  the 
beneficiaries. 

 

Page 2 of 17 

3. 

4. 

5. 

 

 

Regulation  5(3)  -  Terms  and  Conditions  of  schemes  to  be  formulated  by  the 
Compensation Committee  

The  Compensation  Committee  is  required  to  formulate  the  detailed  terms  and 
conditions of the schemes which shall, inter alia, include the following provisions: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

f. 

g. 

the  quantum  of  option,  SAR,  share  or  benefit  as  the  case  may  be,  per 
employee and in aggregate under a scheme; 
 
the kind of benefits to be granted under a scheme covered by Part D and Part 
E of Chapter III of the regulations; 
 
the conditions under which options, SAR, shares or other benefits as the case 
may  be,  may  vest  in  employees  and  may  lapse  in  case  of  termination  of 
employment for misconduct; 
 
the  exercise  period  within  which  the  employee  can  exercise  the  options  or 
SARs  and  that  options  or  SARs  would  lapse  on  failure  to  exercise  the  same 
within the exercise period; 
 
the specified time period within which the  employee shall exercise the vested 
options or SARs in the event of termination or resignation of an employee; 
 
the right of an employee to exercise all the options or SARs, as the case may 
be,  vested  in  him  at  one  time  or  at  various  points  of  time  within  the  exercise 
period; 
 
the procedure for making a fair and reasonable adjustment to the entitlement 
including adjustment to the number of options/SARs and to the exercise price 
in case of corporate actions such as rights issues, bonus issues, merger, sale 
of  division  and  others.  In  this  regard,  the  following  shall,  inter  alia,  be  taken 
into consideration by the compensation committee: 
i. 

the  number  and  price  of  options  /  SARs  shall  be  adjusted  in  a  manner 
such  that  total  value  to  the  employee  of  the  options  /  SAR  remains  the 
same after the corporate action; 
the vesting period and the life of the options / SAR shall be left unaltered 
as far as possible to protect the rights of the  employee(s) who is granted 
such options / SARs; 
 

ii. 

h. 

the  grant,  vesting  and  exercise  of  shares,  options  or  SARs  in  case  of 
employees who are on long leave;  
 

i.  eligibility to avail benefits under schemes covered by Part D and/or Part E of 
Chapter III of the regulations in case of employees who are on long leave; and 
 
the procedure for cashless exercise of options / SARs. 
 

j. 

 

 

Page 3 of 17 

Regulation  6(2)  -  Contents  of  the  explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  and 
resolution for shareholders meeting 

The  explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  and  the  resolution proposed  to  be  passed for 
the schemes in general meeting shall, inter alia, contain the following information: 

a.  brief description of the scheme(s); 
b. 

the total number of options, SARs, shares or benefits, as the case may be, to   
be granted; 
identification  of  classes  of  employees  entitled 
beneficiaries in the scheme(s); 
requirements of vesting and period of vesting; 

d. 
e.  maximum  period  (subject  to  regulation  18(1)  and  24(1)  of  the  regulations,  as 

c. 

to  participate  and  be 

the case may be) within which the options / SARs / benefit shall be vested; 

f.  exercise price, SAR price, purchase price or pricing formula; 
g.  exercise period and process of exercise; 
h. 

the  appraisal  process  for  determining  the  eligibility  of  employees  for  the 
scheme(s); 

i.  maximum number of options, SARs, shares, as the case may be, to be issued 

per employee and in aggregate; 

j.  maximum  quantum  of  benefits  to  be  provided  per  employee  under  a 

scheme(s); 

k.  whether the scheme(s) is to be implemented and administered directly by the 

company or through a trust; 

l.  whether  the  scheme(s)  involves  new  issue  of  shares  by  the  company  or 

secondary acquisition by the trust or both; 

m.  the amount of loan to be provided for implementation of the scheme(s) by the 

company to the trust, its tenure, utilization, repayment terms, etc.; 

n.  maximum  percentage  of  secondary  acquisition  (subject  to  limits  specified 
under  the  regulations)  that  can  be  made  by  the  trust  for  the  purposes  of  the 
scheme(s); 

o.  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  the  company  shall  conform  to  the  accounting 

p. 
q. 

policies specified in regulation 15; 
the method which the company shall use to value its options or SARs; 
the following statement, if applicable: 
'In  case  the  company  opts  for  expensing  of  share  based  employee  benefits 
using  the  intrinsic  value,  the  difference  between  the  employee  compensation 
cost so computed and the employee  compensation cost that shall have been 
recognized  if  it  had  used  the  fair  value,  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  Directors’ 
report  and  the  impact  of  this  difference  on  profits  and  on  earnings  per  share 
(“EPS”) of the company shall also be disclosed in the Directors' report.' 

 

Page 4 of 17 

Regulation  10(b)  -  Information  required  in  the  statement  to  be  filed  with  Stock 
Exchange(s) 

Description of Schemes 

1  Authorized Share Capital of the Company. 
2 

Issued  Share  Capital  of  the  Company  as  on  date  of  Institution  of  the  scheme/ 
amendment of the scheme. 

3  Date of institution of the scheme/ amendment of the scheme. 
4  Validity period of the scheme. 
5  Date  of  notice  of  AGM/EGM  for  approving  the  scheme/for  amending  the 
scheme/for  approving  grants  under  regulation  6(3)  of  the  SEBI  (Share  Based 
Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014. 

6  Date  of  AGM/EGM  approving  the  scheme/amending  the  scheme/approving 
grants  under  regulation  6(3)  of  the  SEBI  (Share  Based  Employee  Benefits) 
Regulations, 2014. 

7  Kind of benefit granted under the scheme. 
8 

Identity of classes of persons eligible under the scheme: 

a.  Permanent employees 
b.  Permanent employees outside India 
c.  Permanent employees of subsidiary 
d.  Permanent employees of holding company 
e.  Permanent employees of associate company 
f.  Whole-time directors 

9  Total number of shares reserved under the scheme, as applicable. 
10 Number of shares entitled under the grant. 
11 Total number of grants to be made. 
12 Maximum  number  of  shares,  options,  SARs  or  benefits  to  be  granted  per 

employee per grant and in aggregate. 

13 Exercise price or pricing formula. 
14 Whether  any  amount  payable  at  the  time  of  grant?  If  so,  quantum  of  such 

amount. 

15 Lock-in period under the scheme. 
16 Vesting period under the scheme. 
17 Maximum period within which the grant shall be vested. 
18 Exercise period under the scheme. 
19 Whether  employee  can  exercise  all  the  options  or  SARs  vested  at  one  time? 

Yes/No 

20 Whether employee can exercise vested options or SARs at various points of time 

within the exercise period? Yes/No 

21 Whether  scheme  provides  for  the  procedure  for  making  a  fair  and  reasonable 
adjustment to the number of options or SARs and to the exercise price in case of 
rights  issues,  bonus  issues  and  other  corporate  actions?  Clause  in  scheme 
describing such adjustment. 

22 Description  of  the  appraisal  process  for  determining  the  eligibility  of  employees 

under the scheme. 

 

Page 5 of 17 

23 The  specified  time  period  within  which  vested  options  or  SARs  are  to  be 

exercised in the event of termination or resignation of an employee. 

24 The  specified  time  period  within  which  options  or  SARs  to  be  exercised  in  the 

event of death of the employee. 

25 Whether scheme provides for conditions under which options, SARs, or benefits 
vested  in  employees  may  lapse  in  case  of  termination  of  employment  for 
misconduct? Clause in Scheme describing such adjustment. 

26 Whether  scheme  provides  for  conditions  for  the  grant,  vesting  and  exercise  of 
options, SARs or benefits in case of employees who are on long leave? Clause in 
scheme describing such adjustment. 

27 Whether  amount  paid/payable  by  the  employee  at  the  time  of  the  grant  of  the 
options, SARs or benefits will be forfeited if the employee does not exercise  the 
same within the exercise period? Clause in scheme describing such adjustment.  
28 Details  of  approval  of  shareholders  pursuant  to  regulation  6(3)  of  the  SEBI 

(Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 with respect to: 

a.  Grant to employees of subsidiary or holding or associate company. 
b.  Grant to identified employees, during any one year, equal to or exceeding 
1% of the issued capital (excluding outstanding warrants and conversions) 
of the company at the time of grant.  

29 Details of the variation made to the scheme along with the rationale therefor and 

the details of the employees who are beneficiary of such variation: 

 

Sd/- 

Company Secretary 

Place: 

Date: 

Documents to be filed with registration statement 

1  Copy of scheme, certified by the Company Secretary. 
2  Copy of notice of AGM/EGM approving the scheme/for amending the scheme/for 
approving  grants  under  regulation  6(3)  of  the  SEBI  (Share  Based  Employee 
Benefits) Regulations, 2014, certified by the Company Secretary. 

3  Copy  of  resolution  of shareholders for  approving  the  scheme/ for  amending  the 
scheme/for  approving  grants  under  regulation  6(3)  of  the  SEBI  (Share  Based 
Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, certified by the Company Secretary. 

4  List  of  Promoters  as  defined  under  the  SEBI  (Share  Based  Employee  Benefits) 

Regulations, 2014. 

5  Copy of latest Annual Report. 
6  Certificate  of  Auditor  on  compliance  with  of  the  SEBI  (Share  Based  Employee 

Benefits) Regulations, 2014. 

7  Specimen copy of share certificate. 
8  Any other relevant documents. 

 

Page 6 of 17 

Undertakings 

The undersigned company hereby undertakes: 

1  

2 

3 

4 

5 

To  file,  a  post-effective  amendment  to  this  statement  to  include  any  material 
information with respect to the scheme of distribution not previously disclosed in 
the statement or any material change to such information in the statement. 

To  notify,  the  concerned  stock  exchanges  on  which  the  shares  of  the  company 
are  listed,  of  each  issue  of  shares  pursuant  to  the  exercise  of  options  or  SARs 
under  the  scheme  mentioned  in  this  statement,  in  the  prescribed  form,  as 
amended from time to time. 

That the company shall conform to the accounting policies specified in regulation 
15 of the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014. 

That  the  scheme  confirms  to  the  SEBI  (Share  Based  Employee  Benefits) 
Regulations, 2014. 

That the company has in place systems / codes / procedures to comply with the 
SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 or any modification or re-
enactment thereto. 

Signatures 

1. 

Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  the  SEBI  Act  /  Regulations,  the  company 
certifies  that  it  has  reasonable  grounds  to  believe  that  it  meets  all  the 
requirements for the filing of this form and has duly caused this statement to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto, duly authorized 

Name of the company 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

              Sd/- 

             Name of the Compliance Officer 

             Designation 

Date: 

Place: 

2. 

Certification by Registered Merchant Banker, pursuant to  regulation 12(6) of the  
SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014:  

“Certified  that  the  scheme  conforms  to  the  SEBI  (Share  Based  Employee 
Benefits) Regulations, 2014.” 

 

Date:   

Place:  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

         Authorised Signatory 

                Name of the Merchant Banker 

 

Page 7 of 17 

Regulation 10(c) - Format of notification for issue of shares 
 

1. 
2. 
3. 

Company name and address of Registered Office : 
Name of the Stock Exchanges on which the company’s shares are listed : 
Filing date of the statement referred in regulation 10(b) of the SEBI (Share 
Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 with Stock Exchange: 
Filing Number, if any : 
Title of the Scheme pursuant to which shares are issued, if any: 
Kind of security to be listed : 
Par value of the shares : 
Date of issue of shares : 
Number of shares issued : 

4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10.  Share Certificate No., if applicable : 
11.  Distinctive number of the share, if applicable : 
12. 
ISIN Number of the shares if issued in Demat : 
13.  Exercise price per share: 
14.  Premium per share : 
15. 
16. 
17.  Details of any lock-in on the shares : 
18.  Date of expiry of lock-in : 
19.  Whether shares identical in all respects to existing shares if not, when will 

Total Issued shares after this issue : 
Total Issued share capital after this issue : 

they become identical? : 

20.  Details of listing fees, if payable : 

 

Date: 

Place: 

 

 

  Signature of Company Secretary/Compliance Officer 

 

Page 8 of 17 

Regulation 14 - Disclosures by the board of directors  

The  board  of  directors  in  their  report  shall  disclose  any  material  change  in  the 
scheme(s) and whether the scheme(s) is / are in compliance with the regulations.  

Further, the following details, inter alia, shall be disclosed on the company's website and 
a web-link thereto shall be provided in the report of board of directors.  

A.  Relevant  disclosures  in  terms  of  the  'Guidance  note  on  accounting  for  employee 
share-based  payments'  issued  by  ICAI  or  any  other  relevant  accounting  standards 
as prescribed from time to time. 
 

B.  Diluted  EPS  on  issue  of  shares  pursuant  to  all  the  schemes  covered  under  the 
regulations  shall  be  disclosed  in  accordance  with  'Accounting  Standard  20  - 
Earnings  Per  Share'  issued  by  ICAI  or  any  other  relevant  accounting  standards  as 
prescribed from time to time. 
 

C.  Details related to ESOS 

 

(i) 

A  description  of  each  ESOS  that  existed  at  any  time  during  the  year,  including 
the  general terms and conditions of each ESOS, including -  
Date of shareholders’ approval 
(a) 
Total number of options approved under ESOS  
(b) 
Vesting requirements 
(c) 
(d) 
Exercise price or pricing formula  
(e)  Maximum term of options granted 
(f) 
(g) 

Source of shares (primary, secondary or combination) 
Variation in terms of options 
 

(ii)  Method used to account for ESOS - Intrinsic or fair value. 

 

(iii)  Where the company opts for expensing of the options using the intrinsic value of 
the  options,  the  difference  between  the  employee  compensation  cost  so 
computed and the employee compensation cost that shall have been recognized 
if it had used the fair value of the options shall be disclosed. The impact of this 
difference on profits and on EPS of the company shall also be disclosed. 

 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 9 of 17 

(iv)  Option movement during the year (For each ESOS): 

 

Particulars  

Details 

Number  of  options  outstanding  at 
beginning of the period 
Number of options granted during the year 

the 

Number of options forfeited / lapsed during 
the year 
Number of options vested during the year 

Number of options exercised during the year 

is 

implemented  directly  by 

Number  of  shares  arising  as  a  result  of 
exercise of options 
Money realized by exercise of options (INR), if 
scheme 
the 
company 
Loan repaid by the Trust during the year from 
exercise price received 
Number  of  options  outstanding  at  the  end  of 
the year 
Number  of  options  exercisable  at  the  end  of 
the year 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(vi) 

 
(v)  Weighted-average  exercise  prices  and  weighted-average  fair  values  of  options 
shall  be  disclosed  separately  for  options  whose  exercise  price  either  equals  or 
exceeds or is less than the market price of the stock.  
 
Employee  wise  details  (name  of  employee,  designation,  number  of  options 
granted during the year, exercise price) of options granted to - 
(a) 
(b) 

senior managerial personnel; 
any  other  employee  who  receives  a  grant  in  any  one  year  of  option 
amounting to 5% or more of option granted during that year; and 
identified employees who were granted option, during any one year, equal 
to or exceeding 1% of the issued capital (excluding outstanding warrants 
and conversions) of the company at the time of grant. 
 

(c) 

(vii)  A description of the method and significant assumptions used during the year to 

estimate the fair value of options including the following information:  

 

Page 10 of 17 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

the  weighted-average  values  of  share  price,  exercise  price,  expected 
volatility,  expected  option  life,  expected  dividends,  the  risk-free  interest 
rate and any other inputs to the model; 
the method used and the assumptions made to incorporate the effects of 
expected early exercise; 
how  expected  volatility  was  determined,  including  an  explanation  of  the 
extent to which expected volatility was based on historical volatility; and 
whether and how any other features of the option grant were incorporated 
into the measurement of fair value, such as a market condition. 
 

Disclosures  in  respect  of  grants  made  in  three  years  prior  to  IPO  under  each 
ESOS 

 

(i) 

Until all options granted in the three years prior to the IPO have been exercised 
or have lapsed, disclosures of the information specified above in respect of such 
options shall also be made. 
 

D.  Details related to ESPS 

 

(i) 

The  following  details  on  each  ESPS  under  which  allotments  were  made  during 
the year:  
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 

Date of shareholders’ approval 
Number of shares issued 
The price at which such shares are issued 
Lock-in period 
 

(ii) 

The following details regarding allotment made under each ESPS, as at the end 
of the year : 

Particulars 

Details 

The  details  of  the  number  of  shares  issued 
under ESPS 

The price at which such shares are issued 

Employee-wise  details  of  the  shares  issued 
to; 

 

 

 

  (i) senior managerial personnel; 

  (ii) any other employee who is issued shares 

 

Page 11 of 17 

in  any  one  year  amounting  to  5%  or  more 
shares issued during that year; 

  (iii)  identified  employees  who  were  issued 
shares  during  any  one  year  equal  to  or 
exceeding  1%  of  the  issued  capital  of  the 
company at the time of issuance; 

Consideration received against the issuance 
of shares, if scheme is implemented directly 
by the company 

Loan repaid by the Trust during the year from 
exercise price received 

 

 

 
 

E.  Details related to SAR 

(i) 

 
A  description  of  each  SAR  scheme  that  existed  at  any  time  during  the  year, 
including the general terms and conditions of each SAR scheme, including -  

Date of shareholders’ approval 
Total number of shares approved under the SAR scheme 
Vesting requirements 
SAR price or pricing formula  

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e)  Maximum term of SAR granted 
(f) 
(g) 

the  employee  or 

Method of settlement (whether in cash or equity) 
Choice  of  settlement  (with 
combination) 
Source of shares (primary, secondary or combination) 
Variation in terms of scheme 

the  company  or 

(h) 
(i) 
 

(ii)  Method used to account for SAR - Intrinsic or fair value. 

 

(iii)  Where the company opts for expensing of SAR using the intrinsic value of SAR, 
the  difference  between  the  employee  compensation  cost  so  computed  and  the 
employee compensation cost that shall have been recognized if it had used the 
fair value of SAR, shall be disclosed. The impact of this difference on profits and 
on EPS of the company shall also be disclosed.  

 
 
 

 

Page 12 of 17 

(iv) 

SAR movement during the year (For each SAR scheme): 

 

Particulars 

Details 

Number  of  SARs  outstanding  at  the 
beginning of the year 
Number  of  SARs  granted  during  the 
year 
Number  of  SARs  forfeited  /  lapsed 
during the year 
Number  of  SARs  vested  during  the 
year 
Number  of  SARs  exercised  /  settled 
during the year 
Number  of  SARs  outstanding  at  the 
end of the year 
Number  of  SARs  exercisable  at  the 
end of the year 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(v) 

 
Employee-wise details (name of employee, designation, number of SAR granted 
during the year, exercise price) of SAR granted to - 

(a) 
(b) 

(c) 

senior managerial personnel; 
any other employee who receives a grant in any one year of amounting 
to 5% or more of SAR granted during that year; and 
identified  employees  who  were  granted  SAR,  during  any  one  year, 
equal to or exceeding 1% of the issued capital (excluding outstanding 
warrants and conversions) of the company at the time of grant. 

 

Disclosures  in  respect  of  grants  made  in  three  years  prior  to  IPO  under  each 
SAR scheme 
 
(i)  Until  all  SARs  granted  in  the  three  years  prior  to  the  IPO  have  been  exercised  or 
have  lapsed,  disclosures  of  the  information  specified  above  in  respect  of  such 
SARs shall also be made 

 

F.  Details related to GEBS / RBS 

 
(i)  A description of each GEBS / RBS scheme that existed at any time during the year, 

including the general terms and conditions of each such scheme, including -  

(a) 
(b) 

Date of shareholders’ approval 
Kind of benefits to be granted under the scheme 

 

Page 13 of 17 

(c)  Beneficiaries of the scheme 
(d)  Total assets of the scheme 
(e)  Quantum of holding in own shares / listed holding company shares 

(both absolute and in percentage) 

(f)  Whether scheme is in compliance of regulation 26(2) / 27(3) of the 

regulations, as applicable 

(g)  Variation in terms of scheme 

 

G.  Details related to Trust 

 

The  following  details,  inter  alia,  in  connection  with  transactions  made  by  the  Trust 
meant  for  the  purpose  of  administering  the  schemes  under  the  regulations  are  to  be 
disclosed: 

 

(i)  General information on all schemes 

Particulars 

Details 

Name of the Trust 

Details of the Trustee(s) 

Amount  of  loan  disbursed  by 
company  /    any  company  in  the 
group, during the year  

Amount  of 
loan  outstanding 
(repayable  to  company  /  any 
company in the group) as at the 
end of the year 

Amount  of  loan,  if  any,  taken 
from any other source for which 
company  /  any  company  in  the 
group has provided any security 
or guarantee 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 

Any  other  contribution  made  to 
the Trust during the year  

Page 14 of 17 

Sl. 
No. 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

(ii) Brief details of transactions in shares by the Trust 

 
(a) Number of shares held at the beginning of the year; 

 

(b) Number  of  shares  acquired  during  the  year  through  (i)  primary  issuance  (ii) 
secondary acquisition, also as a percentage of paid up equity capital as at the 
end  of  the  previous  financial  year,  along  with  information  on  weighted 
average cost of acquisition per share;  
 

(c) Number of shares transferred to the employees / sold along with the purpose 

thereof; 
 

(d) Number of shares held at the end of the year.  

 

(iii)  In case of secondary acquisition of shares by the Trust 

 

Number of shares 

 

As a percentage of paid-up equity 
capital  as  at  the  end  of  the  year 
immediately preceding the year in 
which  shareholders’  approval 
was obtained 

Held at the beginning of the year 

Acquired during the year 

Sold during the year 

Transferred to the employees 
during the year 
Held at the end of the year 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 15 of 17 

Regulations 16(2) and 23(3) - Disclosure Document  

Part A: Statement of Risks 

All  investments  in  shares,  options  or  SARs  are  subject  to  risk  as  the  value  of  shares 
may  go  down  or  go  up.  In  addition,  the  options  /  SARs  are  subject  to  the  following 
additional risks: 

Concentration: The risk arising out of any fall in value of shares is aggravated if 
the employee’s holding is concentrated in the shares of a single company. 
Leverage: Any change in the value of the share can lead to a significantly larger 
change in the value of the options / SARs. 
Illiquidity:  The  options  /  SARs  cannot  be  transferred  to  anybody,  and  therefore 
the  employees  cannot  mitigate  their  risks  by  selling  the  whole  or  part  of  their 
benefits before they are exercised. 
Vesting:  The  options  /  SARs  will  lapse  if  the  employment  is  terminated  prior  to 
vesting.  Even  after  the  options  /  SARs  are  vested,  the  unexercised  options  / 
SARs may be forfeited if the employee is terminated for gross misconduct. 

Part B: Information about the company 

Business of the company: A description of the main objects and present business 
of the company. 
Abridged  financial  information:  Abridged  financial  information,  for  the  last  five 
years  for  which  audited  financial  information  is  available,  as  prescribed  under  
clause  (b)(i)  of  Section  26(1)  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  as  amended  or  re-
enacted from time to time. The last audited accounts of the company  shall also 
be provided unless this has already been provided to the employee in connection 
with a previous option or SAR grant or otherwise. 
Risk  Factors:  Management  perception  of  the  risk  factors  for  the  company  (i.e., 
sensitivity  to  foreign  exchange  rate  fluctuations,  difficulty  in  availability  of  raw 
materials or in marketing of products, cost/time overrun etc.). 
Continuing disclosure requirement: The option or SAR grantee shall be provided 
copies of all documents that are sent to the members of the company. This shall 
include the annual accounts of the company as well as notices of meetings and 
the accompanying explanatory statements. 

Part C: Salient Features of the Scheme 

This  Part  shall  contain  the  salient  features  of  the  scheme  of  the  company 
including  the  conditions  regarding  vesting,  exercise,  adjustment  for  corporate 
actions, and forfeiture of vested options / SARs as the case may be. It shall not 
be necessary to include this Part if it has already been provided to the employee 

Page 16 of 17 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

1 

2 

3 

4 

 

in  connection  with  a  previous  grant,  and  no  changes  have  taken  place  in  the 
scheme  since  then.  If  the  scheme  administrator  (whether  the  company  itself  or 
an outside securities firm appointed for this purpose) provides advisory services 
to  the  grantees  in  connection  with  the  exercise  of  options  or  SAR,  as  the  case 
may  be,  or  sale  of  resulting  shares,  such  advice  must  be  accompanied  by  an 
appropriate  disclosure  of  concentration  and  other 
risks.  The  scheme 
administrator shall conform to the code of conduct appropriate for such fiduciary 
relationships. 

 

___***___ 

 

 

Page 17 of 17 

