 

CIRCULAR  
 
 

 

 

CIR/IMD/FIIC/05/2015  
 
 
To,  
  
1.  All  registered  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  ("FPIs")  through  their  Designated 

June 12, 2015 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Depository Participants 

2.  All Registered Foreign Venture Capital Investors  
3.  All Approved Designated Depository Participants ("DDPs") 
4.  All Registered Custodians of Securities  
5.  All Depositories  
6.  All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam,  
 
Sub: Clarification on grant of registration as a Foreign Portfolio Investor (FPI) 
to Registered Foreign Venture Capital Investors (FVCI). 
 
1.  SEBI  has  received  a  query  from  a  Designated  Depository  participant  (DDP) 
seeking  clarification  with  regard  to  any  restrictions/conditions  on  applicants, 
holding registration as a FVCI, from obtaining registration as a FPI. 

 
2.  The SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014 ("FPI Regulations") as 
well  as  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investors)  Regulations,  2000  ("FVCI 
Regulations") do not expressly prohibit FVCI from holding registration as a FPI. 

 
3.  The investment conditions and restrictions for an entity registered as FVCI under 
FVCI  Regulations  are  different  as  compared  to  the  investment  conditions  and 
restrictions  as  prescribed  for  an  entity  registered  as  FPI  under  the  FPI 
Regulations. Thus, such an entity would be required to have a clear segregation 
of funds/ securities which are proposed to be invested / held under the respective 
registrations.  

 
4.  Accordingly,  it  is  clarified  that  a  DDP  may  consider  an  applicant,  holding  FVCI 

registration, for grant of registration as an FPI subject to the following: 

a.  The applicant complies with the eligibility criteria as prescribed under the FPI 

Regulations. 

b.  The funds raised, allocated and invested must be clearly segregated for both 

the registrations.  

c.  Separate  accounts  must  be  maintained  with  the  custodian  for  execution  of 
trades. However, such an applicant shall have same custodian for its activities 
as FPI and FVCI. 

1 | P a g e  

 

d.  The  securities  held  under  FVCI  and  FPI  registrations  should  be  clearly 

segregated. 
 

e.  Reporting of transactions must be done separately according to the conditions 

applicable under the specific registration.  

f.  All  the  conditions  applicable  to  the  entity  under  the  respective  registrations 
must be complied with at the level of the segregated funds and activities with 
respect to the specific registrations. 

g.  The investment restrictions as applicable to FPI, in terms of Regulation 21 of 
FPI  Regulations  and  SEBI  Circular  No.  CIR/IMD/FIIC/20/2014  dated 
November 24, 2014 shall be applicable.  

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

h.  The  applicant  does  not  have  opaque  structure(s),  as  defined  under 

Explanation 1 of Regulation 32(1) (f) of FPI Regulations.  

 
5.  The applicant shall be required to comply with the provisions of FPI Regulations, 

FVCI Regulations and the circulars etc., issued there under from time to time. 

 
6.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market.  

 
7.  The circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

"Legal framework" and "information for - FPI".  
 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
  
 
ACHAL SINGH 
Deputy General Manager  
Tel No.: +91-22-26449619 
Email: achals@sebi.gov.in  

2 | P a g e  

