¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DP/13/2015 

 

 

 

 

                    July 06, 2015 

To, 

All Stock Exchanges, Clearing Corporation and Depositories. 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Subject: Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience framework of Stock 

Exchanges, Clearing Corporation and Depositories 

 
 SEBI  as  a  member  of  IOSCO  has  adopted  the  Principles  for  Financial 
Market  Infrastructures  (PFMIs)  laid  down  by  CPMI-IOSCO  and  has  issued 
guidance for implementation of the principles in the securities market. 

2.  Principle  17  of  PFMI  that  relates  to  management  and  mitigation  of 
‘Operational  risk’  requires  that  systemically  important  market  infrastructures 
institutions “should identify the plausible sources of operational risk, both internal 
and external, and mitigate their impact through the use of appropriate systems, 
policies, procedures, and controls. Systems should be designed to ensure a high 
degree of security and operational reliability and should have adequate, scalable 
capacity.  Business  continuity  management  should  aim  for  timely  recovery  of 
operations  and  fulfilment  of  the  FMI’s  obligations,  including  in  the  event  of  a 
wide-scale or major disruption.” 

3.  Stock  Exchanges,  Depositories  and  Clearing  Corporations  (hereafter 
referred  as  Market  Infrastructure  Institutions  or  MIIs  in  this  document)  are 
systemically 
the 
operational  risk  management,  these  MIIs  need  to  have  robust  cyber  security 
framework  to  provide  essential  facilities  and  perform  systemically  critical 
functions relating to trading, clearing and settlement in securities market.  

institutions.  As  part  of 

important  market 

infrastructure 

In  view  of  the  above,  SEBI  along  with  the  Technical  Advisory  Committee 
4. 
(TAC) engaged in detailed discussions with MIIs to develop necessary guidance 
in the area of cyber security and cyber resilience. 

5.  Based  on  the  consultations  and  recommendations  of  TAC,  it  has  been 
decided  to  lay  down  the  framework  placed  at  Annexure  A  that  MIIs  would  be 
required to comply with regard to cyber security and cyber resilience.  

Page 1 of 10 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
6.  MIIs  are  directed  to  take  necessary  steps  to  put  in  place  systems  for 
implementation of the circular, including necessary amendments to the relevant 
bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations,  if  any,  within  six  months  from  the  date  of  the 
circular.  

7.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 
11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Section 19 of 
the Depositories Act, 1996 to protect the interests of investors in securities and to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Manoj Kumar 
General Manager 
email:  manojk@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

Page 2 of 10 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Annexure A 

1. 
Cyber  attacks  and  threats  attempt  to  compromise  the  Confidentiality, 
Integrity  and  Availability  (CIA)  of 
the  computer  systems,  networks  and 
databases.1
  Cyber  security  framework  include  measures,  tools  and  processes 
that are intended to prevent cyber attacks and improve cyber resilience. Cyber 
Resilience is an organisation’s ability to prepare and respond to a cyber attack 
and to continue operation during, and recover from, a cyber attack. 

Governance 

As part of the operational risk management framework to manage risk to 
2. 
systems,  networks  and  databases  from  cyber  attacks  and  threats,  MII  should 
formulate a comprehensive cyber security and cyber resilience policy document 
encompassing the framework mentioned hereunder. The policy document should 
be  approved  by  the  Board,  and  in  case  of  deviations  from  the  suggested 
framework,  reasons  for  such  deviations  should  also  be  provided  in  the  policy 
document. The policy document should be reviewed by the MII’s Board atleast 
annually  with  the  view  to  strengthen  and  improve  its  cyber  security  and  cyber 
resilience framework. 

3. 
The cyber security and cyber resilience policy should include the following 
process  to  identify,  assess,  and  manage  cyber  security  risk  associated  with 
processes, information, networks and systems.  

a.  ‘Identify’ critical IT assets and risks associated with such assets,  
b.  ‘Protect’ assets by deploying suitable controls, tools and measures, 
c.  ‘Detect’ 

incidents,  anomalies  and  attacks 

through  appropriate 

monitoring tools / processes,  

d.  ‘Respond’ by taking immediate steps after identification of the incident, 

anomaly or attack,  

e.  ‘Recover’ 

from 

recovery and business continuity framework. 

incident 

through 

incident  management,  disaster 

The Cyber security policy should encompass the principles prescribed by 

4. 
                                                           
1 Confidentiality refers to limiting access of systems and information to authorized users, 
Integrity is the assurance that the information is reliable and accurate, and Availability 
refers  to  guarantee  of  reliable  access  to  the  systems  and  information  by  authorized 
users 

Page 3 of 10 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC) of National 
Technical  Research  Organisation  (NTRO),  Government  of  India  in  the  report 
titled ‘Guidelines for Protection of National Critical Information Infrastructure’ and 
subsequent revisions, if any, from time to time.  

5. 
MII  should  also  incorporate  best  practices  from  standards  such  as  ISO 
27001, ISO 27002, COBIT 5, etc., or their subsequent revisions, if any, from time 
to time. 

6. 
MII should designate a senior official as Chief Information Security Officer 
(CISO)  whose  function  would  be  to  assess,  identify  and  reduce  cyber  security 
risks,  respond  to  incidents,  establish  appropriate  standards  and  controls,  and 
direct the establishment and implementation of processes and procedures as per 
the cyber security and resilience policy approved by the Board of the MII. 

The  Oversight  Standing  Committee  on  Technology2  of 

the  stock 
7. 
exchanges and of the clearing corporations and the IT Strategy Committee3
 of 
the  depositories  should  on  a  quarterly  basis  review  the  implementation  of  the 
cyber security and resilience policy approved by their Boards, and such review 
should  include  review  of  their  current  IT  and  cyber  security  and  resilience 
capabilities, set goals for a target level of cyber resilience, and establish a plan to 
improve and strengthen cyber security and cyber resilience.  

8. 
MII should establish a reporting procedure to facilitate communication of 
unusual activities and events to CISO or to the senior management in a timely 
manner.  

9. 
The  aforementioned  committee  and  the  senior  management  of  the  MII, 
including the CISO, should periodically review instances of cyber attacks, if any, 
domestically and globally, and take steps to strengthen cyber security and cyber 
resilience framework. 

10.  MII should define responsibilities of its employees, outsourced staff, and 
employees  of  vendors,  members  or  participants  and  other  entities,  who  may 
have  access  or  use  systems  /  networks  of  MII,  towards  ensuring  the  goal  of 
cyber security. 

                                                           
2 Refer SEBI Circulars SMD/POLICY/Cir-2/98 dated January 14, 1998 and CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012 
dated December 13, 2012. 
3 Refer SEBI CIR/MRD/DMS/ 03 /2014 dated January 21, 2014. 

Page 4 of 10 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Identify 

11.  MII  should  identify  critical  assets  based  on  their  sensitivity  and  criticality 
for business operations, services and data management. To this end, MII should 
maintain  up-to-date  inventory  of  its  hardware  and  systems,  software  and 
information  assets  (internal  and  external),  details  of  its  network  resources, 
connections to its network and data flows. 

12.  MII should accordingly identify cyber risks (threats and vulnerabilities) that 
it may face, alongwith the likelihood of such threats and impact on the business 
and thereby, deploy controls commensurate to the criticality.  

13.  MII  should  also  encourage  its  third-party  providers,  such  as  service 
providers, stock brokers, depository participants, etc. to have similar standards of 
Information Security. 

Protection 

Access Controls  

14.  No person by virtue of rank or position should have any intrinsic right to 
access confidential data, applications, system resources or facilities.   

15.  Any  access  to  MII’s  systems,  applications,  networks,  databases,  etc., 
should  be  for  a  defined  purpose  and  for  a  defined  period.  MII  should  grant 
access  to  IT  systems,  applications,  databases  and  networks  on  a  need-to-use 
basis and based on the principle of least privilege. Such access should be for the 
period  when  the  access  is  required  and  should  be  authorized  using  strong 
authentication mechanisms.  

16.  MII  should  implement  strong  password  controls  for  users’  access  to 
systems,  applications,  networks  and  databases.  Password  controls  should 
include a change of password upon first log-on, minimum password length and 
history,  password  complexity  as  well  as  maximum  validity  period.  The  user 
credential data should be stored using strong and latest hashing algorithms. 

17.  MII should ensure that records of user access are uniquely identified and 
logged  for  audit  and  review  purposes.  Such  logs  should  be  maintained  and 
stored in encrypted form for a time period not less than two (2) years. 

18.  MII should deploy additional controls and security measures to supervise 
staff  with  elevated  system  access  entitlements  (such  as  admin  or  privileged 

Page 5 of 10 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
users).  Such  controls  and  measures  should  inter-alia  include  restricting  the 
number of privileged users, periodic review of privileged users’ activities, disallow 
privileged users from accessing systems logs in which their activities are being 
captured, strong controls over remote access by privileged users, etc. 

19.  Account access lock policies after failure attempts should be implemented 
for all accounts. 

20.  Employees and outsourced staff such as employees of vendors or service 
providers,  who  may  be  given  authorised  access  to  the  MII’s  critical  systems, 
networks  and  other  computer  resources,  should  be  subject  to  stringent 
supervision, monitoring and access restrictions.  

Two-factor  authentication  at  log-in  should  be  implemented  for  all  users 

21. 
that connect using online / internet facility. 

22.  MII should formulate an Internet access policy to monitor and regulate the 
use  of  internet  and  internet  based  services  such  as  social  media  sites,  cloud-
based internet storage sites, etc.  

23.  Proper  ‘end  of  life’  mechanism  should  be  adopted  to  deactivate  access 
privileges  of  users  who  are  leaving  the  organization  or  who  access  privileges 
have been withdrawn. 

Physical security 

24.  Physical access to the critical systems should be restricted to minimum. 
Physical access of outsourced staff / visitors should be properly supervised by 
ensuring at the minimum that outsourced staff / visitors are accompanied at all 
times by authorised employees. 

25.  Physical access to the critical systems should be revoked immediately if 
the same is no longer required. 

26.  MII should ensure that the perimeter of the critical equipments room are 
physically secured and monitored by employing physical, human and procedural 
controls  such  as  the  use  of  security  guards,  CCTVs,  card  access  systems, 
mantraps, bollards, etc. where appropriate. 

Network Security Management  

27.  MII should establish baseline standards to facilitate consistent application 
of security configurations to operating systems, databases, network devices and 

Page 6 of 10 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
enterprise  mobile  devices  within  the  IT  environment.  The  MII  should  conduct 
regular  enforcement  checks  to  ensure  that  the  baseline  standards  are  applied 
uniformly. 

28.  MII  should  install  network  security  devices,  such  as  firewalls  as  well  as 
intrusion  detection  and  prevention  systems,  to  protect  its  IT  infrastructure  from 
security exposures originating from internal and external sources. 

29.  Anti-virus  software  should  be  installed  on  servers  and  other  computer 
systems. Updation of Anti-virus definition files and automatic anti-virus scanning 
should be done on a regular basis.   

Security of Data 

30.  Data-in  motion  and  Data-at-rest  should  be  in  encrypted  form  by  using 
strong encryption methods such as Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), RSA, 
SHA-2, etc. 

31.  MII  should  implement  measures  to  prevent  unauthorised  access  or 
copying  or  transmission  of  data  /  information  held  in  contractual  or  fiduciary 
capacity.  It  should  be  ensured  that  confidentiality  of  information  is  not 
compromised during the process of exchanging and transferring information with 
external parties.  

32. 
The information security policy should also cover use of devices such as 
mobile phone, faxes, photocopiers, scanners, etc. that can be used for capturing 
and transmission of data. 

33.  MII should allow only authorized data storage devices through appropriate 
validation processes. 

Hardening of Hardware and Software 

34.  Only a hardened and vetted hardware / software should be deployed by 
the MII. During the hardening process, MII should inter-alia ensure that default 
passwords are replaced with strong passwords and all unnecessary services are 
removed or disabled in equipments / software. 

35.  All  open  ports  which  are  not  in  use  or  can  potentially  be  used  for 
exploitation  of  data  should  be  blocked.  Other  open  ports  should  be  monitored 
and appropriate measures should be taken to secure the ports. 

 

Page 7 of 10 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Application Security and Testing  

36.  MII  should  ensure  that  regression  testing  is  undertaken  before  new  or 
modified system is implemented. The scope of tests should cover business logic, 
security  controls  and  system  performance  under  various  stress-load  scenarios 
and recovery conditions. 

Patch Management 

37.  MII should establish and ensure that the patch management procedures 
include the identification, categorisation and prioritisation of security patches. An 
implementation  timeframe  for  each  category  of  security  patches  should  be 
established to implement security patches in a timely manner. 

38.  MII should perform rigorous testing of security patches before deployment 
into the production environment so as to ensure that the application of patches 
do not impact other systems. 

Disposal of systems and storage devices 

39.  MII  should  frame  suitable  policy  for  disposals  of  the  storage  media  and 
systems.  The  data  /  information  on  such  devices  and  systems  should  be 
removed  by  using  methods  viz.  wiping  /  cleaning  /  overwrite,  degauss  and 
physical destruction, as applicable. 

Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing (VAPT) 

40.  MII  should  regularly  conduct  vulnerability  assessment  to  detect  security 
vulnerabilities  in  the  IT  environment.  MII  should  also  carry  out  periodic 
penetration  tests,  atleast  once  in  a  year,  in  order  to  conduct  an  in-depth 
evaluation  of  the  security  posture  of  the  system  through  simulations  of  actual 
attacks on its systems and networks. 

41.  Remedial actions should be immediately taken to address gaps that are 
identified during vulnerability assessment and penetration testing. 

42. 
 In  addition,  MII  should  perform  vulnerability  scanning  and  conduct 
penetration  testing  prior  to  the  commissioning  of  a  new  system  which  offers 
internet accessibility and open network interfaces. 

 

Page 8 of 10 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Monitoring and Detection 

43.  MII  should  establish  appropriate  security  monitoring  systems  and 
processes  to  facilitate  continuous  monitoring  of  security  events  and  timely 
detection  of  unauthorised  or  malicious  activities,  unauthorised  changes, 
unauthorised  access  and  unauthorised  copying  or  transmission  of  data  / 
information  held  in  contractual  or  fiduciary  capacity,  by  internal  and  external 
parties.  The  security  logs  of  systems, applications  and network  devices  should 
also be monitored for anomalies. 

44. 
Further, to ensure high resilience, high availability and timely detection of 
attacks on systems and networks, MII should implement suitable mechanism to 
monitor capacity utilization of its critical systems and networks.  

45.  Suitable  alerts  should  be  generated  in  the  event  of  detection  of 
unauthorized or abnormal system activities, transmission errors or unusual online 
transactions. 

Response and Recovery  

46.  Alerts  generated  from  monitoring  and  detection  systems  should  be 
suitably  investigated,  including  impact  and  forensic  analysis  of  such  alerts,  in 
order  to  determine  activities  that  are  to  be  performed  to  prevent  expansion  of 
such  incident  of  cyber  attack  or  breach,  mitigate  its  effect  and  eradicate  the 
incident. 

47. 
The response and recovery plan of the MII should aim at timely restoration 
of systems affected by incidents of cyber attacks or breaches. The recovery plan 
should be in line with the Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and Recovery Point 
Objective (RPO) specified by SEBI. 

48. 
The  response  plan  should  define  responsibilities  and  actions  to  be 
performed by its employees and support / outsourced staff in the event of cyber 
attacks or breach of cyber security mechanism.  

49.  Any incident of loss or destruction of data or systems should be thoroughly 
analyzed  and  lessons  learned  from  such  incidents  should  be  incorporated  to 
strengthen 
improve  recovery  planning  and 
processes.  

the  security  mechanism  and 

50.  MII should also conduct suitable periodic drills to test the adequacy and 
effectiveness of response and recovery plan. 

Page 9 of 10 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Sharing of information 

51.  Quarterly  reports  containing  information  on  cyber  attacks  and  threats 
experienced  by  MII  and  measures  taken  to  mitigate  vulnerabilities,  threats and 
attacks including information on bugs / vulnerabilities / threats that may be useful 
for other MIIs, should be submitted to SEBI.  

52.  Such details as are felt useful for sharing with other MIIs in masked and 
anonymous manner shall be shared using mechanism to be specified by SEBI 
from time to time.  

Training 

53.  MII should conduct periodic training programs to enhance awareness level 
among the employees and outsourced staff, vendors, etc. on IT / Cyber security 
policy  and  standards. Special focus  should be  given  to  build  awareness  levels 
and skills of staff from non-technical disciplines. 

The training program should be reviewed and updated to ensure that the 

54. 
contents of the program remain current and relevant.  

Periodic Audit 

55. 
The Terms of Reference for the System Audit of MII specified vide circular 
CIR/MRD/DMS/13/2011 dated November 29, 2011 shall be accordingly modified 
to include audit of implementation of the aforementioned areas.  

Page 10 of 10 

