भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DP/14/2015 

 

 

 

 

             July 13, 2015 

To 

All Stock exchanges. 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Review of minimum contract size in equity derivatives segment 

At present, the minimum contract size in equity derivatives segment is Rs. 2 
lakhs.  The  requirement  was  recently  reviewed  and  it  has  been  decided  to 
increase the minimum contract size in equity derivatives segment to Rs. 5 lakhs.  

2.  Accordingly,  the  framework  for  determination  of  lot  size  for  derivatives 
contracts  specified  vide  SEBI  circular  dated  January  08,  2010  is  modified  as 
under: 

(i)  The lot size for derivatives contracts in equity derivatives segment shall 
be fixed in such a manner that the contract value of the derivative on the day 
of review is within Rs. 5 lakhs and Rs. 10 lakhs. 

(ii)  For stock derivatives, the lot size (in units of underlying) shall be fixed 
as a multiple of 25, provided the lot size is not less than 50. However, if the 
contract value of the stock derivatives at the minimum lot size of 50 is greater 
than Rs. 10 lakhs, then lot size shall be fixed as a multiple of 5, provided the 
lot size is not less than 10. 

(iii)  For index derivatives, the lot size (in units of underlying) shall be fixed 
as a multiple of 5, provided the lot size is not less than 10. 

3.  The  stock  exchanges  shall  jointly  ensure  that  the  lot  size  is  same  for  an 
underlying traded across exchanges. 

4.  The stock exchanges shall review the lot size once in every 6 months based 
on  the  average  of  the  closing  price  of  the  underlying  for  last  one  month  and 
wherever warranted, revise the lot size by giving an advance notice of at least 2 
weeks to the market. If the revised lot size is higher than the existing one, it will 
be effective for only new contracts. In case of corporate action, the revision in lot 
size  of  existing  contracts  shall  be  carried  out  as  per  SEBI  circular 
SMDRP/DC/CIR-15/02 dated December 18, 2002. 

Page 1 of 2 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
5.  The aforesaid provisions shall be made effective from the next trading day 
after expiry of October 2015 contracts. 

6.  This  Circular  supersedes  SEBI  circular  SEBI/DNPD/Cir-50/2010  dated 
January 08, 2010. 

7.  Stock exchanges are directed to:  

a) 

take necessary steps to put in place systems for implementation of this 
circular,  including  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws, 
rules and regulations.  

b)  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers and 

also disseminate the same on their website;  

c)  communicate to SEBI the status of implementation of the provisions of 

this circular.  

8.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 
11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market.  

Yours faithfully,  

 
Manoj Kumar  
General Manager  
email: manojk@sebi.gov.in  

Page 2 of 2 

