भारतीय प्रितभूित और िविनमय बोडर् 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DP/15/2015 

 

 

 

 

                   July 16, 2015 

To 

All stock exchanges. 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Subject: Policy for annulment of trades undertaken on stock exchanges 

Section 9 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 ("SCRA"), inter 
alia, empowers stock exchanges to make bye-laws for regulation and control of 
contracts,  subject  to  the  previous  approval  of  SEBI.  In  terms  of  the  bye-laws 
framed  under  this  section,  stock  exchanges  are  empowered  to  annul  trades, 
either suomoto or on receipt of requests from stock brokers, if there are sufficient 
reasons for such annulment. However, to ensure finality of trades executed on 
trading  platforms  of  the  stock  exchanges,  to  the  extent  possible,  annulment  of 
trades should be avoided by the stock exchanges.  

2. 
In order to bring about uniformity and transparency in the process of trade 
annulment, a discussion paper was placed on SEBI’s website to seek views and 
suggestions  of  the  public.  Taking  into  consideration  inputs  received  during  the 
discussion process, it has been decided that stock exchanges shall be guided by 
the  following  provisions  with  regard  to  the  mechanism  for  annulment  (or  by 
whatever named called) of trade(s) resulting from material mistake or erroneous 
orders: 

2.1.  Examination  of  trade(s)  for  annulment  may  be  taken  up  either 
suomoto by stock exchange or upon receipt of request from a stock broker. 
Stock exchanges shall define suitable criteria so as to discourage frivolous 
trade annulment requests from the stock brokers. 
2.2.  Stock  exchanges  shall  prescribe  the  procedure  for  submission  of 
requests  by  stock  brokers,  including  mechanism  to  submit  requests  in 
electronic form.  
2.3.  Stock brokers shall submit such request to the stock exchange within 
30  minutes  from  execution  of  trade(s)  which  is  sought  to  be  annulled. 
However,  stock  exchange  may  consider  requests  received  after  30 
minutes, but no longer than 60 minutes, only in exceptional cases and after 
examining and recording reasons for such consideration. 

2.4.  Stock exchanges shall  suitably  and  in  a  time bound manner inform 
details of such requests to all stock brokers of the stock exchange. 

Page 1 of 3 

 

भारतीय प्रितभूित और िविनमय बोडर् 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

2.5.  Stock  exchanges  shall  expeditiously,  not  later  than  start  of  next 
trading  day,  examine  and  decide  upon  such  requests.  While  examining 
such requests, stock exchanges shall consider the potential effect of such 
annulment on trades of other stock brokers/investors across all segments, 
including 
trade(s)  under 
consideration. 

resulted  as  an  outcome  of 

trades 

that 

2.6.  As an alternate mechanism, stock exchanges may consider resetting 
the price of trade(s) under consideration to an appropriate price(s), if price 
reset is deemed to be a less disruptive mechanism as compared to trade 
annulment.  

2.7.  Stock  exchanges  shall  undertake  annulment  or  price  reset  only  in 
exceptional cases, after recording reasons in writing, in the interest of the 
investors,  market  integrity,  and  maintaining  sanctity  of  price  discovery 
mechanism.  

In  cases,  wherein  request  for  annulment  of  trade(s)  has  been 
2.8. 
submitted to more than one stock exchange by a stock broker, in respect of 
similar  trades,  stock  exchanges  shall  jointly  take  a  decision  on  such 
requests. 

2.9.  Stock exchange shall convey its reasoned decision on annulment of 
trade(s)  or  price  reset  to  all  counterparties  to  the  trade(s)  under 
consideration.  Stock  exchange  shall  also  publish  details  of  such  decision 
on its website.  

2.10. A mechanism to request a review of the decision taken by the stock 
exchange shall be provided. To this end, the aggrieved party shall submit 
such  request  to  the  stock  exchange  before  the  payout  deadline  of  the 
trades. 

2.11. In the event such review request is received by the stock exchange, 
the  matter  shall  be  referred  to  stock  exchange’s  independent  oversight 
committee  on  ‘Trading  and  Surveillance  function’,  as  constituted  under 
regulation 29(1) of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges 
and  Clearing  Corporations)  Regulations,  2012.The  payout  relating  to  the 
settlement  of  such  trades  shall  be  withheld  till  such  review  of  stock 
exchange’s decision is completed. 

2.12. The oversight committee shall expeditiously examine the request of 
stock  brokers  and  provide  its  recommendations  on  the  matter  within  30 
days  of  receipt  of  request  by  the  stock  exchange.  Stock  exchange  shall 
convey  its  decision  on  the  review  request  of  the  stock  brokers  within  2 
working days of receipt of the recommendations from the committee. Stock 
exchange shall also publish details of such decision on its website. 

Page 2 of 3 

भारतीय प्रितभूित और िविनमय बोडर् 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
3. 
Stock exchanges shall charge an application fee equal to 5% of the value 
of  trade(s)for  accepting  annulment  request  from  a  stock  broker,  subject  to 
minimum fee of ₹ 1 lakh and maximum fee of ₹ 10 lakhs. Stock exchanges may 
suitably increase the upper limit of the application fee as deemed necessary to 
discourage frequent or frivolous requests for annulment. The amount realised as 
application  fee  shall  be  credited  to  the  "Investor  Protection  Fund"  of  the 
concerned stock exchange. 

In  addition,  stock  exchanges  shall  implement  a  suitable  framework  to 

4. 
penalise stock brokers who place erroneous orders. 

5.  With regard to annulment of trade(s) resulting from wilful misrepresentation 
or manipulation or fraud, trade(s) may be annulled as provided in the extant bye-
laws of the stock exchanges.  

Stock exchanges may specify additional requirements as they may deem fit 

6. 
in order to ensure orderly trading and market integrity. 

7. 

Stock exchanges are directed to:  
7.1. 
take necessary steps to put in place systems for implementation of 
the  circular,  including  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws, 
rules and regulations, within one month from the date of this circular; 
7.2.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers 
and also disseminate the same on its website; and 
7.3.  communicate to SEBI the status of implementation of the provisions 
of this circular.  

8.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 
11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market.  

Yours faithfully,  

Manoj Kumar 
General Manager  
email: manojk@sebi.gov.in 
 

Page 3 of 3 

