¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

                     September 09, 2015 

CIR/CFD/CMD/4/2015 
 
To 
 
All Listed Entities  
All the Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:  Continuous  Disclosure  Requirements  for  Listed  Entities  -  Regulation  30  of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
 
1.  In  order  to  enable  investors  to  make  well-informed  investment  decisions,  timely, 
adequate  and  accurate  disclosure  of  information  on  an  ongoing  basis  is  essential. 
Also,  there  is  a  need  of  uniformity  in  disclosures  made  by  listed  entities  to  ensure 
compliance  in  letter  and  spirit.  Towards  this  end,  Regulation  30  of  SEBI  (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to 
as  “Listing  Regulations”)  deals  with  disclosure  of  material  events  by  the  listed  entity 

whose  equity  and  convertibles  securities  are  listed.  Such  entity  is  required  to  make 
disclosure of events specified under Part A of Schedule III of the Listing Regulations.  

 

2.  The  Listing  Regulations  divide  the  events  that  need  to  be  disclosed  broadly  in  two 
categories. The events that have to be necessarily disclosed without applying any test 
of materiality are indicated in Para A of Part A of Schedule III of the Listing Regulation. 
Para B of Part A of Schedule III indicates the events that should be disclosed by the 
listed entity, if considered material.  

 

Annexure-I  of  this  circular  indicates  the  details  that  need  to  be  provided  while 
disclosing events given in Para A and Para B of Schedule III. The guidance on when 
an event / information can be said to have occurred is placed at Annexure II. 

 

The said details as mentioned above are given to provide guidance to listed entity and 
the entity has the responsibility to make disclosures that are appropriate and would be 
consistent with the facts of each event. In case the listed entity does not disclose any 

 

Page 1 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

such specified details, it shall state appropriate reasoning for the same as part of the 
disclosure.  
 

3.  In  case  of  securities  or  the  derivatives  which  are  listed  outside  India  by  the  listed 
entity, parity in disclosures shall be followed and whatever is disclosed on overseas 
stock exchange(s) by the listed entity shall be simultaneously disclosed on the stock 
exchange(s) where the entity is listed in India.  

 

4.  This  circular  shall  come  into  force  90  days  from  September  02,  2015  i.e.  date  of 

notification of Listing Regulations. 
 

5.  This  circular  is  issued  under  regulations  30  read  with  regulation  101(2)  of  Listing 

Regulations. 
 

6.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to bring the contents of this circular to the notice of 

their listed entities and ensure its compliance.   

 

7.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories “Legal 

Framework/Circulars/Continuous Disclosure Requirements”. 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Harini Balaji 
General Manager 
+91-22-26449372 
harinib@sebi.gov.in 
 
 

 

Page 2 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure I 
 
A.  Details  which  a  listed  entity  needs to  disclose  for  the  events  that are  deemed  to  be  

material as specified in Para A of Part A of Schedule III of Listing Regulations 
 

1.  Acquisition(s)  (including  agreement  to  acquire),  Scheme  of  Arrangement 
(amalgamation/  merger/  demerger/restructuring),  or  sale  or  disposal  of  any 
unit(s), division(s) or subsidiary of the listed entity or any other restructuring:  
 
1.1. Acquisition (including agreement to acquire): 

 
a)  name of the target entity, details in brief such as size, turnover etc.; 
b)  whether  the  acquisition  would  fall  within  related  party  transaction(s)  and 
whether the promoter/ promoter group/ group companies have any interest in 
the  entity  being  acquired?  If  yes,  nature  of  interest  and  details  thereof  and 
whether the same is done at “arms length”; 

c)  industry to which the entity being acquired belongs; 
d)  objects  and  effects  of  acquisition  (including  but  not  limited  to,  disclosure  of 
reasons for acquisition of target entity, if its business is outside the main line of 
business of the listed entity); 

e)  brief  details  of  any  governmental  or  regulatory  approvals  required  for  the 

acquisition; 
indicative time period for completion of the acquisition; 

f) 
g)  nature  of  consideration  -  whether  cash  consideration  or  share  swap  and 

  

details of the same; 

acquired; 

h)  cost of acquisition or the price at which the shares are acquired;  
i)  percentage  of  shareholding  /  control  acquired  and  /  or  number  of  shares 

j)  brief  background  about  the  entity  acquired  in  terms  of  products/line  of 
business  acquired,  date  of  incorporation,  history  of  last  3  years  turnover, 
country  in  which  the  acquired  entity  has  presence  and  any  other  significant 
information (in brief); 
 
[Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  the  above  disclosures  the  term  ‘acquisition’ 
shall have the same meaning as defined in explanation of sub-para (1) of Para 
(A) of Part (A) of Schedule III of Listing Regulations]. 

 

1.2. Amalgamation/ Merger: 

a)  name  of  the  entity(ies)  forming  part  of  the  amalgamation/merger,  details  in 

brief such as, size, turnover etc.; 

b)  whether  the  transaction  would  fall  within  related  party  transactions?  If  yes, 

whether the same is done at “arms length”; 

c)  area of business of the entity(ies); 
d)  rationale for amalgamation/ merger; 
e)  in case of cash consideration – amount or otherwise share exchange ratio; 
f)  brief details of change in shareholding pattern (if any)of listed entity. 

 

 

Page 3 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

1.3. De-merger: 

a)  brief details of the division(s) to be demerged; 
b)  turnover  of  the  demerged  division  and  as  percentage  to  the  total  turnover  of 
the  listed  entity  in  the  immediately  preceding  financial  year  /  based  on 
financials of the last financial year; 

c)  rationale for demerger; 
d)  brief details of change in shareholding pattern (if any)of all entities; 
e)  in case of cash consideration – amount or otherwise share exchange ratio;  
f)  whether listing would be sought for the resulting entity. 

 

 

1.4. Sale or disposal of unit(s) or division(s) or subsidiary of the listed entity: 

a)  the  amount  and  percentage  of  the  turnover  or  revenue  or  income  and    net 
worth  contributed  by  such  unit  or  division  of  the  listed  entity  during  the  last 
financial year; 

b)  date on which the agreement for sale has been entered into; 
c)  the expected date of completion of sale/disposal; 
d)  consideration received from such sale/disposal; 
e)  brief details of buyers  and whether any of the buyers belong to the promoter/ 

promoter group/group companies. If yes, details thereof;  

f)  whether  the  transaction  would  fall  within  related  party  transactions?  If  yes, 

whether the same is done at “arms length”; 

g)  additionally,  in  case  of  a  slump  sale,  indicative  disclosures  provided  for 
amalgamation/merger,  shall  be  disclosed  by  the  listed  entity  with  respect  to 
such slump sale.  

For the purpose of this sub-clause, "slump sale" shall mean the transfer of one 
or  more  undertakings,  as  a  result  of  the  sale  for  a  lump  sum  consideration, 
without  values  being  assigned  to  the  individual  assets  and  liabilities  in  such 
sales. 

 

1.5. Other Restructuring: 

a)  details and reasons for restructuring; 
b)  quantitative and/ or qualitative effect of restructuring; 
c)  details of benefit, if any, to the promoter/promoter group/group companies from 

such proposed restructuring; 

d)  brief details of change in shareholding pattern (if any)of all entities. 

 

2.  Issuance or forfeiture of securities, split or consolidation of shares, buyback of 
securities, any restriction on transferability of securities  or  alteration in  terms 
or  structure  of  existing  securities  including  forfeiture,    reissue  of  forfeited 
securities, alteration of calls, redemption of securities etc.  
 
2.1. Issuance of securities:  

 
 

 

a)  type of securities proposed to be issued (viz. equity shares, convertibles etc.);  

Page 4 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

b)  type  of  issuance  (further  public  offering,  rights  issue,  depository  receipts 

(ADR/GDR), qualified institutions placement, preferential allotment etc.); 

c)  total number of securities proposed to be issued or the total amount for which 

the securities will be issued (approximately); 

d)  in  case  of  preferential  issue  the  listed  entity  shall  disclose  the  following 

additional details to the stock exchange(s): 

i.  names of the investors; 
ii.  post  allotment  of  securities  -  outcome  of  the  subscription,  issue  price  / 

allotted price (in case of convertibles), number of investors; 

iii.  in case of convertibles - intimation on conversion of securities or on lapse 

e)  in  case  of  bonus  issue  the  listed  entity  shall  disclose  the  following  additional 

of the tenure of the instrument; 

details to the stock exchange(s): 

premium account; 

i.  whether  bonus  is  out  of  free  reserves  created  out  of  profits  or  share 

ii.  bonus ratio; 
iii.  details of share capital - pre and post bonus issue;  
iv.  free reserves and/ or share premium required for implementing the bonus 

issue; 

v.  free  reserves  and/  or  share  premium  available  for  capitalization  and  the 

date as on which such balance is available; 

vi.  whether the aforesaid figures are audited; 
vii.  estimated date by which such bonus shares would be credited/dispatched; 
 
in case of issuance of depository receipts (ADR/GDR) or FCCB the listed entity 
shall disclose following additional details to the stock exchange(s): 

i.  name  of  the  stock  exchange(s)  where  ADR/GDR/FCCBs  are  listed 

f) 

(opening – closing status) / proposed to be listed; 

ii.  proposed no. of equity shares underlying the ADR/GDR  or on conversion 

iii.  proposed date of allotment, tenure, date of maturity and coupon offered, if 

of FCCBs; 

any of FCCB’s; 

iv.  issue  price  of  ADR/GDR/FCCBs  (in  terms  of  USD  and  in  INR  after 

considering conversion rate);  

v.  change in terms of FCCBs, if any; 
vi.  details  of  defaults,  if  any,  by  the  listed  entity  in  payment  of  coupon  on 
FCCBs  &  subsequent  updates  in  relation  to  the  default,  including  the 
details of the corrective measures undertaken (if any); 

g)  in  case  of  issuance  of  debt  securities  or  other  non  convertible  securities  the 

listed entity shall disclose following additional details to the stock exchange(s): 

i.  size of the issue; 
ii.  whether proposed to be listed? If yes, name of the stock exchange(s); 
iii.  tenure of the instrument - date of allotment and date of maturity; 
iv.  coupon/interest  offered,  schedule  of  payment  of  coupon/interest  and 

principal; 

v.  charge/security, if any, created over the assets; 

 

Page 5 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

vi.  special  right/interest/privileges  attached  to  the  instrument  and  changes 

thereof; 

vii.  delay  in  payment  of  interest /  principal  amount for  a period of more  than 
three months from the due date or default in payment of interest / principal;   
viii.  details  of  any  letter  or  comments  regarding  payment/non-payment  of 
interest, principal on due dates, or any other matter concerning the security 
and /or the assets along with its comments thereon, if any;   

ix.  details  of  redemption  of  preference  shares  indicating  the  manner  of 

redemption (whether out of profits or out of fresh issue) and debentures;  

h)  any cancellation or termination of proposal for issuance of securities including 

reasons thereof. 

 
2.2. Split/consolidation of shares: 

a)  split/consolidation ratio; 
b)  rationale behind the split/consolidation; 
c)  pre and post share capital – authorized, paid-up and subscribed; 
d)  expected time of completion; 
e)  class of shares which are consolidated or subdivided; 
f)  number of shares of each class pre and post split or consolidation; 
g)  number of shareholders who did not get any shares in consolidation and their 

pre-consolidation shareholding. 

 

2.3. Buy back of securities: 

a)  number of securities proposed for buyback; 
b)  number of securities proposed for buyback as a percentage of existing paid up 

c)  buyback price; 
d)  actual securities in number and percentage of existing paid up capital bought 

e)  pre & post shareholding pattern. 

capital;  

back; 

 

2.4. Any restriction on transferability of securities:  

a)  authority issuing attachment or prohibitory orders; 
b)  brief details and reasons for attachment or prohibitory orders; 
c)  name  of  registered  holders  against  whom  restriction  on  transferability  has 

been placed; 

d)  total number of securities so affected; 
e)  distinctive numbers of such securities if applicable; 
f)  period for which order would be applicable (if stated). 

 

2.5. Any  action,  which  will  result  in  alteration  of    the  terms  or  structure  of  any 

existing securities, including, but not limited to: 
a)  forfeiture of shares; 
b)  reissue  of  forfeited  shares  or  securities,  or  the  issue  of  shares  or  securities 
held in reserve for future issue or the creation in any form or manner of new 
shares or securities or any other rights, privileges or benefits to subscribe to; 

c)  proposal to issue any class of securities;  

 

Page 6 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

d)  alterations of capital, including calls;  
e)  change in the terms regarding redemption/cancellation/retirement in whole or 

in part of any securities issued by the listed entity. 

 

3.  Revision in Rating(s) 

The  listed  entity  shall  notify  the  stock  exchange(s),  the  details  of  any  new  rating  or 
revision in rating assigned from a credit rating agency to any debt instrument of the 
listed  entity  or  to any  fixed  deposit  programme or  to  any  scheme or  proposal  of  the 
listed  entity  involving  mobilization  of  funds  whether  in  India  or  abroad.  In  case  of  a 
downward revision in ratings, the listed entity shall also intimate the reasons provided 
by the rating agency for such downward revision. 
 

4.  Outcome  of  meetings  of  the  board  of  directors:  The listed entity shall intimate to 
the Exchange(s), within 30 minutes of the closure of the meeting, held to consider or 
decide the following:  
 
4.1. dividends and/or cash bonuses recommended or declared or the decision to pass 

any dividend and the date on which dividend shall be paid/dispatched;  

4.2. any cancellation of dividend with reasons thereof; 
4.3. the decision on buyback of securities; 
4.4. the decision with respect to fund raising proposed to be undertaken; 
4.5. increase in capital by issue  of bonus shares through capitalization including the 

date on which such bonus shares would be credited/dispatched; 

4.6. reissue of forfeited shares  or securities, or the issue of shares or securities held 
in reserve for future issue or the creation in any form or manner of new shares or 
securities or any other rights, privileges or benefits to subscribe to; 
4.7. short particulars of any other alterations of capital, including calls; 
4.8. financial results; 
4.9. decision on voluntary delisting by the listed entity from stock exchange(s); 

The intimation of outcome of meeting of the board of directors shall also contain the 
time of commencement and conclusion of the meeting.    

 

 

5.  Agreements  (viz.  shareholder  agreement(s),  joint  venture  agreement(s),  family 
settlement agreement(s) (to the extent that it impacts management and control 
of  the  listed  entity),  agreement(s)/treaty(ies)/contract(s)  with  media  companies) 
which  are  binding  and  not  in  normal  course  of  business,    revision(s)  or 
amendment(s) and termination(s) thereof: 
 
5.1. name(s) of parties with whom the agreement is entered; 
5.2. purpose of entering into the agreement; 
5.3. shareholding, if any, in the entity with whom the agreement is executed; 
5.4. significant  terms  of  the  agreement  (in  brief)  special  rights  like  right  to  appoint 
directors,  first  right  to  share  subscription  in  case  of  issuance  of  shares,  right  to 
restrict any change in capital structure etc.; 

5.5. whether,  the  said  parties  are  related  to  promoter/promoter  group/  group 

companies in any manner. If yes, nature of relationship; 

 

Page 7 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

5.6. whether  the  transaction  would  fall  within  related  party  transactions?  If  yes, 

whether the same is done at “arms length”; 

5.7. in case of issuance of shares to the parties, details of issue price, class of shares 

issued; 

5.8. any other disclosures related to such agreements, viz., details of nominee on the 
board  of  directors  of  the  listed  entity,  potential  conflict  of  interest  arising  out  of 
such agreements, etc; 

5.9. in  case  of  termination  or  amendment  of  agreement,  listed  entity  shall  disclose 

additional details to the stock exchange(s):  
a)  name of parties to the agreement; 
b)  nature of the agreement; 
c)  date of execution of the agreement;  
d)  details of amendment and impact thereof or reasons of termination and impact 

thereof. 

 

6.  Fraud/ Defaults by promoter or key managerial personnel or by the listed entity 

or arrest of key managerial personnel or promoter: 
 
6.1. At the time of unearthing of fraud or occurrence of the default / arrest: 

a)  nature of fraud/default/arrest; 
b)  estimated impact on the listed entity; 
c)  time of occurrence; 
d)  person(s) involved; 
e)  estimated amount involved (if any); 
f)  whether such fraud/default/arrest has been reported to appropriate authorities.  

 

6.2. Subsequently  intimate  the  stock  exchange(s)  further  details  regarding  the 

fraud/default/arrest including: 
a)  actual amount involved in the fraud /default (if any); 
b)  actual impact of such fraud /default on the listed entity and its financials; and 
c)  corrective measures taken by the listed entity on account of such fraud/default. 
 

7.  Change  in  directors,  key  managerial  personnel  (Managing  Director,  Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary etc.), Auditor and 
Compliance Officer:   
7.1. reason for change viz. appointment,  resignation, removal, death or otherwise; 
7.2. date of appointment/cessation (as applicable) & term of appointment; 
7.3. brief profile (in case of appointment); 
7.4. disclosure  of  relationships  between  directors  (in  case  of  appointment  of  a 

director). 
 

 

8.  Appointment or discontinuation of share transfer agent: 

8.1. reason for appointment  or discontinuation;  
8.2. date on which above would become effective. 

9.  Corporate debt restructuring (“CDR”): 

9.1. whether CDR is voluntary and reasons for opting or referred by lenders/creditors; 

 

Page 8 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

9.2. details of the loan to be subjected to restructuring under CDR;  
9.3. brief details of the CDR proposal (if any); 
9.4. the following updates to be provided at the time of  the execution and at various 

stages of the implementation of the CDR scheme; 
a)  upon  execution  of  any  agreement  in  relation  to  the  CDR  proposal,  disclose 
details such as date of execution, parties to the agreement and principal terms; 

b)  details of final CDR package as approved by RBI and the lenders; 
c)  lenders involved; 
d)  brief summary of the CDR scheme including details of the securities, interest 

payment, repayment schedule, negative and other restrictive covenants. 

 

10. One time settlement (OTS) with a Bank: 

10.1.  reasons for opting for OTS; 
10.2.  brief summary of the OTS. 
 

 

brief. 
 

 
 

 

11. Reference to BIFR and  winding-up petition filed by any party / creditors:  

11.1.  reasons for such a reference/petition; 
11.2.  impact of such reference/petition on listed entity.  
 

12. Issuance of notices, call letters, resolutions and circulars sent to  shareholders, 
debenture holders or creditors or any class of them or advertised in the media 
by the listed entity and the following: 
12.1.  date of notice/call letters/resolutions etc.; 
12.2.  brief  details  viz.  agenda  (if  any)  proposed  to  be  taken  up,  resolution  to  be 

passed, manner of approval proposed etc.  

 

13. Proceedings  of    annual  and  extraordinary  general  meetings  of  the  listed  entity 

and the following details in brief: 
13.1.  date of the meeting; 
13.2.  brief details of items deliberated and results thereof;  
13.3.  manner of approval proposed for certain items (e-voting etc.). 

14. Amendments  to  memorandum  and  articles  of  association  of  listed  entity,  in 

15. Schedule of analyst or institutional investor meet and presentations on financial 

results made by the listed entity to analysts or institutional investors.  

B.  Details which a listed entity need to disclose for events on which the listed entity may 
apply materiality in terms of  Para B of Part A of Schedule III of Listing Regulations of 
Listing Regulations 

1.  Commencement  or  any  postponement  in  the  date  of  commencement  of 

commercial production or commercial operations of any unit/division: 
 

 

Page 9 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

The  listed  entity  shall  notify  the  stock  exchange(s)  regarding  the  commencement  of 
commercial  production  or  the  commencement  of  commercial  operations  of  any 
unit/division.  In  cases  where  the  listed  entity  has  made  prior  intimation  of  date  of 
commencement  of  commercial  production  or  operations,  the  listed  entity  shall  be 
required to disclose details in case of postponement of the date of commencement.  
 

2.  Change in the general character or nature of business brought about by: 

 
2.1. Arrangements for strategic, technical, manufacturing, or marketing tie-up:   

a)  Agreement / joint venture (JV) with companies: 

i.  name of the entity(ies) with whom agreement/ JV is signed; 
ii.  area of agreement/JV; 
iii.  domestic/international; 
iv.  share exchange ratio / JV ratio; 
v.  scope of business operation of agreement / JV; 
vi.  details of consideration  paid / received in agreement / JV;  
vii.  significant terms and conditions of agreement / JV in brief; 
viii.  whether  the  acquisition  would  fall  within  related  party  transactions  and 
whether  the  promoter/  promoter  group/  group  companies  have  any 
interest in the entity being acquired? If yes, nature of interest and details 
thereof and whether the same is done at “arms length; 

ix.  size of the entity(ies); 
x.  rationale and benefit expected. 
 

b)  In the event that any such arrangement is called off for any reason, the same 

shall be disclosed along with the reasons for calling off the proposal.  

 

2.2. Adoption of new line(s) of business:   

a)  industry or area to which the new line of business belongs to; 
b)  expected benefits; 
c)  estimated amount to be invested. 
 

2.3. Closure of operations of any unit/division - (entirety or piecemeal): 

a)  date of such binding agreement, if any, entered for sale of such unit/division, if 

any; 

b)  amount & percentage of turnover or revenue or income and  net worth of the 

listed entity contributed by such unit or division during the last financial year; 

c)  date of closure or estimated time of closure;  
d)  reasons for closure. 

3.  Capacity addition or product launch 

 

3.1. Capacity addition: 
a)  existing capacity; 
b)  existing capacity utilization; 
c)  proposed capacity addition;  
d)  period within which the proposed capacity is to be added; 
e)  investment required;  

 

Page 10 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

f)  mode of financing;  
g)  rationale.  

 

3.2. Product launch: 

international). 

 

a)  name of the product; 
b)  date of launch; 
c)  category of the product; 
d)  whether caters to domestic/ international market; 
e)  name  of  the  countries  in  which  the  product  is  launched  (in  case  of 

4.  Awarding,  bagging/  receiving,  amendment  or  termination  of  awarded/bagged 

orders/contracts, not in the normal course of business:  
 
4.1. Awarding  of  order(s)/contract(s):  Only  important  terms  and  conditions  which 

may be as under needs to be disclosed: 
a)  name of the entity to which order(s)/contract(s) is awarded; 
b)  whether order(s) / contract(s) is awarded to  domestic/ international entity  
c)  significant terms and conditions of order(s)/contract(s) awarded, in brief; 
d)  time period, if any, associated with  the order(s)/contract(s); 
e)  broad commercial consideration or size of the order(s)/contract(s); 
f)  whether  the  promoter/  promoter  group/group  companies  have  any  interest  in 
that  entity  to  whom  the  order(s)/contract(s)  is  awarded?  If  Yes,  nature  of 
interest and details thereof;  

g)  whether the same would fall within related party transactions? If yes, whether 

the same is done at “arms length”. 

 

4.2. Bagging/Receiving    of  orders/contracts:  Only  important  terms  and  conditions 

which may be as under needs to be disclosed:  
a)  name of the entity awarding the order(s)/contract(s); 
b)  significant terms and conditions of order(s)/contract(s) awarded in brief; 
c)  whether order(s) / contract(s) have been awarded by  domestic/ international 

entity; 

time period by which the order(s)/contract(s) is to be executed; 

d)  nature of order(s) / contract(s);  
e)  whether domestic or international;  
f) 
g)  broad consideration or size of the order(s)/contract(s); 
h)  whether the promoter/ promoter group / group companies have any interest in 
the entity that awarded the order(s)/contract(s)? If yes, nature of interest and 
details thereof; 

i)  whether the order(s)/contract(s) would fall within related party transactions? If 

yes, whether the same is done at “arms length”. 

 
4.3. Amendment or termination of  orders/contracts:  

a)  name of parties to the order(s)/contract(s); 
b)  nature of the order(s)/contract(s); 
c)  date of execution of the order(s)/contract(s) 

 

Page 11 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

d)  details of amendment or  reasons for  terminations and impact thereof (to the 

extent possible); 

5.  Agreements  (viz.  loan  agreement(s)  (as  a  borrower)  or  any  other  agreement(s) 
which  are  binding  and  not  in  normal  course  of  business,    revision(s)  or 
amendment(s)  and  termination(s)  thereof:  Only  important  terms  and  conditions 
which may be as under needs to be disclosed: 
 

a)  name(s) of parties with whom the agreement is entered; 
b)  purpose of entering into the agreement; 
c)  size of agreement; 
d)  shareholding, if any, in the entity with whom the agreement is executed; 
e)  significant terms of the agreement (in brief) special rights like right to appoint 
directors, first right to share subscription in case of issuance of shares, right to 
restrict any change in capital structure etc.; 

f)  whether,  the  said  parties  are  related  to  promoter/promoter  group/  group 

companies in any manner. If yes, nature of relationship; 

g)  whether  the  transaction  would  fall  within  related  party  transactions?  If  yes, 

whether the same is done at “arms length”; 

h)  in  case  of  issuance  of  shares  to  the  parties,  details  of  issue  price,  class  of 

i) 

shares issued; 
in case of loan agreements, details of lender, nature of the loan, total amount 
of  loan  granted,  total  amount  outstanding,  date  of  execution  of  the  loan 
agreement/sanction  letter,  details  of  the  security  provided  to  the  lenders  for 
such loan; 

j)  any other disclosures related to such agreements, viz., details of nominee on 
the board of directors of the listed entity, potential conflict of interest arising out 
of such agreements, etc; 

k)  in case of termination or amendment of agreement, listed entity shall disclose 

additional details to the stock exchange(s):  

i.  name of parties to the agreement ; 
ii.  nature of the agreement; 
iii.  date of execution of the agreement;  
iv.  details  of  amendment  and  impact  thereof  or  reasons  of  termination  and 

impact thereof. 

 

 

6.  Disruption of operations of any one or more units or division of the listed entity 
due  to  natural  calamity  (earthquake,  flood,  fire  etc.),  force  majeure  or  events 
such as strikes, lockouts etc.: 
 
6.1. At the time of occurrence: 

a)  expected quantum of loss/damage caused; 
b)  whether loss/damage covered by insurance or not including amount; 
c)  estimated impact on the production/operations in case of strikes/lock outs; 
d)  factory/unit  where  the  strike/lock  out  takes  place  including  reasons  for  such 

strike. 

 

 

Page 12 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

6.2. Regularly, till complete normalcy is restored: 

a)  insurance  amount  claimed  and  realized  by 

the 

listed  entity 

for 

the 

loss/damage; 

majeure events; 

b)  the actual amount of damage caused due to the natural calamity or other force 

c)  details  of  steps  taken  to  restore  normalcy  and  the  impact  of  the  natural 
calamity/other force majeure events on production or service, financials of the 
entity. 

7.  Effect(s)  arising  out  of  change  in  the  regulatory  framework  applicable  to  the 

listed entity. 
 

8.  Litigation(s) / dispute(s) / regulatory action(s) with impact: The listed entity shall 
notify the stock exchange(s) upon it  or its key management personnel or its promoter 
or  ultimate  person 
litigation,  assessment, 
adjudication, arbitration or dispute in conciliation proceedings or upon institution of any 
litigation,  assessment,  adjudication,  arbitration  or  dispute  including  any  ad-interim  or 
interim  orders  passed  against  or  in  favour  of  the  listed  entity,  the  outcome  of  which 
can reasonably be expected to have an impact.  
8.1. At the time of becoming the party: 

in  control  becoming  party 

to  any 

a)  brief  details  of 

litigation  viz.  name(s)  of 

the  opposing  party,  court/ 

tribunal/agency where litigation is filed, brief details of dispute/litigation; 

b)  expected financial implications, if any, due to compensation, penalty etc; 
c)  quantum of claims, if any; 

8.2. Regularly till the litigation is concluded or dispute is resolved: 

a)  the details of any change in the status and / or any development in relation to 

such proceedings; 

b)  in the case of litigation against key management personnel or its promoter or 
ultimate person in control, regularly provide details of any change in the status 
and / or any development in relation to such proceedings; 

c)  in  the  event  of  settlement  of  the  proceedings,  details  of  such  settlement 
including  -  terms  of  the  settlement,  compensation/penalty  paid  (if  any)  and 
impact of such settlement on the financial position of the listed entity.  

9.  Frauds/  defaults  by  directors  (other  than  key  managerial  personnel)  or 

employees of the listed entity:  
9.1. At the time of unearthing of fraud or occurrence of the default/arrest: 

a)  nature of fraud/default/arrest; 
b)  estimated impact on the listed entity; 
c)  time of occurrence; 
d)  person(s) involved; 
e)  estimated amount involved (if any); 
f)  whether such fraud has been reported to appropriate authorities.  

 

 

9.2. Subsequently  intimate  the  stock  exchange(s)  further  details  regarding  the 

 

 

fraud/default including: 

 

Page 13 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

a)  actual amount involved in the fraud /default (if any); 
b)  actual impact of such fraud /default on the listed entity and its financials;  
c)  corrective measures taken by the listed entity on account of such fraud/default. 

10. Options  to  purchase  securities  (including  any  Share  Based  Employee  Benefit 
(SBEB)  Scheme)  at  the  time  of  instituting  the  scheme  and  vesting  or  exercise  of 
options: 

a)  brief details of options granted; 
b)  whether  the  scheme  is  in  terms  of  SEBI  (SBEB)  Regulations,  2014  (if 

 

 

 

applicable); 

time within which option may be exercised; 

c)  total number of shares covered by these options; 
d)  pricing formula; 
e)  options vested; 
f) 
g)  options exercised; 
h)  money realized by exercise of options; 
i) 
j)  options lapsed; 
k)  variation of terms of options; 
l)  brief details of significant terms; 
m) subsequent changes or cancellation or exercise of such options; 
n)  diluted  earnings  per  share  pursuant  to  issue  of  equity  shares  on  exercise  of 

the total number of shares arising as a result of exercise of option; 

options. 

11. Giving of guarantees or indemnity or becoming a surety for any third party:  
a)  name of party for which such guarantees or indemnity or surety was given;  
b)  whether the promoter/ promoter group/ group companies have any interest in 
this transaction? If yes, nature of interest and details thereof and whether the 
same is done at “arms length”; 

c)  brief  details  of  such  guarantee  or  indemnity  or  becoming  a  surety  viz.  brief 
details of agreement entered (if any) including significant terms and conditions, 
including amount of guarantee;   

d)  impact of such guarantees or indemnity or surety on listed entity. 

12. Granting,  withdrawal,  surrender,  cancellation  or  suspension  of  key  licenses  or 

regulatory  approvals: 

a)  name of the regulatory or licensing authority;  
b)  brief details of the approval/license obtained/ withdrawn/ surrendered;  
c)  impact/relevance of such approval/license to the listed entity; 
d)  withdrawal/cancellation or suspension of licence/approval by the regulatory or 
licensing  authority,  with  reasons for  such  action,  estimated  impact  (monetary 
or otherwise) on the listed entity and penalty, if any; 
e)  period for which such approval/license is/was valid; 
f)  Subsequently,  the  listed  entity  shall  inform  the  stock  exchange(s),  the  actual 
impact  (monetary  or  otherwise)  along  with  corrective  actions  taken  by  the 
listed entity pursuant to the withdrawal, cancellation or suspension of the key 
license/ approval.  

 

Page 14 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

C.  Details which a listed entity need to disclose in terms of Para C of Part A of Schedule 

 
 
 

 

 

III of Listing Regulations.  

 

Page 15 of 16 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Guidance on when an event/information has occurred 
 
1.  The listed entity may be confronted with the question as to when an event/information 

Annexure II 

can be said to have occurred. 
 

2.  In certain instances, the answer to above question would depend upon the stage of 
discussion,  negotiation  or  approval  and  in  other  instances  where  there  is  no  such 
discussion,  negotiation  or  approval  required  viz.  in  case  of  natural  calamities, 
disruptions etc, the answer to the above question would depend upon the timing when 
the listed entity became aware of the event/information.  

 

 

 

 

 

2.1. In the former, the events/information can be said to have occurred upon receipt of 
approval of Board of Directors e.g. further issue of capital by rights issuance and 
in  certain  events/information  after  receipt  of  approval  of  both  i.e.  Board  of 
Directors and Shareholders.  

However, considering the price sensitivity involved, for certain events e.g. decision 
on declaration of dividends etc., disclosure shall be made on receipt of approval of 
the event by the Board of Directors, pending Shareholder’s approval.  

2.2. In  the  latter,  the  events/information  can  be  said  to  have  occurred  when  a  listed 
entity becomes aware of the events/information, or as soon as, an officer of the 
entity has, or ought to have reasonably come into possession of the information in 
the course of the performance of his duties.  
 
Here,  the  term  ‘officer’  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  defined  under  the 
Companies Act, 2013 and shall also include promoter of the listed entity. 

 

Page 16 of 16 

 

