भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     October 1, 2015 

 
CIR/IMD/DF/7/2015  
 
To 
All Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) 
All  Venture  Capital  Funds  (VCFs)  registered  under  SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds) 
Regulations, 1996 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Guidelines  on  overseas  investments  and  other  issues/clarifications  for 
AIFs/VCFs 

1.  SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 (“AIF Regulations”) were 
notified  on  May  21,  2012  repealing  and  replacing  the  erstwhile  SEBI  (Venture 
Capital  Funds)  Regulations,  1996.  As  on  August  31,  2015,  there  are  165 
Alternative Investments Funds (AIFs) registered with SEBI.  

2.  In this regard, it is specified as under: 

A.  Overseas  Investment  by  Venture  Capital  Funds  (VCFs)  registered 
under  SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  (now 
repealed) 

a.  VCFs  registered  under  erstwhile  SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds) 
Regulations,  1996  are  permitted  to  invest  in  Offshore Venture  Capital 
Undertakings  which  have  an  Indian  connection  upto  10%  of  the 
investible  funds  of  a  VCF 
in  terms  of  the  SEBI  circular  no. 
SEBI/VCF/Cir no.1/98645/2007 dated August 09, 2007. 

in 

recent 

times,  an 

b.  SEBI has received several representations from the industry that there 
has  been, 
Indian 
entrepreneurs  outside  India.  Many  Indian  entrepreneurs  have  been 
setting  up  their  headquarters  outside  India  with  back  end  operations 
and/  or  research  and  developments  being  undertaken  in  India. 
Therefore,  there  is  a  need  to  allow  higher  overseas  investment  by 
VCFs beyond the existing 10% limit. 

interest  of 

increased 

c.  The  representations  also  state  that  such  investments  would  provide 
opportunities  to  the  funds  to  generate  better  returns  globally,  getting 
exposure to the international markets practices, etc.  

d.  As  such  investments  are  required  to  have  an  Indian  connection,  It  is 
anticipated  that  such  investments  will  generate  indirect  benefits  to 
India  through  bringing  in  resources,  technology  upgradation,  skill 
enhancement, new employment, spill-overs, etc. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

e.  In  view  of  the  above,  in  partial  modification  of  the  circular  no. 
SEBI/VCF/Cir no.1/98645/2007 dated August 09, 2007,  it is stated as 
under: 

i.  VCFs  are,  from  the  date  of  this  circular,  permitted  to  invest  in 
Offshore  Venture  Capital  Undertakings  which  have  an  Indian 
connection upto 25% of the investible funds of the VCF. 

ii.  VCFs  shall  not  invest  in  Joint  venture/Wholly  Owned  Subsidiary 

while making overseas investments. 

iii.  VCFs  shall  adhere  to  FEMA  Regulations  and  other  guidelines 
specified  by  RBI  from  time  to  time  with  respect  to  any  structure 
which  involves  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)  under  Overseas 
Direct Investment (ODI) route.  

iv.  VCFs  shall  comply  with  all  requirements  under  RBI  guidelines  on 
venture/undertaking 
opening 
investment  abroad  by  NBFCs,  where  more  than  50%  of  the  funds 
of the VCF has been contributed by a single NBFC. 

branches/subsidiaries/Joint 

of 

v.  The  VCFs  desirous  of  making  investments  in  offshore  venture 
capital  undertakings  shall  submit  their  proposal  for  investment  (in 
the attached format at Annexure) to SEBI for its prior approval. 

B.  Overseas Investment by Alternative Investment Funds 

a.  Under Regulation 15(1)(a) of AIF Regulations, "Alternative Investment 
Fund may invest in securities of companies incorporated outside India 
subject  to  such  conditions  or  guidelines  that  may  be  stipulated  or 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India and the Board from time to time." 

b.  In  this  regard,  Reserve  Bank  of  India  (RBI)  vide  its  A.P.(DIR  Series) 
Circular No.48 dated December 09, 2014 has permitted an Alternative 
Investment  Fund  (AIF),  registered  with  SEBI,  to  invest  overseas  in 
terms  of  the  provisions  issued  under  the  A.P.  (DIR  Series)  Circulars 
No. 49 and 50 dated April 30, 2007 and May 04, 2007 respectively.  

c.  In accordance with the aforesaid RBI circular, it is stated as under: 

i.  AIFs may invest in equity and equity linked instruments only of off-
shore  venture  capital  undertakings,  subject  to  overall  limit  of  USD 
500  million  (combined  limit  for  AIFs  and  Venture  Capital  Funds 
registered  under  the  SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulations, 
1996).  

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

ii.  AIFs  desirous  of  making  investments  in  offshore  venture  capital 
undertakings  shall  submit  their  proposal  for  investment  (in  the 
attached  format  at  Annexure)  to  SEBI  for  prior  approval.  It  is 
clarified  that no  separate permission from  RBI  is  necessary  in  this 
regard. 

iii.  For  the  purpose  of  such  investment,  it  is  clarified  that  “Offshore 
Venture  Capital  Undertakings”  means  a  foreign  company  whose 
shares  are  not  listed  on  any  of  the  recognized  stock  exchange  in 
India or abroad. 

iv.  Investments  would  be  made  only  in  those  companies  which  have 
an  Indian  connection  (e.g.  company  which  has  a  front  office 
overseas, while back office operations are in India). 

v.  Such  investments  shall  not  exceed  25%  of  the  investible  funds  of 

the scheme of the AIF. 

vi.  The  allocation  of  investment  limits  would  be  done  on  ‘first  come- 
first serve’ basis, depending on the availability in the overall limit of 
USD 500 million. 

vii.  In case an AIF  who is allocated certain investment limit, wishes to 
apply for allocation of further investment limit, the fresh application 
shall  be  dealt  with  on  the  basis  of  the  date  of  its  receipt  and  no 
preference  shall  be  granted  to  it  in  fresh  allocation  of  investment 
limit. 

viii.  The  AIF  shall  have  a  time  limit  of  6  months  from  the  date  of 
approval  from  SEBI  for  making  allocated  investments  in  offshore 
venture capital undertakings. In case the applicant does not utilize 
the  limits  allocated  within  the  stipulated  period,  SEBI may  allocate 
such unutilized limit to other applicants. 

ix.  These 

(Transfer  or 

investments  would  be  subject 

to  Notification  No. 
FEMA120/RB-2004  dated  July  7,  2004 
[Foreign  Exchange 
Management 
Issue  of  Any  Foreign  Security) 
Regulations,  2004]  including  amendments  thereof  and  related 
directions issued by RBI from time to time.  

x.  AIFs  shall  not  invest  in  Joint  venture/Wholly  Owned  Subsidiary 

while making overseas investments. 

xi.  AIFs  shall  adhere  to  FEMA  Regulations  and  other  guidelines 
specified  by  RBI  from  time  to  time  with  respect  to  any  structure 
which  involves  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)  under  Overseas 
Direct Investment (ODI) route. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

xii.  AIFs  shall  comply  with  all  requirements  under  RBI  guidelines  on 
opening  of  branches/subsidiaries/Joint  Venture 
/undertaking 
investment  abroad  by  NBFCs,  where  more  than  50%  of  the  funds 
of the AIF has been contributed by a single NBFC. 

C.  Other issues/clarifications: 

a.  It  is  clarified  that  from  the  date  of  this  circular,  the  tenure  of  any 
scheme of the AIF shall be calculated from the date of final closing of 
the scheme.  

b.  All managers shall: 

i.  organise,  operate  and  manage  the  AIFs  and  its  schemes  in  the 

interest of unitholders of the AIF/scheme. 

ii.  carry  out  all  the  activities  of  the  AIF  in  accordance  with  the 
placement  memorandum  circulated  to  all  unit  holders  and  as 
amended from time to time in accordance with AIF Regulations and 
circulars issued by SEBI.  

iii.  ensure  that  the  placement  memorandum  is  provided  to  the 
investors prior to providing commitment or making the investment in 
the  AIF  and  ensure  that  an  appropriate  acknowledgement  is 
received from the investor for such receipt.  

iv.  ensure  scheme-wise  segregation  of  bank  accounts  and  securities 

accounts. 

v.  not  make  any  exaggerated  statement,  whether  oral  or  written, 
either  about  their  qualifications  or  capability  to  render  investment 
management services or their achievements. 

c.  The AIF, manager, trustee and sponsor shall: 

i.  act in the interest of unitholders of the AIF/scheme and not take any 
action which is prejudicial to the interest of the unitholders and not 
place the interest of the sponsor/manager/trustee of the AIF or any 
of  their  associates  above  the  interest  of  the  unitholders  of  the 
scheme/AIF. 

ii.  maintain high standards of integrity and fairness in all their dealings 
and  in  the  conduct  of  the  business  and  render  at  all  times  high 
standards  of  service,  exercise  due  diligence  and  exercise 
independent professional judgment. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

iii.  not 

offer 

any 

assured 

returns 

to 

any 

prospective 

investors/unitholders. 

3.  This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors in securities market and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 

4.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and “Alternative Investment Funds”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Barnali Mukherjee 
Chief General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9660 
Email id - barnalim@sebi.gov.in 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Investment  Fund 

 
Annexure 
Proposal for Overseas Investment by Alternative Investment Funds 
 
To  
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
Mumbai  
 
Name  of  Alternative 
(AIF)/Venture Capital Fund (VCF) 
Category of the AIF 
Registration number and date  
Name of the scheme 
Amount  proposed 
in 
Offshore  Venture  Capital  Undertaking  -  in 
USD 
Total  Investible  corpus  of  the  scheme  -in 
USD 
Name  and  Address  of  the  branch  of  the 
bank 
through  which  Foreign  Currency 
Transaction are proposed to made 
Indian connection of the offshore VCU  
 
Declarations  to  be  attached  with  the  application  duly  signed,  dated  and 
authorised:  

invested 

to  be 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

1.  The  manager  has  exercised  due  diligence  with  respect  to  the  investment 

decision. (Declaration to be provided by manager) 

2.  The Trustee is satisfied that the proposed investment in  offshore venture capital 
undertaking  is  consistent  with  the  investment  objective  of  the  scheme/fund 
(Declaration  to  be  provided  by  trustee.  In  case  the  AIF  is  not  a  Trust,  sponsor 
shall provide such declaration).  

3.  The  AIF/VCF  shall  not  invest  in  Joint  venture/Wholly  Owned  Subsidiary  while 

making overseas investments. (Declaration to be provided by manager) 

4.  The  AIF/VCF  shall  adhere  to  FEMA  Regulations  and  other  guidelines  specified 
by  RBI  from  time  to  time  with  respect  to  any  structure  which  involves  Foreign 
Direct 
Investment  (ODI)  route. 
(Declaration to be provided by manager) 

Investment  (FDI)  under  Overseas  Direct 

5.  The AIF/VCF shall comply with all requirements under RBI guidelines on opening 
of  branches/subsidiaries/Joint  venture 
investment  abroad  by 
NBFCs, where more than 50% of the funds of the AIF/VCF has been contributed 
by a single NBFC. (Declaration to be provided by manager) 
 

/undertaking 

(Declarations to be provided by the manager/trustee/sponsor as applicable) 
 
Name:  
Place:  

Signature:  
Date: 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

