¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

                     November 04, 2015 

 

 

 

CIR/CFD/CMD/10/2015 
 
To 
 
All Listed Entities 
All the Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Format for Business Responsibility Report (BRR) 

 

1.  At  a  time  and  age  when  enterprises  are  increasingly  seen  as  critical  components  of 
the  social  system,  they  are  accountable  not  merely  to  their  shareholders  from  a 
revenue  and  profitability  perspective  but  also  to  the  larger  society  which  is  also  its 
stakeholder.  Hence,  adoption  of  responsible  business  practices  in  the  interest  of  the 
social  set  –up  and  the  environment  are  as  vital  as  their  financial  and  operational 
performance. This is all the more relevant for listed entities which, considering the fact 
that  they  have  accessed  funds  from  the  public,  have  an  element  of  public  interest 
involved,  and  are  obligated  to  make  exhaustive  continuous  disclosures  on  a  regular 
basis. Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India, in July 2011, came out with 
the 
'National  Voluntary  Guidelines  on  Social,  Environmental  and  Economic 
Responsibilities  of  Business'.  These  guidelines  contain  comprehensive  principles  to 
be  adopted  by  companies  as  part  of  their  business  practices  and  a  structured 
business  responsibility  reporting  format  requiring  certain  specified  disclosures, 
demonstrating  the  steps  taken  by  companies  to  implement  the  said  principles.  SEBI 
had 
to  BRR  vide  circular  No. 
CIR/CFD/DIL/8/2012 dated August 13, 2012.  
 

requirements  with 

introduced 

respect 

2.  Pursuant to notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), the aforesaid 
circular dated August 13, 2012 was rescinded. As per  clause (f) of sub regulation (2) 
of  regulation  34  of  Listing  Regulations,  the  annual  report  shall  contain  a  business 
responsibility  report  describing  the  initiatives  taken  by  the  listed  entity  from  an 
environmental,  social  and  governance  perspective,  in  the  format  as  specified  by  the 
Board. Accordingly, listed entities shall be guided by the format as per Annexure I.  

 

3.  Certain key principles to assess the fulfillment of listed entities and a description of the 

core elements under these principles are detailed at Annexure II. 
 
 

 

Page 1 of 13 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.  Those  listed  entities  which  have  been  submitting  sustainability  reports  to  overseas 
regulatory agencies/stakeholders based on internationally accepted reporting frameworks 
need not prepare a separate report for the purpose of these guidelines but only furnish 
the same to their stakeholders along with the details of the framework under which their 
BR  Report  has  been  prepared  and  a  mapping  of  the  principles  contained  in  these 
guidelines to the disclosures made in their sustainability reports. 

 

5.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of 
Listed  Entity  and  also  to  disseminate  the  same  on  its  website.  This  circular  shall  come 
into force with effect from 90 days of notifications of regulations i.e. September 02, 2015. 
 

6.  This circular is issued under regulation 34 read with regulation 101(2) of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015.   
 

7.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories “Legal 

Framework” and “Continuous Disclosure Requirements”. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Harini S Balaji 
General Manager 
+91-22-26449372 
harinib@sebi.gov.in  

 

Page 2 of 13 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

ANNEXURE I 

SUGGESTED FORMAT FOR BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 

[See Regulation 34(2)(f)] 

 

SECTION A: GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY 
 
1.  Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company 
2.  Name of the Company 
3.  Registered address 
4.  Website 
5.  E-mail id 
6.  Financial Year reported 
7.  Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial activity code-wise) 
8.  List  three  key  products/services  that  the  Company  manufactures/provides  (as  in 

balance sheet) 

9.  Total number of locations where business activity is undertaken by the Company 

(a) Number of International Locations (Provide details of major 5) 
(b) Number of National Locations 

10. Markets served by the Company – Local/State/National/International 
 
SECTION B: FINANCIAL DETAILS OF THE COMPANY 
 
1.  Paid up Capital (INR) 
2.  Total Turnover (INR) 
3.  Total profit after taxes (INR) 
4.  Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as percentage of profit after 

tax (%) 

5.  List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has been incurred:- 

(a) . 
(b) . 
(c) . 

 
SECTION C: OTHER DETAILS 
 
1.  Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/ Companies? 
2.  Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies participate in the BR Initiatives of the parent 

company? If yes, then indicate the number of such subsidiary company(s) 

3.  Do  any  other  entity/entities  (e.g.  suppliers,  distributors  etc.)  that  the  Company  does 
business  with,  participate  in  the  BR  initiatives  of  the  Company?  If  yes,  then  indicate 
the percentage of such entity/entities? [Less than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%] 

 

 

Page 3 of 13 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SECTION D: BR INFORMATION 
 
1.  Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR 

 

 

(a) Details  of  the  Director/Director  responsible  for  implementation  of  the  BR 

policy/policies 

1.  DIN Number 
2.  Name 
3.  Designation 

 

(b) Details of the BR head 

No. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 

Particulars 
DIN Number (if applicable) 
Name 
Designation 
Telephone number 
e-mail id 

Details 

 
 
 
 
 

 
2.  Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies  

 

(a) Details of compliance (Reply in Y/N) 

 

 

No.  Questions 

P
1 

P
2 

P
3 

P
4 

P
5 

P
6 

P
7 

P
8 

P
9 

1 
2 

3 

4 

5 

Do you have a policy/ policies for.... 
Has the policy being formulated in 
consultation with the relevant 
stakeholders? 
Does the policy conform to any 
national / international standards? If 
yes, specify? (50 words) 
Has the policy being approved by the 
Board? 
Is yes, has it been signed by MD/ 
owner/ CEO/ appropriate Board 
Director? 
Does the company have a specified 
committee of the Board/ Director/ 
Official to oversee the implementation 
of the policy? 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 13 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

No.  Questions 

P
1 

P
2 

P
3 

P
4 

P
5 

P
6 

P
7 

P
8 

P
9 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

Indicate the link for the policy to be 
viewed online? 
Has the policy been formally 
communicated to all relevant internal 
and external stakeholders? 
Does the company have in-house 
structure to implement the policy/ 
policies. 
Does the Company have a grievance 
redressal mechanism related to the 
policy/ policies to address 
stakeholders’ grievances related to 
the policy/ policies? 
Has the company carried out 
independent audit/ evaluation of the 
working of this policy by an internal or 
external agency? 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(b) If answer to the question at serial number 1 against any principle, is ‘No’, please 

explain why: (Tick up to 2 options) 

No.  Questions 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

The company has not understood the 
Principles 
The company is not at a stage where 
it finds itself in a position to formulate 
and implement the policies on 
specified principles 
The company does not have financial 
or manpower resources available for 
the task 
It is planned to be done within next 6 
months 
It is planned to be done within the 
next 1 year 
Any other reason (please specify) 

P
1 

P
2 

P
3 

P
4 

P
5 

P
6 

P
7 

P
8 

P
9 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 13 

 

 

 

 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.  Governance related to BR 

(a) Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Committee of the Board 
or  CEO  to  assess  the  BR  performance  of  the  Company.  Within  3  months,  3-6 
months, Annually, More than 1 year 

(b) Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is the hyperlink 

for viewing this report? How frequently it is published? 

 
SECTION E: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE 
 
Principle 1 
 
1.  Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover only the company? Yes/ 

No. Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs /Others? 
 

2.  How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what 
percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the management? If so, provide details thereof, 
in about 50 words or so. 

 
Principle 2 

 

1.  List  up  to  3  of  your  products  or  services  whose  design  has  incorporated  social  or 

environmental concerns, risks and/or opportunities. 

(a) . 
(b) . 
(c)  . 

 

2.  For each such product, provide the following details in respect of resource use (energy, 

water, raw material etc.) per unit of product(optional): 

(a) Reduction  during  sourcing/production/  distribution  achieved  since  the  previous 

year throughout the value chain? 

(b) Reduction  during  usage  by  consumers  (energy,  water)  has  been  achieved  since 

the previous year? 

 

3.  Does  the  company  have  procedures  in  place  for  sustainable  sourcing  (including 

transportation)? 

(a) If  yes,  what  percentage  of  your  inputs  was  sourced  sustainably?  Also,  provide 

details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 

 

4.  Has  the  company  taken  any  steps  to  procure  goods  and  services  from  local  &  small 

producers, including communities surrounding their place of work? 

(a) If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and capability of local 

and small vendors? 

 

Page 6 of 13 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

5.  Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and waste? If yes what is the 
percentage of recycling of products and waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, 
provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 

 
Principle 3 

 

1.  Please indicate the Total number of employees. 
2.  Please  indicate  the  Total  number  of  employees  hired  on  temporary/contractual/casual 

basis. 

3.  Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees. 
4.  Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with disabilities 
5.  Do you have an employee association that is recognized by management. 
6.  What percentage of your permanent employees is members of this recognized employee 

association? 

7.  Please  indicate  the  Number  of  complaints  relating  to  child  labour,  forced  labour, 
involuntary  labour,  sexual  harassment  in  the  last  financial  year  and  pending,  as  on  the 
end of the financial year. 
 

No.  Category 

1 

2 
3 

Child labour/forced 
labour/involuntary labour 
Sexual harassment 
Discriminatory employment 

 

No of complaints 
filed during the 
financial year 
 

No of complaints 
pending as on end of 
the financial year 
 

 
 

 
 

8.  What  percentage  of  your  under  mentioned  employees  were  given  safety  &  skill  up-

gradation training in the last year? 

(a) Permanent Employees 
(b) Permanent Women Employees 
(c)  Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees 
(d) Employees with Disabilities 

 
Principle 4 
 
1.  Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders? Yes/No 
2.  Out  of  the  above,  has  the  company  identified  the  disadvantaged,  vulnerable  & 

marginalized stakeholders. 

 

Page 7 of 13 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.  Are there any special initiatives taken by the company to engage with the disadvantaged, 
vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words 
or so. 

 
Principle 5 

 

1.  Does the policy of the company on human rights cover only the company or extend to the 

Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others? 

2.  How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what 

percent was satisfactorily resolved by the management? 

 
Principle 6 

 

1.  Does  the  policy  related  to  Principle  6  cover  only  the  company  or  extends  to  the 

Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others. 

2.  Does  the  company  have  strategies/  initiatives  to  address  global  environmental  issues 
such  as  climate  change,  global  warming,  etc?  Y/N.  If  yes,  please  give  hyperlink  for 
webpage etc. 

3.  Does the company identify and assess potential environmental risks? Y/N 
4.  Does  the  company  have  any  project  related  to  Clean  Development  Mechanism?  If  so, 
provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. Also, if Yes, whether any environmental 
compliance report is filed? 

5.  Has  the  company  undertaken  any  other  initiatives  on  –  clean  technology,  energy 

efficiency, renewable energy, etc. Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for web page etc. 

6.  Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within the permissible limits given by 

CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being reported? 

7.  Number of show cause/ legal notices received from CPCB/SPCB which are pending (i.e. 

not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year. 

 
Principle 7 

 

1.  Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or association? If Yes, Name only 

those major ones that your business deals with: 

(a) . 
(b) . 
(c)  . 
(d) . 

 

2.  Have  you  advocated/lobbied  through  above  associations  for  the  advancement  or 
improvement  of  public  good?  Yes/No;  if  yes  specify  the  broad  areas  (  drop  box: 
Governance  and  Administration,  Economic  Reforms,  Inclusive  Development  Policies, 
Energy security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others) 

 

Page 8 of 13 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

Principle 8 
 
1.  Does the company have specified programmes/initiatives/projects in pursuit of the policy 

related to Principle 8? If yes details thereof. 

2.  Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in-house team/own foundation/external 

NGO/government structures/any other organization? 

3.  Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative? 
4.  What is your company’s direct contribution to community development projects- Amount 

in INR and the details of the projects undertaken. 

5.  Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development initiative is successfully 

adopted by the community? Please explain in 50 words, or so. 
 

Principle 9 

 

1.  What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases are pending as on the end of 

financial year. 

2.  Does the company display product information on the product label, over and above what 

is mandated as per local laws? Yes/No/N.A. /Remarks(additional information) 

3.  Is  there  any  case  filed  by  any  stakeholder  against  the  company  regarding  unfair  trade 
practices,  irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behaviour  during the last five 
years and pending as on end of financial year. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 
words or so. 

4.  Did your company carry out any consumer survey/ consumer satisfaction trends? 

 

Page 9 of 13 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

PRINCIPLES TO ASSESS COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL,  

 

ANNEXURE II 

SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE NORMS  

[See Regulation 34(2)(f)] 

 

Principle  1:  Businesses  should  conduct  and  govern  themselves  with  Ethics, 
Transparency and Accountability 
 
1.  Businesses  should  develop  governance  structures,  procedures  and  practices  that 
ensure ethical conduct at all levels; and promote the adoption of this principle across 
its  value  chain. Businesses  should  communicate  transparently  and  assure access to 
information about their decisions that impact relevant stakeholders. 

2.  Businesses  should  not  engage  in  practices  that  are  abusive,  corrupt,  or  anti-

competition. 

3.  Businesses  should  truthfully  discharge  their  responsibility  on  financial  and  other 

mandatory disclosures. 

4.  Businesses  should  report  on  the  status  of  their  adoption  of  these  Guidelines  as 

suggested in the reporting framework in this document. 

5.  Businesses should avoid complicity with the actions of any third party that violates any 

of the principles contained in these Guidelines 
 

Principle  2:  Businesses  should  provide  goods  and  services  that  are  safe  and 
contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle 

 

1.  Businesses  should  assure  safety  and  optimal  resource  use  over  the  life-cycle  of  the 
product  –  from  design  to  disposal  –  and  ensure  that  everyone  connected  with  it- 
designers,  producers,  value  chain  members,  customers  and  recyclers  are  aware  of 
their responsibilities. 

2.  Businesses should raise the consumer's awareness of their rights through education, 
product  labelling,  appropriate  and  helpful  marketing  communication,  full  details  of 
contents and composition and promotion of safe usage and disposal of their products 
and services. 

3.  In designing the product, businesses should ensure that the manufacturing processes 

and technologies required to produce it are resource efficient and sustainable. 

4.  Businesses should regularly review and improve upon the process of new technology 
development,  deployment  and  commercialization,  incorporating  social,  ethical,  and 
environmental considerations. 

5.  Businesses should recognize and respect the rights of people who may be owners of 

traditional knowledge, and other forms of intellectual property. 

 

Page 10 of 13 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

6.  Businesses  should  recognize 

in  unsustainable 
exploitation  of  our  planet's  resources,  and  should  therefore  promote  sustainable 
consumption, including recycling of resources. 
 

that  over-consumption  results 

Principle 3: Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees 

 

1.  Businesses should respect the right to freedom of association, participation, collective 

bargaining, and provide access to appropriate grievance Redressal mechanisms. 

2.  Businesses should provide and maintain equal opportunities at the time of recruitment 
as well as during the course of employment irrespective of caste, creed, gender, race, 
religion, disability or sexual orientation. 

3.  Businesses  should  not  use  child  labour,  forced  labour  or  any  form  of  involuntary 

labour, paid or unpaid. 

4.  Businesses  should  take  cognizance  of  the  work-life  balance  of  its  employees, 

especially that of women. 

5.  Businesses should provide facilities for the wellbeing of its employees including those 
with  special  needs.  They  should  ensure  timely  payment  of  fair  living  wages  to  meet 
basic needs and economic security of the employees. 

6.  Businesses  should  provide  a  workplace  environment  that  is  safe,  hygienic  humane, 
and  which  upholds  the  dignity  of  the  employees.  Business  should  communicate  this 
provision to their employees and train them on a regular basis. 

7.  Businesses  should  ensure  continuous  skill  and  competence  upgrading  of  all 
employees by providing access to necessary learning opportunities, on an equal and 
non-discriminatory  basis.  They  should  promote  employee  morale  and  career 
development through enlightened human resource interventions. 

8.  Businesses  should  create  systems  and  practices  to  ensure  a  harassment  free 

workplace where employees feel safe and secure in discharging their responsibilities. 

 
Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards 
all  stakeholders,  especially  those  who  are  disadvantaged,  vulnerable  and 
marginalized. 

 

1.  Businesses  should  systematically 

their 
concerns,  define  purpose  and  scope  of  engagement,  and  commit  to  engaging  with 
them. 

their  stakeholders,  understand 

identify 

2.  Businesses should acknowledge, assume responsibility and be transparent about the 
impact  of  their  policies,  decisions,  product  &  services  and  associated  operations  on 
the stakeholders. 

3.  Businesses  should  give  special  attention 

to  stakeholders 

in  areas 

that  are 

underdeveloped. 

4.  Businesses  should  resolve  differences  with  stakeholders  in  a  just,  fair  and  equitable 

manner 

 

Page 11 of 13 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights 

 

1.  Businesses  should  understand  the  human  rights  content  of  the  Constitution  of  India, 
national  laws  and  policies  and  the  content  of  International  Bill  of  Human  Rights. 
Businesses  should  appreciate  that  human  rights  are  inherent,  universal,  indivisible 
and interdependent in nature. 

2.  Businesses  should  integrate  respect  for  human  rights  in  management  systems,  in 
particular  through  assessing  and  managing  human  rights  impacts of  operations,  and 
ensuring  all  individuals  impacted  by  the  business  have  access  to  grievance 
mechanisms. 

3.  Businesses  should  recognize  and  respect 

the  human  rights  of  all  relevant 
stakeholders  and  groups  within  and  beyond  the  workplace,  including  that  of 
communities, consumers and vulnerable and marginalized groups. 

4.  Businesses  should,  within  their  sphere  of  influence,  promote  the  awareness  and 

realization of human rights across their value chain. 

5.  Businesses should not be complicit with human rights abuses by a third party. 

 

Principle  6:  Business  should  respect,  protect,  and  make  efforts  to  restore  the 
environment 

 

1.  Businesses  should  utilize  natural  and  manmade  resources  in  an  optimal  and 
responsible  manner  and  ensure  the  sustainability  of  resources  by  reducing,  reusing, 
recycling and managing waste. 

2.  Businesses should take measures to check and prevent pollution. They should assess 
the environmental damage and bear the cost of pollution abatement with due regard to 
public interest. 

3.  Businesses should ensure that benefits arising out of access and commercialization of 
biological  and  other  natural  resources  and  associated  traditional  knowledge  are 
shared equitably. 

4.  Businesses should continuously seek to improve their environmental performance by 
adopting  cleaner  production  methods,  promoting  use  of  energy  efficient  and 
environment friendly technologies and use of renewable energy. 

5.  Businesses  should  develop  Environment  Management  Systems 

(EMS)  and 
contingency  plans  and  processes  that  help  them  in  preventing,  mitigating  and 
controlling environmental damages and disasters, which may be caused due to their 
operations or that of a member of its value chain. 

6.  Businesses should report their environmental performance, including the assessment 
of potential environmental risks associated with their operations, to the stakeholders in 
a fair and transparent manner. 

7.  Businesses  should  proactively  persuade  and  support  its  value  chain  to  adopt  this 

principle. 

 

Page 12 of 13 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, 
should do so in a responsible manner 

 

1.  Businesses,  while  pursuing  policy  advocacy,  must  ensure  that  their  advocacy 
positions  are  consistent  with  the  Principles  and  Core  Elements  contained  in  these 
Guidelines. 

2.  To the extent possible, businesses should utilize the trade and industry chambers and 

associations and other such collective platforms to undertake such policy advocacy. 

 
Principle  8:  Businesses  should  support 
development 

 

inclusive  growth  and  equitable 

1.  Businesses should understand their impact on social and economic development, and 

respond through appropriate action to minimise the negative impacts. 

2.  Businesses should innovate and invest in products, technologies and processes that 

promote the wellbeing of society. 

3.  Businesses should make efforts to complement and support the development priorities 
at local and national levels, and assure appropriate resettlement and rehabilitation of 
communities who have been displaced owing to their business operations. 

4.  Businesses  operating  in  regions  that  are  underdeveloped  should  be  especially 

sensitive to local concerns. 

 
Principle  9:  Businesses  should engage with  and  provide  value  to  their  customers 
and consumers in a responsible manner 

 

1.  Businesses, while serving the needs of their customers, should take into account the 

overall well-being of the customers and that of society. 

2.  Businesses  should  ensure  that  they  do  not  restrict  the  freedom  of  choice  and  free 

competition in any manner while designing, promoting and selling their products. 

3.  Businesses  should  disclose  all  information  truthfully  and  factually,  through  labelling 
and other means, including the risks to the individual, to society and to the planet from 
the use of the products, so that the customers can exercise their freedom to consume 
in  a  responsible  manner.  Where  required,  businesses  should  also  educate  their 
customers on the safe and responsible usage of their products and services. 

4.  Businesses should promote and advertise their products in ways that do not mislead 

or confuse the consumers or violate any of the principles in these Guidelines. 

5.  Businesses should exercise due care and caution while providing goods and services 
that  result  in  over  exploitation  of  natural  resources  or  lead  to  excessive  conspicuous 
consumption. 

6.  Businesses  should  provide  adequate  grievance  handling  mechanisms  to  address 

customer concerns and feedback. 

 

Page 13 of 13 

 

