 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

          November 10, 2015 

CIR/CFD/POLICYCELL/11/2015   
 
To 
 
Recognised Stock Exchanges 
Depositories 
Registered Stock Brokers  
Registered Merchant Bankers  
Registered Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents 
Registered Depository Participants 
Registered Bankers to an Issue 
 
Dear Sir/Madam,  
 
Sub: Streamlining the Process of Public Issue of Equity Shares and Convertibles 
 
1.  As  a  part  of  the  continuing  endeavor  to  streamline  the  process  of  public  issue  of 
equity shares and convertibles, it has been decided, in consultation with the market 
participants -  
 
(i) to reduce the time taken for listing after the closure of issue to 6 working days as 
against the present requirement of 12 working days, and  
 
(ii)  to  broad-base  the  reach  of  investors  by  substantially  enhancing  the  points  for 
submission of applications.  
 
In this regard, necessary amendments to the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009 have already been notified.  
 

2.  The operational details to implement the above are outlined below: 

   
2.1. All the investors applying in a public issue shall use only Application Supported 
by Blocked Amount (ASBA) facility for making payment i.e. just writing their bank 
account  numbers  and  authorising  the  banks  to  make  payment  in  case  of 
allotment by signing the application forms, thus obviating the need of writing the 
cheques.   

 

2.2. In  addition to  the  Self Certified  Syndicate  Banks  (SCSBs),  Syndicate  Members 
and  Registered  Brokers  of  Stock  Exchanges,  the  Registrars  to  an  Issue  and 
Share Transfer Agents (RTAs) and Depository Participants (DPs) registered with 

 

Page 1 of 8 

SEBI  are  now  permitted  to  accept  application  forms  (both  physical  as  well  as 
online) in public issues.   

 

2.3. The  RTAs  and  DPs  shall  provide  their  contact  details,  where  the  application 
forms  shall  be  collected  by  them,  to  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  by 
November  30,  2015  as  per  the  format  specified  at  Annexure-A  and  the  same 
shall  be  disclosed  by  the  stock  exchanges  on  their  websites.  RTAs  and  DPs 
shall  regularly  update  the  said  details  by  furnishing  current  information  to  the 
stock exchanges which shall be disclosed by the stock exchanges.  

 
Processing of Applications by Intermediaries 
 

2.4. Intermediaries accepting the application forms shall be responsible for uploading 
the  bid  along  with  other  relevant  details  in  application  forms  on  the  electronic 
bidding  system  of  stock  exchange(s)  and  submitting  the  form  to  SCSBs  for 
blocking  of  funds  (except  in  case  of  SCSBs,  where  blocking  of  funds  will  be 
done  by  respective  SCSBs  only).  They  shall  undertake  the  various  activities  in 
accordance with indicative timelines as specified in this circular.  

 
2.5. All applications shall be stamped and thereby acknowledged by the intermediary 

at the time of receipt.  

 

Alerts by Stock Exchanges 
 

2.6. Similar  to  the  systems  prevalent  in  case of  secondary  market  transactions, the 
stock exchanges shall develop the systems to facilitate the investors to view the 
status of their public issue applications on their websites and sending the details 
of applications and allotments through SMS and E-mail alerts to the investors.  

 
Timelines  
 

2.7. The revised indicative timelines for various activities are specified at Annexure-

B to this circular.  

 
2.8. All  intermediaries  shall  co-ordinate  with  one  another  to  ensure  completion  of 

listing of shares and commencement of trading by T+6. 

 
Other Requirements  

 
2.9. Amount of commission payable to RTA / DP shall be determined on the basis of 
applications which have been considered eligible for the purpose of allotment. In 
order to determine to which RTA / DP the commission is payable to, the terminal 
from which the bid has been uploaded will be taken into account. 

 

2.10. The details of commission and processing fees payable to each intermediary and 
the timelines for payment shall be disclosed in the offer document and this shall 
be implemented strictly.  

 

Page 2 of 8 

 

3.  The intermediaries shall provide guidance to  their  investors on making applications 

in public issues. 
 

4.  The  merchant  bankers  shall  ensure  that  appropriate  disclosures  are  made  in  offer 

documents in accordance with this circular. 

 

5.  All  intermediaries  are  advised  to  take  necessary  steps  to  ensure  compliance  with 

this circular.  

 
6.  The  responsibilities  of  various  intermediaries  and  indicative  timelines,  prescribed 
vide  the  following  circulars,  shall  stand  modified  to  the  extent  stated  under  this 
circular: 

i.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/ASBA/1/2009/30/12 dated December 30, 2009;  
ii.  CIR/CFD/DIL/2/2010 dated April 06, 2010; 
iii.  CIR/CFD/DIL/3/2010 dated April 22, 2010;   
iv.  CIR/CFD/DIL/7/2010 dated July 13, 2010;  
v.  CIR/CFD/DIL/8/2010 dated October 12, 2010;  
vi.  CIR/CFD/DIL/1/2011 dated April 29, 2011; 
vii.  CIR/CFD/DIL/2/2011 dated May 16, 2011; 
viii.  CIR/CFD/DIL/12/2012 dated September 13, 2012;  
ix.  CIR/CFD/DIL/13/2012 dated September 25, 2012;   
x.  CIR/CFD/14/2012 dated October 04, 2012; 
xi.  CIR/CFD/DIL/1/2013 dated January 02, 2013; and  
xii.  CIR/CFD/DIL/4/2013 dated January 23, 2013. 

 

7.  This  circular  shall  be  applicable  for  all  public  issues  opening  on  or  after  January 

01, 2016.  
 

8.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  under  section  11  read  with 

section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  
 

9.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”.  

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Harini S Balaji 
General Manager 
+91-22-26449372 
harinib@sebi.gov.in  

 

Page 3 of 8 

Format for Submission of Details to Stock Exchanges 

Annexure-A 
 

 

 
Name of the RTA / DP: 
Registration No. 
 
Nodal Officer 
 
 
Name  
 
Designation   
 
Address 
Telephone 
 
 
Mobile      
E-mail  
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Sl. No 

State 

City 

xxx 
 
 

xxx 
 
 

1. 
2. 
3. 

 

 

: xxx 
: xxx 
: xxx 
: xxx 
: xxx 
: xxx 

Office 
Address 
xxx 
 
 

Contact 
Person 
xxx 
 
 

Contact 
Number 
xxx 
 
 

Fax 

E-mail 

xxx 
 
 

xxx 
 
 

 

 

Page 4 of 8 

Indicative Timeline Schedule for Various Activities 

 Annexure-B 

Details of Activities 

Due Date 
(working 

day*) 

An  investor,  intending  to  subscribe  to  a  public  issue,  shall  submit  a 
completed  bid-cum-application 
following 
intermediaries:  

to  any  of 

form 

the 

i.  an  SCSB,  with  whom  the  bank  account  to  be  blocked,  is 

maintained 

ii.  a syndicate member (or sub-syndicate member)  
iii.  a stock broker registered with a recognised stock exchange (and 
whose name is mentioned on the website of the  stock exchange 
as eligible for this activity) (‘broker’) 

iv.  a depository participant (‘DP’) (whose name is mentioned on the 

website of the stock exchange as eligible for this activity) 

v.  a  registrar  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agent  (‘RTA’)  (whose 
name  is  mentioned  on  the  website  of  the  stock  exchange  as 
eligible for this activity) 
 

form, 

the  application 

The  aforesaid  intermediaries  shall,  at  the  time  of  receipt  of application, 
give  an  acknowledgement  to  investor,  by  giving  the  counter  foil  or 
specifying  the  application  number  to  the  investor,  as  a  proof  of  having 
accepted 
in  physical  or  electronic  mode, 
respectively.  
 
(i)  For applications submitted by investors to SCSB: After accepting 
the  form,  SCSB  shall  capture  and  upload  the  relevant  details  in 
the  electronic  bidding  system  as  specified  by 
the  stock 
exchange(s) and may  begin  blocking funds available in the bank 
account  specified  in  the  form,  to  the  extent  of  the  application 
money specified.  
 

(ii)  For  applications  submitted  by  investors  to  other  intermediaries: 
After accepting the application form, respective intermediary shall 
capture  and  upload  the  relevant  details  in  the  electronic  bidding 
system of stock exchange(s). 

 
the  electronic  bid  details  with 
Stock  exchange(s)  shall  validate 
depository’s  records  for  DP  ID,  Client  ID  and  PAN,  by  the  end  of each 
bidding day and bring the inconsistencies to the notice of intermediaries 
concerned,  for  rectification  and  re-submission  within  the  time  specified 
by stock exchange. 
 
Stock  exchange(s)  shall  allow  modification  of  selected  fields  in  the  bid 
details already uploaded on a daily basis.  
 

Page 5 of 8 

Issue 

opening 
date to 
issue 

closing date 
(where T is 

issue 
closing 
date)  

 

Sl. 
No. 

1.   

2.   

 

T (Issue 
closing 
date) 

3.   

Issue Closes 

Stock  exchange(s)  shall  allow  modification  of  selected  fields  (till  01:00 
PM) in the bid details already uploaded. 
 
Registrar  to  get  the  electronic  bid  details  from  the  stock  exchanges  by 
end of the day.  
 
Syndicate  members,  brokers,  DPs  and  RTAs  to  forward  a  schedule  as 
per  format  given  below  along  with  the  application  forms  to  designated 
branches of the respective SCSBs for blocking of funds.  
 

Field 
No. 

Intermediary Code 

Details* 
1.    Symbol 
2.   
3.    Location Code 
4.    Application No. 
5.    Category 
6.    PAN 
7.    DP ID 
8.    Client ID 
9.    Quantity  
10.   Amount 

 
(*Stock exchange(s) shall uniformly prescribe character length for each 
of the above-mentioned fields)  
 
SCSBs to continue / begin blocking of funds. 
 
Designated  branches  of  SCSBs  may  not  accept  schedule  and 
applications after T+1 day. 
 
Registrar  to  give  bid  file  received  from  stock  exchanges  containing  the 
application number and amount to all the SCSBs who may use this file 
for validation / reconciliation at their end.  

 

Issuer,  merchant  banker  and  registrar  to  submit  relevant  documents  to 
the  stock  exchange(s)  except  listing  application,  allotment  details  and 
demat credit and refund details for the purpose of listing permission.  
 
SCSBs  to  send  confirmation  of  funds  blocked  (Final  Certificate)  to  the 
registrar by end of the day.  
 

Page 6 of 8 

4.   

5.   

 

T+1 

T+2 

Registrar  shall  reconcile  the  compiled  data  received  from  the  stock 
exchange(s)  and  all  SCSBs  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “reconciled 
data”).  
 
Registrar shall reject multiple applications determined as such, based on 
common PAN.  
 
Registrar to undertake “Technical Rejection” test based on electronic bid 
details and prepare list of technical rejection cases.  
 
 
Finalisation  of  technical  rejection  and  minutes  of  the  meeting  between 
issuer, lead manager, registrar. 
 
Registrar  shall  finalise  the  basis  of  allotment  and  submit  it  to  the 
designated stock exchange for approval.  
 
Designated Stock Exchange(s) to approve the basis of allotment.  
 
Registrar  to  prepare  funds  transfer  schedule  based  on  approved  basis 
of allotment. 
 
Registrar / Issuer to initiate corporate action to carry out lock-in for pre-
issue capital held in depository system. 
 
Registrar  and  merchant  banker  to  issue  funds  transfer  instructions  to 
SCSBs. 

 

Registrar  to  receive  confirmation  for  pre-issue  capital  lock-in  from 
depositories.  

 

SCSBs  to  credit  the  funds  in  public  issue  account  of  the  issuer  and 
confirm the same. 
 
Issuer shall make the allotment.  
 
Registrar  /  Issuer  to  initiate  corporate  action  for  credit  of  shares  to 
successful allottees.  
 
Issuer  and  registrar  to  file  allotment  details  with  designated  stock 
exchange(s)  and  confirm  all  formalities  are  complete  except  demat 
credit.  
 
Registrar  to  send  bank-wise  data  of  allottees,  amount  due  on  shares 
allotted, if any, and balance amount to be unblocked to SCSBs. 
 

 

 

6.   

7.   

T+3 

T+4 

 

 

Page 7 of 8 

T+5 

T+6 

 

 

8.   

Registrar to receive confirmation of demat credit from depositories.  
 
Issuer  and  registrar  to  file  confirmation  of  demat  credit,  lock-in  and 
issuance  of  instructions  to  unblock  ASBA  funds,  as  applicable,  with 
stock exchange(s).  
 
Issuer  to  make  a  listing  application  to  stock  exchange(s)  and  stock 
exchange(s) to give listing and trading permission.  
 
to  publish  allotment 
Issuer,  merchant  banker  and 
advertisement  before 
trading,  prominently 
displaying the date of commencement of trading, in all the newspapers 
where issue opening/closing advertisements have appeared earlier.  
 
Stock exchange(s) to issue commencement of trading notice.  
 

the  commencement  of 

registrar 

9.    Trading commences  

 
* Working days will be all days excluding Sundays and bank holidays 

 

Page 8 of 8 

