भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/CFD/CMD/14/2015                                                 
 

          November 30, 2015 

To 

The Listed Entities  
The Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

Sub: Manner of achieving minimum public shareholding  

1.  Regulation  38  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 provides that the listed entity shall comply 
with  minimum  public  shareholding  requirements  in  the  manner  as  specified  by  the 
Board from time to time. 
 

2.  In  order  to  achieve    the    minimum    level    of    public  shareholding    specified    in  Rule 
19(2)(b)  and/or Rule  19A of  the Securities Contracts (Regulation)  Rules,  1957,  the 
Listed Entity shall adopt  any  of  the  following  methods :-  

 
i. 

Issuance of shares to public through prospectus;  
 

ii.  Offer for sale of shares held by promoters to public through prospectus;  
 

iii.  Sale of shares held by promoters through the secondary market in terms of SEBI 

circular CIR/MRD/DP/05/2012 dated February 1, 2012;  
 
Institutional  Placement  Programme  (IPP)  in  terms  of  Chapter  VIIIA  of  SEBI 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; 

iv. 

 
v.  Rights Issue to public shareholders, with promoter/promoter group shareholders 

forgoing their entitlement to equity shares, that may arise from such issue; 

 

vi.  Bonus 

Issues 

to  public  shareholders,  with  promoter/promoter  group 
shareholders  forgoing  their  entitlement  to  equity  shares,  that  may  arise  from 
such issue; 

 

vii.  Any other method as may be approved by SEBI on a case to case basis. For this 
purpose,  the  listed  entities  may  approach  SEBI  with  appropriate  details.  SEBI 
would  endeavor  to  communicate  its  decision  within  30  days  from  the  date  of 

 

Page 1 of 2 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

receipt of the proposal or the date of receipt of additional information as sought 
from the company.  

 

3.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of 
the  listed  entities  and  also  to  disseminate  the  same  on  its  website.  This  circular  shall 
come into force on December 01, 2015. 

 

4.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  and 
Section  11A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with 
Regulation 38 and Regulation 101(2) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.   
 

5.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Continuous Disclosure Requirements”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

B N Sahoo 
General Manager 
Compliance and Monitoring Division 
Corporation Finance Department 
biranchins@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

