¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

November 30, 2015 

CIR/CFD/CMD/16/2015 
 
To 
 
All Listed Entities who have listed their equity and convertibles  
All the Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Schemes of Arrangement by Listed Entities and (ii) Relaxation under Sub-rule 
(7) of rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 

 

1.  SEBI 

(Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “listing  regulations”)  place  obligations  with  respect  to 
Scheme of  Arrangement  on Listed  Entities  and  Stock  Exchange(s)  in  Regulation 11, 
37 and 94. 
 
Sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957 
(hereinafter referred to as “the SCRR”) provides that Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (SEBI) may, at its own discretion or on the recommendation of a recognised 
stock exchange, waive or relax the strict enforcement of any or all of the requirements 
with respect to listing prescribed by these rules. 
 

2.  Thus  the  additional  requirements  in  order  to  achieve  the  intent  of  regulations  11,  37 
and 94 and for availing exemption under sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of SCRR, if applicable 
are placed at Annexure-I.  
 

3.  Applicability:  The  Circular  shall  come  into  force  w.e.f  December  01,  2015.  The 
Schemes already submitted to the stock exchange in terms of Part A of SEBI Circular 
CIR/CFD/DIL/5/2013  dated  February  04,  2013  read  with  CIR/CFD/DIL/8/2013  dated 
May 21, 2013, shall be governed by the requirements specified in these circulars.  

 

4.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of 

Listed Entity and also to disseminate the same on its website. 
 

5.  This  circular  is  issued  under  regulations  11,  37  &  94  read  with  regulation  101(2)  of 

listing regulations and Rule 19(7) of SCRR, 1957. 
 

6.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework/Circulars”. 

 
Yours faithfully, 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
B.N. Sahoo 
General Manager 
biranchins@sebi.gov.in 

Page 1 of 12 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

ANNEXURE I 

Requirements  before  the  Scheme  of  arrangement  is  submitted  for  sanction 
by the Hon’ble High Court  
 

A.  Requirements to be fulfilled by Listed Entity  

 

1.  Eligibility conditions for companies seeking relaxation under sub-rule (7) of 

rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 

A listed issuer may submit the Draft Scheme of arrangement under sub-rule (7) 
of rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, thereby seeking 
relaxation  from  the  strict  enforcement  of  clause  (b)  to  sub-rule  (2)  of  rule  19 
thereof, for listing of its equity shares on a recognized stock exchange without 
making an initial public offer, if it satisfies the following conditions:  

 
(a) The equity shares sought to be listed are proposed to be allotted by the unlisted 
issuer (transferee entity) to the holders of securities of a listed entity (transferor 
entity)  pursuant  to  a  scheme  of  reconstruction  or  amalgamation  (Scheme) 
sanctioned by a High Court under section 391-394 of the Companies Act, 1956 
or under Section 230-234 of the Companies Act, 2013;  

(b) At  least  twenty  five  per  cent  of  the  post-scheme  paid  up  share  capital  of  the 
transferee entity shall comprise of shares allotted to the public shareholders in 
the transferor entity;  

(c) The transferee entity will not issue/ reissue any shares, not covered under the 

Draft Scheme of arrangement;  

(d) As  on  date  of  application,  there  are  no  outstanding  warrants/  instruments/ 
agreements  which  give  right  to  any  person  to  take  the  equity  shares  in  the 
transferee entity  at  any  future  date.  If  there are  such  instruments stipulated  in 
the  Draft  Scheme,  the  percentage  referred  to  in  Para    (b)  above  shall  be 
computed after giving effect to the consequent increase of capital on account of 
compulsory  conversions  outstanding  as  well  as  on  the  assumption  that  the 
options outstanding, if any, to subscribe for additional capital will be exercised; 
and  

(e) The shares of the transferee entity issued in lieu of the locked-in shares of the 

transferor entity will be subject to lock-in for the remaining period.  

 

2.  Designated Stock Exchange 

(a) Listed companies shall choose one of the stock exchanges having nationwide 
trading  terminals  as  the  designated  stock  exchange  for  the  purpose  of 
coordinating with SEBI.  

(b) For  companies  listed  solely  on  regional  stock  exchange,  wherein  exemption 
from Rule 19(2) (b) of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 is sought, 
the listed entity shall obtain in-principle approval for listing of equity shares on 
any stock exchange having nationwide trading terminals. 

 
(c) In  cases,  wherein  exemption  from  Rule  19(2)(b)  of  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation)  Rules,  1957  is  not  sought  by  the  listed  entity,  one  of  the  stock 

Page 2 of 12 

 

 

 
I. 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

exchanges  having  nationwide  trading  terminals  shall  provide  a  platform  for 
dissemination  of  information  of  such  Schemes  and  other  documents  required 
under  this  circular.  For  such  purpose,  stock  exchanges  having  nationwide 
trading terminals may charge reasonable fees from such companies. 

 

3.  Submission of Documents 

 
The Listed entity shall submit the following documents to the stock exchanges:-  
(a) Draft Scheme of arrangement/ amalgamation/ merger/ reconstruction/ reduction 

of capital, etc.;  

(b) Valuation Report as per Para (4) below;  
(c) Report from the Audit Committee recommending the Draft Scheme, taking into 
consideration, inter alia, the Valuation Report. The Valuation Report is required 
to be placed before the Audit Committee of the listed entity;  

(d) Fairness opinion by merchant banker ion valuation of assets / shares done by 

the valuer for the listed entity and unlisted company; 

(e) Pre and post amalgamation shareholding pattern of unlisted company;  
(f)  Audited financials of last 3 years (financials not being more than 6 months old) 

of unlisted company;  

(g) Auditor’s Certificate as per Para (5) below; 
(h) Compliance with requirements of Regulation 17 to 27 of Listing Regulations; 

 

4.  Valuation Report;  

 
(a) All listed entities are required to submit a valuation report. 

 

(b) However,  'Valuation  Report  from  an  Independent  Chartered  Accountant'  need 
not be required in cases where there is no change in the shareholding pattern 
of the listed entity / resultant company.  
 

(c) For  the  limited  purpose  of  this  Circular,  'change  in  the  shareholding  pattern' 

shall mean; 
(i)  change in the proportion of shareholding of any of the existing shareholders 
of the listed entity  in the resultant company; or 

(ii)  new shareholder being allotted equity shares of the resultant company; or 
(iii)  existing  shareholder  exiting  the  company  pursuant  to  the  Scheme  of 

Arrangement 
 

(d) Further,  a  few  examples  illustrating    'no  change  in  shareholding  pattern'  are 

indicated  below: 

 

(i) 

In  case  a  listed  entity  (say,  “entity  A”)  demerges  a  unit  and  makes  it  a 
separate company (say, “entity B”); 
1)  if the shareholding of entity B is comprised only of the shareholders of 

entity A; and 

2)  if the shareholding pattern of entity B is the same as in entity A; and 

 
 

 

Page 3 of 12 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3)  every shareholder in entity B holds equity shares in the same proportion 
as held in entity A before the demerger. It will be treated as 'no change 
in shareholding pattern'. 

 

 

 

 

(ii) 

In  case  a  wholly-owned-subsidiary  (say,  "entity  X")  of  a  listed  entity  is 
merged  with  its  parent  listed  company  (say,  "entity  Y"),  where  the 
shareholders and the shareholding pattern of entity Y remains the same, it 
will be treated as 'no change in shareholding pattern'. 

 
For  the  limited  purpose  of  this  Circular,  'resultant  company'  shall  mean  a 
company arising / remaining after the listed company undertakes a Scheme of 
Arrangement. 
 

(e) In  all  other  cases, 

'Valuation  Report 

from  an 

Independent  Chartered 

Accountant' shall be required. 

 

5.  Auditor’s certificate 

(a) An auditors’ certificate shall be filed to the effect that the accounting treatment  
contained    in    the    scheme    is    in    compliance    with    all    the    Accounting 
Standards  specified  by  the  Central  Government  under  Section  133  of  the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the rules framed thereunder or the Accounting 
Standards  issued  by  ICAI,  as  applicable,  and  other  generally  accepted 
accounting principles. 
 
Provided    that    in    case    of    companies  where    the    respective    sectoral  
regulatory authorities  have  prescribed  norms  for  accounting  treatment  of  
items    in    the  financial    statements    contained    in    the    scheme,    the  
requirements  of  the regulatory authorities shall prevail.  
 
Explanation    –    For    this    purpose,    mere    disclosure    of    deviations    in  
accounting 
the  aforementioned  Accounting 
Standards  and  other  generally  accepted  Accounting  Principles  shall  not  be 
deemed as compliance with the above.  
 

treatments  as  prescribed 

in 

(b) The standard format for auditors’ certificate would be as per Annexure II.   
 

6.  Redressal of Complaints 

 

(a) The Listed entity shall submit to stock exchanges a ‘Complaints Report’ which 
shall  contain  the  details  of  complaints/comments  received  by  it  on  the  Draft 
Scheme  from  various  sources  (complaints/comments  written  directly  to  the 
listed entity or forwarded to it by the stock exchanges/SEBI) as per Annexure III 
of  this  Circular  prior  to  obtaining  Observation  Letter  from  stock  exchanges  on 
Draft Scheme.  
 

(b) ‘Complaints Report’ as mentioned above, shall be submitted by listed entity  to 
the stock exchanges within 7 days of expiry of 21 days from the date of filing of 
Draft Scheme with stock exchanges and hosting the Draft Scheme along with 
documents specified under para (3) above on the websites of stock exchanges 
and the listed entity . 

 

Page 4 of 12 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

7.  Disclosure on the Website 

 

(a) Immediately  upon  filing  of  the  Draft  Scheme  of  arrangement  with  the  stock 
exchanges, the listed company shall disclose the Draft Scheme of arrangement 
and all the documents specified under para (3) above on its website.  
 

(b) Listed entity shall also disclose the Observation Letter of the stock exchanges 

on its website within 24 hours of receiving the same.  

 

8.  Explanatory Statement or notice or proposal accompanying resolution sent 

to shareholders for seeking approval of scheme  
 
(a) The Listed entity shall include the Observation Letter of the stock exchanges, in 
the explanatory statement or notice or proposal accompanying resolution to be 
passed sent to the shareholders seeking approval of the Scheme.   

 
(b) The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  that  in  the  explanatory  statement  or  notice  or 
proposal  accompanying  resolution  to  be  passed,  it  shall  disclose  the  pre  and 
post-arrangement  or  amalgamation 
(expected)  capital  structure  and 
shareholding  pattern,  and  the  “fairness  opinion”  obtained  from  a  merchant 
bankers  on  valuation  of  assets  /  shares  done  by  the  independent  chartered 
accountant for the listed entity and unlisted company. 

 
(c) The  Listed  entity  shall  include  the  ‘Complaints  Report’  in  the  explanatory 
statement or notice or proposal accompanying resolution to be passed sent to 
the shareholders while seeking approval of the Scheme. 

 

9.  Approval of Shareholders to Scheme Through Postal Ballot And e- Voting:  

(a) The Listed companies shall ensure that the Scheme of Arrangement submitted 
with  the  Hon’ble  High  Court  for  sanction,  provides  for  voting  by  public 
shareholders through postal ballot and e-voting, after disclosure of all material 
facts  in  the explanatory  statement  sent  to  the  shareholders  in  relation  to  such 
resolution, in the following cases: 
 
i.  Where additional shares have been allotted to Promoter / Promoter Group, 
Related  Parties  of  Promoter  /  Promoter  Group,  Associates  of  Promoter  / 
Promoter  Group,  Subsidiary/(s)  of  Promoter  /  Promoter  Group  of  the  listed 
entity , or 
 

ii.  Where the Scheme of Arrangement involves the listed entity  and any other 
entity  involving  Promoter  /  Promoter  Group,  Related  Parties  of  Promoter  / 
Promoter  Group,  Associates  of  Promoter  /  Promoter  Group,  Subsidiary/(s) 
of Promoter / Promoter Group. 
 

iii.  Where  the  parent  listed  entity,  has  acquired  the  equity  shares  of  the 
subsidiary,  by  paying  consideration  in  cash or  in  kind  in  the  past  to  any  of 
the shareholders of the subsidiary who may be Promoter / Promoter Group, 
Related  Parties  of  Promoter  /  Promoter  Group,  Associates  of  Promoter  / 

Page 5 of 12 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Promoter Group, Subsidiary/(s) of Promoter / Promoter Group of the parent 
listed entity company, and if that subsidiary is being merged with the parent 
listed company under the Scheme of arrangement. 

 
(b) Such  Scheme  of  arrangement  shall  also  provide  that  the  Scheme  of 
arrangement  shall  be  acted  upon  only  if  the  votes  cast  by  the  public 
shareholders  in favor of  the proposal  are  more  than the  number of  votes  cast 
by  the  public  shareholders  against  it.  The  term  'public'  shall  carry  the  same 
meaning  as  defined  under  Rule  2  of  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules, 
1957. 
 

(c) For all other cases, the requirements stated at  para (9) (a) above shall not be 
applicable.  In  such  cases,  the  listed  entities  shall  furnish  an  undertaking 
certified by the auditor and duly approved by the Board of the company, clearly 
stating the reasons for non-applicability of para (9) (a) above. 
 

(d) The  undertaking  as  referred  to  in  Para  (9)(c)  above  shall  be  displayed  on  the 
websites  of  stock  exchanges  and  the  listed  company  along  with  other 
documents submitted, as stipulated under Para (3)  above. 
 

(e) Any  mis-statement  or  furnishing  of  false  information  with  regard  to  the  said 
undertaking would be viewed seriously and liable for punitive action as per the 
provisions of applicable laws and regulations. 

 

B.  Obligations of Stock Exchange(s)  

 

1.  The  designated  Stock  Exchange,  upon  receipt  of 

the  Draft  Scheme  of 
Arrangement  and  documents  referred  to  at  para  (A)  (3)  above  shall  forward  the 
same to SEBI within three working days. 
 

2.  The  ‘Complaints  Report’  shall  be  forwarded  by  the  stock  exchanges  to  SEBI 
before  SEBI  communicates  its  comments  on  the  Draft  Scheme  to  the  stock 
exchanges.  Such  Report  shall  be  submitted  as  per  the  format  specified  at 
Annexure III to this Circular. 
 

3.  The  stock  exchanges  where  the  specified  securities  are  listed  /  proposed  to  be 
listed  shall  also  disclose  on  their  websites  the  documents  listed  at  para  (A)  (3) 
above immediately on receipt. It shall also disclose the Observation Letter on its 
website immediately upon issuance.  
 

C.  Processing of the Draft Scheme by SEBI  

1.  Upon  receipt  of  Observation  Letter’  or  ‘No-Objection’  letter  from  the  stock 
exchanges, SEBI shall provide its comments on the Draft Scheme of arrangement 
to  the  stock  exchanges.  While  processing  the  Draft  Scheme,  SEBI  may  seek 
clarifications from  any  person  relevant  in  this  regard  including  the  listed  entity  or 
the  stock  exchanges  and  may  also  seek  an  opinion  from  an  Independent 
Chartered Accountant.  

 

Page 6 of 12 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

2.  SEBI shall endeavour to provide its comments on the Draft Scheme to the stock 

exchanges within 30 days from the later of the following:  
(a) date of receipt of satisfactory reply on clarifications, if any sought from the listed 

entity by SEBI; or  

(b) date of receipt of opinion from Independent Chartered Accountant, if sought by 

SEBI; or  

(c) date  of  receipt  of  Observation  Letter’  or  ‘No-Objection’  letter  from  the  stock 

exchanges.  

(d) date of receipt of copy of in-principle approval for listing of equity shares of the 
company  seeking  exemption  from  Rule  19(2)(b)  of  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation)  Rules,  1957  on  designated  stock  exchange,  in  case  the  listed 
entity is listed solely on regional stock exchange. 

 

 
II. 

 

 

 

3.  All complaints/comments received by SEBI on the Draft Scheme  of arrangement 
shall  be  forwarded  to  the  designated  stock  exchange,  for  necessary  action  and 
resolution by the listed entity. 

(a) Requirements after the Scheme is Sanctioned by the Hon’ble High Court 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “Approved  Scheme”)  and  (b)  application  for 
relaxation  under  Sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation) Rules, 1957, as applicable 
  

A.  Requirements to be fulfilled by Listed Entity  

 

1.  Eligibility  conditions  for  entities    seeking  relaxation  under  sub-rule  (7)  of 

rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 

Stock exchanges shall ensure that , an unlisted issuer may make an application to 
the  Board  under  sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation) 
Rules,  1957,  pursuant  to  Part  I  of  Annexure  I  this  Circular  if  it  satisfies  the 
following conditions:  
(a) Observation  Letter  or  No  Objection  Letter  has  been  issued  by  the  stock 

exchanges to the Draft Scheme of arrangement;  

(b) The  listing  of  the  equity  shares  of  the  transferee  entity  is  in  terms  of  the 
Scheme sanctioned by the Hon’ble High Court or its order whereby the Scheme 
of arrangement has been sanctioned;  

(c) The equity shares sought to be listed have been allotted by the unlisted issuer 
(transferee entity) to the holders of securities of a listed entity (transferor entity);  
(d) The  names  of  the  allottees  have  been  entered  as  beneficial  owners  in  the 
records  of  the depositories  pursuant  to  the Scheme or  share  certificates  have 
been dispatched to the allottees.  

2.  Submission of Documents 

 
Upon  sanction  of  the  Scheme  by  the  Hon’ble  High  Court,  the  listed  entity  shall 
submit the documents mentioned below to the   stock exchanges:-   
(a) Copy of the High Court approved Scheme;  
(b) Result of voting by shareholders for approving the Scheme;  

Page 7 of 12 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(c) Statement  explaining  changes,  if  any,  and  reasons  for  such  changes  carried 
out  in  the  Approved  Scheme  of  arrangement  vis-à-vis  the  Draft  Scheme  of 
arrangement 

(d) Status of compliance with the Observation Letter or No Objection Letter of the 

stock exchange(s)  

(e) The  application  seeking  exemption  from  Rule  19(2)(b)  of  SCRR,  1957, 

wherever applicable; and  

3. 

4. 

(f)  Complaints Report as per Annexure III of this Circular.  
 
In case of a hiving off of a division of a listed entity (say, “entity A”) and its merger 
with  a  newly  formed  or  existing  unlisted  issuer  (say,  “entity  B”)  there  will  not  be 
any additional lock-in, if the paid-up share capital of the unlisted issuer 'B' is only 
to the extent of requirement for incorporation purposes  
 
In  case of merger  where  the paid-up  share capital of  the  unlisted issuer  seeking 
listing  (say,  “entity  B”)  is  more  than  the  requirement  for  incorporation,  the 
promoters'  shares  shall  be  locked-in  to  the  extent  twenty  percent  of  the  post-
merger paid-up capital of the unlisted issuer, for a period of three years from the 
date of listing of the shares of the unlisted issuer. The balance of the entire pre-
merger  capital  of  the  unlisted  issuer  shall  also  be  locked-in  for  a  period  of  three 
years from the date of listing of the shares of the unlisted issuer.  
 

5.  The  listed  entity  and/or  transferee  entity  (unlisted  entity),  as  applicable,  shall 
confirm  that  it  has  taken  steps  for  listing  of  its  specified  securities,  within  thirty 
days of the receipt of the order of the Hon’ble High Court sanctioning the Scheme, 
simultaneously  on  all  the  stock  exchanges  where  the  equity  shares  of  the  listed 
entity (or transferor entity) are/were listed.  

 

6.  The formalities for commencing of trading shall be completed within forty five days 
of  the  order  of  the  Hon’ble  High  Court.  Before  commencement  of  trading,  the 
transferee  entity  shall  give  an  advertisement  in  one  English  and  one  Hindi 
newspaper  with  nationwide  circulation  and  one  regional  newspaper  with  wide 
circulation  at  the  place  where  the  registered  office  of  the  transferee  entity  (is 
situated, giving following details:  

 

(a) Name and address of its registered office;  
(b) Details of change of name and/or object clause;  
(c) Capital  structure  -  pre  and  post  scheme  of  amalgamation.  This  shall  provide 
details  of  the  authorized,  issued,  subscribed  and  paid  up  capital  (Number  of 
instruments, description, and aggregate nominal value);  

(d) Shareholding  pattern giving  details  of  its  promoter  group  shareholding,  group 

companies;  

(e) Names of its ten largest shareholders - number and percentage of shares held 

by each of them, their interest, if any;  

(f)  Details of its promoters - educational qualifications, experience, address;  
(g) Business and its management;  
(h) Reason for the amalgamation;  
(i)  Financial statements for the previous three years prior to the date of listing;  
(j)  Latest audited financial statements along with notes to accounts and any audit 
qualifications.  Change  in  accounting  policies  in  the  last  three  years  and  their 

 

Page 8 of 12 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

effect  on  profits  and  reserves  (Financial  statements  should  not  be  later  than 
six months prior to the date of listing);  

(k) Details  of  its  other  group  companies  including  their  capital  structure  and 

financial statements;  

(l)  Outstanding  litigations  and  defaults  of  the  transferee  entity,  promoters, 

directors or any of the group companies;  

(m)Particulars of high, low and average prices of the shares of the listed transferor 

entity during the preceding three years;  

(n) Any material development after the date of the balance sheet; and  
(o) Such other information as may be specified by the Board from time to time.  
 

B.  Application  by  a  listed  entity    for  Listing  of  Equity  Shares  with  Differential 

Rights as to Dividend, Voting or Otherwise:  
 

A  listed  entity  desirous  of  listing  of  its  equity  shares  with  differential  rights  as  to 
dividend, voting or otherwise, without making an initial public offer of such equity 
shares, may make an application to the Board under sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of the 
SCRR  seeking  relaxation  from  strict  enforcement  of  clause  (b)  to  sub-rule  (2)  of 
rule 19 thereof if it satisfies the following conditions:  
(a) such equity shares are issued to all the existing shareholders as on record date 

by way of rights or bonus issue;  

(b) the issuer is in compliance with the conditions of minimum public shareholding 
requirement stipulated in  regulation 38 of Listing Regulation, with  reference to 
the  equity  shares  already  listed  and  the  equity  shares  with  differential  rights 
proposed to be listed; and  

(c) the issuer undertakes to disclose the shareholding pattern of the equity shares 

with differential rights separately in terms of requirements of regulation 31.  

C.  Application  by  a  listed    entity    for  Listing  of  warrants  Offered  Along  With 

Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs):  
 
A  listed  entity,  desirous  of  listing  of  its  warrants  without  making  an  initial  public 
offer of warrants, may make an application to the Board under sub-Rule (7) of rule 
19  of  the  SCRR  seeking  relaxation  from  strict  enforcement  of  clause  (b)  to  sub-
rule (2) of rule 19 if it satisfies the following conditions:  
(a) warrants  are  issued  as  combined  offering  of  NCDs  and  warrants  through 
qualified institutions placement under Chapter VIII of the SEBI (Issue of Capital 
and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  (hereinafter  referred  to  as 
“the ICDR Regulations”);  

(b) the  issuer  is  in  compliance  with  all  the  provisions  of  Chapter  VIII  of  the  ICDR 

Regulations ; and  

(c) NCDs  and  warrants  shall  be  traded  in  the  minimum  trade  lot  of  one  lakh 

rupees.  

 

D.  Requirements to be fulfilled by Stock Exchange(s)  

1.  The designated stock exchange shall forward the documents to the Board   along 
with  its  recommendations  on  documents  and  recommendation,  if  applicable,  on 
the application for granting exemption, under sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of SCRR.  
 

Page 9 of 12 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

E.  Processing of the Scheme by SEBI  

1.  The Board may, while  granting relaxation, if any, under sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of 
SCRR, stipulate any other conditions as may be deemed necessary in the interest 
of  investors  and  securities  market,  under  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the 
specific case.  

2.  SEBI shall endeavour to  intimate  its comments/approval, wherever applicable, to 
the designated stock exchange within 30 days of receipt of complete information, 
including the no-objection certificate from the exchange.  
 

 

Page 10 of 12 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
 

ANNEXURE II 

Format for Auditor's Certificate  

To, 
The Board of Directors, 
……………………………………………………………. 
(Name and address of the Company) 
 
 
We, the statutory auditors of ……………………………. (name of the listed entity),(hereinafter referred 
to  as  “the Company”),  have  examined  the  proposed  accounting  treatment specified  in  clause ……… 
(specify  clause  number)  of  the  Draft  Scheme  of  ………………………………..  (specify  the  type  of 
Scheme)  between  ………………………………………..  (names  of  the  companies/entities  involved)  in 
terms of  the  provisions  of  section(s) …………………………………  (specify  the  relevant  section(s))  of 
the Companies Act, 1956/ Companies Act, 2013 with reference to its compliance with the applicable 
Accounting  Standards  notified  under  the  Companies  Act,  1956/  Companies  Act,  2013  and  Other 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
 
The  responsibility  for  the  preparation  of  the  Draft  Scheme  and  its  compliance  with  the  relevant  laws 
and  regulations,  including  the  applicable  Accounting  Standards  as  aforesaid,  is  that  of  the  Board  of 
Directors of the Companies involved. Our responsibility is only to examine and report whether the Draft 
Scheme complies with the applicable Accounting Standards and Other Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles.  Nothing  contained  in  this  Certificate,  nor  anything  said  or  done  in  the  course  of,  or  in 
connection  with  the  services  that  are  subject  to  this  Certificate,  will  extend  any  duty  of  care  that  we 
may  have  in  our  capacity  of  the  statutory  auditors  of  any  financial  statements  of  the  Company.  We 
carried out our examination in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit Reports and Certificates 
for Special Purposes, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. 
 
Based on our examination and according to the information and explanations given to us, we confirm 
that  the  accounting  treatment  contained  in  the  aforesaid  scheme  is  in  compliance  with  SEBI  (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and circulars issued there under and all 
the  applicable  Accounting  Standards  notified  by  the  Central  Government  under  the  Companies  Act, 
1956/  Companies  Act,  2013  and/or  the  accounting  treatment  in  respect  of  ………………………. 
(specify  the  financial  statement  item(s))  as  prescribed  by  ……………………………….  (name  of  the 
regulator) vide its Notification …………………………. (details of the Notification) which prevail over the 
accounting treatment for the same as prescribed under the aforesaid Accounting Standards (wherever 
applicable), except the following: 

 
 

 
This  Certificate  is  issued  at  the  request  of  the  …………………………….  (name  of  the  Company) 
pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  circulars  issued  under  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 
Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  for  onward  submission  to  the  …………………………………….. 
(name  of  the  Stock  Exchange(s)).  This  Certificate  should  not  be  used  for any  other  purpose  without 
our prior written consent. 

For 
……………………………………………….. 
(name of the Firm) 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm Registration No.: 
Signature 
(Name of the member) 
Designation (Partner or proprietor, as may be applicable): 
Membership Number: 
Place: 
Date: 

 

Page 11 of 12 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Format for Complaints Report 

 

Part A 

 
 
Particulars 

Sr. No. 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 

Number of complaints received directly 
Number of complaints forwarded by Stock exchanges 
Total Number of complaints/comments received (1+2) 
Number of complaints resolved 
Number of complaints pending 

 

Part B 

 

ANNEXURE III 
 

Number 

 
 
 
 
 

Sr. No. 

Name of complainant  

Date of Complaint  

Status 

1 
2 
3 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

(Resolved/pending)  

 
 
 

 

Page 12 of 12 

 

