 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/CDMRD/DEICE/03/2015 

 

 

                      December 11, 2015 

To, 

The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 
Sir/Madam, 

Subject: Testing of software used in or related to Trading and Risk 

Management 

 

1.  Pursuant  to  Section  131  of  the  Finance  Act,  2015  and  Central  Government 
notification  F.No.  1/9/SM/2015  dated  August  28,  2015,  all  recognized 
associations under the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 are deemed 
to be recognized stock exchanges under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
Act,  1956  with  effect  from  September  28,  2015.  This  circular  applies  to 
National  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  (Exchanges)  as  defined  in  the 
Securities  Contracts 
(Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015.  

(Regulation) 

 
2.  Due to technological developments and innovations, currently the members of 
exchanges  have  multiple  options  for  using  software  i.e.  either  exchange 
provided or in-house developed software which is being used for trading and 
risk management related activities.  

3.  In  the  securities  market,  in  order  to  avoid  any  disruption  like  event  due  to 
malfunctioning of software used by the trading members / brokers, it was felt 
necessary to strengthen the process of testing of software before deployment. 
In  this  regard,  based  on  the  recommendations  of  Technical  Advisory 
Committee (TAC), SEBI had specified guidelines for testing procedures vide 
circulars  CIR/MRD/DP/24/2013  dated  August  19,2013  and  circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/06/2014  February  07,  2014  which  are  made  applicable  to  the 
securities market.  

4.  Since new software or changes to the existing software without proper testing 
may  affect  the  integrity  of  the  markets,  it  has  been  decided  to  make  the 
provisions of the aforesaid circular also applicable to commodity markets. The 
major provisions covered are as under: 
 

 

 

a.  Testing of Software 
b.  Approval of Software of brokers/members 

 

Page 1 of 2 
 

 

 

 

c.  Undertaking to be provided by the brokers/members 
d.  Sharing  of  Application  Programming  Interface  (API)  specifications  by 

the brokers/members 

e.  Penalty on malfunction of software used by brokers/members 

5.  The circular shall be applicable for Exchanges with effect from April 01, 2016. 
6.  The Exchanges are advised to:- 

•  Make  necessary  amendments  to  relevant  bye-laws/rules  for  the 

implementation of this circular  

•  Communicate  SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of 

this circular 
 

7.  The circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under section 11(1) 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market.  
 

8.  The circular is available on SEBI website at i.e. www.sebi.gov.in.  

 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 
B J DILIP 
GENERAL MANAGER 
Division of Inspection and Complaints against Exchanges 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
dilipbj@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 
 

