 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DSA/01/2016                                                             January 01, 2016 
 
All recognised Stock Exchanges/ Listed Stock exchange 
All Depositories 
 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

Sub:  Procedures 
for  ensuring  compliance  with  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012 
(SECC Regulations) by Listed Stock Exchanges. 

 

1.  Regulation 45 of the SECC Regulations provides for listing of stock exchanges.   

As per Regulation 45(2) of the SECC Regulations, the Board may specify such 
conditions as it may deem fit in the interest of the securities market.  

 

2.  Accordingly, it has been decided to  prescribe  the following modalities  so as to  

ensure compliance with the provisions of  SECC Regulations. 

 

 

 

I.  Ensuring holding of 51 per cent by public at all times by the  listed 

stock exchange: 

i.  The  listed  stock  exchange  shall  disseminate  the  details  of  its 
shareholding  with  category  wise  breakup  (as  per  the  format 
specified  vide  SEBI  Circular  dated  October  24,  2011),  on  a 
continuous  basis,  on  its  website.  Similarly,  the  stock  exchange 
where 
the  above 
information. 

listed,  shall  also  display 

the  shares  are 

ii.  The depositories shall put in place necessary system to ensure that 
the shareholding of trading members or their associates and agents 
does  not  exceed  49  per  cent.  For  this  purpose,  the  depositories 
shall  put  in  place  systems  for  capturing  the  shareholding  data  of 

Page 1 of 4 

trading  members  or  their  associates  and  agents  and  ensure  that 
there  is  a  mechanism  for  coordination  between  the  depositories 
towards sharing of information. The depositories shall also monitor 
the  aggregate  shareholding  limit  of  the  trading  members  or  their 
associates  and  agents  based  on  their  demat  balance,  on  a  daily 
basis, at the end of the day. The stock exchange where the shares 
are listed shall share a list of all trading members or their associates 
and  agents  with  the  depositories  to  facilitate  monitoring  of  demat 
balances. 
 

iii.  The  trading  members  or  their  associates  and  agents  shall  obtain 
prior approval of the listed stock exchange for further acquisition of 
shares, once the aggregate shareholding of the trading members or 
their  associates  and  agents  crosses  the  limit  of  45  per  cent.  The 
trading  members  or  their    associates  and  agents  shall  refer  to  the 
shareholding pattern under the category of trading members or their  
associates  and  agents,  to  determine/ascertain  the  available  head 
room before placing the order. 
 
In  the  event  of  trading  members  or  their    associates  and  agents 
making  purchases  without  requisite  approval  as  stated  above,  the 
depositories  shall  initiate  consequential  action  such  as  freezing  of 
voting  rights  and  all  corporate  benefits 
in  respect  of  such 
shareholding till the time the same is divested.  
 

iv. 

v.  The  divestment  of  any  excess  shareholding  beyond  the  specified 
limit  would  be  through  a  special  window  provided  by  the  stock 
exchange where the shares of the stock exchange are listed.  

 

II.  Ensuring that all shareholders are fit and proper: 

i. 

ii. 

In  the  pre-listing  scenario,  the  exchange  coming  out  with  a  public 
offering  shall  include  a  declaration  in  the  application  form  stating 
that the applicant is fit and proper in terms of Regulation 19 and 20 
of SECC Regulations, 2012.  
 

In the post listing scenario, the text of the applicable regulation with 
regard to fit and proper shall be made part of the contract note. 
 

iii.  The  listed  stock  exchange  shall  also  undertake  all  measures  to 
make  investors  aware  of  the  requirement  of  fit  and  proper  criteria 

 

Page 2 of 4 

for  being  its  shareholders  as  specified  in  regulation  19  and  20  of 
SECC Regulations. 
 

iv.  The  listed  stock  exchange  and  the  stock  exchange  where  the 
shares are listed shall notify on their websites that the shares of the 
listed stock exchange shall only be dealt by fit and proper persons 
as per Regulation 19 and 20 of SECC Regulations. 
 
In  case  of  acquisition  of  shares  by  the  person  who  is  found  not  fit 
and proper, the voting rights and all corporate benefits with respect 
to such shareholding shall be frozen by depositories until the same 
is divested through the special window. 
 

v. 

vi.  The listed stock exchange shall submit to SEBI on a quarterly basis 
an exceptional report regarding the shareholders who are not fit and 
proper and action taken thereof. 

III.  Ensuring that shareholders  holding shares above 2 per cent are fit 

and proper: 

i. 

In  addition  to  the  criteria  mentioned  at  para  2(II)  above,  on 
acquisition of shares above 2 per cent, provisions under Regulation 
19(2)  and  19(3)  of  SECC  Regulations  2012  shall  apply  i.e.  those 
acquiring  more  than  2  per  cent  shall  seek  approval  of  SEBI  within 
15 days of acquisition as per Regulation 19(2) and those intending 
to acquire beyond 5 per cent as per Regulation 19(3) have to seek 
prior approval of SEBI. 
 

IV.  Ensuring shareholding threshold of 5 per cent or 15 per cent as the 

case may be in terms of SECC Regulations: 

i. 

ii. 

The depositories shall put in place a mechanism to ensure that no 
shareholder of listed stock exchange gets credit of shares beyond 5 
per  cent  or  15  per  cent,  as  applicable.  The  depositories  shall 
generate  an  alert  when  such  holding  exceeds  2  per  cent  and 
monitor the same under intimation to SEBI. 
 
The  Depository  would  inform  the  listed  stock  exchange  as  and 
when  threshold  limit  is  breached  and  take  consequential  action 
such as freezing of voting rights and all corporate actions in respect 
of such excess holding till the same is divested through the special 
window. 
 

Page 3 of 4 

 

 

3.  The  stock  exchanges,  both  listed  and  where  the  securities  are  listed,  and 
depositories shall ensure that aforesaid mechanism be in place latest by March 
31, 2016. 

 

4.  The  stock  exchange  submitting  application  for  listing  of  its  securities  to  SEBI 

shall ensure strict compliance with Chapter VII of SECC Regulations, 2012. 

 

5.  In view of the above, the recognised stock exchanges are advised to:- 

(a) make necessary amendments to the their bye-laws, rules or regulations, for 

incorporation of the above immediately; 

(b) bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of its trading members and 

also to disseminate the same through their website ; and 

(c) communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of this circular in the 

Monthly Development Reports to SEBI. 

 
6.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) and 
11(2)(j) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the 
interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 
regulate the securities market. 

 

7.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Bithin Mahanta 

Deputy General Manager 

Email: bithinm@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 4 of 4 

