 

 

 

 

                    December 31, 2015 

CIR/CFD/DIL3/18/2015 
 
To 
 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:  Procedure  to  deal  with  cases  prior  to  April  01,  2014  involving  offer  / 
allotment  of  securities  to  more  than  49  up  to  200  investors  in  a  financial 
year. 
 
1.  Prior  to  April  01,  2014,  offers  of  securities  -  shares  and  debentures  -  by 
companies  to more  than  49  persons  were  deemed to be public  offers.  SEBI 
has  initiated  penal  action  on  receipt  of  specific  complaints  against  the 
companies  offering  such  securities  without  complying  with  the  relevant 
provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  and  applicable  SEBI  Guidelines  / 
Regulations  governing  a  public  issue.  Under  the  new  Companies Act,  2013, 
post April 01, 2014, any offer or allotment of securities shall be  construed as 
public  issue  if  the  number  of  offerees  /  allottees  exceeds  200  persons  in  a 
financial year, excluding certain class of subscribers. 

 

2.  Considering the higher cap for private placement provided in the Companies 
Act, 2013, it has now been decided that in respect of  earlier cases involving 
issuance  of  securities  to  more  than  49  persons  but  up  to  200  persons  in  a 
financial  year,  the  companies  may  avoid  penal  action  if  they  provide  the 
investors with an option to surrender the securities and get the refund amount 
at  a  price  not  less  than  the  amount  of  subscription  money  paid  along  with 
15% interest p.a. thereon or such higher return as promised to investors.  

Refund procedure 

3.  The  process  followed  by  companies  for  providing  option  to  their  security 
holders to surrender securities and obtain refund shall be supported by proof 
of  dispatch  through  Registered  or  Speed  Post  by  India  Post  or  proof  of 
delivery of letters if effected through any other mode. 

4.  The  refund  to  security  holders  who  have  opted  for  such  surrender  shall  be 
made only through banking channels through crossed account payee cheque 
/ crossed demand draft / internet banking channels to enable audit trail. 

5.  Companies  are  allowed  to  adjust  the  amounts  already  paid  to  the  allottees 
either as interest / dividend or otherwise from the amount of refund to be paid 
to the investors. 

Page 1 of 2 

6.  In case of transfer of securities by the original allottees,  the option for refund 

shall be provided to the current holders of the securities.  

 

Certification 

7.  The  company  shall  submit  a  certificate  from  an  independent  peer  reviewed 

practicing Chartered Accountant certifying compliance as mentioned above. 

8.  The  certificate  as  provided  above  shall  state  that  the  certification  has  been 
made  after  verifying  various  documentary  evidences  including  proof  of 
dispatch / delivery of letters, response of investors, complaints from investors, 
bank statements of the company etc. 

The  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the 
notice of listed entities and also to disseminate the same on their websites. 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Narendra Rawat  
Deputy General Manager  
+91-22-26449383 
narendrar@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

