¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/CDMRD/DEA/01/2016 
 
To,  
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
of all Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  

 

     January 11, 2016 

Sub.: Mandatory requirements / Exit Policy for Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
1.  In  terms  of  Finance  Act,  2015,  the  associations  recognized  under  the  erstwhile  Forward 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 as on 28th September, 2015 are deemed to be recognized 
stock  exchanges  under  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956.  This  circular 
applies to all such commodity derivatives exchanges as defined in the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2015.  

 
2.  The Ministry of Finance, vide Gazette Notification S.O.2630 (E), dated September 24, 
2015 has delegated the powers exercisable by it, inter alia, under section 7 of Forward 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 to SEBI.  

 

3.  The erstwhile Forward Markets Commission (FMC), vide its Circular No. 9/1/2014-MKT-
I (Vol-II), dated May 19, 2015, had directed commodity derivatives exchanges, who have 
suspended their trading operations, to refund clients margin money, resolve client disputes, 
refund members’ deposits and in case any exchange fails to revive their trading operations 
within 12 months from the date of suspension of trading, FMC had specified the steps that 
shall be initiated to cancel their registration and lead to withdrawal of recognition of such 
exchanges. 
 

4.  SEBI has reviewed the said circular and has decided that, if there is no trading operation 
on  the  platform  of  any  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  for  more  than  twelve  months, 
then in terms of the above circular, such exchange shall be liable to exit.  
 

5.  In addition to the above, henceforth, all National Commodity Derivative Exchanges shall 
continuously  meet  the  turnover  criteria  of  Rs.  1000  crores  per  annum.  The  Regional 
Commodity Exchanges shall ensure that they have at least 5% of the nation-wide market 
share of the commodity, which is principally traded on their platform. In case the National 
and  Regional  Commodity  Exchanges  fail  to  meet  the  above  criteria  for  2  consecutive 
years, they shall be liable to exit.  
 

6.  In  the  event  a  recognized  commodity  derivatives  exchange,  for  any  reason  suspends  its 
trading  operations,  it  shall  resume  its  trading  only  after  ensuring  that  adequate  and 
effective  trading  systems,  clearing  and  settlement  systems,  monitoring  and  surveillance 
mechanisms, risk management systems are put in place and only after complying with all 
other  regulatory  requirements  stipulated  by  SEBI  from  time  to  time.  Further,  such 
recognized  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall  resume  trading  operations  only  after 
obtaining prior approval from SEBI.  

 

 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
7.  In  case  any  commodity  derivatives  exchange  proposes  to  surrender  its  recognition 
voluntarily  or  whose  recognition  is  proposed  to  be  withdrawn  by  SEBI,  the  concerned 
Exchange shall be directed to comply with the following: 

 

 

7.1 The  concerned  commodity  derivatives  exchange  shall  not  alienate  any  assets  of  the 

exchange without taking prior approval of SEBI.  
 

7.2 Treatment of the assets of de-recognized exchange:   

 

 

 

7.2.1 The concerned commodity derivatives exchange shall be permitted to distribute 
its  assets  subject  to  certain  conditions  as  laid  down  in  this  circular  as  well  as 
other  guidelines  that  may  be  issued  by  SEBI,  Government,  or  any  other 
statutory authority, from time to time.  
 

7.2.2 For  the  purpose  of  valuation  of  the  assets  of  the  commodity  derivative 
exchange,  a  valuation  agency  shall  be  appointed  by  SEBI.  All  the  valuation 
charges shall be paid by the concerned exchange. 

7.2.3 The  quantum  of  assets  for  distribution  will  be  available  after  payment  of 
statutory dues including income tax, transfer of funds as specified in para 7.3, 
payment of dues as specified in para 7.4, refund of deposit (refundable) to the 
stock brokers / clearing members including their initial contribution / deposit to 
Settlement  Guarantee  Fund/  Trade  Guarantee  Fund 
(SGF/TGF)  and 
contribution to SEBI as specified in para 7.5.4 

7.3 The concerned exchange shall transfer the  Investor Protection Fund or any such fund 

to the SEBI Investor Protection and Education Fund. 
 

7.4 The concerned exchange shall pay following dues to SEBI: 

7.4.1 The dues outstanding to SEBI and the annual regulatory fee. 

 

7.4.2 The  outstanding  registration  fees  of  brokers/trading  members  of  such  de-
recognised  stock  exchanges  as  specified  in  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub 
Brokers) Regulations, 1992 till the date of such de-recognition.  

 

7.4.2.1 Dues of the brokers to SEBI shall be recovered by the exchange out of 
the  brokers’  deposits  /  capital  /  share  of  sale  proceeds  /  winding  up 
proceeds dividend payable, etc. available with the exchange. 

 
7.4.2.2 The exchange will be liable to make good any shortfall in collection of 

dues of the brokers to SEBI.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

7.5 Other Conditions: 
 

7.5.1  In case any commodity derivatives exchange, after de-recognition, continues as 
corporate entity under the Companies Act, 2013, it shall not use the expression 
‘stock  exchange’  ,    ‘commodity  derivative  exchange’  or  ‘exchange’  or  any 
variant in its name or in its subsidiaries name so as to avoid any representation 
of present or past affiliation with the exchange.   

7.5.2 The  Sale  /  distribution  /  transfer  of  assets  /  winding  up  of  such  exchanges  / 

companies shall be subject to the applicable laws in force.  

7.5.3 The concerned commodity derivatives exchange shall set aside sufficient funds 
in  order  to  provide  for  settlement  of  any  claims,  pertaining  to  pending 
arbitration cases, arbitration awards, not implemented, if any, liabilities/claims 
of  contingent  nature,  if  any,  and  unresolved  investors  complaints/  grievances 
lying with the exchange.  

 

 

 

7.5.4 In  case  of  de-recognition  and  exit,  the  stock  exchange  shall  contribute  up  to 
20%  of  its  assets  (after  tax)  towards  SEBI  Investor  Protection  and  Education 
Fund  (IPEF)  for  investor  protection  and  in  order  to  cover  future  liabilities,  if 
any. The contribution  may be decided by SEBI taking into account,  inter alia, 
the  governance  standards  of  the  commodity  derivatives  exchange  and 
estimation of future liabilities. 

 
8.  SEBI  may  impose  additional  conditions  as  deemed  fit  in  the  interest  of  trade  or  in  the 

public interest including securities market. 
 

9.  This circular shall come into force with immediate effect.  

 

10. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) and 11(2) (j) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  Section  5  of  the 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  to  protect  the  interest  of  investors  in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  
 

11. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 
 

Vishal Nair 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Exchange Administration 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
Tel: +91-22-2644 9665 
Email: vishaln@sebi.gov.in  
  

 

 

Page 3 of 3 

 

