 

January 15, 2016 

 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

CIR/CDMRD/DMP/2/2016 
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 

 

Sir / Madam, 

Sub.: Reduction in Daily Price Limits& Near month Position Limits for 

Agricultural Commodity Derivatives and Suspension of Forward Segment 

 

1.  With aviewto curb the speculative participation and consequent volatility in prices 

of agricultural commodities derivatives, the following have been decided: 

a.  Reduction in Daily Price Limits (DPL): 

i.  DPL  for  agricultural  commodity  derivatives  contracts  shall  be 

revised as given below: 

Commodity 

Initial 
Slab 

Enhanced 

Slab 

Total 
DPL 

Barley, Chilli, Jeera, Turmeric 
Other Agricultural Commodities 

2% 
3% 

2% 
1% 

4% 
4% 

 

ii.  DPL  shall  have  two  slabs-  Initial  and  Enhanced  Slab.  Once  the 
initial slab limit is reached in any contract, then after a period of 15 
minutes this limit shall be increased further by enhanced slab, only 
in  that  contract.  The  trading  shall  be  permitted  during  the  15 
minutes  period  within  the  initial  slab  limit.  After  the  DPL  is 
enhanced,  trades  shall  be  permitted  throughout  the  day  within  the 
enhanced total DPL of 4%.  

iii.  The above slab-wise DPL norm shall be applicable uniformly on all 

trading days. 

iv.  The  revised  DPL  norms  shall  be  applicable  with  effect  from 

February 1, 2016 

 

Page 1 of 2 

b.  Reduction in Near month Position Limits: 

 

 

i.  Currently  in  case  of  agricultural  commodity  derivatives,  client  level 
and member level near month position limits in any commodity are 
50%  of  their  overall  position  limits  for  that  commodity.  This  near 
month position limit has now been revised from 50% to 25%. 

ii.  The revised near month position limits shall be applicable for all the 

contracts expiring in month of March-2016 and onwards. 

2.  Suspension  of  Forward  Segment:  It  has  been  decided  that  participants  in 
Forward  Segment  shall  not  be  allowed  to  enter  into  fresh  contracts  till  further 
orders. However, the existing contracts shall be allowed to be settled as per the 
terms of the contracts. 

3.  The  other  related  norms  stipulated  by  FMC  to  the  extent  not  covered  in  this 

circular shall continue to remain in force. 

 

4.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

take steps to make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules 
and regulations for the implementation of the same. 
bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  members  of  the 
Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  
communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 
this circular. 
 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 
6.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
vikass@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

Page 2 of 2 

