CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

      January 21, 2016 

 
SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL/CIR/P/2016/26 
 
To  
Recognized Stock Exchanges 
Depositories 
Registered Stock Brokers 
Registered Merchant Bankers 
Registered Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents 
Registered Depository Participants 
Registered Bankers to an Issue 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub.:  Clarification  Circular  on  Streamlining  the  Process  of  Public  Issue  of  Equity 
Shares and Convertibles  

 

1.  SEBI  vide  Circular  no.  CIR/CFD/POLICYCELL/11/2015  dated  November  10,  2015, 
issued  operational  details  to,  inter-alia,  reduce  the  time  taken  for  listing  after  the 
closure  of  the  issue  to  6  working  days  and  enhancing  the  points  of  submission  of 
applications by the investors.  

 

2.  With  an  endeavor  to  make  the  public  issue  process  more  efficient  and  robust,  in 

discussion with market participants, following issues are hereby clarified: 

 

2.1.  Stock exchange(s) may validate the electronic bid details with depository’s records 
for  DP  ID,  Client  ID  and  PAN,  at  periodic  intervals  throughout  the  bidding  day 
during  the  bidding  period  and  bring  the  inconsistencies  to  the  notice  of 
intermediaries  concerned,  for  rectification  and  re-submission  within  the  time 
specified by stock exchange.  
 

2.2.  Syndicate  members, 

registered  brokers  of  stock  exchanges,  depository 
participants  (DPs)  and  registrars  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agents  (RTAs) 
registered with SEBI, may also forward the physical application forms received by 
them on day-to-day basis during the bidding period to designated branches of the 
respective  self  certified  syndicate  banks  (SCSBs)  for  blocking  of  funds.  Such 
applications  should  be  with  value  not  more  than  `  2  lakh  and  shall  be  forwarded 
along with the schedule specified in SEBI Circular dated November 10, 2015.  
 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

 

2.3.  Stock  exchanges  may  share  the  electronic  bid  file  for  applications  with  value  not 
more than ` 2 lakh with RTA to the issue on daily basis who in turn may share the 
same with each SCSB. SCSBs may carry out the blocking of funds on a daily basis 
during  the  bidding  period  for  such  physical  application  forms  received.  Revised 
electronic bid file / final bid file shall be shared by the stock exchanges with RTA to 
the  issue.  SCSBs  to  ensure  blocking  of  funds  is  based  on  final  electronic  bid  file 
received from RTA to the issue.  
 

2.4.  Working days shall be all trading days of stock exchanges excluding Sundays and  

bank holidays.  
 

2.5.  The  instruction  for  publication  of  basis  of  allotment  may  be  given  by  T+5  day  so 
that  basis  of  allotment  is  published  in  all  the  newspapers,  where  issue 
opening/closing  advertisements  have  appeared  earlier,  on  T+6  before  the 
commencement of trading.  
 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

All  intermediaries  are  advised  to  cooperate  with  each  other  and  take  necessary 
steps to ensure compliance with this circular.  
 
This circular shall be applicable with immediate effect.  
 
This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  and 
Section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  
  
This Circular is available on SEBI website  at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 
“Legal Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Narendra Rawat 
Deputy General Manager 
+91-22-26449383 
narendrar@sebi.gov.in 

 
 
 

 

Page 2 of 2 

