 

 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2016/30                                                       January 22, 2016 
 
 
All recognised Stock Exchanges/ Clearing Corporations 
 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 
Sub:  Amendment  to  SEBI  Circular  CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012  dated  December  13, 
2012 pursuant to amendment in Regulation 2(1)(b) of SECC Regulations, 2012. 
 

1.  Pursuant to the approval of SEBI Board in its meeting held on November 30, 2015, 

SEBI  has  notified  the  amendments  to  the  definition  of  associate  as  contained  in 

Regulation 2(1)(b) of SECC Regulations. 

 
2.  Consequent  to  the  amended  definition  of  ‘associate’  as  contained  in  Regulation 

2(1)(b)  of  SECC  Regulations,  it has been  decided  to  review  the  provisions  of Para 

14(1) of SEBI Circular No: CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012 dated December 13, 2012. 

 

3.  Accordingly,  the  Para  14.1  of  the  SEBI  Circular  No:  CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012  dated 

December  13, 2012 providing  clarification  with  respect to  composition  of  governing 

board under regulation 23(7), is replaced as under: 

 

 

14 .1 

 

a)  no  trading  member  or  clearing  member,  or  their  associates  and  agents, 

irrespective of the stock exchange/ clearing corporation of which they are 

members,  shall  be  on  the  governing  board  of  any  recognised  stock 

exchange or recognised clearing corporation. 

 

b)  a  person  who  is  a  director  in  an  entity,  that  itself  is  a  trading  member  or 

clearing  member  or  has  associate(s)  as  trading  member(s)  or  clearing 

Page 1 of 3 

member(s)  in  terms  of  regulation  2(1)(b),  he/she  will  be  deemed  to  be 

trading member or clearing member: 

 
Provided  a  person  will  not  be  deemed  to  be  Clearing  Member  and  /  or 

Trading Member or their associate for the purpose of Regulation 23(7), if 

he/she is on the board of a Public Financial Institution (PFI) or Bank which 

is in Public Sector or which either has no identifiable ultimate promoter or 

the  ultimate  promoter  is  in  Public  Sector  or  has  well  diversified 

shareholding , and such PFI or Bank or its associate is a Clearing Member 

and / or Trading Member. Further, independent directors of associates of 

PFI  or  Bank  in  Public  Sector,  who  are  Clearing  Member  and/or  Trading 

Member and where the majority shareholding is that of such  PFI or Bank 

in  Public  Sector,  will  not  be  deemed  to  be  Clearing  Member  and  /  or 

Trading Member for the purpose of Regulation 23(7).  

c)  The  appointment  shall  be  subject  to fulfillment  of  other  requirements  and   

satisfaction of SEBI in accordance with Regulation 2(1)(b). 

d)  Recognised  Stock  Exchange  and  recognised  Clearing  Corporation,  shall 

monitor and ensure the compliance of the Regulation 23(7) on continuous 

basis, to ensure that directors appointed, on their governing board, do not 

get  associated  with  Trading  Member  or  Clearing  Member  after  approval 

and appointment. 

 

 

 

4.  In view of the above, the recognised stock exchanges are advised to:- 

(a) make necessary amendments to the their bye-laws, rules or regulations, for 

incorporation of the above immediately; 

(b) bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of its trading members and also 

to disseminate the same through their website ; and 

(c) communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of this circular in the Monthly 

Development Reports to SEBI. 

 

5.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  and 

11(2)(j)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the 

 

Page 2 of 3 

interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 

regulate the securities market. 

 

6.  Other  contents  of  the  SEBI  Circular  No:  CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012  dated  December 

13, 2012 will remain operative. 

 

7.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Bithin Mahanta 

Deputy General Manager 

Email: bithinm@sebi.gov.in 

. 

 

 

Page 3 of 3 

