 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

             January 29, 2016  

 
CDMRD/DMP/CIR/32/2016 
 
 
 
To,  
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
Sir / Madam,  
 
Sub.: Revision in Position Limits for Agricultural Commodities 
 
1.  In  continuation  of  SEBI  circular  No  CIR/CDMRD/DMP/2/2016  dated  January 

15, 2016, the following directions are hereby issued with respect to provisions 

of open position limits for futures contracts on agricultural commodities: 

(I)  Client level -   

a.  Overall  position  limit  for  a  particular  commodity  shall  be  restricted  to 

numerical  position  limits  as  mandated  from  time  to  time.  For  the 

present,  the numerical  position  limits  as  existing  shall  be  continued.  It 

is  clarified  that    client  level  position  limit  equal  to  5%  of  market  wide 

open interest permitted earlier, is hereby discontinued. 

b.  As prescribed vide SEBI circular dated January  15, 2016, near month 

position limit for a particular commodity shall be restricted to one-fourth 

of the client level overall position limit in that commodity. 

c.  For  the  purpose  of  calculating  overall  position,  all  long  and  short 

positions  of  the  client  across  all  contracts  on  the  underlying  will  be 

added  up  separately  and  higher  of  the  two  shall  be  considered  as 

overall open position.  

d.  For  calculating  near  month  open  position,  higher  of  long  and  short 

positions of the client in near month contracts to be considered. 

e.  Thus  henceforth,  netting  out  near  month  contract  with  off-setting 

positions in far months contracts shall not be permitted for the purpose 

of computation of near month position of any client .  

 

 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

(II) Member level – 

 

a.  Overall position limit for a particular commodity shall be the  numerical 

position  limits  as  mandated  from  time  to  time  or  15%  of  market  wide 

open interest, whichever is higher. 

b.  As prescribed vide SEBI circular dated January  15, 2016, near month 

position  limit  for  a  particular  commodity  shall  be  one-fourth  of  the 

member's overall position limit in that commodity. 

c.  For  the  purpose  of  calculating  overall  position,  the  position  of  the 

clients  as  determined  in  (I)c  above  will  be  added  without  netting  off 

among themselves as also against proprietary position of the member 

(which  will  also  be  treated  like  a  client  position).  All  longs  and  shorts 

will be added up separately and higher of the two will be reckoned. 

d.  For calculating near month open position, the position of the clients as 

determined  in  (I)d  above  will  be  added  without  netting  off  among 

themselves  as  also  against  proprietary  position  of the  member  (which 

will  also  be  treated  like  a  client  position).  All  longs  and  shorts  will  be 

added up separately and higher of the two will be reckoned. 

e.  Position  limits  for  member’s  proprietary  positions  shall  be  same  as 

client level position limits. 

 

2.  The above provisions shall be effective from March 01, 2016 onwards. 

 

3.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the members of the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website. 

ii. 

communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the 

provisions of this circular in the Monthly Development Reports to SEBI.  

iii. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 

regulations.  

 

 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 
4.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 

 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 

of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 

the securities market.  

 

5.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in.  

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
vikass@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 3 

