¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SEBI/HO/IMD/DF2/CIR/P/2016/37 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
                         

    February 25, 2016 

 
All Mutual Funds/Asset Management Companies (AMCs)/  

Trustee Companies/Boards of Trustees of Mutual Funds/ 

Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) 

 
Sir/ Madam, 

 
Subject: Circular on Mutual Funds 
 
A.  Treatment of unclaimed redemption and dividend amounts 

Please  refer  to  SEBI  circular  dated  November  24,  2000  on  treatment  of  unclaimed  redemption  and 

dividend amounts. In partial modification of the aforementioned circular, it has been decided that: 

1.  The unclaimed redemption and dividend amounts, that are currently allowed to be deployed 

only in call money market or money market instruments, shall also be allowed to be invested 

in a separate plan of Liquid scheme / Money Market Mutual Fund scheme floated by Mutual 

Funds specifically for deployment of the unclaimed amounts. AMCs shall not be permitted to 

charge  any  exit  load  in  this  plan  and  TER  (Total  Expense  Ratio)  of  such  plan  shall  be 

capped at 50 bps. 

 

2.  To ensure Mutual Funds play a pro-active role in tracing the rightful owner of the unclaimed 

amounts: 

a.  Mutual  Funds  shall  be  required  to  provide  on  their  website,  the  list  of  names  and 

addresses of investors in whose folios there are unclaimed amounts.  

b.  AMFI  shall  also  provide  on  its  website,  the  consolidated  list  of  investors  across  Mutual 

Fund  industry,  in  whose  folios  there  are  unclaimed  amounts.  The  information  provided 

herein  shall  contain  name  of  investor,  address  of  investor  and  name  of  Mutual  Fund/s 

with whom unclaimed amount lies.  

c.  Information  at  point  A2(a)  &  A2(b)  above  may  be  obtained  by  investor  only  upon 

providing  his  proper  credentials  (like  PAN,  date  of  birth,  etc.)  along-with  adequate 

security control measures being put in place by Mutual Fund / AMFI.   

d.  The website of Mutual Funds and AMFI shall also provide information on the process of 

claiming  the  unclaimed  amount  and  the  necessary  forms  /  documents  required  for  the 

same.  

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

 

e.  Further, the  information  on  unclaimed  amount  along-with  its  prevailing  value  (based  on 

income earned on deployment of such unclaimed amount), shall be separately disclosed 

to  investors  through  the  periodic  statement  of  accounts  /  Consolidated  Account 

Statement sent to the investors.  

 

3.  Investors who claim the unclaimed amounts during a period of three years from the due date 

shall  be  paid  initial  unclaimed  amount  along-with  the  income  earned  on  its  deployment. 

Investors,  who  claim  these  amounts  after  3  years,  shall  be  paid  initial  unclaimed  amount 

along-with the income earned on its deployment till the end of the third year. After the third 

year,  the  income  earned  on  such  unclaimed  amounts  shall  be  used  for  the  purpose  of 

investor education. 

 

B.  Distribution of Mutual Fund products 

 
Please refer to clause E of SEBI circular dated September 13, 2012 wherein new cadre of 

distributors  were  allowed  to  sell  simple  and  performing  Mutual  Fund  products.  In  partial 

modification of the aforementioned circular, it has been decided that simple and performing 

Mutual  Fund  schemes  shall  also  comprise  of  Retirement  benefit  schemes  having  tax 

benefits and Liquid schemes/ Money Market Mutual Fund schemes. 

 

C.  Applicability of the Circular  

1.  Para A of the circular shall be effective from April 1, 2016.  

2.  Para B of the circular shall be applicable with immediate effect.  

 

This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the Securities 

and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  the  provision  of  Regulation  77  of  SEBI 

(Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to 

promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

PARAG BASU 

Chief General Manager 

Email: paragb@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

 

