भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
CIR/IMD/DF1/48/2016                                                                                April 21, 2016 
 
To 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
Issuers intending to issue debt securities  
Merchant Bankers and brokers registered with SEBI 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Electronic  book  mechanism  for  issuance  of  debt  securities  on  private 
placement basis  

 

1.  SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008, govern public issue of 
debt securities and listing of debt securities issued through public issue or on private 
placement basis, on a recognized stock exchange. Regulation 31(2) of SEBI (ILDS) 
Regulations, 2008 inter alia provides that:- 
 
“In  particular,  and  without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  the  foregoing  power  and 
provisions of these regulations, such orders or circulars may provide for all or any of 
the following matters, namely: 
(a)  Electronic  issuances  and  other  issue  procedures  including  the  procedure  for 
price discovery; ” 

2.  Accordingly,  in  order  to  streamline  procedures  for  issuance  of  debt  securities  on 
private  placement  basis  and  enhance  transparency  to  discover  prices,  it  has  been 
decided  to  lay  down  a  framework  for  issuance  of  debt  securities  on  private 
placement basis through an electronic book mechanism.  

3.  To  begin  with,  this  electronic  book  mechanism  would  be  mandatory  for  all  private 
placements of debt securities in primary market with an issue size of Rs.500 crores 
and above, inclusive of green shoe option, if any.  

4.  The  following  issuers  shall  have  an  option  to  follow  either  electronic  book 

mechanism or the existing mechanism:- 

4.1. issues  with  a  single  investor  and  where  coupon  rate  are  fixed.  However 

arrangers acting as underwriters shall not be considered as single investors.  

4.2. issues  wherein  the  issue  size  is  less  than  Rs.  500  crores,  inclusive  of  green 

shoe option, if any.  

However,  for  all  issues  below  Rs.500  crore,  issuer  shall  disclose  the  coupon, 
yield,  amount  raised,  number  of  investors  and  category  of  investors  to  the 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Electronic Book Provider and/ or to the information repository for corporate debt 
market as notified by SEBI, in the format as specified.    

5.  Electronic book provider 

5.1. The  electronic  book  mechanism  shall  be  provided  by  recognized  stock 

exchange(s) only after obtaining prior approval from SEBI.  

5.2. Such  recognized  stock  exchange(s)  referred  to  in  Para  5.1  above  shall  be 

referred to as Electronic Book Provider (“EBP”). 

5.3. The  following  shall  be  eligibility  conditions  for  a  recognised  stock  exchange  to 

act as EBP:-  

5.3.1.  EBP  shall  provide  an  on-line  platform  for  receiving  bids  in  private 

placement of debt securities. 

5.3.2.  EBP shall own website/ URL (hereinafter referred to as bidding portal) on 

which it proposes to offer its services. 

5.3.3.  EBP shall have all the necessary infrastructure like adequate office space, 
equipments, risk management capabilities, manpower and other information 
technology infrastructure to effectively discharge the activities of EBP. 

5.3.4.  EBP  shall  ensure  that  there  is  adequate  backup,  disaster  management 
and recovery plans for the electronic book mechanism so provided by EBP.   

5.3.5.  The EBP shall ensure safety, secrecy, integrity and retrievability of data. 

5.3.6.  The electronic book  mechanism so provided by EBP would be subject to 
periodic audit by Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) under Annual 
System Audit prescribed by SEBI. 

6.  Participants in Electronic book mechanism 

 

6.1. Issuer  

6.1.1.  Issuer shall have the same meaning as assigned under regulation  2(g) of 

ILDS Regulations, 2008. 

6.2. Arranger, if any, appointed by the issuer  

6.2.1.  Merchant Bankers, RBI registered Primary Dealers or any other registered 
intermediaries  as  notified  by  SEBI  from  time  to  time,  may  act  as  the 
arranger.   

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

6.2.2.  Arranger shall be categorised as a Category 1 Participant who may enter 
bids  on  EBP  either  on  proprietary  basis  or  for  other  participants  such  as 
High Net worth Individuals (HNIs), Institutional investors etc. 

 

6.3. Sub-arranger , appointed by the arranger 

6.3.1.  Any broker registered with SEBI may act as a sub-arranger 

6.3.2.  Sub- arranger shall  be  categorised as  a Category 1 Participant who  may 
enter bids on EBP either on proprietary basis or for other participants such 
as High Net worth Individuals (HNIs), Institutional investors etc. 

 

6.4. Institutional Investors  

6.4.1.  Institutional Investors shall be as defined in Regulation 106 X (b) of SEBI 

(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009. 

6.4.2.  Institutional investors shall be categorised as Category 2 Participants who 
may  enter  bids  on  proprietary  basis  or  may  participate  through  an 
arranger/sub-arranger.  

6.4.3.  Institutional  investors  shall  enter  proprietary  bids  provided  that  minimum 
application  or  bid  value  is  more than  the  minimum  bid  size  as  specified  by 
the issuer.  

6.5. All  the  investors  apart  from  the  Institutional  Investors,  shall  enter  bids  only 

through Category 1 Participants.  

 

7.  Roles  and  responsibilities  of  participants  in  electronic  book  mechanism:  The 
roles  and  responsibilities  of  each  of  the  participants  of  electronic  book  mechanism 
shall be as follows: 

 
7.1.  The  arranger  or  sub-arranger  or  EBP  shall  ensure  Know  Your  Client  (KYC)  of  the 

participants  before allowing them to make bids as follows: 

7.1.1.  In case the participants are Qualified Institutional Buyers , KYCs shall be 

ensured by EBP; and  

7.1.2.  In case of other participants by the  arranger or sub-arranger, as the case 

may be.  

7.1.3.  Arranger  or  Sub-Arranger  or  EBP  may  undertake  KYC  of  participants  by 
obtaining/utilizing existing KYCs of clients from KRAs registered with SEBI.  

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
7.2. Issuer 

7.2.1.  The  issuer  shall  ensure  compliance  with  all  requisite  laws,  rules, 

regulations, etc. with respect to private placement of debt securities. 

7.2.2.  With  respect  to  disclosure  in  PPM,  the  following  shall  be  ensured  by  the 

issuer:-  

(a) Disclosures  as  has  been  prescribed  in  acts,  rules,  regulations,  etc. 
Issuer  shall  specify  minimum  issue  size  which  shall  be  inclusive  of 
green shoe option, if any. 

(b) Details with respect to green shoe option shall be disclosed along with 

the reasons for the retention of excess amount, if any. 

(c) The PPM may not contain the coupon details, however, the PPM may 

contain upper ceiling limit. 

7.2.3.  The  issuer  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the  EBP  containing 
necessary 
the  electronic  book 
mechanism,  rights,  duties,  responsibilities,  dispute  resolution  mechanism 
and liabilities of the issuer, EBP etc. 

terms  and  conditions 

for  usage  of 

7.3. EBP 

 

7.3.1.  The  EBP  shall  lay  down  operational  procedure  including  steps  for 
uploading  of  the  private  placement  offer  letter/  placement  memorandum 
containing details about private placement, list of the eligible participants for 
bidding through electronic book, respective time lines for each event etc.  
 

7.3.2.  All the operational procedure laid down by the EBP shall be disclosed to 

the eligible participants. 
 

7.3.3.  The  EBP  shall  be  responsible  for  accurate,  timely  and  secured  bidding 

process of the electronic bid by the eligible bidders. 

 
7.3.4.  Notwithstanding  the  responsibility  of  the  issuer  as  laid  down  below,  the 
EBP  shall  be  responsible  for  addressing  investor  grievances  arising  from 
bidding process. 

 

7.4. Any dispute between issuer and bidders or between EBP or bidders before listing of 
privately placed debt securities in recognized Stock Exchange(s) shall be settled as 
per their agreement and post listing as per arbitration bye-laws of exchange. 

8.  Procedure  for  electronic  book  mechanism:  The  procedure  to  be  followed  for 

electronic book mechanism is as follows: 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

A.  Pre-Bid Procedure  

8.1. Participants shall be required to enroll with EBP before entering bids. However, 
enrollment of participants with EBP would not automatically qualify a participant 
to enter bids, as only eligible participants may participate in the bidding process.  

8.2. Qualified  Institutional  Buyer  as  per  Regulation  2  (zd)  of  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 and other eligible bidders (as 
determined by the issuer) may participate in the bidding process.  

Provided that in case the issuer is Non-Banking Financial Companies which are 
registered  with  Reserve  Bank  of  India  and  Housing  Finance  Companies 
registered with National Housing Bank, the Qualified Institutional Buyer, eligible 
bidders  (as  determined  by  the  issuer)  and  other  participants enrolled  with  EBP 
may  participate  in  the  bidding  process  subject  to  them  complying  with  RBI 
requirements, if any prescribed in this regard. 

8.3. The  EBP  shall  provide  the  details  of  Qualified  Institutional  Buyer  and  other 

participants enrolled with EBP (if applicable) to the issuer.  

 
8.4. All  enrolled  participants  (other  than  Qualified  Institutional  Buyers)  who  wish  to 
participate on any issue either directly or through arranger, as applicable would 
be required to pre-register before being allowed to access to the PPM or other 
information  with  respect  to  issue.  However,  if  the  number  of  such  pre-
registrations  of  participants  (other  than  Qualified  Institutional  Buyers)  exceed 
200 in a year(cumulatively across all the issues of a particular issuer) , then the 
eligible  bidders  would  be  determined  by  draw  of  lots  or  first  come  first  served 
basis  undertaken  by  the  EBP  in  consultation  with  issuer  so  as  to  limit 
participants to 200 in a year.  

8.5. Only  the  eligible  participants  shall  have  access  to  PPM  and  issue  specific 
information and to the bidding portal provided by EBP. The bidding time window 
(bidding  time,  cooling  period,  renegotiation  window  etc.)  shall  be  decided  by 
issuer  in  consultation  with  the  EBP  which  shall  be  disclosed  to  the  bidders  by 
EBP in advance.  

B.  Bidding Procedure  

8.6. Biding shall be allowed in the bidding time window specified by the issuer.  

8.7. Bid shall be made by way of entering bid amount in Rupees (INR) and coupon/ 

yield in basis points (bps). 

8.8.  Participants  shall  be  allowed  to  enter  multiple  bids  i.e.  single  participant  may 

enter more than one bid. 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

8.9.  EBP shall provide a facility for generation of acknowledgement number against 

such bids.  

C.  Post Bidding Procedure  

8.10.   All bids received within bidding time window shall be provided by EBP to the 

issuer after bidding process is over. 

8.11.  Issuer  shall  have  the  option  to  accept  or  reject  bids  received,  if  the  issuer 

agrees to the yield so discovered. 

8.12.  Issuer shall provide details of accepted bids to depositories to make allotment.   

8.13.  EBP shall display bid details on the end of the bidding time window.  

8.14.  At  the  end  of  the  bidding  time  window,  EBP  shall  on  an  anonymous  basis, 
disclose  the  aggregate  volume  data  ,  including  yield,  amount  including  the 
amount of oversubscription, total bids received, rating(s), category of investor 
etc. to avoid any speculations. 

8.15.  For  issues  below  Rs.500  crore,  issuer  shall  upload  details  as  mentioned  in 
para 8.14 above with EBP and/or with information repository for corporate debt 
market as notified by SEBI, in the format as specified.    

8.16.  EBP shall upload the allotment data on its website to be made available to the 

public.  

9.  The provisions of this circular shall be applicable with effect from July 01, 2016.   

10. Recognized Stock Exchanges are directed to: 

a. comply with the conditions laid down in this circular; 

b.  put  in  place  necessary  systems  and  infrastructure  for  implementation  of  this 
circular; 

c. make consequential changes, if any, to the bye-laws of the Exchange as may 
be applicable and necessary; 

d.  communicate  to  member  brokers  and  create  awareness  among  other 
participants; 

e. create awareness among issuers and participants.   

 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
11. This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) read with 
regulation 31(2) of ILDS Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992. 

12. This Circular is available on SEBI website at  www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

“Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Corp Debt Market”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9596  
Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 

