 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

        April 25, 2016 

 
 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/49   
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
of All Commodity Derivatives Exchanges and their members 
 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 
Sub: Disclosure of Proprietary Trading by Commodity Derivatives Broker to 

Client and “Pro - account” Trading terminal 

 
 
1.  In order to increase the transparency in the dealings between the stock broker 
and the clients in commodity derivatives market, it has been decided to align 
the provisions relating to the proprietary trading carried out by the stock brokers 
of commodity derivatives exchanges in line with the securities market. 

 
2.  Disclosure of proprietary trading by broker to client: The provisions of the 
directions  issued  by  SEBI  vide  its  circular  no.  SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-  42  /2003 
dated  November 19,  2003,  regarding  the  disclosure  of  proprietary trading  by 
stock  broker  to  client,  are  made  applicable  to  all  the  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges. 
 

3.  “Pro – account” trading terminals: All the commodity derivatives exchanges 
shall ensure compliance  with the provisions of the directions issued by SEBI 
vide  its  circular  no.  SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-32/2003/27/08  dated  August  27,  2003 
regarding “Pro – account” trading terminals.  

 

4.  This circular supersedes the circulars issued by the erstwhile Forward Markets 
Commission related to “Pro – account” trading terminal from time to time and 
shall come into force with effect from three months from the date of this circular. 
 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to  regulate 
the securities market. 

 
 

6.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations. 

ii.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers of the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular in the Monthly Development Reports to SEBI.  

 
7.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 
 
 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
vikass@sebi.gov.in  
 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

