 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DRMNP/CIR/P/2016/54   

 

 

 

          May 04, 2016 

All recognized Clearing Corporations and Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam 

Subject: Investment Policy, Liquid Assets for the purpose of Calculation of Net 

Worth of a Clearing Corporation and Transfer of Profits 

1)  SEBI  notified  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing 
Corporations)  Regulations,  2012,  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  'SECC'  Regulations, 
2012) on June 20, 2012 to regulate recognition, ownership and governance in Stock 
Exchanges and Clearing Corporations.  

2)  Further,  SEBI  vide  circular  CIR/MRD/DRMNP/25/2014  dated  August  27,  2014, 
prescribed  the  guidelines  on  Core  Settlement  Guarantee  Fund  (CSGF),  Default 
Waterfall and Stress Test. 

3)  SEBI  had  also  constituted  an  expert  Committee  on  Clearing  Corporations 
(hereinafter referred to as 'Committee'), to examine, inter-alia, the issues pertaining 
to (a) Investment Policy of a Clearing Corporation, (b) Liquid assets for calculation 
of Net worth of a Clearing Corporation, and (c) Regulation 33 of SECC Regulations 
on 'Transfer of Profits'. 

4)  The recommendations of the committee were placed before the SEBI Board. As per 
the decision of the Board, the Clearing Corporations are advised to comply with the 
following - 

A.  'Investment Policy'  of Clearing Corporation 

I.  Regulation 40 of SECC Regulations, 2012 states the following 

"The utilization of profits and investments by recognised clearing corporations 
shall be in accordance with the norms specified by the Board." 

II.  While  framing  the  'Investment  policy',  the  clearing  corporations  shall  consider 

the following principles -  

 

 

a)  The  investment  policy  of  the  Clearing  Corporation  shall  be  built  on  the 

premise of highest degree of safety and least market risk. 

 

b)  The  investments  shall  be  broadly  in  Fixed  Deposits/  Central  Government 

Securities and Liquid schemes of Debt Mutual Funds. 

III.  Accordingly, the Clearing Corporations shall align the investment policy in line 
with  the  principles  for  investment  laid  down  at  para  4(A)(II)  above,  subject  to 
the following - 

a)  Fixed  Deposit  with  Banks  [only  those  banks  which  have  a  net  worth  of 
more  than  INR  500  crore  and  are  rated  A1  (or  A1+)  or  equivalent,  as 
mentioned at para 12 of SEBI circular dated August 27, 2014]; 

b)  Central Government Securities; and  

c)  Liquid schemes of debt mutual funds.  

  Investment  in  liquid  scheme  of  debt  mutual  funds  shall  not  exceed  a 
limit of ten per cent of the total investible resources held by the clearing 
corporation, at any point in time. 
 

  In  case  the  Clearing  Corporation  has  investments  in  mutual  funds 
beyond  the  limits  specified  above,  then  such  excess  investments  shall 
be  liquidated  by  the  Clearing  Corporation  within  six  months  from  the 
date  of  issuance  of  this  circular.  Fresh  investments  by  the  Clearing 
Corporation  beyond  the  threshold  limit  prescribed  above  are  not 
permitted. 
 

B.  Liquid  assets  for  the  purpose  of  calculation  of  Net  worth  of  Clearing 

Corporation 

I.  Explanation II to Regulation 14 of SECC Regulation 2012 reads as under-  

"For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation,  ‘net  worth  of  a  clearing  corporation’ 
means  the  aggregate  value  of  its  liquid  assets  calculated  in  the  manner  as 
specified by the Board from time to time". 

II.  The  eligible  instruments  for  investment  such  as  fixed  deposits,  Central 
Government  Securities  and  liquid  schemes  of  Debt  Mutual  Funds  to  the 
extent permissible, other instruments as may be specified by SEBI from time 

2 

 

 

 

 

to  time,  and  cash  and  bank  balance,  shall  be  considered  as  'Liquid  Assets', 
for the purpose of calculation of Net worth of a Clearing Corporation. 

 

C.  Regulation 33 of SECC Regulations, 2012 on 'Transfer of Profits' 

I.  Regulation 33 of the SECC Regulations, 2012 states the following -  

"Every recognised stock exchange shall credit twenty five per cent of its profits 
every year to the Fund as specified in regulation 39, of the recognised clearing 
corporation(s)  which  clears  and  settles  trades  executed  on  that  stock 
exchange." 

II.  Further,  SEBI  circular  CIR/MRD/DRMNP/25/2014  dated  August  27,  2014, 
prescribed  the  requirement  for  contribution  from  Clearing  Corporation,  Stock 
Exchange and Clearing Members to the Core SGF. 

III.  For  the  purpose  of  Regulation  33  of  SECC  Regulations,  2012,  the  clearing 

corporations/ stock exchanges shall implement the following -  

a)  The  provisions  made  by  Stock  Exchanges  in  their  books  of  accounts 
towards  the  requirement  of  'Transfer  of  Profits'  under  Regulation  33  of 
SECC Regulations 2012, from the date the SECC Regulations, 2012 came 
into  effect  till  March  31,  2015,  shall  be  transferred  to  the  Core  SGF 
maintained  by  Clearing  Corporations  within  one  month  from  the  date  of 
issuance  of  this  Circular.  Further,  twenty  five  per  cent  of  profits  for  the 
period April 01, 2015 till the date of amendment of Regulation 33 of SECC 
Regulations, 2012, shall be transferred by the Stock Exchange to the Core 
SGF  maintained  by  Clearing  Corporation  within  such  time  as  may  be 
specified by SEBI.  
 

b)  After  such  transfer  of  funds  from  the  Stock  Exchange  to  the  Core  SGF 
maintained  by  the  Clearing  Corporation,  the  contribution  by  the  Clearing 
Member(s), 
the  Clearing 
Corporation, shall be refunded to such clearing member(s). 
 

the  Core  SGF  maintained  by 

if  any,  to 

c)  The Stock Exchange / Clearing Corporation shall make good the shortfall in 

the Core SGF at any point in time. 

IV.  The unutilized portion of contribution made by the stock exchange towards the 
Core  SGF,  for  any  segment(s),  maintained  by  the  Clearing  Corporation,  as 

3 

 

 

 

 

 

available  with  the  Clearing  Corporation,  shall  be  refunded  to  the  stock 
exchange, in case the stock exchange decides to close down its business or 
decides  to  avail  the  clearing  and  settlement  services  of  another  Clearing 
Corporation for  that  segment(s),  subject  to  it  meeting  all  dues  of  the  clearing 
corporation. 

5)  Clearing corporations and stock exchanges are directed to: 

a) 

take  necessary  steps  to  put  in  place  systems  for  implementation  of  the 
circular, including necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and 
regulations;  

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  members  and  also 

c) 

disseminate the same on their websites; and 
communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 
circular in the Monthly Report. 
 

6)  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate,  the 
securities market. 

7)  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in,  under  the  category 

"Circulars". 

Yours faithfully 
 

Sanjay Purao 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Risk Management and New Products  
Market Regulation Department  
Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

4 

