 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

                     May 11, 2016 

 

 

 

CIR/IMD/DF/55/2016  
To 
All Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) 
All Parties to InvITs 
All Stock Exchanges 
All Merchant Bankers 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Guidelines for public issue of units of InvITs 

1.  SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 (“InvIT Regulations”)provides 

as under: 

 

a)  Regulation  14(6)  states  that  ‘The  Board  may  specify  by  issue  of  guidelines  or 
circulars any other requirements, as it deems fit, pertaining to issue and allotment of 
units by an InvIT, whether by way of public issue or private placement.’ 

b)  Regulation 15(6)(iii) states that 'the advertisements shall be in accordance with any 

circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this regard.’  

2.  In  line  with  the  aforesaid  Regulations,  the  detailed  guidelines  as  placed  at  Schedule-A 

shall be applicable to public issue of units of InvITs. 

3.  This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of Securities 

and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 33 of InvIT Regulations. 

4.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Circulars”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 
 
Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9596  
Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

1 

 
Schedule-A 

 
 

 

Guidelines for public issue of units of InvITs 

 

1.  Appointment and obligations of merchant banker and others: 

(1) The  Investment  Manager  on  behalf  of  the  InvIT,  in  line  with  Regulation  10  (5)  of 
InvIT  Regulations,  shall  appoint  one  or  more  merchant  bankers,  at  least  one  of 
whom shall be a lead merchant banker and shall also appoint other intermediaries, 
in consultation with the lead merchant banker, to carry out the obligations relating to 
the issue.  

(2) Where  the  issue  is  managed  by  more  than  one  merchant  banker,  the  rights, 
obligations  and  responsibilities,  relating  inter  alia  to  disclosures,  allotment,  refund 
and  underwriting  obligations, 
if  any,  of  each  merchant  banker  shall  be 
predetermined and disclosed in the offer document. 

 

2.  Filing of offer document 

(1) Draft offer document, offer document and final offer document shall mean as under: 
a.  Draft offer document refers to the draft of the offer document filed with the 

Board and the stock exchanges. 

b.  Offer document refers to the version  of the offer document filed  with the 
Board  and  the  stock  exchanges  incorporating  all  updations  except  the 
price / price band. 

c.  Final offer document refers to the version of the offer document filed with 
the  Board  and  the  stock  exchanges  including    details  with  respect  to 
pricing, allotment etc. . 

(2) The  draft  offer  document  shall  be  filed  with  the  Board  and  the  designated  stock 

exchanges in accordance with InvIT Regulations.  

(3) The  lead  merchant  bankers  shall  submit  the  following  to  the  Board  along  with  the 

draft offer document: 
(a) a  certificate,  confirming  that  an  agreement  has  been  entered  into  between  the 

Investment manager on behalf of the InvIT and the lead merchant bankers; 

(b) a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Annexure I, 

(4) The  draft  offer  document  shall  be  hosted  on  the  websites  as  specified  under 
Regulation 14(4)(f) of the InvIT Regulations and the period of hosting on the website 
for comments, if any, shall be at least twenty one days. The lead merchant banker 
shall file a statement with the Board  giving information of the comments received by 
them or the InvIT or the parties to the InvIT  on the draft offer document during that 
period  and  the  consequential  changes,  if  any,  to  be  made  in  the  draft  offer 
document. 

(5) Subject to regulation 14(4)(g),(h) and (i)of InvIT Regulations, the Board may specify 
changes or issue observations, if any, on the draft offer document within the later of 
the following: 
(a) thirty days from the later of the following dates:  

2 

(i) 
(ii) 

the date of receipt of the draft offer document by the Board; or 
the  date  of  receipt  of  clarification  or  information  from  any  regulator  or 
agency, where the Board has sought any clarification or  information from 
such regulator or agency; or 

(iii)  the  date  of  receipt  of  a  copy  of  in-principle  approval  letter  issued  by  the 

recognised stock exchanges;  

(b) twenty  one  working  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  satisfactory  reply  from  the 
lead  merchant  bankers,  where  the  Board  has  sought  any  clarification  or 
additional information from them; 

(6) The lead merchant banker shall ensure that all comments received from the Board 
on  the  draft  offer  document  are  suitably  addressed  prior  to  the  filing  of  the  offer 
document with the Board and designated stock exchanges; 

(7) The lead merchant banker shall submit the following documents to the Board along 

with the offer document: 
(a) a statement certifying that all changes, suggestions and observations made by 

the Board have been incorporated in the offer document;  

(b) a due diligence certificate as per Form B of Annexure I 

(8) If  changes  are  made  in  the  draft  offer  document  or  offer  document  with  respect  to 
any of the following, the  lead merchant banker shall file fresh draft offer document 
with  the  Board  highlighting  all  changes  made  in  the  draft  offer  document  or  offer 
document, as applicable, along with the fees as specified in InvIT Regulations: 
(a) Change  in  sponsor(s)/  Investment  Manager  or  persons  in  control  of  the 

sponsor(s)/ Investment Manager. 

(b) Change in more than half of the board of directors of the Investment Manager. 
(c)  Change  in  any  object(s)  of  the  issue  contributing/amounting  to  more  than  20% 

of the issue size. 

(d) Any increase or decrease in estimated issue size by more than twenty five per 

cent. 

(9) All other changes/ updations in the draft offer document or offer document which are 
not  covered  under  clause  (8)  above  shall  be  carried  out  by  the  lead  merchant 
banker and offer document with updated details shall be filed with the Board without 
fees. 

(10) 

The  merchant  banker  shall,  after  filing  the  offer  document  with  the  Board, 
make a pre-issue advertisement on the website of the sponsor, investment manager 
and stock exchanges.  

(11) 

The  merchant  banker  may  also  issue  such  pre-issue  advertisement  in  any 

newspaper and on the website of the InvIT, if applicable. 
 
 

3.  Allocation in public issue. 

(1)  In an issue made through the book building process or otherwise, the allocation in the 

public issue shall be as follows: 
(a)  not more than 75% to Institutional Investors  
(b)  not less than 25% to other investors 

 

3 

Explanation:  Institutional  Investors  is  as  defined  under  Regulation  106X  of  ICDR 
Regulations. 

(2)  Investment  manager  on  behalf  of  the  InvIT  may  allocate  upto  60%  of  the  portion 

available for allocation to Institutional Investors to anchor investors as under: 
(a)  An  strategic  investor  as  defined  under  InvIT  Regulations  may  participate  in  the 

issue under the category of Anchor Investor.  

(b)  An Anchor Investor shall make an application of a value of at least Rs. 10 crore in 

the public issue; 
Provided that in case of strategic investor, the aforesaid application value shall be 
subject to Regulation 2(1)(zza) of the InvIT Regulations. 

(c)  Allocation to Anchor Investors shall be on a discretionary basis and subject to the 
minimum  of  2  investors  for  allocation  upto  Rs.  250  crore  and  minimum  of  5 
investors for allocation of more than Rs. 250 crore.  

(d)  The  bidding  for  Anchor  Investors  shall  open  one  day  before  the  issue  opening 

(e) 

date and allocation to Anchor Investors shall be completed on the same day. 
If the price fixed as a result of book building is higher than the price at which the 
allocation  is  made  to  Anchor  Investor,  the  Anchor  Investor  shall  bring  in  the 
additional amount within two days of the date of closure of the issue. However, if 
the  price  fixed  as  a  result  of  book  building  is  lower  than  the  price  at  which  the 
allocation is made to Anchor Investor, the excess amount shall not be refunded to 
the  Anchor  Investor  and  the  Anchor  Investor  shall  take  allotment  at  the  price  at 
which allocation was made to it. 

(f)  The  number  of  units  allocated  to  Anchor  Investors  and  the  price  at  which  the 
allocation  is  made,  shall  be  made  available  on  the  website  of  the  stock 
exchange(s),  sponsor(s),  investment  manager  and  merchant  banker(s)  before 
opening of the issue. 

(g)  There  shall  be  a  lock-in  of  30  days  on  the  units  allotted  to  the  Anchor  Investor 

from the date of allotment in the public issue. 
Provided that the lock-in for strategic investors shall be one year from the date of 
allotment in the public issue.  

(h)  Neither the merchant bankers nor any person related to the merchant bankers in 
the  concerned  public  issue  can  apply  under  Anchor  Investor  category  except 
Mutual Funds, Insurance Companies and Pension Funds.  

(i)  The parameters for selection of Anchor Investor shall be clearly identified by the 

merchant banker.  
 

4.  Application and Abridged version of the offer document. 

(1)  The  application  form  and  the  abridged  version  of  the  offer  document  as  stated  in 
Regulation  14(4)(n)  of  the  InvIT  Regulations  for  the  issue  shall  be  prepared  by  the 
lead merchant banker.  

(2)  The lead merchant banker shall make arrangements for distribution of the application 

form along with a copy of the abridged version of the offer document. 

(3)  The abridged version of the offer document shall contain the disclosures as specified 
in Annexure III and shall not contain any matter extraneous to the contents of the offer 
document.  

 

4 

(4)  No person shall make an application in the public issue for that number of units which 

exceeds the number of units offered to public. 

 

5.  Security Deposit  

(1) The Investment Manager on behalf of the InvIT  shall deposit, before the opening of 
subscription, and keep deposited with the stock exchange(s), an amount calculated 
at the rate of 0.5% of the amount of units offered for subscription to the public or Rs 
5 crore, whichever is lower.  

(2) The  manner  of  deposit/refund/release/forfeiture  of  such  deposit  shall  be  in  the 

manner specified by the stock exchange(s)and by the Board from time to time. 
 

6.  Opening of an issue and subscription period. 

(1) An  issue  shall  be  opened  after  atleast  five  working  days  from  the  date  of  filing  the 

final offer document with the Board.  

(2) The lead merchant banker shall submit a due diligence certificate as per Form C of 

Annexure I, immediately before the opening of the issue.  

(3) A public issue shall be kept open for at least three working days but not more than 
thirty days. However, in case the price band in a public issue made through the book 
building  process  is  revised,  the  bidding  (issue)  period  disclosed  in  the  final  offer 
document  shall  be  extended  for  a  minimum  period  of  one  working  day,  provided 
however that the total bidding period shall not exceed thirty days. 
Provided the price revision can be done maximum twice during the bidding period. 

(4) The investment manager on behalf of the InvIT may issue advertisements for issue 

opening and issue closing. 
 

7.  Underwriting. 

(1) Where  the  InvIT  desires  to  have  the  issue  underwritten,  it  shall  appoint  the 

underwriters in accordance with SEBI (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993. 

(2) The  merchant  bankers  and  syndicate  members  shall  not  subscribe  to  the  issue  in 

any manner except for fulfilling their underwriting obligations. 

(3) In  case  of  underwritten  issue,  the  lead  merchant  banker  or  the  lead  book  runner 
shall undertake minimum underwriting obligations as specified in the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992. 
 

8.  Price and price band. 

(1) The  investment  manager  on  behalf  of  the  InvIT  may  determine  the  price  of  units  in 

consultation with the lead merchant banker or through the book building process. 

(2)  Differential price shall not be offered to any investor.  
(3)  The investment manager on behalf of the InvIT shall announce the floor price or price 
band  at  least  five  working  days  before  the  opening  of  the  bid  (in  case  of  an  initial 
public  offer)  on  the  website  of  the  sponsor,  investment  manager  and  stock 
exchanges  and  in  all  the  newspapers  in  which  the  pre  issue  advertisement  was 
released and website of InvIT, if applicable. 

(4) The  announcement  referred  to  in  clause  8(3)  above  shall  contain  relevant  financial 
ratios computed for both upper and lower end of the price band and also a statement 

 

5 

drawing  attention  of  the  investors  to  the  section  titled  “basis  of  issue  price”  in  the 
final offer document. 

(5) The floor price or price band and the relevant financial ratios referred to in clause 8(4) 
shall  be  disclosed  on  the  websites  of  those  stock  exchanges  where  the  units  are 
proposed to be listed. 

(6) The floor price or price band  shall  be  pre-filled  in  the  application  forms  available  on 

the websites of the stock exchanges.  

(7) The Investment manager on behalf of the InvIT Investment manager on behalf of the 
InvIT shall, in consultation with lead book runner, determine the issue price based on 
the bids received. 

(8) Once the final price (cut-off price) is determined, all those bidders whose bids have 
been found to be successful (i.e. at and above the final price or cut-off price) shall be 
entitled for allotment of units. 

(9) The lead merchant banker may reject a bid placed by a qualified institutional buyer 
for  reasons  to  be  recorded  in  writing  provided  that  such  rejection  shall  be  made  at 
the time of acceptance of the bid and the reasons therefore shall be disclosed to the 
bidders.  

9.  Bidding process 

(1) In all issues, the InvIT shall accept bids including using ASBA facility, if so opted.  
(2) An amount to the extent of entire application money shall be collected or blocked, 
as the case may be, from the applicants before they place an order on their behalf. 
(3) The  payment  accompanied  with  any  revision  of  Bid,  shall  be  adjusted  against  the 

payment made at the time of the original bid or the previously revised bid.  

(4) The stock brokers shall collect the money from their client for every order placed by 
them  and  in  case  the  clients/investors  fail  to  pay  for  units  allocated,  the  stock 
brokers shall pay such amount. 

Provided  that  in  case  of  ASBA,  the  Self  Certified  Syndicate  Banks  or  Syndicate 
members shall follow the procedure specified in this regard by the Board.  

(5) Bidding  process  shall  be  only  through  an  electronically  linked  transparent  bidding 

facility provided by recognised stock exchange (s).  

(6) The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  adequate  infrastructure  is  available 

with syndicate members for data entry of the bids in a timely manner. 

(7) The bidding terminals shall contain an online graphical display of demand and bid 

prices updated at periodic intervals, not exceeding thirty minutes.  

(8) The investment manager on behalf of the InvIT may decide to close the bidding by 
qualified institutional buyers one day prior to the closure of the issue subject to the 
condition  that  bidding  shall  be  kept  open  for  a  minimum  of  three  days  for  all 
categories of applicants and suitable disclosures made in the draft offer document 
and offer document. 

(9) No investor shall either withdraw or lower the size of bids at any stage. 
(10)  The  identity  of  Institutional  Investors  other  than  strategic  investors  making  the 

bidding shall not be made public. 

6 

 

 

(11)  The  stock  exchanges  shall  continue  to  display  on  their  website,  the  data 
pertaining  to  book  built  issues  in  a  uniform  format,  inter  alia  giving  category-wise 
details of bids received, for a period of atleast three days after closure of bids.  
 

10. Allotment procedure and basis of allotment. 

(1)  On receipt of the sum payable on application, the investment manager on behalf of the 

InvIT shall allot the units to the applicants. 

(2)  The  allotment  of  units  to  applicants  other  than  anchor  investors  shall  be  on 
proportionate  basis  within  the  specified  investor  categories  and  the  number  of  units 
allotted shall be rounded off to the nearest integer, subject to minimum allotment as per 
InvIT Regulations. 

(3)  In  case  of  under-subscription  in  any  investor  category,  the  unsubscribed  portion  in 
either  of  the  category  specified  in  clause  3  (1)    may  be  allotted    to  applicants  in  the 
other category. 

(4)  The authorized representatives of the designated stock exchange along  with the post 
issue lead merchant bankers and registrars to the issue shall ensure that the basis of 
allotment is finalized in a fair and proper manner. 

 

11. Maintenance of books and records  

(1) A  final  book  of  demand  showing  the  result  of  the  allocation  process  shall  be 

maintained by the lead book runner. 

(2) The book runner/s and other intermediaries associated in the book building process 

shall maintain records of the book building prices.   
 

12. Post- issue reports.  

(a) 

(1) The lead merchant banker shall submit the following post-issue reports to the Board:   
initial  post  issue  report  as  specified  in  Part  A  of  Annexure  II,  within  three 
working days of closure of the issue. 
final post issue report as specified in Part B of Annexure II, within fifteen days 
of the date of finalization of basis of allotment or within fifteen days of refund of 
money in case of failure of issue. 

(b) 

(2) The lead merchant banker shall submit a due diligence certificate along with the final 

post issue report as per Form D of Annexure I. 

 

13. Public  communications,  publicity  materials,  advertisements  and  research 

reports. 
(1) Any  public  communication  including  advertisement,  publicity  material,  research 
reports, etc. concerned with the issue shall not contain any matter extraneous to the 
contents of the offer document.   
Explanation: Public communication includes but not limited to corporate, project and 
issue  advertisements  of  the  InvIT,  interviews  by  its  sponsors,  investment  manager, 
trustee, project manager, directors of any of the parties to the InvIT, duly authorized 
employees  or  representatives  of  the  InvIT/Investment  manager,  documentaries 
about the InvIT or its sponsors, periodical reports, press releases, etc. 

 

7 

(2) The  Investment  manager  on  behalf  of  the  InvIT  shall  make  prompt,  true  and  fair 
disclosure of all developments taking place between the date of filing offer document 
with the Board and the date of allotment of units which may have a material effect on 
the  InvIT,  by  issuing  public  notices  on  the  website  of  the  sponsor,  investment 
manager  and  stock  exchanges  and  in  all  the  newspapers  in  which  the  pre  issue 
advertisement was released and website of InvIT, if applicable. 

(3) In  respect  of  all  public  communications,  the  Investment  manager  on  behalf  of  the 
InvIT  shall  obtain  approval  from  the  lead  merchant  bankers  responsible  for 
marketing the issue.  

(4) Any such public communication shall comply with the following: 

(a) it shall be truthful, fair and shall not be manipulative or deceptive or distorted. 
(b) it shall not contain any statement or promise which is untrue or misleading. 
(c)  if it reproduces or purports to reproduce any information contained in an offer 
document, it shall reproduce such information in full and disclose all relevant 
facts and not be restricted to select extracts relating to that information. 

(d) it shall be set forth in a clear, concise and understandable language. 
(e) it shall not include any issue slogans or brand names for the issue except the 

normal commercial name of the sponsor/investment manager. 

(f)  it  shall  not  use  extensive  technical,  legal  terminology  or  complex  language 

and excessive details which may distract the investor. 

(g) it  shall  not  display  models,  celebrities,  fictional  characters,  landmarks  or 

caricatures or the likes. 

(h) no 

issue  advertisement  shall  appear 

form  of  crawlers  (the 
advertisements  which  run  simultaneously  with  the  programme  in  a  narrow 
strip at the bottom of the television screen) on television. 

in 

the 

(i)  in any issue advertisement on television screen, the risk factors shall not be 
scrolled  on  the  television  screen  and  the  advertisement  shall  advise  the 
viewers  to  refer  to  the  red  herring  prospectus  or  other  offer  document  for 
details. 

(j)  it  shall  not  contain  slogans,  expletives  or  non-factual  and  unsubstantiated 

titles. 

(k)  if it contains highlights, it shall also contain risk factors with equal importance 

in all respects including print size of not less than point seven size. 

(5) No such public communication shall be issued giving any impression that the issue 
has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed during the period the issue is open for 
subscription. 

(6) No such public communication shall contain any offer of incentives, whether direct or 

indirect, in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise. 
 

(7) The  merchant  bankers  shall  submit  a  compliance  certificate  in  respect  of  news 
reports  appearing  for  the  period  between  the  date  of filing  the  draft  offer  document 
with  the  Board  and  the  date  of  closure  of  the  issue  in  accordance  with  Regulation 
60(14) of ICDR Regulations.  
 
 

 

8 

14. Other Obligations of Post-issue lead merchant banker 

(1) Obligations  of  the  post-issue  merchant  banker  with  respect  to  refund,  allotment, 
payment of interest to applicants in case of delayed allotment/refund, etc. are as per 
the disclosure in the offer document.  

(2) The  post-issue  lead  merchant  banker  shall  regularly  monitor  redressal  of  investor 

grievances relating to post-issue activities such as allotment, refund, etc. 

(3) The  post-issue  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  advertisement  giving  details 
relating to oversubscription, basis of allotment, number, value and percentage of all 
applications,  number,  value  and  percentage  of  successful  allottees 
for  all 
applications  ,  date  of  completion  of  dispatch  of  refund  orders  or  instructions  to  Self 
Certified Syndicate Banks by the Registrar, date of dispatch of certificates and date 
of  filing  of  listing  application,  etc.  is  released  within  ten  days  from  the  date  of 
completion of the above  activities on the  website of the InvIT, sponsor, investment 
manager,      stock  exchanges  and  in  all  the  newspapers  in  which  the  pre  issue 
advertisement was released, if applicable . 

(4) The  post-issue  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  InvIT,  advisors,  brokers  or  any 
other  entity  connected  with  the  issue  do  not  publish  any  advertisement  stating  that 
issue has been oversubscribed or indicating investors’ response to the issue, during 
the period when the public issue is still open for subscription by the public.  

(5)  The  post-issue  merchant  banker  shall  continue  to  be  responsible  for  post-issue 
activities  till  the  subscribers  have  received  credit  to  their  demat  account  or  refund  of 
application moneys and the listing agreement is entered into by the InvIT with the stock 
exchange and listing/ trading permission is obtained. 

 

15. General conditions: 

(1) Restrictions  on  issue:  No  InvIT  shall  make  a  public  issue  of  units,  if  the  InvIT  or 

parties to the InvIT or the promoter(s) or director(s) of parties to the InvIT: 

(a) is debarred from accessing the securities market by the Board; 
(b) is  a  promoter,  director  or  person  in  control  of  any  other  company  or  a 
sponsor,  investment manager  or  trustee  of  any  other  InvIT  or  InvIT  which  is 
debarred  from  accessing  the  capital  market  under  any  order  or  directions 
made by the Board; 

(c)  is in the list of the willful defaulters published by the Reserve Bank of India. 

 

(2) Alteration of rights of holders of units. 
No  InvIT  shall  alter  the  terms  (including  the  terms  of  issue)  of  units  which  may 
adversely  affect  the  interests  of  the  holders  of  that  units  unless  a  resolution  to  that 
effect  is  passed  at  a meeting  of  the  unitholders  in accordance with Regulation 22(5) of 
InvIT Regulations. 

 

(3) Prohibition on payment of incentives. 
No person connected with the issue, including a person connected with the distribution 
of the issue, shall offer any incentive, whether direct or indirect, in any manner, whether 
in  cash  or  kind  or  services  or  otherwise  to  any  person  for  making  an  application  for 
allotment of units: 

 

9 

Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to fees or commission for 
services rendered in relation to the issue. 
 
(4) Appointment of Compliance Officer. 
The compliance officer designated by the investment manager under Regulation 10(25) 
of  the  InvIT  Regulations  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the 
securities laws and for redressal of investors’ grievances. 
Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  the  term  “securities  laws”  shall  mean 
SEBI Act, 1992, SCRA, 1956, Depositories Act, 1996 and rules and regulations made 
thereunder,  general  or  special  orders,  guidelines  or  circulars  made  or  issued 
thereunder. 

(5) General obligations of Merchant Bankers. 

(a)  The lead merchant bankers shall exercise due diligence and satisfy himself about 
all  the  aspects  of  the  issue  including  the  veracity  and  adequacy  of  disclosure  in 
the offer documents.  

(b)  The  lead  merchant  bankers  shall  call  upon  the  InvIT,  parties  to  the  InvIT  or 
directors of the parties to the InvIT or in case of an offer for sale, the selling unit 
holders, to fulfill their obligations as disclosed by them in the offer document and 
as required in terms of these guidelines. 

(c)  The responsibility of the lead merchant banker with respect to due diligence shall 

continue even after the completion of issue process. 

(d)  The lead merchant banker shall ensure that the information contained in the offer 
document  and  the  particulars  as  per  audited  financial  statements  in  the  offer 
document are not more than six months old from the issue opening date. 

(e)  The Investment manager  on  behalf  of the InvIT  shall  ensure  that transactions  in 
units by the sponsor and its associates during the period between the date of filing 
the offer document with the Board /designated stock exchange, as the case may 
be and the date of closure of the issue shall be reported to the recognised stock 
exchanges  where  the  units  of  the  InvIT  are  listed  or  going  to  be  listed,  within 
twenty four hours of the transactions. 

16. Power to relax strict enforcement of these guidelines. 

The  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors  or  for  the  development  of  the  securities 
market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these guidelines, if the Board 
is satisfied that: 
(1) the requirement is procedural in nature; or 
(2) any disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular sector/sub-sector or InvIT; 

or 

(3) the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the InvIT. 
(4) any provision of Act(s), Rule(s), regulation(s) under which the InvIT is established or 

is governed by, is required to be given precedence to; or  
(5) the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors. 

 

10 

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURE I 

FORMATS OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATES 

FORM A 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT BANKER 

ALONG WITH DRAFT OFFER DOCUMENT 

To, 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Dear Sirs, 

Sub.:  Public Issue of ………………… by………………………. (Name of the InvIT) 

We, the lead merchant banker(s) to the above mentioned forthcoming issue, state and confirm 
as follows: 

(1)  We  have  examined  various  documents  including  those  relating  to  litigation  like 
commercial disputes, patent disputes, disputes with collaborators, etc. and other material 
in connection with the finalization of the offer document pertaining to the said issue; 

(2)  On the basis of such examination and the discussions with the InvIT, its Sponsor(s) and 
Investment  Manager,  directors  and  other  officers,  other  agencies,  and  independent 
verification of the statements concerning the terms of the issue, price justification and the 
contents of the documents and other papers furnished by the Investment Manager, WE 
CONFIRM that: 
(a) 

the draft offer document filed with  the Board is in conformity with the documents, 
materials and papers relevant to the issue; 

(c) 

(b)  all  the  legal  requirements  relating to the  issue  as  also  the regulations  guidelines, 
instructions,  etc.  framed/issued  by  the  Board,  the  Central  Government  and  any 
other competent authority in this behalf have been duly complied with; and 
the  disclosures  made  in  the  draft  offer  document  are  true,  fair  and  adequate  to 
enable the investors to make a well informed decision as to the investment in the 
proposed issue and such disclosures are in accordance with the requirements of 
the  InvIT  Regulations,  circulars,  guidelines  issued  thereunder  and  other 
applicable legal requirements. 

(3)  We  confirm  that  besides  ourselves,  all  the  intermediaries  named  in  the  draft  offer 

document are registered with the Board and that till date such registration is valid. 

(4)  We  have  satisfied  ourselves  about  the  capability  of  the  underwriters  to  fulfill  their 

underwriting commitments, if any. 

(5)  We certify that written consent from sponsors has been obtained for inclusion of their 

units as part of sponsors contribution. 

(6)  We certify that the proposed activities of the InvIT for which the funds are being raised 
in  the  present  issue  fall  within  the  objectives  of  the  Trust  as  specified  in  the  Trust 
Deed of the InvIT. 

 

11 

(7)  We confirm that necessary arrangements have been made to ensure that the moneys 
received  pursuant  to  the  issue  are  kept  in  a  separate  bank  account  and  that  such 
moneys shall be released by the said bank only after permission is obtained from all 
the  stock  exchanges  mentioned  in  the  offer  document.  We  further  confirm  that  the 
agreement  entered  into  between  the  bankers  to  the  issue  and  the  Investment 
manager on behalf of the InvIT specifically contains this condition. 

(8)  We certify that the following disclosures have been made in the draft offer document: 

(a)  An undertaking from the Investment manager on behalf of the InvIT that at any 

given time, there shall be only one denomination for the units of the InvIT and  

(b)  An undertaking from the Investment manager on behalf of the InvIT that it shall 
comply with such disclosure and accounting norms specified by the Board from 
time to time. 

(9)  We enclose a note explaining how the process of due diligence has been exercised by 
us with respect to the nature of the assets, the risk factors, net worth and experience of 
the sponsor/investment manager, experience of the key personnel, etc. 

(10)  We  enclose  a  checklist  confirming  regulation-wise  compliance  with  the  applicable 
provisions of the InvIT Regulations, containing details such as the regulation number, 
its text, the status of compliance, page number of the  draft offer document where the 
regulation has been complied with and our comments, if any. 

(11)  We  enclose  a  checklist  confirming  clause-wise  compliance  with  the  guidelines  for 

public offer issued under the InvIT Regulations. 

(12)  We  certify  that  profits  from  related  party  transactions  have  arisen  from  legitimate 

business transactions. 

 

 

Place:                            

Date:   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue   

 

with Official Seal(s) 

 

12 

FORM B 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT BANKER 

AT THE TIME OF FILING OFFER DOCUMENT WITH THE BOARD AND THE 

DESIGNATED STOCK EXCHANGE 

 

To, 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Dear Sirs, 

Sub.: Public Issue of ……………….. by ……………………… (Name of the InvIT) 

 

(1)  This is to certify that the offer document filed with the Board and Stock Exchanges has 
been  suitably  updated  and  that  the  said  offer  document  contains  all  the  material 
disclosures in respect of the InvIT as on the said date.  

(2)  We confirm that the registrations of all the intermediaries named in the offer document 
are valid as on date and that none of these intermediaries have been debarred from 
functioning by any regulatory authority. 

(3)  We  confirm  that  agreements  have  been  entered  into  with  both  the  depositories  for 

dematerialisation of the units of the InvIT.  

 

 

Place:                            
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

   Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue Date: 

 
                              with Official Seal(s) 

 

 

 

 

13 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT BANKER 

IMMEDIATELY BEFORE OPENING OF THE ISSUE 

FORM C 

 

To, 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Dear Sirs, 

 

Sub.: Public Issue of …………………….. by ……………………. (Name of the InvIT) 

 

(1)  This is to certify that all the material disclosures in respect of the InvIT as on the date 
of  opening  of  the  issue  have  been  made  through  the  offer  document  filed  with  the 
Board  and  designated  stock  exchange  and  subsequent  amendments/  advertisements 
(if applicable) dated …...... (Details of advertisements to be enclosed), We confirm:  
(a) 

that the registrations of all the intermediaries named in the offer document, are 
valid as on date and that none of these intermediaries have been debarred from 
functioning by any regulatory authority as on date. 
that  the  abridged  version  of  the  offer  document  contains  all  the  disclosures  as 
specified in the InvIT Regulations and circulars thereunder. 

(b) 

 

 

Place:                            

Date:   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue 

 

with Official Seal(s) 

 

 

14 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT BANKER 

ALONG WITH FINAL POST ISSUE REPORT 

FORM D 

 

To, 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Dear Sirs, 

 

Sub.:   Public issue of …………………… by ……………………… (Name of InvIT) 

We, the under noted post issue lead merchant bankers to the abovementioned issue state 
as follows: 

(1)  We confirm that – 

(a) 

for  the units offered for lock-in, non-transferability details have been informed to 
the depositories; 

(b)  details of lock-in have been provided to all the stock exchanges on which units 

are to be listed, before the listing of the units. 

(2)  We  certify  that  units  included  as  minimum  sponsors’  contribution  and  the  units  in 
excess of minimum sponsors’ contribution have been locked-in in terms of Regulation 
12 of the InvIT Regulations.  

(3)  We  certify  that  provisions  regarding  lock-in  of  units  held  by  persons  other  than 

sponsors have been duly complied with in accordance with InvIT Regulations.   

 

 

   Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue 

 

with Official Seal(s) 

 

 

 

 

Place:                            

Date:   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15 

ANNEXURE II 

FORMATS OF POST ISSUE REPORTS 

PART A 

FORMAT OF INITIAL POST ISSUE REPORT FOR PUBLIC ISSUE 

Subscription Status: (Subscribed/ Undersubscribed) 

Note: It is the responsibility of lead merchant banker to give correct information after verifying 
it from the Investment Manager and the registrar to the issue. 

(1)  Name of the InvIT 
Issue opening date 
(2) 
(3)  Earliest closing date 
(4)  Actual closing date  
(5)  Date of filing offer document with Board 
(6) 

: 
: 
: 
: 

: 

Issue Details (as per the offer document) 
(a)  Offer price per unit for different categories 
(b)  Amount per unit on application for different categories  
(c) 

Issue size: (Rs lakhs) 

i.  Sponsors' contribution 
ii.  Amount through offer document: 

(d)  Provisional subscription details of public offer               

: 

: 

: 

 

i.  Total amount to be collected on application:      Rs lakhs 
ii.  Amount collected on application:     Rs lakhs 
iii.  % subscribed i.e. % of (ii) to (i):             (%) 

 

(7)  Please  tick  mark  whether  75%  minimum  subscription  of  the  amount  through  offer 

document is collected. 

(i) YES                                 (ii) NO  

 
 

 

Signed by 

 

 

         Signed by  

 

 

           Signed by 

Registrars to the Issue  

 Investment manager                         Lead Merchant Banker(s) 

                                                on behalf of the InvIT 

Date:   

Place:  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16 

PART B 

FORMAT OF FINAL POST ISSUE REPORT FOR PUBLIC ISSUE 

Subscription Status: (Subscribed / Undersubscribed) 

Notes: 

(1) 

It is the responsibility of lead merchant banker to give correct information after verifying 
the facts from the investment manager and the registrar to the issue. 

(2)  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  enclose  a  certificate  from  the  refund  banker  that  the 
amount of refund due to investors is deposited in a separate account giving details of the 
total amount deposited in the account and date of deposit. 

 

IN CASE OF SUBSCRIBED ISSUE: 

(I) 
(1)  Name of the InvIT 
(2) 
Issue opening date 
(3)  Actual closing date 
(4) 

 
 

 

: 
: 
: 

: 

Issue Details (as per the offer document) 
(a)  Offer price per unit 
               : 
: Rs. in lakhs 
(b) 

Issue Size 

 

(5)  3-Day Report : 

(a)  Due on 
(b)  Submitted on 

: 
(6)  No. of collecting banks : 

: 

(Also specify no. of bank branches) 

(7)  Bank-wise  names  of  branches  which  did  not  submit final consolidated  certificates from 

closure of issue and mention the dates when they actually submitted 

: 

(8)  Subscription Details -  

(i)  No. of applications recd. 
(ii)  No. of units applied for 
(iii)  Amount of subscription received 
(iv)  No. of times issue subscribed 

: 
: 
: Rs. 
: 

(9)  Actual Date of finalisation of Basis of Allotment (enclose copy) 
(10)  Allotment Details : 

: 

(a)  No. of successful allottees          : 
(b)  No. of unsuccessful allottees      : 

(11)  Actual Date(s) of completion of : 

(a)  Allotment      : 
(b)  Refund           : 
(c)  Reasons for delay in allotment/refund, if any      : 
(d)  Whether interest paid for delayed period, if so, for which period            : 

(12)  Amount of refund due                      :  Rs. 
(13)  Refund Banker(s) (Name and Address): 
(14)  Date of transfer of refund amount to Refund Banker, if any           : 

17 

 

(15)  Name of Designated Stock Exchange 
(16)  Names of other stock exchanges where listing is sought              : 
(17)  Date on which application was filed with each stock exchange for listing of units        : 
(18)  Date when listing and trading permission given by each stock exchange (Enclose copies 

: 

of permission letters of stock exchanges)            : 

(19)  Reasons for delay in listing of units for trading, if any         : 
 

IN CASE OF UNDER SUBSCRIBED ISSUE:  
If the issue is underwritten, mention the amount of  issue underwritten   

(II) 
(1) 
(2)  Extent of under subscription on the date of closure of the issue  

:    

(a)  Percentage 
(b)  Amount 

: 
: 

If devolvement notices had not been issued, mention how the shortfall was met 

(3)  Total no. of underwriters 
(4) 
(5)  No. of underwriters to whom devolvement notices had been issued 
(6)  Date of issue of devolvement notices 
(7)  No.  of  underwriters  who  did  not  pay  devolvement  (Please  give  names,  amount 

: 
: 

: 

: 

(8) 
(9) 

underwritten and reasons for not paying)       
In case of default from underwriters, mention how the  shortfall was met 
In case where FIs/ MFs had subscribed to make up shortfall not as underwriter 
(a)  Name of FI/MF 
(b)  No. of units applied for          : 
(c)  Amount received 

: 
: 

: 

: 

: 

 

Certified that the information given above and also in the enclosures are true to the best of our 
knowledge and no refunds/ allotment are pending in respect of the issue. 

Certified that units to be locked in are flagged  in  the  depository  system  as “units cannot be 
hypothecated / transferred / sold till .........” 

 

Signed by  

 

 

Signed by  

 

 

Signed by 

Registrars to the Issue        Investment manager of behalf of the InvIT 
Merchant Banker(s) 

Lead 

Place:  

Date: 

 

 

 

 

18 

 

ANNEXURE III 

FORMAT OF ABRIDGED VERSION OF THE OFFER DOCUMENT  

1.  Summary of the terms of the issue 

Name of the InvIT 
Name of the sponsor(s), Investment Manager, Project Manager, 
Trustee  
Contact details of the Investment Manager 
Contact details of the Merchant Banker 
Listing  ( including name of stock Exchange(s) where it will be 
listed and timeline for listing) 
Issue Size 
Option to retain oversubscription ( Amount )  
Issue Price 
Face Value 
Minimum Application  and in multiples of __ units thereafter 
Issue Timing 
1.  Issue Opening Date 
2.  Issue Closing Date 
3.  Pay-in Date 
4.  Expected Date of Allotment 
Issuance mode of the Instrument  
Depository 
Objects of the Issue 
Brief description of the assets under the InvIT 
Relevant Financial ratios 
Capital structure of the InvIT assets 
Brief details of valuation of each asset 
Brief description of ROFR, if any 
Brief details of policy of distributions to the unit holders 
Brief details of fee and expenses charged or chargeable to the 
InvIT 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2.  Top 5 risk factors 

 

 

19 

