 
 
 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
 

 

 

 

 

                           May 27, 2016 

CIR/CFD/CMD/56/2016 
 
To 
All Listed Entities 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Madam / Sir, 
 
Sub: Disclosure of the Impact of Audit Qualifications by the Listed Entities 
 
1.  SEBI has put in place a mechanism to review the audit qualifications contained in the 
audit  reports  of  the  listed  entities.  The  detailed  procedure  for  the  same  has  been 
prescribed  in Schedule VIII read with  Regulation 33 and Regulation 52 of the SEBI 
(Listing  and  Other  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015 
('Listing 
Regulations')  and  SEBI  circular  no.  CIR/CFD/CMD/15/2015  dated  November  30, 
2015.  
 

2.  In consultation with SEBI Advisory Committees, Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India  ('ICAI'),  Stock  Exchanges  and  Industry  Bodies,  it  has  been  decided  to 
streamline the existing process as follows:  
 
(i)  to  make  the  listed  entities  disseminate  the  cumulative  impact  of  all  the  audit 
qualifications  in  a  separate  format,  simultaneously,  while  submitting  the  annual 
audited  financial  results  to  the  stock  exchanges.  This  will  ensure  that    the 
information is available to the investors, without delay, enabling them to take well 
informed investment decisions; 
 

(ii)  to  dispense  with  the  existing  requirement  of  filing  Form  A  or  Form  B  for  audit 

report with unmodified or modified opinion respectively; 
 

(iii)  to dispense  with the  existing requirement of  making adjustment in the books of 

accounts of the subsequent year. 

 

3.  In this context, necessary amendments to the Listing Regulations have already been 
notified. A copy of the notification is available on the SEBI Website www.sebi.gov.in.  
 

4.  The  operational  details  for  implementing  the  aforesaid  amendments  shall  be  as 

under: 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 
 
 

 

 

 
4.1. For  audit  reports  with  unmodified  opinion,  the  listed  entity  shall  furnish  a 
declaration  to  that  effect  to  the  stock  exchange(s)  while  submitting  the  annual 
audited financial results. 
 

4.2. For  audit  reports  with  modified  opinion,  a  statement  showing  impact  of  audit 
qualifications shall be filed with the stock  exchanges in a format as specified in 
Annexure I.  

 

4.3. The management of the listed entity shall have the option to explain its views on 

the audit qualifications; 
 

4.4. Where  the  impact  of  the  audit  qualification  is  not  quantified  by  the  auditor,  the 
management  shall  make  an  estimate.  In  case  the  management  is  unable  to 
make an estimate, it shall provide  reasons for the same.  In both the scenarios, 
the auditor shall review and give the comments.   

 
4.5. The  aforesaid  statements  on  impact  of  audit  qualifications  filed  by  the  listed 
entities shall be a part of regular monitoring by the stock exchanges as specified 
in Regulation 97 of the Listing Regulations. In case of non-compliance, the stock 
exchanges  shall  take  action  against  such  entities  as  deemed  fit  and  report  to 
SEBI on a regular basis. 
 
The stock exchanges shall coordinate with one another in case the scrip is listed 
on more than one stock exchange. 
 

5.  The  clause  3  (g)  of  the  aforesaid  SEBI  circular  no.  CIR/CFD/CMD/15/2015  dated 

November 30, 2015 stands deleted.  
 

6.  This circular shall be applicable for all the annual audited standalone / consolidated 
financial results, as applicable, submitted by the listed entities for the period ending 
on or after March 31, 2016.  

 

7.  The stock exchanges are advised to  ensure compliance with this circular  and bring 
the provisions of this circular to the notice of listed entities and also to disseminate 
the same on their websites. 
 

8.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  and 
Section  11A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with 
Regulation 33, Regulation 52, and Regulation 101 (2) of the Listing Regulations. 

 
 

 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 

9.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  http://www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars”. 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 

 
Prasanta Mahapatra 
General Manager 
Compliance and Monitoring Division 
Corporation Finance Department 
prasantam@sebi.gov.in 
 

Page 3 of 4 

 

 

 

ANNEXURE I 

 

 

 

Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications (for audit report with modified opinion) submitted 

along-with Annual Audited Financial Results - (Standalone and Consolidated separately)  

 

Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications for the Financial Year ended March 31, ......... 

[See Regulation 33 / 52 of the SEBI (LODR) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016] 

 
I. 
 
 

 
II. 

Particulars 

Audited Figures 

Adjusted Figures 

(as reported 

(audited figures after 

before adjusting 
for qualifications) 

adjusting for 
qualifications) 

Turnover / Total income 

Total Expenditure  

Net Profit/(Loss) 

Earnings Per Share 

Total Assets 

Total Liabilities 

Net Worth 
Any other financial item(s) (as felt appropriate by the 
management) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Sl. 
No. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

Audit Qualification (each audit qualification separately): 

 
a.      Details of Audit Qualification:  
 
b.      Type of Audit Qualification : Qualified Opinion / Disclaimer of Opinion / Adverse Opinion 
 

c.       Frequency of qualification: Whether appeared first time / repetitive / since how long continuing 
 
d.      For Audit Qualification(s) where the impact is quantified by the auditor,  Management's Views: 
 
e.      For Audit Qualification(s) where the impact is not quantified by the auditor: 

 
(i)      Management's estimation on the impact of audit qualification:  
 
(ii)    If management is unable to estimate the impact, reasons for the same: 
 
(iii)   Auditors' Comments on (i) or (ii) above:  
  

 

III. 

 
Signatories: 
 

         CEO/Managing Director

         CFO

         Audit Committee Chairman

         Statutory Auditor

 
Place: 
Date: 

 

Page 4 of 4 

 

 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

