 

 
 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2016/58                      
 
To,  
 
The Depositories, 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 

     

               June 07, 2016 

Subject: Investor Protection Fund (IPF) of Depositories  

1.  The Depository System Review Committee (DSRC) had examined various aspects 
of the depository IPF including utilization and investment policy of IPF and quantum 
of funds to be transferred to IPF. The Expert Committee on Clearing Corporations 
also deliberated the issue with regard to quantum of funds to be transferred by the 
Depositories to their IPF.  
 

2.  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012  require 
every  depository  to  establish  and  maintain  an  Investor  Protection  Fund  (IPF). 
Pursuant  to  the  aforesaid  committee  recommendations,  the  SEBI  (Depositories 
and Participants) Regulations were amended mandating the depositories to credit 
five per cent or such percentage as may be specified by the Board, of its profits 
from depository operations every year to the IPF. 
 

3.  Based  on  recommendations  of  DSRC  and  Expert  Committee  on  Clearing 
Corporations, the following guidelines are being issued with regard to IPF of the 
Depositories. 
 

Utilization of the IPF 

4.  The  IPF  may  be  utilized  for  the  following  purposes  with  a  focus  on  depository 

related services: 

i.  Promotion  of  investor  education  and  investor  awareness  programmes 
through  seminars,  lectures,  workshops,  publications  (print  and  electronic 
media),  training  programmes  etc.  aimed  at  enhancing  securities  market 
literacy and promoting retail participation in securities market. 

ii.  To aid, assist, subsidise, support, promote and foster research activities for 

promotion/ development of the securities market. 

iii.  To  utilize  the  fund  for  supporting  initiatives  of  Depository  Participants  for 

promotion of investor education and investor awareness programmes. 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

 
 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

iv.  To utilize the fund in any other manner as may be prescribed/ permitted by 

SEBI in the interest of investors. 
 

5.  Depositories  shall  frame  their  internal  guidelines  on  utilisation  of  the  funds  in 
accordance with the aforementioned objectives and post approval of their board, 
submit the same to SEBI within 30 days from the date of this circular. Depositories 
shall also keep SEBI informed of any subsequent changes in internal guidelines 
with regard to utilization of IPF.  
 

Constitution and Management of the IPF 

6.  The IPF shall be administered by way of a Trust created for the purpose.  

i.  The IPF Trust shall consist of atleast one Public Interest Director (PID) of 
the depository, one person of eminence from an academic institution from 
the  field  of  finance  /  an  expert  in  the  field  of  investor  education  /  a 
representative from the registered investor associations recognized by SEBI 
and Managing Director of the Depository. 

ii.  The Depository shall provide the secretariat for the IPF Trust.  

iii.  The Depository shall ensure that the funds in the IPF are kept in a separate 
account designated for this purpose and that the IPF is immune from any 
liabilities of the Depository. 
 

Contribution to the IPF 

7.  The following contributions shall be made by the Depository to the IPF 

i. 

5% of their profits from Depository operations every year. The depositories 
shall  transfer  the  amount  with  effect  from  the  Financial  Year  2012-13  as 
specified  in  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016. 

ii.  All  fines  and  penalties  recovered  from  Depository  Participants  and  other 
users including Clearing Member pool account penalty as specified in SEBI 
circular no. SMDRP/Policy/Cir-05/2001 dated February 01, 2001.  

iii. 

Interest or Income received out of any investments made from the IPF. 

iv.  Funds  lying  to  the  credit  of  IPR  (Investor  Protection  Reserve)  /  BOPF 
(Beneficial  Owners  Protection  Fund)  of  the  Depository  or  any  other  such 
fund / reserve of the Depository shall be transferred to IPF. 

v.  Any other sums as may be prescribed by SEBI from time to time. 

 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 
 
Investments of Fund 

8.  Funds of the Trust shall be invested in instruments such as Central Government 
securities, fixed deposits of scheduled banks and any such instruments which are 
allowed as per the investment policy approved by the Board of the Depository. The 
investment policy shall be devised with an objective of capital protection along with 
highest degree of safety and least market risk.    
 

9.  The balance available in the IPF as at the end of the month and the amount utilised 
during the month including the manner of utilization shall be reported in the Monthly 
Development Report of the Depository. 

10. The Depositories shall implement the provisions of this circular within three months 

from the date of issuance of this circular. 
 

11. The Depositories are advised to:- 

i.  make amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and  regulations for the 

implementation of the above decision, as may be applicable/necessary;  

ii. 

disseminate the provisions of this circular on their website; 

iii. 

communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the provisions of this 
circular in their Monthly Development Report. 
 

12. This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11 (1) 
of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  Section  19  of  the 
Depositories  Act,  1996  to  protect  the  interest  of  investors  in  securities  and  to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
Yours faithfully 
 
 
Susanta Kumar Das 
Deputy General Manager 

Page 3 of 3 

 

