 
 
 
                                                                          CIRCULAR 
 
CIR/IMD/FPI&C/59/2016 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

June 10, 2016 

 

 
To, 
All Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs)  
(Through their Designated Depository Participants/Custodians of Securities) 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Subject:  Know  Your  Client  (KYC)  norms  for  ODI  subscribers,  transferability  of  ODIs, 
reporting  of  suspicious  transactions,  periodic  review  of  systems  and  modified 
ODI reporting format. 

 
1.  In  terms  of  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulation,  2014  (FPI  Regulations)and 
circulars  issued  from  time  to  time  regarding  ODI,  the  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  (FPIs) 
issuing  ODIs  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  ODI  Issuers)are  required  to  comply  with  the 
conditions for issuance of ODIs. 
 

2.  The  systems  and  procedures  adopted  by  the  ODI  Issuers  to  comply  withsuch  conditions, 
vary  from  one  ODI  Issuer  to  another.  In  order  to  bring  about  uniformity  and  increasethe 
transparency  in  this  regard,  SEBI  had  held  discussions  with  the  stakeholders.  Taking  into 
consideration the inputs received during the discussion process, SEBI Board in its meeting 
held on May 19, 2016 decided that ODI Issuers shall be guided by the following provisions 
with regard to the norms relating to the issuance and transfer of ODIs: 

 

2.1.  Applicability of Indian KYC/AML norms for Client Due Diligence 

 
SEBI  vide  circular  No.  CIR/IMD/FIIC/20/  2014  dated  November  24,  2014  had  aligned 
the applicable eligibility and investment norms of FPI regime with norms applicable for 
subscription through the ODI route.  
 
With  regards  to  KYC  of  ODI  subscribers,  ODI  Issuers  shall  now  be  required  to  identify 
and  verify  the  beneficial  owners  (BO)  in  the  subscriber  entities,  who  hold  in  excess  of 
the  threshold  as  defined  under  Rule  9  of  the  Prevention  of  Money-laundering 
(Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005 i.e. 25 % in case of a company and 15 % in case of 
partnership firms/ trusts/ unincorporated bodies. ODI issuers shall also be required to 
identify and verify the person(s) who control the operations,when no beneficial owner 
is identified based on the aforesaid materiality threshold. 

 
It is clarified that:- 

 
(a)  The definition of the term “Beneficial Owner” shall be asper sub-rule (3) of Rule 9 of 

the Prevention of Money-laundering (Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005.  

(b) The  KYC  documentation  to  be  obtained  by  ODI  Issuers  fromeach  of  such  ODI 
subscribersin  respect  of  beneficial  owner  who  holds  above  the  threshold  limits  in 
such ODI subscriber, should be as per Annexure (I)enclosed with this circular. 

 

Page 1 of 3 

