 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

July 05, 2016 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

CIR/CFD/FAC/62/2016 
 
To 
All Listed Entities 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Revised Formats for Financial Results and Implementation of Ind-AS by Listed Entities  

 

1.  SEBI  vide  Circular  No.  CIR/CFD/CMD/15/2015  dated  November  30,  2015,  has  prescribed 

 

formats for publishing financial results. 
 

2.  SEBI,  in  consultation  with  the  market  participants  viz.  Listed  Entities,  Stock  Exchanges  and 
Members  of  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  ('ICAI'),  has  now  decided  the 
following: 

 

Formats: 

 

2.1. The  existing  formats  prescribed  in  SEBI  Circular  dated  November  30,  2015 

for 
Unaudited/Audited  quarterly  financial  results  i.e.  Statement  of  Profit  and  Loss  and  the 
Unaudited/Audited Half-Yearly Balance Sheet to be submitted by the listed entities, with the 
stock exchanges, shall continue till the period ending December 31, 2016.  
 
For  the  period  ending  on  or  after  March  31,  2017,  the  formats  for  Unaudited/Audited 
quarterly financial results i.e. Statement of Profit and Loss and the Unaudited/Audited Half-
Yearly  Balance  Sheet  to  be  submitted  by  the  Listed  Entities,  with  the  stock  exchanges, 
shall be as per the formats for Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit and Loss (excluding 
notes and detailed sub-classification) as prescribed in Schedule III to the Companies Act, 
2013. However, Banking Companies and Insurance Companies shall follow the formats as 
prescribed under the respective Acts/Regulations as specified by their Regulators.  
 

2.2. Until  Companies  (Indian  Accounting  Standards)  Rules,  2015  ('Ind-AS  Rules')  become 
applicable,  the  listed  entities  shall  adopt  Companies  (Accounting  Standards)  Rules,  2006 
('AS Rules') as prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs ('MCA'). 
 

2.3. The Quarterly / Annual Segment Information published in compliance with the requirements 
as prescribed under Accounting Standard (‘AS’) 17/ Indian Accounting Standard (‘Ind AS’) 
108  of  the  AS  Rules/  Ind-AS  Rules,  as  applicable,  shall  contain  the  following  minimum 
information: - 
 

 

Page 1 of 6 

 

 

 

(a)  Segment Revenue (including inter-segment revenue);  
(b)  Segment Results;  
(c)  Segment Assets;  
(d)  Segment Liabilities. 

 

 

 

Unallocated items, wherever applicable, shall be shown separately in respect of the 
above information. Aggregate inter-segment revenue shall be shown as a deduction 
from the segment revenue.  
 

2.4. While  publishing  the  aforementioned  financial  results,  the  listed  entities  shall  disclose  the 
figures  relating  to  the  periods  as  mentioned  in  the  respective  annexures  to  the  circular 
dated November 30, 2015. 
 

2.5. The financial results published in the newspapers, in terms of Regulation 47 (1) (b) of the 
SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  ('Listing 
Regulations'),shall  be  in  the  format  as  prescribed  in  Annexure  I  to  the  instant  circular, 
which has now been slightly modified. 
 

Implementation of Ind-AS during the first year: 

 

2.6. As  mentioned  in  para  5  of  the  circular  dated  November  30,  2015,  the  comparatives  filed 
alongwith  the  quarterly  /  annual  financial  results  are  required  to  be  Ind-AS  compliant. 
However,  in  order  to  facilitate  smooth  transition  during  the  first  year  of  Ind-AS 
implementation, the following relaxations are being given to the listed entities to which Ind-
AS Rules are applicable from the accounting period beginning on or after April, 1, 2016: 
 

2.6.1.  For the quarter ending June 30, 2016 and September 30, 2016: 

 
(i)  The  timeline  for  submitting  the  financial  results  in  compliance  with  the 
provisions of this Circular is extended by one month. The results for the quarter 
ending  June  30,  2016  and  September  30,  2016  may  be  submitted  by 
September 14, 2016 and December 14, 2016 respectively.  
 

(ii)  For the quarter ending June 30, 2016, Ind-AS compliant financial results for the 
corresponding  quarter  ended  June  30, 2015shall  be  provided.  For  the  quarter 
ending  September  30,  2016,  Ind-AS  compliant  financial  results  for  the 
corresponding  year  to  date  /  quarter  ended  September  30,  2015  shall  be 
provided.  However,  in  such  cases,  limited  review  or  audit  of  the  same  is  not 
mandatory.  
 

(iii) For the quarter ending June 30, 2016, submission of Ind-AS compliant financial 
results for the preceding quarter and previous year ended March 31, 2016is not 
mandatory. For the quarter ending September 30, 2016, submission of Ind-AS 

 

Page 2 of 6 

 

 

 

 

 

compliant  financial  results  and  Balance  Sheet  for  the  previous  year  ended 
March  31,  2016  is  not  mandatory.  However,  in  case  the  entities  intend  to 
submit these results, the same may be without limited review or audit. 
 

(iv) In  such  cases,  the  listed  entities  shall  disclose  with  due  prominence  that  the 
Ind-AS  compliant  financial  results,  pertaining  to  the  relevant  periods  of  the 
previous year as mentioned in (ii) and (iii) above, as applicable, have not been 
subjected to limited review or audit. However, the management  has exercised 
necessary due diligence to ensure that the financial results provide a true and 
fair view of its affairs. 
 

(v) The  format  of  Balance  Sheet  for  the  Half-Yearly  ended  September  30,  2016 
shall be as per the format for Balance Sheet (excluding notes and detailed sub-
classifications) as prescribed in Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013. 

 

2.6.2.  For the quarter ending December 31, 2016: 

 
(i)  The  submission  of  Ind-AS  compliant  financial  results  for  the  previous  year 

ended March 31, 2016 is not mandatory. 
 

(ii)  In  case  a  listed  entity  chooses  to  provide  Ind-AS  comparatives  for  the  period 
mentioned  above  to  facilitate  comparison,  the  same  shall  be  subjected  to 
limited review or audit.  

 

2.6.3.  For  all  the  aforementioned 

three  quarters,  disclosure  of  the  line  item  - 
Reserves(excluding Revaluation Reserves), as per Balance sheet of the previous 
accounting  year  ended  March  31,  2016,  as  prescribed  in  the  existing  formats  for 
quarterly financial results is not mandatory. 
 

2.6.4.  In  case  the  listed  entity  has  subsidiaries  /  Joint  Ventures  /  Associates,  the  entity 
may exercise the option  under Regulation 33(3)(b)(i) of the Listing Regulations  to 
submit  quarterly/year-to-date  consolidated  financial  results  in  the  second  quarter 
instead of the first quarter of the financial year and this option shall not be changed 
during the remaining part of the financial year. 

 

2.7.  For listed entities to which Ind AS Rules are applicable in subsequent phases (beginning 
from the Financial Year 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20), the relaxations as mentioned in 
para 2.6 above shall mutatis-mutandis apply during their corresponding first year of Ind-AS 
implementation. 

 

 
 
 

 

Page 3 of 6 

 

 

 

 

 

Clarifications on issues with regard to Ind-AS implementation: 

 

2.8.  The listed entities in order to comply with the requirements of paragraph 32 of Ind AS 101 
– First time Adoption of Ind AS, shall provide a reconciliation of its equity and net profit / 
loss,  in  the  following  manner,  for  enabling  the  investors  to  understand  the  material 
adjustments  to  the  Balance  Sheet  and  Statement  of  Profit  and  Loss  on  account  of 
transition from the previous Indian GAAP to Ind-AS: 

 
(i)  Reconciliation  of  its  equity  for  the  previous  year  ended  March  31,  2016,  shall  be 
provided while submitting the Audited Yearly Balance Sheet for the period ended March 
31, 2017. 
 
Reconciliation  of  its  equity  for  the  previous  year  ended  March  31,  2016,  shall  be 
provided  in  case  the  listed  entity  intends  to  provide  the  same  while  submitting  the 
Unaudited/Audited  Ind-AS  compliant  Half-Yearly  Balance  Sheet  for  the  period  ended 
September 30, 2016.  
 

(ii)  Reconciliation  of  its  net  profit  /  loss  as  mentioned  in  the  Unaudited/Audited  quarterly 
financial  results  shall  be  provided  only  for  the  corresponding  quarter  of  the  previous 
year. 

 

2.9.  A  listed  entity  may  historically  have  a  year-end  other  than  31st  day  of  March,  and  may 
now  be  required  to  prepare  financial  statements  for  a  period  longer  or  shorter  than  the 
normal 12 month period for coinciding with 31st day of March as prescribed under Section 
2  (41)  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013.  In  such  cases,  the  Ind-AS  financial  statements  for 
various  periods  beginning  from  April  01,  2016,  shall  have  comparative  information  for  a 
shorter or longer period i.e. beginning from a date other than 1st of April 2015.The  listed 
entity, in such cases, shall disclose a suitable note, with due prominence, that comparative 
amounts  presented  in the  Quarterly  /  Half-yearly  /  Year  to date  /  Annual  financial  results 
are not entirely comparable. 

 

2.10. In case of any technical difficulty in the interpretation of any specific item in the formats or 
implementation of this circular while publishing the financial results, the listed entities shall 
be guided by the  relevant  provisions of the Ind-AS Rules / AS Rules and Schedule III to 
the Companies Act, 2013 and may make suitable modifications, as applicable. The listed 
entities shall also provide suitable explanations and clarifications, wherever felt necessary. 

 

3.  This Circular shall come into force with immediate effect and the contents of the circular dated 

November 30, 2015, shall stand modified to the extent stated under this circular. 
 

4.  The stock exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of listed 

entities and also to disseminate the same on its website.  
 

Page 4 of 6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.  This Circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 and Section 11A 
of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992  read  with  Regulation  33,  Regulation  47,  Regulation  101(2)  and 
Regulation 102 of the Listing Regulations. 

 

6.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  http://www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category 

“Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Prasanta Mahapatra 
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
prasantam@sebi.gov.in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 5 of 6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURE I 

 

Format for Newspaper Publishing Purpose (Standalone / Consolidated) 

[See Regulation 47(1) (b) of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015] 

Sl. 
No. 

Particulars 

 

Quarter 

Year to date 

ending/Current 

Figures/Previous 

Year ending 

Year ending 

Corresponding 

3 months 

ended in the 
previous year 

 

1.  Total Income from Operations 
2.  Net  Profit  /  (Loss)    for  the  period  (before 
Tax,  Exceptional  and/or  Extraordinary 
items#)  

3.  Net  Profit  /  (Loss)  for  the  period  before  tax 
(after  Exceptional  and/or  Extraordinary 
items#) 

4.  Net  Profit  /  (Loss)  for  the  period  after  tax 
(after  Exceptional  and/or  Extraordinary 
items#) 

5.  Total Comprehensive Income for the period 
[Comprising  Profit  /  (Loss)  for  the  period 
(after 
tax)  and  Other  Comprehensive 
Income (after tax)] 

6.  Equity Share Capital 
7.  Reserves  (excluding  Revaluation  Reserve) 
as  shown  in  the  Audited  Balance  Sheet  of 
the previous year 

8.  Earnings Per Share (of Rs. ___/- each) (for 

  
  

  

 

  

  
  
  
  
  

continuing and discontinued operations) -  
 
1.  Basic: 
2.  Diluted: 

  
  

  

 

  

  

  

  
  

  

 

  

  

  

 

Note:  
 
a)  The above is an extract of the detailed format of Quarterly/Annual Financial Results filed with the Stock Exchanges under 
Regulation  33  of  the  SEBI  (Listing  and  Other  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015.  The  full  format  of  the 
Quarterly/Annual  Financial  Results are available  on  the  websites of  the  Stock  Exchange(s)  and  the  listed entity.  (URL  of 
the filings). 
 

b)  The  impact  on  net  profit  /  loss,  total  comprehensive  income  or  any  other  relevant  financial  item(s)  due  to  change(s)  in 

accounting policies shall be disclosed by means of a footnote. 
 

c)  # - Exceptional and/or Extraordinary items adjusted in the Statement of Profit and Loss in accordance with Ind-AS Rules / 

AS Rules, whichever is applicable. 

 

Page 6 of 6 

