CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DEICE/CIR/P/2016/70   

 

                August 11, 2016 

 

To 

The Managing Directors  
All National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 
Sir/Madam, 

Subject: Annual System Audit of Stock Brokers / Trading Members of National 

Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 

 

1.  Pursuant  to  Section  131  of  the  Finance  Act,  2015  and  Central  Government 
notification  F.No.  1/9/SM/2015  dated  August  28,  2015,  all  recognized 
associations under the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 are deemed 
to be recognized stock exchanges under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
Act,  1956  with  effect  from  September  28,  2015.  This  circular  applies  to 
National  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  (Exchanges)  as  defined  in  the 
Securities  Contracts 
(Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015.  

(Regulation) 

 
2.  Various technological developments and innovations, while bringing efficiency 
to  the  markets,  may  also  pose  certain  risks.  In  order  to  bring  stability  and 
integrity 
vide  Circular  No. 
CIR/MRD/DMS/34/2013,  dated  November  06,  2013,  has  prescribed  stock 
broker  system  audit  framework  and  mandated  Stock  Exchanges  to  ensure 
conduct of system audit of its members as per the prescribed  framework and 
monitor the same. 

securities  market,  SEBI 

in 

the 

 
3.  It has been decided to make the provisions of the aforesaid circular applicable 
to  the  Brokers  /  Trading  Members  of  the  National  Commodity  Derivatives 
Exchanges.  The  major  provisions  /  framework  of  System  audit  for  Brokers  / 
Trading members covered are as under:  
 

a)  Audit Process 
b)  Auditor selection norms 
c)  Terms of Reference ( TOR) for Type I, Type II, Type III Brokers 

 

4.  Based  on  the  representations  made  by  stock  exchanges  on  the  aforesaid 
circular,  regarding  exemption  of  system  audit  for  Type  I  Brokers,  matter  was 
examined  by  Technical  Advisory  Committee  (TAC)  and  it  was  decided  that 
such  brokers  may  be  exempted  from  system  audit  and  the  development  of 

 

Page 1 of 2 
 

 

NEAT  /  BOLT  /  Exchange  provided  terminals  be  included  in  the  scope  of 
Annual  System  Audit  of  Exchanges  prescribed  vide  circular  dated 
CIR/MRD/DMS/13/2011 dated November 29, 2011. 
 

5.  In  view  of  above,  the  provisions  relating  to  Type  I  Brokers,  as  mentioned  in 
this  circular,  shall  not  be  applicable  to  Type  I  Brokers.  However,  such 
provisions  shall  be  included  in  the  TOR  of  the  Annual  System  Audit  for 
National  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  as  prescribed  vide  SEBI  circular 
dated CIR/CDMRD/DEICE/01/2015 dated November 16, 2015.  
 

6.  The provisions of this circular shall be applicable from  financial year  2016-17 
onwards. For the financial year 2015-16, the Brokers / Trading Members who 
have  commenced  their  annual  system  audit,  may  follow  existing  annual 
system  audit  framework  prescribed  by  exchanges,  if  any.  However,  stock 
brokers/  trading  members  who  are  yet  to  commence  annual  system  audit 
should  carry  out  their  system  audit  as  per  the  prescribed  framework  as 
mentioned in this circular. 

 
7.  The Exchanges are advised to:- 

  Make  necessary  amendments  to  relevant  bye-laws/rules  for  the 

implementation of this circular. 

  Communicate  SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of 

this circular. 
 

8.  The circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under section 11(1) 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market.  
 

9.  The circular is available on SEBI website at i.e. www.sebi.gov.in.  

 

 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 
B J DILIP 
GENERAL MANAGER 
Division of Exchange Inspection and Complaints against Exchanges 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
dilipbj@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 
 

