 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 
August 10, 2016 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

CIR/IMD/DF1/69/2016 
 
To 
All Listed Entities 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

Sub: Revised Formats for Financial Results and Implementation of Ind AS by listed 
entities which have listed their debt securities and/or non-cumulative redeemable 

preference shares  

 

1.  SEBI vide Circular No. CIR/IMD/DF1/9/2015 dated November 27, 2015, had prescribed 
formats  for  publishing  financial  results  for  the  entities  which  have  listed  their  debt 
securities and/or non-cumulative redeemable preference shares (‘listed entities’). 
 

 

2.  In  continuation  to  SEBI  Circular  No.  “CIR/CFD/FAC/62/2016”  dated  July  05,  2016,  the 

listed entities are advised to comply with the following: 

 

Formats for disclosure of financial results: 

 

2.1. This  has  reference  to  the  disclosure  of  half  yearly  and  annual  financial  results  in 
terms  of  Regulation  52  (1)  of  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 ('Listing Regulations'). 
 

2.2. The  existing  formats  prescribed  in  SEBI  Circular  dated  November  27,  2015,  for 
disclosure  of  half  yearly  and  annual  financial  results,  shall  continue  till  the  period 
ending on or before December 31, 2016.  
 

2.3. For  the  period  ending  after  December  31,  2016,  the  disclosure  of  half  yearly  and 
annual financial results, i.e. the Balance Sheet and the Statement of Profit and Loss, 
shall  be  as  per  the  formats  for  Balance  Sheet  and  Statement  of  Profit  and  Loss 
(excluding notes and detailed sub-classification) as prescribed in Schedule III to the 
Companies  Act,  2013.  However,  Banking  Companies  and  Insurance  Companies 
shall  follow  the  formats  as  prescribed  under  their  respective  Acts/Regulations  as 
specified by their Regulators. 

 

2.4. Until  Companies  (Indian  Accounting  Standards)  Rules,  2015  ('Ind  AS  Rules') 
become  applicable  for  a  listed  entity,  the  listed  entity  shall  adopt  Companies 

 

Page 1 of 5 

 

 

 

 

 

(Accounting  Standards)  Rules,  2006  ('AS  Rules')  as  prescribed  by  the  Ministry  of 
Corporate Affairs ('MCA'). 
 

2.5. While publishing the financial results as per Paragraph 2.3 above, the listed entities 

shall disclose the figures relating to the periods as mentioned below: 
 
2.5.1.  For the Statement of Profit and Loss, the figures for the following periods shall 

be disclosed: 

6 months 
(Current 6 

6 months (Corresponding 
6 months in the previous 

months) ended  

year) ended  

Particulars 

 

 

Year to Date 

figures  
ended  

 

(dd/mm/yyyy) 

(dd/mm/yyyy) 

(dd/mm/yyyy) 

Previous year 

ended  

 

(dd/mm/yyyy) 

Audited/ 

Unaudited* 

Audited/ 

Unaudited* 

Audited / 

Unaudited* 

Audited 

 * Clearly specify whether the figures are audited or unaudited 
 

2.5.2.  For the Balance Sheet, the figures for the following periods shall be disclosed: 

As at (current half year end / year end date) 

As at (Previous year end date) 

Particulars 

(dd/mm/yyyy) 

 * Clearly specify whether the figures are audited or unaudited 

Audited / Unaudited* 

(dd/mm/yyyy) 

Audited 

 

Formats for publication of financial results: 

 

2.6. The  financial  results  to  be  published  in  the  newspapers,  in  terms  of  Regulation  52 

(8) of the Listing Regulations, shall be in the format as prescribed in Annexure I. 
 

Implementation of Ind AS: 
 
2.7. Listed  entities,  adopting  the  Indian  Accounting  Standards  (hereinafter  referred  as 
‘Ind  AS’) in terms of  Ind AS Rules, while publishing the half yearly/annual financial 
results  under  Regulation  52  (1)  of  the  Listing  Regulations,  shall  ensure  that  the 
comparative  financial  results,  filed  along  with  the  said  half  yearly/annual  financial 
results, are also Ind AS compliant. 
 

2.8. In  order  to  facilitate  smooth  transition,  the  following  relaxations  are  being  given  for 

the first half year of the adoption of Ind AS: 
 
(i)  The  timeline  for  submitting  the  said  financial  results  would  be  extended  by  one 
month  (i.e.  the  said half  yearly  financial  results  can  be  submitted within  75  days 
from the end of the half year).  

 

 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 

 

 

(ii)  With regard to the comparative financial results for the corresponding half year in 
the  preceding  year,  the  limited  review  or  audit  of  such  comparative  half  yearly 
results is not mandatory.  

(iii) With  regard  to  the  comparative  financial  results  for  the  preceding  full  year,  the 
submission of such comparative full year results is not mandatory. However, if the 
listed entity opts to submit such comparative full year results, then limited review 
or audit of such comparative full year results is not mandatory 
 

In  the  aforementioned  cases  wherein  the  comparative  half  yearly  results  and/or 
comparative  full  year  results  are  not  subjected  to  limited  review  or  audit,  the  listed 
entity shall disclose with due prominence that the said comparative results have not 
been subjected to limited review or audit. The listed entity  shall further disclose that 
the  management  has  exercised  necessary  due  diligence  to  ensure  that  the  said 
comparative results provide a true and fair view of its affairs. 
 

Clarifications with regard to implementation of Ind AS and other issues: 

 

2.9.  The listed entities in order to comply with the requirements of paragraph 32 of Ind 
AS 101 - 'First time Adoption of Ind AS’, shall provide a reconciliation of its equity 
and  net  profit  /  loss,  in  the  following  manner,  for  enabling  the  investors  to 
understand the material adjustments to the Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit 
and Loss on account of transition from the previous Indian GAAP to Ind AS: 

 
(i)  Reconciliation of Equity for the previous year (i.e. for the year immediately before 
Ind AS adoption), shall be provided while submitting the  annual financial results 
for the first year of adoption. 
 
Further, if the listed entity opts to submit comparative full year results along with 
the  financial  results  for  the  first  half  year  of  the  adoption  of  Ind  AS  in  terms  of 
Paragraph 2.8 (iii) above, then such Reconciliation of Equity for the previous year 
shall be provided while submitting the aforesaid half yearly financial results also.  
 

(ii)  Reconciliation of net profit / loss shall be provided only for the corresponding half 

year in the preceding year. 
 

2.10. In some circumstances, a listed entity may prepare financial statements for a period 
different from the normal 12 month period (For instance, a listed company may now 
be required to prepare financial statements for a period different from the normal 12 
month  period  for  coinciding  with  31st  day  of  March  as  prescribed  under  Section  2 
(41) of the Companies Act, 2013). 
 

Page 3 of 5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In  the  aforementioned  circumstances,  the  financial  results  may  have  comparative 
information  for  a  shorter  or  longer  period.  The  listed  entity,  in  such  cases,  shall 
disclose a suitable note, with due prominence, that comparative figures presented 
in the half-yearly / annual financial results are not entirely comparable because of 
the above reasons. 

 

2.11. In case of any technical difficulty in disclosure of any specific item in the formats or 
implementation  of  this  circular  while  publishing  the  financial  results,  the  listed 
entities, shall be guided by the relevant provisions of the Ind AS Rules / AS Rules, 
Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013 and pertinent provisions/guidelines under 
the  relevant  Act/Statute  under  which  the  listed  entity  was  created,  and  may  make 
suitable modifications,  as  applicable. The  listed  entities  shall  also provide  suitable 
explanations and clarifications, wherever felt necessary. 

 

3.  This Circular shall come into force with immediate effect and the contents of the Circular 
No.  CIR/IMD/DF1/9/2015  dated  November  27,  2015,  shall  stand modified to  the extent 
stated under this Circular. 
 

4.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of 

listed entities and also to disseminate the same on its website.  
 

5.  This  Circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  and 
Section  11A  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992  read  with  Regulation  52,  Regulation  101  (2)  and 
Regulation 102 of the Listing Regulations. 

 

6.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  http://www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category 

“Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Richa Goel Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
richag@sebi.gov.in 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 

 

ANNEXURE I 

 

 

 

Format for publishing financial results in newspapers 

 [Regulation 52 (8), read with Regulation 52 (4), of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015] 

 

Sl. 
No. 

Particulars 

Half 
year 

ending / 
Current 

Year 
ended 

Corresponding 

half year ended in 
the previous year  
(Applicable only in 
case of half yearly 

results) 

Previous 

year 
ended 

1.  Total Income from Operations 
2. 

Net  Profit  /  (Loss)    for  the  period  (before  Tax, 
Exceptional and/or Extraordinary items#)  

3. 

4. 

Net Profit / (Loss) for the period before tax (after 
Exceptional and/or Extraordinary items#) 

Net  Profit  /  (Loss)  for  the  period  after  tax  (after 
Exceptional and/or Extraordinary items#) 

5.  Total  Comprehensive  Income  for  the  period 
[Comprising  Profit  /  (Loss)  for  the  period  (after 
tax)  and  Other  Comprehensive  Income  (after 
tax)] 

Paid up Debt Capital / Outstanding Debt 

6.  Paid up Equity Share Capital 
7.  Reserves (excluding Revaluation Reserve)  
8  Net worth 
9 
10  Outstanding Redeemable Preference Shares * 
11.  Debt Equity Ratio * 
12.  Earnings Per Share (of Rs. ___/- each) (for 
continuing and discontinued operations) -  
1.  Basic: 
2.  Diluted: 

13.  Capital Redemption Reserve * 
14.  Debenture Redemption Reserve * 
15.  Debt Service Coverage Ratio * 
16. 

Interest Service Coverage Ratio * 

  

  

  

 

  

  

  

 
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
 

  

  

 

  

 

  

  

  

 
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
 

  

  

  

 

  

  

  

 
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
 

 

Note:  

 

a)  The above is an extract of the detailed format of half yearly/annual financial results filed with the Stock Exchanges under 
Regulation  52  of  the  SEBI  (Listing  and  Other  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015.  The  full  format  of  the  half 
yearly/annual  financial  results  are  available  on  the  websites  of  the  Stock  Exchange(s)  and  the listed entity.  (URL of  the 
filings). 

 
b)  For  the  items  referred  in  sub-clauses  (a),  (b),  (d)  and  (e)  of  the  Regulation  52  (4)  of  the  SEBI  (Listing  and  Other 
Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015,  the  pertinent  disclosures  have  been  made  to  the  Stock  Exchange(s) 
(specify names of Stock Exchanges) and can be accessed on the URL (specify URL). 
 

c)  The  impact  on  net  profit  /  loss,  total  comprehensive  income  or  any  other  relevant  financial  item(s)  due  to  change(s)  in 

accounting policies shall be disclosed by means of a footnote. 
 

d)  # - Exceptional and/or Extraordinary items adjusted in the Statement of Profit and Loss in accordance with Ind AS Rules / 

AS Rules, whichever is applicable. 
 
* - The pertinent items need to be disclosed if the said disclosure is required as per Regulation 52 (4) of the SEBI (Listing 
and Other Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 

e) 

 

Page 5 of 5 

