 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

August 19, 2016 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/73   
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
of All Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 
Sub: Modification of Client Codes post Execution of Trades on National and 

Regional Commodity Derivatives Exchanges– Clarification  

 
1.  This  circular  is  in  reference  to  the  SEBI  circular  No.  SEBI/HO/CDMRD/ 
DMP/CIR/P/2016/43  dated  March  29,  2016  on  the  captioned  subject.  In 
connection  with  the  directives  issued  under  the  said  circular,  following 
clarifications are issued: 
 

(i) 

Classification of genuine errors: The following shall be classified as 
genuine errors for the purpose of client code modification:- 
a.  Error due to communication and / or punching or typing such that the 
original client code / name and the modified client code / name are 
similar to each other. 

b.  Modification within relatives (‘Relative’ for this purpose would mean 

as defined under Companies Act, 2013) 

 

(ii) 

 

Error Account: 
a.  Shifting  of  trades  to  the  ‘Error  account’  of  broker  would  not  be 
treated as modification of client code, provided that trades in ‘Error 
account’ are subsequently liquidated in the market and not shifted 
to some other code. 

b.  Further,  broker  shall  disclose  the  codes  of  accounts  which  are 
classified as ‘Error accounts’ to the Exchanges. Each broker should 
have a well-documented error policy approved by the management 
of the broker. Exchanges shall periodically review the trades flowing 
to the error accounts of the brokers. 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 

 
 
2.  The  above  clarifications  and  earlier  norms prescribed by  SEBI    vide  Circular 
dated March 29, 2016  with regard to client code modifications are consolidated 
and placed as Annexure-A. 
 

3.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 
of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 
securities market. 
 

4.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 
 
 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal  
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
vikass@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 

Annexure-A 

1.  Exchanges  may  allow  modifications  of  client  codes  of  non-institutional 
trades only to rectify a genuine error in entry of client code at the time of 
placing/ modifying the related order in all segments. 

2.  For this purpose the following shall be classified as genuine errors: 

 

a.  Error due to communication and / or punching or typing such that the 
original client code / name and the modified client code / name are 
similar to each other. 
 

b.  Modification within relatives (‘Relative’ for this purpose would mean 

as defined under Companies Act, 2013) 
 

3.  Error Account: 

 

a.  Shifting of trades to the ‘Error account’ of broker would not be treated 
as modification of client code, provided that trades in ‘Error account’ 
are  subsequently  liquidated  in  the  market  and  not  shifted  to  some 
other code. 
 

b.  Further,  broker  shall  disclose  the  codes  of  accounts  which  are 
classified as ‘Error accounts’ to the Exchanges. Each broker should 
have a well-documented error policy approved by the management 
of the broker. Exchanges shall periodically review the trades flowing 
to the error accounts of the brokers. 
 

4.  If Exchange wishes to allow trading members to modify client codes of non-

institutional trades, it shall  

a.  lay down strict objective criteria (in line with the Para ‘2’ above), with 
the  approval  of  its  Governing  Board,  for  identification  of  genuine 
errors in client codes which may be modified, and disclose the same 
to market in advance, 
 

b.  set  up  a  mechanism  to  monitor  that  the  trading  members  modify 

client codes only as per the strict objective criteria, and 

 

 

c.  ensure that modification of client codes is covered in the internal audit 

of trading members. 

d.  shall not allow proprietary trades to be modified as client trades and 

vice versa. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 4 

 

e.  shall levy a penalty and collect from trading members and credit the 

same to its Investor Protection Fund as under: 

 

‘a’ as % of ‘b’ 
≤ 5 
> 5 

Penalty as % of ‘a’ 
1 
2 

 
Where 
a  =  Value  (turnover)  of  non-institutional  trades  where  client  codes  have  been 

modified by a trading member in a segment during a month. 

 
b  =  Value  (turnover)  of  non-institutional  trades  of  the  trading  member  in  the 

segment during the month. 

f.  shall  undertake  stringent  disciplinary  actions  against  brokers  who 
undertake  frequent  client  code  modifications.  If  ‘a’  as  %  of  ‘b’,  as 
defined  above,  exceeds  1%  during  a  month,  then  the  Stock 
Exchange shall conduct a special inspection of the trading member 
to  ascertain  whether  the  modifications  of  client  codes  are  being 
carried  on  as  per  the  strict  objective  criteria  set  by  the  Stock 
Exchange.  Appropriate  disciplinary  action  shall  be  taken  by  the 
Exchange, if any deficiency is observed. 
 

5.  Waiver of Penalty 

 

a.  Exchanges may waive penalty for a client code modification where 
broker is able to produce evidence to the satisfaction of the exchange 
to establish that the modification was on account of a genuine error. 
However, not more than one such waiver per quarter may be given 
to a broker for modification in a client code.  
 
Explanation:  If  penalty  wavier  has  been  given  with  regard  to  a 
genuine client code modification from client  code AB to client code 
BA, no more penalty waivers shall be allowed to the stock broker in 
the quarter for modifications related to client codes AB and BA. 
 

b.  Exchanges shall submit a report to SEBI every quarter regarding all 

such client code modifications where penalties have been waived. 

 
 

 

 
 

 

Page 4 of 4 

