 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

August 19, 2016 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/72   
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
of All Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 
Sub: Programmes sponsored by the Exchanges through media channels  
 
1.  As  per  Section  131(4)  of  Finance  Act,  2015  all  rules,  directions,  guidelines, 
instructions, circulars, or any like instruments, made by the erstwhile FMC or 
the Central Government applicable to recognized associations under the FCRA 
would  continue  to  remain  in  force  for  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  on 
which FCRA was repealed (September 29, 2015), or till such time as notified 
by SEBI, whichever is earlier. 
 

2.  Erstwhile  FMC,  from  time  to  time,  had  prescribed  various  norms  related  to 
"Programmes  sponsored  by  the  Exchanges".  This  circular  is  being  issued  to 
consolidate and update such norms prescribed by erstwhile FMC. 
 

3.  The Exchanges being neutral platforms, either as an institution or through their 
functionaries,  shall  not  sponsor  or  associate  themselves  in  any  manner  with 
programmes/seminars/workshops/activities  etc.  at  various  fora  including  but 
not limited to TV/Radio/Social Networks/Websites or any other media in which 
the discussions/suggestions are related to  the price behaviour, price outlook, 
trading  strategy,  buy/sell  recommendations,  or  similar  subjects  related  to 
commodity derivatives.  
 

4.  Exchanges shall also ensure that the staff members of the Exchanges are not 
associated with such activities as mentioned above. The Exchanges shall lay 
down a suitable code of conduct for their executives and other staff members 
in this regard. 

 

5.  The provisions of this circular shall come into force from the date of the circular 
in supersession of all earlier directives issued by erstwhile FMC with regard to 
matters related to ‘Programmes sponsored by the Exchanges’. 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 
 
6.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities  and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 

 

 
7.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations. 

ii.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers of the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular.  

 
8.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 
 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
vikass@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

Page 2 of 2 

