 

August 19, 2016  

 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/71   
 
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  

 

Sub: Position Limits for Hedgers  
 
1.  As per Section 131(4) of Finance Act, 2015 all rules, directions, guidelines, 
instructions, circulars, or any like instruments, made by the erstwhile FMC 
or the Central Government applicable to recognized associations under the 
FCRA would continue to remain in force for a period of one year from the 
date on which FCRA was repealed (September 29, 2015), or till such time 
as notified by SEBI, whichever is earlier. 
 

2.  Erstwhile FMC, from time to time, had prescribed various norms related to 
Position Limit for hedgers. This circular is being issued to consolidate and 
update such norms prescribed by erstwhile FMC. 
 

3.  In  order  to  facilitate  larger  participation  by  genuine  hedgers  by  providing 
them  with  necessary  incentives  with  a  view  to  deepen  the  commodity 
derivatives market, the exchanges shall hence forth stipulate a Hedge Policy 
for granting hedge limits to their members and clients. The Exchanges shall 
widely  publicize  their  respective  hedge  policy  by  holding  awareness 
programmes for the target participants and making it publicly available on 
their website. 
 

4.  In this regard, the Exchanges shall adhere to the following broad guidelines 

while granting hedge limit Exemptions to their members and clients: 

 

a)  The hedge limit to be granted by the Exchanges to the bona fide hedgers 
shall be in addition to the normal position limit allowed to it. Such hedge 
limit  is  non-transferrable  and  shall  be  utilized  only  by  the  Hedger  to 
whom the limit has been granted and not by anyone else 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 
 

 

 

b)  This hedge limit granted for a commodity derivative shall not be available 
for  the  near  month  contracts  of  the  said  commodity  from  the  date  of 
applicability of near month limit. 
 

c)  Hedge  limits  for  a  commodity  shall  be  determined  on  a  case  to  case 
basis, depending on applicant’s hedging requirement in the underlying 
physical  market  based  upon  his/its  Export  or  import  commitments/ 
Stocks  held/  Past  track  record  of  Production  or  Purchase  or  Sales/ 
Processing  capacity  and  other  factors  as  the  Exchanges  may  deem 
appropriate. 
 

d)  The  Exchanges  shall  undertake  proper  due  diligence  by  verifying 
documentary evidence of the underlying exposure and ensuring that the 
hedge limit granted is genuine and does not have the potential to disturb 
the equilibrium of the market of that particular derivative contracts. 
 

e)  The hedge limit may also be made available in respect of the short open 
position  acquired  by  an  entity  for  the  purpose  of  hedging  against  the 
stocks of commodities owned by it and,  
 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

pledged  with  the  Scheduled  Commercial  Banks/Co-operative 
Banks or  
lying  in  any  Government  Entity’s  warehouse/  WDRA  Approved 
warehouses or 
lying  in  any  other  premises  (warehouse,  factory  etc.),  provided 
the premises is either owned by the hedger or taken on lease by 
the hedger in its name and Exchange has ascertained that such 
premises  are  well  equipped  with  quality  control  safeguards  for 
storage of the relevant commodity. 
 

to 

the  production  of 

the  relevant  Bank 
and  shall  be  subject 
Certificate/Warehouse Receipt, as the case may be, and also  shall be 
subject  to  verification  regarding  ownership  of  the  stocks  etc.,  by  the 
Exchange in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Exchange 
in this regard. 
 

f)  At any point of time during the hedge period, hedging positions taken in 
derivatives contracts by hedger, across multiple Exchanges/ Contracts, 
shall  not  exceed  his/its  actual/anticipated  exposure  in  the  physical 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 

market, even if there is a usable hedge limit available as per allocation 
made by the Exchanges to the hedger. 
 

g)  If  under  any  circumstances  a  hedger  is  found  availing  hedge  limit  in 
contrary to the guideline framed by the SEBI/Exchanges or submits false 
document  or  fails  to  inform  Exchange  timely  about  reduction  of 
underlying exposure based upon which it has been allocated hedge limit 
by Exchange, it shall be liable for expulsion from membership/prohibition 
from trading as the case may be. Such action shall be without prejudice 
to  other  disciplinary  actions 
including  penalties  prescribed  by 
Exchanges.  
 

h)  A  Hedger  having  availed  of  benefit  of  hedge  limits,  shall  preserve 
relevant records for a period of minimum three years for inspection by 
SEBI/Exchange.  
 

i)  The hedge limit approved by an exchange shall be valid for a period as 
mentioned  in  the  approval  letter  and  such  hedge  limit  shall  stand 
cancelled automatically upon expiry of such period without any notice.  
 

j)  The  Exchanges  shall  disclose  on  their  website  the  hedge  position 
allocated to various hedgers, indicating the period for which approval is 
valid,  in  an  anonymous  manner.  The  disclosure  shall  be  made  in  the 
following format: 

 
 

 

Sr.   Name of the 
Commodity 

Hedger 

Long 
Hedge 
Limits  

Short 
Hedge 
Limits  

Date of 
making 
application 

Application 
Approval 
Date 

Approval 
Start Date 

Date till 
Approval 
is valid  

1. 

2. 

 

 

 

 

Hedger 1 

Hedger 2 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
5.  The  provisions  of  this  circular  shall  come  into  effect  from  September  29, 
2016 in supersession of all earlier directives issued by erstwhile FMC with 
regard to matters related to ‘Position Limits for Hedgers’.  
 

6.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section 
11(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992,  read  with 

 

Page 3 of 4 

 

 
 

Section 10 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and 
to regulate the securities market. 
 

7.  All  the  Derivatives  Exchanges  are  also advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of 
this circular to the notice of the member brokers/clearing members of the 
Exchange and also to disseminate the same on the website. 
 

8.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 4 of 4 

