 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

          September 02, 2016 

 
 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/78   
 
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 
 
Sub: Spot Price Polling Mechanism 
 
1.  As  per  Section  131(4)  of  Finance  Act,  2015  all  rules,  directions,  guidelines, 
instructions, circulars, or any like instruments, made by the erstwhile FMC or 
the Central Government applicable to recognized associations under the FCRA 
would  continue  to  remain  in  force  for  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  on 
which FCRA was repealed (September 29, 2015), or till such time as notified 
by SEBI, whichever is earlier. 
 

2.  Erstwhile FMC, from time to time, had prescribed various norms related to "Spot 
Price  Polling  Mechanism".  This  circular  is  being  issued  to  consolidate  and 
update such norms prescribed by erstwhile FMC. 
 

3.  The Commodity Derivatives Exchanges have been using a ‘Spot Price Polling 
Mechanism’  to  arrive  at  the  prevailing  spot  prices.  Transparent  discovery  of 
spot prices is a critical factor in smooth running of futures market as the same 
are used as reference prices for settlement of contracts traded on the exchange 
platform. To arrive at the prevailing spot prices, the exchanges are polling the 
spot  prices  from  various  spot  price  polling  participants.  Some  exchanges 
undertake this activity themselves whereas some have outsourced this work to 
an external agency. 
 

4.  In  order  to  maintain  the  transparency  of  spot  price  polling  process  and 
dissemination of spot prices arrived at through spot price polling process, the 
commodity derivatives exchanges are directed to: 
 

4.1. have a well laid down and documented policy for the spot price polling 

mechanism.  

 
4.2. display the spot price polling mechanism  adopted for every contract on 

its website along with following details: 

 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 
 

 

 

 

Particulars 

S. 
No. 
1.    Details of the contract 
2.    Mechanism of spot price polling 
3.    How spot prices are arrived at 
4.    Whether these prices include or exclude 

taxes and other levies / costs 

5.    Whether  spot  prices  polling  has  been 
outsourced to any external agency and if 
so, the details thereof. 

6.    Criteria  for  selection  of  these  polling 

participants 

7.    Any other information that the Exchange 

may consider  

 

Details 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

4.3. disclose, for every contract, following details with respect to individual 

spot price polling participants on its website: 

Participants  Location  Profession  Price 

A1 
A2 

 
 

 
 

quoted 
 
 

Time, 
Date 
 
 

4.3.1. The Exchanges may assign a code such A1, A2, A3…etc. for poling 
participants of a particular contract and reveal his location and price 
(s) for the day.  

4.3.2. This information shall be updated on Exchange website every day for 

every contract traded on the exchange platform.  

4.3.3. The information shall continue to be displayed even after the expiry 

of the contract for a period of 3 years. 

 
4.4. endeavour in increasing the sample size used for fixing the daily spot 

prices during the last 15 days of the contract .  
 

4.5. review on a monthly basis the prices polled by the participants to identify 
participants  habitually  polling  unrealistic  prices.  These  participants 
could be put under watch and subsequently removed from the panel if 
such instances reoccur despite appropriate communications. 

 
4.6. provide  a  separate  feedback  window  for  receiving  complaints  in  this 
regard. The exchanges shall address such complaints in a time-bound 
manner.  Further  the  exchanges  shall  keep  the  audit  trail  of  all  such 
complaints received and the steps taken for rederssal. 

 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 
 
5.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect from September 29, 2016 
in supersession of all earlier directives issued by erstwhile FMC with regard to 
matters related to ‘spot price polling'.  
 

 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 

 
7.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations. 

ii.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers of the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular.  

 
8.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 
 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
vikass@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

Page 3 of 3 

