 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 August 30, 2016 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/75   
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
All Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
Sir / Madam,  
 
Sub:  Trading Hours/Trading Holidays on Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 
1.  As  per  Section  131(4)  of  Finance  Act,  2015  all  rules,  directions,  guidelines, 
instructions, circulars, or any like instruments, made by the erstwhile FMC or the 
Central Government applicable to recognized associations under the FCRA would 
continue to remain in force for a period of one year from the date on which FCRA 
was  repealed  (September  29,  2015),  or  till  such  time  as  notified  by  SEBI, 
whichever is earlier. 
 

2.  Erstwhile  FMC,  from  time  to  time,  had  prescribed  norms  related  to  Trading 
Hours/Trading Holidays. This circular is being issued to consolidate  and update 
such norms. 

 
Trading Hours 
 
3.  All Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  shall  permit trading only from Monday to 

Friday.  
 

4.  Trading hours shall be fixed by the Exchange within the time limits as mentioned 

in the table below: 

 

 

S. 
No 

1 

2 

Commodity Category 

Trade Start 

Trade End time 

Time 

After Start of US 
Day light Savings 
in Spring Season 

After End of US 
Day light Savings 

in Fall Season 

10:00 AM 

11:30 PM 

11:55 PM 

10:00 AM 

09:00 PM 

09:30 PM 

Internationally 
Referencable Non-Agri 
Commodities 
Internationally 
Referencable Agri 
Commodities* 

3  All Other Commodities 
*Presently traded internationally referencable Agri commodities are Crude Palm Oil, Cotton, Kapas 
Soya Oil and Sugar. 

05:00 PM 

10:00 AM 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

5.  With  regard  to  Muhurat  Trading  on  Diwali  (Lakshmi  Poojan)  day,  all  National 
Commodity Derivatives Exchanges shall jointly decide the common trade timing 
and notify the same to the market under prior intimation to SEBI. 
 

6.  Exchanges shall ensure that they have necessary risk management system and 

infrastructure in place commensurate to their trading hours. 

 
Trading Holidays 
 
7.  With regard to Trading holidays of National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges, all 
such Exchanges shall jointly decide upon the common holiday list within the broad 
framework  of  the  Negotiable  Instruments  Act,  1881  and  also  taking  into 
consideration Central/State/Local holidays and notify the same to the market well 
in advance under prior intimation to SEBI.  
 
On  such 
trading  of 
internationally referencable commodities in evening session i.e. post 5:00 PM, in 
case corresponding international markets are open. 

trading  holidays,  National  Exchanges  may  permit 

 
8.  With regard to Trading Holidays of Regional Commodity Derivatives Exchanges, 
each Exchange shall decide upon the holiday list within the broad framework of 
the  Negotiable  Instruments  Act,  1881  and  also  taking  into  consideration 
Central/State/Local holidays and notify its holiday list to the market well in advance 
under prior intimation to SEBI. 

 
9.  While finalizing Trading Holidays list, Exchanges shall suitably take into account 
the views of market participants. Frequent changes in holiday List shall be avoided 
i.e. once decided, same holidays should be followed every year irrespective of the 
holidays falling on a working day or a non-working day in that year. 

 
10. The provisions of this circular shall come into effect from September 29, 2016 in 
supersession  of  all  earlier  directives  issued  by  erstwhile  FMC  with  regard  to 
matters related to Trading Hours/Trading Holidays. 

 
11. This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992  to protect the interests of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 
12. Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations. 

 

Page 2 of 3 

ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

 

 

circular.  

 

13. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
vikass@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 3 of 3 

