 

 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

          August 30, 2016 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/74   
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
All Commodity Derivatives Exchanges & its members 
 
Sir / Madam,  

 

Sub:  Maintenance and Preservation of Records 
 
1.  Pursuant  to  the  merger  of  erstwhile  FMC  with  SEBI,  all  commodity 
derivatives exchanges and their members are required to comply with the 
provisions  of  Securities  Contract  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957  (hereinafter 
referred  to  as  SCRR)  and  SEBI  (Stock-Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers) 
Regulations, 1992(hereinafter referred to as Broker Regulations) .  
 

2.  In  terms  of  Rules  14 and 15  of  SCRR,  every  recognized  stock  exchange 
and its members are required to maintain and preserve the specified books 
of account and documents for a period ranging from two years to five years. 
Further, as per regulation 18 of Broker Regulations, every stock broker shall 
preserve the specified books of account and other records for a minimum 
period of five years. 

 

3.  Further,  SEBI  vide  its  circular  No.  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-21/2009  dated 
December 09, 2009 prescribed norms regarding ‘Preservation of records’. 
It has been decided that the provisions of the said circular shall be made 
applicable for all the commodity derivatives exchanges and their members. 
 

4.  The provisions of this circular shall come in force from September 29, 2016. 
 
5.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section 
11(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992 to protect the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and 
to regulate the securities market. 
 

6.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

 

Page 1 of 2 

 
 

 

i. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations. 

ii.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers of 

the Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions 

of this circular.  

 

7.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 
 

 

 
 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 2 

