 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2016/77                          September 01, 2016 
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 

 

Sir / Madam, 

Sub:   Additional risk management norms for National Commodity 

Derivatives Exchanges 

1.  With an objective of streamlining and strengthening the risk management 
framework  across  national  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  SEBI  vide 
circular  CIR/CDMRD/DRMP/01/2015  dated  October  01,  2015,  had 
prescribed  comprehensive  risk  management  framework  for  National 
Commodity Derivatives Exchanges. 
 

2.  In order to further strengthen the risk management framework of commodity 
derivatives  markets  and  avoid  any  systemic  risk,  it  has  been  decided  to 
prescribe  additional  norms/modify  (to  the  extent  specified  hereunder) 
certain  existing  norms  on  risk  management  at  National  Commodity 
Derivatives  Exchanges.  The  additional/modified  norms  are  placed  at 
Annexure-I. 
 

3.  The  norms  prescribed  in  this  circular  shall  be  implemented  by  national 
commodity derivatives exchanges latest by  December 1, 2016, except for 
the norm prescribed for base minimum capital at paragraph 7 of Annexure-
I, which shall be complied with latest by April 01, 2017. 

 

4.  It  is  emphasized  that  risk  management  is  primarily  the  responsibility  of 
exchanges. In cases of excessive market volatility or circumstances where 
risk element is higher, exchanges are expected to impose higher margins 
and/or additional margins in the form of special/ ad-hoc or other margins as 
considered appropriate by the exchanges. 
 

5.  The exchanges are also advised to:  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

ensure  that  their  risk  management  framework  is  in  line  with  the 
provisions  contained  in  the  annexure  and  take  steps  to  make 
necessary  amendments 
the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations for the implementation of the same. 
bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of their members and 
also to disseminate the same on their website.  
communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the provisions 
of this circular. 

to 

Page 1 of 5 

 

 

 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 
(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and 
to regulate the securities market. 

 
7.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Shashi Kumar 
General Manager 
Division of Risk Management and Products  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
shashikumarv@sebi.gov.in  
 

Encl: as above 

 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 

Annexure - I 
 

Additional/modified risk management norms for National Commodity 

Derivatives Exchanges 

 

1.  Initial Margins (IM): 

Exchanges  shall  impose  initial  margins  sufficient  to  cover  its  potential 
future exposure  to  participants  in  the  interval  between  the  last  margin 
collection and the close out of positions following a participant default. 
Exchanges  shall  therefore  estimate  the  appropriate  Margin  Period  of 
Risk (MPOR) for each product based on liquidity in the product and scale 
up the initial margins, if required. However, the MPOR for all commodity 
derivatives contracts shall be at least 2 days. 

 
2.  Delivery Period Margins: 

Delivery period margins shall be higher of: 
 

a.  3% + 5 day 99% VaR of spot price volatility 

Or 

b.  20% 

 
Exchanges may impose higher margins if deemed fit. If extant delivery 
period  margins  on  certain  commodities  are  higher  than  that  specified 
above, the extant delivery period margins shall continue. 
 

3.  Measures in case of repeated shortfall in margin/pay-in: 

In case of repeated margin/pay-in shortfalls beyond a threshold amount 
by any member in a month, following risk mitigation measures shall be 
initiated by commodity derivatives exchanges:  

a.  The member be put in square off mode and required to reduce 

positions. 

b.  The  member  be  charged  initial  margins  at  a  higher  rate  for  the 

next one month, 
Or 
The member be subjected to a penal exposure free deposit equal 
to the cumulative funds/margin shortage over previous one month 
which could be kept with the exchange for the next month. 

c.  Exchange shall keep a close watch on such member. 

 

4.  Concentration margins: 

Exchanges  shall  impose  adequate  concentration  margins  (only  on 
concentrated  positions)  to  cover  the  risk  of  longer  period  required  for 
liquidation  of  concentrated  positions  in  any  commodity.  The  threshold 
value for imposing concentration margin may be determined taking into 
account  factors  including  open  interest,  concentration  and  estimated 
time to liquidation based on prevailing liquidity and possible reduction in 

Page 3 of 5 

 

 

liquidity  in  times  of  market  stress  etc.  The  quantum  of  concentration 
margins imposed may vary based on the level of concentration. 
 

5.  Regaining matched book: 

In  the  event  of  a  member/client  failing  to  honour  pay-in/margin 
obligations, exchanges may employ the below given alternative tools to 
liquidate  the  positions  and  regain  a  matched  book  based  on  the 
conditions of market liquidity, volatility, size of position to be liquidated 
etc. Any tool lower in the list prescribed hereunder may be resorted to 
only in extremely rare occasions when the exchange reasonably expects 
that  it  may  not  be  able  to  restore  a  matched  book  by  choosing  the 
alternatives above it and also records the reasons for the same in writing: 
a.  Alternative 1: Liquidation in normal market in orderly manner (with 

relaxed price limits, if required); 

b.  Alternative  2:  Auction  of  the  positions  within  a  specified  price 

band; 

c.  Alternative 3: Voluntary tear-up at last mark-to-market price along 
with  compensation  (%age  of  last  mark-to-market  price  equal  to 
twice the daily price limit) and penalty (5%, to be credited to SGF); 
d.  Alternative  4:  Partial  tear-up  (pro-rata  against  members/clients 
having opposite positions) at last mark-to-market price along with 
compensation (%age of last mark-to-market price equal to thrice 
the daily price limit) and penalty (5%, to be credited to SGF). 

6.  Spread margin benefit: 

Margin benefit on spread positions shall be entirely withdrawn latest by 
the start of tender period or Expiry-6th day, whichever is earlier. 

7.  Base Minimum Capital (BMC) for clearing members:  

Clearing members who clear and settle  only non-algo trades for other 
trading members shall have BMC requirement of INR 25 lakhs. Clearing 
members who clear and settle algo trades shall continue to have BMC 
requirement of INR 50 lakhs. 
 

8.  Exchange contribution to SGF: 

Currently exchanges make risk assessment on SGF on quarterly basis 
and  are  required  to  make  fresh  contribution  to  SGF  in  case  of  any 
shortfall.  This  contribution  requirement  by  exchange  in  any  year  is 
currently capped to 5% of the gross revenue (net of Income Tax). The 
said  cap  to  the  contribution  requirement  is  hereby  removed  and 
exchanges shall be required to meet the shortfall in full as indicated in 
quarterly assessments. 
 

 

 

Page 4 of 5 

9.  Default waterfall:  

 

 

Till  clearing  and  settlement  of  trades  in  commodity  derivatives  are 
transferred to clearing corporations, the default waterfall of exchanges 
shall follow the following order: 
 
1.  Defaulting member’s monies (including contribution to SGF) 
2.  Insurance, if any 
3.  Exchange resources equal to 5% of SGF 
4.  SGF resources in the following order: 

a.  Penalties and investment income on SGF 
b.  25% of Exchange contribution to SGF 
c.  Remaining 

(non-defaulting  members’  and  exchange) 

contribution to SGF on pro-rata basis. 

5.  Remaining exchange resources (excluding INR 100 Crore*) 
6.  Capped additional contribution by non-defaulting members (equal to 

their required contribution to SGF) 

7.  Any  remaining  loss  to  be  covered  by  way  of  pro-rata  haircut  to 

payouts. 

 
*INR 100 Crore to be excluded only when remaining exchange resources 
are more than INR 100 Crore. 
 

 

Page 5 of 5 

