 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

          August 30, 2016 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/76   
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  

 

Sub:  Price  Dissemination  through  SMS/Electronic  Communication 

Facility 

 
1.  As per Section 131(4) of Finance Act, 2015 all rules, directions, guidelines, 
instructions, circulars, or any like instruments, made by the erstwhile FMC 
or the Central Government applicable to recognised associations under the 
FCRA would continue to remain in force for a period of one year from the 
date on which FCRA was repealed (September 29, 2015), or till such time 
as notified by SEBI, whichever is earlier. 
 

2.  In  the  past  the  erstwhile  FMC  had  issued  directives  regarding  price 
dissemination  through  SMS  in  the  commodity  derivatives.  This  circular  is 
being issued to consolidate and update such norms. 
 

3.  Exchanges  shall  make  efforts  for  registration  of  subscribers  of  Price 
Dissemination  services  and  disseminate  derivatives  prices  to  them  on  a 
daily  basis.  Such  direct  price  dissemination  service  would  provide 
information to subscribers instantly in an efficient and transparent manner 
and thus shall be of great benefit to market participants. 
 

4.  The Exchanges may provide price dissemination through SMS or any other 
electronic  communication  facility  (instant  messengers,  email  etc.)  for  all 
commodities. 

 

5.  The service is to be provided free of cost to the subscribers. However, the 
expenditure incurred for such price dissemination may be reimbursed from 
the interest accrued on the Investor Protection Fund (IPF). 
 

6.  The  provisions  of  this  circular  shall  come  into  effect  from  September  29, 
2016 in supersession of all earlier directives issued by erstwhile FMC with 
regard to matters related to ‘Price Dissemination through SMS’. 
 

7.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section 
11(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992 to protect the 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 
 

interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and 
to regulate the securities market. 
 

8.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

to make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules 
and regulations. 
bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock 
brokers  of  the  Exchange  and  also  to  disseminate  the  same  on 
their website.  
communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the 
provisions of this circular.  

 

9.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 
 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 2 

