 

    September 07, 2016 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/82   
 
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
of All Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
Sir / Madam,  

 
Sub:  Transaction Charges by Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 

 
 
1.  The Commodity Derivatives Exchanges are collecting transaction charges from the 
members  for  the  trades  executed  on  their  trading  platform.  In  order  to  promote 
competition in the market and bring in greater efficiencies and lower transaction 
costs to market participants, it has been decided that the following norms shall be 
continued to be applicable to the Commodity Derivatives Exchanges while levying 
transaction charges- 

a.  The  Exchanges  can  levy  different  transaction  charges  for  different 
commodities'  contracts  and  even  in  the  case  of  contracts  of  the  same 
commodity. 

b.  The  Exchanges  will  ensure  that  the  ratio  between  highest  to  lowest 
transaction  charges  in  the  turnover  slab  of  any  contract  is  not  more  than 
1.5:1. 

c.  In the slab system the concessional transactional charges shall be charged 
the  entire 

incremental  volume/turnover  and  not  on 

only  on 
volume/turnover. 

the 

d.  The transaction charges are to be charged-on post-facto basis that is after 

the trades are executed.  
 

2.  It is also emphasized that, while revising the transaction charges, the Commodity 
Derivatives Exchanges shall also comply with the following guidelines prescribed 
vide SEBI Circular MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-14/2009 dated October 14, 2009: 

a.  The stock exchange system is capable of handling additional load. 
b.  It does not affect the existing risk management system. 
c.  It does not favour selective trades or selective category of investor. 
d.  It does not encourage generation of artificial demand. 
e.  It does not result in any market irregularities. 
f. 
g.  It is imposed in fair and transparent manner. 

It is uniformly applied to trades of similar nature. 

 
3.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect from September 29, 2016  in 
supersession  of  all  earlier  directives  issued  by  erstwhile  FMC  with  regard  to 
matters related to Transaction Charges. 
 

 

Page 1 of 2 

4.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

 

 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

 take steps to make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules 
and regulations for the implementation of the same. 
bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  members  of  the 
Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  
communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 
this circular. 

 
5.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 
 

6.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
vikass@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

