 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2016/79 

 
To, 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

September 07, 2016 

The Managing Directors/Chief Executve Officers, 
Regional Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 

Sir/Madam,  
 
Sub:  Guidelines  for  Due  Date  Rate  (DDR)  fixation  for  Regional  Commodity 
Derivatives Exchanges 

 
1.  As per Section 131  (4) of the  Finance Act, 2015 all rules, directions, guidelines, 
instructions,  circulars,  or  any  like  instruments,  made  by  the  erstwhile  Forward 
Markets Commission (FMC) or the Central Government applicable to recognised 
associations  under  the  Forward  Contracts  Regulation  Act,  1952  (FCRA)  would 
continue to remain in force for a period of one year from the date on which FCRA 
was  repealed  (September  29,  2015),  or  till  such  time  as  notified  by  SEBI, 
whichever is earlier. 
 

2.  Erstwhile FMC, had prescribed guidelines for fixation of Due Date Rate (DDR) for 
Commodity Specific (Regional) Exchanges. Vide this circular the said guidelines 
are  being  re-issued  for  Regional  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges.  The 
guidelines are placed as Annexure. 

 
3.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect immediately. 

 

4.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 of the 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  to  protect  the  interest  f  investors  in 
securities and to promote the development of, and regulate the securities market. 
 

5.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Shashi Kumar 
General Manager 
Division of Risk Management and Products  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
Email: shashikumarv@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 1 of 3 

Annexure 

 

Guidelines for Due Date Rate (DDR) fixation for Regional Commodity 

Derivatives Exchanges 

 

 

1.  Exchange shall have a DDR Committee which will be a committee of the Board 
and  would  comprise  of  at  least  50%  members  who  are  other  than  the  trading 
members.  Secretary/Executive  Director  of  the  Exchange  would  be  Member 
Secretary  of  the  DDR  Committee.  Besides,  top  two  members  holding  highest 
long and highest short position, respectively, shall be invited as observers at the 
time of fixing of DDR by the Committee. If top two members holding highest long 
and  highest  short  position  are  not  available  /  are  not  willing  to  come,  then 
authorized representatives of the highest long/short position holder may be called 
as observers in the Committee meeting. All the prescribed processes relating to 
DDR fixation must be followed by the DDR Committee. 
 

2.  DDR  Committee  would  decide  the  names  of  at  least  15  entities  /  persons  of 
various  trade  interests  from  upcountry  markets  for  forming  Spot  Price  Polling 
Panel. “Upcountry” means the centers that have been indicated in the bye-laws of 
the  Exchange.  At  least  20%  of  the  panelists  will  be  changed  every  year.  The 
committee  will  ensure  that  the  entities/persons  forming  polling  panel  should  not 
be  related/connected  to  each  other  or  to  the  DDR  Committee  members  or  to 
Directors of the Exchange. It means that the entities should not have any cross 
shareholding, family relationship and commercial relationship among themselves, 
and with the DDR committee members or with the Directors of the Exchange. 
 

3.  The  spot  price  rates  would  be  collected  from  panelists  on  the  polling  panel  on 
daily basis, starting with three days prior to the due date of the contract, so that 
the trade would be aware of likely price trend beforehand. This information must 
be disseminated to trade and be placed on the notice board of the exchange  on 
daily basis. 
 

4.  The spot price should be polled over phones (with speaker on) in front of all the 
DDR  Committee  members  present,  including  top  two  members  holding  the 
highest  long  and  highest  short  position.  While  making  telephonic  calls,  voice 
recording  in  electronic  form  shall  be  maintained  for  a  period  of  six  months  (in 
other  words,  audio  recording  of  making  calls  has  to  be  done  and  records 
maintained for minimum six months). 
 

5.  Average of the spot prices of last three days, on which spot prices are available, 
prior  to  the  due  date  but  not  earlier  than  seven  days  would  be  considered  for 
fixing DDR. The rates would be polled once a day during 1:00 p.m. to 4.00 p.m. in 
order to capture this most active trade time. 
 

6.  DDR  has  to  be  arrived  by  the  DDR  Committee  in  terms  of  the  procedure 
prescribed  therefor  in  the  relevant  bye-laws  and  these  guidelines,  and  then 
recommended  to  the  Board  of  the  Exchange  for  its  final  approval.  On  the 
recommendations of DDR committee, the Board may, in their discretion, as  

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

deemed fit; provide its approval to DDR recommended by the DDR Committee. If 
the  Board  wishes  to  modify  DDR  proposed  by  the  DDR  Committee  for  cogent 
and  sufficient  reason(s),  the  same  shall  be  duly  recorded  in  the  minutes  of  the 
Board  along  with  full  justification.  Once  DDR  is  fixed,  it  shall  be  announced 
immediately in the trading ring and displayed on the notice board and website of 
the  Exchange.  All  the responsibilities  relating  to  fixation  of  DDR  shall  be  that  of 
the Board. 
 

7.  All  the  records  of  DDR  fixation  of  each  contract  would  be  maintained  for  6 

months. The proceedings of DDR fixation of each contract shall be sent to SEBI. 
 

 

Page 3 of 3 

