 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/83                                     September 07, 2016 
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 

 

Sir / Madam, 

Sub.: Daily Price Limits (DPL) for Non-Agricultural Commodity Derivatives/ 

First Day DPL for All Commodity Derivatives 

 

1.  As  per  Section  131(4)  of  Finance  Act,  2015  all  rules,  directions,  guidelines, 
instructions, circulars, or any like instruments, made by the erstwhile FMC or the 
Central  Government  applicable  to  recognised  associations  under  the  FCRA 
would continue to remain in force for a period of one year from the date on which 
FCRA was repealed (September 29, 2015), or till such time as notified by SEBI, 
whichever is earlier. 

(DPL) 

Limits 

determination. 

2.  Erstwhile FMC, from time to time, had prescribed various norms related to  Daily 
Price 
circular 
CIR/CDMRD/DMP/2/2016 dated January 15, 2016 prescribed norms with regard 
to Daily Price Limits (DPL) for agricultural commodity derivatives.  This circular is 
being  issued  in  continuation  of  SEBI  circular  dated  January  15,  2016  with  an 
objective of consolidating and updating norms prescribed by erstwhile FMC with 
regard  to  DPL  of  non-agricultural  commodity  derivatives  and  norms  for  DPL 
determination  on  first  trading  day  of  the  derivatives  contract  on  agricultural  as 
well as non-agricultural commodities.  

SEBI 

Vide 

its 

3.  DPL for Non-Agri Commodity Derivatives 

3.1.  Following  slabs  shall  be  applied  for  DPL  of  all  non-agricultural  commodity 

derivatives: 

Name of Commodity 

Steel 
Gold 
Other Non-Agri 
Commodities 
(Presently being 
traded on Exchanges) 

 

Initial 
Slab of 
DPL 
4% 
3% 
4% 

1st Enhanced 
Slab of DPL 

2nd Enhanced 
Slab of DPL 

Aggregate 
DPL 

2%  Not Applicable 
3% 
3% 
2% 
3% 

6% 
9% 
9% 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

3.2. DPL  for  Steel:  DPL  for  Steel  shall  have  two  slabs  as  mentioned  in  table 
above.  Once  the  trade  hits  the  prescribed  initial  slab,  the  DPL  shall  be 
relaxed further by ‘1st Enhanced Slab’ (i.e. 2%) after a cooling off period of 15 
minutes.  During  cooling  off  periods  trading  shall  continue  to  be  permitted 
within the previous slab of DPL. There shall not be further relaxation of DPL 
during that day. 

3.3. DPL For Gold and other Non-Agri Commodities (Excluding Steel): 

3.3.1.  DPL  shall  have  three  slabs  as  mentioned  in  table  above.  Once  the 
trade  hits  the  prescribed  Initial  slab,  the  DPL  shall  be  relaxed  further 
by‘1st  Enhanced  Slab’  without  any  cooling  off  period  in  the  trading.  In 
case, ‘1st Enhanced Slab’ is also breached, then after a cooling off period 
of 15 minutes, the DPL shall be further relaxed by ‘2nd Enhanced Slab’. 

3.3.2.  During cooling off periods trading shall continue to be permitted within 

the previous slab of DPL. 

3.3.3.  In  case  price  movement  in  referencable  international  market  is  more 
than the aggregate DPL, the same may be further relaxed in steps of 3% 
by  Exchanges.  Exchanges  shall 
Integrated 
Surveillance  Department  (ISD)  of  SEBI  about  any  such  relaxation  of 
DPLs  beyond  Aggregate  DPL,  along  with  all  the  relevant  details  and 
justification. 

immediately 

inform 

4.  DPL  on  First  Trading  Day  of  the  Contract  (For  Agri/Non-Agri  Commodity 

Derivatives) 

4.1. For  fixing  DPL  slabs,  base  price  shall  be  taken  as  previous  day’s  closing 
price  of  the  contract,  however  for  the  first  trading  day  (launch  day)  of  each 
contract, Exchange shall determine base price as under: 

4.1.1.  Volume  Weighted  Average  Price  (VWAP)  of  the  first  half  an  hour, 

subject to minimum of ten trades 

4.1.2.  If sufficient No. of trades are not executed during the first half an hour, 

then the VWAP of first one hour trade subject to minimum of ten trades. 

4.1.3.  If sufficient No. of trades are not executed even during the first hour of 

the day then VWAP of the first ten trades during the day. 

The  base  price  arrived  as  per  (a)  or  (b)  or  (c)  above,  as  the  case  may  be, 
shall be calculated by the Exchange and shall be used to determine DPL for 
the remaining part of the day. 

5.  For any commodity derivatives, exchanges at their discretion may prescribe DPL 
narrower than the slabs prescribed by SEBI in case they require so based upon 
their analysis of price movements and their surveillance findings. 
 

Page 2 of 3 

6.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect from September 29, 2016  in 
supersession  of  all  earlier  directives  issued  by  erstwhile  FMC  with  regard  to 
matters related to DPL. 

 

 

 

7.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

take steps to make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules 
and regulations for the implementation of the same. 
bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  members  of  the 
Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  
communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 
this circular. 
 

8.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 
9.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
vikass@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

Page 3 of 3 

