 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2016/80 

 

 

September 07, 2016 

 
To, 

  

 

The Managing Directors/Chief Executve Officers, 
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 

Sir/Madam,  
 
Sub:  Mechanism 
collection/non-collection of margins from clients 

for 

regular  monitoring  of  and  penalty 

for  short-

 
1.  As per Section 131  (4) of the  Finance Act, 2015 all rules, directions, guidelines, 
instructions,  circulars,  or  any  like  instruments,  made  by  the  erstwhile  Forward 
Markets Commission (FMC) or the Central Government applicable to recognised 
associations  under  the  Forward  Contracts  Regulation  Act,  1952  (FCRA)  would 
continue to remain in force for a period of one year from the date on which FCRA 
was  repealed  (September  29,  2015),  or  till  such  time  as  notified  by  SEBI, 
whichever is earlier. 
 

2.  Erstwhile FMC, had  prescribed mechanism for regular monitoring of and  levy of 
penalty for short-collection/non-collection of margins from clients and had issued 
clarifications  on  the  same  from  time  to  time.  This  circular  is  being  issued  to 
consolidate and update such norms prescribed by the erstwhile FMC. 

 
3.  The  penalty  structure  and  framework 

for  short-collection/non-collection  of 

margins by members from their clients shall be as under: 

 

i.  The ‘margins’ for this purpose shall mean  initial margin, extreme loss margin 
(ELM), mark to market margin, special / additional margin, delivery margin or 
any other margin as prescribed by the Exchange to be  collected by member 
from their clients. 
 

ii.  The members are required to collect upfront initial margins from their clients. 
The members will have time till ‘T+2’ working days to collect margins (except 
initial  margins)  from  their  clients.  (The  clients  must  ensure  that  the  initial 
margins are paid in advance of trade and other margins are paid as soon as 
margin calls are made by Exchanges/Members. The period of T+2 days has 
been  allowed  to  members  to  collect  margin  from  clients  taking  into  account 
the  practical  difficulties  often  faced  by  them  only  for  the  purpose  of  levy  of 
penalty and it should not be construed that clients have been allowed 2 days 
to pay margin due from them.) 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

iii.  The  members  shall  report  to  the  Exchange  on  T  +  5  day  the  actual  short-

collection/non-collection of all margins from clients. 
 

iv.  Penalty  shall  be  levied  as  per  the  details  given  below  on  the  members  for 
short / non-collection of margins from their clients beyond T + 2 working days: 
 
For each member 
‘a’ 
(<  INR  1  lakh)  and  (< 10%  of  applicable 
margin) 
(>= INR 1 lakh) or (>= 10% of applicable 
margin) 
Where a = short-collection / non-collection of margins per client per day 
 
In case of short-collection /non collection of initial margins, the above penalty 
structure would be applicable from T day. 
 

Per day penalty as % of ‘a’ 
0.5 

1.0 

v. 

vi.  The  Exchanges  should  put  in  place  a  suitable  mechanism  to  enable  the 
members to report the collection of all margins from their clients at the end of 
each trading day and to report short collection/non-collection of all margins on 
the T+5 day. 
 

vii.  All instances of non-reporting shall amount to 100% non-collection of margin 
and the  penalty  as  prescribed above  shall be  charged  on  these  instances  in 
respect of non-collection. 
 

viii.  The penalty shall be collected by the Exchanges not later than five days of the 

last working day of the trading month.  
 

ix.  With  respect  to  repeated  defaulters,  who  default  3  times  or  more  during  a 
month,  the  penalty  would  be  5%  of  the  shortfall  in  such  instances.(Every 
short/non collection of margin is to be considered as one instance of default. 
In  case  margin  shortage  is  reported  for  a  client  3  times  or  more  during  a 
month,  i.e.,  either  in  consecutive  instances  or  in  3  different  instances,  the 
penalty  would  be  5%  of  the  shortfall  from  4th  instance  of  shortfall.  E.g. 
shortage  is  reported for  a  client on 1st  and 2nd day  of month  consecutively; 
thereafter again on 10th day shortage is reported. So the number of instances 
are  3  and  in  case  shortage  is  reported  on  any  day  later  in  the  month,  the 
penalty shall be 5% of the shortfall amount for all such instances beyond 3rd 
instance.) 
 

x.  All  the  penalties  collected  as  prescribed  above  shall  be  credited  to  the 

Investor Protection Fund. 
 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

xi.  Report on the penalties as collected by the Exchanges shall be submitted to 

SEBI by the 10th day of the following month. 
 

xii.  Exchanges  shall  examine  implementation  of  these  instructions  during  the 
inspection  of  its  members.  If  during  inspection  or  otherwise,  incorrect 
reporting on collection of margin from client by member is found, the member 
shall be penalized up to 100% of such amount short collected. 
 

xiv. 

xiii.  The  Exchange  shall  direct  their  members  to  monitor  trades  of  every  client. 
Suitable mechanism may be put in place to intimate the clients as and when 
the margins are used up to an appropriate level as considered fit. 
 
In exceptional situations wherein members and/or clients were not in position 
to  square  off  the  open  positions  to  avoid  levy  of  penalty  for  margin  shortfall 
due to lack of adequate liquidity and/or high market volatility, exchanges may 
take  a  suitable  decision  depending  upon  the  merit  of  the  circumstances  and 
keep SEBI informed of the same. Further, the exchanges are directed to take 
such exceptional matters to their Board of Directors for decision. 
 

4.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect immediately. 

 

5.  Exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of their 

members and also to disseminate the same on their website. 
 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the interest of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of, and regulate the securities market. 
 

7.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Shashi Kumar 
General Manager 
Division of Risk Management and Products  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
Email: shashikumarv@sebi.gov.in 
 

Page 3 of 3 

