 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

September 16, 2016 

 
 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/87   
 
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
All Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 
 
Sub:  Unique  Client  Code  (UCC)  and  Mandatory  requirement  of  Permanent 

Account Number (PAN) 

 
1.  As  per  Section  131(4)  of  Finance  Act,  2015  all  rules,  directions,  guidelines, 
instructions, circulars, or any like instruments, made by the erstwhile FMC or 
the Central Government applicable to recognized associations under the FCRA 
would  continue  to  remain  in  force  for  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  on 
which FCRA was repealed (September 29, 2015), or till such time as notified 
by SEBI, whichever is earlier. 
 

2.  Erstwhile FMC, from time to time, had prescribed various norms related to UCC 
and Mandatory requirement of PAN. This circular is being issued to consolidate 
and update such norms prescribed by erstwhile FMC. 
 

3.  It shall be mandatory for the members of the commodity derivatives exchanges 
to use Unique Client Code (UCC) for all clients transacting on the commodity 
derivatives exchanges. The commodity derivatives exchanges shall not allow 
execution of trades without uploading of the UCC details by the members of the 
exchange.  For  this  purpose,  members  shall  collect  after  verifying  the 
authenticity and maintain in their back office the copies of Permanent Account 
Number (PAN) issued by the Income Tax Department, to all their clients.  
 

4.  PAN  would  be  the  sole  identification  number  and  mandatory  for  all 
entities/persons who are desirous of transacting on the commodity derivatives 
exchanges.  
 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 
 

 

However, the investors residing in the State of Sikkim are exempted from the 
mandatory  requirement  of  PAN.  The  exchanges  should,  however,  ensure  a 
system  of  proper  verification  to  verify  that  such  members  /  investors  are 
residents of the State of Sikkim. 
 
Further,  PAN  may  not  be  insisted  in  the  case  of  Central  Government,  State 
Government,  and  the officials  appointed  by  the  courts e.g.  Official  liquidator, 
Court receiver etc. (under the category of Government) for transacting in the 
securities market. The intermediary shall verify the veracity of the claim of the 
specified  organizations,  by  collecting  sufficient  documentary  evidence  in 
support of their claim for such an exemption. 
 

5.  The commodity derivatives exchanges shall ensure that the members of their 

exchanges shall: 

  collect copies of PAN cards issued to their existing as well as new clients 

after verifying with the original. 

  cross-check  the  aforesaid  details  collected  from  their  clients  with  the 

details on the website of the Income Tax Department.  

  upload details of PAN so collected to the Exchanges as part of Unique 

Client Code.  

  verify the documents with respect to the unique code and retain a copy 

of the document. 

 

6.  The  Member  shall  also  be  required  to  furnish  the  above  particulars  of  their 
clients  to  the  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  and  the  same  would  be 
updated on a monthly basis. Such information for a specific month should reach 
the exchange within 7 working days of the following month.  

 

7.  The commodity derivatives exchanges shall impose penalty on the member at 
the  rate  of  1%  of  the  value  of  every  trade  that  has  been  carried  out  by  the 
member  without  uploading  the  UCC  details  of  the  clients.  The  penalty  so 
collected by the Commodity Derivatives Exchanges shall be transferred to the 
Investor  protection  Fund  (IPF).  Further,  if  the  client  details  are  not  uploaded 
within a month of the trade, the member is liable to be suspended.  

 

8.  The commodity exchanges shall be required to maintain a database of client 
details submitted by members. Historical records of all such submissions shall 
be maintained for a period of 7 years by the Exchanges. 
 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 
 
9.  The provisions of this circular shall come into immediate effect in supersession 
of all earlier directives issued by erstwhile FMC with regard to matters related 
to UCC and Mandatory requirement of PAN. 
 

 

10. This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 
 

11. The Commodity Derivatives Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations. 

ii.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers of 

the Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions 

of this circular.  
 

12. This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

Page 3 of 3 

