 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

September 27, 2016 

 

SEBI/HO/ CDMRD/DMP/P/CIR/2016/100 
 
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
of All Commodity Derivatives Exchanges and its members  
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  

 

Sub:  Portfolio  Management  Services  (PMS)  in  Commodity  Derivatives 

Market 

 
 
1.  As  per  Section  131(B)  of  Finance  Act,  2015  all  rules,  directions, 
guidelines,  instructions,  circulars,  or  any  like  instruments,  made  by  the 
erstwhile  FMC  or  the  Central  Government  applicable  to  recognised 
associations  under  the  FCRA  would  continue  to  remain  in  force  for  a 
period of one year from the date on which FCRA was repealed, or till such 
time as notified by SEBI, whichever is earlier. 
 

2.  SEBI  is  currently  reviewing  norms  with  regards  to  participation  in 
Commodity Derivatives Market. In the past the erstwhile FMC from time to 
time had issued directives disallowing the Portfolio Management Services 
(PMS) in the commodity derivatives. 
 

3.  It  has  been  decided  that, for  the  time  being,  directives  issued  by  FMC  in 
this regard shall continue. Thus PMS currently would not be permissible in 
the Commodity Derivative Market. 

 

4.  The  provisions  of  this  circular  shall  come  into  effect  from  September  29, 
2016  and  all  earlier  directives  issued  by  erstwhile  FMC  with  regard  to 
matters related to PMS shall be superseded from that date. 
 

5.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section 
11(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992  to  protect 
the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, 
and to regulate the securities market. 
 

6.  All  the  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  are  also  advised  to  bring  the 
provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  members  of  the  Exchange 
and also to disseminate the same on the website. 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 
 
7.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 
 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email :vikass@sebi.gov.in 
Tel No.: +91-22-26449234 

 

Page 2 of 2 

