 

September 20, 2016 

 
 

CIRCULAR  
 
 

 

  

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR /2016/88   
 
 
To, 
The Managing Directors/Chief Executve Officers, 
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 
Sir/Madam,  
 

 

 

Sub: Permission for trading in futures contracts and modification in contract 

specifications at exchange level 

1.  As per Section 131 (4) of the Finance Act, 2015 all rules, directions, guidelines, 
instructions,  circulars,  or  any  like  instruments,  made  by  the  erstwhile  Forward 
Markets Commission (FMC) or the Central Government applicable to recognised 
associations  under  the  Forward  Contracts  Regulation  Act,  1952  (FCRA)  would 
continue to remain in force for a period of one year from the date on which FCRA 
was  repealed  (September  29,  2015),  or  till  such  time  as  notified  by  SEBI, 
whichever is earlier. 
 

2.  Erstwhile  FMC,  from  time  to  time,  had  issued  various  norms  for  National 
Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  related  to  permission  for  trading  in  futures 
contracts  and  modification  in  contract  specifications  at  exchange  level.  This 
circular  is  beingissued  to  consolidate  and  update  such  norms  prescribed  for 
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges by the erstwhile FMC.  

 
3.  Accordingly, the following are prescribed: 

 

a.  Check-list of information/details to be submitted along with proposal for 

launch of new contract or/and for renewal of existing/earlier contracts 
 
All  proposals  of  exchange  for  launch  of  new  contract  and/or  for  renewal  of 
existing/earlier contracts shall be accompanied by complete information covering 
all the points delineated in the check-list appended at Annexure 1.  
 
The parameters / items listed in the check-list for compliance are illustrative and 
not  exhaustive.  Any  additional  relevant  parameter/information  as  deemed 
necessary may also be furnished while sending proposal for contracts. 
 

b.  Approval for futures contracts on continuous basis 

 
The Exchange wise list of contracts approved for continuous trading is placed at 
Annexure 2. Approval for continuous trading in futures contracts is contingent 

 

Page 1 of 8 

 
upon volume and open interest at the Exchange. Continuous approval for futures 
trading in the said contracts is subject to the following terms and conditions: 
 
i.  Approval for continuous trading in futures contracts is subject to Rules, Bye-

 

laws and Regulations of the concerned Exchange. 
 

ii.  Approval for continuous trading granted is for the contract specifications and 
launch  calendar  as  already  approved.  Contract  specifications  and  contract 
launch calendar shall be notified well in advance to the market participants on 
the website of the Exchange. 
 

iii.  Except for the specifications permitted to be modified at exchange level (para 
3c below), contracts specifications and contract launch calendar should not 
be  changed  without  prior  approval.  For  any  modification  in  contract 
specification  or  contract  launch  calendar,  the  Exchange(s)  shall  give  prior 
appropriate  notice  to  the  market  participants.  Once  the  contracts  are 
commenced,  no  terms  of  the  contract  specifications  should  be  changed 
without prior approval of SEBI. 
 
In case of contracts approved for continuous trading: 

iv. 

a.  If  Exchange  decides  not  to  launch  new  contract  for  trading,  then 
Exchange  shall  inform  market  participants  well  in  advance  and  shall 
also  keep  the  regulator  informed  with  adequate  reasons  for  not 
launching of such contract. 

b.  If  Exchange  decides  to  de-list  already  running  contract(s)  having  nil 
open  interest,  then  exchange  shall  keep  the  regulator  informed  with 
adequate reasons for de-listing the contract(s). 

c.  The re-launch of new contracts in case of a and b above shall be with 

prior approval of SEBI. 

 

v.  The  contracts  approved  for  continuous  trading  in  agri-commodities  shall 
continue  to  follow  the  lean  month  expiry  policy  as  laid  down  and  shall  be 
subject to any other directions as may be issued by SEBI from time to time. 
Also, apart from the approved quality standards, the Exchange should ensure 
that the commodity deposited should comply with the regulations laid down 
by the other authorities like Food Safety Standard Authority of India, Agmark, 
BIS etc. 
 

vi.  A limit on open position of each member and non-member client and the limit 

on daily price fluctuation as specified in the contract specification. 
 

vii.  The permission granted for the contracts is subject to daily Mark to Market 
settlement  of  outstanding  contracts  as  per  the  procedure  and  delivery 
mechanism/process specified in the Bye-laws, the Rules and the Regulations 
of the Exchange. 
 

viii.  The  Exchange,  being  the  first  tier  regulator,  shall  ensure  that  there  is  no 
unhealthy speculative trading in the market, which may result in cornering or  

 

Page 2 of 8 

 
 
artificial rigging up or down of the prices by a particular member or group or 
class of members.  
 

ix.  The  list  of  contracts  available  for  trading  on  continuous  basis  shall  be 

 

reviewed by SEBI from time to time. 
 

c.  Permission to allow modification in futures contract specifications at the 

exchange level 
 
To ensure that Exchanges are enabled to respond to the market requirements 
quickly, National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges are permitted to modify the 
futures  contract  specifications  related  to  Ticker  symbol,  Basis,  Maximum  order 
size,  Trading  unit,  Delivery  unit,  Quotation  base  value,  Tick  size,  Delivery 
centers,  additional delivery centers, issue related to Premium/Discount, Quality 
parameters  and  its  relevant  aspects  such  as  Quantity  variation  and  Tolerance 
limit in  the  futures  contract  specifications. The permission  to modify  the above 
parameters of the futures contract specifications is subject to the condition that 
Exchanges shall invariably inform the market participants and the regulator well 
in advance before introduction of any modification in contract specifications with 
reasons for the modifications. 
 

4.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect immediately. 

5.  Exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of their 

members and also to disseminate the same on their website. 
 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the interest of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of, and regulate the securities market. 
 

7.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
Shashi Kumar 
General Manager 
Division of Risk Management and Products  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
Email: shashikumarv@sebi.gov.in 
 
 
 
 

Page 3 of 8 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 8 

Annexure 1 

CHECK LIST 

 

 

 

 

[To be submitted by Exchange at the time of submission of proposal fornew contract or/and renewal 

of existing/earlier contracts] 

Serial 
Number  

Items/ Issues to be examined and Reported  

Compliance/Comments 

1 

a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
e. 
f. 
g. 
h. 
i. 
j. 
k. 
l. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

GENERAL:‐ 
Justification  for  introducing  of  futures/forward  trading  in  the  commodity  including  itsrelevance 
/importance to the economy  (in brief) with information forpreceding 3 financialyears on :‐ 

Its annual production 
Import‐export data 
Details of domestic consumption 
Main area of cultivation  
Patterns of consumption/utilization 
Commercialization rate (annual exports/annual supply) 
Crop cycle 
Warehouse facilities in the cultivation area 
Preferred trade quantity in physical market 
Shelf‐life of the commodity  
Global level production / consumption figures, major exporting & importing countries with figures 
Monthly price movement in futures market –both domestic and international for last 3 years 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 5 of 8 

m.   

n. 

o. 
p. 
q. 

r. 

s. 
t. 
u. 
v. 
2 
a. 
b. 
c. 

d. 

e. 
f. 
g. 

h. 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

Prevailing spot prices in the domestic physical market in the last three years and immediate 3 
preceding months prior to the application 
Which are the other exchanges where the proposed contract is already being traded and its/ their 
respective market share in terms of volumes & percentage of trades (estimated)? 
Value Chain of the commodity 
Degree of standardisation 
Political sensitivity/price controls 
Whether commodity is under purview of Essential commodities act / APMC Act / The Food Control 
Regulation Act etc. 
Geographical coverage 
Correlation with International Market 
Seasonality  
Price Volatility 
CONTRACT DESIGN‐ Please Specify with Reasons 
Lot size 
Tick size 
Period of the contract (one month, two months, etc.) 
Quality  standards  (should  meet  FSSAI  standards   and  any  other  statutory  prescribed 
standards ) 
Lean period 
Basis Centres 
Mechanism for allocation of delivery on the Exchange platform in a transparent manner 
Rationale  behind  adopting  “intention  matching  contract”  as  against  “compulsory  delivery” 
contract, if the case is so, in the proposed contract. 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

Page 6 of 8 

i. 

j. 
3. 
a. 
b. 
c. 
4. 

a. 

b. 

5. 
a. 
b. 
c. 

d. 

e. 
f. 
g. 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

Mechanism of spot price polling –whether AGMARK prices used to track spot prices‐other 
measures/precautions taken to ensure transparency and credibility 
Settlement system with settlement price formula 
EXPECTED PARTICIPATION IN THE CONTRACT 
Hedgers participation 
Warehouse participation 
What efforts Exchange had made to educate hedgers / market participants about the contract 
COST OF TRADING IN CONTRACT :‐ 
Details of Delivery Centres, their respective storage capacity, and price neutralization formula for 
non‐preferred delivery centres etc. 
Detailed break‐up of charges proposed to be levied by the Exchanges for trading / warehouse for 
storage / delivery charges and cost in respect of failed deliveries, etc. 
MARKET SURVEILLANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT :– 
Permitted price variation in a day 
Open position limits in respect of client, member and market as a whole 
Checks and balances for high frequency/ Algo trades 
Initial margin, M ‐o‐M margin, and conditions under which special / additional margins could be 
levied by Exchanges 
Settlement / trade guarantee 
Cost of failed payments / deliveries 
Staggered delivery system 

Additional  Information required in case of proposal for renewal of existing/earlier  contracts 

6. 
a. 
b. 

 
 

 

THE TRACK RECORD OF TRADING IN THE CONTRACT LIKE :‐ 

Trading volume 
Open interest 

Page 7 of 8 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

c. 
 
d. 
 
e. 
 
f. 
 
g. 
 
h. 
 
i. 
 
j. 
 
k. 
 
l. 
 
m.   
n. 
 

o. 

p. 

 

 

7. 

8. 

9. 
10. 

Deliveries 
Market participation 
Price movement 
Trade versus delivery 
Order versus actual trade 
Average trade size at Exchange
Actual production versus actual delivery through  exchange trading platform 
Preferred lot size in physical market
Justification for introduction 
Whether the contract is traded on other exchanges? 
Justification for span of the contract 
Any abnormal trade activity / price movements in previous year 
The educational initiatives taken by the Exchanges for the market participants and` feedback 
received from them 
Efforts taken to create/encourage formation of Aggregators for participation in the contract on 
behalf of Farmers/planters 
Status of quarterly progress reports submitted to the regulator. 

Status  of  awareness  programmes  for  Hedgers/Potential  Hedgers/Industry 

associations/processors etc. organised during last 1 year. 
Any other information considered relevant 
ANY  OTHER COMMENTS/ EXPLANATIONS  TO OFFER, IF ANY (IN BRIEF) 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Page 8 of 8 

Annexure 2 

 

Exchange wise list of contracts approved for continuous trading 

 

Exchange Name 

Contracts approved for continuous trading 

Multi Commodity Exchange of 
India Ltd.  

National Commodity & 
Derivatives Exchange Ltd. 

National Multi Commodity 
Exchange of India Ltd. 

Aluminium,  Aluminium  Mini,  Brent  Crude  Oil,  Cardamom, 
Copper, Copper Mini, Cotton, Crude Palm Oil, Crude Oil, Dhaniya, 
Gold, Gold Guinea, Gold Mini, Gold Petal, Gold Petal Delhi, Lead, 
Lead  Mini,  Mentha  Oil,  Natural  Gas,  Nickel,  Nickel  Mini,  Silver, 
Silver1000, Silver Mini, Silver Micro, Zinc, Zinc Mini 
Barley,  Chilli,  Copper  Cathode,  Cottonseed  Oil  Cake,  Crude  Oil,  
Crude Palm  Oil, Dhaniya,  Gold Hedge, Guar Gum, Guar Seed  (2 
MT),  Guar  Seed  (10  MT),  Jeera,  V‐797  Kapas,  Maize  (Kharif), 
Maize  (Rabi),  Rape/Mustard  Seed,  Refined  Soy  Oil,  Shankar 
Kapas, Soyabean,Steel Long, Sugar M, Turmeric, Wheat 
Cardamom,  Castor  Seed,  Coffee  Rep  Bulk,  Isabgulseed,  Copra, 
Pepper, Rape/Mustard Seed, Raw Jute, Rubber, Sacking, Soy Oil, 
Guar Seed

 

 

Page 9 of 8 

