 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DEICE/CIR/P/2016/94                      September 26, 2016 
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 

 

Sir / Madam, 

Sub.: Investor Protection Fund (IPF) and its related matters 

 

1.  As  per  Section  131(B)  of  Finance  Act,  2015  all  rules,  directions,  guidelines, 
instructions, circulars, or any like instruments, made by the erstwhile FMC or the 
Central  Government  applicable  to  recognised  associations  under  the  FCRA 
would continue to remain in force for a period of one year from the date on which 
FCRA was repealed (September 29, 2015), or till such time as notified by SEBI, 
whichever is earlier. 

2.  Erstwhile  FMC,  from  time  to  time,  had  prescribed  various  norms  and  guidelines 
for  National  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  with  respect 
Investor 
Protection Fund (IPF) through various circulars. This circular is hereby issued to 
consolidate and update such norms and guidelines which will be applicable to all 
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges (Exchanges). 

to 

3.  Constitution and Management of the IPF 

3.1.  The IPF shall be administered by a Trust created for this purpose. 

3.2.  The IPF Trust shall comprise of two eminent persons and one independent 
Director  on  the Board of  the Exchange  (these  names  will  be  suggested  by 
the Exchanges and approved by SEBI), and the MD/CEO of the Exchange. 

3.3.  The  sitting  fee  payable  to  the  Trustees  should  be  fixed  only  with  the  prior 

approval of SEBI. 

3.4.  Exchanges shall provide the secretariat for the IPF Trust/Committee. 

3.5.  Exchanges shall ensure that the funds in the IPF are well segregated from 
that  of  the  Exchange  and  that  the  IPF  is  immune  from  any  liability  of  the 
Commodity Derivatives Exchanges. 

3.6.  Exchanges  shall  disclose  in  their  financial  statements,  the  IPF  trust  as  a 
related  party  as  well  as  the  details  of  transactions  between  the  respective 
exchanges and IPF trust as per Accounting Standard AS-18. 

Page 1 of 4 

4.  Contributions to the IPF 

 

 

 
The IPF will be funded as follows: 
 
4.1.  All  the  penalties  levied  and  collected  by  the  Exchange,except  for  the 
settlement related penalties (including penalties from delivery default), shall 
be  part  of  the  IPF  after  deducting  the  cost  of  administration  (such  cost  of 
administration  cannot  exceed  10  percent).  Thus,  Clause  „3.d‟  of  SEBI 
Circular  SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2016/90  dated  September  21, 
2016 stands modified to that extent. 

4.2.  1%  of  the  turnover  fee  charged  by  the  NationalCommodity  Derivatives 
Exchange  from  the  Member/Broker  or  Rs  25  lakh  whichever  is  lower  in  a 
financial year shall go to IPF.  

5.  Manner of filing/inviting claims from the Investors/Clients 

 
5.1.  In  accordance  with  its  bye-laws,  rules  or  regulations,  the  Exchange  shall 
publish  a  notice  inviting  the  legitimate  claimants  to  file  claims  against  the 
defaulter  member  within  a  specified  period  of  time  called  as  the  „specified 
period‟. 

5.2.  The specified period shall be a minimum period of 90 days. 

5.3.  Exchanges shall publish the notice in all the editions of at least one English 
national  daily  with  wide  circulation  and  in  at  least  one  regional  language 
daily  with  wide  circulation  at  the  place(s)  where  the  concerned  Exchange 
Member(s)is/are situated. 

5.4.  The  notice  calling  for  claims  shall  be  displayed  on  the  website  of  the 

Exchange for the entire specified period. 

5.5.  The  notice  shall  contain  the  specified  period,  the  maximum  compensation 
limit for a single claim of an investor/client and all other relevant information. 

6.  Eligibility of Claims 

 
6.1.  The  claims  received  against  the  defaulter  member  during  the  specified 

period shall be eligible for being considered for compensation from the IPF. 

6.2.   If any eligible claim arises within three years from the date of expiry of the 
specified  period,  such  claims  will  be  processed  at  the discretion  of  the  IPF 
Trust.  Any  claim  received  after  three  years  from  the  date  of  expiry  of  the 
specified period and not processed by the IPF Trust will be dealt with as civil 
dispute 

6.3.  Any  appeal  against  the  non-entertaining  of  claims  by  the  Trust  shall  be 

referred to the Board of the Exchange for decision.  

Page 2 of 4 

 

 

6.4.  The claims of the retail clients alone shall be eligible for compensation form 
the IPF and in no case the claims of a member or authorized person of the 
member shall be eligible for compensation out of the IPF. 

7.  Determination of Legitimate Claims 

 
7.1.  The  IPF  Trust  may  adopt  the  arbitration  mechanism  at  the  Commodity 
Derivatives  Exchange  to  determine  the  legitimacy  of  the  claims  received 
from the claimants. 

7.2.  The IPF Trust may also seek the advice of the Defaulters Committee of the 

Exchange to sanction payments to be made to the investors. 

8.  Threshold limit for Claims 

 
8.1.  Exchanges  are  free  to  fix  suitable  compensation  limits  in  consultation  with 
the  IPF  Trust.  However,  the  maximum  amount  of  compensation  available 
against a single claim of an investor arising out of default of a member of a 
Commodity Derivatives Exchange shall be Rs 2 lakh.  

8.2.  The maximum available compensation arising out of default by a member of 
an  Exchange  shall  be  Rs  2  crores  in  those  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges whose size of corpus of IPF is  Rs 15 crores or above and shall 
be Rs 25 lakh if the size of corpus is less than Rs 15 crores. 

8.3.  SEBI  shall  review  the  amount  of  compensation  available  against  a  single 

claim from an investor from time to time. 

8.4.  Exchanges shall disseminate the compensation limit fixed by them and any 
change  thereof,  to  the  public  through  a  Press  Release  and  through  their 
Website. 

9.  Disbursements of claims from the IPF 

 
9.1.  The  IPF  Trust  shall  disburse  the  amount  of  compensation  from  the  IPF  to 
the investors and such compensation shall not be more than the maximum 
amount fixed for a single claim of an investor. 

9.2.  Claim  on  the  direction  of  any  other  authority  on  the  Fund  may  be  routed 

through SEBI. 

9.3.  The  Board  of  the  Exchanges  may  utilize  only  the  interest  earned  on  the 
Fund,  subject  to  approval  of  the  Trust,  for  investors‟  awareness  and 
education. The National Exchanges are also permitted to utilize the interest 
earned on the IPF corpus for maintenance of all price ticker boards installed 
at  the  respective  Exchange.Exchanges  shall  submit  the  details  and 
expenditure of each of such programmes on a quarterly basis to SEBI.The 
corpus of IPF shall not be utilized for these purposes. 

Page 3 of 4 

 

 

9.4.  Investment of funds of IPF will be as per the relevant provision of the Indian 
Trust  Act  1882  and  Section  11  (5)  of  Income  Tax  Act,  1961.  The 
Exchangesare  requested  to  ensure  that  the  investment  of  trust  money  is 
done with utmost caution and prudence. 

9.5.  Appeal should be referred to the Board of the Exchange on any decision of 

the Managing Committee of IPF regarding any claim. 

9.6.  In  case  the  National  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchange  is  wound  up,  then 
the  balance  in  the  IPF  lying  un-utilized  with  the  IPF  Trust,  shall  be 
transferred  to  SEBI.  In  such  an  event,  the  funds  will  be  maintained  in  a 
separate  account  and  SEBI  shall  act  as  trustee  of  these  funds.  The  funds 
shall  be  utilized  for  purposes  of  investor/client  education,  awareness, 
research or other such programme as may be decided by SEBI. 

10. The provisions of this circular shall come into effect from September 29, 2016  in 
supersession  of  all  earlier  directives  issued  by  erstwhile  FMC  with  regard  to 
matters related to IPF. 

 

11. The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

take steps to make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules 
and regulations for the implementation of the same. 
bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  members  of  the 
Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  
communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 
this circular. 
 

12. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 
13. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
B J DILIP  
General Manager 

Division of Exchange Inspection and Complaints against Exchanges   
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: dilipbj@sebi.gov.in 

Page 4 of 4 

