 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

         September 27, 2016 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/103 
 
To,  
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
All National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 
 
Sub: Revised Warehousing Norms in the Commodity Derivatives Market for 
Agricultural and Agri-processed Commodities Traded on the National 
Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  

 

 
1.  Warehousing infrastructure and its ancillary services play a  critical role in the 
delivery mechanism of the Commodity Derivatives Market. A robust & credible 
warehousing  infrastructure  is  sine  qua  non  for  an  effective  Commodity 
Derivatives Market that can inspire confidence amongst the market participants 
and  other  stake  holders.  At  the  time  of  the  merger  of  Forward  Market 
Commission  (FMC)  with  SEBI,  with  a  view  to  ensuring  good  delivery  of 
commodities  on  expiry  of  the  futures  contract,  SEBI  decided  to  fasten  the 
responsibility of settlement of the futures contact, including good delivery on the 
commodity derivatives exchanges. With this objective necessary amendments 
were  carried  out  by  inserting  Regulation  44D(2)  in  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012 
("SECC  Regulations"),    by  providing  that  every  commodity  derivatives 
exchange (in short, exchange) shall ensure guarantee for settlement of trades 
including good delivery. 

2.  It is therefore, incumbent upon the commodity derivatives exchanges to  have 
in place comprehensive framework of norms for adherence by the Warehouse 
Service  Providers  (WSP),  warehouse,  assayers  and  other  allied  service 
providers engaged by them so as to exercise a robust mechanism, for ensuring 
good delivery as mandated under the SECC Regulations. In order to facilitate 
good delivery by the commodity derivatives exchanges by providing therein with 
a  set  of  minimum  standards  and  norms  for  compliance  by  the  accredited 
warehouses, the existing norms for exchange accredited WSPs, warehouses 
and assayers have been reviewed.  
 

3.  On the basis of various observations inputs/feedback received during visits to 
different  warehouses,  meetings  held  with  the  WSPs,  national  commodity 

 

Page 1 of 21 

 

 

 
 

derivatives  exchanges  and  other  stakeholders,  it  has  been  decided  that  in 
supersession  of  the  earlier  norms,  the  national  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges  shall  frame  guidelines  in  accordance  with  the  following  revised 
norms for their accredited  WSPs, warehouses, assayers etc .   

 
4.  At  the  outset,  it  is  clarified  that  the  norms  prescribed  in  this  circular  are  the 
minimum requirements/standards for compliance by the exchange accredited 
WSPs,  warehouses  and  assayers  and are  to  be  complied  with  in  addition  to 
those  laid  down  by  Warehousing  Development  and  Regulatory  Authority 
(WDRA), any other government authority from time to time. The Exchanges are 
at  liberty  to  prescribe  additional  norms/guidelines  for  compliance  by  their 
accredited WSPs, warehouses and assayers, if they deem so fit, in addition to 
the norms laid down hereunder, for ensuring good delivery of commodities by 
them. Provided that such additional norms specified by the exchanges are not 
in contravention with the instruction issued in this circular. 

 

 

 

 

 

A.  Accreditation of WSP: 

a)  The  exchanges  shall  follow  a  transparent  process  for  accreditation  of 
WSP  by  issuing  open  advertisements  in  leading  newspapers  and/or 
putting the same up on the exchange website and through a transparent  
selection process thereafter. The selection process being/to be followed 
for such accreditation shall be displayed on the website of the Exchange 
in  advance.  The  accreditation  of  the  WSP  shall  be  done  with  the 
approval of the Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors 
of the Exchange. The exchange shall ensure that the application of the 
WSP/warehouses are processed within a stipulated time frame. 

b)  A WSP can be accredited with more than one exchange. In such case, 
no  exchange  shall  mandate  that  its  WSP  cannot  provide  services  to 
another exchange. However, it shall be ensured that same warehouse 
may not be shared by more than one Exchange. 

c)  The  accreditation  of  a  WSP  shall,  unless  any  expulsion  proceedings 
pending  against  it,  be  subject  to  renewal  after  a  period  of    3  years 
considering WSP’s performance during accreditation, quality of services 
and  number of  client  complaints  and effective  resolutions  thereof  etc.. 
The renewal shall be approved by the Risk Management Committee of 
the Exchange. During the renewal process, the Exchange and the WSP 
shall continue to be responsible for the commodities stored till their Final 
Expiry  date.  The  existing  accreditation  as  on  the  date  of  the  circular 

Page 2 of 21 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

would be valid for 3 years from the date of this circular, thereafter would 
be subject to renewal. 

B.  Eligibility and Experience  of WSP/Promoters/Promoter Group of WSP: 

a)  A WSP shall be a corporate body and is in public warehousing business. 

b)  The  Promoters/  Promoter  Groups  of  the  WSP  should  be  responsible 
persons/entities  of  repute  with  a  good  business  reputation  and 
credibility, and who are in the business of public warehousing for at least 
3 years as on the date of their operation  and have knowledge of, and 
experience in, generally accepted warehousing and handling practices 
for Commodities. 

 

The  exchange  in  its  discretion,  may  relax  the  above  norm  of  3  years 
provided that the WSP or its promoter/promoter group: 

i.  Meets all other criteria  
ii.  Submit an undertaking that they shall meet any additional norm 
specified by exchanges within the time frame as specified by it or 
3 years whichever is earlier. 

c)  WSP and Promoters/ Promoter Group of WSP shall have no record of 
serious violation of laws or being expelled by any Exchange in last three 
years. The Exchange can take an appropriate undertaking from the WSP 
in this regard. 

C.  Financial Norms for the WSP: 

a)  Capital  and  Net  worth:  A  WSP  shall  be  a  corporate  body  with  the 

minimum net worth requirement as under: 

i.  An accredited WSP shall have at least, subscribed and paid-up share 

capital of `10 crore.  
 

ii.  An accredited WSP providing  warehousing services shall meet the 

following networth criteria:- 
 

Number of commodities 

Minimum networth 

1  

More than 1  

₹10 crores 
₹25 crores 

Page 3 of 21 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

With  respect  to  the  existing  accredited  WSPs  who  are  not  in 
conformity  with  the  above  norms  prescribed  for  share  capital  and 
networth,  the  exchanges  are  directed  to  ensure  that  such  WSPs 
comply with the above norms latest by March 31, 2018. 

iii.  Further,  the  exchanges  shall  ensure  that  the  value  of  the  goods 
stored in the accredited warehouses of WSP shall not, at any point 
of time, exceed 33 times of the net worth of the WSP. 

iv.  The exchanges may calculate the networth of WSP in the following 

manner. 
 

funds,  benefit 

"the aggregate value of paid up equity share capital plus free 
funds  and 
reserves  (excluding  statutory 
reserves  created  out  of  revaluation)  reduced  by 
the 
investments  in  businesses,  whether  related  or  unrelated, 
aggregate  value  of  accumulated 
losses  and  deferred 
expenditure not written off, including miscellaneous expenses 
not written off." 

v.  In case of reduction in net worth below the stipulated amount, a time 
period of six month may be allowed to the WSP to augment its net 
worth. In the event  the WSP is unable to augment the net worth to 
the requisite level within the allowed time frame, the WSP shall not 
carry out any new business i.e. can not include any new warehouse 
for  new  contracts/commodity/location.  The  exchange  may  take 
suitable  measures,  which  are  disclosed  on  its  website  for  public 
information, with respect to the existing goods handled by such WSP. 

vi.  The  WSP  shall  submit  an  audited  net  worth  certificate  to  the 
exchange  every  six  months  i.e.  at  the  end  of  every  March  and 
September, within 45 calendar days. 

vii. The Annual Financial Statements of the WSPs should be audited and 
submitted to the Exchange within six months of the end of Financial 
Year.  Further, each WSP shall also be required to file its unaudited 
quarterly financial statements for all the quarters of a financial years 
to the exchange, within 45 calendar days of the date of a quarterly 
statement, 

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 21 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

b)  Security Deposit: The WSP seeking accreditation with an exchange is 
required  to  furnish  a  refundable  security  deposit  along  with  the 
application form. 

i.  Such security deposit shall be a minimum amount of `50 lakhs. 
ii.  Security  deposit  shall  not  be  released  until  six  months  after 
cancellation  or  revocation  or  surrender  of  the  accreditation  of  the 
WSP  or  until  after  satisfaction  of  every  claim  against  the  deposit, 
whichever is later.  

iii.  Such security deposit shall be in form of cash or cash equivalent like 

Bank Fixed Deposits, Bank Guarantees etc. 

c)  Financial Security Deposits (FSD):  

i.  The  WSP  shall  furnish  FSD  in  addition  to  the  security  deposit  as 

under:-  

Value of Goods stored 
Upto ₹250 crores 

Above  ₹250  crores  and  upto  -
₹500 crores  
Above ₹500 crores 

 

FSD 
3%  of  the  aggregate    value  of 
stored commodities 
4%  of  the  aggregate    value  of 
stored commodities 
5%  of  the  aggregate    value  of 
stored commodities 

ii.  The FSD shall be in form of liquid assets with applicable haircuts and 

concentration limits as listed below:- 

Minimum haircut  Limits 
Item 
Cash 
0 
Bank Fixed Deposit  0 
0 
Bank Guarantees 
Securities  of 
the 
10% 
Central Government 

No 
minimum 25% 
 
 

Limit 

but 

 

iii.  The exchanges shall lay down exposure limits either in rupee terms 
or as percentage of the total assets to be received as FSD/SD that 
can  be  exposed  to  a  single  bank  directly  or  indirectly.  The  total 
exposure towards any bank would include Bank Fixed Deposit and 

Page 5 of 21 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Bank Guarantees issued by the bank which have been deposited by 
WSPs. 

iv.  Not more than 1% of such assets deposited with the exchange, shall 
be exposed  to  any  single  bank  which  has  a net  worth  of  less than 
INR  500  crores  and  is  not  rated  P1  (or  P1+)  or  equivalent,  by  a 
recognized credit rating agency or by a reputed foreign credit rating 
agency, and not more than 10% of such deposit deposited with the 
exchanges shall be exposed to all such banks put together. 

v.  A daily monitoring of the FSD vis-à-vis the value of the commodities 
stored needs to be done so as to ensure that the minimum stipulated 
FSD are always maintained with the Exchange. The exchange may 
ask  for  additional  FSD  over  that  stipulated  above,  if  considered 
necessary.  

vi.  The  FSD  vis-a-vis  the  value  of  goods  stored  should  be  marked  to 

market on replacement value on ongoing basis.  

vii. The  exchanges  may  specify  the  liquidity  ratio  (i.e.  Liquidity  Ratio= 
Current Assets/Current Liabilities) for WSPs, however it is desirable 
that such ratio is greater than 1. The Exchanges may, however, keep 
higher ratio. 

 

 

 

 

 

D.  Fit and Proper Criteria: 

a)  The exchange shall ensure that the WSP,  Promoters of WSP, assayers, 
Key  Management  Personnel  (KMPs)  of  WSPs,  warehouses  and 
Assayers  shall  always  be  'fit  and  proper'  to  carry  out  business  of 
warehousing, have adequate knowledge of, and experience in generally 
accepted warehousing and handling practices for Commodities, and are 
competent and willing to operate such a warehouse for which the WSP 
has  a  valid  license/expertise  under  the  appropriate  state  warehousing 
laws in respect of the warehouses concerned.  

E.  Corporate Governance norms for WSP: 

 

a)  Management  and  Employees:  The  exchange  shall  ensure  that  the 
accredited  WSP  has  a  professional  management  team  to  oversee  its 
functioning and operations.  
 

Page 6 of 21 

 
 

 

 

i.  The  exchange  shall  ensure  that  the  Key  Management  Personnel 
(KMPs)  of  WSP    have  adequate  knowledge  of,  and  experience  in 
generally  accepted  warehousing  and  handling  practices 
for 
Commodities,  and  are  competent  and  willing  to  operate  such  a 
warehouse, and do not have any conflict of interest in discharge of 
their functions. 
 

ii.  The  exchanges  shall  ensure  that  the  WSP/Management  of  WSP 
(defined as ‘key managerial personnel’ including whole time directors 
of WSP and their ‘relatives’ as per Companies Act, 2013) or entities 
owned  or  controlled  by  promoters/management  of  WSP/Group 
concerns/associates  directly  or  indirectly  or  persons  ‘acting  in 
concert’ are not allowed, either directly or indirectly, to trade on the 
commodity  derivatives  exchange  in  the  commodity  for  which  it  is 
accredited  by  Exchange.  The  exchange  shall  not  provide  for  any 
exemption in this regard. 
 

iii.  The  Exchange  may  obtain  an  annual  declaration 

the 
compliance officer of WSP to the effect that the WSP/Management 
of  WSP  or  entities  owned  or  controlled  by  management  of 
WSP/Group  concerns  directly  or  indirectly  or  persons  ‘acting  in 
concert’ have not traded on exchange. 
 

from 

iv.  The exchange shall ensure that the WSP has adequate number of  
competent employees at all times who have the experience, capacity 
and ability of operating the business without any conflict of interest.  
 

v.  The  exchange  shall  ensure  that  the  staff/employees  of  the  WSP 
including  the  assayers,  who  are  managing  the  day-today  affairs  of 
the  warehouses, deployed  both  in  the office  of  the WSP  and  in  its 
warehouses,  are  duly  trained  on  their  expected  tasks  through  the 
Exchange’s  delivery  business  related  training  programmes  or  are 
deputed  to  attend  the  certification  programme  on  commodity 
derivatives  and  warehousing  conducted  by  National  Institute  of 
Securities market (NISM). 
 

b)  Compliance officer: The WSP shall appoint a compliance officer who 
shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  with  relevant  Act, 
rules and regulations, notifications, guidelines and instructions issued by 
relevant authorities from time to time. The Compliance officer of the WSP 
shall  ensure  that  all  norms  mentioned  are  followed  by  the  WSP  and 

Page 7 of 21 

 
 

 

 

 

should  issue  a  declaration  to  that  effect  to  the  Exchange,  at  regular 
intervals as directed by the exchange. 

 

from 

the  concerned  warehouses 

c)  Standard Operating Procedure(SOP):The WSP shall have a SOP and 
the exchange shall obtain a standard operating procedure in respect of 
all 
the  WSP  before  granting 
accreditation to such warehouses. The SOP of a warehouse may cover 
the following but not restricted to: 
i.  Procedures for acceptance of goods to be deposited 
ii.  Weigh bridge empanelment 
iii.  Procedures for weighing, sampling of goods to be deposited as per 
industry  standards,  Procedure  for  verification  of  commodity  and 
communication to depositors,  

iv.  Procedure for depositing and identifying the Exchange related goods, 
v.  Procedure for maintaining the quality of the goods stored as per the 

exchange contract specification, 

vi.  Procedure for Know your depositor requirements, 
vii. Security  policy  for  ensuring  the  safety  of  the  goods  from  theft, 

burglary etc., 

viii. Procedure  and  guidelines  for  scientific  storage  of  goods,  including 

stacking etc., 

ix.  Procedure  for  losses  caused  due  to  theft,  fire,  burglary,  fraud, 

negligence and force majeure events, 

x.  Procedure for internal verification of stock, 
xi.  Preservations  of  Stock  –  maintenance  of  godown  hygiene, 
maintenance  of  warehouse  structure,  aeration,  periodical 
examination  of  goods,  classification  of  presence  of  insects,  pre-
monsoon precautions etc. 

xii. Selection of Location for offering warehousing services 
xiii. Grievance redressal procedures 
xiv.Role  and  responsibilities  of  employees  (including  outsourced 

employees) 

xv. Model warehouse agreement format 
xvi.Maintenance of surroundings, infrastructure etc. 

 
d)  The WSP shall have good internal systems and controls which should 
meet the operating guidelines, if any, issued by the Exchange from time 
to  time.  The  WSP  shall  have  clear  delegation  of  powers  to  meet 
operational requirement.  

Page 8 of 21 

 

 
 

 

e)  A WSP shall intimate /  notify in writing to the Exchange, if there is any 

material change, prior to making such change. 

f)  WSP shall report to the Exchange within three business days of initiation 
of  any  civil  and  criminal  proceedings  by  or  against  it    and  shall  also 
intimate  the  exchange  if  there  is  probability  of  any  such  legal 
proceedings being initiated involving it ,as soon as the same comes to 
the knowledge of the WSP. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

F.  Know Your Depositor: 

a)  The  WSP  shall  comply  with  Know  Your  Depositor  (KYD)  Policy  as 

prescribed by the Exchange from time to time.  

 

b)  The Exchange and WSP shall at any point of time be able to identify the 
depositor of the goods deposited in registered warehouses, the owner 
of the deposited goods (in case the depositor is an agent of the actual 
owner), and also  the actual beneficiary (in case the depositor and the 
beneficiary are different) of the deposited/stored commodities. 

G.  PAN requirement: 

The exchanges shall ensure that the WSPs are under obligation to provide 
to  the  exchanges  the  details  including  PAN  numbers  of  its  Promoters, 
Promoter  group  entities,  its  holding/subsidiaries/associates  and  other 
related entities, persons ‘acting in concert’, Key Management Personnel at 
the  time  of  accreditation  and  update  the  same  on  periodical  basis  as 
mandated by the exchanges and whenever any change is noted by WSP, 
in this regard. 

H.  Facilities & Infrastructure Requirement for WSP:  

The Exchanges shall ensure that the WSPs to be eligible for accreditation 
have reasonable facility and infrastructure for proper handling and storage 
of commodity such as:-  
 

a)  All its warehouses are well connected with rail and/or road networks 
and have sufficient space for parking and movement of large vehicle; 
 

b)  The  warehouses  are  physically  and  operationally  suitable  for  the 

proper storage of Commodities and :  

Page 9 of 21 

 
 

 

 

i.  are of sound construction and in a state of good repair. The walls, 
the floor and the roof do not permit water seepage or are source 
of any insect infestation; 

ii.  have  adequate  equipment,  installed  and  maintained  in  good 
working order, as may  be prescribed by the Exchange, for the 
movement of commodities into, out of and within the warehouse. 
Further,  the  employees  employed  at  the  warehouses  shall 
undergo training in fire safety and use of fire fighting equipments; 
iii.  have adequate fire fighting equipment installed within its premises 

and have fire escapes and fire hydrant points clearly marked; 

iv.  have  required  ventilation,  installed  and  maintained  in  good 
working  order,  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the  Exchange,  for  the 
proper storage and preservation of quality of goods;  

v.  have adequate lighting arrangement as may be prescribed by the 

Exchange;  

vi.  are free from materials and substances that may adversely affect 

the quality of stored commodities;  

vii. have a safe work environment;  
viii. have ensured adequate security as prescribed by the Exchange 
for protection of stored or handled commodities to prevent  from 
tampering or adulteration; 

ix.  have facilities for  storing  the deliverable  commodities  of futures 
contracts  which  need  to  be  and  piled  properly  in  a  separate 
storage  area  as  specified  by  the  Exchange  thereby  providing 
clear-cut  demarcation  between  Exchange  /  non-  Exchange 
commodities. 
 

c)  WSP  shall  take  utmost  care  in  storing  commodities  for  futures 
contract in accordance with the climatic conditions and the nature of 
commodity stored. 
 

d)  WSP  shall  have  adequate  security  personnel  for  each  of  its 
registered  warehouse  with  required 
immediately 
communicate  any  unlawful  entry,  burglary,  theft  or  damage  or 
potential loss to the deposited goods to the WSP. 
 

facilities 

to 

e)  Each warehouse of an accredited WSP shall assign a special place 
to store the samples used for inspection and testing for purpose of 
further examination and testing. 
 

Page 10 of 21 

 
 

 

 

 

 

f)  WSPs shall take utmost care on daily basis for keeping surroundings 
for  their  respective  warehouses  under  vegetation  control  and  for 
disposal of waste which can otherwise create a favourable habitat for 
rodents  and  other  pests.  WSP  should  regularly  inspect  and  verify  
whether  rodent  control  structures  in  the  warehouse  are  sound  and 
whether there are any pools of water around the facility, which can 
increase the danger of water seepage into it, and take appropriate 
remedial steps. 

 
g)  The  exchanges  shall  ensure  that  the  warehouses  provided  by  the 
WSPs are under absolute control of the WSPs. In case a warehouse 
is a leased property it should be ensured that no third party including 
the  owner/  lessor  of  the  warehouse,  has  any  role  to  play  in  the 
operations  and  managing  the  concerned  warehouses  operated  by 
the WSP.  

h)  The  exchanges  shall  develop  the  SOP  with  respect  to  the 
maintenance,  preservation  and  retrieval  of  data/records/books  of 
accounts which shall be uniformly adopted by each of their accredited 
WSP/warehouse. 

i)  WSP  shall  always  give  priority  to  commodities  meant  for  futures 
contracts delivery while receiving, storing and dispatching goods. It 
should have internal process that enable the Exchange to physically 
verify  by  deputing  its  officials  or  through  any  agencies  /  experts 
engaged  by  it,  the  goods  deposited,  the  facilities  available  in  such 
warehouse,  or  to  inspect  the  level  of  compliance  g  of  the 
warehousing norms stipulated by the exchange/regulator  from time 
to time. 

j)  The WSP  shall undertake to have assaying/testing facilities for the 
commodities  it  intends  to  render  warehousing  facility,  or  shall 
undertake  to  be  associated  with  an  assaying/testing  agency  which 
may  preferably  be  certified  by  one  or  more  national/international 
agencies like NABL (National Accreditation Board for calibration and 
testing Laboratories), BIS etc., as specified by the exchange. 

k)  The WSP shall provide for accurate and efficient weighing, sampling, 
inspection  and  grading  of  the  Commodities  deposited  in  its 
warehouses. The Exchange shall ensure that the WSP has deployed 

 

 

Page 11 of 21 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

personnel  who  have  knowledge  and  experience  in  sampling, 
weighing, inspecting and/or grading of commodities. 

l)  The  WSP  shall  have 

its  own  or  access 

to 

fumigation 

facilities/agencies for pest control activities.  

m) Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  the  WSPs  have  in  place,  necessary 
policies, control and system in place for dealing with the risk that may 
be arising due to the warehouses being used for purposes other than 
commodity derivatives market. 

n)  The  exchange  and  WSP  shall  be  responsible  to  accept  the 
goods/commodities  in  warehouses  which  meets  the  quantity  and 
quality parameters as per the exchange contract specifications. The 
WSP shall take necessary steps to maintain the quality and quantity 
of  goods  stored  in  the  warehouse,  in  accordance  with  the 
conditions/parameters (for maintaining the quality) as laid down by 
the exchanges for each of such commodity.  

o)  The WSP shall display on a daily basis warehouse wise/commodity 
wise  details  of  the  space  available,  goods  deposited  and  held  in 
transit, details of location of the warehouse, particulars of rejection of 
the goods etc, on its website and the archives of such reports shall 
be available on its website. 

p)  The  WSP  shall  not  disseminate  any  information  that  is  false  or 
misleading or disclose any confidential information obtained  during 
the course of their dealings with the exchanges or their positions on 
the  market  or  as  a  result  of  their  position  or  during  the  course  of 
performance of their duties. 
 

I.  Accreditation of assayers: 

a)  The  exchanges  shall  follow  a  transparent  process  for  accreditation  of 
assayers by issue of open advertisement in leading newspapers and by 
putting  up  the  same  on  the  exchange  website.  The  process  being 
followed for such accreditation shall be displayed on the website of the 
Exchange in advance. The accreditation shall be done with the approval 
of  the  Risk  Management  Committee  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the 
Exchange. 

Page 12 of 21 

 
 

 

 

 

 

b)  The  Exchange  shall  conduct  independent  pre-empanelment  due 
diligence  of  Assayers  by  visiting  the  laboratories  and  assessing  the 
testing and certification facilities. The exchanges shall give preference 
to the government assayers or to those Assayers who are having testing 
and certification facilities at various locations across India. In addition to 
the  empanelment  of  assayers  for  deployment  by  the  WSPs  at  their 
warehouses,  the  exchange  shall  also  identify  and  empanel  separate 
independent assayer(s) at each such delivery location where the market 
participants can independently get their goods/commodities assayed, at 
the time of depositing into or withdrawing such commodities/goods from 
a warehouse. However, if the original empanelled assayers engaged by 
WSP at a delivery centre happened to be Government assayer, then the 
need  for  empanelling  an  additional  independent  assayer  may  be 
dispended with. 

c)  The  exchanges  shall  ensure  that  the  empanelled  assayers  work 
independently and their operations are governed by prescribed Standard 
Operating Procedures (SOPs). The assayers shall be preferably certified 
by  one  or  more  national/international  agencies  like  NABL  (National 
Accreditation  Board  for  calibration  and  testing  Laboratories),  BIS  etc., 
and shall have the facilities as laid down by the exchanges from time to 
time. 

 

J.  Warehouses at delivery centres: 

a)  The  exchanges  shall  ensure  that  all  the  warehouses  of  a  WSP 
accredited  by  them  are  registered  with  the  statutory  authority  viz., 
WDRA.  The  exchanges  shall  take  necessary  steps  to  ensure  that 
warehouses which are not registered with the WDRA are registered by 
WDRA within 6 months from the date of such accreditation, failing which 
the accreditation given to the WSP in respect of such warehouses shall 
expire. 

b)  The exchanges shall have at least one warehouse at each of the delivery 
centres (as specified in the contract specification) at the time of launch 
of contract itself and address of such warehouses shall be mentioned in 
the contract specifications. 

c)  The  exchanges  may  accredit  warehouses  of  a  WSP  within  100  kms 
radius  of  the  delivery  centres  depending  on  the  feasibility  and 
requirements, in respect of all commodities.  

 

 

Page 13 of 21 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

K.  Insurance: 

a)  The WSP shall at all times ensure to fully cover   under insurance, the 
value  of  goods  stored  at  exchange  approved  warehouses  against  all 
potential perils relevant to the commodities for which insurance cover is 
available and necessary.  

b)  The WSP shall undertake to take insurance cover for risks such as viz. 
flood,  cyclone,  earthquake  and 
Fire  and  allied  perils 
spontaneous combustion, Burglary and Theft and special perils covering 
riots, strikes and terrorism. 

including 

c)  The  WSP  shall  take  Fidelity  guarantee  &  crime  insurance  and 
Professional  indemnity  cover  to  cover  all  deliverable  stocks  on  the 
exchange.  

d)  The  value  of  goods  to  be  insured  should  be  marked  to  market  on 

replacement value on ongoing basis.  

 

 

 

L.  Monitoring/Inspection/Audit of warehouses by WSPs and Exchanges: 

a)  Periodic  inspection/audit  by  WSPs:  The  WSP  should  ensure  that 
there  is  periodic  inspection/audit  of  the  warehouse  as  well  as  the 
commodities stored in the warehouses. 

i. 

Inspection  staff  must  be  independent  of  the  employees  /  staff 
deputed at the registered warehouse. 

ii.  The  inspection/audit  report  is  submitted  to  the  Exchange  within  a 

week of the completion of such inspection/audit.  

iii.  The Exchange shall ensure that the physical counting of stocks and 
their reconciliation with the corresponding electronic records is done 
periodically.  

b)  The  WSP  shall  allow  the  members  /clients  holding  electronic  credit 
balances to do physical inspection of their goods. However, the request 
for such physical inspection would have to be submitted to the Exchange 
and  the  Exchange  after  verification  of  such  request,  shall  forward  the 
same  to  the  concerned  WSP  for  allowing  such  inspection  within  a 
stipulated time.  

Page 14 of 21 

 
 

 

 

 

c)  Periodic  inspection/audit  of  warehouses  by  the  exchange:  The 
Exchange shall ensure that independent audit of the stocks and other 
facilities in the warehouses is carried out by engaging expert agencies, 
at regular intervals. 

i.  Such inspections shall be carried out at least twice in each accredited 
warehouse in a calendar year with a gap of not more than six months 
between two inspections/audits of same warehouse. 

ii.  In  addition  to  the  above,  the  audit  may  also  be  conducted  on  risk 
profiling,  as  identified  by  the  Exchange.  For  this  purpose,  the 
Exchange shall form a panel of independent expert agencies and the 
cost of such audit shall be borne by the respective Exchange. 

iii.  The  result  of  such  audit/audit  report  shall  be  displayed  by  the 
Exchange on its website immediately after the completion of the audit 
and submission of report by the auditor.  

iv.  The  exchanges  shall  prepare  a  panel  of  such  independent  expert 
agencies for carrying out inspection of warehouses, which shall also 
be  reviewed  by  the  Exchange  from  time  to  time.  In  addition,  the 
Exchanges shall also conduct in-house physical audit of accredited 
warehouses at regular intervals.   

v.  Exchange  should  also  carry  out  surprise  inspections  of 
warehouses as and when such exigencies arise in terms of the 
prescribed norms. 

vi.  The  exchange  shall  have  a  policy  of  rotation  of  such  independent 
expert agencies for carrying out inspection after every 3 years with a 
provision for  'cooling off' period of 1 year. 

vii. The exchange shall have a detailed inspection manual for carrying 

out the audits and inspections of the WSP/warehouses concerned. 

 

d)  Monitoring  of  warehouses  by  exchange:  The  exchanges  shall  be 
responsible for the monitoring the warehouses of their accredited WSPs. 
In this regard : 
i.  Norms  relating  to  the  monitoring  of  warehouses  shall  be  placed  in 

public domain. 

ii.  A  deliberation  on  the  continuous  functioning,  monitoring  and 
compliance of norms by WSPs, warehouse and assayers shall be a 
mandatory  agenda  item  in  all  Board  meetings  as  well  as  the  Risk 
management committee meeting of the exchange. 

iii.  The  Exchange  and WSPs  shall  ensure  that  the  goods  whose  final 
expiry  date  is  over,  are  removed  from  the  concerned  warehouse 

Page 15 of 21 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

immediately,  but  not  later  than  3  months from  the  date of  the final 
expiry date. 

M.  Review of WSPs/warehouses: 

a)  The  Exchange  shall  review  and  appraise  operational  performance  of 
each WSP every year. Based on the operational review the Exchange 
may  adjust  the  allocation  of  commodities  and  the  limit  of  deliveries  at 
various  warehouses  of  the  concerned  WSP  in  accordance  with  the 
results of such performance evaluation and appraisal.  

b)  Additionally,  the  Exchange  may  carry  out  biennial  and  quarterly 
performance  review  of  all  warehouses  accredited  by  it,  taking  into 
account  various  performance  areas  such  as  storage  facilities,  the 
capacity  and  appearance  of  the  warehouse,  business  capabilities, 
business  performance,  accounting, 
level  of 
members/clients, redressal of client grievances, and other factors as the 
Exchange may deem  necessary for its review. 

the  satisfaction 

c)  The exchange may take necessary action against as mentioned in para 
S  against  a  WSP/warehouse,  if  the  warehouse  is  unable  to  meet  the 
requirements  of  an  accredited  warehouse  and  fails  to  improve  the 
standard within the stipulated time.  

 

 

 
N.  Code of conduct: 

a)  The  exchange  shall  frame  necessary  code  of  conduct  for  the  WSPs, 

warehouses and assayers.  

 

b)  The said code of conduct shall be displayed on the exchange website. 

O.  Grievance Cell: 

a)  The  exchange  shall  ensure  that  it  has  a  Grievance  Cell  to  handle 

consumer complaints. 

b)  The  exchange  shall  take  proactive  steps  to  resolve  customer  related 

issues and maintain a record of complaints received / resolved.  

 

 

c)  The exchange shall require the WSP to report the details of complaints 
received / resolved by it/ pending and action taken on the complaints, 
once in very fortnight.  

Page 16 of 21 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

P.  MIS System:  

a)  WSP  shall  have  a  Standard  Operating  Procedure  (SOP)  which  is 
process-dependent and not person-dependent. It is desirable that there 
should be electronic record of information at the WSP and a MIS system 
with an arrangement for flow of real time information from the warehouse 
location  to  the  central  MIS  and  onwards  to  Exchange  electronically. 
The  MIS  should  have  the  capability  to  capture  and  disseminate 
information regarding stocks being held warehouse wise/location wise, 
and the availability of space in the warehouses. 

b)  The exchange shall display on a daily basis warehouse wise details of 
the space available, stock of goods held, name of the warehouse service 
provider,  details  of 
the  warehouse,  particulars  of 
acceptance/rejection of goods by the warehouse concerned, details of 
empanelled assayers and independent assayers, if any, attached to the 
warehouse  etc,  on  its  website.  The  archives  of  such  reports  shall  be 
available on the exchange website. 

location  of 

 

 

c)  The participants/clients willing to deposit goods in Exchange accredited 
Warehouses  would  submit  a  request  to  the Exchange.  The  Exchange 
shall use a transparent and time-bound process for the participants to 
identify  the  warehouse  where  the  participants  can  deposit  the  goods. 
After  such  identification,  the  Exchange  shall  intimate  the  participants 
about  the  time,  place  and  the  warehouse  where  they  can  deposit  the 
goods.  The  Exchange  shall  then  issue  directions  to  the  concerned 
warehouse 
concerned 
participants/clients  after  assaying/  quality  testing  as  per  the  laid  down 
procedure in a transparent manner. The WSP shall accept the goods for 
deposits only at the instruction of Exchange concerned. 

accepting 

the 

for 

deposits 

from 

Q.  Surrender/Cancellation of accreditation:  

a)  Any WSP that applies for surrender of its accreditation shall submit  its 
Application for Surrender to the Exchange for evaluation and approval. 
 

b)  The exchange may cancel the accreditations a WSP if it fails to comply 
with the provisions of the rules/regulations specified by it and intimate 
the  same  to  the  market  participants  through  circular.  Further,  the 
exchange  shall  put  in  place  a  cancellation  policy  for  WSP  in  public 

Page 17 of 21 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

domain.  However,  the  exchange  shall  offer  the  WSP  concerned  an 
opportunity  of  being  heard  and  take  a  decision  on  cancellation  after 
considering the explanation of the WSP. 
 

c)  A WSP that surrenders its accreditation or its accreditation is cancelled, 

shall attend to the following matters urgently: 
i.  All commodities for futures contract delivery shall be dispatched out 

of the warehouse or converted to physical commodities; 

ii.  All liabilities and debts vis-a-vis the Exchange , Member and Clients 

shall be settled; 

iii.  There  is  no  obligation  on  its  part  to  deliver  goods  to  the  clients 

pertaining to their trades on the exchange platform, and 

iv.  No  customer  complaints  pertaining 
warehouses are pending for redressal. 

to  any  of 

its  registered 

d)  SD and FSD shall be returned in accordance with the Exchange’s rules, 
keeping aside 10% of such deposits with the exchange, which shall not 
be  released  until  six  months  after  cancellation  or  surrender  of 
accreditation  of  the  WSP  or  until  satisfaction  of  all  claims  against  the 
deposits made in its warehouses, whichever is later.  
 

e)  A WSP which surrenders its accreditation with the exchange shall not be 

eligible to provide its services to the exchange for a period of 3 years. 
 

f)  Once the accreditation of a WSP is cancelled or WSP is expelled by an 
exchange  then  it  shall  not  be  eligible  to  provide  its  services  to  any 
commodity derivatives  exchanges for 3 years. 
 

g)  Adequate  notice  intimation  to  general  public  /  clients  should  be  given 
through widely published newspapers and website etc. before accepting 
the surrender of WSP or cancellation/expulsion of the WSP. 

R.  Business Continuity Plan: 

A WSP shall put in place, a business continuity plan and submit such plan 
to the exchanges.  

S.  Actions against WSPs: 

a)  The  Exchange  may  frame  byelaws/rules/regulations/guidelines  for  its  
accredited WSPs to rectify correct their misconduct or misconduct on the 

Page 18 of 21 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

part  of  any  of  its  approved  warehouses  used  for  storing  goods  for 
delivery  on  exchange  platform.  The  exchanges  may  also  direct  the 
WSPs  to  indemnify  an  entity  aggrieved  by  the  delivery  process  of  its 
warehouse or, in serious cases of misconduct/malfeasance, revoke the 
accreditation  of  the  concerned  warehouse  or/and  hold  the  WSP 
accountable  for  any  legal  liabilities,  if  the  concerned  erring  WSP/ 
warehouse engages in any of the following offences:  
 

refuses to accept delivery without any bonafide reasons or, issues a 
falsified certificate of delivery;  

  violates  any  of  the  Exchange’s  rules  or  limits  the  movement  of  a 

deliverable commodity into or out of the warehouse;  

  discloses any confidential business information relating to a buyer or 

seller or a futures contract;  

  provide inaccurate or incomplete information, conceal the truth of the 

facts; 

  engages in the futures trading activities; or  
  engages in any other behaviour in breach of the Exchange’s rules; or 
  any other offence not listed above. 

However,  the  above  actions  may  be  initiated  only  after  taking  due 
approval from the Risk management Committee. 

b)  The  accredited  WSP  shall  be  liable  for  any  losses  resulting  from  any 
action or inaction on its part or on the part of its warehouses that prevents 
the buyer or seller from exercising, in whole or in part, their rights. The 
Exchange shall compensate the aggrieved client for any such losses that 
have been appropriately established by debiting the FSD of WSP held 
with  the  exchange,  in  accordance  with  its  applicable  rules,  and  WSP 
shall within 7 days replenish the FSD as required. 

T.  Cold Storages: 

In  case  of  any  commodity  which  generally  require  storage  in  the  cold 
storages, the exchanges shall ensure that such commodities are stored in 
cold storages only.  

 
U.  Status report: 

a)  The Exchanges shall upload a status report on their websites by 5th of 
every month giving the details of the number of applications received for 

Page 19 of 21 

 

accreditation of warehouses, Warehouses registered with WDRA during 
the month, registration pending with WDRA, warehouses pending with 
Inspecting  Agencies,  accreditation/registration  of  warehouses  rejected 
by Exchange/WDRA with reason for the same, etc.  

 
 

 

b)  The archives of such reports shall be available on the exchange website. 

 
5.  The  exchanges  shall  put  in  place  necessary  arrangements  for  ensuring 
compliance with the provisions of the Regulation 44D(2) of SECC Regulations 
regarding guarantee for settlement of trades including good delivery.  Further, 
the  exchanges  have  necessary  arrangements  to  ensure  that  in  the  event  of 
bankruptcy or insolvency of the WSP or other such contingency, there must be 
no restrictions placed upon owners/depositors of the commodity wishing to take 
possession  of  their  individually  identified  commodity  and  remove  it  from  the 
accredited Warehouse(s).  

 
6.  The norms laid down as above shall come into effect from September 29, 2016.  
Wherever,  incremental  requirements  have  been  prescribed  over  the  exiting 
norms, 
the  existing  accredited 
WSPs/warehouses,  as  on  the  date  of  the  circular,  shall  comply  with  the 
incremental requirements, if any,  latest  by  March 31, 2017 (other than share 
capital  and  networth  requirements  for  which  separate  date  has  been 
prescribed). 

the  Exchanges  shall  ensure 

that 

 

 

7.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the members of the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website. 

ii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions 

of this circular in the Monthly Development Reports to SEBI.  

iii.  to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 

regulations.  

 
8.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market.  

9.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in.  
 
 

Yours faithfully,  

 

Page 20 of 21 

 
 

 
 

 

Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 21 of 21 

