Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD3/CIR/P/2016/0000000085 

 

 

 

September 15 , 2016 

 
To 
 
All recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
All Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents registered with SEBI 
All Depositories, 

 
Sir / Madam, 

 
Sub:  Standardization  and  Simplification  of  Procedures  for  Transmission  of 
Securities 

1.  With a view to make the process of transmission of securities more efficient and 

investor  friendly,  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  had  issued  a  circular 

no. CIR/MIRSD/10/2013 dated October 28, 2013. 

 

2.  Pursuant  to  various  investors  requests  and  complaints  from  the  investors  with 

regard to the clarification of certain points mentioned in clause 2 of the Annexure-

A  to  the  aforesaid  circular  dated  October  28,  2013,  SEBI  decided  to  modify 

clause  2  of  the  said  Annexure  -  A.The  modified  Annexure  is  enclosed  with  this 

circular. 

 

3.  All the stock exchanges are directed to make necessary amendments, wherever 

applicable, to the listing agreements for listing of various securities. 

4.  The  depositories  are  directed  to  make  necessary  amendments,  wherever 

applicable, to the relevant byelaws/ rules and regulations/circulars in this regard. 

 

 
 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

5.  The circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities markets and shall be complied with at the earliest and not later than 45 

days from the date of issue of the circular. 

 

6.  This  circular 

is  available  on  SEBI  website  (www.sebi.gov.in)  under 

the 

categories“Legal Framework” and “Circulars”. 

 

 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
MedhaSonparote  
Deputy General Manager  
Tel.No: 022-26449312  
E-mail id:medhad@sebi.gov.in 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

Annexure -A 

Documentary requirement for securities held in physical mode 

 
1. For securities held in single name with a nominee: 
 

i.  Duly signed transmission request form by the nominee. 
ii.  Original or Copy of death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by a 

Gazetted Officer. 

iii.  Self  attested  copy  of  PAN  card  of  the  nominee.  (Copy  of  PAN  card  may  be 
substituted with ID proof in case of residents of Sikkim after collecting address proof) 

 
2. For  securities  held  in  single  name  without  a  nominee,  the  following  additional 

 

 

documents may be sought: 

a.)  Affidavit  from  all  the  legal  heirs  made  on  appropriate  non  judicial 
stamp paper – to the effect of identification and claim of legal ownership 
to the securities.  
 
Provided  that  in  case  the  legal  heir(s)/claimant(s)  is  named  in  the 
succession  certificate  or  probate  of  will  or  will  or  letter  of  administration, 
an affidavit from such legal heir/claimant(s) alone would be sufficient. 
 
b)  For  value  of  securities  upto`  2,00,000  (Rupees  Two  lakh  only)  per 
issuer  company  as  on  date  of  application,  one  or  more  of  the  following 
documents: 

ii. 

i.  Succession  certificate  or  probate  of  will  or  will  or  letter  of 
administration or court decree, as may be applicable in terms of 
Indian Succession Act, 1925.  
In the absence of the documents as mentioned at (i) above,  
   
a.  A  No  objection  certificate  [NOC]  from  all  legal  heir(s) 
executed  by  all  the  legal  heirs  of  the  deceased  holder  not 
objecting  to  such  transmission  (or)  copy  of  Family  Settlement 
Deed duly notarized  
 

and 

 
b.  An  Indemnity  bond  made  on  appropriate  non  judicial  stamp 
paper – indemnifying the STA/Issuer Company. 

 

c)  For  value  of  securities  more  than  `2,00,000  (Rupees  Two  lakh  only) 
per issuer company as on the date of application: 

 
Succession  certificate  or  probate  of  will  or  will  or  letter  of 
administration or court decree, as may be applicable in terms of 
Indian Succession Act, 1925. 

