 

 

CIRCULAR  
 
 

  

 

 
 

September 21, 2016 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2016/90 
 
 
To, 
The Managing Directors/Chief Executve Officers, 
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 
Sir/Madam,  
 
Sub: Staggered delivery, early delivery system, early pay-in facility, penalty on 

delivery default, fixation of FSP and changes in expiry dates 

 

1.  As  per  Section  131[B]of  the  Finance  Act,  2015  all  rules,  directions,  guidelines, 
instructions,  circulars,  or  any  like  instruments,  made  by  the  erstwhile  Forward 
Markets Commission (FMC) or the Central Government applicable to recognised 
associations  under  the  Forward  Contracts  Regulation  Act,  1952  (FCRA)  would 
continue to remain in force for a period of one year from the date on which FCRA 
was  repealed  (September  29,  2015),  or  till  such  time  as  notified  by  SEBI, 
whichever is earlier. 
 

2.  Erstwhile  FMC,  from  time  to  time,  had  prescribed  various  norms  for  National 
Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  related  to  staggered  delivery,  early  delivery 
system,  early  pay-in  facility,  penalty  on  delivery  default,  fixation  of  Final 
Settlement Price (FSP) and changes in expiry dates.  This circular is beingissued 
to  consolidate  and  update  such  norms  prescribed  for  National  Commodity 
Derivatives Exchanges by the erstwhile FMC.  

 
3.  Accordingly, the following are prescribed: 

 

a.  Staggered delivery 

In all futures contracts for which staggered delivery is mandated, the framework 
shall be as given below: 
 

•  The  tender  period  shall  start  with  onset  of  the  applicable  staggered 
delivery  period.  In  case  the  day  happens  to  be  a  Saturday,  Sunday  or 
exchange holiday, the tender period shall start from the next working day. 
•  Seller/buyer shall have an option of marking an intention of giving/taking 
delivery  on  any  day  from  start  of  the  tender  period  up  to  expiry  of  the 
contract.  

•  Exchange shall allocate delivery to buyers having open long position as 
per  random  allocation  methodology  to  ensure  that  all  buyers  have  an 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 

equal opportunity of being selected to receive delivery irrespective of the 
size or  
 
value of the position. However, preference may be given to buyers who 
have marked an intention of taking delivery. 
If  the  tender  date  is  T,  then  pay-in  and  pay-out  shall  happen  latest  by 
T+2th working day. 

•  Open  position  on  expiry  of  the  contract  would  result  in  compulsory 
delivery  and  would  be  settled  at  Final  Settlement  Price  (FSP)  of  the 
respective contracts and pay-in and pay-out shall happen latest by the 2nd 
working day after expiry.  

• 

b.  Early delivery system 

In  all  futures  contracts  for  which  early  delivery  system  is  mandated,  the 
framework shall be as given below: 

a.  An early delivery period may be provided during E-14 to E-1 days (where 
E  stands  for  expiry  day)  of  the contract during which buyers/sellers  can 
give intention to take/give delivery. If the intentions of the buyers/sellers 
match,  then  the  respective  positions  will  be  closed  out  by  physical 
deliveries. The process of pay in and pay-out will be completed on T + 2 
basis, where 'T' stands for the day on which matching has been done. 

b.  If there is no intention matching for delivery between sellers and buyers, 
then  such  delivery  intention  will  get  automatically  extinguished  at  the 
close of E-1 day. The intentions can be withdrawn during the course of E-
14 to E-1 day if they remained unmatched 

c.  In  respect  of  delivery  defaults  after  the  matching  of  delivery  intentions, 
penalty  provisions  as  applicable  in  the  case  of  delivery  defaults  in 
compulsory delivery contracts will be applied. 

d.  On the expiry of the contract, all outstanding positions would be settled by 
delivery and all the penalty provisions for delivery default applicable in the 
compulsory delivery contracts shall apply. 

 

 

c.  Early pay-in facility 

Exchanges  shall  provide  early  pay-in  facility  to  market  participants  permitting 
market  participants  to  deposit  certified  goods  to  the  Exchange  accredited 
warehouse  against  relevant  futures  contracts  sold.  For  such  short  positions 
against which early pay-in has been made, based on risk perception, exchanges 
may  exempt  imposition  of  all  types  of  margins.  However,  Exchanges  shall 
continue to collect mark to market margins from such market participants against 
such positions. 
 
In  case  of  compulsory  delivery  and  seller’s  option  contracts,  delivery  to  the 
extent  of  open  position  at  the  expiry  of  the  contract  shall  be  mandatory  after 
claiming early pay-in facility on the position. The exchanges should provide for 
extremely  strict  penalties  including  disciplinary  actions  against  such  members 
who fail to do so. 
 

d.  Penalty on delivery default 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 

Penalty  on  seller  in  case  of  delivery  default  (default  in  delivery  against  open 
position  at  expiry  in  case  of  compulsory  delivery  contracts,  default  in  delivery 
after giving intention for delivery) shall be as follows: 
 
Futures  contracts  on  agri-commodities:  3%  of  Settlement  Price  +  replacement 
cost  (difference  between  settlement  price  and  average  of  three  highest  of  the 
last  spot  prices  of  5  succeeding  days  after  the  commodity  pay-out  date,  if  the 
average  price  so  determined  is  higher  than  Settlement  Price,  else  this 
component will be zero.)  
 
Futures  contracts  on  non-agri  commodities:  3%  of  Settlement  Price  + 
replacement cost (difference between settlement price and higher of the last spot 
prices on the commodity pay-out date and the following day, if the spot price so 
arrived is higher than Settlement Price, else this component will be zero.)  
 
Exchanges  shall  have  the  flexibility  to  increase/decrease  penalty  for  specific 
commodities depending on situation, in consultation with SEBI. 
 
Norms for apportionment of penalty –  
 

•  At  least  1.75%  of  Settlement  Price  shall  be  deposited  in  the  IPF  of  the 

exchange 

•  Up  to  0.25%  of  Settlement  Price  may  be  retained  by  the  Exchange 

•  1%  of  Settlement  Price  +  replacement  cost  shall  go  to  buyer  who  was 

towards administration expenses 

entitled to receive delivery 

shall 

have 

 
Exchange 
penal/disciplinary action) in place against intentional/wilful delivery default. 
 
Buyer default shall not be permitted. 

deterrent  mechanism 

appropriate 

(including 

 
e.  Fixation of Final Settlement Price (FSP) 

For  contracts  where  Final  Settlement  Price  (FSP)  is  determined  by  polling, 
unless specifically approved otherwise, the FSP shall be arrived at by taking the 
simple average of the last polled spot prices of the last three trading days viz., 
E0 (expiry day), E-1 and E-2. In the event the spot price for any one or both of E-
1 and E-2 is not available; the simple average of the last polled spot price of E0, 
E-1,  E-2  and  E-3,  whichever  available,  shall  be  taken  as  FSP.  Thus,  the  FSP 
under  various  scenarios  of  non-availability  of  polled  spot  prices  shall  be  as 
under: 

 
Scenario 

Polled spot price availability on 

E0 

E‐1 

E‐2 

E‐3 

1 
2 
3 
4 

Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 

Yes
Yes 
No 
No

Yes
No 
Yes 
No

Yes/No
Yes 
Yes 
Yes

Page 3 of 4 

 

FSP  shall  be  simple 
average  of  last  polled 
spot prices on: 
E0, E‐1, E‐2
E0, E‐1, E‐3 
E0, E‐2, E‐3 
E0, E‐3

Yes 
Yes 
Yes 

Yes 
No 
No 

No 
Yes 
No 

No 
No 
No 

E0, E‐1 
E0, E‐2 
E0 

 

5 
6 
7 
 

 
 
In case of non-availability of polled spot price on expiry day (E0) due to sudden 
closure of physical market under any emergency situations noticed at the basis 
centre, Exchanges shall decide further course of action for determining FSP in 
consultation with SEBI.  
 

f.  Change in expiry date 

Exchange may advance expiry date of running contractin case physical market is 
closed  in  the  notified  basis  centre  on  the  expiry  day  of  the  contract,  due  to 
festivals, strikes, erratic weather conditions, etc. 
 
Decision  about  advancing  expiry  of  running  contractshall  be  intimated  to  the 
trade participants at least 10 days before the revised expiry date. The delivery 
period may be advanced accordingly for contract having staggered delivery. The 
FSP of such contractshall be fixed as per the above procedure (para 3e above 
as per modified expiry date). 
 

4.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect immediately. 

5.  Exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of their 

members and also to disseminate the same on their website. 

 
6.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the interest of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of, and regulate the securities market. 
 

7.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
Shashi Kumar 
General Manager 
Division of Risk Management and Products  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
Email: shashikumarv@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 4 of 4 

