 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 September 27, 2016 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/97   
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  

 

Sub:  Broad Guidelines on Algorithmic Trading for National Commodity 

Derivatives Exchanges 

 
1.  As  per  Section  131(B)  of  Finance  Act,  2015  all  rules,  directions, 
guidelines,  instructions,  circulars,  or  any  like  instruments,  made  by  the 
erstwhile  FMC  or  the  Central  Government  applicable  to  recognised 
associations  under  the  FCRA  would  continue  to  remain  in  force  for  a 
period  of  one  year  from  the  date  on  which  FCRA  was  repealed 
(September  29,  2015),  or  till  such  time  as  notified  by  SEBI,  whichever  is 
earlier. 
 

2.  In  the  past  the  erstwhile  FMC  from  time  to  time  had  issued  norms  on 
Algorithmic  Trading  in  consultation  with  the  Exchanges.  This  circular  is 
being issued to consolidate such norms in one circular. 
 

3.  Any  order  that  is  generated  using  automated  execution  logic  shall  be 

known as algorithmic trading. 
 

4.  The  commodity  exchanges  shall  have  arrangements,  procedures  and 
system capability to manage the load on their systems in such a manner 
so as to achieve consistent response time to all members. The capacity of 
the trading system of the Exchange should be at least four times the peak 
order load encountered and the Exchange system should be upgraded on 
a regular basis. The exchange shall continuously study the performance of 
its  systems  and,  if  necessary,  undertake  system  upgrade,  including 
periodic upgrade of its surveillance system, in order to keep pace with the 
speed  of  trade  and  volume  of  data  that  may  arise  through  algorithmic 
trading.    
 

5.  While approving the algorithmic trading, the Exchanges shall ensure that: 

a.  There  is  clear  classification  of  algorithmic  orders  in  terms  of 
CTCL terminal code/ATS User ID approved by the Exchange for 
algorithmic trading. 

b.  The  orders  of  clients  are  routed  through  member  server  only 
and  client  orders  are  not  placed  directly  to  the  Exchange 
System. 

 

Page 1 of 6 

 

c.  The  Exchanges  shall  not  approve  algorithms  that  may  not  be 

conducive to efficient price discovery or fair play. 

d.  The  Exchange  shall  subject  the  systems  of  the  members  to 
initial conformance tests and ensure that the checks mentioned 
in these guidelines are in place. 

e.  Immediate  Or  Cancel  (IOC)  orders  shall  not  be  allowed  to  be 

placed using algorithmic trading. 

f.  The  algorithms  which  will  ‘take  liquidity’  away  from  the  market 
shall  not  be  approved.  While  approving  algorithmic  strategies, 
Exchanges  shall  record  the  reason  as  to  why  such  strategy  is 
allowed  and  how  it  will  induct  more  liquidity  in  the  contract 
system.  Exchanges  shall  also  make  half  yearly  review  of  effect 
of  the  approved  strategies  on  liquidity  and  would  discontinue  / 
disapprove any strategy which fails to induct liquidity. 

 
 

 

6.  As mini and micro contracts are targeted towards small participants, while 
allowing  algorithmic  trading  in  mini  and micro  contracts  Exchange should 
exercise  caution  and  permit  algorithmic  trading  only  after  taking  into 
account  liquidity  in  the  contract  and  ascertaining  that  it  will  not  put  small 
participants in disadvantage. 

 

7.  Co-Location,  Co–Hosting  or  any  other  facility  or  arrangement  which  puts 
some members in disadvantageous position vis-à-vis other members shall 
not be  allowed.  Algorithmic  trading  shall  not be permitted from  Exchange 
hosted CTCL terminals. 
 

8.  In  order  to  ensure  orderly  trading  in  the  market  and  fair  usage  of  the 
trading  platform  by  all  the  members,  Exchanges  shall  put  in  place  the 
following economic disincentives for daily algorithmic order–to–trade ratio: 

 

Member-wise Daily Order-to-Trade Ratio  
(X) 
Up to 50 
50 to less than 250 (on incremental basis) 
250 to less than 500  (on incremental basis) 
500 or more than 500  (on incremental basis) 

Charges 
(Per order) 

NIL 

1 paise 
5 paise 
5 paise 

 

In case the ratio is 500 or more than 500 during a trading  day, 
the  concerned  member  shall  not    be  permitted  to  place  any  
order  for  the  first    15  minutes  on  the  next  trading  day  (in  the 
continuous trading session) as  a cooling  off action . However, 
the  trading  member  shall be  permitted  to enter transaction  in 
risk  reducing  mode during  such a cooling  off period. 

 

  For  the  purpose  of  calculation  of  daily  Order-to-trade  ratio,  all 
algorithmic orders, i.e. order entry, order modifications and order 
cancellation shall be considered.  

 

Page 2 of 6 

 

 
 

  The algorithmic  orders  entered  and /or  modified  within 1 % of 
the last traded price (LTP) of the respective  contract  shall not 
be  included  in the calculation  of the Order  –to-Trade ratio for 
the  purpose    of  arriving  at  the  penalty  for  higher  order  –  to  – 
trade  ratio. 

  The penalty structure will be applicable for only those members 

who have placed 10,000 orders or more in a day. 

  The  exchange  shall  put  in  place  monitoring  systems  to  identify 
and initiate measures to impede any possible instances of order 
flooding by algorithmic trading. 

 

9.  The Exchanges shall place a limit on numbers of orders per second from a 
particular CTCL ID/ATS User–ID not exceeding twenty orders per second.  
The  limit  of  twenty  orders  per  second  from  a  particular  CTCL  ID/ATS 
User–ID  shall  be  measured  over  a  rolling  period  of  five  seconds  (i.e. 
hundred  orders  for  0th  -5th    second,  hundred  orders  for  1st  –6th  second, 
hundred orders for 2nd to 7th second & so on).  
 
For  number  of  orders  exceeding  twenty  per  second  the  Exchanges  shall 
prescribe economic disincentives and inform the same to the SEBI.  
 

10. The  exchanges  shall  ensure  that  all  algorithmic  orders  are  necessarily 
routed  through  members  servers  located  in  India  and  through  specified 
CTCL ID/ATS User–ID approved by exchange for algorithmic trading. The 
exchanges shall also ensure that these have no interlink with any system 
or ID located/ linked outside India. 
 

11. The exchange shall have appropriate multi-layer risk control mechanism to 
address  the  risk  emanating  from  algorithmic  orders  and  trades.  The 
minimum order –level risk controls shall include the following. 
 

a.  Market orders shall not be allowed to be placed using algorithmic 

trading, only limit orders shall be allowed. 

b.  Daily  Price  Limit  check:  The  price  quoted  by  the  order  shall  not 

violate the daily price limit specified for the contract. 

c.  Maximum  order  size  check:  The  quantity  quoted  in  the  order 
shall  not  violate  the  maximum  order  size  limit  defined  in  the 
contract specifications. 

d.  Net  open  position  check:  The  quantity  quoted  in  the  order  shall 

e.  Market  Price  Protection:  Within 

the  daily  price 

not violate the position limits at member level and client level. 
limit, 

the 
exchanges  may  prescribe  any  other  limit  which  may  be  a  pre  – 
set percentage of LTP. 
 

12. In  the  interest    of  orderly    trading  and  market    integrity,  the  exchanges 
shall  put  in  place  a  system  to  identify    dysfunctional    algorithms  (i.e. 

 

Page 3 of 6 

 

 
 

algorithms  leading  to  loop  or  runaway  situation)  and  take  suitable  
measures , including advising the member, to shut down such algorithms 
and  remove  any  outstanding  orders  in  the  system  that  have  emanated  
from  such  dysfunctional  algorithms.  Further,  in  exigencies,  the  exchange 
should be in a position to shut down the member’s terminal.  
 

13. The exchange may seek details of algorithmic strategies to be used by the 

members for purposes of inquiry, surveillance, investigation etc. 
 

14. Any  event  leading  to  slow  down  or  trading  halt  or  any  other  abnormal 
development  shall  be  immediately  reported  to  Integrated  Surveillance 
Department of SEBI with full details. 
 

15. The  Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  the  member  shall  provide  the  facility  of 
algorithmic trading only upon the prior written permission of the exchange. 
While  considering  such  approval,  the  exchanges  shall  ensure  that  the 
controls  specified  in  these  guidelines  are  fully  implemented  by  the 
member. 
 

16. The other risk management checks already put in place by the exchange 
shall continue and the exchange may re-evaluate such checks if deemed 
necessary in view of algorithmic trading. 
 

17. Exchange  shall  have  an  effective  surveillance  mechanism  to  ensure  that 

only approved algorithmic strategies are used. 
 

18. The  Exchanges  shall  further  ensure  that  their  members  providing  the 
facility  of  algorithmic  trading  comply  with  the  provisions  of  these 
guidelines. The exchange shall specifically ensure that. 
 

 

a.  The  members  maintain  sufficient  deposits  /  funds  for  margin/ 
settlement  obligations,  in  respect  of  the  trades  effected 
through algorithmic facility, whether on own account or client’s 
account  and  that  algorithmic  trading  does  not  result  in 
shortages in margin deposit or settlement obligation. 
 

b.  The  member’s  trades  routed  through  algorithmic  trading  are 

not in the nature of abnormal / manipulative trades. 

c.  The annual compliance report as submitted by member to the 
exchange  includes  a  specific  system  audit  report  of  the 
algorithmic  trading  ensuring  that  the  checks  are  in  place. 
System Audit  of algorithmic trading shall be undertaken  by a 
system auditor  empanelled  by exchanges  who possess any 
of the following  certifications :  

i.  CISA  (Certified  Information  System  Auditors)from  ISACA 

(Information Systems Audit and Control Association) 

 

Page 4 of 6 

 
 

 

ii.  DISA  (Post  Qualification    Certification    in  Information  
System  Audit ) from Institute of  Chartered  Accountants 
of India (ICAI); 

iii.  CISM  (Certified  Information    Securities  Manager)  from 

ISACA: 
iv.  CISSP 

(  Certified 

  System  Security  
Professional)  from  International    Information    Systems 
Security  Certification  Consortium , commonly  known as 
(ISC). 
 

 

Information 

d.  Further,  the  exchange  shall  subject  the  member  systems  to 

more frequent system audits, as required. 

 
e.  The  members  have  the  capability  to  set  up  and  apply  the 
necessary risk control checks at the individual order level and 
client  level  before  each  order  generated  by  the  algorithmic 
trading  is  released  to  the  trading  system  and  implements  the 
following minimum level of checks: 

i.  Daily Price Limit: Orders are not released in violation of 
the daily price limit defined in the contract specification 
or  any  other  limit  which  may  be  prescribed  by  the 
Exchange. 

ii.  Maximum  Order  Size:  Order  are  not  released  in 
violation of the maximum order size limit defined in the 
contract specification. 

iii.  Position  limit:  The  net  position  of  the  client  /  member 
are  not  in  violation  of  the  position  limits  prescribed  for 
the respective commodity. 

further  order(s).  Further, 

iv.  An  algorithmic  trading  shall  account  for  all  executed, 
unexecuted and unconfirmed orders, placed by it before 
releasing 
the  algorithmic 
system  shall  have  pre-defined  parameters  for  an 
automatic  stoppage 
the  event  of  algorithmic 
execution leading to a loop or a runaway situation. The 
member  shall  have  system  to  identify  dysfunctional 
algorithms. 

in 

v.  All algorithmic orders are tagged with a unique identifier 
provided  by  the  exchange  in  order  to  establish  audit 
trail. 

 

f.  The  Exchange  shall  ensure  that  the  member,  desirous  of 
placing  orders  using  algorithms,  submit  to  the  exchange  an 
undertaking that- 

i.  The  member  has  proper  procedures,  systems  and 
technical capability to carry out trading through the use 
of algorithms and  to safeguard algorithms from misuse 
or unauthorized access. 

 

Page 5 of 6 

 
 

 

ii.  The  member  has  real-time  monitoring  systems  to 
identify  algorithms  that  may  not  behave  as  expected. 
Member  shall  keep  exchange 
informed  of  such 
incidents immediately. 

iii.  The member shall maintain logs of all trading activities 

to facilitate audit trail. 

iv.  The  member  shall  maintain 

record  of  control 
parameters,  orders,  trades  and  data  points  emanating 
from trades executed through algorithm trading. 

v.  The  member  shall  obtain  prior  approval  of 
to 

the 
exchange  on  any  modification  or  change 
the 
approved  algorithms  or  systems  used  for  algorithms. 
The  Exchange  shall  ensure  conformance  of  such 
modified  algorithms  or 
the 
requirements specified in these guidelines. 

systems  also 

to 

 

19. The Exchange shall report details regarding algorithmic trading to SEBI in 
in its Monthly Development Report inter-alia incorporating turnover details 
of algorithmic  trading , algorithmic trading as percentage of total trading, 
number  of  members/  clients  using  algorithmic  trading,  action  taken  in 
respect    of  dysfunctional  algos,  status  of  grievances  if  any,  received  and 
processed, etc. 

 

20. The  provisions  of  this  circular  shall  come  into  effect  from  September  29, 
2016 and in supersession of all earlier directives issued by erstwhile FMC 
with regard to matters related to Algorithmic Trading/Co-location/HFT. 
 

21. This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section 
11(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992  to  protect 
the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, 
and to regulate the securities market. 
 

22. All  the  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  are  also  advised  to  bring  the 
provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  members  of  the  Exchange 
and also to disseminate the same on the website. 
 

23. This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 6 of 6 

