भारतीय प्रततभूती और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2016/95 

  

September 26, 2016 

 

The Managing Directors of all Recognized Stock Exchanges and Depositories 

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

Subject: Enhanced Supervision of Stock Brokers/Depository Participants 

 

1.  SEBI constituted a committee on “Enhanced Supervision of Stock Brokers”, which included 

representatives  from  Stock  Exchanges,  Depositories  and  Brokers.  With  a  view  to 

implement  the  recommendations,  the  guidelines  as  Annexed  to  this  circular  are  being 

issued. These guidelines cover the following broad areas: 

 

I.  Uniform nomenclature to be followed by stock brokers for Naming/Tagging of Bank and 

Demat  Accounts  and 

the 

reporting  of 

such  accounts 

to 

the  Stock 

Exchanges/Depositories. 

 

II.  Monitoring  of  Clients’  Funds  lying  with  the  Stock  Broker  by  the  Stock  Exchanges, 

through  a  sophisticated  alerting  and  reconciliation  mechanism,  to  detect  any  mis-

utilisation of clients fund.   

 

III.  Changes  in  the  existing  system  of  internal  audit  for  stock  brokers/depository 

participants  viz.  appointment,  rotation  of  Internal  Auditors,  formulation  of  objective 

sample criteria, monitoring of quality of Internal Audit Reports, timeline for submissions 

of Internal Audit Reports, etc. 

 

Page 1 of 29 

IV.  Monitoring of Financial Strength of Stock Brokers by Stock Exchanges so as to  detect 

any  signs  of  deteriorating  financial  health  of  stock  brokers  and  serve  as  an  early 

warning system to take preemptive and remedial measures. 

 

V. 

Imposition of uniform penal action on stock brokers/depository participants by the Stock 

Exchanges/Depositories in the event of non-compliance with specified requirements. 

 

VI.  Other Requirements: 

a.  Uploading  client's  funds  and  securities  balances  by  Stock  Brokers  to  Stock 

Exchange System and onwards transmission of the same to the clients for better 

transparency.  

 

b.  Clarification on Running Account Settlement  

 

c.  Providing PAN details of Directors, Key Management Personnel and Dealers, to 

Stock Exchanges and any change thereof. 

 

2.  The Stock Exchanges/Depositories are directed to: 

 

 

 

a.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  Stock  Brokers/depository 

participants and also disseminate the same on their websites. 

b.  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations  for  the 

implementation  of  the  above  directions  in  co-ordination  with  one  another  to  achieve 

uniformity in approach. 

c.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this circular 

in their Monthly Development Reports. 

 

Page 2 of 29 

 

3.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the Securities 

and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interest of investors in securities and 

to promote the development of and to regulate the securities market. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Debashis Bandyopadhyay 

General Manager 

Market Intermediaries Regulation and Supervision Department 

 

Encl. : Annexure 

 

 

Page 3 of 29 

Annexure 

 

1.  Naming/Tagging of Bank and Demat Accounts by Stock Broker 

 

1.1.  Bank  accounts  and  Demat  accounts  maintained  by  all  stock  brokers  shall  have 

appropriate nomenclature to reflect the purpose for which those bank/demat accounts 

are being maintained.  

 

1.2.  The nomenclature for bank accounts and demat accounts to be followed is given as 

under: 

 

1.2.1.  Bank account(s)  which  hold  clients funds  shall  be named  as "Name of  Stock 

Broker - Client Account". 

 

1.2.2.  Bank account(s) which hold own funds of the stock broker shall be named as 

"Name of Stock Broker - Proprietary Account". 

 

1.2.3.  Demat  account(s)  which  hold  clients'  securities  shall  be  named  as  "Name  of 

Stock Broker- Client Account". 

 

1.2.4.  Demat  account(s),  which  hold  own  securities  of  the  stock  broker,  shall  be 

named as "Name of Stock Broker-Proprietary Account". 

 

1.2.5.  Demat  account(s),  maintained  by  the  stock  broker  for  depositing  securities 

collateral  with  the  clearing  corporation,  shall  be  named  as  "Name  of  Stock 

Broker-Collateral Account". 

 

 

Page 4 of 29 

1.2.6.  Demat  account(s)  held  for  the  purpose  of  settlement  would  be  named  as  " 

Name of Stock Broker - Pool account". 

 

1.2.7.  Bank  account(s)  held  for  the  purpose  of  settlement  would  be  named  as  " 

Name of Stock Broker - Settlement Account" 

 

2.  Reporting of Bank and Demat accounts maintained by Stock Broker: 

 

2.1.  The  stock  brokers  shall  inform  the  Stock  Exchanges  of  existing  and  new  bank 

account(s) in the following format: 

 

Name and 

Name of 

Account 

IFSC 

Name of 

Purpose of 

Date of 

address of 

the 

Number 

Code 

Account 

Account 

Opening 

Bank 

Branch 

(Own/Client/ 

Settlement) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.2.  The  stock  brokers  shall  inform  the  Stock  Exchanges  of  existing  and  new  demat 

account(s) in the following format: 

 

Name of 

Account 

DP ID  Name of 

PAN 

Sub-type/ tag of 

Date of 

DP 

Number/ 

Account 

Demat Account 

Opening 

Client ID 

Holder 

(Proprietary/ Client/ 

Pool/ Collateral) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 29 

2.3.  Stock  Exchanges  and/or  Depositories,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  ensure  the 

following: 

 

2.3.1.  All  existing  demat  accounts  maintained  by  stock  brokers  are  assigned  the 

appropriate  nomenclature  as  mentioned  above,  within  three  months  from  the 

date of this circular.  

 

2.3.2.  All  existing  bank  accounts  maintained  by  stock  brokers  which  do  not  have  the 

above  mentioned  nomenclature,  shall  be  assigned  appropriate  nomenclature, 

within six months from the date of this circular.  

 

2.3.3.  Details of all existing bank and demat accounts shall be communicated to Stock 

Exchanges by the stock brokers in the format specified above within one month 

from the date of this circular. 

 

2.3.4.  All new bank and demat accounts opened by the stock brokers shall be named 

as per the above given nomenclature and the details shall be communicated to 

the Stock Exchanges within one week of the opening of the account. 

 

2.3.5. 

In  case  of  closure  of  any  of  the  reported  bank  and  demat  accounts,  the  same 

shall be communicated to the Stock Exchanges within one week of its closure. 

 

2.3.6.  Depositories  shall  ensure  that  once  the  nomenclature  for  a  particular  demat 

account  has  been  assigned  by  the  stock  broker,  then  the  same  shall  not  be 

modified. 

 

2.3.7.  Any non-compliance/non-reporting in this regard by the stock broker shall attract 

penal action as per the provisions of Stock Exchanges. 

 

Page 6 of 29 

 

2.3.8.  Based  on  the  list of  stock  brokers  (including  PANs)  provided  by  the  respective 

stock exchanges, Depositories shall also provide stock broker-wise details of all 

the  demat  accounts  opened  by  a  stock  broker  to  the  concerned  Stock 

Exchanges  to  facilitate  reconciliation  with  the  data  submitted  by  the  stock 

broker. 

 

2.4.  In line with the prevalent regulatory requirement, it is reiterated that; 

 

2.4.1.  Stock Broker shall not use client funds and securities for proprietary purposes 

including settlement of proprietary obligations. 

 

2.4.2.  Transfer  of  funds  between  "Name  of  Stock  Broker  -  Client  Account"  and 

"Name of Stock Broker - Settlement Account" and client's own bank accounts 

is permitted. Transfer of funds from "Name of Stock Broker - Client Account" 

to  "Name  of  Stock  Broker  -  Proprietary  Account"  is  permitted  only  for 

legitimate  purposes,  such  as,  recovery  of  brokerage,  statutory  dues,  funds 

shortfall of debit balance clients which has been met by the stock broker, etc. 

For  such  transfer  of  funds,  stock  broker  shall  maintain  daily  reconciliation 

statement clearly indicating the amount of funds transferred. 

 

2.4.3.  Transfer of securities between "Name of the Stock Broker  - Client Account " 

and  individual  client's  BO  account,  “Name  of  the  Stock  Broker  –  Pool 

Account"  and  “Name  of  the  Stock  Broker  –  Collateral  Account"  is  permitted. 

Transfer of securities between ”Name of the Stock Broker - Client Account” to 

”Name  of  the  Stock  Broker  -  Proprietary  Account”  is  permitted  only  for 

legitimate  purposes  such  as,  implementation  of  any  Government/Regulatory 

directions  or  orders,  in  case  of  erroneous  transfers  pertaining  to  client's 

 

Page 7 of 29 

securities,  for  meeting  legitimate  dues  of  the  stock  broker,  etc.  For  such 

transfer  of  securities,  stock  broker  shall  maintain  a  stock  transfer  register 

clearly indicating the day-wise details of securities transferred. 

2.4.4.  The Stock Exchanges shall monitor compliance with the above requirements, 

during inspections and the same shall be reviewed by the internal auditor of 

the broker during the half yearly internal audits. 

 

 

2.5.  As per existing norms, a stock broker is entitled to have a lien on client's securities to 

the extent of the client's indebtedness to the stock broker and the stock broker may 

pledge those securities. This pledge can occur only with the explicit authorization of 

the  client  and  the  stock  broker  needs  to  maintain  records  of  such  authorisation. 

Pledge  of  such  securities  is  permitted, only  if,  the  same  is  done  through  Depository 

system in compliance with Regulation 58 of the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) 

Regulations,1996.  To  strengthen  the  existing  mechanism,  the  stock  brokers  shall 

ensure the following: 

 

2.5.1.  Securities of only those clients can be pledged who have a debit balance in 

their ledger. 

 

2.5.2.  Funds raised against such pledged securities for a client shall not exceed the 

debit balance in the ledger of that particular client. 

 

2.5.3.  Funds  raised  against  such  pledged  securities  shall  be  credited  only  to  the 

bank account named as "Name of the Stock Broker - Client Account". 

 

2.5.4.  The  securities  to  be  pledged  shall  be  pledged  from  BO  account  tagged  as 

"Name of the Stock Broker - Client  Account".  

 

Page 8 of 29 

 

2.5.5.  Stock Brokers shall send a statement reflecting the pledge and funding to the 

clients as and when their securities are pledged/unpledged as given below: 

 

 

A 

B 

C 

D 

E 

F 

G 

H 

Date  Client 

Ledger 

Collateral of client available with 

Code 

debit at 

Broker 

the end 

ISIN/ 

Previo

Total 

Total 

Total 

of trade 

Securit

us 

Quanti

Value 

Value 

day* 

y Name 

day’s 

ty 

(Total 

(Adju

closing 

Quanti

sted 

price 

ty * 

for 

Previo

applic

us day 

able 

closing 

haircu

price) 

t) 

Pledged 

Pledged 

Quantity 

Value 

Borrowing 

Details of 

Pledgee 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Ledger debit would be after adjusting for open bills of clients, uncleared cheques 

deposited by clients and uncleared cheques issued to clients 

 

2.6.  Stock  brokers  shall  not  grant  further  exposure  to  the  clients  when  debit  balances 

arise  out  of  client's  failure  to  pay  the  required  amount  and  such  debit  balances 

continues beyond the fifth trading day, as reckoned from date of pay-in.  

 

2.7.  The  above  requirements  mentioned  under  paras  2.4  to  2.6  shall  be  applicable 

within three months from the date of this circular. 

 

Page 9 of 29 

 

3.  Monitoring of Clients’ Funds lying with the Stock Broker by the Stock Exchanges 

 

3.1.  Stock Exchanges shall put in place a mechanism for monitoring clients’ funds lying 

with  the  stock  broker  to  generate  alerts  on  any  misuse  of  clients’  funds  by  stock 

brokers, as per the guidelines stipulated in para 3.2 & 3.3 below.  

 

3.2.  Stock brokers shall submit the following data as on last trading day of every week 

to the Stock Exchanges on or before the next trading day:  

 

A- 

Aggregate  of  fund  balances  available  in  all  Client  Bank  Accounts,  including 

the  Settlement  Account,  maintained  by  the  stock  broker  across  stock 

exchanges 

B- 

Aggregate  value  of  collateral  deposited  with  clearing  corporations  and/or 

clearing  member  (in  cases  where  the  trades  are  settled  through  clearing 

member)  in  form  of  Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents  (Fixed  deposit  (FD),  Bank 

guarantee  (BG),  etc.)  (across  Stock  Exchanges).  Only  funded  portion  of  the 

BG, i. e. the amount deposited by stock broker with the bank to obtain the BG, 

shall be considered as part of B.  

C- 

Aggregate  value  of  Credit  Balances  of  all  clients  as  obtained  from  trial 

balance  across  Stock  Exchanges  (after  adjusting  for  open  bills  of  clients, 

uncleared  cheques  deposited  by  clients  and  uncleared  cheques  issued  to 

clients and the margin obligations) 

D- 

Aggregate value of Debit Balances of all clients as obtained from trial balance 

across  Stock  Exchanges  (after  adjusting  for  open  bills  of  clients,  uncleared 

 

Page 10 of 29 

cheques  deposited  by  clients,  uncleared  cheques  issued  to  clients  and    the 

margin obligations) 

E- 

Aggregate value of proprietary non-cash collaterals i.e. securities which have 

been deposited with the clearing corporations and/or clearing member (across 

Stock Exchanges ) 

F- 

Aggregate value of Non-funded part of the BG across Stock Exchanges 

P -     Aggregate value of Proprietary Margin Obligation across Stock Exchanges 

MC -   Aggregate  value  of  Margin  utilized  for  positions  of  Credit  Balance  Clients 

across Stock Exchanges 

MF-   Aggregate  value  of  Unutilized  collateral  lying  with  the  clearing  corporations 

and/or clearing member across Stock Exchanges 

3.3.  Based on the aforesaid information submitted by the stock broker, Stock Exchanges 

shall put in place a mechanism for monitoring of clients’ funds lying with the stock 

brokers on the principles enumerated below:  

 

3.3.1.  Funds of credit balance clients used for settlement obligation of debit clients or 

for own purpose: 

Principle: 

The  total  available  funds  i.e.  cash  and  cash  equivalents  with  the  stock  broker 

and  with  the  clearing  corporation/clearing  member  (A  +  B)  should  always  be 

equal to or greater than Clients’ funds as per ledger balance (C) 

Stock Exchanges shall calculate the difference i.e. G as follows - 

 

Page 11 of 29 

G = (A+B)- C 

If  difference  G  is  negative,  then  the  total  available  fund  is  less  than  the  ledger 

credit balance of clients. The value of G may indicate utilization of clients' funds 

for other purposes i.e. funds of credit balance clients are being utilized either for 

settlement  obligations  of  debit  balance  clients  or  for  the  stock  brokers'  own 

purposes. The negative value of G acts as an alert to the Stock Exchanges. 

Thereafter, the absolute value of G shall be compared with debit balance of all 

clients as per client ledger D as follows: 

If the absolute value of (G) is lesser than |D|, then the stock broker has possibly 

utilised  funds  of  credit  balance  clients  towards  settlement  obligations  of  debit 

balance clients to the extent of value of G. 

If the absolute value of (G) is greater than |D|, then the stock broker has possibly 

utilised a part of funds of credit balance clients towards settlement obligations of 

debit balance clients and remaining part for his own purposes. In such cases the 

amount of client funds used for own purpose is calculated as follows: 

 

H= |G| - |D| 

3.3.2.  Funds of clients used for Margin obligation of proprietary trading: 

Stock  Exchanges  shall  thereafter,  verify  whether  the  proprietary  margin 

obligations (across Stock Exchanges) is less than the own funds and securities 

lying with the Stock Exchanges as collateral deposit, as follows: 

 

 

 

Page 12 of 29 

Principle: 

The  sum  of  Proprietary  funds  and  securities  i.e.  (G  +  E  +  F)  lying  with  the 

clearing  corporation/clearing  member  should  be  greater  than  or  equal  to 

Proprietary margin obligations (P) 

If value of G is positive (i.e. A+B > C), then  proprietary funds are lying with the 

clearing corporation/clearing member and/or client bank accounts along with the 

clients funds to the extent of positive value of G. 

The  sum  of  the  proprietary  funds  (positive  value of G),  the  value of  proprietary 

securities (E) and the non-funded portion of bank guarantee (F) available in the 

Stock Exchanges is compared with the Proprietary margin obligations (P). 

If  P  >  (G+E+F),  then  Stock  Exchange  shall  calculate  the  difference  I,  which  is 

the amount of proprietary margin obligation funded from clients assets. 

I = P - (G+E+F) 

If G is negative, then, value of G is considered as 0, as there is no proprietary 

funds lying with the stock exchange. 

The  value  of  I  indicates  the  extent  of  funds  and  securities  of  clients  which  is 

possibly  utilised  towards  proprietary  margin  obligations.  This  value  of  I  acts  as 

an alert to the Stock Exchanges on the possible mis-utilisation of clients' assets 

towards proprietary margin obligations. 

3.3.3. Funds of credit balance clients used for Margin obligations of debit  balance 

clients and proprietary trading: 

 

Page 13 of 29 

Stock Exchanges shall thereafter, verify whether the clients funds lying  with the 

clearing corporation/clearing member are utilised towards margin  obligations of 

debit balance clients and proprietary margin obligations. 

Principle: 

The clients' funds lying with the clearing corporation/clearing member should be 

less  than  or  equal  to  sum  of  credit  clients'  margin  obligations  (MC)  and  free 

collateral deposits available with the clearing corporation/clearing member (MF) 

If  value  of  G  is  negative  (i.e.  A+B  <  C),  then  fund  lying  with  the  clearing 

corporation/  clearing  member  (B)  is  entirely  clients'  fund.  In  such  cases,  B  is 

compared with Margin obligations of credit balance clients and the free deposits 

available  with  the  clearing  corporation/  clearing  member.  The  value  of  J  is 

calculated as under: 

 

J = B - (MC + MF) 

If  value  of  G  is  positive  (i.e.  A+B  >  C),  then  fund  lying  with  the  clearing 

corporation/clearing  member  (B)  may  contain  proprietary  and  clients'  fund. 

Hence,  the  value  of  clients  funds  lying  with  the  clearing  corporation/  clearing 

member i.e. (C-A) shall be considered in the place of B. 

 

In  such  cases,  (C-A)  is  compared  with  Margin  obligations  of  credit  balance 

clients  and  the  free  deposits  available  with  the  clearing  corporation/clearing 

member.  The  value  of  J,  which  is  clients'  funds  utilised  towards  margin 

obligations  of  debit  balance  clients  and  proprietary  margin  obligations,  is 

calculated as under: 

J = (C - A) - (MC + MF) 

 

Page 14 of 29 

The value of  J, if positive, indicates the extent of clients' funds utilised towards 

margin  obligations  of  debit  balance  clients  and  proprietary  margin  obligations. 

This  value  of  J  acts  as  an  alert  to  the  Stock  Exchanges  on  the  possible  mis-

utilisation  of  clients'  funds  towards  margin  obligations  of  debit  balance  clients 

and proprietary margin obligations. 

3.4.  Based  on  the  alerts  generated,  Stock  Exchange  shall,  inter-alia,  seek  clarifications, 

carry out inspections and initiate appropriate actions to protect the clients’ funds from 

being  misused.  Stock  Exchanges  shall  also  maintain  records  of  such  clarifications 

sought  and  details  of  such  inspections.  The  aforesaid  calculations  are  illustrated  in 

tabular format in Table 1, 2 & 3 given at the end of the annexure. 

 

3.5.  Stock Exchanges shall put in place the aforesaid monitoring mechanism within three 

months from the date of this circular and carry out the monitoring of clients’ funds for 

all stock brokers, except for those who are carrying out only proprietary trading and/or 

only trading for institutional clients. 

 

3.6.  Stock  Brokers  shall  ensure  due  compliance  in  submitting  the  information  to  the 

Exchanges within the stipulated time. 

 

4.  Internal Audit of Stock Broker 

 

 

4.1.  SEBI  vide  Circular  MIRSD/DPSIII/Cir-26/08  dated  August  22,  2008  had  mandated 

half yearly internal audit for stock brokers/clearing members. The following additional 

requirements in relation to internal auditors shall become applicable:  

 

4.2.  Appointment and Rotation of Internal auditors 

4.2.1.  Stock Exchanges shall ensure that; 

 

Page 15 of 29 

 

4.2.1.1.  Stock  Broker  obtains  from  the  internal  auditor  the  following  details  and 

shares the same with the Stock Exchange: 

 

a.  Declaration stating that the internal auditor or its directors/partners 

have  no  interest  in  or  relation  with  the  stock  broker  concerned 

other than the proposed internal audit assignment, and 

 

b.  Details  of 

the 

internal  auditor  viz.,  Name,  Address,  PAN, 

Designation  of  Auditor,  Name  &  Address  of  the  Audit  Firm, 

registration  number  of  the  Auditor  and  the  Audit  firm,  any 

regulatory  action  taken  against  internal  auditor/partner/director,  if 

any, etc. 

 

4.2.1.2.  No stock broker shall appoint or re-appoint— 

a)  an  individual  as  internal  auditor  for  more  than  one  term  of  five 

consecutive years; 

and 

b)  an  audit  firm  as  internal  auditor  for  more  than  two  terms  of  five 

consecutive years: 

 

Provided that— 

 

4.2.1.3.  An  individual  internal  auditor  who  has  completed  his  term  under  clause 

4.2.1.2  (a)  above  shall  not  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  as  internal 

auditor for the same stock broker for five years from the completion of his 

term; 

 

 

Page 16 of 29 

4.2.1.4.  An  audit  firm  which  has  completed  its  term  under  clause  4.2.1.2  (b) 

above,  shall  not  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  as  internal  auditor for  the 

same stock broker for five years from the completion of such term;   

Provided further that as on the date of appointment no audit firm having a 

common  partner  or  partners  to  the  other  audit  firm,  whose  tenure  has 

expired  in  a  stock  broker  immediately  preceding  the financial  year,  shall 

be appointed as internal auditor for the same stock broker for a period of 

five years: 

 

4.2.1.5.  The block of five years shall start from FY 2016-17. 

 

4.3.  Formulation of objective sample criteria for Internal Audit 

 

4.3.1.  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall,  in  consultation  with  each  other,  develop  for  each 

theme/area  of  the  internal  audit,  a  pre-defined  objective  sample  criteria,  which 

shall mention not only the sample size but also the method used for arriving at 

the  sample  size.  For  example,  with  respect  to  verification  of  compliance  with 

KYC  norms,  instead  of  the  current  practice  of  selecting  a  minimum  number  of 

KYCs,  the  sample  selected  may  be  a  certain  percentage  of  the  top  clients  in 

each client category (Corporate, Partnership, Individual, Trust, Others) based on 

total  turnover  on  the  Stock  Exchange  and  whose  account  has  been  opened 

during the audit period. For each theme/area of audit, internal audit report shall 

clearly  specify  the  sample  size  verified,  number  of  instances  where  adverse 

observations  have  been  made as  also  the  details  of  the  adverse  observations. 

Stock  Exchanges  shall  issue  detailed  guidelines  regarding  the  above  before 

March 31, 2017. 

 
 
 

 

Page 17 of 29 

4.4.  Monitoring of quality of Internal Audit Reports 

 

4.4.1.  The  Stock  Exchange  shall  every  year  identify  a  certain  number  of  internal 

auditors based on criteria, such as, number and size of stock brokers audited, 

discrepancy  in  findings  of  auditor  vis-a-vis  Stock  Exchange  inspection, 

regulatory  actions  taken  against  the  auditor/partners/directors,  etc.  A  certain 

number  of  stock  brokers  who  have  been  audited  by  these  identified  internal 

auditors shall be selected for inspection by the Stock Exchanges. The selection 

of  these  stock  brokers  shall  be  on  the  basis  of  the  Supervisory  Risk  Rating 

Score  derived  from  the  Risk  Based  Supervisory  System.  Further,  the  sample 

and period of inspection shall be the same as that used for internal audit. 

 

4.4.2. 

In  cases  where  material  deviations  are  observed  between  the  findings  of  the 

internal  audit  report  and  the  Stock  Exchange  inspection  report,  the  Stock 

Exchanges shall caution the stock broker to reconsider the appointment of that 

particular  internal  auditor.  The  same  shall  also  be  brought  to  notice  of  all  the 

stock  brokers  who  are  audited  by  that  particular  internal  auditor.  The  Stock 

Exchange  shall  also  bring  the  deviations  to  the  notice  of  the  internal  auditor. 

The  Stock  Exchange  inspections  shall  be  so  planned  that  at  least  one    client 

(i..e  stock  broker)  of  each  internal  auditor    is    covered  at  least  once  in  five 

years. 

 

4.5.  Submissions of Internal Audit Report 

 

4.5.1.  Stock  Brokers  shall  ensure  that  the  internal  audit  reports  are  submitted  to  the 

Exchanges within two months of the end of respective half years for which the 

audit is being conducted. The due date for submissions shall be as under: 

 

 

Page 18 of 29 

S. No.  Period of Audit 

Due Date for submission 

1. 

2. 

For half year ending September 30th  November 30th 

For half year ending March 31st 

May 31st 

 

 

4.6.  Other requirements 

 

4.6.1.  The Stock Exchanges shall provide a mechanism to enable the internal auditor 

to report directly to the Stock Exchanges in the event of non-cooperation by the 

stock broker. 

4.7.  The above mentioned additional requirements with respect to Internal Audit shall be 

applicable for half year from April 01, 2017 to September, 30, 2017 and onwards. 

 

5.  Monitoring of Financial Strength of Stock Brokers 

 

5.1.  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  monitor  the  following  financial  indicators  and  ratios  of 

stock brokers. 

 

5.1.1.  Financial Indicators:  

 

a. Percentage change in net worth over last year/last submission 

 

b. Percentage change in reserves and surplus or in accumulated losses over last 

year 
 

c. Percentage  change  in  advance/margin/collaterals  from  customers  over  last 

year/submission 
 

 

Page 19 of 29 

d. Percentage change in inter corporate deposits given over last year/submission 

 

 

5.1.2.  Financial Ratios:  

 

a.  (Total  outside  liabilities  i.e. all  liabilities of a  broker except  those owed  to his 

shareholders) / (Net worth) 

 

b. (Value of Investments or advances or loans to group companies or associates 

or firms or entities) / (Net worth) 

 

c. (Value  of  maximum  outstanding  inter  corporate  debt  during  the  year)  /  (Net 

worth) 

 

d. (Value of maximum outstanding  inter corporate debt during the year) / (Share 

capital) 

 

 

 

5.2.  Stock  brokers  shall  submit  financial  statements  to  Stock  Exchanges  in  the  same 

format  as  prescribed  under  Companies  Act,  2013  irrespective  of  whether  they  fall 

under the purview of Companies Act, 2013 or not. The due date for submission of the 

aforesaid  financial  statements  to  Stock  Exchanges  shall  be  the  same  as  prescribed 

under Companies Act, 2013 for submission to Registrar of Companies.  

 

5.3.   No stock broker shall appoint or re-appoint— 

a)  an individual as statutory auditor for more than one term of five consecutive 

years; 

and 

 

Page 20 of 29 

b)  an audit firm as statutory auditor for more than two terms of five consecutive 

years: 

 

Provided that— 

 

5.4.  An individual statutory auditor who has completed his term under clause 5.3 (a) above 

shall not be eligible for re-appointment as statutory auditor in the same stock broker for 

five years from the completion of his term. 

 

5.5. An statutory audit firm which has completed its term under clause 5.3 (b) above, shall 

not be eligible for re-appointment as statutory auditor in the same stock broker for five 

years from the completion of such term: 

5.6. Provided  further  that  as  on  the  date  of  appointment  no  statutory  audit  firm  having  a 

common  partner  or  partners  to  the  other  audit  firm,  whose  tenure  has  expired  in  a 

stock broker immediately preceding the financial year, shall be appointed as statutory 

auditor of the same stock broker for a period of five years: 

 

5.7. The above provisions shall be applicable from April 01, 2017 

 
6.  Standard Operating Procedures for Stock Brokers/Depository Participants - Actions 

to  be  contemplated  by  Stock  Exchanges/Depositories  for  any  event  based 

discrepancies 

 

6.1.  As per existing norms, Stock Exchanges /Depositories are required to monitor their 

members/depository participants. It has been decided that the Stock Exchanges and 

Depositories  shall  frame  various  event  based  monitoring  criteria  based  on  market 

dynamics and market intelligence. An illustrative list of such monitoring criterias are 

given below:  

 

Page 21 of 29 

 

6.1.1.  Monitoring criteria for Stock Brokers 

a.  Failure to furnish Networth certificate to Stock Exchange within 60 days for 

half year ending September 30th and half year ending March 31st. 

b.  Failure  to  furnish  Internal  Audit  report  to  Stock  Exchanges  for  half  year 

ending  September  30th  by  November  30th  and  half  year  ending  March  31st 

by May 31st. 

c.  Failure  to  furnish  Annual  Audited  Accounts  by  September  30th  of  the 

relevant year. 

d. 

 Failure to co-operate with the Stock Exchange for conducting inspection by 

not  submitting  all  the  information/records  sought  within  45  days  from  the 

due date specified in the letter of intimation. 

e.  Failure to submit data for the half yearly Risk Based Supervision within the 

time specified by Stock Exchange.  

f. 

Failure to assign appropriate Bank and Demat nomenclature within the time 

specified and to report the same to the Stock Exchanges. 

g.  Failure to report new bank and demat accounts opened by the stock broker 

to exchanges within the time specified for reporting of such accounts. 

h.  Complaints pending for more than 30 days and total value of which is more 

than 50 per cent of the Networth of the Broker. 

i. 

If, at any point of time, Net worth of the Broker is negative or lower than 75 

per cent of the requirement. 

j. 

In case stock broker shares incomplete/wrong data or fails to submit data on 

time. 

k.  Failure  to  submit  financial  statements  as  per  timeline  prescribed  under 

Companies Act, 2013 

 

 

Page 22 of 29 

6.1.2.  Monitoring criteria for Depository Participants 

a. 

Failure to furnish Networth certificate to Depository for year ending March 

31st by September 30th. 

b. 

Failure  to  furnish  Internal  Audit  report  to  Depository  for  half  year  ending 

September 30th by November 15th and half year ending March 31st by May 

15th. 

c. 

Failure  to  co-operate  with  the  Depository  for  conducting  inspection  by  not 

submitting  all  the  information/records  sought  within  45  days  from  the  due 

date specified in the letter of intimation. 

d. 

Failure to submit data for the half yearly Risk Based Supervision within the 

time specified by Depositories.  

e. 

Failure to furnish half yearly compliance certificate/report to Depository for 

half year ending June 30th by July 30th and half year ending December 31st 

by January 31st.  

f. 

Failure  to  furnish  monthly  Investor  grievance  report  by  10th  day  of  next 

month.  

g. 

In  case  depository  participant  shares  incomplete/wrong  data  or  fails  to 

submit data on time. 

h. 

Failure  to  submit  financial  statements  as  per  timeline  prescribed  by  the 

Depositories. 

6.1.3.  The Stock Exchanges and Depositories shall jointly frame uniform penal action 

on  stock  brokers  and  depository  participants  respectively,  in  the  event  of  non-

compliance with the illustrative criteria listed above. Provided further that Stock 

Exchanges  and  Depositories  may  also  frame  more  stringent  criteria  than  as 

mentioned above. 

 

6.1.4.  The above provisions shall be applicable 3 months from the date of this circular. 

 

Page 23 of 29 

 

7.  Uploading  clients'  fund  balance  and  securities  balance  by  the  Stock  Brokers  on 

Stock Exchange system 

 

The Stock Exchanges shall put in place a mechanism and ensure that stock brokers 

upload  the  following  data  on  a  monthly  basis  for  every  client  onto  each  Stock 

Exchange system where the broker is a member 

  

7.1.1.  Exchange-wise  end  of  day  fund  balance  as  per  the  client  ledger,  consolidated 

across  all  segments  and  also  net  funds  payable  or  receivable  by  the  broker 

to/from the client across all Exchanges  

 

7.1.2.  End  of  day  securities  balances  (as  on  last  trading  day  of  the  month) 

consolidated  ISIN  wise  (i.e.,  total  number  of  ISINs  and  number  of  securities 

across all ISINs) 

 

7.1.3.  For every client, number of securities pledged, if any, and the funds raised from 

the pledging of such securities  

 

7.1.4.  The  data  at  Para  7.1.1,  7.1.2  and  7.1.3  pertains  to  the  last  trading  day  of  the 

month. The stock broker shall submit the aforesaid data within seven days of the 

last trading day of the month.   

 

7.2.  Each Stock Exchange shall in turn  forward this information to clients via Email and/or 

SMS  on  the  email  IDs  and  mobile  numbers  uploaded  by  the  stock  broker    to  the 

Exchange for their clients. 

 

7.3.  The above provisions shall be applicable three  months from the date of this circular. 

 

Page 24 of 29 

 

8.  Running Account Settlement 

 

8.1.  In partial modification of circular on running account settlement, the stock broker shall 

ensure that; 

 

8.1.1.  There  must  be  a  gap  of  maximum  90/30  days  (as  per  the  choice  of  client  viz. 

Quarterly/Monthly) between two running account settlements. 

 

8.1.2.  For the purpose of settlement of funds, the mode of transfer of funds shall be by 

way of electronic funds transfer viz., through National Electronic Funds Transfer 

(NEFT), Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS), etc.  

 

8.1.3.  The required bank details for initiating electronic fund transfers shall be obtained 

from new clients and shall be updated for existing clients. Only in cases where 

electronic  payment  instructions  have  failed  or  have  been  rejected by  the  bank, 

then the stock broker may issue a physical payment instrument. 

 

8.1.4.  Statement  of  accounts  containing  an  extract  from  client  ledger  for  funds  & 

securities  along  with  a  statement  explaining  the  retention  of  funds/securities 

shall be sent within five days from the date when the account is considered to be 

settled. 

 

8.2.  The above provisions shall be applicable 3 months from the date of this circular. 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 25 of 29 

9.  Providing PAN Number 

 

9.1.  The  stock  brokers  shall  provide  Permanent  Account  Numbers  of  all  their  Directors, 

Key Management Personnel and dealers to the Stock Exchanges within three months 

from the date of this circular. Any change in the aforesaid details/information shall be 

intimated to the Stock Exchanges within seven days of such change. 

 

 

 

Page 26 of 29 

Table 1 

RECONCILIATION  -  Funds  of  credit  balance  clients  used  for  settlement  obligation  of 
debit balance clients or for own purpose: 

Funds Available in client bank 

Clients' Funds 

Difference  Calculate only if G is negative. 

accounts and cash/cash 
equivalent deposits with 

as per the 

client ledger-  

clearing corporation/ clearing 

across all 

member - across all Stock 

Stock 

Exchanges 

Total of end of 

Collateral 

the day 

deposited with 

balance in all 
Client Bank 
Account s 

clearing 

corporation/ 

clearing 

Exchanges 
Total Credit 
Balance of all 
clients (after 
adjusting for 
open bills and 

member in form 

of Cash and 

uncleared 
cheques) 

Cash 

Equivalents* 

 

Total 
debit 

balance 

(after 

adjusting 

for 

open 

o f  

funds 
of one 
client 
used 

for 

bills and 
uncleared 

another 

client 

cheques ) 

Amount  

Amount of 

fund used for 
own purpose 

(only if 

absolute value 

G is greater 
than debit 
balance 
clients) 

A 

B 

C 

G=(A+ B)-

D 

C 

G, if 

|G|<|D| 

H = |G| - |D| 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*  cash  equivalents  contains  other  components  of  collateral  deposited  by  the  stock  broker,  such  as, 
FD, bank Guarantee etc excluding the Non- cash component. If G is negative, then there is utilization 
of  clients'  funds  for  other  purposes  i.e.  either  funds  of  credit  balance  clients  are  being  utilized  for 
settlement obligations of debit balance clients or for the stock brokers' own purposes. The difference 
has following two components: 

Component I: Use of fund of one client for giving exposure to another client 
Component II: Use of client fund for own purposes by stock broker 
 

 

Page 27 of 29 

Amount of funds of one client used for settlement obligation another client = Total Debit balances of 
all Clients (after adjusting for open bills and uncleared cheques) 
 
Misuse of client’s fund for own purpose = Absolute value of G - Total Debit balances of all clients 
(after adjusting for open bills and uncleared cheques) 
 
Table 2 
 
 

RECONCILIATION - Funds of clients used for Margin obligation of proprietary trading: 

G(if positive) - 

Value of Own 

Non funded portion 

 Proprietary 

Difference 

own money 

Securities Deposited 

of the Bank 

 

as Collateral with 

Clearing corporation/ 

Guarantee (F) -  
across all Stock 

margin 

Obligation- 

across all Stock 

Clearing member - 

Exchanges 

Exchanges 

across all Stock 

Exchanges 

G (from the 
reconciliation 

stage I - 

positive value) 

 

 

E 

 

F 

 

P 

I = P - (G+E+F) 

 

 

Proprietary  Obligation  mentioned  in  column  P  shall  be  the  sum  of  cash  margin  obligations 
and derivative margin obligations for proprietary trading as on reporting day. 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 28 of 29 

Table 3 

RECONCILIATION - Funds of credit balance clients used for Margin obligations of debit 
balance clients and proprietary trading: 

Total of end of 

the day 

balance in all 
Client Bank 
Accounts-  
across all 

Stock 

Total Credit 
Balance of all 
clients (after 
adjusting for 
open bills and 

uncleared 
cheques)-  

Collateral 

Margin 

Free/unblocked 

Difference 

deposited with 

clearing 

corporation/ 

clearing member in 
form of Cash and 
Cash Equivalents-  

utilized for 
positions of 

Collateral 

deposited with 

Credit 
Balance 

Clients (all 
exchanges ) 

clearing 

corporation/ 

clearing 

member (MF) 

 

Exchanges 

across all Stock 

across all Stock 

Exchanges 

Exchanges 

C 

B 

MC 

MF 

B-(MC+M F) 

Or 

(C-A)-
(MC+MF) 

 

 

 

 

 

A (from 

the reconcilia 
tion stage 1 - 

positive 
value) 

 

 

 

 

Page 29 of 29 

