 

September 27, 2016 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/96   
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 

 

 

Sir / Madam, 

Sub.:  Position  Limits  for  Commodity  Derivatives,  clubbing  of  open 
positions, penalties for violation of position limits 

1.  Erstwhile FMC had from time to time prescribed norms with regard to Position 
limits  for  all  commodity  derivatives,  clubbing  of  open  positions,  penalties  for 
violation  of  position  limits  apart  from  prescribing  numerical  limits  for  each 
commodity.  After  taking  over  regulations  of  commodity  derivatives  market, 
SEBI vide its circulars CIR/CDMRD/DMP/2/2016 dated January 15, 2016 and 
CDMRD/DMP/CIR/32/2016 dated January 29, 2016 has issued revised norms 
with regard to position limits of agricultural commodity derivatives. 

2.  This circular is hereby issued in continuation of the above said SEBI circulars 
with an objective of consolidating and updating norms with regard to position 
limits and also to prescribe numerical position limits for all commodities which 
are presently being traded on the Commodity Derivatives Exchanges. 

3.  General  Norms  for  Position  Limits  in  Commodity  Derivatives:  The 
following  norms  shall  be  applicable  to  the  Agricultural  as  well  as  Non- 
Agricultural commodity derivatives at commodity level: 

3.1. Numerical  value  of  overall  client  level  open  position  limits,  shall  be 
applicable  for  each  commodity  as  are  provided  in  table  given  in 
Annexure- A to this circular. 

3.2. The  Exchanges,  however,  in  their  own  judgment,  may  prescribe  limits 
lower  than  what  is  prescribed  by  SEBI  by  giving  advance  notice  to  the 
market under intimation to SEBI. 

3.3. For  the  purpose  of  position  limits,  norms  applicable  on  client  level 
positions  shall  also  be  applicable  to  the  proprietary  positions  of  trading 
members  and  while  calculating  member’s  open  positions,  his  proprietary 
positions shall be treated and computed like a client’s positions. 

3.4. For  the  purpose  of  calculating  overall  position  of  a  member,  the  overall 
position of its all clients (as determined in Clause  ‘3.1 or 4.1’below) shall 
be  added  without  netting  off  among  themselves  as  also  against 

Page 1 of 8 

 

 

proprietary  positions  of  the  member.  Thus,  all  long  clients  and  all  short 
clients  shall  be  added  up  separately  and  higher  of  the  two  shall  be 
reckoned as Member’s open position in a commodity derivative. 

4.  Position  Limits  for  Non  Agricultural  Commodity  Derivatives:  The  
following norms shall continue to be applicable to Non- Agricultural commodity 
derivatives at commodity level:- 

4.1. For  the  purpose  of  calculating  overall  position  of  a  client,  all  long  and 

short positions of the client across all contracts shall be netted out. 

4.2. Client  level  position  limits  shall  be  equivalent  to  the  numerical  level  limit 
as  given  in  table  in  Annexure-  A  or  5%  of  market-wide  open  interest, 
whichever is higher. 

4.3. Member  level  position  limits  shall  be  10  times  of  the  numerical  value  of 
client  level  position  limits  or  20%  of  the  market-wide  open  interest, 
whichever is higher. 

5.  Position  Limits  for  Agricultural  Commodity  Derivatives:  As  prescribed 
vide SEBI circulars dated January 15, 2016 and January 29, 2016, following 
norms shall be applicable on Agricultural commodity derivatives at commodity 
level:- 

5.1. For  the  purpose  of  calculating  positions  of  a  client,  all  long  and  short 
positions  of  the  client  across  all  contracts  shall  be  added  up  separately 
and higher of the two shall be considered as his overall open position. 

5.2. The  overall  Client  level  position  limits  across  all  contracts  shall  be 

equivalent to the numerical level limit as given in table in Annexure- A. 

5.3. The  overall  member  level  position  limits  across  all  contracts  shall  be  10 
times  the  numerical  value  of  client  level  position  limit  or  15%  of  the 
market-wide open interest, whichever is higher. 

5.4. Near Month Position Limits: In case of near month contracts : 

5.4.1. Client level position limits shall be equivalent to the one fourth of the 
overall Client level position limit as prescribed in table in Annexure- 
A. 

5.4.2. Member  level  position  limits  shall  also  be  equivalent  to  the  one 

fourth of the overall member level position limit. 

5.5. The overall Exchange wide gross position limit, in case of the agricultural 
commodities, shall be capped at 50% of the annual estimated production 
and  Imports  of  the  commodity.  The  annual  estimates  for  production  and 
imports  may  be  sourced  from  the  available  estimates  published  by 

Page 2 of 8 

Government  of  India/Ministry  of  Agriculture/  Institutions/Agencies/  other 
Departments of Central and State Government, as may be appropriate. 

 

 

6.  Clubbing  of  Open  Positions:  While  calculating  open  positions  for  the 
purpose  of  position  limits,  Exchanges  shall  take  suitable  measures  for 
clubbing of open positions of clients/members who may be acting in concert to 
circumvent  the  norms  of  position  limits.  The  broad  guidelines  for  clubbing  of 
open positions are provided in Annexure- B to the circular. 
 

7.  Monitoring of position limits: Exchanges shall monitor the open position on 
a real time basis, and shall endeavour that no client or member breaches the 
open  position  limits  'at  end  of  the  day'  as  well  as  'during  intra-day  trading'. 
Penalty shall be levied on those breaching the position limits at end of the day 
as well as during intra-day trading as provided in Annexure-C to this circular. 

 

8.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect from September 29, 2016 
in  supersession  of  all  directives  issued  by  erstwhile  FMC  with  regard  to 
matters  related  to  Position  Limits,  clubbing  of  open  positions,  penalties  for 
violation of position limits. 

 

9.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

take  steps  to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws, 
rules and regulations for the implementation of the same. 
bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the members of the 
Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  
communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the 
provisions of this circular. 
 

10. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 

 
11. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

 

Page 3 of 8 

 

Annexure- A 

 

Unit   

Client Level Numerical Position 

Limit for Overall Commodity 

AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES 

 

MT  

MT  

MT  

MT  

MT  

MT  

MT  

6,500  

160  

12,000  

30,000  

2,000  

5,000  

2,000  

150,000  

40,000  

50,000  

1,000  

2,400  

500  

1,000  

25,000  

20,000  

500  

900  

30,000  

8,000  

2,500 

35,000  

4,000  

3,000  

60,000  

20,000  

4,000  

20,000  

25,000  

400,000  

7,000  

480,000  

 
Sr.    Commodity   

1.    Barley  

2.    Cardamom 

3.    Castor seed 

4.    Chana 

5.    Coffee 

6.    Copra 

7.    Coriander (Dhaniya)  

8.    Cotton  

Bales  

9.    Cotton seed oilcake 

10.   Crude Palm Oil  

11.   Guar Gum  

12.   Guar Seed  

13.  

Isabgul Seed 

14.   Jeera  

15.   Kapas 

16.   Maize 

17.   Mentha Oil 

18.   Pepper 

MT  

MT  

MT  

MT  

MT  

MT  

MT  

MT  

MT  

MT  

19.   Rapeseed-MustardSeed  MT  

20.   Raw Jute 

21.   Red Chilli 

22.   Refined Soy Oil  

23.   Rubber 

24.   Sacking 

25.   Soy Bean  

26.   Sugar 

27.   Turmeric  

28.   Wheat  

MT  

MT 

MT  

MT  

Bales  

MT  

MT  

MT  

MT  

NON-AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES 

1.    Aluminum 

2.    Brent Crude Oil 

3.    Copper 

4.    Crude Oil 

MT  

BBL 

MT  

BBL 

Page 4 of 8 

Sr.    Commodity   

Unit   

Client Level Numerical Position 

Limit for Overall Commodity 

 

 

5.    Gold 

6.    Lead 

7.    Natural Gas 

8.    Nickel 

9.    Silver 

10.   Steel 

11.   Zinc 
 
 

 

 

Kgs 

MT  

mmBtu 

MT  

MT 

MT  

MT  

5,000  

3,500  

6,000,000  

1000 

100 

120,000  

7,000  

Page 5 of 8 

 

Annexure- B 

 

 

 

A.  Guidelines for Clubbing of Open Positions: 

1.  When  a person  is a partner  in one or more  partnership  firms and /or  is 
a  director    in  one  or  more    companies    and/or  is  a    manager(karta)  of  a 
Hindu Undivided  Family (HUF), the total  open  position  of  

a.  the person  as an individual  operator,  
b.  the firm  or  firms  in which  he is  a partner ;  
c.  the Company or companies  in which he  is a director ; and  
d.  the HUF  of which he is a manager(karta)  

taken together shall not exceed the prescribed limit. 

2.  Where two or more persons are partners in a partnership firm or firms and 
where two or more persons  are director in a company or companies and 
where  two or more persons  are Kartas of  HUFs,  the total open  position  
held by  

a.  all the partners  of partnership firm or firms;  
b.  the  concerned  partnership  firm or firms;  
c.  all the directors of  the company or companies ; 
d.  the concerned company or companies ;  
e.  all the  Kartas  of  the HUFs ; and  
f. 

the concerned  HUFs 

taken together shall not exceed the limit  as mentioned above. 

3.  Where  a  person  or  persons    operating    as  individuals    and  /or    being 
partners  in  one or more partnership  firms  and/or being  directors in one 
or  more  companies    and/or  being    kartas    of  HUFs    are  also    trustees  in 
one  or more trusts, the total open  position of  

a.  the person  as individual  operator, 
b.  the firm or firms in which they are partners; 
c.  the company or companies in which they are directors; 
d.  the HUFs in which they are Kartas; and  
e.  the trust  or trusts in which  they  are trustees,  

 

taken together shall not exceed the limit as mentioned above. 
 
Provided  that,  if  at  any  time  more  deliveries  than  one  are  running  in  the 
same  commodity,  the  above  limit  shall  apply  to  the  combined  open 
position  of  the  member  or  the  non-member,  as  the  case  may  be,  in  all 
such deliveries running concurrently.  

4.  Open position of a member shall be the total of the open position acquired 
by him by trading through or with other member and by appropriating the 
business of his clients(collectively for all clients). 

5.  The open position of a non-member shall be the total of the open position 

acquired by him trading through or with one or more members. 

Page 6 of 8 

B.  Exemptions from Clubbing: 

 

 

1.  In the agriculture marketing set up of the rural India, co-operative societies 
play  a  crucial  role.  Primary  Agriculture  Marketing  Societies  registered 
under  the  state  cooperative  Acts,  thus,  are  active  in  different  agricultural 
commodities. These societies are also member of Federations at the State 
and  National  level.  Due  to  this  Federal  structure  there  may  be  some 
instances  when  these  societies  have  common  Directors.    Also,  the 
persons from State Governments/RCS may be nominated as Directors in 
these societies. In view  of this, the position  of different  societies if they 
are members of a Federation  will not  be clubbed  with the open interest 
position  of  the  Federation    for  the  purpose    of  determining    the  open 
interest    position    of  the  Federal    or  vice  versa.  Similarly,  if  Govt/RCS 
nominated  directors  sits  on  the  Boards  of  different  societies,  this  will  not 
amount to common interest for the purpose of clubbing of positions.  

2.  As  a  practice  of  good  corporate  governance,  the  companies  now  have 
independent  directors  on  their  Board  with  no  financial  interest  in  the 
company.  Similarly,  companies  also  have  Govt/Financial  Institutions 
nominated Directors without any financial interest in the company. In such 
cases,  when  the  Directors  don’t  have  any  financial  interest  in  the 
company.  The  Commission  has  taken  a  view  that  the  position  of  such 
companies/corporates  may  not  be  clubbed  just  because  they  have 
common directors. 

C.  The  above  stated  guidelines  are  indicative  only.  The  Exchanges  are 
directed  to  take  suitable  measures  for  clubbing  of  open  positions  on  the 
basis of the criteria laid down above and also include other criteria such as 
PAN, patterns such as ‘acting in concert’ through common ownership and 
control structures and any other relevant criteria to club open positions that 
may be observed during the course of regular monitoring and surveillance 
that may appear to compromise market integrity.  

 

 

 

Page 7 of 8 

Position Limit Violation 

 

Annexure-C 

 

The  following  penal  provisions  are  made  to  discourage/  prevent  open  interest 
violations at Commodity level / near month contract level- 
 

1.  Monetary  penalty  on  the  concerned  member  for  violations  in  the  open 
interest (either on own account or on account of clients) are linked to the 
quantum/  value  of  violation  committed  and  to  be  charged  from  the 
concerned member for each such violation as under: 

a.  Where the violation is more than 2% of the prescribed limit(s) –  

Limit  exceeded  x  Closing  price  x  number  of  days  such  violation 
continued x 2% (0.02) or Rs. 10,000/- whichever is higher. 
 

b.  Where the violation is up to 2% of the prescribed limit(s) –  

Limit  exceeded  x  Closing  price  x  number  of  days  such  violation 
continued x 2% (0.02) or Rs. 10,000/- whichever is lower. 
 

c.  The  member  has  to  ensure  reduction  in  position  and  to  bring  it 
within the prescribed limit(s) by the next trading day after the day of 
violation.  In  case  such  violation  continues,  the  Exchange  would 
square-off  the  excess  position  without  any  further  notice  to  the 
member by putting the orders on behalf of the member in that client 
code  and  will  not  be  responsible  for  the  consequences  of  such 
action 

2.  In case, the instance at 1 (a) above is observed for more than 3 times in a 
month  across  the  market,  the  Exchange  would  suspend  the  concerned 
member  for  a  period  of  one  week.  For  instances  at  1  (b)  above,  the 
Exchange may devise its norms to deal with habitual defaulters. 
 

3.  Further, in case repeated violations of such nature are observed by SEBI, 

SEBI may consider action against the concerned Exchange. 
 

4.  The  monetary  penalty  as  stated  above,  will  be  credited  to  the  Investor 

Protection Fund of the Exchange. 

 

 

 

 
 
 

Page 8 of 8 

