 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

          September 28, 2016 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/104 
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub.: Introduction of Options in Commodity Derivatives Market 
 
1.  At present the only instrument available in the Commodity Derivatives market 
is 
Introduction  of  new  commodity 
derivatives products  has been a subject of deliberation as it is considered to 
be  conducive  for  the  overall  development  of  the  commodity  derivatives 
market,  attracting  broad  base  participation,  enhancing  liquidity,  facilitating 
hedging and bringing in more depth to the commodity derivatives market.  

futures  on 

individual  commodities. 

 
2.  In  his  Union  Budget  Speech  for  the  year  2016-17,  the  Hon’ble  Finance 
Minister  announced  that  “new  derivative  products  will  be  developed  by  SEBI 
in the Commodity Derivatives market”. 

 
3.  SEBI  has  constituted  a  committee  of  experts  known  as  Commodity 
Derivatives  Advisory  Committee  (CDAC) 
to  advise  SEBI  on  matters 
concerning effective regulation and development of the commodity derivatives 
market. The recommendations made by the CDAC inter alia, on the subject of 
introduction of new products have been considered and it has been decided 
that  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  shall  be  permitted  to  introduce 
trading in 'options'. 

 
4.  The  Commodity  derivatives  exchanges  willing  to  start  trading  in  options 
contracts shall take prior approval of SEBI for which detailed guidelines will be 
issued in due course. 

 
5.  The circular shall be effective from the date of this circular. 
 
6.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

take steps to make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules 
and regulations for the implementation of the same. 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  members  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website. 

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular.  

 
7.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 
 

8.  This circular is available on SEBI website www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 
 

 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 

Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in  

Page 2 of 2 

