 
 
 

 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2016/110                                                     
 
All recognised/Non-operational /Exited Stock Exchanges. 
All  Exclusively  Listed  Companies  in  the  Dissemination  Board  (shares  of  companies 
available  for  buying  and  selling  and  not  for  companies  referred  as  vanishing 
companies.) 
 

 October 10, 2016 

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

Sub:  Exclusively  listed  companies  of  De-recognized/Non-operational/exited 
Stock Exchanges placed in the Dissemination Board (DB). 

1.  SEBI vide circular dated May 30, 2012 issued guidelines facilitating the exit of De-
recognized/Non-operational  stock  exchanges  and  exit  to  the  shareholders  of 
exclusively listed companies (ELCs) by allowing them to get listed on nationwide 
stock exchanges after complying with the diluted listing norms of nationwide stock 
exchanges, failing which they would be moved to the Dissemination Board (DB).  

2.  Further, SEBI vide circular dated May 22, 2014, inter-alia, provided that ELCs, on 
de-recognized/non-operational  stock  exchanges,  can  also  opt  for  voluntary 
delisting by following the existing delisting norms of SEBI. It was also specified that 
if the ELCs fail to comply with the same, they shall be moved to DB. 

3.  Subsequently, SEBI vide circular dated April 17, 2015 allowed a period of eighteen 
months’  time  to  ELCs  on  DB  to  obtain  listing  upon  compliance  with  the  listing 
requirements of the nation-wide stock exchanges. 

4.  SEBI has been receiving representations seeking clarifications on raising of further 
capital and the process of exit of ELCs from the DB. Therefore, SEBI, in the interest 
of the investors of such ELCs, clarifies as follows: 

a.  The  respective  nationwide  stock  exchanges  hosting  the  ELC  on  its  DB 

would hereinafter be referred as ‘designated stock exchange’.  
 

b.  The ELCs on the DB would be required to exercise one of the two options 

as mentioned in Para 4.c or 4.d of the circular. 
 

c.  Raising capital for listing on Nationwide Stock Exchanges. 

In order to facilitate listing on nationwide stock exchanges, the ELCs on the 
DB  shall  be  allowed  to  raise  capital  for  meeting  the  listing  requirements 
through  preferential  allotment  route  in  terms  of  the  provisions  under  the 
Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements Regulations, 2009 (ICDR).  
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

For the above purpose the procedures as specified under ICDR shall 
be  followed  to  the  extent  possible.  Towards  this  purpose,  the 
designated stock exchange shall be according in principle approval 
and monitoring compliance with the same. 

In the process of raising capital through preferential allotment, if the 
allotment is made to promoters/public such that it is in excess of the 
threshold limits (5% or 25%) of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of 
Shares and Takeovers Regulations), 2011 (SAST), the provisions of 
SAST Regulation shall not be applicable for the proposed acquisition 
subject  to  the overall  holding  of  the  promoter  group  not  exceeding 
75% of the paid up capital of the company.  
 
The ELCs which fail to list on the nationwide stock exchanges under 
the  aforesaid  mechanism  shall  provide  exit  to  its  investors  as  per 
para 4.d of the circular.  

 

d.  Procedure to provide exit to investors: 

In  order  to  protect  the  interest  of  all  shareholders  of  such  ELCs,  an  exit 
mechanism to investors of such ELCs shall be as prescribed in Annexure-
A  to  this  circular.  Accordingly,  all  ELCs  shall  be  required  to  ensure 
compliance  with  the  procedure  for  exit.  The  oversight  and  monitoring  of 
such  exit  mechanism  shall  be  carried  out  by  the  designated  stock 
exchange. 
 

i.  Designated stock exchanges shall further ensure that the promoters 
have  made  adequate  efforts  in  terms  of  the  above  provisions  for 
providing exit to their shareholders before removing ELCs from the 
DB. 

 

ii. 

The designated  stock exchange  shall  display  the  list of  companies 
willing to provide exit to their investors on their website on a monthly 
basis. 

 
5.  In order to facilitate the raising of capital or provide exit to investors as mentioned 

under para 4.c and 4.d, it is prescribed that: 

a.  The ELCs on the DB which are yet to indicate their intention to comply with 
listing or to provide exit shall submit their plan of action to designated stock 
exchanges  latest  within  three months from  the  date  of  this  circular  to  the 
satisfaction of the designated stock exchanges, failing which the designated 
exchange shall recommend action as specified under Para 6 of this circular. 
 

b.  The designated stock exchanges shall review the plan of action and ensure 

completion of the process within 6 months. 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

6.  Action against companies remaining on the DB 

a.  Any  promoter  or  director  whose  company  is  on  the  DB  and  has  failed  to 
demonstrate adequacy of efforts for providing exit to their shareholders in 
conformity with the exit mechanism as provided in this circular shall be liable 
for the following actions :  

 

  The company, its directors, its promoters and the companies which 
are promoted by any of them shall not directly or indirectly associate 
with the securities market or seek listing for any equity shares for a 
period of ten years from the exit from the DB.  
  Freezing of shares of the promoters/directors. 
  List of the directors, promoters etc. of all non-compliant companies 
as available from the details of the company  with nationwide stock 
exchanges shall be disseminated on SEBI website and shall also be 
shared with other respective agencies. 

  Attachment of bank accounts/other assets of promoters/directors of 

the companies so as to compensate the investors. 

 

 

7.  The provisions of this Circular are applicable to the exclusively listed companies of 
all de-recognized/non-operational stock exchanges which are exited/in the process 
of exit in terms of exit circular dated May 30, 2012.  

8.  The respective designated stock exchanges shall ensure that all exclusively listed 
companies on the DB be accordingly advised to facilitate compliance of the above 
provisions in a time bound manner. 

9.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  (1)  and 
11(2)  (j)  of  the  Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  Act, 1992,  to  protect  the 
interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 
regulate  the  securities  market.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at 
www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 
 
 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Bithin Mahanta 

Deputy General Manager 

Division of SRO Administration 

Market Regulation Department 

 +91-22-26449634 

Email: bithinm@sebi.gov.in 

 
 
 
 
 
 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

viii. 

ix. 

 

 

Annexure-A. 

 

The promoter in consultation with the designated stock exchange shall appoint an 
‘independent  valuer’  from  the  panel  of  expert  valuers  of  the  designated  stock 
exchange.  

In  case  the  fair  value  determined  is  positive  the  promoter  of  the  company  shall 
acquire  shares  of  such  companies  from  the  public  shareholders  by  paying  them 
such value determined by the valuer. 

 The promoter shall undertake to  complete the entire process within seventy five 
working days.   

The  promoter  of  the  company  to  make  a  public  announcement  in  at  least  one 
national daily with wide circulation, one regional language newspaper of the region 
where the exited stock exchange was located and the website of the designated 
stock exchanges. 

The public announcement shall contain all material information of the fact of such 
exit  opportunity  to  its  shareholders,  disclosing  therein  the  name  and  address  of 
company, including exit price offered by the promoter with the justification therefore, 
and shall not contain any false or misleading statement. 

The announcement shall contain a declaration about the liability of the promoter to 
acquire the shares of the shareholders, who have not offered their shares under 
exit offer up to a period of one year from the completion of offer at the same price 
determined by the valuer. 

The exit offer shall remain open for a period of minimum five working days during 
which the public shareholders shall tender their shares. The promoter shall open 
an escrow account in favour of independent valuer/designated stock exchange and 
deposit therein the total estimated amount of consideration on the basis of exit price 
and number of outstanding public shareholders. The escrow account shall consist 
of either cash deposited with a scheduled commercial bank or a bank guarantee, 
or a combination of both.  The amount in the escrow account shall not be released 
to the promoter unless all the payments made in respect of shares tendered for the 
aforesaid period of one year. 

The promoter shall make payment of consideration within fifteen working days from 
the date completion of offer. 

The  promoter  shall  certify  to  the  satisfaction  of  designated  stock  exchange  that 
appropriate procedure has been followed for providing exit to shareholders of such 
companies. Subsequently, the designated stock exchanges upon satisfaction shall 
remove the company from the dissemination board. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

x. 

xi. 

The  exclusively  listed  companies  which  have  100%  promoter  holding  shall    be 
removed from the dissemination board on obtaining a compliance certification from 
any  independent  professional  with  regard  to  the  holding  of  shares  of  these 
companies and submit to the designated stock exchanges. 

The names of the companies providing exit opportunity to its shareholders and their 
promoters shall be displayed in a separate section on the website of the designated 
stock exchange. 

**************** 

