 

October14, 2016 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2016/112 
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
NationalCommodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
Sir / Madam,  
 
Sub: Bullion as collateral 
 

1.  Vide  circular  no.  CIR/CDMRD/DRMP/01/2015  dated  October  01,  2015SEBI 
had  specified  comprehensiverisk  management 
for  national 
commodity  derivatives  exchanges  including  norms  on  collateral  that  can  be 
accepted by Exchanges from their members. 
 

framework 

2.  After analysing the representations received regarding bullion as collateral, it 
has been decided to modify the condition - “Total commodities collateral for 
any  clearing  member  shall  not  exceed  15%  of  the  total  liquid  assets  of  the 
clearing member”,prescribed in paragraph 2 (Liquid Assets) of Annexure I of 
the  above  mentioned  circular,as  follows  –  “Total  commodities  collateral  for 
any  clearing  member  shall  not  exceed  30%  of  the  total  liquid  assets  of  the 
clearing member, out of which non-bullion collateral shall not exceed 15% of 
the total liquid assets of the clearing member”. 
 

liquidation  of  collaterals  accepted  by 

3.  It is reiterated that exchanges shall make necessary arrangements to enable 
timely 
them  and  may  stipulate 
concentration limits for collateral at member level/across all members as may 
be  necessary  based  on  their  risk  perception,  capability  to  hold  and 
arrangements for timely liquidation. 
 

4.  The exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice 

of their members and also to disseminate the same on their website. 
 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 
 

 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 
(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market.  
 

6.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
Shashi Kumar  
General Manager  
Division of Risk Management and Products  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
shashikumarv@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 2 

