 

 

 

       October 20, 2016 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

CIR/IMD/DF/114/2016 
 
To 
All Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) 
All Parties to InvITs 
All Stock Exchanges 
All Merchant Bankers 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Disclosure of financial information in offer document/placement memorandum 
for InvITs 

1.  Regulation  15(3),  read  with  Schedule  III,  and  Regulation  15(4)  of  the  SEBI 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 prescribe disclosures to be  made 
in an offer document and placement memorandum respectively. The said disclosures, 
inter-alia,  include  disclosures  for  financial  information  of  the  InvIT  as  well  as  the 
Investment Manager and the Sponsor. 

2.  With  reference  to  aforesaid  Regulations,  the  detailed  requirements  for  disclosure  of 
financial  information  in  offer  document/placement  memorandum  for  InvITs  are  placed 
at ‘Annexure - A’. 

3.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  Regulation  33  of  InvIT 
Regulations. 

4.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Circulars”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 
 
Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9596  
Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

Page 1 of 18 

 

 

Annexure - ‘A’ 

Financial information to be disclosed in offer document/placement memorandum 

(A) Financial Information of InvIT: 

The financial information, to be disclosed in the offer document/placement memorandum, 
shall comply with the following: 

1.  Period of financial information to be disclosed: 

1.1. The offer document / placement memorandum shall contain financial information for a 
period of last three completed financial years  immediately preceding the date of offer 
document / placement memorandum. 

1.2. If  the  closing  date  of  the  last  completed  financial  year  falls  more  than  six  months 
before the date of offer document / placement memorandum, then the InvIT shall also 
disclose interim financial information, in addition to the three year financial information 
referred in para 1.1.above. 

The said interim financial information  shall be not more than  six months  old from the 
date of offer document / placement memorandum. 

2.  Nature of financial information 

2.1. InvIT shall disclose the financial information for the previous three financial years and 
the interim period, if any, in either of the following manner depending upon the history 
of the InvIT: 

(a)  If  the  InvIT  has  been  in  existence  for  the  last  three  completed  financial  years 
immediately preceding the date of offer document / placement memorandum, then 
the  historical  financial  statements  of  the  InvIT  (on  both  standalone  as  well  as 
consolidated  basis)  for  last  three  years,  and  the  interim  period,  if  any,  shall  be 
disclosed.  

(b)  If the InvIT has been in existence for a period lesser than the last three completed 
financial years and the historical financial statements of InvIT are not available for 
some portion or the entire portion of the reporting period of three years and interim 
period,  then  the  combined  financial  statements  need  to  be  disclosed  for  the 
periods when such historical financial statements are not available. 

The  principles  for  preparation  of  combined  financial  statements  are  discussed  in 
Section ‘(G)’ below. 

 

Page 2 of 18 

 
3.  Content and basis of preparation of financial information:  

 

3.1. The  financial  information  shall  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  Indian  Accounting 
Standards  (Ind  AS)  and/or  any  addendum  thereto  as  defined  in  Rule  2  (1)  (a)  of  the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. 

3.2. The  financial  information  presented  by  the  InvIT  can  be  in  the  form  of  condensed 
financial  statements.  Such  financial  information  shall  comply  with  the  minimum 
requirements for condensed financial statements as described in Ind AS 34 on ‘Interim 
Financial Reporting’, to the extent applicable. 
 

3.3. The financial information shall, inter-alia, disclose the following financial statements: 

(a) Balance Sheet; 
(b) Statement of Profit and Loss/Income and Expenditure; 
(c) Statement of Changes in Unit holders’ Equity; 
(d) Statement of Cash Flows; 
(e) Statement of Net Assets at Fair Value 
(f)  Statement of Total Returns at Fair Value 
(g) Explanatory notes annexed to, or forming part of, any statements referred above 

 

For the financial statements listed above, the  minimum  information to be disclosed is 
given in Section ‘(H)’ below. 

3.4. The  financial  information  shall  be  disclosed  after  making  the  following  adjustments, 

wherever applicable and wherever quantification is possible: 

(a) Adjustments/rectifications  for  all  incorrect  accounting  practices  or  failures  to  make 
provisions or other  matters which resulted in  modified opinion(s) or modification(s) 
to the opinion in the auditor’s report. 

Modified  opinion(s),  where  quantification  is  not  possible  and  which  have  not  been 
adjusted, shall be highlighted along with the management comments. If the impact 
of  above  adjustments/  rectifications  is  not  considered  ascertainable,  then  a 
statement to that effect shall be given by the auditors. 

(b) Material amounts relating to adjustments for prior period errors/items (as discussed 
in  Ind  AS  8  ‘Accounting  Policies,  Changes  in  Accounting  Estimates  and  Errors’) 
shall be identified and adjusted in arriving at the profits of the years to  which they 
relate. 

(c) Where there has been a change in accounting policy, the profits or losses/incomes 
or expenditures of the earlier years (required to be disclosed in the offer document/ 

 

Page 3 of 18 

 

 

placement  memorandum)  and  of  the  year  in  which  the  change  in  the  accounting 
policy  has  taken  place  shall  be  recomputed  to  reflect  what  the  profits  or 
losses/incomes  or  expenditures  of  those  years  would  have  been  if  a  uniform 
accounting policy was followed in each of these years. 

(d) If any accounting policy followed in past was not in compliance with applicable laws 
and/or  accounting  standards,  the  financial  statements  shall  be  adjusted  and 
recomputed in accordance with correct accounting policies. 

(e) The  Balance  Sheet  shall  be  prepared  after  deducting  the  balance  outstanding  on 
Revaluation  reserve  account  from  both  Fixed  assets  and  Reserves  and  the  Net 
worth should be arrived at after such deductions. 

3.5. Financial  statements  shall  disclose  all  ‘material’  items,  i.e.,  the  items  if  they  can, 
individually or collectively, influence the economic decisions made on the basis of the 
financial  statements.  Materiality  shall  be  judged  and  determined  by  the  Investment 
Manager  depending  upon  pertinent  facts  and  circumstances,  including  the  size  or 
nature of the item or a combination of both. 

In addition to the consideration of ‘materiality’ as specified above, any item of income 
or expenditure, which exceeds one per cent of the revenue from operations or Rs.10 
lacs, whichever is higher, shall be disclosed separately either on the face of financial 
statements or in the schedules/notes. 
 

4.  Additional financial disclosures  

In  addition  to  the  financial  statements  referred  in  Paragraph  3  above,  the  following 
statements/disclosures  shall  also  be  included  as  a  part  of  the  audited  financial 
information and shall also be subjected to audit: 

4.1. Project wise operating cash flows: 

The InvIT shall disclose operating cash flow from the projects (project-wise) for all 
the  InvIT  assets  that  are  included  in  such  financial  information  for  the  last  three 
years and interim period, if any. 

4.2. Earnings per Unit: 

The  InvIT  shall  disclose  Earnings  per  Unit  (EPU)  for  the  last  three  years  and  the 
interim period, if any. The principles for computation of EPU shall be same as the 
principles  laid  down  in  Ind  AS  33  Earnings  per  Share,  to  the  extent  applicable. 
Relevant  disclosures  shall  be  provided  as  part  of  the  notes  for  the  EPU 
computation. 

 

Page 4 of 18 

 

Contingent liabilities: 

(a)  A  statement  of  InvIT’s  Contingent  liabilities,  if  any,  as  on  the  date  of  latest 
financial information disclosed in the offer document/placement memorandum, 
shall be disclosed. 

(b)  If  there  are  any  material  changes  in  the  contingent  liabilities  from  the 
aforementioned  date  of  latest  financial  information  to  the  date  of  the  offer 
document  /  placement  memorandum,  the  details  of  such  changes  shall  be 
disclosed in the offer document / placement memorandum. 

4.3. Commitments: 

(a)  A statement of InvIT’s Commitments, if any, as on the date of  latest financial 
information disclosed in the offer document/placement memorandum, shall be 
disclosed. 

(b)  If there are any material changes in the commitments from the aforementioned 
date  of  latest  financial  information  to  the  date  of  the  offer  document  / 
placement memorandum, the details of such changes shall be disclosed in the 
offer document / placement memorandum. 

4.4. Related party pransactions: 

(a)  For  the  related  parties  as  defined  in  the  InvIT  regulations,  the  InvIT  shall 
provide relevant disclosures of all related party transactions in compliance with 
the requirements of “Ind AS 24 - Related Party Disclosures”. 

(b)  In  addition  to  the  disclosures  required  as  per  Ind  AS  24,  the  following 
additional disclosures related to Related parties and Related party transactions 
shall also be included: 

i.  Details of related party and its relationship with InvIT; 
ii.  Nature of the transaction;   
iii.  Value of the transaction; 
iv. 

In case of any related party transaction involving acquisition or disposal of 
an InvIT asset, the following additional information shall be provided 

  Summary of valuation report;  
  Material conditions or obligations in relation to the transaction;  
  Rate  of  interest,  if  external  financing  has  been  obtained  for  the 

transaction/acquisition; and  

  Any fees or commissions received or to be received by any associate 

of the related party in relation to the transaction. 

Page 5 of 18 

 

 

 

4.5. Capitalisation statement 

 

An  InvIT  shall  disclose  a  Capitalisation  Statement  showing  total  debt,  net  worth, 
and the debt/equity ratios before and after the completions of issue. An illustrative 
format of the Capitalisation Statement is specified hereunder: 

Particulars 

Pre-issue as at.............  As Adjusted for issue 

(Amount) 
Total Debt 

Unitholders’ Funds  
Unit Capital 
xx 
xx 
Reserves 

 

xx 

 
xx 
xx 
xx 
xx 

xx 

 
xx 
xx 
xx 
xx 

Provided that in case of any change in the Unit Capital (since the date from which 
the  financial  information  has  been  disclosed  in  the  Offer  document/placement 
memorandum), a note explaining the nature of the change shall be given. 

4.6. Debt payment history 

A  statement  including  history  of  interest  and  principal  payments  of  InvIT  shall  be 
disclosed for  past three  years  and  interim  period,  if  any,  covering  all  InvIT  assets 
forming  part  of  the  historical  financial  information.  Additionally,  the  following  shall 
also be disclosed: 

  The carrying amount of debt at the beginning of each year 
  Additional borrowings during the year 
  Repayments during the year 
  Other adjustments / settlements during the year 
  The carrying amount of debt at the end of each year 

 

5.  Audit of Financial Information:  

5.1. The financial information shall be audited and the following shall be complied with 

respect to same: : 

(a)  The audit shall be carried out by the auditor appointed for the InvIT as per the 
InvIT  regulations.  The  auditor,  so  appointed,  shall  be  the  one  who  has 
subjected  itself  to  the  peer  review  process  of  the  Institute  of  Chartered 

 

Page 6 of 18 

 

Accountants  of  India  (ICAI)  and  who  holds  a  valid  certificate  issued  by  the 
Peer Review Board of ICAI. 

(b)  In providing his report, the  auditor shall be guided by the requirements of the 
‘Guidance Note on Reports in Company Prospectuses’, issued by ICAI, to the 
extent applicable.  

(c)  In  particular,  the  reports  of  the  auditors  on  the  financial  statements  of  the 
various  InvIT  assets  (whether  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  framework 
applicable  to  such  InvIT  assets  or  the  framework  applicable  to  the  InvIT)  for 
the  respective  periods  covered  in  the  period  of  three  years  and  the  interim 
period, if any, will have to be taken into  consideration  and the same  shall be 
relied upon by the auditor giving the final report.  

For  the  audit  procedures  to  be  followed  in  such  case,  the  auditor  shall  be 
guided by the procedures stated in the Standard on Auditing (SA) 600, “Using 
the Work of another Auditor”, to the extent applicable. Further, the fact that the 
financial statements audited by other auditors have been relied upon shall be 
disclosed in the audit report. 

(d)  As a part of the audit report, the auditor shall state whether: 

i.  he  has  obtained  all  information  and  explanations  which,  to  the  best  of  his 

knowledge and belief, were necessary for the purpose of his audit;  

ii.  the  Balance  Sheet  and  the  Statement  of  Profit  and  loss/Income  and 

Expenditure are in agreement with the books of account of the InvIT; and 

iii.  the financial statements comply with the applicable accounting standards in 

his opinion. 
 

(e)  As a part of the audit report, the auditor shall give his opinion as to whether: 

i.  the  balance  sheet  gives  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the    state  of  affairs  of  the 

InvIT as at the balance sheet dates;  

ii.  the statement of profit and loss/income and expenditure gives a true and fair 
view  of  the  InvIT’s  profits  or  losses/incomes  or  expenditures  for  the 
years/periods ended at the balance sheet dates; 

iii.  the cash flow statement gives a true and fair view of the cash movements of 

the InvIT for the years/periods ended at the balance sheet dates; 

iv.  the statement of changes in unit holders’ equity gives a true and fair view of 
the  movement  of  the  unit  holders  funds  for  the  years/periods  ended  at  the 
balance sheet dates; 

Page 7 of 18 

 

 

 

 

v.  the statement of net assets at fair value gives a true and fair view of the net 

assets as at the balance sheet date; and 

vi.  the  statement  of total  returns  at fair  value  gives  a  true  and fair  view  of  the 

total returns for the years/periods ended at the balance sheet dates. 

 
(B) Projections of InvIT’s Revenues and Operating Cash flows 

 

1.  The  offer  document/placement  memorandum  shall  contain  disclosures  of 

the 
projections  of  revenues  and  operating  cash  flows  of  the  InvIT,  project-wise,  over  the 
next three years including related assumptions. 
 

2.  The projections shall be disclosed for InvIT assets/projects that are owned by the InvIT 
or  are  proposed  to  be  owned  by  InvIT  prior  to  the  allotment  of  units  in  the  public 
offer/private placement. 

 

3.  The following minimum items shall be disclosed as a part of the projections for the next 

three years: 
  Project-wise revenue  
  Project-wise operating cash flows 
  Assumptions for projections 
  Any other item deemed important for better readability and understanding 

 

4.  The aforesaid projections, including assumptions, shall be certified by the auditor. For 
the purpose of said certification, the auditor shall be guided by the requirements of SAE 
3400 for ‘The Examination of Prospective Financial Information’ and any other relevant 
standards/directions issued by ICAI in this context. 
 

5.  Further, 

the  aforesaid  projections  (including 

the  underlying  assumptions  and 

calculations) shall also be certified by the Investment Manager. 
 

(C) Management Discussion and Analysis of InvIT’s operations 

 

1.  InvIT shall prepare and disclose Management Discussion and Analysis (MDA) (by the 
Investment  Manager),  based  on  the  financial  statements.  A  comparison  shall  be 
provided for the most recent financial information with financial information of previous 
two years. 
 

2.  MDA shall, inter-alia contain  the following : 

  Overview of the business of the InvIT 

 

Page 8 of 18 

 

 

  A  summary  of  the  financial  information  containing  significant  items  of  income  and 

expenditure. 

  Factors that may affect results of the operations, key risks and mitigating factors 
  Quality of earnings and revenue streams 
  Significant developments subsequent to the last financial year:  

  A  statement  by  the  Investment  Manager  whether  in  their  opinion  there  have 
arisen  any  circumstances  since  the  date  of  the  last  financial  statements  as 
disclosed in the offer document and which materially and adversely affect or is 
likely  to  affect  the  business  or  profitability  of  the  InvIT,  or  the  value  of  its 
assets, or its ability to pay its liabilities within the next twelve months.  

  Procedure for dealing with and approval of related party transactions 
  Related party transaction(s) involving acquisition or disposal of an InvIT asset 

  The  analysis  shall  discuss  impact  of  such  acquisition/disposal  on  the  yield  of 

the units of InvIT 

  An  analysis  of  reasons  for  the  changes  in  significant  items  of  income  and 

expenditure shall also be given, inter alia, containing the following: 

  unusual or infrequent events or transaction; 
  significant  economic  changes  that  materially  affected  or  are  likely  to  affect 

income from continuing operations; 

  known trends or uncertainties that have had or are expected to have a material 

 

adverse impact on revenues from continuing operations; 
future changes in relationship between costs and revenues, in case of events 
such  as  future  increase  in  operating  costs  that  will  cause  a  material  change 
are known; 
total turnover from each major segments of the InvIT 

 
  status of any publicly announced new business segment; 
 
  any significant dependence on a single or few suppliers or customers; 
  Competitive conditions. 

the extent to which business is seasonal; 

 
(D) Other Disclosures for InvIT 

 

1.  Working Capital 

A  statement  from  Investment  Manager  regarding  sufficiency  of  the  working  capital  to 
fulfill the present requirements of InvIT (i.e., at least twelve months from date of listing) 
shall  be  disclosed.  In case,  sufficient  working  capital  is  not  available  in  the opinion  of 
Investment Manager, then a statement should be provided describing how it proposes 
to provide additional working capital requirement.  

 

Page 9 of 18 

 
2.  Past Market Performance 

 

In case of a capital offering subsequent to the initial offer, the market value of the units 
traded on all the designated stock exchanges where InvIT is listed shall be disclosed:  

  on the last date of reporting period 
  highest value during reporting period based on intra-day and on closing price with 

 

specified date  
lowest  value  during  reporting  period  intra-day  and  on  closing  price  with  specified 
date 

 
(E) Historical Financial information of Investment Manager and Sponsor(s) 

 

1.  An  offer  document/placement  memorandum  of  InvIT  shall  include  summary  of  the 
audited consolidated financial statements  (including the Balance Sheet and Statement 
of Profit and Loss (without schedules)) of Investment Manager and Sponsor(s) for past 
three  completed  years,  prepared  in  accordance  with  accounting  standards,  as 
applicable, as per the Companies Act, 2013 and rules thereunder. 
 
For  example,  if  the  concerned  entity  is  required  to  follow  Companies  (Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2006 during the entire period of last three years, then the three year 
financial  information  of  such  entity  shall  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  Companies 
(Accounting  Standards)  Rules,  2006.  Similarly,  if  the  concerned  entity  is  required  to 
follow Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 during the entire period 
of  last  three  years,  then  the  three  year  financial  information  shall  be  prepared  in 
accordance with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. 

2.  In  case  the  Investment  Manager  and/or  Sponsor(s)  has/have  done  a  transition  from 
Companies  (Accounting  Standards)  Rules,  2006  to  Companies  (Indian  Accounting 
Standards)  Rules,  2015  at  any  time  during  the  period  of  last  three  years,  then  the 
financial information for the last three years shall be disclosed on the following basis: 
 
a.  If  the  concerned  entity  is  following  or  is  required  to  follow  Companies  (Indian 
Accounting  Standards)  Rules,  2015  for  the  latest  two  years  (for  the  latest  three 
years  including  comparatives  of  the  first  year  of  adoption)  out  of  last  three 
completed  years,  then  the  financial  information  for  all  the  three  years  shall  be 
prepared as per Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. 

b.  If  the  concerned  entity  is  following  or  is  required  to  follow  Companies  (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 only for the latest year (for the latest two years 
including comparatives) out of the historical period of three years, then the financial 

 

Page 10 of 18 

 

 

information  for  the  recent  two  years  shall  be  disclosed  as  per  the  Companies 
(Indian  Accounting  Standards)  Rules,  2015  and  the  financial  information  for  the 
earliest  year  (i.e.  the  third  last  year)  shall  be  disclosed  as  per  the  Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006. 

For  example,  if  financial  information  of  Investment  Manager/Sponsor  is  presented 
for  the  financial  years  2014-15,  2015-16,  and  2016-17  and  such  Investment 
Manager/Sponsor is required by Companies Act, 2013 to report under Ind AS from 
financial  year  2016-17  (with  financial  year  2015-16  as  comparatives),  then  it  shall 
disclose  financial  information  for  financial  years  2016-17  and  2015-16  as  per 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and financial year 2014-15 
as per Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006. 

Further,  for  example,  if  financial  information  of  Investment  Manager/Sponsor  is 
presented  for  the  financial  years  2014-15,  2015-16,  and  2016-17  and  such 
Investment  Manager/Sponsor  is  required  by  Companies  Act,  2013  to  report  under 
Ind  AS  from  financial year  2015-16  (with  financial  year  2014-15  as  comparatives), 
then it shall disclose financial information for all the three financial years, i.e. 2014-
15, 2015-16 and 2016-17, as per Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules. 

3.  Further, if any of the Investment Manager/Sponsor is a foreign entity and is not legally 
required to comply with the Companies Act, 2013, then the financial statements of such 
entity may be prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS). 
 

(F) Framework for calculation of Net Distributable Cash Flows (NDCFs): 

 

1.  Every InvIT/Investment Manager shall define net distributable cash flows  (NDCFs) for 

itself and the definition as decided by InvIT/Investment manager shall be: 

 

a.  subject to compliance with Companies Act, 2013 or Limited Liability Partnership Act, 

2008, or any Central Government Act, as applicable; and  

b.  disclosed in offer document and shall be followed consistently pursuant to listing.  

2.  The  indicated  framework  shall  be  followed  in  so  far  as  whatever  is  applicable  to  the 
SPV/InvIT,  for  e.g.  the  sale  of  infrastructure  assets  under  SPV  may  not  be  possible 
under  certain  kind  of  concession  agreements  and  therefore  such  head  under 
distribution may be kept blank, etc. 

 

3.  InvIT  may  take  guidance  from  the  following  framework  for  defining  and  calculating 

NDCFs at the SPV level and at the InvIT level : 

 

Page 11 of 18 

 

 

 

(I.) Calculation of Net Distributable Cash Flows at the SPV level: 

Description 

Amount  

Profit after tax as per Statement of profit and loss/income and 
expenditure (standalone) (A) 
Add: Depreciation and amortisation as per Statement of profit and 
loss/income and expenditure 
Add/less: Loss/gain on sale of Infrastructure Assets 
Add: Proceeds from sale of Infrastructure Assets adjusted for the following: 
 
  directly attributable transaction costs  
  proceeds reinvested or planned to be reinvested as per para 18 (7) (a) of 

related debts settled or due to be settled from sale proceeds 

the InvIT Regulations 

Add: Proceeds from sale of Infrastructure Assets not distributed pursuant to 
an earlier plan to re-invest, if such proceeds are not intended to be invested 
subsequently 
Add/less: Any other item of non-cash expense / non cash income (net of 
actual cash flows for these items), if deemed necessary by the Investment 
Manager.  
For example, any decrease/increase in carrying amount of an asset or of a 
liability recognised in Statement of profit and loss/income and expenditure on 
measurement of the asset or the liability at fair value, interest cost as per 
effective interest rate method, deferred tax, lease rents recognised on a 
straight line basis, etc. 
Less: Repayment of external debt (principal) / redeemable preference shares 
/ debentures, etc., if deemed necessary by the Investment Manager 
Total Adjustments (B) 
Net Distributable Cash Flows (C)=(A+B) 

Xx 

Xx 

xx 
xx 

xx 

Xx 
 
 

xx 

xx 
xx 

 

(II.) Calculation of Net Distributable Cash Flows at the Consolidated InvIT level: 

Description 
Profit after tax as per Statement of profit and loss/income and 
expenditure (consolidated) (A) 
Add: Depreciation and amortisation as per Statement of profit and 
loss/income and expenditure (consolidated) 
Add/less: Loss/gain recognised on sale of Infrastructure Assets or equity 
shares or interest in SPV 

Amount  
xx 

xx 

xx 

 

Page 12 of 18 

 

Description 
Add: Proceeds from sale of Infrastructure Assets or equity shares or interest 
in SPV adjusted for the following: 
 
  directly attributable transaction costs  
  proceeds reinvested or planned to be reinvested as per para 18 (7) (a) 

related debts settled or due to be settled from sale proceeds 

of the InvIT Regulations 

 

Amount  
xx 

Add: Proceeds from sale of Infrastructure Assets or equity shares or interest 
in SPV not distributed pursuant to an earlier plan to re-invest, if such 
proceeds are not intended to be invested subsequently 
Add/less: Any other item of non-cash expense / non cash income (net of 
actual cash flows for these items), if deemed necessary by the Investment 
Manager.  
For example, any decrease/increase in carrying amount of an asset or of a 
liability recognised in Statement of profit and loss/income and expenditure 
on measurement of the asset or the liability at fair value, interest cost as per 
effective interest rate method, deferred tax, lease rents recognised on a 
straight line basis, etc. 
Less: Repayment of external debt (principal) / redeemable preference 
shares / debentures, etc., if deemed necessary by the Investment Manager 
Total Adjustments (B) 
Net Distributable Cash Flows (C) = (A+B) 

xx 

xx 

xx 

xx 
xx 

 

(G) Principles for preparation of combined financial statements: 

 

1.  For preparation of Combined Financial Statements, as has been indicated in Paragraph 

2.1 (b) under Section ‘(A)’ above, InvIT shall follow the  following principles : 

1.1. Period for which combined financial statements shall be disclosed 

When the InvIT has not been in existence for some portion or the entire portion of the 
reporting period of three years and interim period, if any, then the financial information 
must  be  provided  through  combined  financial  statements,  showing  the  combined 
financial performance of all the proposed InvIT assets, for such period when InvIT was 
not in existence. 

1.2. Assets/entities forming part of Combined Financial Statements: 

All  the  assets  or  entities,  which  are  proposed  to  be  owned  by  the  InvIT,  as  per  the 
disclosures  in  the  offer  document  /  placement  memorandum,  shall  collectively  form 
part of combined financial statements.  

 

Page 13 of 18 

 
1.3. Underlying assumption for preparation of Combined Financial Statements 

 

Such  combined  financial  statements  shall  be  prepared  based  on  an  assumption  that 
all  the  assets  and/or  entities,  proposed  to  be  owned  by  InvIT,  were  part  of  a  single 
group for such period when InvIT was not in existence. 

1.4. Preparation of Combined Financial Statements: 

i.  These  statements  shall  be  prepared  on  a  combined  basis  and  presented  as  if 
InvIT  assets  were  a  part  of  a  single  group  since  the  first  day  of  the  reporting 
period for which information is being presented. 

ii. 

The principles for preparation of combined financial statements shall be same as 
the  principles  laid  down  in  “Ind  AS  110  Consolidated  Financial  Statements”,  to 
the  extent  applicable.  However,  unlike  consolidated  financial  statements,  the 
combined financial statements shall not have the parent. 

iii.  While  preparing  Combined  Financial  Statements,  transactions  between  the 
entities  proposed  to  be  owned  by  InvIT  (i.e.  transactions  between  the  entities 
which are forming part of the combined financial statements) shall be eliminated. 

Further,  all  pertinent  matters,  such  as  non-controlling 
foreign 
operations,  different  fiscal  periods,  or  income  taxes,  etc.  shall  be  treated  in  the 
same manner as in consolidated financial statements, to the extent applicable. 

interests, 

iv. 

In cases where one or more of the underlying InvIT assets have been held by the 
sponsor  or  its  associates  or  its  group  entities  for  a  period  lesser  than  the  last 
three  completed  financial  years,  then  such  assets  may  be  reflected  in  the 
Combined Financial Statements only from the date of holding by such entity. 

However, if the discrete financial information for such assets is also available for 
the pre-holding period (i.e. the period before the acquisition by the sponsor or its 
associates  or  its  group  entities),  then  such  assets  shall  be  reflected  in  the 
Combined Financial Statements for such pre-holding period as well. 

v. 

If  there  are  any  assets  for  which  the  financial  information  is  considered  for  a 
period lesser than three years and the additional interim period, if any, then such 
fact  shall  be  clearly  disclosed  in  the  offer  document/placement  memorandum, 
along with all pertinent details. 

vi.  Assumptions made in preparation of the Combined Financial Statements shall be 

disclosed in ‘Basis of Preparation’ of such statements.  

 

Page 14 of 18 

 

vii. 

The  basis  of  preparation  shall  also  explain  the  principles  of  combination  and 
elimination  of  transactions  amongst  entities  that  are  included  in  the  Combined 
Financial Statements. 

 

2.  In  addition  to  the  principles  listed  at  paragraph  ‘1’  above,  the  InvIT/Investment 
Manager,  while  preparing  the  Combined  Financial  Statements  of  the  InvIT,  shall  also 
be  guided  by  the  requirements  laid  down  in  the  ‘Guidance  Note  on  Combined  and 
Carve-Out Financial Statements’ and any other pertinent guidance/directions issued by 
ICAI in this context. 

(H) Minimum Disclosures for key financial statements: 

 

1.  For  the  financial  statements  listed  at  Paragraph  3.3  of  Section  ‘(A)’  above,  the  line 

items shall, at minimum, include the following: 

1.1. Line items for Balance Sheet: 

I.  Assets 

 
a)  Property, plant and equipment; 
b)  Capital work-in-progress 
c)  Investment property; 
d)  Intangible assets; 
e)  Inventories; 
f)  Other receivables; 
g)  Other financial assets (excluding Inventories & Other Receivables) 
h)  Cash and cash equivalents; 
i)  Deferred tax assets; 
j)  Assets for current tax. 

 
II.  Equity and Liabilities 

 
a)  Unit capital; 
b)  Other payables; 
c)  Provisions; 
d)  Financial  liabilities  (excluding  amounts  shown  under  (b)  and  (c)),  separately 

disclosing liabilities owed to sponsors; 

e)  Liabilities for current tax; 
f)  Deferred tax liabilities; 
g)  Other liabilities 

 

 

 

 

Page 15 of 18 

 
1.2. Line items for Statement of Profit and loss/Income and Expenditure 

 

I.  Incomes and gains: 

 
a)  Revenue from operations; 
b)  Dividend;  
c) 
d)  Profit on sale of assets/investments 
e)  Other income (Clearly indicate nature of such income).  

Interest;  

 

II.  Expenses and losses: 

Investment management fees (including fees paid to investment manager) 

Insurance & security expenses;  

 
a)  Valuation expenses; 
b)  Audit fees;  
c) 
d)  Employee Benefits Expenses 
e)  Project management fees (including fees paid to project manager) 
f) 
g)  Trustee Fee 
h)  Depreciation on property, plant and equipment; 
i)  Amortization of intangible assets;  
j)  Finance Cost (Interest); 
k)  Custodian fees;  
l)  Registration fees;  
m)  Repairs and maintenance in case of infrastructure asset; 
n)  Loss on sale of assets/investments 
o)  Other expenses (Clearly indicate nature of such expense) 
 

III.  Profit or loss for the period before income tax 

 

IV.  Tax expense (current tax and deferred tax) 

 

V.  Profit or loss for the period after income tax 

 

VI.  Items of other comprehensive income 

 

VII.  Additional line items (if applicable) 

 
a) 
b) 
c) 
d) 
 

Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  
Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 
Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 

VIII.  Total  comprehensive  income  for  the  period  (V+VI)  (Comprising  profit  (loss)  and 

Other comprehensive income for the period) 

 

 

Page 16 of 18 

 
1.3. Line items for the "Statement of changes in Unit holders’ equity" 

 

I.  Total comprehensive income for the period; 

 

II.  For  each  component  of  unit  holders’  equity,  a  reconciliation  between  the  carrying 
amount  at  the  beginning  and  the  end  of  the  period,  separately  (as  a  minimum) 
disclosing changes resulting from: 
 

a)  Profit or loss; 
b)  Other comprehensive income; 
c)  Aggregate amount of  investments by unit holders in InvIT, and dividends / other 

distributions by InvIT to unit holders 

 
1.4. Line items for the "Cash Flow Statement”  

Cash Flow Statement, shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of Ind AS 
7-"Statement of Cash Flows". 

1.5. Line items for ‘Statement of Net Assets at Fair Value’ 

The line items for the Statement of Net Assets at Fair Value, shall, at minimum, include 
the following: 

S.No.  Particulars 
A. 
B. 

  Assets  
  Liabilities  

C. 
D. 
E. 

  Net Assets (A-B) 
  No. of Units  
  NAV (C/D) 

xxxx 

Book Value   Fair Value 
xxxx 
xxxx 
(as  reflected  in  the  balance 
sheet) 
xxxx 
xxxx 
xxxx 

xxxx 
xxxx 
xxxx 

 
Notes:  
(i) ‘Statement of Net Assets at Fair Value’ shall be provided only as on the last date of 
the financial information disclosed in the offer document/placement memorandum.  
(ii)  Further,  the  breakup  of  the  fair  values  of  the  assets  shall  be  given  project-wise  in 
the notes to the Statement of Net Assets at Fair Value. 

 

Page 17 of 18 

 

 

 
1.6. Line items for ‘Statement of Total Return at Fair Value’: 

 

The  line  items  for  the  Statement  of  Total  Return  at  Fair  Value,  shall,  at  minimum, 
include the following: 

Particulars 
Total Comprehensive Income (As per the Statement of Profit 
and loss/Income and Expenditure) 
Add/Less: Other  Changes  in  Fair  Value  (e.g.,  in  investment 
property,  property,  plant  &  equipment  (if  cost  model  is 
followed)) not recognized in Total Comprehensive Income 
Total Return 

Amount  
xxxx 

xxxx 

xxxx 

 

Note:  ‘Statement  of  Total  Returns  at  Fair  Value’  shall  be  provided  only  for  the  last 
completed year and interim period, if any. 

2.  Headings, line items, sub-line items and sub-totals may be presented as an addition or 
substitution on the face of the financial statements when such presentation is relevant 
to  an  understanding  of  an  InvIT’s  financial  position  or  performance  or  to  cater  to 
industry/sector-specific  disclosure  requirements  or  when  required  for  compliance  with 
the InvIT regulations or Indian Accounting Standards or any other law. 

 

Page 18 of 18 

