CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2016/119 

 

 

November 1, 2016 

 
To 
All Credit Rating Agencies Registered with SEBI 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 

 

Sub: Enhanced Standards for Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) 

 

 
1.  SEBI  constituted  a  committee  on  “Strengthening  the  Guidelines  and  Raising 
Industry  Standards 
included 
representatives  from  all  the  CRAs.  The  objective  of  the  Committee  was  to 
deliberate upon measures and guidelines to bring about greater transparency in 
the  policies  of  the  CRAs,  enhance  the  standards  followed  by  the  industry 
and,thereby, facilitate ease of understanding of the ratings by the investors. 
 

for  Credit  Rating  Agencies  (CRAs)”,  which 

2.  With  a  view  to  implementing  the  recommendations  of  the  said  Committee,  the 
guidelines as  annexed to this Circular are being issued. These guidelines cover 
the following broad areas: 

I. 

 
Formulation  of  Rating  Criteria  and  rating  processes  and  public 
disclosure of the same. 
 

II.  Accountability of RatingAnalysts 

 

III.  Standardisationof Press Releasefor rating actions. 

IV. 

 
Functioning and evaluation of Rating Committees/Sub-Committees. 
 

V.  Disclosure of ratings in case of non-acceptance by an issuer 

 

VI.  Disclosure in case of delay in periodic review of ratings. 

 

VII.  Policy in respectofnon-co-operation by the issuer. 

 

VIII.  Strengthening and enhancing the relevance of Internal Audit of CRAs, 

viz.appointmentand rotation of auditors and scope of the audit. 

 
3.  The  CRAs  shall  effectively  implement  these  guidelines  within  60  days  from  the 

date of issue of this circular.  

 

Page 1 of 14 

 

4.  The CRAs shall at all times observe high standards and fairness in conduct of the 
business  and  any  act  of  omission  or  commission  in  contravention  of  the 
provisions of clauses 12 and/or 23 of Code of Conduct , as specified under Third 
Schedule  of  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  Regulations,  1999,  in  letter  or 
spirit, may result in violation of the provisions of section 12A of the Securities and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,1992  and  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  
Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003. 

 

5.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  Section  11  (1)  of 
Securitiesand  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation 20of SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999 to protect the 
interest  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and 
toregulate, the securities market. 

 
 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Surabhi Gupta 
Deputy General Manager 
Market Intermediaries Regulation and Supervision Department 
Tel. No: 022-26449315 
Email id: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 

 
Encl: Annexure 
 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 14 

1.  Operations Manual/ Internal governing document: 

Annexure A 

 
A.  TheOperations  Manual/  Internal  governing  document,  formulated  by  the  CRA, 
criteria,  policies  and 

cover  operating  guidelines, 

shall, 
proceduresrelated to the rating process. 

inter-alia, 

B.  The  contents  of  the  Operations  Manual/  Internal  governing  document,  as  well 
as  any  changes  to  the  same,  shall  be  communicated  to  employees  promptly, 
and training of employees on the same shall be conducted at regular intervals. 

 

2.  RatingCriteria, Rating Process and their Disclosure: 

 
A.  Rating 'Criteria’  

I.  Each  CRA  shall  frame  detailed  rating  criteria,  include  the  same  in  its 
Operations Manual/ Internal governing document and disclose the same on its 
website.  At  the  least,  the  followingratingcriteriashall  be  formulated  by  each 
CRA: 
 
Criteria on: 
a)  Default  recognition  and  post-default  curing  period  (Instrument-wise 
definition  of  default  to  be  followed  by  all  CRAs  is  provided  in  Annexure-
A1.) 

b)  Financial  ratios  (Explaining  how  a  CRA  analyses  various  financial  ratios 
including    adjustments  made  to  financial  statements  for  the  interpretation 
of financial ratios)  

c)  Consolidation of companies  
d)  Parent support/group/government support  
e)  Manufacturing, trading companies, and services sector  
f)  Banks and financial institutions  
g)  Securitization transactions  
h)  Public finance 
i) 

Infrastructure ratings 
 

II.  Each criteria shall be reviewed periodically by the CRA and the periodicity for 
such  review  shall  be  disclosed  on  the  CRA's  website.  While  disclosing  the 
revised  criteria  on  their  website,  CRAs  shall  also  provide  a  reference/ 
hyperlink to the original criteria (before revision), so as to enable investors to 
discern the changes made to the same. 

 
III.  The criteria shall be placed on the CRA’s website in a user-friendly manner in 

order to facilitate easy and ready access of the same by investors. 

 
IV. Press  Release,  related  to  rating  action,  shall  provide  a  reference/  hyperlink 

tothe specific criteriaapplied for the rating. 
 

B.  Rating Process and Policies 

 

Page 3 of 14 

I.  CRAsare mandated to have in place a proper rating process and disclosethe 

same on their website. 

 
II.  The  following  shall  also  be  specified  in  the  Operations  Manual/  Internal 

governing document of CRAs: 

 

a.  Basic Minimum information required for conducting the Rating Exercise 
b.  External entities (bankers, auditors etc.) that need to be contacted  
c.  Mode  of  seeking  information  from  external  entities.  CRAs  should 

endeavor to obtain such information/confirmation in writing. 

d.  Policy  regarding  internal  approvals  and  timelines  at  each  step  of  the 

Rating Exercise 

e.  Policy  regarding  monitoring  and  reviewof  ratings, 

including 

the 

timelines within which such review is to be completed 
 

III.  Each CRA shall frame detailed guidelines on the following, include them in its 
Operations Manual/ Internal governing document and disclose the sameon its 
website:  

a.  General  nature  of  compensation  arrangements  with  rated  entities 
Policy  for  appeal  by  Issuers  against  the  Rating  being  assigned  to  its 
instruments 

b.  Policy for placing ratings on credit watch 
c.  Guidelines on what constitutes non-cooperation. 
d.  Gift policy  
e.  Confidentiality policy  
f.  Policy on outsourcing of activities 
g.  Policy on provisional ratings  
h.  FAQs on ratings 
i.  Disclosure on managing conflict of interest  

IV. Any change in the rating process or policies shall be disclosed on the CRA's 
website,  while  also  providing  a  reference/  hyperlink  to  the  original  provision/ 
process/  policy,  to  enable  the  investors  to  discern  the  changes  made  to  the 
same.  

 

C.  Accountability of Rating Analystsof CRAs:  

I.  Roles and responsibilities of the rating analysts of CRAs shall be clearly laid 

out in the CRA’s Operations Manual/ Internal governing document. 
 

II.  Analysts shall be responsible for undertaking the rating process and adhering 
to  the  timelines  as  specified  in  the  Operations  Manual/  Internal  governing 
document.  

D.  Standardization of Press Releasefor Rating Actions 

I.  CRAs are mandated to issue a Press Release after assigning a rating. With a 
view to harmonizing the format of the Press Release, it has been decided that 
all  CRAs  shall  follow  a  standardized  template,  which  is  attached  as 
Annexure-A2.  It  may  be  noted  that  this  template  specifies  the  minimum 

Page 4 of 14 

 

 

 

 

information  that  must  be  covered  in  the  Press  Release.  CRAs  can  include 
additional  information,  while  maintaining  the  basic  format  of  the  Press 
Release. 
 

II.  While  the  Press  release  for  the  initial  rating  of  bonds,  debentures,  etc.  shall 
disclose information about the rated amount of the instrument, the subsequent 
Press  Releases  shall also  disclose  additional  details  of  the  rated instrument, 
viz. coupon, maturity date, etc. 

III.  Each  CRA  shall  assign  a  ratingOutlook  and  disclose  the  same  in  thePress 

Release.  

IV. Press  Releaserelated  to  review  of  rating  shallalso  carry  the  rating  transition/ 
history of all instruments of that issuer, rated by the CRA in the past 3 years, 
irrespective of whether the instrument is currently outstanding or not. 

V.  The ratinghistory, Press Releases and Rating Reports, including those ratings 

which have been withdrawn, shallbeavailable on the CRA's website. 

 

 

 

 

3.  Functioning and Evaluation of Rating Committees/Sub-Committees  

 

A.  Each  CRA  shall  define  theobligations,  responsibilities,  areas  of  conflict  of 
interest,  etc.  of  rating  committee  members  in  its  Operations  Manual/  Internal 
governing document.The following shallbe specifically set out in the Operations 
Manual/ Internal governing documentof each CRA and disclosed on itswebsite 

I.  Eligibility for becoming committee/sub-committee members 
II.  Composition of committee/sub-committee 
III.  Minimum quorum required 
IV. Duties of committee members  
V.  System of voting and recording of dissent. 
VI. Managing conflict of interest in the rating committee/sub-committee. 

 

the  majority  of 

B.  Persons  who  have  business  responsibility  shall  not  be  part  of  the  Rating 
Committee. However, the MD/ CEO may be a member of the Rating Committee 
if 
the  Rating  Committee  members  areindependent. 
("Independent"  would  mean  people not having  any  pecuniary  relationship  with 
the CRA or any of its employees). 
 

C.  Minutes  of  each  case  discussed  at  the  committee  shall  be  maintained  and 
signed  (digitally  or  manually)  by  the  Chairperson.  Standard  format  for  the 
Minutes of Rating Committee Meeting is placed at Annexure-A3. 
 

D.  The process of discussion of case by circulation must be avoided, unless there 

is urgency in taking a rating action. 
 

E.  Chairperson(s) of eachrating committee/sub-committee of the CRA shall, on an 
annualbasis,  undertake  a  review  of  the  decisions  taken  by  the  Committees  in 
that year, which would, inter alia, include: 
 

 

Page 5 of 14 

I.  Ratings assigned by the rating committees/ sub-committees including ratings 
assigned based on best available information in cases of non-cooperation by 
the issuer.  

II.  Sharp changes in ratings. 

 

The review report thereof shall be placed before the Board of the CRA. 

 

4.  Disclosures: 

A.  In case of rating notaccepted by an issuer 

I.  Each  CRA  shall  disclose  on  its  website  details  of  all  ratings  assigned  by 
them,  irrespective  of  whether  the  rating  is  accepted  by  the  issuer  or  not, 
even in case of non-public issues. Details disclosed shall include the name 
of the issuer, name/ type of instrument, size of the issue, rating and outlook 
assigned, etc. 

 

B.  In case of delay in periodic review 

 

II.  Each  CRA  shall  promptly  disclose  on  its  website  details  of  all  suchratings 
where  the  review  became  due  but  was  not  completed  by  the  due  date,  as 
per  the  timelines  specified  in  the  CRA’s  Operations  Manual/  Internal 
governing document. Details disclosed shallinclude the name of the issuer, 
name/ type of instrument, size of the issue, date of last review, reasons for 
delay in periodic review, hyperlink to the last Press Release, etc. 

 

 

5.  Policy in respect ofnon-co-operation by the issuer 

 

 

A.  In  case  of  non-cooperation  by  the  issuer  (such  as  not  providing  information 
required for rating, non-payment of fees for conducting surveillance), inline with 
the existing Regulations, the CRA shall continue to review the instrument, on an 
ongoing  basis  throughout  the  instrument’s  lifetime,  on  the  basis  of  best 
available  information,  in  accordance  with  the  rating  process  and  policies  set 
forth in its Operations Manual/ Internal governing document. 

B.  In such cases the credit rating symbol shall be accompanied by “Issuer did not 

co-operate; Based on best available information” in the same font size. 

C.  The  rating  action(s)  in  such  cases  shall  be  promptly  disclosed  throughpress 

release(s),which shallmention, atleast, the following:  

 

I.  Date of Press Release 
II.  Details of Instrument 
III.  Rating  Action  and  Indicative/updated  rating  based  on  best  available 

information  

IV. A  brief  write-up  on  the  non-co-operation  by  the  Issuer/  Borrower  and  the 

consistent follow-up done by the CRA for getting the information. 

V.  Hyperlink/ reference to the applicable "Criteria" 

Page 6 of 14 

VI. Limitations  regarding  information  availability  (shallhave  a  suitable  caveat 

cautioning the investors/lenders /public)  

VII. Rating History for last three years 
VIII. Name and contact details of the Rating Analyst(s) 

 

D.  In case an issuer, having  not co-operated with a CRA in the past, approaches 
another  CRA for  rating,  the  new  CRA  shall,  in  its  Press  Release, disclose  the 
aspect of non-co-operation. 

 

E.  The  Rating  Agreement,  signed  between  the  CRA  and  its  client  (issuer/ 

borrower),shall have an additional clause stating that - 
 

"The  client  (issuer/ borrower)  agrees to  disclose  the  history  and  status  (non-
cooperation,  non-payment  of  fees  etc.)  of  previous  rating  relation  with  the 
earlierCRA(s) to the new CRA along with reasons for non- cooperation,, etc. if 
applicable." 
 

6.  Internal Audit of CRAs:  

 
For  strengthening  and  improving  the  relevance  of  the  internal  audit  of  CRAs,  as 
envisaged under Regulation 22 of the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 
1999 and Circular SEBI/ MIRSD/CRA/Cir-01/ 2010 dated January 06, 2010, it has 
been decided to implement the below mentioned additional norms for the Internal 
Audit: 
 
A.  Eligibility ofAuditors for conducting the Internal Audit of the CRA 

I.  The audit firm shallhave a minimum experience of three years in the financial 

sector. 

 

II.  The internal auditor of a CRA shall declare that  

a)  The firm has not been employed by other CRAs for any other services 
(such as statutory audit, taxation, consultancy/ retainership etc.) in the 
past two years, and 

b)  The partners/ firm do not have any association with any other CRA. 
 

III.  The  audit  team  must  be  composed  of,  at  least,  a  Chartered  Accountant 

(ACA/FCA) and a Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA). 

B.  Rotation of InternalAuditors 

I.  An  auditor  shall  be  appointed  for  a  maximum  term  of  five  years,  with  a 

cooling-off period of two years.  

 

C.  Scope of the InternalAudit 

The  scope  of 
followingadditional checks:  

the 

internal  audit  shall  be  expanded 

to 

include 

the 

Page 7 of 14 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I.  CRA  and  its  employees,  who  are  associated  directly  or  indirectly  with  the 

rating business, have complied with the regulations and code of conduct. 
 

II.  CRA  has  defined  processes  for  operations  that  have  been  followed  during 

the rating exercise. 
 

III.  Rating  analystshave  adhered  to  their  roles  and  responsibilitieslaid  down  in 
the Operations Manual/Internal governing documentand processes disclosed 
on the CRA's website, during the rating 

IV. Policyinrespect of non-cooperation by the issuer, including procedures to be 

followed for the same, have been complied with.  
 

V.  CRA  has  frameda  policy  for  default  recognition,  consistent  with  regulatory 
guidelines,  and  is  adhering  to  the  same.  At  a  minimum,  it  shall  be  checked 
ifanyirregularities/  delays/  defaults  in  debt  servicing  had  been  indicated  by 
any  of  the  below  mentioned  entities  and  suitable  action  with  regard  to  the 
same was taken by the CRA: 

 

a)  The issuer/ borrower 
b)  The Company’s statutory auditor  
c)  The borrower’s bankers, during interactions with the CRA 
d)  Debenture Trustees  

 

Cases  where  there  are  deviations  to  the  checklist  shall  be  documented  by 
the auditor as part of the audit report submitted to the board. 

VI. Review of ratings has been carried out as per the review policy of the CRA. 

 

VII. Dissents, if any, have been recorded for each committee meeting, as stated 

in the Operations Manual/ Internal governing document. 

VIII. CRA has complied with the timelines for publication of press release/ rating 
rationale  for  the  ratings  assigned,  as  set  out  in  its  Operations  Manual/ 
Internal governing document. 

IX. The PressReleases issued are broadly in line with the standard template as 

placed at Annexure-A2. 

 

X.  Verify the rating disclosures made by the CRAs on their website. 

 

XI. Comment on the conflict of interest, if any, arising due to composition of the 

rating committee and participation in the rating committee meetings. 

D.  Action on the Internal Audit Report:  

I.  Upon receipt of the internal audit report, the Compliance Officer of the CRA 
shall  provide  detailed  comments  on  each  of  the  observations  therein  and 
place the same before the Board of the CRA. 
 

Page 8 of 14 

 

 

 

 

 

 

II.  The  final  action  taken  report,  including  the  comments/  recommendations 
made  by  Compliance  Officer  and  the  Board  of  the  CRAas  well  as  the 
corrective  steps  taken  by  the  CRA,  shall  be  submitted  to  SEBI  within  2 
months from the date of receipt of the internal audit  report or 1 month from 
the  date  of  Board  Meeting  of  the  CRA,  whichever  is  later,  in  the  following 
format: 

 
Sr. 
No. 

Observations 
of the auditor 

 
 

 
 

Remarks  by  the 
Compliance 
Officer 
 
 

Comments  of 
the  Board  of 
the CRA 
 
 

Corrective 
actions 
taken 
 
 

 
 
7.  Modification  in  format  of  Annexure  IV  under  Clause  6.2.2  of  SEBI  Circular 

CIR/MIRSD/CRA/6/2010dated May 3, 2010: 

format  of  Annexure 

 
The 
IV  under  Clause  6.2.2  of  SEBI  Circular 
CIR/MIRSD/CRA/6/2010 dated May 3, 2010, providing the format for disclosure of 
“Movement of each credit rating that has moved by more than one notch over last 
six  months”  is  modified.  The  revised  format  is  placed  at  Annexure-A4.  All  other 
provisions of the aforesaid Circular remain unchanged. 

 

 

 

Page 9 of 14 

Annexure-A1: Instrument-wise definition of default 

Facilities 

Rating Scale 

Proposed Definition of Default 

Fund-based facilities & Facilities with pre-defined repayment schedule  

Term Loan 

Working Capital Term Loan  
Working  Capital  Demand  Loan 
(WCDL)  
Debentures/Bonds  

Long Term 

Certificate  of  Deposits  (CD)/  Fixed 
Deposits (FD) 

Short  Term/  Long 
term 

Commercial Paper 
Packing Credit (pre-shipment credit) 

Short term 
Short Term 

Buyer’s Credit  

Short Term 

Bill Purchase/Bill discounting/Foreign 
bill 
discounting 
/Negotiation 
(BP/BD/FBP/FBDN)  
Fund-based facilities & No Pre Defined Repayment Schedule  

Short Term 

A  delay  of  1  day  even  of  1  rupee  (of 
principal  or 
 
the 
scheduled repayment date. 

interest) 

from 

 

Overdue/unpaid  for  more  than  30 
days.     
Continuously  overdrawn 
than 30 days.  
Overdue/unpaid  for  more  than  30 
days.     

for  more 

  
Cash Credit 

Overdraft  

  
Long Term 

Short Term 

  
Continuously  overdrawn 
than 30 days.  

for  more 

Continuously  overdrawn 
than 30 days. 

for  more 

 
Non fund-based facilities  

Letter of credit (LC) 

Short Term 

Bank  Guarantee  (BG)(Performance/ 
Financial) 

Short Term 

Other Scenarios  

When 
rescheduled: 

rated 

instrument 

is 

  

Curing Period 

 

 Overdue for more than 30 days from 
the day of devolvement. 
Amount  remaining  unpaid  from  30 
days from invocation of the facility. 

their 

proposal 

accepting 

Non-servicing of the debt (principal as 
well  as  interest)  as  per  the  existing 
repayment  terms  in  anticipation  of  a 
favourable  response  from  the  banks 
of 
restructuring 
application/ 
shallbe 
considered as a default. 
Rescheduling  of  the  debt  instrument 
by  the  lenders  prior  to  the  due  date 
of payment  will  not  be  treated  as 
default,  unless  the  same  is  done  to 
avoid default or bankruptcy. 
90  Days  –  for  Default  to  Speculative 
Grade  and  generally  365  Days  for 
Default to Investment Grade 

*For bank loan ratings, default recognition will need to be in line with the RBI guidance  

 

Page 10 of 14 

Annexure-A2: Standard Template for Press Release (Minimum 

Information be disclosed) 

 

Name of the Company 

 

Date of Press Release 

 

Details of Instrument 

Name  of 
instrument 

the 

Date 
issuance 

of 

Coupon 
rate 

Maturity 
Date 

Size  of 
issue 

the 

 

 

 

 

 

Ratingassigned, 
along with Rating 
Outlook 
 

 
Rating action (assigned/upgraded/downgraded) for the instrument. 
 
Detailed Rationale justifying the Rating Action/ rating assigned.  
 
List  of  key  rating  driversfor  the  Rating  Action  i.e.  factors  justifying  favourable 
assessment (strengths) and factors constituting risk (weakness).  
 
Detailed description of key rating drivershighlighted above. 
 
Analytical approach (wherever applicable) taken by the CRAto assign the rating. 
 
Hyperlink/ reference to the applicable "Criteria" for rating the instrument. 
 
About  the  Company:Factual  details  of  the  company  along  with  the  major  financial 
information for the last and current financial year.  
 
Status  of  non-cooperation  with  previous  CRA  (if  applicable):  Reason  and 
comments on status of non-co-operation with the previous CRA (if applicable). 
 
Any other information: 
 
Rating History for last three years: 

Current Rating (Year T) 

Name of 

Instrument 
(NCD/ Bank 
Loan/ Non-
Fund based 

facilities/ 

Commercial 
Paper etc.) 

S.No 

 

 

1 
2 

 
 

 

Chronology  of  Rating  History  for 
the past 3 years (Rating Assigned 
and  Press  Release  Date)  along 
with Outlook/ Watch, if applicable 
Date(s) & 
Rating(s) 
assigned 
in Year T-

Date(s) & 
Rating(s) 
assigned 

in Year 

T-2 

 

 

3 

 

 

Type 
(long 
term/ 
Short 
term) 

 

 

Amount 
Outstan
ding (Rs. 
Crores) 

Rati
ng 

Date(s) & 
Rating(s) 
assigned 
in Year T-1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 11 of 14 

Note on complexity levels of the rated instrument: 
 
Name and Contact Details of the Rating Analyst(s): 
 
About CRA: 
 
CRA Disclaimer:  

 

 

 

 

Page 12 of 14 

Annexure-A3: Summary Record of the Rating Committee Meeting (RCM) 
 

 
A. Preliminary Information 
 

  Date of the RCM 
  Names of all the persons attending the RCM 
  Name of rating committee members present (only rating committee members 

will have voting rights) 

  Name of the Chairperson of the meeting 
  Any other special invitees (if any) 

 

B. Information Relating to Rating Decision 
 
Following information/details of each rating decision shallbe captured: 
 

  Name of the rated issuer/entity 
  Rating exercise i.e. whether it’s a fresh rating or review/surveillance case  
  Rating  outcome  i.e.  rating  assigned,  along  with  rating  outlook  and  special 

rating symbol, if any. 

  Summary of key issues discussed during the rating committee. 
  Dissent (if any) by any RCM member  

 
C. Authentication and Maintenance of Rating Committee Summary  

 

  The summary of the RCM shallbe approved/signed by the Chairperson either 

manually or digitally. 

  The  approved/  signed  summary  shallbe  maintained  either  manually  or 

electronically.  

 
 
 

 

 

Page 13 of 14 

Annexure-A4: Movement of each credit rating that has moved by more 

than one notch 

 

Rating Movement by more than one-notch between Apr-Sep / Oct -Mar 
Date of 
Rating 
Change 

S.No  Name of the Issuer  Rating post revision  Notch Difference 

1.     
2.     

1.    
2.    

1.    
2.    

1.    
2.    

1.    
2.    

1.    
2.    

1.   
2.    

Rating prior to revision- AAA category 

  
  

  
  

Rating prior to revision- AA category 

 
 

 
 

Rating prior to revision- A category 

 
 

 
 

Rating prior to revision- BBB category 

 
 

 
 

Rating prior to revision- BB category 

 
 

 
 

Rating prior to revision- B category 

 
 

 
 

Rating prior to revision- C category 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 14 of 14 

