¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

                   October 26, 2016 

 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2016/116 
 
To 
 
All the Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Depositories 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:  Freezing  of  Promoter  and  Promoter  group  Demat  accounts  for  Non-
compliance  with  certain  provisions  of  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015  

 

1.  SEBI, vide Circular No. CIR/CFD/CMD/12/2015 dated November 30, 2015, had 
prescribed the uniform fine structure for non-compliance with certain provisions 
of  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015 
("Listing  Regulations")  and  Standard  Operating  Procedure  for  suspension  and 
revocation of trading of specified securities.  
 

2.  It  has  been  observed  that  some  of  the  non-compliant  listed  entities  have  not 
paid  the  fines  levied  by  the  recognized  stock  exchange(s).  In  order  to  ensure 
effective enforcement, it has been decided in consultation with recognized stock 
exchanges to freeze the holdings of their promoters and promoter group entities 
in the manner specified below:  

 

2.1. Where a non-compliant listed entity fails to pay fine levied as per the notice 
issued by the concerned recognized stock exchange in terms of paragraph 
4  of  Annexure  I  of  the  aforesaid  circular,  the  concerned  recognized  stock 
exchange shall, upon expiry of the period indicated in the notice issued by it, 
freeze  holdings  in  other  securities  in  the  demat  accounts  of  promoter  and 
promoter  group  to  the  extent  of  liability  which  shall  be  calculated  on  a 
quarterly basis. 
 

2.2. In  case  of  non-compliance  for  two  consecutive  periods,  and  failure  to 
comply with the notice issued by the concerned recognized stock exchange 
as  per  paragraph  3  of  Annexure  II  of  the  aforesaid  circular,  as  per  the 
current  practice,  the  concerned  recognized  stock  exchange  shall  forthwith 
intimate  the  depositories  to  freeze  the  entire  shareholding  of  the  promoter 
and promoter group in such listed entity. In addition to the freeze of shares 
in  the  non-compliant  listed  entity,  the  holdings  in  the  demat  accounts  of 

 

Page 1 of 2 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

promoter and promoter group  in other securities shall also be frozen to the 
extent of liability which shall be calculated on a quarterly basis.  
 

2.3. While  freezing  the  holdings  as  per  paragraphs  2.1  and  2.2  above,  the 
recognized stock exchange shall have discretion in determining which of the 
securities and holdings of which promoter or promoter group entity are to be 
frozen.  

 

3.  The depositories, shall furnish to the exchange upon receipt of request, all such 
information  pertaining  to  holdings  in  the  demat  accounts  of  promoter  and 
promoter group of such listed entities.  
 

4.  All provisions of Circular No. CIR/CFD/CMD/12/2015 dated November 30, 2015 

shall continue to be applicable.  

 

5.  The  stock  exchanges  and  depositories  shall 

implement 

the  circular 

in 

coordination with one another.  

 

6.  The  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the 

notice of listed entities and also to disseminate the same on their websites.  
 

7.  This  circular  shall  come  into  force  with  immediate  effect.  The  circular  shall  be 
applicable  to  all  fines  outstanding  on  or  after  the  date  of  this  circular  levied  in 
accordance with Circular No. CIR/CFD/CMD/12/2015 dated November 30, 2015 
and Circular No. CIR/CFD/POLICYCELL/13/2013 dated November 18, 2013.  
 

8.  This  circular  is  issued  under  regulations  97,  98,  99  and  102  read  with  regulation 
101(2)  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.   
 

9.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Continuous Disclosure Requirements”. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Prasanta Mahapatra 
General Manager 
Compliance and Monitoring Division 
Corporation Finance Department 
prasantam@sebi.gov.in  

 

Page 2 of 2 
 

