¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/IMD/DF2/CIR/P/2016/124                                                    November 17, 2016 

All Mutual Funds/Asset Management Companies (AMCs)/  

Trustee Companies/Boards of Trustees of Mutual Funds  

 

Sir/ Madam, 

 

Subject:    Investment/trading  in  securities  by  employees  of  AMC(s)  and  Trustees  of 

Mutual Funds 

 

A.  Please  refer  to  SEBI  circulars  dated  May  08,  2001,  June  20,  2002,  July  11,  2003, 

December 15, 2009 and May 22, 2014, on the captioned subject. With an objective to 

bring  about  alignment  of 

these  SEBI  circulars  providing  guidelines 

for 

Investment/Trading  in  Securities  by  employees  of  AMC(s)  and  Trustees  with  the 

principles  laid  down  in  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  2015,  and  to 

remove difficulty in the implementation of the guidelines, the following provisions stand 

modified: 

1.  Clause  1.1  of  SEBI  Circular  dated  May  08,  2001  on  investments  covered  under 

these guidelines shall read as follows: 

“These Guidelines cover transactions for purchase or sale of any securities such as 

shares,  debentures,  bonds,  warrants,  derivatives  and  units  of  schemes  floated  by 

Mutual  Funds  /  AMCs  where  the  concerned  persons  (in  terms  of  the  applicability 

stated at Clause 1 of the said circular) are employed.  

These Guidelines do not apply to the following investments by the employees: 

i. 

Investments  in  fixed  deposits  with  banks/financial  institutions/companies,  life 

insurance  policies,  provident  funds  (including  public  provident  fund)  or 

Investment  in  savings  schemes  such  as  National  Savings  Certificates, 

National  Savings  Schemes,  Kisan  Vikas  Patra,  or  any  other  similar 

investment. 

ii. 

Investments  of  a  non-financial  nature  such  as  gold  etc,  where  there  is  no 

likely conflict between the Mutual Fund’s interest and the employees’ interest. 

 

Page 1 of 11 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

iii. 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Investments  in  government  securities,  money  market  instruments,  money 

market  mutual  fund  schemes,  liquid  schemes  and  schemes  floated  by  other 

Mutual Funds/ AMCs.” 

 

2.  Clause 1.2 of SEBI Circular dated May 08, 2001 on applicability of these guidelines 

shall read as follows:  

"These Guidelines shall cover transactions for sale or purchase of securities made: 

i. In the name of employees, either individually or jointly,  

ii. In the name of the employees’ spouse,  

iii.  As a member of HUF,  

iv.  In the name of employees’ parent, sibling and child of such employee or of the 

spouse,  any  of  whom  is  either  dependent  financially  on  such  employee,  or 

consults such employee in taking decisions relating to trading in securities." 

 

3.  Clause 2.2.2 (ii) of SEBI Circular dated May 08, 2001 shall read as follows: 

“If the shares/debentures/bonds/warrants of the company or derivatives specified by 

the employee are held by any Scheme of the Mutual Fund of which the AMC is the 

investment manager, there should be a "cooling off" period of 15 calendar days. The 

Compliance  Officer  shall  ensure  that  the  last  transaction  in  that  particular  security 

was  done  by  the  Mutual  Fund  at  least  15  calendar  days  prior  to  the  date  of  the 

written  application  by  the  access  person.  In  other  words,  an  application  for  a 

purchase /sale transaction on a personal basis would be cleared only if the Mutual 

Fund has not transacted in that particular security for at least 15 calendar days. 

However, trades executed pursuant to a trading plan submitted by the employees in 

terms  of  SEBI  (PIT)  Regulations,  2015,  shall  be  exempt  from  the  requirement  of  a 

“cooling off” period, provided that such trading plan: 

i. 

ii. 

Is in compliance with the norms prescribed in SEBI (PIT) Regulations, 2015.  

Is publicly disclosed on the website of the concerned Mutual Fund  

The  Compliance  Officer  shall  also  properly  monitor  trades  of  the  MF  scheme  and 

that  of  the  access  person,  as  per  the  trading  plan,  in  order  to  ensure  that  such 

trading plan does not entail trading in securities for market abuse.” 

 

 

Page 2 of 11 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 
4.  Clause  1.4  of  SEBI  Circular  dated  May  08,  2001  read  with  July  11,  2003  and 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

December 15, 2009 shall read as follows: 

“The  approval  of  Compliance  Officer  for  carrying  out  a  transaction  of  sale  or 

purchase  of  a  security  by  the  access  person  shall  not  be  valid  for  more  than  7 

trading days from the date of approval. 

If a transaction approved by the Compliance Officer has not been effected within 7 

trading  days  from  the  date  of  its  approval,  the  access  person  shall  be  required  to 

obtain  approval  once  again  from  Compliance  Officer  prior  to  effecting  the 

transaction.” 

 

5.  Clause 3 of SEBI Circular dated June 20, 2002 shall read as follows: 

“Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 

2015  shall  be  followed  strictly  by  the  Trustees,  Asset  Management  Companies  and 

their employees and directors.” 

B.  Considering  that  the  provisions  for  investment  /  trading  in  Securities  by  employees  of 

AMCs and Trustees are set out in various  SEBI  Circulars namely Circulars  dated May 

08, 2001, June 20, 2002, July 11, 2003, December 15, 2009, May 22, 2014 along-with 

amendments to these circulars provided at Point A above, for ease of reference these 

provisions are consolidated and provided at Annexure A. 

 

C.  Applicability of the Circular  

The above circular will be applicable from December 01, 2016.  

 

This  circular  is  issued in  exercise  of the  powers  conferred under  Section 11  (1)  of  the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with the provision of Regulation 

77  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulation,  1996  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in 

securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

Yours faithfully, 

 

Harini Balaji 

General Manager  

Tel no.: 022-26449372 

Email: harinib@sebi.gov.in 

Page 3 of 11 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure A  

I. 

The  guidelines  enumerated  below  specify  the  minimum  requirements  that  have  to  be 

followed. The AMC(s) and Trustees are free to set more stringent norms for investment 

and/or  trading  in  securities  by  their  employees.  The  Board  of  the  AMC  and  Trustees 

shall  ensure  compliance  with  these  Guidelines  on  a  continuous  basis  and  shall  report 

any violations and remedial action taken by them in the periodical reports submitted to 

the Board. 

 

II.  Guidelines  for  Investment  and/or  Trading  in  Securities  by  Employees  of  AMC(s)  and 

Trustees: 

A.  Applicability  

1.  These Guidelines shall be applicable to all employees of AMC(s) and Trustees and shall 

form  a  part  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  for  employees  adopted  by  the  AMC(s)  and/or 

Trustees. New employees shall be bound by these Guidelines from the date of joining 

the AMC(s) and/or Trustees. 

 

2.  These Guidelines shall cover transactions for sale or purchase of securities made: 

a.  In the name of employees, either individually or jointly,  

b.  In the name of the employees’ spouse,  

c.  As a member of HUF, 

d.  In  the  name  of  employees’  parent,  sibling  and  child  of  such  employee  or  of  the 

spouse, any of whom is either dependent financially on such employee or consults 

such employee in taking decision relating to trading in securities. 

 

B.  The objectives and principles of these Guidelines are: 

1.  To ensure that all securities transactions made by employees in their personal capacity 

are conducted in consonance with these Guidelines and in such manner as to avoid any 

actual or potential conflict of interest or any abuse of an individual’s position of trust and 

responsibility. 

2.  The  employees  of  AMC(s)  and  Trustees  especially  Access  Persons  shall  not  take 

undue  advantage  of  any  price  sensitive  information  that  they  may  have  about  any 

company.  Access Person for the purpose  of  these  Guidelines  shall  mean  the  Head  of 

the AMC (designated as CEO/Managing Director/President or by any other name), the 

 

Page 4 of 11 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 
Fund  Managers,  Dealers,  Research  Analysts,  all  employees  in  the  Fund  Operations 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Department,  Compliance  Officer and  Heads of  all  divisions  and/or departments or  any 

other employee as decided by the AMC(s) and/or Trustees. 

3.  To guide employees of AMC(s) and Trustees in maintaining a high standard of probity 

that one would expect from an employee in a position of responsibility. 

C.  General 

1.  Investments covered: 

a.  These Guidelines cover transactions for purchase or sale of any securities such as 

shares,  debentures,  bonds,  warrants,  derivatives  and  units  of  schemes  floated  by 

Mutual  Funds  /  AMCs  where  the  concerned  persons  (in  terms  of  the  applicability 

stated at Clause A1 above) are employed.  

b.  These Guidelines do not apply to the following investments by the employees: 

i. 

Investments  in  Fixed  Deposits  with  banks  /Financial  Institutions  /companies,  Life 

Insurance  Policies,  Provident  Funds  (including  Public  Provident  Fund)  or 

investment  in  savings  schemes  such  as  National  Savings  Certificates,  National 

Savings Schemes, Kisan Vikas Patra, or any other similar investment. 

ii. 

Investments  of  a  non-financial  nature  such  as  gold  etc.,  where  there  is  no  likely 

conflict between the Mutual Fund’s interest and the employees’ interest. 

iii. 

Investments in government securities, Money Market instruments, Money Market 

Mutual  Fund  schemes,  liquid  schemes  and  schemes  floated  by  other  Mutual 

Funds / AMCs. 

 

2.  No  employee  shall  pass  on  information  to  anybody  inducing  him  to  buy/sell  securities 

which  are  being  bought  and/or  sold  by  the  Mutual  Fund  of  which  the  AMC  is  the 

investment manager. 

3.  Prior approval of personal investment transactions: 

a.  All access persons except Compliance Officer shall apply in the form prescribed by 

the  AMC(s)  and/or  Trustees  to  the  Compliance  Officer  for  prior  approval  of 

transactions for  sale  or  purchase  of  securities  other  than  those  expressly  stated  to 

be exempt under these guidelines. The Compliance Officer shall apply to the Head 

of the AMC(s). The decision of the Compliance Officer shall be final and binding on 

the employee. 

Page 5 of 11 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

b.  In  these  Guidelines,  in  the  case  of  the  Compliance  Officer’s  own  transactions  for 

purchase  or  sale  of  securities  or  disclosure  or  any  other  related  matter,  the  term 

"Compliance Officer" wherever it appears, shall be read as "Head of the AMC." 

 

 

 

 

c.  The Compliance Officer may coordinate with the Fund Management Department of 

the Mutual Fund, wherever necessary, to clear requests of investment and/or trading 

in securities by the employees. 

d.  The approval of Compliance Officer for carrying out a transaction of sale or purchase 

of  a  security  by  the  access  person  shall  not  be  valid  for  more  than  seven  trading 

days from the date of approval. 

e.  If a transaction approved by Compliance Officer has not been effected within seven 

trading  days  from  the  date  of  its  approval,  the  access  person  shall  be  required  to 

obtain  approval  once  again  from  Compliance  Officer  prior  to  effecting  the 

transaction. 

f.  All  employees  shall  refrain  from  profiting  from  the  purchase  and  sale  or  sale  and 

purchase of any security  within a period of 30 calendar days from the date of their 

personal transaction. However, in cases where it is done, the employee shall provide 

a  suitable  explanation  to  the  Compliance  Officer,  which  shall  be  reported  to  the 

Board of the AMC and the Trustees at the time of review. 

 

D.  Investments  in  Shares  and/or  Debentures  and/or  Bonds  and/or  Warrants  and/or 

Derivatives 

Investments in securities shall broadly be classified into investments through (a) primary 

markets and (b) secondary markets. 

1.  Investments through the primary markets:  

a.  An  employee  including  access  person  is  permitted  to  apply  to  a  public  issue  of 

shares and/or debentures and/or bonds and/or warrants of any company, as long as 

the application is made in the normal course of the public issue. Such an application 

may  be  made  without  seeking  the  clearance  from  the  Compliance  Officer. 

Employees  of  AMC(s)  and  Trustees  are  prohibited  from  applying  in  any  reserved 

 

Page 6 of 11 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

quota  such  as  promoters’  quota,  employees’  quota  etc.  Employees  shall  not 

participate in any private placement of equity by any company. 

 

b.  Notwithstanding  anything  stated  in  (a)  above,  an  employee  of  an  AMC(s)  and/or 

Trustees may apply for shares and/or debentures and/or bonds and/or warrants in a 

preferential  offer,  in  cases  where  such  a  preferential  offer  is  being  made  by  a 

company  that  belongs  to  the  same  industrial  group  as  the  company  in  which  the 

employee already has an investment, provided that such a preferential offer is made 

to  all  shareholders  and/or  debenture  holders  of  such  companies.  Details  of  such 

applications made shall be intimated to the Compliance Officer.  

 
c.  The  employees  of  the  AMC(s)  and/or  Trustees  including  access  person  may  apply 

for  any  rights  offer  of  any  company  in  which  they  are  already  shareholders. 

Applications  for  additional  rights  (over  and  above  the  normal  rights  entitlement) 

shares may be made by the employees including access person without getting the 

clearance from the Compliance Officer. An employee including access person may 

also  sell  and/or  renounce  his  rights  entitlement  without  getting  the  clearance  from 

the  Compliance  Officer.  However,  if  an  access  person  wishes  to  purchase  the 

“Rights  renunciations”  he  shall  get  the  clearance  of  the  Compliance  Officer  for  the 

same.  Such  purchases  shall  be  done  only  at  market  prices.  Details  of  any 

applications  made  in  any  rights  issue,  whether  in  the  normal  course,  or  through 

purchase of rights renunciations, shall be intimated to the Compliance Officer. 

 

2.  Investments through the secondary markets: 

a.  An access person who wishes to make a secondary market transaction shall submit 

a  written  application  to  that  effect  to  the  Compliance  Officer.  Such  an  application 

shall specify the name of the company whose securities the employee wishes to buy 

and/or  sell,  type  of  security,  and  the  number  of  shares  and/or  debentures  and/or 

bonds and/or warrants and/or derivatives that the access person wishes to buy/sell. 

 

b.  The Compliance Officer shall clear these requests if the following conditions are met: 

 

Page 7 of 11 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

i. 

If the shares and/or debentures and/or bonds and/or warrants of the company or 

derivatives  specified  by  the  access  person  are  not  held  by  any  scheme  of  the 

Mutual Fund of which the AMC is the investment manager; 

ii. 

If such shares and/or debentures and/or bonds and/or warrants of the company or 

derivatives specified by the employee are held by any scheme of the Mutual Fund 

of  which  the  AMC  is  the  investment  manager,  there  should  be  a  “cooling  off” 

period  of  15  calendar  days.  The  Compliance  Officer  shall  ensure  that  the  last 

transaction  in  that  particular  security  was  done  by  the  Mutual  Fund  at  least  15 

calendar days prior to the date of the written application by the access person. In 

other  words,  an  application  for  a  purchase  /sale  transaction  on  a  personal  basis 

would  be  cleared  only  if  the  Mutual  Fund  has  not  transacted  in  that  particular 

security for at least 15 calendar days. 

However, trades executed pursuant to a trading plan submitted by the employees 

in terms of SEBI (PIT) Regulations, 2015 shall be exempt from the requirement 

of a “cooling off” period, provided that such trading plan: 

a)  Is in compliance with the norms prescribed in SEBI (PIT) Regulations, 2015 

b)  Is publicly disclosed on the website of the concerned Mutual Fund 

The Compliance Officer shall also properly monitor trades of the MF scheme and 

that  of  the  access  person,  as  per  the  trading  plan,  in  order  to  ensure  that  such 

trading plan does not entail trading in securities for market abuse. 

 

c.  The Compliance Officer shall keep a track of the transactions of the employees and 

transactions of the Mutual Fund to ensure that there is no conflict of interest between 

them  i.e.  the  Compliance  Officer  should  track  whether  the  Mutual  Fund  has 

transacted 

in 

the  same  securities  either  before  or  after 

the  employee’s 

transaction(s). 

 

d.  The  Compliance  Officer  shall  maintain  a  record  of  all  requests  for  pre-clearance 

regarding  the  purchase  or  sale  of  a  security,  including  the  date  of  the  request,  the 

name of the access person, the details of the proposed transaction and whether the 

request was approved or denied and waivers given, if any, and its reasons. 

 

 

Page 8 of 11 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 
e.  No  employee  shall  purchase  any  security  (including  derivatives)  on  a  “Carry 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Forward”  basis  or  indulge  in  “Short  Sale”  of  any  security  (including  derivatives)  i.e. 

employees  who  effect  any  purchase  transaction(s)  shall  ensure  that  they  take 

delivery of the securities purchased, before selling them.  

 

f.  Any  transaction  of  Front  Running  by  any  employee  directly  or  indirectly  is  strictly 

prohibited.  For  this  purpose,  “Front  Running”  means  any  transaction  of  purchase 

and/or  sale  of a  security  carried  by  any  employee  whether  for  self or  for  any  other 

person,  knowing  fully  well  that  the  AMC  also  intends  to  purchase  and/or  sell  the 

same security for its Mutual Fund operations. To ascertain that the employee had no 

prior knowledge of the Mutual Fund's intended transactions, the Compliance Officer 

may take a declaration in this regard from the employee. Such declaration may be 

included in the application form itself.  

 
g.  Any transaction of self-dealing by any employee either directly or indirectly, whether 

alone  or  in  concert  with  another  person  is  prohibited.  For  this  purpose,  “Self-

Dealing’’  means  trading  in  the  securities  based  on  price  sensitive  information  to 

which the employee has access by virtue of his office. Declaration to this effect may 

be taken from the employee while clearing the proposals for investment. 

 
h.  The  employees  shall  not  insist  or  suggest  to  the  concerned  brokers  to  charge 

reduced  brokerage,  or  accept  any  contract  with  a  clause  on  reduced  brokerage 

charge. 

E.  Investments in units of Mutual Fund Schemes 

 

1.  Access  persons  as  well  as  other  employees  do  not  require  prior  permission  of  the 

Compliance  Officer  for  purchase  or  sale  of  units  of  Mutual  Fund  schemes.  However, 

details of each such transaction, excluding transactions in Money Market Mutual Fund 

schemes and liquid schemes shall be reported by them to the Compliance Officer within 

7 calendar days from the date of transaction. 

 

2.  In  case of  investments  in  SIP of any  Mutual  Fund  scheme, the  employees may  report 

only at the time of making the first installment of the SIP. 

Page 9 of 11 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

 

3.  Notwithstanding anything mentioned earlier, in the following cases employees of AMC & 

Trustees  shall  not  purchase  or  sell  /or  repurchase  or  redeem  units  of  any  scheme, 

including Money Market Mutual Fund scheme and liquid scheme of their Mutual Fund: 

a.  There  is  a  likelihood  of  a  change  in  the  investment  objectives  of  the  concerned 

Mutual Fund Scheme(s) and this has not been communicated to the investors; 

b.  There  is  a  likelihood  of  a  rights  and/or  bonus  issue  in  the  concerned  Mutual  Fund 

Scheme(s) and this has not been communicated to the investors; 

c.  The concerned Mutual Fund Scheme is contemplating to issue dividend to the unit 

holders and this has not been communicated to the investors;  

d.  There is a likelihood of a change in the accounting policy, or a significant change in 

the  valuation  of  any  asset,  or  class  of  assets  and  the  same  has  not  been 

communicated to the investors;  

e.  There  is  a  likelihood  of  conversion  of  a  close  ended  scheme  to  an  open  ended 

scheme and vice versa and this has not been communicated to the investors. 

 

F.  Periodic Disclosures 

1.  All access persons shall submit, in the form prescribed by the Mutual Fund of which the 

AMC  is  the  investment  manager,  details  of  their  personal  transactions  of  purchase  or 

sale of securities to the Compliance Officer. The details to be submitted are as follows: 

a.  Details  of  transactions  effected  for  purchase  and/or  sale  of  securities  including 

transactions  in  rights  entitlements  through  the  secondary  market  within  7  calendar 

days from the date of transaction;  

b.  Details of allotment received against application for public and rights issues within 7 

calendar days from the date of receipt of the allotment advice;  

c.  A statement of holding in securities as on March 31 within 30 calendar days from the 

end of every financial year ending March 31. 

 

2.  All  employees  other  than  access  persons  shall  submit,  in  the  form  prescribed  by  the 

Mutual Fund, to the Compliance Officer: 

a.  Details  of  each  of  their  transactions  for  purchase  or  sale  of  securities  including 

allotment in public and rights issues within 7 calendar days. 

 

Page 10 of 11 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 
b.  A statement of holding in securities as on March 31 within 30 calendar days from the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

end of every financial year ending March 31. 

c.  A declaration shall also be included in the reporting form on the lines of clause C (2) 

(f) and C (2) (g) regarding Front Running and Self-Dealing. 

 

G.  Review by the Board of Directors of AMC and the Trustee(s) 

 

1.  The  Board  of  the  AMC  and  the  Trustees  shall  review  the  compliance  of  these 

Guidelines  in  their  periodic  meetings.  They  shall  review  the  existing  procedures  and 

recommend changes in procedures based on the AMC’s experience, industry practices 

and/or  developments  in  applicable  laws  and  regulations.  They  shall  report  compliance 

and  any  violations and  remedial  action taken  by  them  in their  reports  submitted  to  the 

Board. 

 

H.  Applicability of Insider Trading Regulations 

 

1.  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations, 

2015 shall be followed strictly by the Trustees, asset management companies and their 

employees and directors. 

Page 11 of 11 

 

 

 

 

