 

 

   November 29, 2016 

 

 

 

 

 

 
CIR/IMD/DF/127/2016 
 
To 
All Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) 
All Parties to InvITs 
All Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Continuous disclosures and compliances by InvITs 

1.  Regulation  23  of  the  SEBI  (Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2014 
prescribe disclosures to be made by an InvIT to the Stock Exchange(s) where its units 
are  listed.  The  said  disclosures,  inter-alia,  include  disclosures  for  financial  as  well  as 
non-financial information. 

2.  With reference to the aforesaid Regulations, the requirements for disclosure of financial 
information and pertinent compliances on continuous basis are placed at ‘Annexure - 
A’,  and  the  requirements  for  disclosure  of  non-financial  information  and  pertinent 
compliances on continuous basis are placed at ‘Annexure - B’. 

3.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  Regulation  33  of  InvIT 
Regulations. 

4.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Circulars”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 
 
Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9596  
Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 12 

 

 

Annexure - ‘A’ 

Disclosure of Financial information to Stock Exchanges 

(A) Financial Information of InvIT: 

While  disclosing  its  financial  information  to  the  Stock  Exchanges,  an  InvIT  shall  comply 
with the following: 

1.  Frequency and Time period for disclosures: 

1.1. An  InvIT  shall  submit  its  half  yearly  and  annual  financial  information  to  the  Stock 

Exchanges. 

1.2. The  financial  information  shall  be  submitted  to  the  Stock  Exchanges  within  the 

following time period:  

(a)  The  financial  information  of  the  first  half  year  period  of  the  financial  year,  shall  be 

submitted within 45 days from the end of the half year. 

 

(b)  The annual financial information shall be submitted within 60 days  from the end of 

the financial year. 

 

(c)  The financial  information  of  the  second  half year  period  of  the financial  year,  shall 

be submitted along with the annual financial information.  

 

The  said  information  shall  be  submitted  with  a  note  stating  that  the  figures  of  the 
second half year period are the balancing figures of the figures of the full financial 
year reduced by the figures of the first half year period. 
 

2.  Nature of financial information 

2.1. The  financial  information  shall  be  disclosed  on  both  standalone  as  well  as 

consolidated basis. 

3.  Comparative information 

3.1. The  annual  financial  information  shall  contain  comparative  information  for  the 

immediately preceding financial year. 

The  half  yearly  financial  information  shall  contain  comparative  information  for  the 
immediately  preceding  half  year  as  well  as  for  the  corresponding  half  year  in  the 
immediately preceding financial year. 

3.2. The  comparative  information  would  consist  of  corresponding  amounts  (comparative 
figures)  for  all  the  items  shown  in  the  key  financial  statements  (as  specified  in 

 

Page 2 of 12 

 

 

Paragraph 5 below), including notes, and for the additional disclosures (as specified in 
Paragraph 6 below), to the extent applicable. 

3.3. In cases where the InvIT was not in existence in the previous corresponding reporting 
period(s)  mentioned  at  Paragraph  3.1  above,  then  the  comparative  information  may 
not be provided and the said fact shall be clearly disclosed. 

4.  Basis of preparation of financial information 

4.1. The financial  information  shall  be  prepared on  the  basis  of  accrual  accounting  policy 
and  shall  be  in  accordance  with  uniform  accounting  practices  adopted  for  all  the 
periods.  

4.2. The  financial  information  shall  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  Indian  Accounting 
Standards  (Ind  AS)  and/or  any  addendum  thereto  as  defined  in  Rule  2  (1)  (a)  of  the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. 

Additionally,  InvITs  shall  also  follow  relevant  accounting  laws,  as  prescribed  by  their 
sectoral regulators, with respect to the projects being executed by them. 

For HoldCos / SPVs owned by InvIT, these entities may prepare financial statements 
in  accordance  with  accounting  standards  and  laws  applicable  to  them.  However,  for 
consolidation purposes, consolidated financial information of InvIT in accordance with 
Ind AS should be disclosed. 

4.3. In  addition  to  the  financial  information  in  accordance  with  Ind  AS  as  mentioned  at 
Paragraph  4.2  above,  the  InvIT  may,  if  it  so  desires,  also  submit  the  financial 
information as per the International Financial Reporting Standards.  

5.  Key Financial Statements:  

5.1. The  financial  information  presented  by  the  InvIT  can  be  in  the  form  of  condensed 
financial  statements.  Such  financial  information  shall  comply  with  the  minimum 
requirements for condensed financial statements as described in Ind AS 34 on ‘Interim 
Financial Reporting’, to the extent applicable. 
 

5.2. The annual financial information shall include the following financial statements: 

(a) Balance Sheet; 
(b) Statement of Profit and Loss/Income and Expenditure; 
(c) Statement of Changes in Unit holders’ Equity; 
(d) Statement of Cash Flows; 
(e) Statement of Net Assets at Fair Value; 

 

Page 3 of 12 

 

 

(f)  Statement of Total Returns at Fair Value; 
(g) Explanatory notes annexed to, or forming part of, any statements referred above 

 

5.3. The half yearly financial information shall include the following financial statements 

(a) Statement of Profit and Loss/Income and Expenditure; 
(b) Explanatory notes annexed to, or forming part of, any statements referred above. 

 

5.4. For the key financial statements listed above, the minimum information to be disclosed 
shall  be  as  specified  in  Section  H  of  Annexure-A  to  the  SEBI  Circular  No. 
CIR/IMD/DF/114/2016  dated  October 20,  2016 on  ‘Disclosure  of financial  information 
in offer document/placement memorandum’. 

5.5. Financial  statements  shall  disclose  all  ‘material’  items,  i.e.,  the  items  if  they  can, 
individually or collectively, influence the economic decisions made on the basis of the 
financial statements.  

For determining materiality, the InvIT shall be guided by Paragraph 3.5 in Section A of 
Annexure-A  to  the  SEBI  Circular  No.  CIR/IMD/DF/114/2016  dated  October  20,  2016 
on ‘Disclosure of financial information in offer document/placement memorandum’. 

5.6. In  cases  of  any  sale/redemption  of  any  holdings/investments 

in  underlying 
SPV(s)/HoldCo(s)  or any sale of infrastructure assets by the InvIT, the profit/loss on 
such transactions should be shown on a gross basis 

6.  Additional disclosures while submission of financial information 

In  addition  to  the  key  financial  statements  referred  in  Paragraph  5  above,  the  following 
disclosures  shall  also be  included as  a  part of  both  the  half  yearly  as  well  as  the  annual 
financial information unless otherwise specified. Further, the below mentioned disclosures 
shall also be subjected to audit/limited review if applicable: 

6.1. Statement of Net Distributable Cash Flows (NDCFs): 

An  InvIT  shall  disclose  statements  of  NDCFs  of  the  InvIT  as  well  as  of  all  the 
underlying HoldCos and SPVs. Such statements shall be prepared in accordance with, 
the definition of NDCFs and the framework for calculation of NDCFs, as defined by the 
InvIT/Investment Manager and as disclosed in the offer document. 

6.2. Investment Manager and Project Manager Fees: 

(a)  Explanations and justification for the fees paid to the Investment Manager and the 
Project Manager, including details about methodology for computation of the fees. 

 

Page 4 of 12 

 

 

(b)  Whether  there  has  been  any  material  change  (materiality  to  be  judged  and 
determined  by  trustees  in  light  of  various  pertinent  factors  including  but  not 
restricted to the size of InvIT, amount of change, prevailing circumstances, etc.) in 
the  fees  paid  to  project  manager  and  investment  manager  compared  to  the 
previous reporting period? If yes, detailed reasons and information thereof. 

6.3. Sub-sector investments: 

If  the  InvIT  holds  assets  (whether  directly  or  through  its  HoldCo(s)/SPV(s))  in  more 
than  one  infrastructure  sectors/sub-sectors,  then  it  shall  disclose  a  breakup  of  the 
investments across all sectors/sub-sectors clearly showing investments in each major 
sector/sub-sector  (major  sector/sub-sector  would  constitute  not  less  than  5%  of  the 
total  investment  in  the  major  classification)  together  with  the  percentage  thereof  in 
relation to the total investment. 

For  determining  the  infrastructure  sectors/sub-sectors,  the  InvIT  shall  be  guided  by 
latest notifications and any other communications by Ministry of Finance. 

6.4. Changes in Accounting policies: 

In  cases  of  changes  in  accounting  policies,  if  any,  InvIT  shall  make  adequate 
disclosures required as per the applicable accounting laws (including Ind AS 8 issued 
by the ICAI). 
 

6.5. Disclosures related to Modified Opinion(s) 

The  below  mentioned  disclosures  would  be  required  only  in  case  of  annual  financial 
information of the InvIT: 

(a)  If  the  auditor  has  expressed  any  modified  opinion(s)  in  respect  of  the  audited 
annual  financial  information  of  the  InvIT,  then  the  InvIT,  while  submitting  such 
financial information to the Stock Exchange(s), shall file a “Statement on Impact of 
Audit  Qualifications”  disclosing  such  modified  opinion(s)  and  the  cumulative 
impact of the same  in the format as specified in Annexure I to the SEBI Circular 
No. CIR/CFD/CMD/56/2016 dated May 27, 2016. 

With respect to the format referred in the  aforementioned Circular, the reference 
to “Earnings per Share’ and ‘Management’ should be construed as a reference to 
‘Earnings  per  Unit’  and  ‘Board  of  Directors/Governing  Body  of  the  Investment 
Manager’ respectively. 

Further,  the  aforementioned  statement  on  impact  of  audit  qualifications  shall  be 
signed by the following: 

 

Page 5 of 12 

 

  Chairperson/CEO/MD of the Investment Manager 
  CFO or the Head of the Finance of the Investment Manager 
  Statutory Auditor 

 

 

(b)  If the auditor had expressed any modified opinion(s) or other reservation(s) in his 
audit  report  or  limited  review  report  in  respect  of  the  financial  results  of  the 
immediately  preceding  financial  year  or  half  year,  which  had  an  impact  on  the 
profit or loss of that period, then the InvIT shall disclose the following: 

  Brief  details  of  the  past  modified  opinion  modified  opinion(s)  or  other 

reservation(s) 

  Whether such modified opinion(s) or other reservation(s) have been resolved 

 
 

If yes, details thereof 
If no, the reasons thereof and the steps which the InvIT intends to take in 
the matter 

 

6.6. Other Statements: 

(a)  The InvIT shall also disclose the following statements: 

  Statement of Earnings per Unit: 
  Statement of Contingent liabilities: 
  Statement of Commitments: 
  Statement of Related party transactions 

 

(b)  The details and the basis of disclosures for the above statements shall be same 
as specified in Paragraph 4 in Section A of Annexure-A to the SEBI Circular No. 
CIR/IMD/DF/114/2016  dated  October  20,  2016  on  ‘Disclosure  of  financial 
information in offer document/placement memorandum’. 

7.  Approval and authentication of financial information: 

Before  submission  of  the  financial  information  to  the  Stock  Exchanges,  the  financial 
information  shall  be  shall  be  approved  by  the  Board  of  Directors/Governing  Body  of  the 
Investment Manager and shall be authenticated and signed in the following manner: 

7.1. The  financial  information  shall  be  signed  by  two  designated  personnel  of  the 
Investment Manager certifying that the financial information do not contain any false or 
misleading  statement  or  figures  and  do  not  omit  any  material  fact  which  makes  the 
statements or the figures contained therein misleading. 

 

Page 6 of 12 

 
7.2. Subsequent to the above, the financial information shall be signed by the Chairperson 
or  the  Managing  director/partner  or  the  Whole  time  director/partner  on  the  Board  of 
Directors/Governing  Body  of  the  Investment  Manager  and  in  the  absence  of  all  of 
them; it shall be signed by any other director/partner of the Investment Manager who is 
duly  authorized  by  the  Board  of  Directors/Governing  Body  to  sign  the  financial 
information.  

 

8.  Audit of Financial Information:  

8.1. The  annual  financial  information  shall  be  audited,  whereas  the  half  yearly  financial 
information  may  be  either  audited  or  unaudited.  In  case  the  InvIT  opts  to  submit 
unaudited  financial  information,  the  same  shall  be  subject  to  limited  review  by  the 
auditor of InvIT. 

8.2. The audit/limited review shall be carried out by the auditor appointed for the InvIT as 

per the InvIT regulations. 

The auditor, so appointed, shall be the one who has subjected itself to the peer review 
process  of  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  (‘ICAI’)  and  who  holds  a 
valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of ICAI. 

8.3. In  case  the  financial  information  is  audited,  it  shall  comply  with  all  the  requirements 
specified in Paragraph 5 in Section A of Annexure-A to the SEBI Circular No. CIR/IMD/ 
DF/114/2016  dated  October  20,  2016  on  ‘Disclosure  of  financial  information  in  offer 
document/placement memorandum’, to the extent applicable, and the audit report shall 
contain disclosures stated therein. 

In  addition  to  the  auditor’s  opinion  on  the  matters  specified  in  Paragraph  5.1  (e)  in 
Section  A  of  Annexure-A  to  the  aforementioned  SEBI  Circular,  the  auditor  shall  also 
give his opinion on the following: 

i.  whether  the  statement  of  NDCFs  gives  a  true  and  fair  view  of  NDCFs  for  the 

years/periods ended at the balance sheet dates 

 
8.4. The financial information submitted to the Stock Exchanges shall be accompanied with 

Audit Report or Limited Review Report, as the case may be. 

(B) Financial information of Investment Manager 

 

1.  Along with the annual financial information of InvIT, an InvIT shall disclose summary of 
the  audited  consolidated  financial  statements  (including  the  Balance  Sheet  and 
Statement of Profit and Loss (without schedules)) of Investment Manager for the latest 
financial  year,  along  with  comparative  figures  for  the  immediate  preceding  financial 

 

Page 7 of 12 

 

 

year, prepared in accordance with the accounting standards and laws, as applicable for 
the Investment Manager. 
 

2.  The above information may not be disclosed if the Investment Manager’s Net worth is 
not  materially  eroded  (Material  erosion  shall  be  judged  by  the  Trustees  in  light  of 
various pertinent factors including but not restricted to size of InvIT, size of Investment 
Manager, amount of Net worth erosion, prevailing circumstances, etc.) when compared 
to its Net worth as per its last disclosed financial statements by the InvIT. 

 

If the financial information of Investment Manager  is not disclosed because of the fact 
that there is no material erosion in the net worth as compared to the net worth as per 
the last disclosed financial statements, the said fact shall be clearly disclosed. 

 

(C) Obligation to maintain proper books of account and records, documents etc. 

 
Every  InvIT  shall  maintain  proper  books  of  account,  records  and  documents  etc. 
relating  to  a  period  of  not  less  than  eight  financial  years  immediately  preceding  a 
financial year, or where the InvIT had been in existence for a period of less than eight 
years, in respect of all the preceding years. 
 

 

 

 

Page 8 of 12 

 

 

Annexure - ‘B’ 

Other Continuous Disclosures to Stock Exchanges and Other Compliances  

1.  Listing Agreement: 

1.1. InvIT  shall  enter  into  a  simplified  listing  agreement,  with  all  the  Stock  Exchanges 
where it proposes to list its units, in lines with the format  as specified under the SEBI 
Circular  No.  CIR/CFD/CMD/6/2015  dated  October  13,  2015  on  ‘Format  of  uniform 
Listing Agreement’. 

1.2. However,  with respect to  the  compliance with the listing conditions,  InvIT shall follow 

the InvIT regulations and circulars issued therein. 

2.  Disclosure of Unit holding pattern: 

2.1. An  InvIT  shall  disclose  its  Unit  holding  pattern  for  each  class  of  unit  holders,  as 

applicable, within the following time periods, as applicable: 

  One day prior to listing of units on the stock exchanges;  
  On quarterly basis, within 21 days from the end of each quarter; and  
  Within  10  days  of  any  capital  restructuring  of  InvIT  resulting  in  a  change 

exceeding 2% of the total outstanding units of InvIT. 

2.2. The Unit holding pattern shall be disclosed in the following format: 

Category 

Category of Unit holder 

No. of 
Units 
Held 

As a % of 
Total Out-
standing 

Units 

( A)  

( 1)  
( a)  
( b)  
( c)  
(d)  
 
( 2)  
( a)  

( b)  
( c)  

Sponsor(s) / Investment Manager / Project 
Manager(s) and their associates/related 
parties 
Indian  
Individuals / HUF  
Central/State Govt.  
Financial Institutions/Banks  
Any Other (specify)  
Sub- Total (A) (1)  
Foreign  
Individuals (Non Resident Indians / Foreign 
Individuals)  
Foreign government 
Institutions  

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

Page 9 of 12 

 

 

(d) 
( e)  
 

 
( B)  
( 1)  
( a)  
( b)  
( c)  
( d)  
( e)  
(f) 
( g)  
( h)  
( i)  
 
( 2)  
( a)  

( b)  
(c) 
( d)  
 

 
 

Foreign Portfolio Investors 
Any Other (specify)  
Sub- Total (A) (2)  
Total unit holding of Sponsor & Sponsor 
Group 
(A) = (A)(1)+(A)(2)  
Public Holding  
Institutions  
Mutual Funds  
Financial Institutions/Banks  
Central/State Govt.  
Venture Capital Funds  
Insurance Companies  
Provident/pension funds 
Foreign Portfolio Investors  
Foreign  Venture Capital investors  
Any Other (specify)  
Sub- Total (B) (1)  
Non-Institutions  
 Central Government/State 
Governments(s)/President of India 
Individuals  
NBFCs registered with RBI 
Any Other (specify)  
Sub- Total (B) (2)  
Total Public Unit holding   
(B) = (B)(1)+(B)(2) 
Total Units Outstanding 
(C) = (A) + (B)  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 

  

3.  Review of Credit Rating: 

3.1. Every credit rating, wherever required to be obtained by an InvIT as per Regulation 20 
(2)  of  the  InvIT  regulations,  shall  be  reviewed  once  a  year,  by  the  registered  credit 
rating agency.  

3.2. The credit rating review shall be completed annually within 30 days from the end of the 
financial  year.  Further,  immediately  upon  completion  of  the  credit  rating  review 
exercise  and  upon  the  receipt  of  the  credit  rating  report,  an  intimation  along  with  all 
pertinent information should be made to the Stock Exchanges. 

 

 

 

Page 10 of 12 

 
4.  Website of InvIT:   

 

4.1. An InvIT shall maintain a functional website wherein the contents of the said website 
should  be  updated  up  to  last  2  days  and  the  website  which  should  contain  all  the 
relevant information about InvIT, inter-alia, including the following: 

  Details of its business;  
  Financial  information  including  complete  copy  of  the  Annual  Report  including 

Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss Account, etc.;  

  Contact  information  of  the  designated  officials  of  the  company  who  are  

responsible for assisting and handling investor grievances;  
  Email ID for grievance redressal and other relevant details;  
 

Information,  report,  notices,  call  letters,  circulars,  proceedings,  etc.  concerning 
units;   

  All  information  and  reports  including  compliance  reports  filed  by  InvIT  with 

respect to units;  and 

  All intimations and announcements made by InvIT to the stock exchanges 
  Any other information which may be relevant for the investors 

 

4.2. Further, the contents of the website should be updated within 2 days of any changes / 

developments which trigger a need for an update on the website. 

5.  Grievance Redressal Mechanism: 

5.1. InvIT shall ensure that adequate steps are taken for expeditious redressal of investor 

complaints.  

5.2. InvIT  shall  ensure  that  it  is  registered  on  the  SCORES  platform  or  such  other 
electronic platform or system of the Board as shall be mandated from time to time, in 
order  to  handle  investor  complaints  electronically  in  the  manner  specified  by  the 
Board.  

5.3. InvIT shall file with the recognized stock exchange(s), where its units are listed, on a 
quarterly  basis,  within  twenty  one  days  from  the  end  of  each  quarter,  a  statement 
giving the following details 

  Number of investor complaints pending at the beginning of the quarter 
  Number of investor complaints received during the quarter 
  Number of investor complaints disposed of during the quarter  
  Number of investor complaints pending at the end of the quarter 

  

 

Page 11 of 12 

 
5.4. The Trustee and  the Board of  Directors/Governing  Body  of  the  Investment  Manager, 
shall  review  the  aforementioned  statement,  before  submission  of  the  same  to  the 
Stock Exchange(s), and shall ensure that all investor complaints are redressed by the 
Investment Manager in timely manner. 

 

6.  Statement of deviation(s) or variation(s) 

6.1. The InvIT shall submit  to the recognized stock exchange(s), where its units are listed, 
the  following  statement(s)  on  a  quarterly  basis  for  any  private  issue,  public  issue, 
rights issue, preferential issue, etc.: 

a)  Statement  indicating  deviations,  if  any,  in  the  use  of  proceeds  from  the  objects 
stated in the offer document/placement memorandum or explanatory statement to 
the notice for the general meeting, as applicable;  

b)  Statement indicating category wise variation  between projected utilization of funds 
made by it in its offer document/placement memorandum or explanatory statement 
to  the  notice  for  the  general  meeting,  as  applicable  and  the  actual  utilization  of 
funds. 

6.2. The  statement(s)  specified  above,  shall  be  continued  to  be  given  till  such  time  the 
issue proceeds have been fully utilised or the purpose for which these proceeds were 
raised has been achieved.  

Such  statement(s)  shall  also  be  placed  before  the  Trustee  and  the  Board  of 
Directors/Governing  Body  of  the  Investment  Manager  for  review.  Pursuant  to  such 
review, the statement shall be submitted to the stock exchange(s). Such submission to 
the  Stock  Exchange(s)  shall  be  made  within  twenty  one  days  from  the  end  of  each 
quarter 

6.3. InvIT shall furnish an explanation for the aforementioned variation in its Annual report.  

6.4. InvIT shall prepare an annual statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those 
stated in the offer document/placement memorandum or explanatory statement to the 
notice  for  the  general  meeting,  certified  by  the  statutory  auditors  of  the  InvIT,  and 
place  it  before  the  before  the  Trustee  and  the  Board  of  Directors/Governing  Body  of 
the  Investment  Manager  till  such  time  the  money  raised  through  the  issue  has  been 
fully utilized. 

 

Page 12 of 12 

