 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2016/125 

 

November 28, 2016 

All Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations in International 
Financial Services Centre 
 
Dear Sir/Madam 
 
Guidelines  for  functioning  of  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations  in 
International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) 
 

1.  Pursuant  to  announcement  in  the  Union  Budget  2015-16  on  Gujarat  International 

Finance  Tec-City  (GIFT),  SEBI  (International  Financial  Services  Centre)  Guidelines, 

2015 (‘IFSC Guidelines’) were issued on March 27, 2015 for facilitating and regulating 

financial services relating to securities market in an IFSC set up under section 18(1) of 

Special Economic Zones Act, 2005. 

2.  Based  on  representations  received  from  the  market  participants  on  the  proposed 

market  structure  and  risk  management  framework  and  subsequent  to  deliberations  in 

Secondary  Market  Advisory  Committee  (SMAC)  and  Risk  Management  Review 

Committee  (RMRC),  it  has  been  decided  to  put  in  place  the  broad  framework  for 

functioning of stock exchanges and clearing corporations in IFSC as under: 

2.1. Market Structure: There shall be a single market structure to achieve synergies in 

terms of various operations and to facilitate ease of doing business. 

2.2. Trading Hours and Settlement: The trading hours for all product categories shall 

be as decided by the stock exchanges in IFSC based on cost-benefit analysis, but not 

exceeding 23 hours and 30 minutes in a day and settlement shall be done at least twice 

a day. The stock exchanges and clearing corporations in IFSC shall ensure that the risk 

management  system  and  infrastructure  are  commensurate  to  the  trading  hours  at  all 

 

 

 
times.  

2.3. Product  Category:  All  categories  of  exchange-traded  products  as  available  for 

trading in stock exchanges in FATF/IOSCO  compliant jurisdictions shall be eligible for 

trading,  subject  to  prior  approval  of  SEBI.  However,  with  respect  to  commodity 

derivatives, only non-agri commodity derivatives shall be eligible for trading. 

2.4. Position Limits: Stock exchanges in IFSC shall evolve a detailed framework for the 

applicable position limits for each product to be traded.  

2.5. Trading  in  Rupee  denominated  bonds  issued  overseas  (Masala  Bonds): 

Masala  Bonds  shall  be  eligible  for  trading  in  stock  exchanges  in  IFSC,  provided  such 

bonds are listed on stock exchanges in FATF/IOSCO compliant jurisdictions.  

2.6. Risk Management Framework: Prior to commencement of their operations, stock 

exchanges in IFSC shall tie-up with Clearing Corporations for clearing and settlement of 

their  trades.  The  Clearing  Corporations  desirous  of  providing  clearing  and  settlement 

services  in  IFSC  shall  evolve  a  robust  risk  management  framework  in  line  with  the 

CPMI  IOSCO  Principles  for  Financial  Market  Infrastructures  (PFMIs),  in  addition  to 

adherence to the following: 

2.6.1.  Margining  framework:  Clearing  Corporations  in  IFSC  shall  evolve  a 

margining  framework  based  on  the  best  practices  prevailing  in  the  Clearing 

Corporations globally. However, Clearing Corporations shall be required to conduct 

stress tests, reverse stress tests, back testing, liquidity stress testing, etc. to ensure 

the robustness of risk management framework. Further, Clearing Corporations shall 

ensure  that  the  margining  framework  is  compliant  with  CPMI  IOSCO  PFMIs  at  all 

times. 

2.6.2.  Ring-fencing:  Any 

Indian  recognized  stock  exchange  or  clearing 

corporation forming a clearing corporation in IFSC shall take into consideration the 

following: 

 

2 

 

 

 

 

a)  Clearing  Corporations  at  IFSC  shall  be  ring  fenced  down  to  the  lowest  level 

and  their  functions  shall  be  limited  only  to  clearing  and  settlement,  and  risk 

management.   

b)  The capital of clearing corporations in IFSC shall not form part of the net worth 

of  their  holding  companies.  Additionally,  holding  companies  shall  not  be 

allowed  to  extend  any  financial  help  to  Clearing  Corporations  operating  in 

IFSC, if such Clearing Corporations become financially distressed. 

2.6.3. 

Eligible  collateral:  Clearing  corporations  in  IFSC  shall  be  permitted  to 

accept cash and cash equivalents (which shall include major foreign currencies as 

may  be  decided  by  the  clearing  corporation  from  time  to  time  and  term  deposit 

receipts  issued  by  bank  branches  located  in  IFSC),  Indian  securities  held  with 

foreign  depositories,  foreign  securities  including  units  of  liquid  mutual  funds  and 

gold,  as  eligible  collateral  for  trades  in  all  product  categories.  However,  cash  and 

cash equivalents shall form at least 50% of the total liquid assets at all times.  

2.6.4. 

Fund to guarantee settlement of trades: Clearing corporations in IFSC 

shall establish and maintain a Fund to guarantee the settlement of trades executed 

in  the  stock  exchanges  in  IFSC.  To  begin  with,  such  Fund  shall  have  a  corpus 

equivalent  to  at  least  10%  of  the  net  worth  of  the  clearing  corporation.  Clearing 

corporations shall evolve a detailed framework for the Fund, subject to approval of 

SEBI. 

2.7.  Dispute  Resolution  Mechanism:  Market  participants  shall  avail  the  arbitration, 

mediation and other dispute resolution mechanisms offered by International Arbitration 

Centre in IFSC to resolve securities market-related disputes.  

2.8. Business  Continuity  Plan  (BCP)  and  Disaster  Recovery  (DR):  The  Disaster 

Recovery Site (DRS)  shall be set up sufficiently away, i.e. in a different seismic zone, 

from Primary Data Centre (PDC) to ensure that both DRS and PDC are not affected by 

the  same  disasters.  Stock  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations  in  IFSC  shall  take 

adequate steps in a time-bound manner to comply with all the other provisions of SEBI 

 

3 

 

 

 
circulars  on  Business  Continuity  Plan  (BCP)  and  Disaster  Recovery  (DR)  viz.  SEBI 

circular  no.  CIR/MRD/DMS/12/2012  dated  April  13,  2012  and  circular  no. 

CIR/MRD/DMS/17/2012 dated June 22, 2012. 

3.  The  stock  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations  in  IFSC  shall  abide  by  all  the 

Rules/Regulations/Circulars/Guidelines issued by SEBI from time to time. 

4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities 

market. 

 

Yours faithfully 

 

Bithin Mahanta 
 Deputy General Manager  
Market Regulation Department 
Email: bithinm@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

4 

