 

CIRCULAR 

 

              December 16, 2016 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/137 
 
To  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 
Sir / Madam, 
 

Sub: Applicability of Principles of Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMIs) on 

Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 

 

 
1.  To promote and sustain an efficient and robust global financial infrastructure, the 
Committee  on  Payments  and  Settlement  Systems  (CPSS)  and  the  International 
Organization  of  Securities  Commissions  (IOSCO)  published  the  Principles  for 
financial  market  infrastructures1  (PFMIs)  on  April  2012.  The  PFMIs  comprise  of 
24  principles  for  Financial  Market  Infrastructure  to  provide  for  effective 
regulation, supervision and oversight  of FMIs. They are  designed  to ensure that 
the infrastructure supporting global financial markets is robust and well placed to 
withstand  financial  shocks.  Financial  Market  Infrastructures  (FMIs)  that  are 
determined  by  national  authorities  to  be  systemically  important  are  expected  to 
observe these principles. 
 

2.  SEBI  vide  its  circular  CIR/MRD/DRMNP/26/2013  dated  September  04,  2013 
clarified  that  SEBI  as  a  member  of  IOSCO  is  committed  to  the  adoption  and 
implementation  of  the  new  CPSS-IOSCO  standards of  PFMIs  in  its  regulatory 
functions  of  oversight,  supervision  and  governance  of  the  key  financial  market 
infrastructures  under  its  purview.  It  was  also  clarified  that  Depositories  and 
Clearing  Corporations  regulated  by  SEBI  are  FMIs  and  would  be  required  to 
comply with the PFMIs specified by CPSS-IOSCO as applicable to them. 

 

3.  Pursuant  to  Section  131  of  the  Finance  Act,  2015  and  Central  Government 
Notification  S.O.  2362  (E)  dated  August  28,  2015,  all  recognized  associations 
(commodity  derivatives  exchanges)  under  the  Forward  Contracts  (Regulation) 
Act,  1952  (‘FCRA’)  are  deemed  to  be  recognized  stock  exchanges  under  the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) with effect from September 
28, 2015. 

 

                                                           
1CPSS IOSCO: Principles of Financial Market Infrastructures - April 2012 http://www.bis.org/publ/cpss101a.pdf 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

 

4.  Section 131 of the Finance Act, 2015 also stipulates that SEBI may provide such 
deemed  exchanges,  adequate  time  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  SCRA  and 
any  regulations,  rules,  guidelines  or  like  instruments  made  under  SCRA. 
Accordingly,  SEBI  vide  its  circular  CIR/CDMRD/DEA/03/2015  dated  November 
26, 2015 on "Timelines for Compliance with various provisions of Securities Laws 
by Commodity Derivatives Exchanges" has stipulated as under : 

 
“Commodity derivatives exchanges shall transfer the functions of clearing and 
settlement  of  trade  to  a  separate  clearing  corporation  within  three  years  of 
date  on  which  they  are  deemed  as  recognised  stock  exchanges  (i.e. 
September 28, 2015) . Till then, the exchanges may continue with the existing 
arrangement for clearing and settlement of trades.” 

 

5.  Currently,  all  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  themselves  are  clearing  and 
settling  trade  executed  on  their  platform,  i.e.  they  are  acting  as  Central 
Counterparties  (CCP)  in  these  markets.  Therefore,  it  has  been  decided  that 
Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges 
in-house  clearing 
services)  having  annual  turnover  of  more  than  INR  5  Lac  Crore  in  previous 
financial  year  shall  be  deemed  to  be  systemically  important  FMIs.  The  criteria 
may be reviewed by SEBI from time to time. 
 

(currently  providing 

6.  Thus provision of SEBI circular CIR/MRD/DRMNP/26/2013 dated September 04, 

2013 shall be applicable on following Commodity Derivatives Exchanges: 
 

a.  National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Ltd. (NCDEX) 
b.  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd (MCX) 

 

The  abovementioned  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  shall  be  required  to 
comply  with  the  PFMIs  specified  by  CPSS-IOSCO  as  applicable  to  CCPs  until 
their  clearing  and  settlement  functions  are  transferred  to  recognised  clearing 
corporations. 
 

7.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 
 

8.  Exchanges are also advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of 

the members of the Exchange and also to disseminate the same on the website. 
 

Page 2 of 3 

 

9.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 

Page 3 of 3 

 

