 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

         December 09, 2016  

 
 
 
CFD/DCR2/CIR/P/2016/131 
 
To 
 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
All Depositories 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
All Registrars to the Issue 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Streamlining the Process for Acquisition of Shares pursuant to Tender-Offers 
made for Takeovers, Buy Back and Delisting of Securities. 
 

1.  SEBI had issued circular No. CIR/CFD/POLICY CELL/1/2015 dated April 13, 2015 

on  Mechanism  for  acquisition  of  shares  through  stock  exchange  mechanism 

pursuant  to  tender-offers  for  the  purpose  of  takeovers,  buy  back  and  delisting  of 

securities. 

 

2. 

In the current mechanism, the shareholders submit their bids through stock brokers 

and  subsequently,  the  brokers  transfer  the  shares  to  the  special  account  of  the 

clearing  corporation.  Likewise,  the  consideration  payable  to  shareholders  for  the 

shares accepted in the offer are routed through stock brokers. Also, the shares not 

accepted in the offer are returned to shareholders through the stock brokers. 

 

3. 

It has now been decided in consultation with the stock exchanges and depositories 

that  transfer  of  shares  of  shareholders  under  the  tender  offers  would  be  made 

directly to the account maintained by the clearing corporation. After such transfer of 

securities, the clearing corporation will be allowed to utilize the securities towards 

the settlement obligations under such offers. Further, consideration for the accepted 

shares in the tender offer and shares tendered but not accepted  under such offer 

would be credited directly to shareholders' bank and demat accounts respectively.  

 

Page 1 of 4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.  The aforesaid measures will reduce the systematic risk for investors and ease the 

process of implementation.   

 

5.  The  procedural  aspects  for  tendering  and  settlement  of  shares  under  the  revised 

system are specified in the Annexure. 

 

6.  The  said  revised  procedure  shall  be  applicable  to  all  the  offers  for  which  Public 

Announcement is made on or after January 02, 2017.  

7.  Stock  Exchanges  and  Depositories  shall  take  necessary  steps  and  put  in  place 

necessary infrastructure and systems for implementation of the mechanism and to 

ensure compliance with requirements of this circular.  

8.  The  amendments  in  the  procedure  are  carried  out  in  exercise  of  the  powers 

conferred under section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 

1992 read with regulation 13(1A) of Delisting Regulations, regulation 9(3A) of Buy 

Back Regulations, regulation 18(6A) of Takeover Regulations as amended. 

 

9.  This  Circular  along  with  the  Annexure  is  available  on  the  SEBI  website  at 

www.sebi.gov.in under the category "Legal framework". 

 

Yours faithfully,  

Amit Tandon  

Deputy General Manager  

+91-22-26449373  

amitt@sebi.gov.in  

 

Page 2 of 4 

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURE 

 
 

Amendments to Procedure for tendering and settlement of shares through Stock 

Exchange 

 

1.  Amendment to Procedure for Placing of Orders and Basis of Acceptance. 

1.1   The clause (h) and (i) shall be substituted with the following:  

 
h.  “The securities pay-in shall be as per the early pay-in mechanism currently available 

in the secondary market.” 

 

i. 

“The shares tendered by the shareholder under the offer shall be transferred directly 

to  Clearing  Corporation  of  the  stock  exchange  providing  Acquisition  Window  (CC) 

using early pay-in mechanism prior to placing the bid by the seller broker.”  

 

1.2    After clause (i), the following clauses shall be inserted: 

  

ia.  “Depositories shall provide information to CC about the shareholder on whose behalf 

the  member  has  placed  sell  order.  This  information  shall  include  investor  PAN, 

beneficiary account details and bank details including IFSC code.”   

 

ib.  “The  cumulative  quantity  tendered  shall  be  made  available  online  to  the  market 

throughout  the  trading  session  at  specific  intervals  by  Stock  Exchange  providing 

acquisition window during the tendering period on the basis of shares transferred to 

CC using early pay-in mechanism.” 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 4 

 

 

 

 

2.  Amendment to Procedure for Execution of trades and settlement 

2.1   The clause (l) and (m) shall be substituted with the following:  

  

l. 

“Once  the  basis  of  acceptance  is  finalised,  CC  would  transfer  unaccepted  shares 

directly to the shareholders account. If the securities transfer instruction is rejected in 

the depository system, due to any issue then such securities will be transferred to the 

seller broker’s depository pool account for onward transfer to the shareholder.” 

 

m.  “Acquirer will transfer the funds pertaining to the offer to CC's bank account. CC will 

then settle the trades by making direct funds payout to shareholders. If shareholders 

bank account details are not available or if the funds transfer instruction is rejected by 

RBI/bank, due to any issue then such funds will be transferred to the seller broker’s 

settlement account for onward transfer to shareholder.” 

 

2.2   Clause (n) shall be deleted. 

 

2.3   Clause (o) shall be substituted with the following: 

 

o.  “The seller broker would then issue contract note for the shares accepted in the offer.” 

 

2.4   Sub-clause (iv) of clause (p) shall be substituted with the following: 

‘Details of Early Pay-in account of CC’. 

 

*********************** 

 

Page 4 of 4 

