 

 

 

  December 26, 2016   

 

 

 

 

 
CIR/IMD/DF/141/2016 
 
To 
All Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) 
All Parties to REITs 
All Stock Exchanges 
All Merchant Bankers 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Disclosure of financial information in offer document for REITs 

1.  Regulation 15 (2), read with Schedule III, of the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
Regulations, 2014 (‘the REIT Regulations’) prescribe disclosures to be made in an offer 
document. The said disclosures, inter-alia, include disclosures for financial information 
of the REIT as well as the Manager and the Sponsor. 

2.  With  reference  to  aforesaid  Regulations,  the  detailed  requirements  for  disclosure  of 

financial information in offer document for REITs are placed at ‘Annexure - A’. 

3.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  Regulation  33  of  REIT 
Regulations. 

4.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Circulars”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 
 
Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9596  
Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

Page 1 of 18 

 

 

Annexure - ‘A’ 

Financial information to be disclosed in offer document 

(A) Financial Information of REIT: 

The  financial  information,  to  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  document,  shall  comply  with  the 
following: 

1.  Period of financial information to be disclosed: 

1.1. The  offer  document  shall  contain  financial  information  for  a  period  of  last  three 

completed financial years immediately preceding the date of offer document. 

1.2. If  the  closing  date  of  the  last  completed  financial  year  falls  more  than  six  months 
before  the  date  of  offer  document,  then  the  REIT  shall  also  disclose  interim financial 
information,  in  addition  to  the  three  year  financial  information  referred  in  paragraph 
1.1.above. 

The said interim financial information  shall be  not more than  six months  old  from the 
date of offer document. 

2.  Nature of financial information 

2.1. REIT shall disclose the financial information for the previous three financial years and 
the interim period, if any, in either of the following manner depending upon the history 
of the REIT: 

(a)  If  the  REIT  has  been  in  existence  for  the  last  three  completed  financial  years 
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  offer  document,  then  the  historical  financial 
statements of the REIT (on both standalone as well as consolidated basis) for last 
three years, and the interim period, if any, shall be disclosed.  

(b)  If the REIT has been in existence for a period lesser than the last three completed 
financial years and the historical financial statements of REIT are not available for 
some portion or the entire portion of the reporting period of three years and interim 
period,  then  the  combined  financial  statements  need  to  be  disclosed  for  the 
periods when such historical financial statements are not available. 

The  principles  for  preparation  of  combined  financial  statements  are  discussed  in 
Section ‘(G)’ below. 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 18 

 
3.  Content and basis of preparation of financial information:  

 

3.1. The  financial  information  shall  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  Indian  Accounting 
Standards  (Ind  AS)  and/or  any  addendum  thereto  as  defined  in  Rule  2  (1)  (a)  of  the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. 

3.2. The  financial  information  presented  by  the  REIT  can  be  in  the  form  of  condensed 
financial  statements.  Such  financial  information  shall  comply  with  the  minimum 
requirements for condensed financial statements as described in Ind AS 34 on ‘Interim 
Financial Reporting’, to the extent applicable. 
 

3.3. The financial information shall, inter-alia, disclose the following financial statements: 

(a) Balance Sheet; 
(b) Statement of Profit and Loss/Income and Expenditure; 
(c) Statement of Changes in Unit holders’ Equity; 
(d) Statement of Cash flows / Receipts and Payments; 
(e) Statement of Net Assets at Fair Value 
(f)  Statement of Total Returns at Fair Value 
(g) Explanatory notes annexed to, or forming part of, any statements referred above 

 

For the financial statements listed above, the  minimum information to be disclosed is 
given in Section ‘(H)’ below. 

3.4. The  financial  information  shall  be  disclosed  after  making  the  following  adjustments, 

wherever applicable and wherever quantification is possible: 

(a) Adjustments/rectifications for all erroneous accounting practices or failures to make 
provisions or  other  matters  which resulted in  modified opinion(s)  or modification(s) 
to the opinion in the auditor’s report. 

Modified  opinion(s),  where  quantification  is  not  possible  and  which  have  not  been 
adjusted, shall be highlighted along with the management comments. If the impact 
of  above  adjustments/rectifications 
then  a 
statement to that effect shall be given by the auditors. 

is  not  considered  ascertainable, 

(b) Material amounts relating to adjustments for prior period errors/items (as discussed 
in  Ind  AS  8  ‘Accounting  Policies,  Changes  in  Accounting  Estimates  and  Errors’) 
shall be identified and adjusted in  arriving at the  profits of the  years to  which they 
relate. 

(c) Where there has been a change in accounting policy, the profits or losses/incomes 
or expenditures of the earlier years (required to be disclosed in the offer document) 

 

Page 3 of 18 

 

 

and of the year in which the change in the accounting policy has taken place shall 
be recomputed to reflect what the profits or losses/incomes or expenditures of those 
years would have been if a uniform accounting policy was followed in each of these 
years. 

(d) If any accounting policy followed in past was not in accordance with applicable laws 
and/or  accounting  standards,  the  financial  statements  shall  be  adjusted  and 
recomputed in accordance with correct accounting policies. 

(e) The  Balance  Sheet  shall  be  prepared  after  deducting  the  balance  outstanding  on 
Revaluation  reserve  account  from  both  Fixed  assets  and  Reserves  and  the  Net 
worth should be arrived at after such deductions. 

3.5. Financial  statements  shall  disclose  all  ‘material’  items,  i.e.,  the  items  if  they  can, 
individually  or  collectively,  influence  the  decisions  made  on  the  basis  of  the  financial 
statements.  Materiality  shall  be  judged  and  determined  by  the  Manager  depending 
upon  pertinent  facts  and  circumstances,  including  the  size  or  nature  of  the  item  or  a 
combination of both. 

In addition to the consideration of ‘materiality’ as specified above, any item of income 
or expenditure, which exceeds one per cent of the revenue from operations or Rs.10 
lacs, whichever is higher, shall be disclosed separately either on the face of financial 
statements or in the schedules/notes. 
 

4.  Additional financial disclosures  

In  addition  to  the  financial  statements  referred  in  Paragraph  3  above,  the  following 
statements/disclosures  shall  also  be  included  as  a  part  of  the  audited  financial 
information and shall also be subjected to audit: 

4.1. Property wise rental/operating income: 

The REIT shall disclose rental/operating income from the properties (property-wise) 
for  all  the  REIT  assets  that  are  included  in  such  financial  information  for  the  last 
three years and interim period, if any. 

4.2. Earnings per Unit: 

The  REIT  shall  disclose  Earnings  per  Unit  (EPU)  for  the  last  three  years  and  the 
interim period, if any. The principles for computation of EPU shall be same as the 
principles  laid  down  in  Ind  AS  33  Earnings  per  Share,  to  the  extent  applicable. 
Relevant  disclosures  shall  be  provided  as  part  of  the  notes  for  the  EPU 
computation.  

 

Page 4 of 18 

 

4.3. Contingent liabilities: 

(a)  A  statement  of  REIT’s  Contingent  liabilities,  if  any,  as  on  the  date  of  latest 

financial information disclosed in the offer document, shall be disclosed. 

(b)  If  there  are  any  material  changes  in  the  contingent  liabilities  from  the 
aforementioned  date  of  latest  financial  information  to  the  date  of  the  offer 
document,  the  details  of  such  changes  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  offer 
document. 

4.4. Commitments: 

(a)  A statement of REIT’s Commitments, if any, as on the  date of  latest financial 

information disclosed in the offer document, shall be disclosed. 

(b)  If there are any material changes in the commitments from the aforementioned 
date of latest financial information to the date of the offer document, the details 
of such changes shall be disclosed in the offer document. 

4.5. Related party transactions: 

(a)  For  the  related  parties  as  defined  in  the  REIT  regulations,  the  REIT  shall 
provide relevant disclosures of all related party transactions in compliance with 
the  requirements  of  “Ind  AS  24  -  Related  Party  Disclosures”  and  the  REIT 
Regulations. 

(b)  Further,  the  following  additional  disclosures  related  to  Related  parties  and 

Related party transactions, wherever applicable, shall also be included: 

i.  Details of related party and its relationship with REIT; 
ii.  Nature of the transaction;   
iii.  Value of the transaction; 
iv. 

In case of any related party transaction involving acquisition or disposal of 
an real estate asset / property, the following additional information shall be 
provided 

  Summary of valuation report(s);  
  Material conditions or obligations in relation to the transaction;  
  Rate  of  interest,  if  external  financing  has  been  obtained  for  the 

transaction/acquisition; and  

  Any fees or commissions received or to be received by any associate 

of the related party in relation to the transaction. 
 

Page 5 of 18 

 

 

 

4.6. Capitalisation statement 

 

An  REIT  shall  disclose  a  Capitalisation  Statement  showing  total  debt,  net  worth, 
and the debt/equity ratios before and after the completions of issue. An illustrative 
format of the Capitalisation Statement is specified hereunder: 

Particulars 

Pre-issue as at.............  As Adjusted for issue 

(Amount) 
Total Debt 

Unitholders’ Funds  
Unit Capital 
xx 
xx 
Reserves 

xx 

 
xx 
xx 
xx 
xx 

xx 

 
xx 
xx 
xx 
xx 

Provided that in case of any change in the  Unit Capital (since the date from which 
the  financial  information  has  been  disclosed  in  the  Offer  document),  a  note 
explaining the nature of the change shall be given. 

4.7. Debt payment history 

A  statement  including  history  of  interest  and  principal  payments  of  REIT  shall  be 
disclosed  for  past  three  years  and  interim  period,  if  any,  consolidating  all  REIT 
assets forming part of the historical financial information. Additionally, the following 
shall also be disclosed: 

  The carrying amount of debt at the beginning of each year 
  Additional borrowings during the year 
  Repayments during the year 
  Other adjustments / settlements during the year 
  The carrying amount of debt at the end of each year 

 

5.  Audit of Financial Information:  

5.1. The financial information shall be audited and  the following shall be complied with 

respect to same: : 

(a)  The audit shall be carried out by the auditor appointed for the REIT as per the 
REIT  regulations.  The  auditor,  so  appointed,  shall  be  the  one  who  has 
subjected  itself  to  the  peer  review  process  of  the  Institute  of  Chartered 

 

Page 6 of 18 

 

Accountants  of  India  (ICAI)  and  who  holds  a  valid  certificate  issued  by  the 
Peer Review Board of ICAI. 

(b)  In providing his report, the  auditor shall be guided by the requirements of the 
‘Guidance Note on Reports in Company Prospectuses’, issued by ICAI, to the 
extent applicable.  

(c)  In  particular,  the  reports  of  the  auditors  on  the  financial  statements  of  the 
various  REIT  assets  (whether  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  framework 
applicable  to  such  REIT  assets  or  the  framework  applicable  to  the  REIT)  for 
the  respective  periods  covered  in  the  period  of  three  years  and  the  interim 
period, if any,  will have to  be taken into  consideration  and the same  shall be 
relied upon by the auditor giving the final report.  

For  the  audit  procedures  to  be  followed  in  such  case,  the  auditor  shall  be 
guided by the procedures stated in the Standard on Auditing (SA) 600, “Using 
the Work of another Auditor”, to the extent applicable. Further, the fact that the 
financial statements audited by other auditors have  been relied upon shall be 
disclosed in the audit report. 

(d)  As a part of the audit report, the auditor shall state whether: 

i.  he  has  obtained  all  information  and  explanations  which,  to  the  best  of  his 

knowledge and belief, were necessary for the purpose of his audit;  

ii.  the  Balance  Sheet  and  the  Statement  of  Profit  and  loss/Income  and 

Expenditure are in agreement with the books of account of the REIT; and 

iii.  the financial statements comply with the applicable accounting standards in 

his opinion. 
 

(e)  As a part of the audit report, the auditor shall give his opinion as to whether: 

i.  the  balance  sheet  gives  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the    state  of  affairs  of  the 

REIT as at the balance sheet dates;  

ii.  the statement  of  profit and loss / income and  expenditure  gives  a  true and 
fair  view  of  the  REIT’s  profits  or  losses/incomes  or  expenditures  for  the 
years/periods ended at the balance sheet dates; 
the  statement  of  cash  flows  /  receipts  and  payments  gives  a  true  and  fair 
view of the cash movements of the REIT for the years/periods ended at the 
balance sheet dates; 

iii. 

iv.  the statement of changes in unit holders’ equity gives a true and fair view of 
the  movement  of  the  unit  holders  funds  for  the  years/periods  ended  at  the 
balance sheet dates; 

Page 7 of 18 

 

 

 

 

v.  the statement of net assets at fair value gives a true and fair view of the net 

assets as at the balance sheet date; and 

vi.  the  statement  of  total  returns  at  fair  value  gives  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the 

total returns for the years/periods ended at the balance sheet dates. 

 
(B) Projections of REIT’s Income and Operating Cash flows 

 

1.  The offer document shall contain disclosures of the projections of income and operating 
cash  flows  of  the  REIT,  property-wise,  over  the  next  three  years  including  related 
assumptions. 
 

2.  The  projections  shall  be  disclosed  for  REIT  assets/properties  that  are  owned  by  the 
REIT or are proposed to be owned by REIT prior to the allotment of units in the public 
offer. 

 

3.  The following minimum items shall be disclosed as a part of the projections for the next 

three years: 
  Property-wise income (rental income and/or other operating income) 
  Property-wise operating cash flows 
  Assumptions for projections 
  Any other item deemed important for better readability and understanding 

 

4.  The aforesaid projections, including assumptions, shall be certified by the auditor. For 
the purpose of said certification, the auditor shall be guided by the requirements of SAE 
3400 for ‘The Examination of Prospective Financial Information’ and any other relevant 
standards/directions issued by ICAI in this context. 
 

5.  Further, 

the  aforesaid  projections  (including 

the  underlying  assumptions  and 

calculations) shall also be certified by the Manager. 
 

(C) Management Discussion and Analysis of REIT’s operations 

 

1.  REIT shall prepare and disclose Management Discussion and Analysis (MDA) (by the 
Manager),  based  on  the  financial  statements.  A  comparison  shall  be  provided  for  the 
most recent financial information with financial information of previous two years. 
 

2.  MDA shall, inter-alia contain  the following : 

  Overview of the business of the REIT 

 

Page 8 of 18 

 

 

  A  summary  of  the  financial  information  containing  significant  items  of  income  and 

expenditure. 

  Factors that may affect results of the operations, key risks and mitigating factors 
  Quality of earnings and revenue streams 
  Significant developments subsequent to the last financial year:  

  A  statement  by  the  Manager  whether  in  their  opinion  there  have  arisen  any 
circumstances  since  the  date  of  the  last  financial  statements  as  disclosed  in 
the  offer  document  and  which  materially  and  adversely  affect  or  is  likely  to 
affect the business or profitability of the REIT, or the value of its assets, or its 
ability to pay its liabilities within the next twelve months.  

  Procedure for dealing with and approval of related party transactions 
  Related party transaction(s) involving acquisition or disposal of an REIT asset 

  The  analysis  shall  discuss  impact  of  such  acquisition/disposal  on  the  yield  of 

the units of REIT 

  An  analysis  of  reasons  for  the  changes  in  significant  items  of  income  and 

expenditure shall also be given, inter alia, containing the following: 

  unusual or infrequent events or transaction; 
  significant  economic  changes  that  materially  affected  or  are  likely  to  affect 

income from continuing operations; 

  known trends or uncertainties that have had or are expected to have a material 

 

adverse impact on revenues from continuing operations; 
future changes in relationship between costs and revenues, in case of events 
such  as  future  increase  in  operating  costs  that  will  cause  a  material  change 
are known; 
total turnover from each major segments of the REIT 

 
  status of any publicly announced new business segment; 
 
  any significant dependence on single or few assets, clients, suppliers, etc.; 
  competitive conditions 

the extent to which business is seasonal; 

 
(D) Other Disclosures for REIT 

 

1.  Working Capital 

A  statement  from  Manager  regarding  sufficiency  of  the  working  capital  to  fulfill  the 
present requirements of REIT (i.e., at least twelve months from date of listing) shall be 
disclosed. In case, sufficient working capital is not available in the opinion of Manager, 
then  a  statement  should  be  provided  describing  how  it  proposes  to  provide  additional 
working capital requirement.  

 

Page 9 of 18 

 
2.  Past Market Performance 

 

In case of a capital offering subsequent to the initial offer, the market value of the units 
traded on all the designated stock exchanges where REIT is listed shall be disclosed:  

  on the last date of reporting period 
  highest value during reporting period based on intra-day and on closing price with 

 

specified date  
lowest  value  during  reporting  period  intra-day  and  on  closing  price  with  specified 
date 

 
(E) Historical Financial information of Manager and Sponsor(s) 

 

1.  An offer document of REIT shall include summary of the audited consolidated financial 
statements  (including  the  Balance  Sheet  and  Statement  of  Profit  and  Loss  (without 
schedules))  of  Manager  and  Sponsor(s)  for  past  three  completed  years,  prepared  in 
accordance with accounting standards, as applicable, as per the Companies Act, 2013 
and rules thereunder. 
 
For  example,  if  the  concerned  entity  is  required  to  follow  Companies  (Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2006 during the entire period of last three years, then the three year 
financial  information  of  such  entity  shall  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  Companies 
(Accounting  Standards)  Rules,  2006.  Similarly,  if  the  concerned  entity  is  required  to 
follow Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 during the entire period 
of  last  three  years,  then  the  three  year  financial  information  shall  be  prepared  in 
accordance with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. 

2.  In  case  the  Manager  and/or  Sponsor(s)  has/have  done  a  transition  from  Companies 
(Accounting  Standards)  Rules,  2006  to  Companies  (Indian  Accounting  Standards) 
Rules,  2015  at  any  time  during  the  period  of  last  three  years,  then  the  financial 
information for the last three years shall be disclosed on the following basis: 
 
a.  If  the  concerned  entity  is  following  or  is  required  to  follow  Companies  (Indian 
Accounting  Standards)  Rules,  2015  for  the  latest  two  years  (for  the  latest  three 
years  including  comparatives  of  the  first  year  of  adoption)  out  of  last  three 
completed  years,  then  the  financial  information  for  all  the  three  years  shall  be 
prepared as per Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. 

b.  If  the  concerned  entity  is  following  or  is  required  to  follow  Companies  (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 only for the latest year (for the latest two years 
including comparatives) out of the historical period of three years, then the financial 

 

Page 10 of 18 

 

 

information  for  the  recent  two  years  shall  be  disclosed  as  per  the  Companies 
(Indian  Accounting  Standards)  Rules,  2015  and  the  financial  information  for  the 
earliest  year  (i.e.  the  third  last  year)  shall  be  disclosed  as  per  the  Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006. 

For  example,  if  financial  information  of  Manager/Sponsor  is  presented  for  the 
financial  years  2014-15,  2015-16,  and  2016-17  and  such  Manager/Sponsor  is 
required by Companies Act, 2013 to report under Ind AS from financial year 2016-
17  (with  financial  year  2015-16  as  comparatives),  then  it  shall  disclose  financial 
information  for  financial  years  2016-17  and  2015-16  as  per  Companies  (Indian 
Accounting Standards)  Rules,  2015 and  financial  year  2014-15  as  per  Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006. 

Further,  for  example,  if  financial  information  of  Manager/Sponsor  is  presented  for 
the  financial  years  2014-15,  2015-16,  and  2016-17  and  such  Manager/Sponsor  is 
required by Companies Act, 2013 to report under Ind AS from financial year 2015-
16  (with  financial  year  2014-15  as  comparatives),  then  it  shall  disclose  financial 
information for all the three financial years, i.e. 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17, as 
per Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules. 

3.  Further, if any of the Manager/Sponsor is a foreign entity and is not legally required to 
comply with the Companies Act, 2013, then the financial statements of such entity may 
be prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). 
 

(F) Framework for calculation of Net Distributable Cash Flows (NDCFs): 

 

1.  Every REIT/Manager shall define net distributable cash flows (NDCFs) for itself and the 

definition as decided by REIT/Manager shall be: 

 

a.  subject to compliance with Companies Act, 2013 or Limited Liability Partnership Act, 

2008, or any Central Government Act, as applicable; and  

b.  disclosed in offer document and shall be followed consistently pursuant to listing.  

2.  The  indicated  framework  shall  be  followed  in  so  far  as  whatever  is  applicable  to  the 

Holdco/SPV/REIT. 

 

3.  REIT  may  take  guidance  from  the  following  framework  for  defining  and  calculating 

NDCFs at the Holdco/SPV level and at the REIT level : 

 

 

 

Page 11 of 18 

(I.) Calculation of Net Distributable Cash Flows at the SPV level: 

Description 

Amount  

 

Profit after tax as per Statement of profit and loss/income and 
expenditure (standalone) (A) 
Add: Depreciation and amortisation as per Statement of profit and 
loss/income and expenditure 
Add/less: Loss/gain on sale of Real estate assets 
Add: Proceeds from sale of Real estate assets adjusted for the following: 
 
  directly attributable transaction costs  
  proceeds reinvested or planned to be reinvested as per para 18 (7) (a) of 

related debts settled or due to be settled from sale proceeds 

the REIT Regulations 

Add: Proceeds from sale of Real estate assets not distributed pursuant to an 
earlier plan to re-invest, if such proceeds are not intended to be invested 
subsequently 
Add/less: Any other item of non-cash expense / non cash income (net of 
actual cash flows for these items), if deemed necessary by the Manager.  
For example, any decrease/increase in carrying amount of an asset or of a 
liability recognised in Statement of profit and loss/income and expenditure on 
measurement of the asset or the liability at fair value, interest cost as per 
effective interest rate method, deferred tax, lease rents recognised on a 
straight line basis, etc. 
Less: Repayment of external debt (principal) / redeemable preference shares 
/ debentures, etc., if deemed necessary by the Manager 
Total Adjustments (B) 
Net Distributable Cash Flows (C)=(A+B) 

Xx 

Xx 

xx 
xx 

xx 

Xx 
 
 

xx 

xx 
xx 

 

(II.) Calculation of Net Distributable Cash Flows at the Consolidated REIT level: 

Description 
Profit after tax as per Statement of profit and loss/income and 
expenditure (consolidated) (A) 
Add: Depreciation and amortisation as per Statement of profit and 
loss/income and expenditure (consolidated) 
Add/less: Loss/gain recognised on sale of Real estate assets or equity 
shares or interest in Holdco/SPV 
Add: Proceeds from sale of Real estate assets or equity shares or interest 
in Holdco/SPV adjusted for the following: 

Amount  
xx 

xx 

xx 

xx 

Page 12 of 18 

 

 

 

Description 

 

Amount  

related debts settled or due to be settled from sale proceeds 

 
  directly attributable transaction costs  
  proceeds reinvested or planned to be reinvested as per para 18 (7) (a) 

of the REIT Regulations 

Add: Proceeds from sale of Real estate assets or equity shares or interest 
in Holdco/SPV not distributed pursuant to an earlier plan to re-invest, if such 
proceeds are not intended to be invested subsequently 
Add/less: Any other item of non-cash expense / non cash income (net of 
actual cash flows for these items), if deemed necessary by the Manager.  
For example, any decrease/increase in carrying amount of an asset or of a 
liability recognised in Statement of profit and loss/income and expenditure 
on measurement of the asset or the liability at fair value, interest cost as per 
effective interest rate method, deferred tax, lease rents recognised on a 
straight line basis, etc. 
Less: Repayment of external debt (principal) / redeemable preference 
shares / debentures, etc., if deemed necessary by the Manager 
Total Adjustments (B) 
Net Distributable Cash Flows (C) = (A+B) 

xx 

xx 

xx 

xx 
xx 

 

(G) Principles for preparation of combined financial statements: 

 

1.  For preparation of Combined Financial Statements, as has been indicated in Paragraph 

2.1 (b) under Section ‘(A)’ above, REIT shall follow the  following principles : 

1.1. Period for which combined financial statements shall be disclosed 

When the REIT has not been in existence for some portion or the entire portion of the 
reporting period of three years and interim period, if any, then the financial information 
must  be  provided  through  combined  financial  statements,  showing  the  combined 
financial performance of all the proposed REIT assets, for such period when REIT was 
not in existence. 

1.2. Assets/entities forming part of Combined Financial Statements: 

All  the  assets  or  entities,  which  are  proposed  to  be  owned  by  the  REIT,  as  per  the 
disclosures  in  the  offer  document,  shall  collectively  form  part  of  combined  financial 
statements.  

 

 

 

Page 13 of 18 

 
1.3. Underlying assumption for preparation of Combined Financial Statements 

 

Such  combined  financial  statements  shall  be  prepared  based  on  an  assumption  that 
all  the  assets  and/or  entities,  proposed  to  be  owned  by  REIT,  were  part  of  a  single 
group for such period when REIT was not in existence. 

1.4. Preparation of Combined Financial Statements: 

i.  These  statements  shall  be  prepared  on  a  combined  basis  and  presented  as  if 
REIT  assets  were  a  part  of  a  single  group  since  the  first  day  of  the  reporting 
period for which information is being presented. 

ii. 

The principles for preparation of combined financial statements shall be same as 
the  principles  laid  down  in  “Ind  AS  110  Consolidated  Financial  Statements”,  to 
the  extent  applicable.  However,  unlike  consolidated  financial  statements,  the 
combined financial statements shall not have the parent. 

iii.  While  preparing  Combined  Financial  Statements,  transactions  between  the 
entities  proposed  to  be  owned  by  REIT  (i.e.  transactions  between  the  entities 
which are forming part of the combined financial statements) shall be eliminated. 

Further,  all  pertinent  matters,  such  as  non-controlling 
foreign 
operations,  different  fiscal  periods,  or  income  taxes,  etc.  shall  be  treated  in  the 
same manner as in consolidated financial statements, to the extent applicable. 

interests, 

iv. 

In cases where one or more of the underlying REIT assets have been held by the 
sponsor  or  its  associates  or  its  group  entities  for  a  period  lesser  than  the  last 
three  completed  financial  years,  then  such  assets  may  be  reflected  in  the 
Combined Financial Statements only from the date of holding by such entity. 

However, if the discrete financial information for such assets is also available for 
the pre-holding period (i.e. the period before the acquisition by the sponsor or its 
associates  or  its  group  entities),  then  such  assets  shall  be  reflected  in  the 
Combined Financial Statements for such pre-holding period as well. 

v. 

If  there  are  any  assets  for  which  the  financial  information  is  considered  for  a 
period lesser than three years and the additional interim period, if any, then such 
fact  shall  be  clearly  disclosed  in  the  offer  document,  along  with  all  pertinent 
details. 

vi.  Assumptions made in preparation of the Combined Financial Statements shall be 

disclosed in ‘Basis of Preparation’ of such statements.  

 

Page 14 of 18 

 

vii. 

The  basis  of  preparation  shall  also  explain  the  principles  of  combination  and 
elimination  of  transactions  amongst  entities  that  are  included  in  the  Combined 
Financial Statements. 

 

2.  In  addition  to  the  principles  listed  at  paragraph  ‘1’  above,  the  REIT/Manager,  while 
preparing the Combined Financial Statements of the REIT, shall also be guided by the 
requirements  laid  down  in  the  ‘Guidance  Note  on  Combined  and  Carve-Out  Financial 
Statements’ and any other pertinent guidance/directions issued by ICAI in this context. 

(H) Minimum Disclosures for key financial statements: 

 

1.  For  the  financial  statements  listed  at  Paragraph  3.3  of  Section  ‘(A)’  above,  the  line 

items shall, at minimum, include the following: 

1.1. Line items for Balance Sheet: 

I.  Assets 

 
a)  Property, plant and equipment; 
b)  Capital work-in-progress 
c)  Investment property; 
d)  Intangible assets; 
e)  Inventories; 
f)  Other receivables; 
g)  Other financial assets (excluding Inventories & Other Receivables) 
h)  Cash and cash equivalents; 
i)  Deferred tax assets; 
j)  Assets for current tax. 

 
II.  Equity and Liabilities 

 
a)  Unit capital; 
b)  Other payables; 
c)  Provisions; 
d)  Financial  liabilities  (excluding  amounts  shown  under  (b)  and  (c)),  separately 

disclosing liabilities owed to sponsors; 

e)  Liabilities for current tax; 
f)  Deferred tax liabilities; 
g)  Other liabilities 

 

 

 

 

Page 15 of 18 

 
1.2. Line items for Statement of Profit and loss/Income and Expenditure 

 

I.  Incomes and gains: 

 
a)  Revenue from operations; 
b)  Dividend;  
c) 
d)  Profit on sale of assets/investments 
e)  Other income (Clearly indicate nature of such income).  

Interest;  

 

II.  Expenses and losses: 

Investment management fees (including fees paid to Manager) 

Insurance & security expenses;  

 
a)  Valuation expenses; 
b)  Audit fees;  
c) 
d)  Employee Benefits Expenses 
e) 
f)  Trustee Fee 
g)  Depreciation on property, plant and equipment; 
h)  Amortization of intangible assets;  
i)  Finance Cost (Interest); 
j)  Custodian fees;  
k)  Registration fees;  
l)  Repairs and maintenance in case of real estate assets; 
m)  Loss on sale of assets/investments 
n)  Other expenses (Clearly indicate nature of such expense) 
 

III.  Profit or loss for the period before income tax 

 

IV.  Tax expense (current tax and deferred tax) 

 

V.  Profit or loss for the period after income tax 

 

VI.  Items of other comprehensive income 

 

VII.  Additional line items (if applicable) 

 
a) 
b) 
c) 
d) 
 

Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  
Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 
Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 

VIII.  Total  comprehensive  income  for  the  period  (V+VI)  (Comprising  profit  (loss)  and 

Other comprehensive income for the period) 

 

 

 

 

Page 16 of 18 

 
1.3. Line items for the "Statement of changes in Unit holders’ equity" 

 

I.  Total comprehensive income for the period; 

 

II.  For  each  component  of  unit  holders’  equity,  a  reconciliation  between  the  carrying 
amount  at  the  beginning  and  the  end  of  the  period,  separately  (as  a  minimum) 
disclosing changes resulting from: 
 

a)  Profit or loss; 
b)  Other comprehensive income; 
c)  Aggregate amount of investments by unit holders in  REIT, and dividends / other 

distributions by REIT to unit holders 

 
1.4. Line items for the " Statement of Cash flows / Receipts and Payments”  

The  statement  of  Cash  flows  /  Receipts  and  Payments,  shall  be  prepared  in 
accordance with the requirements of Ind AS 7-"Statement of Cash Flows". 

1.5. Line items for ‘Statement of Net Assets at Fair Value’ 

The line items for the Statement of Net Assets at Fair Value, shall, at minimum, include 
the following: 

S.No.  Particulars 
A. 
B. 

  Assets  
  Liabilities  

C. 
D. 
E. 

  Net Assets (A-B) 
  No. of Units  
  NAV (C/D) 

xxxx 

Book Value   Fair Value 
xxxx 
xxxx 
(as  reflected  in  the  balance 
sheet) 
xxxx 
xxxx 
xxxx 

xxxx 
xxxx 
xxxx 

 
Notes:  
(i) ‘Statement of Net Assets at Fair Value’ shall be provided only as on the last date of 
the financial information disclosed in the offer document.  
(ii) Further, the breakup of the fair values of the assets  shall be given property-wise in 
the notes to the Statement of Net Assets at Fair Value. 

 

Page 17 of 18 

 

 

 
1.6. Line items for ‘Statement of Total Return at Fair Value’: 

 

The  line  items  for  the  Statement  of  Total  Return  at  Fair  Value,  shall,  at  minimum, 
include the following: 

Particulars 
Total Comprehensive Income (As per the Statement of Profit 
and loss/Income and Expenditure) 
Add/Less:  Other  Changes  in  Fair  Value  (e.g.,  in investment 
property,  property,  plant  &  equipment  (if  cost  model  is 
followed)) not recognized in Total Comprehensive Income 
Total Return 

Amount  
xxxx 

xxxx 

xxxx 

 

Note:  ‘Statement  of  Total  Returns  at  Fair  Value’  shall  be  provided  only  for  the  last 
completed year and interim period, if any. 

2.  Headings, line items, sub-line items and sub-totals may be presented as an addition or 
substitution on the face of the financial statements when such presentation is relevant 
to  an  understanding  of  an  REIT’s  financial  position  or  performance  or  to  cater  to 
industry/sector-specific  disclosure  requirements  or  when  required  for  compliance  with 
the REIT regulations or Indian Accounting Standards or any other law. 

 

Page 18 of 18 

