 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
IMD/HO/FPIC/CIR/P/ 2017/ 003 
     January 04, 2017  
 
 

 

 

To, 
 
1.  All Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations in International Financial Services 

Centre (IFSC) 

2.  All  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  ("FPIs")  through  their  Designated  Depository 

Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities (“Custodians”). 

3.  All DDPs/ Custodian of Securities. 
4.  The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL) 
 
 Sir/ Madam,  
 
SUBJECT:  Guidelines  for  participation/functioning  of  Eligible  Foreign  Investors 
(EFIs) and FPIs in International Financial Services Centre (IFSC). 
 
1)  Pursuant  to  announcement  made 

in  the  Union  Budget  2015-16  on  Gujarat 
International  Finance  Tec-City  (GIFT),  SEBI,  in  consultation  with  stakeholders,  is  in 
process of laying down requisite regulatory framework for facilitating and regulating 
financial  services  relating  to  securities  market  in  an  International  Financial  Services 
Centre (IFSC). Accordingly, SEBI issued IFSC Guidelines, 2015 on March 27, 2015 and 
also  issued  further  guidelines  for  functioning  of  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing 
Corporations in IFSC on November 28, 2016.  
 

2)  Based  on  consultations  held  with  the  stakeholders  on  the  proposed  regulatory 
framework on participation of Eligible Foreign Investors (EFIs), in partial modification 
to SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015, it has been decided as follows: 

 

a.  SEBI  registered  FPIs  (“FPIs”),  proposing  to  operate  in  IFSC,  shall  be  permitted, 
without  undergoing  any  additional  documentation  and/or  prior  approval 
process.  
 
In case of participation of FPIs in IFSC, a trading member of the recognized stock 
exchange in IFSC, may rely upon the due diligence process already carried out by 
a  SEBI  registered  intermediary  during  the  course  of  registration  and  account 
opening process in India.  

b. 

 

 

Page | 1  

 

 

c. 

 

In case of participation of an EFI, not registered with SEBI as an FPI, but desirous 
of operating in IFSC, a trading member of the recognized stock exchange in IFSC, 
may rely upon the due diligence carried out by a bank, which is permitted by RBI 
to operate in IFSC, during the account opening process of EFI.  

d.  FPIs, who presently operate in Indian securities market and propose to operate in 
IFSC  also,  shall  be  required  to  ensure  clear  segregation  of  funds  and  securities. 
Custodians  shall,  in  turn,  monitor  compliance  of  this  provision  for  their 
respective FPI clients. Such FPIs shall keep their respective custodians informed 
about their participation in IFSC.  
 

e.  Recognised  stock  exchange  in  IFSC  shall  maintain,  at  all  times,  the  necessary 
details of EFIs, which may be called upon by SEBI/RBI or any other authority of 
law.   
 

f.  EFIs 

shall 

by 

all 

the 

viz. 
Rules/Regulations/Circulars/Guidelines etc. in IFSC issued by the Government of 
India/RBI/SEBI or any other authority of law, from time to time.  

applicable 

Indian 

abide 

laws 

 
g. 

 

It has now been decided to delete the words “a foreign portfolio investor,” in the 
definition of the term “intermediary” in clause (g) of Guideline 2 (1) of the SEBI 
(IFSC) Guidelines. Accordingly, the Guidelines stand amended.  

3)  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors 
in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  
 

4)  A copy of this circular is available at the links “Legal FrameworkCirculars” and “Info 
for  F.P.I”  on  our  website  www.sebi.gov.in.  The  DDPs/Custodians  are  requested  to 
bring the contents of this circular to the notice of their FPI clients. 
 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
ACHAL SINGH,  
Deputy General Manager  
Tel No.: 022-26449619  
Email: achals@sebi.gov.in 

Page | 2  

 
 

 

