भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/004  
January 5, 2017 
 

Sub: Guidance Note on Board Evaluation 

 

To 
All listed entities 
 
Sir / Madam, 
 

 

1.  The Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations,  2015  (“SEBI  LODR”)  contain  broad  provisions  on  Board  Evaluation  i.e. 
evaluation  of  the  performance  of:  (i)  the  Board  as  a  whole,  (ii)  individual  directors 
(including  independent  directors  and  Chairperson)  and  (iii)  various  Committees  of  the 
Board.  The  provisions  also  specify  responsibilities  of  various  persons  /  committees  for 
conduct  of  such  evaluation  and  certain  disclosure  requirements  as  a  part  of  the  listed 
entity's corporate governance obligations.  
 

2.  However,  the  concept  of  Board  evaluation  in  India  is  at  a  nascent  stage.  It  has  been 
brought  to  SEBI’s  notice  by  market  participants  that  as  the  number  of  listed  entities  in 
India  is  very  large,  many  of  them  may  not  have  much  clarity  on  the  process  of  Board 
Evaluation and hence, may need further guidance.  
 

3.  SEBI  has  studied  the  practices  of  Board  evaluation  prevalent  among  listed  entities  in 
India. An analysis has also been done of the global practices in various jurisdictions like 
regulatory  requirements,  best  practices,  internal  versus  external  evaluation,  disclosure 
requirements etc. The matter was further discussed with the industry associations, stock 
exchanges,  market  participants  and  international  bodies  and  experts  to  obtain  their 
views on this subject.  
 

4.  Based  on  the  aforesaid  analysis,  a  guidance  note  in  this  matter  has  been  prepared  in 
order to guide listed entities by elaborating various aspects of Board evaluation that may 
help  them  to  improve  the  evaluation  process,  derive  the  best  possible  benefit  and 
achieve the objective of the entire process. 
 

5.  The guidance note covers all major aspects of Board Evaluation including the following:  

a.  Subject of Evaluation i.e. who is to be evaluated; 
b.  Process  of  Evaluation  including  laying  down  of  objectives  and  criteria  to  be 

adopted for evaluation of different persons; 
c.  Feedback to the persons being evaluated; 
d.  Action Plan based on the results of the evaluation process; 
e.  Disclosure to stakeholders on various aspects; 
f.  Frequency of Board Evaluation; 
g.  Responsibility of Board Evaluation and 
h.  Review of the entire evaluation process periodically. 

 

6.  The  purpose  of  the  Guidance  Note  is  to  educate  the  listed  entities  and  their  Board  of 
Directors  about  various  aspects  involved  in  the  Board  Evaluation  process  and  improve 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

their  overall  performance  as  well  as  corporate  governance  standards  to  benefit  all 
stakeholders.  This  would  serve  as  a  guide  for  listed  entities  and  may  be  adopted  by 
them as considered appropriate. Anything mentioned in the Guidance Note shall not be 
construed as interpretation of provisions of SEBI LODR or any other law. 

 

7.  This Circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 and Section 
11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 101 
of SEBI LODR. 
 

8.  This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.inunder the categories “Legal 

Framework” and “Issues and Listing”. 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Pradeep Ramakrishnan 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9246 
Email id - pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Guidance Note on Board Evaluation 

 

Annex A 

 

 

A.  Background of Board Evaluation in India 
India  has  moved  recently  from  a  voluntary  Board  evaluation  under  Clause  49  of  the  Listing 
Agreement  (SEBI)  and  Corporate  Governance  Voluntary  Guidelines  of  MCA  (2009)  to  a 
mandatory  Board  evaluation  under  Companies  Act,  2013  and  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI LODR).   

The Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI LODR provide for several mandatory provisions for Board 
Evaluation on who is to be evaluated, who is to evaluate such persons, disclosure requirements, 
etc.  The  main  provisions  of  Companies  Act,  2013  and  SEBI  LODR  on  Board  Evaluation  as 
applicable to listed entities is attached at Annexure A1 and summarized as under: 

1.  Role of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC): 

a.  NRC  shall  formulate  of  criteria  for  evaluation  of  performance  of  independent 

directors and the board of directors. 

b.  NRC shall carry out evaluation of every director’s performance. 

c.  NRC  shall  determine  whether  to  extend  or  continue  the  term  of  appointment  of 
the independent director, on the basis of the report of performance evaluation of 
independent directors. 

2.  Role of independent directors: 

a.  In the meeting of independent directors of the company (without the attendance 

of non-independent directors and management), such directors shall: 

i.  review the performance of non-independent directors and the Board as a 

whole. 

ii.  review  the  performance  of  the  Chairperson  of  the  company,  taking  into 

account the views of executive directors and non-executive directors. 

iii.  assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between 
the company management and the Board that is necessary for the Board 
to effectively and reasonably perform their duties. 

b.  The  independent  directors  shall  bring  an  objective  view  in  the  evaluation  of  the 

performance of board and management. 

3.  Evaluation  of  independent  directors:  The  performance  evaluation  of  independent 
directors  shall  be  done  by  the  entire  Board  of  Directors,  excluding  the  director  being 
evaluated. 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

4.  Disclosure requirements: 

a.  A  statement  indicating  the  manner  in  which  formal  annual  evaluation  has  been 
made  by  the  Board  of  its  own  performance  and  that  of  its  committees  and 
individual directors shall be included in the report by Board of Directors placed in 
the general meeting.  

b.  The performance evaluation criteria for  independent directors shall be disclosed 

in the section on the corporate governance of the annual report. 

B.  Subject of Evaluation 
As  required  under  SEBI  LODR  and  Companies  Act,  the  evaluation  of  the  Board  involves 
multiple levels: 

1.  Board as a whole 
2.  Committees of the Board   
3.  Individual  Directors  and  Chairperson  (including  Chairperson,  CEO,  Independent  Directors, 

Non-independent directors, etc.)  

C.  Process of Evaluation 
The  process  of  evaluation  is  generally  elaborate,  stretching  across  pre-evaluation,  evaluation 
and post- evaluation processes including, inter alia, the following: 

1.  Identifying the objectives of evaluation: 

Identifying  the  objectives  of  the  evaluation  is  the  first  and  a  crucial  step  in  the  Board 
Evaluation  process.  Clear  identification  of  objectives  is  key  to  streamlining  the  process  of 
evaluation, analyzing the results and taking appropriate and corrective action.  
 
The objectives may be:  

a)  General objectives- Standard Objectives for all Board evaluations of the entity 
b)  Specific  objectives-  Objectives  specific  to  the  current  Board  evaluation  based  on 

recent events, new issues of concern, etc.  

 

2.  Criteria of evaluation: 

The  criteria  for  evaluation  under  different  categories  depend  on  the  role  the  person/group 
plays in the organization. For instance, the evaluation of the Chairperson may evaluate the 
person’s  leadership,  coordination  and  steering  skills,  etc.  which  may  be  different  from  the 
role  of  other  directors.  The  criteria  for  every  evaluation  may  be  decided  at  every  level 
depending on the functions, responsibilities, competencies required, nature of business, etc. 
As per SEBI LODR, the primary responsibility of formulation of criteria lies on the NRC.  

Indicative criteria that may be used for different directors/groups are: 

A.  Board as a whole 

a.  Structure of the Board: 

i.  Competency  of  directors:  (Different  competencies  may  be  identified  as  may  be 
required for effective functioning of the  entity and the Board) -Whether Board as a 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

whole  has  directors  with  a  proper  mix  of  competencies  to  conduct  its  affairs 
effectively. 

ii.  Experience  of  directors:  Whether  Board  as  a  whole  has  directors  with  enough 

experience to conduct its affairs effectively. 

iii.  Mix of qualifications: Whether Board as a whole has directors with a proper mix of 

qualifications to conduct its affairs effectively. 

iv.  Diversity 

in  Board  under  various  parameters:  Gender/background/ 
competence/experience, etc. – Whether there is sufficient diversity in the Board on 
the aforesaid parameters. 

v.  Appointment  to  the  Board: Whether  the  process  of  appointment  to  the  board  of 
directors  is  clear  and  transparent  and  includes  provisions  to  consider  diversity  of 
thought, experience, knowledge, perspective and gender in the board of directors. 

 

b.  Meetings of the Board: 

i.  Regularity of meetings: Whether meetings are being held on a regular basis 

 

ii.  Frequency: 

1.  Whether the Board meets frequently  
2.  Whether the frequency of such meetings is enough for the Board to undertake 

its duties properly 
 

iii.  Logistics: Whether the logistics for the meeting is being handled properly- venue, 

format, timing, etc.  
 

iv.  Agenda: 

1.  Whether the agenda is circulated well before the meeting 
2.  Whether the agenda has all relevant information to take decision on the matter 
3.  Whether  the  agenda  is  up  to  date,  regularly  reviewed  and  involves  major 

substantial decisions  

4.  Whether  the  quality  of  agenda  and  Board  papers  is  up  to  the  mark  (explains 

issues properly, not overly lengthy, etc.) 

5.  Whether  outstanding  items  of  previous  meetings  are followed-up  and  taken  up 

in subsequent agendas 

6.  Whether the time allotted for the every item (especially substantive items) in the 

agenda of the meeting is sufficient for adequate discussions on the subject 

7.  Whether the Board is able to finish discussion and decision on all agenda items 

in the meetings 

8.  Whether adequate and timely inputs are taken from the Board members prior to 

setting of the Agenda for the meeting 

9.  Whether the agenda includes adequate information on Committee’s activities 

 

v.  Discussions and dissent: 

1.  Whether  the  Board  discusses  every  issue  comprehensively  and  depending  on 

the importance of the subject  

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

2.  Whether  the  environment  of  the  meeting  induces  free-flowing  free  flowing 
discussions,  healthy  debate  and  contribution  by  everyone  without  any  fear  or 
fervour 

3.  Whether the discussions generally add value to the decision making 
4.  Whether the Board tends towards groupthink and whether critical and dissenting 

suggestions are welcomed 

5.  Whether all members actively participate in the discussions 
6.  Whether overall, the Board functions constructively as a team 

 

vi.  Recording of minutes: 

1.  Whether 

the  minutes  are  being  recorded  properly-  clearly,  completely, 

accurately and consistently.  

2.  Whether the minutes are approved properly in accordance with set procedures. 
3.  Whether the minutes are timely circulated to all the Board members 
4.  Whether dissenting views are recorded in the minutes 

 

vii.  Dissemination of information: 

1.  Whether  all  the  information  pertaining  to  the  meeting  are  disseminated  to  the 

members timely, frequently, accurately, regularly 

2.  Whether Board is adequately informed of material matters in between meetings  

c.  Functions of the Board: 

 

(Functions  of  the  Board  have  been  specified  in  detail  in  Chapter  II  of  SEBI  LODR  and 
Companies Act) 

i.  Role  and  responsibilities  of  the  Board:  Whether  the  same  are  clearly 
documented  E.g.  Difference  in  roles  of  Chairman  and  CEO,  Matters  reserved  for 
the Board, etc.  

ii.  Strategy and performance evaluation:  

1.  Whether  significant  time  of  the  Board  is  being  devoted  to  management  of 

current and potential strategic issues 

2.  Whether various scenario planning is used to evaluate strategic risks 
3.  Whether  the  Board  overall  reviews  and  guides  corporate  strategy,  major  plans 
of  action,  risk  policy,  annual  budgets  and  business  plans,  sets  performance 
objectives, monitored implementation and corporate performance, and oversees 
major capital expenditures, acquisitions and divestments. 
 

iii.  Governance and compliance:  

1.  Whether adequate time of the Board  is being devoted to analyse and examine 

governance and compliance issues  

2.  Whether  the  Board  monitors  the  effectiveness  of  its  governance  practices  and 

makes changes as needed 

3.  Whether the Board ensures the integrity of the entity’s accounting and financial 
reporting  systems,  including  the  independent  audit,  and  that  appropriate 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

systems  of  control  are  in  place,  in  particular,  systems  for  risk  management, 
financial  and  operational  control,  and  compliance  with  the  law  and  relevant 
standards. 

4.  Whether the Board oversees the process of disclosure and communications. 
5.  Whether the Board  evaluates and analyses the  compliance certificate from the 
auditors / practicing company secretaries regarding compliance of conditions of 
corporate governance. 
 

iv.  Evaluation of Risks:  

1.  Whether  Board  undertakes  a  review  of  the  high  risk  issues  impacting  the 

organization regularly 

2.  In  assessment  of  risks,  whether  it  is  ensured  that,  while  rightly  encouraging 
positive  thinking,  these  do  not  result  in  over-optimism  that  either  leads  to 
significant risks not being recognised or exposes the entity to excessive risk. 
 

v.  Grievance redressal for Investors: 

Whether  the  Board  regularly  reviews  the  grievance  redressal  mechanism  of 
investors,  details  of  grievances  received,  disposed  of  and  those  remaining 
unresolved.  
 

vi.  Conflict of interest: 

1.  Whether  the  Board  monitors  and  manages  potential  conflicts  of  interest  of 
management,  members  of  the  board  of  directors  and  shareholders,  including 
misuse of corporate assets and abuse in related party transactions 

2.  Whether a sufficient number of non-executive members of the board of directors 
capable of exercising independent judgement are assigned to tasks where there 
is a potential for conflict of interest 
 

vii.  Stakeholder value and responsibility:  

1.  Whether  the  decision  making  process  of  the  Board  is  adequate  to  assess 

creation of stakeholder value 

2.  Whether the Board has mechanisms in place to communicate and engage with 

various stakeholders 

3.  Whether  the  Board  acts  on  a  fully  informed  basis,  in  good  faith,  with  due 
diligence  and  care,  with  high  ethical  standards  and  in  the  best  interest  of  the 
entity and the stakeholders. 

4.  Whether the Board treats shareholders and stakeholders fairly where decisions 
of  the  board  of  directors  may  affect  different  shareholder/  stakeholder  groups 
differently. 

5.  Whether  the  Board  regularly  reviews  the  Business  Responsibility  Reporting  / 
related corporate social responsibility initiatives of the  entity and contribution to 
society, environment etc.  
 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

viii.  Corporate  culture  and  values:  Whether  the  Board  sets  a  corporate  culture  and 

the values by which executives throughout a group shall behave 
 

ix.  Review of Board evaluation: Whether the Board monitors and reviews the Board 

evaluation framework. 
 

x.  Facilitation  of 

independent  directors:  Whether 

the 
independent directors to perform their role effectively as a member of the board of 
directors and also a member of a committee of board of directors and any criticism 
by such directors is taken constructively.  

the  Board 

facilitates 

 

d.  Board and management: 

i.  Evaluation of performance of the management and feedback: 

1.  Whether  the  Board  evaluates  and  monitors  management,  especially  the  CEO 

regularly and fairly and provides constructive feedback and strategic guidance 

2.  Whether  the  measures  used  are  broad  enough  to  monitor  performance  of  the 

management 

3.  Whether the management’s performance is benchmarked against industry peers 
4.  Whether  remuneration  of  the  management  is  in  line  with  its  performance  and 

with industry peers 

5.  Whether  remuneration  of  the  Board  and  the  management  is  aligned  with  the 

longer term interests of the entity and its shareholders.  

6.  Whether  the  Board  selects,  compensates,  monitors  and,  when  necessary, 

replaces key managerial personnel based on such evaluation.  

7.  Whether the Board ‘steps back’ to assist executive management by challenging 
the assumptions underlying strategy, strategic initiatives (such as acquisitions), 
risk appetite, exposures and the key areas of the entity’s focus. 
 

ii.  Independence  of  the  management  from  the  Board:  Whether  the  level  of 

independence of the management from the Board is adequate  
 

iii.  Access  of  the  management  to  the  Board  and  Board  access  to  the 
management: Whether the Board and the management are able to actively access 
each other and exchange information  
 

iv.  Secretarial  support:  Whether  adequate  secretarial  and  logistical  support  is 

available for conducting Board meetings  
 

v.  Fund  availability:  Whether  sufficient  funds  are  made  available  to  the  Board  for 
conducting  its  meeting  effectively,  seeking  expert  advice  E.g.  Legal,  accounting, 
etc. 
 

vi.  Succession  plan:  Whether  an  appropriate  and  adequate  succession  plan  is  in 

place and is being reviewed and overseen regularly by the Board 

 

 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

e.  Professional development: 

i.  Whether adequate induction and professional development programmes are made 

available to new and old directors  

ii.  Whether  continuing  directors  training  is  provided  to  ensure  that  the  members  of 

board of directors are kept up to date 

B.  Committees of the Board  

 

a.  Mandate  and  composition:  Whether  the  mandate,  composition  and  working 
procedures of committees of the board of directors is clearly defined and disclosed.  
 

b.  Effectiveness of the Committee: Whether the Committee has fulfilled its functions 

as assigned by the Board and laws as may be applicable 
(For  different  Committees,  different  functions  may  be  laid  out  as  sub-criteria  for 
evaluation) 
 

c.  Structure of the Committee and meetings:  

i.  Whether the Committees have been structure properly and regular meetings are 

being held 

ii.  In terms of discussions, agenda, etc. of the meetings, similar criteria may be laid 

down as specified above for the entire Board 
 

d.  Independence  of 

the  Committee 

from 

the  Board:  Whether  adequate 

independence of the Committee is ensured from the Board  
 

e.  Contribution 

to  decisions  of 

the  Board:  Whether 

the  Committee’s 

recommendations contribute effectively to decisions of the Board.  

C.  Individual  Directors  and  Chairperson  (including  Chairperson,  CEO,  Independent 

Directors, Non-independent directors, etc.)  

General 

a.  Qualifications: Details of professional qualifications of the member  
b.  Experience:  Details  of  prior  experience  of  the  member,  especially  the  experience 

relevant to the entity 

c.  Knowledge and Competency: 

i.  How  the  person  fares  across  different  competencies  as  identified  for  effective 
functioning of the entity and the Board(The entity may list various competencies 
and mark all directors against every such competency) 

ii.  Whether the person has sufficient understanding and knowledge of the entity and 

the sector in which it operates 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

d.  Fulfillment of functions: Whether the person understands and fulfills the functions 
to  him/her  as  assigned  by  the  Board  and  the  law  (E.g.  Law  imposes  certain 
obligations on independent directors) 

e.  Ability to function as a team: Whether the person is able to function as an effective 

team- member 
Initiative: Whether the person actively takes initiative with respect to various areas 

f. 
g.  Availability  and  attendance:  Whether  the  person  is  available  for  meetings  of  the 

Board and attends the meeting regularly and timely, without delay.  

h.  Commitment:  Whether  the  person  is  adequately  committed  to  the  Board  and  the 

entity 

i.  Contribution:  Whether  the  person  contributed  effectively  to  the  entity  and  in  the 

j. 

Board meetings 
Integrity:  Whether  the  person  demonstrates  highest  level  of  integrity  (including 
conflict of interest disclosures, maintenance of confidentiality, etc.) 

 

Additional criteria for Independent director: 

a.  Independence:  Whether  person  is  independent  from  the  entity  and  the  other 

directors and there if no conflict of interest  

b.  Independent  views  and  judgement:  Whether  the  person  exercises  his/  her  own 

judgement and voices opinion freely  

Additional criteria for Chairperson: 

a.  Effectiveness  of  leadership  and  ability  to  steer  the  meetings:  Whether  the 
Chairperson  displays  efficient  leadership,  is  open-minded,  decisive,  courteous, 
displays professionalism, able to coordinate the discussion, etc. and is overall able to 
steer the meeting effectively  

b.  Impartiality:  Whether  the  Chairperson  is  impartial  in  conducting  discussions, 

seeking views and dealing with dissent, etc.  

c.  Commitment: Whether the Chairperson is sufficiently committed to the Board and its 

meetings.  

d.  Ability to keep shareholders’ interests in mind: Whether the Chairperson is able 

to keep shareholders’ interest in mind during discussions and decisions.  

Different  criteria  may  be  assigned  different  weights  depending  on  the  organisation’s 
requirements, circumstances, outcome of previous assessments, stage of Board’s maturity, 
etc.  Instead  of  the  questionnaire  in  a  simple  yes/no  format,  it  is  desirable  that  it  provides 
scope for grading, additional comments, suggestions, etc.  
 

3.  Method of evaluation: 

As a global best practice, the method of evaluation is generally in 2 ways: 

a.  Internal assessment 
b.  Assessment by external experts 

 
 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Internal assessment:  
Internal  assessment  of  the  Board  is  crucial. Who  should  evaluate  whom  is  provided  in  the 
Companies Act and SEBI LODR as specified above. 
 
The internal assessment may be done by following methods: 

a.  A  detailed  Questionnaire  to  be  circulated  to  individual  directors,  Committees,  Board, 

etc.  

b.  Oral assessments provided by the person on interviews 

 

If  deemed  fit,  the  questionnaire  may  enable  written  answers  to  be  submitted  on  a 
confidential  basis.  If  due  to  various  reasons,  members  are  not  willing  to  provide  written 
inputs,  the  Chairperson  or  any  other  person  may  take  initiative  and  obtain  views  of  such 
members on a confidential basis.  
 
Assessment by external experts: 
Use of external experts imparts an independence to the evaluation process and therefore is 
used  by  many  entities  globally.  However,  care  must  be  taken  to  ensure  that  the  external 
assessor  is  not  a  related  party  or  conflicted  due  to  closeness  of  the  Board  to  ensure 
impartiality.  
 
Such  external  assessment  may  be  done  based  on  questionnaires/interviews  or  a 
combination  of  the  two  and  done  on  a  regular  basis.  Such  external  assessment 
complements  the  internal  assessment  and  adds  an  objective  aspect  to  the  evaluation 
process.  
 
Effective  use  of  Information  Technology  through  use  of  board  evaluation  software, 
applications, etc. can also play a facilitating role. 
 

D.  Feedback 
Providing  feedback  to  the  individual  directors,  the  Board  and  the  Committees  is  crucial  for 
success of Board Evaluation. On collation of all the responses, the feedback may be provided in 
one or more of the following ways: 
 

a.  Orally given by Chairman/ external assessor or any other suitable person to  

i.  Each Member separately 
ii.  To the entire Board  
iii.  To the Committees 

b.  A written assessment to every member, Board and Committee  
 

The  active  role  of  the  Chairperson  is  desirable  in  providing  feedback  to  the  members.  If 
members are not comfortable to open individual assessments, provision for confidentiality may 
be made where possible. For effectiveness of the evaluation, it is essential that the feedback be 
given honestly and without bias.  

 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
E.  Action Plan 
Based on the analysis of the responses, the Board may prepare an action plan on: 

  Areas of improvement  including training, skill building, etc. as may be required for Board 

members   

  List of actions required detailing: 

o  Nature of actions 
o  Timeline 
o  Person responsible for implementation  
o  Resources required, etc.  

  Review of the actions within a specific time period  

 

The action plan may be prepared by the Board in a comprehensive manner. Suggestions under 
the  external  assessment,  individual  member  feedback,  etc.  may  be  taken  into  account  while 
drafting the action plan.  

 

F.  Disclosure requirements 
SEBI  LODR  and  Companies  Act  requires  disclosure  of  manner  of formal  annual  evaluation  of 
the  Board,  its  committees  and  individual  directors  and  of  performance  evaluation  criteria  for 
independent directors to the shareholders on an annual basis. 
In  addition,  for  more  transparency,  many  entities  worldwide  voluntarily  provide  additional 
disclosures  including  the  results  of  the  Board  evaluation,  action  taken  on  the  basis  of  the 
evaluation, current status, etc. to various stakeholders.  
 

G.  Frequency of Board Evaluation 
As  per  SEBI  LODR  and  Companies  Act,  the  Board  Evaluation  is  required  to  be  done  once  a 
year. The entity, if it so desires, may also conduct such evaluation more frequently. Since Board 
evaluation  is  a  continuous  process,  it  is  felt  that  feedback  provided  to  the  members  during 
meetings and otherwise,  whether oral or written,  is more effective  for continuous improvement 
and ideally complements the annual evaluation process.  
 
Many  entities  globally  also  complement  the  internal  assessment  with  external  assessment  at 
regular intervals to impart objectivity to the process.  
 

H.  Responsibility 
The  responsibility  of  Board  evaluation  lies  on  different  persons  depending  on  the  subject  of 
evaluation as per Companies Act and SEBI LODR.  

However,  it  is  found  that  on  a  global  basis,  generally  the  primary  role  of  steering  the  whole 
process of Board evaluation and of ensuring its effectiveness in improving the Board efficiency 
lies  on  the  Chairperson.  Therefore,  to  achieve  maximum  benefit  of  the  process,  the  role  and 
function of Chairperson in Board Evaluation needs to be laid out clearly in advance.  
 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
I.  Review 
Board  evaluation  is  not  a  static  process  and  requires  periodical  review  for  improvement.  The 
responsibility  of  such  review  of  the  evaluation  process  lies  with  the  Board  of  Directors  in 
accordance with SEBI LODR.   

Such review may involve the following: 

a.  Whether  objectives  and  criteria  for  evaluation  are  adequate  or  needs  to  be  changed/ 

updated 
b.  Whether 

the  process/method  of  evaluation 

is  appropriate 

for 

individual  members, 

Committees and the Board  

c.  Whether the actions based on the Board evaluation is being followed up on a timely basis  
d.  Whether the Board evaluation has enhanced effectiveness of the Board 
e.  Whether the review of the process is being done on a regular basis  
f.  Whether feedback of the members to improve the process is being taken into account 

Such  review  may  be  done  based  on  feedback  from  management,  Board  members, 
Chairperson, external assessors, various stakeholders, etc.  

 

 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Annexure A1 
Main provisions under Companies Act with respect to Board Evaluation 
Section  134(3)-  There  shall  be  attached  to  statements  laid  before  a  company  in  general 
meeting, a report by its Board of Directors, which shall include— 
(p)  in  case  of  a  listed  company  and  every  other  public  company  having  such  paid-up  share 
capital  as  may  be  prescribed,  a  statement  indicating  the  manner  in  which  formal  annual 
evaluation has been made by the Board of its own performance and that of its committees and 
individual directors; 
 
Section 178(2)- The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall identify persons who are 
qualified to become directors and who may be appointed in senior management in accordance 
with  the  criteria  laid  down,  recommend  to  the  Board  their  appointment  and  removal  and  shall 
carry out evaluation of every director’s performance. 
 
SCHEDULE IV: CODE FOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS 
II.  Role  and  functions.  (2)  The  independent  directors  shall  bring  an  objective  view  in  the 
evaluation of the performance of board and management; 
 
V. Re-appointment: The re-appointment of independent director shall be on the basis of report 
of performance evaluation. 
 
VII. Separate meetings: 
(1) The independent directors of the company shall hold at least one meeting in a year, without 
the attendance of non-independent directors and members of management; 
(2) All the independent directors of the company shall strive to be present at such meeting; 
(3) The meeting shall: 
(a) review the performance of non-independent directors and the Board as a whole;  
(b) review the performance of the Chairperson of the company, taking into account the views of 
executive directors and non-executive directors; 
(c)  assess  the  quality,  quantity  and  timeliness  of  flow  of  information  between  the  company 
management  and  the  Board  that  is  necessary  for  the  Board  to  effectively  and  reasonably 
perform their duties. 
 
VIII. Evaluation mechanism: 
(1) The  performance  evaluation  of  independent  directors  shall  be  done  by  the  entire  Board  of 
Directors, excluding the director being evaluated. 
(2)  On  the  basis  of  the  report  of  performance  evaluation,  it  shall  be  determined  whether  to 
extend or continue the term of appointment of the independent director. 
 
Rule 8 (4) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014  
Every listed company and every other public company having a paid up share capital of twenty 
five crore rupees or more calculated at the end of the preceding financial year shall include, in 
the  report  by  its  Board  of  directors,  a  statement  indicating  the  manner  in  which  formal  annual 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
evaluation has been made by the Board of its own performance and that of its committees and 
individual directors. 
 

Main provisions under SEBI LODR with respect to Board Evaluation 

CHAPTER II: 
4(2)(f)(ii):  Key  functions  of  the  board  of  directors-  (9)  Monitoring  and  reviewing  board  of 
director’s evaluation framework. 
 
Chapter IV:  
17(10): The performance evaluation of independent directors shall be done by the entire board 
of directors: 
Provided  that  in  the  above  evaluation  the  directors  who  are  subject  to  evaluation  shall  not 
participate: 
 
25: (3) The independent directors of the listed entity shall hold at least one meeting in a year, 
without the presence of non-independent directors and members of the management and all the 
independent directors shall strive to be present at such meeting. 
(4) The independent directors in the meeting referred in sub-regulation (3) shall, interalia- 
(a) review the performance of non-independent directors and the board of directors as a whole; 
(b) review the performance of the chairperson of the listed entity, taking into account the views 
of executive directors and non-executive directors; 
(c) assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the management 
of  the  listed  entity  and  the  board  of  directors  that  is  necessary  for  the  board  of  directors  to 
effectively and reasonably perform their duties. 
 
Schedule  II  (PART  D)  (A)  ROLE  OF  NOMINATION  AND  REMUNERATION  COMMITTEE: 
Role of committee shall, inter-alia, include the following:  
(2)formulation of criteria for evaluation of performance of independent directors and the board of 
directors; 
(4)  identifying  persons  who  are  qualified  to  become  directors  and  who  may  be  appointed  in 
senior management in accordance with the criteria laid down, and recommend to the board of 
directors their appointment and removal. 
(5)whether  to  extend  or  continue  the  term  of  appointment  of  the  independent  director,  on  the 
basis of the report of performance evaluation of independent directors. 
 
Schedule  V:  Corporate  Governance  Report. The following  disclosures shall  be  made  in  the 
section on the corporate governance of the annual report. 
(4) Nomination and Remuneration Committee: 
(d) performance evaluation criteria for independent directors. 

 

