 

 

 

 

   December 29, 2016 

 

 

 

 
 
CIR/IMD/DF/146/2016 
 
To 
All Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) 
All Parties to REITs 
All Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Continuous disclosures and compliances by REITs 

1.  Regulation  23  of  the  SEBI  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2014  (‘the 
REIT  Regulations’)  prescribe  disclosures  to  be  made  by  a  REIT  to  the  Stock 
Exchange(s)  where  its  units  are  listed.  The  said  disclosures,  inter-alia,  include 
disclosures for financial as well as non-financial information. 

2.  With reference to the aforesaid Regulations, the requirements for disclosure of financial 
information and pertinent compliances on continuous basis are placed at ‘Annexure - 
A’,  and  the  requirements  for  disclosure  of  non-financial  information  and  pertinent 
compliances on continuous basis are placed at ‘Annexure - B’. 

3.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 33 of the REIT 
Regulations. 

4.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Circulars”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 
 
Barnali Mukherjee 
Chief General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9660  
Email id - barnalim@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 12 

 

 

Annexure - ‘A’ 

Disclosure of Financial information to Stock Exchanges 

(A) Financial Information of REIT: 

While disclosing its financial information to the Stock Exchanges, a REIT shall comply with 
the following: 

1.  Frequency and Time period for disclosures: 

1.1. A  REIT  shall  submit  its  half  yearly  and  annual  financial  information  to  the  Stock 

Exchanges. 

1.2. The  financial  information  shall  be  submitted  to  the  Stock  Exchanges  within  the 

following time period:  

(a)  The  financial  information  of  the  first  half  year  period  of  the  financial  year,  shall  be 

submitted within 45 days from the end of the half year. 

 

(b)  The annual financial information shall be submitted within 60 days  from the end of 

the financial year. 

 

(c)  The  financial  information  of  the  second  half year  period  of  the  financial  year,  shall 

be submitted along with the annual financial information.  

 

The  said  information  shall  be  submitted  with  a  note  stating  that  the  figures  of  the 
second  half year  period are  the  balancing figures of the figures of the full financial 
year reduced by the figures of the first half year period. 
 

2.  Nature of financial information 

2.1. The  financial  information  shall  be  disclosed  on  both  standalone  as  well  as 

consolidated basis. 

3.  Comparative information 

3.1. The  annual  financial  information  shall  contain  comparative  information  for  the 

immediately preceding financial year. 

The  half  yearly  financial  information  shall  contain  comparative  information  for  the 
immediately  preceding  half  year  as  well  as  for  the  corresponding  half  year  in  the 
immediately preceding financial year. 

3.2. The  comparative  information  would  consist  of  corresponding  amounts  (comparative 
figures)  for  all  the  items  shown  in  the  key  financial  statements  (as  specified  in 

 

Page 2 of 12 

 

 

Paragraph 5 below), including notes, and for the additional disclosures (as specified in 
Paragraph 6 below), to the extent applicable. 

3.3. In cases where the REIT was not in existence in the previous corresponding reporting 
period(s)  mentioned  at  Paragraph  3.1  above,  then  the  comparative  information  may 
not be provided and the said fact shall be clearly disclosed. 

4.  Basis of preparation of financial information 

4.1. The  financial  information  shall  be  prepared  on  the  basis  of  accrual  accounting  policy 
and  shall  be  in  accordance  with  uniform  accounting  practices  adopted  for  all  the 
periods.  

4.2. The  financial  information  shall  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  Indian  Accounting 
Standards  (Ind  AS)  and/or  any  addendum  thereto  as  defined  in  Rule  2  (1)  (a)  of  the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. 

For HoldCos / SPVs owned by REIT, these entities may prepare financial statements 
in  accordance  with  accounting  standards  and  laws  applicable  to  them.  However,  for 
consolidation purposes, consolidated financial information of REIT in accordance with 
Ind AS should be disclosed. 

4.3. In  addition  to  the  financial  information  in  accordance  with  Ind  AS  as  mentioned  at 
Paragraph  4.2  above,  the  REIT  may,  if  it  so  desires,  also  submit  the  financial 
information  as  per  the  International  Financial  Reporting  Standards  (‘IFRS’).  In  such 
case, the material differences, if any, between the financial information as per Ind AS 
and as per IFRS, shall be appropriately highlighted and explained. 

5.  Key Financial Statements:  

5.1. The  financial  information  presented  by  the  REIT  can  be  in  the  form  of  condensed 
financial  statements.  Such  financial  information  shall  comply  with  the  minimum 
requirements for condensed financial statements as described in Ind AS 34 on ‘Interim 
Financial Reporting’, to the extent applicable. 
 

5.2. The annual financial information shall include the following financial statements: 

(a) Balance Sheet; 
(b) Statement of Profit and Loss/Income and Expenditure; 
(c) Statement of Changes in Unit holders’ Equity; 
(d) Statement of Cash Flows / Receipts and Payments; 
(e) Statement of Net Assets at Fair Value; 
(f)  Statement of Total Returns at Fair Value; 

 

Page 3 of 12 

 

 

(g) Explanatory notes annexed to, or forming part of, any statements referred above. 

 

5.3. The half yearly financial information shall include the following financial statements 

(a) Statement of Profit and Loss/Income and Expenditure; 
(b) Explanatory notes annexed to, or forming part of, any statements referred above. 

 

5.4. For the key financial statements listed above, the minimum information to be disclosed 
shall  be  as  specified  in  Section  H  of  Annexure-A  to  the  SEBI  Circular  No. 
‘CIR/IMD/DF/141/2016’  dated  December  26,  2016  on 
financial 
information in offer document for REITs’. 

‘Disclosure  of 

5.5. Financial  statements  shall  disclose  all  ‘material’  items,  i.e.,  the  items  if  they  can, 
individually  or  collectively,  influence  the  decisions  made  on  the  basis  of  the  financial 
statements.  

For determining materiality, the REIT shall be guided by Paragraph 3.5 in Section A of 
Annexure-A  to  the  SEBI  Circular  No.  ‘CIR/IMD/DF/141/2016’  dated  December  26, 
2016 on ‘Disclosure of financial information in offer document for REITs’. 

5.6. In  cases  of  any  sale/divestment  of  any  holding(s)/investment(s)  in  underlying 
SPV(s)/HoldCo(s)  or any sale of  any real estate asset(s) by the  REIT, the profit/loss 
on such transactions should be shown on a gross basis 

6.  Additional disclosures while submission of financial information 

In  addition  to  the  key  financial  statements  referred  in  Paragraph  5  above,  the  following 
disclosures  shall  also  be  included  as  a  part  of  both  the  half  yearly  as  well  as  the  annual 
financial information unless otherwise specified. Further, the below mentioned disclosures 
shall also be subjected to audit/limited review if applicable: 

6.1. Statement of Net Distributable Cash Flows (NDCFs): 

A REIT shall disclose statements of NDCFs of the REIT as well as of all the underlying 
HoldCos  and  SPVs.  Such  statements  shall  be  prepared  in  accordance  with,  the 
definition  of  NDCFs  and  the  framework  for  calculation  of  NDCFs,  as  defined  by  the 
REIT/Manager and as disclosed in the offer document. 

6.2. Manager Fees: 

(a)  A  REIT  shall  disclose  details  of  fees  paid  to  the  manager.  Further,  explanations 
and  justification  for  the  fees  paid  to  the  manager,  including  details  about 
methodology for computation of the fees shall also be provided. 

 

Page 4 of 12 

 

 

(b)  A  REIT  shall  further  confirm  whether  there  has  been  any  material  change 
(materiality  to  be  judged  and  determined  by  trustees  in  light  of  various  pertinent 
factors  including  but  not  restricted  to  the  size  of  REIT,  amount  of  change, 
prevailing  circumstances,  etc.)  in  the  fees  paid  to  the  manager  compared  to  the 
previous  reporting  period.  If  yes,  detailed  reasons  and  information  shall  be 
provided thereof. 

6.3. Changes in Accounting policies: 

In  cases  of  changes  in  accounting  policies,  if  any,  REIT  shall  make  adequate 
disclosures required as per the applicable accounting laws (including Ind AS  8 issued 
by the ICAI). 
 

6.4. Disclosures related to Modified Opinion(s) 

The  below  mentioned  disclosures  would  be  required  only  in  case  of  annual  financial 
information of the REIT: 

(a)  If  the  auditor  has  expressed  any  modified  opinion(s)  in  respect  of  the  audited 
annual  financial  information  of  the  REIT,  then  the  REIT,  while  submitting  such 
financial information to the Stock Exchange(s), shall file a “Statement on Impact of 
Audit  Qualifications”  disclosing  such  modified  opinion(s)  and  the  cumulative 
impact of the same in the format as specified in Annexure I to the SEBI  Circular 
No. CIR/CFD/CMD/56/2016 dated May 27, 2016. 

With respect to the format referred in the  aforementioned Circular, the reference 
to “Earnings per Share’ and ‘Management’ should be construed as a reference to 
‘Earnings  per  Unit’  and  ‘Board  of  Directors/Governing  Body  of  the  Manager’ 
respectively. 

Further,  the  aforementioned  statement  on  impact  of  audit  qualifications  shall  be 
signed by the following: 

  Chairperson/CEO/MD of the Manager 
  CFO or the Head of the Finance of the Manager 
  Statutory Auditor 

 

(b)  If the auditor had expressed any modified opinion(s) or other reservation(s) in his 
audit  report  or  limited  review  report  in  respect  of  the  financial  results  of  the 
immediately  preceding  financial  year  or  half  year,  which  had  an  impact  on  the 
profit or loss of that period, then the REIT shall disclose the following: 

 

Page 5 of 12 

 

 

  Brief  details  of  the  past  modified  opinion  modified  opinion(s)  or  other 

reservation(s) 

  Whether such modified opinion(s) or other reservation(s) have been resolved 

 
 

If yes, details thereof 
If no, the reasons thereof and the steps which the REIT intends to take in 
the matter 

 

6.5. Other Statements: 

(a)  The REIT shall also disclose the following statements: 

  Statement of Earnings per Unit: 
  Statement of Contingent liabilities: 
  Statement of Commitments: 
  Statement of Related party transactions 

 

(b)  The details and the basis of disclosures for the above statements shall be same 
as specified in Paragraph 4 in Section A of Annexure-A to the SEBI Circular No. 
‘CIR/IMD/DF/141/2016’  dated  December  26,  2016  on  ‘Disclosure  of  financial 
information in offer document for REITs’. 

7.  Approval and authentication of financial information: 

Before  submission  of  the  financial  information  to  the  Stock  Exchanges,  the  financial 
information  shall  be  approved  by  the  Board  of  Directors/Governing  Body  of  the  Manager 
and shall be authenticated and signed in the following manner: 

7.1. The financial information shall be signed by two designated personnel of the Manager 
certifying  that  the  financial  information  do  not  contain  any  false  or  misleading 
statement or figures and do not omit any material fact which makes the statements or 
the figures contained therein misleading. 

7.2. Subsequent to the above, the financial information shall be signed by the Chairperson 
or  the  Managing  director/partner  or  the  Whole  time  director/partner  on  the  Board  of 
Directors/Governing Body of the Manager and in the absence of all of them; it shall be 
signed  by  any  other  director/partner  of  the  Manager  who  is  duly  authorized  by  the 
Board of Directors/Governing Body to sign the financial information.  

8.  Audit of Financial Information:  

8.1. The  annual  financial  information  shall  be  audited,  whereas  the  half  yearly  financial 
information  may  be  either  audited  or  unaudited.  In  case  the  REIT  opts  to  submit 

 

Page 6 of 12 

 

 

unaudited  financial  information,  the  same  shall  be  subject  to  limited  review  by  the 
auditor of REIT. 

8.2. The audit/limited review shall be carried out by the auditor appointed for the  REIT as 

per the REIT regulations. 

The auditor, so appointed, shall be the one who has subjected itself to the peer review 
process  of  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  (‘ICAI’)  and  who  holds  a 
valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of ICAI. 

8.3. In  case  the  financial  information  is  audited,  it  shall  comply  with  all  the  requirements 
specified  in  Paragraph  5  in  Section  A  of  Annexure-A  to  the  SEBI  Circular  No. 
‘CIR/IMD/DF/141/2016’  dated  December  26,  2016  on 
financial 
information in offer document for REITs’, to the extent applicable, and the audit report 
shall contain disclosures stated therein. 

‘Disclosure  of 

In  addition  to  the  auditor’s  opinion  on  the  matters  specified  in  Paragraph  5.1  (e)  in 
Section  A  of  Annexure-A  to  the  aforementioned  SEBI  Circular,  the  auditor  shall  also 
give his opinion on the following: 

i.  whether  the  statement  of  NDCFs  gives  a  true  and  fair  view  of  NDCFs  for  the 

years/periods ended at the balance sheet dates. 

 
8.4. The financial information submitted to the Stock Exchanges shall be accompanied with 

Audit Report or Limited Review Report, as the case may be. 

(B) Financial information of Manager 

 

1.  Along with the annual financial information of REIT, a REIT shall disclose summary of 
the  audited  consolidated  financial  statements  (including  the  Balance  Sheet  and 
Statement  of  Profit  and  Loss  (without  schedules))  of  Manager  for  the  latest  financial 
year,  along  with  comparative  figures  for  the  immediate  preceding  financial  year, 
prepared in accordance with the accounting standards and laws, as applicable for the 
Manager. 
 

2.  The  above  information  may  not  be  disclosed  if  the  Manager’s  Net  worth  is  not 
materially  eroded  (Material  erosion  shall  be  judged  by  the  Trustees  in  light  of  various 
pertinent factors including but not restricted to size of REIT, size of Manager, amount of 
Net  worth  erosion,  prevailing  circumstances,  etc.)  when  compared  to  its  Net  worth  as 
per its last disclosed financial statements by the REIT. 

 

 

Page 7 of 12 

 

 

If the financial information of Manager is not disclosed because of the fact that there is 
no  material  erosion  in  the  net  worth  as  compared  to  the  net  worth  as  per  the  last 
disclosed financial statements, the said fact shall be clearly disclosed. 
 

(C) Obligation to maintain proper books of account and records, documents etc. 

 
Every  REIT  shall  maintain  proper  books  of  account,  records  and  documents  etc. 
relating  to  a  period  of  not  less  than  eight  financial  years  immediately  preceding  a 
financial year, or where the REIT had been in existence for a period of less than eight 
years, in respect of all the preceding years. 
 

 

 

 

Page 8 of 12 

 

 

Annexure - ‘B’ 

Other Continuous Disclosures to Stock Exchanges and Other Compliances  

1.  Listing Agreement: 

1.1. REIT  shall  enter  into  a  simplified  listing  agreement,  with  all  the  Stock  Exchanges 
where it proposes to list its units, in lines with the format  as specified under the SEBI 
Circular  No.  CIR/CFD/CMD/6/2015  dated  October  13,  2015  on  ‘Format  of  uniform 
Listing Agreement’. 

1.2. However,  with respect to  the compliance  with the listing conditions, REIT shall follow 

the REIT regulations and circulars issued therein. 

2.  Disclosure of Unit holding pattern: 

2.1. A  REIT  shall  disclose  its  Unit  holding  pattern  for  each  class  of  unit  holders,  as 

applicable, within the following time periods, as applicable: 

  One day prior to listing of units on the stock exchanges;  
  On quarterly basis, within 21 days from the end of each quarter; and  
  Within  10  days  of  any  capital  restructuring  of  REIT  resulting  in  a  change 

exceeding 2% of the total outstanding units of REIT. 

2.2. The Unit holding pattern shall be disclosed in the following format: 

Category 

Category of Unit holder 

No. of 
Units 
Held 

As a % of 
Total Out-
standing 

Units 

( A)  

( 1)  
( a)  
( b)  
( c)  
(d)  
 
( 2)  
( a)  

( b)  
( c)  

Sponsor(s) / Manager and their 
associates/related parties and Sponsor 
Group 
Indian  
Individuals / HUF  
Central/State Govt.  
Financial Institutions/Banks  
Any Other (specify)  
Sub- Total (A) (1)  
Foreign  
Individuals (Non Resident Indians / Foreign 
Individuals)  
Foreign government 
Institutions  

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

Page 9 of 12 

 

 

(d) 
( e)  
 

 
( B)  
( 1)  
( a)  
( b)  
( c)  
( d)  
( e)  
(f) 
( g)  
( h)  
( i)  
 
( 2)  
( a)  

( b)  
(c) 
( d)  
 

 
 

Foreign Portfolio Investors 
Any Other (specify)  
Sub- Total (A) (2)  
Total unit holding of Sponsor & Sponsor 
Group 
(A) = (A)(1)+(A)(2)  
Public Holding  
Institutions  
Mutual Funds  
Financial Institutions/Banks  
Central/State Govt.  
Venture Capital Funds  
Insurance Companies  
Provident/pension funds 
Foreign Portfolio Investors  
Foreign  Venture Capital investors  
Any Other (specify)  
Sub- Total (B) (1)  
Non-Institutions  
 Central Government/State 
Governments(s)/President of India 
Individuals  
NBFCs registered with RBI 
Any Other (specify)  
Sub- Total (B) (2)  
Total Public Unit holding   
(B) = (B)(1)+(B)(2) 
Total Units Outstanding 
(C) = (A) + (B)  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 

  

3.  Review of Credit Rating: 

3.1. Every credit rating, wherever required to be obtained by  a REIT as per Regulation 20 
(2)  of  the  REIT  regulations,  shall  be  reviewed  once  a  year,  by  the  registered  credit 
rating agency.  

3.2. The credit rating review shall be completed annually within 30 days from the end of the 
financial  year.  Further,  immediately  upon  completion  of  the  credit  rating  review 
exercise  and  upon  the  receipt  of  the  credit  rating  report,  an  intimation  along  with  all 
pertinent information should be made to the Stock Exchanges. 

 

 

 

Page 10 of 12 

 
4.  Website of REIT:   

 

4.1. A  REIT  shall  maintain  a  functional  website  wherein  the  contents  of  the  said  website 
should  be  updated  up  to  last  2  days  and  the  website  which  should  contain  all  the 
relevant information about REIT, inter-alia, including the following: 

  Details of its business;  
  Financial  information  including  complete  copy  of  the  Annual  Report  including 

Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss Account, etc.;  

  Contact  information  of  the  designated  officials  of  the  company  who  are  

responsible for assisting and handling investor grievances;  
  Email ID for grievance redressal and other relevant details;  
 

Information,  report,  notices,  call  letters,  circulars,  proceedings,  etc.  concerning 
units;   

  All  information  and  reports  including  compliance  reports  filed  by  REIT  with 

respect to units;  and 

  All intimations and announcements made by REIT to the stock exchanges 
  Any other information which may be relevant for the investors 

 

4.2. Further, the contents of the website should be updated within 2 days of any changes / 

developments which trigger a need for an update on the website. 

5.  Grievance Redressal Mechanism: 

5.1. REIT shall ensure that adequate steps are taken for expeditious redressal of investor 

complaints.  

5.2. REIT  shall  ensure  that  it  is  registered  on  the  SCORES  platform  or  such  other 
electronic platform or system of the Board as shall be mandated from time to time, in 
order  to  handle  investor  complaints  electronically  in  the  manner  specified  by  the 
Board.  

5.3. REIT shall file with the recognized stock exchange(s), where its units are listed, on a 
quarterly  basis,  within  twenty  one  days  from  the  end  of  each  quarter,  a  statement 
giving the following details 

  Number of investor complaints pending at the beginning of the quarter 
  Number of investor complaints received during the quarter 
  Number of investor complaints disposed of during the quarter  
  Number of investor complaints pending at the end of the quarter 

  

 

Page 11 of 12 

 
5.4. The Trustee and the Board of Directors/Governing Body of the Manager, shall review 
the  aforementioned  statement,  before  submission  of  the  same  to  the  Stock 
Exchange(s),  and  shall  ensure  that  all  investor  complaints  are  redressed  by  the 
Manager in timely manner. 

 

6.  Statement of deviation(s) or variation(s) 

6.1. The REIT shall submit  to the recognized stock exchange(s), where its units are listed, 
the  following  statement(s)  on  a  quarterly  basis  for  any  public  issue,  rights  issue, 
preferential issue, etc.: 

a)  Statement  indicating  deviations,  if  any,  in  the  use  of  proceeds  from  the  objects 
stated in the offer document or explanatory statement to the notice for the general 
meeting, as applicable;  

b)  Statement indicating category wise variation, if any, between projected utilization of 
funds made by it in its offer document or explanatory statement to the notice for the 
general meeting, as applicable and the actual utilization of funds. 

6.2. The  statement(s)  specified  above,  shall  be  continued  to  be  given  till  such  time  the 
issue proceeds have been fully utilised or the purpose for which these proceeds were 
raised has been achieved.  

Such  statement(s)  shall  also  be  placed  before  the  Trustee  and  the  Board  of 
Directors/Governing  Body  of  the  Manager  for  review.  Pursuant  to  such  review,  the 
statement shall be submitted to the stock exchange(s). Such submission to the Stock 
Exchange(s) shall be made within twenty one days from the end of each quarter 

6.3. REIT shall furnish an explanation for the aforementioned variation in its Annual report.  

6.4. REIT shall prepare an annual statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those 
stated  in  the  offer  document  or  explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  for  the  general 
meeting, certified by the statutory auditors of the REIT, and place it before the before 
the Trustee and the Board of Directors/Governing Body  of the  Manager till such time 
the money raised through the issue has been fully utilized. 

 

Page 12 of 12 

