 

    January 20, 2017 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
 

 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2017/6 
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
All National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges  
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  

 

Sub:  Criteria  for  Eligibility,  Retention  and  re-introduction  of  derivative 

contracts on Commodities 

 
1.  The  nature/properties  of  one  commodity  differs  from  another,  thereby  not  all 
commodities may be suitable for the commodity derivatives trading. It is prudent 
that  before  allowing  any  derivatives  contract  on  any  commodity,  the  
appropriateness  /  usefulness  of  commencing  futures  trading  in  products  (not 
necessarily of just commodities), needs to be ascertained.  
 

2.  The  Commodity  Derivatives  Advisory  Committee  (CDAC),  constituted  for 
advising SEBI on matters concerning effective regulation and development of 
the  commodity  derivatives  market,  on  the  above  aspects  had  inter  alia, 
recommended that: 
 
2.1. The commodities which are to be recommended by SEBI for notification by 
the Government or on which the exchange proposes to launch a contract 
should pass through some test based upon the objective parameters and 
upon satisfaction, should be allowed for trading.  

2.2. It is also important that the contracts available for trading in the commodity 

derivatives market are liquid enough for the contracts to trade smoothly.  
 

framework  can  certainly  be 

3.  Though it may not be practicable to keep a strict objective criteria which may 
be uniformly applied across all commodities for inclusion under derivatives, a 
broad 
the 
recommendation  of  CDAC  and  in  consultation  with  the  stakeholders,  it  has 
been  decided  that  the  following  criteria  for  eligibility,  retention  and  re-
introduction  of  derivative  contracts  on  commodities  shall  be  followed  by  all 
national commodity derivatives exchanges ('exchange'). 
 
3.1. Eligibility criteria for allowing derivative contracts on commodities 

laid  down.  Thus,  based  on 

 

 

Page 1 of 8 

 

a)  Exchanges  shall  examine 

the 
commodity  may  be  permitted  to  be  included  under  derivatives  if  such 
commodity satisfies these parameters.  

 
following  basic  parameters  and 

 

I.  Commodity Fundamentals 

 

  Size of the market / Volume  of the market: The total supply 
value of the commodity in each year is taken as a measure of 
the  physical  market  size  of  that  commodity  in  that  year.  A 
higher physical market size could create higher futures trading 
volume  by  attracting more hedgers  and  speculators  into  the 
futures market. 
 

  Homogeneity/Standardization:  The  commodity  should  be 
to 
either  Homogeneous  or 
standardization.  This  is  required  so  that  participants  trading 
the  commodity  on  exchange  platform  should  be  able  to 
unambiguously  understand  exactly  what  they  are  trading  as 
on exchange only standardized contracts can be traded. 
 

should  be 

conducive 

  Durable  /  Storable:  The  commodity  should  be  durable  and 
storable for better price discovery. Durability i.e. higher shelf 
life  makes  commodity  conducive  for  storage,  which  creates 
opportunity  for  cash  and  carry  and  hence  would  attract 
arbitragers thus make it more suitable for derivatives trading. 

 

II. 
 

Trade Factors 

  Global:  Global  market  in  a  commodity  could  be  a  positive 
indicator  as  internationally  linked  commodity  prices  are 
influenced by various  global factors and thus create multiple 
reference  points  for  price  discovery  which  may  make  it 
conducive for derivatives trading. 
 

the  different  phases  of  production, 

  Value chain: The term ‘’value chain’’ describes the full range 
of value adding activities required to bring a product or service 
through 
including 
procurement  of  raw  materials  and  other  inputs”,  connected 
along a chain of producing, transforming and bringing goods 
and  services  to  end-consumers  through  a  sequenced  set of 
activities and a strategic network among a number of business 
organizations”. Larger is the value chain larger would be the 

 

Page 2 of 8 

 

 

number of participants interested in derivatives trading of such 
commodity.  
 

  Geographical coverage: The commodity should ideally have a 
vast distribution across the country. The coverage can  be in 
the form of production of commodity or the distribution of the 
commodity across the country. Higher coverage would attract 
higher number of participants to the derivatives. 

 

III.  Ease-of-doing-business  

 

  Price  Control:  Price  controls  are  government  mandated 
minimum or maximum prices that can be charged for specified 
goods.  Government 
price 
controls when prices on essential items, such as food grain or 
oil  are  rising  rapidly.  Such  goods  which  are  prone  to  price 
control may be less conducive for derivatives markets. 
 

implements 

sometimes 

  Applicability of other laws: The Food control Regulation Act, 
Essential  commodities  Act,  APMC  Act  etc.,  may  have  an 
impact  on  the  commodities  to  be  introduced  for  derivatives 
trading. Commodities which have excessive restrictions may 
be less conducive for derivatives markets. 

IV.  Risk Management  

 

  Correlation  with  International  Market:  Commodities  which 
have a strong correlation with the global market have higher 
need  for  price  risk  management.  Such  commodities  are 
conducive for derivatives trading. 
 

  Seasonality: The Indian commodity sphere is characterized by 
seasonality. The prices fluctuate with the supply season and 
the off season.  The derivatives market is necessary to even 
out this fluctuation and facilitate better price discovery. Thus 
the  commodities  with  higher  seasonality  are  conducive  for 
derivatives trading. 
 

  Price Volatility:  Commodities with high volatility of prices have 
high need for hedging. Such commodities are conducive for 
Derivatives trading. 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 8 

 

 

b)  In  order  to  bring  in  uniformity  among  the  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges, the indicative template as enclosed at Annexure A shall be 
adopted  by  the  exchanges.  In  this  regard  the  exchanges  shall  decide 
upon the specific numerical weightages as approved by their oversight 
committee for 'Product Design'. 
 

c)  The  exchanges  shall  also  analyze  all  the  proposed  commodities/ 
the  afore-said  parameters 
commodity  derivatives  contracts  on 
comprised in the template and submit the same to SEBI while applying 
for  the  approvals  along  with  necessary  supporting  documentary 
evidence. 
 

 
3.2. Applicability  of  the  template  on  the  commodities  presently  being 

traded 

 

a)  As  regards  the  commodities  which  are  presently  being  traded  on  the 
the  afore-said 

exchange  platforms, 
parameters comprised in the template on each of the commodities.  
 

the  exchanges  shall  apply 

b)  The results of such exercise is to be submitted to SEBI within a period 

of 3 months. 

 
 
3.3. Criteria  for  retention  and  reintroduction  of  derivative  contracts  on 

commodities 

 

 

a)  For  any  commodity  to  continue  to  be  eligible  for  Futures  trading  on 
Exchange,  it  should  have  annual  turnover  of  more  than  `500  Crore 
across all National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges in at least one of 
the last three financial years. For validating this criteria, gestation period 
of  three  years  is  provided  for  commodities  from  the  launch  date/re-
launch date, as may be applicable.  

b)  Once, a commodity becomes ineligible for derivatives trading due to not 
satisfying the retention criteria, the exchanges shall not reconsider such 
commodity for re-launching contract for a minimum period of one year.  
 

c)  Further, a commodity which is discontinued/suspended by the exchange 
from derivatives trading on its platform, shall not be re-considered by the 
concerned  exchange  for  re-launching  of  derivatives  contract  on  such 
commodity at least for a minimum period of one year.  
 

 

Page 4 of 8 

 

 

4.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect from the date of the circular 
except for the provisions listed out at 3.3 above which will be effective from April 
01, 2017. 
 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992 to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 

 

6.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i.  To  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 

regulations. 

ii.  Bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers of the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  Communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular.  

 
7.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Tel. no.: +91-22-26449234 
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 5 of 8 

 

 

Annexure A 

 

Criteria for Commodity Eligibility for Derivative Products - Template  

 

 Section I  
 

  

 

 Particulars 

Weight   Sub-score  Details 

Parameter I - Commodity Fundamentals 

   Size of commodity 

   Volume in cash market 

   Durability and Storability 

   Homogeneous/ 
Standardization 

   Parameter I Score  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

parameter 

This 
production, 
stocks etc… 

relates 

to 
carryover 

imports, 

The daily volumes in the underlying 
cash/spot/physical market may be a 
good indicator of the depth 

to 

Relates 
the  durability  and 
duration  for  which  the  commodity 
can be stored 

Scope for standardization 

  

  

 

 Particulars 

Weight   Sub-score  Details 

Parameter II - Ease of doing Business 

   Prevalence of price controls 

   Minimum  Support  Price 

(MSP) for the commodity 

   Storage  controls/  Stock 

Limits 

   Government. Policy 

Applicability of other Laws 

  
  

 

 

 

 

 

   Parameter II Score = 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

These  parameters  relates  to  the 
ease  of  doing  business 
in 
commodity markets. Issues such as 
price  controls,  storage  controls, 
Taxation etc., have a bearing on the 
trade.  These  parameters  are  also 
an indicator of what reforms should 
be brought in the commodity space 
in  a  regulated  environment  to  be 
best in class globally. 

  

 

Page 6 of 8 

  

 

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

  

  

  

  

  
  

  

 

 

 
Section II  
 

  

  

 Particulars 

Weight   Sub-score  Details 

Parameter III - Trade/ Business 

   Global  Trade  -  Imports  or 

Exports 

   Domestic 

market 

/ 

Geographical coverage 

   Presence  of  Value  Chain 

participants (VCPs) 

   Supply/ Demand 

   Parameter III Score  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Importance  in  global  trade  and  to 
our  economy.    Ability  to  add  value 
to 
commodity. 
Commercial  application,  nature  of 
buyers, Supply/demand gap etc. 

base 

the 

  

 

 

 Particulars 

Weight   Sub-score  Details 

Parameter IV - Risk Management 

   Correlation  

   Seasonality 

   Basis Risk 

   Volatility 

   Hedging Incentive 

  

Liquidity 

   Parameter IV Score  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The  risk  parameters  viz.,  volatility, 
correlation  with  either  domestic 
traded  prices  or  globally  traded 
prices, 
liquidity, 
benefits to hedgers / farmer through 
direct  /  indirect  participation  and 
scope to hedge the price risk forms 
part of the Risk Management 

seasonality, 

  

 

 

 Particulars 

Weight   Sub-score  Details 

Parameter V - Benchmark Potential 

   Existence 

of 

Forward 

Trading in OTC markets 

   Suitability 

for 
Options Trading 

Futures/ 

   Potential 

to 

create  a 

Domestic Benchmark 

   Potential to create a Global 

Benchmark 

   Parameter V Score  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  

  

  

  

 

 

Page 7 of 8 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 

 
Section I Score = Parameter I Score + Parameter II Score 
 
Section II Score = Parameter III Score + Parameter IV Score + Parameter V Score 
  
 
Overall Score = Section I Score + Section II Score  
  
  

Note: 
  Weight-ages in % and total of all weight-ages should be 100 
  Scores/Sub-scores are to be given in a range of 1 to 5 
  The following scale is to be used for scoring the parameters: 

1 : Poor 
2 : Reasonable 
3 : Good 
4 : Very Good 
5 : Excellent 

 

 

Page 8 of 8 

