भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2017/9                                              January 27, 2017 
 

 

To 

All Recognised Stock Exchanges, 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

 
Procedures for Exchange Listing Control Mechanism 

 

1.  Regulation  45  of  the  SECC  Regulations  provides  for  listing  of  stock  exchanges 
on  any  recognised  stock  exchange,  other  than  itself  and  its  associated  stock 
exchange.  As  per  Regulation  45(2)  of  the  SECC  Regulations,  the  Board  may 
specify such conditions as it may deem fit in the interest of the securities market. 

2.  In order to address any conflict arising out of  aforesaid provisions of listing of a 
stock exchange on any recognised stock exchange, other than itself, and also to 
ensure effective compliance with the applicable laws, it has been decided that: 

I.  The  Listing  Department  of  the  listing  stock  exchange  (i.e.  a  stock 
exchange on which the listing is done) shall be responsible for monitoring 
the compliance of the listed stock exchange (i.e. a stock exchange which 
is getting listed) as in the case of listed companies. 
 

II.  The Independent Oversight Committee of the listing stock exchange shall 
exercise oversight at the second level to deal with the conflicts, if any. The 
listed  stock  exchange  may  appeal 
Independent  Oversight 
Committee of the listing stock exchange, if aggrieved, with the decision on 
disclosure of the listing stock exchange as referred under para 2 (I). 

the 

to 

 

 

III.  An  independent  Conflict  Resolution  Committee  (CRC)  constituted  by 
SEBI,  with  an  objective  for  independent  oversight  and  review,  shall 
monitor potential conflicts between listed and listing stock exchange  on a 
regular basis. The listed stock exchange aggrieved by the decision of the 
Independent  Oversight  Committee  of  the  listing  exchange  may  appeal  to 
the CRC. 

Page 1 of 2 

 
 
 
 
 
 

3.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 
securities market. 

4.  This circular is also available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Manoj Kumar 
Chief General Manager  
Email: manojk@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

