¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

February 6, 2017 

 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/10 
 
To,  
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Listed Companies 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 

Sub: Integrated Reporting by Listed Entities 

1.  SEBI  has  mandated  the  requirement  of  submission  of  Business  Responsibility 

Report (‘BRR’) for top 500 listed entities under Regulation 34(2)(f) of SEBI (Listing 

Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 ("SEBI LODR"). The 

key  principles  which  are  required  to  be  reported  by  the  entities  pertain  to  areas 

such as environment, governance, stakeholder’s relationships, etc. 

 

2.  Today an investor seeks both financial as well as non-financial information to take 

a  well-informed  investment  decision.  An  integrated  report  aims  to  provide  a 

concise  communication  about  how  an  organisation's  strategy,  governance, 

performance  and prospects  create  value  over  time.  Further  it  may  be  noted  that 

the  concept  of  integrated  reporting  is  being  discussed  at  various  international 

forums.  The  purpose  of  integrated  reporting  is  to  provide  shareholders  and 

interested  stakeholders  with  relevant  information  that  is  useful  for  making 

investment decisions. 

 

3.  Regulation 4(1)(d) of SEBI LODR states  "the listed entity shall  provide adequate 

and timely information to recognised stock exchange(s) and investors". 

IOSCO Principle 16 states “there should be full, accurate and timely disclosure of 

financial  results,  risks  and  other  information  that  is  material  to  investors´ 

decisions.”  

 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 

 

 

 

4.  In  this  regard,  the  International  Integrated  Reporting  Council  (‘IIRC’)  has 

prescribed  following  Guiding  Principles  which  underpin  the  preparation  of  an 

integrated report, specifying the content of the report and how information is to be 

presented: 

  Strategic  focus  and  future  orientation:  An  integrated  report  should  provide 

insight into the organization’s strategy and how it relates to the organization’s 

ability to create value in the short, medium and long term, and to its use of and 

effects on capital 

  Connectivity of information: An integrated report should show a holistic picture 

of  the  combination,  interrelatedness  and  dependencies  between  the  factors 

that affect the organization’s ability to create value over time 

  Stakeholder relationships: An integrated report should provide insight into the 

nature and quality of the organization’s relationships with its key stakeholders, 

including  how  and  to  what  extent  the  organization  understands,  takes  into 

account and responds to their legitimate needs and interests 

  Materiality: An integrated report should disclose information about matters that 

substantively  affect  the  organization’s  ability  to  create  value  over  the  short, 

medium and long term 

  Conciseness: An integrated report should be concise 

  Reliability  and  completeness:  An  integrated  report  should  include  all  material 

matters,  both  positive  and  negative,  in  a  balanced  way  and  without  material 

error 

  Consistency and comparability: The information in an integrated report should 

be presented: (a) on a basis that is consistent over time; and (b) in a way that 

enables comparison with other organizations to the extent it is material to the 

organization’s own ability to create value over time. 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 4 
 

 

 

 

5.  All  organizations  depend  on  various  forms  of  capital  for  their  success.  It  is 

important  that  all  such  forms  of  capital  are  disclosed  to  stakeholders  to  enable 

informed investment decision making.  IIRC has  categorized the  forms of capital 

as follows: 

Intellectual capital 

  Financial capital 
  Manufactured capital 
 
  Human capital 
  Social and relationship capital 
  Natural capital 

 

6.  The  International  Integrated  Reporting  Council  (‘IIRC’)  has  prescribed  Integrated 

Reporting Framework at following web link: 

http://integratedreporting.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/13-12-08-THE-

INTERNATIONAL-IR-FRAMEWORK-2-1.pdf 

 

7.  It  has  been  observed  that  certain  listed  entities  in  India  and  other  jurisdictions 

have been making disclosures by following the principles of integrated reporting. 

Towards  the  objective  of  improving  disclosure  standards,  in  consultation  with 

industry bodies and stock exchanges, the listed entities are advised to adhere to 

the following: 

a.  Integrated  Reporting  may  be  adopted  on  a  voluntary  basis  from  the  financial 

year 2017-18 by top 500 companies which are required to prepare BRR. 

b.  The information related to Integrated Reporting may be provided in the annual 

report separately or by incorporating in Management Discussion & Analysis or 

by preparing a separate report (annual report prepared as per IR framework).  

c.  In  case  the  company  has  already  provided  the  relevant  information  in  any 

other  report  prepared  in  accordance  with  national/international  requirement  / 

framework, it may provide appropriate reference to the same in its  Integrated 

Report so as to avoid duplication of information. 

d.  As  a  green  initiative,  the  companies  may  host  the  Integrated  Report  on  their 

website and provide appropriate reference to the same in their Annual Report. 

 

Page 3 of 4 
 

 

 

 

8.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 read 

with Section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 

9.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Legal Framework”. 

Yours faithfully, 

Prasanta Mahapatra 
General Manager 
Tel. No.: 022-26449313 
Email: prasantam@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 4 of 4 
 

