 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
SEBI/HO/IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2017/16 
February 28, 2017 

 
To 
All Foreign Portfolio Investors 
through their designated Custodians of Securities  
 
The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL) 

 

Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Investments by FPIs in corporate debt securities 

1.  RBI on October 24, 2016, had amended the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of 
Security by a Person Resident outside India) (Twelfth Amendment) Regulations, 2016 through a 
Gazette  notification  to  permit  FPIs  to  invest  in  unlisted  corporate  debt  and  securitised  debt 
instruments.  Thereafter,  RBI  vide  circular  RBI/2016-17/138  dated  November  17,  2016  had 
enhanced the list of eligible instruments for investment by FPIs under the Corporate debt route 
along with certain terms and conditions.  
 

2.  Accordingly,  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2017 
were notified on February 27, 2017. It has been decided to permit FPIs to invest in the following: 
 

a.  Unlisted  corporate  debt  securities  in  the  form  of  non-convertible  debentures/bonds 
issued  by  public  or  private  Indian  companies  subject  to  the  guidelines  issued  by  the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India from time to time and also subject to 
minimum residual maturity of three years and end use-restriction on investment in real 
estate  business,  capital  market  and  purchase  of  land.  The  expression  ‘Real  Estate 
Business’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in Foreign Exchange Management 
(Transfer  or  issue  of  Security  by  a  Person  Resident  outside  India)  Regulations,  2000 
Notification No.FEMA.362/2016-RB dated February 15, 2016. The custodians of the FPIs 
shall put in place an appropriate mechanism to ensure compliance with these conditions 
as prescribed by RBI from time to time. 
 

b.  Securitised debt instruments as under: 

 

Page | 1  

 
i.  any certificate or instrument issued by a special purpose vehicle (SPV) set up for 

securitisation of asset/s where banks, FIs or NBFCs are originators;  
 
and/or 
 

ii.  any certificate or instrument issued and listed in terms of the SEBI(Public Offer 

and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008 

 

3.  Investment by FPIs in the unlisted corporate debt securities and securitised debt instruments 
shall  not  exceed  INR  35,000  cr  within  the  extant  Corporate  debt  limit  which  currently  is  INR 
2,44,323 cr. 
 

4.  Further, investment by FPIs in securitised debt instruments shall not be subject to the minimum 

3-year residual maturity requirement.  
 

5.  All  other  existing  terms  and  conditions  for  FPI  investments  in  corporate  debt  securities  shall 

continue to apply.  
 

This  circular  shall  come  into  effect  immediately.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers 
conferred under Section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  

A copy of this circular is available at the links “Legal Framework Circulars” and “Info for F.P.I” 
on our website www.sebi.gov.in. Custodians are requested to bring the contents of this circular to the 
notice of their FPI clients. 

Yours faithfully, 

 
 
ACHAL SINGH 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel No.: 022-26449619 
Email: achals@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page | 2  

