¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

                              March 15, 2017 

 
SEBI/HO/CFD/DCR1/CIR/P/2017/22 
 
To 
 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  &  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011 

(‘SAST Regulations’) 

 
1.  SEBI  vide  Circular  No.  SEBI/CFD/DCR/SAST/3/2011/11/22  dated  November  22,  2011 
has, inter-alia, issued the format for submitting the draft letter of offer (DLOF) with SEBI in 
terms of SAST Regulations and certain instructions to be followed by merchant bankers 
while filing the DLOF . 

 

2.  Accordingly,  Merchant  Bankers  have  been  filing  the  DLOF  and  certain  information 

about the acquirer, target company, promoter etc. as per the prescribed format. 

 

3.  It has been decided, in consultation with market participants, to revise the time period 
for  which  information  is  required  to  be  filed  with  SEBI,  in  line  with  the  provisions 
relating  to  maintenance  of  records  under  the  Companies  Act,  2013.  The  format  and 
instructions  prescribed vide aforementioned Circular shall stand modified as  given at 
Annexure. 

 

4.  This  circular  shall be  applicable  to  all the  offers  where  the draft  letter  of  offer  is filed 
with SEBI  after the date of this  Circular. Merchant Bankers  are advised to follow the 
said updated format and instructions while filing the draft letter of offer with SEBI. 

 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 read with 

Section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 
 

6.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Takeovers”. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Amit Tandon 
Deputy General Manager 
 +91-22-26449373 
amitt@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure 

Amendments to General Instructions 
 
1.  Amendment to Clause 12(b)  
This clause shall stand omitted. 
 

2.  Amendment to Clause 12 (d) 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 
 
“Status of compliance with the applicable provisions of the SEBI (SAST) Regulations 
with respect to details of the acquisitions, if any, made by the Acquirer and PAC in the 
TC  during  the financial  year  in  which the Public  Announcement  has  been  made  and 
for  a  period  of  eight  financial  years  preceding  the  financial  year  in  which  the  Public 
Announcement for instant open offer has been made. In case where an open offer has 
already been made in respect of the TC  during the past eight financial years by any 
person,  the  aforesaid  information  shall  be  provided  from  the  date  of  expiry  of  offer 
period  of  such  previous  open  offer.  The  illustrated  format  for  submission  of  the 
above mentioned document is placed here.” 
 

3.  Amendment to Clause 12 (e) 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 
 
“The changes in capital structure of TC during the current financial year in which the 
Public  Announcement  has  been  made  and  for  a  period  of  eight  financial  years 
preceding the current financial year in which Public Announcement has been made. In 
case,  where  an  open  offer  has  already  been  made  in  respect  of  the  TC  in  the  past 
eight  financial  years  by  any  person, the  aforesaid  information  shall  be  provided from 
the  date  of  expiry  of  offer  period  of  such  previous  open  offer.  The  format  for 
submission for the above mentioned document is placed here.” 

 
4.  Amendment to Clause 12 (i) 

The clause shall be substituted with the following: 
 
“Status of compliance with the applicable provisions of the SEBI (SAST)  Regulations/ 
with  respect  to  details  of  the  acquisitions,  if  any,  made  by  the  promoter/  promoter 
group in the TC during the financial year in which the Public Announcement has been 
made and for a period of eight financial years preceding the financial year in which the 
Public Announcement for instant open offer has been made. In case where an open 
offer has already been made in respect of the TC during the past eight financial years 
by any person, the aforesaid information shall be provided from the date of expiry of 
offer period of such previous open offer.  The illustrated format for submission for 
the above mentioned document is placed here.” 

 
Amendments to Format of the Standard letter of offer 
 
5.  Amendment to Clause 4.1.4, 4.2.4, 4.2.7  

The clauses 4.1.4, 4.2.4 and 4.2.7 shall stand omitted. 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

 

