 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
CFD/DIL3/CIR/2017/21       
 
 
All Listed Entities who have listed their equity and convertibles  
All the Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Schemes of Arrangement by Listed Entities and (ii) Relaxation under Sub-rule 
(7) of rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 

March 10, 2017 

 

1.  SEBI 

(Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “listing  regulations”)  place  obligations  with  respect  to 
Scheme of  Arrangement  on Listed  Entities  and  Stock  Exchange(s)  in  Regulation 11, 
37 and 94. 

2.  Regulation  11  of  the  listing  regulations,  inter-alia,  provides  that  any  scheme  of 
arrangement / amalgamation / merger / reconstruction / reduction of capital etc. to be 
presented  to  any  Court  or  Tribunal  does  not  in  any  way  violate,  override  or  limit  the 
provisions of securities laws or  requirements of the  Stock Exchanges. Regulation 37 
of listing regulations provides that the listed entities desirous of undertaking scheme of 
arrangement or involved in a scheme of arrangement shall file the draft scheme with 
Stock  Exchange(s)  for  obtaining  Observation  Letter  or  No-objection  Letter,  before 
filing such scheme with any court or Tribunal. Regulation 94 of the listing regulations 
requires  Stock  Exchanges  to  forward  such  draft  schemes  to  SEBI  in  the  manner 
prescribed by SEBI. 

3.  SEBI  Circular  No.  CIR/CFD/CMD/16/2015  dated  November  30,  2015  lays  down  the 
detailed requirements to be complied with by listed entities while undertaking schemes 
of arrangements. 

4.  Sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957 
(hereinafter referred to as “the SCRR”) provides that Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (SEBI) may, at its own discretion or on the recommendation of a recognised 
Stock Exchange, waive or relax the strict enforcement of any or all of the requirements 
with respect to listing prescribed by these rules. 

5.  In consultation with the stock exchanges and market participants, it has been decided 
to  revise  the  regulatory  framework  for  such  schemes  of  arrangement.  Certain 
regulations  as mentioned  in  this  circular  have  been  amended. The  details  of  revised 
requirements to be complied with are given in Annexure-I.  

6.  Applicability:  The  schemes  filed  after  the  date  of  this  circular  shall  be  governed 
under this circular. The Schemes already submitted to the stock exchange in terms of 
SEBI  Circular  No.  CIR/CFD/CMD/16/2015  dated  November  30,  2015,  shall  be 
governed by the requirements specified in that circular  

 

Page 1 of 15 

 

 

 

 

7.  The Provisions of this circular shall not apply to schemes which solely provides for merger 
of  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary  with  the  parent  company.  However,  such  draft  schemes 
shall  be  filed  with  the  Stock  Exchanges  for  the  purpose  of  disclosures  and  the  Stock 
Exchanges shall disseminate the scheme documents on their websites. An amendment 
to listing regulations in this regard has already been notified on February 15, 2017.  

8.  The issuance  of  shares  under schemes  in  case  of allotment  of  shares  only  to  a  
select  group  of  shareholders  or shareholders of unlisted companies pursuant to such 
schemes shall follow the pricing provisions of Chapter VII of SEBI (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the  ICDR 
Regulations”). Relevant amendment to ICDR Regulations in this regard has been notified 
on February 15, 2017. 

9.  The listed entity shall pay a fee to SEBI at the rate of 0.1% of the paid-up share capital of 
the  listed  /  transferee  /  resulting  company,  whichever  is  higher,  post  sanction  of  the 
proposed  scheme,  subject  to  a  cap  of  Rs.5,00,000.  Relevant  amendment  to  Listing 
Regulations in this regard has been notified on March 06, 2017. 

10. The  amended  regulations  have  become  effective  from  the  date  of  notification  of  the 

amendments. 

11. The Stock Exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of 

Listed Entities and also to disseminate the same on their website. 

12. This circular is issued under Section 11 of the SEBI Act, 1992 and regulations 11, 37 
and  94  read  with  regulation  101(2)  of  listing  regulations  and  Rule  19(7)  of  SCRR, 
1957. 

13. This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework/Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Narendra Rawat 

Deputy General Manager 

narendrar@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 15 

 

 

 

I. 

ANNEXURE I 

 

Requirements  before  the  Scheme  of  arrangement  is  submitted  for  sanction 
by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT)  

 

 

A.  Requirements to be fulfilled by Listed Entity  

 

1.  Designated Stock Exchange 

(a) Listed  entities  shall  choose  one  of  the  Stock  Exchanges  having  nationwide 
trading  terminals  as  the  designated  Stock  Exchange  for  the  purpose  of 
coordinating with SEBI.  

(b) For  companies  listed  solely  on  regional  Stock  Exchange,  wherein  exemption 
from Rule 19(2) (b) of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 is sought, 
the listed entity shall obtain in-principle approval for listing of equity shares on 
any  Stock  Exchange  having  nationwide  trading  terminals.  In  cases,  wherein 
exemption from Rule 19(2)(b) of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 
is not sought by the listed entity, one of the Stock Exchanges having nationwide 
trading  terminals  shall  provide  a  platform  for  dissemination  of  information  of 
such  Schemes  and  other  documents  required  under  this  circular.  For  such 
purpose,  Stock  Exchanges  having  nationwide  trading  terminals  may  charge 
reasonable fees from such companies. 

 

2.  Submission of Documents 

The Listed entity shall submit the following documents to the Stock Exchanges:-  

(a) Draft Scheme of arrangement/ amalgamation/ merger/ reconstruction/ reduction 

of capital, etc.;  

(b) Valuation Report as per Para (4) below;  

(c) Report from the Audit Committee recommending the Draft Scheme, taking into 
consideration, inter alia, the Valuation Report. The Valuation Report is required 
to be placed before the Audit Committee of the listed entity;  

(d) Fairness opinion by a SEBI Registered merchant banker on valuation of assets 

/ shares done by the valuer for the listed entity and unlisted entity; 

(e) Pre and post amalgamation shareholding pattern of unlisted entity;  

(f)  Audited financials of last 3 years (financials not being more than 6 months old) 

of unlisted entity;  

(g) Auditor’s Certificate as per Para (5) below; 

(h) Detailed  Compliance  Report  as  per  the  format  specified  in  Annexure  IV  duly 
certified by the Company Secretary, Chief Financial Officer and the Managing 

 

Page 3 of 15 

 

 

 

Director, confirming compliance with various regulatory  requirements specified 
for schemes of arrangement and all accounting standards.  

 

 

3.  Conditions for schemes of arrangement involving unlisted entities 

In case of schemes of arrangement between listed and unlisted entities, the following 
conditions shall be satisfied: 

(a)  The  listed  entity  shall  include  the  applicable  information  pertaining  to  the 
unlisted  entity/ies  involved  in  the  scheme  in  the  format  specified  for  abridged 
prospectus as provided in Part D of Schedule VIII of the ICDR Regulations, in 
the explanatory statement or notice or proposal accompanying resolution to be 
passed sent to the shareholders while seeking approval of the scheme. 

The  accuracy  and  adequacy  of  such  disclosures  shall  be  certified  by  a  SEBI 
Registered  Merchant  Banker  after  following  the  due  diligence  process.  Such 
disclosures  shall  also  be  submitted  to  the  Stock  Exchanges  for  uploading  on 
their websites. 

(b)  The percentage of shareholding of pre-scheme public shareholders of the listed 
entity and the Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs) of the unlisted entity, in the 
post  scheme  shareholding  pattern  of  the  “merged”  company  shall  not  be  less 
than 25%. 

(c)  Unlisted  entities  can  be  merged  with  a  listed  entity  only  if  the  listed  entity  is 

listed on a Stock Exchange having nationwide trading terminals. 

 

4.  Valuation Report;  

(a) All listed entities are required to submit a valuation report from an Independent 

Chartered Accountant. 

(b) However, Valuation Report is not required in cases where there is no change in 

the shareholding pattern of the listed entity / resultant company.  

(c) For  the  limited  purpose  of  this  Circular,  'change  in  the  shareholding  pattern' 

shall mean; 

(i)  change in the proportion of shareholding of any of the existing shareholders 
of the listed entity  in the resultant company; or 

(ii)  new shareholder being allotted equity shares of the resultant company; or 

(iii)  existing  shareholder  exiting  the  company  pursuant  to  the  Scheme  of 

Arrangement 

(d) Further,  a  few  examples  illustrating    'no  change  in  shareholding  pattern'  are 

indicated  below: 

(i) 

In  case  a  listed  entity  (say,  “entity  A”)  demerges  a  unit  and  makes  it  a 
separate company (say, “entity B”); 

Page 4 of 15 

 

 

 

 

1)  if the shareholding of entity B is comprised only of the shareholders of 

 

entity A; and 

2)  if the shareholding pattern of entity B is the same as in entity A; and 

3)  every shareholder in entity B holds equity shares in the same proportion 

as held in entity A before the demerger 

(ii) 

In  case  a  wholly-owned-subsidiary  (say,  "entity  X")  of  a  listed  entity  is 
merged  with 
the 
shareholders and the shareholding pattern of entity Y remains the same, it 
will be treated as 'no change in shareholding pattern'. 

listed  entity  (say,  "entity  Y"),  where 

its  parent 

For  the  limited  purpose  of  this  Circular,  'resultant  company'  shall  mean  a 
company  arising  /  remaining  after  the  listed  entity  undertakes  a  Scheme  of 
Arrangement. 

5.  Auditor’s certificate 

(a) An auditors’ certificate shall be filed to the effect that the accounting treatment  
contained    in    the    scheme    is    in    compliance    with    all    the    Accounting 
Standards  specified  by  the  Central  Government  under  Section  133  of  the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the rules framed thereunder or the Accounting 
Standards  issued  by  ICAI,  as  applicable,  and  other  generally  accepted 
accounting principles. 

Provided    that    in    case    of    companies  where    the    respective    sectoral  
regulatory authorities  have  prescribed  norms  for  accounting  treatment  of  
items    in    the  financial    statements    contained    in    the    scheme,    the  
requirements  of  the regulatory authorities shall prevail.  

Explanation    –    For    this    purpose,    mere    disclosure    of    deviations    in  
accounting 
the  aforementioned  Accounting 
Standards  and  other  generally  accepted  Accounting  Principles  shall  not  be 
deemed as compliance with the above.  

treatments  as  prescribed 

in 

(b) The standard format for auditors’ certificate would be as per Annexure II.   

 

6.  Redressal of Complaints 

(a) The  Listed  entity  shall  submit  to  Stock  Exchanges  a  ‘Report  on  Complaints’ 
which  shall  contain  the  details  of  complaints/comments  received  by  it  on  the 
Draft  Scheme  from  various  sources  (complaints/comments  written  directly  to 
the  listed  entity  or  forwarded  to  it  by  the  Stock  Exchanges/SEBI)  as  per 
Annexure  III  of  this  Circular  prior  to  obtaining  Observation  Letter  from  Stock 
Exchanges on Draft Scheme.  

(b) ‘Report on Complaints’ as mentioned above, shall be submitted by listed entity  
to the Stock Exchanges within 7 days of expiry of 21 days from the date of filing 
of  Draft  Scheme  with  Stock  Exchanges  and  hosting  the  Draft  Scheme  along 

Page 5 of 15 

 

 

 

with  documents  specified  under  para  (2)  above  on  the  websites  of  Stock 
Exchanges and the listed entity. 

 

 

7.  Disclosure on the Website 

(a) Immediately  upon  filing  of  the  Draft  Scheme  of  arrangement  with  the  Stock 
Exchanges,  the  listed  entity  shall  disclose  the  Draft  Scheme  of  arrangement 
and all the documents specified under para (2) above on its website.  

(b) Listed entity shall also disclose the Observation Letter of the Stock Exchanges 

on its website within 24 hours of receiving the same.  

 

8.  Explanatory Statement or notice or proposal accompanying resolution sent 

to shareholders for seeking approval of scheme  

(a) The Listed entity shall include the Observation Letter of the  Stock Exchanges, 
in the explanatory statement or notice or proposal accompanying resolution to 
be passed sent to the shareholders seeking approval of the Scheme.   

(b) The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  that  in  the  explanatory  statement  or  notice  or 
proposal  accompanying  resolution  to  be  passed,  it  shall  disclose  the  pre  and 
post-arrangement  or  amalgamation,  expected  capital  structure  and 
shareholding  pattern,  and  the  “fairness  opinion”  obtained  from  a  merchant 
bankers  on  valuation  of  assets  /  shares  done  by  the  independent  chartered 
accountant for the listed entity and unlisted entity. 

(c) The Listed entity shall upload the ‘Report on Complaints’ as provided in Para 6 
(b)  and  the  ‘Compliance  Report’  as  provided  in  Para  2  (h)  above,  on  the 
company’s website and websites of Stock Exchanges.  

 

9.  Approval of Shareholders to Scheme through e- Voting:  

(a) The Listed entities shall ensure that the Scheme of Arrangement submitted with 
the  NCLT  for  sanction,  provides  for  voting  by  public  shareholders  through  e-
voting, after disclosure of all material facts in the explanatory statement sent to 
the shareholders in relation to such resolution. 

(b) The Scheme of arrangement shall be acted upon only if the votes cast by the 
public  shareholders  in  favour  of  the  proposal  are  more  than  the  number  of 
votes cast by the public shareholders against it, in the following cases: 

i.  Where additional shares have been allotted to Promoter / Promoter Group, 
Related  Parties  of  Promoter  /  Promoter  Group,  Associates  of  Promoter  / 
Promoter  Group,  Subsidiary/(s)  of  Promoter  /  Promoter  Group  of  the  listed 
entity , or 

ii.  Where the Scheme of Arrangement involves the listed entity  and any other 
entity  involving  Promoter  /  Promoter  Group,  Related  Parties  of  Promoter  / 
Promoter  Group,  Associates  of  Promoter  /  Promoter  Group,  Subsidiary/(s) 
of Promoter / Promoter Group. 

Page 6 of 15 

 

 

 

iii.  Where  the parent listed  entity has acquired, either directly or indirectly, the 
equity  shares  of  the  subsidiary  from  any  of  the  shareholders  of  the 
subsidiary  who  may  be  Promoter  /  Promoter  Group,  Related  Parties  of 
Promoter  /  Promoter  Group,  Associates  of  Promoter  /  Promoter  Group, 
Subsidiary/(s) of Promoter / Promoter Group of the parent listed entity, and if 
that  subsidiary  is  being  merged  with  the  parent  listed  entity  under  the 
Scheme. 

 

iv.  Where the scheme involving merger of an unlisted entity results in reduction 
in the voting share of pre-scheme public shareholders of listed entity in the 
transferee  /  resulting  company  by  more  than  5%  of  the  total  capital  of  the 
merged entity; 

v.  where  the  scheme  involves  transfer  of  whole  or  substantially  the  whole  of 
the undertaking of the listed entity and the consideration for such transfer is 
not in the form of listed equity shares; 

For the purpose of this clause, the expression “substantially the whole of the 
undertaking” in any financial year shall mean twenty per cent or more of value 
of  the  company  in  terms  of  consolidated  net  worth  or  consolidated  total 
income  during  previous  financial  year  as  specified  in  Section  180(1)(a)(i)  of 
the Companies Act, 2013. 

For the purpose of this clause, the term 'public' shall carry the same meaning 
as defined under Rule 2 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. 

(c) For all other cases, the requirements stated at para (9) (b) above, i.e. approval 
only  by  public  shareholders,  shall  not  be  applicable.  In  such  cases,  the  listed 
entities shall furnish an undertaking certified by the auditor and duly approved 
by the Board of the company, clearly stating the reasons for non-applicability of 
para (9) (a) above. 

(d) The  undertaking  as  referred  to  in  Para  (9)(c)  above  shall  be  displayed  on  the 
websites of Stock Exchanges and the listed entity along with other documents 
submitted, as stipulated under Para (2)  above. 

(e) Any  misstatement  or  furnishing  of  false  information  with  regard  to  the  said 
undertaking would be viewed seriously and liable for punitive action as per the 
provisions of applicable laws and regulations. 

10.  Subsequent to filing the draft scheme with SEBI, no changes to the draft scheme, 
except  those  mandated  by  the  regulators  /  authorities  /  tribunal  shall  be  made 
without specific written consent of SEBI. 

 

B.  Obligations of Stock Exchange(s)  

1.  The  designated  Stock  Exchange,  upon  receipt  of 

the  Draft  Scheme  of 
Arrangement  and  documents  referred  to  at  para  (A)  (2)  above  shall  forward  the 
same to SEBI within three working days.  

2.  The  ‘Report  on  Complaints’  shall be forwarded  by  the  Stock  Exchanges  to SEBI 
before  SEBI  communicates  its  comments  on  the  Draft  Scheme  to  the  Stock 

Page 7 of 15 

 

 

Exchanges.  Such  Report  shall  be  submitted  as  per  the  format  specified  at 
Annexure III to this Circular. 

 

3.  The  Stock  Exchanges  where  the  specified  securities  are  listed  /  proposed  to  be 
listed  shall  also  disclose  on  their  websites  the  documents  listed  at  para  (A)  (2) 
above immediately on receipt. It shall also disclose the Observation Letter on its 
website immediately upon issuance.  

4.  Stock Exchanges shall provide the ‘Observation Letter’ or ‘No-Objection’ letter to 
SEBI  on  the  draft  scheme.  In  case  of  companies  listed  exclusively  on  Regional 
Stock  Exchanges,  SEBI  shall  issue  Comment  letter  upon  receipt  of  Observation 
Letter’  or  ‘No-Objection’  letter  from  the  Designated  Stock  Exchange.  In  other 
cases, SEBI shall issue Comment letter upon receipt of Observation Letter’ or ‘No-
Objection’ letter from Stock Exchanges having nationwide trading terminals. 

 

C.  Processing of the Draft Scheme by SEBI  

1.  Upon  receipt  of  Observation  Letter’  or  ‘No-Objection’  letter  from  the  Stock 
Exchanges, SEBI shall provide its comments on the Draft Scheme of arrangement 
to  the  Stock  Exchanges.  While  processing  the  Draft  Scheme,  SEBI  may  seek 
clarifications from  any  person  relevant  in  this  regard  including  the  listed  entity  or 
the  Stock  Exchanges  and  may  also  seek  an  opinion  from  an  Independent 
Chartered Accountant.  

2.  SEBI shall endeavour to provide its comments on the Draft Scheme to the stock 

exchanges within 30 days from the later of the following:  

(a) date of receipt of satisfactory reply on clarifications, if any sought from the listed 

entity by SEBI; or  

(b) date of receipt of opinion from Independent Chartered Accountant, if sought by 

SEBI; or  

(c) date  of  receipt  of  Observation  Letter’  or  ‘No-Objection’  letter  from  the  Stock 

Exchanges.  

(d) date of receipt of copy of in-principle approval for listing of equity shares of the 
company  seeking  exemption  from  Rule  19(2)(b)  of  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation)  Rules,  1957  on  designated  Stock  Exchange,  in  case  the  listed 
entity is listed solely on regional Stock Exchange. 

3.  All complaints/comments received by SEBI on the Draft Scheme  of arrangement 
shall  be  forwarded  to  the  designated  Stock  Exchange,  for  necessary  action  and 
resolution by the listed entity. 

 

II. 

Requirements  after  the  Scheme  is  Sanctioned  by  the  Hon’ble  High  Court  / 
NCLT (hereinafter referred to as “Approved Scheme”) 

1. 

 Submission of Documents 

Upon sanction of the Scheme by the Hon’ble High Court / NCLT, the listed entity 
shall submit the documents mentioned below to the   Stock Exchanges:-   

 

Page 8 of 15 

 

 

(a) Copy of the High Court/ NCLT approved Scheme;  

 

(b) Result of voting by shareholders for approving the Scheme;  

(c) Statement  explaining  changes,  if  any,  and  reasons  for  such  changes  carried 
out  in  the  Approved  Scheme  of  arrangement  vis-à-vis  the  Draft  Scheme  of 
arrangement 

(d) Status of compliance with the Observation Letter or No Objection Letter of the 

Stock Exchange(s)  

(e) The  application  seeking  exemption  from  Rule  19(2)(b)  of  SCRR,  1957, 

wherever applicable; and  

(f)  Report on Complaints as per Annexure III of this Circular.  

 

III. 

Application  for  relaxation  under  Sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 

 

A.   Requirements to be fulfilled by Listed Entity for Listing of Equity Shares 

 

1.  Eligibility conditions for companies seeking relaxation under sub-rule (7) of 

rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 

A listed issuer may submit the Draft Scheme of arrangement under sub-rule (7) 
of rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, thereby seeking 
relaxation  from  the  strict  enforcement  of  clause  (b)  to  sub-rule  (2)  of  rule  19 
thereof, for listing of its equity shares on a recognized Stock Exchange without 
making an initial public offer, if it satisfies the following conditions:  

(a) The equity shares sought to be listed are proposed to be allotted by the unlisted 
issuer (transferee entity) to the holders of securities of a listed entity (transferor 
entity)  pursuant  to  a  scheme  of  reconstruction  or  amalgamation  (Scheme) 
sanctioned by NCLT under Section 230-234 of the Companies Act, 2013;  

(b) At  least  twenty  five  per  cent  of  the  post-scheme  paid  up  share  capital  of  the 
transferee entity shall comprise of shares allotted to the public shareholders in 
the transferor entity;  

(c) The transferee entity will not issue/ reissue any shares, not covered under the 

Draft Scheme of arrangement;  

(d) As  on  date  of  application,  there  are  no  outstanding  warrants/  instruments/ 
agreements  which  give  right  to  any  person  to  take  the  equity  shares  in  the 
transferee entity  at  any  future  date.  If  there are  such  instruments stipulated  in 
the  Draft  Scheme,  the  percentage  referred  to  in  Para    (b)  above  shall  be 
computed after giving effect to the consequent increase of capital on account of 
compulsory  conversions  outstanding  as  well  as  on  the  assumption  that  the 
options outstanding, if any, to subscribe for additional capital will be exercised; 
and  

 

Page 9 of 15 

 

 

 

(e) The shares of the transferee entity issued in lieu of the locked-in shares of the 

 

transferor entity will be subject to lock-in for the remaining period.  

 

2.  Additional  conditions  for  entities    seeking  relaxation  under  sub-rule  (7)  of 

rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 

Stock Exchanges shall ensure that, an unlisted issuer may make an application to 
the  Board  under  sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  SCRR,  pursuant  to  Part  III  of 
Annexure I this Circular if it satisfies the following conditions:  

(a) Observation  Letter  or  No  Objection  Letter  has  been  issued  by  the  Stock 

Exchanges to the Draft Scheme of arrangement;  

(b) The  listing  of  the  equity  shares  of  the  transferee  entity  is  in  terms  of  the 
Scheme sanctioned by the Hon’ble High Court / NCLT or its order whereby the 
Scheme of arrangement has been sanctioned;  

(c) The equity shares sought to be listed have been allotted by the unlisted issuer 
(transferee entity) to the holders of securities of a listed entity (transferor entity);  

(d) The  names  of  the  allottees  have  been  entered  as  beneficial  owners  in  the 
records  of  the depositories  pursuant  to  the Scheme or  share  certificates  have 
been dispatched to the allottees.  

3. 

In  case  of  a  scheme  involving  hiving-off  of  a  division  from  a  listed  entity  into  an 
unlisted  entity  the  entire  pre-scheme  share  capital  of  the  unlisted  issuer  seeking 
listing shall be locked in as follows: 

(a) Shares held by Promoters up to  the  extent  of twenty  percent  of  the post-
merger paid-up capital of the unlisted issuer, shall  be  locked-in  for a period 
of three years from the date of listing of the shares of  the unlisted issuer; 

(b) The remaining shares shall be locked-in for a period of one year from the date 

of listing of the shares of the unlisted issuer.  

(c) No  additional  lock-in  shall  be  applicable  if  the  post  scheme  shareholding 
pattern of the unlisted entity is exactly similar to the shareholding pattern of the 
listed entity. 

4.  The  listed  entity  and/or  transferee  entity  (unlisted  entity),  as  applicable,  shall 
ensure that it has completed steps for listing of its specified securities, within thirty 
days of the receipt of the order of the Hon’ble High Court/ NCLT sanctioning the 
Scheme,  simultaneously  on  all  the  Stock  Exchanges  where  the  equity  shares  of 
the listed entity (or transferor entity) are/were listed.  

5. 

It  shall  be  ensured  that  trading  in  securities  commences  within  forty  five  days  of 
the order of the Hon’ble High Court/ NCLT. Before commencement of trading, the 
transferee  entity  shall  give  an  advertisement  in  one  English  and  one  Hindi 
newspaper  with  nationwide  circulation  and  one  regional  newspaper  with  wide 
circulation  at  the  place  where  the  registered  office  of  the  transferee  entity  (is 
situated, giving following details:  

(a) Name and address of its registered office;  

Page 10 of 15 

 

 

 

(b) Details of change of name and/or object clause;  

 

(c) Capital  structure  -  pre  and  post  scheme  of  amalgamation.  This  shall  provide 
details  of  the  authorized,  issued,  subscribed  and  paid  up  capital  (Number  of 
instruments, description, and aggregate nominal value);  

(d) Shareholding  pattern giving  details  of  its  promoter  group  shareholding,  group 

companies;  

(e) Names of its ten largest shareholders - number and percentage of shares held 

by each of them, their interest, if any;  

(f)  Details of its promoters - educational qualifications, experience, address;  

(g) Business and its management;  

(h) Reason for the amalgamation;  

(i)  Financial statements for the previous three years prior to the date of listing;  

(j)  Latest audited financial statements along with notes to accounts and any audit 
qualifications.  Change  in  accounting  policies  in  the  last  three  years  and  their 
effect  on  profits  and  reserves  (Financial  statements  should  not  be  later  than 
six months prior to the date of listing);  

(k) Details  of  its  other  group  companies  including  their  capital  structure  and 

financial statements;  

(l)  Outstanding  litigations  and  defaults  of  the  transferee  entity,  promoters, 

directors or any of the group companies;  

(m)Particulars of high, low and average prices of the shares of the listed transferor 

entity during the preceding three years;  

(n) Any material development after the date of the balance sheet; and  

(e) Such other information as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 

 

B.  Application  by  a  listed  entity    for  Listing  of  Equity  Shares  with  Differential 

Rights as to Dividend, Voting or Otherwise:  

A  listed  entity  desirous  of  listing  of  its  equity  shares  with  differential  rights  as  to 
dividend, voting or otherwise, without making an initial public offer of such equity 
shares, may make an application to the Board under sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of the 
SCRR  seeking  relaxation  from  strict  enforcement  of  clause  (b)  to  sub-rule  (2)  of 
rule 19 thereof if it satisfies the following conditions:  

(a) such equity shares are issued to all the existing shareholders as on record date 

by way of rights or bonus issue;  

(b) the issuer is in compliance with the conditions of minimum public shareholding 
requirement stipulated in  regulation 38 of Listing Regulation, with  reference to 
the  equity  shares  already  listed  and  the  equity  shares  with  differential  rights 
proposed to be listed; and  

Page 11 of 15 

 

 

 
 

 

(c) the issuer undertakes to disclose the shareholding pattern of the equity shares 
with  differential  rights  separately  in  terms  of  requirements  of  regulation  31  of 
listing regulations.  

 

 

C.  Application  by  a  listed    entity    for  Listing  of  warrants  Offered  Along  With 

Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs):  

A  listed  entity,  desirous  of  listing  of  its  warrants  without  making  an  initial  public 
offer of warrants, may make an application to the Board under sub-Rule (7) of rule 
19  of  the  SCRR  seeking  relaxation  from  strict  enforcement  of  clause  (b)  to  sub-
rule (2) of rule 19 if it satisfies the following conditions:  

(a) warrants  are  issued  as  combined  offering  of  NCDs  and  warrants  through 

qualified institutions placement under Chapter VIII of the ICDR Regulations;  

(b) the  issuer  is  in  compliance  with  all  the  provisions  of  Chapter  VIII  of  the  ICDR 

Regulations ; and  

(c) NCDs  and  warrants  shall  be  traded  in  the  minimum  trade  lot  of  one  lakh 

rupees. 

 

D.  Requirements to be fulfilled by Stock Exchange(s)  

1.  The designated Stock Exchange shall forward the documents to the Board along 
with  its  recommendations  on  documents  and  recommendation,  if  applicable,  on 
the application for granting exemption, under sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of SCRR.  

 

E.  Processing of the Scheme by SEBI  

1.  The Board may, while  granting relaxation, if any, under sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of 
SCRR, stipulate any other conditions as may be deemed necessary in the interest 
of  investors  and  securities  market,  under  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the 
specific case.  

2.  SEBI shall endeavour to  intimate  its comments/approval, wherever applicable, to 
the designated Stock Exchange within 30 days of receipt of complete information, 
including the no-objection certificate from the Stock Exchange.  

 

 

Page 12 of 15 

 

 

ANNEXURE II 

 

Format for Auditor's Certificate  

To, 
The Board of Directors, 
……………………………………………………………. 
(Name and address of the Company) 
 
We, the statutory auditors of ……………………………. (name of the listed entity),(hereinafter referred 
to  as  “the Company”),  have  examined  the  proposed  accounting  treatment specified  in  clause ……… 
(specify  clause  number)  of  the  Draft  Scheme  of  ………………………………..  (specify  the  type  of 
Scheme)  between  ………………………………………..  (names  of  the  companies/entities  involved)  in 
terms of  the  provisions  of  section(s) …………………………………  (specify  the  relevant  section(s))  of 
the Companies Act, 1956/ Companies Act, 2013 with reference to its compliance with the applicable 
Accounting  Standards  notified  under  the  Companies  Act,  1956/  Companies  Act,  2013  and  Other 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
 
The  responsibility  for  the  preparation  of  the  Draft  Scheme  and  its  compliance  with  the  relevant  laws 
and  regulations,  including  the  applicable  Accounting  Standards  as  aforesaid,  is  that  of  the  Board  of 
Directors  of  the  Companies  involved.  Our  responsibility  is  to  examine  and  report  whether  the  Draft 
Scheme complies with the applicable Accounting Standards and Other Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles.  Nothing  contained  in  this  Certificate,  nor  anything  said  or  done  in  the  course  of,  or  in 
connection  with  the  services  that  are  subject  to  this  Certificate,  will  extend  any  duty  of  care  that  we 
may  have  in  our  capacity  of  the  statutory  auditors  of  any  financial  statements  of  the  Company.  We 
carried out our examination in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit Reports and Certificates 
for Special Purposes, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. 
 
Based on our examination and according to the information and explanations given to us, we confirm 
that  the  accounting  treatment  contained  in  the  aforesaid  scheme  is  in  compliance  with  SEBI  (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and circulars issued thereunder  and all 
the  applicable  Accounting  Standards  notified  by  the  Central  Government  under  the  Companies  Act, 
1956/  Companies  Act,  2013  and/or  the  accounting  treatment  in  respect  of  ………………………. 
(specify  the  financial  statement  item(s))  as  prescribed  by  ……………………………….  (name  of  the 
regulator) vide its Notification …………………………. (details of the Notification) which prevail over the 
accounting treatment for the same as prescribed under the aforesaid Accounting Standards (wherever 
applicable), except the following: 

 
………………. 

 
This  Certificate  is  issued  at  the  request  of  the  …………………………….  (name  of  the  Company) 
pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  circulars  issued  under  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 
Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  for  onward  submission  to  the  …………………………………….. 
(name  of  the  Stock  Exchange(s)).  This  Certificate  should  not  be  used  for any  other  purpose  without 
our prior written consent. 

For 
……………………………………………….. 
(name of the Firm) 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm Registration No.: 
Signature 
(Name of the member) 
Designation (Partner or proprietor, as may be applicable): 
Membership Number: 
Place: 
Date: 

 

Page 13 of 15 

 

 

Sr. No. 

Format for Report on Complaints 

 

Part A 

 
 
Particulars 

1 
2 

3 
4 
5 

Number of complaints received directly 
Number  of  complaints  forwarded  by  Stock  Exchanges  / 
SEBI 
Total Number of complaints/comments received (1+2) 
Number of complaints resolved 
Number of complaints pending 

 

Part B 

 

 

ANNEXURE III 
 

Number 

 
 

 
 
 

Sr. No. 

Name of complainant  

Date of Complaint  

Status 

1 
2 
3 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

(Resolved/pending)  

 
 
 

Page 14 of 15 

 

 

 

 

Format of the Compliance Report to be submitted along with the draft 

Annexure IV 

 

scheme 

 

It is hereby certified that the draft scheme  of arrangement involving (Name of the 
entities) does not, in any  way  violate, override or limit the provisions of securities 
laws or requirements of the Stock Exchange(s) and the same is in compliance with 
the  applicable  provisions  of  SEBI 
(Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and this circular, including the following: 

Sl.  Reference 
1  Regulations 17 to 

Particulars 
Corporate governance requirements 

 

27 of LODR 
Regulations 

2  Regulation 11 of 

Compliance with securities laws 

LODR Regulations 

 

Requirements of this circular  
 
(a)  Para (I)(A)(2)  
(b)  Para (I)(A)(2) 

(c)  Para (I)(A)(4) (a) 
(d)  Para (I)(A)(5)  

(e)  Para (I)(A)(9)  

 
Submission of documents to Stock Exchanges 
Conditions for schemes of arrangement involving 
unlisted entities 
Submission of Valuation Report 
Auditors certificate regarding compliance with 
Accounting Standards 
Provision of approval of public shareholders 
through e-voting  

 

 
 
Company Secretary 
 
Certified  that  the  transactions  /  accounting  treatment  provided  in  the  draft  scheme  of 
arrangement  involving  (Name  of  the  entities)  are  in  compliance  with  all  the  Accounting 
Standards applicable to a listed entity. 
 
 
Chief Financial Officer 
 

Managing Director 

Managing Director 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 15 of 15 

 

