 

 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2017/28 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

March  31,  2017

To 
All Credit Rating Agencies Registered with SEBI 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 

 

Sub: Enhanced Standards for Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) - Clarifications 

 
1.  Please  refer  to  SEBI  Circular  No.  SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2016/119 
dated  November  01,  2016  on  Enhanced  Standards  for  Credit  Rating  Agencies 
(CRAs).  Based  on  the  representations  received  from  the  industry  and  in 
consultation with CRAs, following has been decided: 
 

I.  Point  2D  (I)  of  Annexure  A  of  aforementioned  Circular  on 

„Standardization of Press Release for Rating Actions‟ 
 
Considering  the  nature  of  instruments,  following  details  may  not  be 
provided under the head “Details of Instruments” of Annexure A2 
 

Interest rate/ coupon rate for all types of bank loan facilities. 

i. 
ii.  Maturity details for working capital facilities (including cash credit 

iii. 

facilities). 
Tranche-wise interest rate and maturity details for money market 
instruments  such  as  Commercial  Papers,  Certificate  of  Deposit 
and  short-term  NCDs  which  are  reissued  frequently.  However, 
the  range  of  duration  of  these  instruments  (e.g.  7  -  90  days) 
shall be provided in the press release. 
 

II.  Point  2D  (III)  of  Annexure  A  of  aforementioned  Circular  on 

„Standardization of Press Release for Rating Actions‟ 

 

Rating Outlooks may not be assigned for: 
 

i.  Short term ratings 
ii.  Ratings in the „C‟ and „D‟ categories 
iii.  Ratings on watch  
iv.  Ratings  of  securitization  transactions  backed  by  pool  of  loans, 
as  CRAs  are  already  mandated  to  disclose  at  least  once  in 
every  six  months  the  performance  of  the  rated  pool,  as  per 
provisions of CIR/MIRSD/CRA/6/2010 dated May 03, 2010.  

v.  Credit  quality  ratings  of  mutual 

fund  schemes,  provided 
surveillance of the fund‟s holdings is carried out by the CRAs on 
a monthly basis. 

 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 
 

III.  Point  5B  of  Annexure  A  of  aforementioned  Circular  on  „Policy  in 
respect  of  non-co-operation  by  the  issuer‟  stands  modified  as 
under: 
 
In  such  cases,  the  credit  rating  symbol  shall  be  accompanied  by  the 
suffix  “ISSUER  NOT  COOPERATING*”in  the  same  font  size.  The 
suffix  shall  be  explained  below  and  shall  read  as  „Issuer  did  not 
cooperate; Based on best available information’. 
 

2.  It is further clarified that 

 
Bank  loans/  facilities  generally  being  non-transferable  in  nature  and 
their  only  user  being  banks,  withdrawal  of  ratings  is  permitted.  All 
norms/  standards  prescribed  in  this  regard  vide  Circular  dated  March 
01, 2012 shall continue to apply.  
Open ended Mutual Fund schemesbeing perpetual in natureand having 
no  specified  maturity,withdrawal  of  rating  of  such  schemes 
is 
permitted.However,as  units  of  such  schemes  are  held  by  many 
investors,  such  ratings  shall  be  placed  on  notice  of  withdrawal  for 
atleast 30 days, which shall be publicly available on the CRA‟s website.  
Ratings  of  the  aforementioned  facilities/  securities  can  be  withdrawn 
after  receiving  request  for  withdrawal  from  the  Asset  Management 
Company (AMC) in case of mutual funds; orrequest for withdrawal from 
the Borrower along with No Objection from the lending bank(s) in case 
of Bank facilities.  
At the time of withdrawal, the CRA shall assign a rating to suchfacility/ 
security  and  issue  a  press  release  as  per  the  format  prescribed  vide 
Circular  dated  November  01,  2016.  The  Press  Release  shall  also 
mention the reason(s) for withdrawal.  

I. 

II. 

III. 

IV. 

 

3.  All  other  conditions  as  specified  in  the  aforementioned  Circulars  shall  remain 

unchanged.  

 

4.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  Section  11  (1)  of 
Securitiesand  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation 20of  SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999 to protect the 
interest  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and 
toregulate, the securities market. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Surabhi Gupta 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel. No: 022-26449315 
Email id: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

