 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DRMNP/CIR/P/2017/32   

 

 

 

         April 18, 2017 

All recognized Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations 

 

Dear Sir/Madam 

 

Review of the framework of position limits for Interest Rate Futures contracts 

With  a  view  to  ease  trading  requirements  in  the  Interest  Rate  Futures  contracts,  it  is 

clarified that  the  position  limit  linked  to open  interest  shall  be  applicable  at  the time  of 

opening a position. Such positions shall not be required to be unwound immediately by 

the  market  participants  in  the  event  of  a  drop  of  total  open  interest  in  Interest  Rate 

Futures contracts within the respective maturity bucket. 

2.  However,  in  the  aforementioned  scenario,  such  market  participants  shall  not  be 

allowed  to  increase  their  existing  positions  or  create  new  positions  in  the  Interest 

Rate  Futures  contracts  of  the  respective  maturity  bucket  till  they  comply  with  the 

applicable position limits. 

3.  Notwithstanding  the  above,  in  view  of  risk  management  or  surveillance  concerns 

with regard to the positions of such market participants, stock exchanges may direct 

them to bring down their positions to comply with the applicable position limits within 

the time period prescribed by the stock exchanges. 

4.  Stock exchanges and clearing corporations are directed to: 

a) 

take  necessary  steps  to  put  in  place  systems  for  implementation  of  the 

circular, including necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and 

regulations;  

 

 

 

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  members  and  also 

disseminate the same on their websites; and 

c) 

communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 

circular in the Monthly Report. 

 

5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate,  the 

securities market. 

Yours faithfully 

 

Sanjay Purao 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Risk Management and New Products  
Market Regulation Department  
Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

2 

