 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

          May 26, 2017 

 
CIR/IMD/DF/50/2017 
 
To 
All Listed Entities who have listed their equity and convertibles 
All the Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 
Sub:  Listing  of  Non-Convertible  Redeemable  Preference  Shares  (NCRPS)  /  Non-
Convertible Debentures (NCDs) through a Scheme of Arrangement  

 
(1) SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter 
referred  to  as  “listing  regulations”)  place  obligations  with  respect  to  Scheme  of 
Arrangement on Listed Entities and Stock Exchange(s) in Regulation 11, 37 and 94. 
 

(2) Sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 (hereinafter 
referred to as “the SCRR”) gives power to Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
to  relax  provision  of  Rule  19  at  its  discretion  and  accordingly  SEBI  Circular  No. 
CFD/DIL3/CIR/2017/21 dated March 10, 2017 laid down the detailed requirement to be 
complied with by listed entities while undertaking schemes of arrangement for listing of 
Equity or Warrants pursuant to the Scheme. 

 

(3) Such  corporate  restructuring  may  result  in  issuance  of  NCRPS  or  NCDs,  in  lieu  of 
specified  securities  (specified  securities  as  defined  in  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009).  However  it  is  observed  that  the 
abovementioned  SEBI  Circular  does  not  cover  guidance 
listing  of  such 
NCRPS/NCDs. The same is being addressed in this circular. 
 

for 

(4) In cases where NCRPS/NCDs are issued, in lieu of specified securities, vide a scheme 
of arrangement; and where such NCRPS/NCDs are proposed to be listed on recognized 
Stock Exchanges, the listed entity shall additionally comply with the requirements stated 
at  Paragraph  5  below, 
to  compliance  with  SEBI  Circular  No. 
CFD/DIL3/CIR/2017/21 dated March 10, 2017, as amended from time to time. 
 

in  addition 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 6 

 
(5) The additional compliances for the cases referred to at Paragraph 4 above are as under: 

 

 

(A) Additional  conditions  to  be  complied  before  the  Scheme  of  arrangement  is 

submitted for sanction by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) 
 
A listed entity, which has listed its specified securities, may seek listing of NCRPS/NCDs 
issued  pursuant  to  a  scheme  of  arrangement  provided  that  it  has  complied  with  the 
following provisions :- 

 

(i) 
 

 

 

(ii) 

 

 

 

 

Eligibility for seeking listing of NCRPS/ NCDs 

A  listed  entity  which  has  listed  its  specified  securities  may  seek  listing  of 
NCRPS/NCDs issued pursuant to a scheme of arrangement only in case where 
the listed entity is a part of such scheme of arrangement and such NCRPS/NCDs 
are  issued  to  the  holders  of  specified  securities  of  such  listed  entity.  Such 
scenarios may broadly include the following: 

(a) A  listed  entity,  which  has  listed  its  specified  securities,  (demerged  entity) 
demerges a unit and transfers the same to another entity (resultant entity), and 
the  resultant  entity  issues  NCRPS/NCDs  to  the  holders  of  the  specified 
securities of listed entity (i.e. demerged entity) as  a consideration under the 
scheme of arrangement. 
 

(b) A listed entity, which has listed its specified securities, (amalgamating entity) 
is  merged  with  another  entity  (amalgamated  entity),  and  the  amalgamated 
entity issues NCRPS/NCDs to the holders of the specified securities of listed 
entity  (i.e.  amalgamating  entity)  as  a  consideration  under  the  scheme  of 
arrangement. 

It is clarified that only the NCRPS/NCDs issued to the holders of listed specified 
securities, vide the scheme of arrangement, would be eligible for seeking listing. 
 
However,  if  the  same  series/class  of  NCRPS/NCDs  are  also  allotted  to  other 
investors, other than the allotment done to the holders of listed specified securities 
as per the scheme of arrangement, then such NCRPS/NCDs would not be eligible 
for seeking listing. 

Tenure/ Maturity: 
 
The minimum tenure of the NCRPS/NCDs shall be one year. 

 

Page 2 of 6 

 

(iii)  Credit Rating: 

 
The  NCRPS/NCDs  have  been  assigned  minimum  such  credit  rating,  if  any, 
specified  for  public  issue  of  NCRPS  under  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Non-
Convertible  Redeemable  Preference  Shares)  Regulations,  2013  or  for  public 
issue of NCDs in terms of SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 
2008, as the case may be by a credit rating agency registered with the Board. 
 

(iv)  Valuation Report:  
 

 
(v) 

 

The Valuation Report, referred in Para (I)(A)(4) of Annexure I of SEBI Circular No. 
CFD/DIL3/CIR/2017/21 dated March 10, 2017, shall also include valuation of the 
underlying NCRPS/ NCDs to be issued pursuant to the scheme of arrangement. 

Disclosures in the Scheme of Arrangement: 
 
The following should be clearly disclosed in Draft Scheme of Arrangement:- 

(a) Face Value & Price  
(b) Dividend/Coupon:  The  terms  of  payment  of  dividends/Coupon  including 

frequency etc  
(c) Credit Rating 
(d) Tenure/ Maturity 
(e) Redemption:  The 

terms  of 

redemption,  amount,  date, 

redemption 

premium/discount,, and early redemption scenarios, if any 

(f)  Other embedded features (put option, call option, dates, notification times, etc)  
(g) Other terms of instruments (i.e. term sheet) 
(h) Any other information/details pertinent for the investors 

(vi)  Other Conditions which would be required to be followed are as under:  
 

The listed entity shall further ensure compliance with the following:   

(a) The  captioned  issue  of  NCRPS/NCDs  shall  be  in  compliance  with  all  the 
applicable  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  including  the  provisions 
related 
of  Capital  Redemption 
Reserve/Debenture Redemption Reserve.  

and  maintenance 

to 

creation 

 

Page 3 of 6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(b) All such NCRPS/NCDs shall be issued in dematerialised form only. 
(c) In case of NCDs, the issuer has appointed/ shall appoint Debenture Trustee 
in  compliance  with  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities)  Regulations, 
2008 and Companies Act, 2013. 

(d) In case of NCDs, the issuer has created/ shall create an appropriate charge or 
security, wherever applicable, in compliance with  SEBI (Issue and Listing of 
Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 and Companies Act, 2013. 

(e) All the provisions of SEBI (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Redeemable 
Preference  Shares)  Regulations,  2013  and  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt 
Securities)  Regulations,  2008  have  been/  shall  be  complied  with  except  the 
provisions related to making a public issue, or making a private placement, or 
filing of offer document, etc. 

 

(B) Additional  conditions  to  be  complied  after  the  Scheme  is  sanctioned  by  the 
Hon’ble High Court / NCLT  and at the time of  making  application  for relaxation 
under Sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 

 

The application for relaxation under Sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of SCRR for listing of NCRPS/ 
NCDs  shall  include  a  detailed  Compliance  Report  as  per  the  format  specified  in 
Annexure  I,  duly  certified  by  the  Company  Secretary  and  the  Managing  Director, 
confirming  compliance  of  the  Scheme  of  Arrangement  with  the  provisions  of  this 
Circular, SEBI Circular No. CFD/DIL3/CIR/2017/21 dated March 10, 2017, as amended 
from  time  to  time  and  with  various  regulatory  requirements  specified  for  schemes  of 
arrangement.  

 

(6) Applicability: The captioned circular shall be applicable for all the draft schemes filed 

with the Stock Exchanges after the date of this circular.  
 

(7) The  Schemes  shall  be  governed  by  the  requirements  specified  in  Listing  Regulations 
and any  other Regulation/ Law connected therewith  and as revised from time to time. 
The Board may, while granting relaxation, if any, under sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of SCRR, 
stipulate any other conditions as may be deemed necessary in the interest of investors 
and securities market, under the facts and circumstances of the specific case.  
 

(8) The Stock Exchanges  are  advised to  bring the  provisions  of this  circular to the  notice  of 

Listed Entities and also to disseminate the same on its website. 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 6 

 

 

 

(9) This  circular  is  issued  under  Regulations  11,  37  &  94  read  with  Regulation  101(2)  of 

listing regulations and Rule 19(7) of SCRR, 1957. 
 
 

Yours faithfully, 

 
Naveen Sharma 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9709  
Email id - naveens@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 6 

 

 

 

 

Annexure I 

Format of the Compliance Report to be submitted along with the application for 
relaxation under Sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
Rules, 1957 

 

It is hereby certified that the scheme of arrangement involving (Name of the entities) 
does  not,  in  any  way  violate,  override  or  limit  the  provisions  of  securities  laws  or 
requirements  of  the  Stock  Exchange(s)  and  the  same  is  in  compliance  with  the 
applicable  provisions  of  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, SEBI Circular No. CFD/DIL3/CIR/2017/21 dated March 10, 2017, as 
amended from time to time and this circular, including the following: 

Reference 

Particulars 

Sl 
No. 

 

(1)  Para (5)(A)(i)   Eligibility 

for  seeking 
listing of NCRPS/ NCDs 
 
Tenure/ Maturity 

Credit Rating 
 
Valuation Report:  
 
Disclosures 
the 
Scheme of Arrangement 
 
Other Conditions 

in 

Whether 
Complied (Yes/ 
No) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Remarks (How 
Complied) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2)  Para 

(5)(A)(ii)  

(3)  Para 

(5)(A)(iii)  

(4)  Para 

(5)(A)(iv)  

(5)  Para 

(5)(A)(v)  

(6)  Para 

(5)(A)(vi) 

Company Secretary 

 

 

 

 

Managing Director 

 

 

Page 6 of 6 

 

 

 

 
 

 

