भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

SEBI/HO/MRD/ DSA/CIR/P/2017/ 45 
 
 
1.  All Stock Exchanges in International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) 

 
 

 
 

 
 

May 23, 2017
 
 

 

2.  All Portfolio Managers operating in IFSC 

3.  All Mutual Funds and Alternate Investment Funds operating in IFSC 

 

 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (International  Financial  Services 
Centres)  Guidelines,  2015  -  Permissible  investments  by  Portfolio  Managers, 
Alternate Investment Funds and Mutual Funds operating in IFSC 

Kindly refer to  SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015  which  were notified by SEBI on March 

27, 2015.  

 

2.  Clause  9  (4)  and  Clause  22  (3)  of  SEBI  (IFSC)  Guidelines,  2015  specify  the 

securities  in  which  portfolio  managers  and  alternative  investment  fund  or  mutual 

fund  respectively,  operating  in  IFSC  are  permitted  to  invest  in.  Based  on  the 

consultations held with the stakeholders, it has been decided to amend Clauses 9 

(4) and 22 (3) of the Guidelines.  The amended Clauses shall read as follows: 

 

A.  Clause 9 (4) of  SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015 is amended to read as follows:  

"A  portfolio  manager  operating  in  IFSC  shall  be  permitted  to  invest  in  the 

following: 

a)  Securities which are listed in IFSC;  

b)  Securities issued by companies incorporated in IFSC; 

c)  Securities  issued  by  companies  incorporated  in  India  or  companies 

belonging to foreign jurisdiction. 

subject to such conditions or guidelines that may be stipulated or issued by the 

Reserve Bank of India and Government of India from time to time "  

 

B.  Clause 22 (3) of SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015 is amended to read as follows:  

"Any  alternative  investment  fund  or  mutual  fund  operating  in  IFSC  shall  be 

permitted to invest in the following: 

 

 

a)  Securities which are listed in IFSC;  

b)  Securities issued by companies incorporated in IFSC; 

c)  Securities  issued  by  companies  incorporated  in  India  or  companies 

belonging to foreign jurisdiction. 

subject  to  such  conditions  or  guidelines  that  may  be  stipulated  or  issued  by  the 

Reserve Bank of India and Government of India from time to time" 

3.  Further,  it  is  clarified  that  such  portfolio  manager,  alternative  investment  fund  or 

mutual fund shall invest in India through the foreign portfolio investor route. 

 

4.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 
Bithin Mahanta 
Deputy General Manager 
Ph: +912226449634 
Email: bithinm@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

 

