 

 

     

          May 30, 2017 

 

Circular 

 

 

 

CIR/IMD/DF/51/2017 
 
To 
All Issuers of Corporate Debt Securities 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub:  Disclosure  Requirements  for  Issuance  and  Listing  of  Green  Debt 
Securities  

1.  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities)  Regulations,  2008  (“SEBI  ILDS 
Regulations") , govern public issue of debt securities and listing of debt securities 
issued through public issue or on private placement basis, on a recognized stock 
exchange. 

 
2.  For  public  issue  and  listing  of  Green  Debt  Securities  and  listing  of  privately 
placed  Green  Debt  Securities,  in  addition  to  the  requirements  as  prescribed 
under SEBI ILDS Regulations and Circulars made thereunder, following shall be 
applicable:  
 
2.1. Definition of Green Debt Securities :  
A Debt Security  shall be considered as „Green‟ or „Green Debt Securities‟, if the 
funds  raised  through  issuance  of  the  debt  securities    are  to  be  utilised  for 
project(s) and/or asset(s) falling under any of the following broad categories:  

a.  Renewable  and  sustainable  energy  including  wind,  solar,  bioenergy,  other 

sources of energy which use clean technology etc. 

b.  Clean transportation including mass/public transportation etc.  

c.  Sustainable  water  management  including  clean  and/or  drinking  water,  water 

recycling etc  

d.  Climate change adaptation  

e.  Energy efficiency including efficient and green buildings etc. 

f.  Sustainable waste management  including recycling, waste to energy, efficient 

disposal of wastage etc. 

 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 

g.  Sustainable 

land  use 

including  sustainable 

forestry  and  agriculture, 

afforestation etc. 

h.  Biodiversity conservation  

Any other category as may be specified by Board, from time to time. 
 
2.2. Disclosures 

in  Offer  Document/  Disclosure  Document  and  other 

requirements  

The issuer of a Green Debt Securities shall make following disclosures: 

a.  A  statement  on  environmental  objectives  of  the  issue  of  Green  Debt 

Securities  

b.  Brief  details  of  decision-making  process  issuer  has  followed/would  follow  for 
determining the eligibility of project(s) and/or asset(s), for which the proceeds 
are  been  raised  through  issuance  of  Green  Debt  Securities.  An  indicative 
guideline of the details to be provided is as under:  

i. 

ii. 

process followed/ to be followed for determining how the project(s) and/or 
asset(s) fit within the eligible green projects categories as provided at para 
2.1 above ;  

the  criteria,  making  the  project(s)  and/or  asset(s)  eligible  for  using  the 
Green Debt Securities  proceeds; and  

iii. 

environmental sustainability objectives of the proposed green investment. 

c.  Issuer  shall  provide  the  details  of  the  system/procedures  to  be  employed for 

tracking the deployment of the proceeds of the issue.  

d.  Details of the project(s) and/or asset(s) or areas where the issuer, proposes to 
utilise  the  proceeds  of  the  issue of Green  Debt Securities,  including  towards 
refinancing of existing green project(s) and/or asset(s), if any. 

e.  The  issuer  may  appoint  an  independent  third  party  reviewer/certifier,  for 
reviewing  /certifying  the  processes  including  project  evaluation  and  selection 
criteria, project categories eligible for financing by Green Debt Securities, etc. 
Such  appointment  is  optional  and  is  at  the  part  of  issuer,  however  any  such 
appointment of reviewer/certifier shall  be disclosed in the offer document. 

Page 2 of 4 

 

 

 

 

 

2.3. Continuous disclosure requirements 
 
An  issuer  who  has  listed  its  Green  Debt  Securities,  alongwith  compliances  as 
under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“SEBI  Listing  Regulations”)  ,  shall  provide  following  disclosures  along  with  its 
annual report and financial results:  
 
a.  Following  shall  be  provided  along  with  the  half  yearly  and  annual  financial 

results :  

i.  Utilisation  of  the  proceeds  of  the  issue,  as  per  the  tracking  done  by  the 
issuer using the internal process as disclosed in offer document/disclosure 
document. The utilisation of the proceeds shall be verified by the report of 
an external auditor, to verify the internal tracking method and the allocation 
of  funds  towards  the  project(s)  and/or  asset(s),  from  the  proceeds  of 
Green Debt Securities.  

ii.  Details of unutilized proceeds  

b.  Following additional disclosures have to be provided along with annual report: 

i. 

List  of  project(s)  and/or  asset(s)  to  which  proceeds  of  the  Green  Debt 
Securities  have  been  allocated/invested  including  a  brief  description  of 
such  project(s)  and/or  asset(s)  and  the  amounts  disbursed.  However, 
where  confidentiality  agreements  limit  the  amount  of  detail  that  can  be 
made available about specific  project(s) and/or asset(s), information shall 
be presented about the areas in which such project(s) and/or asset(s) fall 
into. 

ii.  Qualitative  performance  indicators  and,  where  feasible,  quantitative 
performance  measures  of  the  environmental  impact  of  the  project(s) 
and/or  asset(s).  If  the  quantitative  benefits/impact  cannot  be  ascertained, 
then  the  said  fact may  be  appropriately  disclosed  along  with  the  reasons 
for non-ascertainment of the benefits/impact on the environment. 

iii.  Methods  and  the  key  underlying  assumptions  used  in  preparation  of  the 

performance indicators and metrics;  

2.4. Responsibilities of the issuer 

An issuer  of Green Debt Securities shall: 
a.  maintain a decision-making process which it uses to determine the continuing 
eligibility  of  the  project(s)  and/or  asset(s).  This  includes,  without  limitation  a 
statement on the environmental objectives of the Green Debt Securities and a 

Page 3 of 4 

 

 

 
process to determine whether the project(s) and/or asset(s) meet the eligibility 
requirements. 

b.  ensure  that  all  project(s)  and/or  asset(s)  funded  by  the  proceeds  of  Green 

Debt Securities, meet the  documented objectives of Green Debt Securities. 

c.  utilise  the  proceeds  only  for  the  stated  purpose,  as  disclosed    in  the  offer 

document. 

3.  An  issuer  of  Green  Debt  Securities  or  any  agent  appointed  by  the  issuer,    if 
follows  any  globally  accepted  standard(s)  for  the  issuance    of  Green  Debt 
Securities  including  measurement  of  the  environmental  impact,  identification  of 
the project(s) and/or asset(s), utilisation of proceeds, etc., shall disclose the same 
in the offer document/disclosure document and/or in continuous disclosures. 

4.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation  31(1) of 
SEBI ILDS Regulations.  

5.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Corp Debt Market”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Barnali Mukherjee 

Chief General Manager 

Investment Management Department 

Tel No.: 022 - 2644 9660 

Email Id - barnalim@sebi.gov.in 

Page 4 of 4 

