 

 

 

 

   June 19, 2017 

  

 

 

 

 

 
CIR/IMD/DF1/ 60 /2017 
 
To  
 
All Issuers  
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges  
 
All Depositories  
 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Continuous disclosures and compliances by issuers under SEBI (Issue and Listing of 
Debt Securities by Municipalities) Regulations, 2015 

1.  Regulation 23 of the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) Regulations, 
2015  (SEBI  ILDM  Regulations)  prescribe  disclosures  to  be  made  by  issuers  making  public 
issues of debt securities or seeking listing of debt securities issued on private placement basis 
to the Stock Exchange(s). The said disclosures, inter-alia, include disclosures for financial as 
well as non-financial information. 

 

2.  Accordingly it has been decided to specify as under: 
 

2.1.  Disclosure of financial information: 
 
While disclosing its financial information to the Stock Exchanges, an issuer of debt securities 
under SEBI ILDM Regulations shall comply with the following: 
 

2.1.1.  Frequency and time period for disclosures: 

 

(a) The issuer shall prepare and submit un-audited financial results on a half yearly basis 
to the stock exchange and debenture trustee, wherever applicable, as soon as the same 
is available but not later than three months from the end of the half year. 
 

(b) The issuer shall prepare and submit the annual audited financial results with the stock 
exchange and debenture trustee, wherever applicable, as soon as the same is available 
but not later than six months from the end of the financial year. The audited financial 
results shall be accompanied by the annual report of the issuer.  

 

  

Page 1 of 8  

 

 

 

  

2.1.2.  Comparative information: 

 

(a) The  annual  financial  information  shall  contain  comparative  information  for  the 

immediately preceding financial year. 
 

(b) The comparative information would consist of corresponding amounts (comparative 
figures)  for  all  the  items  shown  in  the  key  financial  statements  (as  specified  in 
Paragraph 2.1.3 below), including notes. 

2.1.3.  Key Financial statements: 

 

 The key financial statements shall include the following:  

(a) Balance Sheet; 

 

(b) Income and Expenditure Statement; 
 
(c) Statement of Cash flows (a summary of an enterprise’s cash flow over a given period 

of time); 

 
(d) Receipts and Payments Account (detailed as per the account heads); 
 
(e) Notes to Accounts; and 
 
(f)  Financial Performance Indicators. 

2.1.4.  Annual report: 

 

The annual report shall include the following:  

(a)  Key Financial statements; 

 

(b) Report of the Auditor;  

 

(c) Municipal  commissioner’s  Report  on  the  Annual  Financial  Statements  and  the 

qualifications and comments made in the Report of the Auditor; and 

 
(d) Standing Committee’s Action Taken Report on the qualifications and comments made 

in the Report of the Auditor and the Report of the Municipal commissioner. 

Page 2 of 8  

 

  

2.1.5.  Approval and authentication of financial information: 

 

Before  submission  of  the  financial  information  to  the  Stock  Exchanges,  the  financial 
information shall be taken on record by Standing Committee or General Body or Board 
of Directors or Board of Trustee, as applicable or equivalent.  

2.1.6.  Audit of Financial Information:  

 

The annual financial information shall be audited, by the auditor appointed by the issuer 
as per the SEBI ILDM Regulations.  

2.2. Other Continuous Disclosures to Stock Exchange(s) and Other Compliances:  

 
2.2.1.  Listing Agreement: 

 

(a) An issuer shall enter into a simplified listing agreement, with all the Stock Exchanges 
where it proposes to list debts securities in line with the format as specified under the 
SEBI  Circular  No.  CIR/CFD/CMD/6/2015  dated  October  13,  2015  on  ‘Format  of 
uniform Listing Agreement’. 
 

(b) However, with respect to the compliance with the listing conditions, an issuer shall 
follow the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) Regulations, 
2015 and circulars issued therein. 

2.2.2.  Intimation to/ Approval from Stock Exchange(s): 

 

(a) Intention to raise funds: 

 

The issuer shall intimate the stock exchange(s), its intention to raise funds through debt 
securities or it proposes to list either through a public issue or on private placement basis, 
prior to issuance of such securities: 
 
Provided  that  the  above  intimation  may  be  given  prior  to  the  meeting  of  the  Standing 
Committee/General  Body  wherein  the  proposal  to  raise  funds  through  new  debt 
securities shall be considered. 
 
(b) Disclosure of Material and Price sensitive information: 

 

The  issuer  shall  first  disclose  to  stock  exchange(s)  of  all  events  or  information  having 
bearing  on  the  performance/operation  of  the  listed  entity,  material  or  price  sensitive 
information or any action that shall affect payment of interest or redemption of debt   

Page 3 of 8  

 

  

 
securities issued under SEBI ILDM Regulations as  soon as  reasonably possible  and not 
later than twenty four hours from the occurrence of event or information. The disclosures 
shall be made as per the format specified in Annexure I. 
 
(c) Timely payment of interests or principal obligations or both: 

 

The issuer shall submit a certificate to the stock exchange within five working days of the 
interest or principal or both becoming due that it has made timely payment of interests 
or principal obligations or both in respect of the debt securities issued under SEBI ILDM 
Regulations. 

 

(d) Approval from the stock exchange(s) for any material modification: 

 

The issuer shall not make material modification such as the structure of the debt security 
in  terms  of  coupon,  redemption,  or  otherwise,    without  prior  approval  of  the  stock 
exchange(s) where the debt securities issued under SEBI ILDM Regulations are listed, to : 
 
Provided that an application for approval from the stock exchange(s) shall be made only 
after approval of the designated committee/competent authorities and with the approval 
of the consent of requisite majority of holders of that class of securities. 

 

(e) Record Date: 

 

The issuer shall fix a record date for purposes of payment of interest to the holder of debts 
securities and payment of redemption or repayment amount or for such other purposes 
as specified by the stock exchange. The issuer shall also give notice in advance of at least 
seven  working  days  (excluding  the  date  of  intimation  and  the  record  date)  to  the 
recognized  stock  exchange(s)  of  the  record  date  or  of  as  many  days  as  the  stock 
exchange(s) may agree to or require specifying the purpose of the record date.  

2.3. Other conditions:  

 

2.3.1.  Documents and information to holders of debt securities: 

 

The listed entity shall send the following documents and information to holders of debt 
securities issued under SEBI ILDM Regulations: 

(a) Soft copies of full annual reports to all the holders of the debt securities who have 

registered their email address(es) for the purpose; 
 

Page 4 of 8  

 

  

(b) Hard copies of full annual reports to those holders of debt securities, who request for 

the same. 

2.3.2.  Credit Rating: 

 
Every credit rating, wherever required to be obtained by an issuer as per Regulation 
5(2)(c) and 15(1)(g) of the SEBI ILDM Regulations, shall be reviewed at least once a 
year, by the registered credit rating agency.  

2.3.3.  Grievance Redressal Mechanism: 

 

(a) An issuer of debt securities under SEBI ILDM Regulations shall ensure that adequate 

steps are taken for expeditious redressal of investor complaints.  
 

(b) An  issuer  of  debt  securities  under  SEBI  ILDM  Regulations  shall  ensure  that  it  is 
registered on the SCORES platform or such other electronic platform or system of the 
Board as shall be mandated from time to time, in order to handle investor complaints 
electronically in the manner specified by the Board. 

 
(c) An issuer of debt securities under SEBI ILDM Regulations shall file with the recognized 
stock exchange(s), where its securities are listed, on half yearly  basis, within thirty  
working days from the end of each half year  a statement giving the following details: 
  Number of investor complaints pending at the beginning of the half year   
  Number of investor complaints received during the half year   
  Number of investor complaints disposed of during the half year   
  Number of investor complaints pending at the end of the half year   
  

(d) The standing Committee or General Body or Board of Directors or Board of Trustee, 
as  applicable  shall  review  the  aforementioned  statement,  before  submission  of  the 
same  to  the  Stock  Exchange(s),  and  shall  ensure  that  all  investor  complaints  are 
redressed by the issuer in timely manner. 
 

(e) Periodic disclosures to be made on half yearly basis in terms of para 2 of Schedule V 
of SEBI ILDM Regulations shall be submitted within 30 working days from the end of 
the half year. 

2.4. Appointment of compliance officer: 

An issuer shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for: 

Page 5 of 8  

 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

ensuring conformity with the regulatory provisions applicable to the issuer in letter and 
spirit. 
 co-ordination  with  and  reporting  to  the  Board,  recognized  stock  exchange(s)  and 
depositories with respect to compliance with rules, regulations and other directives of 
these authorities in manner as specified from time to time. 
ensuring  that  the  correct  procedures  have  been  followed  that  would  result  in  the 
correctness,  authenticity  and  comprehensiveness  of  the  information,  statements  and 
reports filed by the issuer under these regulations. 

iv.  monitoring  email  of  grievance  redressal  division  as  designated  by  the  issuer  for  the 

purpose of registering complaints by investors. 
 

3.  The issuer who has listed its debt securities under the SEBI ILDM regulations shall forward 
to the stock exchange any other information in the manner and format as specified by the 
Board from time to time. 

 
4.  The provisions of this circular shall be applicable with immediate effect for the debt securities 
issued  in  accordance  with  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities  by  Municipalities) 
Regulations, 2015. 

 
5.  This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 29 of SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt 
Securities by Municipalities) Regulations, 2015. 

 
6.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories  “Legal 

Framework” and under the drop down “Circulars”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9596  
Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 

 
 
 
 
 

Page 6 of 8  

  

 

 

Annexure I 

 
The issuer shall inform to the stock exchange(s) in terms of provisions of Para 2.2.2 (b) of this 
circular of all information which shall have bearing on performance/operation of the listed entity 
or is price sensitive or shall affect payment of interest or of debt securities issued under SEBI 
ILDM Regulations or redemption of debt securities including: 
 
(1) expected default in timely payment of interests/ or redemption or repayment amount or both 
in respect of the debt securities issued under SEBI ILDM Regulations and also default in creation 
of security for debentures as soon as the same becomes apparent; 
 
(2)  any  attachment  or  prohibitory  orders  restraining  the  listed  entity  from  transferring  debt 
securities issued under SEBI ILDM Regulations from the account of the registered holders along-
with the particulars of the numbers of securities so affected , the names of the registered holders 
and their demat account details; 
 
(3) any action which shall result in the redemption, cancellation, retirement in whole or in part 
of any debt securities issued under SEBI ILDM Regulations; 
 
(4) any action that shall affect adversely payment of interest on debt securities issued under SEBI 
ILDM Regulations including default by issuer to pay interest or redemption amount and failure 
to create a charge on the assets; 
 
(5)  any  change  in  the  form  or  nature  of  any  of  its  debt  securities  issued  under  SEBI  ILDM 
Regulations that are listed on the stock exchange(s) or in the rights or privileges of the holders 
thereof and make an application for listing of the securities as changed, if the stock exchange(s) 
so require; 
 
(6) any changes in the general character or nature of business / activities, disruption of operation 
due to natural calamity, and commencement of commercial production / commercial operations; 
 
(7)  any  events  such  as  strikes  and  lock  outs  which  have  a  bearing  on  the  interest  payment/ 
dividend payment / principal repayment capacity; 
 
(8) details of any letter or comments made by debenture trustees, wherever applicable regarding 
payment/non-payment of interest on due dates, payment/non-payment of principal on the due 
dates or any other matter concerning the security, listed entity and /or the assets along with its 
comments thereon, if any; 
 
(9) delay/ default in payment of interest or / principal amount /redemption for a period of more 
than three months from the due date; 
 
(10) failure to create charge on the assets within the stipulated time period; 
 
 

  

Page 7 of 8  

 

the  dues/debts  of 

the 

the  repayment  programmes  of 

 
(11) any instance(s) of default/delay in timely repayment of interests or principal obligations or 
both in respect of the debt securities including, any proposal for rescheduling or postponement 
of 
listed  entity  with  any 
investor(s)/lender(s). 
 
Explanation.- For this purpose, the term default means where interest and/ or principal amount 
has remained overdue for a period of more than ninety days.  
 
(12) any major change in composition of its Standing Committee or General Body or Board of 
Directors or Board of Trustee, as applicable., which may amount to change in control as defined 
in  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011; 
 
(13) any revision in the rating; 
 
(14) the following approvals by Standing Committee or General Body or Board of Directors or 
Board of Trustee, as applicable. in their meeting:- 
 
(a) the decision to pass any interest payment; 
 
(b)  short  particulars  of  any  increase  of  capital  whether  by  issue  of  bonus  securities  through 
capitalization, or by way of right securities to be offered to the debenture holders, or in any other 
way; 
 
(15) all the information, report, notices, call letters, circulars, proceedings, etc concerning debt 
securities issued under SEBI ILDM Regulations; 
 
(16) any other change that shall affect the rights and obligations of the holders debt securities 
issued under SEBI ILDM Regulations, any other information not in the public domain necessary 
to enable the holders of the listed securities to clarify its position and to avoid the creation of a 
false  market  in  such  listed  securities  or  any  other  information  having  bearing  on  the 
operation/performance of the listed entity as well as price sensitive information. 
 
 

 

**** 

 

  

Page 8 of 8  

