 

CIRCULAR 

 

  

                    June 13, 2017 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2017/55   
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Options on Commodity Futures- Product Design and Risk Management 
Framework 
 
1.  In consultation with Commodity Derivatives Advisory Committee (CDAC), SEBI 
vide  Circular  SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/104  dated  September  28,  2016 
decided that Commodity Derivatives Exchanges shall be permitted to introduce 
trading in options. This circular is  hereby being issued to stipulate necessary 
guidelines with regard to the product design and risk management framework 
to be adopted for trading in options on commodity futures. 

 

2.  The  product  design and  risk  management framework  would  be  in  conformity 

with the guidelines prescribed in Annexure 1 enclosed with this circular. 

 

3.  Eligibility  criteria  for  selection  of  underlying  Commodity  Futures  for 
Options: Options would be permitted for trading on a commodity derivatives 
exchange only on those commodity futures as underlying, which are traded on 
its  platform  and  satisfy  both  the  criteria  specified  below  on  the  respective 
exchange: 
 

a.  The underlying 'Futures contracts' on the corresponding commodity 
shall be amongst the top five futures contracts in terms of total trading 
turnover value of previous twelve months; 
                                            

b.  The  average  daily  turnover  of  underlying  futures  contracts  of  the 
corresponding commodity  during the previous twelve months, shall 
be at least : 

I. 
II. 

INR 200 crore for agricultural and agri-processed commodities 
INR 1000 crore for other commodities. 
 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

4.  It is decided that initially, on a pilot basis each exchange shall be allowed to 
launch  options  on  futures  of  only  one  commodity  that  meets  the  criteria 
prescribed above. 

 

5.  The  Commodity  derivatives  exchanges  willing  to  start  trading  in  options 

contracts shall take prior approval of SEBI for launching such contracts. 

 
6.  The circular shall be effective from the date of this circular. 
 
7.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

take steps to make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules 
and regulations for the implementation of the same, 

ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  members  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website, 

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular. 

 
8.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 
 

9.  This circular is available on SEBI website www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 
 

 
 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 

Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in  

Page 2 of 2 

 

Annexure 1 

 

 
A. Product Design for Options on Commodity Futures: 
 

 

1.  Underlying: Commodity futures contract (of a specified month) traded on the 

corresponding exchange. 
 

2.  Settlement Method: On exercise, option position shall devolve into underlying 

futures position as follows:- 

 

 

long call position shall devolve into long position in the underlying futures 
contract 
long  put  position  shall  devolve  into  short  position  in  the  underlying 
futures contract 

  short  call  position  shall  devolve  into  short  position  in  the  underlying 

futures contract 

  short  put  position  shall  devolve  into  long  position  in  the  underlying 

futures contract 
 

All  such  devolved futures  positions  shall  be opened  at  the  strike  price  of the 
exercised options. 

 

3.  Exercise Style: To begin with European Style options are permitted. 

 

4.  Minimum  Strikes:  Each  option  expiry  shall  have  minimum  three  strikes 
available viz., one each for In the Money (ITM), Out of the Money (OTM) and 
At the Money (ATM). 

 

5.  Exercise Mechanism:  

 

On expiry, following mechanism shall be adopted by Exchanges for exercise of 
the options contracts: 

 

5.1. Option series having strike price closest to the Daily Settlement Price (DSP) 

of Futures shall be termed as At the Money (ATM) option series.  
 
This  ATM  option  series  and  two  option  series  having  strike  prices 
immediately  above  this  ATM  strike  and  two  option  series  having  strike 
prices immediately below this ATM strike shall be referred as ‘Close to the 
money’ (CTM) option series.  
 

Page 1 of 4 

 

 

In  case  the  DSP  is  exactly  midway  between  two  strike  prices,  then 
immediate  two  option  series  having  strike  prices  just  above  DSP  and 
immediate two option series having strike prices just below DSP shall be 
referred as ‘Close to the money’ (CTM) option series. 
 

5.2. All option contracts belonging to ‘CTM’ option series shall be exercised only 
on  ‘explicit  instruction’  for  exercise  by  the  long  position  holders  of  such 
contracts.  
 

5.3. All In the money (ITM) option contracts, except those belonging to ‘CTM’ 
option series, shall be exercised automatically, unless ‘contrary instruction’ 
has been given by long position holders of such contracts for not doing so. 

 

5.4. All  Out  of  the  money  (OTM)  option  contracts,  except  those  belonging  to 

‘CTM’ option series, shall expire worthless. 

 

5.5. All exercised contracts within an option series shall be assigned to short 

positions in that series in a fair and non-preferential manner. 

 

6.  Trading Hours: Trading hours shall be same as those of corresponding futures 

contract. 
 

7.  Expiry  Day:  Expiry  day  of  options  contracts  shall  be  decided  by  Exchange 
based upon period of high liquidity of underlying futures contract and shall be 
part of option contract specifications. 
 

8.  Position Limits:  

 

8.1. SEBI 

vide  Circular  SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/96  dated 
September  27,  2016  prescribed  norms  for  position  limits  for  commodity 
futures. Position limits for options shall follow the same norms as provided 
in the said circular for futures. 
 

8.2. Position limits of options would be separate from position limits of futures 
contracts and numerical value for client level/member level limits shall be 
twice of corresponding numbers applicable for futures contracts provided 
in Annexure- A of the SEBI circular dated September 27, 2016. 
 

8.3. Due to separate position limits for options, there is a possibility that post 
exercise  of  options  i.e.  after  devolvement  of  options  into  corresponding 
futures  positions  open  positions  for  clients/members  may  exceed  their 

Page 2 of 4 

 

 

permissible  position  limits  for  future  contracts.  For  such  clients/members 
Exchanges may permit maximum up to two trading days post option expiry 
day to reduce their futures positions to bring them within the permissible 
position limits. 

 

B. Risk Management Framework: 

 

9.  Exchanges shall adopt risk management framework compliant with the CPMI-
IOSCO Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures, including the following: 

 

9.1.  Margining  model  and  quantum  of  initial  margins:  Exchanges  shall 
adopt  initial  margin  models  and  parameters  that  are  risk-based  and 
generate  margin  requirements  sufficient  to  cover  potential  future 
exposure  to  participants/clients  in  the  interval  between  the  last  margin 
collection  and  the  close  out  of  positions  following  a  participant/client 
default. The model should  
a) 

use a conservative estimate of the time horizons for close out of 
the positions (including in stressed market conditions), 
have  an  appropriate  method  for  measuring  credit  exposure  that 
accounts for relevant risk factors and portfolio effects, and 
to  the  extent  practicable  and  prudent,  limit  the  need  for 
destabilising,  pro-cyclical changes.  

b) 

c) 

 

 

 

Initial margin requirement shall be adequate to cover 99% VaR (Value 
at Risk) and Margin Period of Risk (MPOR) shall be at least two days. In 
case  of  portfolio  based  margining,  this  requirement  applies  to  each 
portfolio’s distribution of future exposure.  

Accordingly, exchanges shall fix prudent price scan range, volatility scan 
range  and/or  plausible  changes  in  any  other  parameters  impacting 
options price. Exchange shall impose appropriate short option minimum 
margin,  calendar  spread  charge  and  extreme  loss  margin  for  option 
contracts. 

9.2.  Margining at client level: Exchanges shall impose initial margins at the 
level of portfolio of individual client comprising of his positions in futures 
and options contracts on each commodity.  

 

 

9.3.  Real  time  computation:  Though  the  margining  models  may  update 
various scenarios of parameter changes (underlying price, volatility etc.) 
at  discrete  time  points  each  day  (at  least  every  two  hours),  the  latest 

Page 3 of 4 

 

 

available  scenarios  shall  be  applied  to  client  portfolios  on  a  real  time 
basis. 

 

9.4.  Mark to market: Exchanges shall mark to market the options positions 
by deducting/adding the current market value of options (positive for long 
options  and  negative  for  short  options)  times  the  number  of  long/short 
options  in  the  portfolio  from/to  the  margin  requirement.  Thus,  mark  to 
market  gains  and  losses  would  not  be  settled  in  cash  for  options 
positions. 

 

9.5.  Risks pertaining to options that devolve into futures on expiry:  

 

a) 

 
b) 

For handling increase in margins on expiry when options devolve 
into futures position, specifically for long option positions which are 
probable  to  be  exercised,  exchanges  shall  start  sensitizing  the 
option  holders  of  the  impending  increase  in margins  (along  with 
the  estimated  increase)  at  least  few  days  in  advance,  and/or, 
based  on  their  risk  perception,  may  also  consider  gradually 
collecting increased margins during the last few days so as to have 
adequate margins to cover the risk of futures position that will be 
created on devolvement of options into futures. 

As per the provisions of SEBI circular SEBI/HO/CDMRD/ DRMP/ 
CIR/P  /2016/80 dated September  07, 2016, penalty  is  levied  on 
members for short-collection/non-collection of the initial margins. 
Penalty for such short-collection/non-collection due to increase in 
initial margins  resulting from devolvement of options into futures 
may not be levied by Exchanges for the first day. 
 
 

-------- 

Page 4 of 4 

