 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã ‚ããõÀ ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã ºããñ¡ 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIR/MRD/DP/54/2017 
 
To, 
All Stock Exchanges   

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 
        June 13, 2017   

 

Sub: Comprehensive Review of Margin Trading Facility 

1.  SEBI  vide  circular  SEBI/MRD/SE/SU/Cir-15/04  dated  March  19,  2004  had 
prescribed  framework  for  permitting  stock  brokers  to  provide  margin  trading 
facility  to  their  clients.  The  said 
framework  was  revised  vide  circular 
SEBI/MRD/SE/SU/Cir-16/04 dated March 31, 2004 and circular MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-
08/2005 dated March 04, 2005.  

2.  Representations have been received from market participants requesting review of 
margin trading framework to enable greater participation. The suggestions received 
from market participants were examined and deliberated in the Secondary Market 
Advisory Committee ("SMAC"). Based on the deliberations, the revised framework 
for Margin Trading Facility are stated as under:  

Securities Eligible for Margin Trading 
 

3.  Equity Shares that are classified as 'Group I security' as per SEBI Master circular No. 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2016/135 dated December 16, 2016, shall be eligible for 
margin trading facility.  

Margin Requirement 

4.  In order to avail margin trading facility, initial margin required shall be as under; 

 

Category of Stock 
Group I stocks available for trading 
in the F & O Segment  
Group I stocks other than F&O stocks  VaR + 5 times of applicable ELM* 

Applicable margin 
VaR + 3 times of applicable ELM*  

 
*For aforesaid purpose the applicable VaR and ELM shall be as in the cash segment 
for a particular stock.     

1 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.  The initial margin payable by the client to the Stock Broker shall be in the form of 
cash, cash equivalent or Group I equity shares, with appropriate hair cut as specified 
in  SEBI  Master  circular  no.  SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2016/135  dated  December 
16, 2016. 
 

6.  The Stock brokers shall be required to comply with the following conditions:  

 

 

 

i.  The stocks deposited as collateral with the stock broker for availing margin 
trading  facility  (Collaterals)  and  the  stocks  purchased  under  the  margin 
trading  facility  (Funded  stocks)  shall  be  identifiable  separately  and  no 
comingling  shall  be  permitted  for  the  purpose  of  computing  funding 
amount; 

ii.  Collateral and Funded stocks shall be marked to market on a daily basis; 
iii.  In case of increase in the value of Collaterals, stock brokers may have the 
option  of granting  further exposure  to their clients  subject to applicable 
haircuts; 

iv.  However, no such exposure shall be permitted on the increased value of 

Funded stocks.   

7.  Stock brokers shall ensure maintenance of the aforesaid margin at all times during 
the period that the margin trading facility is being availed by the client. In case of 
short fall, stock broker shall make necessary margin calls.  
 

8.  The exchange/stock broker, based on the risk assessment, shall have the discretion 

to impose/collect higher margin than the margin specified in para-4 above.   
 
Liquidation of Securities by the Stock Broker in Case of Default by the Client 
 

9.  The stock broker shall list out situations/conditions in which the securities may be 
liquidated  and  such  situations/conditions  shall  be  included  in  the  “Rights  and 
Obligations Document”. The broker shall liquidate the securities, if the client fails to 
meet the margin call to comply with the conditions as mentioned in this circular or 
specified in the "Rights and Obligations Document" specified by exchange. 
 

10. However, the broker shall not liquidate or use in any manner the securities of the 

client in any situation other than the conditions stipulated at para-9 above.  

 
Eligibility  Requirements  for  Stock  Brokers  to  Provide  Margin  Trading  Facility  to 
Clients 
 

11. Only  corporate  stock  brokers  with  a  net  worth  of  at  least  Rs.3.00  crore  shall  be 

eligible to offer margin trading facility to their clients. 
 

 

2 | P a g e  

 

12. The “net worth” for the purpose of margin trading facility shall be as specified in SEBI 

(Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 1992.  
 

13. The stock brokers shall submit to the stock exchange a half-yearly certificate, as on 
31st  March and 30th September of each year, from an auditor confirming the  net 
worth.  Such  a  certificate  shall  be  submitted  not  later  than  30th  April  and  31st 
October of every year. 
 
Source of Funds 
 

14. For the purpose of providing the margin trading facility, a stock broker may use own 
funds or borrow funds from scheduled commercial banks and/or NBFCs regulated 
by RBI. A stock broker shall not be permitted to borrow funds from any other source. 
 

15. The  stock  broker  shall  not  use  the  funds  of  any  client  for  providing  the  margin 

trading facility to another client, even if the same is authorized by the first client. 

Leverage and Exposure Limits 
 

16. At  any  point  of  time,  the  total  indebtedness  of  a  stock  broker  for  the  purpose  of 
margin trading shall not exceed 5 times of its net worth, calculated as per para 12 
above. 
 

17. The maximum allowable exposure of the broker towards the margin trading facility 
shall be within the self imposed prudential limits and shall not, in any case, exceed 
the borrowed funds and 50% of his “net worth”. 
 

18. While providing the margin trading facility, the broker shall ensure that: 

 

a)  exposure to any single client at any point of time shall not exceed 10% of the 

broker’s maximum allowable exposure, as specified in para 17 above. 
 

b)  exposure  towards  stocks  purchased  under  margin  trading  facility  and 
collateral kept in the form of stocks are well diversified. Stock brokers shall 
have appropriate Board approved policy in this regard.   

 
Disclosure Requirement 
 

19. The  stock  broker  shall  disclose  to  the  stock  exchanges  details  on  gross  exposure 
towards  margin  trading  facility  including  name  of  the  client,  Category  of  holding 
(Promoter/promoter group or Non-promoter), clients' Permanent Account Number 
("PAN"), name of the scrips (Collateral stocks and Funded stocks) and if the stock 
broker  has  borrowed  funds  for  the  purpose  of  providing  margin  trading  facility, 
name of the lender and amount borrowed, on or before 12 noon on the following 
trading day. The format for this disclosure by the stock broker to the stock exchange 
is enclosed at Annexure 1.  

3 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 

 

20. The stock exchanges shall disclose on their websites the scrip wise gross outstanding 
in margin accounts with all brokers to the market. Such disclosure regarding margin 
trading  done  on  any  day  shall  be  made  available  after  the  trading  hours,  on  the 
following  day,  through  its  website.  The  format  for  such  disclosure  by  the  stock 
exchange is enclosed at Annexure 2. 
 

21. The stock exchanges shall put in place a suitable mechanism to capture and maintain 
all  relevant  details  including  member-wise,  client-wise,  scrip-wise  information 
regarding outstanding positions in margin trading facility and also source of funds 
of the stock brokers, on the exchange both on daily as well as on cumulative basis. 

 
Rights and Obligations for Margin Trading 

22. The stock exchanges shall frame a Rights and Obligations document laying down the 
rights and obligations of stock brokers and clients for the purpose of margin trading 
facility. The Rights and Obligations document shall be mandatory and binding on the 
Broker/Trading Member and the clients for executing trade in the Margin Trading 
framework. 
 

23. The  broker/exchange  may  modify  the  Rights  and  Obligations  document  only  for 
stipulating  any  additional  or  more  stringent  conditions,  provided  that  no  such 
modification shall have the effect of diluting any of the conditions laid down in the 
circular or in the Rights and Obligations document. 

 
Maintenance of Records 
 

24. The stock broker shall maintain separate client-wise ledgers for funds and securities 

of clients availing margin trading facility. 
 

25. The stock broker shall maintain a separate record of details of the funds used and 

sources of funds for the purpose of margin trading.   
 

26. The books of accounts, maintained by the broker, with respect to the margin trading 
facility offered by it, shall be audited on a half yearly basis. The stock broker shall 
submit an auditor’s certificate to the exchange within one month from the date of the 
half year ending 31st March and 30th September of a year certifying, inter alia, the 
extent of compliance with the conditions of margin trading facility. This certificate is 
in addition to the certificate on net worth specified in para 12 above. 
 
Other Conditions 
 

27. A  broker  shall  take  adequate  care  and  exercise  due  diligence  before  providing 

margin trading facility to any client. 
 

4 | P a g e  

 

 

 

28. Any disputes arising between the client and the stock broker in connection with the 
margin trading facility shall have the same treatment as normal trades and should 
be  covered  under  the  investor  grievance  redressal  mechanism,  arbitration  
mechanism of the stock exchange.   
 

29. SGF  and  IPF  shall  be  available  for  transactions  done  on  the  exchange,  whether 
through  normal  or  margin  trading  facility.  However,  any  losses  suffered  in 
connection  with  the  margin  trading  facility  availed  by  the  client  from  the  stock 
broker shall not be covered under IPF. 
 

30. The stock brokers wishing to extend margin trading facility to their clients shall be 
required to  obtain  prior permission from the  exchange  where the  margin trading 
facility  is  proposed  to  be  offered.  The  exchange  shall  have  right  to  withdraw  this 
permission at a later date, after giving reasons for the same. 

 

31. This circular shall supersede earlier circulars no SEBI/MRD/SE/SU/Cir-15/04 dated 
March19,  2004,  SEBI/MRD/SE/SU/Cir-16/04  dated  March  31,  2004  and 
MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-08/2005 dated March 04, 2005 on Margin Trading Facility. 
 

32. The Stock Exchanges are advised to:-  

 
a.   take necessary steps and put in place necessary systems for  implementation of 

this circular. 

b.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 

the implementation of the above decision. 

c.   bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the member brokers of the 

stock exchange and also disseminate the circular on the website.  

 

33. This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11 (1) of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interest of investors 
in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities 
market. 

 

 

Yours faithfully  
 
 
 
Susanta Kumar Das 
Deputy General Manager 
e-mail: susantad@sebi.gov.in 

5 | P a g e  

 

 

 
 

 

 

Annexure 1 
 

Format of the Daily Reporting by the members to the Exchange on the amount 

financed by them under the Margin Trading Facility 

 
Name of the member                                                                                  
 

Name of 
Client 

Category of Holding        
( Promoter/Promoter 
Group or Non 
Promoter 

PAN  Name of 

Stock 
Exchange 

 

 Clearing No. 

Amount 
Financed   
 ( In lakhs) 

Qty 
Financed 
( Number 
of 
shares) 

Stock 
(Collatera
l or 
Funded 
Stock) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

SI. 
NO. 

                                           Particulars 

(Rs. in lakhs) 

1  Total outstanding on the beginning of the day 
2  Add: Fresh exposure taken during the day 
3  Less: Exposure liquidated during the day 
4   Net outstanding at the end of the day 

 
 
 
 

 
 
Source of Funds 
 

1  Out of net worth 
2   Out of borrowed funds 
3 

If borrowed, name of lenders and amount borrowed to be 
specified separately 

 
 
 

 
Note: Disclosure is required to be made on or before 12 noon on the following trading day. 
 

 

 

6 | P a g e  

 

Annexure 2 
 

Format for the dissemination of information by the stock exchange 

Name of the Stock  

 

Qty. financed by all the 
members  
(Number of shares) 
 

Amount financed by all 
the members (Rs. in 
lakhs) 
 

 

 

 

 

SI. No. 

                                        Particulars 

(Rs. in lakhs) 

1 

2 

3 

4 

Scrip-wise total outstanding on the beginning of the day 

Add: Fresh exposure taken during the day 

Less: Exposure liquidated during the day 

Net scrip-wise outstanding at the end of the day 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
Note : Disclosure is required to be made immediately before end of the following trading day 
( in respect of previous day’s margin trading facility) . 
 
 
 

 

7 | P a g e  

