CIRCULAR 

 

 

CIR/CDMRD/DEICE/CIR/P/2017/53 

 

 

                               June13, 2017 

 

To, 

The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 
Sir/Madam, 

Subject: Comprehensive guidelines for Investor Protection Fund, Investor Service 
Fund and its related matters at National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 

 

1.  SEBI, vide its circular no SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DEICE/CIR/P/2016/94 dated September 
26, 2016, consolidated various  norms and  guidelines  relating to Investor Protection 
Fund, issued by the erstwhile FMC, applicable to the National Commodity Derivatives 
Exchanges (herein after referred to as Exchanges). 

 
2.  With  the  objective  to  align  with  the  practices  in  securities  markets,  based  on  the 
internal  deliberations,  discussions  and  feedback  as  received  from  the  National 
Commodity Derivatives Exchanges, it has been decided to modify certain clauses in 
the aforesaid circular as under : 

 

Constitution and management of the IPF 

 
a)  Clause 3.2. shall be substituted the following –  

 

3.2.  The  IPF  Trust  of  the  exchange  shall  have  maximum  5  trustees.  The  IPF 
Trust  shall  consist  of  three  public  interest  directors,  one  representative  from 
investor  associations  recognized  by  SEBI  and  the  compliance  officer  of  the   
exchange. The maximum tenure of a trustee (excluding the compliance officer of 
the exchange, whose trusteeship would be co-terminus with the service) shall be 
five years or as specified by SEBI.  
 
b)  Clause 3.3. and 3.6. shall be deleted 

 
Contribution to the IPF 
 

c)  Clause 4.1. shall be substituted the following- 

 

 

Page 1 of 6 

4.1.  All  the  penalties  levied  and  collected  by  the  exchange,  except  for  the 
settlement  related  penalties  (including  penalties  from  delivery  default),  shall  be 
credited of the IPF.  
 
4.2.  1% of the turnover fee charged by the exchange from its members/brokers 
or ten lakh whichever is higher in a financial year. 
 

 

Eligibility of claims 
 

d)  Clause 6.2. shall be substituted the following- 

 
6.2. 

If any eligible claim arises within three years from the date of expiry of the 
specified period, such claim  

i. 

ii. 

shall be considered eligible for compensation from IPF/CPF in case 
where the defaulter member’s funds are inadequate. In such cases, 
IPF/CPF Trust shall satisfy itself that such claim could not have been 
filed during the specified period for reasons beyond the control of the 
claimant.  

shall  not  be  considered  eligible  for  compensation  from  IPF/CPF  in 
case where the surplus funds of the defaulter member is returned to 
the defaulter member. The same shall be borne by the  exchanges 
after scrutinizing and satisfying itself that such claim could not have 
been filed during the specified period for reasons beyond the control 
of the claimant.  

Provided that any claim received after three years from the date of expiry of 
the specified period may be dealt with as a civil dispute. 

e)  Clause 6.3. shall be deleted  

 

f)  Clause 6.4. shall be substituted the following- 
 
6.4.  The  investor  claim  arising  out  of  a  default  of  a  broker/member  of  the 

exchange shall be eligible for compensation from IPF. 
 

Determination of legitimate claims  
 

g)  Clause 7.1. and 7.2. shall be substituted as following- 

 
7.1. 

 

In  case  of  claims  against  a  defaulter  member,  the  claims  of  the  claimant 
shall  be  placed  before  the  defaulters’  committee  for  sanction  and 

Page 2 of 6 

7.2. 

ratification.  The  Defaulters’  Committee’s  advice  with  respect  to  legitimate 
claims shall be sent to IPF Trust for disbursement of the amount.  
 
In case the claim amount is more than the maximum limit for compensation 
under  IPF  or  the  amount  sanctioned  and  ratified  by  the  Defaulters 
Committee is less than the claim amount, then the investor may prefer for 
arbitration mechanism for claim of the balance amount. 

 

 
h)  Clause 7.3. shall be inserted the following- 

 
7.3. 

In  the  event  of  default  by  the  member,  all  transactions  executed  on  the 
exchange platform shall be eligible for settlement from IPF subject to the 
appropriate norms laid down by the defaulters’ committee.  The IPF of the 
exchange  shall  be  utilized  for  the  clients  of  SEBI  registered  members. 
However,  the  said  amount  shall  not  be  more  than  the  maximum  limit  as 
prescribed at all time.    

 
Threshold limit for claims 
 

i)  Clause 8.1 and 8.2 shall be substituted the following: 
 
8.1.  The  Exchanges  are  free  to  fix  suitable  compensation  limits,  in  consultation 
with IPF trust. However, the  amount  of compensation  available  against a single 
claim of an investor arising out of defaulter by a member broker shall not be less 
than Rs 1 lakh. 
 
8.2. The exchanges in consultation with IPF Trust, shall review and progressively 
incase  the  amount  of  compensation  available  against  a  single  claim  from  an 
investor at least every three year.  
 
j)  Clause 8.3 shall be deleted  

 
Disbursement of Claims from the IPF 
 

k)  Clause 9.2. and 9.3. shall be substituted the following: 

9.2.  The compensation shall be disbursed to the investor from the IPF in case 
there is a shortage of defaulter broker’s assets after its realization. 

9.3. The Exchange shall ensure that the  amount  realized  from  the  assets  of  the 
defaulter member is returned to the defaulter member after satisfying the claims of 
the exchanges and SEBI in accordance with the bye-laws of  the exchange. 

Page 3 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Provided  that  in  case  of  a  member  broker  having  membership  on  multiple 
exchanges,  amount  realized  from  the  assets  of  the  defaulter  member  shall  be 
returned to the said member only after satisfying eligible claims of the concerned 
exchange, SEBI, and other exchanges as the case may be. 

 

 

Provided  further  that  in  cases  where  any  litigations  are  pending  against  the 
defaulter member, the residual amount, if any, may be retained by the exchange 
until such litigations are concluded." 

 
 
 
 

 

3.  The IPF Trust shall disburse the compensation to the investors as and when claims 
have been crystallized against a defaulter member. The IPF Trust need not wait for 
realization  of  assets  of the  defaulter  member  for  disbursement  of  the  claims.  Upon 
receipt  of  advice  of  defaulter’s  committee,  for  payment,  the  IPF  Trust  shall  take 
necessary steps for disbursement of amount at the earliest.  
 

4.  Exchanges  shall  periodically  review  the  sources  of  fund  and  eligible  compensation 
amount  so  as  to  recalibrate  the  fund  to  make  suitable  recommendation  for 
enhancement.  

 

Income earned on IPF and its Utilization:  
 

through  seminars, 

5.  The exchange may utilize income earned on the corpus of IPF towards promotion of 
investor  education  and  awareness  programmes 
lectures, 
workshops,  publications  (print  and  electronic  media),  training  programs  etc.  to 
enhance literacy and to promote participation in the commodity derivatives market or 
any  other  mandated  purpose.  Capital  expenditure  would  be  permissible  only  w.r.t. 
setting  up  of  Investor  Service  Centre.  However,  no  expenditure  to  be  incurred  on 
product  promotion  in  any  manner.  However,  in  case  of  non-utilization  of  the  said 
income  in  the  same  financial  year  for  the  mandated  purpose,  the  same  shall  be 
ploughed back to IPF. In addition to above, the income earned on the IPF corpus may 
be utilized in other manner as prescribed/permitted by SEBI in the interest of investors 
from time to time. 
 

6.  In  order  to  ensure  effective  utilization  of  income  earned  on  IPF,  supervision  of 

utilization of interest on IPF will rest with the IPF Trust of the exchange. 

 
Investor Service Fund (ISF) 
 
7.  Exchanges are mandated to set up Investor Service Fund (ISF) for providing following 

basis minimum facilities at various Investor Service Centers (ISC). 

a.  The  ISC  shall  provide  4  financial  newspapers  with  at  least  one  in  the 

Regional language.  

 

Page 4 of 6 

 

b.  The ISC shall install computer software (marketed by some vendors) which 
provide information about various commodities (agri and non agri) including 
research  reports,  general,  financial  &  other  important  commodity  related 
information. The information will be made available through computers with 
one master terminal and some dummy terminals through  which investors 
could  access  this  information.  Other  facilities  like  copying  will  be  made 
available to the investors at minimum cost.  

c.  The ISC shall provide facilities for receiving/recording investor complaints. 
Special  staff  recruited/deployed  by  the  exchange  for  this  purpose  will 
register  the  complaints  and  provide  counseling  service  to  the  investors. 
Status of complaints will be maintained and updated in the computer system 
of the Center.  

d.  The ISC shall provide for other infrastructure facilities such as telephone, 
photocopier, furniture, sitting space, internet connection having access to 
various directions / circulars issued by SEBI and Government agencies etc.  
e.  The ISC shall provide published commodity related materials of exchanges 
for  the  benefit  of  the  investors.  It  should  also  provide  the  pamphlets  / 
brouchers detailing the rights and obligation of investors while dealing with 
brokers in commodity markets, FAQ's etc. 

f.  The  ISC  shall  provide  for  dummy  terminals  to  display  the  prices  of  the 
commodities listed on the exchange on real-time basis, to enable investors 
watch the price movements of the commodities etc.  

g.  The ISC shall maintain a library on relevant laws, financial analysis, market 

trend analysis etc. for the education of the investors. 

h.  The ISC shall conduct various investor education and investor awareness 
programs  through  seminars,  lectures,  workshops,  publications  (print  and 
electronic  media),  training  programs  etc.  enhance  literacy  and  promoting 
participation in the commodity derivatives market.  

Contribution to ISF  
 

a.  At initial stage, the exchange shall contribute a minimum of Rs Ten Lakhs 
towards setting up of Investor Service Fund (ISF). Subsequently, onwards, 
the Exchanges shall transfer the 1% percent of the turnover fees charged 
by the exchange from its members on monthly basis towards ISF within 7 
days  of  the  end  of  the  month,  subject  to  minimum  of  Rs  Ten  Lakh  in  a 
financial year.  
 

b.  The  Exchange  shall  also  plough  back  the  entire  income  earned  on  the 
corpus of ISF to the ISF within one month from the end of September and 
March of each year. 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 6 

8.  The exchange shall be permitted to utilize the corpus of ISF for conducting  various 
investor  education  and  awareness  programs,  capacity  building  programs  and 
maintenance of all price ticker boards installed by the respective exchanges, cost of 
training  of  arbitrators  etc.  In  addition  to  above,  the  corpus  may  be  utilized  in  other 
manner as prescribed/permitted by SEBI in the interest of investors from time to time. 
 

 

9.  In  order  to  efficient  management  of  ISF,  Investor  Service  Committee  (ISC)  of 

exchange shall oversee the contribution to ISF and its utilization.   

 

10. Exchange shall maintain separate bank account for maintaining corpus of the IPF as 
well as ISF and such  funds should  not  be co-mingled  with any  other fund(s)  of the 
exchange and shall not be used for any other purpose than the mandated purposes 
as mentioned in this circular. 

 

11. The provisions of this circular shall come into effect from July 01, 2017.  

 

12. The exchanges are advised to:- 

 
  make necessary amendments  to relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 

the implementation of this circular. 

  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  members  of  the 

exchange  and also to disseminate the same on their website. 

  communicate to SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  

this circular. 

 
13. This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992,  read  with  Section  10  of  the 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

 
14. The circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in . 

 

 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Prasad Jagadale 
Deputy General Manager 
Division of Exchange Inspection and Complaints against Exchanges 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
prasadj@sebi.gov.in 

Page 6 of 6 

