भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
CIR/CFD/DIL/57/2017 
 
To 
All Listed entities who have listed their equity and convertibles 
All the Recognised Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Non-compliance  with  certain  provisions  of  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009 (“ICDR Regulations”) 

         June 15, 2017 

1.  Regulations  111A  and  111B  of  ICDR  Regulations  inter  alia  specify  liability  of  a  listed 
entity  or  any  other  person  for  contravention  and  actions  which  can  be  taken  by  the 
respective stock exchange and the revocation of such actions,  in the manner specified 
by SEBI. 

2.  Stock  exchanges shall  impose fines  on the  companies  for  non-compliance  with  certain 

provisions of ICDR Regulations as under: 
Regulation  Violation 
95(1) 

Delay in completion of 
bonus issue. 

Fine 
₹ 20,000 per day of non-compliance till the date 
of compliance. 
 
If  non-compliance  continues  for  more  than  15 
days, additional fine of 0.01 % of paid up capital 
of the entity or ₹ 1 crore, whichever is less. 

Paid-up capital for this purpose shall be the paid 
up capital as on first day of the financial year in 
which the non-compliance occurs. 

75 

108(2) 

Companies 
not 
allotting the shares on 
conversion 
of 
convertible  securities 
within 18 months. 
not 
Issuer 
the 
approaching 
exchange  for  listing  of 
equity  shares  within 
20  days  from  date  of 
allotment. 

Same as above. 

Same as above. 

3.  The amount of fine realized as per the above structure shall be credited to the "Investor 

Protection Fund" of the concerned recognized stock exchange. 

4.  The recognized stock exchanges shall disseminate on their website the names of non-
compliant listed entities that are liable to pay fine for non-compliance, the amount of fine 
imposed, details of fines received, etc. 

 

Page 1 of 2 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

5.  The  recognized  stock  exchange  shall  issue  notice  to  the  non-compliant  listed  entity  to 

pay fine within 15 days from the date of the notice. 

6.  If  any  non-compliant  listed  entity  fails  to  pay  the  fine,  the  recognized  stock  exchange 

may initiate appropriate enforcement action, including prosecution. 

7.  In consultation with the stock exchanges, it is further clarified with respect to bonus issue 

delays: 

a)  For  the  purpose  of  a  bonus  issue  to  be  considered  as  ‘implemented’  under 
Regulation  95(1)  of  ICDR  Regulations,  the  date  of  commencement  of  trading 
shall be considered.  

b)  The  recognized  stock  exchange  shall  grant  approvals  to  the  bonus  shares 
allotted  to  persons  other  than  the  promoter(s)  in  the  interest  of  the  investors, 
subject to compliance with other requirements.  

c)  The  approvals  for  the  promoters'  bonus  shares  may  be  granted  by  the  Stock 

Exchange after payment of the requisite fine by the company. 

8.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of 

listed entities and also to disseminate the same on its website.  

9.  This circular is issued under regulations 111A, 111B and 112 of ICDR Regulations. 

10. This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework/Circulars”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Pradeep Ramakrishnan 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporate Finance Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9246 
Email id - pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 2 

