 
 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/64   
 
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors of all Recognized Stock Exchanges and Depositories 
 

 

 

        June  22, 2017 

Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Clarification to Enhanced Supervision Circular 
 

1.  SEBI  vide  circular  no.  SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2016/95  dated  September  26, 
2016, has issued guidelines covering broad areas  for enhanced supervision based on the 
recommendation  of  the  committee  constituted  by  SEBI.  Following  representations  from 
Exchanges 
no 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2016/138  dated  December  20,  2016  made  the  aforesaid 
Circular effective from April 1, 2017 and accordingly the various timelines mentioned in the 
circular for different activities was consequently postponed. 
 

vide  Circular 

as  market 

participants, 

as  well 

SEBI 

2.  SEBI  has  received  further  representations  from  the  market  participants  regarding  certain 
provisions  of  the  aforesaid  circular.  Based  on  the  discussions  with  different  stakeholders, 
following clarifications are made: 

 

a.  Clause  1.2.2  and  1.2.4  stands  deleted;  accordingly  naming  proprietary  bank/demat 
accounts  of  the  stock  broker  as  'Stock  Broker-  Proprietary  Account'  is  voluntary.    It  is 
however    clarified  that  bank/demat  account  which  do  not  fall  under  the  Clauses 
1.2.1,1.2.3, 1.2.5 , 1.2.6 and 1.2.7  would be deemed to be proprietary. 
 

b.  After Clause 2.1, Clause 2.1.1 is inserted as, “Stock Broker which is also Bank, may be 
required  to  report  to  the  Stock  Exchanges  only  those  bank accounts  that are  used  for 
their stock broking activities”. 
 

c.  Clause 2.5 stand modified as follows: “As per existing norms, a stock broker is entitled 
to have a lien on client's securities to the extent of the client's indebtedness to the stock 
broker and the stock broker may pledge those securities. Pledge  of  such  securities  is  
permitted,  only  if,  the  same  is  done  through  Depository system in compliance with 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 
 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Regulation  58  of  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations,1996.    To  
strengthen  the  existing  mechanism,  the  stock  brokers  shall ensure the following:” 
 

d.  Clause  2.6  stands  modified  as,  "Stock  brokers  shall  not  grant  further  exposure  to  the 
clients when debit balances arise out of client's failure to pay the required amount and 
such  debit  balances  continues  beyond  the  fifth  trading  day,  as  reckoned  from  date  of 
pay-in, except, in accordance with the margin trading facility provided vide SEBI circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/54/2017 dated June 13, 2017 or as may be issued from time to time." This 
clause would be effective from August 1, 2017.  
 

e.  Clause 3.2 stands clarified that, Stock broker shall upload the data as envisaged in the 
Clause 3.2 on monthly basis instead of weekly basis till March 31, 2018.   Accordingly, 
till March 31, 2018, stock broker shall submit the data as on the last trading day of every 
month  to  the  Stock  Exchanges  on  or  before  the  next  trading  day.  Thereafter,  the 
uploading of that data by the stock broker to the  Stock Exchanges shall be on weekly 
basis i.e. stock brokers shall submit the data as on last trading day of every week on or 
before the next trading day. 
 

f.  Further, it is also clarified that the provisions of this enhanced supervision circular is not 

applicable to Regional Commodity Exchanges till further notice. 

 

3.  You are advised to take necessary steps to ensure compliance with the above. 

 

4.  The Stock Exchanges/Depositories are directed to bring the contents of this circular to the 
notice of the Stock Brokers/Depository Participants and also disseminate the same on their 
websites. 
 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in securities and 
to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities markets. 
 

6.  This Circular is available on SEBI website at  www.sebi.gov.in under the categories “Legal 

Framework”. 
 

 
 

 

Yours faithfully, 

Debashis Bandyopadhyay 
General Manager 

Page 2 of 2 

 

