 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

    June 21, 2017 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2017/61   
 
To,  
 
All Commodity Derivatives Exchanges, 
All Custodians of Securities,  
All Alternative Investment Fund (AIFs)  
 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  

 

Sub:  Participation  of  Category  III  Alternative  Investment  Funds  (AIFs)  in  the 

commodity derivatives market 

 
1.  At present, institutional participants are not allowed to participate in the commodity 
derivatives  market  in  India.  Consequently  the  commodity  derivatives  markets  in 
India lack the desired liquidity and depth for efficient price discovery and price risk 
management. In the past, various committees including those constituted by the 
Government of India have recommended participation of institutional investors in 
the  commodity  derivatives  markets,  for  improving  the  quality  of  price  discovery, 
thereby leading to better price risk management.  
 

2.  Taking cognizance of the fact that participation by Institutional investors would be 
conducive for the overall development of the commodity derivatives market, SEBI 
has held consultations with various stakeholders of this market. Further, based on 
the recommendations of the Commodity Derivatives Advisory Committee (CDAC) 
and  feedback  received  from  the  market  participants  during  the  consultative 
process,  it  is  now  decided  to  allow  the  Category-III  Alternative  Investment 
Funds(AIFs)  to  participate  in  the  commodity  derivatives  market,  subject  to  the 
following conditions: 
 
2.1. Category III AIFs may participate in all commodity derivatives products that are 
being traded on the commodity derivatives exchanges as ‘clients’ and shall be 
subjected to all the rules, regulations and instructions, position limit norms as 
may be applicable to clients, issued by SEBI and Exchanges from time to time. 
 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

2.2. Category III AIFs shall invest not more than ten percent of the investable funds 

in one underlying commodity. 
 

2.3. Category III AIFs may engage in leverage or borrow subject to consent from 
the investors in the fund and subject to a maximum limit, as specified by the 
Board from time to time.  
 

 

2.4. Category  III  AIFs  shall  make  disclosure  in  private  placement  memorandum 
issued to the investors about investment in commodity derivatives. Consent of 
existing investor(s) shall be taken by AIFs if they intend to invest in commodity 
derivatives and exit opportunity should be provided to dissenting investor(s). 
 

2.5. If applicable, AIF shall also comply with RBI notification No. FEMA. 355/2015-
RB dated November 16, 2015 and all other guidelines issued by the RBI under 
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 from time to time. 

 

2.6. Category  III  AIF  shall  be  subject  to  the  reporting  requirements  as  may  be 

specified by SEBI. 
 

2.7. The participation of Category III AIF in the commodity derivatives market shall 
be subject to the compliance of the provisions of SEBI (Alternative Investment 
Funds) Regulations, 2012 and circulars issued thereunder.  
 

3.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect from the date of the circular. 

 

4.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 

5.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations. 
ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

circular.  

 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

6.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category 
“Circulars”, “Info for Commodity Derivatives” and "Info for Alternative Investment 
Funds (AIFs)". 
 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Tel No.022-26449234 
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 3 of 3 

