 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DRMNP/CIR/P/2017/97      
 
All  recognized  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations  in 
International Financial Services Centres 

 

 

             August 31, 2017 

Dear Sir/Madam 
 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (International  Financial  Services 
Centres) Guidelines, 2015 – Amendments 

Kindly refer to SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015 notified by SEBI on March 27, 2015 and 
various amendments made thereto from time to time.  

2.  In  order  to  further  streamline  the  operations  at  IFSC,  based  on  the  internal 

discussions and consultations held with the stakeholders, it has been decided to 

amend provisions of the aforesaid guidelines as follows: 

2.1. Credit rating requirement 

Guideline  17  of  SEBI  (IFSC)  Guidelines,  2015  is  being  amended  to  read  as 

follows: 

17.  For  debt  securities  listed  on  stock  exchanges  in  IFSC,  the  credit  rating  shall 

be  obtained  either  from  a  credit  rating  agency  registered  with  the  Board  or  from 

any other credit rating agency registered in a Financial Action Task Force (FATF) 

member jurisdiction.  

2.2. Agreement with depository or custodian 

Guideline  18  of  SEBI  (IFSC)  Guidelines,  2015  is  being  amended  to  read  as 

follows: 

18. (1) An issuer of debt securities shall enter into an agreement with a depository 

or  custodian,  registered  in  a  Financial  Action  Task  Force  (FATF)  member 

jurisdiction,  for  issue  of  the  debt  securities,  for  the  purpose  of  holding  and 

safekeeping of such securities and also to facilitate transfer, redemption and other 

corporate actions in respect of such debt securities. 

 

(2) Necessary disclosures regarding appointment of depository or custodian shall 

be made in the information memorandum. 

 

2.3. Reporting of Financial Statements 

Guideline  19  of  SEBI  (IFSC)  Guidelines,  2015  is  being  amended  to  read  as 

follows: 

19.  The  entities  issuing  and/or  listing  their  debt  securities  in  IFSC  shall  prepare 

their  statement  of  accounts  in  accordance  with  IFRS/US  GAAP  or  accounting 

standards  as  applicable  to  them  in  their  place  of  incorporation.  In case  an  entity  

does not prepare its statement of accounts in accordance with IFRS/US GAAP, a 

quantitative  summary  of  significant  differences  between  national  accounting 

standards  and  IFRS  shall  be  prepared  by  such  entity  and  incorporated  in  the 

relevant disclosure documents to be filed with the exchange. 

 

3.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 

of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. 

Yours faithfully 

 

Sanjay Purao 
General Manager  
Division of Risk Management and New Products 
Market Regulation Department 
Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in 

2 

 

