 

 

          July 25, 2017 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2017/84   
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 

 

All National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 

 

Sir / Madam, 

Sub.: Position Limits for Agricultural Commodity Derivatives 

1.  SEBI vide its circular No. CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/96 dated September 27, 
2016  had  updated  and  consolidated  norms  with  regard  to  position  limits  of 
commodity  derivatives  including  commodity-wise  numerical  value  of  overall 
client level open position limits. 

2.  SEBI has received feedback from the stakeholders that current numerical limits 
applicable  for  agricultural  commodity  derivatives  are  inadequate  and  not  in 
consonance  with  the  deliverable  supply  of  the  commodity.  This  circular  is 
hereby  issued  in  continuation  of  the  abovementioned  SEBI  circular  with  an 
objective to outline a principle based methodology for revising the commodity-
wise numerical value of overall client level open position limits for agricultural 
commodities with reference to the 'deliverable supply' of the such commodity 
available in the country during any specific year. 

3.  After  due    consultation  with  various  stakeholders  and  on  the  basis  of 
recommendations  of  CDAC  (Commodity  Derivatives  Advisory  Committee),  
following framework is hereby being prescribed for determination of numerical 
value of overall client level open position limits for agricultural commodities: 

3.1. Categorization of commodities: In any given year, based on the average 
of production data and import data of past five years on a rolling basis and 
keeping  in  view    various  extraneous  factors  that  affect  the  trading  in 
derivatives,  the  agricultural  commodities  shall  be  classified  into  three 
categories viz., sensitive, broad and narrow as below:- 
 
3.1.1.  Sensitive  Commodity:  An  agricultural  commodity  shall  be 

classified as a sensitive commodity if it: 

 

Page 1 of 5 

 

 

 

3.1.1.1.  is  prone  to  frequent  Government/External  interventions. 
These  interventions  may  be  in  the  nature  of  stock  limits, 
import/export  restrictions  or  any  other  trade  related 
barriers; or 

3.1.1.2.  has observed frequent  instances of  price  manipulation  in 

past five years of derivatives trading. 

 

3.1.2.  Broad Commodity: An agricultural  commodity shall be classified 
as ‘Broad Commodity’ if it is not ‘Sensitive Commodity’ and satisfies 
following criteria; 
3.1.2.1.  Average deliverable supply for past five year is at least 10 
lakh  Metric  Ton  (MT)  in  quantitative  term  and  is  at  least 
INR 5,000 Crore in monetary term. 

 

3.1.3.  Narrow Commodity: An agricultural commodity which is not falling 
in  either  of  the  above  two  categories,  viz  ‘Sensitive’  or  ‘Broad’ 
commodity, shall be classified as ‘Narrow Commodity’. 
 

3.2.  Deliverable Supply:  

The  deliverable  supply 
“Production + Imports” 

 

for  an  agricultural  commodity  would  be 

3.3. Client Level Numeric Position Limits: Numerical value of overall client 
level  open  position  limits  for  each  commodity  shall  be  calculated  from 
'deliverable  supply'  available  in  a  particular    year,  as  per  its  category  as 
given below: 
 

Category of Commodity 
Broad  
Narrow  
Sensitive  

Position limits  
1% of the deliverable supply  
0.5% of the deliverable supply  
0.25% of the deliverable supply  

3.3.1.  The numbers arrived based upon above formula should be rounded 

off downward to appropriate number of zeroes. 

 

3.4. Yearly  Categorization  of  commodities  and  computation  of  position 

limits : 
3.4.1.  All  the  national  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall  jointly 
three 

classify  agricultural  commodities 

into 

the  afore-stated 

 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 

 

categories on annual basis  as per the principles indicated at  para 
No. 3.1 above. 
 

3.4.2.  Whenever an agricultural commodity of 'narrow' category is required  

to  be  re-categorized  to  'broad'  in  subsequent  years,  such  re-
categorization  may  be  possible  only  if  both,    average  deliverable 
supply  of  such  commodity  for  the  past  five  years    and  monetary 
value thereof  as mentioned at Para ‘3.1.2.1’ exceeds by more than 
5%. 

 
3.4.3.  For  determination  of  'deliverable  supply'  of  various  agricultural 
commodities  for  each  year,  the  national  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges shall take into account the latest  production figures of 
such  commodities  as  annually  declared  by  relevant  government 
sources or from the  latest ‘third advance estimates’ of agricultural 
commodities  published  by  the  Ministry  of  agriculture  or  any  other 
yearly  estimates/assessments  of  production  and  imports  made  by 
any governmental agencies such as Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry 
of  Textiles,  Ministry  of  Commerce,  different 
statutory 
boards/associations  etc.,  concerned  with  different  agricultural 
commodities. The national commodity derivatives exchanges shall 
indicate the sources from which the production and import / export 
data  have  been  obtained  for  the  purpose  of  determination  of 
'deliverable supply’ of different agricultural commodities. 

3.4.4.  Every year, for each agricultural commodity that is being traded in 
the  derivatives  market,  all  national  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges  shall  jointly  complete  the  exercise  of  determination  of 
‘deliverable supply, categorization/re-categorization of commodities 
and  computation  of  numerical  value  of  position  limits.  Numerical 
values  of  position  limits  for  any  agricultural  commodity  shall  be 
revised only if the computation results in a revision in the value by 
at  least  5%  compared  to  previous  year's  limits.  Exchanges  shall, 
after  prior  intimation  to  SEBI,  notify  such  details  to  the  market 
through their respective websites sufficiently in advance and latest 
by  31st  of  July  (unless  extended  by  SEBI  under  exceptional 
circumstances)  of  every  year  and  revised  limits  shall  become 
applicable for all running contracts with effect from 1st of September 
of every year. 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 5 

 

 

 

3.4.5.  However  for  the  current  year,  given  the  paucity  of  time,  all  the 
national commodity derivatives exchanges are directed to complete 
this exercise at earliest and notify the same to the market within 20 
days of the circular under prior intimation to SEBI and the revised 
limits  shall  become  applicable  for  all  running  contracts  with  effect 
from October 1, 2017 
 

3.4.6.  In  the  interest  of  trade  and  public,  SEBI  may  exercise  its  due 
discretion  in  modifying  the  aforesaid  position  limits  at  any  time 
during the year. 
 

4.  Member  Level  Position  Limits  for  Agricultural  Commodities:  As  already 
prescribed in Para ‘5.3’ of SEBI Circular dated September 27, 2016, the overall 
member  level  position  limits  for  an  agricultural  commodity  across  all  the 
contracts shall be 10 times the numerical value of client level position limit or 
15% of the market-wide open interest, whichever is higher. 

5.  Exchange-wide  Position  Limit  for  Agricultural  Commodities:  SEBI  vide 
paragraph  ‘5.5’  of  circular  dated  September  27,  2016  has  prescribed  that 
Exchange-wide  gross  position  limit  shall  be  capped  at  50%  of  the  annual 
estimated production and imports of the commodity. This paragraph ‘5.5’ of the 
said earlier circular shall be substituted by the following paragraph:- 

“For  any  agricultural  commodity,  the  overall  Exchange-wide  gross 
position limit on open interests hall be 50% of its 'deliverable supply' 
determined  for  the relevant year, which shall also be jointly notified 
by Exchanges along with client level numerical limits.“ 

6.  Clubbing of position limits: Broad guidelines for clubbing of open positions 
have been prescribed vide Para ‘6’ of SEBI Circular dated September 27, 2016. 
In  this  regard  all  national  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  are  directed  to 
jointly formulate a uniform guidelines and disclose the same to the market within 
30 days from the date of this circular. 

 
7.  There  is  no  change  in  norms  with  regard  to  near  month  position  limits, 
computation of open positions, monitoring of position limits or any other norm 
earlier prescribed by SEBI for position limits. 

 

8.  The  provisions  of  this  circular  shall  come  into  effect  from  the  date  of  this 

Circular. 

 

 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 

 

9.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

take  steps  to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws, 
rules and regulations for the implementation of the same. 
bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the members of the 
Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  
communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions 
of this circular. 
 

10. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 

 
11. This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in    under  the 

category “Circulars”, “Info for Commodity Derivatives” 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 5 of 5 

 

