 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     October 10, 2017 

 
 
CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/115 
 
To 
 
All Listed entities 
All the Recognised Stock Exchanges 
All Depositories 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:  Non-compliance  with 
requirements 
 
1.  Regulation 38 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
(“Listing  Regulations”) 
and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015 
mandates a listed entity to comply with the Minimum Public Shareholding(“MPS”) 
requirements  specified  in  rules  19(2)  and  19A  of  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation)  Rules,  1957  in  the  manner  as  specified  by  the  Board  from  time  to 
time.  
 

the  Minimum  Public  Shareholding 

(MPS) 

 

2.  In  terms  of  sub  regulation  (1)  of  regulation  97  of  the  Listing  Regulations, 
recognized  Stock  Exchanges  are  mandated  to  monitor  compliance  by  listed 
entities with the provisions of the Listing Regulations.  
 

3.  Sub  regulations  (1)  and  (2)  of  regulation  98  of  Listing  Regulations  inter-alia 
specify  the  liability  of  a  listed  entity  or  any  other  person  for  contravention  and 
action which can be taken by the respective recognized stock exchange and the 
revocation of such action, in the manner specified by the Board.  

 

4.  In order to maintain consistency and uniformity of approach in the enforcement of 
MPS norms mandated under regulation 38 of the Listing Regulations, the  below 
mentioned  procedure 
stock 
exchanges/depositories,  as  applicable,  with  respect  to  non-compliant  listed 
entities, their promoters and directors:  

followed  by 

recognised 

shall  be 

the 

 

4.1. The  recognized  stock  exchanges  shall  review  compliance  with  MPS 
requirements based on shareholding pattern/ other filings made with them by 
the listed entities from time to time. Within 15 days from date of observation 
of  non-compliance,  the stock  exchanges  shall  issue  notices  to  such  entities 
intimating  all  actions  taken/  being  taken  as  per  this  circular  and  advise  the 
entities to ensure compliance.  

Page 1 of 4 

 

4.2. On observing non-compliance: 

 

 

4.2.1.  The recognized stock exchange shall impose a fine of ₹5,000/- per day of 
non-compliance  on  the  listed  entity  and  such  fine  shall  continue  to  be 
imposed till the date of compliance by such listed entity.  

4.2.2.  The recognized stock exchange shall intimate the depositories to freeze 
the  entire  shareholding  of  the  promoter  and  promoter  group  in  such 
listed  entity  till  the  date  of  compliance  by  such  entity.  The  above 
restriction shall not be an impediment for the entity for compliance with 
the  minimum  public  shareholding  norms 
the  methods 
specified/approved by SEBI. 

through 

4.2.3.  The  promoters,  promoter  group  and  directors  of the  listed  entity  shall 
not  hold  any  new  position  as  director  in  any  other  listed  entity  till  the 
date  of  compliance  by  such  entity.  An  intimation  to  this  effect  shall  be 
provided  to  the  listed  entity  by  the  recognized  stock  exchange  and  the 
listed  entity  shall  subsequently  intimate  the  same  to  its  promoters, 
promoter group and directors. 
 

4.3. In  cases  where  the  listed  entity  continues  to  be  non-compliant  for  a  period 

more than one year:  
 
4.3.1.  The  recognized  stock  exchange  shall  impose  an  increased  fine  of 
₹10,000/-  per  day  of  non-compliance  on  the  listed  entity  and  such  fine 
shall  continue  to  be  imposed  till  the  date  of  compliance  by  such  listed 
entity.  

4.3.2.  The recognized stock exchange shall intimate the depositories to freeze 
all  the  securities  held  in  the  Demat  account  of  the  promoter  and 
promoter  group  till  the  date  of  compliance  by  such  entity.  The  above 
restriction  shall  not  be  an  impediment  for  the  entity  with  respect  to 
compliance  with  the  minimum  public  shareholding  norms  through  the 
methods specified/approved by SEBI. 

4.3.3.  Direction  as  per  clause  4.2.3  above  shall  continue  till  the  date  of 

compliance by such entity.  
 

5.  The  recognized  stock  exchange  may  also  consider  compulsory  delisting  of  the 
non-compliant  listed  entity  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Securities 
Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules, 
1957  and  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Delisting  of  Equity 
Shares) Regulations, 2009 as amended from time to time. 
 

6.  The  recognized  stock  exchanges  may  keep  in  abeyance  the  action  or  withdraw 
the action in specific cases where specific exemption from compliance with MPS  
 

Page 2 of 4 

 
requirements  under 
proceedings has been provided under any Act, Court/Tribunal Orders etc. 

the  Listing  Regulations/  moratorium  on  enforcement 

 

 

7.  In case it is  observed that the listed entity  has adopted a method for complying 
with  MPS  requirements  which  is  not  prescribed  by  SEBI  under  clauses  (2)(i)  to 
(vi)  under  SEBI  circular  No.  CIR/CFD/CMD/14/2015  dated  November  30,  2015 
and approval for the same has not been obtained from SEBI under clause 2 (vii) 
of  the  said  circular,  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  shall  refer  such  cases  to 
SEBI.  
 

8.  With respect to the fines as stated above: 

8.1. The  amount  of  fine  realized  as  per  the  above  structure  shall  be  credited  to 
the "Investor Protection Fund" of the concerned recognized stock exchange.  

8.2. If  any  non-compliant  listed  entity  fails  to  pay  the  fine  despite  receipt  of  the 
notice  as  stated  above,  the  recognized  stock  exchange  may  initiate 
appropriate action. 

 

9.  Upon intimation of compliance by the listed entity with the MPS requirements, the 
concerned  recognized  stock  exchange  shall,  on  being  satisfied  of  such 
compliance: 

 

9.1. intimate  the  depositories  to  unfreeze  the  shares  and  other  securities  of  the 

promoter and promoter group of the listed entity.  

9.2. intimate  the  listed  entity  that  directions  imposed  in  terms  of  clause  4.2.3 
above  shall  not  continue  and  the  listed  entity  shall  subsequently  intimate  the 
same to its promoters, promoter group and directors.  

9.3. disseminate the information in its website regarding the compliance achieved 

by the listed entity.  
 

10. The recognized stock exchanges shall  periodically  disclose on their  website  the 

following–  

 

10.1.  Names  of  non-compliant  entities,  amount  of  fine  imposed,  freezing  of 
shares held by the promoters and promoter group and other actions taken 
against the entity;  

10.2.  Status of compliance including details regarding fine paid by the entity. 
 

11. The recognized stock exchanges may, having regard to the interests of investors 

and the securities market, take appropriate action in line with the principles and  
 

 

 

Page 3 of 4 

 
procedures laid down in  this Circular. Any deviation, therefore, should not dilute 
the spirit of the policy contained herein and may be made on reasonable grounds 
to be recorded in writing.  
 

 

12. In  order  to  ensure  effective  enforcement  of  the  Listing  Regulations,  the 
depositories, on receipt of intimation from concerned recognized stock exchange 
shall freeze or unfreeze the shareholding of the promoter and promoter group in 
such entity and the other securities held by them, as applicable.  

 

13. The actions specified in this Circular  are without prejudice to the power of SEBI 

to take action under the securities laws for violation of the MPS requirements. 
 

14. The  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  Circular  to  the 

notice of listed entities and also to disseminate the same on its website.  

 

15. This Circular shall come into force with immediate effect. 

 

16. For entities which are non-compliant as on date of this circular: 

 

16.1. The stock exchanges shall undertake such action as prescribed under clause 
4.2 or clause 4.3 of this circular depending on the period of non-compliance by 
the  entity.  However,  the  fines,  as  applicable,  shall  be  imposed  prospectively 
from the date of this circular.  

16.2. The  provisions  of  this  circular  shall  not  apply  to  those  entities  where  orders 
have  already  been  passed  by  SEBI  under  provisions  of  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992/Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
in relation to non-compliance with MPS requirements.  

 

17. This Circular is issued under regulations 97, 98, 99 and 101 of Listing Regulations.  

 

18. This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

"Issues and Listing" and “Legal”. 
 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Pradeep Ramakrishnan 
Deputy General Manager 
Forensic Accounting Cell & 
Compliance and Monitoring Division 
Corporation Finance Department 
Email: pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 

Page 4 of 4 

