 
 

 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2017/92                                                    August 01, 2017 
 
All Listed Entities 
All Registered Registrar & Share Transfer Agents  
All Depositories  
All Recognised/Non-operational /Exited Stock Exchanges 
All  Exclusively  Listed  Companies  on  the  Dissemination  Board  (shares  of 
companies  available  for  buying  and  selling  and  not  for  companies  referred  as 
vanishing companies) 
 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

Sub: Action against Exclusively Listed Companies and its Promoters/Directors 

pending Exit Offer to the Shareholders 

1.  SEBI  vide  circular  dated  October  10,  2016,  provided  options  to  the  Exclusively 
Listed  Companies  (“ELCs”)  on  Dissemination  Board  (“DB”)  to  raise  capital  for 
meeting  the  capital  requirement  for  getting  listed  on  the  nationwide  stock 
exchanges or to provide exit to investors. An exit mechanism for investors in such 
ELCs was also specified in the aforesaid circular. Further, ELCs were required to 
furnish the plan of action by January 09, 2017 to the Designated Stock Exchanges 
(DSEs), which was subsequently extended till June 30, 2017. 

2.  The  aforesaid  circular  dated  October  10,  2016  stipulated  the  following  action 

against such ELCs, which remain non-compliant with the above timelines: 

  The  company,  its  directors,  its  promoters  and  the  companies  which  are 
promoted by any of them shall not directly or indirectly associate with the 
securities  market  or  seek  listing  for  any equity  shares  for  a  period  of  ten 
years from the exit from the DB.  

  Freezing of shares of the promoters/directors.  

  List  of  the  directors,  promoters  etc.  of  all  non-compliant  companies  as 
available  from  the  details  of  the  company  with  NSE/BSE  shall  be 
disseminated on SEBI website and shall also be shared with other related 
agencies.  

  Attachment  of  bank  accounts/other  assets  of  promoters/directors  of  the 

companies so as to compensate the investors.  

3.  In order to ensure that exit option is provided to the public shareholders of ELCs 
that are non-compliant with the provisions of the said circular dated October 10, 
2016 and have not submitted plan of action to the DSEs and in order to protect the 
interest of investors in ELCs on DB it is hereby directed that, to begin with:-  

a.  Such ELCs and the Depositories shall not effect transfer, by way of sale, 
pledge, etc., of any of the equity shares and the corporate benefits such 
as  dividend,  rights,  bonus  shares,  split,  etc.  shall  be  frozen,  for  all  the 
equity  shares,  held  by  the  promoters  or  directors  of  non-compliant 
Exclusively  Listed  Companies  till  the  promoters  of  such  non-compliant 
Exclusively  Listed  Companies  provide  an  exit  option  to  the  public 
shareholders in compliance with SEBI circular dated October 10, 2016, as 
certified by the concerned Designated Stock Exchanges ;  

b.  The  non-compliant  Exclusively  Listed  Companies,  its  directors,  its 
promoters and the companies which are promoted by any of them shall 
not be eligible to access the securities market for the purposes of raising 
capital  till  the  promoters  of  such  non-compliant  Exclusively  Listed 
Companies  provide  an  exit  option  to  the  public  shareholders  in 
compliance with SEBI circular dated October 10, 2016, as certified by the 
concerned Designated Stock Exchanges. 
 

c.  The  promoters  or  directors  of  non-compliant  Exclusively  Listed 
Companies shall not be eligible to remain or become director of any listed 
company  till  the  promoters  of  such  non-compliant  Exclusively  Listed 
Companies  provide  an  exit  option  to  the  public  shareholders  in 
compliance with SEBI circular dated October 10, 2016, as certified by the 
concerned Designated Stock Exchanges.   

 

 

 

4.  For  the  aforesaid  purposes,  “Exclusively  Listed  Companies”  refer  to  those 
companies  whose  equity  shares  were  exclusively  listed  at  a  recognised  stock 
exchange at the time of exit of such exchange and were subsequently moved to 
the  Dissemination  Board  of  NSE  and  BSE  and  whose  shares  are  available  for 
buying and selling on Dissemination Board.  

5.  The concerned Designated Stock Exchanges and Depositories shall co-ordinate 

with each other and ensure compliance of these requirements.  

 

6.  SEBI may also take any other appropriate action(s) against the promoters/directors 
of  Exclusively  Listed  Companies  for  non-compliance  with  SEBI  circular  dated 
October 10, 2016. 

 

7.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) and 
11(2) (j) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the 
interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 
regulate  the  securities  market.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at 
www.sebi.gov.in.  

Yours faithfully, 

 

Bithin Mahanta 

Deputy General Manager 

Ph: +912226449634 

Email: bithinm@sebi.gov.in 

