 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2017/81     

July 20, 2017 

 
To 
 
1.  All Foreign Portfolio Investors (through their designated Custodians of Securities)  
2.  The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL) 
3.  The Exchanges (BSE and NSE) 

 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Investments by FPIs in Corporate Debt 

 

1.  This has  reference  to  the  SEBI circular  SEBI/HO/IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2016/67  dated  August 04, 
2016 whereby the Corporate debt limit of INR 244,323 cr for FPIs was redefined as the Combined 
Corporate  Debt  Limit  (CCDL)  for  all  foreign  investments  in  Rupee  denominated  bonds  issued 
both onshore and overseas by Indian corporates. 
 

2.  In  partial  modification  to  Para  4  of  the  said  circular,  the  CCDL  shall  be  available  on  tap  for 
investment by foreign investors till the overall investment reaches 95%, after which, the auction 
mechanism shall be initiated for allocation of the remaining limits.  
 

3.  In the event the overall FPI investment in CCDL exceeds 95% (as indicated by the debt utilisation 
status  updated  daily  on  the  websites  of  NSDL  and  CDSL),  the  following  procedure  shall  be 
followed: 
 

a.  The depositories (NSDL and CDSL) shall direct the custodians to halt all FPI purchases in 

corporate debt securities.   
 

b.  The depositories shall then inform the exchanges (NSE and BSE) regarding the unutilised 
debt limits for conduct of auction. Upon receipt of information from the depositories, the 
exchange (starting with BSE) shall conduct an auction for the allocation of unutilised debt 
limits  on  the  second  trading  day  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  intimation  from  the 
depositories. Thereafter, the auction shall be conducted alternately on NSE and BSE.  

 

 

Page | 1  

 
 

 

c.  The  auction  shall  be  held  only  if  the  free  limit  is  greater  than  or  equal  to  INR  100  cr. 
However, if the free limit remains less than 100 cr for 15 consecutive trading days, then 
an auction shall be conducted on the sixteenth trading day to allocate the free limits.  
 

d.  The auction shall be conducted in the following manner : 

Particulars 
Duration of bidding: 
Access to platform 
Minimum bid 
Maximum bid 

Details 
2 hours (15:30 to 17:30 hrs) 
Trading members or custodians  
INR 1 crore 
One-tenth of free limit being auctioned  

Tick Size 
Allocation Methodology 

INR 1 crore 
Price time priority 

Pricing of bid 

Time  period  for  utilization 
of the limits 

Minimum flat fee of INR 1000 or bid price whichever 
is higher 
10 trading days from the date of allocation 

e. 

 Once the limits have been auctioned, the FPIs will have a utilisation period of 10 trading 
days within which they have to make the investments. The limits not utilised within this 
period shall come back to the pool of free limits.   

 

 

 

 

f.  Upon sale/redemption of debt securities, the FPI will have a re-investment period of 2 
trading days. If the reinvestment is not made within 2 trading days, then the limits shall 
come back to the pool of free limits. 
 

g.  A single FPI/ FPI Group cannot bid for more than 10% of the limits being auctioned. 

 

4.  The subsequent auction would be held 12 trading days after the previous auction, subject to the 

fulfilment of the condition mentioned at Point (3c) above. 
 

5.  As  Rupee  denominated  bonds  issued  by  Indian  corporates  overseas  are  covered  under  CCDL, 
issuance of such bonds overseas shall temporarily cease, until the limit utilisation falls back to 
below 92%. 
 
 

 

 

Page | 2  

 

 

6.  The  auction  mechanism  shall  be  discontinued  and  the  limits  shall  be  once  again  available  for 
investment on tap when the debt limit utilisation falls below 92%. It is clarified that in such a 
scenario,  the  reinvestment  facility  mentioned  at  Point  (3f)  shall  be  terminated  and  cannot  be 
availed for the same limits when the utilisation crosses 95% again. The custodians shall monitor 
and report the reinvestment facility availed by the FPIs to the depositories.  
 

7.  In  partial  modification  to  Para  (2a)  of  the  SEBI  circular  SEBI/HO/IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2017/16 
dated  February  28,  2017,  FPI  investments  in  unlisted  corporate  debt  securities  shall 
compulsorily  be  in  dematerialized  form  and  subject  to  a  minimum  residual  maturity  of  three 
years.  
 

8.  All other terms and conditions for FPI investments in listed and unlisted corporate debt securities 

shall remain the same. 
 

9.  The depositories shall put in place the necessary systems for the daily reporting by the custodians 
of the FPIs. The exchanges shall disseminate the auction summary on their respective websites.  
 

This  circular  shall  come  into  effect  immediately.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers 
conferred under Section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  

A  copy  of  this  circular  is  available  at  the  web  page  “Circulars”  on  our  website  www.sebi.gov.in. 
Custodians are requested to bring the contents of this circular to the notice of their FPI clients. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 
 
ACHAL SINGH 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel No.: 022-26449619 
Email: achals@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page | 3  

