भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2017/101 

 

 

 

September 13, 2017 

To 

All Stock Exchanges 
All Clearing Corporations 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Subject: Outsourcing of activities by Stock Exchanges and Clearing 

Corporations 

1.  SEBI has vide circular CIR/MIRSD/24/2011 dated December 15, 2011 prescribed 
Guidelines  on  Outsourcing  of  Activities  by  Intermediaries.  Through  these 
guidelines certain principles for outsourcing to be followed by all the intermediaries 
registered with SEBI were laid down. Further, based on the recommendations of 
the Depository System Review Committee (DSRC), vide circular dated December 
09, 2015, guidelines were also laid down for governing the outsourcing of activities 
by the Depositories. 

2.  It  is  also  observed  that  the  stock  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations  avail  the 
services of third party service providers / outsourced agencies to perform certain 
processes, services or activities.  

3.  In this regard stock exchanges and clearing corporations are advised to formulate 
and document an outsourcing policy duly approved by their Board based on the 
guidelines placed at Annexure I. 

4.  Stock  Exchanges  and  clearing  corporations  are  also  directed  to  take  necessary 
steps  to  put  in  place  systems  for  implementation  of  the  circular,  including 
necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules,  etc.,  if  any,  within  six 
months from the date of the circular. Stock exchanges and clearing corporations 
are also advised to disseminate the provisions of this circular on their website. 

5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 
securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Susanta Kumar Das 
Deputy General Manager 
Email: susantad@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

Page 1 of 6 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Annexure I 

 

1.  Definition 

Outsourcing  is  an  arrangement  whereby  an  entity  engages  a  third  party  (the 
service provider / outsourced agency) to provide a service that may already or may 
conceivably be performed by the entity itself. 

 

2.  Material Outsourcing 

The  stock  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations  shall  develop  a  process  for 
determining  the  materiality  of  outsourcing  arrangements  with  emphasis  on  the 
potential impact on the market, including where the service provider / outsourced 
agency fails to perform. 

 

3.  Core and Critical activities of Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations 

3.1. The Core and critical activities of stock exchanges and clearing corporations 
shall not be outsourced. However, stock exchanges and clearing corporations 
may  outsource  activities  to  associate  or  group  companies  /  entities  of  the 
exchange, provided there is a clear demarcation of activities with clear arms-
length relationship. 

3.2. Further, services rendered by any intermediary registered with SEBI (for eg. 

custodians, depositories, etc.) shall not be covered under these guidelines. 

3.3. The core and Critical activities of the stock exchanges shall include but may 

not be limited to the following: 

(a) Provision and daily operation of trading facilities; 

(b) Management of the market functioning, including market surveillance and 
monitoring  like  online  surveillance,  investigation,  inspection,  price  band 
relaxation, etc.; 

(c)  Enforcement of exchange rules/self-regulation; 

(d) Trading  information  disclosure  excluding  data  feed  distribution  to  third 

party vendors; 

(e) Core IT support infrastructure / activities for running the core activities of 

exchanges;  

(f)  Admission of trading member to exchange; 

(g) Admission to securities to trading on the exchange; 

(h) Monitoring and redressal of investor grievances; 

(i)  Maintenance and safe keeping of trade related data; 

Page 2 of 6 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

(j)  Inspection of the members of the exchange; 

(k)  Compliance functions. 

3.4. The  core  and  critical  activities  of  the  clearing  corporations  shall  include  but 

may not be limited to the following: 

(a) Post trade activities and services such as clearing and settlement and risk 
management  inter-alia  including  pay-in  and  pay-out  of  funds  and 
securities,  margin  blocking,  margin  reporting,  collateral  management 
(including  addition,  release,  maintenance),  capital  adequacy,  stress 
testing; 

(b) Enforcement of clearing corporation rules/self-regulation; 

(c)  Admission of clearing members; 

(d) Monitoring and redressal of grievances; 

(e) Maintenance and safe keeping of trade related data pertaining to clearing 

and settlement; 

(f)  Inspection of the members of the clearing corporation; 

(g) Compliance functions; 

(h) Core and Critical IT support infrastructure / activities for running the core 
activities  of  clearing  corporations  (however,  where  the  infrastructure  is 
being shared with the group / associate company / entity, the same shall 
be  allowed  with  the  pre-condition  of  having  a  clear  demarcation  of 
infrastructure  between 
involved.  Access  control  and 
responsibility would need to remain with the Clearing Corporations) 

the  parties 

 

3.5. Certain  Core  activities  may  be  outsourced  to  specialist  vendors  who  are 
experts  in  their  field  (eg.  IT  services  /  Network  services  /  IT  Security  etc.). 
However,  in  all  such  cases,  the  responsibility  and  control  shall  wholly  vests 
with  the  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations.  Further,  in  case  the  Trading 
and / or Clearing software is purchased from a vendor, then there must be an 
arrangement to keep the source code in escrow, such that in case of any issue 
with the vendor, the software can be taken out of escrow and used to continue 
the business.  

 

4.  Selection of Service Providers / Outsourced agencies and Due Diligence 

4.1. The service provider / Outsourcing agency shall be subjected to appropriate 
due  diligence  to  assess  its  capability  to  employ  a  high  standard  of  care  in 
performing the service and comply with its obligations under the outsourcing 

Page 3 of 6 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

agreement.  The due diligence should take into consideration qualitative and 
quantitative,  financial,  operational  and  reputation  factors  of  the  service 
provider / Outsourcing agency. 

4.2. The  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations  shall  ensure  that  entities  having 
proven high  delivery standards  or expertise  in the field, are selected  after a 
proper due-diligence process which may include parameters like track record, 
delivery standard, unique selling proposition, service standards. 

4.3. Due diligence undertaken during the selection process should be documented 
and re-performed periodically as part of the monitoring and control processes 
of outsourcing.  

 

5.  Legal Accountability 

5.1. Stock Exchange and clearing corporations shall ensure that there is a legally 

binding written contract with the service provider / Outsourcing agency   

5.2. Stock  Exchange  and  clearing  corporation  shall  ensure  that  the  outsourcing 
arrangement does not in any way diminish its obligations and those of its board 
and  senior  management,  to  comply  with  relevant  laws  and  regulations, 
guidelines and other directions. 

5.3. The  board  and  senior  management  of  the  stock  exchange  and  clearing 
corporation shall retain ultimate responsibility for the effective management of 
risks arising from outsourcing. 

 

6.  Sub-contracting 

6.1. Stock  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations  shall  ensure  that  outsourced 
activities are further outsourced downstream only with the prior consent of the 
exchange and clearing corporation and with appropriate safeguards including 
proper legal documentation/ agreement. 

6.2. Stock exchange and clearing corporations shall also consider the ability of the 
sub-contractor to perform the services as a part of the due diligence process.  

 

7.  Contract with Service Provider / Outsourcing agency 

7.1. Contractual 

relationships, 

terms  and  conditions  governing 

functions, 
obligations and responsibilities of the contracting parties, potential conflict of 
interests should be carefully and properly defined in written agreements.  

7.2. Every  outsourcing  agreement  should  address  the  risks  and  risk  mitigation 
strategies  identified  at  the  risk  evaluation  and  due  diligence  stages.    Each 
agreement should allow for renegotiation and renewal to enable the exchange 

Page 4 of 6 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

to retain an appropriate level of control over the outsourcing and the right to 
intervene  with  appropriate  measures  to  meet  its  legal  and  regulatory 
obligations. 

7.3. The agreement should provide for a dispute resolution mechanism, inter-alia 
specifying  the  resolution  process,  events  of  default,  and  the  indemnities, 
remedies and recourse of the respective parties in the agreements. 

 

8.  Monitoring of Service Provider’s / Outsourcing agency’s Performance 

8.1. Stock exchanges and clearing corporations shall maintain the capability and 
appropriate level of monitoring and control over outsourcing agencies, in order 
to be able to maintain continuity of business, even in the event of disruption or 
unexpected termination of the service. 

8.2. Stock  exchange  and  clearing  corporation  should  evaluate  its  aggregate 
exposure to a particular service provider / outsourced agency in cases where 
the  institution  outsources  various  functions  to  the  same  service  provider  / 
outsourced agency. 

8.3. Stock exchange and clearing corporation shall undertake periodic reviews of 
its outsourcing arrangements to identify new material outsourcing risks as they 
arise and analyze the impact of the arrangement on its overall risk profile and 
whether there are adequate internal expertise and resources to mitigate the 
risks identified. 

 

9.  Business Continuity at the Service Provider 

9.1. Stock exchanges and clearing corporations should take appropriate measures 
to determine that its service providers / Outsourcing agencies establish and 
maintain emergency procedures and a plan for business continuity / disaster 
recovery, with periodic testing of backup facilities. 

 

10. Security and Confidentiality of Information 

10.1.  Stock  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations  should  have  adequate 
procedures in place that require the service provider / Outsourcing agency to 
protect  exchange’s  proprietary,  member-related  and  potentially  market 
sensitive information and software from unauthorized usage. 

 

11. Termination Procedures 

11.1.  Stock  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations  should  include  contractual 
provisions  relating  to  the  termination  of  the  contract  and  appropriate  exit 

Page 5 of 6 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

strategies  inter-alia  specifying  events  that  may  trigger  termination  of  the 
service contract, what will occur on termination and strategies for managing 
the transfer of the activity back to the stock exchange and clearing corporation 
or to another party. 

 

 

12. Access to Information and other records 

12.1.  The  outsourcing  arrangement  should  provide  for  the  access  by  the 
regulatory authority of the records of service providers / Outsourcing agencies 
and other information relating to the activities that are relevant to regulatory 
oversight. 

 

13. Audit 

13.1.  The outsourcing policy document shall act as a reference for audit of the 
outsourced  activities.  Audit  of  implementation  of  risk  assessment  and 
mitigation  measures 
the  outsourcing  policy  document  and 
outsourcing  agreement/  service  level  agreements  pertaining  to  IT  systems 
shall be part of System Audit of Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations. 

listed 

in 

********** 

Page 6 of 6 

