 

 
 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ MIRSD4/ CIR/ P/ 2017/ 71   

 

 

June 30, 2017 

 
To 
All Credit Rating Agencies Registered with SEBI 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 

 

Sub: Monitoring and Review of Ratings by Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs)  

 
It has come to notice that there have been instances where Credit Rating Agencies have 
not taken cognizance of information regarding delays in servicing debt obligations by the 
Issuer,  even  though  the  information  has  already  been  discounted  by  the  market.  As 
responsible  institutions,  CRAs  are  expected  to  proactively  track  all  important  changes 
relating to the client companies in order to yield timely and accurate ratings. It is reiterated 
that  CRAs  are  required  to  ensure  prompt  and  accurate  rating  action.  Accordingly,  the 
following  clarifications  in  respect  of  monitoring  mechanism,  disclosure  norms  and 
timelines are being brought to the attention of CRAs for compliance: 
 

1.  Surveillance Mechanism for identifying potential defaults: 

 
As per Regulation 15 of SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999, CRAs 
are  required  to  continuously  monitor  the  rating  of  securities  and  disseminate 
information  regarding  newly  assigned  ratings,  and  changes  in  earlier  rating 
promptly  through  press  releases  on  websites  of  CRAs  as  well  as  all  the  stock 
exchanges where the said securities are listed. In order to enable CRAs to develop 
efficient and responsive systems to keep track of all important changes relating to 
the client companies as required under clause 8 of Code of Conduct of SEBI (CRA) 
Regulations, 1999, following is clarified:  
 

A.  Monitoring of repayment schedules: 

 

I.  CRAs have to be proactive in early detection of defaults/ delays in 
making  payments.  In  this  regard,  CRAs  are  required  to  track  the 
servicing of debt obligations for each instrument rated by them, ISIN-
wise,  and  look  for  potential  deterioration  in  financials  which  might 
lead to defaults/ delays, particularly before/ around the due date(s) 
for  servicing  of  debt  obligations,  on  the  basis  of  monitoring  of 
indicators including, but not restricted to, the following: 

 

Page 1 of 8 

 

 

 

 

 

a.  EBITDA not being sufficient to meet even the interest payments 

for last 3 years 

b.  Deterioration in liquidity conditions of the Issuer 
c.  Abnormal increase in borrowing cost of the Issuer 
d.  Any  other  information  indicating  deterioration  in  credit  quality/ 

debt servicing capability of the Issuer. 
 

II.  The  CRA  shall  also  monitor  the  Exchange  website  for  disclosures 

made by the Issuer in this regard.  
 

III.  In case no confirmation of servicing of debt obligation by the Issuer 
is received by the CRA from the Debenture Trustee within 1 day post 
the due date, the CRA shall immediately follow up with the Issuer for 
confirmation of payment. In case no response is received from the 
Issuer within 2 days of such communication, the CRA shall issue a 
Press Release as enlisted at point 3B (III) below and disseminate the 
same on its website and to all stock exchanges where the security is 
listed. 

IV. The  CRA  shall  also  make  a  reference  to  SEBI  regarding  such 
suppression of information by the issuer/ non-cooperation of Issuer 
with  CRA.  Failure  to  make  such  reference  shall  be  considered  as 
aiding and abetting the Issuer in suppression of material information 
by the CRA which would be in contravention of Clause 12 of Code of 
Conduct  of  CRAs  and  may  result  in  violation  of  the  provisions  of 
section 12A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
and  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices 
relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 by the CRA. 
 

B.  Material Events requiring a review:  

 

I.  CRAs shall carry out a review of the ratings upon the occurrence of 
or  announcement/  news  of  material  events  including,  but  not 
restricted to, the following: 

a.  Quarterly/ Half-yearly/ Annual results 
b.  Merger/ Demerger/ Amalgamation/ Acquisition 
c.  Corporate debt restructuring, reference to BIFR and winding-up 

petition filed by any party /creditors. 

d.  Significant  decline  in  share  prices/bond  prices  of  the  issuer  or 
group companies which is not linked to overall market movement 

 

Page 2 of 8 

 

 

e.  Significant  increase  in  debt  level  or  cost  of  debt  of  the  issuer 

company 

f.  Losses,  sharp  revenue  de-growth  etc.  based  on  publicly 
disclosed financial statements, which are not in line with CRA’s 
earlier estimates  

g.  Granting,  withdrawal,  surrender,  cancellation  or  suspension  of 

key licenses or regulatory approvals. 

h.  Disruption/ commencement/ postponement of operations of any 

unit or division of the listed entity. 

i.  Any attachment or prohibitory orders against the Issuer 
j.  Any  rating  action  taken  by  an  International  Rating  Agency  with 
respect  to  rating  assigned  to  the  Issuer/  Instruments  issued  by 
the Issuer. 

II.  CRAs  shall  publish  on  their  website  press  release  regarding  the 
rating  action  (including  reiteration  of  existing  rating),  if  warranted, 
immediately,  but  not  later  than  7  days  of  occurrence  of  the  said 
event. 
 

C.  ‘No  Default  Statement’  to  be  sought  from  the  Issuer  on  a  monthly 

basis: 

I. 

In order to enable timely recognition of default by the CRA, the CRA 
shall seek a ‘No Default Statement (NDS)’ from the Issuer at the end 
of each month, which shall be provided to the CRA by the Issuer on 
the first working day of the next month.  
 

II.  The NDS shall require the Issuer to explicitly confirm to the CRA that 
it  has  not  delayed  on  any  payment  of  interest/  principal  in  the 
previous month.  
 

III.  In case there have been delays, the Issuers shall state the same in 
this statement and the CRA shall promptly conduct a rating review 
and  disseminate  the  rating  action  through  Press  Release  within  2 
days of receipt of such statement.  
 

IV. A standardized format of the NDS is provided at Annexure A.  

Page 3 of 8 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.  Timelines of review and Press Releases: 

 

 

 

A.  In  order  to  enable  CRAs  to  disseminate  information  on  ratings  promptly 
through  press  releases  as  per  requirements  of  Regulation  15  and  16  of 
SEBI (CRA) Regulations, following is clarified: 
 

I. 

Initial Rating: 
 

Scenario 

Acceptance  of  Rating/  Appeal 
for  Review  of  Rating  by  the 
Issuer 

Disclosure  of  rating  as  non-
accepted Rating 

Dissemination of Press Release 
on  CRA’s  website 
and 
intimation  of  same  to  Stock 
Exchange/ Debenture Trustee 

 

II.  Periodic Surveillance: 

Timelines  –  immediately  but 
not later than 

working 

5 
of 
communication  of  rating  by  the 
CRA to the Issuer 

days 

In case rating is not accepted by 
the  Issuer  within  a  month  of 
communication  of  rating  by  the 
CRA  to  the  Issuer,  the  same 
shall  be  disclosed  as  Non-
Accepted  Rating  on  the  CRA’s 
website 

2 working days of acceptance of 
Rating by the Issuer 

Scenario 

Dissemination of Press Release 
on CRA’s website and intimation 
of  same  to  Stock  Exchange/ 
Debenture Trustee 

Timeline  -  immediately  but 
not later than 

5  working  days  of  Rating 
Committee Meeting 

 

 
 

III.  Dissemination  of  Press  Release  on  CRA’s  website  and 
intimation  of  same  to  Stock  Exchange/  Debenture  Trustee  in 
case of event based review: 
 

 

Page 4 of 8 

Scenario 

 

from 

Intimation 
Issuer/ 
Debenture  Trustee/  Bankers  of 
the  Issuer  regarding  delay  in 
servicing debt obligation 
Material Events requiring review 
(as stated in point 1B) 

 

Timeline- immediately but not 
later than 

2 working days of intimation 

7 working days of occurrence of 
the event. 

 
 

3.  Disclosure Norms: 

 

A.  Press Release: 

  

I. 

In  line  with  requirements  of  Circular  MIRSD4/  CIR/  P/  2016/  119 
dated November 01, 2016 on standardization of press release, it is 
reiterated that press releases for rating actions by CRAs shall include 
key  financial  indicators  and  ratios  for  the  Issuer  for  the  last  and 
current financial year, in tabular form, as well as any other significant 
information relevant to the Issuer and its Sector.  
 

II.  With regard to Structured Finance products, the CRA shall include 
all the assumptions/ covenants made while carrying out the review 
of such products in the Press Release. 
 

B.  Disclosures in case of considerable delay in providing information by 

the Issuer: 
 

I.  As per Regulation 18(2) of SEBI (CRA) Regulations, 1999, the CRA, 
while  covering  the  analysis  of  the  various  factors  justifying  the 
assessment  in  press  release,  shall  also  disclose  the  factors 
constituting a risk.  
 

II.  Accordingly,  it  is  further  clarified  that  if  the  issuer  does  not  share 
information  sought  by  the  CRA  within  7  days  of  seeking  such 
information  from  the  Issuer,  even  after  repeated  reminders  (within 
these 7 days) from the CRA, the CRA shall take appropriate rating 
action depending upon the severity of information risk of the issuer.  
 

 

Page 5 of 8 

 

 

III.  The Press Release in such cases shall mention the efforts made by 
the CRA in seeking such information and limitations regarding such 
information availability. 

 

4.  Rating Agreement between the Issuer and the CRA: 

 

A.  Rating  Agreement  to  be  signed  between  Issuer  and  CRA  prior  to 

commencement of rating exercise: 
 

I.  Regulation 14  of  SEBI  (CRA)  Regulations,  1999  requires  CRAs  to 
enter  into  a  written  agreement  with  each  client  whose  securities  it 
proposes to rate.  
 

II.  In this regard, it has come to the notice that in some instances, CRAs 
have  provided  indicative  ratings  to  Issuers  without  entering  into  a 
written  agreement  with  such  Issuers  and  have  thereafter  not 
disclosed such ratings on their websites. 
 

III.  CRAs  are  advised  to  refrain from  giving  Indicative  Ratings  without 
having a written agreement in place. In case such Indicative Ratings 
are  provided  by  the  CRA,  it  shall  be  considered  as  aiding  and 
abetting the Issuer in suppression of material information by the CRA 
which would be in contravention of Clause 12 of Code of Conduct of 
CRAs and may result in violation of the provisions of section 12A of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  SEBI 
(Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to 
Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 by the CRA. 

 

B.  Strengthening of Rating Agreement: 

 

I. 

It is clarified that in order to ensure cooperation from the Issuer, as 
required under Regulation 14(d) of SEBI (CRA) Regulations, 1999, 
the following enabling clauses maybe built in the Rating Agreement: 
 
a.  “The  client  (issuer/  borrower)  agrees to  provide  the  information 
sought by the CRA immediately, but not later than 7 days from 
the date of seeking such information by the CRA.  
In  cases  of  delay/  default  in  servicing  debt  obligations,  the 
information shall be provided immediately. Failure to provide the 
same immediately shall be considered as suppression of material 
information and may result in violation of the provisions of section 
12A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and 

 

Page 6 of 8 

 

 

SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices 
relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003” 
 

b.  "The  client  (issuer/  borrower)  agrees  to  inform  the  CRA  details 
about  the  instrument  in  the  format  below  immediately,  but  not 
later than 7 days from the date of placing the debt security. For 
instruments already listed, the information will be provided at the 
time of signing the agreement.” 

 

ISIN 

Instrument 
type 

Coupon 
Rate 

(Rs 

Issue 
Size 
cr) 

Coupon 
Payment 
Dates 

Terms  of 
Redemp
tion 

Redemp
tion date 

Details  of 
top 
10 
investors 

Name 
and 
contact 
details 
of 
Debent
ure 
Trustee 

 

c.   “The client (Issuer/ borrower) undertakes to provide the CRA a 
No Default Statement on a monthly basis wherein the Issuer shall 
explicitly  confirm  that  it  has  not  delayed  on  any  payment  of 
interest/ principal in the previous month. Such statement shall be 
provided to the CRA on the first working day of the next month.” 
 

5.  Internal  Audit  of  CRAs:  As  required  under  Regulation  22  of  the  SEBI  (Credit 
Rating  Agencies)  Regulations,  1999  and  provisions  of  Circular  SEBI/ 
MIRSD/CRA/Cir-01/ 2010 dated January 06, 2010 and Circular MIRSD4/ CIR/ P/ 
2016/  119  dated  November  01,  2016,  compliance  by  CRA  with  the  provisions 
clarified vide this Circular shall be verified during the half-yearly Internal Audit.  
 

6.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  Section  11  (1)  of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation 20of SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999 to protect the 
interest  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 
regulate, the securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Surabhi Gupta 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel. No: 022-26449315 
Email id: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 

Page 7 of 8 

 

 

Annexure-A: Standard Template for No Default Statement (Minimum 

Information be sought) 

 

 

 

To 

<CRA Name and Address> 

Dear Sir/ Madam, 

1.  We hereby Confirm that as on date there are no Over dues or default on our debt 

obligations 

2.  We also confirm that in the month ended <Month and Year name>, there has been 

no instance of delay in servicing of our debt obligations. 

3.  We also confirm that there has not been any instance of devolvement of Letter of 

Credit in the month ended <Month and Year name>. 

4.  We also confirm that in the month ended <Month and Year name>, there has been 

no instance of delay in servicing of debt obligations guaranteed by us. 

5.  We also confirm that there has been no overdraw of the drawing power sanctioned 
by the bank for a period of more than 30 consecutive days in case of bank facilities 
which do not have scheduled maturity/repayment dates. 

6.  Details  of  delay/  default/  rescheduling  of  interest  or  principal  as  on  date/  in  the 

month ended <Month and Year name>, in any of the above case (if any) : 
 

Name  of  the 
Instrument 
 

 

ISIN 

 

 

Amount  to 
be paid  
 

Due Date of 
Payment 
 

Actual  Date 
of Payment 
 

 

 

 

Remarks 

 

 

 
 
Thanking You, 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
<Authorized Signatory of Issuer> 
 
 

 

Page 8 of 8 

