 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD3/CIR/P/2017/ 72 

 

 

 

 

June 30, 2017 

 

 

To 

All Debenture Trustees 

All Stock Exchanges 

 

Sir/ Madam, 

Sub:  Clarification  on  monitoring  of  Interest/  Principal  repayment  and  sharing  of 
such information with Credit Rating Agencies by Debenture Trustees 

1.  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustee)  Regulations,  1993  ("DT  Regulations")  require  the 
Debenture  Trustees  (DTs)  to  monitor  that  the  debenture  holders  have  been  paid 
interest/  principal  by  the  issuer  companies  on  or  before  the  due  dates  of  such 
repayment[Regulations  15(1)(g)].  Further,  the  DTs  are  also  required  to  share 
information  available  with  them  regarding  client  companies,  with  registered  Credit 
Rating Agencies (CRAs) [Clause 13 of Code of Conduct read with Regulation 16].  
 
Moreover, the nature of such information to be shared with the CRAs has been clarified 
in  the  SEBI  Circular  CIR/MIRSD/3/2013  dated  March  15,  2013  which,  inter-alia, 
includes  information  pertaining  to  event  of  any  default  in  payment  of  interest  or 
redemption  amount  and  non-cooperation  by  the  issuer  company  with  respect  to 
furnishing required information. 
 

2.  It  is  clarified  that  the  DTs  shall  have  adequate  systems  to  ascertain  the  status  of 
payment of interest/ principal by issuer companies on due dates in timely manner and 
efficiently  share  such  information  with  the  CRAs  in  order  to  comply  with  the 
abovementioned provisions, which shall include the following: 
i)  The DTs shall, at least 7 days prior to the due date of interest/ principal payment, 
seek  ISIN-wise  information  from  issuer  companies  under  intimation  to  CRAs 
advising them to confirm the status of payment of interest/ principal on or before 
the due date. 
 
If the issuer company confirms the status of payment or where no information is 
received  from  the  issuer  company  on  or  before  the  due  date,  the  DTs  shall 
accordingly provide ISIN-wise information to the CRAs latest by one day after such 
due date which shall state the following: 
a)  Information about payment made on or before the due date or; 

ii) 

 

Page 1 of 3 

b)  Information about delay/ default in payment or; 
c)  No information forthcoming from the issuer company on the payment status. 

 

iii)  In cases where the CRAs have been informed as per point no. 2(ii) above that no 
information  is  forthcoming  from  the  issuer  company  on  the  payment  status,  the 
DTs shall update the payment status to CRAs as and when any such information 
is available with the DTs. 
 

3.  In  addition  to  above,  it  is  reiterated  that  the  DTs  shall  also  ascertain  the  status  of 
payment by the Issuer Company on the due dates from various sources available at 
their  disposal  which,  inter  alia,  include  the  websites  of  stock  exchange  &  Issuer 
Company, debenture holders and quarterly reports submitted by Issuer Companies. 
 

4.  The  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015 
require the listed entity to submit a certificate to the stock exchange within two days 
of  the  interest  or  principal  of  the  listed  debt  securities  becoming  due  that  it  has 
made timely payment [Regulation 57(1)] and the DT Regulations mandate the DTs 
to  exercise  due  diligence  to  ensure  compliance  by  the  body  corporate,  with  the 
provisions of the Companies Act, the listing agreement of the stock exchange or the 
trust deed [Regulation 15(1)(i)].  
 
In  this  regard,  it  is  clarified  that  the  DTs  in  their  communication  to  the  Issuer 
Companies as mentioned in point no. 2(i) above shall inform them that non-furnishing 
of  information  regarding  status  of  payment  by  due  date  or  non-disclosure  of 
information with respect to timely payment by them on stock exchange website may 
be  considered  as suppression  of material  information  and may  attract provisions  of 
Section  12A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  SEBI 
(Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities  Market) 
Regulations, 2003. 
 

5.  The DT Regulations also mandates that the DTs shall not make untrue statement or 
suppress any material fact in any documents, reports, papers or information furnished 
to the Board [Clause 19 of Code of Conduct read with Regulation 16] and adequate 
disclosures  are  made  to  the  debenture  holders,  in  a  comprehensible  and  timely 
manner so as to enable them to make a balanced and informed decision [Clause 15 
of Code of Conduct read with Regulation 16].  
 
It is clarified that if no information regarding payment by Issuer Company is received 
by the DTs by due date or such information is not disclosed by the issuer company on 
the stock exchange website, then, the DTs shall make reference to SEBI accordingly 
and  disclose  the  non-availability  of  such  information  on  their  website.  It  is  further 
clarified that failure to make such reference to SEBI in this regard and non-disclosure 
on  its  website  shall  be  considered  as  aiding  and  abetting  the  issuer  company  in 
suppression of material information and may attract provisions of Section 12A of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent 
and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003. 
 

6.  The Regulation 15(1)(a) of the DT Regulations requires the DTs to call for periodical 
reports from the body corporate. In order to make the quarterly reports by the issuer 

 

Page 2 of 3 

companies available to the DTs on timely basis, it is clarified that the DTs shall call for 
periodical status/ performance reports from the issuer company within 7 days of the 
relevant board meeting or within 45 days of the respective quarter whichever is earlier. 

 

7.  In terms of SEBI Circular MIRSD/DPS III//Cir- 11/07 dated August 6, 2007, the DTs 
shall disclose the information to the investors and the general public by issuing a 
press release regarding default by Issuer Company to pay interest on debentures 
or  redemption  amount,  failure  to  create  a  charge  on  the  assets  and  revision  of 
rating assigned to the debentures. Further, such information shall also be placed 
on  the  website  of  the  DT,  the  issuer  company  and  the  stock  exchanges.  It  is 
clarified that such actions shall be taken by the DT promptly and in any case not 
later than next day of the occurrence of such events. 
 

8.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to disclose the information submitted by the DTs 
as  mentioned  in  point  no.  7  above  immediately  on  its  website  on  receipt  of  such 
information from the DTs. 
 

9.  The  DTs shall  report  compliance  of the  provisions  of this  circular  in  the Half  Yearly 
Report  which  are  required  to  be  submitted  by  them  to  SEBI  as  per  Circular 
CIR/MIRSD/25/2011 dated December 19, 2011. 
 

10. This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors 
in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, the securities market. 

 

11. This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  (www.sebi.gov.in)  under  the  categories 

“Legal” and “Circulars”. 

 
 
 

Yours faithfully, 
Medha Sonparote 
Deputy General Manager 
Phone No. 022-26449312 
Email id: medhad@sebi.gov.in  

 

Page 3 of 3 

