 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

        October 16, 2017 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2017/116 
 
To,  
 
All Commodity Derivatives Exchanges, 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  

 

Sub:  Criteria for Settlement Mode of Commodity Derivative Contracts 
 
1.  In  order  to  effectively  discharge  their  hedging  function,  commodity  derivative 
contracts  must  be  anchored  to  their  respective  underlying  physical  markets.  An 
appropriate settlement mode and/or presence of other supporting conditions play 
a  crucial  role  in  ensuring  convergence  of  prices  between  the  derivatives  market 
and the spot market.  
  

2.  In  view  of  the  above,  in  consultation  with  the  Commodity  Derivatives  Advisory 
Committee (CDAC) the following broad guidelines are being specified for deciding 
appropriate settlement mode for commodity derivatives contracts: 

 

2.1. The first preference of settlement type shall always be by the way of physical 

delivery.  

 

2.2. Any exemption from the above i.e. cash settlement of commodity derivatives 
contract,  may  be  considered  only  in  following  scenarios  with  a  proper 
justification – 

 
2.2.1.  Physical delivery is difficult to implement due to any reason, which may 

inter-alia include the following: 
2.2.1.1.  commodity is intangible; or  
2.2.1.2.  commodity is difficult to store may be due to low shelf life or 

inadequate storage infrastructure; or  

2.2.1.3.  it is difficult to physically handle and transport the commodity 

due to inadequate logistics and transport infrastructure. 

 

2.2.2.  There is availability of reliable benchmark price of the commodity which 
can be used as reference for settlement price. Exchanges shall satisfy 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

themselves  that  the  reference  spot  price  is  robust  –  fair  indicator  of 
prevailing prices and not susceptible to any distortion/manipulation. 
 

2.3. Subject  to  the  above  conditions,  both  cash  settled  and  physically  settled 
derivative  contracts  on  the  same  commodity  may  also  be  considered  for 
trading, in case basis of price discovery of the proposed contracts is different. 

 

3.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect from the date of the circular. 

 

4.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 

5.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations, 

if any. 

ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  
 

6.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and  “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Tel No.022-26449234 
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in  

 

Page 2 of 2 

