 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2017/106 
 
 
1.  All  Recognized  Stock  Exchanges  in  International  Financial  Services 

      September 26, 2017 

 

Centre (IFSC) 

2.  All Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) through their Designated Depository 

Participants (DDPs)/ Custodian of Securities (Custodians)  

3.  All DDPs/ Custodians 
 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub.:  Participation  of  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  (FPIs)  in  Commodity 
Derivatives in IFSC 
 
1.  SEBI (International Financial Services Centres) Guidelines, 2015 were issued 
on March 27, 2015. Subsequently, vide circular CIR/MRD/DSA/41/2016 dated 
March  17,  2016,  SEBI  has  specified  that  ‘Commodity  Derivatives’  shall  be 
eligible as securities for trading and the stock exchanges operating in IFSC may 
permit dealing in commodity derivatives.  

2.  In  this  regard,  based  on  the  representations  received  from  the  exchanges 
operating in IFSC and after consultations with Government of India and RBI, it 
has  been  decided  that  FPIs  shall  be  permitted  to  participate  in  commodity 
derivatives  contracts  traded  in  stock  exchanges  in  IFSC  subject  to  following 
conditions:- 

2.1. The  participation  would  be  limited  to  the  derivatives  contracts  in  non-

agricultural commodities only. 

2.2. Contracts  would  be  cash  settled  on  the  settlement  price  determined  on 

overseas exchanges. 

2.3. All the transactions shall be denominated in foreign currency only. 

 

3.  The  provisions  of  this  circular  shall  come  into  effect  from  the  date  of  this 

Circular. 

 

4.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

i. 

ii. 

take  steps  to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws, 
rules and regulations for the implementation of the same. 
bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the members of the 
Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  
 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 

 
6.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars”, “Info for Commodity Derivatives” 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 2 

 

