 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

     

   

 

August 31, 2017 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2017/98 
 
To,  
All Stock exchanges (except for Commodity Derivatives Stock Exchanges) 
All Clearing corporations,  
 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Subject: Clarification on Exchange Traded Option contracts on EUR-INR, GBP-INR and 
JPY-INR currency pairs 
 
1.  SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/MRD/CP/CIR/P/2016/38 dated March 9, 2016 laid down the 
detailed framework for introduction of cross-currency futures and option contracts in the 
EUR-USD,  GBP-USD  and  USD-JPY  currency  pairs  and  introduction  of  currency  option 
contracts in EUR-INR, GBP-INR and JPY-INR currency pairs.  The said framework inter-
alia  specified  product  design,  risk  management  &  dynamic  price  bands  etc  for  cross 
currency options and currency options.  
 

2.  In this regard in order to bring uniformity in the computation and relaxation of dynamic 
price  bands,  it  has  been  decided  to modify  para  9  (ii)  of  SEBI  circular  dated  March  9, 
2016 as under: 

 

Dynamic  Price  Bands  for  currency  options  contracts  (including  cross-currency  options 
contracts) 

(a)  Stock  exchanges  shall  implement  a  dynamic  price  band  mechanism  based  on 

theoretical price of contracts to determine price bands for currency options. 

(b)  Stock  exchanges  shall  implement  uniform  mechanism  for  computation  and 

relaxation of dynamic price bands for currency options contracts. 

(c)  Stock exchanges shall take into consideration factors such as movement in the 
underlying price, volatility in the price of the underlying, any news on concerned 
foreign currency and its likely impact, movement of the price of the underlying at 
other stock exchanges, etc while relaxing such price bands. 

(d)  Stock exchanges shall ensure that the mechanism for relaxation of dynamic price 
bands  are  not  misused  by  market  participants  for  manipulation  in  options 
contracts. 

3.  Stock exchange / clearing corporation shall submit proposal to SEBI for approval for the 
launch of the currency options on EUR-INR, GBP-INR and JPY-INR currency pairs. Such 

 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड  

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

proposal shall inter-alia includes the details of contract specifications, risk management 
framework,  surveillance  systems,  and  other  requirements  specified  in  this  circular  and 
earlier SEBI circular dated March 09, 2016. 

4.  Accordingly, para 9 (ii) of SEBI circular SEBI/HO/MRD/CP/CIR/P/2016/38 dated March 9, 
2016 shall stand modified and all other conditions specified in the said circular shall remain 
unchanged. 

5.  Stock exchanges and Clearing corporations are directed to: 

 
(i) 

take necessary steps to put in place necessary systems for implementation of the 
circular,  including  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations, 

(ii)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers  and  also 

disseminate the same on their website, and 

(iii)  communicate  to  SEBI  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 

circular. 

6.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
 
 
Susanta Kumar Das 
Deputy General Manager 
    Email:susantad@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

