 

CIRCULAR 

 

  

SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/2017/87   

 

 

 

 

           July 31, 2017 

All Registered Alternative Investment Funds  
All custodians of Category III Alternative Investment Funds 
 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

Sub: Online Filing System for Alternative Investment Funds. 

1.  In  a  constant  endeavor  to  facilitate  ease  of  operations  in  terms  of  applying  for 
registration,  reporting  and  various  compliances  under  SEBI  (Alternative  Investment 
Funds)  Regulations,  2012  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  ‘AIF  Regulations’),  SEBI  has 
introduced an online system for filings related to Alternative Investment Funds (AIF). 
The online system can be used for application for registration, reporting and filing in 
terms of the provisions of AIF Regulations and circulars issued thereunder. 
 

online 

only, 

through 

applications 

2.  All applicants desirous of seeking registration as an AIF are now required to submit 
their 
Portal 
at https://siportal.sebi.gov.in. Furthermore, all SEBI registered AIFs are now required 
to  file  their  compliance  reports  and  submit  applications  for  any  request  under  the 
provisions  of  AIF  Regulations  and  circulars  issued  thereunder,  through  the  online 
system  only.  The  aforesaid  online  filing  system  for  AIF  has  been  made  operational 
with immediate effect. 
 

Intermediary 

SEBI 

3.  Link for SEBI Intermediary Portal is also available on SEBI website - www.sebi.gov.in. 
In case of any queries and clarifications, users may refer to the manual provided in 
the portal or contact the Portal Helpline as specified in the manual. 
 

4.  Existing  SEBI  registered  AIFs  have  already  been  advised  to  activate  their  online 

accounts. 
 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors 
in securities and to promote the development of and to regulate the securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Naveen Sharma 
Deputy General Manager 
022-26449709 
Email: naveens@sebi.gov.in 

