 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/2017/75   

 

 

 

 

          July 06, 2017        

All Registered Foreign Venture Capital Investors  
All Custodian(s) of Securities  
 

Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Online Filing System for Foreign Venture Capital Investors. 
 

1.  In order to facilitate ease of operations in terms of applying for registration, reporting 
and various compliances under SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) Regulations, 
2000 (hereinafter referred to as ‘FVCI Regulations’), SEBI has introduced an online 
system  for  filings  related  to  Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investors  (FVCI).  The  online 
system  can  be  used  for  application  for  registration,  reporting  and  filing  under  the 
provisions of FVCI Regulations. 
 

online 

applications 

2.  All applicants desirous of seeking registration as a FVCI are now required to submit 
their 
Portal 
at https://siportal.sebi.gov.in. Furthermore, all SEBI registered FVCIs are now required 
to  file  their  compliance  reports  and  submit  applications  for  any  request  under  the 
provisions of FVCI Regulations, through the online system only. The aforesaid online 
filing system for FVCI has been made operational from July 1, 2017. 
 

Intermediary 

only, 

through 

SEBI 

3.  Link for SEBI Intermediary Portal is also available on SEBI website - www.sebi.gov.in. 
In case of any queries and clarifications, users may refer to the manual provided in 
the portal or contact the Portal Helpline as specified in the manual. 
 

4.  Existing SEBI registered FVCIs are advised to activate their online accounts, for which 

activation e-mail has been sent separately. 
 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors 
in securities and to promote the development of and to regulate the securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Naveen Sharma 
Deputy General Manager 
022-26449709 
Email: naveens@sebi.gov.in 

