 

भारतीय प्रततभूती और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/73                                                        June 30, 2017 
 
To 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Clearing Corporations 
 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Policy of Annual Inspection of Members by Stock Exchanges/Clearing 

 

Corporations 

 

1. As  per  SEBI  circulars  MIRSD/Master  Cir-04/2010  dated  March  17,  2010, 
CIR/MIRSD/13/2012 
and 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2016/92  dated  September  23,  2016, 
stock 
exchanges are required to formulate a policy for annual inspection of their members in 
consultation with SEBI. 

December 

dated 

07, 

2012 

2. In terms of  aforementioned  circulars, the policy for annual inspection of members, as 
decided  in  consultations  with  Stock  Exchanges/Clearing  Corporations,  is  enclosed 
herewith at Annexure - I for necessary action. 

3. The Stock Exchanges/Clearing Corporations are directed to: 

a.  Make  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations  for  the 

implementation of the above directions. 

b.  Communicate the implementation thereof to SEBI within 15 days from the date of 

the circular. 

4. This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  (1)  of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market.  

Yours faithfully, 

 

 Debashis Bandyopadhyay 

General Manager 

 

Page 1 of 3 

1.  The criteria for selection of members for annual inspection are as follows:  

Annexure - I 

a.  Stock  brokers  servicing  investors,  getting  disabled  on  account  of  funds 
shortages on more than 3 times in a month shall be inspected irrespective 
of the fact of when they were last inspected. 

b.  Stock brokers servicing investors, having overnight disablement on account 
of margin shortage for more than 2 days shall be inspected irrespective of 
the fact of when they were last inspected.  

c.  Top 25 stock brokers paying high and recurring penalties for non-reporting 
or short reporting of margin/Client Code modification/CTCL mismatch fines 
or  any  other  similar  high  risk  compliance  issue  shall  be  inspected 
irrespective of when they were last inspected. 

d.  Top 25 stock brokers in terms of investor complaints and arbitration cases 
filed  by  investors  shall  be  inspected  irrespective  of  the  fact  of  when  they 
were last inspected. 

e.  Stock  brokers  having  adverse  observations  in  the  internal  audit  report  on 
high risk issues like wrong reporting of margins, transfer of trades, pledging 
of  client  securities,  dealing  with  unregistered  intermediaries  etc.,  shall  be 
inspected irrespective of the fact of when they were last inspected. 

f.  Subsidiaries of Regional Stock Exchanges shall be inspected every year. 

g.  Stock Exchange shall frame internal policy for selection of stock brokers for 

inspection based on inputs/alerts from Risk Based Supervision.   

h.  Besides the above, the special purpose/limited inspections shall be carried 
out  based  on  any  triggers  like  patterns  found  during  investor  complaint 
resolution/Arbitration,  complaints  on  specific  malpractices  of  a  broker  or 
references from various authorities. The inspection shall be irrespective of 
the fact of when the last inspection was carried out. 

i.  Apart  from  the  above  few  stock  brokers  shall  be  selected  by  the  Stock 

Exchanges on a random basis for inspection.  

j.  Stock  brokers  who  do  not  fall  under  any  of  the  above  category  shall  be 

inspected by the Stock Exchanges at least once in three years.  

k.  Stock  brokers  selected  on  the  above  category  shall  be  inspected  for  all 
segments  and  also  for  clearing  activity  if  the  stock  broker  is  undertaking 
clearing for other stock brokers. 

l. 

Inspections  of  Professional  Clearing  Members  shall  be  conducted  by 
Clearing Corporations once in two years. 

2.  Clearing  activity  undertaken  by  stock  brokers  for  other  stock  brokers  shall  be 
inspected  by  Clearing  Corporations.  Other  activities  of  stock  brokers  shall  be 
inspected by Stock Exchanges. If Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations 
so desire, they can conduct joint inspections of stock brokers. Where Clearing 
Corporation has not been set up,  Stock Exchange shall inspect all activities of 
stock brokers including activity of clearing for other stock brokers. 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

3.  The  Stock  Exchanges/Clearing  Corporations  are  advised  to  continuously 
assess the risks posed by their members and review/revise the policy of annual 
inspection, as and when required, in consultation with SEBI.  

4.  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  establish  an  information  sharing  mechanism  with 
one  another  on  the  important  outcome  of  inspection  of  members  who  hold 
multiple memberships of the exchanges in order to improve the effectiveness of 
supervision and shall also bring cases of repetitive and / or serious violations to 
the notice of SEBI. 

 

 

Page 3 of 3 

